Carraud in 1834, “is always Madame Veuve Durand, 13, Rue des
Batailles;” and in 1837, he wrote to Dablin, “To see the Widow Durand,
a name must be given. Yours is on the list.”

“The house,” Gautier wrote,[9] “of the Widow Durand was as well guarded
as the Garden of the Hesperides. Two or three passwords were exacted,
and that they might not become vulgarized they were frequently changed.
Among others, I recall the following. On telling the janitor that the
season for prunes had arrived, the visitor was permitted to cross the
threshold; to the servant who prowled about the head of the stairway,
it was necessary to murmur ‘I bring laces from Belgium;’ and on
assuring the valet de chambre that Madame Bertrand was in excellent
health, the visitor was ushered into the great man’s presence.”

It was in the Rue des Batailles that the famous boudoir of the “Fille
aux Yeux d’Or” actually existed; and though its luxury would not appear
unusual to-day, it was, nevertheless, a source of continual wonder to
his Bohemian friends, and his own description of it is not devoid of
interest:[10]—

“One side of the boudoir formed a graceful semicircle, while in the
centre of the other, which was perfectly square, there shone a
mantel-piece of marble and gold. The door, which was concealed behind a
rich portière of tapestry, was directly in front of the window.

“In the horseshoe was a Turkish divan, fifty feet in circumference and
as high as a bed. The covering was of white cashmere tufted with bows
of black and lilac silk, which were disposed as at the angles of a
lozenge.

“The back of this immense bed rose several inches above a pile of
cushions, which added to the general effect by their coloring and
artistic arrangement.

“The boudoir was hung with a red material, over which was draped an
Indian muslin fluted like a Corinthian column by a piping alternately
hollow and round, and bordered at top and bottom by a band of lilac
embroidered with black arabesques. Beneath the muslin the red became
pink, and this delicate shading was repeated in the window curtains,
which were of Indian muslin lined with pink silk and ornamented with a
fringe of black and lilac.

“At equal distances on the wall above the divan were six sockets of
silver-gilt, each of which supported two candles, while from the centre
of the ceiling hung a highly polished lustre of the same material.

“The carpet was like a camel’s-hair shawl, and seemed a mute reminder
of the poetry of Persia. The furniture was covered with white cashmere
relieved by lilac and black. The clock and candelabras were of gold and
marble. The one table which the boudoir contained was covered with
white cashmere, while all about were jardinières of white and red
roses.”

Behind the semicircle was a secret passage, at one end of which was an
iron cot and at the other a desk; and here it was that Balzac, secure
from intrusion, worked and composed at his ease.

To return, however, to the Widow Durand. In 1838 he wrote to Madame
Hanska, the lady who subsequently became his wife:—

“The Widow Durand is dead. She was killed by the contemptible conduct
of the daily papers, who have betrayed a secret which should have been
sacred to every man of honor.”

After this misfortune Balzac installed himself openly at Les Jardies, a
country house which he had built at Ville d’Avray, and where he was, as
he expressed it, “like the lantern of Demosthenes, and not, as every
one else says, of Diogenes;” but when, a year or two later, he took up
his residence in the Rue Basse, at Passy he surrounded himself with all
his former precautions, instituted a series of countersigns which he
changed weekly, and transformed himself into “Madame Bri....”

When guarded in this way from any intrusion, Balzac would work from
twelve to twenty-one hours a day. His usual hours of sleep were from
six in the evening until midnight. Then he would bathe, don the white
robe of a Dominican friar, poise a black skull cap on his head, and,
under the influence of coffee and by the light of a dozen candles,
would work incessantly till he could work no more.

His work completed, the lion would forsake his den, and for an evening
or two he would be seen in the Loge Infernale at the opera, invariably
carrying a massive cane whose head glittered with jewels, and which
Madame de Girardin was pleased to imagine rendered him invisible at
will;[11] or he would make brief apparitions in the salons of the
literati and nobility, and then, suddenly, without a word of warning,
he would shut himself up as impenetrably as before.

His manner of writing was stamped with the same eccentricity which
characterized all his habits. When a subject which he proposed to treat
had been well considered, he would cover thirty or forty sheets with a
scaffolding of ideas and phrases, which he then sent off to the
printer, who returned them in columns wired and centred on large
placards. The work, freed in this way from any personality and its
errors at once apparent, was then strengthened and corrected. On a
second reading the forty pages grew to a hundred, two hundred on the
third, and so on, while on the proof-sheets themselves new lines would
start from the beginning, the middle, or the end of a phrase; and if
the margins were insufficient, other sheets of paper were pinned or
glued to the placards, which were again and again returned, corrected,
and reprinted, until the work was at last satisfactorily completed.

But perhaps the most graphic description of Balzac’s manner of writing
is the one contained in an article by Edouard Ourliac in the “Figaro”
for the 15th of December, 1837, of which the following is a free
translation:—

  THE MISFORTUNES AND ADVENTURES OF CÉSAR BIROTTEAU BEFORE HIS BIRTH.

Let us sing, drink, and embrace, like the chorus in an opéra bouffe;
let us waft kisses in the air and turn on our toes, as they do in the
ballet.

Let us rejoice now that we may. The “Figaro,” without appearing to have
done so, has conquered the elements, all the malefactors, and every
sublunary cataclysm.

The “Figaro” has conquered César Birotteau.

Never did the angered gods, never did Juno, Neptune, M. de Rambuteau,
or the prefect of the police, oppose against Jason, Theseus, or the
wayfarers of the capital, greater obstacles, monsters, ruins, dragons,
demolitions, than these two unhappy octavos. We have them at last, and
we know their cost.

The public will have but the trouble to read them, though that should
count as a pleasure.

As to M. de Balzac, twenty days of labor, two reams of paper, another
masterpiece, that counts as nothing.

Whatever else it may be considered, it is at least a typographical
exploit and a worthy example of literary and commercial heroism.

Writer, publisher, and printer, all deserve the praise of their
countrymen.

Posterity will gossip about the binders, and our grand-nephews will
regret that they do not know the names of the apprentices.

I regret it myself,—otherwise I would tell them.

The “Figaro” promised the book for the 15th of December, and M. de
Balzac began it on the 17th of November.

M. de Balzac and the “Figaro” have the singular habit of keeping their
word.

The printing-press was prepared, and pawed the ground like an excited
charger.

M. de Balzac sent immediately two hundred sheets, scribbled in five
nights of fever.

Every one knows how he writes. It was an outline, a chaos, an
apocalypse, a Hindu poem.

The office paled. The time was short, the writing unheard of. The
monster was transformed and translated as nearly as possible into
familiar signs. No one could make head or tail of it. Back it went to
the author. The author sent back the first two proofs glued on enormous
placards.

It was frightful, it was pitiful. From each sign, from each printed
word, shot a penstroke, gleaming and gliding like a sky-rocket, and
bursting at the extremity in a luminous fire of phrases, epithets,
substantives, underlined, crossed, intermingled, erased, and
superposed. Its aspect was simply dazzling.

Fancy four or five hundred arabesques of this kind, interlacing,
knotted together, climbing and slipping from one margin to another and
from the bottom to the top.

Fancy twelve geographical maps entangling cities, rivers, and mountains
in the same confusion, a skein harassed by a cat, all the hieroglyphics
of the Pharonian dynasty, or twenty fireworks exploding at once.

The office then was far from gay. The typesetters beat their breasts,
the presses groaned, the proof-readers tore their hair and the
apprentices became howling idiots. The most intelligent recognized the
Persian alphabet, others the Madagascan, while one or two considered
them to be the symbolic characters of Vishnu.

They worked on chance and by the grace of God.

The next day M. de Balzac sent back two pages of the purest Chinese. It
was then the 1st of December. A generous typesetter offered to blow out
his brains. Then other sheets were brought, written in the most legible
Siamese. Three compositors lost their sight and the little French that
they knew.

The proofs were sent back seven consecutive times; then, a few symptoms
of excellent French appeared, and there was even noticed a certain
connection between the phrases; but the day was fast approaching, and
we felt that the book would never appear.

Desolation was at its height, and it was at this point that the work
became further complicated by an admirable concourse of calamities.

At the time when haste was the greatest, the miserable being who that
night carried the proof-sheets to M. de Balzac was waylaid and robbed.

M. de Balzac had had the forethought to establish himself at Chaillot.
The miserable being screamed and yelled. The bandits took to their
heels. One proof-sheet was found at Neuilly, another in an orchard, a
third descending the Seine. It is certain that they were thrown away
only on account of their illegibility. Misfortune has its advantages.

The proofs were recovered, but the night was lost. There were cries and
gnashing of teeth. The end was fast approaching. However, the
typesetters took courage and the workmen took the bit in their teeth.
The office galloped. The compositors foamed at the mouth, the presses
ravened, the binders were on springs, the apprentices danced with
excitement, the proof-reader shook like an epileptic, and the foreman
had convulsions. The office was a cage of palsied lunatics.

The work was again taken in hand, and M. de Balzac and the “Figaro”
have kept their word.

“César Birotteau” will see the light of day on the 15th of December. We
have it now, and we hold it tight. The office is armed, insured, and
barricaded. Smoking is not permitted. There are lightning-rods on the
roof, and mounted guards at the door.

Every precaution has been taken against accidents and the ardor of our
subscribers.

At this moment “César Birotteau” is a work in two volumes, an immense
tableau, an entire poem, composed, written, and corrected fifteen times
by M. de Balzac in twenty days, and deciphered, disentangled, and
reprinted fifteen times in the same period. It may be added that M. de
Balzac kept forty other workmen busy with something else at another
office.

We will not now consider the value of the work.

It may be everything, or but a masterpiece.


The names of Balzac’s characters are all taken from real life; for,
like Dickens, his theory was that names which were invented gave no
life to imaginary creations, and, as did the English novelist, he
gathered many of them from the signboards in the street. His joy at the
discovery of Matifat was almost as great as his delight in finding
Cardot. He found the former in the Rue de la Perle, in the Marais. “I
can see him now,” he said; “he will have the pallid face of a cat. But
Cardot is different: he will be dry as a bone, hasty and ill-tempered.”

In 1840, Balzac proposed to write for the “Revue Parisienne”—a
periodical which, it may be explained, appeared but three times, and
whose three numbers Balzac wrote entirely—the story of a man of
genius, who, used as a tool by others, died through the ingratitude of
those whom he had raised to magnificent positions, and who had then
abandoned him to poverty and want.

Such a character needed a name proportioned to his destiny; a name
which explained and announced him as clearly as the cannon-ball
announces the cannon; a name which would be peculiarly his own, and
would reflect his face, his figure, his voice, his past, his future,
his genius, his passions, his misfortunes, and his glory.

But this supernatural alliance of man and name was not immediately
discoverable, and Balzac, who had put into circulation as many
cognomens as are contained in the “Almanach de Gotha,” expressed
himself incapable of manufacturing it. A name, he considered, could no
more be fabricated than could granite or marble. They were all three
the work of time and revolutions. They made themselves.

As a last and supreme resource, therefore, he set out one day, in
company with Léon Gozlan, on a journey, in search of a baptismal
signboard for his hero; and from the Barrière de l’Étoile to the
summits of Montmartre they zigzagged across Paris, subjecting every
name they encountered to the closest scrutiny.

Thousands of names were examined, analyzed, and rejected, until at last
Gozlan, utterly worn out, refused to walk another step.

Balzac looked at him, it is to be supposed, very much as Columbus
looked at his mutinous sailors, and by force of entreaties obtained,
not three days’ grace, but three streets more.

In the first two nothing was found, but at the extremity of the third
Balzac suddenly changed color, and cried in a voice broken by emotion,—

“There, there! Read that name!”

Above a narrow, oblong door, which opened on a sombre courtyard, there
hung a sign which bore for device the name of Marcas.

“Our journey is at an end!” Balzac exclaimed; “it terminates in a blaze
of glory. The name of my hero shall be Marcas. Marcas contains the
philosopher, the statesman, and the poet. I will call him Z. Marcas,
and thereby add to his name a flame, a tiara, and a star. Nothing could
be better. I wonder, however, who this Marcas is; surely some great
artist.”

“He is a tailor,” Gozlan brutally replied; “there is another sign of
his in the courtyard.”

Balzac looked deeply chagrined.

“No matter,” he said; “he merited a better fate. If I seem annoyed, it
is not that I am lacking in respect for tailors in general, but because
his calling reminds me of certain debts and a few protested notes.”

A day or two later the “Revue Parisienne” appeared, and with it the
story of Z. Marcas, now forming part of the “Scènes de la Vie
Politique” and containing the following monograph:—

“A certain harmony existed between the man and the name. This Z. with
which Marcas was preceded, which was to be seen on the address of his
letters, and with which he always completed his signature,—this last
letter of the alphabet presented to the imagination a something which
was indescribably fatal.

“Marcas! Repeat over to yourself this name, composed of two syllables:
does it not seem to contain a sinister significance? does it not seem
as though its owner were born to be martyred.

“Though weird and wild, this name has nevertheless the right to descend
to posterity: it is well composed, it is easily pronounced, and
possesses the brevity required of famous names. Is it not as soft as it
is bizarre? but does it not also seem unfinished?

“I would not dare to affirm that destiny is uninfluenced by a name, for
between the deeds of men and their names there are inexplicable
affinities and visible discords which at once astonish and surprise.
But this subject will some day assuredly form part of the occult
sciences.

“Does not the Z. present a thwarted and contradicted appearance? does
it not represent the contingent and fantastic zigzags of a tormented
life? What ill wind can have blown on this letter that in every
language to which it is admitted commands barely fifty words! Marcas’
Christian name was Zépherin. Saint Zépherin is highly venerated in
Brittany. Marcas was a Breton.

“Examine the name again. Z. Marcas! The entire existence of the man is
contained in the fantastic assemblage of these seven letters.
Seven!—the most significant of the cabalistic numbers. Marcas died at
the age of thirty-five; his life therefore was composed of but seven
lustres. Marcas! Does not the sound bring to you the idea of something
precious, broken in a noiseless fall?”

The fatality which Balzac conceived as attaching to Marcas was by no
means limited to this imaginary creation. It followed him into real
life, and was at one time a source of such serious preoccupation that
he stood one evening for two hours in the square of the Château d’Eau
confidently awaiting some fortunate occurrence, and like Gautier in
“Mademoiselle de Maupin” he awoke on certain days in a state of great
agitation, trembling at every noise, and convinced that the happiness
of his life was somehow at stake.

These extraordinary sensations naturally led to a belief in the
supernatural; and as his mother, who was also interested in the
abnormal, was acquainted with all the celebrated mesmerists and mediums
of the day, he was readily furnished with opportunities of
experimenting in magnetism and clairvoyance. His charming story of
“Ursule Mirouët” unquestionably proves that he subsequently became a
firm believer in that occult electricity which is variously known as
the Theopœa of the ancients, the Akâsa of the modern Hindu, and the
psychic force of Sergeant Cox; while his account of the soul-projection
of “Séraphita” is vivid enough to satisfy the most exacting hierophant,
and would have passed him, initiate, into the brotherhood of the
Theosophists.

But perhaps the most curious evidence of his every-day faith in
divination is that contained in the two following extracts from his
correspondence:—

                      TO M. CHAPELAIN, PHYSICIAN.

                                                   PARIS, May, 1832.

SIR,—I am attracted by the power of somnambulism, and wonder why you
have not sought to obtain from some lucid subject the causes of this
disaster.[12]

Science is interested therein, and its discovery would be an eternal
honor to us.

Had I not been ill for a week past I would have ascended to the honors
of practice, and endeavored to convince myself whether the power of a
somnambulist was limited or infinite.


The second extract is from a letter addressed to his mother a year
later:—

“I send you herewith two pieces of flannel which I have worn on the
body. Take them to M. Chapelain, and when he has examined the first,
ask of him the cause and position of the malady[13] and how it should
be treated. See that everything is clearly explained. Then with the
second piece ask the why and wherefore of the blister ordered in the
precedent consultation.

“Be careful to keep the flannels well wrapped up, that the emanations
may not be disturbed.”

Balzac’s hatred of journalists was intense, and from Sainte-Beuve down
to the most insignificant penny-a-liner all were enveloped in the same
superb contempt.

No branch of the profession was exempt from this antipathy, and critics
and feuilletonistes shared alike in his wholesale condemnation:—

“They want my scalp, do they, these Mohicans of the press! Bah! I will
drink out of their skulls.”

Drink he did, indeed, and long delicious draughts, at that; and in
picking up with the point of his pen the venality, envy, and petty
spites of the trade, he drew in the “Illusions Perdues,” in which Jules
Janin figures in the transparent disguise of Étienne Lousteau, a
picture of journalism which was as faithfully unpleasant as it was
pitying and contemptuous. In this respect, however, it is well to state
that no one was as indifferent to the opinion of the press as Balzac
himself. He rarely, if ever, read the criticisms on his books, and left
them, in the consciousness of their worth, to find their level unaided.

One of the causes of his disdain of everything which smacked of
journalism was this: He had engaged to write “Séraphita” for the “Revue
des Deux Mondes,” and shortly after the story had been delivered he
learned that it was published at St. Petersburg. Thinking, as was but
natural, that the editor had been the victim of some audacious theft,
he hastened to tell him what he had heard; and his astonishment may be
readily imagined when he was informed that the Russian edition had
appeared with the sanction of the editor himself, who not only insisted
that he had a perfect right to do as he pleased with the manuscript,
but positively refused to make any indemnity. Thereupon, Balzac, in
spite of the remonstrances of his friends, who pointed out that any
contest with the “Revue,” whose word was law, would inevitably result
in the closing of its columns to him, began a lawsuit, alleging that,
independent of the pecuniary loss which he suffered, a precedent of
this kind, once established, would in the future be highly prejudicial,
not only to him, but to all his confrères. Much to his amazement,
however, the defendant appeared in court with a list of signatures of
almost all of those whom he had sought to defend at his own risk and
peril, who attested that from a literary as well as from an ethical
standpoint they considered the action of the editor of the “Revue des
Deux Mondes” as eminently right and proper.

The law was, none the less, perfectly clear. Balzac won the suit, and
with it a host of enemies, whose hatred was so vigorous that it barely
abated, even after his death. Their insults delighted him. “Fire away,”
he would say; “the armor is strong. Your abuse is an advertisement;
your praise would lull the public to sleep, but your diatribes wake
them up. Besides, you hit the mark sometimes, and every fault you
signalize I correct, which in the end is so much gained.”

Among the host of enemies thus aroused were those who, not content with
denying his genius, advanced their artillery into private life, and
painted him in the possession of every vice in the criminal statutes;
and it is from the falsehoods of these guerrilleros that all the
stupidities which have been told concerning him found their primal
gestation. Not only his morality, his honesty, his sobriety, were
attacked, but even his name was denied to him. The de was declared
not only an affectation, but a theft; and when some one said to him, in
allusion thereto, “But you are no connection of the De Balzac
d’Entragues,” “Ah! am I not?” he answered placidly. “Well, then, so
much the worse for them.”

-----

Footnote 1:

  Balzac, by Madame de Surville. Calmann Lévy, Paris.

Footnote 2:

  Correspondance de H. de Balzac. Calmann Lévy, Paris, 1877.

Footnote 3:

  The present title is Jane la Pâle.

Footnote 4:

  Les Rivalités..

Footnote 5:

  Le Médecin de Campagne.

Footnote 6:

  Ursule Mirouët.

Footnote 7:

  Gobseck.

Footnote 8:

  Le Père Goriot.

Footnote 9:

  Honoré de Balzac, par Théophile Gautier. Un volume in-18, chez
  Poulet-Malanis, 1859.

Footnote 10:

  La Fille aux Yeux d’Or.

Footnote 11:

  See La Canne de M. de Balzac, par Madame de Girardin. Dumont, 1838.

Footnote 12:

  The cholera.

Footnote 13:

  Stomachic disorders, caused by the abuse of coffee.




                              CHAPTER II.

                          THE COMÉDIE HUMAINE.

“One would say he had read the inscription on the gates of
Busyrane,—‘Be bold;’ and on the second gate,—‘Be bold, be bold, and
evermore be bold;’ and then again had paused well at the third
gate,—‘Be not too bold.’”—EMERSON, Plato.

The general plan and outline of the “Comédie Humaine” originated in a
comparison between humanity and animal existence. That which Buffon had
achieved in zoölogy, Balzac proposed to accomplish in moral science,
and the habits and customs as well as the vices and virtues of his
contemporaries found in him a secretary whose inventory offers to
posterity an elaborate insight into the every-day life of France in the
nineteenth century, and realizes for their future curiosity that work
which the ancient monarchies have neglected to bequeath to us as their
own civilizations.

But the pictures of two or three thousand of the most striking figures
of an epoch required, in a general history of society, not only frames
but galleries, and the work therefore is divided into,

Scènes de la Vie Privée.

Scènes de la Vie de Province.

Scènes de la Vie Parisienne.

Scènes de la Vie Politique.

Scènes de la Vie Militaire.

Scènes de la Vie de Campagne.

These six subdivisions are grouped under the general title of “Études
de Mœurs,” and in them the attempt has been made to examine and explain
the general causes of earthly happiness and misery, as demonstrated in
the results obtainable in the practice of the great principles of order
and mortality, or in the selfish abandonment to purely personal
interests.

Happiness, Balzac considered, consisted in the exercise of our
faculties as applied to realities. But inasmuch as its principles vary
with each latitude, and ideas of right and wrong find their
modifications in the climate, he concluded that morals and convictions
were valueless terms, and that happiness was to be found, first, in
violent emotions which undermine existence; second, in regular
occupations functionating like mechanism; or, lastly, in the study of
the laws of nature and in the application of the lessons thereby
derived.

In his treatment of this subject he has prepared a complete history of
the effects of the agitation of social existence, and each of the
foregoing divisions represents a particular aspect of life.

In the “Scènes de la Vie Privée,” life is represented between the last
developments of childhood and the first calculations of virility. These
scenes contain tableaux of the emotions and undefined sensations
combined with pictures of the errors committed through ignorance of the
exigencies of the world.

The “Scènes de la Vie de Province” represents that phase of existence
in which passions, calculations, and ideas take the place of
sensations, impulses, and illusions. The instincts of the young man of
twenty are generous; at thirty he calculates and turns egotist. These
scenes therefore initiate the reader into the thousand aspects of the
transition through which a man passes when abandoning the thoughtless
impulses of adolescence for the politic attitudes of manhood. Life
becomes serious: positive interests jostle with violent passions,
disillusions begin, the social machinery is revealed, and from the
shock of moral or pecuniary interests the crime bursts in the midst of
the most tranquil household.

Herein are unveiled the petty annoyances by whose periodicity a
poignant interest is concentrated in the slightest detail of existence.
Herein are also exposed the petty rivalries, the jealousies born of
vicinage, and the family worries, whose increasing force degrades and
weakens the most resolute will. The charm of dreams escapes; the
prosaic and the matter of fact alone exist; woman reasons, and no
longer feels; she calculates where before she gave. Life is now ripened
and shaded.

In the “Scènes de la Vie Parisienne” the questions are enlarged, and
existence painted in bold outlines gradually arrives at the frontiers
of decrepitude. Herein purity of sentiment is exceptional: it is broken
in the play of interests and scattered by the mechanism of the world.
Virtue is calumniated, innocence is purchased. Passions become vices,
emotions ruinous gratifications; everything is analyzed, bought, and
sold. Life is a bazaar; humanity has but two forms, that of the
deceiver and the deceived; it is a struggle and a combat, and the
victor is he who best throttles society and moulds it to his own ends.
The death of relatives is awaited; the honest man is a simpleton;
generosity is a means, religion a governmental necessity, probity a
policy; everything is marketable; absurdity is an advertisement,
ridicule a passport, and youth, which has lived a hundred years,
insults old age.

These scenes close the tableaux of individual existence, and their
three frameworks contain representations of youth, manhood, and old
age. First the bloom of life, the expansion of the soul, and the
radiance of love; then come the calculations, the transformation of
affection into passion; and, lastly, the accumulation of interests and
the continual satisfaction of the senses joined to the inevitable
weariness of mind and body.

Nothing but that which affects the individual proper has herein been
treated, and the fragments of the “Scènes de la Vie Politique” express,
in consequence, a wider range of thought. In these pages the actors
represent the interest of the masses, and place themselves above those
laws to which the types in the preceding series were subjected. The
foregoing divisions described the constant antagonism of thought and
sentiment, but in these scenes thought is an organizing force and
sentiment is completely abolished. They are, however, incomplete, as
are also the “Scènes de la Vie Militaire,” in which Balzac proposed to
represent the action as taking place, not in an apartment, but on the
battle-field; not in the struggle of man with man, but in the
concussion of France and Europe, in the slaughter of the conquered and
the pæans of the victors.

After these pages, whose completion was prevented by his sudden death,
the calm and peaceful pictures of the “Scènes de la Vie de Campagne”
follow in orderly sequence. They represent rest after exertion,
landscapes after interiors, the hush of the country after the uproar of
the city, the cicatrice after the wound. This last division contains
the same interests and the same struggles, but weakened now by lack of
contact, like passions grown dull in solitude. It is the twilight of a
busy day, a summer evening solemn with sombre shadows. It contains the
purest characters and the application of the great principles of order,
morality, and religion, and its actors, worn with the fatigues of the
world, mingle complacently with the innocence of childhood.[14]

Thus completed, the entire work has its geography and its own
genealogy, its localities and their concomitants, its personages and
their deeds. It has its own armorial, its nobility and middle class,
its artisans, its peasants, and its army. It is a world in itself. But
its most striking feature is the admirable unity preserved throughout;
and this unity is undoubtedly due to a suggestion derived from the
works of Sir Walter Scott, whom Balzac considered as a gifted sculptor
who chiseled magnificent figures and draped them with genius and
sublimity, but, while presenting the seductive effects of a marvelous
analysis, left them lacking in synthesis and totally unrelated.

“The Waverley Novels,” he said,[15] “resemble the Musée de la Rue des
Petits-Augustins, in which each object, while magnificent in design,
relates but to itself. Genius is complete only when to the faculty of
creating it joins the power of coördinating its creations. The gifts of
observation and description are in themselves insufficient; they must
tend to a certain result. The Scotch bard was possessed of too clear a
vision not to have understood this axiom, but its understanding
assuredly came too late.” To this reflection the unity of the “Comédie
Humaine” is probably due; and that it may not be objected that certain
of its passages are unrelated to the others, it is well to note that
Balzac died too suddenly to be able to connect the broken threads,
which in any event are but few and far between.

But the task of rendering his work at once interesting and instructive
was one of much greater difficulty than that of Scott’s, who drew his
characters from former days, when every class of society was clearly
defined, and clothed them from a wardrobe opulent with historical
effects; whereas Balzac was obliged to offer in clear relief the almost
imperceptible differences of the types of yesterday and to-day, that
through an equality of fortune and education have destroyed the
contrasts which once existed between the different degrees of the
social order. Aided, however, by that peculiar intuition which never
forsook him, he chose from among the physiognomies of his epoch an
assortment of those fugitive traits which are imperceptible to the eyes
of the vulgar; and in scrutinizing face after face, attentive to the
changes of expression and inflections of voice, he was enabled to
present a series of individualities which are far more realistic than
those of his illustrious predecessor.

After displaying in the “Études de Mœurs” all the moral and physical
transformations through which mankind passes, and after describing the
social effects of their natural or civil positions, Balzac sought in
the “Études Philosophiques” to demonstrate the causes of these effects;
and while the first part of the “Comédie Humaine” contains but a series
of individualities typified in the treatment of his subject, in the
second part are to be found the same types individualized: as, for
example, where in the “Études de Mœurs” Grandet is purely and simply a
miser, avarice in the “Études Philosophiques” is incarnated in the
person of Maître Cornélius, and the subject, like a sponge, gains in
weight what it loses in breadth.

The “Études Philosophiques” is the fruit of analyzed comparisons of all
the works which the philosophers of antiquity and the specialists of
his day had produced on the intellect; and starting with the famous
axiom of Jean Jacques Rousseau, that “l’homme qui pense est un animal
dépravé,”—an idea which, as is well known, found its poetic
interpretation in Byron’s “Manfred,” and its dramatic aspect in the
“Faust” of Goethe,—Balzac proceeds to prove that ideas and sentiments
are simply dissolvents of a greater or less activity; and taking as his
premises the admitted fact that instincts violently excited by
factitious or fortuitous circumstances produce unconsciousness and even
death, and also that thought, when augmented by the transitory force of
passion, may become a poison or a dagger, he infers, from the ravages
produced by the intellect, that thought is the most active agent in the
disorganization of man, and consequently of society. “Consider,” he
says in “Louis Lambert,” “the difference between man who desires
nothing and lives like a plant for a hundred years, and the creating
artist who suffers early death. Where the sun is, there is thought and
brevity of existence; where the cold is, there is torpor and
longevity.” Then, after considering man as a simple organization, he
brandishes the proposition that vitality decreases in exact proportion
to the strength of desire and the dissipation of thought, and leads the
reader, therewith, through the gradual development of his theory, which
is first attacked in “La Peau de Chagrin.” This weird and fantastic
production, in which skepticism and the supernatural join hands,
represents the ravages of thought and the supreme expression of egotism
as seared by the hot iron of civilization.

In “La Recherche de l’Absolu,” the theme is continued, but viewed in a
broader and more comprehensive light. In “La Peau de Chagrin,” the
individual is destroyed by the force of desire. In “La Recherche de
l’Absolu,” the pursuit of an idea annihilates an entire family. The
first is the world of pleasure, an epoch in itself; the second is the
world of science, and glitters with brilliant hypotheses. In both
instances, an idea, gradually strengthened, becomes a passion and a
disorganizing force. In “L’Adieu,” happiness, exalted to the highest
degree, becomes a destructive agency. In “Le Réquisitionnaire”, a
mother is killed by the violence of maternal affection. In “El
Verdugo,” a father is slain by his son that a title may be preserved.
In “Le Drame au Bord de la Mer,” a son is slain by his father that an
hereditary instinct may be destroyed. In “Maître Cornélius,” avarice
kills the miser. In “Le Chef d’Œuvre Inconnu,” art kills the artist. In
“Gambara,” the composer is crazed by his own conceptions. In “L’Enfant
Maudit,” terror is the destroyer, and the subject treated herein finds
a natural and logical sequence in the “Auberge Rouge.” In “Les
Proscrits,” the sentiment of religion becomes the destroyer, and in
“Séraphita” the same idea is more vividly presented. “César Birotteau,”
an existence untroubled by misery, is, through sudden good fortune, cut
off as by a scythe. In the “Église,” the agent is incredulity, but in
“Louis Lambert” is to be found the most severe deduction from the
fundamental proposition in that it represents the thinker killed by
thought.

The destructive power of the mind and imagination, from the Neronian
conflagration to the suicide of Castlereagh and Chatterton, the aphasia
of Emerson, and the insanity of Tourgénieff, is too well known and too
thoroughly understood to need further commentary in these pages; and in
connection with this it need but be said that, while the attraction of
gravity had been witnessed by countless generations, as it remained to
Newton to formulate the obvious propositions of cause and effect, so in
this branch of mental science, whose results have been patent since the
beginning of history, a Balzac was necessary for the full elucidation
of the subject, and for the proper presentation of the conclusions
derived from the psycho-mental evidence of ages.

After having, in the “Études de Mœurs,” described society in every
aspect, and demonstrated in the “Études Philosophiques” all the
underlying causes of the general results, Balzac proposed in the third
and last division of the “Comédie Humaine,” namely, in the “Études
Analytiques,” to examine the principles upon which the first two rest.

This last division, however, is one of the few unfinished windows of
his Aladdin’s palace, for, out of the six volumes which it was to
contain, two only were written before death intervened. These two
works, the “Physiologie du Mariage” and the “Petites Misères de la Vie
Conjugale,” are a series of duos between husband and wife, augmented at
times by the tenor notes of the amant. The first is dedicated to the
reader, and contains the deceptions of the husband; the second, those
of the wife. At once malicious and diabolically witty, these two books
are as delicately analytical as the deductions of Leuwenhoeck and
Swammerdam, and abound with that peculiar though refreshing condiment
which is generally known as Gallic salt.

It is to be regretted that these two books, the first of which was
published at the outset of the author’s career, and the second towards
the close of his life, were not strengthened and augmented by the
others with which he proposed to accompany them, and whose subjects and
titles—namely, “Anatomie des Corps Enseignants,” “Pathologie de la Vie
Sociale,” “Monographie de la Vertu,” “Dialogue Philosophique et
Politique sur la Perfection du XIXe Siècle”—have alone descended to
us; for this vein of literary treasure can never be profitably worked
save by another Balzac or a modern Aristophanes.

It was in 1844 that Balzac said, “The first half of the present century
will be found to have been greatly influenced by four men,—Napoleon,
Cuvier, O’Connell, and myself. The first lived on the blood of Europe,
the second espoused the globe, the third became the incarnation of an
entire race, while I shall have carried a complete society in my brain.”

Though almost another half century has now elapsed since these words
were uttered, it would seem that the influence which he was then
conscious of exerting is even more vigorous than before. The characters
which he painted formed, it is true, part of a Paris now dead and
forgotten, but the types have survived, and the lessons which he
deduced therefrom are as eminently instructive now as they were in the
days when he wrote; and while, taking the world at large as the
groundwork of his edifice, man was necessarily but the detail, he has,
in his description thereof, painted him in every phase,—consequent and
inconsequent, neither completely good nor completely vicious, logical
at times, and sometimes great, but incessantly opposing his own
interests to the laws of society in that gigantic struggle of customs
and sentiments which is as inconsistent to-day as it was fifty years
ago.

When the “fiat lux” was pronounced, and man completed, Balzac turned to
his natural companion, and in his portraiture of woman not a single
type is lacking. Herein he is unexcelled and unsurpassable. That which
Euripides considered as the most terrible of all misfortunes, and De
Maistre nothing but a beautiful animal, found its most graphic
expression through him. As a faithful naturalist, he has, in descending
the spiral of civilization, described and classified the femina
simplex; but the ideal woman, sublime in her errors, magnificent in
her devotion, and royal in her forgiveness, has found her geographer in
him. His descriptions of Madame de Beauséant, the Duchesse de Langeais,
Madame Firmiani, the Countess in “Colonel Chabert,” Madame Claës,
Madame Jules, Madame de Montsauf, Béatrix, and Mademoiselle des Touches
comprise woman almost in her entirety; they are landmarks in
psychological study; and so true to nature are they that their
appearance marked a new era in literature.

It is in these portraits that Balzac is most realistic; and while a few
of the most admirable among them are sometimes erring, yet it will be
admitted that womankind is not composed exclusively of angels;
perfection is often dull, and a fault may be a virtue. By way of
contrast, however, he has, in Eugénie Grandet, Madame Firmiani, Madame
de la Chanterie, Marguerite Claës, Madame Jules, Agathe Rouget,
Pierrette, Madame Hulot, and Ursule Mirouët, not only solved the
difficult problem of rendering virtue interesting, but he has created
in frames of impeccable beauty a series of irreproachable Madonnas.

His revelation of woman is completed in a special and parallel study of
love. Love he considered the mainspring of humanity; without it,
religion, history, romance, and art would be useless; and he has
analyzed, dissected, and explained its every phase, hesitation,
palpitation, and tenderness.

Beyond the scenic effects which he lent to passion, Balzac entered
thoroughly into the specialties of trade and profession, and it seems
almost incredible that one mind could have grappled with the details of
the practice of law which are so admirably described in the “Contrat de
Mariage,” in his portrait of Derville the lawyer, Peerquin the notary,
and the proceedings in “César Birotteau,” while imagining such types as
Vautrin, who dominated Paris from the depths of the galleys, or La
Fille aux yeux d’or languishing in her octagonal boudoir.

As Bianchou he is alienist and physician; in Dr. Mirouët he is medium
and mesmerist; he is a miser in Grandet and discounter in Gobseck; he
is vicar at Tours and old maid at Issoudun. None better than he has
described that class of fascinating scoundrels of which Rastignac is
the type, nor painted more clearly the heralds of ennui and
philosophers of satiety than he has done in De Marsay and Maxime de
Trailles. In “Les Deux Poètes” he is printer and manufacturer of paper;
in the “Cousin Pons” he presents the flower of an imagination
intoxicated with the master paintings of great artists; while in the
“Illusions Perdues” the journalist is dissected and the publisher
decomposed.

In the veins of his characters there is not a drop of ink; they live,
move, and have their being, and their eyelashes are as delicately
finished as their epigrams.

Starting from the mud and vermin of Parisian by-ways, and ascending to
the steps of the throne, Balzac garnered every possible type, no two of
which are similar; each is original and all are profoundly human; and
while the dregs of London are not further removed from the splendors of
Teheran than is mother Nourrison from the Duc de Grandlieu, yet
Balzac’s intuition divined the one as clearly as he described the other.

In his transitions and contrasts, however, there is as little
abruptness as there is in the marriage of the blue of the skies with
the green of a landscape; changes follow in orderly and natural
sequence, and the mind of the reader is only confused at the
multiplicity of his attainments, which present in turn houses and
costumes, interiors and countries, intermingled with plot, science,
religion, politics, agriculture, erudition, mysticism, and wit.

Balzac was also a delicious landscape painter, and his scenes from
Brittany in “Les Chouans,” his landscapes of Touraine and particularly
that of Vouvay in “La Femme de Trente Ans,” the grand sketch of Norway
in “Séraphita,” that of the Mediterranean island in “La Duchesse de
Langeais,” are cited by Davin as masterpieces of graphic description.

The resources of Balzac’s genius are perhaps as clearly exhibited in
“Eugénie Grandet” as in any of his other works, and the appearance of
this romance gave the keynote to the present Realistic school. “Eugénie
Grandet” is the conquest of absolute truth in art. It is the drama
applied to the most simple events of life; the fusion of the trivial
and the sublime, the pathetic and the grotesque. It is a picture of
life as it is, and the model of what a novel should be.

The motif here commenced is admirably continued in “Le Curé de
Tours,” which contains none of those elements heretofore considered
indispensable in the manufacture of fiction. From these pages love and
marriage are banished; there is barely an event to be mentioned, yet
the dumb, tortuous struggle between the two priests is at once clear
cut and peculiarly vivid. Herein the most humble trivialities of the
subject are elevated and dramatized, and to attentive eyes this book
will perhaps contain the secret of Balzac’s superiority; for as no rôle
is poor to a good actor, Balzac in this story demonstrates that nothing
was small beneath his pen.

The interiors of Gerard Dow, with their vast chimneys lit by flickering
flames, their polished floors, walls hung with tapestries, their
sculptured cornices and quaint and curious furniture, their shadowed
backgrounds and doors which seem about to open upon some mysterious
room, are to be found in “La Recherche de l’Absolu,” in which the
opulent detail of the Flemish school is equaled, if not surpassed.
Here, as in “Eugénie Grandet,” the drama is formed of the fusion of the
trivial and the sublime, and for the proper presentation of the subject
he extracted from the past of chemistry its possibilities for the
future.

This work, as is the case with almost all his others, contains evidence
of the most obstinate researches; and in this respect it may be noted
that the majority of his books are the result of patient labor and
prolonged meditations.

“Ursule Mirouët,” one of his most chaste conceptions, is the fruit of
exhaustive experiments in clairvoyance. “Séraphita” was born of the
suggestions of a hundred works of the mystics. “César Birotteau” is a
text-book on bankruptcy.

The production of “Gambara” and “Massimillia Doni” necessitated not
only a thorough musical schooling, but vast operatic knowledge, and
before attacking his subject Balzac engaged a violinist to saturate him
with Rossini. “La Grande Bretèche” is the essence of the Causes
Célèbres, and dowered French literature with a new shudder. The
“Contrat de Mariage” is a code of legal finesse.

“Maître Cornélius,” which with the exception of “Catherine de Médicis”
contains the only ghosts that he has evoked from the night of the past,
is an attempt to rehabilitate Louis XI., and to refute the historical
portion of “Quentin Durward.”

“Les Deux Proscrits” was the result of prolonged meditations on the
works of Dante, while “La Dernière Incarnation de Vautrin” is a
dictionary of prison slang.

But the works for which he cared the most and on which he expended the
greatest amount of labor were “Louis Lambert” and “Le Médecin de
Campagne.”

In “Louis Lambert,” he asks whether electricity is not the basis of the
particular fluid from which ideas are derived, and proceeds thereupon
to consider thought as a complete system similar to that of vegetation;
and after analyzing the birth, life, or death of certain thoughts,[16]
he expresses the opinion that ideas and sentiments are endowed with
physical properties, such as weight and movement; and after fortifying
it with striking examples of expectation, fear, anger, and
determination, he concludes that facts do not exist, that ideas alone
endure, and that volition is a material force, similar to that of steam.

In spite of the amount of labor which a work of this kind necessitated,
a still greater amount was expended on “Le Médecin de Campagne,” of
which every line and every phrase was weighed, rewritten, and corrected
again and again. In this work he attempted to grasp the simple beauty
of the Scriptures, to surpass the “Vicar of Wakefield,” and to put the
“Imitation of Christ” into action; but its pages were written above the
level of the ordinary reader, and in spite of its profundity of thought
it is perhaps the least known of all his writings.

The romance, however, which gained for him the greatest favor in the
boudoirs of Europe was the “Mémoires de Deux Jeunes Mariées,” which is
one of the few works in which happy and satisfied love has been
successfully depicted. In Rousseau there was too much rhetoric, in
Richardson too much pretension; Scott was hampered by English prudery,
and is consequently chill as an icicle; the poets as a rule were too
extravagant and too much engrossed in metaphors; and it remained to
Balzac to describe the insensate fears and unreasoning jealousies of
that passion of which many speak, but few have known.

The masterful handling of these widely contrasting subjects shows not
only an equipment of profound penetration and power of observation, but
also an erudition at once varied and luminous. His works are those of
an anatomist from whom nothing escaped, a psychologist from whom
nothing was hidden, and a realist who described all. Joined thereto was
the gift of adjective: in this he is the Benvenuto Cellini of
literature, for his words seem less like symbols of speech than
awakeners of trains of thought.

His originality is entirely undisputed. It would not be a difficult
task to point out the buried hands which modeled the grandiose figure
of Hugo, and the tombs ransacked by Shakespeare are still open to
inspection; but Balzac was totally without literary ancestry. The
influence of Scott and Hoffmann, at that time enormous, possibly
presided at the conception of some of his earlier works, and brought to
them strength from the massiveness of the one and coloring from the
unexpectedness of the other; they were perhaps the transitory models of
a necessary apprenticeship, in which the masters were soon to be
