something to precipitate it in tangible shape. 
" Apollinaris ? " asked Charles Bellingham, handing 
the bottle from the other side. He had drawn his 
chair closer than the rest to Lapham's, and was 
listening with great interest. When Mrs. Corey 
asked him to meet Lapham, he accepted gladly. 
" You know I go in for that sort of thing, Anna. 
Since Leslie's affair we're rather bound to do it. 
And I think we meet these practical fellows too 
little. There 's always something original about 
 
them." He might naturally have believed that 
the reward of his faith was coming. 
" Thanks, I will take some of this wine," said 
Lapham, pouring himself a glass of Madeira from a 
black and dusty bottle caressed by a label bearing 
the date of the vintage. He tossed off the wine, 
unconscious of its preciousness, and waited for the 
result. That cloudiness in his brain disappeared 
before it, but a mere blank remained. He not only 
could not remember what he was going to say, but 
he could not recall what they had been talking about. 
They waited, looking at him, and he stared at them 
in return. After a while he heard the host saying, 
" Shall we join the ladies ? " 
Lapham went, trying to think what had happened. 
It seemed to him a long time since he had drunk 
that wine. 
Miss Corey gave him a cup of tea, where he stood 
aloof from his wife, who was talking with Miss 
Kingsbury and Mrs. Sewell ; Irene was with Miss 
Nanny Corey. He could not hear what they were 
talking about ; but if Penelope had come, he knew 
that she would have done them all credit. He 
meant to let her know how he felt about her be 
haviour when he got home. It was a shame for her 
to miss such a chance. Irene was looking beautiful, 
as pretty as all the rest of them put together, but 
she was not talking, and Lapham perceived that at 
a dinner-party you ought to talk. He was himself 
conscious of having talked very well. He now wore 
an air of great dignity, and, in conversing with the 
 
other gentlemen, he used a grave and weighty de 
liberation. Some of them wanted him to go into 
the library. There he gave his ideas of books. He 
said he had not much time for anything but the 
papers ; but he was going to have a complete library 
in his new place. He made an elaborate acknow 
ledgment to Bromfield Corey of his son's kindness 
in suggesting books for his library ; he said that he 
had ordered them all, and that he meant to have 
pictures. He asked Mr. Corey who was about the 
best American painter going now. " I don't set up 
to be a judge of pictures, but I know what I like," 
he said. He lost the reserve which he had main 
tained earlier, and began to boast. He himself 
introduced the subject of his paint, in a natural 
transition from pictures; he said Mr. Corey must 
take a run up to Lapham with him some day, and 
see the Works ; they would interest him, and he 
would drive him round the country ; he kept most 
of his horses up there, and he could show Mr. Corey 
some of the finest Jersey grades in the country. 
He told about his brother William, the judge at 
Dubuque ; and a farm he had out there that paid 
for itself every year in wheat. As he cast off all fear, 
his voice rose, and he hammered his arm-chair with 
the thick of his hand for emphasis. Mr. Corey 
seemed impressed ; he sat perfectly quiet, listening, 
and Lapham saw the other gentlemen stop in their 
talk every now and then to listen. After this proof 
of his ability to interest them, he would have liked 
to have Mrs. Lapham suggest again that he was 
T 
 
unequal to their society, or to the society of anybody 
else. He surprised himself by his ease among men 
whose names had hitherto overawed him. He got 
to calling Bromfield Corey by his surname alone. 
He did not understand why young Corey seemed so 
preoccupied, and he took occasion to tell the company 
how he had said to his wife the first time he saw 
that fellow that he could make a man of him if he 
had him in the business ; and he guessed he was not 
mistaken. He began to tell stories of the different 
young men he had had in his employ. At last he 
had the talk altogether to himself ; no one else 
talked, and he talked unceasingly. It was a great 
time ; it was a triumph. 
He was in this successful mood when word came 
to him that Mrs. Lapham was going ; Tom Corey 
seemed to have brought it, but he was not sure. 
Anyway, he was not going to hurry. He made 
cordial invitations to each of the gentlemen to drop 
in and see him at his office, and would not be satis 
fied till he had exacted a promise from each. He 
told Charles Bellingham that he liked him, and 
assured James Bellingham that it had always been 
his ambition to know him, and that if any one had 
said when he first came to Boston that in less than 
ten years he should be hobnobbing with Jim Belling 
ham, he should have told that person he lied. He 
would have told anybody he Jied that had told him 
ten years ago that a son of Bromfield Corey would 
have come and asked him to take him into the busi 
ness. Ten years ago he, Silas Lapham, had come to 
 
Boston a little worse off than nothing at all, for he 
was in debt for half the money that he had bought 
out his partner with, and here he was now worth a 
million, and meeting you gentlemen like one of you. 
And every cent of that was honest money, no 
speculation, every copper of it for value received. 
And here, only the other day, his old partner, who 
had been going to the dogs ever since he went out 
of the business, came and borrowed twenty thousand 
dollars of him ! Lapham lent it because his wife 
wanted him to : she had always felt bad about the 
fellow's having to go out of the business. 
He took leave of Mr. Sewell with patronising 
affection, and bade him come to him if he ever got 
into a tight place with his parish work ; he would 
let him have all the money he wanted ; he had 
more money than he knew what to do with. " Why, 
when your wife sent to mine last fall," he said, 
turning to Mr. Corey, " I drew my cheque for five 
hundred dollars, but my wife wouldn't take more 
than one hundred ; said she wasn't going to show off 
before Mrs. Corey. I call that a pretty good joke 
on Mrs. Corey. I must tell her how Mrs. Lapham 
done her out of a cool four hundred dollars." 
He started toward the door of the drawing-room 
to take leave of the ladies ; but Tom Corey was at 
his elbow, saying, " I think Mrs. Lapham is waiting 
for you below, sir," and in obeying the direction 
Corey gave him toward another door he forgot all 
about his purpose, and came away without saying 
good-night to his hostess. 
 
Mrs. Lapham had not known how soon she ought 
to go, and had no idea that in her quality of chief 
guest she was keeping the others. She stayed till 
eleven o'clock, and was a little frightened when she 
found what time it was ; but Mrs. Corey, without 
pressing her to stay longer, had said it was not at 
all late. She and Irene had had a perfect time. 
Everybody had been very polite ; on the way home 
they celebrated the amiability of both the Miss 
Coreys and of Miss Kingsbury. Mrs. Lapham 
thought that Mrs. Bellingham was about the pleasant- 
est person she ever saw ; she had told her all about 
her married daughter who had married an inventor 
and gone to live in Omaha a Mrs. Blake. 
"If it's that car-wheel Blake," said Lapham 
proudly, " I know all about him. I Ve sold him tons 
of the paint." 
" Pooh, papa ! How you do smell of smoking ! " 
cried Irene. 
" Pretty strong, eh ? " laughed Lapham, letting 
down a window of the carriage. His heart was 
throbbing wildly in the close air, and he was glad of 
the rush of cold that came in, though it stopped his 
tongue, and he listened more and more drowsily to 
the rejoicings that his wife and daughter exchanged. 
He meant to have them wake Penelope up and tell 
her what she had lost ; but when he reached home 
he was too sleepy to suggest it. He fell asleep as 
soon as his head touched the pillow, full of supreme 
triumph. 
But in the morning his skull was sore with the 
 
unconscious, night-long ache ; and he rose cross and 
taciturn. They had a silent breakfast. In the cold 
grey light of the morning the glories of the night 
before showed poorer. Here and there a painful 
doubt obtruded itself and marred them with its 
awkward shadow. Penelope sent down word that 
she was not well, and was not coming to breakfast, 
and Lapham was glad to go to his office without see 
ing her. 
He was severe and silent all day with his clerks, 
and peremptory with customers. Of Corey he was 
slyly observant, and as the day wore away he grew 
more restively conscious. He sent out word by his 
office-boy that he would like to see Mr. Corey for a 
few minutes after closing. The type- writer girl had 
lingered too, as if she wished to speak with him, and 
Corey stood in abeyance as she went toward Lap- 
ham's door. 
" Can't see you to-night, Zerrilla," he said bluffly, 
but not unkindly. " Perhaps I 'll call at the house, 
if it's important." 
"It is," said the girl, with a spoiled air of in 
sistence. 
"Well," said Lapham, and, nodding to Corey to 
enter, he closed the door upon her. Then he turned 
to the young man and demanded : " "Was I drunk 
last night?" 
XV. 
LAPHAM'S strenuous face was broken up with the 
emotions that had forced him to this question : 
shame, fear of the things that must have been 
thought of him, mixed with a faint hope that he 
might be mistaken, which died out at the shocked 
and pitying look in Corey's eyes. 
" Was I drunk ?" he repeated. " I ask you, be 
cause I was never touched by drink in my life before, 
and I don't know." He stood with his huge hands 
trembling on the back of his chair, and his dry lips 
apart, as he stared at Corey. 
" That is what every one understood, Colonel 
Lapham," said the young man. " Every one saw 
how it was. Don't " 
" Did they talk it over after I left ?" asked Lapham 
vulgarly. 
" Excuse me," said Corey, blushing, " my father 
doesn't talk his guests over with one another." He 
added, with youthful superfluity, " You were among 
gentlemen." 
"I was the only one that wasn't a gentleman 
there!" lamented Lapham. "I disgraced you! I 
disgraced my family ! I mortified your father before 
 
his friends !" His head dropped. "I showed that 
I wasn't fit to go with you. I 'm not fit for any 
decent place. What did I say ? What did I do I" 
he asked, suddenly lifting his head and confronting 
Corey. " Out with it ! If you could bear to see it 
and hear it, I had ought to bear to know it !" 
" There was nothing really nothing," said Corey. 
" Beyond the fact that you were not quite yourself, 
there was nothing whatever. My father did speak 
of it to me," he confessed, " when we were alone. 
He said that he was afraid we had not been thought 
ful of you, if you were in the habit of taking only 
water; I told him I had not seen wine at your 
table. The others said nothing about you." 
" Ah, but what did they think ?" 
" Probably what we did : that it was purely a 
misfortune an accident." 
" I wasn't fit to be there," persisted Lapham. " Do 
you want to leave ?" he asked, with savage abruptness. 
" Leave ? " faltered the young man. 
" Yes ; quit the business ? Cut the whole con 
nection ? " 
" I haven't the remotest idea of it !" cried Corey 
in amazement. " Why in the world should ? " 
"Because you're a gentleman, and I'm not, and 
it ain't right I should be over you. If you want to 
go, I know some parties that would be glad to get 
you. I will give you up if you want to go before 
anything worse happens, and I shan't blame you. 
I can help you to something better than I can offer 
you here, and I will." 
 
" There 's no question of my going, unless you wish 
it," said Corey. " If you do " 
" Will you tell your father," interrupted Lapham, 
" that I had a notion all the time that I was acting 
the drunken blackguard, and that I 've suffered for 
it all day ? Will you tell him I don't want him 
to notice me if we ever meet, and that I know I 'm 
not fit to associate with gentlemen in anything but a 
business way, if I am that ? " 
" Certainly I shall do nothing of the kind," re 
torted Corey. " I can't listen to you any longer. 
What you say is shocking to me shocking in a way 
you can't think" 
" Why, man !" exclaimed Lapham, with astonish 
ment ; "if I can stand it, you can !" 
" No," said Corey, with a sick look, " that doesn't 
follow. You may denounce yourself, if you will ; 
but I have my reasons for refusing to hear you my 
reasons why I can't hear you. If you say another 
word I must go away." 
"I don't understand you," faltered Lapham, in 
bewilderment, which absorbed even his shame. 
" You exaggerate the effect of what has happened," 
said the young man. " It 's enough, more than 
enough, for you to have mentioned the matter to me, 
and I think it 's unbecoming in me to hear you." 
He made a movement toward the door, but Lap- 
ham stopped him with the tragic humility of his 
appeal. " Don't go yet ! I can't let you. I 've dis 
gusted you, I see that ; but I didn't mean to. I 
I take it back." 
 
" Oh, there 's nothing to take back," said Corey, 
with a repressed shudder for the abasement which 
he had seen. " But let us say no more about it 
think no more. There wasn't one of the gentlemen 
present last night who didn't understand the matter 
precisely as my father and I did, and that fact must 
end it between us two." 
He went out into the larger office beyond, leaving 
Lapham helpless to prevent his going. It had be 
come a vital necessity with him to think the best of 
Lapham, but his mind was in a whirl of whatever 
thoughts were most injurious. He thought of him 
the night before in the company of those ladies and 
gentlemen, and he quivered in resentment of his 
vulgar, braggart, uncouth nature. He recognised 
his own allegiance to the exclusiveness to which he 
was born and bred, as a man perceives his duty to 
his country when her rights are invaded. His eye 
fell on the porter going about in his shirt-sleeves to 
make the place fast for the night, and he said to 
himself that Dennis was not more plebeian than his 
master ; that the gross appetites, the blunt sense, 
the purblind ambition, the stupid arrogance were 
the same in both, and the difference was in a brute 
will that probably left the porter the gentler man of 
the two. The very innocence of Lapham's life in 
the direction in which he had erred wrought against 
him in the young man's mood : it contained the 
insult of clownish inexperience. Amidst the stings 
and flashes of his wounded pride, all the social tradi 
tions, all the habits of feeling, which he had silenced 
 
more and more by force of will during the past 
months, asserted their natural sway, and he rioted 
in his contempt of the offensive boor, who was even 
more offensive in his shame than in his trespass. 
He said to himself that he was a Corey, as if that 
were somewhat ; yet he knew that at the bottom of 
his heart all the time was that which must control 
him at last, and which seemed sweetly to be suffer 
ing his rebellion, secure of his submission in the end. 
It was almost with the girl's voice that it seemed to 
plead with him, to undo in him, effect by effect, the 
work of his indignant resentment, to set all things 
in another and fairer light, to give him hopes, to 
suggest palliations, to protest against injustices. It 
was in Lapham's favour that he was so guiltless in 
the past, and now Corey asked himself if it were the 
first time he could have wished a guest at his father's 
table to have taken less wine ; whether Lapham was 
not rather to be honoured for not knowing how to 
contain his folly where a veteran transgressor might 
have held his tongue. He asked himself, with a 
thrill of sudden remorse, whether, when Lapham 
humbled himself in the dust so shockingly, he had 
shown him the sympathy to which such abandon had 
the right ; and he had to own that he had met him 
on the gentlemanly ground, sparing himself and 
asserting the superiority of his sort, and not recog 
nising that Lapham's humiliation came from the 
sense of wrong, which he had helped to accumulate 
upon him by superfinely standing aloof and refusing 
to touch him. 
 
He shut his desk and hurried out into the early 
night, not to go anywhere, but to walk up and down, 
to try to find his way out of the chaos, which now 
seemed ruin, and now the materials out of which 
fine actions and a happy life might be shaped. 
Three hours later he stood at Lapham's door. 
At times what he now wished to do had seemed 
for ever impossible, and again it had seemed as if he 
could not wait a moment longer. He had not been 
careless, but very mindful of what he knew must be 
the feelings of his own family in regard to the Lap- 
hams, and he had not concealed from himself that 
his family had great reason and justice on their side 
in not wishing him to alienate himself from their 
common life and associations. The most that he 
could urge to himself was that they had not all the 
reason and justice ; but he had hesitated and delayed 
because they had so much. Often he could not make 
it appear right that he should merely please himself in 
what chiefly concerned himself. He perceived how 
far apart in all their experiences and ideals the Lap- 
ham girls and his sisters were ; how different Mrs. 
Lapham was from his mother ; how grotesquely 
unlike were his father and Lapham ; and the dis 
parity had not always amused him. 
He had often taken it very seriously, and some 
times he said that he must forego the hope on which 
his heart was set There had been many times in 
the past months when he had said that he must go 
no further, and as often as he had taken this stand 
he had yielded it, upon this or that excuse, which 
 SILAS LAPHAM. 
he was aware of trumping up. It was part of the 
complication that he should be unconscious of the 
injury he might be doing to some one besides his 
family and himself ; this was the defect of his diffi 
dence ; and it had come to him in a pang for the 
first time when his mother said that she would not 
kave the Laphams think she wished to make more 
of the acquaintance than he did ; and then it had 
come too late. Since that he had suffered quite as 
much from the fear that it might not be as that it 
might be so ; and now, in the mood, romantic and 
exalted, in which he found himself concerning Lap- 
ham, he was as far as might be from vain confidence. 
He ended the question in his own mind by affirming 
to himself that he was there, first of all, to see 
Lapham and give him an ultimate proof of his own 
perfect faith and unabated respect, and to offer him 
what reparation this involved for that want of 
sympathy of humanity which he had shown. 
XVI. 
THE Nova Scotia second-girl who answered Corey's 
ring said that Lapham had not come home yet. 
" Oh," said the young man, hesitating on the 
outer step. 
" I guess you better come in," said the girl, " I 'll 
go and see when they're expecting him." 
Corey was in the mood to be swayed by any 
chance. He obeyed the suggestion of the second- 
girl's patronising friendliness, and let her shut him 
into the drawing-room, while she went upstairs to 
announce him to Penelope. 
" Did you tell him father wasn't at home ?" 
"Yes. He seemed so kind of disappointed, I 
told him to come in, and I 'd see when he would 
be in," said the girl, with the human interest which 
sometimes replaces in the American domestic the 
servile deference of other countries. 
A gleam of amusement passed over Penelope's 
face, as she glanced at herself in the glass. " Well," 
she cried finally, dropping from her shoulders the 
light shawl in which she had been huddled over a 
book when Corey rang, " I will go down." 
"All right," said the girl, and Penelope began 
 
hastily to amend the disarray of her hair, which she 
tumbled into a mass on the top of her little head, 
setting off the pale dark of her complexion with a 
flash of crimson ribbon at her throat. She moved 
across the carpet once or twice with the quaint grace 
that belonged to her small figure, made a dissatisfied 
grimace at it in the glass, caught a handkerchief out 
of a drawer and slid it into her pocket, and then 
descended to Corey. 
The Lapham drawing-room in Nankeen Square 
was in the parti-coloured paint which the Colonel 
had hoped to repeat in his new house : the trim of 
the doors and windows was in light green and the 
panels in salmon; the walls were a plain tint of 
French grey paper, divided by gilt mouldings into 
broad panels with a wide stripe of red velvet paper 
running up the corners ; the chandelier was of 
massive imitation bronze ; the mirror over the 
mantel rested on a fringed mantel-cover of green 
reps, and heavy curtains of that stuff hung from gilt 
lambrequin frames at the window ; the carpet was 
of a small pattern in crude green, which, at the 
time Mrs. Lapham bought it, covered half the new 
floors in Boston. In the panelled spaces on the walls 
were some stone-coloured landscapes, representing 
the mountains and canons of the West, which the 
Colonel and his wife had visited on one of the early 
official railroad excursions. In front of the long 
windows looking into the Square were statues, 
kneeling figures which turned their backs upon the 
company within-doors, and represented allegories of 
 
Faith and Prayer to people without. A white 
marble group of several figures, expressing an Italian 
conception of Lincoln Freeing the Slaves, a Latin 
negro and his wife, with our Eagle flapping his 
wings in approval, at Lincoln's feet, occupied one 
corner, and balanced the what-not of an earlier 
period in another. These phantasms added their 
chill to that imparted by the tone of the walls, the 
landscapes, and the carpets, and contributed to the 
violence of the contrast when the chandelier was 
lighted up full glare, and the heat of the whole fur 
nace welled up from the registers into the quivering 
atmosphere on one of the rare occasions when the 
Laphams invited company. 
Corey had not been in this room before ; the 
family had always received him in what they called 
the sitting-room. Penelope looked into this first, 
and then she looked into the parlour, with a smile 
that broke into a laugh as she discovered him 
standing under the single burner which the second- 
girl had lighted for him in the chandelier. 
" I don't understand how you came to be put in 
there," she said, as she led the way to the cozier 
place, " unless it was because Alice thought you 
were only here on probation, anyway. Father hasn't 
got home yet, but I 'm expecting him every moment; 
I don't know what's keeping him. Did the girl 
tell you that mother and Irene were out ? " 
" No, she didn't say. It 's very good of you to 
see me." She had not seen the exaltation which he 
had been feeling, he perceived with half a sigh ; it 
 
must all be upon this lower level ; perhaps it was 
best so. " There was something I wished to say to 
your father I hope," he broke off, " you 're better 
to-night." 
" Oh yes, thank you," said Penelope, remembering 
that she had not been well enough to go to dinner 
the night before. 
" We all missed you very much." 
" Oh, thank you ! I 'm afraid you wouldn't have 
missed me if I had been there." 
" Oh yes, we should," said Corey, " I assure you." 
They looked at each other. 
" I really think I believed I was saying some 
thing," said the girl 
" And so did I," replied the young man. They 
laughed rather wildly, and then they both became 
rather grave. 
He took the chair she gave him, and looked across 
at her, where she sat on the other side of the hearth, 
in a chair lower than his, with her hands dropped in 
her lap, and the back of her head on her shoulders 
as she looked up at him. The soft-coal fire in the 
grate purred and flickered; the drop-light cast a 
mellow radiance on her face. She let her eyes fall, 
and then lifted them for an irrelevant glance at the 
clock on the mantel. 
"Mother and Irene have gone to the Spanish 
Students' concert." 
" Oh, have they ? " asked Corey ; and he put his 
hat, which he had been holding in his hand, on the 
floor beside his chair. 
 
She looked down at it for no reason, and then 
looked up at his face for no other, and turned a 
little red. Corey turned a little red himself. She 
who had always been so easy with him now became 
a little constrained. 
" Do you know how warm it is eut-of -doors ? " he 
asked. 
" No ; is it warm ? I haven't been out all day." 
" It 's like a summer night." 
She turned her face towards the fire, and then 
started abruptly. " Perhaps it 's too warm for you 
here ? " 
" Oh no, it's very comfortable." 
" I suppose it 's the cold of the last few days 
that's still in the house. I was reading with a 
shawl on when you came." 
" I interrupted you." 
" Oh no. I had finished the book. I was just 
looking over it again." 
" Do you like to read books over ? " 
" Yes ; books that I like at all." 
" What was it ? " asked Corey. 
The girl hesitated. " It has rather a senti 
mental name. Did you ever read it ? Tears, Idle 
Tears." 
" Oh yes ; they were talking of that last night ; 
it 's a famous book with ladies. They break their 
hearts over it. Did it make you cry ?" 
" Oh, it 's pretty easy to cry over a book," said 
Penelope, laughing ; " and that one is very natural 
till you come to the main point. Then the natural- 
ness of all the rest makes that seem natural too ; 
but I guess it 's rather forced." 
" Her giving him up to the other one ? " 
" Yes ; simply because she happened to know that 
the other one had cared for him first. Why should 
she have done it$ What right had she ?" 
" I don't know. I suppose that the self-sacri 
fice " 
" But it wasn't self-sacrifice or not self-sacrifice 
alone. She was sacrificing him too ; and for some 
one who couldn't appreciate him half as much as 
she could. I 'm provoked with myself when I think 
how I cried over that book for I did cry. It's 
silly it 's wicked for any one to do what that girl 
did. Why can't they let people have a chance to 
behave reasonably in stories ? " 
"Perhaps they couldn't make it so attractive," 
suggested Corey, with a smile. 
" It would be novel, at any rate," said the girl. 
" But so it would in real life, I suppose," she added. 
" I don't know. Why shouldn't people in love 
behave sensibly I" 
" That 's a very serious question," said Penelope 
gravely. " I couldn't answer it," and she left him 
the embarrassment of supporting an inquiry which 
she had certainly instigated herself. She seemed to 
have finally recovered her own ease in doing this. 
" Do you admire our autumnal display, Mr. Corey ? " 
"Your display?" 
" The trees in the Square. We think it 's quite 
equal to an opening at Jordan & Marsh's." 
 
" Ah, I 'm afraid you wouldn't let me be serious 
even about your maples." 
" Oh yes, I should if you like to be serious." 
" Don't you ? " 
" Well not about serious matters. That 's the 
reason that book made me cry." 
" You make fun of everything. Miss Irene was 
telling me last night about you." 
" Then it 's no use for me to deny it so soon. I 
must give Irene a talking to." 
" I hope you won't forbid her to talk about you !" 
She had taken up a fan from the table, and held 
it, now between her face and the fire, and now be 
tween her face and him. Her little visage, with 
that arch, lazy look in it, topped by its mass of 
dusky hair, and dwindling from the full cheeks to 
the small chin, had a Japanese effect in the subdued 
light, and it had the charm which comes to any woman 
with happiness. It would be hard to say how much 
of this she perceived that he felt. They talked 
about other things a while, and then she came back 
to what he had said. She glanced at him obliquely 
round her fan, and stopped moving it. " Does 
Irene talk about me ? " she asked. 
" I think so yes. Perhaps it 's only I who talk 
about you. You must blame me if it 's wrong," he 
returned. 
" Oh, I didn't say it was wrong," she replied. 
" But I hope if you said anything very bad of me 
you 'll let me know what it was, so that I can re 
form " 
 
" No, don't change, please ! " cried the young 
man. 
Penelope caught her breath, but went on reso 
lutely, " or rebuke you for speaking evil of digni 
ties." She looked down at the fan, now flat in her 
lap, and tried to govern her head, but it trembled, 
and she remained looking down. Again they let 
the talk stray, and then it was he who brought it 
back to themselves, as if it had not left them. 
" I have to talk of you," said Corey, " because I 
get to talk to you so seldom." 
" You mean that I do all the talking when we 're 
together ? " She glanced sidewise at him ; but 
she reddened after speaking the last word. 
"We're so seldom together," he pursued. 
" I don't know what you mean " 
" Sometimes I 've thought I Ve been afraid 
that you avoided me." 
"woided you?" 
"Yes ! Tried not to be alone with me." 
She might have told him that there was no reason 
why she should be alone with him, and that it was 
very strange he should make this complaint of her. 
But she did not. She kept looking down at the 
fan, and then she lifted her burning face and looked 
at the clock again. "Mother and Irene will be 
sorry to miss you," she gasped. 
He instantly rose and came towards her. She 
rose too, and mechanically put out her hand. He 
took it as if to say good-night. " I didn't mean to 
send you away," she besought him. 
 
"Oh, I'm not going," he answered simply. "I 
wanted to say to say that it's I who make her 
talk about you. To say I There is something 
I want to say to you ; I 've said it so often to myself 
that I feel as if you must know it." She stood 
quite still, letting him keep her hand, and question 
ing his face with a bewildered gaze. "You must 
know she must have told you she must have 
guessed " Penelope turned white, but outwardly 
quelled the panic that sent the blood to her heart. 
" I I didn't expect I hoped to have seen your 
father but I must speak now, whatever I love 
you ! " 
She freed her hand from both of those he had 
closed upon it, and went back from him across the 
room with a sinuous spring. "Mef" Whatever 
potential complicity had lurked in her heart, his 
words brought her only immeasurable dismay. 
He came towards her again. "Yes, you. Who 
else ?" 
She fended him off with an imploring gesture. " I 
thought I it was " 
She shut her lips tight, and stood looking at him 
where he remained in silent amaze. Then her 
words came again, shudder ingly. " Oh, what have 
you done ? " 
" Upon my soul," he said, with a vague smile, " I 
don't know. I hope no harm ! " 
" Oh, don't laugh ! " she cried, laughing hysteri 
cally herself. " Unless you want me to think you 
the greatest wretch in the world ! " 
 
" II " he responded. "For heaven's sake tell me 
what you mean ! " 
" You know I can't tell you. Can you say can 
you put your hand on your heart and say that you 
say you never meant that you meant me all 
along?" 
" Yes ! yes ! Who else ? I came here to see 
your father, and to tell him that I wished to tell 
you this to ask him But what does it matter ? 
You must have known it you must have seen and 
it 's for you to answer me. I Ve been abrupt, I 
know, and I Ve startled you ; but if you love me, 
you can forgive that to my loving you so long before 
I spoke." 
She gazed at him with parted lips. 
" Oh, mercy ! What shall I do ? If it 's true 
what you say you must go ! " she said. " And 
you must never come any more. Do you promise 
that ? " 
" Certainly not," said the young man. " Why 
should I promise such a thing so abominably 
wrong ? I could obey if you didn't love me " 
"Oh, I don't! Indeed I don't! Now will you 
obey." 
" No. I don't believe you." 
"Oh!" 
E[e possessed himself of her hand again. 
" My love my dearest ! What is this trouble, 
that you can't tell it ? It can't be anything about 
yourself. If it is anything about any one else, it 
wouldn't make the least difference in the world, no 
 
matter what it was. I would be only too glad to 
show by any act or deed I could that nothing could 
change me towards you." 
"Oh, you don't understand ! " 
" No, I don't. You must tell me." 
" I will never do that." 
" Then I will stay here till your mother comes, 
and ask her what it is." 
"Ask her?" 
" Yes ! Do you think I will give you up till I 
know why I must ?" 
" You force me to it ! Will you go if I tell you, 
and never let any human creature know what you 
have said to me ? " 
"Not unless you give me leave." 
"That will be never. Well, then " She 
stopped, and made two or three ineffectual efforts 
to begin again. " No, no ! I can't. You must 
go!" 
" I will not go !" 
" You said you loved me. If you do, you will 
go-" 
He dropped the hands he had stretched towards 
her, and she hid her face in her own. 
" There !" she said, turning it suddenly upon him. 
" Sit down there. And will you promise me on 
your honour not to speak not to try to persuade 
me not to touch me ? You won't touch me ?" 
" I will obey you, Penelope." 
" As if you were never to see me again ? As if I 
were dying ?" 
 
" I will do what you say. But I shall see you 
again ; and don't talk of dying. This is the begin 
ning of life " 
" No. It 's the end," said the girl, resuming at 
last something of the hoarse drawl which the tumult 
of her feeling had broken into those half-articulate 
appeals. She sat down too, and lifted her face to 
wards him. " It 's the end of life for me, because I 
know now that I must have been playing false from 
the beginning. You don't know what I mean, and 
I can never tell you. It isn't my secret it's some 
one else's. You you must never come here again. 
I can't tell you why, and you must never try to 
know. Do you promise ? " 
" You can forbid me. I must do what you say." 
" I do forbid you, then. And you shall not think 
I am cruel " 
" How could I think that ?" 
" Oh, how hard you make it !" 
Corey laughed for very despair. " Can I make it 
easier by disobeying you ?" 
" I know I am talking crazily. But I 'm not 
crazy." 
' No, no," he said, with some wild notion of 
comforting her ; " but try to tell me this trouble ! 
There is nothing under heaven no calamity, no 
sorrow that I wouldn't gladly share with you, 
or take all upon myself if I could ! " 
" I know ! But this you can't. Oh, my " 
" Dearest ! Wait ! Think ! Let me ask your 
mother your father " 
 
She gave a cry. 
" No ! If you do that, you will make me hate 
you ! Will you " 
The rattling of a latch-key was heard in the outer 
door. 
" Promise !" cried Penelope. 
"Oh, I promise !" 
" Good-bye !" She suddenly flung her arms round 
his neck, and, pressing her cheek tight against his, 
flashed out of the room by one door as her father 
entered it by another. 
Corey turned to him in a daze. " I I called to 
speak with you about a matter But it's so 
late now. I 'll I 'll see you to-morrow." 
" No time like the present," said Lapham, with a 
fierceness that did not seem referable to Corey. 
He had his hat still on, and he glared at the young 
man out of his blue eyes with a fire that something 
else must have kindled there. 
" I really can't now," said Corey weakly. " It 
will do quite as well to-morrow. Good night, sir." 
" Good night," answered Lapham abruptly, follow 
ing him to the door, and shutting it after him. " I 
think the devil must have got into pretty much 
everybody to-night," he muttered, coming back to 
the room, where he put down his hat. Then he 
went to the kitchen-stairs and called down, " Hello, 
Alice ! I want something to eat ! 
XVII. 
" WHAT 's the reason the girls never get down to 
breakfast any more ?" asked Lapham, when he met 
his wife at the table in the morning. He had been 
up an hour and a half, and he spoke with the sever 
ity of a hungry man. " It seems to me they don't 
amount to anything. Here I am, at my time of life, 
up the first one in the house. I ring the bell for the 
cook at quarter-past six every morning, and the 
breakfast is on the table at half-past seven right along, 
like clockwork, but I never see anybody but you till 
I go to the office." 
" Oh yes, you do, Si," said his wife soothingly. 
" The girls are nearly always down. But they 're 
young, and it tires them more than it does us to get 
up early." 
" They can rest afterwards. They don't do any 
thing after they are up," grumbled Lapham. 
" Well, that 's your fault, ain't it ? You oughtn't 
to have made so much money, and then they 'd have 
had to work." She laughed at Lapham's Spartan 
mood, and went on to excuse the young people. 
" Irene 's been up two nights hand running, and 
Penelope says she ain't well. What makes you so 
cross about the girls ? Been doing something you 're 
ashamed of ? " 
" I 'll tell } r ou when I Ve been doing anything to 
be ashamed of," growled Lapham. 
" Oh no, you won't ! " said his wife jollily. 
" You 'll only be hard on the rest of us. Come 
now, Si ; what is it ? " 
Lapham frowned into his coffee with sulky dignity, 
and said, without looking up, " I wonder what that 
fellow wanted here last night ?" 
"What fellow?" 
" Corey. I found him here when I came home, and 
he said he wanted to see me ; but he wouldn't stop." 
" Where was he ? " 
" In the sitting-room." 
" Was Pen there ? " 
"I didn't see her." 
Mrs. Lapham paused, with her hand on the cream- 
jug. " Why, what in the land did he want ? Did 
he say he wanted you ? " 
" That 's what he said." 
" And then he wouldn't stay ? " 
" No." 
" Well, then, I 'll tell you just what it is, Silas 
Lapham. He came here " she looked about the 
room and lowered her voice " to see you about 
Irene, and then he hadn't the courage." 
" I guess he 's got courage enough to do pretty 
much what he wants to," said Lapham glumly. 
" All I know is, he was here. You better ask Pen 
about it, if she ever gets down." 
 
" I guess I shan't wait for her," said Mrs. Lap- 
ham ; and, as her husband closed the front door 
after him, she opened that of her daughter's room 
and entered abruptly. 
The girl sat at the window, fully dressed, and as 
if she had been sitting there a long time. Without 
rising, she turned her face towards her mother. It 
merely showed black against the light, and revealed 
nothing till her mother came close to her with suc 
cessive questions. " Why, how long have you been 
up, Pen ? Why don't you come to your breakfast ? 
Did you see Mr. Corey when he called last night ? 
Why, what 's the matter with you ? What have 
you been crying about ? 
" Have I been crying ? " 
" Yes ! Your cheeks are all wet ! " 
" I thought they were on fire. Well, I'll tell 
you what's happened." She rose, and then 
fell back in her chair. " Lock the door ! " she 
ordered, and her mother mechanically obeyed. " I 
don't want Irene in here. There's nothing the 
matter. Only, Mr. Corey offered himself to me last 
night." 
Her mother remained looking at her, helpless, not 
so much with amaze, perhaps, as dismay. 
" Oh, I 'm not a ghost ! I wish I was ! You 
had better sit down, mother. You have got to 
know all about it." 
Mrs. Lapham dropped nervelessly into the chair 
at the other window, and while the girl went slowly 
but briefly on, touching only the vital points of the 
 
story, and breaking at times into a bitter drollery, 
she sat as if without the power to speak or stir. 
" Well, that 's all, mother. I should say I had 
dreamt it, if I had slept any last night ; but I guess 
it really happened." 
The mother glanced round at the bed, and said,- 
glad to occupy herself delay ingly with the minor 
care : " Why, you have been sitting up all night ! 
You will kill yourself." 
" I don't know about killing myself, but I 've been 
sitting up all night," answered the girl. Then, see 
ing that her mother remained blankly silent again, 
she demanded, " Why don't you blame me, mother ? 
Why don't you say that I led him on, and tried to 
get him away from her ? Don't you believe I did ? " 
Her mother made her no answer, as if these 
ravings of self-accusal needed none. " Do you 
think," she asked simply, " that he got the idea 
you cared for him ? " 
" He knew it ! How could I keep it from him ? 
I said I didn't at first ! " 
" It was no use," sighed the mother. " You 
might as well said you did. It couldn't help Irene 
any, if you didn't." 
" I always tried to help her with him, even when 
I 
" Yes, I know. But she never was equal to him. 
I saw that from the start ; but I tried to blind 
myself to it. And when he kept coming " 
" You never thought of me ! " cried the girl, with 
a bitterness that reached her mother's heart. " I 
 
was nobody ! I couldn't feel ! No one could care 
for me ! " The turmoil of despair, of triumph, of 
remorse and resentment, which filled her soul, tried 
to express itself in the words. 
" No," said the mother humbly. " I didn't think 
*of you. Or I didn't think of you enough. It did 
come across me sometimes that may be But it 
didn't seem as if And your going on so for 
Irene " 
" You let me go on. You made me always go 
and talk with him for her, and you didn't think I 
would talk to him for myself. Well, I didn't ! " 
" I 'm punished for it. When did you begin to 
care for him ? " 
" How do I know ? What difference does it 
make ? It's all over now, no matter when it began. 
He won't come here any more, unless I let him." 
She could not help betraying her pride in this 
authority of hers, but she went on anxiously enough, 
" What will you say to Irene ? She 's safe as far as 
I 'm concerned ; but if he don't care for her, what 
will you do ? " 
" I don't know what to do," said Mrs. Lapham. 
She sat in an apathy from which she apparently 
could not rouse herself. "I don't see as anything 
can be done." 
Penelope laughed in a pitying derision. 
" Well, let things go on then. But they won't go 
on." 
"No, they won't go on," echoed her mother. 
" She 's pretty enough, and she 's capable ; and your 
 
father's got the money I don't know what I'm 
saying ! She ain't equal to him, and she never was. 
I kept feeling it all the time, and yet I kept blinding 
myself." 
" If he had ever cared for her," said Penelope, 
" it wouldn't have mattered whether she was equal 
to him or not I'm not equal to him either." 
Her mother went on : "I might have thought it 
was you ; but I had got set Well ! I can see it 
all clear enough, now it 'a too late. I don't know 
what to do." 
" And what do you expect me to do V demanded 
the girl. " Do you want me to go to Irene and tell 
her that I 've got him away from her ? " 
" good Lord ! " cried Mrs. Lapham. " What 
shall I do ? What do you want I should do, Pen ? " 
" Nothing for me," said Penelope. " I 've had it 
out with myself. Now do the best you can for 
Irene." 
" I couldn't say you 'had done wrong, if you was 
to marry him to-day." 
" Mother ! " 
" No, I couldn't. I couldn't say but what you 
had been good and faithful all through, and you had 
a perfect right to do it. There ain't any one to 
blame. He 's behaved like a gentleman, and I can 
see now that he never thought of her, and that it 
was you all the while. Well, marry him, then ! 
He 's got the right, and so have you." 
" What about Irene ? I don't want you to talk 
about me. I can take care of myself." 
 
"She's nothing but a child. It's only a fancy 
with her. She 'll get over it. She hain't really got 
her heart set on him." 
" She 's got her heart set on him, mother. She 's 
got her whole life set on him. You know that." 
" Yes, that 's so," said the mother, as promptly 
as if she had been arguing to that rather than the 
contrary effect. 
"If I could give him to her, I would. But he 
