The loss of a few thousands out of their store set them 
wild. What need they care ? it would come to him by 
and by, and if he did not mind, why should they? 
He had a dream of a new generation in this grand old 
place. Sons and daughters, with the pure white souls of 
their mother, and a fine, subtile ingrained strength ; with 
no selfish, sordid aims ; living out the greater truths, that 
in some occult way were slowly dawning upon him, — the 
vital, joyous, uplifting truths, higher than mere intellec- 
tual culture, yet a part of it, shaped to the fine, broad 
uses of humanity. He had seen such a man, such a 
woman. Oh, sad travesty of fate, why cannot these two 
souls transmit their saintly and knightly virtues to pos- 
terity ? 
It was a great relief to Celia Marshall to know that she 
 
need not face this question immediately. She went to 
the city. Mrs. Linthorpe was urgent, and plans for future 
work were coming in that argued well for the prosperity 
and reputation of the artist, — a series of designs for a 
favorite poem, two or three studies of ornamental art, 
and some copies of past efforts, singularly beautiful. 
There would be work enough presently to bring about 
the realization of her dream. Daisy married, Bertie's 
future assured in the pride if not the affection of his 
father, and her mother belonging to her alone. Better 
than any love of lovers, she said proudly. 
The first evening she related to Mr. and Mrs. Howarth 
her mother's trial and decision. They had heard of her 
father's return, and wondered what the outcome might 
be. 
" I do not see that she could well have done differently," 
said Mr. Howarth. "There is no question but that the 
child would have been given to his father. When we 
come to that higher, finer life where motives and deeds 
count against mere money, we may find purer justice 
meted out. Tell her for me that she has our warmest 
sympathy." He could answer for his wife here. 
"It is a cruel, selfish wrong!" Mrs. Howarth's eyes 
flamed with the deep sense of injustice that thrilled every 
pulse. " It makes me sick of the world, sick of the weary 
years of waiting, sick of the sermons and culture and 
efforts for human souls that we so prate about, of the 
great advancement we fancy we have made, when no one 
recognizes the difference between a life-long devotion and 
a momentary pleasure or whim that costs nothing. O my 
dear child, God help her to bear her burden, and we must 
not leave it all for Him to do. He gives us all a duty in 
this matter." 
Celia clasped the strong, warm hands, and they inspired 
her anew with faith in the future. 
Mrs. Howarth's sympathy did not stop here. While 
she would have rigorously excluded anyone tainted by 
the breath of wrong or scandal, her clear eyes could see 
this woman's justification. Not a move in all these years 
that had been a bid for license, for any freedom beyond 
the merest duty. She had come and gone in the business 
world, commanding only the most respectful attention. 
Were not her virtues to outweigh her husband's vices ? 
Could mere wealth so gloss over a wrong? 
She went to her as a sister might. Her clear, high 
approval inspired Mrs. Marshall, lifted her out of that 
dreary depth where even courage must have failed after 
a while. She could have made a brave stand for her 
children's sake, but, that ended, the rest of the struggle 
appeared futile, useless. 
So it came to pass, the main points at issue settled 
themselves before Mr. Sherrard's return. Mr. and Mrs. 
Howarth had discussed the future of the little group so 
endeared to them, and resolved that before long they 
would use every means to restore Mrs. Marshall to her 
true position. The urgent need of support for a family 
would be at an end. Mrs. Marshall and Celia could make 
a new home, such as the child needed for her future 
advancement and reputation. Indeed, there were many 
ways in which the mother could be of great assistance to 
the daughter. 
"And it shows the fallacy of our beliefs in the high 
future for women's labor when the bravest among us push 
onward to the step above, to the things on which society 
has set its royal signet. I feel ashamed of myself," de- 
clared Mrs. Howarth ; "and yet two or three cannot move 
the world." 
" Since the world is not ready to be moved," said her 
husband with a grave smile. "When we come to pay 
true respect to the dignity of labor; when we set the 
honesty, the perseverance, the sobriety of the poor man 
upon its proper level, and esteem them above the 'luck/ 
 
it is called, that brings a fortune, no matter how dis- 
honest were the means used, we shall have made a great 
stride; when we insist upon pure and simple integrity 
in all life's dealings, and not a wasteful show, a wioked 
extravagance ; when we brand dishonesty for what it is, 
and cease to bow down to the outside appearance of 
wealth, we may raise some few, longing souls to that 
better estate. Eleanor Marshall has made a brave fight 
with untoward circumstances. A man of her heroic cour- 
age would find friends on every hand, who would say 
' Come up higher,' but the few who approve her cannot 
give her the setting of fine gold in the world's estimation 
while she remains where she is, to the sorrow and shame 
of men and women be it said. It is the old, old question, 
" Can any good come out of Nazareth?' Can any virtue 
or elegance or refinement or culture be in and of a woman 
forced to earn her bread in the humbler walks of life ? I 
like your plan, but you must go slowly. She has a fine, 
sensitive, shrinking pride from anything like charity. It 
must be done through and by Celia." 
" I am quite sure it can be brought about. Mrs. Lin- 
thorpe would be delighted with such a home as they could 
make. I have often wondered why two or three lovely 
women could not unite their incomes and have the one 
charming, delightful abode that none of them could obtain 
singly. It would give them a more stable position than 
rooms and boarding-houses, and lead to a truer type of 
womanly refinement ; for, after all, a woman's true centre 
must be in a home, and yet all women cannot in the 
nature of events have husbands. Many of them, indeed, 
would be infinitely better off without." 
A peculiar, amused light crossed Leonard Howarth's 
face as his eyes rested on his wife. 
"I am not going to undervalue happy marriages nor 
Tail against husbands, when I have seen so many w.ives 
without conscience, hungry for admiration from everyone 
they meet, whose sole aim seems some kind of daring 
notoriety much better suited to the demi-monde; and 
when we have educated our world up to the dignity of 
honest labor and honest rewards, we will seek to elevate 
marriage, give it a sanctity that our girls in a mad race 
for an establishment know nothing about. Ours shall be 
a new world. What saith the old adage about ' spinsters' 
children' being so well regulated?" and she laughed 
brightly. 
He came and kissed her. Pure and loyal honor had 
this noble wife. The woman he had loved in the past 
was the more sacred to him for the proud purity of this 
one, the wife who held his vows. Never has he been in 
danger of forgetting the integrity of his manhood, bnt all 
this seems to have brought them nearer to each other, 
given both a clearer insight into the clean, honest souls 
they laid on the marriage altar. Perhaps indeed her 
child had touched the long-silent chord into a glorious 
harmony that must give forth a holy music evermore. 
One evening Fairfax Sherrard stood in that very end 
of the long drawing-room where he slipped his ring so 
hastily on Celia's finger. Two months ago. What has 
happened in this time to change her, for a vague subtile 
alteration has been worked by some unknown hand. The 
shy, hesitating innocent girl's soul has passed over the 
bridge to the broader higher confines of womanhood. 
Sweet and daintily clean, lily-pure it must always be. 
The ring lies there on the corner of the table. The 
portieres are drawn, with their heavy silken folds, and send 
rich suggestive shadows to meet and tone down the 
brightness of the fire. The ray of the diamond is a weird 
elusive soul, like a living power to judge between them. 
" I think I have heard all I need know," Fairfax Sher- 
rard says gravely. Somehow he cannot bear to hear 
those sweet, rose-hued lips go over that story. He wants 
her, there is no open disgrace, that is enough. 
 
"You must hear me." She stands there enfranchised, 
as it were, in her definite resolve. "I have come to un- 
derstand that there are worlds and worlds. I seem to 
know so much more than I did a little while ago, when I 
listened and was fascinated into such a lovely, entrancing 
belief." 
" Believe it now, that I love you. Let the rest go." 
She folds her hands behind her, as if to put possible 
temptation out of his way. 
" Tour world is so different. There are stains, it seems, 
that show in it long after the sin has passed. I have to 
bear the sins of others." 
"Oh, my darling, what matters? Tou are lily-pure, 
my sweet white rose." 
"I do not believe the sin of another can stain the soul 
which steadfastly and purely strives against it. Listen— 
let me finish what I have to say." 
Briefly she goes over it. He can guess more from the 
pauses, from the fact quietly stated with no comment, 
than from any vivid description. He knows now it was 
her mother who went away and why she did it, that they 
have ranged themselves in the procession of labor, taken 
their places in the working world with the sign manual 
up above them. It is an ugly fact, and some one may 
remember it to his wife's future discredit. He has seen 
stabs given by the iron hand of society, couched in its 
softest velvet glove. The mother of a new Sherrard race 
that he has resolved to rear, free from the narrowing 
faults of that intense pride of ancestry, and yet so proud 
to look in her fair face free from stain. He winces a little, 
and the fine gentleman in him shrinks, the loyal, braver 
man loves her, wants her, needs her. 
" And I think," she says clearly, " that I must always 
go on with my work. Have women with some other aim 
any right to marry ? Then I must cling to my mother in 
her broken life," and now for the first time the voice fal- 
ters, the steady curves of the lips break up, the white brow 
is stained with the faintest flush. 
Fairfax Sherrard recognizes, as souls sometimes do in a 
transcendental sort of world, that this is the one woman 
for him. He would fain have her as peerless in all her 
antecedents as her noble soul, but he has known peerless 
antecedents that have brought forth souls who covered 
themselves with shame as with a garment, and rioted in 
it. He knows, too, that the world at large will forgive 
her father all his vicious faults before it will forgive her 
mother one industrial virtue that has demeaned the white 
hand of a lady. But he loves her. Every word she 
utters forges some new link in the chain. He almost 
wishes it were not so, or if he were in the habit of being 
less honest with himself ; but the truth is there. With 
her he may reach up to that prince of men, that knightly 
soul, Leonard Howarth. Without her he will be as Sam- 
son when his locks were shorn. He can endure it no 
longer, but rises, approaches her, though she extends no 
alluring hand. 
" I love you. I think I have read of a bird somewhere 
who has no other song but that. Shall I shrive you from 
all sins others have laid upon you by that very love? 
Since your soul is stainless, nothing else can destroy my 
faith." 
"You do — not understand — " a perturbed expression 
crosses the brow so serene in its high faith of a moment 
ago. "Everything seems to widen the space between us. 
Your world is not my world — my duties, my pleasures." 
" Will you deliberately shut me out of your world ? Is 
it so narrow that even love cannot enter ? " 
Oh, the tenderness of voice and look. It makes her 
feel a sinner above all women even in her pure sweetness 
When he would give all — can she give nothing, nay, 
even withhold what she first promised ? 
"Mamma," she says tremulously, "I can never leave 
her." 
 
"And why need you leave her?" In his heart of 
hearts he feels like several of the others, that the trouble 
between husband and wife will be made up with some 
kind of reconciliation. "Why can she not share our 
home? Come, Celia, I am in a princely generous mood. 
Ask any thing, all things. Try my love to the utter- 
most." 
It is the supreme moment of Fairfax Sherrard's life. 
We do not always stand on the heights, indeed some souls 
never reach them. 
She has nothing to ask. A curious chill goes over her, 
as if some sudden draught swept through the apartment. 
Her vivid, throbbing strength seems to collapse. What 
is the meaning of it all? Why is she not exultant? 
After all he is a man and fond of a man's victory. He 
will win her again in spite of herself. He passes his arm 
around her and draws forth her reluctant hand. 
" My darling, you must let me put the ring on again, 
not with the old hastiness, but with a new, strong assur- 
ance that we two are destined to work out a life problem 
together. I think you hardly know your own soul. Do 
you remember the night you stood in marble for Leigh 
Esdaile ? Well, for a moment I hated him bitterly, sin- 
fully, I am afraid, and then I knew I loved you. Let me 
awaken the soul of love as the soul of life came to you 
that night. Slowly, sweetly, a little link here, a little 
bond there, until you tell me of your own accord that I 
have won it all. You shall paint as you like, only there 
need be no duty work, and your mother shall be the fond 
and treasured guest, the mother of both, Celia ! " 
There is something commanding in his voice that 
sways her, something so entreating, so utterly soul- 
absorbing that she seems to go out of her own control. 
Has he not been noble, generous? What can she ask 
that he has not proffered? 
He places the ring again on her finger and kisses the 
hand that holds it, he kisses the sweet, tremulous lips that 
have no heat of passion in them ; and with a strange 
awesome humility he remembers one sad blot on his old 
life that will always keep her just that distance from him, 
above him. She, not knowing that, mistakes it and is 
pierced to the heart, all her pride and doubts are swept 
away. 
"Oh," she cries with that long, quivering breathlessness 
of intensity, " you love me too much ! How can I ever 
make a worthy return? Why, even life would be too 
short ! " 
" My darling," in a deep, happy tone, " I shall ask back 
every golden grain that you fail to give, I shall be a very 
miser gloating over his treasure." 
He draws her down there by the fire. There are no 
cold and ghostly blasts now. They talk awhile, then fall 
into blessed silence, then rouse themselves again. It is 
not all silly endearment. Somehow they stray back to 
the old question, the responsibility of life, the burdens 
laid upon the innocent. She knows that intemperance is 
one of the things he so utterly abhors, that in her gen- 
erous soul she is anxious to rehabilitate her poor father. 
In spite of all his wealth he seems cold and lonely to her 
warm and happy human love. She pleads for those who 
have sinned and gained some signal victory over them- 
selves. Sweet soul, she does not know she is pleading 
for him as well. 
"Yes," he says, " we shall always give our strong and 
fond admiration to Sir Launcelot, the bravest of knightly 
souls, but Sir Galahad stands without a peer. There are 
no Sir Galahads in these degenerate days, and we must 
e'en make the best of our Launcelots." 
Her eyes settle on the fire musingly. A soft light comes 
and goes, a rich inward light that brings certainty. 
"What are you thinking of. Have you found one? 
Ah, my darling, they are all weak, mortal men." 
 
She turns her blossom face toward him with a bright, 
confident look, and her eyes are sinless in their absolute 
purity. 
" I think there is one," in her sweet, serious tone. " It 
always seemed to me the old romance had come back in 
Percival Chantrey." 
Ah, he is not her Sir Galahad ! Only a moment, then he 
is reconciled. Better that she should place him on a lower 
round and not be disappointed. And is not Chantrey a 
rather hard, intellectual idealist with an impossible stand- 
ard; and not the sweet, generous soul of the old-time 
searcher after the mysteries ? 
" I thought you would say Mr. Howarth ; " he makes 
answer. 
" Ah, yes, we both agree about him," and she smiles. 
Some guests are going away from the library. Sherrard 
has stayed the full limit of a gentlemanly lover's time, 
though it seems to-night as if he could linger forever. 
But he bids her such a good-by that it almost seems 
love's eternal farewell. 
Celia goes straight up to Mrs. Howarth, who in a pale 
rose dressing-gown is nursing away a headache. The hand 
with its diamond circlet is laid on that of the elder lady. 
" He was so generous, so noble — ah, you can hardly 
think ! He did not want to listen, but I would make him 
hear all — not the worst," and she blushes, "but enough, 
so that he can never feel himself deceived. And — he 
would not give me up," — hastily. u It is to be quite a long 
engagement. I have my year's work ahead of me, you 
know. We shall come to understand each other in that 
time, but oh, how can one give one's self in a few brief 
months," and she thinks of Daisy. 
Mrs. Howarth gives her an exultant kiss. The way is 
fair for her sweet little protegie. Once in a long while the 
romance reads rightly, and now this will have no blurred 
pases. She is almost a mother herself, and sees her dar- 
ling in snowy wedding-dress. 
CHAPTER XXL 
 
Bertie Marshall wrote his mother some boyish letters, 
which she answered something as if he had been a little lad 
at school, and there was danger of making him homesick. 
Not that she even soothed her aching heart with the belief 
that he longed for her ardently. He was wildly happy. 
He had a pony, he and papa and Aunt Kate went out on 
long rides, there were sails, there was every luxury to eat, 
no small item to a healthy, unsentimental boy. They were 
not coming straight home, but would stop in all the cities 
and see all the wonders. He loved papa very much, but 
then he loved her, too. 
She was glad to thrust the evil day as far off as possible. 
It was an early spring, and trade was brisk ; it always was 
with her. The work room was full of chatty girls who gos- 
siped about this one and that one, not in any ill-natured 
way. Celia's lover paid his visit of respect, and secretly 
admitted that Mrs. Marshall might be transplanted to any 
station. If there never had been any need of this step ! 
Celia's engagement was kept a complete secret for the 
present. She addressed herself industriously to her 
work. Her lover had various amusements and little jaunts 
with friends. Celia was to have a month of recreation 
with the Howarths at Newport, while Mrs. Van Clevehad 
finally induced Mrs. Marshall to take a little summering 
with her in a lovely old Massachusetts town. 
Now Daisy's coming marriage occupied all the time that 
could be spared from business. It soothed her mother's 
sad heart to watch the buoyant girl, a little, after all, like 
her olden self; but with an oddly consequential way as if 
trying on matronly airs. There was much in it that was 
inspiriting, as there is ever in youthful joyousness. And 
Daisy had the two trousseaux on her pretty shoulders. 
Her sister-in-law elect said a dozen times a day — "Oh 
Daisy, you are so good ! Whatever should I have done 
without you ! " 
Mrs. Marshall found that her own importance increased 
greatly. Several friends of her youth drifted back to her 
with a pleasant cordiality. Aunt Wilder nodded to her 
one day from the carriage, but Eleanor was more cruelly 
hurt by the tardy recognition than all the long years of 
silence. 
The wedding-day was set for the very last of June, 
which fell on Thursday. It was to be at seven in the 
evening, with a reception for the next two hours, graced 
by both brides, who were then to start on a wedding 
journey. 
Certainly Daisy Marshall might well feel elated with 
the number and value of her wedding gifts, three times 
more numerous than her wildest dreams. Her father and 
Bertie had taken in all the pleasures on their upward 
route, and were now sojourning at Sulphur Springs, which 
proved very beneficial. Mrs. Marshall had mentioned 
Daisy's marriage, and Bertie had asked for the date. It 
had been a most embarrassing problem to her how much 
duty she owed in this case. 
Daisy herself laid it before Mr. Galbraith, having great 
faith in his clear judgment. Would it be improper for 
her to write ? She did not want it to look as though she 
was asking anything from him, and yet it seemed hard 
not to have his good wishes. 
" Write by all means," replied her second father, kissing 
her fondly. " If you write a letter as you do all other 
things, you cannot miss the way to his heart." 
So Daisy wrote, just as she did other things, in her 
bright, winsome way, touching, but not sentimental, not 
long enough to bore him, and avoiding blunders with all 
of Celia's delicacy. Yet the shrewd girl thought, " If he 
oould give Bertie a hundred dollars to spend for nonsense, 
he might send me that much;" but she kept her counsel 
discreetly until she knew the result, which overwhelmed 
her with surprise. 
Mr. Marshall wrote a more than kindly letter to his 
child, and expressed a longing to see her, a certainty that 
he would allow himself the gratification now that he knew 
she had not ceased to care for him. He sent her good 
wishes and begged her to accept a little gift with his love. 
By taking the enclosed paper to Mr. Aldenshaw, she 
would receive the sum, invested in government bonds. 
The order was for ten thousand dollars. 
" Oh, it can't be true," Daisy cried, dismayed by her 
sudden wealth. 
Mrs., Marshall was surprised and at first puzzled. Then 
she remembered how generous Thomas Marshall had 
always been with money, how he loved lavish giving, and 
this was not much in his present prosperity. 
"You are not offended, mamma?" Daisy asked in a 
little tremor of anxiety. 
"My darling, no. Whom should he love if not his own 
children ? If it should ever come in your way, Daisy, to 
meet him, remember nothing of the past against him." 
She could hardly believe her good fortune until it had 
been certified by Mr. Aldenshaw. 
" There are positively no restrictions upon it, although 
you are so much under age. It seems to me it would be 
a good thing to let it stand and use only the interest at 
present." 
Daisy signified so cheerful a willingness to be guided 
by this advice that Mr. Aldenshaw's respect for her good 
sense was at once established. 
 
Celia rejoiced unfeignedly. While she could never 
have summoned the courage to write, she was glad that 
Daisy had taken the step. 
The marriage was an extremely beautiful sight, every- 
body admitted. The church was crowded as a matter of 
course. That Daisy Marshall, tall and slender, in her 
rapid, rippling grace, her vivid tints, her perfect health 
and graceful carriage, should outshine the plainer bride, 
with her sensible, ordinary face, was not altogether unex- 
pected. Even her mother's heart warmed with pride. 
Mr. and Mrs. Van Cleve had met the party at the church, 
and Mr. Chantrey had escorted Celia. The two Galbraith 
girls were bridesmaids, happy in their blushing honors, 
and Mr. Galbraith gave away both brides. 
The words dropped on the mother's heart like a knell 
of fate. Oh, what was before these young souls! For 
her sky had been as unclouded, her prospects as bright, 
her faith as serene; and to-night a wide gulf between, but 
not death. 
The Galbraith house was light, fragrance, music, and 
rejoicing. Nothing overdone, no vulgar display, but the 
glad outcome of a father's love to children who had been 
his joy and comfort; and that Daisy Marshall should 
be an heiress, even in a moderate way, added to his 
delight, though it could add nothing to his regard for 
her. 
Then the parting moment came. Mrs. Marshall kissed 
her daughter with passionate tenderness. Celia was more 
to her, yet Daisy reminded her of her own bright self, 
and the lover of her youth. Both parents met and 
blended in the child. 
"It was a lovely wedding," said Celia, as the two re- 
turned to their simple home. u It was so glad and happy, 
and I think life ought to begin that way. Daisy has 
belonged te the Galbraiths so exclusively since her en- 
gagement that we shall not miss her as much as if it had 
been otherwise." 
\ 
She would not leave her mother alone an instant, 
neither would she allow any misgiving to suggest itself. 
The tender care went to the mother's heart, for to-night 
she felt weak and lonely. The long future stared her in 
the face, — her work was so nearly done. 
Mr. Sherrard had proposed to wait upon his betrothed, 
but she shrank from such a pronounced attention. 
"You are not flattering to a man's vanity," he said 
laughingly. "Any other girl would exhibit her willing 
captive in triumph, as a part of her engagement spoil." 
"I am not any other girl," she answered seriously. "It 
would remind mamma of another loss, of the time when 
she may be alone, for a while at least. And — I could 
not bear to be questioned." 
" I yield gracefully, since you had one thought of your- 
self in the matter." 
" You know I am to have this year for mamma. There 
will be a long life afterwards." 
Yet she sighed a little. It was a divided duty. 
It fretted Fairfax Sherrard sometimes, and yet he knew 
her decision was best for both. He hoped sincerely that, 
before any announcement, Mr. and Mrs. Marshall would 
have made up their difficulties. It would render the way 
smoother for him, and he was not fond of rough paths. 
He had never quite understood why some of the sweetest 
roses should abound in thorns. 
Mrs. Marshall's surprises were not all at an end. Two 
days after the marriage, Mrs. Wilder rang the hall door- 
bell, and was ushered up stairs into the parlor. Eleanor 
went thither with a curious rush of mingled emotion. 
"My dear Eleanor," and Mrs. Wilder rose with out- 
stretched hands ; " I have come to make up this wretched 
difference. It has troubled me a long while," — she blessed 
her kindly stars that she had taken none of the untoward 
steps she had contemplated from time to time,— "and as I 
knew you would never come to me — n 
 
"No, I should never have come to you," Mrs. Marshall 
replied with sad, yet graceful dignity. 
" Of course we did not think alike on some points, but 
Eleanor, I had loved you as my own child. I should have 
said the same to one of my daughters under similar cir- 
cumstances. It was a great trial to us all, and I regretted 
bitterly that you should have had so little regard for old 
Mrs. Marshall; it hurt her cruelly. I think they have 
never felt the same toward us." 
" It is fruitless going over the old ground. Honestly I 
have had more comfort and prosperity, more friends, more 
enjoyments; I have reared my children in credit and 
honor. Indirectly I may have saved Mr. Marshall from a 
drunkard's grave, whither I felt he was surely hastening. 
I did outrage some of the traditions concerning woman, 
that she must suffer in silence, that she must not step out 
of her husband's shadow, that her work must be of the 
hidden, unobtrusive kind. I have made and sold bonnets, 
but it has given me the kind of home that I could not 
have had with a man lost to every sense of ambition and 
honor.' 
" That is all past." She waved her faultlessly gloved 
hand in a majestic manner. "Daisy has married ex- 
tremely well for a girl in such a position, and I must say 
her father has been generous to her. I do hope, Eleanor 
— I really do not see the necessity for your continuing 
business. Celia, if report speaks truly, is doing extremely 
well, and — I should be glad to take you back into your 
old home. Your uncle is in very poor health, and you 
could assist me in nursing him if you really wanted to do 
a good work. Such a step would go far towards soften- 
ing animosities, and Mr. Marshall would feel that you had 
gone out of your sphere from necessity, not from choice. 
And surely you must see that in every point of view it 
would be better to become reconciled to your husband. 
For the sake of your children — " 
A fine kind of contempt had settled in Eleanor Mar- 
shall's face as she listened to this reasoning. 
" Mr. Marshall most make the first advance," she began, 
bnt Mrs. Wilder interrupted her impatiently. 
"Advance! Do you call his taking Bertie nothing? 
Was there no meaning in his generous gift to Daisy? 
Eleanor, yon fail to read between the lines what is patent 
to everybody." 
A bitter smile crossed the spirited face, and she held 
her head proudly. 
"Is a man's simple duty to his children to be accounted 
so great a virtue ? For at least ten years I have fed and 
clothed Bertie and Daisy. Can the next ten years of his 
devotion more than balance that ? Is there no commen- 
dation for my years of labor, while a fortunate turn in the 
wheel of fate raises him in every one's esteem much more 
than my honest industry ! I shall not cross any fatherly 
instinct in his soul, though it is hard for me to sit silent 
and see the praise go over to him. But when he wishes 
for a husband's place, he must come to me. I shall not 
go to him." 
"But you left him. You went away!" Mrs. Wilder 
was beginning to lose her serene temper. 
" We were turned out of our home, and he provided no 
other. When he asks me to share any home of his pro- 
viding, it will be time to consider. I must thank you for 
your kind offer," — she could not quite keep the scorn out 
of her voice, — " but under any circumstances I could not 
accept it." 
"I see you keep your old spirit, Eleanor," returned 
Mrs. Wilder tartly. " Still, I am glad I came, and I hope 
I have convinced you that, however deeply we may have 
been wounded, we do not treasure up wrongs against 
you." 
" I am not aware that I have wronged my family in any- 
thing that I have done ! " she replied with conscious dig- 
 
nity. "If every one can forgive those years of Thomas 
Marshall's drunken debauch, it ought not to be so hard to 
forgive my clean and honorable industry. But we look 
at the matter from opposite extremes ; you from leisurely 
sympathy; I from hard suffering; you from the senti- 
mental view that whatever God sends must be borne in 
silence; I from the firm belief that God gives every 
human soul the right to try for its own salvation and that 
of its nearest and dearest ones; not only from eternal 
death, but that despairing death in life that benumbs the 
senses, that fills the soul with bitter, deadening apathy, 
that robs one of courage, faith, hope, and makes existence 
itself a mockery." 
Her fine eyes shone in their high lights, and her whole 
face was sublimed by the sense of enthusiastic endeavor 
that had upheld her through all these years. 
a Well, I am sure I have tried to advise to the best of 
my knowledge. It is true I have never taken up these 
new ideas and systems, and may be a little out of date in 
my belief," — with an emphasis that said, no matter what 
others held, her beliefs were indisputably right. "And 
we shall be glad to see you, — your uncle scarcely goes 
out, except for a drive." 
"Thank you." The tone was so utterly cold that Mrs. 
Wilder felt strangely disconcerted. She rose with a 
demeanor that was meant for dignity, but was only a 
selfish severity. 
"You have meant kindly," said Eleanor in the same 
distant tone, " but you cannot judge rightly of my life, 
nor my work. At present I am deeply engrossed, and 
hope to go away for a rest this summer. It has been a 
long march with few halting-places, but my strength has 
never failed, and my endurance will hold out to the 
end." 
Any other person must have admired the brave, high 
soul that animated the face and gave exquisite oourage to 
the figure that longed to lean, but steadfastly refused the 
broken reed that would surely pierce it. 
Mrs. Wilder went straight to Mrs. Mountjoy's. She 
had undertaken peace-making in the family, and she 
would rise superior to all rebuffs. 
The house was in a confusion of packing. Mrs. Mount- 
joy had three daughters now in society, and she began to 
feel that maternal vigilance must seek a new channel. 
The girls had petitioned for a summer at Long Branch, 
and the privilege of being like other girls. Mrs. Mount- 
joy was not in a very serene temper, and the girls were 
decidedly cross. Daisy Marshall's good fortune had quite 
upset them. 
" I have been reasoning with Eleanor," announced Mrs. 
Wilder. " I have felt for some time that a step ought to 
be taken in the right direction, and I have had courage 
for it at last. Family differences always bear a taint of 
vulgarity. There is no question in my mind but that Mr. 
Marshall will come back to her after these overtures, atnd, 
of course, they will take their olden place in society." 
"Do you suppose people will forget that she has made 
their bonnets, that she has stood behind the counter like 
an ordinary tradeswoman and taken their orders ? " asked 
Mrs. Mount joy with a lofty scorn. 
"No; that will be her punishment for her headstrong 
and unwomanly episode. But society will not refuse to 
appreciate Mr. Marshall's million or as many thousands as 
it may be. We shall be likely to meet them, and it is 
best to meet pleasantly." 
" I wish such people were compelled to stay where they 
belong," was the spiteful answer. 
" I wish some one would give me ten thousand dollars," 
sighed Alice. u You are right, grandmamma, everybody 
nearly will receive Daisy Galbraith. I can't see what 
there is so wonderful about her, but people are raving of 
her beauty and her voice and her manners. And if Tracy 
 
Galbraith had not married her I do not believe she would 
go begging for a husband." 
Alice was fond of saying things that tormented her 
mother. All her life she had fretted against the punc- 
tilious rule, and evaded it whenever she could, flung out 
at it in her moments of vexation. 
" I believe most girls could get husbands if that was the 
chief aim of their lives." 
" Isn't it the chief aim of ours ? " asked the girl with a 
kind of impertinent irony. " We can never be authors or 
artists or musicians or doctors or lecturers, indeed noth- 
ing but old maids for all I see ! " 
" Alice, I am ashamed of you ! Leave the room this 
instant," commanded her mother majestically. 
"I am sure I don't know what to make of my girls," 
she exclaimed with a desperate pathos. " I have given 
them every advantage, I have been a most devoted 
mother, and I dare say Eleanor's daughters are more 
thankful for crusts and crumbs. Mr. Van Cleve was 
descanting eloquently the other evening, very bad taste 
I thought it, too, upon Celia's devotion to her mother. I 
suppose she never means to marry ! " 
Mrs. Wilder tried to soften and comfort. It occurred 
to her then that Mrs. Mountjoy found but a dreary satis- 
faction in her life work. She was nearly five years older 
than Eleanor, but she looked at least ten. Was there 
some higher satisfaction in a noble duty nobly done, a 
finer and larger awaiting for such a soul ! The crust of 
her rigid self-complacency was pierced by unexpected 
queries. 
Mrs. Marshall turned to her work, arranging Celia's 
pretty summer wardrobe, though she knew it would have 
many lovely additions through the generous affection of 
her second mother. Was it a light work to have gained 
the approval of such people as the Howarths and the Van 
Cleves, with their pure and perfect apprehension of spirit- 
ual as well as moral fitness? Among them she did not 
need to make the old fight every day, to justify the past 
oontinually, but she could enter in and possess the sacred 
land of perfect sympathetic companionship. 
She longed with the torn and bruised motherly love 
that had been so carelessly wounded, to keep this pure 
treasure with her. If they two could go to some quiet 
country place and, dropping their armor that protected 
from the burden and heat of the struggle, slip into a 
heavenly restf ulness ! ' Not now,' she said bravely to her- 
self. It was better for Celia's future that she should 
make this social essay under such favoring circumstances. 
So she kissed her with the brave kisses of parting, not its 
weak and clinging ones, and saw her clasp that other hand, 
crowned with all the good the world could give. Was it 
strange if a sharp, blinding sense of injustice stung her? 
Could not she have enjoyed this? Could not she have 
played a winning and lovely Lady Bountiful ? 
Miss Parker proved herself invaluable. She would keep 
the house and the store, attend to everything — a andl 
know your ways so well," she said energetically, "that 
you will find everything just as you left it. They 're love- 
ly ways, too. They soften and beautify everything so." 
Mrs. Marshall went with Mrs. Van Cleve to an enchant- 
ing nest among the Berkshire hills, a glorious old farm- 
house with large, cool rooms, quiet, ease, comfort, with all 
worldliness shut out. And then she suddenly dropped 
down. The march had been so long and unbroken that 
overtasked mind and body suffered the inevitable collapse 
when the iron hand of compulsion was withdrawn- 
She had nothing to do but lie on the sofa by the open 
window, watching the quivering light and gloom, the sunny 
glimpses, the twilight repose ; listen to the song of birds, 
the wandering touches of busy life without, a life that was 
not driven or hurried, but unfolded as some lives may in 
God's own beautiful world. Beside her a watchful, nnob- 
 
trusive friend, tenderly sweet, but not weak, grown into 
that broader and more gracious womanhood when the cul- 
ture of the soul is added to the culture of the intellect 
She talked or was silent, she read bits of fugitive verse in. 
which many an unknown soul has touched the subtle 
chord of humanity, or sometimes the stronger, more stir- 
ring appeals from fine minds who had traversed thorny 
paths to come, out at last in God's calm, open sunshine. 
The simplicity and integrity of the place were palpable, 
and penetrated to the inner life. The long delicious days, 
the cool, calm nights, the bits of talk, old-fashioned, quaint, 
trenchant with much biblical lore and abiding faith that 
comprehended the fine points of Christianity as truly as 
the lore of the scholar. Dreamily she listened, as if she had 
gone out of the old life altogether, until some wrench of 
sharp self-analysis brought her back. 
" If I could only know that I had done the best there 
was to do," she said to her friend. "I go over the ground 
and wonder if I could have been more patient. It 
appeared then that patience only pandered to self-indul- 
gence, the more I gave up, the more was wrested from 
me. Silence only aided oppression and cruelty and brutal 
language. Sometimes it seems as if I must have imagined 
these horrible things, that a man could never so treat the 
wife he had sacredly promised to love and cherish. Who 
shall decide a wife's duty?" and she sighed wearily. 
"The wife's duty and the mother's duty seemed to con- 
flict. Can you not rest secure in the consciousness that 
one at least has been faithfully performed? Even one of 
life's great victories is worth striving for." 
" If I had not hated that wretched existence so intense- 
ly ! I did. I loathed him so at times that it seemed to me 
I must strike him! Ah, do not look at me with your 
startled eyes — I understand just how a woman feels when 
she beats a stupid, maudlin drunken husband ; when he 
uses foul language to her that no woman ought to hear, 
and she strikes in indignant passion ! I hungered and 
thirsted after refinement, wholesomeness, pure air, leisure, 
books to read, and friends to converse with. I was always 
shuddering on the brink of the pit. Had I a right to 
snatch myself out of it and reach up to my own wants ? " 
" O Eleanor, can you question now ? Suppose you had 
stayed there — no it would have been worse and worse," — 
with impassioned vehemence. " Think of Celia dragged 
down to some common level of poverty, looking at you 
with great dumb eyes that had lost their true sight, and 
Daisy a flippant factory or shop girl, laughing and jeering 
with her mates. There are nice girls, heaven knows, in 
these ranks, but they generally come from the clean, order- 
ly homes. And Bertie — " 
" Yes, I have gone over it so often. I have seen others, 
since," — shuddering. "But why could not God have al- 
lowed me to save him ? " 
"Ah, my dear, are not God's purposes the only true un- 
knowable ? If we could see, could understand, what need 
of faith, — the faith that will not allow us to stray very far 
from him?" 
There was a long silence. " I am like the Jews," she 
said after a while, and there was a curious humility in her 
tone. " I asked for one particular sign. If I had saved him 
I should have had no more doubt. But I feel confident 
that no influence of mine snatched him from his miserable 
life." 
" Oh, you do not know. For years sometimes a seed 
has lain dormant; and a word or sentence has borne fruit 
long after it was uttered." 
" I cannot tell you what gives me the certainty. Yes, I 
can, too," — thoughtfully, while a rising color mantled her 
pale face. " If it had been any word or look of mine, he 
would have come to me, he could not have stayed away. 
And oh, it is so hard to know that all one's prayers and 
tears and long-suffering were of no avail." 
 
She covered her face with her hands and sobbed softly. 
" You still love him so ! " said her friend. 
"No, I must be honest. It is not that impassioned, un- 
reasoning love that so inspires some women. I have out- 
grown him, if you can understand. I should love him now 
as a mother loves a wayward child on whom she knows 
she can never lean, but to-day Celia would be more of a 
true companion for me. Perhaps it is because I allowed 
the love to wear out that God has punished me by not an- 
swering my prayer." 
" Then, Eleanor, can you not wait until the mysteries are 
all solved, till we see Him face to face and read in His 
clear light our mistakes, our labors that we considered 
fruitless, our rewards ? After all, it is but such a little 
while. And if we suffer for the sins of others, what is this 
but the simplest form of that mysterious likeness? Can 
we not watcji with Him in this suffering, this being mis- 
understood, being betrayed, even ? " 
"Yes," she said slowly a few minutes afterward. "I 
have gone all astray. There is still the watching with 
Him — to my life's end, perhaps. Sweet friend, pray that 
I may have strength, and not deny Him. That is the 
nobler test of one's life." 
Was it this resolve that brought her peace ? For she 
felt she had done the best with her hard circumstances, 
and now, if the result was not as she wished, she would 
leave it in His hands until the great day of explanations. 
She rose then and put off her sackcloth of soul. The old 
elasticity came back to her tread, the proud, tender light 
to her eye, the soft rose tint to her cheek. Barely at mid- 
dle life, she could not afford to let her energy, her ambi- 
tion, her varied gifts fall into disuse. What if part of her 
life work was done, that part pertaining closely to herself, 
— could she not open her soul and admit the broader out- 
look, the wider duties? 
Letters came from all the children. Daisy was happy, 
brimming ovr r with delight. They had gone now to Mr. 
Galbraith's country house, an old farm some seven miles 
from the city. Her new house had been selected, one of 
a pretty row in Trevor Place, quite a stylish neighbor- 
hood. There was to be fresh painting and papering, and 
by the time mamma returned there would be the furnish- 
ing. Bertie was full of eager, boyish delight. Aunt Kate 
had gone to Long Branch, and presently the rest were to 
rejoin her and journey on to Saratoga. One sentence 
made her smile, — "Papa spends money like a prince. 
He must be awfully rich." 
Celia's letters were long and minute, delicate studies. 
Mrs. Howarth had not forced her upon society. Her 
young friend the artist, Miss Celia Marshall, was staying 
with her, it was announced. She rode in the elegant 
Howarth carriage, she was present at the delightful recep- 
tions, she went out for calls, for rambles with chosen 
parties, for some yachting excursions. Somebody of 
note pronounced her " one of our most promising young 
artists." There was no aesthetic silliness about her. She 
never posed as a girl with a career. A simple, fresh, 
charming girl, with the air of quaintness that would 
always cling to her, and a purity so direct and honest 
that one felt here was no mad, eager follower of fashion 
and excitement, no husband-hunting girl, no aiming at 
that piquant fastness that leads so often to positive 
viciousness. She was pretty, but not of the beauty that 
provokes envy or detraction, and her choice breeding 
allowed her to pass unquestioned ; indeed, won her that 
curious respect from elderly people, because she seemed 
to bring a whiff of the old-time fragrance, so much purer 
than the modern Jockey Club. 
Fairfax Sherrard saw a great deal of her. For reasons 
of his own, he acquiesced in Mrs. Howarth's request that 
there should be no pronounced attentions. To have it 
known that she had captured this favorite of society 
 
would be to open the gates to much ill-natured comment, 
and obscure her virtues before her position was firmly 
established. She had no coquettish ways to annoy him ; 
indeed, it was her perfect truth that oftener roused a 
feeling he could not quite understand himself, and he did 
not always enjoy this direct and searching intensity into 
thought and motives. Mrs. Howarth was kindly disposed ; 
she gave the lovers many a casual hour to themselves, 
was indeed a most generous duenna, for she trusted Gelia 
as she would have trusted her own soul. 
The summer holiday came to an end. Mrs. Marshall 
returned with renewed courage and strength, younger 
and handsomer than ever, Miss Parker declared. Daisy 
was overjoyed to greet her. The mother smiled over the 
indescribable change that had come to her, a kind of 
assured beauty instead of girlish prettiness. There was 
no business as yet, so mamma must help her choose car- 
pets and furniture and bedding, and see how every article 
looked fitted into its new place. 
"And mamma, I don't see why you cannot sell out the 
store now and come and live with me. There is no real 
need for you to do business. Celia is so fortunate, I am 
off your hands, and papa will educate Bertie. We could 
have such lovely times, and it would help to pay you back 
for all your goodness to me." 
The mother kissed her tenderly. "Celia, too, has a 
plan," she returned. " Mrs. Linthorpe would like me to 
take her house, and Celia and I could be always together." 
" Well, that would be delightful too. Only I should 
like you part of the time. Tracy and I have talked it 
over." 
Daisy had a little plot confided to her husband. She 
had kept up an infrequent correspondence with her father, 
hoping she should see him when he returned to the city, 
and he had promised to visit her new home. Some way, 
she was quite sure she could make peace. 
Oh, the dreary emptiness of the house without the 
children! She kept Miss Parker, indeed made her a 
generous offer to remain permanently. 
"I suppose this is the reason women are so rarely suc- 
cesses in business in the long run," she said. u Men take 
it up for a life work, for reputation and money-making, 
while with women, when the necessity is over, they gladly 
fly back to the sanctuary of home, to the more congenial 
employments." 
"If you ever think of giving up here, let me have the 
first chance," said Miss Parker with emphasis. 
CHAPTER XXII. 
It is a dreary October day, with a drizzling, penetrating 
rain and a chilly east wind. There have been glories of 
sun and foliage, there will be again, but just now it is 
dispiriting. The sodden leaves no longer crunch under 
one's tread with that peculiar autumn crispness ; even the 
long stretch of seashore wears a moist and treacherous 
aspect. Sherrard House is undeniably gloomy with its 
dripping trees, and shadowy ghost-like walks, its closed 
shutters, and general aspect of rigid, uncompromising ex- 
clusiveness. 
"It must all be changed before she comes here," Fair- 
fax Sherrard says to himself as he pauses to stamp the 
sticky leaves off his boot soles. a There will be a new 
queen, a new reign." 
He has never broached the subject of his marriage. 
He is not an impatient lover, he knows it is the part of 
wisdom to wait, and falls in with Celia's plans, making 
just enough demur to appear lover-like. If he were his 
own master, which he is not, he would marry her to- 
morrow and take her to Europe, where they would have 
years of most delightful sauntering. He should not 
trouble himself about the poverty of the poor, nor the 
sufferings of the down-trodden, nor the spread of repub- 
licanism, nor the duration of monarchies or kingdoms. It 
would be the loveliest of haunts, the most glorious of views, 
pictures, statuary, gardens, music, old palaces, picturesque 
people, and just enough society sandwiched between to 
add piquancy and keep the gay world in remembrance. 
Meanwhile Sherrard House should be made fit for a 
prince and princess. 
He goes over it all in that brief walk, and reaches a side 
entrance, nearly as frowning and pretentious as the one in 
front. Bolts and bars and chains rattle, and he is ad- 
mitted. 
" Your room is in order, Mr. Fairf ax," says the waiter 
with a bow. Any friendly greeting from an old servant 
is not admissible within the rigid walls of the mansion. 
His room is cheerful with a fire and some modern ad- 
ditions he has brought in. He throws off his light ulster, 
goes to the wardrobe and lays out some fresh clothes, takes 
a bath, then pauses in his dressing. Since his aunt lies 
dead in the house, a white vest and a dress coat would 
be too pronounced — at least the white vest. The coat 
is a subject of much pondering, but at length he dons it. 
Then he rings the bell. 
"Did you tell my mother I had come, Martin?" he 
asks. 
" Yes, sir," with a bow. 
" Tell her I am ready." 
The answer is repeated. He laughs to himself at the 
utter absurdity of all this ceremony. 
After a while he is summoned to his mother's presence. 
She is almost shrouded in crape and bombazine, and her 
face looks smaller, whiter, more wrinkled than ever. In- 
deed, if she shut her eyes you might think her dead. But 
her eyes, though not large and now quite sunken, are a 
sharp, piercing, distrustful black. They look as if they 
could scorch you. 
He bows over her hand and kisses it, and inquires after 
her health and that of Aunt Fairfax. She is very much 
prostrated by the stroke, indeed she has been so poorly 
that it was a question which would go first. Then the 
 
dinner bell rings, and Fairfax escorts his mother through 
