
" And what is Acer rubrum ? " 

" Just soft maple, Miss Esther." 

" Oh that is beautiful ! Do you know everything 
that grows, Christopher ? " 

"No, Miss Esther; there's no man living that 
does that. They say it would take all one man's 
life to know just the orchids of South America; 
without mentioning all that grows in the rest of 
the world. There's an uncommon great number 
of plants on the earth, to be sure ! " 

"And trees." 

" Aint trees plants, mum ? " 

" Are they ? Christopher, are those dandelions 
weeds ? " 

"No, Miss Esther; they're more respectable." 

" How do you know they're not weeds ? " 

Christopher laughed a little, partly at his questioner, partly at the question; nevertheless the 
answer was riot so ready as usual. 

"They aint weeds however, Miss Esther; that's 
all I can tell you." 

" What are weeds, then ? " 

"I don't know, mum," said Christopher grimly. 
"They're plants that has no manners." 

" But some good plants have no manners," said 
Esther amused. " I know I've hear'd you say, they 
ran over everything, and wouldn't stay in their 
places. You said it of moss pink, and lily of the 
valley. Don't you remember? " 



 

"Yes mum, I've cause to remember; by the 
same token I've been trimming the box. That 
thing grows whenever my back is turned ! " 

" But it isn't a weed? "

"No mum! no mum! The Buxus is a very 
distinguished family indeed, and holds a high rank, 
it does." 

" Then I don't see what is a weed, Christopher." 



CHAPTER II. 
AT HOME. 

UPON reaching home Esther sought to place her 
bloodroot in safety, giving it a soft and well 
dug corner in her little plot of garden ground. She 
planted it with all care in the shadow of a rose 
bush ; and then went in to put her other flowers in 
water. 

The sitting room, whither she went, was a large, 
low, pleasant place; very simply furnished, yet 
having a cheerful, cosy look, as places do where 
people live who know how to live. The room, and 
the house, no doubt owed its character to the rule 
and influence of Mrs. Gainsborough, who was there 
no longer, and to a family life that had passed 
away. The traces abode still. The chintz hang 
ings and the carpet were of soft colours and in 
good harmony; chairs and lounges were comfortable ; a great many books lined the walls, so many in 
deed that the room might have been styled the library. A portfolio with engravings was in one place ; 
Mrs. Gainsborough's work table in another ; some excellent bronzes on the book cases; one or two family 



 

portraits, by good hands; and an embroidery frame. 
A fine English mastiff was sleeping on the rug be 
fore the fire. For the weather was still cold enough 
within doors to make a fire pleasant; and Col. 
Gainsborough was a chilly man. 

He lay on the couch when Esther came in with 
her flowers; a book in his hand, but not held be 
fore his eyes. He was a handsome man, of a 
severe, grave type; though less well looking at 
this time because of the spiritless, weary, depressed 
air which had become his habit; there was a want 
of spring and life and hope in the features and in 
the manner also of the occupant of the sofa. He 
looked at Esther languidly, as she came in and 
busied herself with arranging her maple blossoms, her Hepatica and one or two delicate stems 
of the bloodroot in a little vase. Her father looked 
at the flowers and at her, in silence. 

"Papa, aren't those beautiful*?" she asked with 
emphasis, bringing the vase, when she had finished, 
to his side. 

" What have you got there, Esther?" 

" Just some anemones, and liverleaf, and blood- 
root, and maple blossoms, papa; but Christopher 
calls them all sorts of big names." 

"They are very fragile blossoms," the colonel 
remarked. 

" Are they ? They won't do in the garden, 
Christopher says, but they grow nicely out there 
in the wood. Papa, what is the difference between 
a weed and a flower ? " 



 

" I should think you were old enough to know." 

" I know them by sight sometimes. But, papa, 
what is the difference ? " 

" Your eyes tell you, do they not ? " 

"No, sir. They tell me, sometimes, which is 
which ; but I mean, why isn't a flower a weed ? I 
asked Christopher, but he couldn't tell me." 

" I  do not understand the question. It seems to 
me you are talking nonsense." 

The colonel raised his book again, and Esther 
took the hint and went back to the table with her 
flowers. She sat down and looked at them. Fair 
they were, and fresh, and pure; and they bore 
Spring's messages, to all that could hear the message. If Esther could, it was in a half unconscious 
way, that somehow awakened by degrees almost 
as much pain as pleasure. Or else, it was simply 
that the glow and stir of her walk was fading away 
and allowing the old wonted train of thought to 
come in again. The bright expression passed from 
her face; the features settled into a melancholy 
dulness, most unfit for a child and painful to see; 
there was a droop of the corners of the mouth, and 
a lax fall of the eyelids, and a settled gloom in the 
face that covered it and changed it like a mask. 
The very features seemed to grow heavy, in the utter heaviness of the spirit. 

She sat so for a while, musing, no longer busy 
with such pleasant things as flowers and weeds; 
then roused herself. The weariness of inaction 
was becoming intolerable. She went to a corner of 



 

the room, where a large mahogany box was half 
concealed beneath a table covered with a cloth; 
with a good deal of effort she lugged the box forth. 
It was locked, and she went to the sofa. 

" Papa, may I look at the casts ? " 

" Yes." 

" You have got the key, papa." 

The key was fished out of the colonel's waist 
coat pocket, and Esther sat down on the floor and 
unlocked the box. It was filled with casts in plas 
ter of Paris, of old medals and bas reliefs ; and it 
had long been a great amusement of Esther's, to 
take them all out and look at them, and then care 
fully pack them all away again between their 
layers of soft paper and cotton batting. In the 
nature of the case this was an amusement that 
would pall if too often repeated ; so it rarely happened that Esther got them out more than three 
or four times a year. This time she had hardly 
begun to take them out and place them carefully 
on the table, when Mrs. Barker came in to lay the 
cloth for dinner. Esther must put the casts back 
and defer her amusement till another time in the 
day. 

Meals were served now for the colonel and his 
daughter in this same room, which served for sitting 
room and library. The dining-room was disused. 
Things had come by degrees to this irregularity, 
Mrs. Barker finding that it made her less work, 
and the colonel in his sorrowful abstraction hardly 
knowing and not at all caring where he took his 



 

dinner. The dinner was carefully served, however, 
and delicately prepared; for there Barker's pride 
came in to her help; and besides, little as Col. 
Gainsborough attended now to the food he eat, it 
is quite possible that he would have rebelled against 
any disorder in that department of the household 
economy. 

The meal times were sorrowful occasions to both 
the solitary personages who now sat down to the 
table. Neither of them had become accustomed 
yet to the empty place at the board. The colonel 
eat little and talked none at all ; and only Esther's 
honest childish appetite saved these times from 
being seasons of intolerable gloom. Even so, she 
was always glad when dinner was done. 

By the time that it was over to-day and the table 
cleared, Esther's mood had changed; and she no 
longer found the box of casts attractive. She had 
seen what was in it so often before, and she knew 
just what she should find. At the same time she 
was in desperate want of something to amuse her, 
or at least to pass away the time, which went so 
slowly if unaided. She bethought her of trying 
another box, or series of boxes, over which she had 
seen her father and mother spend hours together ; 
but the contents hitherto had not seemed to her 
interesting. The key was on the same chain with 
the key of the casts; Esther sat down on the floor 
by one of the windows, having shoved one of the 
boxes into that neighbourhood, turned the key 
and opened the cover. Her father was lying on 



 

the couch again and gave her no attention, and 
Esther made no call upon him for help. 

An hour or two had passed. Esther had not 
changed her place, and the box, which contained a 
quantity of coins, was still open; but the child's 
hands lay idly in her lap and her eyes were gazing 
into vacancy. Looking back, perhaps, at the images 
of former days; smiling images of light and love, 
in scenes where her mother's figure filled all the 
foreground. Col. Gainsborough did not see how 
the child sat there, nor what an expression of dull, 
hopeless sorrow lay upon her features. All the 
life and variety of which her face was abundantly 
capable, had disappeared; the corners of the mouth 
drawn down, the brow rigid, the eyes rayless, she 
sat an image of childish desolation. She looked 
even stupid, if that were possible to Esther's 
features and character. 

What the father did not see was revealed to 
another person, who came in noiselessly at the open 
door. This new comer was a young man, hardly 
yet arrived at the dignity of young manhood ; he 
might have been eighteen, but he was really older 
than his years. His figure was well developed, with 
broad shoulders and slim hips, shewing great muscular power and the symmetry of beauty as well. 
The face matched the figure; it was strong and 
fine, full of intelligence and life, and bearing no 
trace of boyish wilfulness. If wilfulness was there, 
which I think, it was rather the considered and 
consistent wilfulness of a man. As he came in at 



 

the open door, Esther's position and look struck 
him ; he paused half a minute. Then he came for 
ward, came to the colonel's sofa, and standing there 
bowed respectfully. 

The colonel's book went down. "Ah, William, " 
said he, in a tone of indifferent recognition. 

" How do you do, sir, to-day ? " 

"Not very well ! my strength seems to be giving 
way, I think, by degrees." 

" We shall have warm weather for you soon 
again, sir; that will do you good." 

" I don't know," said the colonel. " I doubt it; 
I doubt it. Unless it could give me the power of 
eating, which it cannot, " 

" You have no appetite ? " 

"That does not express it." 

There was an almost imperceptible flash in the 
eyes that were looking down at him, the features 
however retaining their composed gravity. 

" Perhaps shad will tempt you. We shall have 
them very soon now. Can't you eat shad ? " 

" Shad " repeated the colonel. " That's your 
New England piscatory dainty? I have never 
found out why it is so reckoned." 

"You cannot have eaten them, sir; that's all. 
That is, not cooked properly. Take one broiled 
over a fire of corn cobs." 

"A fire of corn cobs ! " 

" Yes sir; over the coals of such a fire, of course, 
I mean." 

" Ah ! What's the supposed advantage ? " 



 

"Flavour, sir; gusto; a spicy delicacy, which 
from being the spirit of the fire comes to be the 
spirit of the fish. It is difficult to put anything so 
ethereal into words." This was spoken with the 
utmost seriousness. 

" Ah! "said the colonel. "Possibly. Barker 
manages those things." 

"You do not feel well enough to read to-day, sir ? " 

" Yes," said the colonel, " yes. One must do 
something. As long as one lives, one must try to 
do something. Bring your book here, William, if 
you please. I can listen, lying here." 

The hour that followed was an hour of steady 
work. The colonel liked his young neighbour, who 
belonged to a family also of English extraction, 
though not quite so recently moved over as the 
colonel's own. Still, to all intents and purposes, 
the Dallases were English; had English connections and English sympathies; and had not so 
long mingled their blood with American that the 
colour of it was materially altered. It was natural 
that the two families should have drawn near to 
gether in social and friendly relations ; which relations however would have been closer if in church 
matters there had not been a diverging power, 
which kept them from any extravagance of neighbourliness. This young fellow however, whom the 
colonel called " William," shewed a carelessness as 
to church matters which gave him some of the advantages of a neutral ground; and latterly, since 
his wife's death, Col. Gainsborough had taken 



 

earnestly to the fine, spirited young man; welcomed his presence when he came; and at last, 
partly out of sympathy, partly out of sheer loneliness and emptiness of life, he had offered to read 
the classics with him, in preparation for college. 
And this for several months now they had been 
doing ; so that William was a daily visiter in the 
colonel's house. 



CHAPTER III. 
THE BOX OF COINS. 

THE reading went on for a good hour. Then the 
colonel rose from his sofa and went out, and 
young Dallas turned to Esther. During this hour 
Esther had been sitting still in her corner by her 
boxes; not doing anything; and her face, which had 
brightened at William's first coming in, had fallen 
back very nearly to its former heavy expression. 
Now it lighted up again, as the visiter left his 
seat and came over to her. He had not been so 
taken up with his reading but he had noticed 
her from time to time; observed the drooping brow 
and the dull eye, and the sad lines of the lips, and 
the still, spiritless attitude. He was touched with 
pity for the child, whom he had once been accustomed to see very different from this. He came 
and threw himself down on the floor by her side. 

"Well, Queen Esther!" said he. What have 
you got there ? " 

"Coins." 

" Coins ! What are you doing with them ? 

" Nothing." 


" So it seems. What do you want to do ? " 

" I wanted to amuse myself." 

" And don't succeed ? Naturally. What made 
you think you would? Numismatology isn't 
what one would call a lively study. What were 
you going to do with these old things, eh? " 

" Nothing " said Esther hopelessly. "I used 
to hear papa talk about them; and I liked to hear 
him." 

" Why don't you get him to talk to you about 
them again ? " 

"0 he was not talking to me." 

" To whom, then ? " 

Esther hesitated; the young man saw a veil of 
moisture suddenly dim the grave eyes, and the lips 
that answered him were a little unsteady. 

" It was mamma " she breathed rather than 
spoke. 

"And you liked to hear?" he went on, purposely. 

" yes. But now I can't understand anything 
by myself." 

" You can understand by yourself as much as 
most people I know. Let us see what you have 
got here, - may I look ? " 

He lifted a small piece of metal out of its nest, 
in a shallow tray which was made by transverse 
slips of wood to be full of such nests, or little square 
compartments. The trays were beautifully ar 
ranged, one fitting close upon another till they 
tilled the box to its utmost capacity. 

" What have we here? This piece has seen service. Here is a tree, Queen Esther a flourishing, 
spreading tree; and below it the letters, K. E. P. F. 
if I read aright, and then the word Keich. 
What is that, now? R. E. P. F. Reich. And 
here is a motto above, I am sorry to say, so far 
worn that my reading it is a matter of question. 
Er that is plain ; then a worn word ; then, ' das 
Land. Do you understand German ? " 

" No. I don't know anything." 

"Too sweeping, Queen Esther. But I wish I 
could read that word ! Let us try the other side. 
Ha ! here we h^ve it. Lud. xvi two letters I 
can't make out then, Fr. and Nav. Rex. Louis 
the sixteenth, king of France and Navarre." 

" I know him, I believe," said Esther. " He was 
beheaded, wasn't he? in the great French revolution." 

" Just that. He was not a wise man, you know." 

" If he had been a wise man, could he have kept 
his life?" 

" Well, I don't know, Queen Esther, whether 
any wisdom would have been wise enough for 
that. You see, the people of France were mad; 
and when a people get mad, they don't listen to 
reason, naturally. Here's another, now; what's 
this ? Zeelandia, 1792 not so very old. On the 
other side here's a shield, peculiar too ; with the 
motto plain enough, Luctor et emergo. A good 
motto, that." 

" What does it mean ? " 

" It means, something like Struggle and come 





out, or come through literally, emerge. Our 
English word comes from it. Col. Gainsborough 
does not teach you Latin, then?" 

" No," said Esther sighing. " He doesn't teach 
me much lately, of anything." 

Dallas cast a quick look at the girl ; and saw again 
the expression of quiet hopelessness that had moved 
him. He went on turning over the coins. 

" Do you want to learn Latin ? " 

"Yes." 

"Why?" 

" Why do you want to learn it, Pitt ? " 

" Well, you see, it is different. I must, you know. 
But queens are not expected to know the dead 
languages, not Queen Esther, at any rate." 

" Do you learn them because it is expected of 
you." 

The young man laughed a little. 

" Well, there are other reasons. Now here's a 
device. Two lions rampant shield surmounted 
by a crown; motto, Sp. nos in Deo. Let its hope 
in God." 

" Whose motto was that? " 

"Just what I can't make out. I don't know the 
shield which I ought to know; and the reverse 
of the coin has only some unintelligible letters; D. 
Gelriae, 1752. Let us try another, Queen Esther. 
Ha ! here's a coin of William and Mary both their 
blessed heads, and names; and on the reverse a 
figure three, and the inscription claiming that over 
Great Britain, France and Ireland, they were Rex 



 

and Regina. Why this box of coins is a capital 
place to study history." 

" I don't know history," Esther said. 

" But you are going to know it." 

"Am I? How can I?" 

"Read." 

" I don't know what to read. I have just read 
a little history of England that's all. Mother 
gave me that. But when I read, there are so many 
things I don't know and want to ask about." 

"Ask the colonel." 

" he don't care to be troubled," the little girl 
said sadly. 

" Ask me." 

" You ! But you are not here to ask." 

"True. Well, we must see. Ah, here's a pretty 
thing! See, Esther here's an elegant crown, 
really beautiful, with the fleurs de lys of France, 
and the name of the luckless Lonis xvi. Roi de 
France and de Navarre but no date. On the 
other side, Isles de France and de Bourbon. 
These coins seem to belong to European history." 

"There's another box with Greek and Roman 
coins, and, the names of Roman emperors but I 
know them even less still than I do these," said 
Esther. 

" Your want of knowledge seems to weigh upon 
your mind, Queen Esther." 

" I can't help it," said the little girl resignedly. 

"Are you sure of that ? I am not. Well, I wish 
I knew who this is." 





He had taken up a very small coin, much less 
than a three cent piece, and with the help of a 
magnifying glass was studying it eagerly. 

"Why?" said Esther. 

" It is such a beautiful head ! wonderfully beautiful; and old. Crowned, and with a small peaked 
beard but the name is so worn off On the other 
side Justitia. Queen Esther, this box is a first- 
rate place to study history." 

" Is it ? " 

" It is. What do you say ? Suppose you let me 
come here and study history with you over these 
old coins; and then you come over to my house 
and learn Latin with me. Hey ? " 

He glanced up, and Esther looked at him with a 
wondering, grave, inquiring face. He nodded in 
answer and smiled, a little quizzically. 

" What do you mean, Pitt ? " 

"There was a wise man once, who said, the use 
of language is to conceal one's thoughts. I hope 
you are not labouring under the impression that 
such is my practice and belief? " 

"But would you teach me?" said the girl 
gravely. 

"If your majesty approves." 

" I think it would be very troublesome to you." 

"I on the contrary think it would not." 

" But it would after a little while ? " said Esther. 

" When I want to stop, I'll let you know." 

"Will you? Would you?" 

" Both would and will. 



 

The girl's face grew intense with life, yet with 
out losing its gravity. 

" When, Pitt ? When would you teach me, I 
mean ? " 

"I should say, every day; wouldn't you?" 

" And you'll come here to study the coins ? " 

" Arid teach you what I learn." 

" ! And you'll give me Latin lessons ? lessons 
to study ? " 

" Certainly." 

"And we will study history over the coins?" 

"Don't you think it will be a good way? Here's 
a coin of Maria Theresa, now, 1745 Flungary 
and Bohmen, that is, Bohemia. This old piece of 
copper went through the Seven years war." 

" What war was that ? " 

" we'll read about it, Queen Esther. Ad 
usum, Belga3, Austria. These coins are delightful. 
See here don't you want to go for a walk ? " 

" yes ! I've had one walk to-day already, and 
it just makes me want another. Did you see my 
flowers ? " 

She jumped up and brought them to him. 

" Here's the liverleaf, and anemone, and blood- 
root; and we couldn't find the columbine, but it 
must be out. Christopher calls them all sorts of 
hard names, that I can't rernember." 

" Anemone is anemone, at any rate. These two, 
Esther, this and the Hepatica, belong to one great 
family, the family of the Crowfoots Ranunculacese." 

" but that is harder and harder ! " 





" No it isn't ; it is easier and easier. See, these 
belong to one family ; so you learn to know them 
as relations; and then you can remember them." 

" How do you know they are of the same 
family?" 

" Well, they have the family features. They all 
have an acrid sap or juice, exogenous plants, with 
many stamens, these are the stamens, do you 
know? they have calyx and corolla both, and 
the corolla has separate petals, see? and the Ranunculaceae have the petals and sepals deciduous ; 
and the leaves generally cut, as you see these are. 
They are what you may call a bitter family ; it runs 
in the blood, that is to say, in the juice of them ; and 
a good many of the members of the family are 
downright wicked; that is, poisonous." 

"Pitt, you talk very queerly ! " 

" Not a bit more queer than the things are I am 
talking of. Now this Sanguinaria belongs to the 
Papaveraceae the poppy family." 

" Does it ! But it does not look like them, like 
poppies." 

"This coloured juice that you see when you 
break the stem, is one of the family marks of this 
family. I won't trouble you with the others. But 
you must learn to know them, Queen Esther. King 
Solomon knew every plant from the royal cedar to 
the hyssop on the wail; and I am sure a queen 
ought to know as much. Now the blood of the 
Papaveraceoe has a taint also; it is apt to have 
a narcotic quality." 





"What is narcotic?" 

" Putting to sleep." 

"That's a good quality." 

" Hm ! " said Dallas," that's as you take it. It 
isn't healthy to go so fast asleep that you never 
can wake up again." 

"Can people do that?" asked Esther in aston 
ishment. 

" Yes. Did you never hear of people killing 
themselves with laudanum, or opium ? " 

" I wonder why the poppy family was made so?" 

"Why not?" 

" So mischievous." 

"That's when people take too much of them. 
They are very good for medicine sometimes, Queen 
Esther." 

The girl's appearance by this time had totally 
changed. All the dull, weary, depressed air and 
expression were gone; she was alert and erect, the 
beautiful eyes filled with life and eagerness, a 
dawning of colour in the cheeks, the brow busy 
with stirring thoughts. Esther's face was a grave 
face still, for a child of her years; but now it was 
a noble gravity, shewing intelligence and power 
and purpose; indicating capacity, and also an eager 
sympathy with whatever is great and worthy to take 
and hold the attention. Whether it were history 
that Dallas touched upon, or natural science; the 
divisions of nations or the harmonies of plants; 
Esther was ready, with her thoughtful, intent eyes, 
taking in all he could give her; and not merely as 

a snatch-bite of curiosity, but as the satisfaction of 
a good healthy mental appetite for mental food. 

Until to-day the young man had never concerned himself much about Esther. Good nature 
had moved him to-day, when he saw the dullness 
that had come over the child and recognized her 
forlorn solitude ; and now he began to be interested 
in the development of a nature he had never known 
before. Young Dallas was a student of everything 
natural that came in his way, but this was the first 
bit of human nature that had consciously interested 
him. He thought it quite worth investigating a 
little more. 



CHAPTER IV. 
LEAKNINGL 

THEY had a most delightful walk. It was not 
quite the first they had taken together; how 
ever, they had had none like this. They roved 
through the meadows and over the low rocky 
heights and among the copsewood, searching everywhere for flowers; and finding a good variety of 
the dainty and delicate spring beauties. Colum 
bine, most elegant, stood in groups upon the rocks; 
Hepatica hid under beds of dead leaves; the slender Uvularia was met with here and there; ane 
mone and bloodroot and wild geranium, and many 
another. And as they were gathered, Dallas made 
Esther observe their various features and family 
characteristics, and brought her away from Christopher's technical phraseology to introduce her in 
stead to the living and everlasting relations of 
things. To this teaching the little girl presently 
lent a very delighted ear, and brought, he could 
see, a quick wit and a keen power of discrimina 
tion. It was one thing to call a delicate little 

plant arbitrarily Sanguinaria canadensis, it was 




another thing to find it its place among the floral 
tribes and recognize its kindred and associations 
and family character. 

On their way home, Dallas proposed that Esther 
should stop at his house for a minute, and become 
a little familiar with the place where she was to 
come to study Latin; and he led her in as he 
spoke. 

The Dallas's house was the best in the village. 
Not handsome in its exterior, which bore the same 
plain and somewhat clumsy character as all the 
other buildings in its neighbourhood; but inside it 
was spacious and had a certain homely elegance. 
Rooms were large and exceedingly comfortable, 
and furnished evidently with everything desired 
by the hearts of its possessors. That fact has perhaps more to do with the pleasant, liveable, air of a 
house than aesthetic tastes or artistic combinations 
apart from it. There was a roomy verandah, with 
settees and cane chairs, and roses climbing up the 
pillars and draping the balustrade. The hall, 
which was entered next, was wide and homelike, 
furnished with settees also, and one or two tables, 
for summer occupation, when doors could be set 
open front and back and the wind play through. 
Nobody was there to-day, and Dallas turned to a 
door at the right and opened it. This let them 
into a large room where a fire was burning, and a 
soft genial warmth met them, along with a certain 
odour, which Esther noticed and felt without knowing what it was. It was very faint, yet unmistakeable; and was a compound probably made up from 
the old wood of the house, burning coals in the chimney, great cleanliness, and a distant, hidden, secret 
store of all manner of delicate good things, fruits 
arid sweets and spices, of which Mrs. Dallas's store 
closet held undoubtedly a great stock and variety. 
The brass of the old-fashioned grate glittered in the 
sunlight, it was so beautifully kept; between the 
windows hung a circular mirror, to the frame of 
which were appended a number of spiral, slim, 
curling branches, like vine tendrils, each sustaining 
a socket for a candle. The rest of the furniture 
was good; dark and old and comfortable; painted 
vases were on the mantelpiece, and an old portrait 
hung over it. The place made a peculiar, agreeable 
impression upon any one entering it; ease and comfort and good living were so at home in it and so 
invited one to take part in its advantages. Esther 
had hardly been in the house since the death of her 
mother, and it struck her almost as a stranger. So 
did the lady sitting there, in state, as it seemed to 
the girl. 

For Mrs. Dallas was a stately person. Handsome, 
tall, of somewhat large and full figure and very 
upright carriage, handsomely dressed; and witli a 
calm, superior air of confidence, which perhaps had 
more effect than all the other good properties men 
tioned. She was sitting in an easy chair, with some 
work in her hands, by a little work table on which 
lay one or two handsomely bound books. She looked 
up and reviewed Esther as her son and she came in. 





"I have brought Esther Gainsborough, mother; 
you know her, don't you?" 

" I know her, certainly," Mrs. Dallas answered, 
holding out her hand to the child, who touched it 
as somewhat embodying a condescension rather 
than a kindness. " How is your father, my dear ? " 

" He does not feel very well," said Esther; " but 
he never does." 

"Pity! "said the lady; but Esther could not 
tell what she meant. It was a pity, of course, that 
her father did not feel well. " Where have you 
been all this while ? " the lady went on, addressing 
her son. 

"Where? well, in reality, walking over half the 
country. See our flowers! In imagination, over 
half the world. Do you know what a collection 
of coins Col. Gainsborough has ? " 

" No," said the lady coldly. 

" He has a very fine collection." 

" I see no good in coin that are not current." 

" Difference of opinion, you see, there, mother. 
An old piece, which when it was current was worth 
only perhaps a farthing or two, now when its currency is long past would sell maybe for fifty or a 
hundred pounds." 

" That is very absurd, Pitt ! " 

"Not altogether." 

" Why not ? " 

" Those old coins are history." 

" You don't want them for history. You have 
the history in books." 



 

Pitt laughed. 

" Come away, Esther," he said. " Come and let 
me shew you where you are to find me when you 
want me." 

"Find you for what?" asked the lady, before 
they could quit the room. 

" Esther is coming to take lessons from me," he 
said throwing his head back laughingly as he went. 

" Lessons ! In what ? " 

"Anything she wants to learn, that I can teach 
her. We have been studying history and botany 
to-day. Come along, Esther. We shall not take 
our lessons here" 

He led the way, going out into the hall and at 
the further end of it passing into a verandah which 
there too extended along the back of the house. 
The house on this side had a long offset, or wing, 
running back at right angles with the main build 
ing. The verandah also made an angle and followed 
the side of this wing, which on the ground floor 
contained the kitchen and offices. Half way of its 
length a stairway ran up, on the outside, to a door 
nearer the end of the building. Up this stair young 
Dallas went, and introduced Esther to a large room, 
which seemed to her presently the oddest and also 
the most interesting that she had ever in her life 
seen. Its owner had got together, apparently, the 
old bits of furniture that his mother did not want 
any longer; there was an old table, devoid of all 
varnish, in the floor, covered however with a nice 
green cloth; two or three chairs were the table's 





contemporaries, to judge by their style, and nothing 
harder or less accommodating to the love of ease 
ever entered surely a cabinet maker's brain. The 
wood of which they were made had however come 
to be of a soft brown colour, through the influence 
of time, and the form was not inelegant. The floor 
was bare and painted, and upon it lay here an old 
rug and there a great thick bearskin ; and on the 
walls there were several heads of animals, which 
seemed to Esther very remarkable and extremely or 
namental. One beautiful deer's head, with elegant 
horns ; and one elk head, the horns of which in their 
sweep and extent were simply enormous ; then there 
were one or two fox heads, and a raccoon ; and be 
sides all these, the room was adorned with two or 
three birds, very well mounted. The birds, as the 
animals, were unknown to Esther, and fascinated 
her greatly. Books were in this room too, though 
not in large numbers; a flower press was in one 
place, a microscope on the table, a kind of etagere 
was loaded with papers ; and there were boxes, and 
glasses, and cases; and a general air of a place 
where a good deal of business was done and where 
a variety of tastes found at least attempted gratification. It was a pleasant room, though the de 
scription may not sound like it; the heterogeneous 
articles were in nice order; plenty of light blazed 
in at the windows, and the bearskin on the floor 
