"That's a secret. I'll tell some day, but not yet," said Daisy, diving
into her trunk to hide the color in her cheeks.

"Sly thing! I know you've got silver spiders and filagree racquets, and
Rhine-stone moons and stars stowed away somewhere and won't confess it.
I wanted to fill this box, but mamma said you'd do it better yourself,
so I let it alone; but I was afraid you'd think I was a selfish pig, to
have a pin for every day in the month and never give you one," said
Laura, as she looked at the single tarnished brooch reposing on the
satin cushion. "Where's your chain?" she added, before Daisy could
speak.

"It is safe enough. I'm tired of it, and don't care if I never see it
again." And Daisy packed away, and laughed as she smoothed the white
dress in its tray, remembering that it was paid for by the sale of the
old necklace.

"Give it to me, then. I like it immensely; it's so odd. I'll exchange
for anything of mine you choose. Will you?" asked Laura, who seemed bent
on asking inconvenient questions.

"I shall have to tell, or she will think me very ungrateful,"--and Daisy
felt a pang of regret even then, for Laura's offer was a generous one.

"Like G. W., 'I cannot tell a lie;' so I must 'fess' that I sold the old
thing, and spent the money for something I wanted very much,--not
jewelry, but something to give away."

Daisy was spared further confessions by the entrance of Mrs. Vaughn,
with a box in her hand.

"I have room for something more. Give me that, Laura, it will just fit
in;" and taking the little casket, she added, "Mary White wants to try
on your dress, dear. Go at once; I will help Daisy."

Laura went, and her mother stood looking down at the kneeling girl with
an expression of affectionate satisfaction which would have puzzled
Daisy, had she seen it.

"Has the visit been a pleasant one, my dear?"

"Oh, very! I can't thank you enough for the good it has done me. I hope
I can pay a little of the debt next summer, if you come our way again,"
cried Daisy, looking up with a face full of gratitude.

"We shall probably go to Europe for the summer. Laura is a good age for
it now, and we shall all enjoy it."

"How splendid! We shall miss you dreadfully, but I'm glad you are
going, and I hope Laura will find time to write me now and then. I shall
want to know how she likes the 'foreign parts' we've talked about so
much."

"You shall know. We won't forget you, my dear," and with a caressing
touch on the smiling yet wistful face upturned to hers, Mrs. Vaughn went
away to pack the empty jewel-box, leaving Daisy to drop a few
irrepressible tears on the new gown, over the downfall of her summer
hopes, and the longings all girls feel for that enchanted world that
lies beyond the sea.

"We shall see you before we go, so we won't gush now," said Laura, as
she bade her friend good-by, adding in a whisper, "Some folks can have
secrets as well as other folks, and be as sly. So don't think you have
all the fun to yourself, you dear, good, generous darling."

Daisy looked bewildered, and Mrs. Vaughn added to her surprise by
kissing her very warmly as she said:

"I wanted to find a good friend for my spoiled girl, and I think I have
succeeded."

There was no time for explanation, and all the way home Daisy kept
wondering what they meant. But she forgot everything when she saw the
dear faces beaming at the door, and ran straight into her mother's arms,
while Janey hugged the trunk till her turn came for something better.

When the first raptures were over, out came the cloak; and Daisy was
well repaid for her little trials and sacrifices when she was folded in
it as her mother held her close, and thanked her as mothers only can.
Sitting in its soft shelter, she told all about it, and coming to the
end said, as she took up the jewel-box, unpacked with the other generous
gifts:--

"I haven't a thing to put in it, but I shall value it because it taught
me a lesson which I hope I never shall forget. See what a pretty thing
it is;" and opening it, Daisy gave a cry of surprise and joy, for there
lay the golden rose, with Laura's name and "Sub rosa" on a slip of
paper.

"The dear thing! she knew I wanted it, and that is what she meant by
'secrets.' I'll write and tell her mine to-morrow."

"Here is something more," said Janey, who had been lifting the tray
while her sister examined the long-desired flower.

A pair of real gold bangles shone before her delighted eyes, and a card
in Mr. Vaughn's handwriting bore these words: "Handcuffs for the thief
who stole the pocketbook."

Daisy hardly had time to laugh gayly at the old gentleman's joke, when
Janey cried out, as she opened the little drawer, "Here's another!"

It was a note from Mrs. Vaughn, but all thought it the greatest treasure
of the three, for it said briefly,--

     "DEAR DAISY,--Mary told me some of your secrets, and I found out
     the others. Forgive me and go to Europe with Laura, in May. Your
     visit was a little test. You stood it well, and we want to know
     more of you. The little box is not quite empty, but the best jewels
     are the self-denial, sweet charity, and good sense you put in
     yourself.

                                   "Your friend,           A. V."

Daisy could not speak, and her mother looked into the box with eyes full
of tender tears, while Janey danced about them, clashing the bangles
like a happy little bayadere, till her sister found her voice again.

Pointing to a great, bright tear that shone on the blue velvet, she
said, with her cheek against her mother's: "I always wanted a real
diamond, and there's a more precious one than any I could buy. Now I'm
sure my jewel-box is full."




[Illustration]

CORNY'S CATAMOUNT


Two boys sat on the bars, one whittling, the other whistling,--not for
want of thought by any means, for his brow was knit in an anxious frown,
and he paused now and then to thump the rail, with an impatient
exclamation. The other lad appeared to be absorbed in shaping an arrow
from the slender stick in his hand, but he watched his neighbor with a
grin, saying a few words occasionally which seemed to add to his
irritation, though they were in a sympathizing tone.

"Oh, well, if a chap can't do a thing he can't; and he'd better give up
and say, 'Beat.'"

"But I won't give up, and I never say 'Beat.' I'm not going to be
laughed out of it, and I'll do what I said I would, if it takes all
summer, Chris Warner."

"You'll have to be pretty spry, then, for there's only two more days to
August," replied the whittler, shutting one eye to look along his arrow
and see if it was true.

"I intend to be spry, and if you won't go and blab, I'll tell you a plan
I made last night."

"Guess you can trust me. I've heard about a dozen plans now, and never
told one of 'em."

"They all failed, so there was nothing to tell. But this one is not
going to fail, if I die for it. I feel that it's best to tell some one,
because it is really dangerous; and if anything should happen to me,
as is very likely, it would save time and trouble."

"Don't seem to feel anxious a mite. But I'll stand ready to pick up the
pieces, if you come to grief."

"Now, Chris, it's mean of you to keep on making fun when I'm in dead
earnest; and this may be the last thing you can do for me."

"Wait till I get out my handkerchief; if you're going to be affectin' I
may want it. Granite's cheap up here; just mention what you'd like on
your tombstone and I'll see that it's done, if it takes my last cent."

The big boy in the blue overalls spoke with such a comical drawl that
the slender city lad could not help laughing, and with a slap that
nearly sent his neighbor off his perch, Corny said good-naturedly:

"Come now, stop joking and lend a hand, and I'll do anything I can for
you. I've set my heart on shooting a wildcat, and I know I can if I once
get a good chance. Mother won't let me go off far enough, so of course I
don't do it, and then you all jeer at me. To-morrow we are going up the
mountain, and I'm set on trying again, for Abner says the big woods are
the place to find the 'varmint'. Now you hold your tongue, and let me
slip away when I think we've hit the right spot. I'm not a bit afraid,
and while the rest go poking to the top, I'll plunge into the woods and
see what I can do."

"All right. Better take old Buff; he'll bring you home when you get
lost, and keep puss from clawing you. You won't like that part of the
fun as much as you expect to, maybe," said Chris, with a sly twinkle of
the eye, as he glanced at Corny and then away to the vast forest that
stretched far up the mighty mountain's side.

"No, I don't want any help, and Buff will betray me by barking; I prefer
to go alone. I shall take some lunch and plenty of shot, and have a
glorious time, even if I don't meet that confounded beast. I will keep
dashing in and out of the woods as we go; then no one will miss me for a
while, and when they do you just say, 'Oh, he's all right; he'll be
along directly,' and go ahead, and let me alone."

Corny spoke so confidently, and looked so pleased with his plan, that
honest Chris could not bear to tell him how much danger he would run in
that pathless forest, where older hunters than he had been lost.

"Don't feel as if I cared to tell any lies about it, and I don't advise
your goin'; but if you're mad for catamounts, I s'pose I must humor you
and say nothing. Only bear in mind, Abner and I will be along, and if
you get into a scrape jest give a yell and we'll come."

"No fear of that; I've tramped round all summer, and know my way like an
Indian. Keep the girls quiet, and let me have a good lark. I'll turn up
all right by sundown; so don't worry. Not a word to mother, mind, or she
won't let me go. I'll make things straight with her after the fun is
over."

"That ain't just square; but it's not my funeral, so I won't meddle.
Hope you'll have first rate sport, and bag a brace of cats. One thing
you mind, don't get too nigh before you fire; and keep out of sight of
the critters as much as you can."

Chris spoke in a deep whisper, looking so excited and impressed by the
reckless courage of his mate that Corny felt himself a Leatherstocking,
and went off to tea with his finger on his lips, full of boyish faith in
his own powers. If he had seen Chris dart behind the barn, and there
roll upon the grass in convulsions of laughter, he would have been both
surprised and hurt.

No deacon could have been more sober, however, than Chris when they met
next morning, while the party of summer boarders at the old farm-house
were in a pleasant bustle of preparation for the long expected day on
the mountain. Three merry girls, a pair of small boys, two amiable
mammas, Chris and Corny, made up the party, with Abner to drive the big
wagon drawn by Milk and Molasses, the yellow span.

"All aboard!" shouted our young Nimrod, in a hurry to be off, as the
lunch-basket was handed up, and the small boys packed in the most
uncomfortable corners, regardless of their arms and legs.

Away they rattled with a parting cheer, and peace fell upon the
farm-house for a few hours, to the great contentment of the good people
left behind. Corny's mother was one of them, and her last words
were,--"A pleasant day, dear. I wish you'd leave that gun at home; I'm
so afraid you'll get hurt with it.'

"No fun without it. Don't worry, mammy; I'm old enough to take care of
myself."

"I'll see to him, ma'am," called Chris, as he hung on behind, and waved
his old straw hat, with a steady, reliable sort of look, that made the
anxious lady feel more comfortable.

"We are going to walk up, and leave the horses to rest; so I can choose
my time. See, I've got a bottle of cold tea in this pocket, and a lot of
grub in the other. No danger of my starving, is there?" whispered Corny,
as he leaned over to Chris, who sat, apparently, on nothing, with his
long legs dangling into space.

"Shouldn't wonder if you needed every mite of it. Hunting is mighty hard
work on a hot day, and this is going to be a blazer," answered Chris,
pulling his big straw hat lower over his eyes.

As we intend to follow Corny's adventures, we need not pause to describe
the drive, which was a merry one; with girls chattering, mammas holding
on to excited small boys, in danger of flying out at every jolt, Abner
joking till every one roared, Corny's dangerous evolutions with the
beloved gun, and the gymnastic feats Chris performed, jumping off to
pick flowers for the ladies, and getting on again while Milk and
Molasses tore up and down the rough road as if they enjoyed it.

About ten o'clock they reached the foot of the mountain; and after a
short rest at the hotel, began the three-mile ascent in high spirits.
Abner was to follow later with the wagon, to bring the party down; so
Chris was guide, as he knew the way well, and often came with people.
The girls and younger boys hurried on, full of eagerness to reach the
top. The ladies went more slowly, enjoying the grand beauty of the
scene, while Chris carried the lunch-basket, and Corny lingered in the
rear, waiting for a good chance to "plunge."

He wanted to be off before Abner came, as he well knew that wise man and
mighty hunter would never let him go alone.

"The very next path I see, I'll dive in and run; Chris can't leave the
rest to follow, and if I once get a good start, they won't catch me in a
hurry," thought the boy, longing to be free and alone in the wild woods
that tempted him on either hand.

Just as he was tightening his belt to be ready for the run, Mrs. Barker,
the stout lady, called him; and being a well-bred lad, he hastened at
once to see what she wanted, feeling that he was the only gentleman in
the party.

"Give me your arm, dear; I'm getting very tired, and fear I can't hold
out to the top, without a little help," said the poor lady, red and
panting with the heat, and steepness of the road.

"Certainly ma'am," answered Corny, obeying at once, and inwardly
resolving to deposit his fair burden on the first fallen log they came
to, and make his escape.

But Mrs. Barker got on bravely, with the support of his strong arm, and
chatted away so delightfully that Corny would really have enjoyed the
walk, if his soul had not been yearning for catamounts. He did his best,
but when they passed opening after opening into the green recesses of
the wood, and the granite boulders grew more and more plentiful, his
patience gave out, and he began to plan what he could say to excuse
himself. Chris was behind, apparently deaf and blind to his calls and
imploring glances, though he grinned cheerfully when poor Corny looked
round and beckoned, as well as he could, with a gun on one arm and a
stout lady on the other.

"The hardest part is coming now, and we'd better rest a moment. Here's a
nice rock, and the last spring we are likely to see till we get to the
top. Come on, Chris, and give us the dipper. Mrs. Barker wants a drink,
and so do I," called the young hunter, driven to despair at last.

Up came Chris, and while he rummaged in the well-packed basket, Corny
slipped into the wood, leaving the good lady with her thanks half
spoken, sitting on a warm stone beside a muddy little pool. A loud laugh
followed him, as he scrambled through the tall ferns and went plunging
down the steep mountain side, eager to reach the lower woods.

"Let him laugh; it will be my turn when I go home, with a fine cat over
my shoulder," thought Corny, tearing along, heedless of falls,
scratches, and bruised knees.

At length he paused for breath, and looked about him well satisfied, for
the spot was lonely and lovely enough to suit any hunter. The tallest
pines he ever saw sighed far overhead; the ground was ankle deep in
moss, and gay with scarlet bunch-berries; every fallen log was veiled by
sweet-scented Linnea, green vines or nodding brakes; while hidden brooks
sang musically, and the air was full of the soft flutter of leaves, the
whir of wings, the sound of birds gossiping sweetly in the safe shelter
of the forest, where human feet so seldom came.

"I'll rest a bit, and then go along down, keeping a look out for puss by
the way," thought Corny, feeling safe and free, and very happy, for he
had his own way, at last, and a whole day to lead the life he loved.

So he bathed his hot face, took a cool drink, and lay on the moss,
staring up into the green gloom of the pines, blissfully dreaming of the
joys of a hunter's life,--till a peculiar cry startled him to his feet,
and sent him creeping warily toward the sound. Whether it was a new kind
of bird, or a fox, or a bear, he did not know, but fondly hoped it was a
wildcat; though he was well aware that the latter creature sleeps by
day, and prowls by night. Abner said they purred and snarled and gave a
mewing sort of cry; but which it was now he could not tell, having
unfortunately been half asleep.

On he went, looking up into the trees for a furry bunch, behind every
log, and in every rocky hole, longing and hoping to discover his
heart's desire. But a hawk was all he saw above, an ugly snake was the
only living thing he found among the logs, and a fat woodchuck's hind
legs vanished down the most attractive hole. He shot at all three and
missed them, so pushed on, pretending that he did not care for such
small game.

"Now this is what I call fun," he said to himself, tramping gayly along,
and at that moment went splash into a mud-hole concealed under the
grass. He sunk up to his knees, and with great difficulty got out by
clinging to the tussocks that grew near. In his struggles the lunch was
lost, for the bottle broke and the pocket where the sandwiches were
stored was full of mud. A woful spectacle was the trim lad as he emerged
from the slough, black and dripping in front, well spattered behind,
hatless, and one shoe gone, having been carelessly left unlaced in the
ardor of the chase.

"Here's a mess!" thought poor Corny, surveying himself with great
disgust and feeling very helpless, as well as tired, hungry, and mad.
"Luckily, my powder is dry and my gun safe; so my fun isn't spoiled,
though I do look like a wallowing pig. I've heard of mud baths, but I
never took one before, and I'll be shot if I do again."

So he washed as well as he could, hoping the sun would dry him, picked
out a few bits of bread unspoiled by the general wreck, and trudged on
with less ardor, though by no means discouraged yet.

"I'm too high for any game but birds, and those I don't want. I'll go
slap down, and come out in the valley. Abner said any brook would show
the way, and this rascal that led me into a scrape shall lead me out,"
he said, as he followed the little stream that went tumbling over the
stones, that increased as the ground sloped toward the deep ravine,
where a waterfall shone like silver in the sun.

"I'll take a bath if the pool is big enough, and that will set me up.
Shouldn't wonder if I'd got poisoned a bit with some of these vines I've
been tearing through. My hands smart like fury, and I guess the
mosquitoes have about eaten my face up. Never saw such clouds of
stingers before," said Corny, looking at his scratched hands, and
rubbing his hot face in great discomfort,--for it was the gnat that
drove the lion mad, you remember.

It was easy to say, "I'll follow the brook," but not so easy to do it;
for the frolicsome stream went headlong over rocks, crept under fallen
logs, and now and then hid itself so cleverly that one had to look and
listen carefully to recover the trail. It was long past noon when Corny
came out near the waterfall, so tired and hungry that he heartily wished
himself back among the party, who had lunched well and were now probably
driving gayly homeward to a good supper.

No chance for a bath appeared, so he washed his burning face and took a
rest, enjoying the splendid view far over valley and intervale through
the gap in the mountain range. He was desperately tired with these hours
of rough travel, and very hungry; but would not own it, and sat
considering what to do next, for he saw by the sun that the afternoon
was half over. There was time to go back the way he had come, and by
following the path down the hill he could reach the hotel and get supper
and a bed, or be driven home. That was the wise thing to do, but his
pride rebelled against returning empty-handed after all his plans and
boasts of great exploits.

"I won't go home, to be laughed at by Chris and Abner. I'll shoot
something, if I stay all night. Who cares for hunger and mosquito bites?
Not I. Hunters can bear more than that, I guess. The next live thing I
see I'll shoot it, and make a fire and have a jolly supper. Now which
way will I go,--up or down? A pretty hard prospect, either way."

The sight of an eagle soaring above him seemed to answer his question,
and fill him with new strength and ardor. To shoot the king of birds and
take him home in triumph would cover the hunter with glory. It should be
done! And away he went, climbing, tumbling, leaping from rock to rock,
toward the place where the eagle had alighted. More cuts and bruises,
more vain shots, and all the reward of his eager struggles was a single
feather that floated down as the great bird soared serenely away,
leaving the boy exhausted and disappointed in a wilderness of granite
boulders, with no sign of a path to show the way out.

As he leaned breathless and weary against the crag where he had fondly
hoped to find the eagle's nest, he realized for the first time what a
fool-hardy thing he had done. Here he was, alone, without a guide, in
this wild region where there was neither food nor shelter, and night
coming on. Utterly used up, he could not get home now if he had known
the way; and suddenly all the tales he had ever heard of men lost in the
mountains came into his head. If he had not been weak with hunger he
would have felt better able to bear it; but his legs trembled under him,
his head ached with the glare of the sun, and a queer faintness came
over him now and then; for the city lad was unused to such violent
exercise, plucky as he was.

"The only thing to do now is to get down to the valley, if I can, before
dark. Abner said there was an old cabin, where the hunters used to
sleep, somewhere round that way. I can try for it, and perhaps shoot
something on the way. May break my bones, but I can't sit and starve up
here, and I was a fool to come. I'll keep the feather anyway, to prove
that I really saw an eagle; that's better than nothing."

Still bravely trying to affect the indifference to danger and fatigue
which hunters are always described as possessing in such a remarkable
degree, Corny slung the useless gun on his back and began the steep
descent, discovering now the perils he had been too eager to see before.
He was a good climber, but was stiff with weariness, and his hands
already sore with scratches and poison; so he went slowly, feeling quite
unfit for such hard work. Coming to the ravine, he found the only road
was down its precipitous side to the valley, that looked so safe and
pleasant now. Stunted pines grew in the fissures of the rocks, and their
strong roots helped the clinging hands and feet as the boy painfully
climbed, slipped, and swung along, fearing every minute to come to some
impassable barrier in the dangerous path.

But he got on wonderfully well, and was feeling much encouraged, when
his foot slipped, the root he held gave way, and down he went, rolling
and bumping to his death on the rocks below, he thought, as a crash
came, and he knew no more.

"Wonder if I'm dead?" was the first idea that occurred to him as he
opened his eyes and saw a brilliant sky above him, all purple, gold, and
red.

He seemed floating in the air, for he swayed to and fro on a soft bed, a
pleasant murmur reached his ear, and when he looked down he saw what
looked like clouds, misty and white, below him. He lay a few minutes
drowsily musing, for the fall had stunned him; then, as he moved his
hand something pricked it, and he felt pine-needles in the fingers that
closed over them.

"Caught in a tree, by Jupiter!" and all visions of heaven vanished in a
breath, as he sat up and stared about him, wide awake now, and conscious
of many aching bones.

Yes, there he lay among the branches of one of the sturdy pines, into
which he had fallen on his way down the precipice. Blessed little tree!
set there to save a life, and teach a lesson to a wilful young heart
that never forgot that hour.

Holding fast, lest a rash motion should set him bounding further down,
like a living ball, Corny took an observation as rapidly as possible,
for the red light was fading, and the mist rising from the valley. All
he could see was a narrow ledge where the tree stood, and anxious to
reach a safer bed for the night, he climbed cautiously down to drop on
the rock, so full of gratitude for safety that he could only lie quite
still for a little while, thinking of mother, and trying not to cry.

He was much shaken by the fall, his flesh bruised, his clothes torn, and
his spirit cowed; for hunger, weariness, pain, and danger, showed him
what a very feeble creature he was, after all. He could do no more till
morning, and resigned himself to a night on the mountain side, glad to
be there alive, though doubtful what daylight would show him. Too tired
to move, he lay watching the western sky, where the sun set gloriously
behind the purple hills. All below was wrapped in mist, and not a sound
reached him but the sigh of the pine, and the murmur of the waterfall.

"This is a first-class scrape. What a fool I was not to go back when I
could, instead of blundering down here where no one can get at me, and
as like as not I can't get out alone! Gun smashed in that confounded
fall, so I can't even fire a shot to call help. Nothing to eat or drink,
and very likely a day or so to spend here till I'm found, if I ever am.
Chris said, 'Yell, if you want us.' Much good that would do now! I'll
try, though." And getting up on his weary legs, Corny shouted till he
was hoarse; but echo alone answered him, and after a few efforts he gave
it up, trying to accept the situation like a man. As if kind Nature took
pity on the poor boy, the little ledge was soft with lichens and thin
grass, and here and there grew a sprig of checkerberry, sown by the
wind, sheltered by the tree, and nourished by the moisture that trickled
down the rock from some hidden spring. Eagerly Corny ate the sweet
leaves to stay the pangs of hunger that gnawed him, and finished his
meal with grass and pine-needles, calling himself a calf, and wishing
his pasture were wider.

"The fellows we read about always come to grief in a place where they
can shoot a bird, catch a fish, or knock over some handy beast for
supper," he said, talking to himself for company. "Even the old chap
lost in the bush in Australia had a savage with him who dug a hole in a
tree, and pulled out a nice fat worm to eat. I'm not lucky enough even
to find a sassafras bush to chew, or a bird's egg to suck. My poor gun
is broken, or I might bang away at a hawk, and cook him for supper, if
the bog didn't spoil my matches as it did my lunch. Oh, well! I'll pull
through, I guess, and when it's all over, it will be a jolly good story
to tell."

Then, hoping to forget his woes in sleep, he nestled under the
low-growing branches of the pine, and lay blinking drowsily at the
twilight world outside. A dream came, and he saw the old farm-house in
sad confusion, caused by his absence,--the women crying, the men sober,
all anxious, and all making ready to come and look for him. So vivid was
it that he woke himself by crying out, "Here I am!" and nearly went over
the ledge, stretching out his arms to Abner.

The start and the scare made it hard to go to sleep again, and he sat
looking at the solemn sky, full of stars that seemed watching over him
alone there, like a poor, lost child on the great mountain's stony
breast. He had never seen the world at that hour before, and it made a
deep impression on him; for it was a vast, wild scene, full of gloomy
shadows below, unknown dangers around, and a new sense of utter
littleness and helplessness, which taught the boy human dependence upon
Heavenly love as no words, even from his mother's tender lips, could
have done. Thoughts of the suffering his wilfulness had given her wrung
a few penitent tears from him, which he was not ashamed to shed, since
only the kind stars saw them, and better still, he resolved to own the
fault, to atone for it, and to learn wisdom from this lesson, which
might yet prove to be a very bitter one.

He felt better after this little breakdown, and presently his thoughts
were turned from conscience to catamounts again; for sounds in the woods
below led him to believe that the much-desired animal was on the prowl.
His excited fancy painted dozens of them not far away, waiting to be
shot, and there he was, cooped up on that narrow ledge, with a broken
gun, unable even to get a look at them. He felt that it was a just
punishment, and after the first regret tried to comfort himself with the
fact that he was much safer where he was than alone in the forest at
that hour, for various nocturnal voices suggested restless and dangerous
neighbors.

Presently his wakeful eyes saw lights twinkling far off on the opposite
side of the ravine, and he imagined he heard shouts and shots. But the
splash of the waterfall, and the rush of the night wind deadened the
sounds to his ear, and drowned his own reply.

"They are looking for me, and will never think of this strange place. I
can't make them hear, and must wait till morning. Poor Chris will get an
awful scolding for letting me go. Don't believe he told a word till he
had to. I'll make it up to him. Chris is a capital fellow, and I just
wish I had him here to make things jolly," thought the lonely lad.

But soon the lights vanished, the sounds died away, and the silence of
midnight brooded over the hills, seldom broken except by the soft cry of
an owl, the rustle of the pine, or a louder gust of wind as it grew
strong and cold. Corny kept awake as long as he could, fearing to dream
and fall; but by-and-by he dropped off, and slept soundly till the chill
of dawn waked him.

At any other time he would have heartily enjoyed the splendor of the
eastern sky, as the red glow spread and brightened, till the sun came
dazzling through the gorge, making the wild solitude beautiful and
grand.

Now, however, he would have given it all for a hot beefsteak and a cup
of coffee, as he wet his lips with a few drops of ice-cold water, and
browsed over his small pasture till not a green spire remained. He was
stiff, and full of pain, but daylight and the hope of escape cheered him
up, and gave him coolness and courage to see how best he could
accomplish his end.

The wind soon blew away the mist and let him see that the dry bed of a
stream lay just below. To reach it he must leap, at risk of his bones,
or find some means to swing down ten or twelve feet. Once there, it was
pretty certain that by following the rough road he would come into the
valley, from whence he could easily find his way home. Much elated at
this unexpected good fortune, he took the strap that had slung his gun,
the leathern belt about his waist, and the strong cords of his pouch,
and knotting them together, made a rope long enough to let him drop
within two or three feet of the stones below. This he fastened firmly
round the trunk of the pine, and finished his preparations by tying his
handkerchief to one of the branches, that it might serve as a guide for
him, a signal for others, and a trophy of his grand fall.

Then putting a little sprig of the evergreen tree in his jacket, with a
grateful thought of all it had done for him, he swung himself off and
landed safely below, not minding a few extra bumps after his late
exploits at tumbling.

Feeling like a prisoner set free, he hurried as fast as bare feet and
stiff legs would carry him along the bed of the stream, coming at last
into the welcome shelter of the woods, which seemed more beautiful than
ever, after the bleak region of granite in which he had been all night.

Anxious to report himself alive, and relieve his mother's anxiety, he
pressed on till he struck the path, and soon saw, not far away, the old
cabin Abner had spoken of. Just before this happy moment he had heard a
shot fired somewhere in the forest, and as he hurried toward the sound
he saw an animal dart into the hut, as if for shelter.

Whether it was a rabbit, woodchuck or dog, he had not seen, as a turn in
the path prevented a clear view; and hoping it was old Buff looking for
him, he ran in, to find himself face to face with a catamount at last.

There she was, the big, fierce cat, crouched in a corner, with fiery
eyes, growling and spitting at sight of an enemy, but too badly wounded
to fight, as the blood that dripped from her neck, and the tremble of
her limbs plainly showed.

"Now's my chance! Don't care who shot her, I'll kill her, and have her
too, if I pay my last dollar," thought Corny; and catching up a stout
bit of timber fallen from the old roof, he struck one quick blow, which
finished poor puss, who gave up the ghost with a savage snarl, and a
vain effort to pounce on him.

This splendid piece of good luck atoned for all the boy had gone
through, and only waiting to be sure the beast was quite dead and past
clawing, he flung his prize over his shoulder, and with renewed strength
and spirit trudged along the woodland road toward home, proudly
imagining his triumphal entry upon the scene of suspense and alarm.

"Wish I didn't look so like a scare-crow; but perhaps my rags will add
to the effect. Won't the girls laugh at my swelled face, and scream at
the cat. Poor mammy will mourn over me and coddle me up as if I'd been
to the wars. Hope some house isn't very far off, for I don't believe I
can lug this brute much farther, I'm so starved and shaky."

Just as he paused to take breath and shift his burden from one shoulder
to the other, a loud shout startled him, and a moment after, several men
came bursting through the wood, cheering like lunatics as they
approached.

It was Abner, Chris, and some of the neighbors, setting out again on
their search, after a night of vain wandering. Corny could have hugged
them all and cried like a girl; but pride kept him steady, though his
face showed his joy as he nodded his hatless head with a cool--

"Hullo!"

Chris burst into his ringing laugh, and danced a wild sort of jig round
his mate, as the only way in which he could fitly express his relief;
for he had been so bowed down with remorse at his imprudence in letting
Corny go that no one could find the heart to blame him, and all night
the poor lad had rushed up and down seeking, calling, hoping, and
fearing, till he was about used up, and looked nearly as dilapidated as
Corny.

The tale was soon told, and received with the most flattering signs of
interest, wonder, sympathy, and admiration.

"Why in thunder didn't you tell me?--and I'd a got up a hunt wuth
havin',--not go stramashing off alone on a wild goose chase like this.
Never did see such a chap as you be for gittin' inter scrapes,--and out
of 'em too, I'm bound to own," growled Abner.

"That isn't a wild goose, is it?" proudly demanded Corny, pointing to
the cat, which now lay on the ground, while he leaned against a tree to
hide his weariness; for he felt ready to drop, now all the excitement
was over.

"No it ain't, and I congratulate you on a good job. Where did you shoot
her?" asked Abner, stooping to examine the creature.

"Didn't shoot her; broke my gun when I took that header down the
mountain. I hit her a rap with a club, in the cabin where I found her,"
answered Corny, heartily wishing he need not share the prize with any
one. But he was honest, and added at once, "Some one else had put a
bullet into her; I only finished her off."

"Chris did it; he fired a spell back and see the critter run, but we was
too keen after you to stop for any other game. Guess you've had enough
of catamounts for one spell, hey?" and Abner laughed as he looked at
poor Corny, who was a more sorry spectacle than he knew,--ragged and
rough, hatless and shoeless, his face red and swelled with the poisoning
and bites, his eyes heavy with weariness, and in his mouth a bit of
wild-cherry bark which he chewed ravenously.

"No, I haven't! I want this one, and will buy it if Chris will let me. I
said I'd kill one, and I did, and want to keep the skin; for I ought to
have something to show after all this knocking about and turning
somersaults half a mile long," answered Corny stoutly, as he tried to
shoulder his load again.

"Here, give me the varmint, and you hang on to Chris, my boy, or we'll
have to cart you home. You've done first-rate, and now you want a good
meal of vittles to set you up. Right about face, neighbors, and home we
go, to the tune of Hail Columby."

As Abner spoke, the procession set forth. The tall, jolly man, with the
dead animal at his back, went first; then Corny, trying not to lean on
the arm Chris put round him, but very glad of the support; next the good
farmers, all talking at once; while old Buff soberly brought up the
rear, with his eye on the wildcat, well knowing that he would have a
fine feast when the handsome skin was off.

In this order they reached home, and Corny tumbled into his mother's
arms, to be no more seen for some hours. What went on in her room, no
one knows; but when at last the hero emerged, refreshed by sleep and
food, clad in clean clothes, his wounds bound up, and plantain-leaves
dipped in cream spread upon his afflicted countenance, he received the
praises and congratulations showered upon him very meekly. He made no
more boasts of skill and courage that summer, set out on no more wild
hunts, and gave up his own wishes so cheerfully that it was evident
something had worked a helpful change in wilful Corny.

He liked to tell the story of that day and night when his friends were
recounting adventures by sea and land; but he never said much about the
hours on the ledge, always owned that Chris shot the beast, and usually
ended by sagely advising his hearers to let their mothers know, when
they went off on a lark of that kind. Those who knew and loved him best
observed that he was fonder than ever of nibbling checkerberry leaves,
that he didn't mind being laughed at for liking to wear a bit of pine in
his buttonhole, and that the skin of the catamount so hardly won lay
before his study table till the moths ate it up.




[Illustration]

THE COOKING CLASS


A young girl in a little cap and a big apron sat poring over a
cook-book, with a face full of the deepest anxiety. She had the kitchen
to herself, for mamma was out for the day, cook was off duty, and Edith
could mess to her heart's content. She belonged to a cooking-class, the
members of which were to have a lunch at two P. M. with the girl next
door; and now the all absorbing question was, what to make. Turning the
pages of the well-used book, she talked to herself as the various
receipts met her eye.

"Lobster-salad and chicken-croquettes I've had, and neither were very
good. Now I want to distinguish myself by something very nice. I'd try a
meat-porcupine or a mutton-duck if there was time; but they are fussy,
and ought to be rehearsed before given to the class. Bavarian cream
needs berries and whipped cream, and I won't tire my arms beating
eggs. Apricots à la Neige is an easy thing and wholesome, but the
girls won't like it, I know, as well as some rich thing that will make
them ill, as Carrie's plum-pudding did. A little meat dish is best for
lunch. I'd try sweetbreads and bacon, if I didn't hate to burn my face
and scent my clothes, frying. Birds are elegant; let me see if I can do
larded grouse. No, I don't like to touch that cold, fat stuff. How
mortified Ella was, when she had birds on toast and forgot to draw them.
I shouldn't make such a blunder as that, I do hope. Potted pigeons--the
very thing! Had that in our last lesson, but the girls are all crazy
about puff-paste, so they won't try pigeons. Why didn't I think of it at
once?--for we've got them in the house, and don't want them to-day,
mamma being called away. All ready too; so nice! I do detest to pick and
clean birds. 'Simmer from one to three hours.' Plenty of time. I'll do
it! I'll do it! La, la, la!"

And away skipped Edith in high spirits, for she did not love to cook,
yet wished to stand well with the class, some members of which were very
ambitious, and now and then succeeded with an elaborate dish, more by
good luck than skill.

Six plump birds were laid out on a platter, with their legs folded in
the most pathetic manner; these Edith bore away in triumph to the
kitchen, and opening the book before her went to work energetically,
resigning herself to frying the pork and cutting up the onion, which she
had overlooked when hastily reading the receipt. In time they were
stuffed, the legs tied down to the tails, the birds browned in the
stew-pan, and put to simmer with a pinch of herbs.

"Now I can clear up, and rest a bit. If I ever have to work for a living
I won't be a cook," said Edith, with a sigh of weariness as she
washed her dishes, wondering how there could be so many; for no careless
Irish girl would have made a greater clutter over this small job than
the young lady who had not yet learned one of the most important things
that a cook should know.

The bell rang just as she got done, and was planning to lie and rest on
the dining-room sofa till it was time to take up her pigeons.

"Tell whoever it is that I'm engaged," she whispered, as the maid
passed, on her way to the door.

"It's your cousin, miss, from the country, and she has a trunk with her.
Of course she's to come in?" asked Maria, coming back in a moment.

"Oh, dear me! I forgot all about Patty. Mamma said any day this week,
and this is the most inconvenient one of the seven. Of course, she must
come in. Go and tell her I'll be there in a minute," answered Edith, too
well bred not to give even an unwelcome guest a kindly greeting.

Whisking off cap and apron, and taking a last look at the birds, just
beginning to send forth a savory steam, she went to meet her cousin.

Patty was a rosy, country lass of sixteen, plainly dressed and rather
shy, but a sweet, sensible little body, with a fresh, rustic air which
marked her for a field-flower at once.

"How do you do, dear? so sorry mamma is away; called to a sick friend in
a hurry. But I'm here and glad to see you. I've an engagement at two,
and you shall go with me. It's only a lunch close by, just a party of
girls; I'll tell you about it upstairs."

Chatting away, Edith led Patty up to the pretty room ready for her, and
soon both were laughing over a lively account of the exploits of the
cooking-class. Suddenly, in the midst of the cream-pie which had been
her great success, and nearly the death of all who partook thereof,
Edith paused, sniffed the air like a hound, and crying tragically, "They
are burning! They are burning!" rushed down stairs as if the house was
on fire.

Much alarmed, Patty hurried after her, guided to the kitchen by the
sound of lamentation. There she found Edith hanging over a stew-pan,
with anguish in her face and despair in her voice, as she breathlessly
explained the cause of her flight.

"My pigeons! Are they burnt? Do smell and tell me? After all my trouble
I shall be heart-broken if they are spoilt."

Both pretty noses sniffed and sniffed again as the girls bent over the
pan, regardless of the steam which was ruining their crimps and
reddening their noses. Reluctantly, Patty owned that a slight flavor of
scorch did pervade the air, but suggested that a touch more seasoning
would conceal the sad fact.

"I'll try it. Did you ever do any? Do you love to cook? Don't you want
to make something to carry? It would please the girls, and make up for
my burnt mess," said Edith, as she skimmed the broth and added pepper
and salt with a lavish hand:--

"I don't know anything about pigeons, except to feed and pet them. We
don't eat ours. I can cook plain dishes, and make all kinds of bread.
Would biscuit or tea-cake do?"

Patty looked so pleased at the idea of contributing to the feast, that
Edith could not bear to tell her that hot biscuit and tea-cake were not
just the thing for a city lunch. She accepted the offer, and Patty fell
to work so neatly and skilfully that, by the time the pigeons were done,
two pans full of delicious little biscuit were baked, and, folded in a
nice napkin, lay ready to carry off in the porcelain plate with a wreath
of roses painted on it.

In spite of all her flavoring, the burnt odor and taste still lingered
round Edith's dish; but fondly hoping no one would perceive it, she
dressed hastily, gave Patty a touch here and there, and set forth at the
appointed time to Augusta's lunch.

Six girls belonged to this class, and the rule was for each to bring her
contribution and set it on the table prepared to receive them all; then,
when the number was complete, the covers were raised, the dishes
examined, eaten (if possible), and pronounced upon, the prize being
awarded to the best. The girl at whose house the lunch was given
provided the prize, and they were often both pretty and valuable.

On this occasion a splendid bouquet of Jaqueminot roses in a lovely vase
ornamented the middle of the table, and the eyes of all rested
admiringly upon it, as the seven girls gathered round, after depositing
their dishes.

Patty had been kindly welcomed, and soon forgot her shyness in wonder at
the handsome dresses, graceful manners, and lively gossip of the girls.
A pleasant, merry set, all wearing the uniform of the class, dainty
white aprons and coquettish caps with many-colored ribbons, like stage
maid-servants. At the sound of a silver bell, each took her place before
the covered dish which bore her name, and when Augusta said, "Ladies, we
will begin," off went napkins, silver covers, white paper, or whatever
hid the contribution from longing eyes. A moment of deep silence, while
quick glances took in the prospect, and then a unanimous explosion of
laughter followed; for six platters of potted pigeons stood upon the
board, with nothing but the flowers to break the ludicrous monotony of
the scene.

How they laughed! for a time they could do nothing else, because if one
tried to explain she broke down and joined in the gale of merriment
again quite helplessly. One or two got hysterical and cried as well as
laughed, and all made such a noise that Augusta's mamma peeped in to see
what was the matter. Six agitated hands pointed to the comical sight on
the table, which looked as if a flight of potted pigeons had alighted
there, and six breathless voices cried in a chorus: "Isn't it funny?
Don't tell!"

Much amused, the good lady retired to enjoy the joke alone, while the
exhausted girls wiped their eyes and began to talk, all at once. Such a
clatter! but out of it all Patty evolved the fact that each meant to
surprise the rest,--and they certainly had.

"I tried puff-paste," said Augusta, fanning her hot face.

"So did I," cried the others.

"And it was a dead failure."

"So was mine," echoed the voices.

"Then I thought I'd do the other dish we had that day--"

"Just what I did."

"Feeling sure you would all try the pastry, and perhaps get on better
than I."

"Exactly our case," and a fresh laugh ended this general confession.

"Now we must eat our pigeons, as we have nothing else, and it is against
the rule to add from outside stores. I propose that we each pass our
dish round; then we can all criticise it, and so get some good out of
this very funny lunch."

Augusta's plan was carried out; and all being hungry after their unusual
exertions, the girls fell upon the unfortunate birds like so many
famished creatures. The first one went very well, but when the dishes
were passed again, each taster looked at it anxiously; for none were
very good, there was nothing to fall back upon, and variety is the spice
of life, as every one knows.

"Oh, for a slice of bread," sighed one damsel.

"Why didn't we think of it?" asked another.

"I did, but we always have so much cake I thought it was foolish to lay
in rolls," exclaimed Augusta, rather mortified at the neglect.

"I expected to have to taste six pies, and one doesn't want bread with
pastry, you know."

As Edith spoke she suddenly remembered Patty's biscuit, which had been
left on the side-table by their modest maker, as there seemed to be no
room for them.

Rejoicing now over the rather despised dish, Edith ran to get it, saying
as she set it in the middle, with a flourish:--

"My cousin's contribution. She came so late we only had time for that.
So glad I took the liberty of bringing her and them."

A murmur of welcome greeted the much-desired addition to the feast,
which would have been a decided failure without it, and the pretty plate
went briskly round, till nothing was left but the painted roses in it.
With this help the best of the potted pigeons were eaten, while a lively
discussion went on about what they would have next time.

"Let us each tell our dish, and not change. We shall never learn if we
don't keep to one thing till we do it well. I will choose mince-pie, and
bring a good one, if it takes me all the week to do it," said Edith,
heroically taking the hardest thing she could think of, to encourage the
others.

Fired by this noble example, each girl pledged herself to do or die, and
a fine list of rich dishes was made out by these ambitious young cooks.
Then a vote of thanks to Patty was passed, her biscuit unanimously
pronounced the most successful contribution, and the vase presented to
the delighted girl, whose blushes were nearly as deep as the color of
the flowers behind which she tried to hide them.

Soon after this ceremony the party broke up, and Edith went home to tell
the merry story, proudly adding that the country cousin had won the
prize.

"You rash child, to undertake mince-pie. It is one of the hardest things
to make, and about the most unwholesome when eaten. Read the receipt and
see what you have pledged yourself to do, my dear," said her mother,
much amused at the haps and mishaps of the cooking-class.

Edith opened her book and started bravely off at "Puff-paste;" but by
the time she had come to the end of the three pages devoted to
directions for the making of that indigestible delicacy, her face was
very sober, and when she read aloud the following receipt for the
mince-meat, despair slowly settled upon her like a cloud.

     One cup chopped meat; 1-1/2 cups raisins; 1-1/2 cups currants;
     1-1/2 cups brown sugar; 1-1/3 cups molasses; 3 cups chopped apples;
     1 cup meat liquor; 2 teaspoonfuls salt; 2 teaspoonfuls cinnamon;
     1/2 teaspoonful mace; 1/2 teaspoonful powdered cloves; 1 lemon,
     grated; 1/4 piece citron, sliced; 1/2 cup brandy; 1/4 cup wine; 3
     teaspoonfuls rosewater.

"Oh me, what a job! I shall have to work at it every day till next
Saturday, for the paste alone will take all the wits I've got. I was
rash, but I spoke without thinking, and wanted to do something really
fine. We can't be shown about things, so I must blunder along as well as
I can," groaned Edith.

"I can help about the measuring and weighing, and chopping. I always
help mother at Thanksgiving time, and she makes splendid pies. We only
have mince then, as she thinks it's bad for us," said Patty, full of
sympathy and good will.

