had taken a rest after the Gildrock was beaten, and were not in need of
another. This was the usual position of the crew when the officer had
anything to say, or any announcement to make.

"Now you may look behind you, if you wish," continued Dory, with a
meaning smile.

Every rower believed there was something to be seen, or the permission
would not have been given, and they all availed themselves of the
opportunity.

"The kid-glovers afloat!" shouted Thad Glovering, in the bow.

"Gentility on the wave!" exclaimed Life Windham.

"The dudes in the spray!" added Jim Alburgh.

"The exquisites on a racket!" cried Nat Long.

"Dandies on the brine!" chuckled Ben Ludlow.

"Fresh-water brine," added Dory.

"They are pulling towards Sandy Beach," said Corny Minkfield.

All these sarcastic remarks were called forth by the appearance ahead of
two barges, similar to those belonging to the Beech Hill school. They
were very gaily painted, and, whatever their merits for speed and
ability, they were quite as handsome as the Gildrock and Winooski.

"Twig the uniform!" exclaimed Ned Bellows.

"But that's only a boat uniform," replied Life Windham, who was one of
the incipient rebels. "None of our fellows object to the uniform they
wear on board of the Sylph."

The uniform of the Chesterfields--for there was no doubt as to the
identity of the occupants of the barges--was blue flannel, trimmed with
white. It was very fanciful, and rather a sensational costume.

"I suppose every one of them wears an eyeglass, and has a cane under his
thwart," laughed Phil Gawner.

"And every one parts his hair in the middle, so as to keep the boats on
an even keel," added Lick Milton.

"Anything more?" inquired Dory.

"I wonder if they row in kid gloves," said Ben Ludlow.

The boys seemed to have exhausted their terms applicable to the young
gentlemen of the Collegiate Institute, and a silence followed. There
could be no mistaking the sentiment of the crew of the Winooski. They
were disposed to ridicule and lampoon the young gentlemen without mercy.
Possibly there was some justification or palliation for the
manifestation of this spirit, for the Chesterfields had applied
offensive terms to them on several occasions.

"Now, fellows, I should like to have you hear me for a moment," said
Dory, when the crew appeared to have exhausted their supply of taunts.

"All right, Dory: propel," answered Phil Gawner.

"Those boats seem to be going to Sandy Beach; but that is no reason why
we should not go there also."

"Of course it isn't!" exclaimed Ben Ludlow. "We have as much right at
Sandy Beach as they have, and if they want to prevent us from going
there, there will be music in the air."

"It is not at all likely that they will try to prevent us from going
there," added Dory. "Those fellows claim to be gentlemen, and Colonel
Buckmill claims it for them."

"The proof of the pudding is in eating the bag," said Ben Ludlow.

"This is a baked pudding, and there isn't any bag," returned Dory. "If
those fellows are gentlemen they have made some slips, to put it in the
softest way we can. They have yelled at us, and called us 'tinkers,'
which is not a gentlemanly way to do things."

"That's it; and we will give them some of the same sauce," said Phil
Gawner, with a threatening shake of the head.

"That's the very thing we will not do!" exclaimed Dory, with very heavy
emphasis. "If the Chesterfields behave in an ungentlemanly manner, there
is not the slightest reason why we should do so."

"Do you mean to let them call us names?" demanded Lick Milton, with a
great show of indignation.

"I am not responsible for what they do: only for what I do myself,"
answered the coxswain, with dignity enough for the principal of a high
school.

"But we are not going to shut our mouths and let them insult us,"
protested Ben Ludlow.

"What do you mean by insulting you, Ben?" asked Dory quietly.

"They call us members of the 'Tinkers' Institute;' and that is an insult
to the school to which we belong. For one, I won't stand it!"

"What do you intend to do about it?"

"I mean to pay them back in their own coin."

"Call them dudes, kid-glovers, exquisites, dandies, milksops, and
anything else we can think of," added Ned Bellows.

"Will calling them all these names wipe out the insult?" asked the
dignified coxswain; but it should be said, to his credit, that he was
dignified only when he was discussing great moral questions as the
officer in command of the barge.

"We shall get even with them in that way," answered Ben Ludlow.

"If one of them should steal your watch, Ben, it would make him a
thief--would it not?"

"No doubt of that."

"Then you would steal his watch, and thus get even with him, would you?"
continued Dory, pressing his point with vigor.

"I don't say that I would," replied Ben.

"You would certainly get even with him in that way. I should like to
have you answer the question, Ben."

"I should serve him right if I did steal his watch after he had taken
mine," replied the cornered oarsman.

"That don't answer the question, and, after what you say, I must take it
for granted that you would steal his watch."

"I didn't say I would."

"If you did steal his watch, would you, or would you not be a thief?"

Ben Ludlow did not like to answer this question, and he was silent.

"Of course he would be a thief!" exclaimed Life Windham; and half a
dozen others took this view of the question.

"If the owner of the watch should prosecute you, would the judge decide
that taking the watch was not stealing because the owner of it had
stolen your watch before you did it?"

"Stealing is stealing, of course," answered Ben Ludlow.

"Then you would both be thieves," added Dory clinching his argument.

"There is no getting away from that conclusion," said Ned Bellows; and
the rest of the crew indorsed his opinion.

"I suppose one who calls names is a blackguard. When the students of the
Collegiate Institute call us 'tinkers' 'greasy mechanics' or any other
offensive names, they are blackguards," continued Dory.

"No doubt of that, the blackguards!" exclaimed Dick Short.

"Good! We proceed to call them 'dudes,' 'kid-glovers,' 'exquisites' and
such terms, and straightway we become blackguards also."

"I don't think stealing and hitting back are the same thing," growled
Ben Ludlow, who felt that he was thoroughly beaten in the argument.

"But what makes a thief or a blackguard on one side of the lake makes a
thief or a blackguard on the other side," added Dory.

"Now, fellows, you have just won a victory by holding your tongues and
minding your own business. I want you to obey orders, and win another
victory in the same way."

"All right, Dory; we will obey orders, for you get us through every time
when we do," said Corny Minkfield.

"But I think we ought to give them some if they are saucy to us,"
persisted Ben Ludlow.

"We will give them some--some instruction in gentlemanly behavior if
they need it," replied Dory. "Give way!"

Ben Ludlow raised no farther objection, and the boat went ahead again in
the direction of Sandy Beach.




CHAPTER IV.

THE CHESTERFIELDS HANG OUT THEIR BANNERS.


"Not a fellow will speak without orders," said Dory Dornwood, as the
Winooski approached Sandy Beach.

The coxswain of the barge felt that a great responsibility rested upon
him. He had no doubt the young gentlemen of the Chesterfield Collegiate
Institute would indulge in epithets when they came within hail of the
Beech Hill boat, for they never failed to do it whenever the opportunity
was presented. Matt Randolph was still laying down the law to his crew,
and the Gildrock was not within a mile of the little cove at the head of
which was Sandy Beach.

If the crew of the Winooski retorted, as they were disposed to do, there
would be a war of epithets, and the affair would not be likely to end
without a fight. No one on board questioned the coxswain's pluck. Some
of them called him a "conundrum," because they could not understand him.

Oscar Chester had the reputation of being the greatest fighting
character in the school, though he had earned his name in other fields.
Yet Dory had "knocked him out" in the twinkling of an eye. But the
coxswain always did his best to avoid a quarrel of any sort, and never
bullied or crowded anyone.

Now he would not allow his crew to retaliate upon the Chesterfields,
whatever they said, or however abusive they became. The crew of the
second class boat had never seen a fellow like him. But he had proved
that he was able to take care of himself and of them, and they were
disposed to follow his lead.

The three boats were approaching the cove, the course of the Winooski
being at right angles with that of the Institute boats. They were now
near enough to enable Dory to take the measure of the rival craft, and
their crews. Under the lee of the west shore the water was quite smooth,
so that the Chesterfields had no sea to contend against.

To the experienced eyes of the coxswain of the Winooski it was plain at
a glance that the gentlemanly oarsmen had no skill in rowing, and had
had no proper instruction in the art. A few days' practice enabled them
to pull together; but this was about all that could be said of their
operations. As it was understood on board of the Beech Hill barges,
there was no such thing as discipline in them. The crew were turning and
twisting about on the thwarts, all of them engaged in noisy
conversation.

The Chesterfields were staring with all their eyes at the Winooski, and
their remarks evidently applied to her. They were out for a good time,
and they seemed to be having it. Dory's crew had put themselves on their
good behavior, and not one of them looked to the right or the left, much
less behind him. They pulled a very easy stroke, and they all worked as
though they were parts of the same machine. But those in the other boats
did not seem to be at all impressed by the ease and grace of their
movements.

The three boats came to the mouth of the cove at the same time. The
attention of every student in the Chesterfield boats was directed
towards the Winooski. They were giving more thought to the Beech Hill
craft than to their own.

"Go it, Tinkers," yelled one of them, as the boats came within hailing
distance.

"Put her through, Chip-splitters," shouted another.

"Let her drive, Cog-greasers," yelled a third.

"Shove her along, Shaving-makers," screamed a fourth; and all of them
cried as though they meant to be heard.

The blood of the Beech Hillers boiled in their veins; but when they
looked at the coxswain, and saw a smile upon his face, they repressed
their indignation as well as they could, and tried to be as cool as Dory
Dornwood. The two barges came nearer, and the offensive epithets were
repeated, with many new ones added. Still Dory Dornwood smiled serenely
in the consciousness that he and his companions had not yet become
blackguards.

"Stand by to toss!" called the coxswain, while the disagreeable names
were still showered upon them.

Tossing the oars is a complimentary naval salute; and Dory was
determined to treat the young gentlemen of the Collegiate Institute
politely, whether they deserved it or not. Probably the crew of the
Winooski did not relish this idea of "turning the other cheek also," but
they had promised to obey orders, and they meant to do it this time, if
it killed them.

"Toss!" added Dory, at the proper time; and the twelve oars went into
the air as though the oarsmen were in love with the Chesterfields.

"The Greasers are showing off!" exclaimed some one in the leading barge.

"Set them up again!" cried another.

"Let fall!" said Dory, giving no heed to the shouts.

The oars dropped into the water all as one, and Dory added the order to
give way.

"They don't understand the salute," said the coxswain, as the boys
resumed their stroke with as much precision as though there had been
nothing to divert their attention.

The steady pulling on board of the Winooski set her into the cove some
distance ahead of the two barges, and by this time the crew could see
the occupants of the other craft without breaking the rule. When they
saw the awkward rowing of the Chesterfields, they could hardly repress
their mirth, but they succeeded in confining it to smiles, in some cases
exaggerated into broad grins, but not one of them uttered the shouts of
derision that were at the ends of their tongues.

On the bow of the leading boat Dory saw the name Dasher, and a glance at
the other showed that she was the Racer. As these names had no doubt
been selected by the gentlemanly students themselves,--for Colonel
Buckmill would certainly have chosen classic appellations,--they
conveyed some idea of the boating views of their crews. Racer was
suggestive of trials of speed, and they would not have been boys if they
had not desired and expected to beat something. Dasher was hardly less
suggestive, and perhaps took in the additional idea of breaking
something.

The Dashers and the Racers had given so much attention to the Winooski
that they lost sight of their own beautiful craft; and they began to
"catch crabs," punch each other with the handles of the oars, and allow
things generally to fall out of joint, so that they were soon in a sweet
snarl. The crew of the Winooski were on the very point of breaking out
into a roar of derision, for the sight was too much for them.

"Steady, fellows," said Dory, in a mild tone. "Keep her just as she is."

The words restored the crew to their self-possession, and they
straightened their faces with a hard struggle. The coxswain of the
Dasher spoke a few sharp words to his crew, and restored order in his
boat.

"I say, Greasers," shouted he, a moment later, making a gesture as if
beckoning to the Winooski.

Dory did not heed the call or the sign.

"Halloo! I say, you fellows from the Tinkers' Institute!" yelled Wash
Barker, coxswain of the Dasher, as his name and style were afterwards
found to be.

The crew of the Winooski still pulled their easy stroke, and Dory took
no notice of the offensive hail.

"I say, you Chip-makers! Are you all deaf? Don't you hear me?" screamed
Wash Barker in a still louder tone.

But Dory would not have heard him if his voice had been an earthquake
while he mixed an epithet into his remark.

"Don't you want to race with us, Tinkers?" called Mad Twinker, the
coxswain of the Racer, which had now come up abreast of the Dasher.

"Steady, fellows," said Dory in a low tone.

"I should like to try a race with those fellows," added Life Windham;
and half a dozen others indorsed the wish.

"It would be no race at all; if we should give them a mile, we could
beat them in going two," replied Dory.

"It will do them good to beat them," suggested Ned Bellows.

"While they call us names I shall have nothing to say or do with them,"
added the coxswain.

"I should like to get even with them in some way," said Ben Ludlow; for,
"though beaten, he could argue still."

"I don't want to get even with them. We are a long way ahead of them in
gentlemanly conduct, and we should have to fall back a long distance to
be even with them," answered the coxswain.

This remark satisfied most of the crew, and was even comforting to Ben
Ludlow. The Chesterfields continued to yell at the Winooski, exercising
their inventing powers in inventing new terms of derision to apply to
the Beech Hill students. Dory maintained his policy of silence to the
end, and very likely the collegiate gentlemen thought they were treated
with contempt.

The Winooski ran up to the beach at the head of the cove, and her crew
landed. The Gildrock was not yet in sight, and it was apparent that Matt
Randolph was taking his defeat very much to heart, and was training his
crew. The second class boat was carefully secured, and in a few minutes
more the crew were swimming at some distance from the shore, for they
had to go out at least ten rods to find water that was over their heads.

The boys were enthusiastic in this recreation, as they were in the
boats, and they soon forgot the scenes in which the Chesterfields had
taken part. They had received plenty of instruction in swimming, and
what they needed now was abundant practice. But by this time there was
not a single one of them who could not sustain himself and make fair
progress in the deep water.

The Dasher and the Racer had also run to the beach, and their crews had
landed. Dory supposed they were going into the water, and he hardly gave
a thought to them. For a time they gathered in knots on the shore, and
seemed to be busy talking together. Then they began to walk about, and
extended their ramble to a considerable distance. They did not go into
the water, and at the end of half an hour they embarked in their boats
and pulled out of the cove.

But they did not go a great way. At the entrance to the cove, half a
mile distant, they lay upon their oars. Thus far the Winooskis had been
so busy with their sports in the water that they hardly heeded the
Chesterfields. The young gentlemen had departed, and the skirmishing
for that day appeared to be at an end.

"What are those fellows about?" shouted Corny Minkfield, when the
operations of the Chesterfields attracted his attention.

Every member of the Winooski's crew glanced in the direction from which
the two barges had been last seen. The boats were at rest at the
entrance of the cove; but their crews were not laying on their oars.
Each one of them had raised something like a flag or a rag on his blade.
They were all yelling like maniacs, and flaunting these banners in the
air. The Winooskis swam to shallow water, and stood upon their feet. It
was time to go out, and they went ashore.

The Chesterfields had stolen their clothes; and these garments were the
banners they flaunted.




CHAPTER V.

JUST BEFORE THE BATTLE.


"They have stolen our clothes!" shouted Ben Ludlow, who was the first to
discover the mischief that had been done.

"Shall we steal theirs if we can get hold of them?" asked Dory.

"We can't get hold of them," replied Ben, who was not disposed to renew
the former discussion.

"Perhaps we can; we know where they are, and all we have to do is to go
and take them," added the coxswain, with a smile and a shrug of the
shoulders.

"But the fellows have them on," Ben objected.

"That has nothing to do with the right and wrong of the question,"
continued Dory.

"I think we had better get back our own clothes before we talk of
stealing theirs," said Ben. "I am cold now I have come out of the water,
and I want my shirt and trousers."

"We are all in the same pickle," laughed Dory, as he glanced at the
boats of the Chesterfields.

The collegiate gentlemen seemed to be afraid the Beech Hillers would
not know what had become of their garments, and they were flaunting them
in the air as a matter of information to their rivals. And they seemed
to be enjoying the situation hugely, and the shouts of derision and the
roars of laughter came across the waters thick enough to stir up all the
bad blood in the veins of the Winooskis.

"We are in a pretty fix," exclaimed Phil Gawner, as he extended his arms
as an athlete would exhibit his muscles.

The principal required every student to wear trunks when he bathed, and
was very strict in enforcing the rule. When the second class came out of
the water, they were certainly in uniform, though it was rather unique
in style. It was a cool day, and cooler on the shore than it was in the
water. Most of the boys began to shiver as they stood on the beach, and
the situation was very uncomfortable as well as very annoying, so far as
the proprieties of society were concerned.

"I shall freeze to death," said Lick Milton, his teeth chattering like
those of a person with the ague.

"So shall I! And we shall all catch our death of cold," added Jim
Alburgh.

"I have one cold now, and I shall have another on top of it," shivered
Corny Minkfield.

"All the crew in the boat!" shouted Dory, with a vim that showed he was
determined to do something.

"All aboard!" cried half a dozen others, as they tumbled into the barge.

Half the crew were required to shove her off before they took their
places; but in a minute they were all afloat, wondering what the brisk
coxswain intended to do.

"We can get warm if we can't do anything else," said Dory, as he took
the tiller lines in his hands, "Up oars! Shove off! Let fall! Give way!"
The last order was given when the boat had been shoved clear of the
sands of the beach, and had come about so that it was headed out into
the lake.

The unclothed rowers bent to their oars, and the Winooski began to spin
through the water. The exercise was in the highest degree exhilarating
under the circumstances. Dory had the worst of it for he had no oar to
pull; but he swayed his body with more than usual vigor, and the wind of
the crew was not likely to last a great while under the rapid movements
required of them.

The coxswain shook up his frame and muscles all he could, and he soon
ceased to shiver. A couple of minutes were enough to send a glow through
the veins of the rowers, and they were soon as warm as though they had
been clothed in their overcoats.

The Dasher and the Racer continued to flaunt their banners in the air,
and to send their shouts of derision over the water, until the Winooski
had reached her highest speed. Very likely Wash Barker and Mad Twinker
had some idea of the rapidity with which the Beech Hill barge was
approaching them. At any rate they hauled down their banners, and got
their oars into the water.

In spite of their present semi-nude condition, the Winooskis were still
under the influence of the usual discipline, and they did not attempt to
look behind them, or otherwise to inquire into the movements of the
Chesterfields. But the coxswain knew that the curiosity of a boy is
almost as strong as his love of fun, and he was in the habit of giving
his companions all the information that would interest them.

"The Chesterfields have taken down the clothes and are pulling with all
their might to keep out of our reach," said he, when he was warm enough
to use his organs of speech without stammering.

"That is not saying much," replied Life Windham.

"We shall overhaul them in about three minutes," added Dory.

"What then, Dory?" asked Ben Ludlow, but his wind was so nearly gone
that he could hardly speak.

"I don't know, that depends," answered the coxswain.

"If they don't choose to give us back our clothes, I don't see that we
can do anything," said Life Windham.

"Perhaps we can, we will see."

But Dory was very anxious in regard to the situation, and he found it
very difficult to decide what to do. True to his antecedents, he wished
to avoid a quarrel, or even a dispute, with the members of the
Collegiate Institute. If he went near them there was sure to be trouble;
but it would be impossible to recover the clothes without approaching
them.

There were only two courses open to him: one was to return to Beech Hill
with his naked crew, and the other was to confront the Chesterfields;
and a meeting might result in their being obliged to go back to the
other side of the lake in their present novel uniform. It would be
humiliating to return in a state of nature, and to encounter the
derision of the first class.

Was it necessary for him to submit to every indignity without resistance
in order to avoid a quarrel? Must his crew submit to being robbed of
their clothes rather than stand up for their rights? Must they abandon
their property rather than make an effort to reclaim it,--rather than
run the risk of a quarrel?

Dory decided these questions in the negative very promptly. His religion
was stalwart enough to make him believe there was such a thing as
carrying even meekness too far. If there proved to be a quarrel, he
should go into it with clean hands, having done nothing to provoke it;
and what was true of himself personally was true of every member of his
crew. Not one of them had uttered a jeer or a taunt in the hearing of
the assailants. They had minded their own business in the fullest sense
of the phrase; and whatever happened they were not to blame.

The boys were warm and comfortable by this time, and the coxswain had
greatly reduced the rapidity of the stroke. The rowers had regained
their breath, and were watching the anxious face of Dory with the most
intense interest. There were twenty-six of the Chesterfields, which was
double their own number, and to get their clothes by force did not look
like a hopeful enterprise to any of them. But the Gildrocks were not far
off, and their assistance could be had for the asking.

"Now, fellows, we must overhaul those boats," said Dory in his usual
quiet tone, when he had decided not to return to Beech Hill in their
present uniform.

"What are you going to do, Dory?" asked Ben Ludlow curiously; and the
same question was on the lips of every member of the crew.

"I intend to do whatever it may be necessary to do. We are going after
our clothes, and we must get them the best way we can," replied the
coxswain.

"But suppose they won't give them to us?" suggested Life Windham.

"The clothes belong to us, and we have urgent need of them at just this
time. If they won't give them to us, we must take them, if we can,"
answered Dory.

"But we can't," added Phil Gawner.

"We can't tell till we try."

"Don't you think we had better call on the Gildrocks, and get them to
help us?" Ned Bellows asked.

"That's the idea!" exclaimed Lick Milton. "Then we shall have as many
fellows as they have."

"Do you see anything of the Gildrock?" inquired Dory with a smile.

"I don't see her, but she can't be far off," answered Lick, as all the
crew cast their eyes over the lake astern of them.

"I think she has gone into Rock Harbor," said Jim Alburgh. "The
Gildrocks don't want to see us just yet, after the whipping they have
had."

"If we go after the Gildrock it will be half an hour before we can get
back here again. Those fellows will hide our clothes while we are gone,
and I am not in favor of losing sight of them for a moment," added Dory.

"But what's the use of going ahead when we can't do anything if we come
up with them?" said Ben Ludlow.

This question was discussed for the next few minutes; and it was plain
that Ben Ludlow and several others had "no stomach for the fight" which
they believed would grow out of a meeting with the Chesterfields. If
there was going to be a fight, they wanted to be equal in numbers to the
enemy; and they felt that the older and heavier fellows of the other
boat would make an even thing of it.

For this reason they were not in favor of following up the Chesterfields
until they were reinforced by the Gildrocks. This was the view of
several of the crew, but the majority, whatever their opinion, were
entirely willing to leave the whole matter to the plucky but prudent
coxswain. He had always brought them out of all difficulties, and they
were more disposed to trust him than to depend upon themselves. They
were vigorous in their support of Dory, declared that they would obey
orders whatever broke, and hoped he would do what he thought best.

Those who were anxious to follow their own views were compelled to yield
the point, and they ceased to offer any further resistance. Ben Ludlow
and the others who had been so desirous of getting even with the
Collegiates were not so earnest as they had been. They were ready to
"call names," and throw mud, but when it looked like a brush of another
kind, their backs were not so stiff.

"Fellows, you have behaved first rate so far, and I hope you will do so
to the end of this affair," said Dory, after all questions had been
settled. "You kept still when I asked you to do so, and, whatever
happens, we shall go in with clean hands. I don't know how we can settle
this matter with those fellows, but I want you to be silent and let me
do all the talking with them."

"All right, Dory: propel," replied Corny Minkfield; and the sentiment
was promptly indorsed by all the others.

The coxswain began to increase the speed of the Winooski, which had
already gained half the distance between the boats. In a few minutes she
was within hail of the enemy.




CHAPTER VI.

THE COXSWAIN OF THE WINOOSKI INDULGES IN MORE STRATEGY.


The Chesterfields were struggling with all their might at their oars.
They appeared to have no idea of the speed of the Winooski, and
evidently entertained the idea that they could run away from her when
they exerted themselves to the utmost. But Wash Barker and Mad Twinker,
the coxswains, had apparently learned one thing: and this was that their
crews could not handle the boats so well in rough as in smooth water.

The cove where they had stolen the clothes of the Beech Hill boys was at
the narrowest part of the lake, where it was not more than a mile wide.
Even here they had kept under the lee of the shore, and had been in very
little troubled water. Half a mile below the cove was Northwest Bay,
where the lake is four miles wide. The Chesterfield Collegiate Institute
was on the north shore of the bay, near the point where the lake begins
to contract its width.

There was silence on board of the Winooski, though the young gentlemen
in the two barges were yelling as much as they could while exerting
themselves at the oars. The latter were in great glee, and seemed to be
in the highest enjoyment of the situation. Dory studied the movements of
the two boats, and soon satisfied himself that their coxswains were
hugging the northwest shore, so as to avoid the heavy sea, which
prevailed at even less than half a mile from land. Dory decided to block
this game, and he headed the Winooski to the windward of the enemy.

Such a contest could hardly be called a race, for the vastly superior
pulling of the crew of the Winooski allowed her crew to have it all
their own way. Though the Chesterfields did not yet understand it so,
the Beech Hill boat could easily pull around them.

"Good, fellows! You are pulling first rate," said Dory, when the boat
had obtained the position in which the coxswain wished to place her. "We
are abreast and exactly to windward of them now."

"What is coming next, Dory?" asked Life Windham; and all the crew had an
interest in the question.

"I don't know: it all depends upon circumstances," replied Dory. "Now
pull your regular easy stroke; and we can readily beat them with that.
Things will come to a head very soon."

The crew took the easy and graceful stroke indicated, but this produced
a greater speed than the Chesterfields could make with their utmost
exertion. Dory changed the course of the Winooski as she went ahead of
the Racer, so that she would gradually approach the enemy.

In a few minutes it was evident that the Beech Hill boat would be in the
water of the other boats, and Wash Barker headed his craft farther to
the southward. This was just what Dory wanted him to do. He diminished
the speed of the Winooski still more, and continued to crowd into the
water of the Dasher until the latter was headed to the south, or out
into the rough sea.

Wash Barker, who appeared to act as the commodore of the squadron,--Mad
Twinker, in the Racer following his lead,--could not help seeing the
result of these manoeuvres, whether he comprehended their purpose or
not. The white-caps were before him, and he knew that his crew made bad
work in the waves. Already the Dasher was beginning to pitch, and the
spray to swash in over her stern. But it looked to him just then as
though, if he headed for the shore, the sharp bow of the Winooski would
cut his craft into two pieces.

Wash tried several times to get out of the scrape, but the Beech Hill
boat looked like a streak of lightning to him, and he did not want it to
come any nearer to him. He was soon compelled to give it up as a bad
job: his pursuer would allow him to go only to the southward. But Wash
had brains if he didn't know much about handling a boat. The force of
the waves was increasing every length he went in the present direction.

Dory heard him shout to Mad Twinker, but he could not understand what he
said. A moment later the Dasher began to head more to the eastward, the
Racer taking the same course. The commodore had evidently decided to get
about in the opposite direction. Dory followed him up closely till the
two barges were in the trough of the sea, and began to roll instead of
pitching as before. The rowers on the lee side, as the boats careened in
that direction, had their looms thrown out of the rowlocks. Some of them
went over backwards, and some of them, in their efforts to save
themselves, lost their oars overboard.

In a word, the crews of both the Chesterfield barges were in a fearful
snarl. The boats continued to roll in the heavy waves, and Dory thought
it not unlikely that his crew would be called upon to save the
collegiate gentlemen from being drowned. Of course it was nothing but
clumsiness which had reduced them to this extremity.

The crew of the Winooski were in a position to see all that occurred to
the unfortunate barges; for Dory, as soon as he saw what Wash had
intended to do, had come about in the opposite way from that taken by
the other barges. When his boat was headed into the wind, he called upon
the crew to lay upon their oars.

"That's a bad egg for them," said Life, chuckling at the misfortune of
the enemy.

"There are three of their oars floating off into the lake," Phil Gawner
added.

"Don't you think we had better go out and tow them in, Dory?" laughed
Ned Bellows.

"Until they get overboard, we will continue to mind our own business;
but if they need help we must do all we can for them," replied the
coxswain. "While we are waiting we might as well run out and pick up
their oars."

The orders were given to start again, and the Winooski dashed out into
the heavy waves. Dory discovered two more oars which had been lost by
the Racer. The two bowmen were directed to pick them up when they came
to them, and the five were quickly secured. They were stowed away under
the thwarts.

By this time the Chesterfield barges were in condition to make another
effort to reach the shore, or to get into smooth water. Wash Barker was
yelling at his crew, and striving to bring order out of confusion. Mad
Twinker was doing the same in the Racer; though neither of them had any
brilliant success. But at last they got the remnant of their oars into
the water. Then it was found that the three oars had all been lost from
the starboard side of the Dasher, and Wash proceeded to bring about an
equilibrium in his propelling force.

When the Winooski had picked up the oars, Dory took her to a position
between the barges and the shore. He did not regard the battle as ended;
in fact it had hardly begun, though the coxswain considered his tactics
a success thus far. After a great deal of loud talk on the part of the
coxswains, and a great deal of "talking back" on the part of the crews,
the Chesterfields were in condition to resume their effort to reach the
shore.

Just as soon as the Dasher began to move through the water, Wash found
the sharp bow of the Winooski pointed towards his boat. He was afraid of
it, and he allowed himself to be crowded off his course precisely as he
had before. It took but a few minutes to put his boat into the trough of
the sea again, and she began to roll in a manner very trying to the
nerves of the inexperienced boatmen.

The Chesterfields held on to their oars this time, though they stopped
rowing. But they did not stop rowing by order of the coxswain. In fact
there was a mutiny in the Dasher. The crew ceased to pull of their own
accord, and proceeded to pitch into the coxswain for getting them into a
scrape a second time. But Wash was a gentleman of energy and decision,
and in the matter of "jaw" he soon overcame his refractory crew, and got
his boat headed to the shore again.

By this time he comprehended the tactics of the Beech Hill boat, and
realized that Dory's purpose was to drive him into the rough water. He
appeared to be in an angry frame of mind, and he cast savage glances at
the Winooski. Dory continued to ply his strategy of crowding the Racer
off her course. But her coxswain had evidently decided not to be shoved
off again, though it looked as though the Winooski would dash into her
bow the next instant.

"Halloo, Tinkers!" shouted Wash; "If you don't keep out of my way I'll
run into you."

Dory made no reply to this threat, though it was uttered in a very
savage tone, as though the speaker meant all that he said. The Winooski
continued on her course towards the Dasher, her naked crew pulling their
steady stroke, but not one of them looking behind him to see when the
crash was coming.

"Oars!" said the coxswain, in a low but very decided tone. "Hold water!"

At the first command the oarsmen poised their blades at right angles
with the gunwale; at the second they dropped them into the water,
holding them in this position with a firm grasp. The effect was to check
the progress of the boat. But this did not stop the boat, as the
coxswain desired to do.

"Stern all!" he added; and the crew began to pull backwards.

A couple of strokes were all that were necessary to overcome the
remaining headway of the barge, and she rested in the position Dory had
chosen for her. Wash Barker was evidently very nervous, though he saw
that the Winooski had come to a standstill. The stem of the latter was
pointed at her at an angle of forty-five degrees, but she was not
directly in the course of the Dasher. Wash thought he had space enough
to pass to the eastward of her, and perhaps he concluded that his threat
had been effective in stopping his rival.

"Clap on that head bunter, Thad!" called Dory to the bowman.

The article indicated was a kind of cushion covered with a network of
small rope. It was used when the boat was in danger of striking her stem
against any hard substance, as in boarding the steamer, or making a
landing at a wharf. Thad Glovering put the bunter in position; and the
call for it indicated to the crew that there was danger of a collision.

The bunter had no significance to Wash, who believed he had won a
victory in bringing his opponent to a standstill. He kept his course,
and fully expected to pass clear of the Winooski. Dory watched the
Dasher with the utmost care, and it was plain enough that he intended
to do something.

"You are doing first rate, fellows," said the coxswain, with his gaze
fixed upon the Dasher. "Now is the time to remember what you have
promised, and I want you to keep up the discipline clear to the handle."

"We won't slip up the hundredth part of an inch, Dory," replied Phil
Gawner. "Propel!"

"Ready! Give way!" called Dory, after a pause of a moment. "But only two
or three strokes!"

The crew gave a few vigorous strokes in perfect time, and doubtless Wash
wondered what was coming next.

"Oars!" said the coxswain, sharply. "Hold water!"

The progress of the barge was checked when she was within ten feet of
the Racer. Then Dory ordered his crew to give way again. The stem of the
Winooski struck the bow of the Chesterfield barge.




CHAPTER VII.

AN UNSATISFACTORY CONFERENCE ON THE WAVES.


There was no crash when the Winooski struck the Dasher, and Dory had
intended there should be none, or at least nothing more than a smart
rap. His crew anticipated something more than followed the contact of
the two boats.

"Hold on, you Tinkers!" yelled Wash Barker, rising in his seat in the
stern-sheets of his boat. "You are running into us. You will smash our
boat all to pieces!"

But the collision did not realize his fears, though his conduct caused
his crew to cease rowing. The Dasher was a couple of lengths astern of
the commodore's barge, and the instant the mighty official yelled they
all stopped pulling and looked behind them. The Winooskis felt the jar
of the stroke, but not one of them turned his head, as they might have
been excused for doing.

"Give way, fellows!" called Dory, in an energetic command, to the
astonishment of his own crew, and to the dismay of the coxswain of the
Dasher.

But the crew of the Winooski obeyed the order, as they had promised to
do, whatever broke. The command was given at the instant the two boats
came together. The headway of the Dasher was checked, and the force with
which the Beech Hill boat advanced carried her head around.

"Oars!" "Hold water!" "Stern all!" were the next commands of the
coxswain of the Winooski, after he had set the Dasher to whirling in the
waves.

The Chesterfield boat turned half around, so that she faced to the
southward again. As soon as the Winooski had drawn back from her
opponent, the crew lay upon their oars, the coxswain waiting for the
issue of his last piece of strategy. He was evidently ready to do the
same thing again, and Wash Barker began to look discouraged. His crew
had held on to their oars when the boat was in the trough of the sea,
but they had pulled them out of the water, or were trailing them
alongside. At any rate they were in confusion, and the commodore could
not extricate them from the dilemma.

Dory was patient, and his crew were in the highest state of enjoyment
when they realized that the gentlemen from the collegiate institute were
completely "euchred." After a great deal of loud talking, and talking
back,--for every rower appeared to be a voluntary coxswain, the crew of
the Dasher got their oars into position in the water. They were ready to
pull again; but the commander of the fleet was in doubt and dismay. He
was headed for the open lake. His boats were pitching at a lively rate
in the waves.

He could not go ahead, for that led him into the dashing sea. He could
not come about, for the Winooski was sure to give him another whirl, and
might smash his craft the next time. His crew were jawing and
gesticulating at him; one telling him to do this, and another to do
that. Dory gave his crew permission to witness the scene; and they could
not help realizing the benefit, not to say the blessing, of good
discipline. The bow of the Winooski was not more than a length from the
stern of the Dasher, and the bowman of the Racer had fastened his
boathook to the bow of her consort. The dismay of Mad Twinker in the
other boat seemed to be as deep as that of his fellow officer, and he
had no counsel to give.

There was a multitude of counsellors in the Dasher. Several of them
advised the coxswain to run into the Winooski, and about all that could
be heard in the snarl wanted to smash her. Wash Barker had brains, and
he seemed to be aware that he could do nothing of the sort, for the
reason that the cool coxswain of the enemy would not let him.

"I say, Tinkers!" shouted Wash, who had evidently concluded what to do.

Dory was as dignified as George Washington when his title was ignored,
and he refused to answer while he and his companions were called by an
offensive name. Wash hailed several times in the same strain without
getting a reply. His crew seemed to be tired of yelling at him, and
there was a silence in the barge after the coxswain had called a dozen
times to his opponent.

"Winooski, ahoy!" shouted some one in the boat, who had perhaps learned
from some sea novel how to hail another craft.

"On board the Dasher!" replied Dory.

"Are you all deaf there?" demanded Wash Barker angrily, when he
discovered that his opponent had the power of speech; "I have been
yelling at you for half an hour."

"We don't answer to the name of Tinkers, Greasers, Chip-makers, or
anything of that sort," returned the coxswain of the Winooski.

"Oh, you don't!" sneered Wash, when Dory had, with a couple of strokes
of the oars, placed the stern of the barge within a few feet of that of
the Racer.

"We do not. You have our clothes in your boat, and I will trouble you to
return them to us," added Dory.

"Don't give them up!" yelled a fellow in the bow of the Dasher.

"No, no!" shouted half a dozen others; "don't give them up!"

This looked like war, and things had a stormy aspect ahead. But Dory
decided to pay no attention to anyone but the officer of the boat.

"Hold on to the clothes!" shouted the students in the Racer, when they
understood what was going on.

The commodore of the squadron was thus fully informed in regard to the
state of feeling in both his boats. Whatever his own view, he seemed to
be unable to stand up against his companions.

"Our clothes were taken from the shore while we were in the water, and,
as we need them very much, I will thank you to return them," continued
Dory, repeating his request in what some of his crew considered a very
"gingerly" tone.

"Don't give them up!" yelled a crowd from both boats.

"You can hear what our fellows say to your request," replied Wash in a
more pliable manner than he had yet assumed.

"I speak to you as the coxswain in charge of the boat, and I am waiting
for your reply," added Dory. "The clothes belong to us, and I think you
