
" Not a bit of it," he answered, cheerily, though his 
first self-sufficiency was wholly gone. ' You're a 
pretty good sort of a girl, Betty." 

The door which Elizabeth opened led into a wide 
hall, with a sitting-room on its right, made neat by 
thrifty braided rugs. On the left was the typical coun- 
try parlor, which was always closed except on the rare 
occasions of funerals, and Thanksgiving celebrations, 
at which latter time neither the roaring blaze in the 
fireplace nor its flicker on the brass andirons was suffi- 
cient wholly to relieve the pervading gloom. There 
was in one corner a coffin-plate, framed under glass, 
and beneath it an ambrotype of a youth with large 
serious face and staring eyes. The picture was made 
rather ludicrous than otherwise by the old-fashioned 
coat, small even for that spare figure, by the high col- 
lar and large ciavat ; but there was a pathos about it, 
too. Life must have been so over-full of seriousness 
and responsibility for the boy that you could only be 
grateful to the coffin-plate for saying that "Jeremiah 

Nye died , aged nineteen years." Entering the 

sitting-room, where Philip was alternately burning and 
blowing his fingers at the air-tight stove, one would 
draw a fuller breath in the more home-like atmosphere, 
and remember to be thankful that the furniture had 
daily use. 

An old lady, upright and muscular, though near her 
eightieth year, sat knitting near the fire. She was the 
grandmother, or, as the neighbors said, " th' old Ma'am," 
the backbone of the family, as she believed, and cer- 



 

tainly its controlling head. Her features were cut 
with a generous squareness ; there was something 
strong and massive in her entire build, while an un- 
shaken spirit looked out from her spectacled gray eyes. 
Her hands were whiter than those of housewives usually 
are, and as they clicked the needles regularly, there was 
a steadiness in their movement quite as characteristic 
as the nervous indecision sometimes to be marked in 
hands. After her grandchildren had come in, she 
looked at Elizabeth disapprovingly from time to time, 
and finally said, in a voice not at all harsh, but rather 
chilly : " Elizabeth, why don't you take some work, 
and not sit down in that way ? Any body would think 
you hadn't a thing in the world to do." 

" So I haven't, Grandmother," the girl answered, 
quietly. " My blue dress was finished this morning. 
The loops are on and the pocket in, and you know I 
always leave the pocket for a week or two ! ' 

"There's the mending," said Madam Nye. ' I put 
two shirts and a pair of stockings in your mother's 
basket. I wish I could understand how any boy of 
Philip's age manages to wear out so many stockings. 
If I didn't keep knitting all the time I wonder where 

he'd be ? " 

No one answered the latter suggestive remark ; per- 
haps it left too broad a field to the imagination. Philip 
had taken up a book, and Elizabeth, going to the large 
cupboard for the basket, sat down to her mending. 
There was no trace left of her activity and vigor in 
breasting the wind. It is the time to watch her now, 
when her face has settled into its ordinary expression, 
lighted by no response to excitement from without. 





She is a slender girl, with heavy brown hair drawn 
straight back and twisted low in her neck. Her mouth 
is sweet and childlike, with lips neither red nor full. 
One misfortune compensates for its presence by lend- 
ing a peculiar grace of its own ; she is slightly near- 
sighted, and that gives her an intent look, her body the 
least possible forward bend which is only graceful, and 
her whole appearance something eager and impressive. 

" Your mother is coming," said Grandmother, as she 
rose to get her measuring-stocking. ' She's been 
gone all the afternoon, at one house or another." 

The two looked up with their first show of interest 
in what she said. Almost immediately Mrs. Nye came 
in ; a woman with delicate features and fine, light- 
brown hair. Hers was a worried face ; you would say 
it belonged to a woman who had learned to distrust 
the future, and was so used to unpleasant surprises 
that there could be few shocks for her now. Her eyes 
sought the children first, with a smile that was as 
brightly answered, Elizabeth rose and hung up the 
faded plaid shawl, as if she must do something in dumb 
affection. 

' Any news ? " asked Grandmother, without look- 
ing up. 

' No ; except " with a quick glance to note the 
effect, " except that John Craig's son has come down 
and opened the house." 

Madam Nye laid down her work, an angry sparkle 
showing itself behind her glasses. ' He here ? What 
for ? " 

' I don't know," answered Mrs. Nye, uneasily; she 
had the air of considering herself personally 
responsible. ' He came to Stowe last night with two young- 
men, and they've been out gunning to-day." 
' Does he own the house now ? " asked Philip. 
'Yes, he does," said Grandmother, bitterly ; " and 
no danger of his being any different from his father. 
John Craig was the ruin of your father, dragging him 
into speculation and coaxing his money away ; and 
now I suppose his son's come down to enjoy it. ' 

Elizabeth and her mother sighed rather wearily, the 
one over her work, the other looking into vacancy. It 
was an old subject ; they had all had the chance of 
becoming tired of it. 

Philip ventured, " He can't find much fun in that 
old barn of a place, and it's almost unfurnished, too. 
Besides, Grandmother, I don't see as he's to blame : 
he couldn't help his father's leaving him the property." 

" You don't know any thing about it," said the old 
lady. ' Don't try to find excuses for gambling ! ' 
And having regained her composure, she knit on stern- 
ly. A cloud seemed to have risen over the house. 
The news had evidently a deeper significance than the 
mere fact of one man more or less in town would 
see to warrant. 

Elizabeth and her mother set the table for tea, and 
the meal was eaten in silence. 



CHAPTER II. 

PHILIP had gone out to split kindlings for the morning 
fire and his mother followed him ; she was used 
to little devices for seizing uninterrupted half and 
quarter hours with her children. Grandmother, her 
knitting laid aside for the few minutes it left her hands 
daily, sat by the fire in the sitting-room. She was us- 
ually in her chair at this time between daylight and 
dark, always upright, and always wearing a certain se- 
vere and retrospective look. Those who had seen her 
so for years, day after day, had a portrait of the stern 
woman not to be dimmed by time. Once seen, in- 
deed, she impressed herself on your memory. You 
could never say, "Yes, I saw Madam Nye once, but I 
quite forget how she looks." 

Elizabeth, just completing her dish-washing in the 
large kitchen, heard a quick and decided knock at the 
door. She took the lamp, and holding it above her 
head to illuminate the outside darkness, opened the 
door, standing for a second with her head bent for- 
ward, and the rays brightening her hair. 

" I beg your pardon," said a voice from the dark- 
ness, one peculiarly courteous and appealing. ' I'm 
afraid I can only introduce myself as a beggar. Could 
you give me some bread and butter ? " 

Then, as if overcome by a humorous sense of the 
nature of his request, the unknown supplicant burst 


into a laugh full of enjoyment. Elizabeth smiled too. 
She could by this time distinguish, at one side of her 
shaft of light, a man dressed in shooting-cap and jacket. 

" Come in ; we have just been to supper, but we 
shall be glad to get you some, that is, unless it's a 
joke," she hesitated, for he had stepped inside, within 
the range of the lamp, and she discovered that he was 
not after the manner of Stratford men : still less did 
he belong to the nondescript species known as tramps. 

" I assure you I am in deadly earnest," he said, tak- 
ing off his cap and going at once to the stove, while 
Elizabeth closed the door. 

He had taken in at once the beauty of her white 
arms below the rolled-up sleeves. Beauty could never 
escape his notice : hungry, tired, and bound on the 
least ideal of errands, instinct kept alert the keenness 
of glance many an artist acquires only by practice. 
Nor was a picturesque detail in the homely furnishing 
of the room overlooked. 

" Let me introduce myself. I am Oswald Craig, 
and I own the large house on the other side of the 
street. You know the name ? Ah, I see you do," for 
Elizabeth had given a nervous little start and glance 
in the direction of the sitting-room. It had never 
chanced that any of the Craig family had come in con- 
tact with her own since the death of her father, and 
with a knowledge, all too great, of her grandmother's 
spirit, she half expected an immediate outbreak. 

" I came down from Boston this morning with some 
fellows, to shoot sea-fowl, and found the place exactly 
what I wanted ; so I made up my mind to stay and 
camp, and my friends went home. You know the tra- 





ditional idea of camping? to shoot your own birds, 
catch your fish, and do your own cooking. But," 
with a shrug of his shoulders, ' I'm not prepared to 
play primitive man, with no fowl, no fish, and not even 
a frying-pan. So," with such a rapid transition to his 
former pleading tone that Elizabeth laughed again, 
" will you please give me a piece of bread and but- 
ter ? " 

She had laid the cloth on the kitchen table while he 
talked, and placed on it a second supper. She felt 
quite at ease with him. With most people she had a 
reputation for reserve and perhaps dullness, but Os- 
wald Craig always adapted himself too thoroughly to 
the situation to allow discomfort near him. 

'You are very kind," he said, drawing his chair 
quickly to the table, as soon as her preparations were 
finished. 

Elizabeth, after pouring his tea, began to put her 
dishes away, and Oswald talked and ate with equal 
interest. Just as he finished Philip came in with his 
basket of wood, his mother following with a few sticks 
in her apron, seeming to find in them witnesses to jus- 
tify her for having been out of the kitchen. Both 
started and looked curiously at Elizabeth for an ex- 
planation of the phenomenon of a stranger at home at 
their table. 

" Mother," said Elizabeth, " it is Mr. Craig, who 
has come down for gunning and decided to stay lon- 
ger. My brother Philip," she added, as he ^turned 
from shaking hands with her mother. 

' You see I've had the usual luck of sportsmen," he 
said gayly ; ' I've nothing to show for my day's work 



but a fair amount of stiffness and a tremendous appe- 
tite. And, worst of all, having no means of staying 
the latter, I have boldly begged your hospitality." 

" You're welcome, I'm sure," said Mrs. Nye ; they 
were all standing somewhat awkwardly. ' Won't you 
take a chair, or come into the other room ; we al- 
ways sit there evenings." 

Elizabeth and Philip exchanged a quick glance ; 
hers contained a little shrinking from a probable en- 
counter with Grandmother ; the boy's held only 
amusement. Philip's way through the home annoy- 
ances was daily smoothed by a keen sense of humor, 
of which Elizabeth was quite destitute. Events al- 
ways presented their most literal and serious aspect to 
her. The mother, too, looked about with a slight 
sense of alarm after having committed herself by the 
invitation ; but if there was any hope in her mind that 
it would be refused, it was to be disappointed. 

" I shall be glad to spend an hour with you, if you 
will allow me," Oswald answered, promptly. ' Com- 
pany and firelight seem very attractive, jvhen one 
thinks of the empty walls and close rooms across the 
way." 

Elizabeth, light in hand, led the way to the sitting- 
room. She thought, with a slight relief, that Grand- 
mother could not have failed to hear every word of the 
previous conversation. " At least she knows who he 
is," thought she. Can any one, except those who have 
endured the daily trial of being watched and judged 
by some one who has the power of pricking the sens- 
itive flesh with innumerable pins of criticism, know 
how an outbreak is sometimes dreaded in families ? 






 

Elizabeth, for it was always she on whom the burden 
of disagreeable explanations fell, introduced Craig to 
her grandmother. The young man bowed in his easy 
manner, with perhaps an added deference. Madam 
Nye said, without glancing at him, 

" How do you do ? Elizabeth, hand me my knitting 
and put the candle on the light-stand." The request 
was portentous ; in seasons of great domestic calamity, 
Grandmother, tacitly refusing communion with the rest 
of the family, had a candle on a small stand by her 
side, knitting there in silence while the others occupi- 
ed the table. 

Oswald appeared to be quite unconscious of the chill 
in the social atmosphere, and while Elizabeth quietly 
carried out Grandmother's commands, made himself 
comfortable in the easiest corner of the not very luxu- 
rious sofa. " Such a delightful day, Mrs. Nye," he 
said, easily, with a familiarity which a Stratford man 
would not have attained after six months' acquaintance. 
" There is such a strong taste of salt water in the whole 
town that I shall stay for more of it. May I hold your 
yarn, Madam ? ' turning suddenly to Grandmother, 
who had finished her ball and was untwisting another 
skein. 

" No, I am much obliged to you ; I can do it my- 
self," said the old lady, with a severity which was not 
the less marked for including every one. "' Elizabeth, 
turn the back of that chair round here." 

But Oswald was before her : he placed the chair, 
and seating himself opposite her, took the skein gently 
from her and put it over his own hands. 

" Now which way shall I turn it ? You want to get 



at the end, do you not?" He held it deferentially, 
turning to go on with his day's experience to Mrs. Nye. 
Perhaps even in so small an encounter as this, it 
was the first time Grandmother had been worsted. 
His good-natured, imperturbable way of taking things 
for granted was something to which she was not ac- 
customed, and having hesitated at the decisive first 
minute, she could not retrieve her failure. Scorning to 
glance at the others to see how they took it, she began 
winding steadily. 

Craig had by this time taken to discussing the town. 
' A strange, bare waste of a place, isn't it ? And 
yet, it's a rare field for an artist ; though I should feel 
sorry to have a view of the coast hung in my room. 
It would keep me frozen." The remark held a great 
deal for Elizabeth ; the sea made her uneasy, and the 
low level of the entire view had always oppressed her. 
Sometimes a hint from a book gave her a quick inspi- 
ration of a different life, one in which there should be 
deeper color and warmer air, but the picture soon 
faded ; she had not enough imagination to utilize it 
into permanent comfort. 

'We don't have anytime to think about artists," 
said Grandmother, her monotonous tones startlingly 
severe after the modulations of Oswald's. " The Crea- 
tor didn't make the world for men to paint ! " 

' Ah, there you are right, of course. I do not pre- 
tend to account for His designs, and therefore I 
couldn't contradict you, if you were not." All this 
with a humility which removed from it the sting of 
sarcasm. 

"Are you an artist ? " asked Philip, boldly. 


' I ? Oh no. I suppose my father thought I had no 
talent in particular, and so I was educated for nothing 
in particular." 

Immediately the three impartial ones among his 
hearers felt that to be able to look neutrally on all pro- 
fessions while abjuring them was a very superior ground 
of action to take. 

' But perhaps at the same time I ought to confess," 
he went on, gracefully indicating Grandmother as if 
a more elaborate explanation were due to her, ' that 
I really haven't any talent which would have paid for 
cultivation, or it would have developed itself." 

The old lady had finished her skein, and the visitor 
moved so that he could rest his head easily against 
the woodwork of the old fashioned fireplace. It is an 
undeniable fact that good breeding gives a certain 
tone to form and expression, which no mere beauty can 
ever grant. Elizabeth gave a quick look at his fine 
head, the grace of his attitude, and thought, with a 
momentary depression, that he was not of the .Strat- 
ford stamp. He had come to them for an evening's 
entertainment ; they could give him nothing else. His 
world, being an unknown one to her, was all the more 
marvelous and unreal. 

' Do you think I can get a boat to-morrow ? " Os- 
wald asked, turning to Philip. " We had some trouble 
in finding one, to-day. The worst feature I know 
about your Stratford fisherman is that he's so grandly 
dignified. I talked half an hour with an old fellow, 
this morning. Would he let me have one of his boats ? 
Wai, he couldn't say ; Jim was out in it now. Jim's 
own was hauled up keel smashed in ; if Jim got in 

in time, why, yes, we might have it ; we might as well 
have it as to let it lay idle ; shouldn't go out himself ; 
had a lame hand. But when would Jim come in ? 
Wai, that he couldn't say. He'd been out a matter o' 
two hours or more might be in before dinner might 
not. Couldn't we signal him ? No, too far ; Jim 
wouldn't see it ; besides, he was a neighbor and ought 
to have the boat if any body did. And so on, with his 
hands in his baggy pockets, looking out over the sea 
all the time in that speculative way, as if he expected 
an -argosy which would add to his lordly sense of possession.' 



' It must have been Si Davids," said Philip, delight- 
ed at the touches from life. ' Si's the most independ- 
ent fellow on the coast." 

' And did you get the boat ? " 

Yes, Jim fortunately came in and the old sea-king 
cheerfully said we might as well have the boat, if Jim 
didn't want it ; Jim agreeing, we went. I have felt 
all day as if my fate hung on the decisions of Jim." 

;< Are you going out to-morrow ? " 

' Well, I don't know. I tried to make a bargain for 
to-morrow morning, but the man said he guessed not ; 
we might happen round and if Jim didn't feel a mind 
to go out, all well and good, we might have it ! But you 
see I don't want to wander about on any such uncer- 
tainty. I want to be out by daylight, when the birds 
are flying." 

' I'll tell you what," said Philip, his face quite bright 
with interest,. " I know of a boat I can get you. It's 
a little way up the shore and you wouldn't know where 
to find it, but if you'll tell me what time you want it. 



I'll row round to the Point and have it ready for you 
there." 

Grandmother's face, albeit not lifted from her knit- 
ting, wore the stern look that the others knew so well, 
and Mrs. Nye felt bound to remonstrate. 

" Philip, you may get cold being out so early : you 
know how damp it will be, and your throat " 

"Yes, I know it, mother," broke in the boy, excited- 
ly ; he could not bear to be denied. ' But I'll wear 
my thick comforter and yes, I'll tie it over my mouth! 
Won't that do ? " 

" I should be sorry to take your offer, if you really 
ought not to go," said Oswald, politely, adding, how- 
ever, " How would it do to say we would start from 
the Point half an hour before sunrise ? " 

" That will be all right," said the boy, delighted and 
fearful ; the latter because a word from Grandmother 
or Mrs. Nye would shatter his fine plans. 

" If your mother is quite willing, " said Oswald, ap- 
pealing to her ; and she could say no more. 

" I only want to be sure he won't catch cold : his 
lungs and throat have always been very delicate." 

" He shall not ; I give you my word." He probably 
did not think it necessary to state his method of prevent- 
ing this result ; and so deep was the impression made 
by his manner that it did not occur to Mrs. Nye to doubt. 

" Now, if we are to be off so early in the morning, I 
must say good-night." Oswald went on the sensible 
and wholesome principle that too much of any one ex- 
perience is likely to prove tiresome. He had enjoyed 
his half-hour with these people, but an hour might 
transform them into bores. 



 

'' But where do you sleep ? ' asked Mrs. Nye, hesi- 
tating between housewifely instinct of hospitality, and 
natural lack of confidence in her own suggestion. 

:< I have sent for blankets from the little hotel shall 
I call it hotel ? The place where they have very thin 
steak fried in very fat lard and I shall go there to 
breakfast. When I am in the woods I like to deny 
myself comfort ; it gives me a genuine feeling of 
camping. I shall see you in the morning, Philip ? 
Good-night. I thank you for a pleasant evening, Mrs. 
Nye, and you for charity ! ' he added, with a laugh- 
ing glance at Elizabeth, as he passed her. 

He had bowed and found his way to the outside 
door before they could do more than make up their 
minds to rise in returning his good-night. Stratford 
farewells were longer ; a Stratforder was wont to stand 
at the threshold making a few last remarks on the 
weather, or on current topics ; he did not feel it well 
to be precipitate. 

When the door had closed behind the visitor Eliza- 
beth took the lamp from the table and placed it in the 
window, so that its rays would stream out on the path : 
as she did so she saw Oswald turn, in the track of light, 
and take off his cap to her. There was a silence after 
he had gone, one somewhat heavy with unexpressed 
opinions. Philip and Elizabeth were much excited 
over the stranger, and their eyes spoke eloquent vol- 
umes to each other, saying,. " If Grandmother would 
only go to bed ! ' but Grandmother, according to an 
exception she sometimes made, knit monotonously on 
past her bedtime, without a word or look for any one. 
Her face was impassive ; it would have told no story 



 

to an observer unused to reading it, but to the mem- 
bers of the family it spoke her severest displeasure. 

' Philip, hadn't you better go to bed ? ' said his 
mother, mildly, at ten ; and the boy, knowing there 
would be no chance of seeing his mother or sister 
alone, took his candle reluctantly. Mrs. Nye wound 
the clock, and Grandmother fastened the doors, a duty 
she ^would trust to no one else, and in silence betook 
herself to her own bed-room. 



CHAPTER III. 

THE next morning Philip was awake before dawn 
without any help from any one, though it was usu- 
ally a concession to duty to leave the warmth of his bed ; 
he dressed hurriedly, with a pleasant excitement. He 
did not remember the woolen comforter, but having 
buttoned his jacket closely about him and put on his 
cap, stole down the stairs carefully, that no creaking 
board might carry the tale of his progress to Grand- 
mother's bed-room. As he was going through the 
dark kitchen, a figure came softly and quickly out of 
the pantry. Philip's heart gave a bound ; though it 
was almost time for daylight, he could not but feel that 
he was on a secret and mysterious mission. 

' I've been waiting ten minutes," said Elizabeth, 
coming toward him. ' I wanted to see you last night 
and ask what you were going to do, but there was no 
time. Whose boat shall you get ? ' 

[< Oh, don't you bother," said Philip, his courage 
rising as some one else took an interest in the situation. 
' I'll find one. But I must be off, because there's just 
time to get round to the Point, and he'll want to be out 
by light. How I wish I had a gun ! What do you 
suppose he thinks of a fellow who lives right here and 
never has chance to shoot a loon, from one year's end 
to another ? " 



 

' Never mind that," said Elizabeth, prudence getting 
the better of her interest ; ' this is quite enough to do 
without thinking of guns. I wonder how you dared 
promise, and right before Grandmother, too ! But 
we can't whisper here. I came down to put you up 
some bread and butter, because you won't be back till 
long after breakfast." 

'I don't care about breakfast," answered Philip, 
the anticipation of a morning with a sportsman, and 
present consciousness of doing something daring, bring- 
ing out all the boyishness in his nature : ' I sha'n't 
have time to eat. But I'll take it ; put it here in my 
jacket pocket. Good-by ! ' And stealthily opening 
the kitchen door he went quickly down the path, and 
then began to run. 

Elizabeth, standing to watch him, could hear the 
quick, sharp footsteps on the frozen road long after 
she could see him ; then, remembering that the draught 
of keen morning air was blowing across the kitchen, 
she closed the door and sat down by the window to 
wait the time for making the fire. 

Philip kept up his first speed till he was out of breath, 
and then dropped into that staggering step in which 
one loses the time gained by too long a run. It was a 
mile by the road to the sea, but he was not bound for 
the beach most frequented. Si's small house, which 
was over-run by children but seemed to expand miracu- 
lously during the summer months when the children 
spent their time outside, tumbling in the sand, was so 
near the sea that the five minutes walk down the little 
foot-path in front of it, brought him to his boats, drawn 
up on shore. One, alas ! was old and battered, a bare 



 

brown wreck of what it had been, with the bottom 
broken in and huge cracks gaping in the sides : Si had 
a tenderness for it he never confessed, but tacitly owned 
by the care with which it was drawn up out of the 
reach of the highest waves. , Another boat was not fit 
for use, having had the rowlocks broken. Si was not 
famed for the dispatch with which he did the repairing 
necessary to life. But the third was in good condi- 
tion : it was the one which had been used by Jim for 
the past week ; the one which had been promised Jim 
to-day, but which, when that worthy sportsman came 
to find it, would not be there. 

Philip had made his plan in a moment, the night 
before ; he knew there was no other boat available 
within a short distance, that the fish houses made the 
nearest point at which one could be found, and had 
boldly resolved to take this away before any one else 
had it. Si might be angry, but he couldn't stop to 
think of that till it was all over. Philip's temperament 
was all impulse, disguised somewhat by his studious 
habits and capacity for dreaming, but it occasionally 
broke out in little acts of daring audacity. By the time 
he reached the shore he was out of breath, but did not 
pause until, with an effort almost beyond his slender 
strength, he had dragged the boat out into the water 
and was pulling away from land with all his might. 
There was no danger of rocks just there, but he needed 
to pull out a short distance before taking a straight line 
to the Point. 

Every boy in Stratford knew how to row : it was as 
natural as for a sea-bird to fly, but Philip had done less 
of it than most boys of his age. Hard and severe as 



 



Grandmother's nature was, and fully as she believed in 
a rigid moral discipline, she did not push him out of 
doors to fight with and manage the elements. Perhaps 
the thought of <; Jeremiah, aged nineteen," present to 
her mind oftener than any one knew, even those who 
said she " took his death hard," warned her to be care- 
ful of the boy. So Philip had never been encouraged 
in the sports which develop manly force, had indeed 
been forbidden many of them which seemed to involve 
danger, and the boys of his own age were not sufficient- 
ly attractive to tempt him into stealing away to join 
them. 

By the time he began to pull toward the smooth 
inlet at the side of the Point, his slender hands ached 
with their grasp of the oars. When within short 
enough distance, he could see Oswald finding his way 
over the pebbles to the foot-path, having struck which 
he came down over the Point at a swinging pace, with 
his gun over his shoulder. 

' On time, aren't you ? ' he said, as soon as he was 
sure Philip could hear him. " Here, bring your boat 
round so I can get in from this rock. So ; now we're 
all right. You breathe as if you'd had a pull ; let me. 
take the oars." 

Philip was glad to relinquish them, though too proud 
to do it otherwise than slowly ; seated in the stern, and 
already carried far out from shore by the steady strokes, 
he had time to look at the oarsman, whom he had a 
curiosity to see by daylight. The face was a pleasing 
one, with no ill features ; the eyes brown and the 
hair, closely cut, of the same color. If Philip had been 
more experienced in the world of human nature, even 



 



if he had been a believer in physiognomy, he would 
have read at once certain other signs of character 
which were then invisible to him. He could not help 
seeing that the firm hands and blue- veined wrists show- 
ed a careful keeping quite foreign to what he ordinarily 
saw. 

"We went out here to theleft,yesterday,"said the young 
man, " because we saw the gunners there ; of course it 
must be the best place or they wouldn't choose it, but 
I mean to strike out to the right this morning. If it's 
a mistake, there'll be plenty of mornings when I can 
profit by it." 

" Shall you stay here long ? ' 

" Oh, I don't know," answered he, carelessly, keep- 
ing his eyes, now very keen, on a sweeping survey of 
the sky, " until I get tired of it, probably ; there's 
nothing in Boston to go back for in the next week or 
two." 

" I wonder people should ever come here, except in 
summer," said Philip, growing talkative after the 
pleasure of having his plan succeed. He was a garru- 
lous child, ready to talk with any one who showed the 
least interest or possibility of sympathy. ' I don't 
like Stratford in this weather ; it makes me shiver." 

" No, I fancy I shouldn't, for more than a few days," 
said the young man ; " but it's invigorating for a while, 
like a cold bath. By the way, do you have good surf- 
bathing here ? ' 

" Oh yes," said Philip, quite eagerly, " people, that 
is every body but me, go all along the south beach, over 
there ; but I know such a nice place further on, where 
the water comes into a deep inlet in the rocks and 



 

stands there and gets warm. There's a big place almost 
like a cave, behind it, where I leave my clothes ; it is 
so much nicer than taking them off at the little house up 
there ! " 

" I wonder there are not summer boarders ; your 
friend Si told me they were very few." 

"Well, you see there's no hotel here but the Sea 
View, and Mr. Sims says it's no better than an old- 
fashioned tavern ; and there's nobody with money, 
nor any enterprise, so nothing is done. Mr. Sims says 
all the houses are so poor that nobody would have any 
courage to come and build, because it looks like such a 
God-forsaken place that they would be afraid it wouldn't 
pay. Do you think it looks like a God-forsaken place ?" 
he asked, suddenly. 

Oswald laughed, resting on his oars a minute and 
looking at the sky. " What a queer little chap you 
are ! Well, yes, if you want the truth, it is, rather ; but 
then I have noticed that almost all towns at this dis- 
tance in the country have a sort of dead-and-buried 
look. Now I should think we were out far enough ; 
we'll drift for a while." 

He drew in the oars and sat waiting, scanning the 
sky. Philip would not shiver, but he wished he had 
worn the comforter. 


" Well ! " said Craig, at last, " this proves it. To- 
morrow morning we'll go out where the natives do, and 
take care to be there early. Did you have any break- 
fast ? I meant to go round to the hotel for some, but 
it would have been too early to get any thing." 

" No, and I'm hungry," said Philip. "Oh ! " with a 



 

sudden thought, " Elizabeth gave me some lunch ; let 
me see if I have lost it out of my pocket." 

No, there it was ; a square little package that prov- 
ed to consist of slices of bread and butter, gingerbread, 
and cheese. Philip spread it on the seat before 
him. 

"This is a find," said Oswald, helping himself to 
bread. " How did she happen to think of it ?" 

" Oh, I don't know ; she thinks of every thing for 
me," remarked the boy, with a well satisfied sense of 
possessing a sister who had done the proper thing, un- 
der the circumstances. ' She understands things you 
tell her, too ; most girls don't, you know." 

Oswald was looking at him for almost the first time 
that morning ; his attention before had been given un- 
dividedly to the birds. 

"What kind of things ? " he asked. 

" Oh, every thing ! Never laughs when you tell her 
what you mean to do, or Will you tell me something 
about theaters ? " he asked, suddenly, looking very 
soberly over his bread and butter. 

" Why do you care for them ? " 

" I never saw one, but I want to know all about them. 
I got a paper at the Sea View the other day, and saw 
they were playing Hamlet; is it very beautifully done ? " 

" The critics say no/' said Oswald ; he was ready 
to indulge the boy, perhaps in payment for the amuse- 
ment Philip was innocently affording. Beyond that, 
the slightness of a new experience did not detract from 
the warmth with which he met it. 

" Bellingham takes the part, and Bellingham is made 
up of a stage stride and pompous mannerisms. Besides, 
he's too fat ; you can't imagine Hamlet's 
porcelain soul in that kind of envelope." 

" And how does the theater look ? " asked Philip, 
having met, for the first time in his life, some one who 
could answer his questions without being shocked at 
them. " Is it a great building with the stage at one 
end?" 

" Have you never been inside one ? " said Oswald. 



; You must go, if you care for the stage so much. 
Yes, it is a very large building with two balconies, in a 
semi-circle, so, like my hands. The stage is here, 
where I put this piece of wood." 

"And it has a curtain ? " said the boy, eager to urge 
him on. 

" Yes, the one I am thinking of has a great crimson 
curtain that goes down quite near the foot-lights, and 
behind it is the drop-curtain that falls between the 
acts." 

" And Hamlet, tell me about him ; what does he 
wear ? And how does the ghost look ? Can they make 
him very terrible ? " 

" The poor ghost ! no," laughed Oswald ; ' he is 
made up of a big voice, some armor, and is illuminated 
by a spectral sort of light ; nobody looks at him, except 
perhaps the servant-girls and coachmen in the gallery. 
Every eye is on Hamlet." 

" And is he pale and frightened ? Please go on." 

"That depends on your actor," said Oswald, enter- 
ing into the boy's interest and seeing that he need not 
bring the subject down to a tale for his amusement ; 
"he may be all bravado ; a solid, beef-eating Hamlet, 
who would track a ghost to earth as quickly and with 



as much relish as he would a fox. He may be only 
an actor who has learned to mouth the part, but is 
not student enough to spend years in dissecting it, 
and he will fall into an abject terror. But once in 
two or three life-times, you may find a man who has 
such power of sympathy as to put himself into Hamlet's 
frame of mind ; and if his own mind is fine enough, 
his emotions sensitive in response, his conscience 
abnormally developed, and his will unequal to any 
steady strain upon it, that man may come near to an 
understanding of Hamlet. Then, if he have a res- 
pectable figure, and a nose that is not a snub, a severe 
theatrical training, and a vivid talent, perhaps he may 
venture to play the part." 

Half of this was over the head of Philip, but he did 
not like it the less for that ; more than most of us ob- 
ject to scientific nomenclature which possibly leaves 
no very clear impression on the mind. 

' Is it very hard to get a play accepted ? " asked 
Philip in a voice that sounded unnatural to himself ; 
it seemed to him it must publish to the world the fact 
of his dear ambition. 

" Oh yes," said Oswald, so carelessly that the lad 
felt a real surprise that he evidently had not seen the 
personal drift of the question ; ' unless one has in- 
fluence at court, or enough talent to write a sensational 
play that would take with the multitude and run for 
the season. He might understand stage management 
well enough to get up scenic effects and produce one 
of those brilliant plays that have enough noise and 
thunder for the ear, and blue and green lights for the 
eye, to be popular. But who wants popularity? All 





this is clap-trap, you know ; if you come to real play- 
writing, that is another thing." 

" Another thing because it would be so hard to do ?" 
asked Philip, with almost hurt emphasis. ' But if one 
wanted it more than any thing else ; so much that he 
would be willing to wait a long while to be known ?" 

" Well, he might have all that without any brains," 
said Oswald carelessly, taking up the oars ; ' brains 
do count, after all, you know. I believe I'll row in 
shore. How good that gingerbread was ! Your mother 
or was it the sister ? was very thoughtful." 

Philip sat silent all the way in ; like many conscious, 
sensitive people, he was easily wounded on the score 
of his personal wishes and plans. Elizabeth was the 
only one to whom he had ever spoken of them, and 
she always believed in him. This was the first doubt 
that had ever entered his world of visions. Oswald 
noticed the change in him. 

" If you are willing, I'll leave you at the Point and 
take the boat round," said Philip ; he had his own 
reasons for wishing it. 

" Just as you like. Shall I give you the money to 
pay the man, or will he let us take it again and pay for 
it all together ? ' 

" That would be the best way," said Philip ; he had 
no intention of braving the probably irate Si, so far as 
to offer him money to pay for the trick. Oswald 
could do that for himself, if he chose. 

" I shall see you again," said the young man. ''Come 
in and sit by my fire with me. I've had roaring ones 
made in two or three rooms of that old house. Come 
in and keep me company." 



 

" I should like to," Philip said, forgetting his de- 
pression of the past minutes in the prospect of longer 
talks with the stranger. ' I will if I can." 

Oswald left him at the Point, and he, looking back 
as he rowed away, saw the well-knit figure fast disap- 
pearing over the rocks, the gun over the shoulder 
picturesquely outlined against the sky. 

Fortunately, no one was down by the shore when 
Philip drew up the boat. He was rather glad, not 
because he shrank from confession, but he was cold 
and tired, and the joke did not seem quite as funny as 
it had done. By the time he reached home he was 
quite chilled, and thought of the kitchen fire with 
more interest than of any thing else. 

No one was there when he went in, but as things 
were all in order in the room and the clock ticking 
