before dinner by going to the river and playing with the boats, in spite
of many orders not to do it.  She did not tell of it, and went to a
party in the afternoon, where she was so merry she never remembered the
naughty thing till she was in bed and opened the fairy box.  A little
chain appeared, which in a flash grew long and large, and fastened round
her ankles as if she were a prisoner.  May liked to tumble about, and
was much disgusted to be chained in this way; but there was no help for
it, so she lay very still and had plenty of time to be sorry.

"It is a good punishment for me, and I deserve it.  I won’t cry, but I
will--I will remember."  And May said her prayers very soberly, really
meaning to keep her word this time.

All the next day she was very careful to keep her lips from cross words,
her hands from forbidden things, and her feet from going wrong. Nothing
spoilt this day, she watched so well; and when mamma gave the good-night
kiss, she said,--

"What shall I give my good little daughter, who has been gentle,
obedient, and busy all day?"

"I want a white kitty, with blue eyes, and a pink ribbon on its neck,"
answered May.

"I’ll try and find one.  Now go to bed, deary, and happy dreams!" said
mamma, with many kisses on the rosy cheeks, and the smile that was a
reward.

May was so busy thinking about the kitty and the good day that she
forgot the box till she heard a little "Mew, mew!" under her pillow.

"Mercy me! what’s that?"  And she popped up her head to see.

Out came the box; off flew the lid, and there, on a red cushion, lay a
white kit about two inches long.  May could n’t believe that it was
alive till it jumped out of its nest, stretched itself, and grew all at
once just the right size to play with and be pretty.  Its eyes were
blue, its tail like a white plume, and a sweet pink bow was on its neck.
It danced all over the bed, ran up the curtains, hid under the clothes,
nipped May’s toes, licked her face, patted her nose with its soft paw,
and winked at her in such a funny way that she laughed for joy at having
such a dear kitty.  Presently, as if it knew that bed was the place to
lie quiet in, puss cuddled down in a little bunch and purred May to
sleep.

"I suppose that darling kit will be gone like all the other things,"
said May, as she waked up and looked round for her first pretty gift.

No; there was the lovely thing sitting in the sun among the flower-pots,
washing her face and getting ready for play.  What a fine frolic they
had; and how surprised every one was to see just the pussy May wanted!
They supposed it came as kitties often come; and May never told them it
was a fairy present, because she had promised not to.  She was so happy
with little puss that she was good all day; and when she went to bed she
thought,--

"I wish I had a dog to play with darling Snowdrop, and run with me when
I go to walk."

"Bow, wow, wow!" came from under the pillow; and out of the box trotted
a curly black dog, with long ears, a silver collar, and such bright,
kind eyes May was not a bit afraid of him, but loved him at once, and
named him Floss, he was so soft and silky.  Pussy liked him too; and
when May was sleepy they both snuggled down in the same basket like two
good babies, and went to by-low.

"Well, I never!  What shall we find next?" said Nurse, when she saw the
dog in the morning.

"Perhaps it will be an elephant, to fill the whole house, and scare you
out of your wits," laughed May, dancing about with Snowdrop chasing her
bare toes, while Floss shook and growled over her shoes as if they were
rats.

"If your cousin John wants to give you any more animals, I wish he ’d
send a pony to take you to school, and save my old legs the pain of
trotting after you," said Nurse; for May did have a rich cousin who was
very fond of her, and often gave her nice things.

"Perhaps he will," laughed May, much tickled with the idea that it was a
fairy, and not Cousin John, who sent the cunning little creatures to
her.

But she did n’t get the pony that night; for in the afternoon her mother
told her not to sit on the lawn, because it was damp, and May did not
mind, being busy with a nice story.  So when she took up her box, a loud
sneeze seemed to blow the lid off, and all she saw was a bit of red
flannel.

"What is this for?" she asked, much disappointed; and as if to answer,
the strip of flannel wrapped itself round her neck.

"There! my throat is sore, and I am hoarse. I wonder how that fairy
knew I sat on the damp grass.  I ’m so sorry; for I did want a pony, and
might have had it if I ’d only minded," said May, angry with herself for
spoiling all her fun.

It was spoilt; for she had such a cold next day she could n’t go out
at all, but had to take medicine and keep by the fire, while the other
children had a lovely picnic.

"I won’t wish for anything to-night; I don’t deserve a present, I was so
disobedient.  But I have tried to be patient," said May, feeling for
the box.

The fairy had not forgotten her, and there was a beautiful picture-book,
full of new, nice stories printed in colored ink.

"How splendid to read to-morrow while I ’m shut up!" she said, and went
to sleep very happily.

All the next day she enjoyed the pretty pictures and funny tales, and
never complained or fretted at all, but was so much better the doctor
said she could go out to-morrow, if it was fine.

"Now I will wish for the pony," said May, in her bed.  But there was
nothing in the box except a little red-silk rope, like a halter.  She
did not know what to do with it that night, but she did the next
morning; for just as she was dressed her brother called from the
garden,--

"May, look out and see what we found in the stable.  None of us can
catch him, so do come and see if you can; your name is on the card tied
to his mane."

May looked, and there was a snow-white pony racing about the yard as if
he was having a fine frolic.  Then she knew the halter was for him, and
ran down to catch him.  The minute she appeared, the pony went to her
and put his nose in her hand, neighing, as if he said,--

"This is my little mistress; I will mind her and serve her well."

May was delighted, and very proud when the pony let her put on the
saddle and bridle that lay in the barn all ready to use.  She jumped up
and rode gayly down the road; and Will and mamma and all the maids and
Floss and Snowdrop ran to see the pretty sight.  The children at school
were much excited when she came trotting up, and all wanted to ride
Prince. He was very gentle, and every one had a ride; but May had the
best fun, for she could go every day for long trots by the carriage when
mamma and Will drove out.  A blue habit and a hat with a long feather
were bought that afternoon; and May was so happy and contented at night
that she said to herself as she lay in bed,--

"I ’ll wish for something for Will now, and see if I get it.  I don’t
want any more presents yet; I’ve had my share, and I’d love to give away
to other people who have no fairy box."

So she wished for a nice boat, and in the box lay a key with the name
"Water Lily" on it. She guessed what it meant, and in the morning told
her brother to come to the river and see what she had for him.  There
lay a pretty green and white boat, with cushioned seats, a sail all
spread, and at the mast-head a little flag flying in the wind, with the
words "Water Lily" on it in gold letters.

Will was so surprised and pleased to find that it was his, he turned
heels over head on the grass, kissed May, and skipped into his boat,
crying, "All aboard!" as if eager to try it at once.

May followed, and they sailed away down the lovely river, white with
real lilies, while the blackbirds sang in the green meadows on either
side, and boys and girls stopped on the bridges to see them pass.

After that May kept on trying to be good, and wishing for things for
herself and other people, till she forgot how to be naughty, and was the
sweetest little girl in the world.  Then there was no need of fairies to
help her; and one night the box was not under the pillow.

"Well, I ’ve had my share of pretty things, and must learn to do
without.  I ’m glad I tried; for now it is easy to be good, and I don’t
need to be rewarded," said May, as she fell asleep, quite happy and
contented, though she did wish, she could have seen the fairy just once.

Next morning the first thing she saw was a beautiful bracelet, shining
on the table; and while she stood admiring it, she heard the little
voice sing,--

    "Here is the bracelet
      For good little May
    To wear on her arm
      By night and by day.
    When it shines like the sun,
      All’s going well;
    But when you are bad,
      A sharp prick will tell.
    Farewell, little girl,
      For now we must part.
    Make a fairy-box, dear,
      Of your own happy heart;
    And take out for all
      Sweet gifts every day,
    Till all the year round
      Is like beautiful May."


As the last words were sung, right before her eyes she saw a tiny
creature swinging on the rose that stood there in a vase,--a lovely elf,
with wings like a butterfly, a gauzy dress, and a star on her forehead.
She smiled, and waved her hand as she slowly rose and fluttered away
into the sunshine, till she vanished from sight, leaving May with the
magic bracelet on her arm, and the happy thought that at last she had
really seen a fairy.




[Illustration: Johnny leaned forward to enjoy the long-desired "peek."
PAGE 183.]



                                  IX.

                          A HOLE IN THE WALL.


                                PART I.


If any one had asked Johnny Morris who were his best friends, he would
have answered,--

"The sun and the wind, next to mother."

Johnny lived in a little court that led off from one of the busiest
streets in the city,--a noisy street, where horse-car bells tinkled and
omnibuses rumbled all day long, going and coming from several great
depots near by.  The court was a dull place, with only two or three
shabby houses in it, and a high blank wall at the end.

The people who hurried by were too busy to do more than to glance at the
lame boy who sat in the sunshine against the wall, or to guess that
there was a picture-gallery and a circulating-library in the court.  But
Johnny had both, and took such comfort in them that he never could be
grateful enough to the wind that brought him his books and pictures, nor
to the sun that made it possible for him to enjoy them in the open air,
far more than richer folk enjoy their fine galleries and libraries.

A bad fall, some months before the time this story begins, did something
to Johnny’s back which made his poor legs nearly useless, and changed
the lively, rosy boy into a pale cripple. His mother took in fine
washing, and worked hard to pay doctors’ bills and feed and clothe her
boy, who could no longer run errands, help with the heavy tubs, or go to
school.  He could only pick out laces for her to iron, lie on his bed in
pain for hours, and, each fair day, hobble out to sit in a little old
chair between the water-butt and the leaky tin boiler in which he kept
his library.

But he was a happy boy, in spite of poverty and pain; and the day a
great gust came blowing fragments of a gay placard and a dusty newspaper
down the court to his feet, was the beginning of good fortune for
patient Johnny. There was a theatre in the street beyond, and other
pictured bits found their way to him; for the frolicsome wind liked to
whisk the papers around the corner, and chase them here and there till
they settled under the chair or flew wildly over the wall.

Faces, animals, people, and big letters, all came to cheer the boy, who
was never tired of collecting these waifs and strays; cutting out the
big pictures to paste on the wall with the leavings of mother’s starch,
and the smaller in the scrap-book he made out of stout brown wrappers or
newspapers, when he had read the latter carefully.  Soon it was a very
gay wall; for mother helped, standing on a chair, to put the large
pictures up, when Johnny had covered all the space he could reach.  The
books were laid carefully away in the boiler, after being smoothly
ironed out and named to suit Johnny’s fancy by pasting letters on the
back.  This was the circulating library; for not only did the papers
whisk about the court to begin with, but the books they afterward made
went the rounds among the neighbors till they were worn out.

The old cobbler next door enjoyed reading the anecdotes on Sunday when
he could not work; the pale seamstress upstairs liked to look over
advertisements of the fine things which she longed for; and Patsey
Flynn, the newsboy, who went by each day to sell his papers at the
station, often paused to look at the play-bills,--for he adored the
theatre, and entertained Johnny with descriptions of the splendors there
to be beheld, till he felt as if he had really been, and had known all
the famous actors, from Humpty Dumpty to the great Salvini.

Now and then a flock of dirty children would stray into the court and
ask to see the "pretty picters."  Then Johnny was a proud and happy boy;
for, armed with a clothes-pole, he pointed out and explained the
beauties of his gallery, feeling that he was a public benefactor when
the poor babies thanked him warmly, and promised to come again and bring
all the nice papers they could pick up.

These were Johnny’s pleasures: but he had two sorrows,--one, a very real
one, his aching back; and the other, a boyish longing to climb the wall
and see what was on the other side, for it seemed a most wonderful and
delightful place to the poor child, shut up in that dismal court, with
no playmates and few comforts.

He amused himself with imagining how it looked over there, and nearly
every night added some new charm to this unseen country, when his mother
told him fairy tales to get him to sleep.  He peopled it with the dear
old characters all children know and love.  The white cat that sat on
the wall was Puss in Boots to him, or Whittington’s good friend.
Blue-beard’s wives were hidden in the house of whose upper windows the
boy could just catch glimpses. Red Riding-hood met the wolf in the grove
of chestnuts that rustled over there; and Jack’s Beanstalk grew up just
such a wall as that, he was sure.

But the story he liked best was the "Sleeping Beauty in the Wood;" for
he was sure some lovely creature lived in that garden, and he longed to
get in to find and play with her.  He actually planted a bean in a bit
of damp earth behind the water-barrel, and watched it grow, hoping for
as strong a ladder as Jack’s.  But the vine grew very slowly, and Johnny
was so impatient that he promised Patsey his best book "for his
ownty-donty," if he would climb up and report what was to be seen in
that enchanted garden.

"Faix, and I will, thin."  And up went good-natured Pat, after laying an
old board over the hogshead to stand on; for there were spikes all along
the top of the wall, and only cats and sparrows could walk there.

Alas for Johnny’s eager hopes, and alas for Pat’s Sunday best!  The
board broke, and splash went the climber, with a wild Irish howl that
startled Johnny half out of his wits and brought both Mrs. Morris and
the cobbler to the rescue.

After this sad event Pat kept away for a time in high dudgeon, and
Johnny was more lonely than ever.  But he was a cheery little soul; so
he was grateful for what joys he had, and worked away at his wall,--for
the March winds had brought him many treasures, and after April rains
were over, May sunshine made the court warm enough for him to be out
nearly all day.

"I ’m so sorry Pat is mad, ’cause he saw this piece and told me about
it, and he ’d like to help me put up these pictures," said Johnny to
himself, one breezy morning, as he sat examining a big poster which the
wind had sent flying into his lap a few minutes before.

The play was "Monte Cristo," and the pictures represented the hero
getting out of prison by making holes in the wall, among other
remarkable performances.

"This is a jolly red one!  Now, where will I put it to show best and not
spoil the other beauties?"

As he spoke, Johnny turned his chair around and surveyed his gallery
with as much pride and satisfaction as if it held all the wonders of
art.

It really was quite splendid; for every sort of picture shone in the
sun,--simpering ladies, tragic scenes, circus parades, labels from tin
cans, rosy tomatoes, yellow peaches, and purple plums, funny
advertisements, and gay bills of all kinds.  None were perfect, but they
were arranged with care; and the effect was very fine, Johnny thought.

Presently his eyes wandered from these treasures to the budding bushes
that nodded so tantalizingly over the wall.  A grape-vine ran along the
top, trying to hide the sharp spikes; lilacs tossed their purple plumes
above it, and several tall chestnuts rose over all, making green tents
with their broad leaves, where spires of blossom began to show like
candles on a mammoth Christmas tree.  Sparrows were chirping gayly
everywhere; the white cat, with a fresh blue bow, basked on the coping
of the wall, and from the depths of the enchanted garden came a sweet
voice singing,--

    "And she bids you to come in,
    With a dimple in your chin,
      Billy boy, Billy boy."


Johnny smiled as he listened, and put his finger to the little dent in
his own chin, wishing the singer would finish this pleasing song.  But
she never did, though he often heard that, as well as other childish
ditties, sung in the same gay voice, with bursts of laughter and the
sound of lively feet tripping up and down the boarded walks.  Johnny
longed intensely to know who the singer was; for her music cheered his
solitude, and the mysterious sounds he heard in the garden increased his
wonder and his longing day by day.

Sometimes a man’s voice called, "Fay, where are you?" and Johnny was
sure "Fay" was short for Fairy.  Another voice was often heard talking
in a strange, soft language, full of exclamations and pretty sounds.  A
little dog barked, and answered to the name Pippo.  Canaries carolled,
and some elfish bird scolded, screamed, and laughed so like a human
being, that Johnny felt sure that magic of some sort was at work next
door.

A delicious fragrance was now wafted over the wall as of flowers, and
the poor boy imagined untold loveliness behind that cruel wall, as he
tended the dandelions his mother brought him from the Common, when she
had time to stop and gather them; for he loved flowers dearly, and tried
to make them out of colored paper, since he could have no sweeter sort.

Now and then a soft, rushing sound excited his curiosity to such a pitch
that once he hobbled painfully up the court till he could see into the
trees; and once his eager eyes caught glimpses of a little creature, all
blue and white and gold, who peeped out from the green fans, and nodded,
and tried to toss him a cluster of the chestnut flowers.  He stretched
his hands to her with speechless delight, forgetting his crutches, and
would have fallen if he had not caught by the shutter of a window so
quickly that he gave the poor back a sad wrench; and when he could look
up again, the fairy had vanished, and nothing was to be seen but the
leaves dancing in the wind.

Johnny dared not try this again for fear of a fall, and every step cost
him a pang; but he never forgot it, and was thinking of it as he sat
staring at the wall on that memorable May day.

"How I should like to peek in and see just how it all really looks!  It
sounds and smells so summery and nice in there.  I know it must be
splendid.  I say, Pussy, can’t you tell a feller what you see?"

Johnny laughed as he spoke, and the white cat purred politely; for she
liked the boy who never threw stones at her, nor disturbed her naps.
But Puss could not describe the beauties of the happy hunting-ground
below; and, to console himself for the disappointment, Johnny went back
to his new picture.

"Now, if this man in the play dug his way out. through a wall ten feet
thick with a rusty nail and a broken knife, I don’t see why I could n’t
pick away one brick and get a peek.  It’s all quiet in there now; here’s
a good place, and nobody will know, if I stick a picture over the hole.
And I ’ll try it, I declare I will!"

Fired with the idea of acting Monte Cristo on a small scale, Johnny
caught up the old scissors in his lap, and began to dig out the mortar
around a brick already loose, and crumbling at the corners.  His mother
smiled at his energy, then sighed and said, as she clapped her laces
with a heavy heart,--

"Ah, poor dear, if he only had his health he ’d make his way in the
world.  But now he ’s like to find a blank wall before him while he
lives, and none to help him over."

Puss, in her white boots, sat aloft and looked on, wise as the cat in
the story, but offered no advice.  The toad who lived behind the
water-barrel hopped under the few leaves of the struggling bean, like
Jack waiting to climb; and just then the noon bells began to ring as if
they sang clear and loud,--

"Turn again, Whittington, Lord Mayor of London."

So, cheered by his friends, Johnny scraped and dug vigorously till the
old brick fell out, showing another behind it.  Only pausing to take
breath, he caught up his crutch and gave two or three hearty pokes,
which soon cleared the way and let the sunshine stream through, while
the wind tossed the lilacs like triumphal banners, and the jolly
sparrows chirped,--

"Hail, the conquering hero comes!"

Rather scared by his unexpected success, the boy sat silent for a moment
to see what would happen.  But all was still; and presently, with a
beating heart, Johnny leaned forward to enjoy the long-desired "peek."
He could not see much; but that little increased his curiosity and
delight, for it seemed like looking into fairy-land, after the dust and
noise and dingy houses of the court.

A bed of splendid tulips tossed their gay garments in the middle of a
grass-plot; a strange and brilliant bird sat dressing its feathers on a
golden cage; a little white dog dozed in the sun; and on a red carpet
under the trees lay the Princess, fast asleep.

"It’s all right," said Johnny, with a long sigh of pleasure; "that’s the
Sleeping Beauty, sure enough.  There ’s the blue gown, the white
fur-cloak sweeping round, the pretty hair, and--yes--there’s the old
nurse, spinning and nodding, just as she did in the picture-book mother
got me when I cried because I could n’t go to see the play."

This last discovery really did bewilder Johnny, and make him believe
that fairy tales might be true, after all; for how could he know that
the strange woman was an Italian servant, in her native dress, with a
distaff in her hand?  After pausing a moment, to rub his eyes, he took
another look, and made fresh discoveries by twisting his head about.  A
basket of oranges stood near the Princess, a striped curtain hung from a
limb of the tree to keep the wind off, and several books fluttered their
pictured leaves temptingly before Johnny’s longing eyes.

"Oh, if I could only go in and eat ’em and read ’em and speak to ’em and
see all the splendid things!" thought the poor boy, as he looked from
one delight to another, and felt shut out from all.  "I can’t go and
wake her like the Prince did, but I do wish she ’d get up and do
something, now I can see.  I dare n’t throw a stone, it might hit some
one, or holler, it might scare her.  Pussy won’t help, and the sparrows
are too busy scolding one another.  I know! I ’ll fly a kite over, and
that will please her any way.  Don’t believe she has kites; girls never
do."

Eager to carry out his plan, Johnny tied a long string to his gayest
poster, and then fastening it to the pole with which he sometimes fished
in the water-cask, held it up to catch the fresh breezes blowing down
the court.  His good friend, the wind, soon caught the idea, and with a
strong breath sent the red paper whisking over the wall, to hang a
moment on the trees and then drop among the tulips, where its frantic
struggles to escape waked the dog, and set him to racing and barking, as
Johnny hurriedly let the string go, and put his eye to his peep-hole.

The eyes of the Princess were wide open now, and she clapped her hands
when Pippo brought the gay picture for her to see; while the old woman,
with a long yawn, went away, carrying her distaff, like a gun, over her
shoulder.

"She likes it!  I’m so glad.  Wish I had some more to send over.  This
will come off; I ’ll poke it through, and maybe she will see it."

Very much excited, Johnny recklessly tore from the wall his most
cherished picture, a gay flower-piece, just put up; and folding it, he
thrust it through the hole and waited to see what followed.

Nothing but a rustle, a bark, and a queer croak from the splendid bird,
which set the canaries to trilling sweetly.

"She don’t see; maybe she will hear," said Johnny.  And he began to
whistle like a mocking-bird; for this was his one accomplishment, and he
was proud of it.

Presently he heard a funny burst of laughter from the parrot, and then
the voice said,--

"No, Polly, you can’t sing like that bird.  I wonder where he is?  Among
the bushes over there, I think.  Come, Pippo, let us go and find him."

"Now she ’s coming!"  And Johnny grew red in the face trying to give his
best trills and chirrups.

Nearer and nearer came the steps, the lilacs rustled as if shaken, and
presently the roll of paper vanished.  A pause, and then the little
voice exclaimed, in a tone of great surprise,--

"Why, there ’s a hole!  I never saw it before. Oh!  I can see the
street.  How nice! how nice!"

"She likes the hole!  I wonder if she will like me?"  And, emboldened by
these various successes, Johnny took another peep.  This was the most
delicious one of all; for he looked right into a great blue eye, with
glimpses of golden hair above, a little round nose in the middle, and
red lips below.  It was like a flash of sunshine, and Johnny winked, as
if dazzled; for the eye sparkled, the nose sniffed daintily, and the
pretty mouth broke into a laugh as the voice cried out delightedly,--

"I see some one!  Who are you?  Come and tell me!"

"I ’m Johnny Morris," answered the boy, quite trembling with pleasure.

"Did you make this nice hole?"

"I just poked a brick, and it fell out."

"Papa won’t mind.  Is that your bird?"

"No; it’s me.  I whistled."

"It’s very pretty.  Do it again," commanded the voice, as if used to
give orders.

Johnny obeyed; and when he paused, out of breath, a small hand came
through the hole, grasping as many lilies of the valley as it could
hold, and the Princess graciously expressed her pleasure by saying,--

"I like it; you shall do it again, by and by. Here are some flowers for
you.  Now we will talk.  Are you a nice boy?"

This was a poser; and Johnny answered meekly, with his nose luxuriously
buried in the lovely flowers,--

"Not very,--I ’m lame; I can’t play like other fellers."

"Porverino!" sighed the little voice, full of pity; and, in a moment,
three red-and-yellow tulips fell at Johnny’s feet, making him feel as if
he really had slipped into fairy-land through that delightful hole.

"Oh, thank you!  Are n’t they just elegant? I never see such beauties,"
stammered the poor boy, grasping his treasures as if he feared they
might vanish away.

"You shall have as many as you like.  Nanna will scold, but papa won’t
mind.  Tell me more. What do you do over there?" asked the child,
eagerly.

"Nothing but paste pictures and make books, when I don’t ache too bad.
I used to help mother; but I got hurt, and I can’t do much now,"
answered the boy, ashamed to mention how many laces he patiently picked
or clapped, since it was all he could do to help.

"If you like pictures, you shall come and see mine some day.  I do a
great many.  Papa shows me how.  His are splendid.  Do you draw or paint
yours?"

"I only cut ’em out of papers, and stick ’em on this wall or put ’em in
scrap-books.  I can’t draw, and I have n’t got no paints," answered
Johnny.

"You should say ’have n’t any paints.’  I will come and see you some
day; and if I like you, I will let you have my old paint-box.  Do you
want it?"

"Guess I do!"

"I think I shall like you; so I ’ll bring it when I come.  Do you ache
much?"

"Awfully, sometimes.  Have to lay down all day, and can’t do a thing."

"Do you cry?"

"No!  I ’m too big for that.  I whistle."

"I know I shall like you, because you are brave!" cried the impetuous
voice, with its pretty accent; and then an orange came tumbling through
the hole, as if the new acquaintance longed to do something to help the
"ache."

"Is n’t that a rouser!  I do love ’em, but mother can’t afford ’em
often."  And Johnny took one delicious taste on the spot.

"Then I shall give you many.  We have loads at home, much finer than
these.  Ah, you should see our garden there!"

"Where do you live?" Johnny ventured to ask; for there was a homesick
sound to the voice as it said those last words.

"In Rome.  Here we only stay a year, while papa arranges his affairs;
then we go back, and I am happy."

"I should think you ’d be happy in there.  It looks real splendid to me,
and I ’ve been longing to see it ever since I could come out."

"It’s a dull place to me.  I like better to be where it’s always warm,
and people are more beautiful than here.  Are you beautiful?"

"What queer questions she does ask!"  And poor Johnny was so perplexed
he could only stammer, with a laugh,--

"I guess not.  Boys don’t care for looks."

"Peep, and let me see.  I like pretty persons," commanded the voice.

"Don’t she order round?" thought Johnny, as he obeyed.  But he liked it,
and showed such a smiling face at the peep-hole, that Princess Fay was
pleased to say, after a long look at him,--

"No, you are not beautiful; but your eyes are bright, and you look
pleasant, so I don’t mind the freckles on your nose and the whiteness of
your face.  I think you are good.  I am sorry for you, and I shall lend
you a book to read when the pain comes."

"I could n’t wait for that if I had a book.  I do love so to read!"  And
Johnny laughed out from sheer delight at the thought of a new book; for
he seldom got one, being too poor to buy them, and too helpless to enjoy
the free libraries of the city.

"Then you shall have it now."  And there was another quick rush in the
garden, followed by the appearance of a fat little book, slowly pushed
through the hole in the wall.

"This is the only one that will pass.  You will like Hans Andersen’s
fairy tales, I know.  Keep it as long as you please.  I have many more."

"You’re so good!  I wish I had something for you," said the boy, quite
overcome by this sweet friendliness.

"Let me see one of your books.  They will be new to me.  I ’m tired of
all mine."

Quick as a flash, off went the cover of the old boiler, and out came
half-a-dozen of Johnny’s best works, to be crammed through the wall,
with the earnest request,--

"Keep ’em all; they’re not good for much, but they ’re the best I ’ve
got.  I ’ll do some prettier ones as soon as I can find more nice
pictures and pieces."

"They look very interesting.  I thank you. I shall go and read them now,
and then come and talk again.  Addio, Giovanni."

"Good-by, Miss."

Thus ended the first interview of little Pyramus and Thisbe through the
hole in the wall, while puss sat up above and played moonshine with her
yellow eyes.



                                PART II.


After that day a new life began for Johnny, and he flourished like a
poor little plant that has struggled out of some dark corner into the
sunshine.  All sorts of delightful things happened, and good times
really seemed to have come.  The mysterious papa made no objection to
the liberties taken with his wall, being busy with his own affairs, and
glad to have his little girl happy.  Old Nanna, being more careful, came
to see the new neighbors, and was disarmed at once by the affliction of
the boy and the gentle manners of the mother.  She brought all the
curtains of the house for Mrs. Morris to do up, and in her pretty broken
English praised Johnny’s gallery and library, promising to bring Fay to
see him some day.

Meantime the little people prattled daily together, and all manner of
things came and went between them.  Flowers, fruit, books, and bon-bons
kept Johnny in a state of bliss, and inspired him with such brilliant
inventions that the Princess never knew what agreeable surprise would
come next.  Astonishing kites flew over the wall, and tissue balloons
exploded in the flower-beds.  All the birds of the air seemed to live in
that court; for the boy whistled and piped till he was hoarse, because
she liked it.  The last of the long-hoarded cents came out of his tin
bank to buy paper and pictures for the gay little books he made for her.
His side of the wall was ravaged that hers might be adorned; and, as the
last offering his grateful heart could give, he poked the toad through
the hole, to live among the lilies and eat the flies that began to buzz
about her Highness when she came to give her orders to her devoted
subjects.

She always called the lad Giovanni, because she thought it a prettier
name than John; and she was never tired of telling stories, asking
questions, and making plans.  The favorite one was what they would do
when Johnny came to see her, as she had been promised he should when
papa was not too busy to let them enjoy the charms of the studio; for
Fay was a true artist’s child, and thought nothing so lovely as
pictures.  Johnny thought so, too, and dreamed of the happy day when he
should go and see the wonders his little friend described so well.

"I think it will be to-morrow; for papa has a lazy fit coming on, and
then he always plays with me and lets me rummage where I like, while he
goes out or smokes in the garden.  So be ready; and if he says you can
come, I will have the flag up early and you can hurry."

These agreeable remarks were breathed into Johnny’s willing ear about a
fortnight after the acquaintance began; and he hastened to promise,
adding soberly, a minute after,--

"Mother says she’s afraid it will be too much for me to go around and up
steps, and see new things; for I get tired so easy, and then the pain
comes on.  But I don’t care how I ache if I can only see the
pictures--and you."

"Won’t you ever be any better?  Nanna thinks you might."

"So does mother, if we had money to go away in the country, and eat nice
things, and have doctors.  But we can’t; so it’s no use worrying."  And
Johnny gave a great sigh.

"I wish papa was rich, then he would give you money.  He works hard to
make enough to go back to Italy, so I cannot ask him; but perhaps I can
sell my pictures also, and get a little.  Papa’s friends often offer
me sweets for kisses; I will have money instead, and that will help.
Yes, I shall do it."  And Fay clapped her hands decidedly.

"Don’t you mind about it.  I ’m going to learn to mend shoes.  Mr.
Pegget says he ’ll teach me.  That does n’t need legs, and he gets
enough to live on very well."

"It is n’t pretty work.  Nanna can teach you to braid straw as she did
at home; that is easy and nice, and the baskets sell very well, she
says.  I shall speak to her about it, and you can try to-morrow when you
come."

"I will.  Do you really think I can come, then?"  And Johnny stood up
to try his legs; for he dreaded the long walk, as it seemed to him.

"I will go at once and ask papa."

Away flew Fay, and soon came back with a glad "Yes!" that sent Johnny
hobbling in to tell his mother, and beg her to mend the elbows of his
only jacket; for, suddenly, his old clothes looked so shabby he feared
to show himself to the neighbors he so longed to see.

"Hurrah!  I ’m really going to-morrow.  And you, too, mammy dear," cried
the boy, waving his crutch so vigorously that he slipped and fell.

"Never mind; I ’m used to it.  Pull me up, and I ’ll rest while we talk
about it," he said cheerily, as his mother helped him to the bed, where
he forgot his pain in thinking of the delights in store for him.

Next day, the flag was flying from the wall, and Fay early at the hole,
but no Johnny came; and when Nanna went to see what kept him, she
returned with the sad news that the poor boy was suffering much, and
would not be able to stir for some days.

"Let me go and see him," begged Fay, imploringly.

"Cara mia, it is no place for you.  So dark, so damp, so poor, it is
enough to break the heart," said Nanna, decidedly.

"If papa was here, he would let me go.  I shall not play; I shall sit
here and make some plans for my poor boy."

Nanna left her indignant little mistress, and went to cook a nice bowl
of soup for Johnny; while Fay concocted a fine plan, and, what was more
remarkable, carried it out.

For a week it rained, for a week Johnny lay in pain, and for a week Fay
worked quietly at her little easel in the corner of the studio, while
her father put the last touches to his fine picture, too busy to take
much notice of the child. On Saturday the sun shone, Johnny was better,
and the great picture was done.  So were the small ones; for as her
father sat resting after his work, Fay went to him, with a tired but
happy face, and, putting several drawings into his hand, told her
cherished plan.

"Papa, you said you would pay me a dollar for every good copy I made of
the cast you gave me.  I tried very hard, and here are three. I want
some money very, very much.  Could you pay for these?"

"They are excellent," said the artist, after carefully looking at them.
"You have tried, my good child, and here are your well-earned dollars.
What do you want them for?"

"To help my boy.  I want him to come in here and see the pictures, and
let Nanna teach him to plait baskets; and he can rest, and you will like
him, and he might get well if he had some money, and I have three
quarters the friends gave me instead of bonbons.  Would that be enough
to send poor Giovanni into the country and have doctors?"

No wonder Fay’s papa was bewildered by this queer jumble, because, being
absorbed in his work, he had never heard half the child had told him,
and had forgotten all about Johnny.  Now he listened with half an ear,
studying the effect of sunshine upon his picture meantime, while Fay
told him the little story, and begged to know how much money it would
take to make Johnny’s back well.

"Bless your sweet soul, my darling, it would need more than I can spare
or you earn in a year.  By and by, when I am at leisure, we will see
what can be done," answered papa, smoking comfortably, as he lay on the
sofa in the large studio at the top of the house.

"You say that about a great many things, papa.  ’By and by’ won’t be
long enough to do all you promise then.  I like now much better, and
poor Giovanni needs the country more than you need cigars or I new
frocks," said Fay, stroking her father’s tired forehead and looking at
him with an imploring face.

"My dear, I cannot give up my cigar, for in this soothing smoke I find
inspiration, and though you are a little angel, you must be clothed; so
wait a bit, and we will attend to the boy--later."  He was going to say
"by and by" again, but paused just in time, with a laugh.

"Then I shall take him to the country all myself.  I cannot wait for
this hateful ’by and by.’  I know how I shall do it, and at once. Now,
now!" cried Fay, losing patience; and with an indignant glance at the
lazy papa, who seemed going to sleep, she dashed out of the room, down
many stairs, through the kitchen, startling Nanna and scattering the
salad as if a whirlwind had gone by, and never paused for breath till
she stood before the garden wall with a little hatchet in her hand.

"This shall be the country for him till I get enough money to send him
away.  I will show what I can do.  He pulled out two bricks.  I will
beat down the wall, and he shall come in at once," panted Fay; and she
gave a great blow at the bricks, bent on having her will without
delay,--for she was an impetuous little creature, full of love and pity
for the poor boy pining for the fresh air and sunshine, of which she had
so much.

Bang, bang, went the little hatchet, and down came one brick after
another, till the hole was large enough for Fay to thrust her head
through; and being breathless by that time, she paused to rest and take
a look at Johnny’s court.

Meanwhile Nanna, having collected her lettuce leaves and her wits, went
to see what the child was about; and finding her at work like a little
fury, the old woman hurried up to tell "the Signor," Fay’s papa, that
his little daughter was about to destroy the garden and bury herself
under the ruins of the wall.  This report, delivered with groans and
wringing of the hands, roused the artist and sent him to the rescue, as
he well knew that his angel was a very energetic one, and capable of
great destruction.

When he arrived, he beheld a cloud of dust, a pile of bricks among the
lilies, and the feet of his child sticking out of a large hole in the
wall, while her head and shoulders were on the other side.  Much amused,
yet fearful that the stone coping might come down on her, he pulled her
back with the assurance that he would listen and help her now
immediately, if there was such need of haste.

But he grew sober when he saw Fay’s face; for it was bathed in tears,
her hands were bleeding, and dust covered her from head to foot.

"My darling, what afflicts you?  Tell papa, and he will do anything you
wish."

"No, you will forget, you will say ’Wait;’ and now that I have seen it
all, I cannot stop till I get him out of that dreadful place.  Look,
look, and see if it is not sad to live there all in pain and darkness,
and so poor."

As she spoke, Fay urged her father toward the hole; and to please her he
looked, seeing the dull court, the noisy street beyond, and close by the
low room, where Johnny’s mother worked all day, while the poor boy’s
pale face was dimly seen as he lay on his bed waiting for deliverance.

"Well, well, it is a pitiful case; and easily mended, since Fay is so
eager about it.  Hope the lad is all she says, and nothing catching
about his illness.  Nanna can tell me."

Then he drew back his head, and leading Fay to the seat, took her on his
knee, all flushed, dirty, and tearful as she was, soothing her by saying
tenderly,--

"Now let me hear all about it, and be sure I ’ll not forget.  What shall
I do to please you, dear, before you pull down the house about my ears?"

Then Fay told her tale all over again; and being no longer busy, her
father found it very touching, with the dear, grimy little face looking
into his, and the wounded hands clasped beseechingly as she pleaded for
poor Johnny.

"God bless your tender heart, child; you shall have him in here
to-morrow, and we will see what can be done for those pathetic legs of
his.  But listen, Fay, I have an easier way to do it than yours, and a
grand surprise for the boy.  Time is short, but it can be done; and to
show you that I am in earnest, I will go this instant and begin the
work.  Come and wash your face while I get on my boots, and then we will
go together."

At these words Fay threw her arms about papa’s neck and gave him many
grateful kisses, stopping in the midst to ask,--

"Truly, now?"

"See if it is not so."  And putting her down, papa went off with great
strides, while she ran laughing after him, all her doubts set at rest by
this agreeable energy on his part.

If Johnny had not been asleep in the back room, he would have seen
strange and pleasant sights that afternoon and evening; for something
went on in the court that delighted his mother, amused the artist, and
made Fay the happiest child in Boston.  No one was to tell till the next
day, that Johnny’s surprise might be quite perfect, and Mrs. Morris sat
up till eleven to get his old clothes in order; for Fay’s papa had been
to see her, and became interested in the boy, as no one could help being
when they saw his patient little face.

So hammers rang, trowels scraped, shovels dug, and wonderful changes
were made, while Fay danced about in the moonlight, like Puck intent
upon some pretty prank, and papa quoted Snout,[#] the tinker’s parting
words, as appropriate to the hour,--

    "Thus have I, wall, my part discharged so;
    And, being done, thus wall away doth go."


[#] A character in Shakspeare’s "Midsummer Night’s Dream."



                               PART III.


A lovely Sunday morning dawned without a cloud; and even in the dingy
court the May sunshine shone warmly, and the spring breezes blew freshly
from green fields far away.  Johnny begged to go out; and being much
better, his mother consented, helping him to dress with such a bright
face and eager hands that the boy said innocently,--

"How glad you are when I get over a bad turn!  I don’t know what you ’d
do if I ever got well."

"My poor dear, I begin to think you will pick up, now the good weather
has come and you have got a little friend to play with.  God bless her!"

Why his mother should suddenly hug him tight, and then brush his hair so
carefully, with tears in her eyes, he did not understand; but was in
such a hurry to get out, he could only give her a good kiss, and hobble
away to see how his gallery fared after the rain, and to take a joyful
"peek" at the enchanted garden.

Mrs. Morris kept close behind him, and it was well she did; for he
nearly tumbled down, so great was his surprise when he beheld the old
familiar wall after the good fairies Love and Pity had worked their
pretty miracle in the moonlight.

The ragged hole had changed to a little arched door, painted red.  On
either side stood a green tub, with a tall oleander in full bloom; from
the arch above hung a great bunch of gay flowers; and before the
threshold lay a letter directed to "Signor Giovanni Morris," in a
childish hand.

As soon as he recovered from the agreeable shock of this splendid
transformation scene, Johnny sank into his chair, where a soft cushion
had been placed, and read his note, with little sighs of rapture at the
charming prospect opening before him.


DEAR GIOVANNI,--Papa has made this nice gate, so you can come in when
you like and not be tired. We are to have two keys, and no one else can
open it. A little bell is to ring when we pull the cord, and we can run
and see what we want.  The paint is wet. Papa did it, and the men put up
the door last night. I helped them, and did not go in my bed till ten.
It was very nice to do it so.  I hope you will like it. Come in as soon
as you can; I am all ready.

Your friend,
       FAY.


"Mother, she must be a real fairy to do all that, mustn’t she?" said
Johnny, leaning back to look at the dear door behind which lay such
happiness for him.

"Yes, my sonny, she is the right sort of good fairy, and I just wish I
could do her washing for love the rest of her blessed little life,"
answered Mrs. Morris, in a burst of grateful ardor.

"You shall! you shall!  Do come in!  I cannot wait another minute!"
cried an eager little voice as the red door flew open; and there stood
Fay, looking very like a happy elf in her fresh white frock, a wreath of
spring flowers on her pretty hair, and a tall green wand in her hand,
while the brilliant bird sat on her shoulder, and the little white dog
