delving, drudging, economizing peasant. But it is a 
deep, unrelieved rusticity. It is a peasant 's landscape; 
not, as in England, a landlord s. On the way to Cham 
bord you enter the flat and sandy Sologne. The wide 
horizon opens out like a great potager, without inter 
ruptions, without an eminence, with here and there a 
long, low stretch of wood. There is an absence of 
hedges, fences, signs of property; everything is absorbed
in the general flatness, the patches of vineyard, 
the scattered cottages, the villages, the children 
(planted and staring and almost always pretty), the 
women in the fields, the white caps, the faded blouses, 
the big sabots. At the end of an hour 's drive (they 
assure you at Blois that even with two horses you will 
spend double that time), I passed through a sort of 
gap in a wall, which does duty as the gateway of the 
domain of an exiled pretender. I drove along a 
straight avenue, through a disfeatured park, the park 
of Chambord has twenty-one miles of circumference, 
a very sandy, scrubby, melancholy plantation, in which 
the timber must have been cut many times over . and 
is to-day a mere tangle of brushwood. Here, as in so 
many spots in France, the traveller perceives that he 
is in a land of revolutions. Nevertheless, its great ex 
tent and the long perspective of its avenues give this 
desolate boskage a certain majesty; just as its shabbi- 
ness places it in agreement with one of the strongest 
impressions of the chateau. You follow one of these 
long perspectives a proportionate time, and at last you 
see the chimneys and pinnacles of Chambord rise ap 
parently out of the ground. The filling-in of the wide 
moats that formerly surrounded it has, in vulgar par 
lance, let it down, and given it an appearance of top- 
heaviness that is at the same time a magnificent Orien 
talism. The towers, the turrets, the cupolas, the gables, 
the lanterns, the chimneys, look more like the spires 
of a city than the salient points of a single building. 
You emerge from the avenue and find yourself at the 
foot of an enormous fantastic mass. Chambord has a 
strange mixture of society and solitude. A little village 
clusters within view of its stately windows, and a couple 
of inns near by offer entertainment to pilgrims. These 
things, of course, are incidents of the political pro 
scription which hangs its thick veil over the place. 
Chambord is truly royal, royal in its great scale, its 
grand air, its indifference to common considerations. 
If a cat may look at a king, a palace may look at a 
tavern. I enjoyed my visit to this extraordinary struc 
ture as much as if I had been a legitimist; and indeed 
there is something interesting in any monument of a 
great system, any bold presentation of a tradition. 

You leave your vehicle at one of the inns, which 
are very decent and tidy, and in which every one is 
very civil, as if in this latter respect the influence of 
the old regime pervaded the neighborhood, and you 
walk across the grass and the gravel to a small door, 
a door infinitely subordinate and conferring no title 
of any kind on those who enter it. Here you ring a 
bell, which a highly respectable person answers (a person
perceptibly affiliated, again, to the old regime), 
after which she ushers you across a vestibule into an 
inner court. Perhaps the strongest impression I got 
at Chambord came to me as I stood in this court. 
The woman who admitted me did not come with 
me; I was to find my guide somewhere else. The 
specialty of Chambord is its prodigious round towers. 
There are, I believe, no less than eight of them, 
placed at each angle of the inner and outer square of 
buildings; for the castle is in the form of a larger 
structure which encloses a smaller one. One of these 
towers stood before me in the court; it seemed to 
fling its shadow over the place; while above, as I 
looked up, the pinnacles and gables, the enormous 
chimneys, soared into the bright blue air. The place 
was empty and silent; shadows of gargoyles, of extra 
ordinary projections, were thrown across the clear 
gray surfaces. One felt that the whole thing was 
monstrous. A cicerone appeared, a languid young 
man in a rather shabby livery, and led me about with 
a mixture of the impatient and the desultory, of con 
descension and humility. I do not profess to under 
stand the plan of Chambord, and I may add that I 
do not even desire to do so; for it is much more 
entertaining to think of it, as you can so easily, as an 
irresponsible, insoluble labyrinth. Within, it is a 
wilderness of empty chambers, a royal and romantic 
barrack. The exiled prince to whom it gives its title 
has not the means to keep up four hundred rooms; 
he contents himself with preserving the huge ontside. 
The repairs of the prodigious roof alone must absorb 
a large part of his revenue. The great feature of 
the interior is the celebrated double staircase, rising 
straight through the building, with two courses of 
steps, so that people may ascend and descend without 
meeting. This staircase is a truly majestic piece of 
humor; it gives you the note, as it were, of Chambord. 
It opens on each landing to a vast guard-room, in 
four arms, radiations of the winding shaft. My guide 
made me climb to the great open-work lantern which, 
springing from the roof at the termination of the 
rotund staircase (surmounted here by a smaller one), 
forms the pinnacle of the bristling crown of Cham- . 
bord. This lantern is tipped with a huge fleur-de-lis j 
in stone, the only one, I believe, that the Revolution 
did not succeed in pulling down. Here, from narrow 
windows, you look over the wide, flat country and the 
tangled, melancholy park, with the rotation of its 
straight avenues. Then you walk about the roof, in 
a complication of galleries, terraces, balconies, through 
the multitude of chimneys and gables. This roof, 
which is in itself a sort of castle in the air, has an 
extravagant, faboulus quality, and with its profuse 
ornamentation, the salamander of Francis I. is a con 
stant motive, its lonely pavements, its sunny niches, 
the balcony that looks down over the closed and 
grass-grown main entrance, a strange, half-sad, half- 
brilliant charm. The stone-work is covered with fine 
mould. There are places that reminded me of some 
of those quiet, mildewed corners of courts and ter 
races, into which the traveller who wanders through 
the Vatican looks down from neglected windows. They 
show you two or three furnished rooms, with Bourbon 
portraits, hideous tapestries from the ladies of France, 
a collection of the toys of the enfant du miracle, all 
military and of the finest make. "Tout cela fonctionne," 
the guide said of these miniature weapons; 
and I wondered, if he should take it into his head to 
fire off his little canon, how much harm the Comte de 
Chambord would do. 


From below, the castle would look crushed by 
the redundancy of its upper protuberances if it were 
not for the enormous girth of its round towers, which 
appear to give it a robust lateral development. These 
towers, however, fine as they are in their way, struck 
me as a little stupid; they are the exaggeration of 
an exaggeration. In a building erected after the days 
of defence, and proclaiming its peaceful character from 
its hundred embroideries and cupolas, they seem 
to indicate a want of invention. I shall risk the ac 
cusation of bad taste if I say that, impressive as it is, 
the Chateau de Chambord seemed to me to have al 
together a little of that quality of stupidity. The 
trouble is that it represents nothing very particular; 
it has not happened, in spite of sundry vicissitudes, 
to have a very interesting history. Compared with 
that of Blois and Amboise, its past is rather vacant; 
and one feels to a certain extent the contrast between 
its pompous appearance and its spacious but some 
what colorless annals. It had indeed the good for 
tune to be erected by Francis I., whose name by itself 
expresses a good deal of history. Why he should 
have built a palace in those sandy plains will ever 
remain an unanswered question, for kings have never 
been obliged to give reasons. In addition to the fact 
that the country was rich in game and that Francis 
was a passionate hunter, it is suggested by M. de la 
Saussaye, the author of the very complete little history 
of Chambord which you may buy at the bookseller 's 
at Blois, that he was governed in his choice of the 





site by the accident of a charming woman having 
formerly lived there. The Comtesse de Thoury had 
a manor in the neighborhood, and the Comtesse de 
Thoury had been the object of a youthful passion on 
the part of the most susceptible of princes before his 
accession to the throne. This great pile was reared, 
therefore, according to M. de la Saussaye, as a souvenir 
de premieres amours! It is certainly a very massive 
memento; and if these tender passages were propor 
tionate to the building that commemorates them, they 
were tender indeed. There has been much discus 
sion as to the architect employed by Francis L, and 
the honor of having designed this splendid residence 
has been claimed for several of the Italian artists who 
early in the sixteenth century came to seek patronage 
in France. It seems well established to-day, however, 
that Chambord was the work neither of Primaticcio, 
of Vignola, nor of II Rosso, all of whom have left 
some trace of their sojourn in France; but of an 
obscure yet very complete genius, Pierre Nepveu, 
known as Pierre Trinqueau, who is designated in the 
papers which preserve in some degree the history of 
the origin of the edifice, as the maistre de I ceuvre de 
maqonnerie. Behind this modest title, apparently, we 
must recognize one of the most original talents of 
the French Renaissance; and it is a proof of the vigor 
of the artistic life of that period that, brilliant pro 
duction being everywhere abundant, an artist of so 
high a value should not have been treated by his con- 





temporaries as a celebrity. We manage things very 
differently to-day. 

The immediate successors of Francis I. continued 
to visit Chambord; but it was neglected by Henry IV., 
and was never afterwards a favorite residence of any 
French king. Louis XIV. appeared there on several 
occasions, and the apparition was characteristically 
brilliant; but Chambord could not long detain a 
monarch who had gone to the expense of creating a 
Versailles ten miles from Paris. With Versailles, Fon- 
tainebleau, Saint-Germain, and Saint-Cloud within easy 
reach of their capital, the later French sovereigns had 
little reason to take the air in the dreariest province 
of their kingdom. Chambord therefore suffered from 
royal indifference, though in the last century a use 
was found for its deserted halls. In 1725 it was oc 
cupied by the luckless Stanislaus Leszczynski, who 
spent the greater part of his life in being elected 
King of Poland and being ousted from his .throne, 
and who, at this time a refugee in France, had found 
a compensation for some of his misfortunes in marry 
ing his daughter to Louis XV. He lived eight years 
at Chambord, and filled up the moats of the castle. 
In 1748 it found an illustrious tenant in the person 
of Maurice de Saxe, the victor of Fontenoy, who, how 
ever, two years after he had taken possession of it, 
terminated a life which would have been longer had 
he been less determined to make it agreeable. The 
Revolution, of course, was not kind to Chambord. 





It despoiled it in so far as possible of every vestige 
of its royal origin, and swept like a whirlwind through 
apartments to which upwards of two centuries had 
contributed a treasure of decoration and furniture. In 
that wild blast these precious things were destroyed 
or forever scattered. In 1791 an odd proposal was 
made to the French Government by a company of 
English Quakers who had conceived the bold idea of 
establishing in the palace a manufacture of some 
peaceful commodity not to-day recorded. Napoleon 
allotted Chambord, as a "dotation," to one of his 
marshals, Berthier, for whose benefit it was converted, 
in Napoleonic fashion, into the so-called principality 
of Wagram. By the Princess of Wagram, the marshal 's 
widow, it was, after the Restoration, sold to the 
trustees of a national subscription which had been 
established for the purpose of presenting it to the in 
fant Duke of Bordeaux, then prospective King of 
France. The presentation was duly made; but the 
Comte" de Chambord, who had changed his title in 
recognition of the gift, was despoiled of his property 
by the Government of Louis Philippe. He appealed 
for redress to the tribunals of his country; and the 
consequence of his appeal was an interminable litiga 
tion, by which, however, finally, after the lapse of 
twenty-five years, he was established in his rights. In 
1871 he paid his first visit to the domain which had 
been offered him half a century before, a term of 
which he had spent forty years in exile. It was from 
Chambord that he dated his famous letter of the 5th 

  

of July of that year, the letter, directed to his so- 
called subjects, in which he waves aloft the white 
flag of the Bourbons. This amazing epistle , which is 
virtually an invitation to the French people to re 
pudiate, as their national ensign, that immortal tricolor, 
the flag of the Revolution and the Empire, under 
which they have won the glory which of all glories 
has hitherto been dearest to them, and which is as 
sociated with the most romantic, the most heroic, the 
epic, the consolatory, period of their history, this 
luckless manifesto, I say, appears to give the measure 
of the political wisdom of the excellent Henry V. It 
is the most factitious proposal ever addressed to an 
eminently ironical nation. 

On the whole, Chambord makes a great impression ; 
and the hour I was there, while the yellow afternoon 
light slanted upon the September woods, there was a 
dignity in its desolation. It spoke, with a muffled 
but audible voice, of the vanished monarchy,  which 
had been so strong, so splendid, but to-day has be 
come a sort of fantastic vision, like the cupolas and 
chimneys that rose before me. I thought, while I 
lingered there, of all the fine things it takes to make 
up such a monarchy; and how one of them is a su 
perfluity of mouldering, empty palaces. Chambord is 
touching, that is the best word for it; and if the 
hopes of another restoration are in the follies of the 
Republic, a little reflection on that eloquence of ruin 
ought to put the Republic on its guard. A sentimental 
tourist may venture to remark that in the presence of 





several chateaux which appeal in this mystical manner 
to the retrospective imagination, it cannot afford to be 
foolish. I thought of all this as I drove back to Blois 
by the way of the Chateau de Cheverny. The road 
took us out of the park of Chambord, but through a 
region of flat woodland, where the trees were not 
mighty, and again into the prosy plain of the Sologne, 
a thankless soil, all of it, I believe , but lately much 
amended by the magic of cheerful French industry 
and thrift. The light had already begun to fade, and 
my drive reminded me of a passage in some rural 
novel of Madame Sand. I passed a couple of timber 
and plaster churches, which looked very old, black, 
and crooked, and had lumpish wooden porches and 
galleries encircling the base. By the time I reached 
Cheverny, the clear twilight had approached. It was 
late to ask to be allowed to visit an inhabited house; 
but it was the hour at which I like best to visit almost 
anything. My coachman drew up before a gateway, 
in a high wall , which opened upon a short avenue, 
along which I took my way on foot; the coachmen in 
those parts being, for reasons best known to them 
selves, mortally averse to driving up to a house. I 
answered the challenge of a very tidy little portress, 
who sat, in company with a couple of children, en 
joying the evening air in front of her lodge, and who 
told me to walk a little further and turn to the right. 
I obeyed her to the letter, and my turn brought me 
into sight of a house as charming as an old manor in 
a fairy tale. I had but a rapid and partial view of 



Cheverny; but that view was a glimpse of perfection. 
A light, sweet mansion stood looking over a wide green 
lawn, over banks of flowers and groups of trees. It 
had a striking character of elegance, produced partly 
by a series of Renaissance busts let into circular niches 
in the facade. The place looked so private, so reserved, 
that it seemed an act of violence to ring, a stranger 
and foreigner, at the graceful door. But if I had not 
rung I should be unable to express as it is such a 
pleasure to do my sense of the exceeding courtesy 
with which this admirable house is shown. It was 
near the dinner-hour, the most sacred hour of the 
day; but I was freely conducted into the inhabited 
apartments. They are extremely beautiful. What I 
chiefly remember is the charming staircase of white 
embroidered stone, and the great salle des gardes and 
chambre a coucher dn roi on the second floor. Che 
verny, built in 1634, i g f a much later date than the 
other royal residences of this part of France; it be 
longs to the end of the Renaissance, and has a touch 
of the rococo. The guard-room is a superb apartment; 
and as it contains little save its magnificent ceiling 
and fireplace and certain dim tapestries on its walls, 
you the more easily take the measure of its noble 
proportions. The servant opened the shutters of a 
single window, and the last rays of the twilight slanted 
into the rich brown gloom. It was in the same pic 
turesque fashion that I saw the bedroom (adjoining) of 
Henry IV., where a legendary-looking bed, draped in 
folds long unaltered, defined itself in the haunted 





dusk. Cheverny remains to me a very charming, a 
partly mysterious vision. I drove back to Blois in the 
dark, some nine miles, through the forest of Russy, 
which belongs to the State, and which, though con 
sisting apparently of small timber, looked under the 
stars sufficiently vast and primeval. There was a damp 
autumnal smell and the occasional sound of a stirring 
thing; and as I moved through the evening air I 
thought of Francis I. and Henry IV. 



VI. 

You may go to Amboise either from Blois or from 
Tours; it is about half-way between these towns. The 
great point is to go, especially if you have put it off 
repeatedly; and to go, if possible, on a day when the 
great view of the Loire, which you enjoy from the 
battlements and terraces, presents itself under a friendly 
sky. Three persons, of whom the author of these 
lines was one, spent the greater part of a perfect 
Sunday morning in looking at it. It was astonishing, 
in the course of the rainiest season in the memory of 
the oldest Tourangeau, how many perfect days we 
found to our hand. The town of Amboise lies, like 
Tours, on the left bank of the river, a little white- 
faced town, staring across an admirable bridge, and 
leaning, behind, as it were, against the pedestal of 
rock on which the dark castle masses itself. The town 
is so small, the pedestal so big, and the castle so high 



and striking, that the clustered houses at the base of 
the rock are like the crumbs that have fallen from a 
well-laden table. You pass among them, however, to 
ascend by a circuit to the chateau, which you attack, 
obliquely, from behind. It is the property of the 
Comte de Paris, another pretender to the French 
throne; having come to him remotely, by inheritance, 
from his ancestor, the Due de Penthievre, who toward 
the close of the last century bought it from the crown, 
which had recovered it after a lapse. Like the castle 
of Blois it has been injured and defaced by base uses, 
but, unlike the castle of Blois, it has not been com 
pletely restored. "It is very, very dirty, but very 
curious," it is in these terms that I heard it described 
by an English lady, who was generally to be found 
engaged upon a tattered Tauchnitz in the little salon 
de lecture of the hotel at Tours. The description is 
not inaccurate; but it should be said that if part of 
the dirtiness of Amboise is the result of its having 
served for years as a barrack and as a prison, p art of 
it comes from the presence of restoring stone-masons, 
who have woven over a considerable portion of it a 
mask of scaffolding. There is a good deal of neatness 
as well, and the restoration of some of the parts seems 
finished. This process, at Amboise, consists for the 
most part of simply removing the vulgar excrescences 
of the last two centuries. 

The interior is virtually a blank, the old apart 
ments having been chopped up into small modern 
rooms; it will have to be completely reconstructed. A 



  

worthy woman, with a military profile and that sharp, 
positive manner which the goodwives who show you 
through the chateaux of Touraine are rather apt to 
have, and in whose high respectability, to say nothing 
of the frill of her cap and the cut of her thick brown 
dress, my companions and I thought we discovered 
the particular note, or nuance, of Orleanism, a com 
petent, appreciative, peremptory person, I say, at 
tended us through the particularly delightful hour we 
spent upon the ramparts of Amboise. Denuded and 
disfeatured within, and bristling without with brick 
layers ladders, the place was yet extraordinarily im 
pressive and interesting. I should confess that we 
spent a great deal of time in looking at the view. 
Sweet was the view, and magnificent; we preferred it 
so much to certain portions of the interior, and to oc 
casional effusions of historical information, that the 
old lady with the profile sometimes lost patience with 
us. We laid ourselves open to the charge of pre 
ferring it even to the little chapel of Saint Hubert, 
which stands on the edge of the great terrace, and 
has, over the portal, a wonderful sculpture of the mi 
raculous hunt of that holy man. In the way of plastic 
art this elaborate scene is the gem of Amboise. It 
seemed to us that we had never been in a place where 
there are so many points of vantage to look down 
from. In the matter of position Amboise is certainly 
supreme among the old houses of the Loire; and I 
say this with a due recollection of the claims of Chau- 
mont and of Loches, which latter, by the way (ex- 





cuse the afterthought), is not on the Loire. The plat 
forms, the bastions, the terraces, the high-perched 
windows and balconies, the hanging gardens and dizzy 
crenellations , of this complicated structure, keep you 
in perpetual intercourse with an immense horizon. 
The great feature of the place is the obligatory round 
tower which occupies the northern end of it, and 
which has now been completely restored. It is of 
astounding size, a fortress in itself, and contains, 
instead of a staircase, a wonderful inclined plane, so 
wide and gradual that a coach and four may be driven 
to the top. This colossal cylinder has to-day no 
visible use; but it corresponds, happily enough, with 
the great circle of the prospect. The gardens of Am- 
boise, perched in the air, covering the irregular rem 
nants of the platform on which the castle stands, and 
making up in picturesqueness what they lack in ex 
tent, constitute of course but a scanty domain. But 
bathed, as we found them, in the autumn sunshine, 
and doubly private from their aerial site, they offered 
irresistible opportunities for a stroll, interrupted, as 
one leaned against their low parapets, by long, con 
templative pauses. I remember, in particular, a certain 
terrace, planted with clipped limes, upon which we 
looked down from the summit of the big tower. It 
seemed from that point to be absolutely necessary to 
one 's happiness to go down and spend the rest of the 
morning there; it was an ideal place to walk to and 
fro and talk. Our venerable conductress, to whom 
our relation had gradually become more filial, per- 



  

milled us to gratify this innocent wish, to the extent, 
that is, of taking a turn or two under the mossy tilleuls. 
At the end of this terrace is the low door, in a wall, 
against the top of which, in 1498, Charles VIII. , ac 
cording to an accepted tradition, knocked his head to 
such good purpose that he died. It was within the 
walls of Amboise that his widow, Anne of Brittany, 
already in mourning for three children, two of whom 
we have seen commemorated in sepulchral marble at 
Tours, spent the first violence of that grief which was 
presently dispelled by a union with her husband 's 
cousin and successor, Louis XH. Amboise was a fre 
quent resort of the French Court during the sixteenth 
century; it was here that the young Mary Stuart spent 
sundry hours of her first marriage. The wars of re 
ligion-have left here the ineffaceable stain which they 
left wherever they passed. An imaginative visitor at 
Amboise to-day may fancy that the traces of blood 
are mixed with the red rust on the crossed iron bars 
of the grim-looking balcony, to which the heads of 
the Huguenots executed on the discovery of the con 
spiracy of La Renaudie are rumored to have been 
suspended. There was room on the stout balustrade 
an admirable piece of work for a ghastly array. The 
same rumor represents Catherine de Medici and the 
young queen as watching from this balcony the noyades 
of the captured Huguenots in the Loire. The facts of 
history are bad enough; the fictions are, if possible, 
worse; but there is little doubt that the future Queen 
of Scots learnt the first lessons of life at a horrible 





school. If in subsequent years she was a prodigy of 
innocence and virtue, it was not the fault of her whilom 
mother-in-law, of her uncles of the house of Guise, or 
of the examples presented to her either at the 
windows of the castle of Amboise or in its more pri 
vate recesses. 

It was difficult to believe in these dark deeds, how 
ever, as we looked through the golden morning at the 
placidity of the far-shining Loire. The ultimate con 
sequence of this spectacle was a desire to follow the 
river as far as the castle of Chaumont. It is true 
that the cruelties practised of old at Amboise might 
have seemed less phantasmal to persons destined to 
suffer from a modern form of inhumanity. The mis 
tress of the little inn at the base of the castle-rock 
it stands very pleasantly beside the river, and we had 
breakfasted there declared to us that the Chateau de 
Chaumont, which is often during the autumn closed 
to visitors, was at that particular moment standing so 
wide open to receive us that it was our duty Co hire 
one of her carriages and drive thither with speed. 
This assurance was so satisfactory that we presently 
found ourselves seated in this wily woman 's most com 
modious vehicle, and rolling, neither too fast nor too 
slow, along the margin of the Loire. The drive of 
about an hour, beneath constant clumps of chestnuts, 
was charming enough to have been taken for itself; 
and indeed, when we reached Chaumont, we saw that 
our reward was to be simply the usual reward of 
virtue, the consciousness of having attempted the 



  

right. The Chateau de Chaumont was inexorably 
closed; so we learned from a talkative lodge-keeper, 
who gave what grace she could to her refusal. This 
good woman 's dilemma was almost touching; she 
wished to reconcile two impossibles. The castle was 
not to be visited, for the family of its master was 
staying there; and yet she was loath to turn away a 
party of which she was good enough to say that it had 
a grand genre; for, as she also remarked, she had her 
living to earn. She tried to arrange a compromise, 
one of the elements of which was that we should 
descend from our carriage and trudge up a hill which 
would bring us to a designated point, where, over the 
paling of the garden, we might obtain an oblique and 
surreptitious view of a small portion of the castle walls. 
This suggestion led us to inquire (of each other) to 
what degree of baseness it is allowed to an enlightened 
lover of the picturesque to resort, in order to catch a 
glimpse of a feudal chateau. One of our trio decided, 
characteristically, against any form of derogation; so 
she sat in the carriage and sketched some object that 
was public property, while her two companions, who 
were not so proud, trudged up a muddy ascent which 
formed a kind of back-stairs. It is perhaps no more 
than they deserved that they were disappointed. Chau 
mont is feudal, if you please; but the modern spirit is 
in possession. It forms a vast clean-scraped mass, 
with big round towers, ungarnished with a leaf of ivy 
or a patch of moss, surrounded by gardens of moderate 
extent (save where the muddy lane of which I speak 





passes near it), and looking rather like an enormously 
magnified villa. The great merit of Chaumont is its 
position, which almost exactly resembles that of Am- 
boise; it sweeps the river up and down, and seems to 
look over half the province. This, however, was better 
appreciated as, after coming down the hill and re- 
entering the carriage, we drove across the long sus 
pension-bridge which crosses the Loire just beyond 
the village, and over which we made our way to the 
small station of Onzain, at the farther end, to take 
the train back to Tours. Look back from the middle 
of this bridge; the whole picture composes, as the 
painters say. The towers, the pinnacles, the fair front 
of the chateau, perched above its fringe of garden and 
the rusty roofs of the village, and facing the afternoon 
sky, which is reflected also in the great stream that 
sweeps below, all this makes a contribution to your 
happiest memories of Touraine. 



VII. 

WE never went to Chinon; it was a fatality. We 
planned it a dozen times; but the weather interfered, 
or the trains didn 't suit, or one of the party was 
fatigued with the adventures of the day before. This 
excursion was so much postponed that it was finally 
postponed to everything. Besides, we had to go to 
Chenonceaux, to Azay-le-Rideau, to Larigeais, to Loches. 
So I have not the memory of Chinon; I have only the 



  

regret. But regret, as well as memory, has its visions; 
especially when, like memory, it is assisted by photo 
graphs. The castle of Chinon in this form appears 
to me as an enormous ruin, a mediaeval fortress, of 
the extent almost of a city. It covers a hill above the 
Vienne, and after being impregnable in its time is in 
destructible to-day. (I risk this phrase in the face of 
the prosaic truth. Chinon, in the days when it was a 
prize, more than once suffered capture, and at present 
it is crumbling inch by inch. It is apparent, however, 
I believe, that these inches encroach little upon acres 
of masonry.) It was in the castle that Jeanne Dare 
had her first interview with Charles VH, and it is in 
the town that Francois Rabelais is supposed to have 
been born. To the castle, moreover, the lover of the 
picturesque is earnestly recommended to direct his 
steps. But one cannot do everything, and I w r ould 
rather have missed Chinon than Chenonceaux. For 
tunate exceedingly were the few hours that we passed 
at this exquisite residence. 

"In 1747," says Jean- Jacques Rousseau, in his 
"Confessions," "we went to spend the autumn in Tou- 
raine, at the Chateau of Chenonceaux., a royal resi 
dence upon the Cher, built by Henry ll. for Diana of 
Poitiers, whose initials are still to be seen there, and 
now in possession of M. Dupin, the farmer-general. 
We amused ourselves greatly in this fine spot; the liv 
ing was of the best, and I became as fat as a monk. 
We made a great deal of music, and acted comedies." 

This is the only description that Rousseau gives 





of one of the most romantic houses in France, and of 
an episode that must have counted as one of the most 
agreeable in his uncomfortable career. The eighteenth 
century contented itself with general epithets; and 
when Jean- Jacques has said that Chenonceaux was a 
"beau lieu," he thinks himself absolved from further 
characterization. We later sons of time have, both for 
our pleasure and our pain, invented the fashion of 
special terms, and I am afraid that even common 
decency obliges me to pay some larger tribute than 
this to the architectural gem of Touraine. Fortunately 
I can discharge my debt with gratitude. In going 
from Tours you leave the valley of the Loire and enter 
that of the Cher, and at the end of about an hour you 
see the turrets of the castle on your right, among the 
trees, down in the meadows, beside the quiet little 
river. The station and the village are about ten 
minutes walk from the chateau, and the village con 
tains a very tidy inn, where, if you are not in too 
great a hurry to commune with the shades of the royal 
favorite and the jealous queen, you will perhaps stop 
and order a dinner to be ready for you in the evening. 
A straight, tall avenue leads to the grounds of the 
castle; what I owe to exactitude compels me to add 
that it is crossed by the railway-line. The place is so 
arranged, however, that the chateau need know nothing 
of passing trains, which pass, indeed, though the 
grounds are not large, at a very sufficient distance. 
I may add that the trains throughout this part of 
France have a noiseless, desultory, dawdling, almost 



stationary quality, which makes them less of an offence 
than usual. It was a Sunday afternoon, and the light 
was yellow, save under the trees of the avenue, where, 
in spite of the waning of September, it was duskily 
green. Three or four peasants, in festal attire, were 
strolling about. On a bench at the beginning of the 
avenue, sat a man with two women. As I advanced 
with my companions he rose, after a sudden stare, 
and approached me with a smile, in which (to be 
Johnsonian for a moment) certitude was mitigated by 
modesty and eagerness was embellished with respect. 
He came toward me with a salutation that I had seen 
before, and I am happy to say that after an instant I 
ceased to be guilty of the brutality of not knowing 
where. There was only one place in the world where 
people , smile like that, only one place where the art 
of salutation has that perfect grace. This excellent 
creature used to crook his arm, in Venice, when I 
stepped into my gondola; and I now laid my hand on 
that member with the familiarity of glad recognition; 
for it was only surprise that had kept me even for a 
moment from accepting the genial Francesco as an 
ornament of the landscape of Touraine. What on 
earth the phrase is the right one was a Venetian 
gondolier doing at Chenonceaux? He had been 
brought from Venice, gondola and all, by the mistress 
of the charming house, to paddle about on the Cher. 
Our meeting was affectionate, though there was a kind 
of violence in seeing him so far from home. He was 
too well dressed, too well fed; he had grown stout, 





and his nose had the tinge of good claret. He re 
marked that the life of the household to which he had 
the honor to belong was that of a casa regia; which 
must have been a great change for poor Checco, whose 
habits in Venice were not regal. However, he was 
the sympathetic Checco still; and for five minutes 
after I left him I thought less about the little plea 
sure-house by the Cher than about the palaces of the 
Adriatic. 

But attention was not long in coming round to the 
charming structure that presently rose before us. The 
pale yellow front of the chateau, the small scale of 
which is at first a surprise, rises beyond a consider 
able court, at the entrance of which a massive and 
detached round tower, with a turret on its brow (a 
relic of the building that preceded the actual villa), 
appears to keep guard. This court is not enclosed 
or is enclosed, at least, only by the gardens, portions 
of which are at present in a state of violent reforma 
tion. Therefore, though Chenonceaux has no* great 
height, its delicate fajade stands up boldly enough. 
This faade, one of the most finished things in Tou- 
raine, consists of two stories, surmounted by an attic 
which, as so often in the buildings of the French 
Renaissance, is the richest part of the house. The 
high-pitched roof contains three windows of beautiful 
design, covered with embroidered caps and flowering 
into crocketed spires. The window above the door 
is deeply niched; it opens upon a balcony made in 
the form of a double pulpit, one of the most charm- 



  

ing features of the front. Chenonceaux is not large, 
as I say, but into its delicate compass is packed a 
great deal of history, history which differs from that 
of Amboise and Blois in being of the private and sen 
timental kind. The echoes of the place, faint and far 
as they are to-day, are not political, but personal. 
Chenonceaux dates, as a residence, from the year 1515, 
when the shrewd Thomas Bohier, a public functionary 
who had grown rich in handling the finances of Nor 
mandy, and had acquired the estate from a family 
which, after giving it many feudal lords, had fallen 
into poverty, erected the present structure on the 
foundations of an old mill. The design is attributed, 
with I know not what justice, to Pierre Nepveu, alias 
Trinqueau, the audacious architect of Chambord. On 
the death of Bohier the house passed to his son, who, 
however, was forced, under cruel pressure, to surrender 
it to the crown, in compensation for a so-called deficit 
in the accounts of the late superintendent of the trea 
sury. Francis I. held the place till his death; but 
Henry II., on ascending the throne, presented it out of 
hand to that mature charmer, the admired of two 
generations, Diana of Poitiers. Diana enjoyed it till 
the death of her protector; but when this event oc 
curred, the widow of the monarch, who had been 
obliged to submit in silence, for years, to the ascend 
ency of a rival, took the most pardonable of all the 
revenges with which the name of Catherine de Medici 
is associated, and turned her out-of-doors. Diana was 
not in want of refuges, and Catherine went through 





the form of giving her Chaumont in exchange; but 
there was only one Chenonceaux. Catherine devoted 
herself to making the place more completely unique. 
The feature that renders it sole of its kind is not ap 
preciated till you wander round to either side of the 
house. If a certain springing lightness is the charac 
teristic of Chenonceaux, if it bears in every line the 
aspect of a place of recreation, a place intended for 
delicate, chosen pleasures, nothing can confirm this 
expression better than the strange, unexpected move 
ment with which, from behind, it carries itself across 
the river. The earlier building stands in the water; 
it had inherited the foundations of the mill destroyed 
by Thomas Bohier. The first step, therefore, had been 
taken upon solid piles of masonry; and the ingenious 
Catherine she was a raffinee simply proceeded to 
take the others. She continued the piles to the op 
posite bank of the Cher, and over them she threw a 
long, straight gallery of two stories. This part of the 
chateau, which looks simply like a house built upon a 
bridge and occupying its entire length, is of course 
the great curiosity of Chenonceaux. It forms on each 
floor a charming corridor, which, within, is illuminated 
from either side by the flickering river -light. The 
architecture of these galleries, seen from without, is 
less elegant than that of the main building, but the 
aspect of the whole thing is delightful. I have spoken 
of Chenonceaux as a "villa," using the word ad 
visedly, for the place is neither a castle nor a palace. 
It is a very exceptional villa, but it has the villa- 



  

quality, the look of being intended for life in com 
mon. This look is not at all contradicted by the wing 
across the Cher, which only suggests intimate pleasures, 
as the French say, walks in pairs, on rainy days; 
games and dances on autumn nights; together with as 
much as may be of moonlighted dialogue (or silence) 
in the course of evenings more genial still, in the well- 
marked recesses of windows. 

It is safe to say that such things took place there 
in the last century, during the kindly reign of Mon 
sieur and Madame Dupin. This period presents itself 
as the happiest in the annals of Chenonceaux. I know 
not what festive train the great Diana may have led, 
and my imagination, I am afraid, is only feebly kindled 
by the records of the luxurious pastimes organized on 
the banks of the Cher by the terrible daughter of the 
Medici, whose appreciation of the good things of life 
was perfectly consistent with a failure to perceive why 
others should live to enjoy them. The best society 
that ever assembled there was collected at Chenon 
ceaux during the middle of the eighteenth century. 
This was surely, in France at least, the age of good 
society, the period when it w T as well for appreciative 
people to have been born. Such people should of 
course have belonged to the fortunate few, and not to 
the miserable many; for the prime condition of a 
society being good is that it be not too large. The 
sixty years that preceded the French Revolution were 
the golden age of fireside talk and of those pleasures 
which proceed from the presence of women in whom 

 

the social art is both instinctive and acquired. The 
women of that period were, above all, good company; 
the fact is attested by a thousand documents. Chenon- 
ceaux offered a perfect setting to free conversation; 
and infinite joyous discourse must have mingled with 
the liquid murmur of the Cher. Claude Dupin was 
not only a great man of business, but a man of honor 
and a patron of knowledge; and his wife was gracious, 
clever, and wise. They had acquired this famous pro 
perty by purchase (from one of the Bourbons; for 
Chenonceaux, for two centuries after the death of 
Catherine de Medici, remained constantly in princely 
hands), and it was transmitted to their son, Dupin de 
Francueil, grandfather of Madame George Sand. This 
lady, in her Correspondence, lately published, describes 
a visit that she paid, more than thirty years ago, to 
those members of her family who were still in posses 
sion. The owner of Chenonceaux to-day is the daughter 
of an Englishman naturalized in France. But I have 
wandered far from my story, which is simply a sketch 
of the surface of the place. Seen obliquely, from either 
side, in combination with its bridge and gallery, the 
chateau is singular and fantastic, a striking example 
of a w r ilful and capricious conception. Unfortunately, 
all caprices are not so graceful and successful, and I 
grudge the honor of this one to the false and blood- 
polluted Catherine. (To be exact, I believe the arches 
of the bridge were laid by the elderly Diana. It was 
Catherine, however, who completed the monument.) 
Within, the house has been, as usual, restored. The 



  

staircases and ceilings, in all the old royal residences 
of this part of France, are the parts that have suffered 
least; many of them have still much of the life of the 
old time about them. Some of the chambers of Che- 
nonceaux, however, encumbered as they are with mo 
dern detail, derive a sufficiently haunted and suggestive 
look from the deep setting of their beautiful windows, 
which thickens the shadows and makes dark corners. 
There is a charming little Gothic chapel, with its apse 
hanging over the water, fastened to the left flank of 
the house. Some of the upper balconies, which look 
along the outer face of the gallery, and either up or 
down the river, are delightful protected nooks. We 
walked through the lower gallery to the other bank of 
the Cher; this fine apartment appeared to be for the 
moment a purgatory of ancient furniture. It terminates 
rather abruptly; it simply stops, with a blank wall. 
There ought, of course, to have been a pavilion here, 
though I prefer very much the old defect to any mo 
dern remedy. The wall is not so blank, however, but 
that it contains a door which opens on a rusty draw 
bridge. This drawbridge traverses the small gap which 
divides the end of the gallery from the bank of the 
stream. The house, therefore, does not literally rest 
on opposite edges of the Cher, but rests on one and 
just fails to rest on the other. The pavilion would 
have made that up; but after a moment we ceased to 
miss this imaginary feature. We passed the little 
drawbridge, and wandered awhile beside the river. 
From this opposite bank the mass of the chateau looked 


more charming than ever; and the little peaceful, lazy 
Cher, where two or three men were fishing in the 
eventide, flowed under the clear arches and between 
the solid pedestals of the part that spanned it, with 
the softest, vaguest light on its bosom. This was the 
right perspective; we were looking across the river of 
time. The whole scene was deliciously mild. The 
moon came up; we passed back through the gallery 
and strolled about a little longer in the gardens. It 
was very still. I met my old gondolier in the twilight. 
He showed me his gondola; but I hated, somehow, to 
see it there. I don't like, as the French say, to meler 
les genres. A gondola in a little flat French river? 
The image was not less irritating, if less injurious, than 
the spectacle of a steamer in the Grand Canal, which 
had driven me away from Venice a year and a half 
before. We took our way back to the Grand Monarque, 
and waited in the little inn-parlor for a late train to 
Tours. We were not impatient, for we had an ex 
cellent dinner to occupy us; and even after we had 
dined we were still content to sit awhile and exchange 
remarks upon the superior civilization of France. 
Where else, at a village inn, should we have fared so 
well? Where else should we have sat down to our 
refreshment without condescension? There were two 
or three countries in which it would not have been 
happy for us to arrive hungry, on a Sunday evening, 
at so modest an hostelry. At the little inn at Chenon- 
ceaux the cuisine was not only excellent, but the ser 
vice was graceful. We were waited on by mademoiselle 



