contribute towards the vicar's Christmas dinner; among others a haunch of
venison which Mrs. Ambrose pronounced to be in the best condition. The
vicar retorted by sending to the Hall a magnificent Cottenham cheese
which, as a former Fellow of Trinity, he had succeeded in obtaining.
Moreover Mr. Ambrose himself descended to the cellar and brought up
several bottles of Audit ale which he declared must be allowed to stand
some time in the pantry in order to bring out the flavour and to be
thoroughly settled. John gave his assistance wherever it was needed and
enjoyed vastly the old-fashioned preparations for Christmas day. It was
long since the season had brought him such rejoicing and he intended to
rejoice with a good will towards men and especially towards the Ambroses.
After dinner the whole party, consisting of three highly efficient
persons and old Reynolds, adjourned to the church to complete the
decorations for the morrow.

The church of Billingsfield, known as St. Mary's, was quite large enough
to contain twice the entire population of the parish. It was built upon a
part of the foundations of an ancient abbey, and the vicar was very proud
of the monument of a crusading Earl of Oxford which he had caused to be
placed in the chancel, it having been discovered in the old chancel of
the abbey in the park, far beyond the present limits of the church. The
tower was the highest in the neighbourhood. The whole building was of
gray rubble, irregular stones set together with a crumbling cement, and
presented an appearance which, if not architecturally imposing, was at
least sufficiently venerable. At the present time the aisles were full of
heaped-up holly and wreaths; a few lamps and a considerable number of
tallow candles shed a rather feeble light amongst the pillars; a crowd of
school children, not yet washed for the morrow, were busy under the
directions of the schoolmistress in decorating the chancel; Mr. Thomas
Reid the conservative sexton was at the top of a tall ladder, presumably
using doubtful language to himself as every third nail he tried to drive
into the crevices of the stone "crooked hisself and larfed at him," as he
expressed it; the organ was playing and a dozen small boys with three or
four men were industriously practising the anthem "Arise, Shine,"
producing strains which if not calculated altogether to elevate the heart
by their harmony, would certainly have caused the hair of a sensitive
musician to rise on end; three or four of the oldest inhabitants were
leaning on their sticks in the neighbourhood of the great stove in the
middle aisle, warming themselves and grumbling that "times warn't as they
used to be;" Mr. Abraham Boosey was noisily declaring that he had
"cartlods more o' thim greens" to come, and Muggins, who had had some
beer, was stumbling cheerfully against the pews in his efforts to bring a
huge load of fir branches to the foot of Mr. Thomas Reid's long ladder.
It was a thorough Christmas scene and John Short's heart warmed as he
came back suddenly to the things which for three years had been so
familiar to him and which he had so much missed in his solitude at
Cambridge. Mr. and Mrs. Ambrose set to work and John followed their
example. Even the prickly holly leaves were pleasant to touch and there
was a homely joy in the fir branches dripping with half melted snow.

Before they had been at work very long, John was aware of a little
figure, muffled in furs and standing beside him. He looked up and saw
little Nellie's lovely face and long brown curls.

"Can't I help you, Mr. Short?" she asked timidly. "I like to help, and
they won't let me."

"Who are 'they'?" asked John kindly, but looking about for the figure of
Nellie's mother.

"The schoolmistress and Mrs. Ambrose. They said I should dirty my frock."

"Well," said John, doubtfully, "I don't know. Perhaps you would. But you
might hold the string for me--that won't hurt your clothes, you know."

"There are more greens this year," remarked Nellie, sitting down upon the
end of the choir bench where John was at work and taking the ball of
string in her hand. "Mr. Juxon has sent a lot from the park."

"He seems to be always sending things," said John, who had no reason
whatever for saying so, except that the squire had sent a hamper to the
vicarage. "Did he stay long before dinner?" he added, in the tone people
adopt when they hope to make children talk.

"Stay long where?" asked Nellie innocently.

"Oh, I thought he went into your house after we left you," answered John.

"Oh no--he did not come in," said Nellie. John continued to work in
silence. At some distance from where he was, Mrs. Goddard was talking to
Mrs. Ambrose. He could see her graceful figure, but he could hardly
distinguish her features in the gloom of the dimly-lighted church. He
longed to leave Nellie and to go and speak to her, but an undefined
feeling of hurt pride prevented him. He would not forgive her for having
taken the vicar's arm in coming home through the park; so he stayed where
he was, pricking his fingers with the holly and rather impatiently
pulling the string off the ball which Nellie held. If Mrs. Goddard wanted
to speak to him, she might come of her own accord, he thought, for he
felt that he had behaved foolishly in asking if she wished to see his
odes. Somehow, when he thought about it, the odes did not seem so good
now as they had seemed that afternoon.

Mrs. Goddard had not seen him at first, and for some time she remained in
consultation with Mrs. Ambrose. At last she turned and looking for Nellie
saw that she was seated beside John; to his great delight she came
towards him. She looked more lovely than ever, he thought; the dark fur
about her throat set off her delicate, sad face like a frame.

"Oh--are you here, too, Mr. Short?" she said.

"Hard at work, as you see," answered John. "Are you going to help, Mrs.
Goddard? Won't you help me?"

"I wanted to," said Nellie, appealing to her mother, "but they would not
let me, so I can only hold the string."

"Well, dear--we will see if we can help Mr. Short," said Mrs. Goddard
good-naturedly, and she sat down upon the choir bench.

John never forgot that delightful Christmas Eve. For nearly two hours he
never left Mrs. Goddard's side, asking her advice about every branch and
bit of holly and following out to the letter her most minute suggestions.
He forgot all about the squire and about the walk back from the park, in
the delight of having Mrs. Goddard to himself. He pushed the school
children about and spoke roughly to old Reynolds if her commands were not
instantly executed; he felt in the little crowd of village people that he
was her natural protector, and he wished he might never have anything in
the world to do save to decorate a church in her company. He grew more
and more confidential and when the work was all done he felt that he had
thoroughly established himself in her good graces and went home to dream
of the happiest day he had ever spent. The organ ceased playing, the
little choir dispersed, the school children were sent home, Mr. Abraham
Boosey retired to the bar of the Duke's Head, Muggins tenderly embraced
every tombstone he met on his way through the churchyard, the
"gentlefolk" followed Reynolds' lantern towards the vicarage, and Mr.
Thomas Reid, the conservative and melancholic sexton, put out the lights
and locked the church doors, muttering a sour laudation of more primitive
times, when "the gentlefolk minded their business."

For the second time that day, John and Mr. Ambrose walked as far as the
cottage, to see Mrs. Goddard to her home. When they parted from her and
Nellie, John was careful not to say anything more about the odes, a
subject to which Mrs. Goddard had not referred in the course of the
evening. John thanked her rather effusively for her help--he could never
have got through those choir benches without her, he said; and the vicar
added that he was very much obliged, too, and surreptitiously conveyed
to Mrs. Goddard's hand a small package intended for Miss Nellie's
Christmas stocking, from him and his wife, and which he had forgotten to
give earlier. Nellie was destined to have a fuller stocking than usual
this year, for the squire had remembered her as well as Mr. Ambrose.

John went to bed in his old room at the vicarage protesting that he had
enjoyed the first day of his holiday immensely. As he blew out the light,
he thought suddenly how often in that very room he had gone to bed
dreaming about the lady in black and composing verses to her, till
somehow the Greek terminations would get mixed up with the Latin roots,
the quantities all seemed to change places, and he used to fall asleep
with a delicious half romantic sense of happiness always unfulfilled yet
always present. And now at last it began to be fulfilled in earnest; he
had met the lady in black at last, had spent nearly half a day in her
company and was more persuaded than ever that she was really and truly
his ideal. He did not go to sleep so soon as in the old days, and he was
sorry to go to sleep at all; he wanted to enjoy all his delicious
recollections of that afternoon before he slept and, as he recapitulated
the events which had befallen him and recalled each expression of the
face that had charmed him and every intonation of the charmer's voice, he
felt that he had never been really happy before, that no amount of
success at Cambridge could give him half the delight he had
experienced during one hour in the old Billingsfield church, and that
altogether life anywhere else was not worth living. To-morrow he would
see Mrs. Goddard again, and the next day and the day after that and
then--"bother the future!" ejaculated John, and went to sleep.

He awoke early, roused by the loud clanging of the Christmas bells, and
looking out he saw that the day was fine and cold and bright as Christmas
day should be, and generally is. The hoar frost was frozen into fantastic
shapes upon his little window, the snow was clinging to the yew branches
outside and the robins were hopping and chirping over the thin crust of
frozen snow that just covered the ground. The road was hard and brown as
on the previous day, and the ice in the park would probably bear. Perhaps
Mrs. Goddard would skate in the afternoon between the services, but
then--Juxon would be there. "Never mind Juxon," quoth John to himself,
"it is Christmas day!"

At the vicarage and elsewhere, all over the land, those things were done
which delight the heart of Englishmen at the merry season. Everybody
shook hands with everybody else, everybody cried "Merry Christmas!" to
his neighbour in the street, with an intonation as though he were saying
something startlingly new and brilliant which had never been said before.
Every labourer who had a new smock-frock put it on, and those who had
none had at least a bit of new red worsted comforter about their throats
and began the day by standing at their doors in the cold morning, smoking
a "ha'p'orth o' shag" in a new clay pipe, greeting each other across the
village street. Muggins, who had spent a portion of the night in
exchanging affectionate Christmas wishes with the tombstones in the
churchyard, appeared fresh and ruddy at an early hour, clad in the long
black coat and tall hat which he was accustomed to wear when he drove Mr.
Boosey's fly on great festivals. Most of the cottages in the single
street sported a bit of holly in their windows, and altogether the
appearance of Billingsfield was singularly festive and mirthful. At
precisely ten minutes to eleven the vicar and Mrs. Ambrose, accompanied
by John, issued from the vicarage and went across the road by the private
path to the church. As they entered the porch Mr. Reid, who stood
solemnly tolling the small bell, popularly nicknamed the "Ting-tang,"
and of which the single rope passed down close to the south door,
vouchsafed John a sour smile of recognition. John felt as though he had
come home. Mrs. Goddard and Nellie appeared a moment afterwards and took
their seats in the pew traditionally belonging to the cottage, behind
that of the squire who was always early, and the sight of whose smoothly
brushed hair and brown beard was a constant source of satisfaction to
Mrs. Ambrose. John and Mrs. Ambrose sat on the opposite side of the
aisle, but John's eyes strayed very frequently towards Mrs. Goddard; so
frequently indeed that she noticed it and leaned far back in her seat to
avoid his glance. Whereupon John blushed and felt that the vicar, who was
reading the Second Lesson, had probably noticed his distraction. It was
hard to realise that two years and a half had passed since he had sat in
that same pew; perhaps, however, the presence of Mrs. Goddard helped him
to understand the lapse of time. But for her it would have been very
hard; for the vicar's voice sounded precisely as it used to sound; Mrs.
Ambrose had not lost her habit of removing one glove and putting it into
her prayer book as a mark while she found the hymn in the accompanying
volume; the bright decorations looked as they looked years ago above the
organ and round the chancel; from far down the church, just before the
sermon, came the old accustomed sound of small boys shuffling their
hobnailed shoes upon the stone floor and the audible guttural whisper of
the churchwarden admonishing them to "mind the stick;" the stained-glass
windows admitted the same pleasant light as of yore--all was unchanged.
But Mrs. Goddard and Nellie occupied the cottage pew, and their presence
alone was sufficient to mark to John the fact that he was now a man.

The service was sympathetic to John Short. He liked the simplicity of it,
even the rough singing of the choir, as compared with the solemn and
magnificent musical services of Trinity College Chapel. But it seemed
very long before it was all over and he was waiting for Mrs. Goddard
outside the church door.

There were more greetings, more "Merry Christmas" and "Many happy
returns." Mrs. Goddard looked more charming than ever and was quite as
cordial as on the previous evening.

"How much better it all looked this morning by daylight," she said.

"I think it looked very pretty last night," answered John. "There is
nothing so delightful as Christmas decorations, is there?"

"Perhaps you will come down next year and help us again?" suggested Mrs.
Goddard.

"Yes--well, I might come at Easter, for that matter," answered the young
man, who after finding it impossible to visit Billingsfield during two
years and a half, now saw no difficulty whatever in the way of making two
visits in the course of six months. "Do you still decorate at Easter?" he
asked.

"Oh yes--do you think you can come?" she said pleasantly. "I thought you
were to be very busy just then."

"Yes, that is true," answered John. "But of course I could come, you
know, if it were necessary."

"Hardly exactly necessary--" Mrs. Goddard laughed.

"The doctor told me some relaxation was absolutely indispensable for my
health," said John rather sententiously.

"You don't really look very ill--are you?" She seemed incredulous.

"Oh no, of course not--only a little overworked sometimes."

"In that case I have no doubt it would do you good," said Mrs. Goddard.

"Do you really think so?" asked John, hopefully.

"Oh--that is a matter for your doctor to decide. I cannot possibly tell,"
she answered.

"I think you would make a very good doctor, Mrs. Goddard," said John
venturing on a bolder flight.

"Really--I never thought of trying it," she replied with a little laugh.
"Good morning, Mr. Ambrose. Nellie wants to thank you for your beautiful
present. It was really too good of you."

The vicar came out of the vestry and joined the group in the path. Mrs.
Ambrose, who had been asking Tom Judd's wife about her baby, also came
up, and the squire, who had been presenting Mr. Reid with ten shillings
for his Christmas box and who looked singularly bereaved without the
faithful Stamboul at his heels, sauntered up and began congratulating
everybody. In the distance the last of the congregation, chiefly the old
women and cripples who could not keep up with the rest, hobbled away
through the white gate of the churchyard.

It had been previously agreed that if the ice would bear there should be
skating in the afternoon and the squire was anxious to inform the party
that the pond was in excellent condition.

"As black as your hat," he said cheerfully. "Stamboul and I have been
sliding all over it, so of course it would bear an ox. It did not crack
anywhere."

"Do you skate, Mrs. Goddard?" asked John.

"Not very well--not nearly so well as Nellie. But I am very fond of it."

"Will you let me push you about in a chair, then? It is capital fun."

"Very good fun for me, no doubt," answered Mrs. Goddard, laughing.

"I would rather do it than anything else," said John in a tone of
conviction. "It is splendid exercise, pushing people about in chairs."

"So it is," said the squire, heartily. "We will take turns, Mr. Short."
The suggestion did not meet with any enthusiastic response from John, who
wished Mr. Juxon were not able to skate.

Poor John, he had but one idea, which consisted simply in getting Mrs.
Goddard to himself as often and as long as possible. Unfortunately this
idea did not coincide with Mr. Juxon's views. Mr. Juxon was an older,
slower and calmer man than the enthusiastic young scholar, and though
very far from obtruding his views or making any assertion of his rights,
was equally far from forgetting them. He was a man more of actions than
words. He had been in the habit of monopolising Mrs. Goddard's society
for months and he had no intention of relinquishing his claims, even for
the charitable purpose of allowing a poor student to enjoy his Christmas
holiday and bit of romance undisturbed. If John had presented himself as
a boy, it might have been different; but John emphatically considered
himself a man, and the squire was quite willing to treat him as such,
since he desired it. That is to say he would not permit him to "cut him
out" as he would have expressed it. The result of the position in which
John and Mr. Juxon soon found themselves was to be expected.




CHAPTER VIII.


John did not sleep so peacefully nor dream so happily that night as on
the night before. The course of true love had not run smooth that
afternoon. The squire had insisted upon having his share of the lovely
Mrs. Goddard's society and she herself had not seemed greatly disturbed
at a temporary separation from John. The latter amused her for a little
while; the former held the position of a friend whose conversation she
liked better than that of other people. John was disappointed and thought
of going back to Cambridge the next day. So strong, indeed, was his
sudden desire to leave Billingsfield without finishing his visit, that
before going to bed he had packed some of his belongings into his small
portmanteau; the tears almost stood in his eyes as he busied himself
about his room and he muttered certain formulae of self-accusation as he
collected his things, saying over and over in his heart--"What a fool I
am! Why should she care for me? What am I that she should care for me?"
etc. etc. Then he opened his window and looked at the bright stars which
shone out over the old yew tree; but it was exceedingly cold, and so he
shut it again and went to bed, feeling very uncomfortable and unhappy.

But when he awoke in the morning he looked at his half-packed portmanteau
and laughed, and instead of saying "What a fool I am!" he said "What a
fool I was!"--which is generally and in most conditions of human affairs
a much wiser thing to say. Then he carefully took everything out of the
portmanteau again and replaced things as they had lain before in his
room, lest perchance Susan, the housemaid, should detect what had passed
through his mind on the previous evening and should tell Mrs. Ambrose.
And from all this it appears that John was exceedingly young, as indeed
he was, in spite of his being nearly one and twenty years of age. But
doubtless if men were willing to confess their disappointments and
foolish, impetuous resolutions, many would be found who have done
likewise, being in years much older than John Short. Unfortunately for
human nature most men would rather confess to positive wrong-doing than
to any such youthful follies as these, while they are young; and when
they are old they would rather be thought young and foolish than confess
the evil deeds they have actually done.

John, however, did not moralise upon his situation. The weather was again
fine and as he dressed his spirits rose. He became magnanimous and
resolved to forget yesterday and make the most of today. He would see
Mrs. Goddard of course; perhaps he would show her a little coldness at
first, giving her to understand that she had not treated him well on the
previous afternoon; then he would interest her by his talk--he would
repeat to her one of those unlucky odes and translate it for her benefit,
making use of the freedom he would thus get in order to make her an
unlimited number of graceful compliments. Perhaps, too, he ought to pay
more attention to Nellie, if he wished to conciliate her mother. Women,
he reflected, have such strange prejudices!

He wondered whether it would be proper for him to call upon Mrs. Goddard.
He was not quite sure about it, and he was rather ashamed of having so
little knowledge of the world; but he believed that in Billingsfield he
might run the risk. There had been talk of skating again that morning,
and so, about ten o'clock, John told Mr. Ambrose he would go for a short
walk and then join them all at the pond in the park. The project seemed
good, and he put it into execution. As he walked up the frozen road, he
industriously repeated in his mind the Greek verses he was going to
translate to Mrs. Goddard; he had no copy of them but his memory was very
good. He met half a dozen labourers, strolling about with their pipes
until it was time to go and have a pint of beer, as is their manner upon
holidays; they touched their hats to him, remembering his face well, and
he smiled happily at the rough fellows, contrasting his situation with
theirs, who from the misfortune of social prejudice were not permitted to
go and call upon Mrs. Goddard. His heart beat rather fast as he went up
to the door of the cottage, and for one unpleasant moment he again
doubted whether it was proper for him to make such an early visit. But
being bent on romantic adventure he rang boldly and inquired for Mrs.
Goddard.

She was surprised to see John at that hour and alone; but it did not
enter her head to refuse him admittance. Indeed as he stood in the little
passage he heard the words which passed between her and Martha.

"What is it, Martha?"

"It's a young gentleman, mam. I rather think, mam, it's the young
gentleman that's stopping at the vicarage."

"Oh--ask him to come in."

"In 'ere, mam?"

"No--into the sitting-room," said Mrs. Goddard, who was busy in the
dining-room.

John was accordingly ushered in and told to wait a minute; which he did,
surveying with surprise the beautiful pictures, the rich looking
furniture and the valuable objects that lay about upon the tables. He
experienced a thrill of pleasure, for he felt sure that Mrs. Goddard
possessed another qualification which he had unconsciously attributed to
her--that of being accustomed to a certain kind of luxury, which in
John's mind was mysteriously connected with his romance. It is one of the
most undefinable of the many indefinite feelings to which young men in
love are subject, especially young men who have been, or are, very poor.
They like to connect ideas of wealth and comfort, even of a luxurious
existence, with the object of their affections. They desire the world of
love to be new to them, and in order to be wholly new in their
experience, it must be rich. The feeling is not so wholly unworthy as it
might seem; they instinctively place their love upon a pedestal and
require its surroundings to be of a better kind than such as they have
been accustomed to in their own lives. King Cophetua, being a king, could
afford to love the beggar maid, and a very old song sings of a "lady who
loved a swine," but the names of the poor young men who have loved above
their fortune and station are innumerable as the swallows in spring. John
saw that Mrs. Goddard was much richer than he had ever been, and without
the smallest second thought was pleased. In a few moments she entered the
room. John had his speech ready.

"I thought, if you were going to skate, I would call and ask leave to go
with you," he said glibly, as she gave him her hand.

"Oh--thanks. But is not it rather early?"

"It is twenty minutes past ten," said John, looking at the clock.

"Well, let us get warm before starting," said Mrs. Goddard, sitting down
by the fire. "It is so cold this morning."

John thought she was lovely to look at as she sat there, warming her
hands and shielding her face from the flame with them at the same time.
She looked at him and smiled pleasantly, but said nothing. She was still
a little surprised to see him and wondered whether he himself had
anything to say.

"Yes," said John, "it is very cold--traditional Christmas weather. Could
not be finer, in fact, could it?"

"No--it could not be finer," echoed Mrs. Goddard, suppressing a smile.
Then as though to help him out of his embarrassment by giving an impulse
to the conversation, she added, "By the bye, Mr. Short, while we are
warming ourselves why do not you let me hear one of your odes?"

She meant it kindly, thinking it would give him pleasure, as indeed it
did. John's heart leaped and he blushed all over his face with delight.
Mrs. Goddard was not quite sure whether she had done right, but she
attributed his evident satisfaction to his vanity as a scholar.

"Certainly," he said with alacrity, "if you would like to hear it. Would
you care to hear me repeat the Greek first?"

"Oh, of all things. I do not think I have ever heard Greek."

John cleared his throat and began, glancing at his hostess rather
nervously from time to time. But his memory never failed him, and he went
on to the end without a break or hesitation.

"How do you think it sounds?" he asked timidly when he had finished.

"It sounds very funny," said Mrs. Goddard. "I had no idea Greek sounded
like that--but it has a pleasant rhythm."

"That is the thing," said John, enthusiastically. "I see you really
appreciate it. Of course nobody knows how the ancients pronounced Greek,
and if one pronounced it as the moderns do, it would sound all wrong--but
the rhythm is the thing, you know. It is impossible to get over that."

Mrs. Goddard was not positively sure what he meant by "getting over the
rhythm;" possibly John himself could not have defined his meaning very
clearly. But his cheeks glowed and he was very much pleased.

"Yes, of course," said Mrs. Goddard confidently. "But what does it all
mean, Mr. Short?"

"Would you really like to know?" asked John in fresh embarrassment. He
suddenly realised how wonderfully delightful it was to be repeating his
own poetry to the woman for whom it was written.

"Indeed yes--what is the use of your telling me all sorts of things in
Greek, if you do not tell me what they mean?"

"Yes--you will promise not to be offended?"

"Of course," said Mrs. Goddard; then blushing a little she added, "it is
quite--I mean--quite the sort of thing, is not it?"

"Oh quite," said John, blushing too, but looking grave for a moment. Then
he repeated the English translation of the verses which, as they were
certainly not so good as the original, may be omitted here. They set
forth that in the vault of the world's night a new star had appeared
which men had not yet named, nor would be likely to name until the power
of human speech should be considerably increased, and the verses dwelt
upon the theme, turning it and revolving it in several ways, finally
declaring that the far-darting sun must look out for his interests unless
he meant to be outshone by the new star. Translated into English there
was nothing very remarkable about the performance though the original
Greek ode was undoubtedly very good of its kind. But Mrs. Goddard was
determined to be pleased.

"I think it is charming," she said, when John had reached the end and
paused for her criticism.

"The Greek is very much better," said John doubtfully. "I cannot write
English verses--they seem to me so much harder."

"I daresay," said Mrs. Goddard. "But did you really write that
when--" she stopped not knowing exactly how to express herself. But
John had his answer ready.

"Oh, I wrote ever so many," he said, "and I have got them all at
Cambridge. But that is the only one I quite remember. I wrote them just
after the day when I waked up Muggins--the only time I had seen you till
now. I think I could--"

"How funny it seems," said Mrs. Goddard, "without knowing a person, to
write verses to them! How did you manage to do it?"

"I was going to say that I think--I am quite sure--I could write much
better things to you now."

"Oh, that is impossible--quite absurd, Mr. Short," said Mrs. Goddard,
laughing more gaily than usual.

"Why?" asked John, somewhat emboldened by his success. "I do not see why,
if one has an ideal, you know, one should not understand it much better
when one comes near to it."

"Yes--but--how can I possibly be your ideal?" She felt herself so much
older than John that she thought it was out of the question to be
annoyed; so she treated him in a matter of fact way, and was really
amused at his talk.

"I don't see why not," answered John stoutly. "You might be any man's
ideal."

"Oh, really--" ejaculated Mrs. Goddard, somewhat startled at the force of
the sweeping compliment. To be told point-blank, even by an enthusiastic
youth of one and twenty, that one is the ideal woman, must be either very
pleasant or very startling.

"Excuse me," she said quickly, before he could answer her, "you know of
course I am very ignorant--yes I am--but will you please tell me what is
an 'ideal'?"

"Why--yes," said John, "it is very easy. Ideal comes from idea. Plato
meant, by the idea, the perfect model--well, do you see?"

"Not exactly," said Mrs. Goddard.

"It is very simple. When I, when anybody, says you are the ideal woman,
it is meant that you are the perfect model, the archetype of a woman."

"Yes--but that is absurd," said his companion rather coldly.

"I am sorry that it should seem absurd," said John in a persuasive tone;
"it seems very natural to me. A man thinks for a long time about
everything that most attracts him and then, on a sudden, he sees it all
before him, quite real and alive, and then he says he has realised his
ideal. But you liked the verses, Mrs. Goddard?" he added quickly, hoping
to bring back the smile that had vanished from her face. He had a strong
impression that he had been a little too familiar. Probably Mrs. Goddard
thought so too.

"Oh yes, I think they are very nice," she answered. But the smile did not
come back. She was not displeased, but she was not pleased either; she
was wondering how far this boy would go if she would let him. John,
however, felt unpleasantly doubtful about what he had done.

"I hope you are not displeased," he said.

"Oh, not in the least," said she. "Shall we go to the park and skate?"

"I am not sure that I will skate to-day," said John, foolishly. Mrs.
Goddard looked at him in unfeigned surprise.

"Why not? I thought it was for that--"

"Oh, of course," said John quickly. "Only it is not very amusing to skate
when Mr. Juxon is pushing you about in a chair."

"Really--why should not he push me about, if I like it?"

"If you like it--that is different," answered John impatiently.

Mrs. Goddard began to think that John was very like a spoiled child, and
she resented his evident wish to monopolise her society. She left the
room to get ready for the walk, vaguely wishing that he had not come.

"I have made a fool of myself again," said John to himself, when he was
left alone; and he suddenly wished he could get out of the house without
seeing her again. But before he had done wishing, she returned.

"Where is Miss Nellie?" he asked gloomily, as they walked down the path.
"I hope she is coming too."

"She went up to the pond with Mr. Juxon, just before you came."

"Do you let her go about like that, without you?" asked John severely.

"Why not? Really, Mr. Short," said Mrs. Goddard, glancing up at his face,
"either you dislike Mr. Juxon very much, or else I think you take a
good deal upon yourself in remarking--in this way--"

She was naturally a little timid, but John's youth and what she
considered as his extraordinary presumption inspired her with courage to
protest. The effect upon John was instantaneous.

"Pray forgive me," he said humbly, "I am very silly. I daresay you are
quite right and I do not like Mr. Juxon. Not that I have the smallest
reason for not liking him," he continued quickly, "it is a mere personal
antipathy, a mere idea, I daresay--very foolish of me."

"It is very foolish to take unreasonable dislikes to people one knows
nothing about," she said quietly. "Will you please open the gate?" They
were standing before the bars, but John was so much disturbed in mind
that he stood still, quite forgetting to raise the long iron latch.

"Dear me--I beg your pardon--I cannot imagine what I was thinking of," he
said, making the most idiotic excuse current in English idiom.

"Nor I," said Mrs. Goddard, with a little laugh, as he held the gate back
for her to pass. It was a plain white gate with stone pillars, and there
was no gatehouse. People who came to the Hall were expected to open it
for themselves. Mrs. Goddard was so much amused at John's absence of mind
that her good humour returned, and he felt that since that object was
attained he no longer regretted his folly in the least. The cloud that
had darkened the horizon of his romance had passed quickly away, and once
more he said inwardly that he was enjoying the happiest days of his life.
If for a moment the image of Mr. Juxon entered the field of his
imaginative vision in the act of pushing Mrs. Goddard's chair upon the
ice, he mentally ejaculated "bother the squire!" as he had done upon the
previous night, and soon forgot all about him. The way through the park
was long, the morning was delightful and Mrs. Goddard did not seem to be
in a hurry.

"I wish the winter would last for ever," he said presently.

"So do I," answered his companion, "it is the pleasantest time of the
year. One does not feel that nature is dead because one is sure she will
very soon be alive again."

"That is a charming idea," said John, "one might make a good subject of
it."

"It is a little old, perhaps. I think I have heard it before--have not
you?"

"All good ideas are old. The older the better," said John confidently.
Mrs. Goddard could not resist the temptation of teazing him a little.
They had grown very intimate in forty-eight hours; it had taken six
months for Mr. Juxon to reach the point John had won in two days.

"Are they?" she asked quietly. "Is that the reason you selected me for
the 'idea' of your ode, which you explained to me?"

"You?" said John in astonishment. Then he laughed. "Why, you are not any
older than I am!"

"Do you think so?" she inquired with a demure smile. "I am very much
older than you think."

"You must be--I mean, you know, you must be older than you look."

"Thank you," said Mrs. Goddard, still smiling, and just resting the tips
of her fingers upon his arm as she stepped across a slippery place in the
frozen road. "Yes, I am a great deal older than you."

John would have liked very much to ask her age, but even to his youthful
and unsophisticated mind such a question seemed almost too personal. He
did not really believe that she was more than five years older than he,
and that seemed to be no difference at all.

"I don't know," he said. "I am nearly one and twenty."

"Yes, I know," said Mrs. Goddard, who had heard every detail concerning
John from Mr. Ambrose, again and again. "Just think," she added with a
laugh, "only one and twenty! Why when I was one and twenty I was--" she
stopped short.

"What were you doing then?" asked John, trying not to seem too curious.

"I was living in London," she said quietly. She half enjoyed his
disappointment.

"Yes," he said, "I daresay. But what--well, I suppose I ought not to ask
any questions."

"Certainly not," said she. "It is very rude to ask a lady questions about
her age."

"I do not mean to be rude again," said John, pretending to laugh. "Have
you always been fond of skating?" he asked, fixing his eye upon a distant
tree, and trying to look unconscious.

"No--I only learned since I came here. Besides, I skate very badly."

"Did Mr. Juxon teach you?" asked John, still gazing into the distance.
From not looking at the path he slipped on a frozen puddle and nearly
fell. Whereat, as usual, when he did anything awkward, he blushed to the
brim of his hat.

"Take care," said Mrs. Goddard, calmly. "You will fall if you don't look
where you are going. No; Mr. Juxon was not here last year. He only came
here in the summer."

"It seems to me that he has always been here," said John, trying to
recover his equanimity. "Then I suppose Mr. Ambrose taught you to skate?"

"Exactly--Mr. Ambrose taught me. He skates very well."

"So will you, with a little more practice," answered her companion in a
rather patronising tone. He intended perhaps to convey the idea that Mrs.
Goddard would improve in the exercise if she would actually skate, and
with him, instead of submitting to be pushed about in a chair by Mr.
Juxon.

"Oh, I daresay," said Mrs. Goddard indifferently. "We shall soon be
there, now. I can hear them on the ice."

"Too soon," said John with regret.

"I thought you liked skating so much."

"I like walking with you much better," he replied, and he glanced at her
face to see if his speech produced any sign of sympathy.

"You have walked with me; now you can skate with Nellie," suggested Mrs.
Goddard.

"You talk as though I were a child," said John, suddenly losing his
temper in a very unaccountable way.

"Because I said you might skate with Nellie? Really, I don't see why. Mr.
Juxon is not a child, and he has been skating with her all the morning."

"That is different," retorted John growing very red.

"Yes--Nellie is much nearer to your age than to Mr. Juxon's," answered
Mrs. Goddard, with a calmness which made John desperate.

"Really, Mrs. Goddard," he said stiffly, "I cannot see what that has to
do with it."

"'The atrocious crime of being a young man, which the lady so much older
than myself has charged--' How does the quotation end, Mr. Short?"

"'Has, with such spirit and decency, charged upon me, I shall neither
attempt to palliate nor deny,'" said John savagely. "Quite so, Mrs.
Goddard. I shall not attempt to palliate it, nor will I venture to deny
it."

"Then why in the world are you so angry with me?" she asked, suddenly
turning her violet eyes upon him. "I was only laughing, you know."

"Only laughing!" repeated John. "It is more pleasant to laugh than to be
laughed at."

"Yes--would not you allow me the pleasure then, just for once?"

"Certainly, if you desire it. You are so extremely merry--"

"Come, Mr. Short, we must not seem to have been quarrelling when we reach
the pond. It would be too ridiculous."

"Everything seems to strike you in a humorous light to-day," answered
John, beginning to be pacified by her tone.

"Do you know, you are much more interesting when you are angry," said
Mrs. Goddard.

"And you only made me angry in order to see whether I was interesting?"

"Perhaps--but then, I could not help it in the least."

"I trust you are thoroughly satisfied upon the point, Mrs. Goddard? If
there is anything more that I can do to facilitate your researches in
psychology--"

"You would help me? Even to the extent of being angry again?" She smiled
so pleasantly and frankly that John's wrath vanished.

"It is impossible to be angry with you. I am very sorry if I seemed to
be," he answered. "A man who has the good fortune to be thrown into your
society is a fool to waste his time in being disagreeable."

"I agree with the conclusion, at all events--that is, it is much better
to be agreeable. Is it not? Let us be friends."

"Oh, by all means," said John.

They walked on for some minutes in silence. John reflected that he had
witnessed a phase of Mrs. Goddard's character of which he had been very
far from suspecting the existence. He had not hitherto imagined her to be
a woman of quick temper or sharp speech. His idea of her was formed
chiefly upon her appearance. Her sad face, with its pathetic expression,
suggested a melancholy humour delighting in subdued and tranquil
thoughts, inclined naturally to the romantic view, or to what in the eyes
of youths of twenty appears to be the romantic view of life. He had
suddenly found her answering him with a sharpness which, while it roused
his wits, startled his sensibilities. But he was flattered as well. His
instinct and his observation of Mrs. Goddard when in the society of
others led him to believe that with Mr. and Mrs. Ambrose, or even with
Mr. Juxon, she was not in the habit of talking as she talked with him. He
was therefore inwardly pleased, so soon as his passing annoyance had
subsided, to feel that she made a difference between him and others.

It was quite true that she made a distinction, though she did so almost
unconsciously. It was perfectly natural, too. She was young in heart, in
spite of her thirty years and her troubles; she had an elastic
temperament; to a physiognomist her face would have shown a delicate
sensitiveness to impressions rather than any inborn tendency to sadness.
In spite of everything she was still young, and for two years and a half
she had been in the society of persons much older than herself, persons
she respected and regarded as friends, but persons in whom her youth
found no sympathy. It was natural, therefore, that when time to some
extent had healed the wound she had suffered and she suddenly found
herself in the society of a young and enthusiastic man, something of the
enforced soberness of her manner should unbend, showing her character in
a new light. She herself enjoyed the change, hardly knowing why; she
enjoyed a little passage of arms with John, and it amused her more than
she could have expected to be young again, to annoy him, to break the
peace and heal it again in five minutes. But what happened entirely
failed to amuse the squire, who did not regard such diversions as
harmless; and moreover she was far from expecting the effect which her
treatment of John Short produced upon his scholarly but enthusiastic
temper.




CHAPTER IX.


The squire had remarked that John Short seemed to have a peculiar temper,
and Mrs. Goddard had observed the same thing. What has gone before
sufficiently explains the change in John's manner, and the difference in
his behaviour was plainly apparent even to Mr. and Mrs. Ambrose. The
vicar indeed was wise enough to see that John was very much attracted by
Mrs. Goddard, but he was also wise enough to say nothing about it. His
wife, however, who had witnessed no love-making for nearly thirty years,
except the courtship of the young physician who had married her daughter,
attributed John's demeanour to no such disturbing cause. He was
overworked, she said; he was therefore irritable; he had of course never
taken that excellent homoeopathic remedy, highly diluted aconite, since
he had left the vicarage; the consequence was that he was subject to
nervous headache--she only hoped he would not be taken ill on the eve of
the examination for honours. She hoped, too, that he would prolong his
holiday to the very last moment, for the country air and the rest he
enjoyed were sure to do him so much good. With regard, to the extension
of John's visit, the vicar thought differently, although he held his
peace. There were many reasons why John should not become attached to
Mrs. Goddard both for her sake and his own, and if he staid long, the
vicar felt quite sure that he would fall in love with her. She was
dangerously pretty, she was much older than John--which in the case of
very young men constitutes an additional probability--she evidently took
an innocent pleasure in his society, and altogether such a complication
as was likely to ensue was highly undesirable. Therefore, when Mrs.
Ambrose pressed John to stay longer than he had intended, the vicar not
only gave him no encouragement, but spoke gravely of the near approach of
the contest for honours, of the necessity of concentrating every force
for the coming struggle, and expressed at the same time the firm
conviction that, if John did his best, he ought to be the senior classic
in the year.

Even Mrs. Goddard urged him to go. Of course he asked her advice. He
would not have lost that opportunity of making her speak of himself, nor
of gauging the exact extent of the interest he hoped she felt in him.

It was two or three days after the long conversation he had enjoyed with
her. In that time they had met often and John's admiration for her,
strengthened by his own romantic desire to be really in love, had begun
to assume proportions which startled Mrs. Goddard and annoyed Mr. Juxon.
The latter felt that the boy was in his way; whenever he wanted to see
Mrs. Goddard, John was at her side, talking eagerly and contesting his
position against the squire with a fierceness which in an older and wiser
man would have been in the worst possible taste. Even as it was, Mr.
Juxon looked considerably annoyed as he stood by, smoothing his smooth
hair from time to time with his large white hand and feeling that even at
his age, and with his experience, a man might sometimes cut a poor
figure.

On the particular occasion when the relations between John and the squire
became an object of comment to Mrs. Ambrose, the whole party were
assembled at Mrs. Goddard's cottage. She had invited everybody to tea, a
meal which in her little household represented a compromise between her
appetite and Nellie's. She had felt that in the small festivities of the
Billingsfield Christmas season she was called upon to do her share with
the rest and, being a simple woman, she took her part simply, and did not
dignify the entertainment of her four friends by calling it a dinner. The
occasion was none the less hospitable, for she gave both time and thought
to her preparations. Especially she had considered the question of
precedence; it was doubtful, she thought, whether the squire or the vicar
should sit upon her right hand. The squire, as being lord of the manor,
represented the powers temporal, the vicar on the other hand represented
the church, which on ordinary occasions takes precedence of the lay
faculty. She had at last privately consulted Mr. Juxon, in whom she had
the greatest confidence, asking him frankly which she should do, and Mr.
Juxon had unhesitatingly yielded the post of honour to the vicar, adding
to enforce his opinion the very plausible argument that if he, the
squire, took Mrs. Goddard in to tea, the vicar would have to give his arm
either to little Nellie or to his own wife. Mrs. Goddard was convinced
and the affair was a complete success.

John felt that he could not complain of his position, but as he was
separated from the object of his admiration during the whole meal, he
resolved to indemnify himself for his sufferings by monopolising her
conversation during the rest of the evening. The squire on the other
hand, who had been obliged to talk to Mrs. Ambrose during most of the
time while they were at table, and who, moreover, was beginning to feel
that he had seen almost enough of John Short, determined to give the
young man a lesson in the art of interesting women in general and Mrs.
Goddard in particular. She, indeed, would not have been a woman at all
had she not understood the two men and their intentions. After tea the
party congregated round the fire in the little drawing-room, standing in
a circle, of which their hostess formed the centre. Mr. Juxon and John,
anticipating that Mrs. Goddard must ultimately sit upon one side or other
of the fireplace had at first chosen opposite sides, each hoping that she
would take the chair nearest to himself. But Mrs. Goddard remained
standing an unreasonably long time, for the very reason that she did not
choose to sit beside either of them. Seeing this the squire, who had
perhaps a greater experience than his adversary in this kind of strategic
warfare, left his place and put himself on the same side as John. He
argued that Mrs. Goddard would probably then choose the opposite side,
whereas John who was younger would think she would come towards the two
where they stood; John would consequently lose time, Mr. Juxon would
cross again and install himself by her side while his enemy was
hesitating.

While these moves and counter-moves were proceeding, the conversation was
general. The vicar was for the hundredth time admiring the Andrea del
Sarto over the chimney-piece and his wife was explaining her general
objections to the representation of sacred subjects upon canvas, while
Mrs. Goddard answered each in turn and endeavoured to disagree with
neither. What the squire had foreseen when he made his last move,
however, actually took place at last. Mrs. Goddard established herself
upon the side opposite the two men. Mr. Juxon crossed rapidly to where
she was seated, and Mrs. Ambrose, who had turned with the intention of
speaking to the squire, found herself confronted by John. He saw that he
had been worsted by his foe and immediately lost his temper; but being
brought face to face with Mrs. Ambrose was obliged to control it as he
might. That excellent lady beamed upon him with a maternal smile of the
kind which is peculiarly irritating to young men. He struggled to get
away however, glancing over Mrs. Ambrose's shoulder at the squire and
longing to be "at him" as he would have expressed it. But the squire was
not to be got at so easily, for the vicar's wife was of a fine presence
and covered much ground. John involuntarily thought of the dyke before
Troy, of Hector and his heroes attempting to storm it and of the Ajaces
and Sarpedon defending it and glaring down from above. He could
appreciate Hector's feelings--Mrs. Ambrose was very like the dyke.

The squire smiled serenely and smoothed his hair as he talked to Mrs.
Goddard and she herself looked by no means discontented, thereby adding,
as it were, an insult to the injury done to John.

"I shall always envy you the cottage," the squire was saying. "I have not
a single room in the Hall that is half so cheery in the evening."

"I shall never forget my terror when we first met," answered Mrs.
Goddard, "do you remember? You frightened me by saying you would like to
live here. I thought you meant it."

"You must have thought I was the most unmannerly of barbarians."

"Instead of being the best of landlords," added Mrs. Goddard with a
grateful smile.

"I hardly know whether I am that," said Mr. Juxon, settling himself in
his chair. "But I believe I am by nature an exceedingly comfortable man,
and I never fail to consult the interests of my comfort."

"And of mine. Think of all you have done to improve this place. I can
never thank you enough. I suppose one always feels particularly grateful
at Christmas time--does not one?"

"One has more to be grateful for, it seems to me--in our climate, too.
People in southern countries never really know what comfort means,
because nature never makes them thoroughly uncomfortable. Only a man who
is freezing can appreciate a good fire."

"I suppose you have been a good deal in such places," suggested Mrs.
Goddard, vaguely.

"Oh yes--everywhere," answered the squire with equal indefiniteness. "By
the bye, talking of travelling, when is our young friend going away?"
There was not a shade of ill-humour in the question.

