seemed to be offering Olive all the kingdoms of the earth 
if she would only exert herself to bring about a state of 
feeling on Verena Tarrant's part which would lead the girl 
to accept Henry Burrage. 

' We know it's you the whole business ; that you can 
do what you please. You could decide it to-morrow with 
a word/ 

She had hesitated at first, and spoken of her hesitation, 
and it might have appeared that she would need all her 
courage to say to Olive, that way, face to face, that Verena 
was in such subjection to her. But she didn't look afraid ; 
she only looked as if it were an infinite pity Miss Chancellor 
couldn't understand what immense advantages and rewards 
there would be for her in striking an alliance with the 
house of Burrage. Olive was so impressed with this, so 
occupied, even, in wondering what these mystic benefits 
might be, and whether after all there might not be a pro- 

x 



 

tection in them (from something worse), a fund of some 
sort that she and Verena might convert to a large use, 
setting aside the mother and son when once they had got 
what they had to give she was so arrested with the vague 
daze of this vision, the sense of Mrs. Burrage's full hands, 
her eagerness, her thinking it worth while to flatter and 
conciliate, whatever her pretexts and pretensions might be, 
that she was almost insensible, for the time, to the strange- 
ness of such a woman's coming round to a positive desire 
for a connection with the Tarrants. Mrs. Burrage had 
indeed explained this partly by saying that her son's condi- 
tion was wearing her out, and that she would enter into 
anything that would make him happier, make him better. 
She was fonder of him than of the whole world beside, and 
it was an anguish to her to see him yearning for Miss Tarrant 
only to lose her. She made that charge about Olive's 
power in the matter in such a way that it seemed at the 
same time a tribute to her force of character. 

' I don't know on what terms you suppose me to be with 
my friend,' Olive returned, with considerable majesty. 
'  She will do exactly as she likes, in such a case as the one 
you allude to. She is absolutely free ; you speak as if I 
were her keeper ! ' 

Then Mrs. Burrage explained that of course she didn't 
mean that Miss Chancellor exercised a conscious tyranny ; 
but only that Verena had a boundless admiration for her, 
saw through her eyes, took the impress of all her opinions, 
preferences. She was sure that if Olive would only take a 
favourable view of her son Miss Tarrant would instantly 
throw herself into it. ' It's very true that you may ask me,' 
added Mrs. Burrage, smiling, ' how you can take a favour- 
able view of a young man who wants to marry the very 
person in the world you want most to keep unmarried !' 

This description of Verena was of course perfectly 
correct ; but it was not agreeable to Olive to have the fact 
in question so clearly perceived, even by a person who 
expressed it with an air intimating that there was nothing 
in the world she couldn't understand. 

' Did your son know that you were going to speak to 
me about this?' Olive asked, rather coldly, waiving the 


question of her influence on Verena and the state in which 
she wished her to remain. 

' Oh yes, poor dear boy ; we had a long talk yesterday, 
and I told him I would do what I could for him. Do you 
remember the little visit I paid to Cambridge last spring, 
when I saw you at his rooms ? Then it was I began to per- 
ceive how the wind was setting ; but yesterday we had a real 
edairtissement. I didn't like it at all, at first ; I don't mind 
telling you that, now now that I am really enthusiastic 
about it. When a girl is as charming, as original, as Miss 
Tarrant, it doesn't in the least matter who she is; she 
makes herself the standard by which you measure her ; she 
makes her own position. And then Miss Tarrant has such 
a future !' Mrs. Burrage added, quickly, as if that were the 
last thing to be overlooked. 'The whole question has 
come up again the feeling that Henry tried to think dead, 
or at least dying, has revived, through the I hardly know 
what to call it, but I really may say the unexpectedly great 
effect of her appearance here. She was really wonderful on 
Wednesday evening ; prejudice, conventionality, every pre- 
sumption there might be against her, had to fall to the 
ground. I expected a success, but I didn't expect what 
you gave us,' Mrs. Burrage went on, smiling, while Olive 
noted her 'you.' ' In short, my poor boy flamed up again; 
and now I see that he will never again care for any girl as 
he cares for that one. My dear Miss Chancellor, fen ai 
pris mon parti, and perhaps you know my way of doing 
that sort of thing. I am not at all good at resigning myself, 
but I am excellent at taking up a craze. I haven't re- 
nounced, I have only changed sides. For or against, I 
must be a partisan. Don't you know that kind of nature ? 
Henry has put the affair into my hands, and you see I put 
it into yours. Do help me; let us work together.' 

This was a long, explicit speech for Mrs. Burrage, who 
dealt, usually, in the cursory and allusive; and she may 
very well have expected that Miss Chancellor would 
recognise its importance. What Olive did, in fact, was 
simply to inquire, by way of rejoinder: 'Why did you 
ask us to come on?' 

If Mrs. Burrage hesitated now, it was only for twenty 



 

seconds. 'Simply because we are so interested in your 
work.' 

' That surprises me,' said Olive, thoughtfully. 

' I daresay you don't believe it ; but such a judgment is 
superficial. I am sure we give proof in the offer we make,' 
Mrs. Burrage remarked, with a good deal of point. ' There 
are plenty of girls without any views at all who would be 
delighted to marry my son. He is very clever, and he has 
a large fortune. Add to that that he's an angel ! ' 

That was very true, and Olive felt all the more that the 
attitude of these fortunate people, for whom the world was 
so well arranged just as it was, was very curious. But as 
she sat there it came over her that the human spirit has 
many variations, that the influence of the truth is great, and 
that there are such things in life as happy surprises, quite 
as well as disagreeable ones. Nothing, certainly, forced 
such people to fix their affections on the daughter of a 
' healer 'j it would be very clumsy to pick her out of her 
generation only for the purpose of frustrating her. More- 
over, her observation of their young host at Delmonico's 
and in the spacious box at the Academy of Music, where 
they had privacy and ease, and murmured words could pass 
without making neighbours more given up to the stage turn 
their heads her consideration of Henry Burrage's manner, 
suggested to her that she had measured him rather scantily 
the year before, that he was as much in love as the feebler 
passions of the age permitted (for though Miss Chancellor 
believed in the amelioration of humanity, she thought there 
was too much water in the blood of all of us), that he prized 
Verena for her rarity, which was her genius, her gift, and 
would therefore have an interest in promoting it, and that 
he was of so soft and fine a paste that his wife might do 
what she liked with him. Of course there would be the 
mother-in-law to count with ; but unless she was perjuring 
herself shamelessly Mrs. Burrage really had the wish to 
project herself into the new atmosphere, or at least to be 
generous personally ; so that, oddly enough, the fear that 
most glanced before Olive was not that this high, free 
matron, slightly irritable with cleverness and at the same 
time good-natured with prosperity, would bully her son's 



 

bride, but rather that she might take too fond a possession 
of her. It was a fear which may be described as a pre- 
sentiment of jealousy. - It occurred, accordingly, to Miss 
Chancellor's quick conscience that, possibly, the proposal 
which presented itself in circumstances so complicated and 
anomalous was simply a magnificent chance, an improvement 
on the very best, even, that she had dreamed of for Verena. 
It meant a large command of money much larger than 
her own ; the association of a couple of clever people who 
simulated conviction very well, whether they felt it or not, 
and who had a hundred useful worldly ramifications, and a 
kind of social pedestal from which she might really shine 
afar. The conscience I have spoken of grew positively sick 
as it thought of having such a problem as that to consider, 
such an ordeal to traverse. In the presence of such a 
contingency the poor girl felt grim and helpless ; she could 
only vaguely wonder whether she were called upon in the 
name of duty to lend a hand to the torture of her own spirit. 

' And if she should marry him, how could I be sure that 
afterwards you would care so much about the question 
which has all our thoughts, hers and mine?' This inquiry 
evolved itself from Olive's rapid meditation ; but even to 
herself it seemed a little rough. 

Mrs. Burrage took it admirably. 'You think we are 
feigning an interest, only to get hold of her ? That's not 
very nice of you, Miss Chancellor ; but of course you have 
to be tremendously careful. I assure you my son tells me 
he firmly believes your movement is the great question of 
the immediate future, that it has entered into a new phase ; 
into what does he call it? the domain of practical politics. 
As for me, you don't suppose I don't want everything we 
poor women can get, or that I would refuse any privilege 
or advantage that's offered me? I don't rant or rave 
about anything, but I have as I told you just now my 
own quiet way of being zealous. If you had no worse 
partisan than I, you would do very well. My son has 
talked to me immensely about your ideas ; and even if I 
should enter into them only because he does, I should do 
so quite enough. You may say you don't see Henry 
dangling about after a wife who gives public addresses ; but 



 

I am convinced that a great many things are coming to pass 
very soon, too that we don't see in advance. Henry is 
a gentleman to his finger-tips, and there is not a situation 
in which he will not conduct himself with tact.' 

Olive could see that they really wanted Verena immensely, 
and it was impossible for her to believe that if they were to 
get her they would not treat her well. It came to her that 
they would even over-indulge her, flatter her, spoil her ; she 
was perfectly capable, for the moment, of assuming that 
Verena was susceptible of deterioration and that her own 
treatment of hec had been discriminatingly severe. She 
had a hundred protests, objections, replies ; her only embar- 
rassment could be as to which she should use first. 

' I think you have never seen Doctor Tarrant and his 
wife,' she remarked, with a calmness which she felt to be 
very pregnant. 

'You mean they are absolutely fearful? My son has 
told me they are quite impossible, and I am quite prepared 
for that. Do you ask how we should get on with them ? 
My dear young lady, we should get on as you do !' 

If Olive had answers, so had Mrs. Burrage ; she had 
still an answer when her visitor, taking up the supposition 
that it was in her power to dispose in any manner whatso- 
ever of Vere:ia, declared that she didn't know why Mrs. 
Burrage addressed herself to her> that Miss Tarrant was free 
as air, that her future was in her own hands, that such a 
matter as this was a kind of thing with which it could never 
occur to one to interfere. ' Dear Miss Chancellor, we 
don't ask you to interfere. The only thing we ask of you 
is simply not to interfere.' 

'And have you sent for me only for that ?' 

' For that, and for what I hinted at in my note ; that 
you would really exercise your influence with Miss Tarrant 
to induce her to come to us now for a week or two. That 
is really, after all, the main thing I ask. Lend her to us, 
here, for a little while, and we will take care of the rest. 
That sounds conceited but she would have a good time.' 

' She d jesn't live for that,' said Olive. 

'What I mean is that she should deliver an address 
every nig'it!' Mrs. Burrage returned, smiling. 



 

'  I think you try to prove too much. You do believe 
though you pretend you don't that I control her actions, 
and as far as possible her desires, and that I am jealous of 
any other relations she may possibly form. I can imagine 
that we may perhaps have that air, though it only proves 
how little such an association as ours is understood, and 
how superficial is still' Olive felt that her  still was really 
historical ' the interpretation of many of the elements in 
the activity of women, how much the public conscience with 
regard to them needs to be educated. Your conviction 
with respect to my attitude being what I believe it to be,' 
Miss Chancellor went on, ' I am surprised at your not 
perceiving how little it is in my interest to deliver my my 
victim up to you.' 

If we were at this moment to take, in a single glance, 
an inside view of Mrs. Burrage (a liberty we have not yet 
ventured on), I suspect we should find that she was con- 
siderably exasperated at her visitor's superior tone, at seeing 
herself regarded by this dry, shy, obstinate, provincial 
young woman as superficial. If she liked Verena very 
nearly as much as she tried to convince Miss Chancellor, 
she was conscious of disliking Miss Chancellor more than 
she should probably ever be able to reveal to Verena. It 
was doubtless partly her irritation that found a voice as she 
said, after a self-administered pinch of caution not to say 
too much, ' Of course it would be absurd in us to assume 
that Miss Tarrant would find my son irresistible, especially 
as she has already refused him. But even if she should 
remain obdurate, should you consider yourself quite safe as 
regards others?' 

The manner in which Miss Chancellor rose from her 
chair on hearing these words showed her hostess that if she 
had wished to take a little revenge by frightening her, the 
experiment was successful. 'What others do you mean?' 
Olive asked, standing very straight, and turning down her 
eyes as from a great height. 

Mrs. Burrage since we have begun to look into her 
mind we may continue the process had not meant any 
one in particular ; but a train of association was suddenly 
kindled in her thought by the flash of the girl's resentment. 



 

She remembered the gentleman who had come up to her 
in the music-room, after Miss Tarrant's address, while she 
was talking with Olive, and to whom that young lady had 
given so cold a welcome. I don't mean any one in par- 
ticular ; but, for instance, there is the young man to whom 
she asked me to send an invitation to my party, and who 
looked to me like a possible admirer.' Mrs. Burrage also 
got up ; then she stood a moment, closer to her visitor. 
' Don't you think it's a good deal to expect that, young, 
pretty, attractive, clever, charming as she is, you should be 
able to keep her always, to exclude other affections, to cut 
off a whole side of life, to defend her against dangers if 
you call them dangers to which every young woman who 
is not positively repulsive is exposed? My dear young 
lady, I wonder if I might give you three words of advice?' 
Mrs. Burrage did not wait till Olive had answered this 
inquiry; she went on quickly, with her air of knowing
exactly what she wanted to say and feeling at the same 
time that, good as it might be, the manner of saying it, 
like the manner of saying most other things, was not worth 
troubling much about. ' Don't attempt the impossible. 
You have got hold of a good thing ; don't spoil it by trying 
to stretch it too far. If you don't take the better, perhaps 
you will have to take the worse ; if it's safety you want I 
should think she was much safer with my son for with us 
you know the worst than as a possible prey to adventurers, 
to exploiters, or to people who, once they had got hold of 
her, would shut her up altogether.' 

Olive dropped her eyes ; she couldn't endure Mrs. 
Burrage's horrible expression of being near the mark, her 
look of worldly cleverness, of a confidence born of much 
experience. She felt that nothing would be spared her, 
that she should have to go to the end, that this ordeal also 
must be faced, and that, in particular, there was a detest- 
able wisdom in her hostess's advice. She was conscious, 
however, of no obligation to recognise it then and there ; 
she wanted to get off, and even to carry Mrs. Burrage's 
sapient words along with her to hurry to some place where 
she might be alone and think. ' I don't know why you 
have thought it right to send for me only to say this. I 



 

take no interest whatever in your son in his settling in 
life.' And she gathered her mantle more closely about 
her, turning away. 

'  It is exceedingly kind of you to have come,' said Mrs. 
Burrage, imperturbably. ' Think of what I have said ; I 
am sure you won't feel that you have wasted your hour.' 

' I have a great many things to think of ! ' Olive exclaimed, 
insincerely; for she knew that Mrs. Burrage's ideas would 
haunt her. 

' And tell her that if she will make us the little visit, all 
New York shall sit at her feet ! ' 

That was what Olive wanted, and yet it seemed a 
mockery to hear Mrs. Burrage say it. Miss Chancellor 
retreated, making no response even when her hostess de- 
clared again that she was under great obligations to her for 
coming. When she reached the street she found she was 
deeply agitated, but not with a sense of weakness; she 
hurried along, excited and dismayed, feeling that her in- 
sufferable conscience was bristling like some irritated animal, 
that a magnificent offer had really been made to Verena, 
and that there was no way for her to persuade herself she 
might be silent about it. Of course, if Verena should be 
tempted by the idea of being made so much of by the 
Burrages, the danger of Basil Ransom getting any kind of 
hold on her would cease to be pressing. That was what 
was present to Olive as she walked along, and that was 
what made her nervous, conscious only of this problem that 
had suddenly turned the bright day to grayness, heedless of 
the sophisticated -looking people who passed her on the 
wide Fifth Avenue pavement. It had risen in her mind 
the day before, planted first by Mrs. Burrage's note ; and 
then, as we know, she had vaguely entertained the concep- 
tion, asking Verena whether she would make the visit if it 
were again to be pressed upon them. It had been pressed, 
certainly, and the terms of the problem were now so much 
sharper that they seemed cruel. What had been in her 
own mind was that if Verena should appear to lend herself 
to the Burrages Basil Ransom might be discouraged 
might think that, shabby and poor, there was no chance for 
him as against people with every advantage of fortune and 



 

position. She didn't see him relax his purpose so easily; 
she knew she didn't believe he was of that pusillanimous 
fibre. Still, it was a chance, and any chance that might 
help her had been worth considering. At present she saw 
it was a question not of Verena's lending herself, but of a 
positive gift, or at least of a bargain in which the terms 
would be immensely liberal. It would be impossible to 
use the Burrages as a shelter on the assumption that they 
were not dangerous, for they became dangerous from the 
moment they set up as sympathisers, took the ground that 
what they offered the girl was simply a boundless oppor- 
tunity. It came back to Olive, again and again, that this 
was, and could only be, fantastic and false ; but it was 
always possible that Verena might not think it so, might 
trust them all the way. When Miss Chancellor had a pair 
of alternatives to consider, a question of duty to study, she 
put a kind of passion into it felt, above all, that the matter 
must be settled that very hour, before anything in life could 
go on. It seemed to her at present that she couldn't re- 
enter the house in Tenth Street without having decided 
first whether she might trust the Burrages or not. By 
' trust ' them, she meant trust them to fail in winning 
Verena over, while at the same time they put Basil Ransom 
on a false scent. Olive was able to say to herself that he 
probably wouldn't have the hardihood to push after her 
into those gilded saloons, which, in any event, would be 
closed to him as soon as the mother and son should dis- 
cover what he wanted. She even asked herself whether 
Verena would not be still better defended from the young 
Southerner in New York, amid complicated hospitalities, 
than in Boston with a cousin of the enemy. She continued 
to walk down the Fifth Avenue, without noticing the cross- 
streets, and after a while became conscious that she was 
approaching Washington Square. By this time she had 
also definitely reasoned it out that Basil Ransom and Henry 
Burrage could not both capture Miss Tarrant, that therefore 
there could not be two dangers, but only one ; that this was 
a good deal gained, and that it behoved her to determine 
which peril had most reality, in order that she might deal 
with that one only. She held her way to the Square, which, 



 

as all the world knows, is of great extent and open to the 
encircling street. The trees and grass-plats had begun to 
bud and sprout, the fountains plashed in the sunshine, the 
children of the quarter, both the dingier types from the 
south side, who played games that required much chalking 
of the paved walks, and much sprawling and crouching 
there, under the feet of passers, and the little curled and 
feathered people who drove their hoops under the eyes of 
French nursemaids all the infant population filled the 
vernal air with small sounds which had a crude, tender 
quality, like the leaves and the thin herbage. Olive 
wandered through the place, and ended by sitting down on 
one of the continuous benches. It was a long time since 
she had done anything so vague, so wasteful. There were 
a dozen things which, as she was staying over in New York, 
she ought to do ; but she forgot them, or, if she thought of 
them, felt that they were now of no moment. She re- 
mained in her place an hour, brooding, tremulous, turning 
over and over certain thoughts. It seemed to her that she 
was face to face with a crisis of her destiny, and that she 
must not shrink from seeing it exactly as it was. Before 
she rose to return to Tenth Street she had made up her 
mind that there was no menace so great as the menace of 
Basil Ransom ; she had accepted in thought any arrange- 
ment which would deliver her from that. If the Burrages 
were to take Verena they would take her from Olive im- 
measurably less than he would do ; it was from him, from 
him they would take her most. She walked back to her 
boarding house, and the servant who admitted her said, in 
answer to her inquiry as to whether Verena were at home, 
that Miss Tarrant had gone out with the gentleman who 
called in the morning, and had not yet come in. Olive 
stood staring ; the clock in the hall marked three. 



XXXIII. 

'  COME out with me, Miss Tarrant ; come out with me. Do 
come out with me.' That was what Basil Ransom had 
been saying to Verena when they stood where Olive per- 
ceived them, in the embrasure of the window. It had of 
course taken considerable talk to lead up to this ; for the 
tone, even more than the words, indicated a large increase 
of intimacy. Verena was mindful of this when he spoke ; 
and it frightened her a little, made her uneasy, which was 
one of the reasons why she got up from her chair and went 
to the window an inconsequent movement, inasmuch as 
her wish was to impress upon him that it was impossible 
she should comply with his request. It would have served 
this end much better for her to sit, very firmly, in her place. 
He made her nervous and restless ; she was beginning 
to perceive that he produced a peculiar effect upon her. 
Certainly, she had been out with him at home the very first 
time he called upon her ; but it seemed to her to make 
an important difference that she herself should then have 
proposed the walk simply because it was the easiest thing 
to do when a person came to see you in Monadnoc Place. 

They had gone out that time because she wanted to, not 
because he did. And then it was one thing for her to stroll 
with him round Cambridge, where she knew every step and 
had the confidence and freedom which came from being on 
her own ground, and the pretext, which was perfectly 
natural, of wanting to show him the colleges, and quite 
another thing to go wandering with him through the streets 
of this great strange city, which, attractive, delightful as it 
was, had not the suitableness even of being his home, not 
his real one. He wanted to show her something, he wanted 
to show her everything j but she was not sure now after 



 

an hour's talk that she particularly wanted to see anything 
more that he could show her. He had shown her a great 
deal while he sat there, especially what balderdash he 
thought it the whole idea of women's being equal to men. 
He seemed to have come only for that, for he was all the 
while revolving round it ; she couldn't speak of anything 
but what he brought it back to the question of some new 
truth like that. He didn't say so in so many words ; on 
the contrary, he was tremendously insinuating and satirical, 
and pretended to think she had proved all and a great deal 
more than she wanted to prove ; but his exaggeration, and 
the way he rung all the changes on two or three of the 
points she had made at Mrs. Burrage's, were just the sign 
that he was a scoffer of scoffers. He wouldn't do anything 
but laugh ; he seemed to think that he might laugh at her 
all day without her taking offence. Well, he might if it 
amused him ; but she didn't see why she should ramble 
round New York with him to give him his opportunity. 

She had told him, and she had told Olive, that she was 
determined to produce some effect on him ; but now, 
suddenly, she felt differently about that she ceased to care 
whether she produced any effect or not. She didn't see 
why she should take him so seriously, when he wouldn't 
take her so; that is, wouldn't take her ideas. She had 
guessed before that he didn't want to discuss them ; this 
had been in her mind when she said to him at Cambridge 
that his interest in her was personal, not controversial. 
Then she had simply meant that, as an inquiring young 
Southerner, he had wanted to see what a bright New Eng- 
land girl was like ; but since then it had become a little 
more clear to her her short talk with Ransom at Mrs. 
Burrage's threw some light upon the question what the 
personal interest of a young Southerner (however inquiring 
merely) might amount to. Did he too want to make love 
to her ? This idea made Verena rather impatient, weary in 
advance. The thing she desired least in the world was to 
be put into the wrong with Olive ; for she had certainly 
given her ground to believe (not only in their scene the 
night before, which was a simple repetition, but all along, 
from the very first), that she really had an interest which 



 

would transcend any attraction coming from such a source 
as that. If yesterday it seemed to her that she should like 
to struggle with Mr. Ransom, to refute and convince him, 
she had this morning gone into the parlour to receive him 
with the idea that, now they were alone together in a quiet, 
favourable place, he would perhaps take up the different 
points of her address one by one, as several gentlemen had 
done after hearing her on other occasions. There was 
nothing she liked so well as that, and Olive never had any- 
thing to say against it. But he hadn't taken up anything ; 
he had simply laughed and chaffed, and unrolled a string 
of queer fancies about the delightful way women would fix 
things when, as she said in her address, they should get out 
of their box. He kept talking about the box ; he seemed 
as if he wouldn't let go that simile. He said that he had 
come to look at her through the glass sides, and if he wasn't 
afraid of hurting her he would smash them in. He was 
determined to find the key that would open it, if he had 
to look for it all over the world ; it was tantalising only to 
be able to talk to her through the keyhole. If he didn't 
want to take up the subject, he at least wanted to take her 
up to keep his hand upon her as long as he could. Verena 
had had no such sensation since the first day she went in 
to see Olive Chancellor, when she felt herself plucked from 
the earth and borne aloft. 

' It's the most lovely day, and I should like so much to 
show you New York, as you showed me your beautiful 
Harvard/ Basil Ransom went on, pressing her to accede to 
his proposal. ' You said that was the only thing you could 
do for me then, and so this is the only thing I can do for 
you here. It would be odious to see you go away, giving 
me nothing but this stiff little talk in a boarding-house 
parlour.' 

'Mercy, if you call this stiff!' Verena exclaimed, laugh- 
ing, while at that moment Olive passed out of the house 
and descended the steps before her eyes. 

' My poor cousin's stiff; she won't turn her head a hair's 
breadth to look at us,' said the young man. Olive's figure, 
as she went by, was, for Verena, full of a queer, touching, 
tragic expression, saying ever so many things, both familiar 



 

and strange ; and Basil Ransom's companion privately re- 
marked how little men knew about women, or indeed about 
what was really delicate, that he, without any cruel inten- 
tion, should attach an idea of ridicule to such an incarnation 
of the pathetic, should speak rough, derisive words about 
it. Ransom, in truth, to-day, was not disposed to be very 
scrupulous, and he only wanted to get rid of Olive Chan- 
cellor, whose image, at last, decidedly bothered and bored 
him. He was glad to see her go out ; but that was not 
sufficient, she would come back quick enough; the place 
itself contained her, expressed her. For to-day he wanted 
to take possession of Verena, to carry her to a distance, to 
reproduce a little the happy conditions they had enjoyed 
the day of his visit to Cambridge. And the fact that in 
the nature of things it could only be for to-day made his 
desire more keen, more full of purpose. He had thought 
over the whole question in the last forty-eight hours, and 
it was his belief that he saw things in their absolute reality. 
He took a greater interest in her than he had taken in any 
one yet, but he proposed, after to-day, not to let that acci- 
dent make any difference. This was precisely what gave 
its high value to the present limited occasion. He was too 
shamefully poor, too shabbily and meagrely equipped, to 
have the right to talk of marriage to a girl in Verena's very 
peculiar position. He understood now how good that 
position was, from a worldly point of view \ her address at 
Mrs. Burrage's gave him something definite to go upon, 
showed him what she could do, that people would flock in 
thousands to an exhibition so charming (and small blame 
to them) ; that she might easily have a big career, like that 
of a distinguished actress or singer, and that she would 
make money in quantities only slightly smaller than per- 
formers of that kind. Who wouldn't pay half a dollar for 
such an hour as he had passed at Mrs. Burrage's ? The 
sort of thing she was able to do, to say, was an article for 
which there was more and more demand fluent, pretty, 
third-rate palaver, conscious or unconscious perfected hum- 
bug ; the stupid, gregarious, gullible public, the enlightened 
democracy of his native land, could swallow unlimited 
draughts of it. He was sure she could go, like that, for 



 

several years, with her portrait in the druggists' windows 
and her posters on the fences, and during that time would 
make a fortune sufficient to keep her in affluence for ever- 
more. I shall perhaps expose our young man to the 
contempt of superior minds if I say that all this seemed to 
him an insuperable impediment to his making up to Verena. 
His scruples were^ doubtless begotten of a false pride, a 
sentiment in whicri there was a thread of moral tinsel, as 
there was in the Southern idea of chivalry; but he felt 
ashamed of his own poverty, the positive flatness of his 
situation, when he thought of the gilded nimbus that sur- 
rounded the protegee of Mrs. Burrage. This shame was 
possible to him even while he was conscious of what a 
mean business it was to practise upon human imbecility, 
how much better it was even to be seedy and obscure, 
discouraged about one's self. He had been born to the 
prospect of a fortune, and in spite of the years of misery 
that followed the war had never rid himself of the belief 
that a gentleman who desired to unite himself to a charming 
girl couldn't yet ask her to come and live with him in 
sordid conditions. On the other hand it was no possible 
basis of matrimony that Verena should continue for his 
advantage the exercise of her remunerative profession; if 
he should become her husband he should know a way to 
strike her dumb. In the midst of this an irrepressible 
desire urged him on to taste, for once, deeply, all that he 
was condemned to lose, or at any rate forbidden to attempt 
to gain. To spend a day with her and not to see her again 
that presented itself to him at once as the least and the 
most that was possible. He did not need even to remind 
himself that young Mr. Burrage was able to offer her 
everything he lacked, including the most amiable adhesion 
to her views. 

'  It will be charming in the Park to-day. Why not take 
a stroll with me there as I did with you in the little park at 
Harvard?' he asked, when Olive had disappeared. 

' Oh, I have seen it, very well, in every corner. A friend 
of mine kindly took me to drive there yesterday,' Verena 
said. 

' A friend? do you mean Mr. Burrage?' And Ran- 



 

som stood looking at her with his extraordinary eyes. ' Of 
course, I haven't a vehicle to drive you in ; but we can sit 
on a bench and talk.' She didn't say it was Mr. Burrage, 
but she was unable to say it was not, and something in her 
face showed him that he had guessed. So he went on : 
' Is it only with him you can go out ? Won't he like it, 
and may you only do what he likes ? Mrs. Luna told me 
he wants to marry you, and I saw at his mother's how he 
stuck to you. If you are going to marry him, you can 
drive with him every day in the year, and that's just a 
reason for your giving me an hour or two now, before it 
becomes impossible.' He didn't mind much what he said 
it had been his plan not to mind much to-day and so 
long as he made her do what he wanted he didn't care 
much how he did it. But he saw that his words brought 
the colour to her face ; she stared, surprised at his freedom 
and familiarity. He went on, dropping the hardness, the 
irony of which he was conscious, out of his tone. ' I know 
it's no business of mine whom you marry, or even whom 
you drive with, and I beg your pardon if I seem indiscreet 
and obtrusive ; but I would give anything just to detach 
you a little from your ties, your belongings, and feel for an 
hour or two, as if as if ' And he paused. 

'As if what?' she asked, very seriously. 

'  As if there were no such person as Mr. Burrage as 
Miss Chancellor in the whole place.' This had not been 
what he was going to say ; he used different words. 

' I don't know what you mean, why you speak of other 
persons. I can do as I like, perfectly. But I don't know 
why you should take so for granted that that would be it !' 
Verena spoke these words not out of coquetry, or to make 
him beg her more for a favour, but because she was think- 
ing, and she wanted to gain a moment. His allusion to 
Henry Burrage touched her, his belief that she had been in 
the Park under circumstances more agreeable than those 
he proposed. They were not ; somehow, she wanted him 
to know that. To wander there with a companion, slowly 
stopping, lounging, looking at the animals as she had seen 
the people do the day before ; to sit down in some out-of- 
the-way part where there were distant views, which she had 



 

noticed from her high perch beside Henry Burrage she 
had to look down so, it made her feel unduly fine : that 
was much more to her taste, much more her idea of true 
enjoyment. It came over her that Mr. Ransom had given 
up his work to come to her at such an hour \ people of his 
kind, in the morning, were always getting their living, and 
it was only for Mr. Burrage that it didn't matter, inasmuch 
as he had no profession. Mr. Ransom simply wanted to 
give up his whole day. That pressed upon her ; she was, 
as the most good-natured girl in the world, too entirely 
tender not to feel any sacrifice that was made for her ; she 
had always done everything that people asked. Then, if 
Olive should make that strange arrangement for her to go 
to Mrs. Burrage's he would take it as a proof that there was 
something serious between her and the gentleman of the 
house, in spite of anything she might say to the contrary ; 
moreover, if she should go she wouldn't be able to receive 
Mr. Ransom there. Olive would trust her not to, and she 
must certainly, in future, not disappoint Olive nor keep 
anything back from her, whatever she might have done in 
the past. Besides, she didn't want to do that ; she thought 
it much better not. It was this idea of the episode which 
was possibly in store for her in New York, and from which 
her present companion would be so completely excluded, 
that worked upon her now with a rapid transition, urging 
her to grant him what he asked, so that in advance she 
should have made up for what she might not do for him 
later. But most of all she disliked his thinking she was 
engaged to some one. She didn't know, it is true, why 
she should mind it ; and indeed, at this moment, our young 
lady's feelings were not in any way clear to her. She did 
not see what was the use of letting her acquaintance with 
Mr. Ransom become much closer (since his interest did 
really seem personal); and yet she presently asked him 
why he wanted her to go out with him, and whether there 
was anything particular he wanted to say to her (there was 
no one like Verena for making speeches apparently flirta- 
tious, with the best faith and the most innocent intention in 
the world) ; as if that would not be precisely a reason to 
make it well she should get rid of him altogether. 



 

' Of course I have something particular to say to you I 
have a tremendous lot to say to you!' the young man 
exclaimed. 'Far more than I can say in this stuck-up, 
confined room, which is public, too, so that any one may 
come in from one moment to another. Besides,' he added, 
sophistically, ' it isn't proper for me to pay a visit of three 
hours.' 

Verena did not take up the sophistry, nor ask him 
whether it would be more proper for her to ramble about 
the city with him for an equal period ; she only said, ' Is it 
something that I shall care to hear, or that will do me any 
good?' 

' Well, I hope it will do you good ; but I don't suppose 
you will care much to hear it.' Basil Ransom hesitated a 
moment, smiling at her ; then he went on : ' It's to tell you, 
once for all, how much I really do differ from you !' He 
said this at a venture, but it was a happy inspiration. 

If it was only that, Verena thought she might go, for 
that was not personal. ' Well, I'm glad you care so much,' 
she answered, musingly. But she had another scruple still, 
and she expressed it in saying that she should like Olive 
very much to find her when she came in. 

' That's all very well,' Ransom returned ; ' but does she 
think that she only has a right to go out? Does she 
expect you to keep the house because she's abroad? If 
she stays out long enough, she will find you when she 
comes in.' 

' Her going out that way it proves that she trusts me,' 
Verena said, with a candour which alarmed her as soon as 
she had spoken. 

Her alarm was just, for Basil Ransom instantly caught 
up her words, with a great mocking amazement ' Trusts 
you ? and why shouldn't she trust you ? Are you a little 
girl of ten and she your governess? Haven't you any 
liberty at all, and is she always watching you and holding 
you to an account? Have you such vagabond instincts 
that you are only thought safe when you are between four 
walls ?' Ransom was going on to speak, in the same tone, 
of her having felt it necessary to keep Olive in ignorance of 
his visit to Cambridge a fact they had touched on, by 



 

implication, in their short talk at Mrs. Burrage's ; but in a 
moment he saw that he had said enough. As for Verena, 
she had said more than she meant, and the simplest way to 
unsay it was to go and get her bonnet and jacket and let 
him take her where he liked. Five minutes later he was 
walking up and down the parlour, waiting while she pre- 
pared herself to go out. 

They went up to the Central Park by the elevated 
railway, and Verena reflected, as they proceeded, that any- 
way Olive was probably disposing of her somehow at Mrs. 
Burrage's, and that therefore there wasn't much harm in 
her just taking this little run on her own responsibility, 
especially as she should only be out an hour which would 
be just the duration of Olive's absence. The beauty of the 
'  elevated ' was that it took you up to the Park and brought 
you back in a few minutes, and you had all the rest of the 
hour to walk about and see the place. It was so pleasant 
now that one was glad to see it twice over. The long, 
narrow inclosure, across which the houses in the streets that 
border it look at each other with their glittering windows, 
bristled with the raw delicacy of April, and, in spite of its 
rockwork grottoes and tunnels, its pavilions and statues, its 
too numerous paths and pavements, lakes too big for the 
landscape and bridges too big for the lakes, expressed all 
the fragrance and freshness of the most charming moment 
of the year. Once Verena was fairly launched the spirit of 
the day took possession of her ; she was glad to have come, 
she forgot about Olive, enjoyed the sense of wandering in 
the great city with a remarkable young man who would 
take beautiful care of her, while no one else in the world 
knew where she was. It was very different from her drive 
yesterday with Mr. Burrage, but it was more free, more 
intense, more full of amusing incident and opportunity. 
She could stop and look at everything now, and indulge all 
her curiosities, even the most childish ; she could feel as if 
she were out for the day, though she was not really as she 
had not done since she was a little girl, when in the country, 
once or twice, when her father and mother had drifted 
into summer quarters, gone out of town like people of 
fashion, she had, with a chance companion, strayed far 



 

from home, spent hours in the woods and fields, looking 
for raspberries and playing she was a gipsy. Basil Ransom 
had begun with proposing, strenuously, that she should 
come somewhere and have luncheon ; he had brought her 
out.half an hour before that meal was served in West Tenth 
Street, and he maintained that he owed her the compensa- 
tion of seeing that she was properly fed ; he knew a very 
quiet, luxurious French restaurant, near the top of the Fifth 
Avenue : he didn't tell her that he knew it through having 
once lunched there in company with Mrs. Luna. Verena 
for the present declined his hospitality said she was going 
to be out so short a time that it wasn't worth the trouble ; 
she should not be hungry, luncheon to her was nothing, she 
would eat when she went home. When he pressed her she 
said she would see later, perhaps, if she should find she 
wanted something. She would have liked immensely to go 
with him to an eating-house, and yet, with this, she was 
afraid, just as she was rather afraid, at bottom, and in the 
intervals of her quick pulsations of amusement, of the whole 
expedition, not knowing why she had come, though it 
made her happy, and reflecting that there was really nothing 
Mr. Ransom could have to say to her that would concern 
her closely enough. He knew what he intended about her 
sharing the noonday repast with him somehow ; it had been 
part of his plan that she should sit opposite him at a little 
table, taking her napkin out of its curious folds sit there 
smiling back at him while he said to her certain things that 
hummed, like memories of tunes, in his fancy, and they 
waited till something extremely good, and a little vague, 
chosen out of a French carte, was brought them. That 
was not at all compatible with her going home at the end 
of half an hour, as she seemed to expect to. They visited 
the animals in the little zoological garden which forms one 
of the attractions of the Central Park ; they observed the 
swans in the ornamental water, and they even considered 
the question of taking a boat for half an hour, Ransom 
saying that they needed this to make their visit complete. 
Verena replied that she didn't see why it should be com- 
plete, and after having threaded the devious ways of the 
Ramble, lost themselves in the Maze, and admired all the 



 

statues and busts of great men with which the grounds are 
decorated, they contented themselves with resting on a 
sequestered bench, where, however, there was a pretty 
glimpse of the distance and an occasional stroller creaked 
by on the asphalt walk. 

They had had by this time a great deal of talk, none of 
which, nevertheless, had been serious to Verena's view. 
Mr. Ransom continued to joke about everything, including 
the emancipation of women ; Verena, who had always lived 
with people who took the world very earnestly, had never 
encountered such a power of disparagement or heard so 
much sarcasm levelled at the institutions of her country and 
the tendencies of the age. At first she replied to him, 
contradicted, showed a high spirit of retort, turning his 
irreverence against himself; she was too quick and inge- 
nious not to be able to think of something to oppose 
talking in a fanciful strain to almost everything he said. 
But little by little she grew weary and rather sad ; brought 
up, as she had been, to admire new ideas, to criticise the 
social arrangements that one met almost everywhere, 
and to disapprove of a great many things, she had 
yet never dreamed of such a wholesale arraignment as 
Mr. Ransom's, so much bitterness as she saw lurking 
beneath his exaggerations, his misrepresentations. She 
knew he was an intense conservative, but she didn't know 
that being a conservative could make a person so aggressive 
and unmerciful. She thought conservatives were only 
smug and stubborn and self-complacent, satisfied with what 
actually existed ; but Mr. Ransom didn't seem any more 
satisfied with what existed than with what she wanted to 
exist, and he was ready to say worse things about some of 
those whom she would have supposed to be on his own 
side than she thought it right to say about almost any one. 
She ceased after a while to care to argue with him, and 
wondered what could have happened to him to make him 
so perverse. Probably something had gone wrong in his 
life he had had some misfortune that coloured his whole 
view of the world. He was a cynic ; she had often heard 
about ,that state of mind, though she had never encountered 
it, for all the people she had seen only cared, if possible, too 



 

much. Of Basil Ransom's personal history she knew only 
