
THE FETISH THEORY THEN AND NOW.

We have already observed that at the date of these events, the only
possible explanation of the phenomena presented was the fetish solution
which had in all ages been recurred to as a matter of course. In
heathen times it was god, goddess, or nymph who gave knowledge, or
power, or gifts of healing, or of prophecy, to men. In Christian times
it was angel, or devil, or spirit of the dead; and this conception was
in full force over all Christendom when the Puritan emigrants settled in
New England. The celebrated sermon of the Rev. Mr. Lawson, in the work
before us, discloses the elaborate doctrine held by the class of men who
were supposed to know best in regard to the powers given by Satan to his
agents, and the evils with which he afflicted his victims; and there
was not only no reason why the pastor's hearers should question his
interpretations, but no possibility that they should supply any of
a different kind. The accused themselves, while unable to admit or
conceive that they were themselves inspired by Satan, could propose no
explanation but that the acts were done by "some bad spirit." And such
has been the fetish tendency to this hour, through all the advance
that has been made in science, and in the arts of observation and
of reasoning. The fetish tendency--that of ascribing one's own
consciousness to external objects, as when the dog takes a watch to be
alive because it ticks, and when the savage thinks his god is angry
because it thunders, and when the Puritan catechumen cries out in
hysteria that Satan has set a witch to strangle her--that constant
tendency to explain everything by the facts, the feelings, and the
experience of the individual's own nature, is no nearer dying out
now than at the time of the Salem Tragedy; and hence, in part, the
seriousness and the instructiveness of this story to the present
generation. Ours is the generation which has seen the spread of
Spiritualism in Europe and America, a phenomenon which deprives us of
all right to treat the Salem Tragedy as a jest, or to adopt a tone of
superiority in compassion for the agents in that dismal drama. There are
hundreds, even several thousands, of lunatics in the asylums of the
United States, and not a few in our own country, who have been lodged
there by the pursuit of intercourse with spirits; in other words, by
ascribing to living but invisible external agents movements of their
own minds. Mr. Parris remarked, in 1692, that of old, witches were only
ignorant old women; whereas, in his day, they had come to be persons
of knowledge, holiness, and devotion who had been drawn into that
damnation; and in our day, we hear remarks on the superior refinement
of spirit-intercourses, in comparison with the witch doings at Salem;
but the cases are all essentially the same. In all, some peculiar and
inexplicable appearances occur, and are, as a matter of course, when
their reality can not be denied, ascribed to spiritual agency. We may
believe that we could never act as the citizens of Salem acted in their
superstition and their fear; and this may be true; but the course of
speculation is, in "spiritual circles," very much the same as in Mr.
Parris' parlor.

And how much less excuse there is for our generation than for his!
We are very far yet from being able to explain the well-known and
indisputable facts which occur from time to time, in all countries where
men abide and can give an account of themselves; such facts as the
phenomena of natural somnambulism, of double consciousness, of suspended
sensation while consciousness is awake, and the converse--of a wide
range of intellectual and instinctive operations bearing the character
of marvels to such as can not wait for the solution. We are still far
from being able to explain such mysteries, in the only true sense of the
word explaining--that is, being able to refer the facts to the natural
cause to which they belong; but we have an incalculable advantage over
the people of former centuries in knowing that for all proved facts
there is a natural cause; that every cause to which proved facts within
our cognizance are related is destined to become known to us; and that,
in the present case, we have learned in what direction to search for it,
and have set out on the quest. None of us can offer even the remotest
conjecture as to what the law of the common action of what we call mind
and body may be. If we could, the discovery would have been already
made. But, instead of necessarily assuming, as the Salem people did,
that what they witnessed was the operation of spiritual upon human
beings, we have, as our field of observation and study, a region
undreamed of by them--the brain as an organized part of the human frame,
and the nervous system, implicating more facts, more secrets, and more
marvels than our forefathers attributed to the whole body.


THE VIEWS OF MODERN INVESTIGATORS.

It is very striking to hear the modern lectures on physiological
subjects delivered in every capital in Europe, and to compare the calm
and easy manner in which the most astonishing and the most infernal
phenomena are described and discussed, with the horror and dismay that
the same facts would have created if disclosed by divines in churches
three centuries ago. Dr. Maudsley, in his recent work on "The
Physiology and Pathology of Mind," and other physicians occupied in his
line of practice, lead us through the lunatic asylums of every country,
pointing out as ordinary or extraordinary incidents the same
"afflictions" of children and other morbid persons which we read of, one
after another, in the Salem story. It is a matter of course with such
practitioners and authors to anticipate such phenomena when they have
detected the morbid conditions which generate them. Mr. Upham himself
is evidently very far indeed from understanding or suspecting how much
light is thrown on the darkest part of his subject by physiological
researches carried on to the hour when he laid down his pen. His view
is confined almost exclusively to the theory of fraud and falsehood, as
affording the true key. It is not probable that anybody disputes or
doubts the existence of guilt and folly in many or all of the agents
concerned. There was an antecedent probability of both in regard to
Mr. Parris' slaves, and to such of the young children as they most
influenced; and that kind of infection is apt to spread. Moreover,
experience shows us that the special excitement of that nervous
condition induces moral vagaries at least as powerfully as mental
delusions. In the state of temper existing among the inhabitants of the
Village when the mischievous club of girls was formed at the pastor's
house, it was inevitable that, if magic was entered upon at all, it
would be malignant magic. Whatever Mr. Upham has said in illustration of
that aspect of the case his readers will readily agree to. But there is
a good deal more, even of the imperfect notices that remain after the
abstraction and destruction of the records in the shame and anguish that
ensued, which we, in our new dawn of science, can perceive to be an
affair of the bodily organization. We are, therefore, obliged to him for
rescuing this tremendous chapter of history from oblivion, and for the
security in which he has placed the materials of evidence. In another
generation the science of the human frame may have advanced far enough
to elucidate some of the Salem mysteries, together with some obscure
facts in all countries, which can not be denied, while as yet they can
not be understood. When that time comes, a fearful weight of imputation
will be removed from the name and fame of many agents and sufferers who
have been the subjects of strange maladies and strange faculties, in all
times and countries. As we are now taught the new discoveries of the
several nerve-centers, and the powers which are appropriated to them;
and when we observe what a severance may exist between the so-called
organ of any sense or faculty and the operation of the sense or faculty;
and how infallibly ideas and emotion may be generated, and even beliefs
created in minds sane and insane, by certain manipulations of the nerves
and brain, we see how innocently this phenomenon may be presented in
natural somnambulism. Sleepwalkers have been known in many countries,
and treated of in medical records by their physicians, who could not
only walk, and perform all ordinary acts in the dark as well as in the
light, but who went on writing or reading without interruption though an
opaque substance--a book or a slate--was interposed, and would dot the
i's and cross the t's with unconscious correctness without any use
of their eyes. There is a wide field of inquiry open in this direction,
now that the study of the nervous system has been begun, however minute
is the advance as yet.


IMPORTANCE OF THE SUBJECT.

It is needless to dwell on the objection made to the rising hopefulness
in regard to the study of Man, and the mysteries of his nature. Between
the multitude who have still no notion of any alternative supposition to
that of possession or inspiration by spirits, or, at least, intercourse
with such beings, and others who fear "Materialism" if too close an
attention is paid to the interaction of the mind and the nerves, and
those who always shrink from new notions in matters so interesting, and
those who fear that religion may be implicated in any slight shown to
angel or devil, and those who will not see or hear any evidence whatever
which lies in a direction opposite to their prejudices, we are not
likely to get on too fast. But neither can the injury lapse under
neglect. The spectacle presented now is of the same three sorts of
people that appear in all satires, in all literatures, since the pursuit
of truth in any mode or direction became a recognized object anywhere
and under any conditions. Leaving out of view the multitude who are
irrelevant to the case, from having no knowledge, and being therefore
incapable of an opinion, there is the large company of the superficial
and light-minded, who are always injuring the honor and beauty of truth
by the levity, the impertinence, the absurdity of the enthusiasm they
pretend, and the nonsense they talk about "some new thing." No period of
society has been more familiar with that class and its mischief-making
than our own. There is the other large class of the cotemporaries of any
discovery or special advance, who, when they can absent themselves from
the scene no longer, look and listen, and bend all their efforts to
hold their ground of life-long opinion, usually succeeding so far as to
escape any direct admission that more is known than when they were born.
These are no ultimate hindrance. When Harvey died, no physician in
Europe above the age of forty believed in the circulation of the blood;
but the truth was perfectly safe; and so it will be with the case of the
psychological relations of the nervous system when the present course of
investigation has sustained a clearer verification and further advance.
On this point we have the sayings of two truth-seekers, wise in quality
of intellect, impartial and dispassionate in temper, and fearless in the
pursuit of their aims. The late Prince Consort is vividly remembered for
the characteristic saying which spread rapidly over the country, that he
could not understand the conduct of the medical profession in England
in leaving the phenomena of mesmerism to the observation of unqualified
persons, instead of undertaking an inquiry which was certainly their
proper business, in proportion as they professed to pursue science.
The other authority we refer to is the late Mr. Hallam. A letter of his
lies before us from which we quote a passage, familiar in its substance,
doubtless, to his personal friends, to whom he always avowed the view
which it presents, and well worthy of note to such readers as may not
be aware of the observation and thought he devoted to the phenomena of
mesmerism during the last quarter-century of his long life. "It appears
to me probable that the various phenomena of mesmerism, together with
others, independent of mesmerism properly so called, which have lately
[the date is 1844] been brought to light, are fragments of some general
law of nature which we are not yet able to deduce from them, merely
because they are destitute of visible connection--the links being
hitherto wanting which are to display the entire harmony of effects
proceeding from a single cause."

[Persons curious to know what has been developed in this class of
studies may find the same in a work published at this office, entitled
THE LIBRARY OF MESMERISM AND PSYCHOLOGY--comprising the Philosophy of
Mesmerism, Clairvoyance, and Mental Electricity; Fascination, or the
Power of Charming; The Macrocosm, or the World of Sense; Electrical
Psychology, or the Doctrine of Impressions; The Science of the Soul,
treated Physiologically and Philosophically. Complete in one illustrated
volume. Price, $4.]

What room is there not for hopefulness when we compare such an
observation as this with Mr. Parris' dogmatical exposition of Satan's
dealings with men! or when we contrast the calm and cheerful tone of the
philosopher with the stubborn wrath of Chief Justice Stoughton, and with
the penitential laments of Judge Sewall! We might contrast it also with
the wild exultation of those of the Spiritualists of our own day who can
form no conception of the modesty and patience requisite for the sincere
search for truth, and who, once finding themselves surrounded by facts
and appearances new and strange, assume that they have discovered a
bridge over the bottomless "gulf beyond which lies the spirit-land," and
wander henceforth in a fools' paradise, despising and pitying all who
are less rash, ignorant, and presumptuous than themselves. It is this
company of fanatics--the first of the three classes we spoke of--which
is partly answerable for the backwardness of the second; but the blame
does not rest exclusively in one quarter. There is an indolence in the
medical class which is the commonest reproach against them in every age
of scientific activity, and which has recently been heroically avowed
and denounced in a public address by no less a member of the profession
than Sir Thomas Watson.[1] There is a conservative reluctance to change
of view or of procedure. There is also a lack of moral courage, by no
means surprising in an order of men whose lives are spent in charming
away troubles, and easing pains and cares, and "making things
pleasant"--by no means surprising, we admit, but exceedingly unfavorable
to the acknowledgment of phenomena that are strange and facts that are
unintelligible.

      [1] Address on the Present State of Therapeutics. Delivered at
      the opening meeting of the Clinical Society of London, January
      10, 1868. By Sir Thomas Watson, Bart., M.D.

This brings us to the third class--the very small number of persons who
are, in the matter of human progress, the salt of the earth; the few who
can endure to see without understanding, to hear without immediately
believing or disbelieving, to learn what they can, without any
consideration of what figure they themselves shall make in the
transaction; and even to be unable to reconcile the new phenomena with
their own prior experience or conceptions. There is no need to describe
how rare this class must necessarily be, for every one who has eyes sees
how near the passions and the prejudices of the human being lie to each
other. These are the few who unite the two great virtues of earnestly
studying the facts, and keeping their temper, composure and cheerfulness
through whatever perplexity their inquiry may involve. It is remarkable
that while the world is echoing all round and incessantly with the
praise of the life of the man spent in following truth wherever it may
lead, the world is always resounding also with the angry passions of men
who resent all opinions which are not their own, and denounce with fury
or with malice any countenance given to mere proposals to inquire in
certain directions which they think proper to reprobate. Not only was it
horrible blasphemy in Galileo to think as he did of the motion of the
earth, but in his friends to look through his glass at the stars.

This Salem story is indeed shocking in every view--to our pride as
rational beings, to our sympathy as human beings, to our faith as
Christians, to our complacency as children of the Reformation. It is so
shocking that some of us may regret that the details have been revived
with such an abundance of evidence. But this is no matter of regret, but
rather of congratulation, if we have not outgrown the need of admonition
from the past. How does that consideration stand?

At the end of nearly three centuries we find ourselves relieved of a
heavy burden of fear and care about the perpetual and unbounded malice
of Satan and his agents. Witchcraft has ceased to be one of the gravest
curses of the human lot. We have parted with one after another of the
fetish or conjectural persuasions about our relations with the world of
spirit or mind, regarded as in direct opposition to the world of matter.
By a succession of discoveries we have been led to an essentially
different view of life and thought from any dreamed of before the new
birth of science; and at this day, and in our own metropolis, we have
Sir Henry Holland telling us how certain treatment of this or that
department of the nervous system will generate this or that state of
belief and experience, as well as sensation. We have Dr. Carpenter
disclosing facts of incalculable significance about brain-action without
consciousness, and other vital mysteries. We have Dr. Maudsley showing,
in the cells of the lunatic asylum, not only the very realm of Satan, as
our fathers would have thought, but the discovery that it is not Satan,
after all, that makes the havoc, but our own ignorance which has seduced
us into a blasphemous superstition, instead of inciting us to the study
of ourselves. And these are not all our teachers. Amid the conflict
of phenomena of the human mind and body, we have arrived now at the
express controversy of Psychology against Physiology. Beyond the mere
statement of the fact we have scarcely advanced a step. The first can
not be, with any accuracy, called a science at all, and the other is in
little more than a rudimentary state; but it is no small gain to have
arrived at some conception of the nature of the problem set before us,
and at some liberty of hypothesis as to its conditions. In brief, and
in the plainest terms, while there is still a multitude deluding and
disporting itself with a false hypothesis about certain mysteries of the
human mind, and claiming to have explained the marvels of Spiritualism
by making an objective world of their own subjective experience, the
scientific physiologists [those especially who are true phrenologists]
are proceeding, by observation and experiment, to penetrate more and
more secrets of our intellectual and moral life.




THE PLANCHETTE MYSTERY.


WHAT PLANCHETTE IS AND DOES.

This little gyrating tripod is proving itself to be something more than
a nine days' wonder. It is finding its way into thousands of families in
all parts of the land. Lawyers, physicians, politicians, philosophers,
and even clergymen, have watched eagerly its strange antics, and
listened with rapt attention to its mystic oracles. Mrs. Jones demands
of it where Jones spends his evenings; the inquisitive of both sexes are
soliciting it to "tell their fortunes;" speculators are invoking its aid
in making sharp bargains, and it is said that even sagacious brokers in
Wall Street are often found listening to its vaticinations as to the
price of stocks on a given future day. To all kinds of inquiries answers
are given, intelligible at least, if not always true. A wonderful jumble
of mental and moral possibilities is this little piece of dead matter,
now giving utterance to childish drivel, now bandying jokes and
badinage, now stirring the conscience by unexceptionably Christian
admonitions, and now uttering the baldest infidelity or the most
shocking profanity; and often discoursing gravely on science,
philosophy, or theology. It is true that Planchette seldom assumes this
variety of theme and diction under the hands of the same individual,
but, in general, manifests a peculiar facility of adapting its discourse
to the character of its associates. Reader, with your sanction, we will
seek a little further acquaintance with this new wonder.



The word "Planchette" is French, and simply signifies a little board.
It is usually made in the shape of a heart, about seven inches long and
six inches wide at the widest part, but we suppose that any other shape
and convenient size would answer as well. Under the two corners of the
widest end are fixed two little castors or pantograph wheels, admitting
of easy motion in all horizontal directions; and in a hole, pierced
through the narrow end, is fixed, upright, a lead pencil, which forms
the third foot of the tripod. If this little instrument be placed upon a
sheet of printing paper, and the fingers of one or more persons be laid
lightly upon it, after quietly waiting a short time for the connection
or rapport to become established, the board, if conditions are
favorable, will begin to move, carrying the fingers with it. It will
move for about one person in every three or four; and sometimes it will
move with the hands of two or three persons in contact with it, when it
will not move for either one of the persons singly. At the first trial,
from a few seconds to twenty minutes may be required to establish the
motion; but at subsequent trials it will move almost immediately. The
first movements are usually indefinite or in circles but as soon as some
control of the motion is established, it will begin to write--at first,
perhaps, in mere monosyllables, "Yes," and "No," in answer to leading
questions, but afterward freely writing whole sentences, and even pages.

For me alone, the instrument will not move; for myself and wife it moves
slightly, but its writing is mostly in monosyllables. With my daughter's
hands upon it, it writes more freely, frequently giving, correctly, the
names of persons present whom she may not know, and also the names
of their friends, living or dead, with other and similar tests. Its
conversations with her are grave or gay, much according to the state
of her own mind at the time; and when frivolous questions are asked,
it almost always returns answers either frivolous or, I am sorry to
say it, a trifle wicked. For example, she on one occasion said to it:
"Planchette, where did you get your education?" To her horror, it
instantly wrote: "In h--l," without, however, being so fastidious as to
omit the letters of the word here left out. On another occasion, after
receiving from it responses to some trival questions, she said to
it: "Planchette, now write something of your own accord without our
prompting." But instead of writing words and sentences as was expected,
it immediately traced out the rude figure of a man, such as school
children sometimes make upon their slates. After finishing the
outlines--face, neck, arms, legs, etc., it swung around and brought
the point of the pencil to the proper position for the eye, which it
carefully marked in, and then proceeded to pencil out the hair. On
finishing this operation, it wrote under the figure the name of a young
man concerning whom my daughter's companions are in the habit of teasing
her.

My wife once said to it: "Planchette, write the name of the article I am
thinking of." She was thinking of a finger ring, on which her eye had
rested a moment before. The operator, of course, knew nothing of this,
and my wife expected either that the experiment would fail, or else that
the letters R-i-n-g would be traced. But instead of that, the instrument
moved, very slowly, and, as it were, deliberately, and traced an
apparently exact circle on the paper, of about the size of the finger
ring she had in her mind. "Will you try that over again?" said she, when
a similar circle was traced, in a similar manner, but more promptly.
During this experiment, one of my wife's hands, in addition to my
daughter's, was resting lightly upon the board; but if the moving force
had been supplied by her, either consciously or unconsciously, the
motion would evidently have taken the direction of her thought, which
was that of writing the letters of the word, instead of a direction
unthought of.

While Planchette, in her intercourse with me, has failed to distinguish
herself either as a preacher or a philosopher, I regret to say that she
has not proved herself a much more successful prophet. While the recent
contest for the United States Senatorship from the State of New York was
pending, I said to my little oracular friend: "Planchette, will you give
me a test?" "Yes." "Do you know who will be the next U. S. Senator from
this State?" "Yes." "Please write the name of the person who will be
chosen." "Mr. Sutton," was written. Said I, "I have not the pleasure
of knowing that gentleman; please tell me where he resides." Ans. "In
Washington."

I do not relate this to disturb the happy dreams of the Hon. Reuben E.
Fenton by suggesting any dire contingencies that may yet happen to mar
the prospect before him. In justice to my little friend, however, I must
not omit to state that in respect to questions as to the kind of weather
we shall have on the morrow? will such person go, or such a one come? or
shall I see, or do this, that, or the other thing? its responses have
been generally correct.

To rush to a conclusion respecting the rationale of so mysterious a
phenomenon, under the sole guidance of an experience which has been so
limited as my own, would betray an amount of egoism and heedlessness
with which I am unwilling to be chargeable; and my readers will now be
introduced to some experiences of others.

A friend of mine, Mr. C., residing in Jersey City, with whom I have
almost daily intercourse, and whose testimony is entirely trustworthy,
relates the following:

Some five or six months ago he purchased a Planchette, brought it home,
and placed it in the hands of Mrs. B., a widow, who was then visiting
his family. Mrs. B. had never tried or witnessed any experiments with
Planchette, and was incredulous as to her power to evoke any movements
from it. She, however, placed her hands upon it, as directed, and to her
surprise it soon began to move, and wrote for its first words: "Take
care!" "Of what must I take care?" she inquired. "Of your money."
"Where?" "In Kentucky."

My friend states that Mrs. B.'s husband had died in Albany about two
years previous, bequeathing to her ten thousand dollars, which sum she
had loaned to a gentleman in Louisville, Ky., to invest in the drug
business, on condition that she and he were to share the profits; and up
to this time the thought had not occurred to her that her money was not
perfectly safe. At this point she inquired: "Who is this that is giving
this caution?" "B---- W----." (The name of a friend of hers who had died
at Cairo, Ill., some six years before.) Mrs. B. "Why! is my money in
jeopardy?" Planchette. "Yes, and needs prompt attention." My friend C.
here asked: "Ought she to go to Kentucky and attend to the matter?"
"Yes."

So strange and unexpected was this whole communication, and so
independent of the suggestions of her own mind, that she was not a
little impressed by it, and thought it would at least be safe for her
to make a journey to Louisville and ascertain if the facts were as
represented. But she had at the time no ready money to pay her traveling
expenses, and not knowing how she could get the money, she asked: "When
shall I be able to go?" "In two weeks from to-day," was the reply.

She thought over the matter, and the next day applied to a friend of
hers, a Mr. W., in Nassau Street, who promised to lend her the money by
the next Tuesday or Wednesday. (It was on Thursday that the interview
with Planchette occurred.) She came home and remarked to my friend:
"Well, Planchette has told one lie, anyhow; it said I would start for
Louisville two weeks from that day. Mr. W. is going to lend me the
money, and I shall start by next Thursday, only one week from that
time."

But on the next Tuesday morning she received a note from Mr. W.
expressing regret that circumstances had occurred which would render it
impossible for him to let her have the money. She immediately sought,
and soon found, another person by whom she was promised the money still
in time to enable her to start a couple of days before the expiration of
the two weeks--thus still, as she supposed, enabling her to prove
Planchette to be wrong in at least that particular. But from
circumstances unnecessary to detail, the money did not come until
Wednesday, the day before the expiration of the two weeks. She then
prepared herself to start the next morning; but through a blunder
of the expressman in carrying her trunk to the wrong depot, she was
detained till the five o'clock P.M. train, when she started, just two
weeks, to the hour, from the time the prediction was given.

Arriving in Louisville, she learned that her friend had become involved
in consequence of having made a number of bad sales for large amounts,
and had actually gone into bankruptcy--reserving, however, for the
security of her debt, a number of lots of ground, which his creditors
were trying to get hold of. She thus arrived not a moment too soon to
save herself, which she will probably do, in good part, at least, if not
wholly--though the affair is still unsettled.

Since this article was commenced, the following fact has been furnished
me from a reliable source. It is offered not only for the test which it
involves, but also to illustrate the remarkable faculty which Planchette
sometimes manifests, of calling things by their right names. A lady
well known to the community, but whose name I have not permission to
disclose, recently received from Planchette, writing under her own
hands, a communication so remarkable that she was induced to ask for the
name of the intelligence that wrote it. In answer to her request, the
name of the late Col. Baker, who gallantly fell at Ball's Bluff, was
given, in a perfect fac-simile of his handwriting. She said to him:
"For a further test, will you be kind enough to tell me where I last saw
you?" She expected him to mention the place and occasion of their last
interview when she had invited him to her house to tea; but Planchette
wrote: "In the hall of thieves." "In the hall of thieves," said the
lady; "what on earth can be the meaning of that? O! I remember that
after he was killed, his body was brought on here and laid in the City
Hall, and there I saw him."


THE PRESS ON PLANCHETTE.

In Planchette, public journalists and pamphleteers seem to have caught
the "What is it?" in a new shape, and great has been the expenditure of
printer's ink in the way of narratives, queries, and speculations upon
the subject. There are now lying before me the following publications
and articles, in which the Planchette phenomena are noticed and
discussed,--from which we propose to cull and condense such statements
of fact as appear to possess most intrinsic interest, and promise most
aid in the solution of the mysteries. Afterward we shall discuss the
different theories of these writers, and also some other theories that
have been propounded.

"PLANCHETTE'S DIARY," edited by Kate Field, is an entertaining pamphlet,
consisting of details in the author's experience, with little or no
speculation as to the origin or laws of the phenomena. The author
herself was the principal medium of the communications, but she
occasionally introduces experiences of others. The pamphlet serves to
put one on familiar and companionable terms with the invisible source
of intelligence, whatever that may be, illustrating the leading
peculiarities of the phenomena, giving some tests of an outside
directing influence more or less striking, and candidly recording the
failures of test answers which were mixed up with the successes. We
extract two or three specimens:

  "May 26th--Evening. Our trio was reinforced by Mr. B., a clever
  young lawyer, who regarded Planchette with no favorable eye--had no
  faith whatever in 'Spiritualism,' and maintained that for his part
  he thought it quite as sensible, if not more so, to attribute
  unknown phenomena to white rabbits as to spirits.... Planchette
  addressed herself to Mr. B. thus:

  'You do not think that I am a spirit. I tell you that I am. If I am
  not an intelligence, in the name of common sense what am I? If you
  fancy I am white rabbits, then all I have to say is, that white
  rabbits are a deal cleverer than they have the credit of being among
  natural historians.'

  Later, doubt was thrown upon the possibility of getting mental
  questions answered, and Planchette retorted:

  'Do you fancy for one moment that I don't know the workings of your
  brain? That is not the difficulty. It is the
  impossibility--almost--of making two diametrically opposed
  magnetisms unite.'

  After this rebuke, Mr. B. asked a mental question, and received the
  following answer:

  'I am impelled to say that if you will persevere in these
  investigations, you may be placed en rapport with your wife, who
  would undoubtedly communicate with you. If you have any faith in the
  immortality of the soul, you can have no doubt of the possibility of
  spiritual influences being brought to bear upon mortals. It is no
  new thing. Ever since the world began, this power has been exerted
  in one way or another; and if you pretend to put any faith in the
  Bible, you surely must credit the possibility of establishing this
  subtile connection between man and so-called angels.'

  This communication was glibly written until within eleven words of
  the conclusion, when Planchette stopped, and I asked if she had
  finished.

  'No,' she replied.

  'Then why don't you go on?' I continued. 'I can write faster than
  this.'

  Planchette grew exceeding wroth at this, and dashed off an answer:

  'Because, my good gracious! you are not obliged to express yourself
  through another's brain.'

  I took it for granted that Planchette had shot very wide of the mark
  in the supposed response to Mr. B.'s mental query, and hence was not
  prepared to be told that it was satisfactory, in proof of which Mr.
  B. wrote beneath it:

  'Appropriate answer to my mental question, Will my deceased wife
  communicate with me?--I. A. B.'"

  "May 28th. At the breakfast-table Mr. G. expressed a great desire to
  see Planchette perform, and she was brought from her box. Miss W.
  was also present. After several communications, Miss W. asked a
  mental question, and Planchette immediately wrote:

  'Miss W., that is hardly possible in the present state of the money
  market; but later, I dare say you will accomplish what you desire to
  undertake.'

  Miss W. 'Planchette is entirely off the track. My question was,
  Can you tell me anything about my nephew?'

  Mr. G. 'Well, it is certainly very queer. I asked a mental
  question to which this is to a certain extent an answer.'

  Mr. G. was seated beside me, thoroughly intent upon Planchette. Miss
  W. was at a distance, and not in any way en rapport with me. If
  this phenomenon of answering mental questions be clairvoyance, the
  situation of these two persons may account for the mixed nature of
  the answer, beginning with Miss W. and finishing with Mr. G."

Putnam's Monthly Magazine for December, 1868, contains an interesting
article entitled "Planchette in a New Character." What the "new
character" is in which it appears, may be learned from the introductory
paragraph, as follows:

  "We, too, have a Planchette, and a Planchette with this signal
  merit: it disclaims all pretensions to supermundane inspirations; it
  operates freely--indeed, with extraordinary freedom; it goes at the
  tap of the drum. The first touch of the operators, no matter under
  what circumstances it is brought out to reveal its knowledge, sets
  it in motion. But it brings no communications from any celestial or
  spiritual sources. Its chirography is generally good, and frequently
  excellent. Its remarks evince an intelligence often above that of
  the operators, and its talent at answering or evading difficult
  questions is admirable. We have no theories about it."

It seems, from other passages in the article, that this Planchette
disclaims the ability to tell anything that is not contained in the
minds of the persons present, although it frequently gives theories in
direct contradiction to the opinions of all present, and argues them
with great persistence until driven up into a corner. It simply assumes
the name of "Planchet," leaving off the feminine termination of the
word; and "on being remonstrated with for illiteracy, it defended itself
by saying, 'I always was a bad speler,'--an orthographical blunder,"
says the writer, "that no one in the room was capable of making."

Although the writer in the paragraph above quoted disclaims all theories
on the subject, he does propound a theory, such as it is; but of this
we defer our notice until we come to put the several theories that have
been offered into the hopper and grind them up together; at which time
we will take some further notice of the amusing peculiarities of this
writer's Planchette.

The Ladies' Repository of November, 1868, contains an article, written
by Rev. A. D. Field, entitled "Planchette; or, Spirit-Rapping Made
Easy." This writer mentions a number of test questions asked by him of
Planchette, the answers to which were all false. Yet he acknowledges
that "the mysterious little creature called Planchette is no humbug;
that some mysterious will-power causes it to answer questions, and that
it is useless to ignore these things, or to laugh at them." The writer
submits a theory by which he thinks these mysteries may be explained, in
a measure, if not wholly, but this, with others, will be reserved for
notice hereafter.

Harper's Monthly Magazine for December, 1868, contains an article
entitled "The Confessions of a Reformed Planchettist." In this
article, the writer, no doubt drawing wholly or in part from his
imagination, details a series of tricks which he had successfully
practiced upon the credulity of others, and concludes by propounding
a very sage and charitable theory to account for all Planchette
phenomena, on which theory we shall yet have a word to offer.

Hours at Home, of February, 1869, contains an article, by J. T.
Headley, entitled "Planchette at the Confessional." In this article,
the writer cogently argues the claims of these new phenomena upon the
attention of scientific men. He says: "That it [the Planchette] writes
things never dreamed of by the operators, is proved by their own
testimony and the testimony of others, beyond all contradiction;" and
goes so far as to assert that to whatever cause these phenomena may be
attributed, "they will seriously affect the whole science of mental
philosophy." He relates a number of facts, more or less striking, and
propounds a theory in their explanation, to which, with others, we will
recur by-and-by.

The foregoing are a few of the most noted, among the many less
important, lucubrations that have fallen under our notice concerning
this interesting subject--enough, however, to indicate the intense
public interest which the performances of this little board are
exciting. We will now proceed to notice some of the theories that
have been advanced for the solution of the mystery.


THEORY FIRST--THAT THE BOARD IS MOVED BY THE HANDS THAT REST UPON IT.

It is supposed that this movement is made either by design or
unconsciously, and that the answers are either the result of adroit
guessing, or the expressions of some appropriate thoughts or memories
which had been previously slumbering in the minds of the operators, and
happen to be awakened at the moment.

After detailing his exploits (whether real or imaginary he has left us
in doubt) in a successful and sustained course of deception, the writer
in Harper's reaches this startling conclusion of the whole matter:

  "It would only write when I moved it, and then it wrote precisely
  what I dictated. That persons write 'unconsciously,' I do not
  believe. As well tell me a man might pick pockets without knowing
  it. Nor am I at all prepared to believe the assertions of those who
  declare that they do not move the board. I know what operators will
  do in such cases; I know the distortion, the disregard of truth
  which association with this immoral board superinduces."

This writer has somewhat the advantage of me. I confess I have no means
of coming to the knowledge of the truth but those of careful thought,
patient observation, and collection of facts, and deduction from them.
But here is a mind that can with one bold dive reach the inner mysteries
of the sensible and supersensible world, penetrate the motives and
impulses that govern the specific moral acts of men, and disclose
at once to us the horrible secret of a conspiracy which, without
preconcert, has been entered into by thousands of men, women, and
children in all parts of the land, to cheat the rest of the human
race--a conspiracy, too, in which certain members of innumerable private
families have banded together to play tricks upon their fathers,
mothers, brothers, and sisters! I feel awed by the overshadowing
presence of such a mind--in fact, I do not feel quite at home with
him, and therefore most respectfully bow myself out of his presence
without further ceremony.

As to the hypothesis that the person or persons whose hands are on the
board move it unconsciously, this is met by the fact that the persons
are perfectly awake and in their senses, and are just as conscious of
what they are doing or not doing as at any other time. Or if it be
morally possible to suppose that they all, invariably, and with one
accord, lie when they assert that the board moves without their
volition, how is it that the answers which they give to questions, some
of them mentally, are in so large a proportion of cases, appropriate
answers? How is it, for example, that Planchette, under the hands of
my own daughter, has, in numerous cases, given correctly the names of
persons whom she had never seen or heard of before, giving also the
names of their absent relatives, the places of their residence, etc.,
all of which were absolutely unknown by every person present except the
questioner?

A theory propounded by the Rev. Dr. Patton, of Chicago, in an article
published in The Advance, some time since, may be noticed under this
head. He says:

  "How, then, shall we account for the writing which is performed
  without any direct volition? Our method refers it to an automatic
  power of mind separate from conscious volition. * * * Very common
  is the experience of an automatic power in the pen, by which it
  finishes a word, or two or three words, after the thoughts have
  consciously gone on to what is to follow. We infer, then, from
  ordinary facts known to the habitual penman, that if a fixed idea
  is in the mind at the time when the nervous and volitional powers
  are exercised with a pen, it will often express itself spontaneously
  through the pen, when the mental faculties are at work otherwise. We
  suppose, then, that Planchette is simply an arrangement by which,
  through the outstretched arms and fingers, the mind comes into
  such relation with the delicate movements of the pencil, that its
  automatic power finds play, and the ideas present in the mind are
  transferred unconsciously to paper." (Italics our own.)

That may all be, Doctor, and no marvel about it. That the "fixed
idea"--"the ideas present in the mind," should be "transferred
unconsciously to paper," by means of Planchette, is no more wonderful
than that the same thing should be done by the pen, and without the
intervention of that little board. But for the benefit of a sorely
mystified world, be good enough to tell us how ideas that are not
present, and that never were present, in the mind, can be transferred
to paper by this automatic power of the mind. Grant that the mind
possesses an automatic power to work in grooves, as it were, or in
a manner in which it has been previously trained to work, as is
illustrated by the delicate fingerings of the piano, all correct and
skillful to the nicest shade, while the mind of the performer may for
the moment be occupied in conversation; but not since the world began
has there been an instance in which the mind, acting solely from itself,
by "automatic powers" or otherwise, has been able to body forth any idea
which was not previously within itself. That Planchette does sometimes
write things of which the person or persons under whose hands it moves
never had the slightest knowledge or even conception, it would be
useless to deny.


THEORY SECOND--IT IS ELECTRICITY, OR MAGNETISM.

That electricity, or magnetism (a form of the same thing), is the agent
of the production of these phenomena, is a theory which, perhaps, has
more advocates among the masses than any other. It is the theory urged
by Mr. Headley with a great amount of confidence in his article already
referred to; and with his arguments, as those of an able and, in some
sense, representative writer on this subject, we shall be principally
occupied for a few paragraphs.

When this theory is offered in seriousness as a final solution of the
mystery in question, we are tempted to ask, Who is electricity? what
is his mental and moral status? and how and where did he get his
education? Or if by "electricity" is here simply meant the subtile,
imponderable, and impersonal fluid commonly known by that name,
then let us ask, Who is at the other end of the wire?--for there must
evidently be a who as well as a what in the case. But when the
advocates of the electrical theory are brought to their strict
definitions, they are compelled to admit that this agent is nothing more
than a medium of the power and intelligence that are manifested. Now
a medium, which signifies simply a middle, distinctly implies two
opposite ends or extremes, and as applied in this case, one of those
ends or extremes must be the source, and the other the recipient of the
power or influence that is transmitted through the medium or middle; and
it is an axiom of common sense that no medium can be a perfect medium
which has anything to do with the origination or qualification of that
which is intended simply to flow through it, or which is not absolutely
free from action except as it is acted upon. That there are so-called
mediums which refract, pervert, falsify, or totally obliterate the
characteristics of that which was intended to be transmitted through
them, is not to be denied; but these are by no means perfect or reliable
mediums, either in physical or psychic matters.

If the little instrument in question, therefore, is, through the medium
of electricity or any other agency, brought under perfect control and
then driven to write a communication, the force that drives and the
intelligence that directs it can not be attributed to the medium itself,
but to something behind and beyond it which must embrace in itself all
the active powers and qualifications to produce the effect. Now let us
see where Mr. Headley gets the active powers and qualifications to
produce the phenomena manifested by his Planchette. He shall speak for
himself:

  "That a spirit, good or bad, has anything to do with this piece
  of board and the tips of children's fingers, is too absurd a
  supposition to be entertained for a moment. We are driven,
  therefore, to the conclusion that what is written (by honest
  operators) has its origin either in the minds of those whose hands
  are on the instrument, or else it results from communication with
  other minds through another channel than the outward senses. At all
  events, on this hypothesis I have been able to explain most of the
  phenomena I have witnessed. I had, with others, laughed at the
  stories told about Planchette, when a lady visiting my family from
  the city brought, as the latest novelty, one for my daughter.
  Experiments were of course made with it, with very little success,
  till a young lady came to visit us from the West, whose efforts
  with those of my son wrought a marvelous change. She was modest and
  retiring, with a rich brown complexion, large swimming eyes, dark as
  midnight, and a dreamy expression of countenance, and altogether a
  temperament that is usually found to possess great magnetic power.
  My son, on the contrary, is fair, full of animal life, and enjoying
  everything with the keenest relish. In short, they were as opposite
  in all respects as two beings could well be. As the phenomena
  produced by electricity are well known to arise from opposite poles,
  or differently charged bodies, they would naturally be adapted to
  the trial of Planchette."

Mr. H. now finds the mysterious agency, "electricity," completely
unchained, and under the hands of this couple Planchette becomes "very
active." Indifferent to its performances at first, he was induced to
give it more serious attention by the correct answers given to a couple
of questions asked in a joking manner by his wife, concerning some love
affairs of his before they were married, and which were known to none
present except himself and wife. Of course these answers, being in
his wife's mind when she asked the question, were supposed to be
"communicated through the agency of electricity or magnetism to the
two operators," and the mystery was thus summarily disposed of. But an
interest being thus for the first time aroused in Mr. H.'s mind, he
proceeds to inquire a little further into the peculiarities of this new
phenomenon, and proceeds as follows:

  "Seeing that Planchette was so familiarly acquainted with my lady
  friends, I asked it point blank: 'Where is Mary C----?' This was a
  friend of my early youth and later manhood, who had always seemed
  to me rather a relative than an acquaintance. To my surprise it
  answered, 'Nobody knows.'

  I supposed I knew, because for twenty years she had lived on the
  Hudson River in summer, and in New York in the winter.

  'Is she happy?' I asked. 'Better be dead,' was the reply.

  'Why?' 'Unhappy' was written out at once.

  'What makes her unhappy?' 'Won't tell.'

  'Is she in fault, or others?' 'Partly herself.'

  I now pushed questions in all shapes, but they were evaded. At last
  I asked, 'How many brothers has she?'

  'One,' was the response. 'That,' said I, 'is false;' but not having
  heard from the family for several years, I asked again, 'How many
  did she have?' 'Three.' 'Where are the other two?' I continued.
  'Dead.'

  'What is the name of the living one?' 'John.' I could not recollect
  that either of them bore this name, but afterward remembered it was
  that of the eldest. Now I had no means of ascertaining whether this
  was all true, but convinced it was not, I began to ask ridiculous
  and vexatious questions, when the answers showed excessive
  irritation, and finally it wrote 'Devil.' I then said: 'Who are
  you?' 'Brother of the Devil.'

  'What is your occupation?' 'Tending fires.'

  'What are you going to do with me?' 'Broil you.'

  'What for?' 'Wicked.'

  Now while I was excessively amused at all this, I noticed that the
  two young operators were greatly agitated, and begged me to stop.
  I saw at a glance that the very superstitious feeling that I
  was endeavoring to ridicule away, was creeping over them, and I
  desisted.... Another day I asked where a certain gentleman was who
  failed years ago, taking in his fall a considerable amount of my own
  funds. I said 'Where is Mr. Green?' 'In Brazil.'

  'Will he ever pay me anything?' 'Yes.'

  'When?' 'Next year.'

  'How much.' 'Ten thousand dollars.'

  Neither of the operators knew anything about this affair, and the
  answer, 'Brazil,' was so out of the way and unexpected, that all
  were surprised. Whether the man was there or not, I could not tell,
  nor did I know if he ever had been there--indeed, the last time I
  heard from him he was in New York."

Now, observing that no conscious or intelligent agency in shaping these
answers is assigned to the young persons whose hands were upon the
board, and who, it appears, did not know anything of the persons
concerning whom the inquiries were made, it would, perhaps, as we desire
nothing but a true philosophy on this matter, be worth while to look a
little critically at the answers and statements that were given, and the
further explanations propounded by Mr. H. For convenience, they may be
classified as follows:

1. Answers that were substantially in the interrogator's own mind when
he asked the questions. Such were the answers to the questions: "How
many brothers did she [Mary C----] have?" "Where did she formerly
live?" He tells us that "the pencil slowly wrote out in reply:
'Catkill,' leaving out the s;" and adds: "of course, this place was
in my mind, though neither of the young people knew anything about the
lady or her residence."

2. Answers which he does not know were in his mind, but supposes they
must have been. Thus, in his own language, while commenting on the
answers to questions respecting Mary C---- and her brothers: "Nor can
I account for the answer 'Unhappy,' unless unconsciously to myself
there passed through my mind that vague fear so common to us all when
we inquire about friends of whom we have not heard for years. The death
of the two brothers baffled all conjecture unless I remembered that
during the war I saw the death of a young man of the same name, and I
wondered at the time if it was one of these brothers--whether they had
joined the army." (The Italics our own.) So also of Planchette's answers
to the questions respecting Mr. Green, locating him in Brazil, and
saying that he intended to pay him (Mr. H.) ten thousand dollars next
year, while Mr. G. had last been reported to Mr. H. as being in New
York, and the latter did not know that he had ever been in Brazil.
But Mr. H., after thinking over a certain conversation which he had
previously had with Mr. Green respecting a business journey he had made
to "South America," remarks: "Brazil doubtless often occurred to
me--in fact, I was conscious on reflection that I had more frequently
located him in that country than in any other. So when the question was
put, it would involuntarily flash over me without my being conscious of
it, 'I wonder if he has gone back to South America, and if his venture
is in Brazil?' Magnetism caught up the flashing thought and put it
on paper." (Italics our own.) Such is his hypothesis to explain an
hypothesis!

3. Answers which he not only knows he had not in his mind when the
questions were asked, but which were directly contrary to his mind or
opinion. Such were answers to several of the questions occurring in the
conversation about Mary C----, as, "better be dead;" "unhappy;" fault
"partly herself;" has "one" brother; which latter statement was so
directly contrary to his mind that he even pronounced it "false," until
he thought to inquire, "How many did she have?"

4. Answers which were not only not in his mind, but which he directly
pronounces "false" and thus dismisses them. Such, for instance, is
the answer "Nobody knows," to the question "Where is Mary C----?" "That
this," says he, "was false, is evident on the very face of it."

With this analysis of the leading phenomena cited by Mr. H. before us,
lot us look at the wonderful things which "electricity and magnetism"
are made to accomplish.

I do not dispute that there is such a power of the human mind as that
known as clairvoyance. I have had too many proofs of this to doubt it.
But I have had equally positive proofs that the development of its
phenomena is dependent upon certain necessary conditions, among
which are, that the agent of them, in order to be able to reveal the
secret thoughts of another, must possess by nature peculiar nervous
susceptibilities, enabling his psychic emanations, so to speak, to
sympathetically coalesce with those of the person whose thoughts and
internal mental states are to be the subject of investigation. But this
sympathetic coalescence can not take place where there is the slightest
psychic repulsion or antagonism to the clairvoyant on the part of the
interrogating party. Moreover, even when all these conditions are
present, nothing can be correctly read from the mind of the questioner
unless there is on his mind a clear and distinct definition of the
matters of which he seeks to be told.

But even in class No. 1 of the above series we find that "electricity,"
hitherto believed to be only an imponderable and impersonal fluid, has,
upon Mr. H.'s theory, been able to accomplish the revealment of secret
thoughts entirely independent of all these conditions. It is distinctly
stated that those young persons whose hands were on the Planchette knew
nothing whatever of the matters which formed the several subjects of
inquiry; and for aught that is stated to the contrary, they appear
to have been perfectly awake and in their normal state. In addition
to this, it is to be observed that Mr. Headley here appears in the
assumed character of a captious, contentious, and somewhat irritating
questioner, which, whether he intended it or not, was entirely the
opposite of that harmonious and sympathetic interflow of mental states
known in other cases to be necessary to a successful clairvoyant
diagnosis of inward thoughts. And yet "electricity" overleaps all these
obstacles, seizes facts that occurred many years previous, some of which
were known only to Mr. H. and wife, others only to Mr. H. himself, and
instantly flashes forth the appropriate answer! Here is science! If
there were no other phenomena connected with Planchette, this alone
might well challenge the attention of philosophers!

But if this is wonderful, what shall we think of the achievements of
this same "electricity" and "magnetism" in revealing facts of the second
