Wainwaring and their daughter, New Yorkers like herself, and the
Duc de la Dèche, a nobleman who served as figure-head to the Cercle
des Capucines, and who, so ran the gossip, was anxious to effect an
exchange of his coroneted freedom for the possession of Miss Wainwaring
and a bundle or two of her father’s securities.

During the entr’acte that preceded the ballet the box was invaded by
a number of visitors, young men who were indebted to Maida for a dinner
or a cup of tea and by others who hoped that such indebtedness was
still in store for them; there came, too, a popular artist who wished
to paint Maida’s portrait for the coming Salon and an author who may
have had much cleverness, but who never displayed it to any one.

As the invasion threatened to continue Mr. Incoul went out in the
corridor, where he was presently joined by the duke, who suggested
that they should visit the foyer. They made their way down the
giant stair and turning through the lobby passed on through the
corridor that circles the stalls until they reached a door guarded
from non-subscribers by a Suisse about whose neck there drooped a
medallioned chain of silver. By him the door was opened wide and the
two men passed on through a forest of side scenes till the foyer de la
danse was reached.

It was a spacious apartment, well lighted and lined with mirrors; the
furniture was meagre, a dozen or more chairs and lounges of red plush.
It was not beautiful, but then what market ever is? To Mr. Incoul
it was brilliant as a café, and equally vulgar. From dressing-rooms
above and beyond there came a stream of willowy girls. Few among them
were pretty, and some there were whose faces were repulsive, but the
majority were young; some indeed, the rats, as they are called, were
mere children. Here and there was a mother of the Mme. Cardinal type,
armed with an umbrella and prepared to listen to offers. As a rule,
however, the young ladies of the ballet were quite able to attend to
any little matter of business without maternal assistance. The Italian
element was easily distinguishable. There was the ultra darkness of
the eye, the faint umber of the skin, the richer vitality, in fact, of
which the anemic daughters of Paris were unpossessed. And now and then
the Gothic gutturals of the Spanish were heard, preceded by a wave of
garlic.

That night the subscribers to the stalls were out in full force. There
were Jew bankers in plenty, there were detachments from the Jockey
and the Mirletons, one or two foreign representatives, a few high
functionaries, the Minister of the Interior, and he of the Fine Arts, a
member of the imperial family of Russia, a number of stock brokers and
an Arab Sheik flanked by an interpreter.

Before the curtain rose, battalions of ballerines formed on the stage,
and after the performance began they were succeeded by others, the
first contingent returning to the dressing-rooms or loitering in the
foyer. In this way there was a constant coming and going accompanied by
the murmur of the spectators beyond and the upper notes of the flute.

Mr. Incoul was growing weary; he would have returned to the box, but
he was joined by acquaintances that he had made at the club, Frenchmen
mainly, friends of his companion, and presently he found himself
surrounded by a group of viveurs, men about town, who had their Paris
at the end of their gloves, and to whom it held no secrets. They had
dined and talked animatedly in ends and remnants of phrases in a sort
of verbal telegraphy; an exclamation helped by a gesture sufficing as
often as not for the full conveyance of their thought.

Mr. Incoul spoke French with tolerable ease, but having nothing of
moment to say, he held his tongue, contenting himself with listening
to the words of those who stood about him. And as he listened, the
name of Mirette caught his ear. The programme had already informed
him that it was she who was to assume the principal rôle in the new
ballet, consequently he was not unfamiliar with it, but of the woman
herself he knew nothing, and he listened idly, indifferent to ampler
information. But at once his interest quickened; his immediate neighbor
had mentioned her in connection with one whom he knew.

“They came up from Biarritz together,” he heard him say. “She went
there with Chose, that Russian.”

“Balaguine?”

“Precisely.”

“What did she do with him?”

“Found the Tartar, I fancy.”

“And then?”

“Voilà, this young American is mad about her.”

“He is rich then?”

“What would you? An American! They are it all.”

“Yes, a rich one always wins.”

“How mean you?”

“This: he plays bac at the Capucines. His banks are fructuous.”

“Ah, as to that--” And the first speaker shrugged his shoulders.

A rustle circled through the foyer, men stood aside and nodded affably.
The lights took on a fairer glow. “Stay,” murmured the second speaker,
“she is there.”

Through the parting crowd Mirette passed with a carriage such as no
queen, save perhaps Semiramis, ever possessed. She moved from the hips,
her body was erect and unswayed. It was the perfection of artificial
grace. Her features were not regular, but there was an expression
in them that stirred the pulse. “Je suis l’Amour,” she seemed to
say, and to add “prends garde à toi.” As she crossed the room men
moistened their lips, and when she had gone they found them still
parched.

Mr. Incoul followed her with his eyes. She had not left him unimpressed,
but his impression differed from that of his neighbors. In her face his
shrewdness had discerned nothing but the animal and the greed of
unsatiated appetites. He watched her pass, and stepped from the group
in which he had been standing that he might the better follow her
movements.

From the foyer she floated on into a side scene, yet not near enough
to the stage to be seen by the audience. A few machinists moved aside
to let her pass, and as they did so Mr. Incoul saw Lenox Leigh. It
was evident that he had been waiting there for her coming. There was
a scarf about her neck, and as the young man turned to greet her, she
took it off and gave it into his keeping. They whispered together.
Beyond, Mr. Incoul could see the tulle of the ballet rising and
subsiding to the rhythm of the orchestra. Then came a sudden blare of
trumpets, the measure swooned, and as it recovered again the ballet
had faded to the back of the stage. Abruptly, as though sprung from a
trap-door, a régisseur appeared, and at a signal from him Mirette,
with one quick backward stroke to her skirt, bounded from the side
scene and fluttered down to the footlights amid a crash and thunder of
applause.

Mr. Incoul had heard and seen enough. His mind was busy. He felt the
need of fresh air and of solitude. He turned into the corridor and
from there went through the vestibule until he reached an outer door,
which he swung open and passed out into the night. He was thinly clad,
in evening dress, and the air was chilly, but he thought nothing of
his dress nor of the warmth or chill of the air. He walked up and
down before the building with his head bent and his hands behind his
back. A camelot offered him a pack of transparent cards, a vender of
programmes pestered him to buy, but he passed them unheeding. For fully
half an hour he continued his walk, and when he re-entered the box,
Maida, who of late had given much attention to his moods, noticed that
his face was flushed, and that about his lips there played the phantom
of a smile.




CHAPTER XIV.

KARL GROWS A MOUSTACHE.


For several days Mr. Incoul was much occupied. He left the house
early and returned to it late. One afternoon he sent for Karl. Since
the return to Paris the courier’s duties had not been arduous; they
consisted chiefly in keeping out of the way. On this particular
afternoon he was not immediately discoverable, and when at last he
presented himself it was in the expectation that the hour of his
dismissal had struck. He bowed, nevertheless, with the best grace in
the world, and noticing that his employer’s eyes were upon him, gazed
deferentially at the carpet.

Mr. Incoul looked at him in a contemplative way for a moment or two.
“Karl,” he said at last, and Karl raised his eyes.

“Yes, sir.”

“Have you any objections to shaving your whiskers?”

“I, sir? not the slightest.”

“I will be obliged if you will do so. This afternoon you might go to
Cumberland’s and be measured. I have left orders there. Then take
a room at the Meurice; you have money, have you not? Very good,
keep an account of your expenditures. In a week I will send you my
instructions. That will do for to-day.”

An hour later Mr. Incoul was watching a game of baccarat at the Cercle
des Capucines.

Meanwhile Lenox Leigh had given much of his time to the pleasures
of Mirette’s society. In making her acquaintance at Biarritz he had
been actuated partly by the idleness of the moment and partly by the
attracting face of celebrity. He had never known a danseuse; indeed,
heretofore, his acquaintance with women had been limited to those of
his own monde, and during the succeeding days he hovered about her
more that he might add a new photograph to a mental album than with any
idea of conquest. She amused him extremely. In her speech she displayed
a recklessness of adjective such as he had never witnessed before. It
was not that she was brilliant, but she possessed that stereotyped form
of repartee which is known as bagou, and which the Parisian takes to
naturally and without effort. Mirette seemed to have acquired it in
its supremest expression. One day, for instance, the curiosity of her
circle of admirers was aroused by a young actress who, while painfully
plain, squandered coin with remarkable ease. “Whom do you suppose she
gets the money from?” some one asked, and Mirette without so much
as drawing breath answered serenely, “A blind man.” In spite of the
bagou Mirette was not a Parisian. She was born in the provinces, at
Orléans, and was wont to declare herself a lineal descendant of Joan
of Arc. She lied with perfect composure; if reproached she curled her
lips. “Lies whiten the teeth,” she would say, an argument which it was
impossible to refute.

Under the empire she would have been a success; under a republic she
complained of the difficulty of making two ends meet. Now Lenox was not
rich, but he was an American, and the Americans have assumed in Paris
the position which the English once held. Their coffers are considered
inexhaustible. On this subject, thanks to Mrs. Mackay, Mr. Incoul, the
Vanderbilts, the Astors and a dozen others, there is now no doubt in
the mind of the French. To be an American is to be a Vesuvius of gold
pieces.

As a native of the land of millions, Lenox found that his earliest
attentions were received with smiles, and in time when a Russian became
so scratched that the Tartar was visible, Mirette welcomed him with
undisguised favor.

Like many another, Lenox had his small vanities; he would have liked
to have thought himself indispensable to Maida’s happiness, but in her
absence he did not object to being regarded as the cavaliere servente
of the first lady of the ballet. Between the two women the contrast
was striking. Mirette, as has been hinted, was reckless of adjective;
she was animal, imperious, and at times frankly vulgar. Maida was
her antithesis. She shrank from coarseness as from a deformity.
Both represented Love, but they represented the extremes. One was
as ignorant of virtue as the other was unconscious of vice. One was
Mylitta, the other Psyche. Had the difference been less accentuated,
it would have jarred. But the transition was immeasurable. It was like
a journey from the fjords of Norway to the jungles of Hindustan. That
Psyche was regretted goes without the need of telling, but Mylitta has
enchantments which are said to lull regret.

In the second week of October the bathing was still delicious. The
waves encircled one in a large, abrupt embrace. Mirette would have
liked to remain, the beach was a daily triumph for her. There was not
a woman in the world who could have held herself in the scantiest of
costumes, under the fire of a thousand eyes, as gracefully as she. No
sedan-chair for her indeed. No hurrying, no running, no enveloping
wrap. No pretense or attempt to avoid the scrutiny of the bystanders.
There was nothing of this for her. She crossed the entire width of
sand, calmly, slowly, an invitation on her lips and with the walk and
majesty of a queen. The amateurs as usual were tempted to applaud.
It was indeed a triumph, an advertisement to boot, and one which she
would have liked to prolong. But she was needed at the Opéra and so she
returned to Paris accompanied by Lenox Leigh.

In Paris it is considered inconvenient for a pretty woman to go about
on foot, and as for cabs, where is the self-respecting chorus-girl who
would consent to be seen in one? Mirette was very positive on this
point and Lenox agreed with her thoroughly. He did not, however, for
that reason offer to provide an equipage. Indeed the wherewithal was
lacking. He had spent more money at Biarritz than he had intended,
perhaps ten times the amount that he would have spent at Newport or at
Cowes, and his funds were nearly exhausted.

As every one is aware a banker is the last person in the world to be
consulted on matters of finance. If a client has money in his pocket a
banker can transfer it to his own in an absolutely painless manner, but
if the client’s pocket is empty what banker, out of an opéra-bouffe,
was ever willing to fill it? Lenox reflected over this and was at a
loss how to act. The firm on whom his drafts were drawn held nothing on
their ledgers to his credit. He visited them immediately on arriving
and was given a letter which for the moment he fancied might contain
a remittance. But it bore the Paris postmark and the address was in
Maida’s familiar hand. As he looked at it he forgot his indigence,
his heart gave an exultant throb. He had promised himself that when
he met her again matters should go on very much as they had before,
and he had further promised himself that so soon as his former footing
was re-established he would give up Mirette. He was therefore well
pleased when the note was placed in his hands. It had a faint odor of
orris, and he opened it as were he unfolding a lace handkerchief. But
from what has gone before it will be understood that his pleasure was
short lived. The note was brief and categoric, he read it almost at a
glance, and when he had possessed himself of the contents he felt that
the determination conveyed was one from which there was no appeal, or
rather one from which any appeal would be useless. He looked at the
note again. The handwriting suggested an unaccustomed strength, and in
the straight, firm strokes he read the irrevocable. “It is done,” he
muttered. “I can write Finis over that.” He looked again at the note
and then tore it slowly into minute scraps, and watched them flutter
from him.

He went out to the street and there his earlier preoccupation
returned. It would be a month at least before a draft could be sent,
and meanwhile, though he had enough for his personal needs, he had
nothing with which to satisfy Mirette’s caprices. Et elle en avait,
cette dame! The thought of separating from her did not occur to him,
or if it did it was in that hazy indistinguishable form in which
eventualities sometimes visit the perplexed. If Maida’s note had been
other, he would have washed his hands of Mirette, but now apparently
she was the one person on the Continent who cared when he came and
when he went. In his present position he was like one who, having
sprained an ankle, learns the utility of a crutch. The idea of losing
it was not agreeable. Beside, the knowledge that his intimacy with the
woman had been envied by grandees with unnumbered hats was to him a
source of something that resembled consolation.

Presently he reached the boulevard. He was undecided what to do or
where to turn, and as he loitered on the curb the silver head of a
stick was waved at him from a passing cab; in a moment the vehicle
stopped. May alighted and shook him by the hand.

“I am on my way to the Capucines,” he explained, in his blithesome
stutter. “There’s a big game on; why not come, too?”

“A big game of what?”

“B-b, why baccarat of course. What did you suppose? M-marbles?”

Lenox fumbled in his waistcoat pocket. “Yes, I’ll go,” he said.

Five minutes later he was standing in a crowded room before a green
table. He had never gambled, and hardly knew one card from another,
but baccarat can be learned with such facility that after two deals a
raw recruit can argue with a veteran as to whether it is better to
stand on five or to draw. Lenox watched the flight of notes, gold and
counters. He listened to the monotonous calls: J’en donne! Carte!
Neuf! The end of the table at which he stood seemed to be unlucky.
He moved to the other, and presently he leaned over the shoulder of a
gamester and put down a few louis. In an hour he left the room with
twenty-seven thousand francs.

A fraction of it he put in his card-case, the rest he handed to
Mirette. It was not a large sum, but its dimensions were satisfactory
to her. “Ce p’tit chat,” she said to herself, “je savais bien
qu’il ne ferait pas le lapin.” And of the large azure notes she made
precisely one bite.

Thereafter for some weeks things went on smoothly enough. Mirette’s
mornings were passed at rehearsals, but usually the afternoons were
free, and late in the day she would take Lenox to the Cascade, or meet
him there and drive back with him to dinner. In the evenings there was
the inevitable theatre, with supper afterwards at some cabaret à la
mode. And sometimes when she was over-fatigued, Lenox would go to the
club and try a hand at baccarat.

He was not always so fortunate as on the first day, but on the
whole his good luck was noticeable. It is possible, however, that he
found the excitement enervating. He had been used to a much quieter
existence, one that if not entirely praiseworthy was still outwardly
decorous, and suddenly he had been pitch-forked into that narrowest of
circles which is called Parisian life. He may have liked it at first,
as one is apt to like any novelty, but to nerves that are properly
attuned a little of its viciousness goes a very great way.

It may be that it was beginning to exert its usual dissolvent effect.
In any event Lenox, who all his life had preferred water to wine, found
absinthe grateful in the morning.

One afternoon, shortly after the initial performance of the new
ballet, he went from his hotel to the apartment which Mirette occupied
in the Rue Pierre-Charon. He was informed that she was not at home.
He questioned the servant as to her whereabouts, but the answers he
received were vague and unsatisfactory. He then drove to the Cascade,
but Mirette did not appear. After dinner he made sure of finding her.
In this expectation he was again disappointed.

The next day his success was no better. He questioned the servant
uselessly. “Madame was not at home, she had left no word.” To each
of his questions the answer was invariable. It was evident that the
servant had been coached, and it was equally evident that at least for
the moment his companionship was not a prime necessity to the first
lady of the ballet.

As he left the house he bit his lip. That Mirette should be capricious
was quite in the order of things, but that she should treat him like
the first comer was a different matter. When he had last seen her, her
manner had left nothing to be desired, and suddenly, without so much as
a p. p. c., her door was shut, and not shut as it might have been by
accident; no, it was persistently, purposely closed.

Presently he reached the Champs-Elysées. It was Sunday. A stream of
carriages flooded the avenue, and the sidewalks were thronged with
ill-dressed people. The crowd increased his annoyance. The possibility
of being jostled irritated him, the spectacle of dawdling shop-keepers
filled him with disgust. He hailed a cab in which to escape; the
driver paid no attention; he hailed another; the result was the same,
and then in the increasing exasperation of the moment he felt that
he hated Paris. A fat man with pursed lips and an air of imbecile
self-satisfaction brushed against him. He could have turned and slapped
him in the face.

Without, however, committing any overt act of violence, he succeeded
in reaching his hotel. There he sought the reading-room, but he found
it fully occupied by one middle-aged Englishwoman, and leaving her in
undisturbed possession of the Times, he went to his own apartment. A
day or two before he had purchased a copy of a much applauded novel,
and from it he endeavored to extract a sedative. Mechanically he turned
the pages. His eyes glanced over and down them, resting at times
through fractions of an hour on a single line, but the words conveyed
no message to his mind, his thoughts were elsewhere, they surged
through vague perplexities and hovered over shadowy enigmas, until at
last he discovered that he was trying to read in the dark.

He struck a light and found that it was nearly seven. “I will dress,”
he told himself, “and dine at the club.” In half an hour he was on his
way to the Capucines. The streets were still crowded and the Avenue de
l’Opéra in which his hotel was situated, vibrated as were it the main
artery of the capital. As he approached the boulevard he thought that
it would perhaps be wiser to dine at a restaurant; he was discomfited
and he was not sure but that the myriad tongue of gossip might not
be already busy with the cause of his discomfiture. He did not feel
talkative, and were he taciturn at the club he knew that it would
be remarked. Bignon’s was close at hand. Why not dine there? In his
indecision he halted before an adjacent shop and stood for a moment
looking in the window, apparently engrossed by an assortment of strass
and imitation pearls. The proprietress was lounging in the doorway.
“Si Monsieur veut entrer”--she began seductively, but he turned from
her; as he did so, a brougham drew up before the curb and Mirette
stepped from it.

Lenox, in his surprise at the unexpected, did not at first notice that
a man had also alighted. He moved forward and would have spoken, but
Mirette looked him straight in the eyes, as who should say Allez vous
faire lanlaire, mon cher, and passed on into the restaurant.

Her companion had hurried a little in advance to open the door, and as
he swung it aside and Mirette entered Lenox caught a glimpse of his
face. It was meaningless enough, and yet not entirely unfamiliar. “Who
is the cad,” he wondered. Yet, after all, what difference did it make?
He could not blame the man. As for jealousy, the word was meaningless
to him. It was his amour propre that suffered. He smiled a trifle
grimly to himself and continued his way.

At the corner was a large picture shop. An old man wrapped in a loose
fur coat stood at the window looking at the painting of a little girl.
The child was alone in a coppice and seemingly much frightened at the
approach of a flock of does. Unconsciously Lenox stopped also. He had
been so bewildered by the suddenness of the cut that he did not notice
whether he was walking or standing still.

And so it was for this, he mused, that admittance had been denied him.
But why could she not have had the decency to tell him not to come
instead of letting him run there like a tradesman with a small bill?
Certainly he had deserved better things of her than that. It was so
easy for a woman to break gracefully. A note, a word, and if the man
insists a second note, a second word; after that the man, if he is
decently bred, can do nothing but raise his hat and speed the parting
guest. Beside, why would she want to break with him and take up with
a fellow who looked like a barber from the Grand Hôtel? Who was he any
way?

His eyes rested on the picture of the little girl. The representation
of her childish fright almost diverted his thoughts, but all the while
there was an undercurrent which in some dim way kept telling him that
he had seen the man’s face before. And as he groped in his memory the
picture of the child faded as might a picture in a magic lantern, and
in its place, vaguely at first and gradually better defined, he saw,
standing in the moonlight, on a white road, a coach and four. To the
rear was the terrace of a hôtel, and beyond was a shimmering bay like
to that which he had seen at San Sebastian.

“My God,” he cried aloud, “it’s Incoul’s courier!”

The old man in the fur coat looked at him nervously, and shrank away.




CHAPTER XV.

MAY EXPOSTULATES.


That evening the Wainwarings and the Blydenburgs dined at the house in
the Parc Monceau. The Blydenburgs had long since deserted Biarritz, but
the return journey had been broken at Luchon, and in that resort the
days had passed them by like chapters in a stupid fairy tale.

They were now on their way home; the pleasures of the Continent had
begun to pall, and during the dinner, Mr. Blydenburg took occasion to
express his opinion on the superiority of American institutions over
those of all other lands, an opinion to which he lent additional weight
by repeating from time to time that New York was quite good enough for
him.

There were no other guests. Shortly before ten the Wainwarings left,
and as Blydenburg was preparing to take his daughter back to the hotel,
Mr. Incoul said that he would be on the boulevard later, and did he
care to have him he would take him to the club, a proposition to which
Blydenburg at once agreed.

“Harmon,” said Maida, when they were alone, “are you to be away long?”

During dinner she had said but little. Latterly she had complained of
sleeplessness, and to banish the insomnia a physician had recommended
the usual bromide of potassium. As she spoke, Mr. Incoul noticed that
she was pale.

“Possibly not,” he answered.

She had been standing before the hearth, her bare arm resting on the
velvet of the mantel, and her eyes following the flicker of the burning
logs--but now she turned to him.

“Do you remember our pact?” she asked.

He looked at her but said nothing. She moved across the room to where
he stood; one hand just touched his sleeve, the other she raised to his
shoulder and rested it there for a second’s space. Her eyes sought his
own, her head was thrown back a little, from her hair came the perfume
of distant oases, her lips were moist and her neck was like a jasmine.

“Harmon,” she continued in a tone as low as were she speaking to
herself, “we have come into our own.”

And then the caress passed from his sleeve, her hand fell from his
shoulder, she glided from him with the motion of a swan.

“Come to me when you return,” she added. Her face had lost its pallor,
it was flushed, but her voice was brave.

Yet soon, when the door closed behind him, her courage faltered. In the
eyes of him whose name she bore and to whom for the first time she had
made offer of her love, she had seen no answering affection--merely a
look which a man might give who wins a long-contested game of chess.
But presently she reassured herself. If at the avowal her husband had
seemed triumphant, in very truth what was he else? She turned to a
mirror that separated the windows and gazed at her own reflection.
Perhaps he did think the winning a triumph. Many another would have
thought so, too. She was entirely in white; her arms and neck were
unjeweled. “I look like a bride,” she told herself, and then, with
the helplessness of regret, she remembered that brides wear orange
blossoms, but she had none.

The idler in Paris is apt to find Sunday evenings dull. There are many
houses open, it is true, but not infrequently the idler is disinclined
to receptions, and as to the theatres, it is bourgeois to visit
them. There is, therefore, little left save the clubs, and on this
particular Sunday evening, when Mr. Incoul and Blydenburg entered the
Capucines, they found it tolerably filled.

A lackey in silk knee breeches and livery of pale blue came to take
their coats. It was not, however, until Blydenburg had been helped off
with his that he noticed that Mr. Incoul had preferred to keep his own
on.

The two men then passed out of the vestibule into a room in which was
a large table littered with papers, and from there into another room
where a man whom Mr. Incoul recognized as De la Dèche was dozing on a
lounge, and finally a room was reached in which most of the members had
assembled.

“It reminds me of a hotel,” said Blydenburg.

“It is,” his friend answered shortly. He seemed preoccupied as were he
looking for some one or something; and presently, as they approached a
green table about which a crowd was grouped, Blydenburg pulled him by
the sleeve.

“That’s young Leigh dealing,” he exclaimed.

To this Mr. Incoul made no reply. He put his hand in a lower outside
pocket of his overcoat and assured himself that a little package which
he had placed there had not become disarranged.

On hearing his name, Lenox looked up from his task. A Frenchman who had
just entered the room nodded affably to him and asked if he were lucky
that evening.

“Lucky!” cried some one who had caught the question, “I should say so.
His luck is something insolent; he struck a match a moment ago and it
lit.”

The whole room roared. French matches are like French cigars in this,
there is nothing viler. It is just possible that the parental republic
has views of its own as to the injuriousness of smoking, and seeks to
discourage it as it would a vice. But this is as it may be. Every one
laughed and Lenox with the others. Mr. Incoul caught his eye and bowed
to him across the table. Blydenburg had already smiled and bowed in the
friendliest way. He did not quite care to see Mrs. Manhattan’s brother
dealing at baccarat, but after all, when one is at Rome--

“Do you care to play?” Mr. Incoul asked.

“Humph! I might go a louis or two for a flyer.”

They had both been standing behind the croupier, but Mr. Incoul then
left his companion, and passing around the table stopped at a chair
which was directly on Lenox’s left. In this chair a man was seated, and
before him was a small pile of gold. As the cards were dealt the gold
diminished, and when it dwindled utterly and at last disappeared, the
man rose from his seat and Mr. Incoul dropped in it.

From the overcoat pocket, in which he had previously felt, he drew out
a number of thousand-franc notes; they were all unfolded, and under
them was a little package. The notes, with the package beneath them,
were placed by Mr. Incoul where the pile of gold had stood. One of the
notes he then threw out in the semicircle. A man seated next to him
received the cards which Lenox dealt.

“I give,” Lenox called in French.

“Card,” the man answered.

It was a face card that he received.

“Six,” Lenox announced.

Mr. Incoul’s neighbor could boast of nothing. The next cards that were
dealt on that end of the table went to a man beyond. Mr. Incoul knew
that did that man not hold higher cards than the banker the cards in
the succeeding deal would come to him.

He took a handful of notes and reached them awkwardly enough across the
space from which Lenox dealt; for one second his hand rested on the
talion, then he said, “À cheval.” Which, being interpreted, means
half on one side and half on the other. The croupier took the notes,
and placed them in the proper position. “Nine,” Lenox called; he had
won at both ends of the table.

The croupier drew in the stakes with his rake. “Gentlemen,” he droned,
“make your game.”

Mr. Incoul pushed out five thousand francs. The next cards on the left
were dealt to him.

“Nine,” Lenox called again.

And then a very singular thing happened. The croupier leaned forward to
draw in Mr. Incoul’s money, but just as the rake touched the notes, Mr.
Incoul drew them away.

“Monsieur!” exclaimed the croupier.

The eyes of every one were upon him. He pushed his chair back, and
stood up, holding in his hand the two cards which had been dealt him,
then throwing them down on the table, he said very quietly, but in a
voice that was perfectly distinct, “These cards are marked.”

A moment before the silence had indeed been great, but during the
moment that followed Mr. Incoul’s announcement, it was so intensified
that it could be felt. Then abruptly words leapt from the mouths
of the players and bystanders. The croupier turned, protesting his
innocence of any complicity. There may have been some who listened, but
if there were any such, they were few; the entire room was sonorous
with loud voices; the hubbub was so great that it woke De la Dèche; he
came in at one door rubbing his eyes; at another a crowd of lackeys,
startled at the uproar, had suddenly assembled. And by the chair which
he had pushed from him and which had fallen backwards to the ground,
Mr. Incoul stood, motionless, looking down at Lenox Leigh.

In the abruptness of the accusation Lenox had not immediately
understood that it was directed against him, but when he looked into
the inimical faces that fronted and surrounded him, when he heard the
anger of the voices, when he saw hands stretched for the cards which he
dealt, and impatient eyes examining their texture, and when at last,
though the entire scene was compassed in the fraction of a minute, when
he heard an epithet and saw that he was regarded as a Greek, he knew
that the worst that could be had been done.

He turned, still sitting, and looked his accuser in the face, and in
it he read a message which to all of those present was to him alone
intelligible. He bowed his head. In a vision like to that which is
said to visit the last moments of a drowning man, he saw it all: the
reason of Maida’s unexplained departure, the coupling of Mirette with
a servant, and this supreme reproach made credible by the commonest of
tricks, the application of a cataplasm, a new deck of cards on those
already in use. It was vengeance indeed.

He sprang from his seat. He was a handsome fellow and the pallor of his
face made his dark hair seem darker and his dark eyes more brilliant.
“It is a plot,” he cried. He might as well have asked alms of statues.
The cards had been examined, the maquillage was evident. “Put him
out!” a hundred voices were shouting; “à la porte!”

Suddenly the shouting subsided and ceased. Lenox craned his neck to
discover who his possible defender might be, and caught a glimpse of De
la Dèche, brushing with one finger some ashes from his coat sleeve, and
looking about him with an indolent, deprecatory air.

“Gentlemen,” he heard him say, “the committee will act in the matter;
meanwhile, for the honor of the club, I beg you will not increase the
scandal.”

He turned to Lenox and said, with perfect courtesy, “Sir, do me the
favor to step this way.”

Through the parting crowd Lenox followed the duke. In crossing the
room he looked about him. On his way he passed the Frenchman who had
addressed him five minutes before. The man turned aside. He passed
other acquaintances. They all seemed suddenly smitten by the disease
known as Noli me tangere. In the doorway was May. Of him he felt
almost sure, but the brute drew back. “Really,” he said, “I must
exp-postulate.”

“Expostulate and be damned,” Lenox gnashed at him. “I am as innocent as
you are.”

In an outer room, where he presently found himself, De La Dèche stood
lighting a cigar; that difficult operation terminated, he said, slowly,
with that rise and fall of the voice which is peculiar to the Parisian
when he wishes to appear impressive:

“You had better go now, and if you will permit me to offer you a bit
of advice, I would recommend you to send a resignation to any clubs of
which you may happen to be a member.”

He touched a bell; a lackey appeared.

“Maxime, get this gentleman’s coat and see him to the door.”




CHAPTER XVI.

THE BARE BODKIN.


Presently Lenox found himself on the boulevard. There was a café near
at hand, and he sat down at one of the tables that lined the sidewalk.
He was dazed as were he in the semi-consciousness of somnambulism. He
gave an order absently, and when some drink was placed before him, he
took it at a gulp.

Under its influence his stupor fell from him. The necessity, the
obligation of proving his innocence presented itself, but, with it,
hand in hand, came the knowledge that such proof was impossible. Even
his luck at play would be taken as corroboratory of the charge. Were he
to say that the marked cards had been placed on the talion by Incoul,
who was there outside the aisles of the insane that would listen to
such a defense? To compel attention, he would be obliged to explain
the act, and state its reason. And that explanation he could never
give. He could not exculpate himself at the cost of a woman’s fame.
Which ever way he turned, dishonor stood before him. The toils into
which he had fallen had been woven with a cunning so devilish in its
clairvoyance that every avenue of escape was closed. He was blockaded
in his own disgrace.

He rested his head in his hand, and moaned aloud. Presently, with the
instinct of a hunted beast, he felt that people were looking at him. He
feared that some of his former acquaintances, on leaving the club, had
passed and seen him sitting there, and among them, perhaps Incoul.

He threw some money in the saucer and hurried away. There were still
many people about. To avoid them he turned into a side street and
walked on with rapid step. Soon he was in the Rue de la Paix. It was
practically deserted. On a corner, a young ruffian in a slouch hat was
humming, “Ugène, tu m’fais languir,” and beating time to the measure
with his foot. Just above the Colonne Vendôme the moon rested like a
vagrant, weary of its amble across the sky. But otherwise the street
was solitary. Through its entire length but one shop was open, and as
Lenox approached it a man came out to arrange the shutters. From the
doorway a thin stream of light still filtered on the pavement. In the
window were globes filled with colored liquids, and beyond at a counter
a clerk was tying a parcel.

Lenox entered. “Give me a Privas,” he said, and when the clerk had done
so, he asked him to make up a certain prescription. But to this the man
objected; he could not, he explained, without a physician’s order.

“Here are several,” said Lenox, and he took from his card-case a roll
of azure notes.

The clerk eyed them nervously. They represented over a year’s salary.
He hesitated a moment, “I don’t know,”--and he shook his head, as were
he arguing with himself--“I don’t know whether I am doing right.” And
at once prepared the mixture.

Ten minutes later Lenox was mounting the stair of the hotel at which he
lodged. On reaching his room he put his purchases on a table, poured
out a glass of absinthe, lit a cigarette, and threw himself down on
a lounge. For a while his thoughts roamed among the episodes of the
day, but gradually they drifted into less personal currents. He began
to think of the early legends: of Chiron, the god, renouncing his
immortality; of the Hyperboreans, that fabled people, famous for their
felicity, who voluntarily threw themselves into the sea; of Juno
bringing death to Biton and Cleobis as the highest recompense of their
piety; of Agamedes and Trophonius, praying Apollo for whatever gift he
deemed most advantageous, and in answer to the prayer receiving eternal
sleep.

He reflected on the meaning of these legends, and, as he reflected,
he remembered that the Thracians greeted birth with lamentations and
death with welcoming festivals. He thought of that sage who pitied the
gods because their lives were unending, and of Menander singing the
early demise of the favored. He remembered how Plato had preached to
the happiest people in the world the blessedness of ceaseless sleep;
how the Buddha, teaching that life was but a right to suffer, had
found for the recalcitrant no greater menace than that of an existence
renewed through kalpas of time. Then he bethought him of the promise of
that peace which passeth all understanding, and which the grave alone
fulfills, and he repeated to himself Christ’s significant threat, “In
this life ye shall have tribulation.”

And, as these things came to him, so, too, did the problem of pain.
He reviewed the ravages of that ulcer which has battened on humanity
since the world began. History uncoiled itself before him in a shudder.
In its spasms he saw the myriads that have fought and died for dogmas
that they did not understand, for invented principles of patriotism and
religion, for leaders that they had never seen, for gods more helpless
than themselves.

He saw, too, Nature’s cruelty and her snares. The gift to man of
appetites, which, in the guise of pleasure, veil immedicable pain.
Poison in the richest flowers, the agony that lurks in the grape. He
knew that whoso ate to his hunger, or drank to his thirst, summoned
to him one or more of countless maladies--maladies which parents gave
with their vices to their children, who, in turn, bring forth new
generations that are smitten with all the ills to which flesh is heir.
And he knew that even those who lived most temperately were defenceless
from disorders that come unawares and frighten away one’s nearest
friends. While for those who escaped miasmas and microbes; for those
who asked pleasure, not of the flesh, but of the mind; for those whose
days are passed in study, who seek to learn some rhyme for the reason
of things, who try to gratify the curiosity which Nature has given
them; for such as they, he remembered, there is blindness, paralysis,
and the asylums of the insane.

He thought of the illusions, of love, hope and ambition, illusions
which make life seem a pleasant thing worth living, and which, in
cheating man into a continuance of his right to suffer, make him think
pain an accident and not the rule.

“Surely,” he mused, “the idiot alone is content. He at least has no
illusions; he expects nothing in this world and cares less for another.
Nor is the stupidity of the ordinary run of men without its charm. It
must be a singularly blessed thing not to be sensitive, not to know
what life might be, and not to find its insufficiency a curse. But
there’s the rub. When the reforms of the utopists are one and all
accomplished, what shall man do in his Icaria? A million years hence,
perhaps, physical pain will have been vanquished. Diseases of the body
will no longer exist. Laws will not oppress. Justice will be inherent.
Love will be too far from Nature to know of shame. The earth will be a
garden of pleasure. Industry will have enriched every home. Through an
equitable division of treasures acquired without toil, each one will be
on the same footing as his neighbor. Even envy will have disappeared.
In place of the trials, terrors and superstitions of to-day, man will
enjoy perfect peace. He will no longer labor. When he journeys it will
be through the air. He will be in daily communication with Mars, he
will have measured the Infinite and know the bounds of Space. And in
this Eden in which there will be no forbidden fruit, no ignorance, no
tempter, but where there will be larger flowers, new perfumes, and
a race whose idea of beauty stands to mine as mine does to that of
prehistoric man, a race whose imagination has crossed the frontiers of
the impossible, who have developed new senses, who see colors to which
I am blind, who hear music to which I am deaf, who speak in words of
tormented polish, who have turned art into a plaything and learning
into a birthright, a race that has no curiosity and who accept their
wonderful existence as the rich to-day accept their wealth, in this
Eden, Boredom will be King. The Hyperboreans will have their imitators.
The one surcease will be in death. Yet even that may not be robbed of
its grotesqueness.”

A candle flickered a moment and expired in a splutter of grease. The
agony of the candle aroused him from his revery. “Bah,” he muttered, “I
am becoming a casuist, I argue with myself.”

He mixed himself another absinthe, holding the carafe high in the
air, watching the thin stream of water coalesce with the green drug and
turn with it into an opalescent milk. He toyed for a moment with the
purchases that he had made in the Rue de la Paix, and presently, in
answer to some query which they evoked, the soliloquy began anew.

“After what has happened there is nothing left. I might change my name.
I might go to Brazil or Australia, but with what object? I could not
get away from myself.

                              Da me stesso
    Sempre fuggendo, avrò me sempre appresso.

Beside I don’t care for transplantation. If I had an ambition it would
be a different matter. If I could be a pretty woman up to thirty, a
cardinal up to fifty, and after that the Anti-Christ, it might be worth
while. Failing that I might occupy myself with literature. If I have
not written heretofore, it is because it seems more original not to
do so. But it is not too late. The manufacture of trash is easy, and
it must be a pleasure to the manufacturer to know that it is trash
and that it sells. It must give him a high opinion of the intellect
of his contemporaries. Or when, as happens now and then, a work of
enduring value is produced, and it is condemned, as such works usually
are, the author must take immense delight in the reflection that the
disapproval of imbeciles is the surest acknowledgement of talent, as
it is also its sweetest mead of praise. For me, of course, such praise
is impossible. Were I to write successful failures, it must needs
be under a pseudonym. In which case I would have the consciousness
of being scorned as Lenox Leigh, and admired as John Smith. Beside,
what is there to write about? There is nothing to prove, there is
no certainty, there is not even a criterion of truth. To-morrow
contradicts yesterday, next week will contradict this. On no given
subject are there two people who think and see exactly alike. The book
which pleases me bores my neighbor, and vice versâ. One man holds to
the Episcopal Church, another to the Baptist; one man is an atheist,
another a Jew; one man thinks a soprano voice a delicious gift, another
says it is a disease of the larynx, and whatever the divergence of
opinion may be, each one is convinced that he alone is correct.
Supposing, however, that through some chance I were to descend to
posterity in the garb and aspect of a great man. What is a great man?
The shadow of nothing. The obscurest privat docent in Germany could
to-day give points to Newton. And even though Newton’s glory may still
subsist, yet such are the limitations of fame that the great majority
have never heard of it or of him. The foremost conqueror of modern
times, he who fell not through his defeats, but through his victories,
is entombed just across the Seine. And the other day as I passed the
Invalides I heard an intelligent-looking woman ask her companion who
the Napoleon was that lay buried there. Her companion did not know.

“But, even were glory more substantial, what is the applause of
posterity to the ears of the dead? To them honor and ignominy must
be alike unmeaning. No, decidedly, ambition does not tempt me. And
what is there else that tempts? Love seems to me now like hunger, an
unnecessary affliction, productive far more of pain than of pleasure;
the most natural, the most alluring thing of all, see in what plight
it has brought me. Yet it is, I have heard, the ultimate hope of those
who have none. If I relinquish it, what have I left? The satisfaction
of my curiosity as to what the years may hold? But I am indifferent. To
revenge myself on Incoul. Certainly, I would like to cut his heart out
and force it down his throat! But how would it better me? If I could
be transported to the multicolored nights of other worlds, and there
taste of inexperienced pleasures, move in new refinements, lose my own
identity, or pursue a chimera and catch it, it might be worth while,
but, as it is--”

The clock on the mantel rang out four times. Again Lenox started from
his revery. He smiled cynically at himself. “If I continue in that
strain,” he muttered, “it must be that I am drunk.”

But soon his eyes closed again in mental retrospect. “And yet,” he
mused, “life is pleasant; ill spent as mine has been, many times I have
found it grateful. In books, I have often lost the consciousness of my
own identity; now and then music has indeed had the power to take me to
other worlds, to show me fresh horizons and larger life. Maida herself
came to me like a revelation. She gave me a new conception of beauty.
Yes, I have known very many pleasant hours. I was younger then, I
fancy. After all, it is not life that is short, it is youth. When that
goes, as mine seems to have done, outside of solitude there is little
charm in anything. And what is death but isolation? The most perfect
and impenetrable that Nature has devised. And whether that isolation
come to me to-night or decades hence, what matters it? It is odd,
though, how the thought of it unnerves one, and yet, to be logical, I
suppose one should be as uneasy of the chaos which precedes existence
as of the unknowable that follows it. The proper course, I take it, is
to imitate the infant, who faces death without a tremor, and enters it
without regret.”

He stood up, and drawing the curtains aside, looked out into the night.
From below came the rumble of a cart on its way to the Halles, but
otherwise the street was silent. The houses opposite were livid. There
was a faint flicker from the street lamps, and above were the trembling
stars. The moon had gone, but there was yet no sign of coming dawn.

He left the window. The candles had burned down; he found fresh ones
and lighted them. As he did so, he caught sight of himself in the
glass. His eyes were haggard and rimmed with circles. It was owing to
the position of the candles, he thought, and he raised them above his
head and looked again. There was something on his forehead just above
the temple, and he put the candles down to brush that something away.
He looked again, it was still there. He peered into the glass and
touched it with his hand. It was nothing, he found, merely a lock of
hair that had turned from black to white.

He poured out more absinthe, and put the bottle down empty. Before
drinking it he undid the package which he had bought from the chemist.
First he took from it a box about three inches long. In it was a toy
syringe, and with it two little instruments. One of these he adjusted
in the projecting tube, and with his finger felt carefully of the
point. It was sharp as a needle, and beneath the point was an orifice
like a shark’s mouth, in miniature.

Then he took from the package a phial that held a brown liquid, in
which he detected a shade like to that of gold. The odor was dull and
heavy. He put the phial down and stood for a moment irresolute. He had
looked into the past and now he looked into the future. But in its
Arcadias he saw nothing, save his own image suspended from a gibbet. He
looked again almost wistfully; no, there was nothing. He threw off his
coat and rolled up his sleeve. From the phial he filled the syringe,
and with the point pricked the bare arm and sent the liquid spurting
into the flesh. Three times he did this. He reached for the absinthe
and left it untasted.

Into his veins had come an unknown, a delicious languor. He sank into
a chair. The walls of the room dissolved into cataracts of light and
dazzling steel. The flooring changed to running crimson, and from
that to black, and back to red again. From the ceiling came flood
after flood of fused, intermingled and oscillating colors. His eyes
closed. The light became more intense, and burned luminous through the
lids. In his ears filtered a harmony, faint as did it come from afar,
and singular as were it won from some new consonance of citherns and
clavichords, and suddenly it rose into tumultuous vibrations, striated
with series of ascending scales. Then as suddenly ceased, drowned in
claps of thunder.

The lights turned purple and glowed less vividly, as though veils were
being lowered between him and them. But still the languor continued,
sweeter ever and more enveloping, till from very sweetness it was
almost pain.

The room grew darker, the colors waned, the lights behind the falling
veils sank dim, and dimmer, fading, one by one; a single spark
lingered, it wavered a moment, and vanished into night.




CHAPTER XVII.
