out of her state-room straight to Mavering. She was in her stocking
feet, and her hair hung down her back.

“Oh! are we going down?” she implored him. “Have we struck? Oughtn’t we
to pray--somebody? Shall I wake the children?”

“Mavering reassured her, and told her there was no danger.

“Well, then,” she said, “I’ll go back for my shoes.”

“Yes, better get your shoes.”

The saloon rose round him and sank. He controlled his sickness by
planting a chair in the centre and sitting in it with his eyes shut. As
he grew more comfortable he reflected how he had calmed that woman, and
he resolved again to spend his life in doing good. “Yes, that’s the only
ticket,” he said to himself, with involuntary frivolity. He thought
of what the officer had said, and he helplessly added, “Circus
ticket--reserved seat.” Then he began again, and loaded himself with
execration.

The boat got into Portland at nine o’clock, and Mavering left her,
taking his hand-bag with him, and letting his trunk go on to Boston.

The officer who received his ticket at the gangplank noticed the
destination on it, and said, “Got enough?”

“Yes, for one while.” Mavering recognised his acquaintance of the night
before.

“Don’t like picnics very much.”

“No,” said Mavering, with abysmal gloom. “They don’t agree with me.
Never did.” He was aware of trying to make his laugh bitter. The officer
did not notice.

Mavering was surprised, after the chill of the storm at sea, to find it
rather a warm, close morning in Portland. The restaurant to which the
hackman took him as the best in town was full of flies; they bit him
awake out of the dreary reveries he fell into while waiting for his
breakfast. In a mirror opposite he saw his face. It did not look
haggard; it looked very much as it always did. He fancied playing a part
through life--hiding a broken heart under a smile. “O you incorrigible
ass!” he said to himself, and was afraid he had said it to the young
lady who brought him his breakfast, and looked haughtily at him from
under her bang. She was very thin, and wore a black jersey.

He tried to find out whether he had spoken aloud by addressing her
pleasantly. “It’s pretty cold this morning.”

“What say?”

“Pretty cool.”

“Oh yes. But it’s pretty clo-ose,” she replied, in her Yankee
cantillation. She went away and left him to the bacon and eggs he had
ordered at random. There was a fly under one of the slices of bacon, and
Mavering confined himself to the coffee.

A man came up in a white cap and jacket from a basement in the front of
the restaurant, where confectionery was sold, and threw down a mass of
malleable candy on a marble slab, and began to work it. Mavering watched
him, thinking fuzzily all the time of Alice, and holding long, fatiguing
dialogues with the people at the Ty’n-y-Coed, whose several voices he
heard.

He said to himself that it was worse than yesterday. He wondered if it
would go on getting worse every day.

He saw a man pass the door of the restaurant who looked exactly like
Boardman as he glanced in. The resemblance was explained by the man’s
coming back, and proving to be really Boardman.




XXII.

Mavering sprang at him with a demand for the reason of his being there.

“I thought it was you as I passed,” said Boardman, “but I couldn’t make
sure--so dark back here.”

“And I thought it was you, but I couldn’t believe it,” said Mavering,
with equal force, cutting short an interior conversation with Mr.
Pasmer, which had begun to hold itself since his first glimpse of
Boardman.

“I came down here to do a sort of one-horse yacht race to-day,” Boardman
explained.

“Going to be a yacht race? Better have some breakfast. Or better
not--here. Flies under your bacon.”

“Rough on the flies,” said Boardman, snapping the bell which summoned
the spectre in the black jersey, and he sat down. “What are you doing in
Portland?”

Mavering told him, and then Boardman asked him how he had left the
Pasmers. Mavering needed no other hint to speak, and he spoke fully,
while Boardman listened with an agreeable silence, letting the hero of
the tale break into self-scornful groans and doleful laughs, and ease
his heart with grotesque, inarticulate noises, and made little or no
comments.

By the time his breakfast came, Boardman was ready to say, “I didn’t
suppose it was so much of a mash.”

“I didn’t either,” said Mavering, “when I left Boston. Of course I knew
I was going down there to see her, but when I got there it kept going
on, just like anything else, up to the last moment. I didn’t realise
till it came to the worst that I had become a mere pulp.”

“Well, you won’t stay so,” said Boardman, making the first vain attempt
at consolation. He lifted the steak he had ordered, and peered beneath
it. “All right this time, any way.”

“I don’t know what you mean by staying so,” replied Mavering, with
gloomy rejection of the comfort offered.

“You’ll see that it’s all for the best; that you’re well out of it. If
she could throw you over, after leading you on--”

“But she didn’t lead me on!” exclaimed Mavering. “Don’t you understand
that it was all my mistake from the first? If I hadn’t been perfectly
besotted I should have seen that she was only tolerating me. Don’t you
see? Why, hang it, Boardman, I must have had a kind of consciousness
of it under my thick-skinned conceit, after all, for when I came to the
point--when I did come to the point--I hadn’t the sand to stick to it
like a man, and I tried to get her to help me. Yes, I can see that I did
now. I kept fooling about, and fooling about, and it was because I had
that sort of prescience--of whatever you call it--that I was mistaken
about it from the very beginning.”

He wished to tell Boardman about the events of the night before; but
he could not. He said to himself that he did not care about their being
hardly to his credit; but he did not choose to let Alice seem to have
resented anything in them; it belittled her, and claimed too much for
him. So Boardman had to proceed upon a partial knowledge of the facts.

“I don’t suppose that boomerang way of yours, if that’s what you mean,
was of much use,” he said.

“Use? It ruined me! But what are you going to do? How are you going to
presuppose that a girl like Miss Pasmer is interested in an idiot like
you? I mean me, of course.” Mavering broke off with a dolorous laugh.
“And if you can’t presuppose it, what are you going to do when it comes
to the point? You’ve got to shillyshally, and then you’ve got to go it
blind. I tell you it’s a leap in the dark.”

“Well, then, if you’ve got yourself to blame--”

“How am I to blame, I should like to know?” retorted Mavering, rejecting
the first offer from another of the censure which he had been heaping
upon himself: the irritation of his nerves spoke. “I did speak out at
last--when it was too late. Well, let it all go,” he groaned aimlessly.
“I don’t care. But she isn’t to blame. I don’t think I could admire
anybody very much who admired me. No, sir. She did just right. I was a
fool, and she couldn’t have treated me differently.”

“Oh, I guess it’ll come out all right,” said Boardman, abandoning
himself to mere optimism.

“How come all right?” demanded Mavering, flattered by the hope he
refused. “It’s come right now. I’ve got my deserts; that’s all.”

“Oh no, you haven’t. What harm have you done? It’s all right for you
to think small beer of yourself, and I don’t see how you could think
anything else just at present. But you wait awhile. When did it happen?”

Mavering took out his watch. “One day, one hour, twenty minutes, and
fifteen seconds ago.”

“Sure about the seconds? I suppose you didn’t hang round a great while
afterward?”

“Well, people don’t, generally,” said Mavering, with scorn.

“Never tried it,” said Boardman, looking critically at his fried
potatoes before venturing upon them. “If you had stayed, perhaps she
might have changed her mind,” he added, as if encouraged to this hopeful
view by the result of his scrutiny.

“Where did you get your fraudulent reputation for common-sense,
Boardman?” retorted Mavering, who had followed his examination of the
potatoes with involuntary interest. “She won’t change her mind; she
isn’t one of that kind. But she’s the one woman in this world who could
have made a man of me, Boardman.”

“Is that so?” asked Boardman lightly. “Well, she is a good-looking
girl.”

“She’s divine!”

“What a dress that was she had on Class Day!”

“I never think what she has on. She makes everything perfect, and then
makes you forget it.”

“She’s got style; there’s no mistake about that.”

“Style!” sighed Mavering; but he attempted no exemplification.

“She’s awfully graceful. What a walk she’s got!”

“Oh, don’t, don’t, Boardman! All that’s true, and all that’s
nothing--nothing to her goodness. She’s so good, Boardman! Well, I
give it up! She’s religious. You wouldn’t think that, may be; you can’t
imagine a pretty girl religious. And she’s all the more intoxicating
when she’s serious; and when she’s forgotten your whole worthless
existence she’s ten thousand times more fascinating than and other girl
when she’s going right for you. There’s a kind of look comes into her
eyes--kind of absence, rapture, don’t you know--when she’s serious, that
brings your heart right into your mouth. She makes you think of some
of those pictures--I want to tell you what she said the other day at a
picnic when we were off getting blueberries, and you’ll understand that
she isn’t like other girls--that she has a soul fall of--of--you know
what, Boardman. She has high thoughts about everything. I don’t believe
she’s ever had a mean or ignoble impulse--she couldn’t have.” In the
business of imparting his ideas confidentially, Mavering had drawn
himself across the table toward Boardman, without heed to what was on
it.

“Look out! You’ll be into my steak first thing you know.”

“Oh, confound your steak?” cried Mavering, pushing the dish away. “What
difference does it make? I’ve lost her, anyway.”

“I don’t believe you’ve lost her,” said Boardman.

“What’s the reason you don’t?” retorted Mavering, with contempt.

“Because, if she’s the serious kind of a girl you say she is, she
wouldn’t let you come up there and dangle round a whole fortnight
without letting you know she didn’t like it, unless she did like it. Now
you just go a little into detail.”

Mavering was quite willing. He went so much into detail that he left
nothing to Boardman’s imagination. He lost the sense of its calamitous
close in recounting the facts of his story at Campobello; he smiled
and blushed and laughed in telling certain things; he described Miss
Anderson and imitated her voice; he drew heads of some of the ladies
on the margin of a newspaper, and the tears came into his eyes when he
repeated the cruel words which Alice had used at their last meeting.

“Oh, well, you must brace up,” said Boardman. “I’ve got to go now. She
didn’t mean it, of course.”

“Mean what?”

“That you were ungentlemanly. Women don’t know half the time how hard
they’re hitting.”

“I guess she meant that she didn’t want me, anyway,” said Mavering
gloomily.

“Ah, I don’t know about that. You’d better ask her the next time you see
her. Good-bye.” He had risen, and he offered his hand to Mavering, who
was still seated.

“Why, I’ve half a mind to go with you.”

“All right, come along. But I thought you might be going right on to
Boston.”

“No; I’ll wait and go on with you. How, do you go to the race?”

“In the press boat.”

“Any women?”

“No; we don’t send them on this sort of duty.”

“That settles it. I have got all I want of that particular sex for the
time being.” Mavering wore a very bitter air as he said this; it seemed
to him that he would always be cynical; he rose, and arranged to leave
his bag with the restaurateur, who put it under the counter, and then he
went out with his friend.

The sun had come out, and the fog was burning away; there was life and
lift in the air, which the rejected lover could not refuse to feel, and
he said, looking round, and up and down the animated street. “I guess
you’re going to have a good day for it.”

The pavement was pretty well filled with women who had begun shopping.
Carriages were standing beside the pavement; a lady crossed the pavement
from a shop door toward a coupe just in front of them, with her hand
full of light packages; she dropped one of them, and Mavering sprang
forward instinctively and picked it up for her.

“Oh, thank you!” she said, with the deep gratitude which society
cultivates for the smallest services. Then she lifted her drooped
eyelashes, and, with a flash of surprise, exclaimed, “Mr. Mavering!” and
dropped all her packages that she might shake hands with him.

Boardman sauntered slowly on, but saw with a backward glance Mavering
carrying the lady’s packages to the coupe for her; saw him lift his
hat there, and shake hands with somebody in the coupe, and then stand
talking beside it. He waited at the corner of the block for Mavering to
come up, affecting an interest in the neck-wear of a furnisher’s window.

In about five minutes Mavering joined him.

“Look here, Boardman! Those ladies have snagged onto me.”

“Are there two of them?”

“Yes, one inside. And they want me to go with then to see the race.
Their father’s got a little steam-yacht. They want you to go too.”

Boardman shook his head.

“Well, that’s what I told them--told them that you had to go on the
press boat. They said they wished they were going on the press boat too.
But I don’t see how I can refuse. They’re ladies that I met Class Day,
and I ought to have shown them a little more attention then; but I got
so taken up with--”

“I see,” said Boardman, showing his teeth, fine and even as grains of
pop-corn, in a slight sarcastic smile. “Sort of poetical justice,” he
suggested.

“Well, it is--sort of,” said Mavering, with a shamefaced consciousness.
“What train are you going back on?”

“Seven o’clock.”

“I’ll be there.”

He hurried back to rejoin the ladies, and Boardman saw him, after some
parley and laughter, get into the coupe, from which he inferred that
they had turned down the little seat in front, and made him take it; and
he inferred that they must be very jolly, sociable girls.

He did not see Mavering again till the train was on its way, when he
came in, looking distraughtly about for his friend. He was again very
melancholy, and said dejectedly that they had made him stay to dinner,
and had then driven him down to the station, bag and all. “The old
gentleman came too. I was in hopes I’d find you hanging round somewhere,
so that I could introduce you. They’re awfully nice. None of that
infernal Boston stiffness. The one you saw me talking with is married,
though.”

Boardman was writing out his report from a little book with shorthand
notes in it. There were half a dozen other reporters in the car busy
with their work. A man who seemed to be in authority said to one of
them, “Try to throw in a little humour.”

Mavering pulled his hat over his eyes, and leaned his head on the back
of his seat, and tried to sleep.




XXIII.

At his father’s agency in Boston he found, the next morning, a letter
from him saying that he expected to be down that day, and asking Dan to
meet him at the Parker House for dinner. The letter intimated the elder
Mavering’s expectation that his son had reached some conclusion in the
matter they had talked of before he left for Campobello.

It gave Dan a shiver of self-disgust and a sick feeling of hopelessness.
He was quite willing now to do whatever his father wished, but he did
not see haw he could face him and own his defeat.

When they met, his father did not seem to notice his despondency, and he
asked him nothing about the Pasmers, of course. That would not have been
the American way. Nothing had been said between the father and son as
to the special advantages of Campobello for the decision of the question
pending when they saw each other last; but the son knew that the father
guessed why he chose that island for the purpose; and now the elder knew
that if the younger had anything to tell him he would tell it, and if
he had not he would keep it. It was tacitly understood that there was no
objection on the father’s part to Miss Pasmer; in fact, there had been a
glimmer of humorous intelligence in his eye when the son said he thought
he should run down to Bar Harbour, and perhaps to Campobello, but he had
said nothing to betray his consciousness.

They met in the reading-room at Parker’s, and Dan said, “Hello, father,”
 and his father answered, “Well, Dan;” and they shyly touched the hands
dropped at their sides as they pressed together in the crowd. The father
gave his boy a keen glance, and then took the lead into the dining-room,
where he chose a corner table, and they disposed of their hats on the
window-seat.

“All well at home?” asked the young fellow, as he took up the bill of
fare to order the dinner. His father hated that, and always made him do
it.

“Yes, yes; as usual, I believe. Minnie is off for a week at the
mountains; Eunice is at home.”

“Oh! How would you like some green goose, with apple-sauce,
sweet-potatoes, and succotash?”

“It seems to me that was pretty good, the last time. All right, if you
like it.”

“I don’t know that I care for anything much. I’m a little off my feed.
No soup,” he said, looking up at the waiter bending over him; and then
he gave the order. “I think you may bring me half a dozen Blue Points,
if they’re good,” he called after him.

“Didn’t Bar Harbour agree with you--or Campobello?” asked Mr. Mavering,
taking the opening offered him.

“No, not very well,” said Dan; and he said no more about it, leaving
his father to make his own inferences as to the kind or degree of the
disagreement.

“Well, have you made up your mind?” asked the father, resting his elbows
on either side of his plate, and putting his hands together softly,
while he looked across them with a cheery kindness at his boy.

“Yes, I have,” said Dan slowly.

“Well?”

“I don’t believe I care to go into the law.”

“Sure?”

“Yes.”

“Well, that’s all right, then. I wished you to choose freely, and I
suppose you’ve done so.”

“Oh Yes.”

“I think you’ve chosen wisely, and I’m very glad. It’s a weight off my
mind. I think you’ll be happier in the business than you would in the
law; I think you’ll enjoy it. You needn’t look forward to a great deal
of Ponkwasset Falls, unless you like.”

“I shouldn’t mind going there,” said Dan listlessly.

“It won’t be necessary--at first. In fact, it won’t be desirable. I want
you to look up the business at this end a little.”

Dan gave a start. “In Boston?”

“Yes. It isn’t in the shape I want to have it. I propose to open a place
of our own, and to put you in charge.” Something in the young man’s
face expressed reluctance, and his father asked kindly, “Would that be
distasteful to you?”

“Oh no. It isn’t the thing I object to, but I don’t know that I care
to be in Boston.” He lifted his face and looked his father full in the
eyes, but with a gaze that refused to convey anything definite. Then the
father knew that the boy’s love affair had gone seriously wrong.

The waiter came with the dinner, and made an interruption in which they
could be naturally silent. When he had put the dinner before them, and
cumbered them with superfluous service, after the fashion of his kind,
he withdrew a little way, and left them to resume their talk.

“Well,” said the elder lightly, as if Dan’s not caring to be in Boston
had no particular significance for him, “I don’t know that I care to
have you settle down to it immediately. I rather think I’d like to have
you look about first a little. Go to New York, go to Philadelphia, and
see their processes there. We can’t afford to get old-fashioned in our
ways. I’ve always been more interested by the aesthetic side of the
business, but you ought to have a taste for the mechanism, from your
grandfather; your mother has it.”

“Oh yes, sir. I think all that’s very interesting,” said Dan.

“Well, go to France, and see how those fellows do it. Go to London, and
look up William Morris.”

“Yes, that would be very nice,” admitted the young fellow, beginning to
catch on. “But I didn’t suppose--I didn’t expect to begin life with a
picnic.” He entered upon his sentence with a jocular buoyancy, but at
the last word, which he fatally drifted upon, his voice fell. He said
to himself that he was greatly changed; that, he should never be gay and
bright again; there would always be this undercurrent of sadness; he had
noticed the undercurrent yesterday when he was laughing and joking with
those girls at Portland.

“Oh, I don’t want you to buckle down at once,” said his father, smiling.
“If you’d decided upon the law, I should have felt that you’d better
not lose time. But as you’re going into the business, I don’t mind your
taking a year off. It won’t be lost time if you keep your eyes open.
I think you’d better go down into Italy and Spain. Look up the old
tapestries and stamped leathers. You may get some ideas. How would you
like it?”

“First-rate. I should like it,” said Dan, rising on the waft of his
father’s suggestion, but gloomily lapsing again. Still, it was pleasing
to picture himself going about through Europe with a broken heart, and
he did not deny himself the consolation of the vision.

“Well, there’s nobody to dislike it,” said his father cheerily. He was
sure now that Dan had been jilted; otherwise he would have put forth
some objection to a scheme which must interrupt his lovemaking. “There’s
no reason why, with our resources, we shouldn’t take the lead in this
business.”

He went on to speak more fully of his plans, and Dan listened with
a nether reference of it all to Alice, but still with a surface
intelligence on which nothing was lost.

“Are you going home with me to-morrow?” asked his father as they rose
from the table.

“Well, perhaps not to-morrow. I’ve got some of my things to put together
in Cambridge yet, and perhaps I’d better look after them. But I’ve
a notion I’d better spend the winter at home, and get an idea of the
manufacture before I go abroad. I might sail in January; they say it’s a
good month.”

“Yes, there’s sense in that,” said his father.

“And perhaps I won’t break up in Cambridge till I’ve been to New York
and Philadelphia. What do you think? It’s easier striking them from
here.”

“I don’t know but you’re right,” said his father easily.

They had come out of the dining-room, and Dan stopped to get some
cigarettes in the office. He looked mechanically at the theatre bills
over the cigar case. “I see Irving’s at the ‘Boston.’”

“Oh, you don’t say!” said his father. “Let’s go and see him.”

“If you wish it, sir,” said Dan, with pensive acquiescence. All the
Maverings were fond of the theatre, and made any mood the occasion or
the pretext of going to the play. If they were sad, they went; if they
were gay, they went. As long as Dan’s mother could get out-of-doors she
used to have herself carried to a box in the theatre whenever she was in
town; now that she no longer left her room, she had a dominant passion
for hearing about actors and acting; it was almost a work of piety in
her husband and children to see them and report to her.

His father left him the next afternoon, and Dan, who had spent the
day with him looking into business for the first time, with a running
accompaniment of Alice in all the details, remained to uninterrupted
misery. He spent the evening in his room, too wretched even for the
theatre. It is true that he tried to find Boardman, but Boardman was
again off on some newspaper duty; and after trying at several houses
in the hope, which he knew was vain, of finding any one in town yet, he
shut himself up with his thoughts. They did not differ from the thoughts
of the night before, and the night before that, but they were calmer,
and they portended more distinctly a life of self-abnegation and
solitude from that time forth. He tested his feelings, and found that
it was not hurt vanity that he was suffering from: it was really wounded
affection. He did not resent Alice’s cruelty; he wished that she might
be happy; he could endure to see her happy.

He wrote a letter to the married one of the two ladies he had spent the
day with in Portland, and thanked them for making pass pleasantly a day
which he would not otherwise have known how to get through. He let a
soft, mysterious melancholy pervade his letter; he hinted darkly at
trouble and sorrow of which he could not definitely speak. He had the
good sense to tear his letter up when he had finished it, and to send
a short, sprightly note instead, saying that if Mrs. Frobisher and her
sister came to Boston at the end of the month, as they had spoken of
doing, they must be sure to let him know. Upon the impulse given him by
this letter he went more cheerfully to bed, and fell instantly asleep.

During the next three weeks he bent himself faithfully to the schemes
of work his father had outlined for him. He visited New York and
Philadelphia, and looked into the business and the processes there;
and he returned to Ponkwasset Falls to report and compare his facts
intelligently with those which he now examined in his father’s
manufactory for the first time. He began to understand how his father,
who was a man of intellectual and artistic interests, should be fond of
the work.

He spent a good deal of time with his mother, and read to her, and got
upon better terms with her than they usually were. They were very much
alike, and she objected to him that he was too light and frivolous. He
sat with his sisters, and took an interest in their pursuits. He drove
them about with his father’s sorrels, and resumed something of the old
relations with them which the selfish years of his college life had
broken off. As yet he could not speak of Campobello or of what had
happened there; and his mother and sisters, whatever they thought, made
no more allusion to it than his father had done.

They mercifully took it for granted that matters must have gone wrong
there, or else he would speak about them, for there had been some gay
banter among them concerning the objects of his expedition before he
left home. They had heard of the heroine of his Class Day, and they had
their doubts of her, such as girls have of their brothers’ heroines.
They were not inconsolably sorry to have her prove unkind; and their
mother found in the probable event another proof of their father’s total
want of discernment where women were concerned, for the elder Mavering
had come home from Class Day about as much smitten with this mysterious
Miss Pasmer as Dan was. She talked it over indignantly with her
daughters; they were glad of Dan’s escape, but they were incensed with
the girl who could let him escape, and they inculpated her in a high
degree of heartless flirtation. They knew how sweet Dan was, and they
believed him most sincere and good. He had been brilliantly popular in
college, and he was as bright as he could be. What was it she chose not
to like in him? They vexed themselves with asking how or in what way she
thought herself better. They would not have had her love Dan, but they
were hot against her for not loving him.

They did not question him, but they tried in every way to find out how
much he was hurt, and they watched him in every word and look for signs
of change to better or worse, with a growing belief that he was not very
much hurt.

It could not be said that in three weeks he forgot Alice, or had begun
to forget her; but he had begun to reconcile himself to his fate, as
people do in their bereavements by death. His consciousness habituated
itself to the facts as something irretrievable. He no longer framed
in his mind situations in which the past was restored. He knew that he
should never love again, but he had moments, and more and more of them,
in which he experienced that life had objects besides love. There were
times when he tingled with all the anguish of the first moment of
his rejection, when he stopped in whatever he was doing, or stood
stock-still, as a man does when arrested by a physical pang, breathless,
waiting. There were other times when he went about steeped in gloom so
black that all the world darkened with it, and some mornings when he
woke he wished that the night had lasted for ever, and felt as if the
daylight had uncovered his misery and his shame to every one. He never
knew when he should have these moods, and he thought he should have them
as long as he lived. He thought this would be something rather fine. He
had still other moods, in which he saw an old man with a grey moustache,
like Colonel Newcome, meeting a beautiful white-haired lady; the man had
never married, and he had not seen this lady for fifty years. He bent
over, and kissed her hand.

“You idiot!” said Mavering to himself. Throughout he kept a good
appetite. In fact, after that first morning in Portland, he had been
hungry three times a day with perfect regularity. He lost the idea
of being sick; he had not even a furred tongue. He fell asleep pretty
early, and he slept through the night without a break. He had to laugh
a great deal with his mother and sisters, since he could not very well
mope without expecting them to ask why, and he did not wish to say
why. But there were some laughs which he really enjoyed with the Yankee
foreman of the works, who was a droll, after a common American pattern,
and said things that were killingly funny, especially about women, of
whom his opinions were sarcastic.

Dan Mavering suffered, but not solidly. His suffering was short, and
crossed with many gleams of respite and even joy. His disappointment
made him really unhappy, but not wholly so; it was a genuine sorrow,
but a sorrow to which he began to resign himself even in the monotony
of Ponkwasset Falls, and which admitted the thought of Mrs. Frobisher’s
sister by the time business called him to Boston.




XXIV.

Before the end of the first week after Dan came back to town, that which
was likely to happen whenever chance brought him and Alice together had
taken place.

It was one of the soft days that fall in late October, when the
impending winter seems stayed, and the warm breath of the land draws
seaward and over a thousand miles of Indian summer. The bloom came and
went in quick pulses over the girl’s temples as she sat with her head
thrown back in the corner of the car, and from moment to moment she
stirred slightly as if some stress of rapture made it hard for her
to get her breath; a little gleam of light fell from under her fallen
eyelids into the eyes of the young man beside her, who leaned forward
slightly and slanted his face upward to meet her glances. They said some
words, now and then, indistinguishable to the others; in speaking they
smiled slightly. Sometimes her hand wavered across her lap; in both
their faces there was something beyond happiness--a transport, a
passion, the brief splendour of a supreme moment.

They left the car at the Arlington Street corner of the Public Garden,
and followed the winding paths diagonally to the further corner on
Charles Street.

“How stupid we were to get into that ridiculous horse-car!” she said.
“What in the world possessed us to do it?”

“I can’t imagine,” he answered. “What a waste of time it was! If we had
walked, we might have been twice as long coming. And now you’re going to
send me off so soon!”

“I don’t send you,” she murmured.

“But you want me to go.”

“Oh no! But you’d better.”

“I can’t do anything against your wish.”

“I wish it--for your own good.”

“Ah, do let me go home with you, Alice?”

“Don’t ask it, or I must say yes.”

“Part of the way, then?”

“No; not a step! You must take the first car for Cambridge. What time is
it now?”

“You can see by the clock on the Providence Depot.”

“But I wish you to go by your watch, now. Look!”

“Alice!” he cried, in pure rapture.

“Look!”

“It’s a quarter of one.”

“And we’ve been three hours together already! Now you must simply fly.
If you came home with me I should be sure to let you come in, and if I
don’t see mamma alone first, I shall die. Can’t you understand?”

“No; but I can do the next best thing: I can misunderstand. You want to
be rid of me.”

“Shall you be rid of me when we’ve parted?” she asked, with an inner
thrill of earnestness in her gay tone.

“Alice!”

“You know I didn’t mean it, Dan.”

“Say it again.”

“What?”

“Dan.”

“Dan, love! Dan, dearest!”

“Will that car of yours never come? I’ve promised myself not to leave
you till it does, and if I stay here any longer I shall go wild. I can’t
believe it’s happened. Say it again!”

“Say what?”

“That--”

“That I love you? That we’re engaged?”

“I don’t believe it. I can’t.” She looked impatiently up the street.
“Oh, there comes your car! Run! Stop it!”

“I don’t run to stop cars.” He made a sign, which the conductor obeyed,
and the car halted at the further crossing.

She seemed to have forgotten it, and made no movement to dismiss him.
“Oh, doesn’t it seem too good to be standing here talking in this way,
and people think it’s about the weather, or society?” She set her head a
little on one side, and twirled the open parasol on her shoulder.

“Yes, it does. Tell me it’s true, love!”

“It’s true. How splendid you are!” She said it with an effect for the
world outside of saying it was a lovely day.

He retorted, with the same apparent nonchalance, “How beautiful you are!
How good! How divine!”

The conductor, seeing himself apparently forgotten, gave his bell a
vicious snap, and his car jolted away.

She started nervously. “There! you’ve lost your car, Dan.”

“Have I?” asked Mavering, without troubling himself to look after it.

She laughed now, with a faint suggestion of unwillingness in her laugh.
“What are you going to do?”

“Walk home with you.”

“No, indeed; you know I can’t let you.”

“And are you going to leave me here alone on the street corner, to be
run over by the first bicycle that comes along?”

“You can sit down in the Garden, and wait for the next car.”

“No; I would rather go back to the Art Museum, and make a fresh start.”

“To the Art Museum?” she murmured, tenderly.

“Yes. Wouldn’t you like to see it again?”

“Again? I should like to pass my whole life in it!”

“Well, walk back with me a little way. There’s no hurry about the car.”

“Dan!” she said, in a helpless compliance, and they paced very, very
slowly along the Beacon Street path in the Garden. “This is ridiculous.”

“Yes, but it’s delightful.”

“Yes, that’s what I meant. Do you suppose any one ever--ever--”

“Made love there before?”

“How can you say such things? Yes. I always supposed it would
be--somewhere else.”

“It was somewhere else--once.”

“Oh, I meant--the second time.”

“Then you did think there was going to be a second time?”

“How do I know? I wished it. Do you like me to say that?”

“I wish you would never say anything else.”

“Yes; there can’t be any harm in it now. I thought that if you had
ever--liked me, you would still--”

“So did I; but I couldn’t believe that you--”

“Oh, I could.”

“Alice!”

“Don’t you like my confessing it! You asked me to.”

“Like it!”

“How silly we are!”

“Not half so silly as we’ve been for the last two months. I think we’ve
just come to our senses. At least I have.”

“Two months!” she sighed. “Has it really been so long as that?”

“Two years! Two centuries! It was back in the Dark Ages when you refused
me.”

“Dark Ages! I should think so! But don’t say refused. It wasn’t
refusing, exactly.”

“What was it, then?”

“Oh, I don’t know. Don’t speak of it now.”

“But, Alice, why did you refuse me?”

“Oh, I don’t know. You mustn’t ask me now. I’ll tell you some time.”

“Well, come to think of it,” said Mavering, laughing it all lightly
away, “there’s no hurry. Tell me why you accepted me to-day.”

“I--I couldn’t help it. When I saw you I wanted to fall at your feet.”

“What an idea! I didn’t want to fall at yours. I was awfully mad. I
shouldn’t have spoken to you if you hadn’t stopped me and held out your
hand.”

“Really? Did you really hate me, Dan?”

“Well, I haven’t exactly doted on you since we last met.”

She did not seem offended at this. “Yes, I suppose so. And I’ve gone on
being fonder and fonder of you every minute since that day. I wanted to
call you back when you had got half-way to Eastport.”

“I wouldn’t have come. It’s bad luck to turn back.”

She laughed at his drolling. “How funny you are! Now I’m of rather a
gloomy temperament. Did, you know it?”

“You don’t look it.”

“Oh, but I am. Just now I’m rather excited and--happy.”

“So glad!”

“Go on! go on! I like you to make fun of me.”

The benches on either side were filled with nursemaids in charge of
baby-carriages, and of young children who were digging in the sand
with their little beach shovels, and playing their games back and forth
across the walk unrebuked by the indulgent policemen. A number of
them had enclosed a square in the middle of the path with four of the
benches, which they made believe was a fort. The lovers had to walk
round it; and the children, chasing one another, dashed into them
headlong, or, backing off from pursuit, bumped up against them. They did
not seem to know it, but walked slowly on without noticing: they were
not aware of an occasional benchful of rather shabby young fellows
who stared hard at the stylish girl and well-dressed young man talking
together in such intense low tones, with rapid interchange of radiant
glances.

“Oh, as to making fun of you, I was going to say--” Mavering began, and
after a pause he broke off with a laugh. “I forget what I was going to
say.”

“Try to remember.”

“I can’t.”

“How strange that we should have both happened to go to the Museum this
morning!” she sighed. Then, “Dan,” she broke in, “do you suppose that
heaven is any different from this?”

“I hope not--if I’m to go there.”

“Hush, dear; you mustn’t talk so.”

“Why, you provoked me to it.”

“Did I? Did I really? Do you think I tempted you to do it? Then I must
be wicked, whether I knew I was doing it or not. Yes.”

The break in her voice made him look more keenly at her, and he saw the
tears glimmer in her eyes. “Alice!”

“No; I’m not good enough for you. I always said that.”

“Then don’t say it any more. That’s the only thing I won’t let you say.”

“Do you forbid it, really? Won’t you let me even think it?”

“No, not even think it.”

“How lovely you are! Oh! I like to be commanded by you.”

“Do you? You’ll have lots of fun, then. I’m an awfully commanding
spirit.”

“I didn’t suppose you were so humorous--always. I’m afraid you won’t
like me. I’ve no sense of fun.”

“And I’m a little too funny sometimes, I’m afraid.”

“No, you never are. When?”

“That night at the Trevors’. You didn’t like it.”

“I thought Miss Anderson was rather ridiculous,” said Alice. “I don’t
like buffoonery in women.”

“Nor I in men,” said Mavering, smiling. “I’ve dropped it.”

“Well, now we must part. I must go home at once,” said Alice. “It’s
perfectly insane.”

“Oh no, not yet; not till we’ve said something else; not till we’ve
changed the subject.”

“What subject?”

“Miss Anderson.”

Alice laughed and blushed, but she was not vexed. She liked to have him
understand her. “Well, now,” she said, as if that were the next thing,
“I’m going to cross here at once and walk up the other pavement, and
you must go back through the Garden; or else I shall never get away from
you.”

“May I look over at you?”

“You may glance, but you needn’t expect me to return your glance.”

“Oh no.”

“And I want you to take the very first Cambridge car that comes along. I
command you to.”

“I thought you wanted me to do the commanding.”

“So I do--in essentials. If you command me not to cry when I get home, I
won’t.”

She looked at him with an ecstasy of self-sacrifice in her eyes.

“Ah, I sha’n’t do that. I can’t tell what would open. But--Alice!”

“Well, what?” She drifted closely to him, and looked fondly up into his
face. In walking they had insensibly drawn nearer together, and she had
been obliged constantly to put space between them. Now, standing at the
corner of Arlington Street, and looking tentatively across Beacon, she
abandoned all precautions.

“What! I forget. Oh yes! I love you!”

“But you said that before, dearest!”

“Yes; but just now it struck me as a very novel idea. What if your
mother shouldn’t like the idea?”

“Nonsense! you know she perfectly idolises you. She did from the first.
And doesn’t she know how I’ve begin behaving about you ever since
I--lost you?”

“How have you behaved? Do tell me, Alice?”

“Some time; not now,” she said; and with something that was like a gasp,
and threatened to be a sob, she suddenly whipped across the road. He
walked back to Charles Street by the Garden path, keeping abreast of
her, and not losing sight of her for a moment, except when the bulk of
a string team watering at the trough beside the pavement intervened. He
hurried by, and when he had passed it he found himself exactly abreast
of her again. Her face was turned toward him; they exchanged a smile,
lost in space. At the corner of Charles Street he deliberately crossed
over to her.
