was of silver, with trappings of gold-embroidered 
velvet, and paraphernalia of gold. Dartmouth was 
entranced. He had a keen love of and 
appreciation for art, but he had never found anything as 
interesting as this. He congratulated himself 
upon the prospect of many pleasant hours in its 
company. 

He let it go for the present and pressed his 
finger against, every inch of the walls and floor and 
ceilings of the mosque, and of the various other 
apartments. It was a good half-hour's work, and 



I 

the monotony and non-success induced a certain 
nervousness. His head ached and his hand 
trembled a Httle. When he had finished, and no 
panel had flown back at his touch, he threw 
himself down on one hand with an exclamation of 
impatience, and gazed with a scowl at the non- 
committal beauty before him. He cared nothing 
for its beauty at that moment. What he wanted 
were the papers, and he was determined to find 
them. He stood up and examined the top of the 
chest. There was certainly a space between the 
visible depths of the interior and the back wall. 
He rapped loudly, but the wood and the stuff with 
which it was covered were too thick; there was 
no answering ring. He recalled the night when 
he had cynically examined the fragments of the 
broken cabinet at Rhyd-Alwyn. He felt any- 
thing but cynical now; indeed, he was conscious 
of a restless eagerness and a dogged
determination with which curiosity had little to do. He 
would find those papers if he died in the attempt. 
He knelt once more before the chest, and once 
more pressed his finger along its interior, 
following regular lines. Then he shook the pillars, 
and inserted his penknife in each most minute 
interstice of the carving; he prodded the ribs 
of the arches, and brought his fist down violently 
on the separate floors of the mosque. At the 
end of an hour he sprang to his feet with a 
smothered oath, and cutting a slit in the cover of 



 

the chest with his penknife, tore it off and 
examined the top and sides as carefully as his 
strained eyes and trembling hands would allow. 
He was ashamed of his nervousness, but he was 
powerless to overcome it. His examination met 
with no better success, and he suddenly sprang 
across the room and snatched the battle-axe 
from the wall. He walked quickly back to the 
chest. For a moment he hesitated, the thing 
was so beautiful ! But only for a moment. The 
overmastering desire to feel those papers in his 
hands had driven out all regard for art. He 
lifted the axe on high and brought it down on 
the top of the chest with a blow which made the 
little room echo. He was a powerful man, and 
the axe was imbedded to its haft. He worked 
it out of the tough wood and planted another 
blow, which widened the rift and made the stout 
old chest creak like a falling tree. The 
mutilated wood acted upon Dartmouth like the smell 
of blood upon a wolf: the spirit of destruction 
leaped up and blazed within him, a devouring 
flame, and the blows fell thick and fast. He felt 
a fierce delight in the havoc he was making, in the 
rare and exquisite beauty he was ruining beyond 
hope of redemption. He leaned down, and 
swinging the axe outward, sent it straight through the 
arcades and pillars, the mosques and images, 
shattering them to bits. Then he raised the axe 
again and brought it down on the seam which 



 

joined the back to the top. The blow made but 
little impression, but a succession of blows 
produced a wide gap. Harold inserted the axe in the 
rift, and kneeling on the chest, attempted to force 
the back wall outward. For a time it resisted his 
efforts, then it suddenly gave way, and Dartmoth 
dropped the axe with a cry. From a shelf below 
the roof a package had sprung outward with the 
shock, and a small object had fallen with a clatter 
on the prostrate wall. Dartmouth picked it up in 
one hand and the papers in the other, his fingers 
closing over the latter with a joy which thrilled 
him from head to foot. It was a joy so great 
that it filled him with a profound peace; the 
excitement of the past hour suddenly left him. 
He went over to his desk and sat down before 
it. With the papers still held firmly in his hand, 
he opened the locket. There were two pictures 
within, and as he held them up to the light he 
was vaguely conscious that he should feel a 
shock of surprise; but he did not. The pictures 
were those of Lady Sioned Penrhyn and — himself 
! With the same apparent lack of mental 
prompting as on the night in the gallery when he 
had addressed Weir with the name of her grand- 
mother, he raised the picture of the woman to his 
lips and kissed it fondly. Then he laid it down 
and opened the packet. Within were a thick, 
piece of manuscript and a bundle of letters. He 
pressed his hand lovingly over the closely written 



 

sheets of the manuscript, but laid them down 
and gave his attention to the letters. They were 
roughly tied into a bundle with a bit of string. 
He slipped the string off and glanced at the 
address of the letter which lay uppermost. The 
ink, though faded, was legible enough — -"Lady 
Sioned-ap-Penrhyn, Constantinople." He opened 
the letter and glanced at the signature. The 
note was signed with the initials of his grand- 
father, Lionel Dartmouth. They were peculiarly 
formed, and were in many of the library books. 

He turned back to the first page. As he did 
so he was aware of a new sensation, which 
seemed, however, but a natural evolution in his 
present mental and spiritual exaltation. It was as 
i f the page were a blank sheet and he were wielding 
an invisible pen. Although, before he took up the 
letter, he had had no idea of its contents beyond 
a formless, general intuition, as soon as he began 
to read he was clearly aware of every coming 
word and sentence and sentiment in it. So 
strong was the impression, that once he involun- 
tarily dropped the note and, picking up a pen, 
began hastily writing what he knew was on the 
unread page. But his mind became foggy at 
once, and he threw down the pen and returned 
to the letter. Then the sense of authorship and 
familiarity returned. He read the letters in the 
order in which they came, which was the 
order of their writing. Among them were some 



 

pages of exquisite verse: and verses and letters 
alike were the words of a man to a woman whom 
he loved with all the concentration and intensity 
of a solitary, turbulent, passionate nature; who 
knew that in this love lay his and her only 
happiness; and who would cast aside the orthodoxy 
of the world as beneath consideration when 
balanced against the perfecting of two human lives. 
They reflected the melancholy, ill-regulated 
nature of the man, but they rang with a tenderness 
and a passion which were as unmistakable as the 
genius of the writer; and Harold knew that if the 
dead poet had never loved another woman he had 
loved Sioned Penrhyn. Or had he loved her 
himself ? Or was it Weir ? Surely these letters 
were his. He had written them to that beautiful 
dark-eyed woman with the jewels about her head. 
He could read the answers between the lines; he 
knew them by heart; the passionate words of the 
unhappy woman who had quickened his genius 
from its sleep. Ah, how he loved her, his beau- 
tiful Weir ! — No — Sioned was her name, Sioned 
Penrhyn, and her picture hung in the castle where 
the storms beat upon the grey Welsh cliffs 

thousands of miles away 

If he had but met her earlier — he might to-day 
be one of that brilliant galaxy of poets whose 
music the whole world honored. Oh ! the 
wasted years of his life, and his half-hearted 
attempts to give to the world those wonderful 


children of his brain ! He had loved and been 
jealous of them, those children, and they had 
multiplied until it had seemed as if they would 
prove stronger than his will. But he had le' 
them sing for himself alone; he would give 
the world nothing until one day in that densely 
peopled land of his brain there should go up a 
paean of rejoicing that a child, before which their 
own glory paled, had been born. And above the 
tumult should rise the sound of such a strain of 
music as had never been heard out of heaven; 
and before it the world should sink to its 
knees. . . . 

And it had come to pass at last, this dream. 
This woman had awakened his nature from its 
torpor, and with the love had come, leaping, 
rushing, thundering, a torrent of verse such as had 
burst from no man's brain in any age. 

And to her he owed his future, his fame, and 
his immortal name. And she would be with him 
always. She had struggled and resisted and 
refused him speech, but the terrible strength of her 
nature had triumphed over dogmas and over 
the lesser duties she owed to others ; of her 
free will she had sent for him. He would be with 
her in an hour, and to-morrow they would have 
left codes and conventions behind them. There 
was a pang in leaving this beautiful room where 
his poem had been born, and beneath which lay 
such a picture as man sees nowhere else on earth. 



 

But to that which was to come, what was this ? 
He would write a few lines to the woman who 
bore his name, and then the time would have 
come to go. She too was a beautiful and a 
brilliant woman, but her nature was narrow and cold, 
and she had never understood him for a moment. 
There ! he had finished, and she would be 
happier without him. She had her world and her 
child — that beautiful boy ! — But this was no time 
for pangs. He had chosen his destiny, and a 
man cannot have all. things. It was time to go. 
Should he take one last glance at the boy 
laughing in the room beyond ? He had but to push 
the tapestry aside, yes — there — God ! 

Ah, it was grateful to get into the cool air of 
the street, and before him, only a short distance 
away, were the towers of the Embassy. Would 
he never reach them ? The way had been so 
long — could it be that his footsteps were already 
echoing on the marble floor which led to that 
chamber? Yes, and the perfume of that jasmine- 
laden room was stealing over his senses, and the 
woman he loved was in his arms. How the 
golden sunset lay on the domes and minarets 
below! How sonorous sounded the voices of 
the muezzins as they called the people to prayer ! 
There was music somewhere, or was it the wails 
for the dead down in Galata ? It was all like a 
part of a dream, and the outlines were blurred 
and confused — What was that ? A thunderclap ? 



 

Why were he and Sioned lying prostrate there, 
she with horror in her wide-open, glassy eyes, he 
with the arms which had held her lying limply on 
the blood-stained floor beside him ? He seemed 
to see them both as he hovered above. It was 
death? Well, what matter? She had gone out 
with him; and in some cloud-walled castle, 
murmurous with harmonies of quiring spheres, and 
gleaming with their radiance, they would dwell 
together. Human vengeance could not reach 
them there, and for love there is no death. The 
soul cannot die, and love, its chiefest offspring, 
shares its immortality. It persists throughout 
the ages, like the waves of music that never 
cease. He would take her hand and lead her 
upward — Where was she ? Surely she must be 
by his side. But he could see no one, feel no 
presence. God ! had he lost her? Had she 
been borne upward and away, while he had 
lingered, fascinated with the empty clay that a 
moment since had been throbbing with life and 
keenest happiness? But he would find her — 
even did he go to the confines of Eternity. But 
where was he ? He could see the lifeless shells 
no longer. He was roaming — on — on — in a vast, 
grey, pathless land, without light, without sound, 
unpeopled, forsaken. These were the plains of 
Eternity! — the measureless, boundless, sun- 
forgotten region, whose monarch was Death, and 
whose avenging angel — Silence ! An eternal 





twilight more desolate than the blackness of 
night, a twilight as of myriads of ghostly 
lanterns shedding their colorless rays upon an awful, 
echoless solitude. He would never find her here. 
The dead of ages were about him — the troubled 
spirits who had approached the pale, stern gates 
of the Hereafter with rapture, and found within 
their portals not rest, but a ceaseless, weary, 
purposeless wandering; the world-tired souls of 
aged men pursuing their never-ending quest in 
meek, faltering wonder, and longing for the goal 
which surely they must reach at last; the white, 
unquestioning souls of children floating like 
heavenly strains of unheard music in the void 
immensity; but one and all invisible' 
imponderable. They were there, the monarchs of 
buried centuries and the thousands who had 
knelt at their thrones; the high and the low, the 
outcast and the shrived, but each as alone as if 
the solitary inhabitant of all Space. And he, who 
would have fled from his fellow-men on earth, 
must long in vain for the sound of human voice or 
the rapture of human touch. He must go on — on 
— in these colorless, shadowless, haunted plains, 
until the last trumpet-blast should awaken the 
echoes of the Universe and summon him to 
confront his Maker and be judged. Oh ! if but once 
more he could see the earth he had scorned ! 
Was it spinning on its way still, that dark, tiny 
ball ? How long since he had given that last 



 

glance of farewell ? It must be years and years 
and years, as reckoned by the time of men, for in 
Eternity there is no time. And Sioned — where 
was she ? Desolate and abandoned, shrieked at 
by sudden winds, flying terrified and helpless 
over level, horizonless plains only to fling herself 
upon the grey waves of Death's noiseless ocean ? 
Oh, if he could but find her and make her forget! 
Together, what would matter death and silence 
and everlasting unrest ? All would be forgot, 
all but the exquisite pain of the regret for the 
years he had wasted on earth, and for the 
solitary heritage he had left the world. Those 
children of his brain ! They were with him still. 
Would that he had left them below to sing his 
name down through the ages ! They were a 
torment to him here, in their futility and inaction. 
They could not sing to these shapeless ghosts 
about him; their voices would be unheeded 
music; nor would any strain sweep downward to 
that world whose tears he might have drawn, 
whose mirth provoked, whose passions played 
upon at his will. The one grand thing he had 
done must alone speak for him. There was in 
it neither pathos nor mirth; it had sprung to the 
cloud-capped point of human genius, and its
sublimity would prove its barrier to the world's 
approval. But it would give him fame when — 
God ! what was that thought ? The manuscript 
of that poem had lain in the room where he had 




met his death. Had the hand that had slain him 
executed a more terrible vengeance still ? Oh, 
it could not be ! No man would be so base. 
And yet, what mercy had he the right to expect ? 
And the nature of the man — cold — relentless — 
To consign the man who had wronged him to 
eternal oblivion — would he not feel as he watched 
the ashes in the brazier, that such vengeance 
was sweeter than even the power to kill ? And 
he was impotent ! He was a waif tossed about 
in the chaos of eternity, with no power to smite 
the man whose crime had — perhaps — been greater 
than the thrusting of two lives from existence a 
few years before their time. He was as pow- 
erless as the invisible beggar who floated at his 
side. And that man was on earth yet, perchance, 
coldly indifferent in his proud position, inwardly 
gloating at the fullness of his revenge. . . . 

Years, years, years! They slipped from his 
consciousness like water from the smooth 
surface of a rock. And yet each had pressed more 
heavily and stung more sharply than the last. 
Oh, if he could but know that his poem had been 
given to the world — that it had not been blotted 
from existence! This was what was meant by 
Hell. No torture that man had ever pictured 
could approach the torments of such regret, such 
uncertainty, such pitiable impotence. Truly, if 
his sin had been great, his punishment was 
greater. 



 

But why was he going downward ? What
invisible hand was this which was resistlessly 
guiding him through the portals of the shadow land, 
past the great sun and worlds of other men, and 
down through this quivering ether ? What ? 
He was to be Jaorn again ? A bit of clay needed 
an atom of animate force to quicken it into life, 
and he must go again ? And it was to the planet 
Earth he was going ? Ah ! his poem ! his 
poem ! He could write it again, and of what 
matter the wasted generations ? And Sioned — 
they would meet again. Sooner or later, she too 
must return, and on Earth they would find what 
had been denied them above. What was that ? 
His past must become a blank ? His soul must 
be shorn of its growth ? He must go back to 
unremembering, unforseeing infancy, and grow 
through long, slow years to manhood again ? Still, 
his genius and his intelligence in their elements 
would be the same, and with development would 
come at last the fruition of all his fondest hopes. 
And Sioned ? He would know her when they met. 
Their souls must be the same as when the great 
ocean of Force had tossed them up; and evolu- 
tion could work no essential change. Ah ! they 
had entered the blue atmosphere. And, yes — 
there lay the earth below them. How he 
remembered its green plains and white cities and blue 
waters! And that great island — yes, it was 
familiar enough. It was the land which had 



 

given him birth, and which should have knelt at 
his feet and granted him a resting-place amidst 
its illustrious dead. And this old castle they 
were descending upon ? He did not remember 
it. Well, he was to be of the chosen of 
earth again. He would have a proud name to 
offer her, and this time it should be an unsullied 
one. This time the world should ring with his 
genius, not with his follies. This time — Oh, 
what was this ? Stop ! Stop ! No; he could 
not part with it. The grand, trained intellect of 
which he had been so proud — the perfected 
genius which had been his glory — they should 
not strip them from him — they were part of 
himself; they were his very essence; he would not 
give them up ! Oh, God ! this horrible 
shrinking ! This was Hell; this was not re-birth. 
Physical torture ? The words were meaningless 
beside this warping, this tearing apart of spirit 
and mind — those precious children of his brain 
— limb from limb. Their shrieks for help ! — their 
cries of anguish and horror ! their clutches ! 
their last spasmodic — despairing — weakening 
embrace ! He would hold them ! His clasp 
would defy all the powers of Earth and Air ! 
No, they should not go — they should not. Oh ! 
this cursed hand, with its nerves of steel. It 
would conquer yet, conquer and compress him 
down into an atom of impotence — There ! it had 
wrenched them from him; they were gone — 



 

gone — forever. But no, they were there beside 
him; their moans for help filled the space about 
him; yes, moans — they were cries no longer — 
and they were growing fainter — they were 
fading — sinking — dying — and he was shrink- 
ing 

X. 

Harold opened his eyes. The night had 
gone; the sun was struggling through the heavy 
curtains; the lamps and the fire had gone out, 
and the room was cold. He was faint and 
exhausted. His forehead was damp with horror, and 
his hands were shaking. That terrible struggle 
in which intellect and its attainments had been 
wrenched apart, in which -the spirit and its 
memories had been torn asunder ! He closed his 
eyes for a moment in obedience to his exhausted 
vitality. Then he rose slowly to his feet, went 
into his bedroom, and looked into the glass. 
Was it HaroldDartmouth or the dead poet who was 
reflected there ? He went back, picked up the 
locket, and returned to the glass. He looked at 
the picture, then at his own face, and again at 
the picture. They were identical; there was not 
a line or curve or tint of difference. He returned 
to his chair and rested his head on his hand. Was 
he this man re-born ? Did the dead come back 
and live again ? Was it a dream, or had he 
actually lived over a chapter from a past existence ? 



 

He was a practical man-of-the-world, not a vague 
dreamer — but all nature was a mystery; this 
would be no stranger than the general mystery 
of life itself. And he was not only this man 
reproduced in every line and feature; he had 
his nature as well. His grandmother had never 
mentioned her husband's name, but the Dart- 
mouths had been less reticent. They were fond 
of reiterating anecdotes of Lionel Dartmouth's 
lawless youth, of his moody, melancholy 
temperament, and above all, of the infallible signs he 
had shown of great genius. That his genius had 
borne no fruit made no difference in their 
estimate; he had died too soon, that was all — died 
of fever in Constantinople, the story ran; there 
had never been a suggestion of scandal. And 
he had come back to earth to fulfill the 
promise of long ago, and to give to the world the 
one splendid achievement of that time. It had 
triumphed over death and crime and revenge — 
but — He recalled those nights of conflict in his 
mind. Would will and spirit ever conquer that 
mechanical defect in his brain which denied his 
genius speech ? 

He drew his hand across his forehead; he was 
so tired. He pushed the manuscript and letters 
into a drawer of the desk, and turning the key 
upon them, opened the window and stepped out 
into the air. His vitality was at as low an ebb as 
if from physical overwork and fasting. He made 



 

no attempt to think, or to comment on the events 
just past. For the moment they lost their 
interest, and he strolled aimlessly about the park, 
his exhausted forces slowly recuperating. At 
the end of an hour he returned to the house and 
took a cold shower-bath and ate his breakfast. 
Then he felt more like himself. He had a strong 
desire to return to his study and the lost 
manuscript, but, with the wilful and pleasing procras- 
tination of one who knows that satisfaction is 
within his grasp, he put the temptation aside for 
the present, and spent the day riding over his 
estates with his steward. He also gave his 
business affairs a minute attention which delighted 
his servant. After dinner he smoked a cigar, 
then went into his study and locked the door. 
He sat down before the desk, and for a moment 
experienced a feeling of dread. He wanted no 
more visions: would contact with those papers 
induce another ? He would like to read that 
poem with the calm criticism of a trained 
and cultivated mind; he had no desire to be 
whirled back into his study at Constantinople, 
his brain throbbing and bursting with what was 
coming next. He shrugged his shoulders. It 
was a humiliating confession, but there were 
forces over which he had no control; there was 
nothing to do but resign himself to the in- 
evitable. 

He opened the drawer and took out the 
manuscript. To his unspeakable satisfaction he re- 
mained calm and unperturbed. He felt merely 
a cold-blooded content that he had balked his 
enemiesand that his ambition was to be gratified. 
Once, before he opened the paper, he smiled at 
his readiness to accept the theory of 
reincarnation. It had taken complete possession of him, 
and he felt not the slightest desire to combat it. 
Did a doubt cross his mind, he had but to recall 
the park seen by his spiritual eyes, as he 
descended upon it to be born again. It was the 
park in which he, Harold Dartmouth, had played 
as a child during his annual visits to his parents; 
the park surrounding the castle in which he had 
been born, and which had belonged to his father's 
line for centuries. For the first time in his life 
he did not reason. It seemed to him that there 
was no corner or loophole for argument, nothing 
but a cold array of facts which must be 
unconditionally accepted or rejected. 

He spread out the poem. It was in blank 
verse, and very long. He was struck at once 
with its beauty and power. Although his soul 
responded to the words as to the tone of a dear 
but long unheard voice, still he was spared the 
mental exaltation which would have clouded his 
judgment and destroyed his pleasure. He leaned 
his elbows on the desk, and, taking his head be- 
tween his hands, read on and on, scarcely draw- 
ing breath. Poets past and present had been 



 

his familiar friends, but in them he had found no 
such beauty as this. The grand sweep of the 
poem, the depth of its philosophy, the sublimity 
of its thought, the melody of its verse, the color, 
the radiant richness of its imagery, the sonorous 
swell of its lines, the classic purity of its style — 
Dartmouth felt as if an organ were pealing with- 
in his soul, lifting the song on its notes to the 
celestial choir which had sent it forth. Heav- 
enly fingers were sweeping the keys, heavenly 
voices were quiring the melody they had with 
wanton hand flung into a mortal's brain. As 
Harold read on he felt that his spirit had 
dissolved and was flowing through the poem, 
to be blended, unified with it forever. He 
seemed to lose all physical sensation, not from 
the causes of the previous night, but from the 
spiritual exaltation and absorption induced by 
the beauty and grandeur of the theme. When he 
had finished, he flung out his arms upon the desk, 
buried his head in them, and burst into tears. 
The tears were the result, not so much of 
extreme nervous tension, as of the wonder and awe 
and ecstacy with which his own genius had filled 
him. In a few moments his emotion had 
subsided and was succeeded by a state less purely 
spiritual. He stood up, and leaning one hand 
on the desk, looked down at the poem, his soul 
filled with an exultant sense of power. Power 
was what he had gloried in all his life. His birth 
 

had given it to him socially, his money had lent 
its aid, and his personal fascination had com- 
pleted the chapter. But he had wanted some- 
thing more than the commonplace power which 
fate or fortune grants to many. He had wanted 
that power which lifts a man high above his 
fellow-men, condemning him to solitude, 
perhaps, but, in that fiercely beating light, revealing 
him to all men's gaze. If life had drifted by 
him, it had been because he was too much of a 
philosopher to attempt the impossible, too clever 
to publish his incompetence to the world. 

His inactivity had not been the result of lack 
of ambition, and yet, as he stood there gazing 
down upon his work, it seemed to him that he 
had never felt the stirrings of that passion 
before. With the power to gratify his ambition, 
ambition sprang from glowing coals into a 
mighty flame which roared and swept about him, 
darted into every corner and crevice of his 
being, pulsated through his mind and spirit, and 
temporarily drove out every other instinct and 
desire. He threw back his head, his eyes flash- 
ing and his lips quivering. For the moment he 
looked inspired, as he registered a vow to have 
his name known in every corner of the civilized 
world. That he had so far been unable to 
accomcomplish anything in his present 
embodiment gave him no uneasiness at the 
moment. Sooner or later the imprisoned song 


would force its way through the solid masonry 
in which it was walled up — He gave a short laugh 
and came down to earth; his fancy was running 
away with him. 

He folded the poem compactly and put it in his 
breast pocket, determined that it should never 
leave him again until a copy was in the hands of the 
printer. It should be sent forth from Constan- 
tinople. The poem must be the apparent off- 
spring of his present incarnation; and as he had 
never been in Constantinople he must go there 
and remain for several months before publica- 
tion. 

He went into the library and sat down before 
the fire. He closed his eyes and let his head fall 
back on the soft cushion, a pleasant languor and 
warmth stealing through his frame. What a 
future ! Power, honor, adoration — the proudest 
pedestal a man can stand upon. And, as if this 
were not enough, an unquestioned happiness with 
the woman he loved with his whole heart. To 
her advent into his life he owed his complete and 
final severance from the petty but infinite distrac- 
tions and temptations of the world. His present 
without flaw, and his future assured, what was to 
prevent his gifts from flowering thickly and un- 
ceasingly in their peaceful soil and atmosphere 
of calm ? He remembered that his first 
irresistible impulse to write had come on the night he 
had met her. Would he owe to her his final 



 

power to speak, as he had owed to that other — 
He sat suddenly erect, then leaned forward, 
gazing at the fire with eyes from which all
languor had vanished. He felt as if a flash of 
lightning had been projected into his brain. That 
other? Who was that other ? — why was she so 
marvellously like Weir ? Her grandmother ? 
Yes, but why had he felt for Weir that sense of 
recognition and spiritual kinship the moment he 
had seen her ? 

He sprang to his feet and strode to the middle 
of the room. Great God ! Was Weir reem- 
bodied as well as himself ? Lady Sioned Pen- 
rhyn was indisputably the woman he had loved 
in his former existence — that was proved once 
for all by the scene in the gallery at Rhyd- Alwyn 
and by the letters he had found addressed to 
her. He recalled Weir's childhood experience. 
Had she really died, and the desperate, 
determined spirit of Sioned Penrhyn taken possession 
of her body ? Otherwise, why that sense of 
affinity, and her strange empire over him the 
night of their mutual vision ? There was 
something more than racial resemblance in form and 
feature between Sioned and Weir Penrhyn; there 
was absolute identity of soul and mind. 

He strode rapidly from one end of the room 
to the other. Every nerve in his body seemed 
vibrating, but his mind acted rapidly and
sequentially. He put the links together one by 
 

one, until, from the moment of his last 
meeting with Sioned Penrhyn at Constantinople to 
the climax of his vision in his study, the chain 
was complete. Love, then, as well as genius, 
had triumphed over the vengeance of Dafyd 
Penrhyn and Catherine Dartmouth. In that 
moment he felt no affection for his grandmother. 
She had worshipped and spoilt him, and had 
shown him only her better side; but the weakness 
and evil of her nature had done him incalculable 
injury, and he was not prepared to forgive her at 
once. 

He returned to his seat. Truly they all were 
the victims of inexorable law, but the law was 
just, and if it took to-day it gave to-morrow. If 
he and Sioned Penhryn had been destined to 
short-lived happmess and tragic death in that 
other existence, there was not an obstacle or 
barrier between them in the present. And if — He 
pushed his chair suddenly back and brought his 
brows together. A thought had struck him 
which he did not like. He got up and put 
another log on the fire. . Then he went over to 
the table and took up a book — a volume of Fig- 
uier. He sat down and read a few pages, then 
threw down the book, and drawing writing 
materials toward him, wrote a half-dozen business 
letters When they were finished, together with 
a few lines to Weir, and no other correspondence 
suggested itself, he got up and walked the 

length of the room several times. Suddenly he 
brought his fist violently down on the table. 

" I am a fool," he exclaimed. " The idea of a 
man with my experience with women — " And 
then his voice died away and his hand relaxed, 
an expression of disgust crossing his face. He 
sank into a chair by the table and leaned his 
head on his hand. It was true that he was a 
man of the world, and that for conventional 
morality he had felt the contempt it deserved. 
Nevertheless, in loving this girl the finest and 
highest instincts of his nature had been aroused. 
He had felt for her even more of sentiment than 
of passion. When a man loves a girl whose 
mental purity is as absolute as her physical, there 
is, intermingled with his love, a leavening quality 
of reverence, and the result is a certain purification 
of his own nature. That Dartmouth had 
found himself capable of such a love had been a 
source of keenest gratification to him. He had 
been lifted to a spiritual level which he had never 
touched before, and there he had determined to 
remain. 

And to have this pure and exquisite love 
smirched with the memory of sin and vulgar 
crime! To take, into his arms as his wife the 
woman on whose soul was written the record of 
temptation and of sin! It was like marrying 
one's mistress: as a matter of fact, what else was 
it? But "Weir Penrhyn! To connect sin with 


her was monstrous. And yet, the vital spark 
called life — or soul, or intelligence, or personal 
force; whatever name science or ignorance might 
give it — was unchanged in its elements, as his 
own chapter of memories had taught him. Every 
instinct in Sioned's nature was unaltered. If 
these instincts were undeveloped in her present 
existence, it was because of Weir's sheltered 
life, and because she had met him this time 
before it was too late. 

He sprang to his feet, almost overturning the 
chair. " I can think no more to-night," he 
exclaimed. " My head feels as if it would burst." 

He went into his bedroom and poured out a 
dose of laudanum. When he was in bed he 
drank it, and he did not awake until late the next 
day. 

XL 

In the life of every man there comes a time 
when he is brought face to face with the great 
problem of morality. The murderer undoubtedly
comprehends the problem in all its 
significance when he is about to mount the scaffold , 
the faithless wife when she is dragged through 
the divorce court, and her family and friends are 
humbled to the dust. 

Dartmouth worked it out the next night as he 
sat by his library fire. He had given the 
afternoon to his business affairs, but when night 



 

threw him back into the sole companionship of 
his thoughts, he doggedly faced the question 
which he had avoided all day. 

What was sin ? Could anyone tell, with the 
uneven standard set up by morality and 
religion ? The world smiled upon a loveless 
marriage. What more degrading ? It frowned upon 
a love perfect in all but the sanction of the 
Church, if the two had the courage to proclaim 
their love. It discreetly looked another way 
when the harlot of " Society " tripped by with 
her husband on one hand and her lover on the 
other. A man enriched himself at the expense 
of others by what he was pleased to call his 
business sharpness, and died revered as a 
philanthropist; the common thief was sent to jail. 

Dartmouth threw back his head and clasped 
his hands behind it. Of what use rehearsing 
platitudes? The laws of morality were 
concocted to ensure the coherence and homogeneity 
of society; therefore, whatever deleteriously 
affected society was crime of less or greater 
magnitude. He and Sioned Penrhyn had ruined the 
lives and happiness of two people, had made a 
murderer of the one, and irrevocably hardened the 
nature of the other: Catherine Dartmouth had 
lived to fourscore, and had died with unexpiated 
wrong on her conscience. They had left two 
children half-orphaned, and they had run the 
risk of disgracing two of the proudest families in 



 

Great Britain. Nothing, doubtless, but the 
cleverness and promptitude of Sir Dafyd Penrhyn, 
the secretive nature of Catherine Dartmouth, the 
absence of rapid-news transit, and the 
semi-civilization of Constantinople at that time, 
had prevented the affair from becoming public scandal. 
Poor Weir! how that haughty head of hers would 
bend if she knew of her grandmother's sin, even 
did she learn nothing of her own and that sin's 
kinship! 

Dartmouth got up and walked slowly down the 
long room, his hands clasped behind him, his 
head bent. Heaven knew his " sins " had been 
many; and if disaster had never ensued, it had 
been more by good luck than good management. 
And yet — he could trace a certain 
punishment in every case; the woman punished by 
the hardening of her nature and the probability 
of complete moral dementia; the man by satiety 
and an absolute loss of power to value what he 
possessed. Therefore, for the woman a sullen 
despair and its consequences; for the man a 
feverish striving for that which he could never 
find, or, if found, would have the gall in the 
nectar of having let slip the ability to unreservedly 
and innocently enjoy. , 

And if sin be measured by its punishment ! 
He recalled those years in eternity, with their 
hell of impotence and inaction. He recalled the 
torment of spirit, the uncertainty worse than 



 

death. And Weir? Surely no two erring mortals
had ever more terribly reaped the reward of 
their wrong-doing. 

What did it signify ? That he was to give her up ? 
that a love which had begun in sin must not 
end in happiness ? But his love had the strength 
of its generations; and the impatient, virile, 
control-disdaining nature of the man rebelled. Surely 
their punishment had been severe enough and 
long enough. Had they not been sent back to 
earth and almost thrown into each other's arms 
in token that guilt was expiated and vengeance 
satisfied ? Dartmouth stopped suddenly as this 
solution presented itself, then impatiently thrust 
a chair out of his way and resumed his walk. 
The consciousness that their affection was the 
perpetuation of a lustful love disheartened and 
revolted him. Until that memory disappeared 
his punishment would not be over. 

He stopped and leaned his hand on the 
table. " I thought I was a big enough man to 
rise above conventional morality," he said. "But 
I doubt if any man is when circumstances have 
combined to make him seriously face the question. 
He might, if born a red Indian, but not 
if saturated in his plastic days with the codes 
and dogmas of the world. They cling, they 
cling, and reason cannot oust them. The society 
in whose enveloping, penetrating atmos- 
phere he has lived his life decrees that it is a 

  

sin to seduce another man's wife or to live with 
a woman outside the pale of the Church. Therefore
sin, down in the roots of his consciousness, 
he believes it; therefore, to perpetuate a sinful 
love — I am becoming a petty moralist," he 
broke off impatiently;" but I can't help it. I am 
a triumph of civilization." 

He stood up and threw back his shoulders. 
" Let it go for the present," he said. "At another 
time I may look at it differently or reason myself 
out of it. Now I will try " 

He looked towards his study door with a flash 
in his eyes. He half turned away, then went 
quickly into the little room and sat down before 
the desk. Every day he would make the attempt 
to write, and finally that obstinate wedge in his 
brain would give way and his soul be set free. 

He drew paper before him and took up a pen. 
For an hour he sat motionless, bending all his 
power of intellect, all the artistic instincts of his 
nature to the luring of his song-children from 
that closed wing in his brain. But he could not 
even hear their peremptory knocks as on the 
nights when he had turned from those^summonses 
in agony and terror. He would have welcomed 
them now and dragged the visitants into the sun- 
light of his intelligence and forced the song from 
their throats. 

He took the poem from his pocket and read it 
. over. But it gave him no inspiration, it dulled 


