kindergarten, and they advocate the introduction of what they call
kindergarten features in the primary classes. This is called by the
disciples of Froebel an entire abandonment of his system. I should like
to see the kindergarten in connection with the public school tried long
enough to demonstrate all that is claimed for it in its influence on
mental development, character, and manners, but it seems unlikely to
be done in St. Louis, unless the public-school year begins at least as
early as five, or, better still, is specially unlimited for kindergarten
pupils.

Except in the primary work in drawing and modelling, there is no manual
training feature in the St. Louis public schools. The teaching of German
is recently dropped from all the district schools (though retained in
the High), in accordance with the well-founded idea of Americanizing our
foreign population as rapidly as possible.

One of the most important institutions in the Mississippi Valley, and
one that exercises a decided influence upon the intellectual and social
life of St. Louis, and is a fair measure of its culture and the value
of the higher education, is the Washington University, which was
incorporated in 1853, and was presided over until his death, in 1887,
by the late Chancellor William Green-leaf Eliot, of revered memory.
It covers the whole range of university studies, except theology,
and allows no instruction either sectarian in religion or partisan in
politics, nor the application of any sectarian or party test in the
election of professors, teachers, or officers. Its real estate and
buildings in use for educational purposes cost $625,000; its libraries,
scientific apparatus, casts, and machinery cost over $100,000, and it
has investments for revenue amounting to over $650,000. The University
comprehends an undergraduate department, including the college (a
thorough classical, literary, and philosophical course, with about sixty
students), open to women, and the polytechnic, an admirably equipped
school of science; the St. Louis Law School, of excellent reputation;
the Manual Training School, the most celebrated school of this sort, and
one that has furnished more manual training teachers than any other;
the Henry Shaw School of Botany; the St. Louis School of Fine Arts; the
Smith Academy, for boys; and the Mary Institute, one of the roomiest and
most cheerful school buildings I know, where 400 girls, whose collective
appearance need not fear comparison with any in the country, enjoy the
best educational advantages. Mary Institute is justly the pride of the
city.

The School of Botany, which is endowed and has its own laboratory,
workshop, and working library, was, of course, the outgrowth of the Shaw
Botanical Garden; it has usually from twenty to thirty special students.

The School of Fine Arts, which was reorganized under the University
in 1879, has enrolled over 200 students, and gives a wide and careful
training in all the departments of drawing, painting, and modelling,
with instructions in anatomy, perspective, and composition, and has life
classes for both sexes, in drawing from draped and nude figures. Its
lecture, working rooms, and galleries of paintings and casts are in
its Crow Art Museum—a beautiful building, well planned and justly
distinguished for architectural excellence. It ranks among the best Art
buildings in the country.

The Manual Training School has been in operation since 1880. It may be
called the most fully developed pioneer institution of the sort. I spent
some time in its workshops and schools, thinking of the very interesting
question at the bottom of the experiment, namely, the mental development
involved in the training of the hand and the eye, and the reflex help to
manual skill in the purely intellectual training of study. It is, it may
be said again, not the purpose of the modern manual training to teach
a trade, but to teach the use of tools as an aid in the symmetrical
development of the human being. The students here certainly do beautiful
work in wood-turning and simple carving, in ironwork and forging. They
enjoy the work; they are alert and interested in it. I am certain that
they are the more interested in it in seeing how they can work out and
apply what they have learned in books, and I doubt not they take hold of
literary study more freshly for this manual training in exactness. The
school exacts close and thoughtful study with tools as well as in books,
and I can believe that it gives dignity in the opinion of the working
student to hand labor. The school is large, its graduates have been
generally successful in practical pursuits and in teaching, and it lias
demonstrated in itself the correctness of the theory of its authors,
that intellectual drill and manual training are mutually advantageous
together. Whether manual training shall be a part of all district school
education is a question involving many considerations that do not enter
into the practicability of this school, but I have no doubt that manual
training schools of this sort would be immensely useful in every city.
There are many boys in every community who cannot in any other wayr be
awakened to any real study. This training school deserves a chapter
by itself, and as I have no space for details, I take the liberty of
referring those interested to a volume on its aims and methods by Dr. C.
M. Woodward, its director.

Notwithstanding the excellence of the public-school system of St. Louis,
there is no other city in the country, except New Orleans, where so
large a proportion of the youths are being educated outside the public
schools. A very considerable portion of the population is Catholic.
There are forty-four parochial schools, attended by nineteen thousand
pupils, and over a dozen different Sisterhoods are engaged in teaching
in them. Generally each parochial school has two departments—one for
boys and one for girls. They are sustained entirely by the parishes. In
these schools, as in the two Catholic universities, the prominence of
ethical and religious training is to be noted. Seven-eighths of the
schools are in charge of thoroughly trained religious teachers. Many of
the boys’ schools are taught by Christian Brothers. The girls are almost
invariably taught by members of religious Sisterhoods. In most of the
German schools the girls and smaller boys are taught by Sisters, the
larger boys by lay teachers. Some reports of school attendance are given
in the Catholic Directory: SS. Peter and Paul’s (German), 1300 pupils;
St. Joseph’s (German), 957; St. Bridget’s, 950; St. Malaehy’s, 756; St.
John’s, 700; St. Patrick’s, 700. There is a school for colored children
of 150 pupils taught by colored Sisters.

In addition to these parochial schools there are a dozen academies
and convents of higher education for young ladies, all under charge of
Catholic Sisterhoods, commonly with a mixed attendance of boarders
and day scholars, and some of them with a reputation for learning that
attracts pupils from other States, notably the Academy of the Sacred
Heart, St. Joseph’s Academy, and the Academy of the Visitation, in
charge of cloistered nuns of that order. Besides these, in connection
with various reformatory and charitable institutions, such as the House
of the Good Shepherd and St. Mary’s Orphan Asylum, there are industrial
schools in charge of the Sisterhoods, where girls receive, in addition
to their education, training in some industry to maintain themselves
respectably when they leave their temporary homes. Statistics are
wanting, but it will be readily inferred from these statements that
there are in the city a great number of single women devoted for life,
and by special religious and intellectual training, to the office of
teaching.

For the higher education of Catholic young men the city is distinguished
by two remarkable institutions. The one is the old St. Louis University,
and the other is the Christian Brothers’ College. The latter, which a
few years ago outgrew its old buildings in the city, has a fine pile of
buildings at Côte Brillante, on a commanding site about five miles out,
with ample grounds, and in the neighborhood of the great parks and the
Botanical Garden. The character of the school is indicated by the motto
on the façade of the building—Religio, Mores, Cultura. The institution
is designed to accommodate a thousand boarding students. The present
attendance is 450, about half of whom are boarders, and represent twenty
States. There is a corps of thirty-five professors, and three courses of
study are maintained—the classical, the scientific, and the commercial.
As several of the best parochial schools are in charge of Christian
Brothers, these schools are feeders of the college, and the pupils have
the advantage of an unbroken system with a consistent purpose from the
day they enter into the primary department till they graduate at the
college. The order has, at Glencoe, a large Normal School for the
training of teachers. The fame and success of the Christian Brothers
as educators in elementary and the higher education, in Europe and the
United States, is largely due to the fact that they labor as a unit in
a system that never varies in its methods of imparting instruction,
in which the exponents of it have all undergone the same pedagogic
training, in which there is no room for the personal fancy of the
teacher in correction, discipline, or scholarship, for everything is
judiciously governed by prescribed modes of procedure, founded on long
experience, and exemplified in the co-operative plan of the Brothers.
In vindication of the exceptional skill acquired by its teachers in the
thorough drill of the order, the Brotherhood points to the success of
its graduates in competitive examinations for public employment in this
country and in Europe, and to the commendation its educational exhibits
received at London and New Orleans.

The St. Louis University, founded in 1829 by members of the Society of
Jesus, and chartered in 1834, is officered and controlled by the Jesuit
Fathers. It is an unendowed institution, depending upon fees paid
for tuition. Before the war its students were largely the children of
Southern planters, and its graduates are found all over the South and
South-west; and up to 1881 the pupils boarded and lodged within the
precincts of the old buildings on the corner of Ninth Street and
Washington, where for over half a century the school has vigorously
flourished. The place, which is now sold and about to be used for
business purposes, has a certain flavor of antique scholarship, and the
quaint buildings keep in mind the plain but rather pleasing architecture
of the French period. The University is in process of removal to the new
buildings on Grand avenue, which are a conspicuous ornament to one of
the most attractive parts of the city. Soon nothing will be left of
the institution on Ninth Street except the old college church, which is
still a favorite place of worship for the Catholics of the city. The new
buildings, in the early decorated English Gothic style, are ample and
imposing; they have a front of 270 feet, and the northern wing extends
325 feet westward from the avenue. The library, probably the finest room
of the kind in the West, is sixty-seven feet high, amply lighted,
and provided with three balconies. The library, which was packed for
removal, has over 25,000 volumes, is said to contain many rare and
interesting books, and to fairly represent science and literature.
Besides this, there are special libraries, open to students, of over
0000 volumes. The museum of the new building is a noble ball, one
hundred feet by sixty feet, and fifty-two feet high, without columns,
and lighted from above and from the side. The University has a valuable
collection of ores and minerals, and other objects of nature and
art that will be deposited in this hall, which will also serve as
a picture-gallery for the many paintings of historical interest.
Philosophical apparatus, a chemical laboratory, and an astronomical
observatory are the equipments on the scientific side.

The University has now no dormitories and no boarders. There are
twenty-five professors and instructors. The entire course, including the
preparatory, is seven years. A glance at the catalogue shows that in
the curriculum the institution keeps pace with the demands of the age.
Besides the preparatory course (89 pupils), it has a classical course
(143 pupils), an English course (82 pupils), and 85 post-graduate
students, making a total of 399. Its students form societies for various
purposes; one, the Sodality of the Blessed Virgin Mary, with distinct
organizations in the senior and junior classes, is for the promotion of
piety and the practice of devotion towards the Blessed Virgin; another
is for training in public speaking and philosophic and literary
disputation; there is also a scientific academy, to foster a taste for
scientific culture; and there is a student’s library of 4000 volumes,
independent of the religious books of the Sodality societies.

In a conversation with the president I learned that the prevailing idea
in the courses of study is the gradual and healthy development of
the mind. The classes are carefully graded. The classics are favorite
branches, but mental philosophy, chemistry, physics, astronomy, are
taught with a view to practical application. Much stress is laid upon
mathematics. During the whole course of seven years, one hour each day
is devoted to this branch. In short, I was impressed with the fact that
this is an institution for mental training. Still more was I struck with
the prominence in the whole course of ethical and religious culture. On
assembling every morning, all the Catholic students hear mass. In every
class in every year Christian doctrine has as prominent a place as
any branch of study; beginning in the elementary class with the small
catechism and practical instructions in the manner of reciting the
ordinary prayers, it goes on through the whole range of doctrine—creed,
evidences, ritual, ceremonial, mysteries—in the minutest details of
theory and practice; ingraining, so far as repeated instruction can,
the Catholic faith and pure moral conduct in the character, involving
instructions as to what occasions and what amusements are dangerous to
a good life, on the reading of good books and the avoiding bad books and
bad company.

In the post-graduate course, lectures are given and examinations made
in ethics, psychology, anthropology, biology, and physics; and in the
published abstracts of lectures for the past two years I find that none
of the subjects of modern doubt and speculation are ignored—spiritism,
psychical research, the cell theory, the idea of God, socialism,
agnosticism, the Noachinn deluge, theories of government, fundamental
notions of physical science, unity of the human species, potency
of matter, and so on. During the past fifty years this faculty has
contained many men famous as pulpit orators and missionaries, and this
course of lectures on philosophic and scientific subjects has brought it
prominently before the cultivated inhabitants of the town.

Another educational institution of note in St. Louis is the Concordia
Seminar of the Old Lutheran, or the Evangelical Lutheran Church. This
denomination, which originated in Saxony, and has a large membership in
our Western States, adheres strictly to the Augsburg Confession, and is
distinguished from the general Lutheran Church by greater strictness
of doctrine and practice, or, as may be said, by a return to primitive
Lutheranism; that is to say, it grounds itself upon the literal
inspiration of the Scriptures, upon salvation by faith alone, and upon
individual liberty. This Seminar is one of several related institutions
in the Synod of Missouri, Ohio, and other States: there is a college at
Fort Wayne, Indiana, a Progymnasium at Milwaukee, a Seminar of practical
theology at Springfield, Illinois, and this Seminar at St. Louis,
which is wholly devoted to theoretical theology. This Church numbers, I
believe, about 200,000 members.

The Concordia Seminar is housed in a large, commodious building,
effectively set upon high ground in the southern part of the city. It
was erected and the institution is sustained by the contributions of the
congregations. The interior, roomy, light, and commodious, is plain to
barrenness, and has a certain monastic severity, which is matched by the
discipline and the fare. In visiting it one takes a step backward into
the atmosphere and theology of the sixteenth century. The ministers of
the denomination are distinguished for learning and earnest simplicity.
The president, a very able man, only thirty-five years of age, is at
least two centuries old in his opinions, and wholly undisturbed by
any of the doubts which have agitated the Christian world since the
Reformation. He holds the faith “once for all” delivered to the saints.
The Seminar has a hundred students. It is requisite to admission, said
the president, that they be perfect Latin, Greek, and Hebrew scholars.
A large proportion of the lectures are given in Latin, the remainder in
German and English, and Latin is current in the institution, although
German is the familiar speech. The course of study is exacting, the
rules are rigid, and the discipline severe. Social intercourse with
the other sex is discouraged. The pursuit of love and learning are
considered incompatible at the same time; and if a student were
inconsiderate enough to become engaged, he would be expelled. Each
student from abroad may select or be selected by a family in the
communion, at whose house he may visit once a week, which attends to his
washing, and supplies to a certain extent the place of a home. The young
men are trained in the highest scholarship and the strictest code of
morals. I know of no other denomination which holds its members to such
primitive theology and such strictness of life. Individual liberty and
responsibility are stoutly asserted, without any latitude in belief.
It repudiates Prohibition as an infringement of personal liberty, would
make the use of wine or beer depend upon the individual conscience,
but no member of the communion would be permitted to sell intoxicating
liquors, or to go to a beer-garden or a theatre. In regard to the
sacrament of communion, there is no authority for altering the plain
directions in the Scripture, and communion without wine, or the
substitution of any concoction for wine, would be a sin. No member would
be permitted to join any labor union or secret society. The sacrament
of communion is a mystery. It is neither transubstantiation nor
consubstantiation. The president, whose use of English in subtle
distinctions is limited, resorted to Latin and German in explanation
of the mystery, but left the question of real and actual presence, of
spirit and substance, still a matter of terms; one can only say that
neither the ordinary Protestant nor the Catholic interpretation is
accepted. Conversion is not by any act or ability of man; salvation is
by faith alone. As the verbal inspiration of the Scriptures is
insisted on in all cases, the world was actually created in six days
of twenty-four hours each. When I asked the president what he did
with geology, he smiled and simply waved his hand. This communion has
thirteen flourishing churches in the city. In a town so largely German,
and with so many freethinkers as well as free-livers, I cannot but
consider this strict sect, of a simple unquestioning faith and high
moral demands, of the highest importance in the future of the city. But
one encounters with surprise, in our modern life, this revival of the
sixteenth century, which plants itself so squarely against so much that
we call “progress.”

As to the institutions of charity, I must content myself with saying
that they are many, and worthy of a great and enlightened city. There
are of all denominations 211 churches; of these the Catholics lead with
47; the Presbyterians come next with 24; and the Baptists have 22; the
Methodists North, 4; and the Methodists South, 8. The most interesting
edifices, both for associations and architecture, are the old Cathedral;
the old Christ Church (Episcopalian), excellent Gothic; and an exquisite
edifice, the Church of the Messiah (Unitarian), in Locust Street.

The city has two excellent libraries. The Public Library, an adjunct
of the public-school system, in the Polytechnic Building, has an annual
appropriation of about $14,000 from the School Board, and receives about
$5000 more from membership and other sources. It contains about 67,000
volumes, and is admirably managed. The Mercantile Library is in process
of removal into a magnificent six-story building on Broadway and Locust
Street. It is a solid and imposing structure, the first story of red
granite, and the others of brick and terra-cotta. The library and
reading-rooms are on the fifth story, the rest of the building is
rented. This association, which is forty-two years old, has 3500
members, and had an income in 1887 of $120,000, nearly all from
membership. In January, 1888, it had 68,732 volumes, and in a
circulation of over 168,000 in the year, it had the unparalleled
distinction of reducing the fiction given out to 41.95 per cent. Both
these libraries have many treasures interesting to a book-lover, and
though neither is free, the liberal, intelligent management of each has
been such as to make it a most beneficent institution for the city.

There are many handsome and stately buildings in the city, the recent
erections showing growth in wealth and taste. The Chamber of Commerce,
which is conspicuous for solid elegance, cost a million and a half
dollars. There are 3295 members of the Merchants’ Exchange. The
Court-house, with its noble dome, is as well proportioned a building as
can be found in the country. A good deal may be said for the size and
effect of the Exposition Building, which covers what was once a pretty
park at the foot of Lucas Place, and cost 6750,000. There are clubs many
and flourishing. The St. Louis Club (social) has the finest building,
an exceedingly tasteful piece of Romanesque architecture on Twenty-ninth
Street. The University Club, which is like its namesake in other cities,
has a charming old-fashioned house and grounds on Pine Street. The
Commercial Club, an organization limited in its membership to sixty,
has no club-house, but, like its namesake in Chicago, is a controlling
influence in the prosperity of the city. Representing all the leading
occupations, it is a body of men who, by character, intellect, and
wealth, can carry through any project for the public good, and which is
animated by the highest public spirit.

Of the social life of the town one is permitted to speak only in general
terms. It has many elements to make it delightful—long use in social
civilities, interest in letters and in education, the cultivation of
travel, traditions, and the refinement of intellectual pursuits. The
town has no academy of music, but there is a good deal of musical
feeling and cultivation; there is a very good orchestra, one of the very
best choruses in the country, and Verdi’s “Requiem” was recently given
splendidly. I am told by men and women of rare and special cultivation
that the city is a most satisfactory one to live in, and certainly
to the stranger its society is charming. The city has, however, the
Mississippi Valley climate—extreme heat in the summer, and trying
winters.

There is no more interesting industrial establishment in the West than
the plate-glass works at Crystal City, thirty miles south on the river.
It was built up after repeated failures and reverses—for the business,
like any other, had to be learned. The plant is very extensive, the
buildings are of the best, the machinery is that most approved, and the
whole represents a cash investment of $1,500,000. The location of the
works at this point was determined by the existence of a mountain of
sand which is quarried out like rock, and is the finest and cleanest
silica known in the country. The production is confined entirety to
plate-glass, which is cast in great slabs, twelve feet by twelve and
a half in size, each of which weighs, before it is reduced half in
thickness by grinding, smoothing, and polishing, about 750 pounds. The
product for 1887 was 1,200,000 feet. The coal used in the furnaces is
converted into gas, which is found to be the most economical and most
easily regulated fuel. This industry has drawn together a population of
about 1500. I was interested to learn that labor in the production of
this glass is paid twice as much as similar labor in England, and from
three to four times as much as similar labor in France and Belgium. As
the materials used in making plate-glass are inexpensive, the main cost,
after the plant, is in labor. Since plate-glass was first made in this
country, eighteen years ago, the price of it in the foreign market has
been continually forced down, until now it costs the American consumer
only half what it cost him before, and the jobber gets it at an average
cost of 75 cents a foot, as against the $1.50 a foot which we paid the
foreign manufacturer before the establishment of American factories.
And in these eighteen years the Government has had from this source a
revenue of over seventeen millions, at an average duty, on all sizes, of
less than 59 per cent.

Missouri is one of the greatest of our States in resources and in
promise, and it is conspicuous in the West for its variety and capacity
of interesting development. The northern portion rivals Iowa in
beautiful rolling prairie, with high divides and park-like forests; its
water communication is unsurpassed; its mineral resources are immense;
it has noble mountains as well as fine uplands and fertile valleys, and
it never impresses the traveller as monotonous. So attractive is it
in both scenery and resources that it seems unaccountable that so
many settlers have passed it by. But, first slavery, and then a rural
population disinclined to change, have stayed its development. This
state of things, however, is changing, has changed marvellously within
a few years in the northern portion, in the iron regions, and especially
in larger cities of the west, St. Joseph and Kansas City. The State
deserves a study by itself, for it is on the way to be a great empire
of most varied interests. I can only mention here one indication of
its moral progress. It has adopted a high license and local option law.
Under this the saloons are closed in nearly all the smaller villages and
country towns. A shaded map shows more than three-fourths of the area
of the State, including three-fifths of the population, free from
liquor-selling. The county court may grant a license to sell liquor to
a person of good moral character on the signed petition of a majority of
the taxpaying citizens of a township or of a city block; it must grant
it on the petition of two-thirds of the citizens. Thus positive action
is required to establish a saloon. On the map there are 76 white
counties free of saloons, 14 counties In which there are from one to
three saloons only, and 24 shaded counties which have altogether 2263
saloons, of which 1450 are in St. Louis and 520 in Kansas City. The
revenue from the saloons in St. Louis is about 8800,000, in Kansas City
about 8375,000, annually. The heavily shaded portions of the map are on
the great rivers.

Of all the wonderful towns in the West, none has attracted more
attention in the East than Kansas City. I think I am not wrong in saying
that it is largely the product of Eastern energy and capital, and that
its closest relations have been with Boston. I doubt if ever a new town
was from the start built up so solidly or has grown more substantially.
The situation, at the point where the Missouri River makes a sharp bend
to the east, and the Kansas River enters it, was long ago pointed out
as the natural centre of a great trade. Long before it started on its
present career it was the great receiving and distributing point of
South-western commerce, which left the Missouri River at this point
for Santa Fé and other trading marts in the South-west. Aside from this
river advantage, if one studies the course of streams and the incline of
the land in a wide circle to the westward, he is impressed with the fact
that the natural business drainage of a vast area is Kansas City. The
city was therefore not fortuitously located, and when the railways
centred there, they obeyed an inevitable law. Here nature intended, in
the development of the country, a great city. Where the next one will
be in the South-west is not likely to be determined until the Indian
Territory is open to settlement. To the north, Omaha, with reference
to Nebraska and the West, possesses many similar advantages, and is
likewise growing with great vigor and solidity. Its situation on a slope
rising from the river is commanding and beautiful, and its splendid
business houses, handsome private residences, and fine public schools
give ample evidence of the intelligent enterprise that is directing its
rapid growth.

It is difficult to analyze the impression Kansas City first makes upon
the Eastern stranger. It is usually that of immense movement, much of it
crude, all of it full of purpose. At the Union Station, at the time of
the arrival and departure of trains, the whole world seems afloat; one
is in the midst of a continental movement of most varied populations. I
remember that the first time I saw it in passing, the detail that most
impressed me was the racks and rows of baggage checks; it did not seem
to me that the whole travelling world could need so many. At that time
a drive through the city revealed a chaos of enterprise—deep cuts for
streets, cable roads in process of construction over the sharp ridges,
new buildings, hills shaved down, houses perched high up on slashed
knolls, streets swarming with traffic and roaring with speculation. A
little more than a year later the change towards order was marvellous:
the cable roads were running in all directions; gigantic buildings
rising upon enormous blocks of stone gave distinction to the principal
streets; the great residence avenues have been beautified, and showed
all over the hills stately and picturesque houses. And it is worthy of
remark that while the “boom” of speculation in lots had subsided, there
was no slacking in building, and the reports showed a steady increase in
legitimate business. I was confirmed in my theory that a city is likely
to be most attractive when it has had to struggle heroically against
natural obstacles in the building.

I am not going to describe the city. The reader knows that it lies south
of the river Missouri, at the bend, and that the notable portion of it
is built upon a series of sharp hills. The hill portion is already a
beautiful city; the flat part, which contains the railway depot and
yards, a considerable portion of the manufactories and wholesale
houses, and much refuse and squatting population (white and black), is
unattractive in a high degree. The Kaw, or Kansas, River would seem to
be the natural western boundary, but it is not the boundary; the city
and State line runs at some distance east of Kansas River, leaving
a considerable portion of low ground in Kansas City, Kansas, which
contains the larger number of the great packing-houses and the great
stock-yards. This identity of names is confusing. Kansas City (Kansas),
Wyandotte, Armourdale, Armstrong, and Riverview (all in the State of
Kansas) have been recently consolidated under the name of Kansas City,
Kansas. It is to be regretted that this thriving town of Kansas,
which already claims a population of 40,000, did not take the name of
Wyandotte. In its boundaries are the second largest stock-yards in the
country, which received last year 670,000 cattle, nearly 2,500,000 hogs,
and 210,000 sheep, estimated worth 851,000,000. There also are half a
dozen large packing-houses, one of them ranking with the biggest in the
country, which last year slaughtered 195,933 cattle, and 1,907,104 hogs.
The great elevated railway, a wonderful structure, which connects Kansas
City, Missouri, with Wyandotte, is owned and managed by men of Kansas
City, Kansas. The city in Kansas has a great area of level ground for
the accommodation of manufacturing enterprises, and I noticed a good
deal of speculative feeling in regard to this territory. The Kansas side
has fine elevated situations for residences, but Wyandotte itself does
not compare in attractiveness with the Missouri city, and I fancy that
the controlling impetus and capital will long remain with the city that
has so much the start.

Looking about for the specialty which I have learned to expect in every
great Western city, I was struck by the number of warehouses for the
sale of agricultural implements on the flats, and I was told that Kansas
City excels all others in the amount of sales of farming implements. The
sale is put down at 815,000,000 for the year 1887—a fourth of the entire
reported product manufactured in the United States. Looking for the
explanation of this, one largely accounts for the growth of Kansas City,
namely, the vast rich agricultural regions to the west and southwest,
the development of Missouri itself, and the facilities of distribution.
It is a general belief that settlement is gradually pushing the rainy
belt farther and farther westward over the prairies and plains, that
the breaking up of the sod by the plough and the tilling have increased
evaporation and consequently rainfall. I find this questioned by
competent observers, who say that the observation of ten years is not
enough to settle the fact of a change of climate, and that, as not
a tenth part of the area under consideration has been broken by the
plough, there is not cause enough for the alleged effect, and that we
do not yet know the cycle of years of drought and years of rain. However
this may be, there is no doubt of the vast agricultural yield of these
new States and Territories, nor of the quantities of improved machinery
they use. As to facility of distribution, the railways are in evidence.
I need not name them, but I believe I counted fifteen lines and systems
centring there. In 1887, 4565 miles of railway were added to the
facilities of Kansas City, stretching out in every direction. The
development of one is notable as peculiar and far-sighted, the Fort
Scott and Gulf, which is grasping the East as well as the South-west;
turning eastward from Fort Scott, it already reaches the iron industries
of Birmingham, pushes on to Atlanta, and seeks the seaboard. I do not
think I over-estimate the importance of this quite direct connection of
Kansas City with the Atlantic.

The population of Kansas City, according to the statistics of the Board
of Trade, increased from 41,786 in 1877 to 165,924 in 1887, the assessed
valuation from $9,370,287 in 1877 to $53,017,290 in 1887, and the rate
of taxation was reduced in the same period from about 22 mills to 14.
I notice also that the banking capital increased in a year—1886 to
1887—from $3,873,000 to $6,950,000, and the Clearing-house transactions
in the same year from $251,963,441 to $353,895,458. This, with other
figures which might be given, sustains the assertion that while
real-estate speculation has decreased in the current year, there was a
substantial increase of business. During the year ending June 30, 1886,
there were built 4054 new houses, costing $10,393,207; during the year
ending June 30, 1887, 5889, costing $12,839,808. An important feature
of the business of Kansas City is in the investment and loan and trust
companies, which are many, and aggregate a capital of $7,773,000. Loans
are made on farms in Kansas, Missouri, Nebraska, and Iowa, and also for
city improvements.

Details of business might be multiplied, but enough have been given to
illustrate the material prosperity of the city. I might add a note
of the enterprise which last year paved (mainly with cedar blocks on
concrete) thirteen miles of the city; the very handsome churches
in process of erection, and one or two (of the many) already built,
admirable in plan and appearance; the really magnificent building of the
Board of Trade—a palace, in fact; and other handsome, costly structures
on every hand. There are thirty-five miles of cable road. I am not
sure but these cable roads are the most interesting—certainly the most
exciting—feature of the city to a stranger. They climb such steeps, they
plunge down such grades, they penetrate and whiz through such crowded,
lively thoroughfares, their trains go so rapidly, that the rider is in
a perpetual exhilaration. I know no other locomotion more exciting and
agreeable. Life seems a sort of holiday when one whizzes through the
crowded city, up and down and around amid the tall buildings, and then
launches off in any direction into the suburbs, which are alive with new
buildings. Independence avenue is shown as one of the finest avenues,
and very handsome it and that part of the town are, but I fancied
I could detect a movement of fashion and preference to the hills
southward.

In the midst of such a material expansion one has learned to expect fine
houses, but I was surprised to find three very good book-stores (as I
remember, St. Louis has not one so good), and a very good start for a
public library, consisting of about 16,000 well-arranged and classified
books. Members pay $2 a year, and the library receives only about
$2500 a year from the city. The citizens could make no better-paying
investment than to raise this library to the first rank. There is also
the beginning of an art school in some pretty rooms, furnished with
casts and autotypes, where pupils practise drawing under direction of
local artiste. There are two social clubs—the University, which occupies
pleasant apartments, and the Kansas City Club, which has just erected a
handsome club-house. In these respects, and in a hundred refinements
of living, the town, which has so largely drawn its young, enterprising
population from the extreme East, has little the appearance of a
frontier place; it is the push, the public spirit, the mixture of
fashion and slouching negligence in street attire, the mingling of
Eastern smartness with border emancipation in manner, and the general
restlessness of movement, that proclaim the newness. It seems to me that
the incessant stir, and especially the clatter, whir, and rapidity of
the cable ears, must have a decided effect on the nerves of the whole
population. The appearance is certainly that of an entire population
incessantly in motion.

I have spoken of the public spirit. Besides the Board of Trade there is
a Merchants’ and Manufacturers’ Bureau, which works vigorously to bring
to the city and establish mercantile and manufacturing enterprises. The
same spirit is shown in the public schools. The expenditures in 1887
were, for school purposes, $226,923; for interest on bonds, $18,408; for
grounds and buildings, $110,087; in all, $355,418. The total of children
of school age was, white, 31,667; colored, 4204. Of these in
attendance at school were, white, 12,933; colored, 1975. There were
25 school-houses and 212 teachers. The schools which I saw—one large
grammar-school, a colored school, and the High-school of over 600
pupils—were good all through, full of intelligent emulation, the
teachers alert and well equipped, and the attention to literature, to
the science of government, to what, in short, goes to make intelligent
citizens, highly commendable. I find the annual reports, under Prof.
J. M. Greenwood, most interesting reading. Topics are taken up and
investigations made of great public interest. These topics relate to the
even physical and mental development of the young in distinction from
the effort merely to stuff them with information. There is a most
intelligent attempt to remedy defective eyesight. Twenty per cent, of
school children have some anomaly of refraction or accommodation which
should be recognized and corrected early; girls have a larger per cent,
of anomalies than boys. Irish, Swedish, and German children have the
highest percentage of affections of the eyes; English, French, Scotch,
and Americans the lowest. Scientific observations of the eyes are made
in the Kansas City schools, with a view to remedy defects. Another
curious topic is the investigation of the Contents of Children’s
Minds—that is, what very small children know about common things. Prof.
Stanley Hall published recently the result of examinations made of
very little folks in Boston schools. Professor Greenwood made similar
investigations among the lowest grade of pupils in the Kansas City
schools, and a table of comparisons is printed. The per cent, of
children ignorant of common things is astonishingly less in Kansas City
schools than in the Boston; even the colored children of the Western
city made a much better showing. Another subject of investigation is the
alleged physical deterioration in this country. Examinations were made
of hundreds of school children from the age of ten to fifteen,
and comparisons taken with the tables in Mulhal’s “Dictionary of
Statistics,” London, 1884. It turns out that the Kansas City children
are taller, taking sex into account, than the average English child
at the age of either ten or fifteen, weigh a fraction less at ten, but
upwards of four pounds more at fifteen, while the average Belgian boy
and girl compare favorably with American children two years younger.
The tabulated statistics show two facts, that the average Kansas child
stands fully as tall as the tallest, and that in weight he tips the
beam against an older child on the other side of the Atlantic. With this
showing, we trust that our American experiment will be permitted to go
on.

In reaching the necessary limit of a paper too short for its subject, I
can only express my admiration of the indomitable energy and spirit of
that portion of the West which Kansas City represents, and congratulate
it upon so many indications of attention to the higher civilization,
without which its material prosperity will be wonderful but not
attractive.




XV.—KENTUCKY.

All Kentucky, like Gaul, is divided into three parts. This division,
which may not be sustained by the geologists or the geographers, perhaps
not even by the ethnologists, is, in my mind, one of character: the east
and south-east mountainous part, the central blue-grass region, and the
great western portion, thrifty in both agriculture and manufactures.
It is a great self-sustaining empire, lying midway in the Union, and
between the North and the South (never having yet exactly made up its
mind whether it is North or South), extending over more than seven
degrees of longitude. Its greatest length east and west is 410 miles;
its greatest breadth, 178 miles. Its area by latest surveys, and larger
than formerly estimated, is 42,283 square miles. Within this area
prodigal nature has brought together nearly everything that a highly
civilized society needs: the most fertile soil, capable of producing
almost every variety of product for food or for textile fabrics;
mountains of coals and iron ores and limestone; streams and springs
everywhere; almost all sorts of hard-wood timber in abundance. Nearly
half the State is still virgin forest of the noblest trees, oaks,
sugar-maple, ash, poplar, black-walnut, linn, elm, hickory, beech,
chestnut, red cedar. The climate may honestly be called temperate: its
inhabitants do not need to live in cellars in the summer, nor burn up
their fences and furniture in the winter.

Kentucky is loved of its rivers. It can be seen by their excessively
zigzag courses how reluctant they are to leave the State, and if they do
leave it they are certain to return. The Kentucky and the Green wander
about in the most uncertain way before they go to the Ohio, and the
Licking and Big Sandy exhibit only a little less reluctance. The
Cumberland, after a wide detour in Tennessee, returns; and Powell’s
River, joining the Clinch and entering the Tennessee, finally persuades
that river, after it has looked about the State of Tennessee and
gladdened northern Alabama, to return to Kentucky.

Kentucky is an old State, with an old civilization. It was the pioneer
in the great western movement of population after the Revolution.
Although it was first explored in 1770, and the Boone trail through the
wilderness of Cumberland Gap was not marked till 1775, a settlement
had been made in Frankfort in 1774, and in 1790 the Territory had a
population of 79,077. This was a marvellous growth, considering the
isolation by hundreds of miles of wilderness from Eastern communities,
and the savage opposition of the Indians, who selw fifteen hundred whilc
settlers from 1783 to 1790. Kentucky was the home of no Indian tribe,
but it was the favorite hunting and fighting ground of those north of
the Ohio and south of the Cumberland, and they united to resent white
interference. When the State came into the Union in 1792—the second
admitted—it was the equal in population and agricultural wealth of some
of the original States that had been settled a hundred and fifty years,
and in 1800 could boast 220,750 inhabitants, and in 1810, 400,511.

At the time of the settlement, New York west of the Hudson, western
Pennsylvania, and western Virginia were almost unoccupied except by
hostile Indians; there was only chance and dangerous navigation down
the Ohio from Pittsburg, and it was nearly eight hundred miles of a
wilderness road, which was nothing but a bridle-path, from Philadelphia
by way of the Cumberland Gap to central Kentucky. The majority of
emigrants came this toilsome way, which was, after all, preferable to
the river route, and all passengers and produce went that way eastward,
for the steamboat bad not yet made the ascent of the Ohio feasible. In
1779 Virginia resolved to construct a wagon-road through the wilderness,
but no road was made for many years afterwards, and indeed no vehicle of
any sort passed over it till a road was built by action of the Kentucky
Legislature in 1700. I hope it was better then than the portion of it I
travelled from Pineville to the Gap in 1888.

Civilization made a great leap over nearly a thousand miles into the
open garden-spot of central Kentucky, and the exploit is a unique
chapter in our frontier development. Either no other land ever lent
itself so easily to civilization as the blue-grass region, or it was
exceptionally fortunate in its occupants. They formed almost immediately
a society distinguished for its amenities, for its political influence,
prosperous beyond precedent in farming, venturesome and active in trade,
developing large manufactures, especially from hemp, of such articles
as could be transported by river, and sending annually through the
wilderness road to the East and South immense droves of cattle, horses,
and swine. In the first necessity, and the best indication of superior
civilization, good roads for transportation, Kentucky was conspicuous in
comparison with the rest of the country. As early as 1825 macadam roads
were projected, the turnpike from. Lexington to Maysville on the Ohio
was built in 1829, and the work went on by State and county co-operation
until the central region had a system of splendid roads, unexcelled
in any part of the Union. In 1830 one of the earliest railways in the
United States, that from Lexington to Frankfort, was begun; two years
later seven miles were constructed, and in 1835 the first locomotive and
train of cars ran on it to Frankfort, twenty-seven miles, in two hours
and twenty-nine minutes. The structure was composed of stone sills, in
which grooves were cut to receive the iron bars. These stone blocks can
still be seen along the line of the road, now a part of the Louisville
and Nashville system. In all internal improvements the State was very
energetic. The canal around the Falls of the Ohio at Louisville was
opened in 1831, with some aid from the General Government. The State
expended a great deal in improving the navigation of the Kentucky, the
Green, and other rivers in its borders by an expensive system of locks
and dams; in 1837 it paid $19,500 to engineers engaged in turnpike and
river improvement, and in 1839 $31,075 for the same purpose.

The story of early Kentucky reads like a romance. By 1820 it counted
a population of over 510,000, and still it had scarcely wagon-road
communication with the East. Here was a singular phenomenon, a
prosperous community, as one might say a garden in the wilderness,
separated by natural barriers from the great life of the East, which
pushed out north of it a connected, continuous development; a community
almost self-sustaining, having for his centre the loveliest agricultural
region in the Union, and evolving a unique social state so gracious and
attractive that it was thought necessary to call in the effect of the
blue-grass to explain it, unaided human nature being inadequate, it
was thought, to such a result. Almost from the beginning fine houses
attested the taste and prosperity of the settlers; by 1792 the
blue-grass region was dotted with neat and commodious dwellings, fruit
orchards and gardens, sugar groves, and clusters of villages; while,
a little later, rose, in the midst of broad plantations and park-like
forests, lands luxuriant with wheat and clover and corn and hemp and
tobacco, the manorial dwellings of the colonial period, like the stately
homes planted by the Holland Land Company along the Hudson and the
Mohawk and in the fair Genesee, like the pillared structures on the
James and the Staunton, and like the solid square mansions of old New
England. A type of some of them stands in Frankfort now, a house which
was planned by Thomas Jefferson and built in 1796, spacious, permanent,
elegant in the low relief of its chaste ornamentation. For comfort, for
the purposes of hospitality, for the quiet and rest of the mind,
there is still nothing so good as the colonial house, with the slight
modifications required by our changed conditions.

From 1820 onward the State grew by a natural increment of population,
but without much aid from native or foreign emigration. In 1860 its
population was only about 919,000 whites, with some 225,000 slaves and
over 10,000 free colored persons. It had no city of the first class, nor
any villages specially thriving. Louisville numbered only about 68,000,
Lexington less than 15,000, and Frankfort, the capital, a little over
5000. It retained the lead in hemp and a leading position in tobacco;
but it had fallen away behind its much younger rivals in manufactures
and the building of railways, and only feeble efforts had been made in
the development of its extraordinary mineral resources.

How is this arrest of development accounted for? I know that a short
way of accounting for it has been the presence of slavery. I would not
underestimate this. Free labor would not go where it had to compete with
slave labor; white labor now does not like to come into relations with
black labor; and capital also was shy of investment in a State where
both political economy and social life were disturbed by a color line.
But this does not wholly account for the position of Kentucky as to
development at the close of the war. So attractive is the State in most
respects, in climate, soil, and the possibilities of great wealth by
manufactures, that I doubt not the State would have been forced into the
line of Western progress and slavery become an unimportant factor long
ago, but for certain natural obstacles and artificial influences.

Let the reader look on the map, at the ranges of mountains running from
the north-east to the southwest—the Blue Ridge, the Alleghanies, the
Cumberland, and Pine mountains, continuous rocky ridges, with scarcely a
water gap, and only at long intervals a passable mountain gap—and notice
how these would both hinder and deflect the tide of emigration. With
such barriers the early development of Kentucky becomes ten times a
wonder. But about 1825 an event occurred that placed her at a greater
disadvantage in the competition. The Erie Canal was opened. This made
New York, and not Virginia, the great commercial highway. The railway
development followed. It was easy to build roads north of Kentucky, and
the tide of settlement followed the roads, which were mostly aided
by land grants; and in order to utilize the land grants the railways
stimulated emigration by extensive advertising. Capital and population
passed Kentucky by on the north. To the south somewhat similar
conditions prevailed. Comparatively cheap roads could be built along
the eastern slope of the Alleghanies, following the great valley from
Pennsylvania to Alabama; and these south-westwardly roads were also
aided by the General Government. The North and South Railway of Alabama,
and the Alabama and Great Southern, which cross at Birmingham, were
land-grant roads. The roads which left the Atlantic seaboard passed
naturally northward and southward of Kentucky, and left an immense area
in the centre of the Union—all of western and southwestern Virginia and
eastern Kentucky—without transportation facilities. Until 1880 here was
the largest area east of the Mississippi impenetrated by railways.

The war removed one obstacle to the free movement of men desiring work
and seeking agreeable homes, a movement marked in the great increase
of the industrial population of Louisville and the awakening to varied
industries and trade in western Kentucky. The offer of cheap land,
which would reward skilful farming In agreeable climatic conditions,
has attracted foreign settlers to the plateau south of the blue-grass
region; and scientific investigation has made the mountain district in
the south-east the object of the eager competition of both domestic
and foreign capital. Kentucky, therefore, is entering upon a new era of
development. Two phases of it, the Swiss colonies, and the opening
of the coal, iron, and timber resources, present special points of
interest.

This Incoming of the commercial spirit will change Kentucky for the
better and for the worse, will change even the tone of the blue-grass
country, and perhaps take away something of that charm about which so
much has been written. So thoroughly has this region been set forth by
the pen and the pencil and the lens that I am relieved of the necessity
of describing it. But I must confess that all I had read of it, all
the pictures I had seen, gave me an inadequate idea of its beauty and
richness. So far as I know, there is nothing like it in the world.
Comparison of it with England is often made in the use of the words
“garden” and “park.” The landscape is as unlike the finer parts of Old
England as it is unlike the most carefully tended parts of New England.
It has neither the intense green, the subdivisions in hedges, the bosky
lanes, the picturesque cottages, the niceness of minute garden-culture,
of England, nor the broken, mixed lawn gardening and neglected pastures
and highways, with the sweet wild hills, of the Berkshire region. It
is an open, elevated, rolling land, giving the traveller often the most
extended views over wheat and clover, hemp and tobacco fields, forests
and blue-grass pastures. One may drive for a hundred miles north and
south over the splendid macadam turnpikes, behind blooded roadsters,
at an easy ten-mile gait, and see always the same sight—a smiling
agricultural paradise, with scarcely a foot, in fence corners, by the
road-side, or in low grounds, of uncultivated, uncared-for land. The
open country is more pleasing than the small villages, which have not
the tidiness of the New England small villages; the houses are for the
most part plain; here and there is a negro cabin, or a cluster of them,
apt to be unsightly, but always in view somewhere is a plantation-house,
more or less pretentious, generally old-fashioned and with the colonial
charm. These are frequently off the main thoroughfare, approached by a
private road winding through oaks and ash-trees, seated on some gentle
knoll or slope, maybe with a small flower-garden, but probably with the
old sentimental blooms that smell good and have reminiscences, in the
midst of waving fields of grain, blue-grass pastures, and open forest
glades watered by a dear stream. There seems to be infinite peace in
a house so surrounded. The house may have pillars, probably a colonial
porch and door-way with earving in bass-relief, a wide hall, large
square rooms, low studded, and a general air of comfort. What is new in
it in the way of art, furniture, or bric-à-brac may not be in the best
taste, and may “swear” at the old furniture and the delightful old
portraits. For almost always will be found some portraits of the
post-Revolutionary period, having a traditional and family interest, by
Copley or Jouett, perhaps a Stuart, maybe by some artist who evidently
did not paint for fame, which carry the observer back to the colonial
society in Virginia, Philadelphia, and New York. In a country house and
in Lexington I saw portraits, life-size and miniature, of Rebecca Gratz,
whose loveliness of person and character is still a tender recollection
of persons living. She was a great beauty and toast in her day. It
was at her house in Philadelphia, a centre of wit and gayety, that
Washington Irving and Henry Brevoort and Gulian C. Verplanck often
visited. She shone not less in New York society, and was the most
intimate friend of Matilda Hoffman, who was betrothed to Irving; indeed,
it was in her arms that Matilda died, fadeless always to us as she was
to Irving, in the loveliness of her eighteenth year. The well-founded
tradition is that Irving, on his first visit to Abbotsford, told Scott
of his own loss, and made him acquainted with the beauty and grace of
Rebecca Gratz, and that Scott, wanting at the moment to vindicate a race
that was aspersed, used her as a model for Rebecca in “Ivanhoe.”

One distinction of the blue-grass region is the forests, largely of
gigantic oaks, free of all undergrowth, carpeted with the close-set,
luscious, nutritive blue-grass, which remains green all the season when
it is cropped by feeding. The blue-grass thrives elsewhere, notably in
the upper Shenandoah Valley, where somewhat similar limestone conditions
prevail; but this is its natural habitat. On all this elevated rolling
plateau the limestone is near the surface. This grass blooms towards the
middle of June in a bluish, almost a peacock blue, blossom, which gives
to the fields an exquisite hue. By the end of the month the seed ripens
into a yellowish color, and while the grass is still green and lush
underneath, the surface presents much the appearance of a high New
England pasture in August. When it is ripe, the top is cut for the seed.
The limestone and the blue-grass together determine the agricultural
pre-eminence of the region, and account for the fine breeding of the
horses, the excellence of the cattle, the stature of the men, and the
beauty of the women; but they have social and moral influence also. It
could not well be otherwise, considering the relation of the physical
condition to disposition and character. We should be surprised if a
rich agricultural region, healthful at the same time, where there is
abundance of food, and wholesome cooking is the rule, did not affect the
tone of social life. And I am almost prepared to go further, and
think that blue-grass is a specific for physical beauty and a certain
graciousness of life. I have been told that there is a natural relation
between Presbyterianism and blue-grass, and am pointed to the Shenandoah
and to Kentucky as evidence of it. Perhaps Presbyterians naturally seek
a limestone country. But the relation, if it exists, is too subtle and
the facts are too few to build a theory on. Still, I have no doubt there
is a distinct variety of woman known as the blue-grass girl. A geologist
told me that once when he was footing it over the State with a geologist
from another State, as they approached the blue-grass region from the
southward they were carefully examining the rock formation and studying
the surface indications, which are usually marked on the border line,
to determine exactly where the peculiar limestone formation began.
Indications, however, were wanting. Suddenly my geologist looked up the
road and exclaimed:

“We are in the blue-grass region now.”

“How do you know?” asked the other.

“Why, there is a blue-grass girl.”

There was no mistaking the neat dress, the style, the rounded contours,
the gracious personage. A few steps farther on the geologists found the
outcropping of the blue limestone.

Perhaps the people of this region are trying to live up to the
thorough-bred. A pedigree is a necessity. The horse is of the first
consideration, and either has or gives a sort of social distinction;
first, the running horse, the thorough-bred, and now the trotting horse,
which is beginning to have a recognizable descent, and is on the way to
be a thorough-bred. Many of the finest plantations are horse farms;
one might call them the feature of the country. Horse-raising is here
a science, and as we drive from one estate to another, and note the
careful tillage, the trim fences, the neat stables, the pretty paddocks,
and the houses of the favorites, we see how everything is intended
to contribute to the perfection in refinement of fibre, speed, and
endurance of the noble animal. Even persons who are usually indifferent
to horses cannot but admire these beautiful high-bred creatures, either
the famous ones displayed at the stables, or the colts and fillies,
which have yet their reputations to make, at play in the blue-grass
pastures; and the pleasure one experiences is a refined one in harmony
with the landscape. Usually horse-dealing carries with it a lowering of
the moral tone, which we quite understand when we say of a man that he
is “horsy.” I suppose the truth is that man has degraded the idea of the
horse by his own evil passions, using him to gamble and cheat with.
Now, the visitor will find little of these degrading associations in the
blue-grass region. It is an orthodox and a moral region. The best
and most successful horse-breeders have nothing to do with racing or
betting. The yearly product of their farms is sold at auction, without
reserve or favor. The sole business is the production of the best
animals that science and care can breed. Undeniably where the horse is
of such importance he is much in the thought, and the use of “horsy”
phrases in ordinary conversation shows his effect upon the vocabulary.
The recital of pedigree at the stables, as horse after horse is led out,
sounds a little like a chapter from the Book of Genesis, and naturally
this Biblical formula gets into a conversation about people.

And after the horses there is whiskey. There are many distilleries in
this part of the country, and a great deal of whiskey is made. I am not
defending whiskey, at least any that is less than thirty years old and
has attained a medicinal quality. But I want to express my opinion that
this is as temperate as any region in the United States. There is a
wide-spread strict temperance sentiment, and even prohibition prevails
to a considerable degree. Whiskey is made and stored, and mostly shipped
away; rightly or wrongly, it is regarded as a legitimate business, like
wheatraising, and is conducted by honorable men. I believe this to be
the truth, and that drunkenness does not prevail in the neighborhood of
the distilleries, nor did I see anywhere in the country evidence of a
habit of dram drinking, of the traditional matter-of-course offering of
whiskey as a hospitality. It is true that mint grows in Kentucky,
and that there are persons who would win the respect of a tide-water
Virginian in the concoction of a julep. And no doubt in the mind of
the born Kentuckian there is a rooted belief that if a person needed
a stimulant, the best he can take is old hand-made whiskey. Where the
manufacture of whiskey is the source of so much revenue, and is carried
on with decorum, of course the public sentiment about it differs from
that of a community that makes its money in raising potatoes for starch.
Where the horse is so beautiful, fleet, and profitable, of course
there is intense interest in him, and the general public take a
lively pleasure in the races; but if the reader has been accustomed
to associate this part of Kentucky with horse-racing and drinking as
prominent characteristics, he must revise his opinion.
