assure you the duty of knowing isn't very plea?ant." 
The little tremor in her clear voice struck Eeaton as 
something rather nice. 
"I can very well believe that, Mrs. Mandel," he said, 
with a dreamy sadness in his own. He lifted his eyes, 
and looked into hers. " If I told you that I cared 
nothing about them in the way you intimate ? " 
" Then I should prefer to let you characterise 
your own conduct in continuing to come here for 
the year past, as you have done, and tacitly leading 
them on to infer differently." They both mechani- 
cally kept up the fiction of plurality in speaking of 
Christine, but there was no doubt in the mind of 
either which of the young ladies the o the i- meant. 
A good many thoughts went tlirough Beaton's 
mind, and none of them were flattering. Ho had 
not been unconscious that the part he had played 
towai'd this girl was ignoble, and that it had grown 
meaner as the fancy which her beauty had at first 
kindled in him had grown cooler. He was aware 
that of late he had been amusing himself with her 
passion in a way that was not less than cruel, not 
because he wished to do so, but because he was 
listless and wished nothing. He rose in saying, " I 
might be a little more lenient than you think, Mrs. 
  
Mandc'l ; Init I -won't trouble yoii with any palliating 
theory. I will not come any more." 
He bowed, and Mrs. Mandel said, " Of course, it 's 
only your action that I am concerned with." 
She seemed to him merely triumphant, and ho 
could not conceive what it liad cost her to nerve 
herself up to her too easy victory. He left Mrs. 
Mandel to a far harder lot than had fallen to him, 
and he went away hating her as an enemy who had 
humiliated him at a moment when he particularly 
needed exalting. It was really very simple for him 
to stop going to see Christine ]ryfoos, but it was 
not at all simple for Mrs. Mandel to deal with the 
consequences of his not coming. He only thought 
how lightly she had stopped him, and the poor 
woman whom he had left trembling for what she 
had been obliged to do embodied for him the con- 
science that accused him of unpleasant thing?;. 
" By heavens ! this is piling it up," he said to 
himself through his set teeth, realising how it had 
happened right on top of that stupid insult from 
Mrs. Horn. Now he should have to give up his 
place on Every Other week ; he couhl not heep that, 
under the circumstances, even if some pretence were 
not made to get rid of him ; he must hurry and an- 
ticipate any such pretence ; lie must sec Fulkerson at 
once ; he wondered where he should find him at that 
hour. He thought, with bitterness so real that it gave 
him a kind of tragical satisfaction, how certainly ho 
could find him a little later at Mrs. Leighton's ; and 
Fulkerson's happiness became an added injury. 
The thing had of course come about just at the 
wrong time. There never had been a time when 
Beaton needed money more ; when lie had spent 
what he had and what he expected to have so reck- 
lessly. He was in debt to Fulkerson personally 
and officially for advance payments of salary. The 
thought of sending money home made him break 
into a scoffing laugh, which he turned into a cough 
in order to deceive the passers. What sort of face 
should he go to Fulkerson with and tell him that he 
renounced his employment on Every Other week; 
and what should ]jfi do when he had renounced it ? 
Take pupils, perhaps ; open a class ? A lurid con- 
ception of a class conducted on those principles of 
shameless flattery at which Mrs. Horn had hinted — 
he believed now she had meant to insult him — pre- 
sented itself. Why should not he act upon the sug- 
gestion ? He thought — with loathing for the whole 
race of women-dabblers in art — how easy the thing 
would be : as easy as to turn back now and tell that 
old fool's girl that he loved her, and rake in half his 
millions. Why should not he do that ? No one else 
cared for him ; and at a year's end, probably, one 
woman would be like another as far as the love was 
concerned, and probably he should not be more tired 
if the woman were Christine Dryfoos than if she 
were Margaret Vance. He kept Alma Leighton out 
of the question, because at the bottom of his heart 
he believed that she must be for ever unlike every 
other woman to him. 
The tide of his confused and aimless reverie had 
  
earned him far down-town, he thought; but when 
he looked up from it to see where he was, he found 
himself ou Sixth wenue, only a little below Thirty- 
ninth Street, very hot and blown ; that idiotic fur 
overcoat was stifling. He could not possibly walk 
down to Eleventh ; he did not want to walk even to 
the Elevated station at Thirty-fourth ; he stopped at 
the corner to wait for a surface-car, and fell again 
into his bitter fancies. After a while he roused him- 
self and looked up the track, but there was no car 
coming. He found himself beside a policeman, who 
was lazily swinging his club by its thong from his 
wrist. 
" When do you suppose a car will be along ? " he 
asked, rather in a general sarcasm of the absence of 
the cars than in any special belief that the policeman 
could tell him. 
The i)oliceman waited to discharge his tobacco 
juice into the gutter. " In about a Meek," he said 
nonchalantly. 
"What's the matter?" asked Beaton, wondering 
what the joke could be. 
" Strike," said the policeman. His interest in 
Beaton's ignorance seemed to overcome his conempt 
of it. "Knocked off everywhere this morning except 
Third wenue and one or two cross-town lines." He 
spat again and kept his bulk at its incline over the 
gutter to glance at a group of men on the corner 
below. They were neatly dressed, and looked like 
something better than working men, and they had a 
holiday air of being in their best clothes. 
" Some of the strikers ? " asked Beaton. 
The policeman nodded 
"Any trouble yet?" 
" There won't be any trouble till we begin to 
move the cars," said the policeman. 
Beaton felt a sudden turn of his rage toward the 
men whose action would now force him to walk five 
blocks and mount the stairs of the Elevated station. 
"If you 'd take out eight or ten of those fellows," he 
said ferociously, " and set them up against a wall 
and shoot them you 'd save a great deal of bother." 
" I guess we sha'u't have to shoot much," said the 
policeman, still swinging his locust. " Anyway, we 
sha'u't begin it. If it comes to a fight, though," he 
said, with a look at the men under the scooping rim 
of his helmet, " we can drive the whole six thousand 
of 'em into the East River without pullin' a trigger." 
" Are there six thousand in it ? " 
" About." 
" What do the infernal fools expect to live on ? " 
" The interest of their money, I suppose," said the 
ofEcer, with a grin of satisfaction in his irony. " It's 
got to run its course. Then they 'll come back with 
their heads tied up and their tails between their 
legs, and plead to be taken on again." 
" If I was a manager of the roads," said Beaton, 
thinking of how much he was already inconvenienced 
by the strike, and obscurely connecting it as one of the 
series with the wrongs he had suffered at the hands 
of Mrs. Horn and Mrs. Mandel, " I would see them 
starve before I 'd take them back— every one of  the m." 
  
" "Well," said the policeman impartially, as a man 
might whom the companies allowed to ride free, but 
who had made friends with a good many drivers 
and conductors in the course of his free riding, " I 
guess that 's what the roads avouM like to do if they 
could ; but the men are too many for them, and 
there ain't enough other men to take their places." 
" No matter," said Beaton severely. " They can 
bring in men from other places." 
" Oh, they 'll do that fast enough," said the police- 
man. 
A man came out of the saloon on the corner where 
the strikers were standing, noisy drunk, and they 
began, as they would have said, to have some fun 
with him. The policeman left Beaton, and sauntered 
slowly down toward the group as if in the natural 
course of an afternoon ramble. On the other side 
of the street Beaton could see another officer 
sauntering up from the block below. Looking up 
and down the avenue, so silent of its horse-car 
bells, he saw a policeman at every corner. It was 
rather impressive. 
III. 
The strike made a good deal of talk in the office 
of Every Other JFeeh — that is, it made Fulkerson talk 
a good deal. He congratulated himself that ho was 
not personally incommoded by it, like some of the 
fellows who lived up-town, and had not everything 
under one roof, as it were. He enjoyed the excite- 
ment of it, and he kept the office-boy running out 
to buy the extras which the newsmen came crying 
through the street almost every hour with a 
lamentable, unintelligible noise. He read not only 
the latest intelligence of the strike, but the editorial 
comments on it, which praised the firm attitude of 
both parties, and the admirable measures taken by 
the police to preserve order. Fulkerson enjoyed 
the interviews with the police captains and the 
leaders of the strike ; he equally enjoyed the 
attempts of the reporters to interview the road 
managers, which were so graphically detailed, and 
with such a fine feeling for the right use of scare- 
lieads as to have almost the value of direct expres- 
sions from them, though it seemed that they had 
resolutely refused to speak. He said, at second- 
hand from the papers, that if the men behaved 
  
themselves and rospectcd the riglits of property, 
they "would have i)ubHc sympatliy with them every 
time ; but just as soon as they began to interfere 
with the roads' right to manage their own affairs in 
their own way, they must be put down witli an 
iron hand; the plirase "iron hand "did Fulkerson 
almost as much good as if it liad never been used 
before. News began to come of fighting between 
the police and the strikers when the roads tried to 
move their cars with men imported from Philadelphia, 
and then Fulkerson rejoiced at the splendid courage 
of the police. At the same time he believed what 
the strikers said, and that the trouble was not made 
by them, but by gangs of roughs acting without 
their approval. In this juncture he was relieved 
by the arrival of the State Board of Arbitratioi:, 
which took up its quarters, with a great many scare- 
heads, at one of the principal hotels, and invited the 
roads and the strikers to lay the matter in dispute 
before them ; he said that now we should see the 
working of the greatest piece of social machinery in 
modern times. But it appeared to work only in the 
alacrity of the strikers to submit their grievance. 
The roads were as one road in declaring that there 
was nothing to arbitrate, and that they were merely 
asserting their right to manage their own affairs in 
their own way. One of the presidents was reported 
to have told a member of the Board, who personally 
summoned him, to get out and to go about his 
business. Then, to Fulkerson's extreme disap])oint- 
ment, the august tribunal, acthig on behalf of the 
  
sovereign people in the interest of peace, declared 
itself powerless and got out, and would, no doubt, 
have gone about its business if it liad had any. 
Fulkerson did not know what to say, perhaps 
because the extras did not ; but March laughed at 
this result. 
" It 's a good deal like the military manoeuvre of 
the King of France and his forty thousand men. I 
suppose somebody told him at the top of the hill 
that there was nothing to arbitrate, and to get out 
and go about his business, and that was the reason 
he marched down after he had marched up with all 
that ceremony. What amuses me is to find that in 
an affair of this kind the roads have rights and the 
stvikers have rights, but the public has no rights at 
all. The roads and the strikers are allowed to fight 
out a private war in our midst — as thoroughly and 
precisely a private war as any we despise the Middle 
Ages for having tolerated — as any street war in 
Florence or Verona — and to fight it out at our pains 
and expense, and we stand by like sheep, and wait 
till we get tired. It 's a funny attitude for a city of 
fifteen hundred thousand inhabitants." 
" what would you do ? " asked Fulkerson, a good 
deal daunted by this view of the case. 
"Do? Nothing. Hasn't the State Board of 
Arbitration declared itself powerless ? We have no 
hold upon the strikers ; and we 're so used to being 
snubbed and disobliged by common carriers that we 
have forgotten our hold on the roads, and always 
allow them to manage their own affairs in their own 
  
way, quite as if we liad nothing to do with them, and 
they owed us no services in return for their privi- 
leges." 
"That 's a good deal so," said Fulkerson, disordering 
his hair. " Well, it 's nuts for the colonel nowadays. 
He says if he was boss of this town he would seize 
the roads on behalf of the people, and man 'cm with 
policemen, and run 'em till the managers had come 
to terms with the strikers ; and he 'd do that every 
time there was a strike." 
" Doesn't that rather savour of the paternalism he 
condemned in Lindau ? " asked March. 
"I don't know. It savours of horse-sense." 
" You are pretty far gone, Fulkerson. I thought 
you were the most engaged man I ever saw ; but I 
guess you're more father-in-lawed. And before 
you 're married too." 
" Well, the colonel 's a glorious old fellow, March. 
I wish he had the power to do that thing, just for 
the fun of looking on while he waltzed in. He 's on 
the keen jump from morning till night, and he's up 
late and early to see the row. I 'm afraid he 'll get 
shot at some of the fights ; he sees them all ; I can't 
get any show at them : haven't seen a brickbat 
shied or a club swung yet. Have you ? " 
"No, I find I can philosophise the situation about 
as well from the papers, and that's what I really 
want to do, I suppose. Besides I 'm solemnly 
pledged by Mrs. March not to go near any sort of 
crowd, under penalty of having her bring the children 
and go with me. Her theory is that we must all die 
  
together ; the children haven't been at school since 
the strike began. There 's no precaution that Mrs. 
March hasn't used. She watches me whenever I go 
out, and sees that I start straight for this office." 
Fulkerson laughed and said : "well, it's probably 
the only thing that 's saved your life. Have you 
seen anything of Beaton lately ? " 
" No. You don't mean to say he 's killed ! " 
"Not if he knows it. But I don't know . 
What do you say, March ? what 's the reason 
you couldn't get us up a paper on the strike ? ' 
"I know it would fetch round to Every Other 
Week, somehow." 
"No, but seriously. There'll be plenty of news- 
paper accounts. But you could treat it in the 
historical spirit — like something that happened 
several centuries ago ; De Foe's Plague of London 
style. Heigh ] What made me think of it was 
Beaton. If I could get hold of him, you two could 
go round together and take down its esthetic 
aspects. It 's a big thing, March, this strike is. I 
tell you it 's imposing to have a private war, as you 
say, fought out this way, in the heart of New York, 
and New York not minding it a bit. See ? Might 
take that view of it. With your descriptions and 
Beaton's sketches — well, it would just be the 
greatest card ! Come ! What do you say ? " 
" Will you undertake to make it right with Mrs. 
March if I 'm killed and she and the children are 
not killed with me ? " 
"Well, it would be difficult. I wonder how 
  
it would do to get Kendricks to do the literary 
part ? " 
" I 've no doubt he 'd jump at the chance. I 've 
yet to sec the form of literature that Kendricks 
 wouldn't lay down his life for." 
" Say ! " March perceived that Fulkerson was 
about to vent another inspiration, and smiled 
patiently. " Look here ! What 's the reason we 
couldn't get one of the strikers to write it u) 
for us?" 
" Might have a symposium of strikers and i)resi- 
dents," March suggested. 
" No ; I 'm in earnest. They say some of those 
fellows — especially the foreigners — are educated 
men. I know one fellow — a Bohemian — tliat used 
to edit a Bohemian newspaper here. He could 
write it out in his kind of Dutch, and we could get 
Lindau to translate it." 
"I guess not," said March dryly. 
" Why not ? He 'd do it for the cause, wouldn't 
he ? Suppose you put it up on him, the next time 
you see him." 
"I don't see- Lindau any more," said larch. He 
added, "I guess he 's renounced me along with Mr. 
Pryfoos's money." 
" Pshaw ! You don't mean he hasn't been round 
since ? " 
" He came for a while, but he 's left off coming now. 
I don't feci particularly gay about it," March said, 
with some resentment of Fulkerson's grin. " He 's 
left me in debt to him for lessons to the children." 
  
Fulkcrson laughed out. " Well, he is the greatest 
old fool ! Who 'd 'a' thought he 'd 'a' been in earnest 
with those ' brincibles ' of his ? But I suppose there 
have to be just such cranks ; it takes all kinds to 
make a world." 
" There has to be one such crank, it seems," IMarcli 
partially assented. " One 's enough for me." 
" I reckon this thing is nuts for Lindau, too," said 
Fulkerson. " Why, it must act like a schooner of 
beer on him all the while, to see ' gabidal ' embar- 
rassed like it is by this strike. It must make old 
Lindau feel like he was back behind those barricades 
at Berlin. Well, he 's a splendid old fellow ; pity 
he drinks, as I remarked once before." 
when March left the office he did not go home 
so directly as he came, perhaps because Mrs. March's 
eye was not on him. He was very curious about 
some aspects of the strike, whose importance, as a 
great social convulsion, he felt people did not recog- 
nise ; and with his temperance in everything, he 
found its negative expressions as significant as its 
more violent phases. He had promised his wife 
solemnly that he would keep away from these, and 
he had a natural inclination to keep his promise ; 
he had no wish to be that peaceful sjectator who 
always gets shot when there is any firing on a mob. 
He interested himself in the apparent indifi'erence of 
the mighty city, which kept on about its business as 
tranquilly as if the private -war being fought out in 
its midst were a vague rumour of Indian troubles on 
the frontier j and he realised how there might once 
have been a street feud of forty years in Florence 
viLhout interfering materially with the industry and 
prosperity of the city-. On Broadway there was a 
silence where a jangle and clatter of horse-car bells 
and hoofs had been, but it was not very noticeable ; 
and on the avenues, roofed by the elevated roads, 
this silence of the surface tracks was not noticeable 
at all in the roar of the trains overhead. Some of 
the cross-town cars were beginning to run again ; 
with a policeman on the rear of each ; on the Third 
wenue line, operated by non-union men, who had 
not struck, there were two policemen beside the 
driver of every car, and two beside the conductor, 
to protect them from the strikers. But there were 
no strikers in sight, and on Second wenue they 
stood quietly about in groups on the corners. 
While March watched them at a safe distance, a 
car laden with policemen came down the track, but 
none of the strikers offered to molest it. In their 
simple Sunday best, March thought them very quiet, 
decent-looking people, and he could well believe that 
they had nothing to do with the riotous outbreaks 
in other parts of the city. He could hardly believe 
that there were any such outbreaks ; he began more 
and more to think them mere newspaper exaggera- 
tions in the absence of any disturbance, or the dis- 
position to it, tliat he could sec. He walked on to 
the East River : wenues A, B, and C presented the 
same quiet aspect as Second wenue ; groups of men 
stood on the corners, and now and then a police- 
laden car was brousjht unmolested down the tracks 
  
before them ; they looked at it and talked together, 
and some laughed, but there was no trouble. 
March got a cross-town car, and came back to the 
"West side. A policeman, looking very sleepy and 
tired, lounged on the ilatform. 
" I suppose you 'll be glad when this cruel war 
is over," March suggested, as he got in. 
The officer gave him a surly glance and made him 
no answer. 
His behaviour, from a man born to the joking 
give and take of our life, impressed Marcli. It gave 
him a fine sense of the ferocity which he had read 
of the French troops putting on toward the populace 
just before the coup d'etat ; he began to feel like 
populace ; but he struggled with himself and regained 
his character of philosophical observer. In this 
character he remained in the car and let it carry him 
by the corner where he ought to have got out and 
gone home, and let it keep on with him to one of 
the furthermost tracks westward, where so much of 
the fighting was reported to have taken place. But 
everything on the way was as quiet as on the East 
side. 
Suddenly the car stopped with so quick a turn of 
the brake that he was half thrown from his seat, 
and the policeman jumped down from the platform 
and ran forward. 
IV. 
Dryfoos sat at breakfast tliat morning with Mis. 
Mandel as usual to pour out his coffee. Conrad had 
already gone down-town ; the two girls lay abed 
much later than their father breakfasted, and their 
mother had gradually grown too feeble to come down 
till lunch. Suddenly Christine appeared at the door. 
Her face was white to the edges of her lips, and her 
eyes were blazing. 
" Look here, father ! Have you been saying any- 
thing to Mr. Beaton ? " 
The old man looked up at her across his coffee- 
cup through his frowning brows. "No." 
Mrs. Mandel dropped her eyes, and the spoon 
shook in her hand. 
" Then what 's the reason he don't come here any 
more ? " demanded the girl ; and her glance darted 
from her father to Mrs. Mandel. "Oh, it's yoii, is 
it ? I 'd like to know who told you to meddle in 
other people's business ? " 
" I did," said Dryfoos savagely. " I told her to 
ask him what he wanted here, and-he said he didn't 
want anything, and he stopped coming. That 's all. 
I did it mvself." 
  
" Oh, you did, did you ? " said tiic girl, scarcely 
less insolently than she had spoken to Mrs. Mandel. 
" I should like to know what you did it for ? I 'd 
like to know what made you think I wasn't able to 
take care of myself. I just knew somebody had 
been meddling, but I didn't suppose it was you. I 
can manage my own affairs in my own way, if you 
please, and I 'll thank you after this to leave me to 
myself in what don't concern you." 
"Don't concern me ? You impudent jade!" her 
father began. 
Christine advanced from the doorway toward the 
table ; she had her hands closed upon what seemed 
trinkets, some of which glittered and dangled from 
them. She said, " Will you go to him and tell him 
that this meddlesome minx here had no business to 
say anything about me to him, and you take it all 
back ] " 
" No ! " shouted the old man. " And if " 
" That 's all I want of you ! " the girl shouted in 
her turn. " Here are your presents." "With both 
hands she flung the jewels — pins and rings and ear- 
rings and bracelets — among the breakfast dishes, 
from which some of them sprang to the floor. She 
stood a moment to pull the intaglio ring from the 
finger where Beaton put it a year ago, and dashed 
that at her father's plate. Then she whirled out of 
the room, and they heard her running upstairs. 
The old man n>ade a start toward her, but he fell 
back in his chair before she was gone, and with a 
fierce, grinding movement of his jaws, controlled 
  
himself. " Take — take those things up," he gasped 
to Mrs. Mandel. lie seemed unable to rise again 
from his chair, but when she asked him if he were 
unwell, he said no, with an air of offence, and got 
quickly to his feet. lie mechanically picked up the 
intaglio ring from the table while he stood there, and 
put it on his little finger ; his hand was not much 
bigger than Christine's. " How do you suppose she 
found it out ? " he asked, after a moment. 
" She seems to have merely suspected it," said 
Mrs. Mandel, in a tremor, and with the fright in 
her ej'es which Christine's violence had brought 
there. 
" Well, it don't make any difference. She had to 
know, somehow, and now she knows." He started 
toward the door of the library, as if to go into the 
hall, where his hat and coat always hung. 
" Mr. Dryfoos," pali)itatcd Mrs. Mandel, " I can't 
remain here, after the language your daughter lias 
used to me — I can't let you leave mo — I — I 'm afraid 
of her " 
" Lock yourself up, then," said the old man rudely, 
lie added, from the hall before he went out, " I 
reckon she 'll quiet down now." 
lie took the elevated road. The strike seemed a 
very far-off thing, though the jjaper he bought to 
look up the stock market was full of noisy typo- 
graphy about yesterday's troubles on the surface 
lines. Among the millions in Wall Street there was 
some joking and some swearing, but not much think- 
ing about the six thousand men who had taken such 
  
chances in their attempt to better their condition. 
Dryfoos heard nothing of the strike in the lobby of 
the Stock Exchange, where he spent two or three 
hours watching a favourite stock of his go up and go 
down under the betting. By the time the Exchange 
closed it had risen eight points, and on this and 
some other investments he was five thousand dollars 
richer than ho had been in the morning. But he 
had expected to be richer still, and he was by no 
means satisfied with his luck. All through the 
excitement of his winning and losing had played 
the dull, murderous rage he felt toward the child 
who had defied him, and when the game was over 
and he started home, his rage mounted into a sort 
of frenzy ; he would teach her, he would break her. 
He walked a long way without thinking, and then 
waited for a car. None came, and he hailed a pass- 
ing couple. 
" What has got all the cars ? " he demanded of the 
driver, who jumped down from his box to open the 
door for him and get his direction. 
" Been away ? " asked the driver. " Hasn't been 
any car along for a week. Strike." 
" Oh yes," said Dryfoos. He felt suddenly giddy, 
and he remained staring at the driver after he had 
taken his seat. 
The man asked, " Where to ? " 
Dryfoos could not think of his street or number, 
and he said with uncontrollable fury, "I told you 
once ! Go up to west Eleventh, and drive along 
slow on the south side ; I 'll show you the jlacc." 
  
He could not remember the number of Every Other 
week office, where he suddenly decided to stop before 
he went home. lie wished to see Fidkerson, and 
ask him something about Beaton : whelhcr he had 
been about lately, and whether he had dropped any 
hint of what had happened concerning Christine; 
Dryfoos believed that Fulkerson was in the fellow's 
confidence. 
Tliere was nobody but Conrad in the counting- 
room, whither Dryfoos returned after glancing into 
Fulkerson's empty office. " Where 's Fulkerson ? " 
he asked, sitting down with his hat on. 
" He went out a few moments ago," said Conrad, 
glancing at the clock. " I 'm afraid he isn't coming 
back again to-day, if you wanted to sec him." 
Dryfoos twisted his head sidewise and upward to 
indicate March's room. "That other fellow out, 
too?" 
" He went just before Mr. Fulkerson," answered 
Conrad. 
"Do you generally knock off liere in the middle 
of the afternoon ?" asked the old man. 
"No," said Conrad, as patiently as if his father 
had not been there a score of times, and found the 
whole staff of Evenj Other IFcek at work between four 
and five. "Mr. March, you know, always takes a 
good deal of his work home with him, and I suppose 
Mr. Fulkerson went out so early because there isn't 
much doing to-day. Perhaps it's the strike that 
makes it dull." 
" The strike — yes ! It 's a jiretty jiicce of business 
  
to have everything thrown out because a parcel of 
lazy hounds want a chance to lay off and get drunk." 
Dryfoos seemed to think Conrad would make some 
answer to this, but the young man's mild face merely 
saddened, and he said nothing. " I 've got a coupe 
out there now that I had to take because I couldn't 
get a car. If I had my way I 'd have a lot of those 
vagabonds hung. They're waiting to get the city 
into a snarl, and then rob the houses — pack of dirty, 
worthless whelps. They ought to call out the 
militia, and fire into 'em. Clubbing is too good for 
them." Conrad was still silent, and his father 
sneered, " But I reckon you don't think so." 
" I think the strike is useless," said Conrad. 
"Oh, you do, do you ? Comin' to your senses a 
little. Gettin' tired walkin' so much. I should like 
to know what your gentlemen over there on the East 
side think about the strike, anyway." 
The young fellow dropped his eyes. " I am not 
authorised to speak for them." 
"Oh, indeed! And perhaps you're not author- 
ised to speak for yourself ? " 
" Father, you know we don't agree about these 
things. I 'd rather not talk " 
" But I 'm goin' to make you talk this time ! " 
cried Dryfoos, striking the arm of the chair he sat 
in with the side of his fist. A maddening thought 
of Christine came over him. " As long as you eat 
my bread, you have got to do as I say. I won't 
have my children telling me what I shall do and 
sha'n't do, or take on airs of being holier than me, 
Now, you just speak up ! Do you think tliose 
loafers are right, or don't you ? Come ! " 
Conrad ajjparently judged it best to speak. " I 
think they were very foolish to strike — at this time, 
when the elevated roads can do the work." 
" Oh, at this time, heigh ! And I suppose they 
think over there on the East side that it 'd been wise 
to strike before we got the elevated." Conrad again 
refused to answer, and his father roared, " What do 
you think ? " 
" I think a strike is always bad business. It 's 
war ; but sometimes there don't seem any other 
way for the working men to get justice. They say 
that sometimes strikes do raise the wages, after a 
while." 
" Those lazy devils were paid enough already," 
shrieked the old man. " They got two dollars a 
day. How much do you think they ought to 'a' got ? 
Twenty ? " 
Conrad hesitated, with a beseeching look at his 
father. But he decided to answer. " The men say 
that with partial work, and fines, and other things, 
they get sometimes a dollar, and sometimes ninety 
cents a day." 
" They lie, and you know they lie," said his father, 
rising and coming toward him. " And what do you 
think the iipsliot of itr all will be, after they've 
ruined business for another week, and made people 
hire hacks, and stolen the money of honest men ? 
How is it going to end ? " 
" Tlioy will have to give in." 
  
" Oh, give in, heigh ! And what will you s<iy 
then, I should like to know ? How will you feel about 
it then ?. Speak ! " 
" I shall feel as I do now. I know you don't 
think that way, and I don't blame you — or any- 
body. But if I have got to say how I shall feel, 
why, I shall feel sorry they didn't succeed, for I 
believe they have a righteous cause, though they go 
the wTong way to help themselves." 
His father came close to him, his eyes blazing, his 
teeth set. " Do you dare to say that to me ? " 
"Yes. I can't help it. I pity them; my whole 
heart is with those poor men." 
"You impudent puppy!" shouted the old man. 
He lifted his hand and struck his son in the face. 
Conrad caught his hand with his own left, and while 
the blood began to trickle from a wound that 
Christine's intaglio ring had made in his temple, he 
looked at him with a kind of grieving wonder, and 
said, " Father ! " 
The old man wrenched his fist away, and ran out 
of the house. He remembered his address now, 
and he gave it as he plunged into the coupt. He 
trembled with his evil passion, and glared out of the 
windows at the passers as he drove home ; he only 
saw Conrad's mild grieving, wondering eyes, and the 
blood slowly trickling from the wound in his temple. 
Conrad went to the neat set-bowl in Fulkerson's 
comfortable room, and washed the blood away, and 
kept bathing the wound with the cold water till it 
stopped bleeding. The cut was not deep, and he 
  
thought he would not put anything on it. After a 
 while he locked up the office, and started out, he 
hardly knew where. But he walked on, in the 
direction he had taken, till he found himself in 
Union Square, on the pavement in front of Brentano's. 
It seemed to him that he heard some one calling 
gently to him, " Mr. Dryfoos ! " 
CONKAD looked confusedly around, and the same 
voice said again, "Mr. Dryfoos!" and he saw that 
it was a lady speaking to him from a couple beside 
the cui'bing, and then he saw that it was Miss Vance. 
She smiled when he gave signs of having dis- 
covered her, and came up to the door of Ler carriage. 
" I am so glad to meet you. I have been longing to 
talk to somebody; nobody seems to feel about it 
as I do. Oh, isn't it horrible ? Must they fail ] I 
saw cars running on all the lines as I came across ; 
it made me sick at heart. Trust those brave fellows 
give in ] And everybody seems to hate them so — I 
can't bear it." Her face was estranged with excite- 
ment, and there were traces of tears on it. " You 
must think me almost crazy to stop you in the street 
this way ; but when I caught siglit of you I had to 
speak. I knew you would sympathise — I knew you 
would feel as I do. Oh, how can anybody help 
honouring those poor men for standing by one 
another as they do ? They are risking all they have 
in the world for the sake of justice ! Oh, they are 
true heroes ! They are staking the bread of their 
wives and children on the dreadful chance thev 've 
  
taken ! But no one seems to understand it. No 
one seems to sec that they are wiUing to suffer more 
now that other poor men may suffer less hereafter. 
And those -wretched creatures that are coming in to 
take  the ir places — those traitors " 
" We can't blame them for wanting to earn a 
living, Miss Vance," said Conra<l. 
" No, no ! I don't blame tlicm. Who am I, to do 
such a thing ] It 's ice — people like me, of my class 
— who make the poor betray one another. But this 
dreadful fighting — this hideous paper is full of it ? " 
She held up an extra, crumpled with her nervous 
reading. " Can't something be done to stop it ? 
Don't you think that if some one went among them, 
and tried to make them see how perfectly hopeless 
it was to resist the companies, and drive off the new 
men, he might do some good ? I have wanted to 
go and try ; but I am a woman, and I mustn't ! I 
shouldn't be afraid of the strikers, but I'm afraid 
of what people would say ! " Conrad kept pressing 
his handkerchief to the cut in his temple, which he 
thought might be bleeding, and now she noticed 
this. "Are you liurt, Mr. Dryfoos ? You look so 
pale." 
" No, it 's nothing — a little scratch I 've got." 
"Indeed you look pale. Have you a carriage? 
How will you get home ? Will you get in here with 
me, and let me drive you. " 
" No, no," said Conrad, smiling at her excitement. 
" I 'm perfectly well " 
"And you don't think I'm foolish and wicked for 
  
stopping you here, and talking in this way ? But 
I know you feel as I do ! " 
" Yes, I feel as you do. You are right — right in 
every way — I mustn't keep you — Good-bye." He 
stepped back to bow, but she put her beautiful hand 
out of the window, and when he took it she wrung 
his hand hard. 
"Thank you, thank you ! You are good and you 
are just ! But no one can do anything. It's useless ! " 
The type of irreproachable coachman on the box 
whose respectability had suffered through the 
strange behaviour of his mistress in this inter- 
view, drove quickly off at her signal, and Conrad 
stood a moment looking after the carriage. His 
heart was full of joy ; it leaped ; he thought it 
would burst. As he turned to walk away it 
seemed to him as if he mounted upon the air. The 
trust she had shown him, the praise she had given 
him ; that crush of the hand : he hoped nothing, he 
formed no idea from it, but it all filled him with 
love that cast out the pain and shame he had been 
suffering. He believed that he could never be un- 
happy any more ; the hardness that was in his mind 
toward his father went out of it ; he saw how sorely 
he had tried him ; he grieved that he had done it, 
but the means, the difference of his feeling about the 
cause of their quarrel, he was solemnly glad of that 
since she shared it. He was only sorry for his father. 
"Poor father ! " he said under his breath as he went 
along. He explained to her about his father in his 
reverie, and she pitied his father too. 
  
He was valldiig over toward the West side, aim- 
lessly at first, and then at times with the longing to 
do something to save those mistaken men from 
themselves forming itself into a purpose. "Was not 
that what she meant, when she bewailed her woman's 
helplessness ? She must have wished him to try, 
if he, being a man, could not do something ; or if 
she did not, still he would try, and if she heard of 
it, she would recall what she had said, and would 
be glad he had understood her so. Thinking of 
her pleasure in what he was going to do, he forgot 
almost what it was ; but when he came to a street- 
car track he remembered it, and looked up and 
down to see if there were any turbulent gathering 
of men, whom he might mingle with and help to 
keep from violence. He saw none anywhere ; and 
then suddenly, as if at the same moment, for in his 
exalted mood all events had a dreamdikc simul- 
taneity, he stood at the corner of an avenue, and in 
the middle of it, a little way off, was a street-car, 
and around the car a tumult of shouting, cursing, 
struggling men. The driver was lashing his horses 
forward, and a policeman was at their heads, with 
the conductor, pulling them ; stones, clubs, brick- 
bats hailed upon the car, the horses, the men 
trying to move them. The mob closed upon 
them in a body, and then a patrol-wagon whirled 
up from the other side, and a squad of policemen 
leaped out, and began to club the rioters. Conrad 
could see how they struck them under the rims of 
their hats ; the blows on their skulls sounded as if 
  
they had fallen on stone ; the rioters ran in all 
directions. 
One of the officers rushed up toward the corner 
"vvhere Conrad stood, and then he saw at his side a 
tall old man with a long white beard. He was call- 
ing out at the policeman : " Ah yes ! Glup the 
strikerss — gif it to them ! Why don't you co and 
glup the bresidents that insoalt your lawss, and gick 
your Boart of Arpidration out-of-toors ? Glup the 
strikerss — they cot no friendts ! They cot no money 
to pribe you, to dreat you ! " 
The officer lifted his club, and the old man threw 
his left arm up to shield his head. Conrad recog- 
nised Lindau, and now he saw the empty sleeve 
dangle in the air, over the stump of his wrist. He 
heard a shot in that turmoil beside the car, and 
something seemed to strike him in the breast. He 
was going to say to the policeman, " Don't strike 
him ! He's an old soldier ! You see he has no 
hand !" but he could not speak, he could not move 
his tongue. The policeman stood there ; he saw his 
face : it was not bad, not cruel ; it was like the face 
of a statue, fixed, perdurable ; a mere image of irre- 
sponsible and involuntary authority. Then Conrad 
fell forward, pierced through the heart by that shot 
fired from the car. 
March heard the shot as he scrambled out of his 
car, and at the same moment he saw Lindau drop 
under the club of the policeman, who left him where 
he fell, and joined the rest of the squad in pursuing 
the rioters. The fisrhting round the car in the 
  
avenue ceased ; the driver whipped his horses into a 
gallop, and the place was left empty. 
March would have liked to run ; he thought how 
his wife had implored him to keep away from the 
rioting; but he could not have left Lindau lying 
there if he would. Something stronger than his 
will drew him to the spot, and there he saw Conrad 
dead beside the old man. 
VL 
In the cares which Mrs, March shared with her 
husband that night she was supported partly by 
principle, but mainly by the potent excitement 
which bewildered Conrad's family and took all 
reality from what had happened. It was nearly 
midnight when the Marches left them and walked 
away toward the elevated station with Fulkerson. 
Everything had been done, by tliat time, that could 
be done ; and Fulkerson was not without that satis- 
faction in the business-like despatch of all the details 
which attends each step in such an affair, and helps 
to make death tolerable even to the most sorely 
stricken. We are creatures of the moment ; we 
live from one little space to another ; and only one 
interest at a time fills these. Fulkerson was cheerful 
when they got into the street, almost gay ; and Mrs. 
March experienced a rebound from her depression 
which she felt that she ought not to have experienced. 
But she condoned the offence a little in herself, because 
her husband remained so constant in his gravity ; and 
pending the final accounting he must make her for 
having been where he could be of so much use from 
the first instant of the calamity, she was tenderly, 
  
gratefully proud of all the use he had been to Conrad's 
family, and especially his miserable old father. To 
her mind March was the principal actor in the whole 
affair, and much more important in having seen it 
than those who had suffered in it. In fact, he had 
suffered incomparably. 
'•'Well, well," said Fulkerson. "They'll get 
along now. We 've done all tee could, and there 's 
nothing left but for them to bear it. Of course it 's 
awful, but I guess it 'll come out all right. I mean," 
he added, " they 'll pull through now." 
"I suppose," said March, "that nothing is put 
on us that we can't bear. But I should think," 
he went on musingly, "that when God sees what 
we poor finite creatures can bear, hemmed round 
with this eternal darkness of death, He must respect 
ns." 
" Basil ! " said his wife. But in her heart she 
drew nearer to him for the words she thought she 
ought to rebuke him for. 
" Oh, I know," he said, " we school ourselves to 
despise human nature. But God did not make us 
despicable, and I say whatever end He meant us 
for. He must have some such thrill of joy in our 
adequacy to fate as a father feels when his son 
shows himself a man. When I think what we can 
be if we must, I can't believe the least of us shall 
finally perish." 
"Oh, I reckon the Almighty won't scoop any of 
us," said Fulkerson, with a piety of his own. 
" That poor boy's father ! " sighed Mrs. Man'n. 
  
" I can't get his face out of my sight. He looked so 
much worse than death." 
" Oh, death doesn't look bad," said March. " It 's 
life that looks so in its presence. Death is peace 
and pardon. I only wish poor old Lindau was as 
well out of it as Conrad there." 
"Ah, Lindau ! He has done harm enough," said 
Mrs. March. " I hope he will be careful after this." 
March did not try to defend Lindau against her 
 the ory of the case, which inexorably held him re- 
sponsible for Conrad's death. 
" Lindau 's going to come out all right, I guess," 
said Fulkerson. " He was first-rate when I saw him 
at the hospital to-night." He whispered in March's 
env, at a chance he got in mounting the station 
stairs : " I didn't like to tell you there at the house, 
but I guess you 'd better know. They had to take 
Lindau's arm off near the shoulder. Smashed all to 
pieces by the clubbing." 
In the house, vainly rich and foolishly unfit for 
them, the bereaved family whom the Marches had 
just left lingered together, and tried to get strength 
to part for the night. They were all spent with the 
fatigue that comes from heaven to such misery as 
theirs, and they sat in a torpor in which each waited 
for the other to move, to speak. 
Christine moved, and Mela spoke. Christine rose 
and went out of the room without saying a word, 
and they heard her going upstairs. Then Mela said, 
" I reckon the rest of us better be goun' too, father. 
Here, let 's git mother started." 
She put her arm round licr mother, to lift her 
from her chair, but the old mau did not stir, and 
Mela called Mrs. Mandel from the next room. Be- 
tween them they raised her to her feet. 
"Ain't there anybody a-goin' to set up with it V 
she asked, in her hoarse pipe. " It appears like folks 
hain't got any fcelin's in New York. "Woon't some 
o' the neighbours come and offer to set up, without 
waitin' to be asked V 
" Oh, that 's all right, mother. The men 'll attend 
to that. Don't you bother any," Mela coaxed, and 
she kept her arm round her mother, with tender 
patience. 
" Why, Mely, child ! I can't feel right to have it 
left to hirelin's, so. But there ain't anybody any 
more to see things done as they ought. If Coonrod 
was on'y here " 
"Well, mother, you are pretty mixed!" said 
Mela, with a strong tendency to break into her large 
guffaw. But she checked herself and said, "I know 
just how you feel, though. It keeps a-comun' and 
a-goun' ; and it 's so and it ain't so, all at once ; 
that's the plagiie of it. Well, father! Ain't you 
goun' to come ? ' 
" I 'm goin' to stay, Mela," said the old man gently, 
without moving. "Get your mother to bed, that's 
a good girk" 
"You goin' to set up with him, Jacob ? " asked the 
old woman. 
" Yes, 'Liz'beth, I 'll set up. You go to bed." 
" well, I will, Jacob. And I believe it 'll do you 
  
good to set up. I wished I could set up with you ; 
but I don't seem to have the stren'th I did when the 
twins died. I must git my sleep, so 's to I don't 
like very well to have you broke of your rest, Jacob, 
but there don't appear to be anybody else. You 
wouldn't have to do it if Coonrod was here. There 
I go ag'in ! Mercy ! mercy ! " 
"Well, do come along, then, mother, ' said Mela; 
and she got her out of the room, with Mrs. Mandel's 
help, and up the stairs. 
From the top the old woman called down : " You 
tell Coonrod " She stopped, and he heard her 
groan out, "My Lord ! my Lord !" 
He sat, one silence in the dining-room, where they 
had all lingered together, and in the lil>rary beyond 
the hireling watcher sat, another silence. The time 
