philosophy?

Where the gold-stuffs parted on the wall opposite the pillars, a mirror,
ivory-framed, reached from floor to ceiling. Hermia rose and walked a
few steps toward the glass without daring to raise her eyes. Then with a
little cry she ran to the lamps and turned them out. She flung off her
clothes, threw the lace thing she called her night-gown over her head,
and jumped into bed. She pulled the covers over her face, and for ten
minutes lay and reviled herself. Then, with an impatient and audible
exclamation at her cowardice, she got up and lit every lamp in the room.

She walked over to the mirror and looked long at herself, fearfully at
first, then gravely, at last smilingly. She was beautiful, because she
was unique. Her victory was the more assured because her beauty would be
the subject of many a dispute. She had not the delicate features and
conventional coloring that women admire, but a certain stormy, reckless
originality which would appeal swiftly and directly to variety-loving
man. Her eyes, clear and brilliant as they had once been dull and cold,
were deep and green as the sea. Her hair, which lay in a wiry cloud
about her head and swept her brows, was a shining mass of brazen
threads. Her complexion had acquired the clear tint of ivory and was
stained with the rich hue of health. The very expression of her face had
changed; the hard, dogged, indifferent look had fled. With hope and
health and wishes gratified had come the lifting and banishment of the
old mask—that crystallization of her spirit’s discontent. Yes, she was
a beautiful woman. She might not have a correct profile or a soft
roundness of face, but she was a beautiful woman.

She pinched her cheek; it was firm and elastic. She put her hands about
her throat; it rose from its lace nest, round and polished as an ivory
pillar. She slipped the night-gown from her shoulders; the line of the
back of her head and neck was beautiful to see, and a crisp, waved
strand of shorter hair that had fallen from its place looked like a
piece of gold filigree on an Indian vase. Her shoulders did not slope,
but they might have been covered with thickest satin. She raised one arm
and curved it slowly, then let it hang straight at her side. She must
always have had a well-shaped arm, for it tapered from shoulder to
wrist; but health and care alone could give the transparent brilliancy
and flawless surface.

Hermia gazed long at herself. She swayed her beautiful body until it
looked like a reed in an Indian swamp, blown by a midnight breeze. It
was as lithe and limber as young bamboo. She drew the pins from her
hair. It fell about her like a million infinitesimal tongues of living
flame, and through them her green eyes shone and her white skin gleamed.

Tossing her hair back she sprang forward and kissed her reflection in
the glass, a long, greeting, grateful kiss, and her eyes blazed with
passionate rapture. Then she slowly raised her arms above her head,
every pulse throbbing with delicious exultation, every nerve leaping
with triumph and hope, every artery a river of tumultuous, victorious,
springing life.

                 




                              CHAPTER IX.


                              HELEN SIMMS.

A year later Hermia was sitting by her library fire one afternoon when
the butler threw back the tapestry that hung over the door and announced
Helen Simms. Hermia rose to greet her visitor with an exclamation of
pleasure that had in it an accent of relief. She had adopted Helen Simms
as the friend of her new self; as yet, but one knew the old Hermia.
Helen was so essentially modern and practical that restless longings and
romantic imaginings fled at her approach.

Miss Simms, as she entered the room, her cheeks flushed by the wind, and
a snow-flake on her turban, was a charming specimen of her kind. She had
a tall, trim, slender figure, clad in sleek cloth, and carried with
soldierly uprightness. Her small head was loftily and unaffectedly
poised, her brown hair was drawn up under her quiet little hat with
smoothness and precision, and a light, severe fluff adorned her
forehead. She had no beauty, but she had the clean, clear, smooth,
red-and-ivory complexion of the New York girl, and her teeth were
perfect. She looked like a thoroughbred, splendidly-groomed young
greyhound, and was a glowing sample of the virtues of exercise,
luxurious living, and the refinement of two or three generations.

“What do you mean by moping here all by yourself?” she exclaimed, with a
swift smile which gave a momentary flash of teeth. “You were to have met
me at Madame Lefarge’s, to have tried on your new gown. I waited for you
a half-hour, and in a beastly cold room at that.”

“I beg your pardon,” replied Hermia, with sudden contrition, “but I
forgot all about it—I may as well tell the bald truth. But I am glad to
see you. I am blue.”

Helen took an upright chair opposite Hermia’s, and lightly leaned upon
her umbrella as if it were a staff. “I should think you would be blue in
this ‘gray ancestral room,’” she said. “It looks as if unnumbered state
conspiracies and intrigues against unhappy Duncans had been concocted in
it. I do not deny that it is all very charming, but I never come into it
without a shiver and a side-glance at the dark corners.”

She looked about her with a smile which had little fear in it.

“These stern gray walls and that vaulted ceiling carry you out of Second
Avenue, I admit; and those stained-glass windows and all that tapestry
and antique furniture waft me back to the days of my struggles with
somebody or other’s history of England. But, Hermia mia, I think it
would be good for you to have a modern drawing-room in your house, and
to sit in it occasionally. It is this semblance of past romance which
makes you discontented with the world as you find it.”

Hermia gave a sigh. “I know,” she said, “but I can’t help it. I am tired
of everything. I dread the thought of another winter exactly like last.
The same men, same receptions, same compliments, same everything.”

“My dear, you are blasé. I have been expecting it. It follows on the
heels of the first season, as delicate eyes follow scarlet fever. The
eyes get well, and so will you. Five years from now you will not be as
blasé as you are this moment. Look at me. I have been out four years. I
was blasé three years ago, but to-day I could not live without society
and its thousand little excitements. See what you have to look forward
to!”

Hermia smiled. “You certainly are a shining example of patience and
fortitude, but I fear you have something in you which I lack. I shall
grow more and more bored and discontented. Three years of this would
kill me. I wish I could go to Europe, but Aunt Frances cannot go yet,
and I don’t care to go alone the first time, for I want to see the
society of the different capitals. After that I shall go to Europe by
myself. But in the mean time what am I to do?”

“Have a desperate flirtation; I mean, of course, a prolonged one. Heaven
knows you are the most fearful flirt in New York—while it lasts. Only
it never lasts more than a week and a day.”

“I am not a flirt,” said Hermia. “I have not the first essential of a
flirt—patience. I have been simply trying with all my might to fall in
love. And I cannot have a prolonged flirtation with a man who
disappoints me.”

“My dear, as a veteran, let me advise you. So long as you keep up this
hunt for the ideal you will be bored by everything and everybody in
actual life. All this sentiment and romance and imagination of yours are
very charming, and when I recall the occasions wherein you have kept me
awake until two in the morning, I forgive you, because I found you quite
as entertaining as a novel. But it is only spoiling you for the real
pleasures of life. You must be more philosophical. If you can’t find
your ideal, make up your mind to be satisfied with the best you can get.
There are dozens of charming men in New York, and you meet them every
week. They may not be romantic, they may look better in evening clothes
than in a tin hat and leather legs, but they are quite too fascinating
for all that. Just put your imagination to some practical use, and fancy
yourself in love with one of them for a month. After that it will be
quite easy.”

“I can’t!” exclaimed Hermia emphatically, as she turned to pour out the
tea the butler had brought in. “I get everything they know out of them
in three interviews, and then we’ve nothing left to talk about.”

Helen removed her glove from her white hand with its flashing rings,
and, changing her seat to one nearer the table, took up a thin slice of
bread-and-butter. “Is it five o’clock already?” she said, “I must run. I
have a dinner to-night, the opera, and two balls.” She nibbled her bread
and sipped her tea as if the resolution to run had satisfied her
conscience. “Shall I have the pleasure of seeing you have twice as many
partners as myself?”

“No; I am not going out to-night. You know I draw the line at three
times a week, and I have already touched the limit.”

“Quite right. You will be beautiful as long as you live. Between Miss
Newton, three nights’ sleep a week, and a large waist, you will be
quoted to your grandchildren as a nineteenth-century Ninon de l’Enclos.
But, to return to the truffles we were discussing before the tea came
in—another trouble is that you are too appallingly clever for the
‘infants.’ Why do you not go into the literary set and find an author?
All I have ever known are fearful bores, but they might suit you.” She
put down her tea-cup. “I have it!” she exclaimed; “Ogden Cryder has just
come back from Europe, and I am positive that he is the man you have
been waiting for. You must meet him. I met him two or three years ago,
and really, for a literary man, he was quite charming. Awfully
good-looking, too.”

“He is one of the dialect fiends, is he not?” asked Hermia, languidly.
“It is rather awkward meeting an author whose books you haven’t read,
and I simply cannot read dialect.”

“Oh! get one or two and skim them. The thread of the story is all you
want; then you can discuss the heroine with him, and insist that she
ought to have done the thing he did not make her do. That will flatter
him and give you a subject to start off with. An author scares me to
death, and, upon the rare occasions when I meet one, I always fly at him
with some reproach about the cruel way in which he treated the heroine,
or ask him breathlessly to please tell me whether she and the hero are
ever going to get out of their difficulties or are to remain planté là
for the rest of their lives. This works off the embarrassment, you see,
and after that we talk about Mrs. Blank’s best young man.”

Hermia smiled. It was difficult to imagine Miss Simms frightened,
breathless, or embarrassed. She looked as if emotion had not stirred her
since the days when she had shrieked in baby wrath because she could not
get her chubby toes into her toothless mouth.

“Ogden Cryder might at least have something to talk about,” Hermia
answered. “Perhaps it would be worth while.”

“It would, my dear. I am convinced that he is the man, and I know where
you can meet him. Papa has tickets for the next meeting of the Club of
Free Discussion, and I will tell him to take you. He knows Mr. Cryder,
and shall have strict orders to introduce you. What is more, you will
have the pleasure of hearing the lion roar for an hour before you meet
him. He is to give the lecture of the evening.”

“Well,” said Hermia, “I shall be glad to go, if your father will be good
enough to take me. Which of Cryder’s books shall I read up?”

“‘Cornfield Yarns’ and ‘How Uncle Zebediah sowed dat Cotton Field’ are
the ones everybody talks about most. Some of the yarns are quite sweet,
and the papers say—I always read the criticisms, they give the outline
of the plot, and it saves an awful lot of trouble—that Uncle Zebediah
is the most superb African of modern fiction. Uncle Tom has hidden his
diminished head. ‘Unc. Zeb.,’ as he is familiarly called, rolls forth an
amount of dialect to the square inch which none but a Cryder could
manipulate. It is awful work pulling through it, but we all have to work
for success in this life.”

She drew on her long, loose, tan-colored glove, pushed her bangles over
it, then carefully tucked the top under her cuff. “Well, addio, Hermia
mia,” she said, rising; “I will send you a note to-morrow morning and
let you know if anything can possibly happen to prevent papa going on
Wednesday evening. In the mean time, make up your mind to be vanquished
by Ogden Cryder. He really is enchanting.”

                 




                               CHAPTER X.


                      A MENTAL PHOTOGRAPH GALLERY.

After Helen left, Hermia went up to her room. There she did what she
never failed to do the moment she entered her bedroom—walked over to
the glass and looked at herself. She had not even yet got used to the
idea of her beauty, and sometimes approached the mirror with dread lest
her new self should prove a dream. She saw nothing to alarm her. A
year’s dissipation had not impaired her looks. Excitement and good
living agreed with her, and Miss Newton tyrannized over her like the
hygienic duenna that she was.

She sank down on the floor before the long glass, resting her elbow on a
cushion. Her crouching attitude reminded her of the women whose lines
had fallen in days of barbaric splendor. It is not to be supposed for a
moment that this effect was accidental. Hermia had determined, before
she burst upon New York, that her peculiar individuality should be the
suggestion of the untrammeled barbarian held in straining leash by the
requirements of civilization. Her green eyes and tawny hair were the
first requisites, and she managed her pliant body with a lithe grace
which completed the semblance.

She wore to-day a tea-gown of Louis XIV. brocade and lace, and she
watched herself with an amused smile. A year and a half ago her wardrobe
had consisted of coarse serges and gingham aprons.

She put her head on the cushion, nestled her body into the feather rug,
and in a vague, indolent way let her memory rove through the little
photograph gallery in her brain set apart for the accumulations of the
past twelve months. There were a great many photographs in that gallery,
and their shapes and dimensions were as diverse as their subjects. Some
were so large that they swept from floor to ceiling, although their
surface might reflect but one impression; others were too small to catch
the eye of the casual observer, and the imprint on them was like one
touch of a water-colorist’s brush. Many pasteboards of medium size were
there whose surfaces were crowded like an ant-hill at sundown; and
pushed into corners or lying under a dust-heap were negatives,
undeveloped and fading. At one end of the gallery was a great square
plate, and on it there was no impression of any sort, nor ever had been.

Hermia pushed up her loose sleeve and pressed her face into the warm
bend of her arm. On the whole, the past year had been almost
satisfactory. A clever brain, an iron will, and a million dollars can do
much, and that much Hermia’s combined gifts had accomplished.

She opened the windows of her photograph gallery and dusted out the
cobwebs, then, beginning at the top, sauntered slowly down. She looked
at her first appearance in the world of fashion. It is after the
completion of her winter’s wardrobe by a bevy of famous tailors, and she
wears a gown of light-gray cloth and a tiny bonnet of silvery birds. The
début is in St. Mark’s; and as she walks up the center aisle to the
Suydam pew, her form as straight as a young sapling, her head haughtily
yet nonchalantly poised, every curve of her glove-fitting gown
proclaiming the hand that cut it, Second Avenue catches its breath,
raises its eyebrows, and exchanges glances of well-bred, aristocratic
surprise. Late that week it calls, and this time is not repulsed, but
goes away enchanted. It does not take long for the unseen town crier to
flit from Second Avenue to Fifth, and one day his budget of news sends a
ripple over the central stream. John Suydam’s heiress, a beautiful girl
of twenty, with a style all her own, yet not violating a law of good
form! The old red-brick house transformed into an enchanted palace, with
a remarkably wide-awake princess, and a sacrifice to modern proprieties
in the shape of a New England aunt! How unusual and romantic! yet all as
it should be. We begin to remember poor Crosby Suydam and his charming
young wife. We recall the magnificence of their entertainments in the
house on lower Fifth Avenue—now resplendent with a milliner’s sign.
Both dead? How sad! And to think that John Suydam had a million all the
time! The old wretch! But how enchanting that he had the decency to
leave it to this beautiful girl! We will call.

They do call; and a distant relative of Hermia’s father, Mrs. Cotton
Dykman, comes forward with stately tread and gracious welcome and offers
her services as social sponsor. Hermia accepts the offer with gratitude,
and places her brougham at Mrs. Dykman’s disposal.

Mrs. Dykman is a widow approaching fifty, with lagging steps yet haughty
mien. Her husband omitted to leave her more than a competence; but she
lives in Washington Square in a house which was her husband’s
grandfather’s, and holds her head so high and wears so much old lace and
so many family diamonds (which she hid in the wall during the late
Cotton’s lifetime) that the Four Hundred have long since got into the
habit of forgetting her bank account. To her alone does Hermia confide
the secret of her past external self and the methods of reconstruction,
and Mrs. Dykman respects her ever after.

In a photograph near the head of the gallery Hermia and Mrs. Dykman are
seated by the library fire, and Hermia is discoursing upon a question
which has given her a good deal of thought.

“I want to be a New York society woman to my finger-tips,” she exclaims,
sitting forward in her chair; “that is, I want to be au fait in every
particular. I would not for the world be looked upon as an alien; but at
the same time I want to be a distinctive figure in it. I want to be
aggressively myself. The New York girl is of so marked a type, Aunt
Frances, that you would know one if you met her in a Greek bandit’s
cave. She is unlike anything else on the face of the earth. You cross
the river to Brooklyn, you travel an hour and a half to Philadelphia,
you do not see a woman who faintly resembles her unless she has been
imported direct. The New York girl was never included in the scheme of
creation. When the combined forces of a new civilization and the
seven-leagued stride of democracy made her a necessity, Nature fashioned
a mold differing in shape and tint from all others in her storehouse,
and cast her in it. It is locked up in a chest and kept for her
exclusive use. The mold is made of ivory, and the shape is long and
straight and exceeding slim. There is a slight roundness about the bust,
and a general neatness and trimness which are independent of attire. And
each looks carefully fed and thoroughly groomed. Each has brightness in
her eye and elasticity in her step. And through the cheek of each the
blood flows in exactly the same red current about a little white island.
Now all this is very charming, but then she lacks—just a
little—individuality. And I must have my distinctive personality.
There seems nothing left but to be eccentric. Tell me what line to
take.”

Mrs. Dykman, who has been listening with a slight frown on her brow and
a smile on her lips, replies in her low, measured accents, which a
cataclysm could not accelerate nor sharpen: “My dear, before I answer
your amusing tirade, let me once more endeavor to impress you with the
importance of repose. You may be as beautiful and as original as your
brains and will can make you, but without repose of manner you will be
like an unfinished impressionist daub. Few American women have it unless
they have lived in England; but I want you to take coals to Newcastle
when you make your début in London society.

“In regard to the other question,” she continues, “experience and
observation and thirty years of that treadmill we call society have
taught me a good many things. One of these things is that eccentricity
is the tacit acknowledgment of lack of individuality. A person with
native originality does not feel the necessity of forcing it down
people’s throats. The world finds it out soon enough, and likes it in
spite of its own even pace and sharply defined creeds. That is, always
provided the originality wears a certain conventional garb: if you would
conquer the world, you must blind and humor it by donning its own
portable envelope. Do you understand what I mean, my dear? You must not
startle people by doing eccentric things; you must not get the
reputation of being a poseuse—it is vulgar and tiresome. You must
simply be quietly different from everybody else. There is a fine but
decided line, my dear girl, between eccentricity and individuality, and
you must keep your lorgnette upon it. Otherwise, people will laugh at
you, just as they will be afraid of you if they discover that you are
clever. By the way, you must not forget that last point. The average
American woman is shallow, with an appearance of cleverness. You must be
clever, with an appearance of shallowness. To the ordinary observer the
effect is precisely the same.”

She rises to her feet and adjusts her bonnet. “It is growing late and I
must go. Think over what I have said. You have individuality enough; you
need not fear that people will fail to find it out; and you assuredly do
not look like any one else in New York.”

Hermia stands up and gives Mrs. Dykman’s tournure a little twist. “You
are a jewel, Aunt Frances. What should I do without you?”

Whereupon Mrs. Dykman looks pleased and goes home in Hermia’s brougham.

Hermia is fairly launched in society about the first of January, and
goes “everywhere” until the end of the season. It gets to be somewhat
monotonous toward the end, but, on the whole, she rather likes it. She
is what is called a success; that is to say, she becomes a professional
beauty, and is much written about in the society papers. She receives a
great many flowers, constant and assiduous attention at balls, and her
dancing is much admired. She gets plenty of compliments, and is much
stared upon at the opera and when driving in the park. Her reception
days and evenings are always crowded, and her entertainments—supervised
by Mrs. Dykman and a valuable young man named Richard Winston—are
pronounced without flaw, and receive special mention in the dailies.

And yet—Hermia rubbed her fingers thoughtfully up and down several of
the pictures as if to make their figures clearer—in her heart she did
not deem herself an unqualified success. Men ran after her—but because
she was the fashion, not because they loved her.

During that first winter and the ensuing season at Newport, she had a
great many proposals, but with two or three exceptions she believed them
to have been more or less interested. She did not seem to “take” with
men. This had angered her somewhat; she had expected to conquer the
world, and she did not like obstacles.

She had an odd and voluptuous beauty, she had brain and all the
advantages of unique and charming surroundings, and she flattered men
when she remembered that it was the thing to do. Was it because the men
felt rather than knew that they did not understand her? Or was it
because she did not understand them? She was keenly aware of her lack of
experience, and that her knowledge of men was chiefly derived from
books. And wherein she was right and wherein wrong she could not tell.

She shrugged her shoulders. “I suppose experience will come with time,”
she thought, “and I certainly have not much to wish for—if—only—”

She clasped her hands behind her head and turned her mental eyeglass
upon the unused plate at the head of the gallery.

When the news of her good fortune had come, her heart’s first leap had
been toward the lover who awaited her in the world thrown at her feet.
That lover, that hero of her dream-world, she had not found.
Occasionally she had detected a minor characteristic in some man, and by
it been momentarily attracted. In no case had the characteristic been
supplemented by others; and after a long and eager search she had
resigned herself to the painful probability that ideals belonged to the
realm of the immaterial.

But, if she had sighed farewell to the faithful and much-enduring hero
of her years of adversity, she had by no means relinquished the idea of
loving. Few women had ever tried more determinedly and more persistently
to love, and few had met with less success. She had imagined that in a
world of men a woman’s only problem must be whom to choose. It had not
taken her a year to discover that it is easier to scratch the earth from
its molten heart than to love.

She sprang to her feet and walked up and down the room with swift,
impatient steps. Was she never to be happy? never to know the delights
of love, the warmth of a man’s caress, the sudden, tumultuous bursting
from their underground fastness of the mighty forces within her? Was she
to go through life without living her romance, without knowing the
sweet, keen joy of hidden love? Would she end by marrying a club-room
epigram flavored with absinthe, and settle down to a light or lurid
variation on Bessie’s simple little theme? She laughed aloud. Perhaps it
need not be stated that a year of fashionable life had increased her
contempt for matrimony.

Was Ogden Cryder the man? An author, yet a man of the world; a man of
intellect, yet with fascination and experience of women. It sounded
like! It sounded like! Oh! if he were! He might have flaws. He might be
the polaric opposite of her ideal. Let him! If he had brain and passion,
skill and sympathy, she would love him with every fiber of her being,
and thank him on her knees for compelling her so to do.

                 




                              CHAPTER XI.


                          A TAILOR-MADE FATE.

Helen Simms was a young woman who had cantered gracefully under the
flick of society’s whip since the night of her début. Occasionally she
broke into a trot, and anon into a run. The speedier locomotion took
place on unworn by-paths; when on the broad highway she was a most
sedate representative of her riding-school. At times she had been
known—to a select few—to kick; and the kick had invariably occurred at
the crossing of the highway and the by-path, and just before she had
made up her mind to forsake the road for the hedges.

She had all the virtues of her kind. On Sunday mornings she attended St.
Thomas’s, and after service was over walked home with her favorite
youth, whom she patronizingly spoke of as her “infant.” In the afternoon
she entertained another “infant” or read a French novel. Nor was her
life entirely given over to frivolity. She belonged to the sewing-class
of her church, and like its other members fulfilled her mission as a
quotable example, if she pricked her fingers seldom; and once a week she
attended a Shakespeare “propounding.” She took a great deal of exercise,
skimmed through all the light literature of the day, including the
magazines, and even knew a little science, just enough to make the
occasional clever man she met think her a prodigy as she smiled up into
his face and murmured something about “the great body of force” or a
late experiment in telepathy.

She had a bright way of saying nothing, a cool, shrewd head, and an
endless stock of small-talk. Both sexes approved of her as a clever,
charming, well-regulated young woman—all of which she indisputably was.

Enthusiasm had long since been drilled out of her, but she had for
Hermia an attachment very sincere as far as it went—it may be added
that, if there had been more of Miss Simms, there would have been more
attachment. It is possible that Hermia, without her brilliant position,
would not have attracted the attention of Miss Simms, but it is only
just to Helen to say that the conditions affected her not a whit; she
was quite free from snobbery.

She liked Hermia because she could not understand her—much as she was
influenced by the sea in a storm, or by mountains with lightning darting
about their crests. Whenever she entered Hermia’s presence she always
felt as if the air had become suddenly fresher; and she liked new
sensations. She did not in the least resent the fact that she could not
understand Hermia, that her chosen friend was intellectually a
hemisphere beyond her, and in character infinitely more complex. She was
pleased at her own good taste, and quite generous enough to admire where
she could not emulate.

She was constantly amused at Hermia’s abiding and aggressive desire to
fall in love, but she was by no means unsympathetic. She would have
regarded an emotional tumult in her own being as a bore, but for Hermia
she thought it quite the most appropriate and advisable thing. Once in a
while, in a half-blind way, she came into momentary contact with the
supreme loneliness and craving of Hermia’s nature, and she invariably
responded with a sympathetic throb and a wish that the coming man would
not tarry so long.

She was so glad she had thought of Cryder. She honestly believed him to
be the one man of all men who could make the happiness of her friend;
and she entered the ranks of the Fates with the pleasurable suspicion
that she was the author of Hermia’s infinite good.

She surprised her father, the morning after her last interview with
Hermia, by coming down to breakfast. She was careful to let him finish
his roll to the last crumb and to read his paper to the acrid end. Then
she went over and put her finger-tips under his chin.

He glanced up with a groan. “What do you want now?” he demanded, looking
at her over his eye-glasses. His periodical pettings had made him
cynical.

“Nothing—for myself. Did you not say that some one had sent you tickets
for the next meeting of the Free Discussion?”

“Yes; but you can’t have them to give to some girl who would only go to
show herself, or to some boy whose thimbleful of gray matter would be
addled before the lecture was half over. I am going to hear that lecture
myself.”

“How perfectly enchanting! That is what I wished, yet dared not hope
for. And you are not only going yourself, but you are going to take
Hermia Suydam with you.”

“Oh!” Mr. Simms raised his eyebrows. “I am? Very well. I am sure I have
no objection. Miss Suydam is the finest girl in New York.”

“Of course she is, and she will make a sensation at the club; you will
be the envied of all men. And there is one thing else you are to do. As
soon as the exercises are over I want you to present Ogden Cryder to
her. I have particular reasons for wishing them to meet.”

“What are the reasons?”

“Never mind. You do as you are told, and ask no questions”—this in a
tone which extracted the sting, and was supplemented by a light kiss on
Mr. Simms’ smooth forehead.

“Very well, very well,” said her father, obediently, “she shall meet
him; remind me of it just before I leave. And now I must run. I have a
case in court at ten o’clock.”

He stood up and gave one of his handsome, iron-gray side-whiskers an
absent caress. He was not a particularly good-looking man, but he had a
keen, dark eye, and a square, heavy jaw, in both of which features lay
the secret of his great success in his profession. He was devoted to
Helen, and had allowed her, with only an occasional protest, to bring
him up. He could be brusque and severe in court, but in Helen’s hands he
was a wax ball into which she delighted to poke her dainty fingers.

Helen wrote a note to Hermia, and he took it with him to send by an
unwinged Mercury.

On Friday morning Helen went over to Second Avenue to make sure that her
friend had not changed her mind. She found Hermia in her boudoir, with
one of Cryder’s books in her hand and another on a table beside her.

“What do you think of him?” demanded Miss Simms, somewhat anxiously, as
she adjusted her steel-bound self in a pile of cushions—straight-backed
chairs in this room there were none.

Hermia shrugged her shoulders: “A decorous seasoning of passion; a
clear, delicate gravy of sentiment; a pinch of pathos; a garnish of
analysis; and a solid roast of dialect. Woe is me!—I have read two
whole volumes; and I pray that I may like the author better than his
books. But he is clever; there is no denying that!”

“Oh, horribly clever! What are you going to wear, to-night?”

“That dark-green velvet I showed you the other day.”

“Lovely! And it will match your eyes to a shade. You will look, as
usual, as if you had just stepped out of an old picture. Mr. Cryder will
put you in a book.”

“If he does I shall be a modern picture, not an old one. That man could
not write a tale of fifty years ago.”

“So much the better for you! What you want is to fall in love with a
modern man, and let him teach you that the mediæval was a great animal,
who thought of nothing but what he ate and drank. I do not claim that
the species is extinct; but, at least, in these days we have a choice.”

                 




                              CHAPTER XII.


                      THE CLUB OF FREE DISCUSSION.

Hermia looked at her reflection that evening with a smile. The shadowed
emerald of her velvet gown made her hair glow like vibrant flame. The
color wandered through her cheeks and emptied itself into her lips. Her
eyes were as green as the limpid floor of ocean-hollowed caverns. Across
her ivory-white shoulder swept a curving blue vein, thin as an infant’s
lash, and on the rise of her right breast were three little moles, each
marking the corner of a tiny triangle.

Mr. Simms called for her promptly, and when they arrived at the
club-rooms they strolled about looking at the pictures and the people
until the exercises began. There were many literary and artistic
celebrities present, all of whom looked much like ordinary and well-bred
people; but to Hermia there was a luminous halo about each. It was her
first experience in the literary world, and she felt as if she had
entered the atmosphere of a dream. It was one of her few satisfactory
experiments. She was much stared at; everybody knew her by reputation if
not by sight; and a number of men asked to be presented.

Among them was Mr. Overton, the editor who had published her poem in his
magazine. She changed color as he came up, but his manner at once
assured her that she was not recognized: he would have vindicated his
fraternity, indeed, had he been keen-sighted enough to recognize in this
triumphant, radiant creature the plain, ill-dressed, stooping girl with
whom he had talked for half an hour at the close of a winter’s day two
years before. Hermia, of course, no longer wrote; life offered her too
many other distractions.

Mr. Overton suggested that they should go into the lecture-room and
secure good seats. He found them chairs and took one beside Hermia.

“Ogden Cryder gives the address to-night,” he said, after he had
satisfied Hermia’s curiosity in regard to the names of a half-dozen
people. “Do you like his books?”

“Fairly. Do you?”

Mr. Overton laughed. “That is rather a direct question, considering that
I print one of his stories about every six months.”

“Oh, you might not like them. You might publish them out of tender
regard for the demands of your readers.”

Mr. Overton had a characteristic American face, thin, nervous, shrewd,
pleasant. He gave Hermia a smile of unwonted frankness. “I will confide
to you, Miss Suydam, that such is the case with about two-thirds I
publish. I thank Heaven that I do not have to read a magazine as well as
publish it. I have an associate editor who sits with his finger on the
pulse of the public, and relieves me of much vexation of spirit.”

“But tell me what you think of Mr. Cryder.”

Mr. Overton raised his eyebrows. “He is indisputably the best dialect
writer we have, and he is a charming exponent of surface passions.
Whether he would drown if he plunged below the surface is a question; at
all events he might become improper, and morality pays in this magazine
era. There he is now; no doubt we shall have a delightful address.”

Hermia turned her head quickly, but Cryder had taken a chair at the foot
of the rostrum, and there were many heads between her own and his. A
moment later, however, the president of the club made the preliminary
remarks, and then gave place to Cryder.

Hermia watched him breathlessly as he ascended the steps and stood
beside the table, waiting for the hearty welcome to subside. Was it he
at last? He was certainly good to look at; she had never seen more
charming eyes—clear golden-hazel, half melancholy, wholly intelligent.
His small, well-shaped head was thickly covered with short, soft,
gold-brown hair; the delicate, aristocratic features were as finely cut
as those on an intaglio; and the thin, curved lips were shaded by a
small mustache. His figure, tall, light, graceful, had a certain
vibrating activity even in repose. His hand was white and tapering as
that of a woman, and his auditors were given opportunity to appreciate
it.

The subject of the lecture was “The Dialect Element in American
Fiction,” and Mr. Cryder did it justice in a clear, ringing, musical
voice. He very properly remarked that it was the proud boast of America
that no other country, ancient or modern, could present such an array of
famous dialects, consequently no other country had ever had such
infinite variety in her literature. He would say nothing of the several
hundred dialects as yet awaiting the Columbus-pen of genius; he would
merely speak of those nine already discovered and immortalized—the
Negro, the Yankee, the Southern, the Creole, the Tennessee Mountain, the
Cow-boy, the Bret Harte Miner, the Hoosier, and the Chinese. Each of
these, although springing from one bosom, namely, that of the Great
American People, had as distinct an individuality as if the product of
an isolated planet. Such a feature was unique in the history of any
country or any time. The various patois of the French, the
provincialisms of the English, the barbarisms of the Scotch, the brogue
of the Irish, were but so many bad and inconsequent variations upon an
original theme. Reflect, therefore, upon the immense importance of
photographing and preserving American neologies for the benefit of
posterity! In the course of time would inevitably come the homogeneity
of the human race; the negro, for instance, would pervade every corner
of the civilized earth, and his identity become hopelessly entangled
with that of his equally de-individualized blonde brother. His dialect
would be a forgotten art! Contemporaries would have no knowledge of it
save through the painstaking artists of their ancestors’ time. Reflect,
then, upon the heavy responsibility which lay upon the shoulders of the
author of to-day. Picture what must be the condition of his conscience
at the end of his record if he has failed to do his duty by the negro
dialect! Picture the reproaches of future generations if they should be
left ignorant of the unique vernacular of their grandfathers’ serfs!
(Applause.) He did not lay such stress upon the superior importance of
the negro dialect because he had enrolled himself among its faulty
exponents; he had taken his place in its ranks because of that
superior importance. Nevertheless, he was by no means blind to the
virtues of those other eight delightful strings in the Great National
Instrument. No one enjoyed more than he the liquid and incomprehensible
softness of the Creole, the penetrating, nasonic strength of the Yankee,
the delicious independence of the Hoosier, the pine-sweet, redwood-calm
transcriptions of the prose-laureate of the West. He loved them all, and
he gloried in the literary monument of which they were the separate
stones.

To do Mr. Cryder’s oration justice would be a feat which no modest
novelist would attempt. Those who would read that memorable speech in
its entirety and its purity will find it in the archives of the club, in
the sixth volume of the Sessional Records. After reading brief and pithy
extracts from the nine most famous dialect stories of the day, he sat
down with the applause of approval in his ears.

Hermia turned to Mr. Overton: “He was guying, I suppose,” she said.

Mr. Overton stared. “Certainly not,” he said, severely. “The value of
precisely rendered dialect is incalculable.”

Hermia, quite snubbed, said no more; and in a few moments, Mr. Duncan, a
shrewd, humorous-looking little Scotchman, rose to reply.

“I have nothing whatever to say in contradiction to Mr. Cryder’s remarks
regarding the value of dialect,” he said, looking about with a bland,
deprecating smile. “On the contrary, I have yet another word to add in
its favor. I hold that the value of dialect to the American author has
never yet been estimated. When a story has a lot of dialect, you never
discover that it hasn’t anything else. (Laughter, and a surprised frown
from Cryder.) Furthermore, as America is too young to have an
imagination, the dialect is an admirable and original substitute for
plot and situations.” (Laughter and mutterings; also a scowl from
Cryder.) “Again, there is nothing so difficult as the handling of modern
English: it is a far speedier and easier road to fame to manipulate a
dialect familiar to only an insignificant section of our glorious sixty
millions.” (“Hear, hear!” from a pair of feminine lips, and many
sympathetic glances at Cryder’s flashing eyes.) “Yet again, the common
fault found with our (I wish it understood that I speak always from the
standpoint of the country which I have adopted)—with our writers is
lack of passion. Now, nobody can be expected to be passionate when
groaning in the iron stays of dialect. Dialect is bit and curb to the
emotions, and it is only an American who is sharp enough to perceive the
fact and make the most of it. What is more, pathos sounds much better in
dialect than in cold, bald English, just as impropriety sounds better in
French, and love-making in Spanish. Contrast, for instance, the relative
pathos of such sentences as these—the throbbing sadness of the one, the
harsh bathos of the other: ‘I done lubbed you, Sally!’ ‘I loved you,
Maria.’” (Laughter from one side of the house; ominous silence from the
other.) “Truly, ’tis in the setting the jewel shines. I would like to
say, in conclusion,” he went on, imperturbably, “that Mr. Cryder, in his
enumeration of American neologics has omitted one as important and
distinctive as any in his category, namely, that of fashionable society.
In the virility, the variety, and the amplitude of her slang, America is
England’s most formidable rival.”

He left the platform amidst limited applause, and then Mr. Cryder’s
pent-up wrath burst forth, and he denounced in scathing terms and
stinging epigrams the foreigner who had proved himself incapable of
appreciating one of his country’s most remarkable developments, and
attempted to satirize it from his petty point of view.

The auditors were relieved when the exercises were over and the club’s
disruption postponed, and, betaking themselves to the supper-room,
dismissed both lecture and reply from their minds.

Hermia was standing by one of the tables talking to three or four men,
when Mr. Simms brought up Cryder and introduced him. Cryder looked
absent and somewhat annoyed. He was evidently not in a mood to be
impressed by feminine loveliness. At the end of a few moments Hermia
wisely let him go, although with a renewed sense of the general flatness
of life. At the same time she was somewhat amused, and sensible enough
to know that it could not have been otherwise.

                 




                             CHAPTER XIII.


                             OGDEN CRYDER.

Only the nineteenth century could have evolved Cryder. The infancy of a
democratic civilization produces giants. The giants build hot-houses,
and a flower, delicate, beautiful, exquisitely perfumed, but fragile,
light as bubbles of blown glass, is the result. America is now doing the
best she can with her hot-house flora. She has no great men, but the
flora is wondrous fine. Outside the forcing-houses is a wilderness of
weeds in which lies her future’s hope.

Cryder would have taken the medal at an orchid show. He was light as a
summer breeze, yet as stimulating and fresh. He was daintily humorous,
yet seldom witty enough to excite envy. His conversation was like the
song of a lark, clear, brilliant, trilling, with never a bass note to
disturb the harmony. In a quick, keen, flashing way, he had an exact
knowledge of the salient world. He was artistic to his finger-tips, and
preferred an aquarelle to an oil. He had loved many times and hoped to
love as many more, and his love was always that of an æsthete. For
coarse passions he had a cold contempt. He had broken many roses from
their stems, but more because he thought an herbarium looked better when
filled than because he enjoyed the plucking of the flower. Probably it
is needless to observe that he never drank more than a pint bottle of
champagne, and that he never over-ate.

The day after his address at the club he was walking down the avenue
when he met Helen Simms. He turned back with her, and finished the
afternoon in her drawing-room.

Helen did not give him so much of her time without an object. She cared
little for Cryder, and few of her doings were unprompted by motive; life
was too brief.

“You met Miss Suydam last night, did you not?” she asked, when Cryder
was comfortably established in an easy-chair near the fire.

“Yes, for a moment. I was a little put out by Duncan’s attack on me, and
only stayed for a few words. I needed the solace of a cigarette.”

“I read the account of the affair in this morning’s papers. Mr. Duncan’s
remarks were purely foolish, as he must have realized when he saw them
in print. However, you have the consolation of knowing that after your
reply he will not be likely to attack you again. But I am glad you met
Miss Suydam. She will interest you as a study. She is all the rage at
present. Every other man in town is in love with her.”

Cryder turned to her with some interest in his eyes. “Is she so very
fascinating? She is certainly handsome—yes—stylishly handsome.”

“Oh, she is a beauty! Such a unique type! And she is quite as different
from other people herself. That is her great trouble. She is called a
terrible flirt, but it is the men’s fault, not hers. She is always
looking for something, and can never find it.”

“Sad and strange! Is she a young woman with yearnings?”

“Not at all. She is the most sensible woman I know. She is merely
unusually clever, consequently she is very lonely. I do not believe any
man will ever satisfy her. She is like the sleeping princess in the
enchanted castle. She shuts herself up in that wonderful house of hers
and dreams of the lover who never comes.”

“You touch my fancy; and what do you mean by her wonderful house?”

“That house would delight your author’s soul. Every room is the
materialization of a dream, as Hermia would say;” and she gave him an
account of her friend’s inartistic but original abode.

Cryder listened with much interest. Romance was a dead-letter to him,
but he was alive to the picturesque. He concluded that it would be quite
enchanting to make love to a woman in a feudal library or an Indian
jungle, and more than satisfactory to awaken the sleeping beauty. It
would be a charming episode for his present brief stay in New York,
altogether quite the choicest specimen in his herbarium. What she was
waiting for was a combination of brain and skill.

“You have made me want to know her,” he said, “but, of course, she did
not ask me to call.”

“I will take you to see her some time.”

“That is very good of you. Some afternoon when you have nothing better
to do.”

“Come on Monday. That is her day. You won’t have much chance to talk to
her, but then you can go again as soon as you like.”

Cryder took out his note-book and penciled a memorandum, “On Monday,
then.”

Helen concluded that if she had been born a man she would have elected
diplomacy as a career.

                 




                              CHAPTER XIV.


                       IN A METROPOLITAN JUNGLE.

Cryder called on Hermia Monday afternoon. Although the room was full he
had a few words with her, and she thought him very charming.

“I want to talk to you,” he said. “I have wanted to talk to you ever
since I met you, but I was in such a bad humor the other night that I
would not inflict you. Are you ever alone? Cannot I have an hour or two
some evening?”

Hermia smiled. “Come on Thursday evening. I have not another evening
until late next week.”

“I have an engagement, but I will break it. And will you think me
impertinent if I ask you to show me all over this wonderful house? There
is nothing like it in Europe.”

“I shall be delighted,” said Hermia, enthusiastically. “So few people
appreciate it.”

“It is good of you to think I can. But in thought I always dwell in the
past (he hated the past), and although my work is realistic, because
realism is of more value to literature, yet my nature is essentially a
romantic one. Only, one so seldom acknowledges romance, one is so afraid
of being laughed at.”

He watched her as he spoke, and saw a sudden gleam come into her eyes. A
year’s training and her own native cleverness had taught Hermia not to
believe all that men said to her, but Cryder had struck a well-loved
chord. And she had no wish to be skeptical.

On Thursday evening Hermia arrayed herself with great care. After much
deliberation she donned a gown which as yet she had never worn. It was
of tan-gold velvet, with irregular appliqués of dark-brown plush. Down
the front was a curious design of gold braid and deep-green brilliants.

She received Cryder in the conservatory. It had but recently been
completed, and looked enough like a jungle to deceive the most
suspicious of tigers. The green tiles of the floor were painted with a
rank growth of grasses and ferns. Through the palms and tropical shrubs
that crowded the conservatory glared the wild beasts of far-off jungles,
marvelously stuffed and poised. The walls were forgotten behind a
tapestry of reeds and birds of the Orient. In one corner was a fountain,
simulating a pool, and on its surface floated the pink, fragrant lilies
that lie on eastern lakes. Few people had seen this jungle—before its
completion, Hermia had learned that it was dangerous to test her city’s
patience too far.

Hermia sat down on a bank and waited for the curtain to rise. She felt
the humor of the situation, but she knew that the effect was good. A few
moments later Cryder came in and was charmed. He had the same remote
yearning for the barbaric that the small, blonde actor has for the part
of the heavy villain. As he walked down the jungle toward Hermia, he
felt that he gave this Eastern ideal its completing touch.

Hermia held up her hand. “I would not have dared do this for any one but
you,” she said, “but you will understand.”

“For Heaven’s sake do not apologize!” exclaimed Cryder. He raised her
hand to his lips and sat down on the bank beside her. “There was never
anything so enchanting in real life. And you—you are Cleopatra in your
tiger-hood.”

“I was Semiramis before,” said Hermia, indifferently. She turned her
head and gave him a meditative glance. “Do you know,” she said, with an
instinct of coquetry rare to her, “I cannot understand your being a
realistic author.”

He was somewhat taken aback, but he replied promptly: “That is a mere
accident. To tell you the truth, I care no more for realism than I do
for idealism, and dialect is a frightful bore. I will tell you what I
have told no one else. Now that my position is established, my name
made, I am going to leave dialect to those who can do no better, and
write a great romantic novel.”

Hermia thought his last remark a trifle conceited, but she forgave it
for the sake of its sentiment. “I shall like that,” she said, “and be
romantic without sensationalism. Tell me the plot of your book.”

“It is too vague to formulate, but you and your house are to be its
inspiration. I have wanted to meet a woman like you; the study will be
an education. Tell me of your life. You have not always been as you are
now?”

Hermia gave him a startled glance. “What do you mean?” she demanded.

“I mean that you have two personalities, an actual and an assumed. You
are playing a part.”
