who believe that if j'ou dread harm enough it is less 
likely to happen. She acted on this superstition as 
if it were a religion. 
" If it had not been for my despair, as you call it, 
Alma," she answered, "I don't know -where -we 
should have been now." 
" I suppose we should have been in St. Barnaby," 
said the girl. "And if it's worse to be in New 
York, you see what your despair's done, mamma. 
But what 's the use ? You meant well, and I don't 
blame you. You can't expect even despair to come 
out always just the way you want it. Perhaps 
you 've used too much of it." The girl laughed, and 
Mrs. Leighton laughed too. Like eveiy one else, 
she was not merely a prevailing mood, as people are 
apt to be in books, but was an irregularly spheroidal 
character, with surfaces that caught the different 
lights of circumstance and reflected them. Alma 
got up and took a pose before the mirror, which she 
then transferred to her sketch. The room was 
pinned about with other sketches, which showed 
with fantastic indistinctness in the shaded gas-light. 
Alma held up the drawing. " How do you like it ? " 
Mrs. Leighton bent forward over her sewing to 
look at it. " You 've got the man's face rather 
weak." 
"Yes, that's so. Either I see all the hidden 
weakness that's in men's natures, and bring it to 
the surface in their figures, or else I put my own 
weakness into them. And anyway, it 's a draw- 
back to their presenting a truly manly appearance. 
 
As long as I have one of the miserable objects 
before me, I can draw him ; but as soon as his 
back's turned I get to putting ladies into men's 
clothes. I should think you'd be scandalised, 
mamma, if you were a really feminine person. It 
must be your despair that helps you to bear up. 
But what 's the matter with the young lady in 
young lady's clothes ? Any dust on hei- ? " 
" What expressions ! " said Mrs. Leighton. 
"Eeally, Alma, for a refined girl you are the most 
unrefined ! " 
" Go on — about the girl in the picture ! " said 
Alma, slightly knocking her mother on the shoulder, 
as she stood over her. 
" I don't see anything to her. "What 's she doing V 
" Oh, just being made love to, I suppose." 
" She 's perfectly insipid ! " 
"You're awfully articulate, mamma! Now, if 
Mr. Wetmore was to criticise that picture he'd 
draw a circle round it in the air, and look at it 
through that, and tilt his head first on one side and 
then on the other, and then look at you, as if you 
were a figure in it, and then collapse a while, and 
moan a little and gasp, 'Isn't your young lady a 
little too — too ' and then he 'd try to get the word 
out of you, and groan and suffer some more ; and 
)'ou 'd saj'-, ' She is, rather,' and that would give him 
courage, and he 'd say, ' I don't mean that she 's so 
very ' 'Of course not.' 'You understand]' 
'Perfectly. I see it myself, now.' 'Well then,' — 
and he 'd take your pencil and begin to draw — ' I 
 
slioukl give her a little more Ah ? ' ' Yes, I see 
the difference.' ' You see the difference ? ' And 
lie 'd go off to some one else, and you 'd know that 
you'd been doing the wishy-washiest thing in the 
world, though he hadn't sjwlccn a word of criticism, 
and couldn't. But he wouldn't have noticed the 
expression at all ; he 'd have shown you where your 
drawing was bad. He doesn't care for what he 
calls the literature of a thing ; he says that will take 
care of itself if the drawing's good. lie doesn't 
like my doing these chic things ; but I 'm going to 
keep it up, for I tliink it 's the nearest way to 
illustrating." 
She took her sketch and pinned it up on the door. 
"And has Mr. Beaton been about, yet?" asked 
her mother. 
"No," said the girl, with her back still turned; 
and she added, "I believe he 's in New Y'ork ; Mr. 
"Wetmore 's seen him." 
"It's a little strange ho doesn't call." 
" It would be if he were not an artist. But 
artists never do anything like other people. He 
was on his good behaviour while he was with us, 
and he 's a great deal more conventional than most 
of them ; but even he can't keep it up. That 's what 
makes me really think that women can never 
amount to anything in art. They keep all their 
appointments, and fulfil all their duties just as if 
they didn't know anything about art. Well, most 
of them don't. Ye 've got that new model to-day." 
"What new modeH" 
 
"The one Mr, Wetmore was telling us about — 
the old German ; he 's splendid. He 's got the most 
beautiful head ; just like the old masters' things. 
He used to be Humphrey Williams's model for his 
biblical pieces; but since he's dead, the old man 
hardly gets anything to do. Mr. Wetmore says 
there isn't anybody in the Bible that Williams 
didn't paint him as. He 's the Law and the Prophets 
in all his Old Testament pictures, and he 's Joseph, 
Peter, Judas Iscariot, and the Scribes and Pharisees 
in the New." 
" It 's a good thing people don't know how artists 
work, or some of the most sacred pictures would 
have no influence," said Mrs. Leighton. 
" Why, of course not ! " cried the girl. " And the 
iuliuence is the last thing a painter thinks of — or 
supposes he thinks of. What he knows he 's anxious 
about is the drawing and the colour. But people 
will never understand how simple artists are. When 
I reflect what a complex and sophisticated being I 
am, I 'm afraid I can never come to anything in art. 
Or I should be if I hadn't genius." 
" Do you think Mr. Beaton is very simple ? " asked 
Mrs. Leighton. 
"Mr. Wetmore doesn't think he's very much of 
an artist. He thinks he talks too well. They 
believe that if a man can express himself clearly he 
can't paint.' 
" And what do ycm believe ? " 
" Oh, I can express myself, too.' 
The mother seemed to be satisfied with this evasion. 
 
After a while she said, " I presume he will call when 
he gets settled." 
The girl made no answer to this. " One of the 
girls says that old model is an educated man. He 
was in the war, and lost a hand. Doesn't it seem 
a pity for such a man to have to sit to a class of 
affected geese like us as a model ? I declare it 
makes me sick. And we shall keep him a week, 
and pay him six or seven dollars for the use of his 
grand old head, and then what will he do? The 
last time he was regularly employed was when Mr. 
Mace was working at his Damascus Massacre. Then 
ho wanted so many Arab sheiks and Christian elders 
that he kept old Mr. Lindau steadily employed for 
six months. Now he has to pick up odd jobs where 
he can." 
"I suppose he has his pension," said Mrs. Leigh- 
ton. 
"No; one of the girls" — that was the way Alma 
always described her fellow-students — " says he has 
no pension. He didn't apply for it for a long time, 
and then there was a hitch about it, and it was some- 
thinged — vetoed, I believe she said." 
' Who vetoed it ? " asked Mrs. Leighton, with 
some curiosity about the jiroccss, which she held in 
reserve. 
" I don't know — whoever vetoes things. I wonder 
what Mr. Wetmore does think of us — his class. We 
must seem perfectly crazy. There isn't one of us 
really knows what she's doing it for, or what she 
expects to happen when she 's done it. I suppose 
every one thinks she has genius. I know the 
Nebraska widow does, for she says tliat unless you 
liave genius it isn't the least use. Everybody 's 
puzzled to know what she does with her baby when 
she 's at work — whether she gives it soothing syrup. 
I wonder how Mr. Wetmore can keep from laughing 
in our faces. I know he does behind our backs." 
Mrs. Leighton's mind wandered back to another 
point. " Then if he says Mr. Beaton can't paint, I 
presume he doesn't respect him very much." 
"Oh, he never said he couldn't paint. But I 
know he thinks so. He says he's an excellent 
critic." 
"Alma," her mother said, with the effect of break- 
ing off, " what do you suppose is the reason he hasn't 
been near us ? " 
" Why, I don't know, mamma, except that it 
would have been natural for another person to come, 
and he 's an artist — at least, artist enough for that." 
" That doesn't account for it altogether. He was 
very nice at St. Barnaby, and seemed so interested 
in you — your work." 
" Plenty of people were nice at St. Barnaby. That 
rich Mrs. Horn couldn't contain her joy when she 
heard we were coming to New York, but she hasn't 
poured in upon us a great deal since we got here." 
" But that 's different. She 's very fashionable, 
and she's taken up with her own set. But Mr. 
Beaton 's one of our kind." 
" Thank you. Papa wasn't quite a tombstone- 
cutter, mamma." 
" That makes it all the harder to bear. He cnn't 
be ashamed of us. Perhaps he doesn't know where 
we are." 
"Do you wish to send him your card, mammal" 
The girl flushed and towered in scorn of the idea. 
" Why, no, Alma," returned her mother. 
" Well, then," said Alma. 
But Mrs. Leighton was not so easily quelled. She 
had got her mind on Mr. Beaton, and she could not 
detach it at once. Besides, she was one of those 
women (they are commoner than the same sort of 
men) whom it does not pain to take out their most 
intimate thoughts and examine them in the light 
of other people's opinions. "But I don't see how 
he can behave so. He must know that " 
" That tvhat, mamma ? " demanded the girl. 
" That he influenced us a crreat deal in 
coming- 
" He didn't. If he dared to presume to think 
such a thing " 
" Now, Alma," said her mother with the clinging 
persistence of such natures, " you know he did. 
And it 's no use for you to pretend that we didn't 
count upon him in — in every way. You may not have 
noticed his attentions, and I don't say you did, but 
others certainly did ; and I must say that I didn't 
expect he would drop us so." 
" Drop us ! " cried Alma, in a fury. " Oh ! " 
" Yes, droj> us, Alma. He must know where we 
are. Of course, Mr. Wetmore 's spoken to him about 
you, and it 's a shame that he hasn't been near us. 
 
I should have thought common gratitude, common 
decency, would have brought him after — after all 
we did for him." 
" We did nothing for him — nothing f He paid his 
board, and that ended it." 
" No, it didn't, Alma. You know what he used 
to say — about its being like home, and all that ; 
and I must say that after his attentions to you, and 
all the things you told me he said, I expected some- 
thing very dif " 
A sharp peal of the door-bell thrilled through the 
house, and as if the pull of the bell-wire had 
twitched her to her feet, Mrs. Leigh ton sprang 
up and grappled with her daughter in their common 
terror. 
They both glared at the clock and made sure that 
it was five minutes after nine. Then they aban- 
doned them some moments to the unrestricted play 
of their apprehensions. 
II. 
" Why, Alma," whispered the mother, " who in 
the world can it be at this time of night ? You 
don't suppose ho " 
" Well, I 'm not going to the door anyhow, 
mother, I don't care who it is ; and of course he 
wouldn't be such a goose as to come at this hour." 
She put on a look of miserable trepidation, and 
shrank back from the door, while the hum of the 
bell died away in the hall. 
" What shall wo do ? " asked Mrs. Leighton 
helplessly. 
" Let him go away — whoever they are," said 
Alma. 
Another and more peremptory ring forbade them 
refuge in this simple expedient. 
"Oh dear! what shall we do? Perhaps it's 
a despatch." 
The conjecture moved Alma to no more than a 
rigid stare. " I shall not go," she said. A third 
ring more insistent than the others followed, and 
she said : " You go ahead, mamma, and I 'll come 
behind to scream if it's anybody. We can look 
through the sidedights at the door first." 
 
Mrs. Leigliton fearfully led the way from the 
back chamber where they had been sitting, and 
slowly descended the stairs. Alma came behind 
and turned up the hall gas-jet with a sudden flash 
that made them both jump a little. The gas inside 
rendered it more difficult to tell who was on the 
threshold, but Mrs. Leighton decided from a timor- 
ous peep through the scrims that it was a lady and 
gentleman. Something in this distribution of sex 
emboldened her ; she took her life in her hand, and 
opened the door. 
The lady spoke. " Does Mrs. Leighton live heah ]" 
she said, in a rich, throaty voice ; and she feigned a 
reference to the agent's permit she held in her hand. 
" Yes," said Llrs. Leighton ; she mechanically 
occupied the doorway, while Alma already quivered 
behind her "with impatience of her impoliteness. 
" Oh," said the lady, who began to appear more 
and more a young lady, " Ah didn't know but Ah 
had mistaken the ho'se. Ah suppose it 's rather 
late to see the Apawtments, and Ah most ask you 
to pawdon us." She put this tentatively, witli a 
delicately growing recognition of Mrs. Leighton as 
the lady of the house, and a humorous intelligence 
of the situation in the glance she threw Alma over 
her mother's shoulder. " Ah 'm afraid we most 
have frightened you." 
" Oh, not at all!' said Alma ; and at the same 
time her mother said, " Will you walk in, please ? " 
The gentleman promptly removed his hat and 
made the Lei srh tons an inclusive bow. " You awe 
 
very kind, madam, and I am sorry for the trouble 
we awe giving you." He was tall and severe-look- 
ing, vith a grey, trooperisli moustache and iron- 
grey hair, and, as Alma decided, iron-grey eyes. 
His daughter "was short, plump, and fresh-coloured, 
with an effect of liveliness that did not all express 
itself in her broad-vowelled, rather formal speech, 
with its odd valuations of some of the auxiliary 
verbs, and its total elision of the canine letter, 
"We awe from the Soath," she said, "and we 
arrived this mawning, but we got this cyahd from 
the brokah just bcfo' dinnali, and so we awe rathah 
late." 
"Not at all; it's only nine o'clock," said Mrs. 
Lcighton, in condonation. She looked up from the 
card the young lady had given her, and explained, 
" We haven't got in our servants yet, and we had to 
answer the bell ourselves, and " 
" You tcere frightened, of coase," said the young 
lady caressingly. 
The gentleman said they ought not to have come 
so late, and he offered some formal apologies. 
"We should have been just as much scared any 
time after five o'clock," Alma said to the sympathetic 
intelligence in the girl's face. 
She laughed out. " Of coase ! Ah would have 
my hawt in my moath all day long too, if Ah was 
living in a big hoasc alone." 
A moment of stiffness followed ; Mrs. Leighton 
would have liked to withdraw from the intimacy of 
the situation, but she did not know how. It was 
 
very well for these people to assume to be what they 
pretended ; but, she reflected too late, she had no 
proof of it except the agent's permit. They were 
all standing in the hall together, and she prolonged 
the awkward pause while she examined the permit. 
" You are Mr. Woodburn ? " she asked, in a way 
that Alma felt implied he might not be. 
" Yes, madam ; from Charlottesboag, Virginia' 
he answered, with the slight umbrage a man shows 
when the strange cashier turns his check over and 
questions him before cashing it. 
Alma writhed internally, but outwardly remained 
subordinate ; she examined the other girl's dress, 
and decided in a superficial consciousness that she 
had made her own bonnet. 
" I shall be glad to show you my rooms," said 
Mrs Leighton, with an irrelevant sigh. " You must 
excuse their being not just as I should wish them. 
We 're hardly settled yet." 
" Don't speak of it, madam," said the gentleman, 
"if you can overlook the trouble we awe giving you 
at such an unseasonable houah." 
"Ah'm a hoase-keepah mahself," Miss "Woodburn 
joined in, ' ' and Ah know ho' to accyoant fo' every- 
thing." 
Mrs. Leighton led the way upstairs, and the 
young lady decided upon the large front room and 
small side-room on the third story. She said she 
could take the small one, and the other was so large 
that her father could both sleep and work in it. 
She seemed not ashamed to ask if Mrs. Leighton's 
price was infloxil)Io, but gave "way laughing wlieu 
her father refused to have any bargaining, with a 
haughty self-respect which lie softened to deference 
for Mrs. Leighton. His impulsiveness opened the 
way for some confidences from her, and before the 
afTair was arranged she was enjoying in lier quality 
of clerical widow the balm of the Alrginians' 
reverent sympathy. They said they were Church 
people themselves. 
" Ah don't know what yo' mothah means by yo' 
hoasc not being in oddah," the young lady said to 
Alma, as they went downstairs together. " Ah 'm 
a great hoasc-keepah mahself, and Ah mean what 
Ah say." 
They had all turned mechanically into the room 
where the Leightons were sitting when the "Wood- 
burns rang. Mr. woodburn consented to sit down, 
and he remained listening to Mrs. Leighton while 
his daughter bustled up to the sketches pinned 
round the room, and questioned Alma about them. 
"All suppose you awe going to be a great aw- 
tust?" she said, in friendly banter, when Alma owned 
to having done the things. " Ah 've a great notion to 
take a few lessons mahself. Who 's yo' teachah ? " 
Alma said she was drawing in Mr. "Wetmore's 
class, and Miss Woodburn said : " Well, it 's just 
beautiful. Miss Leighton ; it 's grand. Ah suppose 
it 's raght expensive, now ? Mali goodness ! we have 
to cyoant the coast so much nowiidays, it seems to 
mo we do nothing hut cyoant it. Ah 'd lilce to bah 
something once without askin' the price." 
 
" Well, if you didn't ask it," said Alma, " I don't 
believe Mr. Wetmore would ever know what the 
price of his lessons was. He has to think, when 
you ask him." 
"Why, he most be chomming," said Miss Wood- 
burn. "Perhaps Ah maght get the lessons for 
nothing from him. Well, Ah believe in my soul 
Ah 'll trah. Now ho' did you begin ? and ho' do 
you expect to get anything oat of it ? " She turned 
on Alma eyes brimming with a shrewd mixture of 
fun and earnest, and Alma made note of the fact 
that she had an early nineteenth-century face, 
round, arch, a little coquettish, but extremely sen- 
sible and unspoiled-looking, such as used to be 
painted a good deal in miniature at that period ; a 
tendency of her brown hair to twine and twist at 
the temples helped the effect ; a high comb would 
have completed it. Alma felt, if she had her bonnet 
off. It was almost a Yankee country -girl type; but 
perhaps it appeared so to Alma because it was, like 
that, pure Anglo-Saxon. Alma herself, with her 
dull dark skin, slender in figure, slow in speech, 
with aristocratic forms in her long hands, and the 
oval of her fine face pointed to a long chin, felt her- 
self much more Southern in style than this bloom- 
ing, bubbling, bustling Virginian. 
" I don't know," she answered slowly. 
"Going to take po'traits," suggested Miss Wood- 
burn, " or just paint the ahdeal ? " A demure bur- 
lesque lurked in her tone. 
"I suppose I don't expect to paint at all," said 
 
Alma. "I'm going to illustrate books — if anybody 
will let me." 
" Ah should tliiidc they 'd just joamp at you," 
said Miss "W'oodburn. "Ah 'll tell you what let 's do, 
Miss Leighton : you make some pictures, and Ah 'll 
wrahte a book fo' them. Ah 've got to do some- 
thing. Ah maght as well -wrahte a book. You know 
wc Southerners have all had to go to weak. But 
Ah don't mand it. I tell papa I shouldn't ca' fo' 
the disgrace of bein' poo' if it wasn't fo' the incon- 
venience." 
"Yes, it's inconvenient," said Alma; "but you 
forget it when you 're at work, don't you think ? " 
"Mah, yes ! Perhaps that's one reason why poo' 
people have to woak so hawd — to keep their mands 
off their poverty." 
The girls both tittered, and turned from talking 
in a low tone with their backs toward their elders, 
and faced them. 
"Well, Madison," said Mr. woodburn, "it is 
time we should go. I bid you good night, madam, ' 
he bowed to Mrs. Leighton. "Good night," ho 
bowed again to Alma. 
His daughter took leave of them in formal phrase, 
but with a jolly cordiality of manner that deforma- 
lised it. "We shall be roand raght soon in the 
mawning, then," she threatened at the door. 
"We shall be all ready for you," Alma called 
after her down the steps. 
"Well, Alma ? " her mother asked, when the door 
clo-sed upon them. 
 
"She doesn't know any more about art,' said 
Alma, "than — nothing at all. But she 's jolly and 
good-hearted. Slie praised everything that "was bad 
in my sketches, and said she was going to take 
lessons herself. When a person talks about taking 
lessons, as if they could learn it, you know where 
they belong artistically." 
Mrs. Leighton shook her head with a sigh. " I 
wish I knew where they belonged financially. "We 
shall have to get in two girls at once. I shall have 
to go out the first thing in the morning, and then 
our troubles will begin." 
" Well, didn't you want them to begin ? I will 
stay home and help you get ready. Our prosperity 
couldn't begin without the troubles, if you mean 
boarders, and boarders mean servants. I shall be 
very glad to be afflicted with a cook for a while 
myself." 
" Yes ; but we don't know anything about these 
people, or whether they will be able to pay us. Did 
she talk as if they were well off ] " 
" She talked as if they were poor ; poo' she called 
it." 
"Yes, how queerly she pronounced," said Mrs. 
Leighton. " Well, I ought to have told them that I 
required the first week in advance." 
"Mamma! If that's the way you're going to 
act- " 
"Oh, of course, I couldn't, after he wouldn't lot 
her bargain for the rooms. I didn't like that." 
" / did. And you can see that they were perfect 
ladies ; or at least one of tlicm." Alma laughed at 
herself, but her mother did not notice. 
" Their being ladies won't help if they 've got no 
money. It'll make it all the worse." 
" Very vrcW, then ; we have no money, either. 
We 're a match for them any day there. "We can 
show them that two can play at that game." 
III. 
Angus Beaton's studio looked at first glance like 
many other painters' studios. A grey wall quad- 
rangularly vaulted to a large north light ; casts of 
feet, hands, faces hung to nails about ; prints, 
sketches in oil and water-colour stuck here and 
there lower down ; a rickety table, with paint and 
palettes and bottles of varnish and siccative tossed 
comfortlessly on it ; an easel, with a strip of some 
faded mediaeval silk trailing from it ; a lay figure 
simpering in incomplete nakedness, with its head on 
one side, and a stocking on one leg, and a Japanese 
dress dropped before it ; dusty rugs and skins kick- 
ing over the varnished floor ; canvases faced to the 
mop-board j an open trunk overflowing with cos- 
tumes : these features one might notice anywhere. 
But besides there was a bookcase with an unusual 
number of books in it, and there was an open 
colonial writing-desk, claw-footed, brass-handled, and 
scutcheoned, with foreign periodicals — French and 
English — littering its leaf, and some pages of manu- 
script scattered among them. Above all, there was 
a sculptor's revolving stand, supporting a bust which 
Beaton was modelling, with an eye fixed as simul- 
taueously as possible on the clay and on the head of 
the old man -who sat on the platform beside it. 
Few men have been able to get through the 
vorld with several gifts to advantage in all ; and 
most men seem handicajiped for the race if they 
have more than one. But they are .apparently 
immensely interested as well as distracted by them. 
When Beaton was writing, he would have agreed, 
lip to a certain point, with any one who said litera- 
ture was his pro})er expression ; but then, when he 
was painting, up to a certain point, he would have 
maintained against the world that he was a colourist 
and supremely a colonrist. At the certain point in 
cither art he was apt to break away in a frenzy of 
disgust, and wreak himself upon some other. In 
these moods he sometimes designed elevations of 
buildings, very striking, very original, very chic, 
very everything bnt habitable. It was in this way 
that he had tried his hand on sculpture, which he 
had at first approached rather slightingly as a mere 
decorative accessory of architecture. But it had 
grown in his respect till he maintained that the ac- 
cessory business ought to be all the other way : that 
temples should be raised to enshrine statues, not 
statues made to ornament temples ; that was putting 
the cart before the horse with a vengeance. This 
was when he had carried a plastic study so far that 
the sculptors who saw it said that Beaton might 
have been an architect, but would certainly never 
be a sculptor. At the same time he did some 
hurried, nervous things that had a popular charm, 
and that sold in plaster reproductions, to the profit 
of another. Beaton justly despised the popular 
charm in these, as well as in the paintings he sold 
from time to time ; he said it was flat burglary to 
have taken money for them, and he would have 
been living almost wholly upon the bounty of the old 
tombstone-cutter in Syracuse if it had not been for 
the syndicate letters which he supplied to Fulkerson 
for ten dollars a week. 
They were very well done, but he hated doing 
them after the first two or three, and had to be 
punched up for them by Fulkerson, who did not 
cease to prize them, and who never failed to punch 
him up. Beaton being what he was, Fulkerson was 
his creditor as well as patron ; and Fulkerson being 
what he was, had an enthusiastic patience with the 
elusive, facile, adaptable, unpractical nature of 
Beaton. He was very proud of his art-letters, as he 
called them ; but then Fulkerson was proud of 
everything he secured for his syndicate. The fact 
that he had secured it gave it A'alue ; he felt as if he 
had written it himself. 
One art trod upon another's heels with Beaton. 
The day before he had rushed upon canvas the con- 
ception of a picture which he said to himself was 
glorious, and to others (at the table dliole of Maroni) 
was not bad. He had worked at it in a fury till 
the light failed him, and he execrated the dying 
day. But he lit his lamp, and transferred the pro- 
cess of his thinking from the canvas to the opening 
of the syndicate letter which he know Fulkerson 
 
would be coming for m the morning. He remained 
talking so long after dinner in the same strain as he 
had painted and writtou in that he could not finish 
his letter that night. The next morning, while he -was 
making his tea for breakfast, the postman brought him 
a letter from his father enclosing a little cheque, and 
begging hini -with tender, almost deferential, urgence 
to come as lightly upon him as possible, for just now 
his expenses were very heavy. It brought tears of 
shame into Beaton's eyes — the fine smouldering, float- 
ing eyes that many ladies admired, under the thick 
bang — and he said to himself that if he were half a 
man he would go home and go to work cutting grave- 
stones in his father's shop. But he would wait, at 
least, to finish his picture ; and as a sop to his con- 
science, to stay its immediate ravening, he resolved to 
finish that syndicate letter first, and borrow enough 
money from Fulkerson to be able to send his father's 
cheque back ; or if not that, then to return the sum of 
it partly in Fulkerson's cheque. "While he still teemed 
with both of these good intentions the old man 
from whom he was modelling his head of Judas 
came, and Beaton saw that he must get through 
with him before he finished either the picture or the 
letter ; he would have to pay him for the time any- 
way. He utilised the remorse with which he was 
tingling to give his Judas an expression which he 
found novel in the treatment of that character — a 
look of such touching, appealing self-abhorrence that 
Beaton's artistic joy in it amounted to rapture ; 
between the breathless moments when he worked in 
 
dead silence for an effect that was trying to escape 
him, he sang and whistled fragments of comic opera. 
In one of the hushes there came a blow on the 
outside of the door that made Beaton jump, and 
swear with a modified profanity that merged itself 
in apostrophic prayer. He knew it must be Fulker- 
son, and after roaring, '' Come in ! " he said to the 
model, " That'll do this morning, Lindau." 
Fulkerson squared his feet Jn front of the bust, 
and compared it by fleeting glances with the old 
man as he got stiffly up, and suffered Beaton to help 
him on with his thin shabby overcoat. 
" Can you come to-morrow, Lindau ? " 
"'No, not to-morrow, Mr. Peaton. I haf to zit 
for the young ladties." 
"Oh!" said Beaton. " Wetmore's class? Is 
Miss Leighton doing you ? " 
"I don't know their namcss,'"' Lindau began, 
when Fulkerson said 
" Hope you haven't forgotten mine, Mr. Lindau ? 
I met you with Mr. March at Maroni's one night." 
Fulkerson offered him a universally shakable hand. 
" Oh yes ! I am gladt to zee you again, Mr. 
Vulkerzon. And Mr. Marge — he don't zeem to 
gome any more ? " 
" Up to his eyes in work. Been moving on from 
Boston and getting settled, and starting in on our 
enterprise. Beaton here hasn't got a very flattering 
likeness of you, hey ? Well, good morning," he said, 
for Lindau appeared not to have heard him, and was 
escaping with a bow through the door. 
Beaton lit a cigarette which ho pinched nervously 
between his lips before he spoke. " You 've come 
for that letter, I suppose, Fulkerson ? It isn't done." 
Fulkerson turned from staring at the bust to 
which he had mounted. " "What you fretting about 
that letter for ? I don't want your letter." 
Beaton stoi)ped biting his cigarette, and looked at 
him. " Don't want my letter ? Oh, very good ! " 
he bristled up. He took his cigarette from his lips, 
and blew the smoke through his nostrils, and then 
looked at Fulkerson. 
" No ; I don't want your letter ; I want you." 
Beaton disdained to ask an explanation, but he 
internally lowered his crest, wliile he continued to 
look at Fulkerson without changing his defiant 
countenance. This suited Fulkerson well enough, 
and he went on with relish : " I 'm going out of the 
syndicate business, old man, and I 'm on a new 
tiling." He jait his leg over the back of a chair 
and rested his foot on its seat, and with one hand 
in his pocket, he laid the scheme of Every Other 
JFceh before Beaton with the help of the other. The 
artist went about the room, meauwhile, with an 
effect of indifference which by no means offended 
Fulkerson, He took some watcr into his mouth 
from a tumbler, which he blcw in a fine mist over 
the head of Judas, before Swathing it in a dirty 
cotton cloth ; he washcd his brushes and set his 
palette ; he put up on his easel the picture he had 
blocked on the day before, and stared at it with a 
gloomy face; then he gathered the sheets of his 
A HAZARD OF NEW FORTUNES. IGl 
unfinished letter together and slid them into a 
drawer of his writing-desk. By the time he had 
finished and tarned again to Fulkerson, Fulkerson 
was saying : " I did think we could have the first 
number out by New- Year's ; but it will take longer 
than that — a month longer ; but I 'm not sorry, for 
the holidays kill everything ; and by February, or 
the middle of February, people wull get their breath 
again, and begin to look round and ask what 's new. 
Then we 'll reply in the language of Shakespeare and 
Milton, Every Other Week ; and don't you forget it." 
He took down his leg and asked, "Got a pipe of 
'baccy anywhere ? " 
Leaton nodded at a clay stem sucking out of a 
Japanese vase of bronze on his mantel. "There's 
yours," he said ; and Fulkerson said, " Thanks," and 
filled the pipe, and sat down and began to smoke 
tranquilly, 
Beaton saw that he would have to speak now. 
" And what do you want with me V 
" You ? Oh yes " Fulkerson humorously drama- 
tised a return to himself from a pensive absence. 
" Want you for the art department." 
Beaton shook his head. " I 'm not your man, 
Fulkerson," he said compassionately. " You want 
a more practical hand ; one that 's in touch witli 
what 's going. I 'm getting further and further 
away from this century and its claptrap. I don't 
believe in your enterprise ; I don't respect it, and I 
won't have anything to do with it. It would — 
choke me, that kind of thing." 
" That 's all riglit," said Fulkcrson. He esteemed 
a man who was not going to let himself go cheap. 
'' Or if it isn't, we can make it. You and Marcli 
will pull together first-rate. I don't care how much 
ideal you put into the thing ; the more the better. I 
can look after the other end of the schooner myself." 
 ' You don't understand me," said Beaton. " I 'm 
not trying to get a rise out of you. I 'm in earnest. 
What you want is some man who can have patience 
with mediocrity putting on the style of genius, and 
with genius turning mediocrity on his hands, I 
haven't any luck with men ; I don't get on with 
them; I'm not popular." Beaton recognised the 
fact with the satisfaction which it somehow always 
brings to human pride. 
" So much the better ! " Fulkerson was ready for 
him at this point. " I don't want you to work the 
old established racket — the reputations. When I 
want them I 'll go to them with a pocketful of rocks 
— knock-down argument. But my idea is to deal 
with the A'olunteer material. Look at the way the 
periodicals are carried on now ! Names ! names ! 
names ! In a country that 's just boiling over with 
literary and artistic ability of every kind the new 
fellows have no chance. The editors all engage their 
material, I don't believe there are fifty volunteer 
contributions printed in a year in all the ISToav York 
magazines. It 's all wrong ; it 's suicidal. Every 
Other Week is going back to the good old anonymous 
system, the only fair system. It 's workcd weII in 
literature, and it will work we.\ in art." 
 
"It icon't work well in art," said Beaton. " There 
you have a totally different set of conditions. What 
you 'll get by inviting volunteer illustrations will be 
a lot of amateur trash. And how are you going to 
submit your literature for illustration ? It can't be 
done. At any rate, I won't undertake to do it." 
" We 'll get up a School of Illustration," said 
Fulkerson, with cynical security. " You can read 
the things and explain 'em, and your pupils can 
make their sketches under your eye. They wouldn't 
be much further out than most illustrations are if 
they never knew what they were illustrating. You 
might select from what comes in and make up a sort 
of pictorial variations to the literature without any 
particular reference to it. Well, I understand you 
to accept ? " 
" No, you don't." 
" That is, to consent to help us with your advice 
and criticism. That 's all I want. It won't commit 
you to anything ; and you can be as anonymous as 
anybody." At the door Fulkerson added : " By the 
way, the new man — the fellow that 's taken my old 
syndicate business — will want you to keep on ; but 
I guess he 's going to try to beat you down on the 
price of the letters. He 's going in for retrench- 
ment. I brought along a cheque for this one ; I 'm 
to pay for that." He offered Beaton an envelope. 
" I can't take it, Fulkerson. The letter 's paid for 
already." Fulkerson stepped forward and laid the 
envelope on the table among the tubes of paint. 
" It isn't the letter merely. I thought you 
 
wouldn't object to a little advance on your Every 
Other weeh work till you kind of got started." 
Beaton remained inflexible. " It can't be done, 
Fulkcrson. Don't I tell you I can't sell myself out 
to a thing I don't believe in ? Can't you under- 
stand that V 
" Oh yes ; I can understand that first-rate. I 
don't want to buy you ; I want to borrow you. It's 
all right. Sec ? Come round when you can ; I 'd 
like to introduce you to old March. That 's going 
to be our address." He jjut a card on the table 
beside the envelope, and Beaton allowed him to go 
without making him take the cheque back. He had 
i-emembered his father s plea ; that unnerved him, 
and he promised himself again to return his father's 
poor little cheque and to work on that picture and 
give it to Fulkerson for the cheque he had left and 
for his back debts. He resolved to go to work on 
the picture at once ; he had set his palette for it ; but 
first he looked at Fulkerson's cheque. It was for 
only fifty dollars, and the canny Scotch blood in 
Beaton rebelled ; he could not let this picture go for 
any such money ; he felt a little like a man whose 
generosity has been trifled with. The conflict of 
emotions broke him up, and he could not work. 
IV. 
The day wasted away in Beaton's hands ; at half- 
past four o'clock he went out to tea at the house of 
a lady  was At Home that afternoon from four 
till seven. By this time Beaton was in possession 
of one of those other selves, of which we each have 
several about us, and was again the laconic, staccato, 
rather worldlified young artist wliose moments of 
a controlled utterance and a certain distinction of 
manner had commended him to Mrs. Horn's fancy 
in the summer at St. Barnaby. 
Mrs. Horn's rooms were large, and they never 
seemed very full, though this perhaps was because 
people were always so quiet. The ladies, who out- 
numbered the men ten to one, as they ahvays do at 
a New York tea, were dressed in sympathy with 
the low tone every one spoke in, and with the sub- 
dued light which gave a crepuscular uncertainty to 
the few objects, the dim pictures, the iinexcited up- 
holstery, of the rooms. One breathed free of bric-a 
brae there, and the new-comer breathed softly as one 
does on going into church after service has begun. 
This might be a suggestion from the voiceless be 
haviour of the man-servant who let you in, but it 
 
was also because Mrs. Horn's At Home was a cere- 
mony, a decorum, and not festival. At far greater 
houses there -was more gaiety, at richer houses there 
was more freedom ; the suppression at Mrs. Horn's 
was a personal, not a social, effect ; it was an efflux 
of her character, demure, silentious, vague, but very 
correct. 
Beaton easily found his way to her around the 
grouped skirts and among the detached figures, and 
received a pressure of welcome from the hand which 
she momentarily relaxed from the teapot. She sat 
behind a table put crosswise of a remote corner, and 
offered tea to people whom a niece of hers received 
provisionally or sped finally in the outer room. 
They did not usually take tea, and when they did 
they did not usually drink it; but Beaton was 
feverishly glad of his cup ; he took rum and lemon 
in it, and stood talking at IMrs. Horn's side till the 
next arrival should displace him : he talked in his 
French manner. 
'' I have been hoping to see you," she said. " I 
wanted to ask you about the Leightons. Did they 
really come ? " 
" I believe so. They are in town — yes. I haven't 
seen them." 
" Then you don't know how they 're getting on — 
that pretty creature, with her cleverness, and poor 
Mrs. Leighton ? I was afraid they were venturing on 
a rash experiment. Do }'ou know where they are ? " 
"In West Eleventh Street somewhere. Miss 
Leighton is in Mr. Wetmore's class." 
 
"I must look them up. Do you know their 
number ? " 
"Not at the moment. I can find out." 
" Do," said Mrs. Horn. " What courage they 
must have, to plunge into New York as they've 
done ! I really didn't think they would. I wonder 
if they 've succeeded in getting anybody into their 
house yet ? " 
"I don't know," said Beaton. 
"I discouraged their coming all I could," she 
sighed, " and I suppose you did too. But it 's quite 
useless trying to make people in a place like St. 
Barnaby understand how it is in town." 
"Yes," said Beaton. He stirred his tea, while 
inwardly he tried to believe that he had really 
discouraged the Leightons from coming to New 
York. Perhaps the vexation of his failure made 
him call Mrs. Horn in his heart a fraud. 
"Yes," she went on. "It is very, very hard. 
And when they won't understand, and rush on 
their doom, you feel that they are going to hold you 
respons " 
Mrs. Horn's eyes wandered from Beaton ; her 
voice faltered in the faded interest of her remark, 
and then rose with renewed vigour in greeting a 
lady who came up and stretched her glove across 
the teacups. 
Beaton got himself away and out of the house 
with a much briefer adieu to the niece than he had 
meant to make. The patronising comj)assion of 
Mrs. Horn for the Leightons filled him with indigna- 
 
tion toward her, toward himself. There was no 
reason why he should not have ignored them as he 
had done ; but there was a feeling. It was his 
nature to be careless, and he had been spoiled into 
reclclessness ; he neglected everybody, and only 
remembered them when it suited his whim or his 
convenience ; but he fiercely resented the inatten- 
tion of others toward himself. He had no scruple 
about breaking an engagement or failing to keep an 
appointment ; he made promises without thinking 
of their fulfilment, and not because he was a faith- 
less person, but because he was imaginative, and 
expected at the time to do what he said, but was 
fickle, and so did not. As most of his shortcomings 
were of a society sort, no great harm was done to 
anybody else. He had contracted somewhat the 
circle of his acquaintance by what some people 
called his rudeness, but most people treated it as his 
oddity, and were patient with it. One lady said 
she valued his coming when he said he would come 
because it had the charm of the unexpected. "Only 
it shows that it isn't always the unexpected that 
happens," she explained. 
It did not occur to him that his behaviour was 
immoral ; he did not realise that it was creating a 
reputation if not a character for him. While we 
are still young we do not realise that our actions 
have this effect. It seems to us that people will 
judge us from what "we think and feel. Later we 
find out that this is impossible ; perhaps we find it 
out too late ; some of us ncA'er find it out at all. 
 
In spite of his shame about the Leightons Beaton 
had no present intention of looking them up or 
sending Mrs. Horn their address. As a matter of 
fact, he never did send it ; but lie happened to meet 
Mr. Wetmore and his wife at the restaurant where 
he dined, and he got it of the painter for himself. 
He did not ask him how Miss Leighton was getting 
on; but "Wetmore launched out, with Alma for a 
tacit text, on the futility of women generally going 
in for art. " Even when they have talent they 've 
got too much against them. Where a girl doesn't 
seem very strong, like Miss Leighton, no amount of 
chic is going to help." 
His wife disputed him on behalf of her sex, as 
women always do. 
"No, Dolly," he persisted; "she'd better be 
home milking the cows and leading the horse to 
water." 
" Do you think she 'd better be up till two in the 
morning at balls and going all day to receptions and 
luncheons ? " 
" Oh, I guess it isn't a question of that, even if 
she weren't drawing. You knew them at home," he 
said to Beaton. 
" Yes." 
" I remember. Her mother said you suggested 
me. Well, the girl has some notion of it ; there 's 
no doubt about that. But — she 's a woman. The 
trouble with these talented girls is that they 're all 
woman. If they weren't, there wouldn't be much 
chance for the men, Beaton. -But we 've got Provi- 
 
dence on our own side from the start. I 'm able to 
vatch all their inspirations with perfect composure. 
I know just how soon it's going to end in nervous 
hrcakdowu. Somehody ought to marry them all 
and put them out of their miserj'." 
" And what will you do with your students who 
are married already," his wife said. She felt that 
she had let him go on long enough. 
" Oh, they ought to get divorced." 
"You ought to he ashamed to take their money if 
that 's what you think of them." 
" My dear, I have a wife to support." 
Beaton intervened with a question. " Do you 
mean that Miss Leighton isn't standing it very well ? " 
"How do I know? She isn't the kind that 
bends; she'd the kind that breaks." 
After a little silence Mrs. Wetmore asked, "Won't 
you come home with us, Mr. Beaton ? " 
" Thank you ; no. I have an engagement." 
" I don't see why that should prevent yon," said 
Wetmore. "But you always were a punctilious cuss. 
Well ! " 
Beaton lingered over his cigar ; but no one else 
whom he knew came in, and he yielded to the three- 
fold impulse of conscience, of cariosity, of inclina- 
tion, in going to call at the Leightons'. He asked 
for the ladies, and the maid showed him into the 
parlour, where he found Mrs. Leighton and Miss 
Woodburn. 
The widow met him with a welcome neatly 
marked by resentment ; she meant him to feci that 
 
his not coming sooner had been noticed. Miss 
Woodburn bubbled and gurgled on, and did what 
she could to mitigate his punishment, but she did 
not feel authorised to stay it, till Mrs. Leighton, by- 
studied avoidance of her daughter's name, obliged 
Beaton to ask for her. Then Miss "Woodburn caught 
up her work, and said, " Ah 'll go and tell her, Mrs. 
Leighton." At the top of the stairs she found Alma, 
and Alma tried to make it seem as if she had not 
been standing there. " Mah goodness, chald ! there 's 
the handsomest young man asking for you down 
there you evah saw. Ah told you' mothali Ah 
would come up fo' you." 
" What— who is it ? " 
"Don't you hiowl But ho' could a on "? He's 
got the most beautiful eyes, and he wea's his hai' in 
a, bang, and he talks English like it was something 
else, and his name 's Mr. Beaton." 
