"Now, Sammy dear, I want you to take my place here this afternoon, for
mother will have to take her work home by-and-by, and I must sell my
wreaths.  I only got enough green for six, and two bunches of holly; but
if I can sell them for ten or twelve cents apiece, I shall be glad.
Girls never can earn as much money as boys somehow," sighed Kitty,
surveying the thin wreaths tied up with carpet ravellings, and vainly
puzzling her young wits over a sad problem.
"I ’ll give you some of my money if you don’t get a dollar; then we’ll
be even.  Men always take care of women, you know, and ought to," cried
Sammy, setting a fine example to his father, if he had only been there
to profit by it.
With thanks Kitty left him to rest on the old sofa, while the happy
babies swarmed over him; and putting on the shabby hood and shawl, she
slipped away to stand at the Park gate, modestly offering her little
wares to the passers-by.  A nice old gentleman bought two, and his wife
scolded him for getting such bad ones; but the money gave more happiness
than any other he spent that day.  A child took a ten-cent bunch of
holly with its red berries, and there Kitty’s market ended.  It was very
cold, people were in a hurry, bolder hucksters pressed before the timid
little girl, and the balloon man told her to "clear out."
Hoping for better luck, she tried several other places; but the short
afternoon was soon over, the streets began to thin, the keen wind
chilled her to the bone, and her heart was very heavy to think that in
all the rich, merry city, where Christmas gifts passed her in every
hand, there were none for the dear babies and boys at home, and the
Christmas dinner was a failure.
"I must go and get supper anyway; and I ’ll hang these up in our own
rooms, as I can’t sell them," said Kitty, wiping a very big tear from
her cold cheek, and turning to go away.
A smaller, shabbier girl than herself stood near, looking at the bunch
of holly with wistful eyes; and glad to do to others as she wished some
one would do to her, Kitty offered the only thing she had to give,
saying kindly, "You may have it; merry Christmas!" and ran away before
the delighted child could thank her.
I am very sure that one of the spirits who fly about at this season of
the year saw the little act, made a note of it, and in about fifteen
minutes rewarded Kitty for her sweet remembrance of the golden rule.
As she went sadly homeward she looked up at some of the big houses where
every window shone with the festivities of Christmas Eve, and more than
one tear fell, for the little girl found life pretty hard just then.
"There don’t seem to be any wreaths at these windows; perhaps they ’d
buy mine.  I can’t bear to go home with so little for my share," she
said, stopping before one of the biggest and brightest of these fairy
palaces, where the sound of music was heard, and many little heads
peeped from behind the curtains as if watching for some one.
Kitty was just going up the steps to make another trial, when two small
boys came racing round the corner, slipped on the icy pavement, and both
went down with a crash that would have broken older bones.  One was up
in a minute, laughing; the other lay squirming and howling, "Oh, my
knee! my knee!" till Kitty ran and picked him up with the motherly
consolations she had learned to give.
"It’s broken; I know it is," wailed the small sufferer as Kitty carried
him up the steps, while his friend wildly rang the doorbell.
It was like going into fairy-land, for the house was all astir with a
children’s Christmas party. Servants flew about with smiling faces; open
doors gave ravishing glimpses of a feast in one room and a splendid tree
in another; while a crowd of little faces peered over the balusters in
the hall above, eager to come down and enjoy the glories prepared for
them.
A pretty young girl came to meet Kitty, and listened to her story of the
accident, which proved to be less severe than it at first appeared; for
Bertie, the injured party, forgot his anguish at sight of the tree, and
hopped upstairs so nimbly that every one laughed.
"He said his leg was broken, but I guess he’s all right," said Kitty,
reluctantly turning from this happy scene to go out into the night
again.
"Would you like to see our tree before the children come down?" asked
the pretty girl, seeing the wistful look in the child’s eyes, and the
shine of half-dried tears on her cheek.
"Oh, yes; I never saw anything so lovely. I ’d like to tell the babies
all about it;" and Kitty’s face beamed at the prospect, as if the kind
words had melted all the frost away.
"How many babies are there?" asked the pretty girl, as she led the way
into the brilliant room.  Kitty told her, adding several other facts,
for the friendly atmosphere seemed to make them friends at once.
"I will buy the wreaths, for we have n’t any," said the girl in silk, as
Kitty told how she was just coming to offer them when the boys fell.
It was pretty to see how carefully the little hostess laid away the
shabby garlands and slipped a half-dollar into Kitty’s hand; prettier
still, to watch the sly way in which she tucked some bonbons, a red
ball, a blue whip, two china dolls, two pairs of little mittens, and
some gilded nuts into an empty box for "the babies;" and prettiest of
all, to see the smiles and tears make April in Kitty’s face as she tried
to tell her thanks for this beautiful surprise.
The world was all right when she got into the street again and ran home
with the precious box hugged close, feeling that at last she had
something to make a merry Christmas of.
Shrieks of joy greeted her, for Sammy’s nice old lady had sent a basket
full of pies, nuts and raisins, oranges and cake, and--oh, happy
Sammy!--a sled, all for love of the blue eyes that twinkled so merrily
when he told her about the tea-tray.  Piled upon this red car of
triumph, Dilly and Dot were being dragged about, while the other
treasures were set forth on the table.
"I must show mine," cried Kitty; "we ’ll look at them to-night, and have
them to-morrow;" and amid more cries of rapture her box was unpacked,
her money added to the pile in the middle of the table, where Sammy
had laid his handsome contribution toward the turkey.
Before the story of the splendid tree was over, in came Tommy with his
substantial offering and his hard-earned dollar.
"I ’m afraid I ought to keep my money for shoes.  I ’ve walked the soles
off these to-day, and can’t go to school barefooted," he said, bravely
trying to put the temptation of skates behind him.
"We ’ve got a good dinner without a turkey, and perhaps we ’d better not
get it," added Kitty, with a sigh, as she surveyed the table, and
remembered the blue knit hood marked seventy-five cents that she saw in
a shop-window.
"Oh, we must have a turkey! we worked so hard for it, and it’s so
Christmasy," cried Sam, who always felt that pleasant things ought to
happen.
"Must have turty," echoed the babies, as they eyed the dolls tenderly.
"You shall have a turkey, and there he is," said an unexpected voice,
as a noble bird fell upon the table, and lay there kicking up his legs
as if enjoying the surprise immensely.
It was father’s voice, and there stood father, neither cross nor stupid,
but looking as he used to look, kind and happy, and beside him was
mother, smiling as they had not seen her smile for months.  It was not
because the work was well paid for, and more promised, but because she
had received a gift that made the world bright, a home happy
again,--father’s promise to drink no more.
"I ’ve been working to-day as well as you, and you may keep your money
for yourselves. There are shoes for all; and never again, please God,
shall my children be ashamed of me, or want a dinner Christmas Day."
As father said this with a choke in his voice, and mother’s head went
down on his shoulder to hide the happy tears that wet her cheeks, the
children did n’t know whether to laugh or cry, till Kitty, with the
instinct of a loving heart, settled the question by saying, as she held
out her hands, "We have n’t any tree, so let’s dance around our goodies
and be merry."
Then the tired feet in the old shoes forgot their weariness, and five
happy little souls skipped gayly round the table, where, in the midst of
all the treasures earned and given, father’s Christmas turkey proudly
lay in state.
[Illustration: "Grandpapa Ladle cheered them on, like a fine old
gentleman as he was."--PAGE 55.]
                                  III.
                           THE SILVER PARTY.
"Such a long morning!  Seems as if dinner-time would never come!" sighed
Tony, as he wandered into the dining-room for a third pick at the nuts
and raisins to beguile his weariness with a little mischief.
It was Thanksgiving Day.  All the family were at church, all the
servants busy preparing for the great dinner; and so poor Tony, who had
a cold, had not only to stay at home, but to amuse himself while the
rest said their prayers, made calls, or took a brisk walk to get an
appetite.  If he had been allowed in the kitchen, he would have been
quite happy; but cook was busy and cross, and rapped him on the head
with a poker when he ventured near the door.  Peeping through the slide
was also forbidden, and John, the man, bribed him with an orange to keep
out of the way till the table was set.
That was now done.  The dining-room was empty and quiet, and poor Tony
lay down on the sofa to eat his nuts and admire the fine sight before
him.  All the best damask, china, glass, and silver was set forth with
great care. A basket of flowers hung from the chandelier, and the
sideboard was beautiful to behold with piled-up fruit, dishes of cake,
and many-colored finger-bowls and glasses.
"That’s all very nice, but the eating part is what I care for.  Don’t
believe I ’ll get my share to-day, because mamma found out about this
horrid cold.  A fellow can’t help sneezing, though he can hide a sore
throat.  Oh, hum! nearly two more hours to wait;" and with a long sigh
Tony closed his eyes for a luxurious yawn.
When he opened them, the strange sight he beheld kept him staring
without a thought of sleep.  The big soup-ladle stood straight up at the
head of the table with a face plainly to be seen in the bright bowl.  It
was a very heavy, handsome old ladle, so the face was old, but round and
jolly; and the long handle stood very erect, like a tall thin gentleman
with a big head.
"Well, upon my word that’s queer!" said Tony, sitting up also, and
wondering what would happen next.
To his great amazement the ladle began to address the assembled forks
and spoons in a silvery tone very pleasant to hear:--
"Ladies and gentlemen, at this festive season it is proper that we
should enjoy ourselves. As we shall be tired after dinner, we will at
once begin our sports by a grand promenade. Take partners and fall in!"
At these words a general uprising took place; and before Tony could get
his breath a long procession of forks and spoons stood ready. The
finger-bowls struck up an airy tune as if invisible wet fingers were
making music on their rims, and led by the stately ladle like a
drum-major, the grand march began.  The forks were the gentlemen, tall,
slender, and with a fine curve to their backs; the spoons were the
ladies, with full skirts, and the scallops on the handles stood up like
silver combs; the large ones were the mammas, the teaspoons were the
young ladies, and the little salts the children. It was sweet to see the
small things walk at the end of the procession, with the two silver
rests for the carving knife and fork trotting behind like pet dogs.  The
mustard-spoon and pickle-fork went together, and quarrelled all the way,
both being hot-tempered and sharp-tongued. The steel knives looked on,
for this was a very aristocratic party, and only the silver people could
join in it.
"Here ’s fun!" thought Tony, staring with all his might, and so much
interested in this remarkable state of things that he forgot hunger and
time altogether.
Round and round went the glittering train, to the soft music of the
many-toned finger-bowls, till three turns about the long oval table had
been made; then all fell into line for a contradance, as in the good old
times before every one took to spinning like tops.  Grandpa Ladle led
off with his oldest daughter, Madam Gravy Ladle, and the little salts
stood at the bottom prancing like real children impatient for their
turn.  When it came, they went down the middle in fine style, with a
cling! clang! that made Tony’s legs quiver with a longing to join in.
It was beautiful to see the older ones twirl round in a stately way,
with bows and courtesies at the end, while the teaspoons and small forks
romped a good deal, and Mr. Pickle and Miss Mustard kept every one
laughing at their smart speeches.  The silver butter-knife, who was an
invalid, having broken her back and been mended, lay in the rack and
smiled sweetly down upon her friends, while the little Cupid on the lid
of the butter-dish pirouetted on one toe in the most delightful manner.
When every one had gone through the dance, the napkins were arranged as
sofas and the spoons rested, while the polite forks brought sprigs of
celery to fan them with.  The little salts got into grandpa’s lap; and
the silver dogs lay down panting, for they had frisked with the
children.  They all talked; and Tony could not help wondering if real
ladies said such things when they put their heads together and nodded
and whispered, for some of the remarks were so personal that he was much
confused. Fortunately they took no notice of him, so he listened and
learned something in this queer way.
"I have been in this family a hundred years," began the soup-ladle; "and
it seems to me that each generation is worst than the last.  My first
master was punctual to a minute, and madam was always down beforehand to
see that all was ready.  Now master comes at all hours; mistress lets
the servants do as they like; and the manners of the children are very
bad.  Sad state of things, very sad!"
"Dear me, yes!" sighed one of the large spoons; "we don’t see such nice
housekeeping now as we did when we were young.  Girls were taught all
about it then; but now it is all books or parties, and few of them know
a skimmer from a gridiron."
"Well, I ’m sure the poor things are much happier than if they were
messing about in kitchens as girls used to do in your day.  It is much
better for them to be dancing, skating, and studying than wasting their
young lives darning and preserving, and sitting by their mammas as prim
as dishes.  I prefer the present way of doing things, though the girls
in this family do sit up too late, and wear too high heels to their
boots."
The mustard-spoon spoke in a pert tone, and the pickle-fork answered
sharply,--
"I agree with you, cousin.  The boys also sit up too late.  I ’m tired
of being waked to fish out olives or pickles for those fellows when they
come in from the theatre or some dance; and as for that Tony, he is a
real pig,--eats everything he can lay hands on, and is the torment of
the maid’s life."
"Yes," cried one little salt-spoon, "we saw him steal cake out of the
sideboard, and he never told when his mother scolded Norah."
"So mean!" added the other; and both the round faces were so full of
disgust that Tony fell flat and shut his eyes as if asleep to hide his
confusion.  Some one laughed; but he dared not look, and lay blushing
and listening to remarks which plainly proved how careful we should be
of our acts and words even when alone, for who knows what apparently
dumb thing may be watching us.
"I have observed that Mr. Murry reads the paper at table instead of
talking to his family; that Mrs. Murry worries about the servants; the
girls gossip and giggle; the boys eat, and plague one another; and that
small child Nelly teases for all she sees, and is never quiet till she
gets the sugar-bowl," said Grandpa Ladle, in a tone of regret.  "Now,
useful and pleasant chat at table would make meals delightful, instead
of being scenes of confusion and discomfort."
"I bite their tongues when I get a chance, hoping to make them witty or
to check unkind words; but they only sputter, and get a lecture from
Aunt Maria, who is a sour old spinster, always criticising her
neighbors."’
As the mustard-spoon spoke, the teaspoons laughed as if they thought
her rather like Aunt Maria in that respect.
"I gave the baby a fit of colic to teach her to let pickles alone, but
no one thanked me," said the pickle-fork.
"Perhaps if we keep ourselves so bright that those who use us can see
their faces in us, we shall be able to help them a little; for no one
likes to see an ugly face or a dull spoon.  The art of changing frowns
to smiles is never old-fashioned; and lovely manners smooth away the
little worries of life beautifully."  A silvery voice spoke, and all
looked respectfully at Madam Gravy Ladle, who was a very fine old spoon,
with a coat of arms on it, and a polish that all envied.
"People can’t always be remembering how old and valuable and bright they
are.  Here in America we just go ahead and make manners and money for
ourselves.  I don’t stop to ask what dish I ’m going to help to; I
just pitch in and take all I can hold, and don’t care a bit whether I
shine or not.  My grandfather was a kitchen spoon; but I’m smarter than
he was, thanks to my plating, and look and feel as good as any one,
though I have n’t got stags’ heads and big letters on my handle."
No one answered these impertinent remarks of the sauce-spoon, for all
knew that she was not pure silver, and was only used on occasions when
many spoons were needed.  Tony was ashamed to hear her talk in that rude
way to the fine old silver he was so proud of, and resolved he ’d give
the saucy spoon a good rap when he helped himself to the cranberry.
An impressive silence lasted till a lively fork exclaimed, as the clock
struck, "Every one is coasting out-of-doors.  Why not have our share of
the fun inside?  It is very fashionable this winter, and ladies and
gentlemen of the best families do it, I assure you."
"We will!" cried the other forks; and as the dowagers did not object,
all fell to work to arrange the table for this agreeable sport.  Tony
sat up to see how they would manage, and was astonished at the ingenuity
of the silver people. With a great clinking and rattling they ran to and
fro, dragging the stiff white mats about; the largest they leaned up
against the tall caster, and laid the rest in a long slope to the edge
of the table, where a pile of napkins made a nice snowdrift to tumble
into.
"What will they do for sleds?" thought Tony; and the next minute
chuckled when he saw them take the slices of bread laid at each place,
pile on, and spin away, with a great scattering of crumbs like
snowflakes, and much laughter as they landed in the white pile at the
end of the coast.
"Won’t John give it to ’em if he comes in and catches ’em turning his
nice table topsy-turvy!" said the boy to himself, hoping nothing would
happen to end this jolly frolic.  So he kept very still, and watched the
gay forks and spoons climb up and whiz down till they were tired.  The
little salts got Baby Nell’s own small slice, and had lovely times on a
short coast of their own made of one mat held up by grandpa, who smiled
benevolently at the fun, being too old and heavy to join in it.
They kept it up until the slices were worn thin, and one or two upsets
alarmed the ladies; then they rested and conversed again.  The mammas
talked about their children, how sadly the silver basket needed a new
lining, and what there was to be for dinner.  The teaspoons whispered
sweetly together, as young ladies do,--one declaring that rouge powder
was not as good as it used to be, another lamenting the sad effect of
eggs upon her complexion, and all smiled amiably upon the forks, who
stood about discussing wines and cigars, for both lived in the
sideboard, and were brought out after dinner, so the forks knew a great
deal about such matters, and found them very interesting, as all
gentlemen seem to do.
Presently some one mentioned bicycles, and what fine rides the boys of
the family told about. The other fellows proposed a race; and before
Tony could grasp the possibility of such a thing, it was done.  Nothing
easier, for there stood a pile of plates, and just turning them on their
edges, the forks got astride, and the big wheels spun away as if a whole
bicycle club had suddenly arrived.
Old Pickle took the baby’s plate, as better suited to his size.  The
little salts made a tricycle of napkin-rings, and rode gayly off, with
the dogs barking after them.  Even the carving-fork, though not invited,
could not resist the exciting sport, and tipping up the wooden
bread-platter, went whizzing off at a great pace, for his two prongs
were better than four, and his wheel was lighter than the china ones.
Grand-papa Ladle cheered them on, like a fine old gentleman as he was,
for though the new craze rather astonished him, he liked manly sports,
and would have taken a turn if his dignity and age had allowed.  The
ladies chimed their applause, for it really was immensely exciting to
see fourteen plates with forks astride racing round the large table with
cries of, "Go it, Pickle!  Now, then, Prongs!  Steady, Silver-top!
Hurrah for the twins!"
The fun was at its height when young Prongs ran against Pickle, who did
not steer well, and both went off the table with a crash.  All stopped
at once, and crowded to the edge to see who was killed.  The plates lay
in pieces, old Pickle had a bend in his back that made him groan
dismally, and Prongs had fallen down the register.
Wails of despair arose at that awful sight, for he was a favorite with
every one, and such a tragic death was too much for some of the
tender-hearted spoons, who fainted at the idea of that gallant fork’s
destruction in what to them was a fiery volcano.
"Serves Pickle right!  He ought to know he was too old for such wild
games," scolded Miss Mustard, peering anxiously over at her friend, for
they were fond of one another in spite of their tiffs.
"Now let us see what these fine folks will do when they get off the
damask and come to grief. A helpless lot, I fancy, and those fellows
deserve what they ’ve got," said the sauce-spoon, nearly upsetting the
twins as she elbowed her way to the front to jeer over the fallen.
"I think you will see that gentle people are as brave as those who make
a noise," answered Madam Gravy, and leaning over the edge of the table
she added in her sweet voice, "Dear Mr. Pickle, we will let down a
napkin and pull you up if you have strength to take hold."
"Pull away, ma’am," groaned Pickle, who well deserved his name just
then, and soon, thanks to Madam’s presence of mind, he was safely laid
on a pile of mats, while Miss Mustard put a plaster on his injured back.
Meanwhile brave Grandpapa Ladle had slipped from the table to a chair,
and so to the floor without too great a jar to his aged frame; then
sliding along the carpet, he reached the register. Peering down that
dark, hot abyss he cried, while all listened breathlessly for a reply,
"Prongs, my boy, are you there?"
"Ay, ay, sir; I ’m caught in the wire screen. Ask some of the fellows to
lend a hand and get me out before I ’m melted," answered the fork, with
a gasp of agony.
Instantly the long handle of the patriarchal Ladle was put down to his
rescue, and after a moment of suspense, while Prongs caught firmly hold,
up he came, hot and dusty, but otherwise unharmed by that dreadful fall.
Cheers greeted them, and every one lent a hand at the napkin as they
were hoisted to the table to be embraced by their joyful relatives and
friends.
"What did you think about down in that horrid place?" asked one of the
twins.
"I thought of a story I once heard master tell, about a child who was
found one cold day sitting with his feet on a newspaper, and when asked
what he was doing, answered, ’Warming my feet on the "Christian
Register."’  I hoped my register would be Christian enough not to melt
me before help came.  Ha! ha!  See the joke, my dears?" and Prongs
laughed as gayly as if he never had taken a header into a volcano.
"What did you see down there?" asked the other twin, curious, as all
small people are.
"Lots of dust and pins, a doll’s head baby put there, Norah’s thimble,
and the big red marble that boy Tony was raging about the other day.
It’s a regular catch-all, and shows how the work is shirked in this
house," answered Prongs, stretching his legs, which were a little
damaged by the fall.
"What shall we do about the plates?" asked Pickle, from his bed.
"Let them lie, for we can’t mend them. John will think the boy broke
them, and he’ll get punished, as he deserves, for he broke a tumbler
yesterday, and put it slyly in the ash-barrel," said Miss Mustard,
spitefully.
"Oh!  I say, that’s mean," began Tony; but no one listened, and in a
minute Prongs answered bravely,--
"I ’m a gentleman, and I don’t let other people take the blame of my
scrapes.  Tony has enough of his own to answer for."
"I’ll have that bent fork for mine, and make John keep it as bright as a
new dollar to pay for this.  Prongs is a trump, and I wish I could tell
him so," thought Tony, much gratified at this handsome behavior.
"Right, grandson.  I am pleased with you; but allow me to suggest that
the Chinese Mandarin on the chimney-piece be politely requested to mend
the plates.  He can  do that sort of thing nicely, and will be charmed
to oblige us, I am sure."
Grandpapa’s suggestion was a good one; and Yam Ki Lo consented at once,
skipped to the floor, tapped the bits of china with his fan, and in the
twinkling of an eye was back on his perch, leaving two whole plates
behind him, for he was a wizard, and knew all about blue china.
Just as the silver people were rejoicing over this fine escape from
discovery, the clock struck, a bell rang, voices were heard upstairs,
and it was very evident that the family had arrived. At these sounds a
great flurry arose in the dining-room, as every spoon, fork, plate, and
napkin flew back to its place.  Pickle rushed to the jar, and plunged in
head first, regardless of his back; Miss Mustard retired to the caster;
the twins scrambled into the salt-cellar; and the silver dogs lay down
by the carving knife and fork as quietly as if they had never stirred a
leg; Grandpapa slowly reposed in his usual place; Madam followed his
example with dignity; the teaspoons climbed into the holder, uttering
little cries of alarm; and Prongs stayed to help them till he had barely
time to drop down at Tony’s place, and lie there with his bent leg in
the air, the only sign of the great fall, about which he talked for a
long time afterward.  All was in order but the sauce-spoon, who had
stopped to laugh at the Mandarin till it was too late to get to her
corner; and before she could find any place of concealment, John came in
and caught her lying in the middle of the table, looking very common and
shabby among all the bright silver.
"What in the world is that old plated thing here for?  Missis told Norah
to put it in the kitchen, as she had a new one for a present
to-day--real silver--so out you go;" and as he spoke, John threw the
spoon through the slide,--an exile forevermore from the good society
which she did not value as she should.
Tony saw the glimmer of a smile in Grand-papa Ladle’s face, but it was
gone like a flash, and by the time the boy reached the table nothing was
to be seen in the silver bowl but his own round rosy countenance, full
of wonder.
"I don’t think any one will believe what I ’ve seen, but I mean to tell,
it was so very curious," he said, as he surveyed the scene of the late
frolic, now so neat and quiet that not a wrinkle or a crumb betrayed
what larks had been going on.
Hastily fishing up his long-lost marble, the doll’s head, and Norah’s
thimble, he went thoughtfully upstairs to welcome his cousins, still
much absorbed by this very singular affair.
Dinner was soon announced; and while it lasted every one was too busy
eating the good things before them to observe how quiet the usually
riotous Tony was.  His appetite for turkey and cranberries seemed to
have lost its sharp edge, and the mince-pie must have felt itself sadly
slighted by his lack of appreciation of its substance and flavor.  He
seemed in a brown-study, and kept staring about as if he saw more than
other people did.  He examined Nelly’s plate as if looking for a crack,
smiled at the little spoon when he took salt, refused pickles and
mustard with a frown, kept a certain bent fork by him as long as
possible, and tried to make music with a wet finger on the rim of his
bowl at dessert.
But in the evening, when the young people sat around the fire, he amused
them by telling the queer story of the silver party; but he very wisely
left out the remarks made upon himself and family, remembering how
disagreeable the sauce-spoon had seemed, and he privately resolved to
follow Madam Gravy Ladle’s advice to keep his own face bright, manners
polite, and speech kindly, that he might prove himself to be pure
silver, and be stamped a gentleman.
[Illustration: "Presently she sat down and let them tap her
cheeks."--PAGE 82.]
                                  IV.
                            THE BLIND LARK.
High up in an old house, full of poor people, lived Lizzie, with her
mother and Baby Billy.  The street was a narrow, noisy place, where
carts rumbled and dirty children played; where the sun seldom shone, the
fresh wind seldom blew, and the white snow of winter was turned at once
to black mud.  One bare room was Lizzie’s home, and out of it she seldom
went, for she was a prisoner.  We all pity the poor princesses who were
shut up in towers by bad fairies, the men and women in jails, and the
little birds in cages, but Lizzie was a sadder prisoner than any of
these.
The prince always comes to the captive princess, the jail doors open in
time, and the birds find some kind hand to set them free; but there
seemed no hope of escape for this poor child. Only nine years old, and
condemned to life-long helplessness, loneliness, and darkness,--for she
was blind.
She could dimly remember the blue sky, green earth, and beautiful sun;
for the light went out when she was six, and the cruel fever left her a
pale little shadow to haunt that room ever since.  The father was dead;
the mother worked hard for daily bread; they had no friends; and the
good fairies seemed to have forgotten them.  Still, like the larks one
sees in Brittany, whose eyes cruel boys put out that they may sing the
sweeter, Lizzie made music in her cage, singing to baby; and when he
slept, she sat by the window listening to the noise below for company,
crooning to herself till she too fell asleep and forgot the long, long
days that had no play, no school, no change for her such as other
children know.
Every morning mother gave them their porridge, locked the door, and went
away to work, leaving something for the children’s dinner, and Lizzie to
take care of herself and Billy till night.  There was no other way, for
both were too helpless to be trusted elsewhere, and there was no one to
look after them.  But Lizzie knew her way about the room, and could find
the bed, the window, and the table where the bread and milk stood.
There was seldom any fire in the stove, and the window was barred, so
the little prisoners were safe; and day after day they lived together a
sad, solitary, unchildlike life that makes one’s heart ache to think of.
Lizzie watched over Billy like a faithful little mother, and Billy did
his best to bear his trials and comfort sister like a man.  He was not a
rosy, rollicking fellow, like most year-old boys, but pale and thin and
quiet, with a pathetic look in his big blue eyes, as if he said,
"Something is wrong; will some one kindly put it right for us?"  But he
seldom complained unless in pain, and would lie for hours on the old
bed, watching the flies, which were his only other playmates, stretching
out his little hands to the few rays of sunshine that crept in now and
then, as if longing for them, like a flower in a cellar.  When Lizzie
sang, he hummed softly; and when he was hungry, cold, or tired, he
called, "Lib!  Lib!" meaning "Lizzie," and nestled up to her, forgetting
all his baby woes in her tender arms.
Seeing her so fond and faithful, the poor neighbors loved as well as
pitied her, and did what they could for the afflicted child.  The busy
women would pause at the locked door to ask if all was right; the dirty
children brought her dandelions from the park; and the rough workmen of
the factory opposite, with a kind word, would toss an apple or a cake
through the open window.  They had learned to look for the little
wistful face behind the bars, and loved to listen to the childish voice
which caught and imitated the songs they sang and whistled, like a sweet
echo.  They called her "the blind lark;" and though she never knew it,
many were the better for the pity they gave her.
Baby slept a great deal, for life offered him few pleasures, and like a
small philosopher, he wisely tried to forget the troubles which he could
not cure; so Lizzie had nothing to do but sing, and try to imagine how
the world looked.  She had no one to tell her, and the few memories grew
dimmer and dimmer each year.  She did not know how to work or to play,
never having been taught, and mother was too tired at night to do
anything but get supper and go to bed.
"The child will be an idiot soon, if she does not die," people said; and
it seemed as if this would be the fate of the poor little girl, since no
one came to save her during those three weary years.  She often said,
"I’m of some use.  I take care of Billy, and I could n’t live without
him."
But even this duty and delight was taken from her, for that cold spring
nipped the poor little flower, and one day Billy shut his blue eyes with
a patient sigh and left her all alone.
Then Lizzie’s heart seemed broken; and people thought she would soon
follow him, now that her one care and comfort was gone.  All day she lay
with her cheek on Billy’s pillow, holding the battered tin cup and a
little worn-out shoe, and it was pitiful to hear her sing the old
lullabies as if baby still could hear them.
"It will be a mercy if the poor thing does n’t live; blind folks are no
use and a sight of trouble," said one woman to another as they gossiped
in the hall after calling on the child during her mother’s absence, for
the door was left unlocked since she was ill.
"Yes, Mrs. Davis would get on nicely if she had n’t such a burden.
Thank Heaven, my children are n’t blind," answered the other, hugging
her baby closer as she went away.
Lizzie heard them, and hoped with all her sad little soul that death
would set her free, since she was of no use in the world.  To go and be
with Billy was all her desire now, and she was on her way to him,
growing daily weaker and more content to be dreaming of dear baby well
and happy, waiting for her somewhere in a lovely place called heaven.
The summer vacation came; and hundreds of eager children were hurrying
away to the mountains and seashore for two months of healthful pleasure.
Even the dirty children in the lane felt the approach of berry-time, and
rejoiced in their freedom from cold as they swarmed like flies about the
corner grocery where over-ripe fruit was thrown out for them to scramble
over.
Lizzie heard about good times when some of these young neighbors were
chosen to go on the poor children’s picnics, and came back with big
sandwiches buttoned up in their jackets, pickles, peanuts, and buns in
their pockets, hands full of faded flowers, and hearts brimming over
with childish delight at a day in the woods.  She listened with a faint
smile, enjoyed the "woodsy" smell of the green things, and wondered if
they had nice picnics in heaven, being sorry that Billy had missed them
here.  But she did not seem to care much, or hope for any pleasure for
herself except to see baby again.
I think there were few sadder sights in that great city than this
innocent prisoner waiting so patiently to be set free.  Would it be by
the gentle angel of death, or one of the human angels who keep these
little sparrows from falling to the ground?
One hot August day, when not a breath came into the room, and the dust
and noise and evil smells were almost unendurable, poor Lizzie lay on
her bed singing feebly to herself about "the beautiful blue sea."  She
was trying to get to sleep that she might dream of a cool place, and her
voice was growing fainter and fainter, when suddenly it seemed as if the
dream had come, for a sweet odor was near, something damp and fresh
touched her feverish cheek, and a kind voice said in her ear,--
"Here is the little bird I ’ve been following. Will you have some
flowers, dear?"
"Is it heaven?  Where’s Billy?" murmured Lizzie, groping about her, half
awake.
"Not yet.  I’m not Billy, but a friend who carries flowers to little
children who cannot go and get them.  Don’t be afraid, but let me sit
and tell you about it," answered the voice, as a gentle hand took hers.
"I thought maybe I ’d died, and I was glad, for I do want to see Billy
so much.  He’s baby, you know."  And the clinging hands held the kind
one fast till it filled them with a great bunch of roses that seemed to
bring all summer into the close, hot room with their sweetness.
"Oh, how nice! how nice!  I never had such a lot.  They ’re bigger ’n’
better ’n dandelions, are n’t they?  What a good lady you must be to go
’round giving folks posies like these!" cried Lizzie, trying to realize
the astonishing fact.
Then, while the new friend fanned her, she lay luxuriating in her roses,
and listening to the sweet story of the Flower Mission which, like many
other pleasant things, she knew nothing of in her prison.  Presently she
told her own little tale, never guessing how pathetic it was, till
lifting her hand to touch the new face, she found it wet with tears.
"Are you sorry for me?" she asked.  "Folks are very kind, but I ’m a
burden, you know, and I ’d better die and go to Billy; I was some use to
him, but I never can be to any one else. I heard ’em say so, and poor
mother would do better if I was n’t here."
"My child, I know a little blind girl who is no burden but a great help
to her mother, and a happy, useful creature, as you might be if you were
taught and helped as she was," went on the voice, sounding more than
ever like a good fairy’s as it told fresh wonders till Lizzie was sure
it must be all a dream.
"Who taught her?  Could I do it?  Where’s the place?" she asked, sitting
erect in her eagerness, like a bird that hears a hand at the door of its
cage.
Then, with the comfortable arm around her, the roses stirring with the
flutter of her heart, and the sightless eyes looking up as if they could
see the face of the deliverer, Lizzie heard the wonderful story of the
House Beautiful standing white and spacious on the hill, with the blue
sea before it, the fresh wind always blowing, the green gardens and
parks all about, and inside, music, happy voices, shining faces, busy
hands, and year after year the patient teaching by those who dedicate
themselves to this noble and tender task.
"It must be better’n heaven!" cried Lizzie, as she heard of work and
play, health and happiness, love and companionship, usefulness and
independence,--all the dear rights and simple joys young creatures
hunger for, and perish, soul and body, without.
It was too much for her little mind to grasp at once, and she lay as if
in a blissful dream long after the kind visitor had gone, promising to
come again and to find some way for Lizzie to enter into that lovely
place where darkness is changed to light.
That visit was like magic medicine, and the child grew better at once,
for hope was born in her heart.  The heavy gloom seemed to lift;
discomforts were easier to bear; and solitude was peopled now with
troops of happy children living in that wonderful place where blindness
was not a burden.  She told it all to her mother, and the poor woman
tried to believe it, but said sadly,--
"Don’t set your heart on it, child.  It’s easy to promise and to forget.
Rich folks don’t trouble themselves about poor folks if they can help
it."
But Lizzie’s faith never wavered, though the roses faded as day after
day went by and no one came.  The mere thought that it was possible to
teach blind people to work and study and play seemed to give her
strength and courage.  She got up and sat at the window again, singing
to herself as she watched and waited, with the dead flowers carefully
arranged in Billy’s mug, and a hopeful smile on the little white face
behind the bars.
Every one was glad she was better, and nodded to one another as they
heard the soft crooning, like a dove’s coo, in the pauses of the harsher
noises that filled the street.  The workmen tossed her sweeties and
whistled their gayest airs; the children brought their dilapidated toys
to amuse her; and one woman came every day to put her baby in Lizzie’s
lap, it was such a pleasure to her to feel the soft little body in the
loving arms that longed for Billy.
Poor mother went to her work in better spirits, and the long hot days
were less oppressive as she thought, while she scrubbed, of Lizzie up
again; for she loved her helpless burden, heavy though she found it.
When Saturday came around, it rained hard, and no one expected "the
flower lady."  Even Lizzie said with a patient sigh and a hopeful
smile,--
"I don’t believe she ’ll come; but maybe it will clear up, and then I
guess she will."
It did not clear up, but the flower lady came; and as the child sat
listening to the welcome sound of her steps, her quick ear caught the
tread of two pairs of feet, the whisper of two voices, and presently two
persons came in to fill her hands with midsummer flowers.
"This is Minna, the little girl I told you of. She wanted to see you
very much, so we paddled away like a pair of ducks, and here we are,"
said Miss Grace, gayly; and as she spoke, Lizzie felt soft fingers glide
over her face, and a pair of childish lips find and kiss her own. The
groping touch, the hearty kiss, made the blind children friends at once,
and dropping her flowers, Lizzie hugged the new-comer, trembling with
excitement and delight.  Then they talked; and how the tongues went as
one asked questions and the other answered them, while Miss Grace sat by
enjoying the happiness of those who do not forget the poor, but seek
them out to save and bless.
Minna had been for a year a pupil in the happy school, where she was
taught to see with her hands, as one might say; and the tales she told
of the good times there made Lizzie cry eagerly,--
"Can I go?  Oh, can go?"
"Alas, no, not yet," answered Miss Grace, sadly.  "I find that children
under ten cannot be taken, and there is no place for the little ones
unless kind people care for them."
Lizzie gave a wail, and hid her face in the pillow, feeling as if she
could not bear the dreadful disappointment.
Minna comforted her, and Miss Grace went on to say that generous people
were trying to get another school for the small children; that all the
blind children were working hard to help on the plan; that money was
coming in; and soon they hoped to have a pleasant place for every child
who needed help.
Lizzie’s tears stopped falling as she listened, for hope was not quite
gone.
"I ’ll not be ten till next June, and I don’t see how I can wait ’most
a year.  Will the little school be ready ’fore then?" she asked.
"I fear not, dear, but I will see that the long waiting is made as easy
as possible, and perhaps you can help us in some way," answered Miss
Grace, anxious to atone for her mistake in speaking about the school
before she had made sure that Lizzie could go.
"Oh, I ’d love to help; only I can’t do anything," sighed the child.
"You can sing, and that is a lovely way to help.  I heard of ’the blind
lark,’ as they call you, and when I came to find her, your little voice
led me straight to the door of the cage. That door I mean to open, and
let you hop out into the sunshine; then, when you are well and strong, I
hope you will help us get the home for other little children who else
must wait years before they find the light.  Will you?"
As Miss Grace spoke, it was beautiful to see the clouds lift from
Lizzie’s wondering face, till it shone with the sweetest beauty any face
can wear,--the happiness of helping others.  She forgot her own
disappointment in the new hope that came, and held on to the bedpost as
if the splendid plan were almost too much for her.
"Could I help that way?" she cried. "Would anybody care to hear me sing?
Oh, how I ’d love to do anything for the poor little ones who will have
to wait."
"You shall.  I ’m sure the hardest heart would be touched by your
singing, if you look as you do now.  We need something new for our fair
and concert, and by that time you will be ready," said Miss Grace,
almost afraid she had said too much; for the child looked so frail, it
seemed as if even joy would hurt her.
Fortunately her mother came in just then; and while the lady talked to
her, Minna’s childish chatter soothed Lizzie so well that when they left
she stood at the window smiling down at them and singing like the
happiest bobolink that ever tilted on a willow branch in spring-time.
All the promises were kept, and soon a new life began for Lizzie.  A
better room and well-paid work were found for Mrs. Davis.  Minna came as
often as she could to cheer up her little friend, and best of all, Miss
Grace taught her to sing, that by and by the little voice might plead
with its pathetic music for others less blest than she.  So the winter
months went by, and Lizzie grew like mayflowers underneath the snow,
getting ready to look up, sweet and rosy, when spring set her free and
called her to be glad.  She counted the months and weeks, and when the
time dwindled to days, she could hardly sleep or eat for thinking of the
happy hour when she could go to be a pupil in the school where miracles
were worked.
Her birthday was in June, and thanks to Miss Grace, her coming was
celebrated by one of the pretty festivals of the school, called Daisy
Day. Lizzie knew nothing of this surprise, and when her friends led her
up the long flight of steps she looked like a happy little soul climbing
to the gates of heaven.
Mr. Constantine, the ruler of this small kingdom, was a man whose
fatherly heart had room for every suffering child in the world, and it
rejoiced over every one who came, though the great house was
overflowing, and many waited as Lizzie had done.
He welcomed her so kindly that the strange place seemed like home at
once, and Minna led her away to the little mates who proudly showed her
their small possessions and filled her hands with the treasures children
love, while pouring into her ears delightful tales of the study, work,
and play that made their lives so happy.
Lizzie was bewildered, and held fast to Minna, whose motherly care of
her was sweet to see. Kind teachers explained rules and duties with the
patience that soothes fear and wins love; and soon Lizzie began to feel
that she was a "truly pupil" in this wonderful school where the blind
could read, sew, study, sing, run, and play.  Boys raced along the
galleries and up and down the stairs as boldly as if all had eyes; girls
swept and dusted like tidy housewives; little fellows hammered and sawed
in the workshop and never hurt themselves; small girls sewed on pretty
work as busy as bees; and in the schoolroom lessons went on as if both
teachers and pupils were blessed with eyes.
Lizzie could not understand it, and was content to sit and listen
wherever she was placed, while her little fingers fumbled at the new
objects near her, and her hungry mind opened like a flower to the sun.
She had no tasks that day, and in the afternoon was led away with a
flock of children, all chattering like magpies, on the grand expedition.
Every year, when the fields were white with daisies, these poor little
souls were let loose among them to enjoy the holy day of this child’s
flower.  Ah, but was n’t it a pretty sight to see the meeting between
them, when the meadows were reached, and the children scattered far and
wide with cries of joy as they ran and rolled in the white sea, or
filled their eager hands, or softly felt for the dear daisies and kissed
them like old friends? The flowers seemed to enjoy it too, as they
danced and nodded, while the wind rippled the long grass like waves of a
green sea, and the sun smiled as if he said,--
"Here’s the sort of thing I like to see.  Why don’t I find more of it?"
Lizzie’s face looked like a daisy, it was so full of light as she stood
looking up, with the wide brim of her new hat like the white petals all
round it.  She did not run nor shout, but went slowly wading through the
grass, feeling the flowers touch her hands, yet picking none, for it was
happiness enough to know that they were there.  Presently she sat down
and let them tap her cheeks and rustle about her ears as though telling
secrets that made her smile. Then, as if weary with so much happiness,
she lay back and let the daisies hide her with their pretty coverlet.
Miss Grace was watching over her, but left her alone, and by and by,
like a lark from its nest in the grass, the blind girl sent up her
little voice, singing so sweetly that the children gathered around to
hear, while they made chains and tied up their nosegays.
This was Lizzie’s first concert, and no little prima donna was ever more
pelted with flowers than she; for when she had sung all her songs, new
and old, a daisy crown was put upon her head, a tall flower for a
sceptre in her hand, and all the boys and girls danced around her as if
she had been Queen of the May.
A little feast came out of the baskets, that they might be empty for the
harvest to be carried home, and while they ate, stories were told and
shouts of laughter filled the air, for all were as merry as if there was
no darkness, pain, or want in the world.  Then they had games; and
Lizzie was taught to play,--for till now she never knew what a good romp
meant.  Her cheeks grew rosy, her sad little face waked up, she ran and
tumbled with the rest, and actually screamed, to Minna’s great delight.
Two or three of the children could see a little, and these were very
helpful in taking care of the little ones.  Miss Grace found them
playing some game with Lizzie, and observed that all but she were
blindfolded.  When she asked why, one whispered, "We thought we should
play fairer if we were all alike."  And another added, "It seems somehow
as if we were proud if we see better than the rest."
Lizzie was much touched by this sweet spirit, and a little later showed
that she had already learned one lesson in the school, when she gathered
about her some who had never seen, and told them what she could remember
of green fields and daisy-balls before the light went out forever.
"Surely my little lark was worth saving, if only for this one happy
day," thought Miss Grace, as she watched the awakened look in the blind
faces, all leaning toward the speaker, whose childish story pleased them
well.
In all her long and useful life, Lizzie never forgot that Daisy Day, for
it seemed as if she were born anew, and like a butterfly had left the
dark chrysalis all behind her then.  It was the first page of the
beautiful book just opening before the eyes of her little mind,--a
lovely page, illustrated with flowers, kind faces, sunshine, and happy
hopes.  The new life was so full, so free, she soon fell into her place
and enjoyed it all.  People worked there so heartily, so helpfully, it
was no wonder things went as if by magic, and the poor little creatures
who came in so afflicted went out in some years independent people,
ready to help themselves and often to benefit others.
There is no need to tell all Lizzie learned and enjoyed that summer, nor
how proud her mother was when she heard her read in the curious books,
making eyes of the little fingers that felt their way along so fast;
when she saw the neat stitches she set, the pretty clay things she
modelled, the tidy way she washed dishes, swept, and dusted, and helped
keep her room in order. But the poor woman’s heart was too full for
words when she heard the child sing,--not as before, in the dreary room,
sad, soft lullabies to Billy, but beautiful, gay songs, with flutes and
violins to lift and carry the little voice along on waves of music.
Lizzie really had a great gift; but she was never happier than when they
all sang together, or when she sat quietly listening to the band as they
practised for the autumn concert.  She was to have a part in it; and the
thought that she could help to earn money for the Kindergarten made the
shy child bold and glad to do her part.  Many people knew her now, for
she was very pretty, with the healthful roses in her cheeks, curly
yellow hair, and great blue eyes that seemed to see.  Her mates and
teachers were proud of her, for though she was not as quick as some of
the pupils, her sweet temper, grateful heart, and friendly little ways
made her very dear to all, aside from the musical talent she possessed.
Every one was busy over the fair and the concert; and fingers flew,
tongues chattered, feet trotted, and hearts beat fast with hope and fear
as the time drew near, for all were eager to secure a home for the poor
children still waiting in darkness.  It was a charity which appealed to
all hearts when it was known; but in this busy world of ours, people
have so many cares of their own that they are apt to forget the wants of
others unless something brings these needs very clearly before their
eyes.  Much money was needed, and many ways had been tried to add to the
growing fund, that all might be well done.
"We wish to interest children in this charity for children, so that they
may gladly give a part of their abundance to these poor little souls who
have nothing.  I think Lizzie will sing some of the pennies out of their
pockets, which would otherwise go for bonbons.  Let us try; so make her
neat and pretty, and we ’ll have a special song for her."
Mr. Constantine said this; and Miss Grace carried out his wish so well
that when the time came, the little prima donna did her part better even
than they had hoped.
The sun shone splendidly on the opening day of the fair, and cars and
carriages came rolling out from the city, full of friendly people with
plump purses and the sympathetic interest we all take in such things
when we take time to see, admire, and reproach ourselves that we do so
little for them.
There were many children; and when they had bought the pretty handiwork
of the blind needle-women, eaten cake and ices, wondered at the strange
maps and books, twirled the big globe in the hall, and tried to
understand how so many blind people could be so busy and so happy, they
all were seated at last to hear the music, full of expectation, for "the
pretty little girl was going to sing."
It was a charming concert, and every one enjoyed it, though many eyes
grew dim as they wandered from the tall youths blowing the horns so
sweetly to the small ones chirping away like so many sparrows, for the
blind faces made the sight pathetic, and such music touched the hearts
as no other music can.
"Now she’s coming!" whispered the eager children, as a little girl
climbed up the steps and stood before them, waiting to begin.
A slender little creature in a blue gown, with sunshine falling on her
pretty hair, a pleading look in the soft eyes that had no sign of
blindness but their steadfastness, and a smile on the lips that trembled
at first, for Lizzie’s heart beat fast, and only the thought, "I ’m
helping the poor little ones," gave her courage for her task.
But when the flutes and violins began to play like a whispering wind,
she forgot the crowd before her, and lifting up her face, sang in clear
sweet tones.
    THE BLIND LARK’S SONG.
    We are sitting in the shadow
      Of a long and lonely night,
    Waiting till some gentle angel
      Comes to lead us to the light;
    For we know there is a magic
      That can give eyes to the blind.
    Oh, well-filled hands, be generous!
      Oh, pitying hearts, be kind!
    Help stumbling feet that wander
      To find the upward way;
    Teach hands that now lie idle
      The joys of work and play.
    Let pity, love, and patience
      Our tender teachers be,
    That though the eyes be blinded,
      The little souls may see.
    Your world is large and beautiful,
      Our prison dim and small;
    We stand and wait, imploring,
      "Is there not room for all?
    Give us our children’s garden,
      Where we may safely bloom,
    Forgetting in God’s sunshine
      Our lot of grief and gloom."
    A little voice comes singing;
      Oh, listen to its song!
    A little child is pleading
      For those who suffer wrong.
    Grant them the patient magic
      That gives eyes to the blind!
    Oh, well-filled hands, be generous!
      Oh, pitying hearts, be kind!
It was a very simple little song, but it proved wonderfully effective,
for Lizzie was so carried away by her own feeling that as she sang the
last lines she stretched out her hands imploringly, and two great tears
rolled down her cheeks.  For a minute many hands were too busy fumbling
for handkerchiefs to clap, but the children were quick to answer that
gesture and those tears; and one impetuous little lad tossed a small
purse containing his last ten cents at Lizzie’s feet, the first
contribution won by her innocent appeal.  Then there was great applause,
and many of the flowers just bought were thrown to the little lark, who
was obliged to come back and sing again and again, smiling brightly as
she dropped pretty courtesies, and sang song after song with all the
added sweetness of a grateful heart.
Hidden behind the organ, Miss Grace and Mr. Constantine shook hands
joyfully, for this was the sort of interest they wanted, and they knew
that while the children clapped and threw flowers, the wet-eyed mothers
were thinking self-reproachfully, "I must help this lovely charity," and
the stout old gentlemen who pounded with their canes were resolving to
go home and write some generous checks, which would be money invested in
God’s savings-bank.
It was a very happy time for all, and made strangers friends in the
sweet way which teaches heart to speak to heart.  When the concert was
over, Lizzie felt many hands press hers and leave something there, many
childish lips kiss her own, with promises to "help about the
Kindergarten," and her ears were full of kind voices thanking and
praising her for doing her part so well.  Still later, when all were
gone, she proudly put the rolls of bills into Mr. Constantine’s hand,
and throwing her arms about Miss Grace’s neck, said, trembling with
earnestness, "I ’m not a burden any more, and I can truly help!  How can
I ever thank you both for making me so happy?"
One can fancy what their answer was and how Lizzie helped; for long
after the Kindergarten was filled with pale little flowers blooming
slowly as she had done, the Blind Lark went on singing pennies out of
pockets, and sweetly reminding people not to forget this noble charity.
                                   V.
                          MUSIC AND MACARONI.
Among the pretty villages that lie along the wonderful Cornice road
which runs from Nice to Genoa, none was more beautiful than Valrose.  It
deserved its name, for it was indeed a "valley of roses."  The little
town with its old church nestled among the olive and orange trees that
clothed the hillside, sloping up to purple mountains towering behind.
Lower down stretched the vineyards; and the valley was a bed of flowers
all the year round.  There were acres of violets, verbenas, mignonette,
and every sweet-scented blossom that grows, while hedges of roses, and
alleys of lemon-trees with their white stars made the air heavy with
perfume. Across the plain, one saw the blue sea rolling to meet the
bluer sky, sending fresh airs and soft rains to keep Valrose green and
beautiful even through the summer heat.  Only one ugly thing marred the
lovely landscape, and that was the factory, with its tall chimneys, its
red walls, and ceaseless bustle.  But old ilex-trees tried to conceal
its ugliness; the smoke curled gracefully from its chimney-tops; and the
brown men talked in their musical language as they ran about the busy
courtyard, or did strange things below in the still-room.  Handsome
black-eyed girls sang at the open windows at their pretty work, and
delicious odors filled the place; for here the flowers that bloomed
outside were changed to all kinds of delicate perfumes to scent the hair
of great ladies and the handkerchiefs of dainty gentlemen all the world
over.
The poor roses, violets, mignonette, orange-flowers, and their sisters,
were brought here in great baskets to yield up their sweet souls in hot
rooms where, fires burned and great vats boiled; then they were sent up
to be imprisoned in pretty flasks of all imaginable shapes and colors by
the girls, who put gilded labels on them, packed them in delicate boxes,
and sent them away to comfort the sick, please the rich, and put money
in the pockets of the merchants.
Many children were employed in the light work of weeding beds, gathering
flowers, and running errands; among these none were busier, happier, or
more beloved than Florentino and his sister Stella.  They were orphans,
but they lived with old Mariuccia in her little stone house near the
church, contented with the small wages they earned, though their clothes
were poor, their food salad, macaroni, rye bread, and thin wine, with
now and then a taste of meat when Stella’s lover or some richer friend
gave them a treat on gala days.
They worked hard, and had their dreams of what they would do when they
had saved up a little store; Stella would marry her Beppo and settle in
a home of her own; but Tino was more ambitious, for he possessed a sweet
boyish voice and sang so well in the choir, at the merrymakings, and
about his work, that he was called the "little nightingale," and much
praised and petted, not only by his mates, but by the good priest who
taught him music, and the travellers who often came to the factory and
were not allowed to go till Tino had sung to them.
All this made the lad vain; and he hoped one day to go away as Baptista
had gone, who now sang in a fine church at Genoa and sent home gold
napoleons to his old parents.  How this was to come about Tino had not
the least idea, but he cheered his work with all manner of wild plans,
and sang his best at Mass, hoping some stranger would hear, and take him
away as Signor Pulci had taken big Tista, whose voice was not half so
wonderful as his own, all had said.  No one came, however, and Tino at
thirteen was still at work in the valley,--a happy little lad, singing
all day long as he carried his fragrant loads to and fro, ate his dinner
of bread and beans fried in oil, with a crust, under the ilex-trees, and
slept like a dormouse at night on his clean straw in the loft at
Mariuccia’s, with the moon for his candle and the summer warmth for his
