and good and tender of soul, and I know God loves him for his work to
the poor and needy last winter."
"I have wondered many times how he escaped. We only knew that he was
safe."
"Someone betrayed him. He had taken great care. Wilt thou hear how he
left the town?"
"Dost thou know?" raising her soft eyes.
Primrose told gleefully how they had disguised him and seen him safe on
the road where he was not likely to meet the soldiery.
"And thou didst do this for him, dear child!"
She took the soft hands in hers, that were soft again now that she did
little coarse labor.
"It was not much to do, surely. And it was rare fun when the guards
passed us."
"I owe much to thee and Madam Wetherill. And did he speak of any
return?"
"Nay, his is a soldier's life."
"I sometimes think it is not wisdom to plan children's lives. Perhaps if
we had let him be," and she gave a gentle sigh. "But we had hopes he
would fancy Rachel, and she somehow had set her heart upon it. He seemed
not inclined to marry, and so we should have waited until the spirit
guided him. Child, I thank thee for thy care and interest in him. We
should have been glad if thou couldst have kept thy father's faith and
been content to stay here, but I can see thou didst need a larger life.
Perhaps we narrow ours too much. It may not always be the Lord's will as
we think. I have strange ideas as I sit and knit or sew. And I remember
that good Mr. Penn and his wife took much pleasure of a kind we hardly
approve of now. It is hard to tell which is right."
"Dear Aunt Lois, whatever leads people to be sweet and joyful and
thankful and kind to all who suffer cannot be far wrong. And were there
no good men before the time of Mr. Fox and Mr. Penn?"
"Thou wert always finding prettiness of speech and ways that have a
charm in them. And if thou shouldst send word to Andrew at any time,
tell him his mother's heart is tender towards him and that no one can
fill his place. Thou hast given me much joy. But I can see thou art not
fitted for the grave life here, and if our ancestors crossed the sea
that they might have liberty of belief, why should we not grant it to
others?"
James Henry no longer insisted upon what he called his rights in his
brother's child. She was too gay and worldly for his taste, which, where
women were concerned, could have been comprised in the old advice "To
avoid Papishers and learn to knit." And when he looked on the industry
and thrift of Rachel his heart hardened toward his son for his
blindness.
For Primrose went steadily now to Christ Church, but England would not
send over a bishop while people were so contumacious, and so some rites
were held in abeyance.
But she was very happy and growing tall rapidly, and Friend Henry turned
her over altogether to Madam Wetherill, who after all was not forgotten
by the fashionables, even if they did run after the Arnolds.
And in the autumn there were some changes, although the Continentals had
not swept their enemies across the sea. Society Hill put on a brisk
aspect, and gardens opened again where they sold beer and cakes, and
young people chatted merrily, while older people gossiped. There were
shops trying to turn out much-needed goods that gave the town an aspect
of industry. Indeed employment was provided for the poor classes in
putting streets in order. All manner of homespun cloth was made. Even
Mrs. Washington had ordered that her spinning wheels at Mount Vernon
should fly as briskly as if she were there, and sixteen were kept going
all the time.
Franklin and John Adams were in France cementing the alliance that was
so slow in doing its promised work. At home, political leaders were
quarreling fiercely among themselves. Joseph Reed and Arnold were at
swords' points. A charge of dishonesty and malpractice in office was
preferred against Arnold before the Continental Congress, but, though
convicted, he was sentenced to a reprimand only. He had been a brave
soldier, and Washington, with a heart full of anxiety for other
undertakings, unfortunately dealt leniently with him, but it made no
appeal to better feelings or conduct, for he began almost at once his
treasonable practices with the British, that were to bring about a
lasting shame.
There were other troubles as well. The Quakers could not and would not
serve in the army nor pay taxes for its support. Franklin had known how
to gain by diplomacy what they would not openly concede, but they were
unpopular with those in power, and the mob openly rejoiced when goods
were levied upon. Indeed many of the poorer and plainer brethren had
little sympathy when such articles as "a looking glass in wide gilt and
mahogany frame, with ornamental corners" and "handsome walnut chairs
deeply carven and with silken cushions" and "mahogany tea table with
carved legs and crow feet" were sold for a quarter of their value. It
shows that many of the Friends were not stinted in their household
appointments, and must indeed have had sturdy consciences to part with
their cherished belongings rather than pay away a little money in what
was considered an unjust cause.
New York was full of gayety and dissipation under the British, as
Philadelphia had been. And Primrose was sent for by her brother, who was
now Colonel Nevitt and in a pleasant position.
"There is much to see and enjoy," he wrote. "And there are fine manners
and customs that will fit you for London when we go. For it is most
certain, by the looks of things, that the rebellion will soon be
brought to an end. The winter in Philadelphia was a great mistake,
though pleasant enough to me. And you must be now a pretty young woman
that I should be proud to have. If Madam Wetherill feels that she is not
young enough for gayety, I have some friends here who will be glad to
take charge of a fair young girl, and I shall be most happy with my
charming sister. There are parties coming almost every week, and I can
find safe escort. Do not disappoint me."
"What wilt thou do?" asked Madam Wetherill. "Thou art no longer a little
girl, Primrose, though it grieves me to say it. Patty scolds about
lengthening thy gowns all the time, and Anabella is sure I will keep
thee an old maid. Though between two stools she is like to come to the
floor for aught I see. Her British lover never so much as wrote her a
line, and young Matthews, that she made quite certain of, hath married
Kitty Strong. She need not worry about thee, since thou hast nearly two
years' grace behind her. But her mother was so foolishly hasty to have
her married."
"But I want to stay a little girl," cried Primrose eagerly. "I hate a
big hoop and a monstrous topknot that pulls my hair, and a bunch of
feathers that makes one look like an Indian sachem."
She made such a pretty pouting mouth, like a rose half-blown, that madam
laughed.
"And then one can run around with Patty and tease the boys who sell pink
calamus buds, and buy 'Peppery pot, smoking hot.'" She was such a good
mimic it sounded exactly like the venders.
"I am afraid I have spoiled thee. But it is thy brother whom we must
consider. He may have some rights."
"What rights, indeed, to a rebel maiden who would hate the sight of so
many red coats together?"
"Still thou dost love him a little. Surely he is thy nearest kin."
"I can never think whether I love him dearly or only a little. When I
pull a daisy out it says only a little. And when I blew a puffy
dandelion out to tell me where my true love dwelt, it went south instead
of north."
"But the great city. I was there once, years ago. It hath many queer
things and reminders of the old Dutch people who settled it. And it has
a beautiful river and an island south of it, and a short way out to the
ocean."
"As if we did not have our fine and noble Delaware that runs on and up
past the Jerseys to the State of New York. And there is our Schuylkill
with its peaceful shores and green and flowery banks, now that the
British are away, and our beautiful Wissahickon. Nay, I want nothing
beyond my own home town, and no one but you and the friends that come
here. I will write to Phil and tell him that neither his tongue nor his
pen can charm me. And he never says 'thou' latterly."
"But the young people here leave it off, I notice. And thou must not
write saucily."
Primrose laughed and tossed her golden head.
She wrote to her brother and put in some rhymes, a fashion quite
affected then, for many of the young ladies wrote sentimental and
would-be satiric verses. Hannah Griffiths, who was cousin to Deborah
Logan, had satirized the famous Mischianza, and there were songs for
various occasions such as birthdays and weddings.
Primrose wrote also to Andrew Henry. It was difficult to get letters
from the Federal soldiers unless some messenger came direct, but she
guessed how much pleasure the bit of news would be to him. She rode out
to the farm occasionally and took a message from Aunt Lois to Andrew.
Uncle James was growing quite deaf and irritable in temper, but Aunt
Lois softened perceptibly and was always glad to see Primrose.
Rachel had a new vexation that did not improve her temper. Chloe
grumbled at the sharpness, but she was too old to think of another home.
Faith was now a tall, thin girl, looking careworn and sallow.
"I must walk a little with thee even if I should get beaten for it
afterward," she said in one of the visits, as she intercepted Primrose
and Patty at the group of great sycamores that shut off the view of the
road. "For I feel sometimes as if the strings of my heart would burst
when there is no one to talk to but old Chloe, and Rachel watches us as
a cat does a mouse."
"She would not beat thee, surely." Primrose's face was one indignant
flame.
"She did when I was smaller, until one day Aunt Lois interfered. Now she
slaps, and her hand is hard as a board; or she boxes my ears until bells
ring in them. I know not what made her so cross at first, except that
she tried to be sweet and pleasant to Andrew, and when he was gone all
was different. Now Penn walks home from meeting with Clarissa Lane and
finds excuses for going over there. But Rachel says he is needed here on
the farm since uncle cannot work as he used, and that he shall neither
go away to marry, nor bring a wife home here. They had a bitter quarrel
one day. I was gathering sassafras and birch buds for her and they did
not know I was there. And Rachel said if he married Clarissa, she would
persuade uncle not to leave him any part of the farm. Ought not the farm
belong to Andrew?"
Primrose shook her head doubtfully.
"If I were a man I would run away and fight too. I would find Andrew and
march and fight beside him. Oh, Primrose, thou canst never know how good
and sweet he was to me and what wise counsel he gave. And now I am so
wretched!"
"Poor girl, poor Faith!" Primrose cried, deeply moved. "If you could
come into town----"
"I can go nowhere, she says, until I am of age; if I did, that the
constable could bring me back, or I could be put in jail. And that if I
do not please her I shall have none of Uncle James' money."
"It is not honest to count on the money, and James Henry may live many
years!" exclaimed Patty sharply.
"If I had it I should give it back to Andrew. I feel as if we had
crowded him out of his home. No one speaks of him but Aunt Lois and old
Chloe, and Rachel frowns at her. Oh, if I dared come to thee, I would be
a servant, or anything! Oh, Primrose, God hast set thee in a blessed
garden! Bend over and kiss me. And come again. It is like a bit of
heaven to see thee."
Then Faith vanished, and the tears ran down the pink cheeks of the
child.
"Oh, what can we do?" she sobbed.
"Nothing, dear," returned Patty, much moved, and feeling that some
comfort was needed, even if it was only the sound of a human voice.
"Friend Rachel hath grown hard through disappointment. Grace does not
always wrap itself in a plain garb, and a red rose is sweet and pretty
in its redness. There is much selfishness in the world under all colors,
methinks, and when it is gray; it grows grayer by the wearing."
CHAPTER XVII.
MID WAR'S ALARMS.
Madam Wetherill sighed over the affair and was sorry to hear of the
failing health of James Henry. But nothing could be done to ease up
Faith's hard lines. She understood much more than she could explain to
the innocent Primrose; more indeed than she cared to have her know at
present about the emotions the human soul. For she had the sweet
unconsciousness of a flower that had yet to open, and she did not want
it rudely forced.
Rachel's desire and disappointment must have soured her greatly, she
thought. In spite of her training in resignation, human nature seemed as
strong in her as in any woman of the world who maneuvered for a lover.
Yet Madam Wetherill was truly glad Andrew had escaped the snare.
And now the country was in great disquiet again. Arnold's treason and
its sad outcome in the death of the handsome and accomplished Major
André fell like a thunderbolt on the town where he had been the leader
of the gay life under Howe. Many women wept over his sad end. Washington
had been doubtful of Arnold's integrity for some time, but thought
giving him the command at West Point would surely attach him to his
country's fortunes. Washington being called to a conference with the
French officers at Hartford, Arnold chose this opportunity to surrender
West Point and its dependencies, after some show of resistance, into
the hands of the British for a certain sum of money.
But Arnold had roused suspicions in the heart of more than one brave
soldier; among them Andrew Henry, who had been promoted to a lieutenancy
for brave conduct and foresight.
Clinton was to sail up the river. André went up the Hudson in the sloop
of war Vulture, which anchored off Teller's Point. Fearing they knew
not what, the Continentals dragged an old six-pound cannon to the end of
Teller's Point. That galled the Vulture and drove her from her
anchorage, so that she drifted down the river. André, therefore, was
compelled to make his way by land. Being arrested at Haverstraw, the
commander unwisely allowed him to send a letter to Arnold, who at once
fled down the river in a barge and met the Vulture, leaving behind his
wife, the beautiful Philadelphian, Margaret Shippen, and their infant
son, and thus the chief traitor escaped.
England had spent a vast amount of treasure and thousands of lives in
battles, hardships, and disease, and had not conquered the
revolutionists. She had now involved herself in war with both France and
Spain. Holland, too, was secretly negotiating a treaty with the United
Colonies.
While the town was in consternation over these events, late in November
Mrs. Washington, then on her way to join her husband, stopped a brief
while with President Reed of the Congress. Again the soldiers were in
great distress, needing everything and winter coming on. The ladies had
formed a society for work, and were making clothing and gathering what
funds they could.
"Mrs. Washington is to come," said Polly Wharton, dropping in at Arch
Street, full of eagerness. "The Marquis de Lafayette has given five
hundred dollars in his wife's name, and the Countess de Luzerne gives
one hundred. When we count it up in our depreciated money it sounds much
greater," and Polly laughed with a gay nod. "Mrs. Washington has begged
to contribute also. It is said the commander in chief was almost
heart-broken about that handsome young André, and would have saved him
if he could. And Margaret Shippen comes home next to a deserted wife, at
all events deserted in her most trying hour. Of course, Primrose, you
will join us. You can do something more useful than embroider roses on a
petticoat, or needlework a stomacher."
"Indeed I can. Patty has seen to it that I shall know something besides
strumming on the spinet and reading French verse. But the French are our
very good friends."
"And I am crazy to see Mrs. Washington. There is devotion for you!"
"If thou wert a commander's wife thou wouldst be doing the same thing,
Polly. 'For,' she said in the beginning, 'George is right; he is always
right. And though I foresee dark days and many discouragements, my heart
will always be with him and the country.' If we had more such patriots
instead of pleasure-loving women!" And Madam Wetherill sighed, though
her face was in a glow of enthusiasm.
"But there are many brave women who give up husbands and sons. And
though my mother consented about Allin, it wrung her heart sorely. We
have not heard in so long. That is the hardest. But we seem to get word
easily of the gay doings in New York. And so thou wilt not go,
Primrose?"
"Indeed, I will not. What pleasure would it be to me to dance and be gay
with my country's enemies? I shall make shirts and knit socks."
"Yes, Primrose is old enough, but she somehow clings to childhood," said
Madam. "We have spoiled her with much indulgence."
"Indeed, I am not spoiled. And if the British should take away all we
had, dear aunt, I would work for thee. I do know many things."
"Dear heart!" and Madam Wetherill kissed her.
There was much interest to see Mrs. Washington, though some of the
ladies had met her on a previous visit. Madam Wetherill had been among
those brave enough to ally herself with the cause by calling then, and
Mrs. Washington gracefully remembered it.
"And this is the little girl, grown to womanhood almost," she said, as
Primrose courtesied to her. "You are not a Friend, I see by your attire;
but the name suggested someone----"
"But my father was, madam, and well known in the town. And I have a
brave Quaker cousin who joined the army at Valley Forge, Andrew Henry."
"Yes, I think that is the name. Did he not bring some supplies while we
were in so much want, and come near to getting in trouble? You must be
proud of him indeed, for he was among those who suspected Arnold's
treachery, and were so on the alert that they set some of his plans at
naught, for which we can never be thankful enough. Henry, that is the
name! A tall fine young fellow with a martial bearing, one of the
fighting Quakers, and Philadelphia hath done nobly in raising such men.
The General never forgets good service, and he is marked for promotion."
Primrose courtesied again, her eyes shining with lustrousness that was
near to tears.
"I should almost have danced up and down and clapped my hands, or else
fallen at her feet and kissed her pretty hands if she had said that
about Allin," declared Polly afterward. "Oh, it was soul-stirring, and
the belles stood envying you, but some of them have blown hot and blown
cold, and were ready to dance with Whig and Tory alike. And I wanted to
say that you were too patriotic to go up to New York and be merry with
your brother. Then I bethought me he was on the wrong side. Such a
splendid fellow, too, Primrose; skating like the wind, and such a
dancer, and with so many endearing ways. Child, how can you resist him?"
"I cannot be a turncoat for the dearest love."
"Andrew Henry should have been your brother. He looks more like that
grand old portrait of your father than his own son does," declared
Polly, and some inexplicable feeling sent the scarlet waves to the fair
face of Primrose.
Busy enough the women were, and on many of the shirts was the name of
the maker. Primrose begged that Patty's name might be put on their
dozen, and Janice Kent consented hers should be used.
"For Primrose is such an odd, fanciful name, and it seems as if it
belonged just to my own self and my dear mother," the child said, and
Madam Wetherill respected the delicacy.
Mrs. Bache, Franklin's daughter, wrote to Washington that there were
twenty-five hundred shirts, the result of nimble and patriotic fingers;
and, she added, "we wish them to be worn with as much pleasure as they
were made."
Philemon Nevitt was indeed angry at his sister's refusal, but as he was
in no sense her guardian, he could not compel her. Some weeks elapsed
before he wrote again. It was a hard, cold winter, and if full of
discouragements for the Continentals was not especially inspiriting for
the British.
There had been something of a revolt among the Philadelphia troops at
Morristown, who thought, having served their three years' enlistment,
they should be allowed to return to their homes. Sir Henry Clinton,
mistaking the spirit of the trouble, at once offered to take them under
the protection of the British government, clothe and feed them and
require no service of them, unless it was voluntarily proffered.
"See, comrades," exclaimed one of the leaders; "we have been taken for
traitors! Let us show General Clinton that the American Army can furnish
but one Arnold, and that America has no truer patriots than we. But if
we fight, we should not be compelled to starve on the field, nor have
our wives and children starving at home."
This protest aroused Congress. Taxes were imposed and submitted to
cheerfully, and Robert Morris, an ardent patriot, with Thomas Mifflin,
labored to bring about a better state of finances, and the Bank of
Pennsylvania was due to the ability and munificence of the former.
And though, as Thomas Reed admitted, "the bulk of the people were weary
of war," and the different parties in the city were almost at swords'
points, they had all joined in fierce denunciation of Arnold's treason.
His handsome estate was confiscated, not so much for its value, as it
was deeply in debt, but as an example of the detestation in which the
citizens held his crime. His wife pleaded to stay in her father's house
with her young son, but the executive council decided that she must
leave the State at once.
The mob made a two-faced effigy, which was dragged in a cart through the
streets, a band of rough music playing the Rogue's March. Afterward it
was hanged and burned, and no Tory voice was raised in his behalf,
though universal sympathy was expressed for the unfortunate young André.
Philemon Henry was intensely bitter about it. "But you have not all the
traitors," he wrote. "My heart has been rent by the defection of some of
our bravest men, and most trusted; and one who has seemed almost a
brother to me, as we played together in boyhood, and have kept step in
many things. I had cherished a curious hope that he might disarm thy
girlish bitterness, Primrose, and that sometime his true worth would be
apparent to you. And from the first, though he never confessed any
further than that he envied me my pretty little sister, I knew he was
more than common interested. These things are best left to work
themselves out, and you were both young, so I held my peace. Six months
ago Sir Gilbert Vane, the uncle, died, and, as title and estates were
entailed, Vane Priory came to him. At first he was minded to return, and
I wish now that I had bundled him off. Then he had queer, dispirited
fits about the cause we were serving. I regret we have not been more in
earnest and not so much given to pleasure. The city has been very gay,
but I think many of the women whose feet twinkled merrily in the dance
talked treason with rosy lips in the pauses.
"I was angry when I read your letter and tossed it over to him, wishing
that I had been your guardian and had some right to order your life. He
held it a long while, then he rose and began to pace the floor.
"'I tell you, Phil,' he said with strange earnestness, 'we are on the
wrong side. Nothing can ever conquer these people while the love of
their own country outweighs everything else. If the women feel this way,
and cannot be tempted, no wonder the men are steadfast and go in rags
and half starve and take any hardship. We forget that they are our own
kin, of our own brave English blood, and would we tolerate an invader?
Would we not fight to the last man? It would be nobler to go home and
let them rule themselves, for we can never conquer them.'
"'You talk treason,' I said angrily. 'You had better be careful.'
"'They are talking the same thing in the House of Parliament. I have
been paying more attention to these things of late, and I feel that in
the end we shall be worsted. Better make brothers of them now while we
can. If this were my country, my birthplace----'
"'Hold!' I cried in a passion. 'I am an Englishman. That is the country
of my mother's birth, and my father had good English blood in his veins.
My Uncle Henry thinks the rebels all in the wrong, and I know well my
father would never have sided with them. My sister would have been
brought up to love the King.'
"He made no answer, but went out presently. Then for some days he was
moody and kept himself quite busy, and I thought was planning to return
to England to look after his estates. Our colonel thought so, too. And
then five others beside him suddenly disappeared. Shortly after we
learned they had gone South to enter the army under General Greene. I
only hope they will fall into Tarleton's hands, and he will make short
work of them. But my heart is sore for the loss of my boyhood's friend,
and the shame of his turning traitor. I hear that Benedict Arnold has
joined the King's forces, and of a surety he and they would be well
matched in any fight.
"I have a presentiment I shall never see my pretty darling again.
Primrose, I love thee more than thou canst imagine. I would that I had
thee and that we two were going to England out of this terrible strife.
Farewell.
                    "Thine own dear brother,
                                "PHIL."
Primrose ran weeping to her aunt and gave her the long epistle. Madam
Wetherill tried to comfort her, and presently she dried her tears a
little.
"We can hardly call him a traitor,--Gilbert Vane, I mean,--for he has
not really betrayed his country, but changed his mind. And I think it
very brave of him when he might go to England and live in luxury," said
Primrose in a broken voice.
"Thou art quick to see the heroic side. Of course, if he should be taken
prisoner, he would be put to death without mercy."
"But he does not sell his country!" with emphasis. "Oh, poor, dear Phil!
My heart aches for him. And yet, if the British soldiers begin to see
the doubtfulness of a final conquest, I think there must be hope. But
what can I say to Philemon? I seem destined to be always divided in
opposite directions."
"That is very true," and Madam Wetherill smiled rather sadly. For it
seemed hard indeed that brother and sister should have such opposing
interests. Many a girl would have been won at once by the proffer of
pleasure.
But Primrose did not have very long to consider. Another note came from
New York. Tired of inaction, Philemon Nevitt had asked that some more
stirring duty should be allotted to him, and he was transferred to
another body of troops, who were watching the Americans and harassing
them in the vicinity of Morristown. It was said deserters from the
British army had transferred their allegiance, and Colonel Nevitt
determined to put a stop to this, and capture some of them to make an
example the soldiers would dread in future.
"When he writes like this I hate him!" and Primrose stamped her dainty
foot upon the floor, while her eyes flashed with curious steely gleams
that seemed to have black points. "It does not seem as if the same blood
could run in our veins, but then he hath none of my own dear mother's
sweetness. If he were related to her my heart would break. And I think
he must have some of the characteristics of uncle James, who keeps his
hard heart against Cousin Andrew. Was my father of that stamp, dear
madam?"
"He had a much broader life. He was brought into contact with various
people, and possessed a certain suavity that one finds in many of the
old families here in town. Good Mr. Penn did not insist that men should
be all of one mind."
"'Twould be a queer world indeed," and Primrose half smiled, for her
moods were like an April day.
"Then thy mother was a wise, winsome woman," said Madam Wetherill in
fond remembrance.
"That is what wins me to Phil," returned the girl. "When he talked of
her and all her pretty ways, and the dainty verses and tales she told
him, and how she shielded him from his father's displeasure when he
would have been whipped, then he seems like a vision of her come back.
But, now that he is going to fight against my country----" and the rosy
lips curled in scorn. "He might have remained a fine, pleasure-loving
soldier, doing no real harm, fit to dance with pretty women or march in
a fine parade."
She discussed this with Polly Wharton, who was now her dearest friend,
although she was two years older.
"Art thou not unduly bitter, Primrose?" Polly always chided in grave
Quaker phraseology, but, like many of the younger generation, fell into
worldly pronouns in seasons of haste or merriment. "We should be ashamed
of him if he saw his duty and weakly shirked it. I am sorry such a fine
fellow, with good American blood in his veins, should be a Tory. In
truth I cannot see at present how the quarrel can be mended, and I am
desperately sorry."
Polly's cheeks were pink as a rose.
"It never will be mended now. Times are hard with us, to be sure, and
there is much discouragement, but the French army and a great navy have
reached Newport, and Aunt Wetherill was reading of a French loan. That
wise Mr. Adams is in Paris with our dear Mr. Franklin----"
"Who plays chess with French beauties and writes them skits and
bagatelles, and, no doubt dances the grave minuet with them. And then we
blame our young lads for having a little pleasure! But 'tis darkest
just before dawn, and maybe we have come to the darkest times."
"And I am certain the dawn will come. God will not let such a good cause
and so great an effort in behalf of human liberty go by default."
So they worked on and hoped. There was great interest in the Southern
campaign now.
And then Polly came one morning, full of tears and trouble. There had
been sad news from the highlands of the Hudson. A troop of British had
made their way almost to one of the camps, expecting to surprise and
capture the Federal soldiers. There had been a sharp skirmish, spirited
and fateful enough to be called a battle. The Federals had won in the
end and taken a number of prisoners, while many British soldiers were
among the killed and wounded.
"Andrew Henry sent the word to my father, who means to apply for passes
and go at once," and there Polly broke down.
"But that is not the worst of it. Something has happened to Allin! Oh,
Polly!" and the soft arms were about Polly's neck, while she was kissing
the tear-wet cheek, her own eyes overflowing.
"Yes, it is Allin!" sobbed the girl. "They thought when they first
brought him in that he was dead. But it seems now he is badly wounded
and may live. They wanted to take his leg off, but Lieutenant Henry
would not let them. Oh, poor Allin! And he begged that father would come
or send, for the regiment may go on to Virginia."
"Oh, if he could be brought home!"
"It comes so near now." Polly wiped her eyes. "But oh, Primrose! I had
nigh forgotten. Forgive me that I put my own sorrow first. Colonel--I
believe he is that now--Colonel Nevitt led the men and was wounded also,
and is captured."
Primrose stood up very straight, and contradictory emotions struggled in
her fair face. Her rosy lips faded and quivered, and she swallowed over
a great lump in her throat.
"It seems strange," said Polly, "that the cousins should have been
pitted against each other. And, though I am desperately sorry about
Colonel Nevitt, I am proud of Andrew Henry. Oh, dear Primrose!"
"I am always torn in two. I wonder if there was ever such a girl!" and
the slow tears beaded the bronze lashes of Primrose Henry's eyes.
"Think of poor Peggy Shippen being banished from her family and forced
to follow a traitor! For, after all, it was the fortune of war, and
Colonel Nevitt was doing his duty as he saw it in all good faith."
"Thou art so generous, Polly. He should have been some connection to
thee; oh! what am I saying? Surely thou wouldst not want a redcoat
Britisher tacked to thy family! I hope he is not sorely wounded, but
just enough to keep him from fighting against my country until we have
won our independence."
"Thou dost make cunning wishes, Primrose," and in spite of her sorrow,
Polly Wharton smiled.
Madam Wetherill came home from her marketing, which was no light
undertaking with all the trouble about paper money, and gold and silver
so scarce. She still rode her horse well, and time dealt very leniently
with her.
"I heard some strange news in the market place," she began, and then
she caught sight of Polly. "Oh, dear child! is it true that some of the
flower of our town have perished? It was a great surprise, to capture
some deserters, it was said, and went hard with our brave men."
"Nay, Lieutenant Henry won in the end, and our loss was nothing compared
to the enemy. But poor Allin----"
"He is not dead," added Primrose, when Polly's voice failed. "And,
madam, Cousin Andrew hath taken our heroic Colonel Nevitt a prisoner in
his first battle. I know not whether to rejoice or cry."
"Primrose, thou art a naughty girl!"
"If it had been the other way, I should have had no difficulty. Yes, I
am a hard-hearted little wretch and do not deserve any brother! But
Andrew will see that he is not treated as the poor fellows were in the
Walnut Street Jail; and if he should lose an arm or a leg I will devote
my life to him. Oh!" with a sudden burst of tenderness, "I hope it is
nothing serious. The mortification will be hard enough."
There were numbers of the wounded sent as soon as possible to the larger
cities where they could be cared for. Rough journeying it was, with none
of the modern appliances of travel, and many a poor fellow died on the
way.
For various reasons Madam Wetherill had not gone out to the farm as
usual. The news was troublesome from Virginia and Maryland, where Arnold
was destroying stores and laying waste plantations. The seat of war
seemed to be changing in this direction, and some of the most famous
battles were to be fought here. Cornwallis was fortifying, and everybody
dreaded the news.
Pleasure in town had slipped back to a more decorous aspect. There were
simple tea-drinkings and parties of young people going out on the river
in the early evening singing pretty songs. Or there were afternoon
rambles to the charming green nook called Bethsheba's Bath and Bower,
where wild flowers bloomed in profusion, and the copses were fragrant
with sweet herbs, growing wild; or the newly cut hay in the fields still
about. Sometimes they took along a luncheon and some sewing. There were
still windmills to grind the grain, and Windmill Island had been
repaired and was busy again.
Primrose seemed just beginning life. Hitherto she had been a child, and
now she was finding friends of her own age, with whom it was a pleasure
to chat and to compare needlework and various knowledges.
She sympathized tenderly with Polly Wharton in her sorrow, and began to
go frequently to the house. Next in age to Polly were two boys, and then
a lovely little girl.
Another incident had made the summer quite notable to Primrose. This was
the marriage of Anabella Morris, which took place in Christ Church.
Anabella's husband was a widower with two quite large children, but of
considerable means. Madam Wetherill was very generous with her outfit,
though she began to feel the pinch of straitened means. So much property
was paying very poorly and some not rented at all.
Primrose was one of the maids, and consented to have her hair done high
on her head and wear a train, and to be powdered, though Madam Wetherill
disapproved of it for young people who had pretty natural complexions.
Some young women wore a tiny bit of a black patch near their smiling
lips, or a dimple, as if to call attention to it.
"And, if it grew there, they would move heaven and earth to have it
taken off," said that lady with a little scorn.
The bride's train was held up by a page dressed in blue and silver, and
then followed the pretty maids, and the relatives. It was quite a brave
show, and a proud day for Anabella, who had been dreaming of it since
she was a dozen years old.
Madam Wetherill gave her a wedding dinner, which now would be called a
breakfast, so much have things changed, and then a coach took the newly
married pair to their own home. Though Anabella would rather not have
had another woman's children to manage, she was truly glad that all her
anxieties in husband-hunting were over.
Then Mr. Wharton came home with his son, who was still in a quite
uncertain state, and it had been a question whether his shattered leg
could be saved. But Dr. Benjamin Rush took it in hand and said it would
be a shame indeed if such a fine young fellow would have to stump around
all the rest of his life on a wooden leg.
CHAPTER XVIII.
WHOM SHALL SHE PITY?
September came in with all the glory of ripening fruit and the late
rich-colored flowers, with here and there a yellow leaf on the
sycamores, a brown one on the hickories, and a scarlet one on the
maples. There were stirring events, too. A French vessel had arrived
with stores and four hundred thousand crowns in specie, besides an
accession of enthusiastic men to the army. General Washington had
determined to attempt the capture of New York, but hearing there were
large re-enforcements on the way to Sir Henry Clinton, allowed the
British to believe this was his plan and turned his army southward.
A gala time indeed it was for the Quaker city. For the Continentals were
no longer ragged, but proudly marched in the glory of new shoes and
unpatched breeches and newly burnished accouterments. The French
regiment of DeSoissonnais, in rose-color and white, with rose-colored
plumes, was especially handsome and quite distanced our own army
trappings, that had never been fine. General Washington, Count
Rochambeau, and M. de Luzerne, the French minister, with Chief Justice
McKean reviewed the troops. The sober citizens were stirred to unwonted
enthusiasm. Houses were decorated, windows filled with pretty girls
waved handkerchiefs, and the mob shouted itself hoarse with joy; going
at night to the residence of the French minister and shouting lustily
amid the cheering for the King, Louis XVI.
The hall boy ushered in a fine martial-looking man in officer's dress at
Madam Wetherill's. A number of guests were in the parlor, and he
hesitated a moment before he said: "Summon Miss Primrose Henry."
"Grand sojer man in buff and blue," he whispered. "'Spect it General
Washington hisself."
Primrose flashed out. For a moment she stood amazed. It was not her
brother.
"Primrose, hast thou forgotten me?"
"Oh!" with a glad cry of joy. "Oh, Andrew," and she was clasped in the
strong arms and greeted with a kiss.
"Yes," joyfully. "All the march I have counted on this moment. I could
not wait until to-morrow. Primrose, how are they--my dear mother?"
"She is quite well, but Uncle Henry fails and has grown very deaf. And I
think Rachel and Penn do not agree well, and are not happy. But things
go on the same."
"And is there--any longing for me?"
Oh, how cruel it was to feel that only the poor mother cared. For
Primrose was not old enough nor suspicious enough to imagine the hundred
little ways Rachel found to blame Andrew and widen the breach between
him and his father.
"Thy mother is always asking for thee. I learn thy infrequent letters by
heart, and repeat them to her as I get opportunity."
"Thank thee a thousand times."
"And my brother?"
"Hast thou not heard?"
"Not since the return of Allin Wharton. He is still ill and no one sees
him, but Polly tells me now and then. Only he is not allowed to excite
himself by talking, and it is such little dribbles that I cannot glean
much. And you met face to face?"
"We were both doing our duty like brave men, I trust. I'm not sure but
in the mêlée that Allin saved my life, and then----"
"Thou couldst have taken his! Oh, Andrew, thank God it was not so," and
her voice was tremulous with the joy of thanksgiving.
"A soldier fired and wounded his right shoulder." Andrew did not say
that it was only a hair's-breadth escape of his own life. "Neither knew
he should meet the other."
"And what hath happened since?"
"He was paroled and exchanged. Since then I have heard nothing. And now
I must go. First to see Allin, and then our Commander. The bulk of the
troops are still to follow in the steps of these noble Frenchmen. And
to-morrow night I must start south on an important mission. In the
morning I shall see thee again. My respects to Madam Wetherill."
Her arms were about his neck. How tall she had grown! He remembered when
she had first come to Cherry farm he had carried her about in his arms.
"Dear----" He unclasped the clinging hands softly. And then he turned
the door knob and was gone.
She ran to her room, a pretty chamber next to Madam Wetherill's, now,
and burying her face in the pillow, cried for ever so many causes, it
seemed to her. Sorrow that her brother should not have cared enough to
write, grief that they two should have met in strife, thanksgiving that
neither should be guilty of the awful weight of the other's blood, joy
that she should have seen Andrew, and pain and grief that he could not
go home as a brave and well-loved son.
It was quite late when Madam Wetherill came up, when the last guest had
gone.
"I thought it was thy cousin, and I knew thou would not feel like
further gayety, though all the town seems wild, as if we had gained a
victory. These French soldiers in their fine attire have turned
everyone's head. After all, methinks gay clothes have their uses and
help to preserve the spirits. And Andrew--Major Henry, do we call him?"
Primrose smiled then. "He is my own dear cousin and never forgets me.
And he wished his respects to thee, and will come to-morrow morning. And
Colonel Nevitt has been paroled and is in New York."
"Go to bed now. It is full midnight. The rest will keep," and she patted
the soft cheek, warm with flushes of satisfaction.
Major Henry came the next morning. Madam Wetherill was struck with the
likeness he bore his uncle, and certainly be made a grand-looking
soldier. Then he had to tell all about the affray, but Primrose came to
know afterward that he made light of his part in it, and but for his
suspicions and presence of mind there would have been great slaughter.
"I can hardly venture to predict, but it does seem to me that we are
nearing the end of the brunt of the fighting. It will be no secret in a
few days, but I can trust thee, I know. The French fleet may be in the
Chesapeake even now, and though Cornwallis hath fortified Yorktown and
Gloucester, we shall have the British between two fires, and all aid cut
off, even escape. I think we shall capture them, and if so, it will be
a blow they cannot recover from. War is cruel enough. I do not wonder
Christian people oppose it. But slavery of the free spirit is worse
still, and if one must strike, let it be in earnest. But we have gone
against fearful odds."
"Heaven knows how thankful we shall be to see it ended. And yet there
are nations that have fought longer still," subjoined Madam Wetherill
thoughtfully.
"And I hope, when we are through with the enemy, we shall not quarrel
among ourselves as to the making of a great country and nation. It is
not given to many men to have breadth and wisdom and foresight."
"And there have been disputes enough here. I sometimes wonder if men
have any good sense."
"Thou hast not a wonderfully high opinion of them," and Andrew smiled.
"A party of women could be but little worse, and sometimes I think would
do better."
They talked about young Wharton, and Andrew instanced many brave acts on
his part.
"If thou hadst seen them patient in hunger and cold, with poor
frost-bitten feet, and hardly a place to shelter them from the storm,
thou wouldst not rail at them."
"It is the stay-at-home soldiers who fight battles over the council
board and always win, and know just what every general and every private
could do, that provoke me! I wish sometimes they could be put in the
forefront of the battle."
"They would learn wisdom, doubtless. An enemy on paper is easily
managed."
Then Andrew had to go. And though he longed to press a kiss on the sweet
rosy lips that were fond enough last night, Primrose seemed quite a tall
young woman, and a child no longer; so, although the leave-taking was
very sincere, it had a delicate formality in it.
They had hardly time to consider anything, for the next day brought a
tax on their sympathies. Primrose remembered a long ago winter when Miss
Betty Randolph had come from Virginia to get some city accomplishments,
and flashed in and out of the great house and gone to parties, and had
been the envy of Anabella Morris. She had married shortly after and had
two babies. And now her father's farm had been despoiled and he rendered
homeless, her husband had been killed in battle, and they had made their
way northward, hoping to find a friend in Madam Wetherill.
Nor were they mistaken. There were the two elderly people, Betty and her
babies, and a younger sister. The only son was in General Greene's army.
"There is plenty of room at the farm," said Madam Wetherill. "I am not
as young as I used to be and it gets a greater care year by year, and I
think I grow fonder of the city. It would be well to have someone there
all the time, and Cousin Randolph understands farming."
"And this is the shy little yellow-haired Primrose, grown up into a
pretty girl," Betty said in surprise. "I remember you were full of those
quaint Quaker 'thees and thous.' But certainly you are a Quaker no
longer, with that becoming attire? Oh, child, be glad you have not
supped sorrow's bitter cup."
There was so much on hand getting them settled that Primrose could not
go to Uncle Henry's with her blessed news at once. It was always pain as
well as pleasure. Sometimes she could hardly find a free moment with
Aunt Lois, so jealously did Rachel watch them. And though Primrose had
planned talks with Uncle James they invariably came to nought, for she
could never surprise him alone, and he was so hard of hearing she knew
there would be listeners.
Faith was upstairs spinning on the big wheel, and her window overlooked
the stretch of woods that shut out the road altogether. Aunt Lois sat
knitting, Rachel was making some stout homespun shirts for winter wear,
and Uncle James was lying on the bed asleep.
"Thou hast something else in thy face," began Aunt Lois presently, when
Primrose had recounted the misfortunes of the Randolphs and the shelter
that had opened before them. "Hast thou heard from----"
"I have seen him!" Primrose clasped both hands and the knitting fell to
the floor.
"Seen him! Oh, child! Hath he been here?"
Her voice quavered and her eyes filled with tears.
Rachel picked up the knitting with a frown. The needle had slipped out
half-way.
"Thou mightst have shown a little more care, Primrose," beginning to
pick up the stitches.
"Tell me, tell me! Is he here now?"
"He came with the French soldiers. Oh, how fine and gallant they were!
He could only stay one night, for the Commander had some special
business for him at the seat of war. All the troops are going on, and it
is hoped that, when the Continentals win, this will lead to peace."
"When they win," said Rachel with doubtful scorn. "It seems as if they
cared for nothing but going on and on like quarrelsome children, and no
good comes of it. No good can come of such an evil as war. And if you
sell anything, here is all this wretched, worthless money! I had rather
have good British gold."
"So Arnold thought." Primrose's mirth-loving eyes danced with a sense of
retaliation. "There has been some French gold quite as good, since it
has clothed our troops and given them many comforts. And, Aunt Lois, he
is well and splendid, the picture of my own father, Aunt Wetherill
thinks. He sent so much love, and if the war should end he will come
home for good. He is not fond of battle, but you may know how good a
soldier he has proved, since he has gone from private to major."
Aunt Lois looked up with tender, longing eyes. "Then I shall see him,"
she said. "He will not stay away?"
"Oh, surely, surely! If there had been time he would have come now. And
oh, Aunt Lois, up there on the Hudson we almost lost him. There was a
sudden surprise, and, but for young Allin Wharton, it might have gone
hard indeed with him."
She could not confess that it was a kindred hand raised against him,
though her quick flush betrayed some deep feeling.
"Heaven be thanked! And the young man?"
"He was wounded then and again later on, but has been brought home and
is mending. And surely God was watching over Andrew, for he had no hurt
whatever. And I feel sure now he will come back safe to us."
Rachel Morgan's face worked with some deep passion, and grew darker
under the sunburn. The young girl's delight angered her. Perhaps, too,
the beauty and grace, the cloth habit fitting her slim, elegant figure,
the beaver hat that looked so jaunty and had in it some long cock's
plumes, quite a new fashion. Then there was the trim foot with its fine
shoe and steel buckle, all gauds of worldliness to be sure, but they
would attract a man's eye.
Rachel had not been beautiful in her childhood, but the tender grace
that softens so many faces had not been allowed its perfect work on
hers. She looked older now than her years and there were hard lines that
some day would be avarice, uncharity, and other evil traits. Then this
girl was an idle butterfly, frisking from one folly to another in a
wicked and worldly fashion, even despising the plain faith her father
had intended she should follow.
"Oh," exclaimed Aunt Lois, after a blissful communing with her soul in
very thankfulness, "thou puttest new life into me. I can feel it run
through like the breeze in the grass. Sometimes I think with the wise
man that few and evil have been my days, and I would not have them
unduly prolonged, but to see my son again, my dear son!"
The smile was so sweet that Primrose, leaning over, kissed into it and
then both smiled again, while there were tender tears in the eyes of
both.
"And now I must go," Primrose said presently, "but I will try to come
sooner again. It is such fine weather that the orchards are full of
fruit and the wild grapes and the balsams fill the air with fragrance.
Oh, Aunt Lois, God must have made such a beautiful world for us to
enjoy. He cannot mean to have us frown on this, and wait until we get to
heaven, for then the smiles and joy will not come so readily."
"It is flippant for thee to talk of heaven this way. We do not go
dancing into it. We must fashion our lives on more godly things," said
Rachel rebukingly.
Primrose made no reply, but drew on her glove.
"Then I shall not see Faith," she said rather disappointedly as she
rose.
"Where is Faith?" Aunt Lois looked up.
"She idled so much yesterday that she did not finish her stent, and she
has a larger share this afternoon."
Rachel followed the girl out. The horses stood in the shade and Jerry
had been lounging on the grass, but he sprang up and doffed his hat to
his young mistress.
"I have something to say to thee." Rachel took her arm and turned her
away from the house and Jerry as well. "Dost thou truly think Andrew
will return?"
"He will return." There was an exultant ring of hope and youth in the
sweet voice that smote the listener.
"And then," very deliberately, as if her words meant to cut something,
they were so sharp and cold, "then you will marry him."
"Marry him? I?"
There was indignation in every line of the face and Rachel noted it with
secret joy, though her countenance remained unmoved.
"Yes," persistently. "Thou hast always been fondling about him and
kissing him, and such foolishness wins a man when plain common sense
gets flouted."
"I have never thought of such a thing," and her face was full of
surprise, though the lovely color kept coming and going, and her eyes
flashed a little. "I do not want any lovers, and as for husbands,
nothing would tempt me to change with Mistress Anabella. And there is
poor Betty Randolph, full of sorrow. No, I mean to be like Madam
Wetherill, who can always do as she pleases."
"Silly child! I should be sorry indeed for the man who took thee. But
Madam Wetherill was married once."
"And her husband died. No, I cannot bear death and sorrow," and she gave
a quick shiver.
"Thou hast made trouble enough for Andrew. First it was getting away and
mooning over books and strange things, instead of useful ones. Then it
was passing food and clothing out to Valley Forge, and running his neck
in a noose. Then it was going to war, for which his father disowned
him."
"Nay, not that altogether." She looked steadily at Rachel, whose eyes
fell a little.
"Yes, if he had not gone he would not have been disowned. It was through
thy preachment. Thou hast cost him trouble everywhere. And now, if he
should return, thou canst make or mar again."
"I shall not mar," proudly.
"It stands this way. Thy mother was one of the smiling, tempting,
deceitful women, who can twist a man about her finger. She spoiled thy
father's life and would have won him from the faith----"
Primrose's slim form trembled with indignation and Rachel cowered
beneath the flashing eye.
"That is a falsehood, Mistress Rachel, and God will surely mark thee for
it! There is an old journal of my father's that, beside business dates
and comments, has bits of sweetness about her, and how he thanks God for
her, and that she is the sunshine of his life, and if he were to lose
her, all would be darkness. Madam Wetherill is to give it to me when I
am quite grown."
"I but repeat what I have heard Uncle James say. And if thou wert to
marry Andrew he would forbid him the house as much as he did when Andrew
became a soldier. He does not approve of thee nor thy tribe."
The hot blood stained the girl's cheeks. Yes, she had long mistrusted
that her uncle did not like her, and that he fancied in some way Madam
Wetherill had gotten the better of him.
"I am not going to marry Andrew--nor anyone. I love him very much, but I
know it is not in that way. And my own life is growing exceeding sweet,
day by day. It is like a garden full of wonderful flowers that no one
can guess until they bloom."
"Then thou wilt not hinder him again? His father's heart hath grown
tender toward him, and I can persuade if I have this surety to go upon."
"And then--dost thou hope to marry him?"
"I hope for nothing, Miss Impertinence. I only want that Andrew shall be
restored."
A willful mood came over Primrose. What if she did not promise?
"There is little dependence on thee, I see. I was a fool to think it.
Girls like thee play with men's hearts."
Rachel turned away with a bitter curl of the lip, and held her head up
determinedly.
"Oh, Rachel, if that will help, I promise. If thou wilt do thy best to
soften Uncle James. I care not so much that he shall regard me with
favor. I have many to love me."
Rachel turned back a step, caught the round arm and held it up.
"Promise," she cried, almost fiercely.
"I promise," Primrose said solemnly.
"That is in the sight of God. Thou wilt be a very wicked girl to break
it."
"I shall not break it. Oh, Rachel, do thy best to restore peace. For to
Andrew it would be great joy."
Then she went over to Jerry, who helped her into the saddle. The girls
curiously enough had not said good-by to each other. Rachel had gone
into the house.
"I did it for the best," she was thinking to herself. "There should be
peace between them, for Uncle James acts strangely sometimes. And then
if Andrew hath any gratitude--perhaps soft measures may conquer. His
mother wishes for the marriage as well."
Primrose seemed in no haste and the ride was long. She was annoyed that
Rachel should talk of her marrying. And her brother, she remembered, had
confessed a half-formed plan of wedding her to Gilbert Vane. Why could
not everybody let her alone? Madam Wetherill never spoke of it, and she
was glad.
Where was Gilbert Vane? And oh, where was her poor brother? The soft
wind cooled her cheeks and the longing brought tears to her eyes.
"How late thou hast stayed," said Madam Wetherill with tender chiding.
"I hope nothing was amiss?"
"Oh, no, dear madam. The air was so fine that I loitered. And the dark
seems to fall suddenly when it does come."
"Thou must change thy habit and come to supper. Put on a jacket and
petticoat, and afterward one of thy best gowns, for there is to be some
young company. Pamela Trumbull sent word 'That she would come with a
host of cousins, and thou must have in thy best singing teeth.' The maid
is always full of merry conceits. And over our teacups thou shalt tell
me about the Henrys."
Primrose repeated all but her last interview with Rachel. Delicacy
forbade that. And then Patty helped her into a furbelowed gown of china
silk that had been made from Madam Wetherill's long-ago treasures and
had a curious fragrance about it.
The young people came, a merry company, and first they had a game of
forfeits and some guessing puzzles. Then Pamela, who had quite bewitched
her cousin with tales of Primrose's singing, insisted that she should go
to the spinet. She found a song.
"Oh, not that foolish one," cried Primrose, blushing scarlet.
"It is so dainty and no one sings it as you do. And in the print store
on Second Street there was a laughable picture of such a pretty, doleful
Cupid shut out of doors in the cold, that I said to Harry, 'Mistress
Primrose Henry sings the most cunning plaint I know, and you shall hear
it.'"
Mr. Henry Beall joined his persuasion and they found the music. Primrose
had a lovely voice and sang with a deliciously simple manner.
    "As little Cupid play-ed,
      The sweet blooming flowers among,
    A bee that lay concealed
      Under the leaf his finger stung.
    Tears down his pretty cheeks did stream
      From smart of such a cruel wound,
    And crying, through the grove he ran,
      Until he his mammy found.
    "'Mammy, I'm sorely wounded,
      A bee has stung me on the plain,
    My anguish is unbounded,
      Assist me or I die with pain.'
    She smil-ed then, replying,
      Said, 'O my son, how can it be?
    That by a bee you're dying,--
      What must she feel who's stung by thee?'"
There was a burst of eager applause.
"It was a quaint old song when I was young," said Madam Wetherill. "Then
there are some pretty ones of Will Shakespere's."
"This is what I like," began Primrose.
    "Tell me not, sweet, I am unkinde."
She sang it with deep and true feeling, Lovelace's immortal song. And
she moved them all by her rendering of the last two lines in her proud
young voice--
    "I could not love thee, dear, so much,
      Loved I not honor more."
Then Mistress Kent would have them come out for curds and cream and
floating islands, and they planned a chestnutting after the first frost
came. They were merry and happy, even if the world was full of sorrow.
Yet it seemed so mysterious to Primrose that the songs should be so much
about love, and that stories were written and wars made and kingdoms
lost for its sake. What was it? No, she did not want to know, either.
And just now she felt infinitely sorry for Rachel. Come what might,
Andrew would not marry her. How she could tell she did not know, but she
felt the certainty.
"Do not sit there by the window, Primrose, or thou wilt get moon-struck
and silly. And young girls should get beauty sleep. Come to bed at
once," said Madam Wetherill.
But after all she admitted to herself that Primrose was not urgently in
need of beauty sleep.
CHAPTER XIX.
THE MIDNIGHT TIDINGS OF GREAT JOY.
Old Philadelphia had fallen into her midnight nap. Since Howe's time
there had been a more decorous rule, and the taverns closed early. There
were no roystering soldiers flinging their money about and singing songs
in King George's honor, or ribald squibs about the rebels, and braggart
rhymes as to what they would do with them by and by. Everything, this
October night, was soft and silent. Even party people had gone home long
ago, and heard the watchman sing out, "Twelve o'clock and all is well!"
Only the stars were keeping watch, and the winds made now and then a
rustle.
Someone rode into the town tired and exhausted, but joyful, and with
joyful news. The German watchman, who caught it first, went on his
rounds with, "Past two o'clock and Lord Cornwallis is taken."
He came down Arch Street. Madam Wetherill had been rather wakeful. What
