trumpets excommunication was pronounced.
Of all of these incidents save the last Mary had been necessarily aware.
In company with Johanna, the wife of Herod’s steward, Mary, wife of
Clopas, and Salomè, mother of Zebedee’s children, she had heard him
reiterate the burning words of Jeremiah, and seen him purge the Temple of
its traffickers; she had heard, too, the esoteric proclamation, “Before
Abraham was, I am;” and she had seen him lash the Sadducees with
invective. She had been present when a letter was brought from Abgar
Uchomo, King of Edessa, to Jesus, “the good Redeemer,” in which the
potentate prayed the prophet to come and heal him of a sickness which he
had, offering him a refuge from the Jews, and quaintly setting forth the
writer’s belief that Jesus was God or else His Son. She had been present,
also, when the charge was made against Ahulah, and had comforted that
unfortunate in womanly ways. “Surely,” she had said, “if the Master who
does not love you can forgive, how much more readily must your husband who
does!” Whereupon Ahulah had become her slave, tending her thereafter with
almost bestial devotion.
These episodes, one after another, she related to Martha; to Eleazer, her
brother; to Simon, Martha’s husband; to anyone that chanced that way. For
it was then that the Master had bade her go to Bethany. For a little space
he too had forsaken Jerusalem. Now and then with some of his followers he
would venture in the neighborhood, yet only to be off again through the
scorched hollows of the Ghôr before the sun was up.
These things it was that paraded before her as she lay on the floor of the
little room, felled by the hideousness of a threat that had sprung upon
her, abruptly, like a cheetah in the dark. To Martha and to the others on
one subject alone had she been silent, and now at the moment it dominated
all else.
From the day on which she joined the little band to whom the future was to
give half of this world and all of the next, Judas had been ever at her
ear. As a door that opens and shuts at the will of a hand, his presence
and absence had barred the vistas or left them clear. At first he had
affected her as a scarabæus affects the rose. She knew of him, and that
was all. When he spoke, she thought of other things. And as the blind
remain unawakened by the day, he never saw that where the wanton had been
the saint had come. To him she was a book of ivory bound in gold, whose
contents he longed to possess; she was a book, but one from which whole
chapters had been torn, the preface destroyed; and when his increasing
insistence forced itself upon her, demanding, obviously, countenance or
rebuke, she walked serenely on her way, disdaining either, occupied with
higher things. It was of the Master only that she appeared to think. When
he spoke, it was to her as though God really lived on earth; her eyes
lighted ineffably, and visibly all else was instantly forgot. At that time
her life was a dream into whose charmed precincts a bat had flown.
These things, gradually, Judas must have understood. In Mary’s eyes he may
have caught the intimation that to her now only the ideal was real; or the
idea may have visited him that in the infinite of her faith he disappeared
and ceased to be. In any event he must have taken counsel with himself,
for one day he approached her with a newer theme.
“I have knocked on the tombs; they are dumb.”
Mary, with that grace with which a woman gathers a flower when thinking of
him whom she loves, bent a little and turned away.
“Have you heard of the Buddha?” he asked. “Babylon is peopled with his
disciples. One of them met Jesus in the desert, and taught him his belief.
It is that he preaches now, only the Buddha did not know of a heaven, for
there is none.”
And he added, after a pause: “I tell you I have knocked on the tombs;
there is no answer there.”
With that, as a panther falls asleep, his claw blood-red, Judas nodded and
left her to her thoughts.
“In Eternity there is room for everything,” she said, when he came to her
again.
“Eternity is an abyss which the tomb uses for a sewer,” he answered. “Its
flood is corruption. The day only exists, but in it is that freedom which
waves possess. Mary, if you would but taste it with me! Oh, to mix with
you as light with day, as stream with sea, I would suck the flame that
flickers on the walls of sepulchres.”
She shuddered, and he saw it.
“You have taught me to love,” he hissed; “do not teach me now to hate.”
Mary mastered her revolt. “Judas, the day will come when you will cease to
speak as you do.”
“You believe, then, still?”
“Yes, surely; and so do you.”
“The day will come,” he muttered, “when you will cease to believe.”
“And you too,” she answered. “For then you will know.”
The dialogue with its variations continued, at intervals, for months.
There were times, weeks even, when he avoided all speech with her. Then,
abruptly, when she expected it least, he would return more volcanic than
before. These attacks she accustomed herself to regard as necessary,
perhaps, to the training of patience, of charity too, and so bore with
them, until at last Jerusalem was reached. Meanwhile she held to her trust
as to a fringe of the mantle of Christ. To her the past was a grammar, its
name—To-morrow. And in the service of the Master, in the future which he
had evoked, she journeyed and dreamed.
But in Jerusalem Judas grew acrider. He had fits of unnecessary laughter,
and spells of the deepest melancholy. He quarrelled with anyone who would
let him, and then for the irritation he had displayed he would make amends
that were wholly slavish. His companions distrusted him. He had been seen
talking amicably with the corrupt levites, the police of the Temple, and
once he had been detected in a wine-shop of low repute. The Master,
apparently, noticed nothing of this; nor did Mary, whose thoughts were on
other things.
At Bethany one evening Judas came to her. The sun, sinking through clouds,
placed in the west the tableau of a duel to the death between a titan and
a god. There was the glitter of gigantic swords, and the red of immortal
blood.
“Mary,” he began, and as he spoke there was a new note in his voice—“Mary,
I have watched and waited, and to those that watch how many lamps burn
out! One after another those that I tended went. There was a flicker, a
little smoke, and they had gone. I tried to relight them, but perhaps the
oil was spent; perhaps, too, I was like the blind that hold a torch. My
way has not been clear. The faith I had, and which, I do not know, but
which, it may be, would have been strengthened, evaporated when you came.
The rays of the sun I had revered became as the threads of shadows,
interconnecting life and death. In them I could see but you. In the jaw of
night, in the teeth of day, always I have seen you. Mary, love is a net
which woman throws. In casting yours—there! unintentionally, I know—you
caught my soul. It is yours now wholly until time shall cease to be. Will
you take it, Mary, or will you put it aside, a thing forever dead?”
Mary made no answer. It may be she had not heard. In the west both titan
and god had disappeared. Above, in a field of stars, the moon hung, a
scythe of gold. The air was still, the hush of locusts accentuating the
silence and bidding it be at rest. In a house near by there were lights
shining. A woman looked out and called into the night.
Then, as though moved by some jealousy of the impalpable, Judas leaned
forward and peered into her face.
“It is the Master who keeps you from me, is it not?”
“It is my belief,” she answered, simply.
“It was he that gave it to you. Mary, do you know that there is a price
upon his head? Do you know that if I cannot slake my love, at least I can
gorge my hate? Do you know that, Mary? Do you know it? Now choose between
your belief and me; if you prefer the former, the Sanhedrim will have him
to-morrow. There, your sister is calling; go—and choose.”
It was with the hideousness of this threat in her ears that Mary escaped
to the little room where her childhood had been passed and flung herself
on the floor. From beyond came the sound of banqueting. Martha was
entertaining the Lord, his disciples as well; and Mary knew that her aid
was needed. But the threat pinioned and held her down. To accede was
death, not of the body alone, but of the soul as well. There was no clear
pool in which she might cleanse the stain; there could be no forgiveness,
no obliteration, nothing in fact save the loss never to be recovered of
life in the diaphanous hours and immaculate days of which she had dreamed
so long.
For a little space she tried to comfort herself. Perhaps Judas was not in
earnest; perhaps even he had lied. And if he had not, was there not time
in plenty? The desert was neighborly. She could follow the Master there,
and minister to him till the sky opened and the kingdom was prepared. And
the threat, coupled with that perspective, charmed, and for the moment had
for her that enticement which the quarrels and kisses of children equally
possess. She would warn him secretly, she decided, for surely as yet he
did not know; she would warn him, and before the sun was up he could be
beyond the Sanhedrim’s reach, and she preparing to follow. For a moment
she lost herself in anticipation; then, the threat loosening its hold, she
stood up, her face very white in the starlight, her eyes brave and alert.
Already her plan was formed; and, taking a vase that she had brought with
her from Magdala, she hurried to the room below.
The Master; the disciples; Eleazer, her brother; Simon, her sister’s
husband, were all at meat. Martha was serving, and as Mary entered Judas
stood up. She moved to where the Master was, and on him poured the
contents of the vase. Thomas sniffed delightedly, for now the room was
full of fragrance. The Master turned to her and smiled; the homage
evidently was grateful. Mary bent nearer. Thomas and Bartholomew joined in
loud praises of the aroma of the nard, and under cover of their voices she
whispered, “Rabboni, the Sanhedrim has placed a price on——”
The whisper was drowned and interrupted. Judas had shoved her away. “To
what end is this waste?” he asked; and as Mary looked in his face she saw
by the expression in it that her purpose had been divined and her warning
overheard.
“It is absurd,” he continued, with affected anger. “Ointment such as that
has a value. It might better have been saved for the poor.”
Thomas chimed in approvingly; placed in that light it was indeed an
extravagance, unnecessary too, and he looked about to his comrades for
support. Eleazer and Peter seemed inclined to view the matter differently.
A discussion would have arisen, but the Master checked it gently, as was
his wont.
“The poor are always with you, but me you cannot always have.”
As he spoke he turned to Judas with that indulgence which was to be a
heritage.
Could he know? Judas wondered. Had he heard what Mary said? And, the
Master’s speech continuing, he glanced at her and left the room.
The moon had mowed the stars, but the sky was visibly blue. Behind the
shoulder of Olivet he divined the silence of Jerusalem, the welcome of the
Sadducees, the joy of hate assuaged. There was but one thing now that
might deter; and as his thoughts groped through that possibility, Mary
stood at his side.
“Judas——”
He wheeled, and, catching her by the wrists, stared into her eyes.
“Is it yes?”
A shudder seized her. There was dread in it, anguish too, and both were
mortal. He had not lied, she saw, and the threat was real.
“Is it yes?” he repeated.
There may be moments that prolong, but there are others in which time no
longer is; and as Mary shrank in the blight of Judas’ stare, both felt
that the culmination of life was reached.
“No!”
The monosyllable dropped from her lips like a stone, yet even as it fell
the banner of Maccabæus unfurled and flaunted in her face; the voice of
Esther murmured, and a vision of Judith saving a nation visited her, and,
continuing, made spots on the night.
Judas had flung her from him. She reeled; the violence roused her. Who was
she to consider herself when the security of the Master was at stake? How
should it matter though she died, if he were safe?
“It is my soul you ask,” she cried. “Take it. If I had a thousand souls, I
would give each one for Him.”
But she cried to the unanswering night. Where the road curved about the
shoulder of the Mount of Olives, for one second she saw a white robe
glisten. Agonized, she called again, but there was no one now to hear.
A little later, when the followers of the Lord issued from the house, Mary
lay before the door, her eyes closed, her head in the dust. They touched
her. She had fainted.
                              CHAPTER VIII.
                                  VIII.
“They have him, they are taking him to Pilate.”
It was Eleazer calling to his sister from the turn of the road. In a
moment he was at her side, dust-covered, his sandals torn, his pathetic
eyes dilated. He was breathless too, and, in default of words, with a
gesture that swept the Mount of Olives, he pointed to where the holy city
lay.
To Mary the morrow succeeding her swoon was a pall. Love, it may be, is a
forgetfulness of all things else, but despair is very actual. It takes a
hold on memory, inhabits it, and makes it its own. And during the day that
followed, Mary lay preyed upon by the acutest agony that ever tortured
woman yet. Early in the night, before her senses returned, the Master had
gone without mentioning whither. His destination may have been Ephraïm,
Jericho even, or further yet, beyond the hollows of the Ghôr. Then, again,
he might have loitered in the neighborhood, on the hill perhaps, in that
open-air solitude he loved so well, and for which so often he forsook the
narrowness of roofs and towns. But yet, in view of the Passover, he might
have gone to Jerusalem, and it was that idea that tortured most.
It was there the keen police, the levites, were, and their masters the
Sadducees, who had placed a price on his head. Did he get within the
walls, then surely he was lost. At the possibilities which that idea
evoked her thoughts sank like the roots of a tree and grappled with the
under-earth. To her despair, regret brought its burden. A moment of
self-forgetfulness, and, however horrible that forgetfulness might have
been, in it danger to him whom she revered would have been averted, and,
for the time being at least, dispersed utterly as last year’s leaves. It
had been cowardice on her part to let Judas go; she should have been
strong when strength was needed. There were glaives to be had; the head of
Holofernes could have greeted his. The legend of Judith still echoed its
reproach, and recurring, pointed a slender finger of disdain.
To the heart that is sinking, hope throws a straw. Immaterial and
caressing as a shadow, came to her the fancy that if the Master were in
the neighborhood, at any moment he might appear. In that event it was
needful that she should be prepared to aid him at once beyond the confines
of Judæa. Were he already beyond them, presently she must learn it, and
then could warn him of the danger of return. But meanwhile, for security’s
sake, had he gone by any chance to Jerusalem, some one must be there to
warn him of the plot. She thought of her sister, and dismissed her. Martha
was too feather-headed for an errand such as that. She thought of Ahulah,
but some of those well-intentioned friends that everyone possesses had
told of the misadventure to her husband, and the latter, cruel as a woman,
had spat upon her, and now through the suburbs she wandered, distraught,
incompetent to aid. Her brother occurred to her. It was on him she could
rely. His devotion was surpassed only by her own. Thereupon she sought him
out, instructed him in his duty, and sent him forth to watch and warn.
The green afternoon faded in the hemorrhages of the setting sun. Twilight
approached like a wolf. Night unfurled her great black fan; the moon came,
fumbling the shadows, checkering the underbrush with silver spots. Once a
caravan passed, and once from the hillside came the bark of a dog, caught
up and repeated in some farm beyond; otherwise the night was unstirred;
and as Mary stared into the immensities where lightning wearies and
subsides, a lethargy beset her, her body was imprisoned; but her soul was
free, and in a moment it mounted sheerly to a fringe of the heavens and
bathed in space.
When it descended, another day had come, and Eleazer was calling to her
from the turn of the road. At once she was on earth and on her feet, and
as the brother gasped for breath the sister’s strength returned. There
must be no more weakness now, she knew; it was time to act. She got drink,
water for the feet; then Eleazer, refreshed, continued:
“I ran through the ridge and up to where the two cedars are. I looked
among the cypresses beyond, in the pines where the descent begins, through
the olive groves below and the booths and tents beneath. There was no
trace of him anywhere. I crossed the brook and sat awhile at the Shushan
gate, watching those that entered. The crowd became so dense that it was
impossible to distinguish. I thought I might hear of him in the Temple.
The porch was thronged. I roamed through the Mountain of the House into
the Woman’s Court, and out of it on the Chel. But they were all so filled
with pilgrims that had he been there only accident could have brought me
to him. It was on that I counted, and I went out on Zion and Acra, where
the crowd was less. It was getting late. Beth-horon was dim. I could see
lights in Herod’s palace. Some one said that the tetrarch of Galilee was
there, the guest of the procurator. I went back by way of Antonia to
Birket Israil and the Red Heifer Bridge. I had given up; it seemed to me
useless to make further attempt. Suddenly I saw Judas in the angle of the
porch. With him was a levite. I got behind a pillar, near where they
stood, and listened. The only thing I distinctly heard was the name of
Joseph of Haramathaïm. I fancied, though I was not certain, that Judas
spoke as though he had just left his house. They must have moved away
then, for when I looked they had gone. I knew that Joseph was a friend of
the Master’s, and it struck me that he might be at his house. It is in the
sook of the Perfumers, back of Ophel. I ran there as fast as I could. It
was unlighted. I beat on the door: there was no answer. I felt that I had
been mistaken, anyway that I could do no more. I went down again into the
valley, crossed the Kedron, and would have returned here at once perhaps,
but I was tired, and so, on the slope where the olive-presses are, I lay
down and must have fallen asleep, for I remembered nothing till there came
a tramping of men. I crouched in the underbrush. They passed very close;
some had torches, some had spears. Judas was leading, and as an ape
munches a flower he was muttering the Master’s name.”
Eleazer paused and looked at his sister. She was standing erect, her face
wan, the brow contracted, the rhymes of her lips tight-pressed. Then, with
a glance at Olivet, he continued:
“For a little space I waited. They had ascended the slope and halted.
There was a shout, the waving of torches, then a silence. In it I heard
the Master’s voice, followed by a cry of pain. I hurried to where they
were. They had him bound when I got there. I saw a soldier raising a hand
to his ear and looking at the palm; it was red. Peter was running one way,
Thomas another. I got nearer. Some one, a levite I think, caught me by the
coat. I freed myself from it and escaped up the hill.
“From there I looked down. They were going away. When they had gone, I
went back and found my cloak. While I was putting it on, John appeared.
‘They are taking him to Caiaphas,’ he said; ‘I shall follow. Come with me
if you wish.’ I went with him. On the way we met Peter; he joined us. We
walked single-file, John leading. Beyond I could see the lights of the
torches, the glint of steel. No one spoke. Peter whimpered a little. We
crossed the Kedron and got up into the city. The soldiers went directly to
where Annas lives; they entered in a body, and the door closed. John
rapped: it was opened. He said something to the doorkeeper, who admitted
him. The door closed again. Peter and I waited a little, not knowing where
to turn. Presently the door reopened, and John motioned us to come in. In
the court was a fire; about it were servants and khazzans. I stopped a
moment to warm my hands; Peter did the same. John had disappeared. I heard
one of the khazzans say that they had taken the Master to Annas, and the
others discuss what he would probably do. While I stood there listening,
and wondering what had become of John, I saw the Master being led across
the court to the Lishcath ha-Gazith. I left Peter, and followed. In the
hall were the elders, ranged in a semicircle about Caiaphas. They must
have been prepared beforehand, for the clerks of acquittal and of
condemnation were there, the crier too, and a group of levites and
Scribes. In a corner were some of Annas’ servants. I got among them and
stood unnoticed.
“The Master’s hands were bound. On either side of him was a soldier.
Caiaphas was livid. He looked him from head to foot.
“ ‘You are accused,’ he said, ‘of inciting sedition, of defying the Law,
of blasphemy, and of breaking the Sabbath day. What have you to answer?’
“The Master made no reply.
“Caiaphas pointed to the levites. ‘Here,’ he continued, ‘are witnesses.’
“He motioned; one of them stepped forward and spoke.
“ ‘I testify that this man has incited to sedition by denouncing the
members of this reverend council as hypocrites, wolves in sheep’s
clothing, blind leaders of the blind; and I further testify that he has
declared no one should follow them.’
“ ‘What have you to say to that?’ Caiaphas snarled. But the Master said
nothing.
“The first levite moved back, and at a gesture from the high-priest
another stepped forward.
“ ‘I testify that I have seen that man eat, in defiance of the Law, with
unwashed hands, and consort with publicans and people of low repute.’
“ ‘And what have you to say to that?’ Caiaphas asked again. But still the
Master said nothing.
“The second levite moved back, and a third advanced.
“ ‘I testify that I have heard that man blaspheme in calling God his
father, and in declaring himself to be one with Him.’
“ ‘Is that blasphemy or is it not?’ Caiaphas bawled. But the Master’s lips
never moved.
“The third levite gave way to a fourth.
“ ‘I testify that that man has broken the Sabbath in healing the sick on
that day, and further that he has seduced others to break it. On the
Sabbath I have heard him order a cripple to take up his bed and carry it
to his home. I have heard him also declare that he could destroy the
Temple and rebuild it, in three days, anew.’
“Caiaphas turned to the Master. ‘Do you still refuse to answer?’ he asked.
‘Do you think that silence can save you? Have you heard these witnesses?’
“And as the Master still made no reply, Caiaphas lifted his hand and
cried, ‘I adjure you by the Eternal to answer, Are you the Messiah, the
Son of God?’
“In the breathless silence Jesus raised his eyes. He looked at the
high-priest, at the levites, the Scribes. ‘You have said it,’ he murmured,
and smiled with that air he has.
“Caiaphas grew purple. He caught his gown at the throat and ripped it from
neck to hem. The elders started. I heard them mutter, ‘Ish maveth.’ The
high-priest glanced toward them. ‘You have heard this ragged blasphemy?’
he exclaimed; and, turning to where the Scribes stood, ‘What,’ he asked,
‘does the Law decree concerning the Sabbath-breaker?’
“One of them, the book unrolled in his hand, advanced and read:
“ ‘Ye shall keep the Sabbath holy. Whoso does any work thereon shall be
cut off from his people.’
“ ‘And what of blasphemy?’
“The Scribe glanced at the roll and repeated from memory: ‘He that
blasphemeth the name of the Lord shall be put to death. The congregation
shall stone him, as well the stranger as he that was born in the land.’
“Caiaphas closed the fingers on the palm of his left hand, and, raising
it, turned again to the elders. ‘Ish maveth,’ they repeated, closing
their fingers as he had done.
“I knew then that he was condemned. After all”—and Eleazer looked wearily
to the ground—“it was legal enough. Each moment I expected him to give
some sign, but, save to affirm the charge of blasphemy, during the entire
time he kept silent. Yes, it was legal enough. From where I stood I heard
the Scribes say that he would be sentenced at sunrise, and then Pilate
would have a word with him. I could do nothing. Caiaphas still fumed. I
went out in the court again. In the corridor was Judas. Peter was
wrangling with the servants. I did not wait for more. I got away and into
the valley and up again on the hill. A cock was crowing, and I saw the
dawn. O Mary, the pity of it!”
He looked at his sister. There was no weakness now in her face, nor beauty
either. Age must have passed her in the night.
“And I will have a word with Pilate too,” she said.
As a somnambulist might, she drew her mantle closer, and, moving to the
wayside, ascended the hill. The silver and green of the olives closed
around her, and with them the branching dates. Above, a star left by the
morning glimmered feebly. In a myrtle a bird began to sing, and a lizard
that had come out to intercept the sun scurried as she passed. Upward and
onward still she went, and, the summit reached, for a moment she stopped
and rested.
To the east the Dead Sea lay, a stretch of silk. At its edge was the
flutter of ospreys feasting on the barbels and breams of the Jordan, which
as they enter, die. Beyond was a glitter of white and gold, the scarp of
Moriah and its breast of stone, the Tyrian bevel of Solomon, the porphyry
of Nehemiah, the marble that Herod gave; ascending terraces, engulfing
porticoes, the splendor of Jerusalem at dawn. Between the houses nearest
was the dimness that shadows cast; those further away had a scatter of
pink; about it all was a wall surmounted by turrets; beneath was a ravine
in which was a brook, and a city of booths and tents, grazing camels and
fat-tailed sheep.
Through the pines and cypresses Mary passed down to where the olives were.
The brook sent a message to her; the blood that had flowed from the
sacrifices was in it, and in the fresh morning it reeked a little, as such
brooks do. It was here, she thought, the Master had been taken, and for a
second she stopped again. The sun now was rising behind her; the color of
the sky shifted. Beyond Jerusalem a mountain was melting in excesses of
vermilion, and the ravine that had been gray was assuming the tenderest
green. The star had disappeared, but from each tree broke the greeting of
a bird.
A rustle of the leaves near by startled her, and she looked about,
fearful, as women are, of some beast of prey. A white robe was there, a
white turban, and beneath it the swart face of one whom she had known.
To her eyes came massacres. “Judas!” she exclaimed, and looked up in that
roof of her world where day puts its blue and night puts its black.
“Judas!” she repeated. Her small hands clenched, and the rhymes of her
mouth grew venomous.
Then the woman spoke in her. “Why did you not kill me first?”
Judas swayed like an ox hit on the forehead. The motion distracted and
irritated her. “Can’t you speak,” she cried, “or does hell hold you,
tongue and all?”
He raised a hand as though he feared another blow. The gesture was so
human and yet so humble that Mary looked into his face. Time, which turns
the sweet-eyed girl into a withered spectre, must have touched him with
its thumb. His eyes were ringed and cavernous, his cheeks empty.
“You have heard, then?” he said; but he evinced no curiosity. He spoke
with the apathy of one who takes everything for granted, one with whom
fate is to have its will. “I have just come from there,” he added, with a
backward gesture. “I never thought that such a thing could be. No, I swear
it, I never did.” Then, in answer perhaps to some inner twinge, perhaps
also because of the expression of Mary’s lips, he continued: “If there is
a new oath, one that has never been used before, prompt me, and I will
swear again, I never did. I thought——”
Mary interrupted him savagely: “There are ten kinds of hypocrisy. You have
nine of them; you will develop the tenth and invent a new one besides.”
At this Judas made a pass with his hands and stared absently at the
ground. “Mary,” he said, “life is a book which man reads when he dies.
During the last hour I have been unrolling it. In its scroll I found
existence a wine-shop where the guest fares so badly that he would go at
once were it not that he fears to call for the reckoning. The reckoning,
Mary, is death. I have called for it. I am about to pay. Let me tell you.
I have no excuse to offer, no forgiveness now to await. My heart was a
meadow: you made it stone. There were well-springs in it: you dried them,
Mary. When I first saw you, you were a dream fulfilled. Others had brought
echoes of life; you brought its song. It was then that I heard the Master
speak. I followed him, and tried to forget. It must be that I failed, for
when I saw you in Capharnahum my blood danced, and when you spoke I
trembled. It was love, Mary; and love, when it is not death, is life. It
was that I sought at your side. You would not listen. Innocence is a
garment. You seemed to have wrapped it about you. I tried to tear it away.
There was my fault, and this my punishment. Your right was inflexible as a
prison-door, and yet always behind it was the murmur of a mysterious
Perhaps. The others turned to me; I turned to you. I forgot again, but
this time it was my duty, my allegiance, and my faith. Mary, I loved the
Master more wholly even than I loved you. He was the Spirit; you were the
flesh. In him was the future; in you the tomb. I thought to conquer both.
While I mixed my darkness with his light, I pursued you as night pursues
the day. On the light I have cast a shadow, and to you I have brought a
blight. But, Mary, both will disappear. The one consolation I cling to now
is that belief. When I delivered him up, it was myself I betrayed, not
him. I am forever dead, and he forever living. While I bargained with the
priests and pretended that my aim was coin, when I led the levites and the
Temple-guard just here to where he stood, during all the hours since I
left you, I tried to escape from that cage we call Fate. Mary, there is
something about us higher than our will. The revenge I sought on you
forsook me before I reached the city’s gate. It is the intangible that has
brought me where I am. I have sworn to you I never thought this thing
could be. I swear it now again. In carrying out the threat I made, I
thought to make you fear my hate and make him greater than he was. His
enemies, I had seen, were many. Those that had believed in him grew daily
less. In Jerusalem his miracles had ceased, and I thought that, when the
levites and the Temple-guard approached, he would speak with Samuel’s
thunder, answer with Elijah’s flame. I thought the stars would shake, the
moon grow red; that he would produce the lost Urim, the vanished Ark, and
so forever silence disbelief. I was wrong, and he was right. Belief is in
the heart, not in the senses; the visible contradicts, but faith is not to
be confuted. No, Mary, the tombs are not dumb. I said so once, I know, but
they answer, and mine will speak. On it perhaps a caricature may be
daubed, and about it prejudice will uncoil. I deserve it. Yet though you
think me wholly base, remember no man is that. Since I met you my life has
been a battle-field in which I have fought with conscience. It has
conquered. I am its slave; it commands, and I obey.”
He drew a breath as though he had more to add, and turned to where she
stood. There was no one there. From an olive-branch a red-start piped to
the morning; over the buds of a pomegranate a bee buzzed its delight;
across the leaves of a myrtle a blue spider was busy with its web, but
Mary was no longer there. He peered through the underbrush, and wandered
to the grove beyond. There was no one. He looked to the hill-top: there
was the advancing sun. He looked in the valley: there were the pilgrims’
booths, the grazing camels and fat-tailed sheep.
“She has gone,” he told himself. “She would not even listen.”
He bent his head. For the first time since boyhood the tears rolled down
his face.
“She might at least have heard me,” he thought, and brushed the tears
away. Others came and replaced them. When they had fallen, there were
more.
“Yes, she might at least have listened. If I had no excuse to offer, at
least I had regret.” For a moment he fancied her, cruel as only woman is,
hurrying to some unknown goal. The tears he had tried to stanch ceased now
abruptly. “She is right,” he mused. “She has left me to conscience and to
death.”
He turned again and went back to where he had stood before. As he crossed
the intervening space he unloosed the long girdle which he wore, and from
which still hung the treasury of the twelve. The bag that held it fell
where the bee was buzzing. One end of the girdle he tossed over a branch;
the red-start spread its wings and fled. He looked about. There was a
stone near by; he got it and with a little labor rolled it beneath the
branch. Then he made a noose, very carefully, that it might not come
undone, and settling it well under the chin, he tied the other end of the
girdle to it and swung himself from the stone.
                               CHAPTER IX.
                                   IX.
In the apartment of Claudia Procula, Mary and the wife of the procurator
stood face to face.
The apartment itself overlooked Jerusalem. Beneath was an open space tiled
with little oblong stones, red, yellow, and blue; the blue predominating.
On either side the colossal white wings of the palace stretched to a park,
very green in the sunlight, cut by colonnades in which fountains were, and
surrounded by a marble wall that was starred with turrets and fluttered
with doves. The Temple, which, from its cressets, radiated to the hills
beyond a glare of gold, was not as fair nor yet as vast as this. Within
its gates an army could manœuvre; in its banquet-hall a cohort could have
supped. It was Herod’s triumph, built subsequent to the Temple, to show
the world, perhaps, that to surpass a masterpiece he had only to conceive
another.
To it now and then, for a week or more, the procurator descended from his
residence by the sea. He preferred the latter; the day was freer there,
life less cramped. But during festival times, when the fanatic Jews were
apt to be excited and need the chill of a curb, it was well for him and
his soldiery to be on hand. And so on this occasion he had come, and with
him his wife, Claudia Procula, and the tetrarch Antipas, who had joined
them on the way.
Antipas and his retinue occupied the Ægrippeum, the north wing of the
palace, while in the Cæsareum, the wing that leaned to the south, was
Pilate, his wife and body-guard.
And now on this clear morning the sweet-faced patrician, Claudia Procula,
with perfectly feminine curiosity was looking into the drawn features of
the Magdalen, and wondering whence her rumored charm could come.
“I will do my best,” she said, at last, in answer to an anterior request.
And calling a servant, she wrote on a tablet a word for Pilate’s eye.
Mary moved to the portico. The variegated tiles of the quadrangle were
nearly covered now. A flight of wide, low steps led to the main entrance
of the palace, and there a high seat of enamelled ebony had been placed.
In it Pilate sat, in his hand the staff of office. Beside him were his
assessors, members of his suite, and Calcol, a centurion. On one of the
steps Caiaphas stood, near him the elders of the college. Below was the
Christ, bound and guarded. Across the quadrangle was a line of soldiery,
behind it a mob.
The helmets, glancing mail, short skirts, and bare legs of the Romans
contrasted refreshingly with the blossoming garments, effeminate girdles,
frontlets, and horned blue bonnets of the priesthood. And in the riot of
color and glint of steel the Christ, bound as he was, looked, in the
simplicity of his seamless robe, the descendant of a larger sphere. Above,
to the left, Antipas, aroused by the clamor, leaned from a portico.
Opposite where the sunlight fell Mary held her cloak about her.
Caiaphas, a hand indicating Jesus, his head turned to Pilate, was
formulating a complaint. Not indeed that the prisoner had declared himself
a divinity. There were far too many gods in the menagerie of the Pantheon
for a procurator to be the least disturbed at the rumor of a new one. It
was the right to rule, that attribute of the Messiah, on which he intended
the gravamen of the charge should rest. But he began circuitously, feeling
the way, in Greek at that, with an accent which might have been improved.
“And so,” he concluded, “in many ways he has transgressed the Law.”
“Why don’t you judge him by it, then?” asked Pilate, grimly.
A servant approached with a tablet. The procurator glanced at it, looked
up at the man, and motioned him away.
“My lord governor, we have. The Sanhedrim, having found him guilty, has
sentenced him to death. But the Sanhedrim, as you know, may not execute
the sentence. The Senate has deprived us of that right. It is for you, as
its legate, to order it done.”
Pilate sneered. “I can’t very well, until I know of what he is guilty.
What crime has he committed—written a letter on the Sabbath, or has he
been caught without his phylacteries?”
“He has declared himself Israel’s king!”
“Ah!” And Pilate smiled wearily. “You are always expecting one; why not
take him?”
“Why not, my lord? Because it is treason to do so.”
Pilate nodded with affected approval. “I admire your zeal.” And with a
glance at the prisoner, he added: “You have heard the accusation; defend
yourself. What!” he continued, after a moment, “have you nothing to say?”
Caiaphas exulted openly. The corners of his mouth had the width and
cruelty, and his nostrils the dilation, of a wolf.
“My lord,” he cried, “his silence is an admission.”
“Hold your tongue! It is for me to question.” And therewith Pilate gave
the high-priest a look which was tantamount to a knee pressed on the
midriff. He glanced again at the tablet, then at the prisoner.
“Tell me, do you really claim to be king?”
“Is it your idea of me?” the Christ asked; and in his bearing was a
dignity which did not clash with the charge; “or have others prompted
you?”
“But I am not a Jew,” Pilate retorted. “The matter only interests me
officially. It is your hierarchy that bring the charge. Why have they?
What have you done? Tell me,” he continued, in Latin, “do you think
yourself King?”
“Tu dixisti,” Jesus answered, and smiled as he had before, very gravely.
“But my royalty is not of the earth.” And with a glance at his bonds, one
which was so significant that it annulled the charge, he added, still in
Latin, “I am Truth, and I preach it.”
Pilate with skeptical indulgence shook his head. Truth to him was an
elenchicism, an abstraction of the Platonists, whom in Rome he had
respected for their wisdom and avoided with care. He turned to Caiaphas.
The latter had been regretting the absence of an interpreter. This
amicable conversation, which he did not understand, was not in the least
to his liking, and as Pilate turned to him he frowned in his beard.
“I am unable to find him guilty,” the procurator announced. “He may call
himself king, but every philosopher does the same. You might yourself, for
that matter.”
“A philosopher, this mesîth!” Caiaphas gnashed back. “Why, he seduces the
people; he incites to sedition; he is a rebel to Rome. It is for you, my
lord, to see the empire upheld. Would it be well to have another complaint
laid before the Cæsar? Ask yourself, is this Galilean worth it?”
The thrust was as keen and as venomous as the tooth of a rat. Pilate had
been rebuked by the emperor already; he had no wish to incur further
displeasure. Sejanus, the emperor’s favorite, to whom he owed his
procuratorship, had for suspected treason been strangled in a dumb dungeon
only a little before. Under Tiberius there was quiet, a future historian
was to note; and Pilate was aware that, should a disturbance occur, the
disturbance would be quelled, but at his expense.
An idea presented itself. “Did I understand you to say he is a Galilean?”
he asked.
“Yes,” Caiaphas answered, expecting, perhaps, the usual jibe that was
flung at those who came from there. “Yes, he is a Nazarene.”
“Hm. In that case I have no jurisdiction. The tetrarch is my guest; take
your prisoner to him.”
“My lord,” the high-priest objected, “our law is such that if we enter the
palace we cannot officiate at the Passover to-night.”
Pilate appeared to reflect. “I suppose,” he said at last, “I might ask him
whether he would care to come here. In which case,” he added, with a
gesture of elaborate courtesy, “you may remain uncontaminated where you
are. Ressala!”
An official stepped forward; an order was given; he disappeared. Presently
a massive throne of sandalwood and gold was trundled out. Caiaphas had
seen it before, and in it—Herod.
“The justice that comes from there,” he muttered, “is as a snake that
issues from a tomb.”
His words were drowned in the clamors of the crowd. The sun had crossed
the zenith; in its rays the waters that gushed from the fountain-mouths of
bronze lions fell in rainbows and glistened in great basins that glistened
too. There was sunlight everywhere, a sky of untroubled blue, and from the
Temple beyond came a glare that radiated from Olivet to Bethlehem.
Pilate was bored. The mantle which Mary wore caught his eye, and he looked
at her, wondering how she came in his wife’s apartment, and where he had
seen her before. Her face was familiar, but the setting vague. Then at
once he remembered. It was at Machærus he had seen her, gambling with the
emir, while Salomè danced. She was with Antipas, of course. He looked
again; she had gone.
The Sanhedrim consulted nervously. The new turn of affairs was not at all
to their liking. The clamors of the mob continued. Once a fanatic pushed
against a soldier. There was a thud, a howl, and a mouth masked with
liquid red gasped to the sun and was seen no more.
Behind the procurator came a movement. The officials massed about the
entrance parted in uneven ranks, and in the great vestibule beyond,
Antipas appeared. Pilate rose to greet him. The elders made obeisance. The
tetrarch moved forward and seated himself in his father’s throne. At his
side was Pahul, the butler, balancing himself flamingowise on one leg, his
bold eyes foraging the priests.
Caiaphas formulated the complaint anew, very majestically this time, and,
thinking perhaps to overawe the tetrarch, his voice assumed the authority
of a guardian of the keys of heaven, a chamberlain of the sceptres of the
earth.
Antipas ignored him utterly. He plucked at his fan-shaped beard, and
stared at the Christ. He could see now he bore no resemblance to Iohanan.
There was nothing of the hyena about him, nor of the prophet either.
Evidently he was but a harmless vagabond, skilled in simples, if report
were true; perhaps a thaumaturge. And it was he whom he had feared and
fancied might be that Son of David for whom a star was created, whom the
magi had visited, whom his father had sought to destroy, and whom now from
his father’s own throne he himself was called upon to judge! He shook his
head, and in the sunlight the indigo with which his hair was powdered made
bright blue motes.
“I say——”
Just beyond, where the assessors stood, Mary suddenly appeared. He stopped
abruptly; for more than a year he had not seen her. Pahul had told him she
had gone to Rome. If she had, he reflected, the journey had not improved
her appearance. Then for the moment he dismissed her, and returned to the
Christ.
“See here: somebody the other day told me you worked miracles. I have
wanted to see one all my life. Gratify me, won’t you? Oh, something very
easy to begin with. Send one of the guards up in the air, or turn your
bonds into bracelets.”
The Christ did not seem to hear. Pahul laughed and held to the throne for
support. Antipas shrugged his shoulders.
“He looks harmless enough,” he said. “Why not let him go?”
Caiaphas glowered, and his fingers twitched. “He claims to be king!”
At this statement the tetrarch laughed too. He gave an order to Pahul, who
vanished with a grin.
“He has jeered at the Temple your father built,” Caiaphas continued. “He
has declared he could destroy it and rebuild a better one, in three days
at that.”
“He is king, then, but of fools.”
“And he has called you a fox,” Caiaphas added, significantly.
“He doesn’t claim to be one himself, does he?”
“He is guilty of treason, and it is for you, his ruler, to sentence him.”
“Not I. The blood of kings is sacred. Pahul, make haste!”
The butler, reappearing, held in his hand the glittering white vestment of
a candidate. The tetrarch took it and held it in air.
“Here, put this on him, and let his subjects admire him to their hearts’
content.”
“Antipas, you disgrace your purple!”
At the exclamation, the Sanhedrim, the guards, the assessors, the
officials, Pilate himself, everyone save the prisoner, turned and looked.
On the colored pavement Mary stood, her face very pale.
The tetrarch flushed mightily; anger mounted into his shifting eyes. For a
moment the sky was blood-red; then he recovered himself and answered
lightly:
“It seems to me, my dear, that you take things with a high hand. It may be
that you forget yourself.”
“I take them from where I am,” she cried. “As for forgetfulness, remember
that my grandfather was satrap of Syria, my father after him, while
yours——”
“Yes, yes, I dare say. He is not in power now; I am.”
“Not here, Antipas, nor in Rome. I appeal to Pilate.”
The tetrarch rose from the throne. The elders whispered together. Pilate
visibly was perplexed. Remembering Mary as he did, he looked upon the
incident as a family quarrel, one in which it would be unseemly for him to
interfere, and which none the less disturbed the decorum of his court.
Caiaphas edged up to the tetrarch, but the latter brushed him aside.
“The hetaira is right,” he exclaimed. “I am not in power here. If I were,
she should be lapidated.”
And, preceded by the butler, Antipas passed through the parting ranks to
the vestibule beyond.
The perplexity of the procurator increased. He did not in the least
understand. To him Mary stood in the same relation to Antipas that
Cleopatra had to Herod. There had been a feud between the tetrarch and
himself, one recently mended, and which he had no wish to renew. Yet
manifestly Antipas was aggrieved, and his own path in the matter by no
means clear.
“Bah!” he muttered, in the consoling undertone of thought, “what are their
beastly barbarian manners to me?”
These reflections Caiaphas interrupted.
“We are waiting, my lord, for the sentence to be pronounced.”
The tone he used was not, however, indicative of patience, and in
conjunction with the incident that had just occurred it irritated and
jarred. Besides, Pilate did not care to be prompted. It was for him to
speak first. He strangled an oath, and, gathering some fringe of the
majesty of Rome, he announced very measuredly:
“You have brought this man before me as a rebel. I have examined him and
find no ground for the charge. His ruler, the tetrarch, has also examined
him, and by him too he has been acquitted. But in view of the fact that he
appears to have contravened some one or another of your laws I order him
to be scourged and to be liberated.”
With that he turned to the prisoner. During the entire proceedings the
attitude of Jesus had not altered. He stood as a disinterested spectator
might—one whom chance had brought that way and there hemmed in—his eyes on
remote, inaccessible horizons, the tongue silent, the head a little
raised.
“Scourging, my lord,” Caiaphas interjected, “is fit and proper, but,” he
continued, one silk-gloved hand uplifted, “our law prescribes death. Only
an enemy to Tiberius would prevent it.”
At the veiled menace Pilate gnawed his under lip. He had no faith at all
in the loyalty of the hierarch; at any other time the affection the latter
manifested for the chains he bore would have been ludicrous and nothing
else. But at the moment he felt insecure. There were Galileans whom he had
sacrificed, Judæans whom he had slaughtered, Samaritans whom he had
oppressed, an embassy might even now be on its way to Rome; he thought
again of Sejanus, and, with cause, he hesitated. Yet of the inward
perturbation he gave no outward sign.
“On this day,” he said at last, “it is customary that in commemoration of
your nation’s delivery out of Egypt I should release a prisoner to you.
There are three others here, among them Jesus Barabba.”
Then, for support perhaps, he looked over at the clamoring mob.
“I will leave the choice to the people.”
A wind seemed to raise the elders; they scattered through the court like
leaves. “Have done with the Nazarene,” cried one. “He would lead you
astray,” insinuated another. “He has violated the Law,” exclaimed a third.
And, filtering through the soldiery into the mob without, they exhorted
and prayed and coerced. “Ask for Barabba; denounce the blasphemer. Trust
to the Sanhedrim. We are your guides. Let him atone for his crimes. The
God of your fathers commands that you condemn. Demand Barabba; uphold your
nation. To the cross with the Nazarene!”
“Whom do you choose?” shouted Pilate.
And the pleb of Jerusalem shouted back as one man, “Barabba!”
At the moment Pilate fancied himself in an amphitheatre, the arena filled
with beasts. There were the satin and stripes of the panther, the yellow
of treacherous eyes, the gnash of fangs, the guttural rumble, the
deafening yell, the scent of blood, and above, the same blue tender sky.
“What of the prisoner?” he called.
A roar leapt back. “Sekaph! Sekaph! Let him be crucified.”
Pilate had fronted a rabble before, and in two minutes had turned that
rabble into so many dead flies, the legs in the air. He shook his head,
and told himself he was not there to be coerced.
“Release Barabba,” he ordered. “And as for the prisoner, take him to the
barracks and have him scourged.”
“Brute!” cried a voice that lifted him as a blow might from his ebony
chair. “Pilate, though you are a plebeian, why show yourself a slave?”
And Mary, with the strength of anger, brushed through the encircling
officials and towered before him, robed in wrath.
“Ah, permit me,” he answered; “you are singularly unjust.”
“Prove me so, and countermand the order that you gave.”
As she spoke she adjusted her mantle, which had become disarranged, and
looked him from head to foot, measuring him as it were, and finding him,
visibly, very small.
Already the prisoner had been led away, and beyond, in the barracks, was
the whiz of jagged leather that lacerated, rebounded, and lacerated again.
“I will not,” he answered. “What I have ordered, I have ordered. As for
you——”
There had come to her that look which sibyls have. “Pilate,” she
interrupted, “you are powerful here, I know, but”—and her hand shot out
like an arrow from a bow—“over there vultures are circling; in your power
is a corpse. What the vultures scent, I see.”
So abrupt and earnest was the gesture that unconsciously Pilate found
himself looking to where she seemed to point. He lowered his eyes in
vexation. Wrangling with a woman was not to his taste.
“There, there,” he said, much as one might to a fretful child; “don’t
throw stones.”
“I have but one; it is Justice, and that I keep to hurl at you.”
The procurator’s mouth twitched ominously. “My dear,” he said, “you are
too pretty to talk that way; it spoils the looks. Besides, I have no time
to listen.”
“Tiberius has and will.”
Pilate nodded; it was the third time he had heard the threat that day.
“There are many rooms in his palace,” he answered, with covert
significance.
“Yes, I know it. There are many, as you say. But there is one I will
enter. On the door stands written The Future, and behind it, Pilate, is
your death.”
The Roman, goaded to exasperation, sprang to his feet. An expression which
Antipas had used occurred to him. “Away with the hetaira,” he cried; and
he was about, it may be, to order her to be tossed to the fierce wild
swine in the paddocks of the park when the prisoner and his guards
reappeared on the tessellated pavement, and Mary, already dragged from
him, was instantly forgot.
A tattered sagum, which had once been scarlet, but which had faded since,
hung, detained at the shoulder by a rusty buckle, and bordered by a
laticlave, loosely about his form. In his hand a bulrush swayed; on his
head was a twisted coil of bear’s-breech, in which, among the ruffled
leaves, one bud remained; it was white, the opening edges flecked with
pink, perhaps with blood, for from the temples and about the ear a rill
ran down and mixed with the purple of the laticlave below. And in this red
parody of kingship the Christ stood, unmoved as a phantom, but in his face
and eyes there was a projecting light so luminous, so intangible, and yet
so real, that the skeptical procurator started, the staff of office
pendent in his grasp.
“Ecce homo!” he exclaimed. Instinctively he drew back, and, wonderingly,
half to himself, half to the Christ, “Who are you?” he asked.
“A flame below, a soul above,” Jesus answered, yet so inaudibly that the
guards beside him did not catch the words.
To Pilate his lips had barely moved, and his wonderment increased. “Why do
you not answer?” he said. “You must know that I have the power to condemn
and to acquit.”
With that gentleness that was the flower of his parables Jesus raised his
voice. “No,” he replied, “you can have no power against me unless it come
from above.”
Again Pilate drew back. Unsummoned to his lips had sprung the words,
“Behold the man!” and now he exclaimed, “Behold the king!”
But to the mob the vision he intercepted was lost. They saw the jest
merely, and with it the stains that torture leaves. The sight of blood is
heady; it inebriates more surely than wine. The mob, trained by the
elders, and used by them as a body-guard, fanatic before, were intoxicated
now. With one accord they shrieked the liturgy again.
“Sekaph! Sekaph! Let him be crucified.”
In that gust of hatred Pilate recovered. He turned to Caiaphas:
“I have released one prisoner; I will release another too.”
“My lord, be warned by one who is your elder.”
“One whom I can remove.”
“No doubt, my lord; but suffer him while he may to warn you not to cause a
revolution on the day of the Paschal feast. You hear that multitude. Then
be warned.”
“But your feast is one of mercy.”
The high-priest gazed curiously at his silk-gloved hands. You would have
said they were objects he had never seen before. Then he returned the
procurator’s stare.
“We know of no such god.”
“Ah!” And the procurator drew a long breath of understanding. “It is that,
I believe, he preaches.”
“And it is for that,” Caiaphas echoed, “that he must die. Yes, Pilate, it
is for that. There is no such doctrine in the Pentateuch. We have done our
duty. We have convicted a rebel of his guilt. We have brought him to you,
and we demand his sentence. Pilate, it is not so very long ago you had
hundreds massacred without judgment, without trial either, and for
what?—for one rebellious cry. You must have a reason for the favor you
show this man. It would interest me to learn it; it would interest
Tiberius as well. Listen to that multitude. If you pay no heed to our
accusation nor yet to their demand, on you the consequences rest. We are
absolved.”
“He is your king,” the procurator objected, meditatively.
Caiaphas wheeled like a feather a breeze has caught. One hand outstretched
he held to the mob, with the other he pointed to the Christ.
“Our king!” he cried. “The procurator says he is our king!”
As the thunder peals, a roar surged back:
“We have no other king than Cæsar.”
“Think of Sejanus,” the high-priest suggested. The thrust was so well
timed it told.
Pilate looked sullenly about. “Fetch me water,” he ordered.
A silver bowl was brought, and borrowing a custom from the Jews he
loathed, he dipped his fingers in it.
“I wash my hands of it all,” he muttered.
Caiaphas looked at the elders and sighed with infinite relief. He had
conquered. For the first time that day he smiled. He became gracious also,
and he bowed.
“The blood be upon us, my lord, and on our children. Will you give the
order?”
“Calcol!”
The centurion approached. An order was given him in an undertone, and as
he turned to the guards, Pilate drew the staff of office across his knee,
snapped it in two, tossed the pieces to the ground, and through the ranks
of his servitors passed on into the great blue vestibule beyond.
                                CHAPTER X.
                                    X.
In a sook near the Gannath Gate Mary stood. In the distance the palace of
Herod defied the sun. Beyond the gate lay the Hennom Valley, the Geia
Hennom, contracted by the people into Ge’ Hennom, or Gehenna, and
converted by them into a sewer, a place where carrion was thrown, and the
filth of a great city. In earlier days children had been immolated to
Moloch there, human victims had been burned; it was a place accursed, and
to purify the air, as a safeguard against pestilence, the offal was
consumed by bonfires that were constantly renewed and never extinguished.
At its extremity was an elevation, a hilly contour which to the popular
fancy suggested a skull. To the west it fell steeply away. It was called
Gülgolta.
The sook in which Mary stood was affected by shoemakers. Against the
dwelling of one of them she leaned. The mantle was gone from her now, and
the olive robe had a rent, but the splendor of her hair fell unconfined,
the perils of her eyes had increased; yet in their depths where love had
been was hate. One arm lay along the resisting stone, the other hung at
her side; her face was turned to the palace, her thin nostrils quivering,
her breath coming and going with that spasmodic irregularity which the
consciousness of outrage brings. She laid it all to Judas; he must have
returned to Kerioth, she thought. The sook itself was silent, stirred
merely by some echo of the uproar in the palace beyond.
From a grilled lattice near by an old man peered out. He had the restless
eyes of a ferret, and a white beard that was very long. He too was looking
toward the palace. Now and then he muttered inaudibly in Aramaic to
himself. In the shadow of a neighboring house a woman appeared; he shook
at the lattice as an ape does at the bars of a cage, and spat a bestial
insult at her. The woman shrank back. Instinctively Mary turned. In the
retreating figure she recognized Ahulah, and at once, without conscious
effort, she divined that the dwelling against which she leaned was that of
Baba Barbulah, the husband of the woman whom the Master had declined to
condemn.
But other things possessed her—the outrage to the Christ, perplexity as to
how the trial would result, more remotely the indignity to herself, the
slurs of the tetrarch and of the procurator; and with them, sapping her
heart as fever might, was that thirst for reparation, unquenchable in its
intensity, which comes to those who have seen their own life wrecked and
its ideals dispersed.
Already Ahulah was forgot. On the wings of vagabond fancy she was in Rome,
demanding vengeance of Tiberius, wresting it from him by the sheer force
of entreaty, and with it exulting in the death-throes of the procurator.
Oh, to see his nails pulled out, his outer skin removed, his tongue
severed, his eyes seared with irons, his wrists slowly twisted till they
snapped! to hear him cry for mercy! to promise it and not fulfil!—dear
God, what joy was there!
From the alley into which Ahulah had shrunk a man issued. He was sturdy as
a bludgeon, and he had a growth of thick black hair that curled about an
honest face. In his hand was a basket. At the sight of Mary his steps
hesitated, and his eyes followed hers to where the palace lay. Then he
crossed the zigzag of the intervening space, but he had to touch her
outstretched arm before she noticed him.
“Simon!” she exclaimed, with that start one has when suddenly awaked.
“Yes, Simon indeed;” and through the silence of the sook his clear laugh
rang. “I frightened you, did I not?”
Mary interrupted him. “Haven’t you heard? Has not Eleazer told you——”
“When I left Bethany he was sleeping with both fists closed. Martha——”
“The Master is arrested. Last night he was before the Sanhedrim; he is
before the procurator now.”
Hurriedly Mary gave an account of what had occurred. As the recital
continued, Simon’s expression grew darker than his curling hair, he
clutched at the basket which he held, so tightly that the handle severed,
the basket fell, and fruit that imprisoned the sunlight rolled on the
ground.
“They were for the Master,” he said. “I thought he would sup with us
to-night.”
“He may do so yet,” she answered. “Perhaps——”
“Never!” cried a voice from the lattice. “They are leading him to Gülgolta
now.”
Beyond, through the palace gate, a mass undulated, the body elongated,
expanding as it moved. It was black, but at the sides was the glisten that
cobras have. About it dust circled, and from it came the rumble of thunder
heard afar. As the bulk increased, the roar deepened; the black lessened
into varying hues. To the glisten came the glint of steel; the cobra
changed into a multitude, the escort of a squad of soldiery, fronted by a
centurion and led by the banner of Imperial Rome.
Behind the centurion, Jesus, in his faded sagum, staggered, overweighted
by the burden of a cross. Two comrades in misery were at his side, but
they moved with steadier step, bearing their crosses with the brawn of
muscular and untired arms. The soldiers marched impassibly, preceding the
executioners—four stalwart Cypriotes, distinguishable by the fatness of
their calves—while behind was the Sanhedrim, and, extending indefinitely
to the rear, the rabble of yelling Jews.
In a cobra’s coils is death, its eyes transfix. Neither Mary nor Simon had
spoken, and now, as the soldiery was upon them, they leaned yet nearer the
wall. For a moment Mary hid her face. At her feet the Christ had fallen,
and from her came one wail, choked down at once. She stooped to aid him,
but he stood up unassisted and reached to the wall for support.
The bars of the lattice shook; the old man peered out.
“Don’t touch my house, you vagabond! Move on!” he cried.
Calcol had turned to Simon, who was raising the cross. “Carry it for him,”
he commanded.
Baba Barbulah still shook at the lattice. “Move on!” he repeated. “Seducer
of the people, remitter of sins, upholder of adultery, move on; don’t
touch my house, it will fall down on you! Move on, I say!”
Calcol’s command Simon had anticipated. He shouldered the cross. It was
heavier to him than to the Christ, not in weight, perhaps, but in purpose.
In the narrowness of the sook the crowd was impeded, but from the rear
they pushed, surprised at the halt.
