“Stock him--of course.”
“Well, I should never have thought of that.”
“Because you are not a financier. Say he has committed a thousand
crimes. Certainly that’s a low estimate. By the look of him, even in
his unfinished condition, he has committed all of a million. But call it
only a thousand to be perfectly safe; five thousand reward, multiplied
by a thousand, gives us a dead sure cash basis of--what? Five million
dollars!”
“Wait--let me get my breath.”
“And the property indestructible. Perpetually fruitful--perpetually; for
a property with his disposition will go on committing crimes and winning
rewards.”
“You daze me, you make my head whirl!”
“Let it whirl, it won’t do it any harm. Now that matter is all
fixed--leave it alone. I’ll get up the company and issue the stock,
all in good time. Just leave it in my hands. I judge you don’t doubt my
ability to work it up for all it is worth.”
“Indeed I don’t. I can say that with truth.”
“All right, then. That’s disposed of. Everything in its turn. We old
operators, go by order and system--no helter-skelter business with
us. What’s the next thing on the docket? The carrying on of the
materialization--the bringing it down to date. I will begin on that at
once. I think--
“Look here, Rossmore. You didn’t lock It in. A hundred to one it has
escaped!”
“Calm yourself, as to that; don’t give yourself any uneasiness.”
“But why shouldn’t it escape?”
“Let it, if it wants to. What of it?”
“Well, I should consider it a pretty serious calamity.”
“Why, my dear boy, once in my power, always in my power. It may go
and come freely. I can produce it here whenever I want it, just by the
exercise of my will.”
“Well, I am truly glad to hear that, I do assure you.”
“Yes, I shall give it all the painting it wants to do, and we and the
family will make it as comfortable and contented as we can. No occasion
to restrain its movements. I hope to persuade it to remain pretty
quiet, though, because a materialization which is in a state of
arrested development must of necessity be pretty soft and flabby and
substanceless, and--er--by the way, I wonder where It comes from?”
“How? What do you mean?”
The earl pointed significantly--and interrogatively toward the sky.
Hawkins started; then settled into deep reflection; finally shook his
head sorrowfully and pointed downwards.
“What makes you think so, Washington?”
“Well, I hardly know, but really you can see, yourself, that he doesn’t
seem to be pining for his last place.”
“It’s well thought! Soundly deduced. We’ve done that Thing a favor. But
I believe I will pump it a little, in a quiet way, and find out if we
are right.”
“How long is it going to take to finish him off and fetch him down to
date, Colonel?”
“I wish I knew, but I don’t. I am clear knocked out by this new
detail--this unforeseen necessity of working a subject down gradually
from his condition of ancestor to his ultimate result as posterity. But
I’ll make him hump himself, anyway.”
“Rossmore!”
“Yes, dear. We’re in the laboratory. Come--Hawkins is here. Mind, now
Hawkins--he’s a sound, living, human being to all the family--don’t
forget that. Here she comes.”
“Keep your seats, I’m not coming in. I just wanted to ask, who is it
that’s painting down there?”
“That? Oh, that’s a young artist; young Englishman, named Tracy; very
promising--favorite pupil of Hans Christian Andersen or one of the other
old masters--Andersen I’m pretty sure it is; he’s going to half-sole
some of our old Italian masterpieces. Been talking to him?”
“Well, only a word. I stumbled right in on him without expecting anybody
was there. I tried to be polite to him; offered him a snack”--(Sellers
delivered a large wink to Hawkins from behind his hand), “but he
declined, and said he wasn’t hungry” (another sarcastic wink); “so I
brought some apples” (doublewink), “and he ate a couple of--”
“What!” and the colonel sprang some yards toward the ceiling and came
down quaking with astonishment.
Lady Rossmore was smitten dumb with amazement. She gazed at the sheepish
relic of Cherokee Strip, then at her husband, and then at the guest
again. Finally she said:
“What is the matter with you, Mulberry?”
He did not answer immediately. His back was turned; he was bending over
his chair, feeling the seat of it. But he answered next moment, and
said:
“Ah, there it is; it was a tack.”
The lady contemplated him doubtfully a moment, then said, pretty
snappishly:
“All that for a tack! Praise goodness it wasn’t a shingle nail, it would
have landed you in the Milky Way. I do hate to have my nerves shook up
so.” And she turned on her heel and went her way.
As soon as she was safely out, the Colonel said, in a suppressed voice:
“Come--we must see for ourselves. It must be a mistake.”
They hurried softly down and peeped in. Sellers whispered, in a sort of
despair--
It is eating! What a grisly spectacle! Hawkins it’s horrible! Take me
away--I can’t stand it.
They tottered back to the laboratory.
CHAPTER XX.
Tracy made slow progress with his work, for his mind wandered a good
deal. Many things were puzzling him. Finally a light burst upon him all
of a sudden--seemed to, at any rate--and he said to himself, “I’ve got
the clew at last--this man’s mind is off its balance; I don’t know how
much, but it’s off a point or two, sure; off enough to explain this mess
of perplexities, anyway. These dreadful chromos which he takes for old
masters; these villainous portraits--which to his frantic mind represent
Rossmores; the hatchments; the pompous name of this ramshackle old
crib--Rossmore Towers; and that odd assertion of his, that I was
expected. How could I be expected? that is, Lord Berkeley. He knows by
the papers that that person was burned up in the New Gadsby. Why, hang
it, he really doesn’t know who he was expecting; for his talk showed
that he was not expecting an Englishman, or yet an artist, yet I answer
his requirements notwithstanding. He seems sufficiently satisfied with
me. Yes, he is a little off; in fact I am afraid he is a good deal
off, poor old gentleman. But he’s interesting--all people in about his
condition are, I suppose. I hope he’ll like my work; I would like to
come every day and study him. And when I write my father--ah, that
hurts! I mustn’t get on that subject; it isn’t good for my spirits.
Somebody coming--I must get to work. It’s the old gentleman again. He
looks bothered. Maybe my clothes are suspicious; and they are--for an
artist. If my conscience would allow me to make a change, but that is
out of the question. I wonder what he’s making those passes in the air
for, with his hands. I seem to be the object of them. Can he be trying
to mesmerize me? I don’t quite like it. There’s something uncanny about
it.”
The colonel muttered to himself, “It has an effect on him, I can see it
myself. That’s enough for one time, I reckon. He’s not very solid, yet,
I suppose, and I might disintegrate him. I’ll just put a sly question
or two at him, now, and see if I can find out what his condition is, and
where he’s from.”
He approached and said affably:
“Don’t let me disturb you, Mr. Tracy; I only want to take a little
glimpse of your work. Ah, that’s fine--that’s very fine indeed. You are
doing it elegantly. My daughter will be charmed with this. May I sit
down by you?”
“Oh, do; I shall be glad.”
“It won’t disturb you? I mean, won’t dissipate your inspirations?”
Tracy laughed and said they were not ethereal enough to be very easily
discommoded.
The colonel asked a number of cautious and well-considered
questions--questions which seemed pretty odd and flighty to Tracy--but
the answers conveyed the information desired, apparently, for the
colonel said to himself, with mixed pride and gratification:
“It’s a good job as far as I’ve got with it. He’s solid. Solid and going
to last, solid as the real thing.”
“It’s wonderful--wonderful. I believe I could--petrify him.” After a
little he asked, warily “Do you prefer being here, or--or there?”
“There? Where?”
“Why--er--where you’ve been?”
Tracy’s thought flew to his boarding-house, and he answered with
decision.
“Oh, here, much!”
The colonel was startled, and said to himself, “There’s no uncertain
ring about that. It indicates where he’s been to, poor fellow. Well, I
am satisfied, now. I’m glad I got him out.”
He sat thinking, and thinking, and watching the brush go. At length he
said to himself, “Yes, it certainly seems to account for the failure of
my endeavors in poor Berkeley’s case. He went in the other direction.
Well, it’s all right. He’s better off.”
Sally Sellers entered from the street, now, looking her divinest, and
the artist was introduced to her. It was a violent case of mutual love
at first sight, though neither party was entirely aware of the fact,
perhaps. The Englishman made this irrelevant remark to himself, “Perhaps
he is not insane, after all.” Sally sat down, and showed an interest in
Tracy’s work which greatly pleased him, and a benevolent forgiveness of
it which convinced him that the girl’s nature was cast in a large mould.
Sellers was anxious to report his discoveries to Hawkins; so he took
his leave, saying that if the two “young devotees of the colored Muse”
 thought they could manage without him, he would go and look after his
affairs. The artist said to himself, “I think he is a little eccentric,
perhaps, but that is all.” He reproached himself for having injuriously
judged a man without giving him any fair chance to show what he really
was.
Of course the stranger was very soon at his ease and chatting along
comfortably. The average American girl possesses the valuable qualities
of naturalness, honesty, and inoffensive straightforwardness; she
is nearly barren of troublesome conventions and artificialities,
consequently her presence and her ways are unembarrassing, and one is
acquainted with her and on the pleasantest terms with her before
he knows how it came about. This new acquaintanceship--friendship,
indeed--progressed swiftly; and the unusual swiftness of it, and the
thoroughness of it are sufficiently evidenced and established by one
noteworthy fact--that within the first half hour both parties had
ceased to be conscious of Tracy’s clothes. Later this consciousness
was re-awakened; it was then apparent to Gwendolen that she was almost
reconciled to them, and it was apparent to Tracy that he wasn’t. The
re-awakening was brought about by Gwendolen’s inviting the artist to
stay to dinner. He had to decline, because he wanted to live, now--that
is, now that there was something to live for--and he could not survive
in those clothes at a gentleman’s table. He thought he knew that. But he
went away happy, for he saw that Gwendolen was disappointed.
And whither did he go? He went straight to a slopshop and bought as neat
and reasonably well-fitting a suit of clothes as an Englishman could be
persuaded to wear. He said--to himself, but at his conscience--“I know
it’s wrong; but it would be wrong not to do it; and two wrongs do not
make a right.”
This satisfied him, and made his heart light. Perhaps it will also
satisfy the reader--if he can make out what it means.
The old people were troubled about Gwendolen at dinner, because she was
so distraught and silent. If they had noticed, they would have found
that she was sufficiently alert and interested whenever the talk
stumbled upon the artist and his work; but they didn’t notice, and so
the chat would swap around to some other subject, and then somebody
would presently be privately worrying about Gwendolen again, and
wondering if she were not well, or if something had gone wrong in
the millinery line. Her mother offered her various reputable patent
medicines, and tonics with iron and other hardware in them, and her
father even proposed to send out for wine, relentless prohibitionist
and head of the order in the District of Columbia as he was, but these
kindnesses were all declined--thankfully, but with decision. At bedtime,
when the family were breaking up for the night, she privately looted one
of the brushes, saying to herself, “It’s the one he has used, the most.”
The next morning Tracy went forth wearing his new suit, and equipped
with a pink in his button-hole--a daily attention from Puss. His
whole soul was full of Gwendolen Sellers, and this condition was an
inspiration, art-wise. All the morning his brush pawed nimbly away at
the canvases, almost without his awarity--awarity, in this sense being
the sense of being aware, though disputed by some authorities--turning
out marvel upon marvel, in the way of decorative accessories to the
portraits, with a felicity and celerity which amazed the veterans of the
firm and fetched out of them continuous explosions of applause.
Meantime Gwendolen was losing her morning, and many dollars. She
supposed Tracy was coming in the forenoon--a conclusion which she had
jumped to without outside help. So she tripped down stairs every little
while from her work-parlor to arrange the brushes and things over again,
and see if he had arrived. And when she was in her work-parlor it was
not profitable, but just the other way--as she found out to her sorrow.
She had put in her idle moments during the last little while back, in
designing a particularly rare and capable gown for herself, and this
morning she set about making it up; but she was absent minded, and made
an irremediable botch of it. When she saw what she had done, she knew
the reason of it and the meaning of it; and she put her work away from
her and said she would accept the sign. And from that time forth she
came no more away from the Audience Chamber, but remained there and
waited. After luncheon she waited again. A whole hour. Then a great
joy welled up in her heart, for she saw him coming. So she flew back
up stairs thankful, and could hardly wait for him to miss the principal
brush, which she had mislaid down there, but knew where she had mislaid
it. However, all in good time the others were called in and couldn’t
find the brush, and then she was sent for, and she couldn’t find it
herself for some little time; but then she found it when the others had
gone away to hunt in the kitchen and down cellar and in the woodshed,
and all those other places where people look for things whose ways they
are not familiar with. So she gave him the brush, and remarked that
she ought to have seen that everything was ready for him, but it hadn’t
seemed necessary, because it was so early that she wasn’t expecting--but
she stopped there, surprised at herself for what she was saying; and
he felt caught and ashamed, and said to himself, “I knew my impatience
would drag me here before I was expected, and betray me, and that is
just what it has done; she sees straight through me--and is laughing at
me, inside, of course.”
Gwendolen was very much pleased, on one account, and a little the other
way in another; pleased with the new clothes and the improvement
which they had achieved; less pleased by the pink in the buttonhole.
Yesterday’s pink had hardly interested her; this one was just like it,
but somehow it had got her immediate attention, and kept it. She wished
she could think of some way of getting at its history in a properly
colorless and indifferent way. Presently she made a venture. She said:
“Whatever a man’s age may be, he can reduce it several years by putting
a bright-colored flower in his button-hole. I have often noticed that.
Is that your sex’s reason for wearing a boutonniere?”
“I fancy not, but certainly that reason would be a sufficient one. I’ve
never heard of the idea before.”
“You seem to prefer pinks. Is it on account of the color, or the form?”
“Oh no,” he said, simply, “they are given to me. I don’t think I have
any preference.”
“They are given to him,” she said to herself, and she felt a coldness
toward that pink. “I wonder who it is, and what she is like.” The flower
began to take up a good deal of room; it obtruded itself everywhere,
it intercepted all views, and marred them; it was becoming exceedingly
annoying and conspicuous for a little thing. “I wonder if he cares for
her.” That thought gave her a quite definite pain.
CHAPTER XXI.
She had made everything comfortable for the artist; there was no further
pretext for staying. So she said she would go, now, and asked him to
summon the servants in case he should need anything. She went away
unhappy; and she left unhappiness behind her; for she carried away all
the sunshine. The time dragged heavily for both, now. He couldn’t paint
for thinking of her; she couldn’t design or millinerize with any heart,
for thinking of him. Never before had painting seemed so empty to him,
never before had millinerizing seemed so void of interest to her. She
had gone without repeating that dinner-invitation--an almost unendurable
disappointment to him. On her part-well, she was suffering, too; for she
had found she couldn’t invite him. It was not hard yesterday, but it was
impossible to-day. A thousand innocent privileges seemed to have been
filched from her unawares in the past twenty-four hours. To-day she
felt strangely hampered, restrained of her liberty. To-day she couldn’t
propose to herself to do anything or say anything concerning this young
man without being instantly paralyzed into non-action by the fear that
he might “suspect.” Invite him to dinner to-day? It made her shiver to
think of it.
And so her afternoon was one long fret. Broken at intervals. Three times
she had to go down stairs on errands--that is, she thought she had to go
down stairs on errands. Thus, going and coming, she had six glimpses of
him, in the aggregate, without seeming to look in his direction; and she
tried to endure these electric ecstasies without showing any sign, but
they fluttered her up a good deal, and she felt that the naturalness
she was putting on was overdone and quite too frantically sober and
hysterically calm to deceive.
The painter had his share of the rapture; he had his six glimpses, and
they smote him with waves of pleasure that assaulted him, beat upon him,
washed over him deliciously, and drowned out all consciousness of what
he was doing with his brush. So there were six places in his canvas
which had to be done over again.
At last Gwendolen got some peace of mind by sending word to the
Thompsons, in the neighborhood, that she was coming there to dinner.
She wouldn’t be reminded, at that table, that there was an absentee
who ought to be a presentee--a word which she meant to look out in the
dictionary at a calmer time.
About this time the old earl dropped in for a chat with the artist, and
invited him to stay to dinner. Tracy cramped down his joy and gratitude
by a sudden and powerful exercise of all his forces; and he felt that
now that he was going to be close to Gwendolen, and hear her voice and
watch her face during several precious hours, earth had nothing valuable
to add to his life for the present.
The earl said to himself, “This spectre can eat apples, apparently. We
shall find out, now, if that is a specialty. I think, myself, it’s a
specialty. Apples, without doubt, constitute the spectral limit. It was
the case with our first parents. No, I am wrong--at least only partly
right. The line was drawn at apples, just as in the present case, but
it was from the other direction.” The new clothes gave him a thrill of
pleasure and pride. He said to himself, “I’ve got part of him down to
date, anyway.”
Sellers said he was pleased with Tracy’s work; and he went on and
engaged him to restore his old masters, and said he should also want him
to paint his portrait and his wife’s and possibly his daughter’s.
The tide of the artist’s happiness was at flood, now. The chat flowed
pleasantly along while Tracy painted and Sellers carefully unpacked a
picture which he had brought with him. It was a chromo; a new one,
just out. It was the smirking, self-satisfied portrait of a man who was
inundating the Union with advertisements inviting everybody to buy his
specialty, which was a three-dollar shoe or a dress-suit or something
of that kind. The old gentleman rested the chromo flat upon his lap and
gazed down tenderly upon it, and became silent and meditative. Presently
Tracy noticed that he was dripping tears on it. This touched the young
fellow’s sympathetic nature, and at the same time gave him the painful
sense of being an intruder upon a sacred privacy, an observer of
emotions which a stranger ought not to witness. But his pity rose
superior to other considerations, and compelled him to try to comfort
the old mourner with kindly words and a show of friendly interest. He
said:
“I am very sorry--is it a friend whom--”
“Ah, more than that, far more than that--a relative, the dearest I had
on earth, although I was never permitted to see him. Yes, it is young
Lord Berkeley, who perished so heroically in the awful conflagration.
Why what is the matter?”
“Oh, nothing, nothing.”
“It was a little startling to be so suddenly brought face to face, so
to speak, with a person one has heard so much talk about. Is it a good
likeness?”
“Without doubt, yes. I never saw him, but you can easily see the
resemblance to his father,” said Sellers, holding up the chromo and
glancing from it to the chromo misrepresenting the Usurping Earl and
back again with an approving eye.
“Well, no--I am not sure that I make out the likeness. It is plain that
the Usurping Earl there has a great deal of character and a long
face like a horse’s, whereas his heir here is smirky, moon-faced and
characterless.”
“We are all that way in the beginning--all the line,” said Sellers,
undisturbed. “We all start as moonfaced fools, then later we tadpole
along into horse-faced marvels of intellect and character. It is by that
sign and by that fact that I detect the resemblance here and know this
portrait to be genuine and perfect. Yes, all our family are fools at
first.”
“This young man seems to meet the hereditary requirement, certainly.”
“Yes, yes, he was a fool, without any doubt. Examine the face, the
shape of the head, the expression. It’s all fool, fool, fool, straight
through.”
“Thanks,--” said Tracy, involuntarily.
“Thanks?”
“I mean for explaining it to me. Go on, please.”
“As I was saying, fool is printed all over the face. A body can even
read the details.”
“What do they say?”
“Well, added up, he is a wobbler.”
“A which?”
“Wobbler. A person that’s always taking a firm stand about something or
other--kind of a Gibraltar stand, he thinks, for unshakable fidelity
and everlastingness--and then, inside of a little while, he begins to
wobble; no more Gibraltar there; no, sir, a mighty ordinary commonplace
weakling wobbling around on stilts. That’s Lord Berkeley to a dot, you
can see it--look at that sheep! But,--why are you blushing like sunset!
Dear sir, have I unwittingly offended in some way?”
“Oh, no indeed, no indeed. Far from it. But it always makes me blush to
hear a man revile his own blood.” He said to himself, “How strangely his
vagrant and unguided fancies have hit upon the truth. By accident, he
has described me. I am that contemptible thing. When I left England I
thought I knew myself; I thought I was a very Frederick the Great for
resolution and staying capacity; whereas in truth I am just a Wobbler,
simply a Wobbler. Well--after all, it is at least creditable to have
high ideals and give birth to lofty resolutions; I will allow myself
that comfort.” Then he said, aloud, “Could this sheep, as you call him,
breed a great and self-sacrificing idea in his head, do you think?
Could he meditate such a thing, for instance, as the renunciation of the
earldom and its wealth and its glories, and voluntary retirement to
the ranks of the commonalty, there to rise by his own merit or remain
forever poor and obscure?”
“Could he? Why, look at him--look at this simpering self-righteous mug!
There is your answer. It’s the very thing he would think of. And he
would start in to do it, too.”
“And then?”
“He’d wobble.”
“And back down?”
“Every time.”
“Is that to happen with all my--I mean would that happen to all his high
resolutions?”
“Oh certainly--certainly. It’s the Rossmore of it.”
“Then this creature was fortunate to die! Suppose, for argument’s sake,
that I was a Rossmore, and--”
“It can’t be done.”
“Why?”
“Because it’s not a supposable case. To be a Rossmore at your age,
you’d have to be a fool, and you’re not a fool. And you’d have to be a
Wobbler, whereas anybody that is an expert in reading character can see
at a glance that when you set your foot down once, it’s there to stay;
and earthquake can’t wobble it.” He added to himself, “That’s enough to
say to him, but it isn’t half strong enough for the facts. The more I
observe him, now, the more remarkable I find him. It is the strongest
face I have ever examined. There is almost superhuman firmness here,
immovable purpose, iron steadfastness of will. A most extraordinary
young man.”
He presently said, aloud:
“Some time I want to ask your advice about a little matter, Mr. Tracy.
You see, I’ve got that young lord’s remains--my goodness, how you jump!”
“Oh, it’s nothing, pray go on. You’ve got his remains?”
“Yes.”
“Are you sure they are his, and not somebody else’s?”
“Oh, perfectly sure. Samples, I mean. Not all of him.”
“Samples?”
“Yes--in baskets. Some time you will be going home; and if you wouldn’t
mind taking them along--”
“Who? I?”
“Yes--certainly. I don’t mean now; but after a while; after--but look
here, would you like to see them?”
“No! Most certainly not. I don’t want to see them.”
“O, very well. I only thought--hey, where are you going, dear?”
“Out to dinner, papa.”
Tracy was aghast. The colonel said, in a disappointed voice:
“Well, I’m sorry. Sho, I didn’t know she was going out, Mr. Tracy.”
Gwendolen’s face began to take on a sort of apprehensive
‘What-have-I-done expression.’
“Three old people to one young one--well, it isn’t a good team, that’s a
fact.”
Gwendolen’s face betrayed a dawning hopefulness and she said--with a
tone of reluctance which hadn’t the hall-mark on it:
“If you prefer, I will send word to the Thompsons that I--”
“Oh, is it the Thompsons? That simplifies it--sets everything right. We
can fix it without spoiling your arrangements, my child. You’ve got your
heart set on--”
“But papa, I’d just as soon go there some other--”
“No--I won’t have it. You are a good hard-working darling child, and
your father is not the man to disappoint you when you--”
“But papa, I--”
“Go along, I won’t hear a word. We’ll get along, dear.”
Gwendolen was ready to cry with vexation. But there was nothing to do
but start; which she was about to do when her father hit upon an idea
which filled him with delight because it so deftly covered all the
difficulties of the situation and made things smooth and satisfactory:
“I’ve got it, my love, so that you won’t be robbed of your holiday and
at the same time we’ll be pretty satisfactorily fixed for a good time
here. You send Belle Thompson here--perfectly beautiful creature, Tracy,
perfectly beautiful; I want you to see that girl; why, you’ll just go
mad; you’ll go mad inside of a minute; yes, you send her right along,
Gwendolen, and tell her--why, she’s gone!” He turned--she was already
passing out at the gate. He muttered, “I wonder what’s the matter;
I don’t know what her mouth’s doing, but I think her shoulders
are swearing. Well,” said Sellers blithely to Tracy, “I shall miss
her--parents always miss the children as soon as they’re out of sight,
it’s only a natural and wisely ordained partiality--but you’ll be all
right, because Miss Belle will supply the youthful element for you and
to your entire content; and we old people will do our best, too. We
shall have a good enough time. And you’ll have a chance to get better
acquainted with Admiral Hawkins. That’s a rare character, Mr. Tracy--one
of the rarest and most engaging characters the world has produced.
You’ll find him worth studying. I’ve studied him ever since he was a
child and have always found him developing. I really consider that one
of the main things that have enabled me to master the difficult science
of character-reading was the vivid interest I always felt in that boy
and the baffling inscrutabilities of his ways and inspirations.”
Tracy was not hearing a word. His spirits were gone, he was desolate.
“Yes, a most wonderful character. Concealment--that’s the basis of it.
Always the first thing you want to do is to find the keystone a man’s
character is built on--then you’ve got it. No misleading and apparently
inconsistent peculiarities can fool you then. What do you read on
the Senator’s surface? Simplicity; a kind of rank and protuberant
simplicity; whereas, in fact, that’s one of the deepest minds in the
world. A perfectly honest man--an absolutely honest and honorable
man--and yet without doubt the profoundest master of dissimulation the
world has ever seen.”
“O, it’s devilish!” This was wrung from the unlistening Tracy by
the anguished thought of what might have been if only the dinner
arrangements hadn’t got mixed.
“No, I shouldn’t call it that,” said Sellers, who was now placidly
walking up and down the room with his hands under his coat-tails and
listening to himself talk. “One could quite properly call it devilish
in another man, but not in the Senator. Your term is right--perfectly
right--I grant that--but the application is wrong. It makes a great
difference. Yes, he is a marvelous character. I do not suppose that any
other statesman ever had such a colossal sense of humor, combined with
the ability to totally conceal it. I may except George Washington and
Cromwell, and perhaps Robespierre, but I draw the line there. A person
not an expert might be in Judge Hawkins’s company a lifetime and never
find out he had any more sense of humor than a cemetery.”
A deep-drawn yard-long sigh from the distraught and dreaming artist,
followed by a murmured, “Miserable, oh, miserable!”
“Well, no, I shouldn’t say that about it, quite. On the contrary, I
admire his ability to conceal his humor even more if possible than I
admire the gift itself, stupendous as it is. Another thing--General
Hawkins is a thinker; a keen, logical, exhaustive, analytical
thinker--perhaps the ablest of modern times. That is, of course, upon
themes suited to his size, like the glacial period, and the correlation
of forces, and the evolution of the Christian from the caterpillar--any
of those things; give him a subject according to his size, and just
stand back and watch him think! Why you can see the place rock! Ah, yes,
you must know him; you must get on the inside of him. Perhaps the most
extraordinary mind since Aristotle.”
Dinner was kept waiting for a while for Miss Thompson, but as Gwendolen
had not delivered the invitation to her the waiting did no good, and the
household presently went to the meal without her. Poor old Sellers tried
everything his hospitable soul could devise to make the occasion an
enjoyable one for the guest, and the guest tried his honest best to be
cheery and chatty and happy for the old gentleman’s sake; in fact all
hands worked hard in the interest of a mutual good time, but the thing
was a failure from the start; Tracy’s heart was lead in his bosom, there
seemed to be only one prominent feature in the landscape and that was a
vacant chair, he couldn’t drag his mind away from Gwendolen and his hard
luck; consequently his distractions allowed deadly pauses to slip in
every now and then when it was his turn to say something, and of course
this disease spread to the rest of the conversation--wherefore, instead
of having a breezy sail in sunny waters, as anticipated, everybody was
bailing out and praying for land. What could the matter be? Tracy alone
could have told, the others couldn’t even invent a theory.
Meanwhile they were having a similarly dismal time at the Thompson
house; in fact a twin experience. Gwendolen was ashamed of herself for
allowing her disappointment to so depress her spirits and make her
so strangely and profoundly miserable; but feeling ashamed of herself
didn’t improve the matter any; it only seemed to aggravate the
suffering. She explained that she was not feeling very well, and
everybody could see that this was true; so she got sincere sympathy and
commiseration; but that didn’t help the case. Nothing helps that kind of
a case. It is best to just stand off and let it fester. The moment the
dinner was over the girl excused herself, and she hurried home feeling
unspeakably grateful to get away from that house and that intolerable
captivity and suffering.
Will he be gone? The thought arose in her brain, but took effect in
her heels. She slipped into the house, threw off her things and made
straight for the dining room. She stopped and listened. Her father’s
voice--with no life in it; presently her mother’s--no life in that; a
considerable vacancy, then a sterile remark from Washington Hawkins.
Another silence; then, not Tracy’s but her father’s voice again.
“He’s gone,” she said to herself despairingly, and listlessly opened the
door and stepped within.
“Why, my child,” cried the mother, “how white you are! Are you--has
anything--”
“White?” exclaimed Sellers. “It’s gone like a flash; ‘twasn’t serious.
Already she’s as red as the soul of a watermelon! Sit down, dear, sit
down--goodness knows you’re welcome. Did you have a good time? We’ve had
great times here--immense. Why didn’t Miss Belle come? Mr. Tracy is not
feeling well, and she’d have made him forget it.”
She was content now; and out from her happy eyes there went a light that
told a secret to another pair of eyes there and got a secret in return.
In just that infinitely small fraction of a second those two great
confessions were made, received, and perfectly understood. All anxiety,
apprehension, uncertainty, vanished out of these young people’s hearts
and left them filled with a great peace.
Sellers had had the most confident faith that with the new reinforcement
victory would be at this last moment snatched from the jaws of defeat,
but it was an error. The talk was as stubbornly disjointed as ever. He
was proud of Gwendolen, and liked to show her off, even against Miss
Belle Thompson, and here had been a great opportunity, and what had she
made of it? He felt a good deal put out. It vexed him to think that
this Englishman, with the traveling Briton’s everlasting disposition
to generalize whole mountain ranges from single sample-grains of
sand, would jump to the conclusion that American girls were as dumb as
himself--generalizing the whole tribe from this single sample and she at
her poorest, there being nothing at that table to inspire her, give her
a start, keep her from going to sleep. He made up his mind that for the
honor of the country he would bring these two together again over the
social board before long. There would be a different result another
time, he judged. He said to himself, with a deep sense of injury, “He’ll
put in his diary--they all keep diaries--he’ll put in his diary that she
was miraculously uninteresting--dear, dear, but wasn’t she! I never saw
the like--and yet looking as beautiful as Satan, too--and couldn’t seem
to do anything but paw bread crumbs, and pick flowers to pieces, and
look fidgety. And it isn’t any better here in the Hall of Audience. I’ve
had enough; I’ll haul down my flag--the others may fight it out if they
want to.”
He shook hands all around and went off to do some work which he said was
pressing. The idolaters were the width of the room apart; and apparently
unconscious of each other’s presence. The distance got shortened a
little, now. Very soon the mother withdrew. The distance narrowed again.
Tracy stood before a chromo of some Ohio politician which had been
retouched and chain-mailed for a crusading Rossmore, and Gwendolen was
sitting on the sofa not far from his elbow artificially absorbed in
examining a photograph album that hadn’t any photographs in it.
The “Senator” still lingered. He was sorry for the young people; it had
been a dull evening for them. In the goodness of his heart he tried
to make it pleasant for them now; tried to remove the ill impression
necessarily left by the general defeat; tried to be chatty, even tried
to be gay. But the responses were sickly, there was no starting any
enthusiasm; he would give it up and quit--it was a day specially picked
out and consecrated to failures.
But when Gwendolen rose up promptly and smiled a glad smile and said
with thankfulness and blessing, “Must you go?” it seemed cruel to
desert, and he sat down again.
He was about to begin a remark when--when he didn’t. We have all been
there. He didn’t know how he knew his concluding to stay longer had been
a mistake, he merely knew it; and knew it for dead certain, too. And so
he bade goodnight, and went mooning out, wondering what he could have
done that changed the atmosphere that way. As the door closed behind him
those two were standing side by side, looking at that door--looking at
it in a waiting, second-counting, but deeply grateful kind of way. And
the instant it closed they flung their arms about each other’s necks,
and there, heart to heart and lip to lip--
“Oh, my God, she’s kissing it!”
Nobody heard this remark, because Hawkins, who bred it, only thought it,
he didn’t utter it. He had turned, the moment he had closed the door,
and had pushed it open a little, intending to re-enter and ask what
ill-advised thing he had done or said, and apologize for it. But he
didn’t re-enter; he staggered off stunned, terrified, distressed.
CHAPTER XXII.
Five minutes later he was sitting in his room, with his head bowed
within the circle of his arms, on the table--final attitude of grief and
despair. His tears were flowing fast, and now and then a sob broke upon
the stillness. Presently he said:
“I knew her when she was a little child and used to climb about my
knees; I love her as I love my own, and now--oh, poor thing, poor
thing, I cannot bear it!--she’s gone and lost her heart to this mangy
materializee! Why didn’t we see that that might happen? But how could
we? Nobody could; nobody could ever have dreamed of such a thing. You
couldn’t expect a person would fall in love with a wax-work. And this
one doesn’t even amount to that.”
He went on grieving to himself, and now and then giving voice to his
lamentations.
“It’s done, oh, it’s done, and there’s no help for it, no undoing
the miserable business. If I had the nerve, I would kill it. But
that wouldn’t do any good. She loves it; she thinks it’s genuine and
authentic. If she lost it she would grieve for it just as she would
for a real person. And who’s to break it to the family! Not I--I’ll die
first. Sellers is the best human being I ever knew and I wouldn’t any
more think of--oh, dear, why it’ll break his heart when he finds it out.
And Polly’s too. This comes of meddling with such infernal matters!
But for this, the creature would still be roasting in Sheol where
it belongs. How is it that these people don’t smell the brimstone?
Sometimes I can’t come into the same room with him without nearly
suffocating.”
After a while he broke out again:
“Well, there’s one thing, sure. The materializing has got to stop right
where it is. If she’s got to marry a spectre, let her marry a decent one
out of the Middle Ages, like this one--not a cowboy and a thief such
as this protoplasmic tadpole’s going to turn into if Sellers keeps on
fussing at it. It costs five thousand dollars cash and shuts down on
the incorporated company to stop the works at this point, but Sally
Sellers’s happiness is worth more than that.”
He heard Sellers coming, and got himself to rights. Sellers took a seat,
and said:
“Well, I’ve got to confess I’m a good deal puzzled. It did certainly
eat, there’s no getting around it. Not eat, exactly, either, but it
nibbled; nibbled in an appetiteless way, but still it nibbled; and
that’s just a marvel. Now the question is, what does it do with those
nibblings? That’s it--what does it do with them? My idea is that we
don’t begin to know all there is to this stupendous discovery yet.
But time will show--time and science--give us a chance, and don’t get
impatient.”
But he couldn’t get Hawkins interested; couldn’t make him talk to amount
to anything; couldn’t drag him out of his depression. But at last he
took a turn that arrested Hawkins’s attention.
“I’m coming to like him, Hawkins. He is a person of stupendous
character--absolutely gigantic. Under that placid exterior is concealed
the most dare-devil spirit that was ever put into a man--he’s just a
Clive over again. Yes, I’m all admiration for him, on account of his
character, and liking naturally follows admiration, you know. I’m coming
to like him immensely. Do you know, I haven’t the heart to degrade such
a character as that down to the burglar estate for money or for anything
else; and I’ve come to ask if you are willing to let the reward go, and
leave this poor fellow--
“Where he is?”
“Yes--not bring him down to date.”
“Oh, there’s my hand; and my heart’s in it, too!”
“I’ll never forget you for this, Hawkins,” said the old gentleman in
a voice which he found it hard to control. “You are making a great
sacrifice for me, and one which you can ill afford, but I’ll never
forget your generosity, and if I live you shall not suffer for it, be
sure of that.”
Sally Sellers immediately and vividly realized that she was become a new
being; a being of a far higher and worthier sort than she had been such
a little while before; an earnest being, in place of a dreamer; and
supplied with a reason for her presence in the world, where merely a
wistful and troubled curiosity about it had existed before. So great and
so comprehensive was the change which had been wrought, that she seemed
to herself to be a real person who had lately been a shadow; a something
which had lately been a nothing; a purpose, which had lately been a
fancy; a finished temple, with the altar-fires lit and the voice of
worship ascending, where before had been but an architect’s confusion
of arid working plans, unintelligible to the passing eye and prophesying
nothing.
“Lady” Gwendolen! The pleasantness of that sound was all gone; it was an
offense to her ear now. She said:
“There--that sham belongs to the past; I will not be called by it any
more.”
“I may call you simply Gwendolen? You will allow me to drop the
formalities straightway and name you by your dear first name without
additions?”
She was dethroning the pink and replacing it with a rosebud.
“There--that is better. I hate pinks--some pinks. Indeed yes, you are to
call me by my first name without additions--that is,--well, I don’t mean
without additions entirely, but--”
It was as far as she could get. There was a pause; his intellect was
struggling to comprehend; presently it did manage to catch the idea in
time to save embarrassment all around, and he said gratefully--
“Dear Gwendolen! I may say that?”
“Yes--part of it. But--don’t kiss me when I am talking, it makes me
forget what I was going to say. You can call me by part of that form,
but not the last part. Gwendolen is not my name.”
“Not your name?” This in a tone of wonder and surprise.
The girl’s soul was suddenly invaded by a creepy apprehension, a quite
definite sense of suspicion and alarm. She put his arms away from her,
looked him searchingly in the eye, and said:
“Answer me truly, on your honor. You are not seeking to marry me on
account of my rank?”
The shot almost knocked him through the wall, he was so little prepared
for it. There was something so finely grotesque about the question and
its parent suspicion, that he stopped to wonder and admire, and thus
was he saved from laughing. Then, without wasting precious time, he
set about the task of convincing her that he had been lured by herself
alone, and had fallen in love with her only, not her title and position;
that he loved her with all his heart, and could not love her more if she
were a duchess, or less if she were without home, name or family. She
watched his face wistfully, eagerly, hopefully, translating his words
by its expression; and when he had finished there was gladness in her
heart--a tumultuous gladness, indeed, though outwardly she was calm,
tranquil, even judicially austere. She prepared a surprise for him, now,
calculated to put a heavy strain upon those disinterested protestations
of his; and thus she delivered it, burning it away word by word as
the fuse burns down to a bombshell, and watching to see how far the
explosion would lift him:
“Listen--and do not doubt me, for I shall speak the exact truth. Howard
Tracy, I am no more an earl’s child than you are!”
To her joy--and secret surprise, also--it never phased him. He was
ready, this time, and saw his chance. He cried out with enthusiasm,
“Thank heaven for that!” and gathered her to his arms.
To express her happiness was almost beyond her gift of speech.
“You make me the proudest girl in all the earth,” she said, with her
head pillowed on his shoulder. “I thought it only natural that you
should be dazzled by the title--maybe even unconsciously, you being
English--and that you might be deceiving yourself in thinking you loved
only me, and find you didn’t love me when the deception was swept away;
so it makes me proud that the revelation stands for nothing and that you
do love just me, only me--oh, prouder than any words can tell!”
“It is only you, sweetheart, I never gave one envying glance toward your
father’s earldom. That is utterly true, dear Gwendolen.”
“There--you mustn’t call me that. I hate that false name. I told you it
wasn’t mine. My name is Sally Sellers--or Sarah, if you like. From this
time I banish dreams, visions, imaginings, and will no more of them. I
am going to be myself--my genuine self, my honest self, my natural self,
clear and clean of sham and folly and fraud, and worthy of you. There is
no grain of social inequality between us; I, like you, am poor; I, like
you, am without position or distinction; you are a struggling artist, I
am that, too, in my humbler way. Our bread is honest bread, we work for
our living. Hand in hand we will walk hence to the grave, helping each
other in all ways, living for each other, being and remaining one in
heart and purpose, one in hope and aspiration, inseparable to the end.
And though our place is low, judged by the world’s eye, we will make it
as high as the highest in the great essentials of honest work for what
we eat and wear, and conduct above reproach. We live in a land, let us
be thankful, where this is all-sufficient, and no man is better than his
neighbor by the grace of God, but only by his own merit.”
Tracy tried to break in, but she stopped him and kept the floor herself.
“I am not through yet. I am going to purge myself of the last vestiges
of artificiality and pretence, and then start fair on your own honest
level and be worthy mate to you thenceforth. My father honestly thinks
he is an earl. Well, leave him his dream, it pleases him and does no
one any harm: It was the dream of his ancestors before him. It has made
fools of the house of Sellers for generations, and it made something
of a fool of me, but took no deep root. I am done with it now, and for
good. Forty-eight hours ago I was privately proud of being the daughter
of a pinchbeck earl, and thought the proper mate for me must be a man of
like degree; but to-day--oh, how grateful I am for your love which has
healed my sick brain and restored my sanity!--I could make oath that no
earl’s son in all the world--”
“Oh,--well, but--but--”
“Why, you look like a person in a panic. What is it? What is the
matter?”
“Matter? Oh, nothing--nothing. I was only going to say”--but in his
flurry nothing occurred to him to say, for a moment; then by a lucky
inspiration he thought of something entirely sufficient for the
occasion, and brought it out with eloquent force: “Oh, how beautiful you
are! You take my breath away when you look like that.”
It was well conceived, well timed, and cordially delivered--and it got
its reward.
“Let me see. Where was I? Yes, my father’s earldom is pure moonshine.
Look at those dreadful things on the wall. You have of course supposed
them to be portraits of his ancestors, earls of Rossmore. Well, they are
not. They are chromos of distinguished Americans--all moderns; but
he has carried them back a thousand years by re-labeling them. Andrew
Jackson there, is doing what he can to be the late American earl;
and the newest treasure in the collection is supposed to be the young
English heir--I mean the idiot with the crape; but in truth it’s a
shoemaker, and not Lord Berkeley at all.”
“Are you sure?”
“Why of course I am. He wouldn’t look like that.”
“Why?”
“Because his conduct in his last moments, when the fire was sweeping
around him shows that he was a man. It shows that he was a fine,
high-souled young creature.”
Tracy was strongly moved by these compliments, and it seemed to him
that the girl’s lovely lips took on a new loveliness when they were
delivering them. He said, softly:
“It is a pity he could not know what a gracious impression his behavior
was going to leave with the dearest and sweetest stranger in the land
of--”
“Oh, I almost loved him! Why, I think of him every day. He is always
floating about in my mind.”
Tracy felt that this was a little more than was necessary. He was
conscious of the sting of jealousy. He said:
“It is quite right to think of him--at least now and then--that is, at
intervals--in perhaps an admiring way--but it seems to me that--”
“Howard Tracy, are you jealous of that dead man?”
He was ashamed--and at the same time not ashamed. He was jealous--and at
the same time he was not jealous. In a sense the dead man was himself;
in that case compliments and affection lavished upon that corpse went
into his own till and were clear profit. But in another sense the dead
man was not himself; and in that case all compliments and affection
lavished there were wasted, and a sufficient basis for jealousy. A tiff
was the result of the dispute between the two. Then they made it up,
and were more loving than ever. As an affectionate clincher of the
reconciliation, Sally declared that she had now banished Lord Berkeley
from her mind; and added, “And in order to make sure that he shall never
make trouble between us again, I will teach myself to detest that name
and all that have ever borne it or ever shall bear it.”
This inflicted another pang, and Tracy was minded to ask her to modify
that a little just on general principles, and as practice in not
overdoing a good thing--perhaps he might better leave things as they
were and not risk bringing on another tiff. He got away from that
particular, and sought less tender ground for conversation.
“I suppose you disapprove wholly of aristocracies and nobilities, now
that you have renounced your title and your father’s earldom.”
“Real ones? Oh, dear no--but I’ve thrown aside our sham one for good.”
This answer fell just at the right time and just in the right place, to
save the poor unstable young man from changing his political complexion
once more. He had been on the point of beginning to totter again,
but this prop shored him up and kept him from floundering back into
democracy and re-renouncing aristocracy. So he went home glad that he
had asked the fortunate question. The girl would accept a little thing
like a genuine earldom, she was merely prejudiced against the brummagem
article. Yes, he could have his girl and have his earldom, too: that
question was a fortunate stroke.
Sally went to bed happy, too; and remained happy, deliriously happy, for
nearly two hours; but at last, just as she was sinking into a contented
and luxurious unconsciousness, the shady devil who lives and lurks and
hides and watches inside of human beings and is always waiting for a
chance to do the proprietor a malicious damage, whispered to her soul
and said, “That question had a harmless look, but what was back of
it?--what was the secret motive of it?--what suggested it?”
The shady devil had knifed her, and could retire, now, and take a rest;
the wound would attend to business for him. And it did.
Why should Howard Tracy ask that question? If he was not trying to marry
her for the sake of her rank, what should suggest that question to
him? Didn’t he plainly look gratified when she said her objections to
aristocracy had their limitations? Ah, he is after that earldom, that
gilded sham--it isn’t poor me he wants.
So she argued, in anguish and tears. Then she argued the opposite
theory, but made a weak, poor business of it, and lost the case. She
kept the arguing up, one side and then the other, the rest of the night,
and at last fell asleep at dawn; fell in the fire at dawn, one may say;
for that kind of sleep resembles fire, and one comes out of it with his
brain baked and his physical forces fried out of him.
CHAPTER XXIII.
Tracy wrote his father before he sought his bed. He wrote a letter which
he believed would get better treatment than his cablegram received, for
it contained what ought to be welcome news; namely, that he had tried
equality and working for a living; had made a fight which he could find
no reason to be ashamed of, and in the matter of earning a living had
proved that he was able to do it; but that on the whole he had arrived
at the conclusion that he could not reform the world single-handed, and
was willing to retire from the conflict with the fair degree of honor
which he had gained, and was also willing to return home and resume
his position and be content with it and thankful for it for the future,
leaving further experiment of a missionary sort to other young people
needing the chastening and quelling persuasions of experience, the only
logic sure to convince a diseased imagination and restore it to rugged
health. Then he approached the subject of marriage with the daughter of
the American Claimant with a good deal of caution and much painstaking
art. He said praiseful and appreciative things about the girl, but
didn’t dwell upon that detail or make it prominent. The thing which he
made prominent was the opportunity now so happily afforded, to reconcile
York and Lancaster, graft the warring roses upon one stem, and end
forever a crying injustice which had already lasted far too long. One
could infer that he had thought this thing all out and chosen this way
of making all things fair and right because it was sufficiently fair
and considerably wiser than the renunciation-scheme which he had brought
with him from England. One could infer that, but he didn’t say it. In
fact the more he read his letter over, the more he got to inferring it
himself.
When the old earl received that letter, the first part of it filled him
with a grim and snarly satisfaction; but the rest of it brought a snort
or two out of him that could be translated differently. He wasted no
ink in this emergency, either in cablegrams or letters; he promptly took
ship for America to look into the matter himself. He had staunchly held
his grip all this long time, and given no sign of the hunger at his
heart to see his son; hoping for the cure of his insane dream, and
resolute that the process should go through all the necessary stages
without assuaging telegrams or other nonsense from home, and here was
victory at last. Victory, but stupidly marred by this idiotic marriage
project. Yes, he would step over and take a hand in this matter himself.
During the first ten days following the mailing of the letter Tracy’s
spirits had no idle time; they were always climbing up into the clouds
or sliding down into the earth as deep as the law of gravitation
reached. He was intensely happy or intensely miserable by turns,
according to Miss Sally’s moods. He never could tell when the mood was
going to change, and when it changed he couldn’t tell what it was that
had changed it. Sometimes she was so in love with him that her love was
tropical, torrid, and she could find no language fervent enough for its
expression; then suddenly, and without warning or any apparent reason,
the weather would change, and the victim would find himself adrift among
the icebergs and feeling as lonesome and friendless as the north pole.
It sometimes seemed to him that a man might better be dead than exposed
to these devastating varieties of climate.
The case was simple. Sally wanted to believe that Tracy’s preference was
disinterested; so she was always applying little tests of one sort or
another, hoping and expecting that they would bring out evidence which
would confirm or fortify her belief. Poor Tracy did not know that these
experiments were being made upon him, consequently he walked promptly
into all the traps the girl set for him. These traps consisted in
apparently casual references to social distinction, aristocratic
title and privilege, and such things. Often Tracy responded to these
references heedlessly and not much caring what he said provided it kept
the talk going and prolonged the seance. He didn’t suspect that the girl
was watching his face and listening for his words as one who watches the
judge’s face and listens for the words which will restore him to
home and friends and freedom or shut him away from the sun and human
companionship forever. He didn’t suspect that his careless words were
being weighed, and so he often delivered sentence of death when it would
have been just as handy and all the same to him to pronounce acquittal.
Daily he broke the girl’s heart, nightly he sent her to the rack for
sleep. He couldn’t understand it.
Some people would have put this and that together and perceived that the
weather never changed until one particular subject was introduced, and
that then it always changed. And they would have looked further, and
perceived that that subject was always introduced by the one party,
never the other. They would have argued, then, that this was done for a
purpose. If they could not find out what that purpose was in any simpler
or easier way, they would ask.
But Tracy was not deep enough or suspicious enough to think of these
things. He noticed only one particular; that the weather was always
sunny when a visit began. No matter how much it might cloud up later, it
always began with a clear sky. He couldn’t explain this curious fact to
himself, he merely knew it to be a fact. The truth of the matter was,
that by the time Tracy had been out of Sally’s sight six hours she was
so famishing for a sight of him that her doubts and suspicions were all
consumed away in the fire of that longing, and so always she came into
his presence as surprisingly radiant and joyous as she wasn’t when she
went out of it.
In circumstances like these a growing portrait runs a good many risks.
The portrait of Sellers, by Tracy, was fighting along, day by day,
through this mixed weather, and daily adding to itself ineradicable
signs of the checkered life it was leading. It was the happiest
portrait, in spots, that was ever seen; but in other spots a damned soul
looked out from it; a soul that was suffering all the different kinds of
distress there are, from stomach ache to rabies. But Sellers liked it.
He said it was just himself all over--a portrait that sweated moods from
every pore, and no two moods alike. He said he had as many different
kinds of emotions in him as a jug.
It was a kind of a deadly work of art, maybe, but it was a starchy
picture for show; for it was life size, full length, and represented
the American earl in a peer’s scarlet robe, with the three ermine bars
indicative of an earl’s rank, and on the gray head an earl’s coronet,
tilted just a wee bit to one side in a most gallus and winsome way. When
Sally’s weather was sunny the portrait made Tracy chuckle, but when her
weather was overcast it disordered his mind and stopped the circulation
of his blood.
Late one night when the sweethearts had been having a flawless visit
together, Sally’s interior devil began to work his specialty, and soon
the conversation was drifting toward the customary rock. Presently, in
the midst of Tracy’s serene flow of talk, he felt a shudder which
he knew was not his shudder, but exterior to his breast although
immediately against it. After the shudder came sobs; Sally was crying.
“Oh, my darling, what have I done--what have I said? It has happened
again! What have I done to wound you?”
She disengaged herself from his arms and gave him a look of deep
reproach.
“What have you done? I will tell you what you have done. You have
unwittingly revealed--oh, for the twentieth time, though I could not
believe it, would not believe it!--that it is not me you love, but that
foolish sham, my father’s imitation earldom; and you have broken my
heart!”
“Oh, my child, what are you saying! I never dreamed of such a thing.”
“Oh, Howard, Howard, the things you have uttered when you were
forgetting to guard your tongue, have betrayed you.”
“Things I have uttered when I was forgetting to guard my tongue?
These are hard words. When have I remembered to guard it? Never in one
instance. It has no office but to speak the truth. It needs no guarding
for that.”
“Howard, I have noted your words and weighed them, when you were not
thinking of their significance--and they have told me more than you
meant they should.”
“Do you mean to say you have answered the trust I had in you by using
it as an ambuscade from which you could set snares for my unsuspecting
tongue and be safe from detection while you did it? You have not done
this--surely you have not done this thing. Oh, one’s enemy could not do
it.”
This was an aspect of the girl’s conduct which she had not clearly
perceived before. Was it treachery? Had she abused a trust? The thought
crimsoned her cheeks with shame and remorse.
“Oh, forgive me,” she said, “I did not know what I was doing. I have
been so tortured--you will forgive me, you must; I have suffered
