brains out. It was war, and I did nothing but my plain duty; and even in
a time of peace I had the natural right to defend myself, and save my
own life, even at the sacrifice of yours, as you were the assailant,"
argued Christy quite warmly. "You would have put a ball through my head
or heart if I had not fired at the moment I did."
"Why didn't you shoot me like a gentleman, and not blow my nose off?"
demanded the captain bitterly.
"I had to fire in a hurry; and I did not aim at your nose. I could only
discharge my weapon on the instant, and I had no time to aim at any
particular part of you. I intended simply to cover your head."
"But you blowed my nose off all the same."
"I had no grudge against your nose. Do you think it would be honorable
for a soldier to revenge himself on neutral ground for a wound received
in the field?"
"But it was a sneaking Yankee trick to shoot at a man's nose, even in a
square battle by sea or by land," protested the captain with a rattling
oath.
It was useless to discuss the matter with such a man, though he had
probably been charged by Colonel Pierson not to do his prisoner any
injury, and Christy relapsed into silence.
"If you propose to treat me like a gentleman, whether I am one or not,
may I ask where you propose to berth me, for I am very much fatigued
to-night?" asked the prisoner later in the evening.
"I mean to give you as good a stateroom as I have myself; but it will
contain two berths, and the mate will occupy the lower one, to prevent
you from escaping, if you should take it into your head to do so,"
replied the captain, as he opened the door of one of the rooms.
"I can hardly get into the upper berth with my wrists ironed," said the
prisoner, exhibiting his fetters.
"That is so," replied the captain, taking the key of the manacles from
his pocket and removing them. "But I warn you that any attempt to escape
may get you into a worse scrape than you are in now. When we get to sea
you shall have your liberty."
"Thank you, Captain, for this indulgence. I suppose you will not make a
long voyage of it to Mobile. I presume you go to the northward of Great
Abaco Island?" asked Christy, though he hardly expected to receive an
answer to his question.
"Why do you presume such a stupid idea as that?" demanded the captain,
who seemed to regard the inquiry as an imputation upon his seamanship;
and the inquirer had put the question to provoke an answer. "I have been
sailing nearly all my life in these waters, and I know where I am. Why
should I add three hundred miles to my voyage when there is no reason
for it?"
"I am not much acquainted down here."
"I shall go through the North-west, or Providence Channel."
Captain Flanger did not know that the steamer Chateaugay was cruising
somewhere in the vicinity of the Bahamas; but his prisoner did know it,
and the information given him was not pleasant or satisfactory. Captain
Chantor had told him that he intended to stand off and to the eastward
of Great Abaco, and he had been cherishing a hope that he would fall in
with the Snapper, though he might not find evidence enough on board of
her to warrant her capture.
If he fell in with the steamer, he would be likely to examine her; and
that would lead to the release of the involuntary passenger. But if the
Snapper went through the Providence Channel, the Chateaugay would not be
likely to fall in with her. It looked to the unfortunate officer as
though he was booked for a rebel prison. He could see no hope of escape,
though he was duly grateful for the change which had come over his
vicious persecutor. If he was allowed his liberty, he might find some
avenue of escape open. It was useless to groan over his fate, and he did
not groan; but he had come to the conclusion that it would be a long
time before he took possession of his stateroom in the ward room of the
Bellevite.
Availing himself of the permission given to him, he went into the room,
and turned in with his clothes on, so that he might be in readiness for
any event. Mr. Gilfleur would miss him at the rendezvous agreed upon;
but he would have no means of knowing that anything had happened to him.
Tired as he was, he was not inclined to sleep. Presently he heard a
conversation which was not intended for his ears, for it was carried on
in very low tones.
"Do you know, Captain Flanger, that I believe we are getting into a very
bad scrape?" said Percy Pierson in a subdued tone.
"What are you afraid of?" demanded the captain, in a voice hardly above
a whisper.
"My father refused at first to permit the capture of Passford," added
Percy. "He would consent to it only after you had promised to treat him
well."
"I am treating him as well as I know how, though it goes against my
grain. We will get him into the jail in Mobile, and keep him there till
the Yankees have acknowledged the independence of the Confederacy, and
paid for all the damage they have done to our country. How is any one in
Washington or London to know anything about this little affair of
to-night?"
"I don't know how; but if it should get out, the Yankees would make an
awful row, and England would be obliged to do something about it."
"But we must make sure that it does not get out. The young cub has a
deal of spirit and pluck, and he would not live long if he were shut up
on such rations as our men have."
Percy seemed to be better satisfied than he had been, and the
conversation turned to other subjects in which the listener had no
interest. Without much of an effort he turned over and went to sleep.
When he woke in the morning he heard the tramp of footsteps on the deck
over his head, and he concluded that the steamer was getting under way.
If the mate had slept in the berth below him, he had not seen or heard
him. He leaped out of the bed, and descended to the floor. When he tried
the door he found that it was locked.
Presently he heard the movement of the screw, and felt the motion of the
vessel. There was a port light to the room, and he placed himself where
he could see out at it. But there was nothing to be seen which afforded
him any hope of comfort. There must be a pilot on board, and he began to
wonder if there could be any way to communicate with him. He took from
his pocket a piece of paper and pencil. He wrote a brief statement of
the outrage which had been perpetrated upon him, folded the paper, and
put it in his vest pocket, where he could readily slip it into the hand
of the pilot, if he found the opportunity to do so. The captain had
promised to give him his liberty when the vessel got out to sea, and he
hoped to be able to go on deck before the pilot left the steamer.
The Snapper continued to go ahead, and in a short time she made a sort
of a plunge, as she went over the bar. The motion of the steamer began
to be rather violent, and Christy saw through the port the white caps
that indicated a strong north-west wind. When the vessel had continued
on her course for a couple of hours, she stopped, and the prisoner saw
the pilot boat drop astern a little later. The opportunity to deliver
his statement had passed by, and he tore up the paper, keeping the
fragments in his pocket, so that they should not expose his intention.
He had scarcely destroyed the paper before his door was thrown open by
Percy Pierson, who informed him that he was at liberty to go on deck if
he wished to do so. He accepted the permission. He could see the land in
the distance in several directions, but he had no interest in anything.
He was called to breakfast soon after, and he took a hearty meal, for
the situation had not yet affected his appetite. In the middle of the
forenoon, with the light at Hole in the Wall on the starboard, and that
on Stirrup Cay on the port, the course of the Snapper was changed to the
north-west.
At this point Christy discovered a three-masted steamer, which had also
excited the attention of Captain Flanger. It looked like the Chateaugay;
and the prisoner's heart bounded with emotion.
CHAPTER XXIII
THE CHATEAUGAY IN THE DISTANCE
The steamer which Christy had discovered was a long distance from the
Snapper. She had just come about, and this movement had enabled the
prisoner to see that she had three masts; but that was really all there
was to lead him to suppose she was the Chateaugay. She was too far off
for him to make her out; and if he had not known that she was cruising
to the eastward of the Bahamas, it would not have occurred to him that
she was the steamer in which he had been a passenger two days before.
Captain Flanger discovered the sail a few minutes later, and fixed his
attention upon it. In the business in which he was engaged it was
necessary to practise the most unceasing vigilance. But, at this
distance from any Confederate port, the commander of the steamer did not
appear to be greatly disturbed at the sight of a distant sail, believing
that his danger was nearer the shores of the Southern States. Doubtless
he had papers of some sort which would show that his vessel had cleared
for Havana, or some port on the Gulf of Mexico.
Christy did not deem it wise to manifest any interest in the distant
sail, and, fixing his gaze upon the deck-planks, he continued to walk
back and forth, as he was doing when he discovered the steamer. He had
not been able to make out her course. He had first seen her when she was
in the act of turning, obtaining only a glance at the three masts.
Whether or not she was "end-on" for the Snapper, he could not determine,
and Captain Flanger seemed to be studying up this question with no
little earnestness.
The principal mission in these waters of the Chateaugay was to look up
the Ovidio, of which Captain Passford in New York had obtained some
information through his agents. This vessel was not simply a
blockade-runner, but was intended for a cruiser, though she had sailed
from Scotland without an armament. It was known that she would proceed
to Nassau, and this fact had suggested to Mr. Gilfleur his visit to that
port to obtain reliable information in regard to her, as well as
incidentally to look into the methods of fitting out vessels for running
the blockade.
Captain Chantor was expecting to fall in with the Ovidio, even before
the return of his two passengers. He did not believe the authorities at
Nassau would permit her to take on board an armament at that port; but a
rendezvous had probably been arranged, where she was to receive her guns
and ammunition. But the only safe channel for any vessel to get to the
deep sea from Nassau was by the one that had received the name of
Providence. This channel is a continuation of what is called "The Tongue
of the Ocean," which extends over a hundred miles south of New
Providence, a hundred and fifty fathoms in depth, and bordered by
innumerable cays, reefs, and very shoal water.
South of Great Abaco Island, this channel, from thirty to forty miles
wide, divides into the North-east and North-west Channels, and all
vessels of any great draught can safely get out to sea only through one
of them. It was evident enough to Captain Chantor, who was familiar with
the navigation of these seas, that the Ovidio must come out through one
of the channels indicated. Christy had talked with the commander of the
Chateaugay in regard to these passages, and knew that it was his
intention to keep a close watch over them.
He could not be sure that the steamer in the distance was the
Chateaugay; but the more he recalled what had passed between himself and
Captain Chantor, and considered the situation, the stronger became his
hope that it was she. He was sure that she had come about, and he
reasoned that she had done so when her commander ascertained that the
steamer he had sighted laid her course through the North-west Channel.
This was as far as he could carry his speculations.
Without understanding the situation as well as did his prisoner, Captain
Flanger seemed to be nervous and uneasy. He watched the distant sail for
a long time, sent for his spy-glass and examined her, and then began to
plank the deck. When he came abreast of Christy he stopped.
"Do you see that sail off to the eastward, Mr. Passford?"
"I see it now, Captain," replied the prisoner, as indifferently as
possible, for he felt that it would be very imprudent to manifest any
interest in the matter.
"Can you make out what she is?" continued the captain.
"I cannot; she must be eight or ten miles from us," replied Christy,
as he glanced to the eastward.
"I shouldn't wonder if that was one of your Yankee gunboats," added
Captain Flanger, spicing his remark with a heavy oath, for he could
hardly say anything without interlarding his speech with profanity.
"It may be, for aught I know," replied the prisoner with something like
a yawn.
"Whatever she is, the Snapper can run away from her, and you need not
flatter yourself that there is any chance for you to escape from a
Confederate prison; and when they get you into it, they will hold on
very tight."
"I must take things as they come," added Christy.
He wanted to ask the captain why he wondered if the sail was a Yankee
gunboat, but he did not think it would be prudent to do so. The captain
seemed to have, or pretended to have, great confidence in the speed of
the Snapper. When he left his prisoner he went to the engine-room, and
it was soon evident from the jar and shake of the vessel that he had
instructed the chief engineer to increase the speed.
Christy watched the distant sail for about three hours before he could
come to any conclusion. At the end of this time he was satisfied that
the three-masted steamer was gaining very decidedly upon the Snapper. He
began to cherish a very lively hope that the sail would prove to be the
Chateaugay. Captain Flanger remained on deck all the forenoon, and every
hour that elapsed found him more nervous and excitable.
"I reckon that's a Yankee gunboat astern of us, Mr. Passford; but I am
going to get away from her," said the captain, as they sat down to
dinner.
"Is she gaining upon you, Captain?" asked Christy.
"I don't think she is; but if she does get any nearer to us, I shall
give her the slip. The Snapper is going into Mobile Bay as sure as you
live. You can bet your life on it," insisted the captain.
Christy was not disposed to converse on the subject, and he began to
wonder in what manner the Snapper could give her pursuer the slip. The
former was the smaller vessel, and probably did not draw over fourteen
feet of water, if she did more than twelve. It might be possible for her
to run into shoal water where the pursuer could not follow her.
After the dinner table was cleared off, the captain seated himself at it
with a chart spread out before him. It was plain enough that he was
devising some expedient to escape the three-master. Christy did not deem
it prudent to observe him, and he went on deck. It was as clear as the
daylight that the pursuer was gaining rapidly upon the Snapper; and the
prisoner did not believe that the latter was making over twelve knots.
By this time seven hours had elapsed since the distant sail had come in
sight, and she was now near enough for the prisoner to be sure that she
was the Chateaugay. She could make sixteen knots when driven at her
best, and she must be gaining four or five knots an hour on the chase.
Christy had been through this channel in the Bellevite, and he
discovered that the steamer was running near the shoal water. Presently
the captain came on deck, and he appeared to be less nervous than
before, perhaps because he had arranged his plan to escape his pursuer.
Within an hour Christy recognized the East Isaac, a rock rising ten or
twelve feet above the surface of the water, which he identified by its
nearness to one over which the sea was breaking. The captain was too
much occupied in the study of the surroundings to take any notice of
him, and he endeavored to keep out of his sight.
The prisoner consulted his watch, and found it was four o'clock. The
tower of the Great Isaac light could just be made out. The Chateaugay
was not more than four miles astern of the Snapper, and in another hour
she would certainly come up with her, if Captain Flanger did not put his
plan into execution. The course of the chase continued to bring her
nearer to the reefs.
"Ring one bell!" shouted the captain to the quartermaster at the wheel.
The effect of one bell was to reduce the speed of the Snapper by
one-half. The order to put the helm hard a starboard followed in a short
time. The course was made about south, and the steamer went ahead
slowly. Two men in the chains were heaving the lead constantly. They
were reporting four and five fathoms. After the vessel had gone five or
six miles on this course, it was changed to about south-west. She was
then moving in a direction directly opposite to that of the Chateaugay,
and the anxious prisoner could see the man-of-war across the reefs which
lifted their heads above the water, very nearly abreast of the Snapper,
though at least ten miles distant from her.
"Do you know what steamer that is, Mr. Passford?" asked Captain Flanger,
coming aft, apparently for the purpose of finding him.
"How should I know, Captain?" asked Christy.
"I thought you might know her by sight."
"I could hardly be expected to know all the ships in the United States
navy by sight, Captain, for there are a great many of them by this
time."
"All right; she looks like a pretty large vessel, and the bigger the
better. I hope you won't get up a disappointment for yourself by
expecting that you are going to get out of this scrape," said Captain
Flanger, and there was a great deal of bitterness in his tones.
"I am taking things as they come, Captain."
"The Snapper is not a man-of-war, and she is engaged in a peaceful
voyage. If that fellow thinks of capturing me, he is reckoning without
his host. He has no more right to make a prize of me than he has to
murder me," protested the captain, as he gave the order to hoist the
British flag.
"Of course you know your business better than I do, Captain Flanger, and
I don't propose to interfere with it," replied Christy.
The commander walked forward again, giving the order to the
quartermaster to ring two bells, which presently brought the steamer to
a full stop, quite near the rocks which were awash to the northward of
her. As the captain moved forward he encountered the first officer in
the waist, who addressed him, and they began a conversation, none of
which Christy could hear. From the looks and gestures of the mate, he
concluded that they were talking about him.
It was not difficult to imagine the subject of the conversation, and it
was evident to Christy that the first officer had suggested an idea to
his commander. While he was waiting impatiently to ascertain what the
Chateaugay would do next, Percy Pierson came on deck looking very pale,
for it had been reported at breakfast that he was very sea-sick.
"How are you, Christy?" asked the Southerner.
"I am very well, I thank you."
"Haven't you been sea-sick?" asked the invalid.
"Of course not; I never was sea-sick."
"But what has the steamer stopped for?" asked Percy, looking about him.
"Captain Flanger seems to think that vessel over there is a United
States man-of-war."
"Will she capture the Snapper?" asked the sufferer, looking paler than
before.
At this moment a boat was lowered from the davits into the water, and
Christy was invited by the mate to take a seat in the stern sheets. He
was astounded at this request, and wondered what it meant.
CHAPTER XXIV
THE TABLES TURNED
Christy understood the character of Captain Flanger well enough to be
confident he meant mischief to him in getting him into the boat. He
concluded that this movement was the result of the conference with the
mate. He had a suspicion that his terrible enemy intended to drown him,
or get rid of him in some other manner.
"May I ask where I am to be taken in the boat, Mr. Dawbin?" asked the
prisoner, suppressing as much as he could the excitement that disturbed
him.
"I give you leave to ask, but I cannot answer you," replied the mate.
"If you intend to put me on board of that steamer, it can do no harm to
say so, I think," added Christy.
"If you will excuse me, Mr. Passford, I cannot answer any questions.
I ask you again to get into the boat," said Mr. Dawbin.
"Well, sir, suppose I decline to do so?"
"Then I shall be compelled to use force, and tumble you into the boat in
the best way I can, with the assistance of my men."
"If you intend to murder me, why can't you do the deed here on deck?"
demanded the prisoner.
"I don't intend to murder you."
"That is some consolation. That lighthouse on the Great Isaac is the
only place to which you can convey me, and that is sixteen miles from
this steamer. I can't believe you intend to pull me that distance."
"No fooling there!" shouted the captain. "What are you waiting for, Mr.
Dawbin? Why don't you obey my order?"
"The fellow wants to talk," replied the mate.
"If he won't get into the boat, pitch him into it like a dead dog!"
Christy saw that it was useless to resist, though he had a revolver in
his pocket which had not been taken from him, for he had not been
searched. The mate and two sailors stood in front of him, and he
realized that he could accomplish nothing by resistance under present
circumstances. He thought he could do better in the boat after it was
beyond the reach of any reinforcements from the steamer. He went over
the side, and took his place in the stern sheets.
The mate followed him, and the two men, one of whom was hardly more than
a boy, took their places on the thwarts. The boat was shoved off, and
the prisoner had an immediate interest in the course it was about to
steer. The mate arranged the tiller lines, and then looked about him.
He directed his gaze towards the north, and seemed to be trying to find
some object or point. He satisfied himself in some manner, and then
resumed his seat, from which he had risen in order to obtain a better
view over the waves. The passenger had watched him closely, and found
that his vision had been directed towards the rocks awash and the East
Isaac rock. Towards these objects he steered the boat. The Chateaugay
was at least three miles to the eastward of these rocks.
Christy watched the course of the boat long enough to satisfy himself
that it was headed for the rocks, which were awash at high tide, though
they now looked like a minute island. There could be but one object in
visiting this locality: and that must be to leave him on that desolate
reef. The wind was still fresh from the north-west, and the spray was
dashed over the rocks in a manner which suggested that a human being
could not remain long on it after the tide was high without being
washed off. It was little better than murder to leave him there, and he
knew very well that Captain Flanger would shed no tears if assured that
his troublesome prisoner was no more.
Christy decided that he would not be left on the reef, or even on the
top of the East Isaac, which might be a drier place, though hardly more
comfortable. It must have been Mr. Dawbin who had suggested the idea of
landing him on the reef, for there was no other place nearer than the
Great Isaac light. Captain Flanger had boasted that he sailed a vessel
on a peaceful mission, and that the commander of the Chateaugay had no
more right to capture him than he had to murder him. But the prisoner
knew that the Snapper was to run the blockade, and was bound to Mobile,
for the captain had told him so himself.
The commander could now see the folly of his boast. He had not expected
to encounter a United States man-of-war in the Bahamas. His prisoner was
a naval officer, and would be a strong witness against him. Upon his
testimony, and such other evidence as the cargo and other circumstances
might supply, the captain of the steamer in the channel might feel
justified in making a prize of the Snapper. It was necessary, therefore,
to remove this witness against him. As Christy had imagined, the captain
had not thought of his prisoner as a witness, and the mate had suggested
it to him.
"I suppose I need not ask you what is to be done with me, for that is
sufficiently apparent now," said Christy, more to engage the attention
of the mate than for any other reason.
"You can form your own conclusion," replied Mr. Dawbin.
"You intend to leave me on that reef ahead, and doubtless you expect me
to be washed off and drowned, or starved to death there," added the
prisoner. "I can't see why you take all this trouble when you could more
conveniently blow my brains out."
"The captain has promised not to harm you, Mr. Passford, and he will
keep his word," replied the mate with very ill grace.
"I consider it worse than murder to leave me on that reef, or any of
these rocks, Mr. Dawbin. Since I understand your intention, I might as
well put a bullet through my own head, and save myself from all the
suffering in store for me," said Christy, assuming the manner of one
rendered desperate by his situation. "Have you a revolver in your
pocket?"
"I have not a revolver in my pocket; and if I had I should not lend it
to you to shoot yourself," replied the mate.
Mr. Dawbin had no revolver in his pocket, and that was all the prisoner
had been driving at. He was equally confident that neither of the
sailors was armed, for he had looked them over to see if there was any
appearance of pistols in their pockets.
"You are making altogether too much fuss over this little matter, Mr.
Passford. The captain desires you to remain on one of these rocks till
he gets through his business with the commander of that steamer in the
channel, which is now headed for the Snapper," the mate explained. "When
that is finished we will take you off and proceed on our voyage."
"You had better put a bullet through my head."
"I don't think so. It is no great hardship for you to stay a few hours
on that rock. You have had your dinner, and you will not starve to
death. I don't think you will have to stay there long, for that steamer
draws too much water to come in among these reefs, and she will be hard
and fast on one of the shoals before she goes much farther."
"Possibly her captain knows what he is about as well as you do,"
suggested Christy.
"I don't believe he does. There isn't a fathom of water on some of these
shoals."
But the Chateaugay kept on her course, though she proceeded very slowly.
When she was off the Gingerbread Cay she stopped her screw, and she was
near enough for the observer to see that she was lowering at least two
boats into the water. In a few minutes more they were seen pulling
towards the Snapper, whose boat was now very near the reef which had
been selected as the prisoner's abiding-place. A few minutes later the
keel ground on the coral rock.
"Jump ashore, both of you, and take the painter with you, my men," said
the mate, when the boat stuck about six feet from the top of the ledge.
The two sailors waded to the highest part of the reef, and began to haul
in on the painter; but they could not get it anything less than three
feet from the rock.
"We can't get the boat any nearer, Mr. Passford; but you are a vigorous
young man, and you can easily leap to the rock," said Mr. Dawbin.
"Do you think you could leap to the ledge?" asked Christy, looking him
sharp in the eye.
"I know I could."
"Let me see you try it, Mr. Dawbin," replied Christy, with his right
hand on his revolver.
"Come, come! Mr. Passford. No fooling. I have no time to spare," growled
the mate.
"I am not fooling. As you consider it no hardship to pass a few hours on
that rock, I am going to trouble you to take my place there."
"No nonsense! I am not to be trifled with!"
"Neither am I," added the prisoner, as he drew out his weapon, and aimed
it at the head of the mate. "You can take your choice between the rock
and a ball from my revolver, Mr. Dawbin."
"Do you mean to murder me?" demanded the mate.
"I hope you will not compel me to do so harsh a thing as that. But no
fooling! I have no time to spare. Jump on the rock, or I will fire
before you are ten seconds older!" said Christy resolutely.
"Come back into the boat, men!" shouted the officer.
"The first one that comes any nearer the boat is a dead man!" added the
prisoner, "Five seconds gone, Mr. Dawbin."
The mate did not wait for anything more, but made the leap to the rock.
He accomplished it so hastily that he fell when he struck the ledge; but
the impetus he had given the boat forced it from the rock, and sent it a
considerable distance. Christy restored the revolver to his pocket, and,
taking one of the oars, he sculled towards the Chateaugay, which was now
much nearer than the Snapper. The two boats from the man-of-war took no
notice of him, and perhaps did not see him.
Taking out his white handkerchief he attached it to the blade of one of
the oars, and waved it with all his might in the direction of the
steamer. He set it up in the mast-hole through the forward thwart, and
then continued to scull. But his signal was soon seen, and a boat came
off from the steamer.
  [Illustration:
  "Jump on the rock or I will fire before you are ten seconds older."
  Page 276.]
"Boat ahoy!" shouted the officer in charge of the cutter.
"In the boat!" replied Christy, turning around as he suspended his labor
with the oar.
"Lieutenant Passford!" exclaimed Mr. Hackling, the second lieutenant of
the Chateaugay. "Is it possible that it is you?"
"I haven't any doubt of it, Mr. Hackling, if you have," replied the late
prisoner, heartily rejoiced to find himself in good company again.
"But what does this mean? How do you happen to be here?" demanded the
astonished lieutenant of the ship.
"I happen to be here because I have just played a sharp game. I was a
prisoner on that steamer yonder, on my way to a rebel prison. But I
think it is necessary that I should report immediately to Captain
Chantor in regard to the character of the Snapper, which is the name of
the vessel you have been chasing."
The Snapper's boat was taken in tow, and the crew of the cutter gave way
with a will. In due time Christy was received with the most unbounded
astonishment by the commander on the deck of the Chateaugay.
"Where is Mr. Gilfleur? I hope that no accident has happened to him,"
said the captain with deep anxiety on his face.
"None that I am aware of; but if you will excuse me from explanations
for the present, I will state that the steamer on the bank is the
Snapper, Captain Flanger, bound for Mobile; and the captain told me that
he intended to run the blockade."
"Mr. Hackling, take charge of the second cutter, and give Mr. Birdwing
my order to make a prize of that steamer, and bring her off to the deep
water."
It was quite dark when this order was executed.
CHAPTER XXV
CAPTAIN FLANGER IN IRONS
Christy Passford related to Captain Chantor all that had occurred to the
detective and himself from the time of their departure from the ship to
their parting on the shore; and he did not fail to mention the fact that
Mr. Gilfleur had come to his assistance when he was assaulted by the
ruffian in front of the saloon.
"You have had a narrow escape, Mr. Passford," said the commander, when
he had concluded. "The idea of avenging an injury received in that way
is something I never happened to hear of before, though my experience is
not unlimited. Mr. Birdwing," he continued, after the first lieutenant
had reported to him, "had you any difficulty in effecting the capture of
the Snapper?"
"Only with the captain; for my force was sufficient to have taken her if
she had been fully armed and manned. There was no fighting; but I was
obliged to put the captain in irons, for he was about the ugliest and
most unreasonable man I ever encountered," replied the chief of the boat
expedition. "I was not at all satisfied that the steamer was a fit
subject for capture till your order came to me, brought by Mr. Hackling.
Then Captain Flanger not only protested, with more bad language than I
ever before heard in the same time, but he absolutely refused to yield.
I could not give him the reasons that induced you to send me the order,
and I referred the matter to you."
The Snapper had been anchored within a cable's length of the Chateaugay,
and Mr. Birdwing had brought Captain Flanger on board of the ship, with
Percy Pierson, that the question of prize might be definitely settled by
the commander, for he was not quite satisfied himself. The captain of
the Snapper was still in irons, and he and his companion had been put
under guard in the waist. The man with the mutilated nose had not yet
seen Christy, and possibly he was still wondering what had become of his
chief officer and the two men who had been ordered to put the prisoner
on the ledge.
Christy had informed Captain Chantor, in his narrative, of the manner in
which he had turned the tables on his custodians, and he had not
forgotten that the party were still where he had left them. He reminded
the commander of the latter fact, and a quartermaster was sent in the
third cutter to bring them off, and put them on board of the Snapper;
where a considerable force still remained under the charge of Mr.
Carlin, the third lieutenant.
"Now we will settle this matter with the captain of the Snapper, and I
hope to convince him that his vessel is a lawful prize, so far as she
can be so declared in advance of the decision of the court," said
Captain Chantor. "Come with me, if you please, Mr. Birdwing. For the
present, Mr. Passford, will you oblige me by keeping in the shade till I
send for you?"
"Certainly, Captain Chantor, though I should like to hear what Captain
Flanger has to say in defence of his steamer," replied the passenger.
"But I will take care not to show myself to him till you are ready for
me."
"I do not object to that arrangement. I do not quite understand who this
Percy Pierson is, though you mentioned him in your report of what had
occurred during your absence," added the commander.
"He is the son of Colonel Richard Pierson, a Confederate commissioner,
who represents his government at Nassau, purchasing vessels as
opportunity to do so is found. His son is the person who tried to induce
me to take passage in the Snapper, with the promise that I should be
permitted to land at Key West. It was only a trick to get me on board of
the steamer; and when it failed, for I declined to fall into the trap,
I was captured by a gang of four or five ruffians, Captain Flanger being
one of them, and conveyed to the vessel, where I was locked up in a
stateroom till after she had sailed."
"That is a proper question for the British government to deal with, and
I hope it will be put in the way of adjustment by the proper officials,
though I am inclined to regard it as an act of war, which will justify
me in holding the men engaged in the outrage as prisoners. Do you know
who they are, Mr. Passford?"
"I can designate only three of them,--the captain, Mr. Dawbin, the mate,
who is now on the ledge, and Percy Pierson. I am sure they were all in
the carriage that conveyed me to the beach where I was put into the
boat. The others were sailors, and I could not identify them."
"I will hold the three you name as prisoners," added Captain Chantor,
as he moved forward, followed by the executive officer.
It was getting dark, and Christy made his way to the shadow of the
mainmast, where he obtained a position that enabled him to hear all that
passed without being seen himself. Captain Flanger seemed to be more
subdued than he had been reported to be on board of the Snapper, and the
commander ordered the irons to be taken from his wrists.
"Captain Flanger, I have concluded to make a prize of the Snapper; but I
am willing to hear anything you may wish to offer," Captain Chantor
began.
"I protest; you have no more right to make a prize of my vessel than you
have to capture a British man-of-war, if you were able to do such a
thing," replied the commander of the Snapper.
"Do you claim that the Snapper is a British vessel?"
"Yes, I do!" blustered Captain Flanger recklessly.
"Are you a British subject?"
"No, I am not; but I am not attempting to run the blockade."
"For what port are you bound?"
"Havana."
"Have you a clearance for that port?"
"For Havana, and a market."
"But you have no more idea of going to Havana than you have of going to
China," added the captain of the Chateaugay. "You are bound to Mobile,
and you intend to run the blockade; and that intention proved, you are
liable to capture."
"You seem to know my business better than I know it myself," said
Captain Flanger, with a sneer in his tones.
"Perhaps I know it quite as well as you do, at least so far as the
voyage of the Snapper is concerned," replied the commander of the
Chateaugay, who proceeded to explain international law in relation to
the intention to run the blockade. "I shall be able to prove in the
court which sits upon your case that you left Nassau for the purpose
of running the blockade established at the entrance of Mobile Bay.
I presume that will be enough to satisfy both you and the court. In
Nassau you did not hesitate to announce your intention to run the
blockade, and get into Mobile."
"I should like to see you prove it," growled the captain of the Snapper,
in his sneering tones.
"I don't think you would like to see me do it; but I will take you at
your word, and prove it now. I have an excellent witness, to whom you
made your announcement;" and at this remark Christy stepped out from
behind the mainmast, and placed himself in front of the astounded
ruffian. "Lieutenant Passford, a naval officer in excellent repute,
is all ready to make oath to your assertions."
Captain Flanger and Percy Pierson gazed in silence at the witness, for
they supposed he was on the ledge to which he had been transported by
the boat. Christy repeated what he had said before, and stated in what
manner he had been made a prisoner on board of the Snapper.
"For this outrage in a neutral port I shall hold you and Mr. Pierson as
prisoners, leaving the government to determine what steps shall be taken
in regard to you; but I trust you will be handed over to the authorities
at Nassau, to be properly punished for the outrage."
Of course this decision did not suit Captain Flanger; and Percy Pierson
appeared to be intensely alarmed at the prospect before him. Captain
Chantor, after consulting with his naval passenger, determined to send
the Snapper to Key West, from which she could readily be despatched to
New York if occasion should require. Mr. Carlin was appointed
prize-master, with a sufficient crew; and at daylight the next morning
he sailed for his destination.
The boat which had been sent for the mate and two men belonging to the
Snapper put them on board of the steamer; but the captain and the
passenger were retained on board of the Chateaugay. The man with the
mutilated nose was so disgusted at the loss of his vessel, and with the
decision of his captor, that he could not contain himself; and it became
necessary not only to restore his irons, but also to commit him to the
"brig," which is the ship's prison.
"What is to become of me, Christy?" asked Percy in the evening, overcome
with terror at the prospect before him.
"That is more than I can inform you," replied Christy coldly.
"But we had no intention of doing you any harm; and we treated you well
after you went on board of the Snapper."
"You committed a dastardly outrage upon me; but your punishment will be
left to others."
"But I had no intention to do you any harm," pleaded Percy.
"No more lies! You have told me enough since I met you."
"But I am speaking the truth now," protested the frightened Southerner.
"No, you are not; the truth is not in you! Did you mean me no harm when
you attempted to entice me on board of the Snapper? Did you mean me no
harm when you engaged Flanger and his ruffians to make me a prisoner,
and put me on board of his steamer? It was a flagrant outrage from
beginning to end; for I had the same rights in Nassau that you and your
father had, and both of you abused the hospitality of the place when you
assaulted me."
"You were a prisoner of the Confederacy, and had escaped in a
blockade-runner; and I thought it was no more than right that you should
be returned to your prison," Percy explained.
"I had the right to escape if I could, and was willing to take the risk;
and my capture in Nassau was a cowardly trick. But I did not escape from
a Confederate prison."
"You told me you did."
"I did not; that was a conclusion to which you jumped with very little
help from me."
"I thought I was doing my duty to my country."
"Then you were an idiot. You have done your best to compromise your
country, as you call it, with the British government. If your father is
not sent out of Nassau, I shall lose my guess as a Yankee."
"But my father would not allow Captain Flanger to do you any harm; for
he was bent upon hanging you as soon as he got out of sight of land, and
he sent me with you to see my mother in order to prevent him from
carrying out his threat."
"You would have been a powerful preventive in the face of such a brutal
ruffian as Captain Flanger," said Christy with a sneer. "You have lied
to me before about your father, and I cannot believe anything you say."
"I am speaking the truth now; my father saved your life. I heard him
tell Flanger that he would lose the command of the Snapper if any harm
came to you."
"If he did so, he did it from the fear of the British authorities.
I have nothing more to say about it."
"But as my father saved your life, you ought to stand by me in this
scrape," pleaded Percy.
"Whatever was done by you or your father for me, was done from the fear
of consequences; and you were the originator of the outrage against me,"
added Christy, as he descended to the ward room.
The next morning the Snapper was on her voyage to Key West, and the
Chateaugay headed for the Hole in the Wall, though she gave it a wide
berth, and stood off to the eastward. The next night, being the fourth
since the Eleuthera left the ship, the boat containing Mr. Gilfleur was
picked up about twenty miles east of the lights. The detective came on
board, and was welcomed by the captain, who had been called by his own
order.
CHAPTER XXVI
A VISIT TO TAMPA BAY
As soon as Mr. Gilfleur had been welcomed back to the Chateaugay the
commander gave the order to the officer of the deck to have the Bahama
boat hoisted to the deck, and disposed of as before.
"I beg your pardon, Captain Chantor; but be so kind as to allow the boat
to remain alongside, for I must return to Nassau," interposed the
detective.
"Return to Nassau!" exclaimed the captain.
"Yes, sir; it is really necessary that I should do so, for you see that
I have come back without Mr. Passford," replied the Frenchman. "He was
attacked by a cowardly ruffian in front of a saloon in the town, and I
lost sight of him after that. I have been terribly distressed about him,
for the ruffian threatened to kill him, and I fear he has executed his
threat."
"Don't distress yourself for another instant, Mr. Gilfleur, for Mr.
Passford is on board of the ship at this moment, and doubtless asleep in
his stateroom," said the captain, cutting short the narrative of the
detective.
"On board of the ship!" exclaimed the Frenchman, retreating a few paces
in his great surprise. "Impossible! Quite impossible! I found our boat
just where we had left it at the back side of the island."
"But what I say is entirely true; and Mr. Passford wished me to have him
called when you came on board," added the commander, as he sent a
quartermaster to summon Christy to the captain's cabin.
"I don't understand how Mr. Passford can be on board of the ship,"
continued the bewildered Frenchman. "Ah, he might have hired a boat like
the Eleuthera to bring him off."
"He might have done so, but he did not," replied Captain Chantor, as he
directed the officer of the deck to go ahead, making the course east, as
soon as he had secured the detective's boat. "Now, if you will come to
my cabin, Mr. Gilfleur, Mr. Passford shall inform you himself that he is
on board of the ship; and he has quite an exciting story to tell."
The commander and the Frenchman went below, and seated themselves in the
cabin of the former.
"Mr. Passford has already informed me that the Ovidio is at Nassau, but
that she has been seized by a British gunboat for violation of the
neutrality laws," said the captain.
"That is quite true, and it is not probable that the case will be
settled for a month to come," replied Mr. Gilfleur. "But I ascertained
by great good luck that her armament was waiting for her at Green Cay,
if you know where that is: I do not."
"It is on the Tongue of the Ocean, as it is called, nearly a hundred
miles to the southward of Nassau. I supposed it would be managed in some
such way as that," added the commander. "But do you think it will be a
month before her case will be settled?"
"Of course I know nothing about it myself; but I found a court official
who was very desirous of talking French, and he invited me to dine with
him at his house. I began to ask him questions about the blockade, and
the vessels in the harbor; and finally he gave me his opinion that a
decision in the case of the Ovidio could not be reached in less than a
month, and it might be two mouths."
At this moment there was a knock at the door of the cabin, and the
captain called to the person to come in. Christy, who had taken the time
to dress himself fully, opened the door and entered the cabin. The
Frenchman leaped from his seat, and embraced the young officer as though
he had been his wife or sweetheart, from whom he had been separated for
years. Christy, who was not very demonstrative in this direction,
submitted to the hugging with the best possible grace, for he knew that
the detective was sincere, and had actually grown to love him, perhaps
as much for his father's sake as for his own.
"Oh, my dear Mr. Passford, you are to me like one who has come out of
his grave, for I have believed for nearly three days that you had been
killed by the ruffian that attacked you in the street!" exclaimed Mr.
Gilfleur, still pressing both of his late companion's hands in his own.
"I was never so rejoiced in all my life, not even when I had unearthed a
murderer."
"Perhaps you expected to unearth another murderer," said Christy with a
smile.
"That was just what I intended to do. I heard the villanous ruffian
swear that he would kill you, and I was almost sure he had done so when
you failed to meet me in the rear of the hotel."
At the request of the commander, Christy repeated the story of his
adventure in Nassau as briefly as possible, up to the time he had been
picked up by the Chateaugay's cutter, and conveyed on board of the ship.
The detective was deeply interested, and listened to the narration with
the closest attention. At the end of it, he pressed the hand of the
young officer again, and warmly congratulated him upon his escape from
the enemy.
Mr. Gilfleur then reported more in detail than he had done before, the
result of his mission. He gave the names of all the intending
blockade-runners in the harbor of Nassau; but the captain declared that
he could not capture them on any such evidence as the detective had been
able to obtain, for it would not prove the intention.
"The Ovidio may not come out of Nassau for two months to come, and then
she will proceed to Green Cay," said Captain Chantor. "I do not think I
should be justified in waiting so long for her, especially as she is to
run her cargo into Mobile. The blockaders will probably be able to pick
her up. I think my mission in the Bahama Islands is finished, and the
Chateaugay must proceed to more fruitful fields."
"But you have not made a bad voyage of it so far, Captain Chantor,"
added Christy. "You sent in the Ionian, sunk the Dornoch, and captured
the Cadet and the Snapper, to say nothing of bagging a Confederate
commissioner, and the son of another. I should have been glad if you had
sent in Colonel Pierson, for he has already done our commerce a great
deal of mischief."
"I am entirely satisfied, and doubtless the information obtained here
and at the Bermudas will enable our fleet to pick up some more of the
steamers you have spotted," added the captain, as he rose from his seat,
and dismissed his guests.
The Frenchman was so exhausted by his labors, and the want of sleep,
that he retired at once to his room, while Christy went on deck with the
commander. The ship had been working to the eastward for over an hour;
but the order was given for her to come about, and the course was laid
for the light at the Hole in the Wall.
"Now, Mr. Passford, we are bound for the Gulf of Mexico, putting in at
Key West for the purpose of attending to the affair of the Snapper,"
said Captain Chantor. "In a few days more no doubt you will be able to
report for duty on board of the Bellevite."
"I shall not be sorry to be on duty again, and especially in the
Bellevite," replied Christy, as he went to his stateroom to finish his
night's sleep.
The next day the Chateaugay overhauled the Snapper; but all was well on
board of her, and the ship proceeded on her course. On the third day she
went into the harbor of Key West. Christy and the captain went to work
at once on the legal questions relating to the prize last taken. The
evidence was deemed sufficient to warrant the sending of her to New
York, and on her arrival the prize-master was directed to proceed to
that port. Captain Flanger and Percy Pierson were transferred to her,
and she sailed the next day; but she encountered a tremendous storm on
the Atlantic coast, and was totally wrecked on Hetzel Spit, near Cape
Canaveral. The prisoners were put into one boat, which upset, and all in
it were drowned, while the other boat, in charge of Lieutenant Carlin,
succeeded in reaching the shore of Florida.
The Snapper's case was settled, therefore, outside of the courts.
Captain Flanger perished in his wickedness, and Percy Pierson never
reached his mother in Mobile. But it was weeks before the news of the
disaster reached the Chateaugay and the Bellevite. Christy did not mourn
the loss of his great enemy, and he was sorry only that the young man
had not lived long enough to become a better man.
The Chateaugay proceeded on her voyage, and reported to the flag-officer
of the Eastern Gulf Squadron; by whom she was assigned to a place in the
fleet off Appalachicola, while Christy was sent in a tender to the
Bellevite, then on duty off the entrance to Mobile Bay.
At this point it became necessary for Christy and Mr. Gilfleur to
separate, for the latter was to proceed to New York by a store-ship
about to sail. The detective insisted upon hugging him again, and the
young officer submitted with better grace than usual to such
demonstrations. He had become much attached to his companion in the late
enterprises in which they had been engaged, and he respected him very
highly for his honesty and earnestness, and admired his skill in his
profession. On the voyage from Key West, Christy had written letters to
all the members of his family, as well as to Bertha Pembroke, which he
committed to the care of Mr. Gilfleur when they parted, not to meet
again till the end of the war.
When Christy went on board of the Bellevite he was warmly welcomed by
Captain Breaker, who happened to be on deck. Mr. Blowitt was the next to
grasp his hand, and before he had done with him, Paul Vapoor, the chief
engineer, the young lieutenant's particular crony, hugged him as though
he were a brother.
Most of the old officers were still in the ship, and Christy found
himself entirely at home where-ever he went on board. He was duly
presented to Mr. Walbrook, the third lieutenant, the acting second
lieutenant having returned to the flag-ship in the tender.
For all the rest of the year the Bellevite remained on duty as a
blockader off Fort Morgan. It was an idle life for the most part, and
Christy began to regret that he had caused himself to be transferred
from the command of the Bronx. The steamer occasionally had an
opportunity to chase a blockade-runner, going in or coming out of the
bay. She was the fastest vessel on the station, and she never failed to
give a good account of herself.
Late in the year the Bellevite and Bronx were ordered to operate at
Tampa Bay, where it was believed that several vessels were loading with
cotton. On the arrival of the ships off the bay, a boat expedition was
organized to ascertain what vessels were in the vicinity. But the
entrance was protected by a battery, and it was supposed that there were
field-works in several places on the shores. One of these was discovered
just inside of Palm Key, and the Bellevite opened upon it with her big
midship gun. Two or three such massive balls were enough for the
garrison, and they beat a precipitate retreat, abandoning their pieces.
There was water enough to permit the steamer to go into the bay nearly
to the town at the head of it.
No other batteries were to be seen, and the Bronx proceeded up the bay,
followed by the Bellevite. When the latter had proceeded as far as the
depth of water rendered it prudent for her to go at that time of tide,
the Bronx went ahead some ten miles farther. The boat expedition,
consisting of three cutters from the Bellevite and one from the Bronx,
moved towards the head of the bay. Christy, in the second cutter of the
Bellevite, was at least two miles from any other boat, when a punt
containing a negro put out from the shore near him.
"Are you a frien' ob de colored man?" demanded the negro as soon as he
came within speaking-distance of the cutter.
"Within reasonable limits, I am the friend of the colored man," replied
Christy, amused at the form of the question.
"What you gwine to do up dis bay, massa?" asked the colored man.
"That will depend upon what we find up this bay."
"You don't 'spect you find no steamers up dis bay, does you, massa?"
"Do you know of any steamers up this bay, my man?" asked Christy. "Do
you know of any vessels up here loading with cotton?" asked Christy.
"P'raps I do, massa; and den, again, p'raps I don't know anyt'ing about
any vessels," replied the negro, very indefinitely.
Christy was provoked at the manner in which the negro replied to his
questions. Ordering his boat's crew to give way with all their might,
he directed the cockswain to run for the punt of the negro. The cutter
struck it on the broadside, and broke it into two pieces. The boatman
was fished up, and hauled on board of the boat.
  [Illustration:
  "The boatman was fished up and hauled on board the boat." Page 301.]
CHAPTER XXVII
AMONG THE KEYS OF TAMPA
Christy Passford did not intend to cut the negro's punt into two pieces,
though perhaps there was some mischief in the purpose of the cockswain.
The boatman gave him an evasive answer to his question, which provoked
the young officer. The punt was a very old affair, reduced almost to
punk by the decay of the boards of which it was built, or the bow of the
cutter would not have gone through it so readily. The lieutenant had
simply desired to get alongside the negro's shaky craft in order to
question him, for he was satisfied from the fellow's manner that he knew
more than he pretended to know.
The boatman had come off from the shore of his own accord; he had not
been solicited to give any information, and his movements had been
entirely voluntary on his own part. Yet Christy was sorry that his punt
had been stove, valueless as the craft had been; for, as a rule, the
colored people were friendly to the Union soldiers, and he was not
disposed to do them any injury.
As soon as the officer in charge of the boat saw that the bow was likely
to strike the punt, he directed the cockswain to stop and back her,
which was done, but too late to save the flimsy box from destruction.
The two bowmen drew in the negro without any difficulty; and so
expeditiously had he been rescued that he was not wet above the hips.
He had been caught up just as the bow of the cutter cut into the punt.
"That was well done, bowmen," said Christy, as the boatman was placed
upon his feet in the fore sheets.
The negro was rather small in stature, and black enough to save all
doubts in regard to his parentage; but there was an expression of
cunning in his face not often noticed in persons of his race. The
coast of Florida, south of the entrance to Tampa Bay, as in many other
portions, is fringed with keys, or cays as they are called in the West
Indies, which are small islands, though many of them are ten miles in
length. This fringe of keys extended up Tampa Bay for over twenty
miles; and it was from behind one of them that the punt had put out
when Christy's boat approached. The negro had been obliged to paddle
at least half a mile to come within speaking-distance of the cutter.
"You done broke my boat in two pieces!" exclaimed the boatman, gazing at
the two parts of the floating wreck. "Don't t'ink you is a frien' ob de
colored man widin no limits at all, or you don't smash his boat like
dat."
"That was an accident, my friend," replied Christy. "How much was the
punt worth?"
"Dat boat wan't no punk, massa, and it was wuf two dollars in good
money," replied the colored man, his eyes brightening, and his
expression of cunning becoming more intense, when he realized the
possibility of being paid for his loss.
"If you give me the information I desire, I will pay for the boat,"
added Christy, who proposed to do so out of his own pocket, for his
father was a millionaire of several degrees, and the son had very nearly
made a fortune out of the prizes, from which he had received an
officer's share.
"Tank you, massa; I'm a poor man, and I git my livin' gwine fishin' in
dat boat you done stove."
"What is your name, my man?"
"Quimp, sar; and dat's de short for Quimple," replied the colored person
of this name.
"Where do you live?"
"Ober on de shor dar, in de woods."
"How deep is the water inside of these keys, Quimp?" asked Christy,
pointing to the long, narrow islands which lined the south-easterly side
of the bay.
"Not much water inside dem keys dar, sar," replied the boatman, looking
off in the other direction.
"But there are deep places in there, I am very sure."
"Yes, sar; ten feet in some places," replied Quimp, suddenly becoming
more communicative. "When de wind blow from de west or de norf-west,
dar's twelve foot inside de long key."
"Do you know of any vessels, any schooners, or steamers, inside the bay,
Quimp?" asked Christy, pushing his inquiries a point farther.
"Couldn't told you, massa," replied the boatman, shaking his head.
"Do you mean that you don't know, my man?"
"Dis nigger done got but one head, and it's wuf more to him dan it is to
any oder feller, massa; and it don't do for him to tell no stories about
vessels and steamers," replied Quimp, shaking his head more vigorously.
"I suppose you have a family, Quimp?"
"No, sar; done got no family. De ole woman done gone to glory more'n ten
years ago, and de boys done growed up and gone off. No, sar; dis nigger
got no family."
"Then you don't care to stay here, where you have to work hard for
little money?" suggested Christy.
"Money! Don't see no money. Nobody but white folks got any money; and
dey has next to noffin in dese times."
"I will pay you well for any information that may be of importance to
me, and I will take you on board of a man-of-war farther down the bay,
if you are afraid of losing your head."
"If dis nigger told some stories he lose his head for sartin," added
Quimp, shaking his head, as if to make sure that it safely rested on his
shoulders.
"If you tell me the truth, you shall be protected."
"Wot you want to know, massa?" demanded Quimp, as though he was
weakening in his resolution.
Christy could not help wondering why the boatman had come out from
behind the key, if he was not willing to impart his knowledge to the
officer of the boat, for he could not help understanding the object of
the gunboats in visiting the bay; and the Bellevite lay not half a mile
below the northern end of what Quimp called the long key.
"I want to know if there are any steamers or other vessels in the bay,"
replied Christy, coming directly to the point. "If there are any, we
shall find them; but you can save us the trouble of looking for them."
"How much you gwine to gib me, massa, if I told you?" asked the negro,
as he walked between the men on the thwarts to the stern sheets, in
order to be nearer to the officer.
"I will give you ten dollars if you will be sure and tell me the truth."
"Dis nigger don't never told no lies, massa," protested Quimp. "If you
pay me five dollars for de boat you done stove, and"--
"But you said the boat was worth only two dollars," interposed the
officer.
"Dat's de gospel truf, massa; but it costs me five dollars to get a new
boat, to say noffin about de time. I mought starve to def afore I can
get a boat."
The negro's argument was logical, and Christy admitted its force, and
expressed his willingness to pay the price demanded.
"Five dollars for de boat, massa, and ten dollars for tellin' de whole
truf," added Quimp.
"All right, my man," added the lieutenant.
"Yes, sar; but I want de money now, sar," said Quimp, extending his hand
