prowled and threatened. Hadrian, 
who had already written a book on 
tactics, knew at once how to act, 
Domitian's policy was before him; he 
followed the precedent, and paid the 
Sarmatians to be still. It requires 
little acumen to see that when Rome 
permitted herself to be blackmailed 
the end was near. 
For the time being, however, there 
was peace, and in its interest Hadrian 
set out on that unequalled journey 
over a land that was his. Had fate 
relented, Trajan could have made a 
wider one still. But in Trajan was 
the soldier merely; when he journeyed 
it was with the sword. In Hadrian 
was the dilettante, the erudite too; 
he traveled not to conquer, but to 
learn, to satisfy an insatiable curiosity, 
for self-improvement, for glory too. 
Behind him was an army, not of sol- 
diers, but of masons, captained by 
architects, artists and engineers. Did 
a site please him, there was a temple 
at once, or if not that, then a bridge, 
an aqueduct, a library, anew fashion, 
sovereignty even, but everywhere the 
spectacle of an emperor in flesh and 
blood. For the first time the provinces were able to understand that a 
CfEsar was not necessarily a brute, a 
phantom and a god. 
It would have been interesting to 
have made one of that court of poets 
and savants that surrounded him; to 
have dined with him in Paris, eaten 
oysters in London; sat with him while 
he watched that wall go up before the 
Scots, and then to have passed down 
again through a world still young — a 
world beautiful, ornate, unutilitarian; 
a world to which trams, advertise- 
ments and telegraph poles had not yet 
come; a world that still had illusions, myths and mysteries ; one 
which religion and poetry went hand 
hand in hand — a world without news- 
papers, hypocrisy and cam. 
Hadrian, doubtless, enjoyed it. Me 
was young enough to have enthusi- 
asms and to show them ; he was one 
of the best read men of the day ; he was 
poet, painter, sculptor, musician, erudite and emperor in one. Of course 
he enjoyed It. The world, over which 
he traveled, was his, not by virtue of 
the purple alone, but because of his 
knowledge of it. The prince is not 
necessarily cosmopolitan; the historian 
and antiquarian are. Hadrian was an 
early Quinct, an earlier Cliampollion; 
always the thinker, sometimes the 
cook. And to those in his suite it 
must have been a sight very unique to 
see a Caesar who had published his 
volume of erotic verse, just as you or 
I might do; who had hunted hons, not 
in the arena, but in Africa, make researches on the plain where.Troy had 
been, and a supreme of sow's breast, 
peacock, pheasant, ham and boar, 
which he called Pentapharmarch, and 
which he offered as he had his Catacriani — the erotic verse — as something 
original and nice. 
Insatiably inquisitive, verifying a 
history that he was preparing in the 
lands which gave that history birth, 
he passed through Egypt and Asia, 
questioning sphinxes, the cerements 
of kings, the arcana of the temples; 
deciphering the sacred books, arguing 
with magi, interrogating the stars. 
For the thinker, after the fashion of 
the hour, was astrologer too, and one 
of the few anecdotes current concern- 
ing him is in regard to a habit he had 
of drawing up on the 31st of December the events of the coming year. 
After consulting the s.ars on that 31st 
of December which occurred in the 
twenty-second year of his reign, he 
prepared a ca!triid;ir which extended 
only to the loth of July. On that day 
he died. 
The calendar does not seem to have 
been otherwise serviceable. It was in 
Bithynia he found a shepherd of such 
beauty that no one who has looked at 
his bust has looked unmoved. It is 
unearthly, a perfection of feature which 
suggests neither heaven nor hell, but 
some planet where the atmosphere differs from ours; where it is pink, perhaps, or faintly ochre ; where birth and 
death have forms higher than our own. 
Hadrian, captivated, led the lad in 
leash. The facts concerning that episode have been so frequently given 
that the repetition is needless here. 
Besides, the point is elsewhere. Pres- 
ently the lad fell overboard. Hadrian 
lost a valet, Rome an emperor, and 
Olympus a god. But in attempting 
to deify the lost lackey, the grief of 
Hadrian was so spontaneous, so sin- 
cere, that it is permissible to fancy 
that the lad's death was not one of 
those events which the emperor-astrologer noted beforehand on his calendar. 
The lad was decently buried, the Nile 
gave up her dead, and on the banks a 
fair city rose, one that had its temples, 
priests, altars and shrines; a city that 
worshipped a star, and called that star 
Antinous. Hadrian then could have 
congratulated himself. Even Caligula 
would have envied him. He had done 
his worst; he had deitied not a lad, but 
a lust. And not for the moment alone. 
A half century later Tertullian noted 
that the worship still endured, and subsequently the Alexandrine Clement 
discovered consciences that Antinous 
had reproached. 
Antinous, deified, was presently forgot. A young Roman, wonderfully 
 
beautiful, Dion says, yet singularly 
effeminate; a youth who could barely 
carry a shield ; who slept between rose- 
leaves and lilies; who was an artist 
withal; a poet who had written lines 
that Martial might have mistaken for 
, his own, Cejonius Verus by name, succeeded thcBithynian shepherd. Hadrian, who would have adopted Antin- 
I ous, adopted Verus in his stead. But 
Hadrian was not happy in his choice. 
 Verus died, and singularly enough, 
Hadrian selected as future emperor. 
 the one ruler against whom history has 
 not a reproach, Pius Antonin. 
Meanwhile the journey continued.  The Thousand and One N ights were re- 
I alized then if ever. The beauty of the 
 world was at its apogee, the glory of 
Rome as well ; and through secrets and 
 marvels Hadrian strolled, note-book in 
 hand, his eyes unwearied, his curiosity 
 unsatiated still. To pleasure him the 
 
intervales took on a fairer glow; cities 
decked themselves anew, the temples 
unveiled their mysteries; and when he 
passed to the intervales liberty came ; 
to the cities, sovereignty ; to the temples, shrines. The world rose to him 
as a woman greets her lover. His 
travels were not fatigues ; they were 
delights, in which nations participated, 
and of which the memories endure as 
though enchanted still. 
It would have been interesting, no 
doubt, to have dined with him in 
Paris; to have quarried lions in their 
African fens; to have heard archaic 
hymns ripple through the rushes of 
the Nile; to have lounged in the 
Academe, to have scaled Parnassus, 
and sailed the  Egian sea ; but, a history 
and an arm-chair aiding, the trave 
has but to close his cjes and the pastl 
returns. Without disturbing so much 
as a shirt-box, he 
promenade. Triremes have foundered ; 
litters  re out of date; painted elephants are no more; the sky has 
changed, climates with it; there are 
colors, as there are arts, that have 
gone from us forever; there are desolate plains, where green and yellow 
was; the shriek of steam where gods 
have strayed ; advertisements in sacred 
groves; Baedekers in ruins that never 
heard an atheist's voice; solitudes 
where there were splendors; the snarl 
of jackals where once were birds and 
bees — yet, history and the arm-chair 
aiding, it all returns. Any traveler 
may follow in Hadrian's steps; he is 
stayed but once— on the threshold of 
the Temple of Eleusis. It is there 
history gropes, impotent and blind, 
and it is there the interest of that 
journey culminated. 
Beyond the episode connected with 
Antinous, Hadrian's journey was 
marked by another, one which occurred 
in Judfea. Both were infamous, no 
doubt, but, what is more to the point, 
both mark the working of the poison 
in the purple that he bore. 
Since Titus had gone, despairful 
Judica had taken heart again. Hope 
in that land was inextinguishable. 
The walls of Jerusalem were still 
standing; in the Temple the offices 
continued. Though Rome remained, 
there was Israel too. Passing that 
way one afternoon, Hadrian mused. 
The city affected him; the site was 
superb. And as he mused it occurred 
to him that Jerusalem was less harmonious to the ear than Hadrianopolis ; 
that the Temple occupied a position 
on which a Capitol would look far 
better; in brief, that Jehovah might 
be advantageously replaced by Jove. 
The army of masons that were ever 
at his heels were set to work at once. 
 
They had received similar orders and 
performed similar tasks so often 
that they could not fancy anyone 
would object. The Jews did. They 
fought as they had never fought before; they fought for three years 
against a Nebuchadnezzar who cre- 
ated torrentti of blood so abundant 
that stones were carried for miles, 
Land who left corpses enough to fertilize the land for a decade. The 
survivors were sold. Those for whom 
no purchasers could be found had 
their heads amputated. Jerusalem 
was razed to the ground. The site 
of the Temple was furrowed by the 
plow, sown with salt, and in place of 
the City of David rose vElia Capitotina, a miniature Rome, whose gates, 
on one day in the year, Jews 
 were forbidden under penalty of death 
 to pass, were forbidden to look at, 
 and over which were images of swine, 
 
pigs with scornful snouts, the feet 
turned inward, the tail twisted like a 
lie. 
It was not honorable warfare, but 
it was effective; then, too, it was 
Hadrianesque, the mad insult of a 
madman to a race as mad as he. The 
purple had done its work. History 
has left the rise of this emperor conjectural; his fall is written in blood. 
As he began he ended, a poet and 
a beast. 
Presently he was In Rome. It was 
not homesickness that took him there; 
he was far too cosmopolitan to suffer 
from any such malady as that. It 
was the accumulations of a fifteen-year 
e.vcursion through the metropoH of 
art which demanded a gallery of their 
own. Another with similar tastes and 
similar power might have ordered 
everything which pleasured his eye 
to be carted to Rome, but in his quality 
of artifex omnipotens Hadrian 
embellished and never sacked. There 
were painters and sculptors enough 
in that army at his heels, and whatever appealed to him was copied on 
the spot. So much was copied that 
a park of ten square miles was just 
large enough to form the open-air 
museum which he had designed, one 
which centuries of excavation have 
not exhausted yet. 
The museum became a mad-house. 
Hadrian was ill; tired in mind and 
bo ' smitten with imperalia. It was 
then the young Verus died, leaving 
for a wonder a child behind, and more 
wonderful still, Antonin was adopted. 
Through Rome, meanwhile, terror 
stalked. Hadrian, in search of a 
remedy against his increasing confusion of mind, his visible weakness of 
body, turned from physicians to oracles; from them to magic, and then to 
blood. He decimated the senate. 
Soldiers, freedmen, citizens, anybody 
and everybody were ordered off to 
death. He tried to kill himself and 
failed; he tried again, wondering, no 
doubt, why he who commanded death 
for others could not command it for 
himself. Presently he succeeded, and 
Antonin — the pious Antonin, as the 
senate called him — marshalled from 
cellars and crypts the senators and 
citizens whom Hadrian had ordered 
to be destroyed. 
Anyone who has loitered a mo- 
ment among the statues in the Salle 
des Antonins at the Louvre will recall 
the bust of the Empress Faustine. It 
stands near the entrance, coercing the 
idler to remove his hat; to stop a mo- 
ment, to gaze and dream. The face 
differs from that which Mr. Swinburne 
has described. In the poise of the 
head, in the expression of the lips, 
particularly in the features which, save 
the low brow, are not of the Roman 
type, there is a commingling of just 
that loveliness and melancholy which 
must have come to Psyche when she 
lost her god. In the corners of the 
mouth, in the droop of the eyelids, 
in the moulding of the chin, you may 
set; that rarity — beauty and intellect in 
one —  and with it the heightening 
shadow of an eternal regret. Before 
her MarcuH Aurelius, her husband, 
stands, decked with the purple, with 
all the splendor of the iinperator  his 
beard in overlapping curls, his questioning eyes dilated. Beyond is her 
daughter, Lucille, less fair than the 
mother, a healthy girl of the dairy- 
maid type. Near by is the son, Commodus. Across the hall is Lucius 
Verus, the husband of Lucille; in a 
corner, Antoiiin, Faustine's father, and, 
more remotely, his wife. Together 
they form quite a family group, and 
to the average tourist they must seem 
a thoroughly respectable lot. Antonin certainly was respectable. He was 
the first emperor who declined to be a 
brute. Referring to his wife he said 
that he would rather be with her in a 
desert than without her in a palace; 
the speech, parenthetically, of a man 
who, though he could have cited that 
little Greek princess, Nausicaa, as a 
precedent, was too well-bred to permit so much as a fringe of his house- 
hold linen to flutter in public. Besides, at his hours, he was a poet, and 
it is said that if a poet tell a lie twice 
he will believe it. Antonin so often 
declared hia wife to be a charming 
person that in the end no doubt he 
thought so. She was not charming, 
however, or if she were, her charm 
was not that of virtue. 
It was in full sight of this lady's in consequences that Faustine was edu- 
cated. Wherever she looked, the 
candors of her girlhood were violated. 
The phallus then was omnipresent. 
lamblicus, not the novehst,butthe philosopher, has much to say on the subject; so lias Arnobius in the Ad versus 
genies, and Lactance in the De falsa 
riligione. If Juvenal, Martial, Petronius,aremore reticent, it is because 
they were not Fathers of the Church, 
nor yet antiquarians. No one among 
us exacts a description of a spire. 
The phallus was as common to them, 
commoner even. It was on the coins, 
on the doors, in the gardens. As a 
preservative against Envy ithungfrom 
children's necks. On sun-dials and 
water-clocks it marked the flight of 
time. The vestals worshipped it. At 
weddings it was used in a manner 
which need not be described. 
It was from such surroundings that 
Faustine stepped into the arms of the 
severe and stately prince whom her 
father had chosen. That Marcus 
Aurelius adored her is certain. Hi  
note-book shows it, A more tender
hearted and perfect lover romance may
show, but history cannot. He must  
have been the quintessence of refinement, a thoroughbred to his finger- 
tips; one for whom that purple mantle 
was too gaudy, and yet who bore it, 
as he bore everything else, in that 
self-abnegatory spirit which the 
higher reaches of philosophy bring. 
He was of that rare type that never 
complains and always consoles. 
After Antonin's death, his hours 
ceased to be his own. On the 
Euphrates there was the wildest disorder. To the north new races were 
pushing nations over the Danube and 
the Rhine. From the catacombs Christ 
was emerging; from the Nile, Serapis. 
The empire was in disarray. Antonin 
had provided his son-in-law with a 
coadjutor, Lucius Verus, the son of 
Hadrian's mignon, a magnificent scoundrel; a tall, broad-shouldered athlete, 
with a skin as fresh as a girl's and 
thick curly hair, which he covered 
with a powder of gold; a viveur  
whose suppers are famous still; whose 
guests were given the slaves that 
served them, the plate off which they 
had eaten, the cups from which they 
had drunk — cups of gold, cups of silver, jeweled cups, cups from Alexan- 
dria, murrhine vases filled with nard — 
cars and litters to go home with, 
mules with silver trappings and negro 
muleteers. Capitolinus says that, 
while the guests feasted, sometimes 
the magnificent Verus got drunk  and 
was carried to bed in a coverlid, or 
else, the red feather aiding, turned 
out and fought the watch. 
It was this splendid individual to 
whom Marcus Aurelius intrusted the 
Euphrates. They had been brought 
up together, sharing each others 
tutors, writing themes for the same instructor, both meanwhile adolescently 
enamored of the fair Faustine. It was 
to Marcus she was given, the empiix' 
as a dower; and when that dower 
passed into his hands, he could think 
of nothing more equitable than to ask 
Verus to share it with him. Verus 
was not stupid enough to refuse, and 
at the hour when the Parthians turned 
ugly, he needed little urging to set out 
for the East, dreaming, as he did so, 
of creating there an empire that should 
be wholly his. 
At that time Faustine must have 
been at least twenty-eight, possibly 
thirty. There were matrons who had 
not Keen their fifteenth year, and 
Faustine had been married young. 
Her daughter, Lucille, was nubile. 
Presently Verus, or rather his lieutenants, succeeded, and the girl 
was betrothed to him. There was a 
festival, of course, games in abundance, and plenty of blood. 
It would have been interesting to 
have seen her that day, the iron ring 
of betrothal on her finger, her brother, 
Commodus, staring at the arrangement of her hair, her mother prettily 
perplexed, her father signing orders 
which messengers brought and dispatched, while the sand took on a 
deeper red, and Rome shrieked its 
delight. Yes, it would have been 
interesting and typical of the hour. 
Her hair in the ten tresses which 
were symbolic of a fiancee's innocence, 
must have amused that brute of a 
brother of hers, and the iron ring on 
the fourth finger of her left hand 
must have given Faustine food for 
thought ; the vestals, in their immaculate robes, must have gazed at her 
in curious, sisterly ways, and because 
of her fresh beauty surely there 
were undertones of applause. Should 
her father disappear she would 
make a gracious imperatrix indeed. 
But, meanwhile, there was Faus- 
tine, and at sight of her legends of 
old imperial days returned. She was 
not Messalina yet, but in the stables 
there were jockeys whose sudden 
wealth surprised no one; in the arenas 
there were gladiators that fought, not 
for liberty, nor for death, but for the 
caresses of her eyes; in the side-scenes 
there were mimes who spoke of her; 
there were senators who boasted in 
their cups, and in the theatre Rome 
laughed colossally at the catchword 
of her amours. 
Marcus Aurelius then was occi, 
pied with affairs of state. In similar circumstances so was Claud — 
Messalina's husband — so, too, was Antonin. But Claud was an imbecile, 
Antonin a man of the world, while 
Marcus Aurelius was a philosopher. 
When fate links a woman to any one 
of these varieties of the husband, she 
is blessed indeed. Faustine was particularly favored. 
The stately prince was not aione a 
philosopher — a calling, by the way, 
which was common enough then, and 
has become commoner since — he was 
a philosopher who believed in philosophy, a rarity then as now. The ex- 
act trend of his thought is difficult to 
define. His note-book is filled with 
hesitations ; materialism had its allurements, so also had pantheism; the advantages of the Pyrrhonic suspension 
of judgment were clear to him too ; according to the frame of mind in which 
he wrote, you might fancy him an ag- 
nostic,' again an akosmist, sometimes 
both, but always the ethical result is 
the same. 
"Revenge yourself on your enemy 
in not resembling him. Forgive; forgive always; die forgiving. Be indulgent to the wrong-doer; be compassionate to him; tell him how he 
should act ; speakto him without anger, 
without sarcasm ; speak to him affectionately. Besides, what do you know 
of his wrong doing ? Are all his 
thoughts familiar to you? May there 
not be something that Justifies him? 
And you, are you entirely free from 
reproach? Have you never done 
wrong? And if not, was it fear that 
restrained you? Was it pride, or 
what?" 
The synoptic gospels similar 
recommendations appear. But where 
are the Christians that observe them? 
There may be much joy in heaven 
over the sinner that repents; in Christendom the joy is at his downfall. We 
adore the Master, His precepts are 
grateful to us. But does it not seem 
that we find the adoration sufficient? 
Charity is the New Testament told in 
a word. There is not a Christian community 
that does not acknowledge its 
beauty, and there is not one that practices it. But Christians are not philosophers. The latter do what good 
they may without hope of reward, because they regard evil as a part of the 
universal order of things, one which 
we have neither the right nor the ability to condemn; because vice is an 
error ofthe understanding, one which it 
is idle to blame, yet righteous to rectify. 
From whatever source such a tenet 
springs, whether from materialism, 
stoicism, pyrrhonism, epicureanism, 
atheism even, is of small matter; it is 
a tenet which is honorableto the holder 
and gracious too. This sceptered 
misanthrope possessed it, and it was 
in that his wife was blessed. Years 
later he died, forgiving her in silence, 
praising her aloud. Claud, referring 
to Messalina, shouted through they
Forum that thefatewhich destined him 
to marry impure women destined him 
to punish them. Marcus Aurehus said 
nothing. He did not know what fate 
destined him to do, but he did know 
that philosophy taught him to forgive. 
The abiHty to forgive, however, is one 
which is an attribute only of the great. 
Small minds hate on. 
It was this greatness that first per- 
plexed Faiistine. She was restless, 
frivolous, perhaps also a trifle depraved. Frivolous because all 
women were, depraved because her 
mother was, and restless because of 
the curiosity that inflammable Imaginations share— in brief, a Roman 
princess. Her husband differed from 
the Roman prince. His youth had 
not been entirely circumspect; he, too, 
had his curiosities, but they were " 
satisfied, he had found that they 
stained. When he married he was 
alreadv the thinker; doubtless, he was 
tiresome; he could have had little 
small-talk, and his hours of love-making must have been rare. Presently 
the affairs of state engrossed him. 
Faustine was left to herself; save a 
friend of her own sex, a woman can 
have no worse companion. She, too, 
discovered she had curiosities. A 
gladiator passed that way — then 
Rome ; then Lesbos ; then the Lampsacene. "You are my husband's mis- 
tress," her daughter cried to her one 
day. ''And you," the mother answered, "are your brother's." Even 
in the aridity  of a chronicle the 
accusation and rejoinder are revolting. Fancy what they must 
have been when mother and daughter 
hissed them in each others teeth. 
Whether the argument continued is 
immaterial. Both could have claimed 
the sanction of religion. In those 
days a sin was a prayer.  Religion 
was then, as it always had been, 
purely political. With the individual, with his happiness or aspirations, it 
concerned itself not at all. It was the 
prosperity of the empire, its peace and 
immortality, for which sacrifices were 
made, and libations offered. The god 
of Rome was Rome, and religion was 
patriotism. The antique virtues, 
courage in war, moderation in peace, 
and honor at all times, were civic, not 
personal. It was the state that had a 
soul, not the individual. Man was 
ephemeral; it was the nation that endured. It was the permanence of its 
grandeur that was important, nothing 
else. 
To insure that permanence each 
citizen labored. As for the citizen, 
death was near, and he hastened to 
live; before the roses could fade he 
wreathed himself with them. Iramortality to him was in his descendants. 
the continuation of his name, respect 
to his ashes. Any other form of future 
life was a speculation, infrequent at 
that. In anterior epochs Fright had 
peopled Tartarus, but Fright had 
gone. The Elysian Fields were 
vague, wearisome to contemplate ; 
even metempsychosis had no adherents. "After death," said Caesar, 
"there is nothing," and all the world 
agreed with him. The hour, too, in 
which three thousand gods had not a 
single atheist, had gone, never to return. Old faiths had crumbled. 
None the less was Rome the abridgement of every superstition. The gods 
of the conquered had always been 
part of her spoils. The Pantheon had 
become a lupanar of divinities that 
presided over birth, and whose rites 
were obscene; an abattoir of gods 
that presided over death, and whose 
worship was gore. To please them 
was easy. Blood and debauchery 
was all that was required. That 
the upper classes had no faith in 
them at all goes without the need 
of telling ; the atmosphere of their 
atriums dripped with metaphysics. 
But in the Forum, in the circus, amphitheatres; in the temples, porticoes and 
thick, wide streets — in short, wherever the masses congregated — the 
gods were not only officially revered, 
they were believed in, and so thoroughly that, had a sceptic attempted 
to air his scepticism in public, with 
that sceptic -it would not have fared 
well. Of the atheism of the upper 
classes the people knew nothing; they 
clung piously to a faith which held a 
theological justification of every sin, 
and in the temples fervent prayers 
were murmured, not for future happi- 
ness, for that was unobtainable, nor 
yet for wisdom or virtue, for those 
things the gods neither granted nor 
possessed ; the prajers were that the 
gods would favor the suppliant in his 
hatreds and in his lusts. 
Such was Rome when Verus returned to wed Lucille. Before his 
car the phallus swung; behind it was 
the pest. A tittle before, the Tiber 
overflowed. Presently, in addition to 
the pest, famine came. It was patent 
to everyone that the gods were vexed. 
There was blasphemy somewhere, 
and the Christians were tossed to the 
beasts. Faustine watched them die. 
At first they were to her as other 
criminals, but immediately a difference was discerned. They met death, 
not with grace, perhaps, but with exaltation. They entered the arena as 
though it were an enchanted garden, 
the color of emerald, where dreams
came true. Faustine questioned
They were enemies of state, she was
 
told. The reply left her perplexed, 
and she questioned again. It was 
then her eyes became inhabited 
by regret. The past was hideous; 
she tried to put it from her, but remorse is physical; it declines to be 
dismissed. She would have killed 
herself, but she no longer dared. The 
past was hideous, but in the future 
there was light. In some ray of it 
she must have walked, for when at the 
foot of Mt. Taurus, in a little Cappadocian village, years later, she died, 
her lips were glued to the cross. 
The high virtues are not complaisant, it is the cad the canaille adore. 
In spite of everything, Nero had been 
beloved by the masses. For years 
there were roses on his tomb. Under 
Vespasian there was an impostor whom 
Greece and Asia acclaimed in his 
name. The memory of his festivals 
was unf orgetable ; regret for him refused to be stilled. He was more 
than a god; he was a tradition. His 
second advent was confidently expected; the Jews believed in his resurrection; to the Christian he had never 
died, and suddenly he reappeared. 
Rome had declined to accept the old 
world tenet that the soul has its avat- 
 
ars, yet, when Commodus sauntered 
from that distant sepulchre, into 
which, poison aiding, he had placed 
his putative father, Rome felt that 
the Eg5'ptians were wiser than they 
looked; that the soul did migrate, and 
that in the blue eyes of the young 
emperor Nero's spirit shone. 
Hcrodian, who has written very 
agreeably on the subject, describes 
him as another Prince Charming. 
His hair, which was very fair, glistened like gold in the sun; he was 
slender, not at all effeminate, exceedingly graceful, exceedingly gracious; 
endowed with the promptest blush, 
with the best intentions; studious of 
the interests of his people; glad of 
advice, seeking it even; courteous and 
deferential to the senate and his 
father's friends — in short, an adolescent Nero — a trifle more guileful, 
however; already a parricide, a comedian 
as well; one who in a moment 
would toss the mask aside and disclose 
the mongrel; the offspring, not of an 
empress and an emperor,butthetiger- 
cub that Faustine had got by a 
gladiator. 
The tender-hearted philosopher, who 
in a campaign against some fretful 
Teutons, had taken Commodus with 
him, knew that he was not his son; 
knew, too, when the agony seized him, 
from whose hand the agony came; but 
in earlier- life he had jotted in his note- 
book, "Forgive, forgive always; die 
forgiving;" and, as he forgave the 
mother, so he forgave the child, recommending him with his last breath 
to the army and to Rome. 
As the people had loved Nero, so 
did the aristocracy love Marcus Aurelius ; his foster-father Antonin excepted, he was the only gentleman 
that had sat on the throne. No wonder 
 
they loved him; and seeing this early 
edition of the prince in the fairy tale 
emerge from the bogs of Germany, 
his fair face haloed by the glisten and 
gold of his hair, hearts went out to 
him; the wish of his putative father 
was ratified, and the son of a gladiator was emperor of Rome. 
Lampridus — or Spartian was it? 
The title-page bears Larapridus' 
name, but there is some doubt as to 
the authorship. However; whoever 
made the abridgement of the life of 
Commodus which appears among the 
chronicles of the  cripfores Hisiorim 
Af/ tisfce, says tliat before his birth 
Faustine dreamed she had engendered 
a serpent. It is not impossible that 
Faustine had been reading Ctzias," 
and had stumbled over his account of 
the Martichoras, a serpent with a 
woman's face and the talons of a bird 
of prey. For it was that she conceived. 
 
It would have been interesting to 
have seen that young man, the mask 
removed, frightening the senate into 
caUing Rome Commodia, and then 
in a hnen robe promenading in the attributes of a priest of Anubis through 
a seraglio of six hundred girls and 
mignons who prostituted themselves 
as he passed. There was a speetacle, 
which in its monstrosity Nero had 
not surpassed. But Nero was vieux 
Jeu. Commodus outdid him, first in 
debauchery, then in the arena, Nero 
had died while in training to kill a 
lion; Commodus did not take the 
trouble to train. It was the lions that 
were trained, not he, A skin on his 
shoulders, a club In his hand, he descended naked into the ring, and there 
felled beasts and men. Then, acclaimed as Hercules, he returned to 
the pulvinar, and a mignon on one 
side, a mistress on the other, ordered 
 
the giiard to massacre the spectators 
and set fire to Rome. After entering the arena six or seven hundred 
times, and there vanquishing men 
whose eyes had been put out and 
whose legs were tied, the colossal 
statue which Nero had made after his 
own image was altered; to the top 
came the bust of Commodus, to the 
base this legend : The victor of tea 
Ihousavd gladiators, Commodus-Her- 
rules, Iiiiperator. 
Meanwhile conspirators were at 
work. Like Nero, Commodus could 
have sought in vain for a friend. His 
life was attempted again and again; 
he escaped, but never tlie plotters; 
only when they had gone there were 
more. He knew he was doomed. 
There was the usual comet; the statue 
of Hercules hnd perspired visibly; an 
owl had been caught above his bed- 
room, and once he had wiped in his 
hair the hand which he had plunged 
in the warm wound of a gladiator, 
dead at his feet. These omens could 
mean but one thing. None the less, if 
he were doomed, so were others. 
One day one of those miserable children th;it the emperors kept about 
them found a tablet. It was as good as 
anything else to play with; and, as 
the child tossed it through the hall, 
the one woman that had loved Commodus caught it and read on it that 
she and all the household were to die. 
Within an hour Commodus was killed. 
There is a page in Lampridus, 
which he quotes as coming from the 
lost chronicles of Marius Maximus, 
and which contains the joy of the 
senate at the news. It is too long for 
transcription, but as a bit of realism 
it is unique. There is a shiver in 
every line. You hear the voices of 
hundreds, drunk with fury, frenzied 
with deiicc'it; the fierce welcome that 
greeted Pertinax — a slave's grandson, 
who was emperor for a miniitf— the 
joy of hate assuaged. 
The dehght of the senate was not 
shared by the pretorians. Pertinax 
was promptly massacred ; the throne 
was put up at auction; there were two 
or three emperors at once, and presently the purple was seized by Septimus Severus, a rigid, white-haired 
disciplinarian, who in his admiration 
for Marcus Aurelius, founded that 
second dynasty of the Antonias with 
which antiquity may be said to end. 
When he had gone, his elder son, 
Bastian, renamed Aurelius Antonin, 
and because of a cloak he had invented nicknamed Caracalla, bounded , 
like a panther on the throne. In 
a moment he was gnawing at his 
brother's throat, and immediately 
there occurred a massacre such 
 
Rome h.id never seen, Xiphilin says 
the nights Were not long enough to 
kill all of the condemned. Twenty 
thousand people were slaughtered in 
twenty hours. The streets were 
emptied, the theatres closed. 
The blood that ran then must have 
been in rillets too thin to slake Caracalla's thirst, for simultaneously almost, he was in Gaul, in Dacia — 
wherever there was prey. African by 
his father, Syrian on his mother's 
side, Caracalla was not a panther 
merely; he was a herd of them. He 
had the cruelty, the treachery and 
guile of a wilderness of tiger-cats. 
No man, said a thinker, is wholly 
base, Caracalla was. He had not a 
taste; not a vice, even, which was not 
washed and rewashed in blood. In a 
moment of excitement Commodus set 
his guards on the spectators in the 
amphitheatre; the damage was slight. 
 
for tlie Colosseum was so constructed 
that in two minutes the eighty or ninety 
thousand people which it held could 
escape. Caracalla had the exits closed. 
Those who escaped were naked; to 
bribe the guards they were forced to 
strip themselves to the skin. In the circus a vestal caught his eye. He tried 
to violate her, and failing impotently, 
had her buried alive, "Caracalla 
knows that I am a virgin, and knows 
why," the girl cried as the earth 
swallowed her, but there was no one 
there to aid. 
Such things show the trend of a 
temperament, though not, perhaps, its 
force. Presently the latter was displayed. Foryears those arch-enemies 
of Rome, the unconquerable Parthians, 
had been quiet; bound, too, by treaties 
which held Rome's honor. Not Caracalla's, however; he had none. An 
embassy went out to Artobane, the 
 
king. Caracalla wished a bride, and 
what fairer one could he have than the 
child oftheParthianmonarch? Then, 
too, the embassy was charged to explain, the marriage of Rome and Par- 
thia would be the union of the Orient 
and the Occident, peace by land and 
sea. Artobane hesitated, and with 
cause;but Caracalla wooed so ardently 
that finally the king said yes. 
Tiie news went abroad. The Par- 
thians, delighted, prepared to receive 
theemperor. When Caracallacrossed 
the Tigris, the highroad that led to the 
capital was strewn with sacrifices, 
with altars covered with flowers, with 
welcomings of every kind. Caracalla 
was visibly pleased. Beyond the gates 
of the capital, there was the king; he 
had advanced to greet his son-in-law, 
and that the greeting might be effective, he had assembled his nobles and 
his troops. The latter were armed 
 
with cymbals, with hautbois,and with 
flutes; and as Caracalla and his army 
approached, there was music, dancing 
and song; there were libations too, and 
as the day was practically the wedding 
of East and West, there was not a 
weapon to be seen — gala robes merely, 
brilliant and long. Caracalla saluted 
the king, gave an order to an adjutant, 
and on the smiling defenceless Par- 
thians the Roman eagles pounced. 
Those who were not killed were made 
prisoners of war. The next day Cara- 
calla withdrew, charged with booty, 
firing cities as he went. 
A little before, rumor reached him 
that a group of the citizens of Alexandria had referred to him as a fratricide. After the adventure in Parthia 
he bethought him of the city which 
Alexander had founded, and of the 
temple of Serapis that was there. He 
wished to honor both, he declared, 
 
and presently he was it the gates. 
The people were enehanted ; the ave- 
nues were strewn with flowers, lined 
with musicians. There were ilhiminations, festivals, sacrifices, torrents of 
perfumes, and through it all Caracalla 
passed, a legion at his heels. To see 
him, to participate in the succession of 
prodigalities, the surrounding country 
flocked there too. In recognition of 
the courtesy with which he was received, Caracalla gave a banquet to 
the magnates and the clergy. Before 
his guests could leave him they were 
killed. Through the streets the legion 
was at work. Alexandriawas turned 
into a cemetery. I lerodian states that 
the carnage was so great that the Nile 
was red to its mouth. 
In Rome at that time was a prefect, Maerin by name, who had 
dreamed the purple would be his. He 
was a swarthy liar, and his promises 
 
were such that the pretorians were 
willing that the dream should come 
true. Emissaries were dispatched, and 
Caracalla was stabbed. In his luggage poison was found to the value of 
five million five hundred thousand 
drachmee. What fresh turpitude he 
was devising no one knew, and the 
discovery might serve as an epitaph, 
were it not that by his legions he was 
adored. No one had abandoned to 
the army such booty as he. 
Meanwhile, in a chapel at Emissa, a 
boy was dancing indolently to the kiss 
of flutes. A handful of Caracalla's 
soldiers passed that way, and thought 
him Bacchus. In his face was the en- 
igmatic beauty of gods and girls the 
charm of the dissolute and the way- 
ward heightened by the divine. On 
his head was a diadem; his frail tunic 
was of purple and gold, but the 
sleeves, after the Phccnician fashion, 
were wide, and he was shod with a 
thin white leather that reached to the 
thighs. He was fourteen, and priest 
of the Sun, The chapel was roomy 
and rich. There was no statue — a 
black phallus merely, which had fallen 
from above, and on which, if you 
looked closely, 30U could see the image 
of Elagabal, the Sun. 
The rumor of his beauty brought 
other soldiers that way, and the lad, 
feeling that Rome was there, ceased 
to dance, strolling through pauses of 
the worship, a troop of galli at his 
heels, surveying the intruders with 
querulous, feminine eyes. 
Presently a whisper filtered that the 
lad was Caracalla's son. There were 
centurions there that remembered 
Semiamire, the lad's mother, very 
well ; they had often seen her, a superb 
creature with scorching eyes, before 
whom fire had been carried as though 
 
she were empress. It was she who 
had put it beyond Caracalla's power to ' 
violate that vestal when he tried. She 
was his cousin; her life had been 
passed at court; it was Macrin who 
had exiled her. And with the whis- 
per filtered another — that she was 
rich; that she had lumps of gold, 
which she would give gladly to 
whomso aided in placing her Antonin 
on the throne. There were gossips 
who said ill-natured things of this 
lady ; who insinuated that she had had 
so many lovers that she herself could 
not tell who was the father of her 
child; but the lumps of gold had a 
language of their own. The disbanded 
army espoused the young priest's 
cause; there was a skirmish, Macrin 
was killed, and Heliogabalus was em- 
peror of Rome. 
" I would never have written the 
life of this Antonin Impurissimus," 
 
said Lampridiis, ' we' ve it not that he 
