sank into a chair and covered her face with her hands. A long pause
followed. Marion was the first to speak.

"Mr. Brett--" she said, and stopped.

"Yes." He came back to her side at once.

"Can you not help me?" she asked earnestly.

"How can I?"

"Is there nothing, nothing that can be done?"

"The whole matter is already beyond my power, or yours, or any one's."

Marion looked steadily at him for several seconds and then turned her
face away, leaning against the mantelpiece.

"I am sure something can be done."

"No, nothing can be done."

He did not move, and spoke in a tone of the utmost decision.

"That is not true," said Marion turning upon him suddenly. "Money can
help him, and we are wasting time. Do not lose a moment! Take all I
have in the world and turn it into money and take it to him. Go! Do not
lose a moment! Go! Why do you wait? Why do you look at me so?"

"It would not be a drop in the bucket," answered Brett, still not
moving.

"All I have!"

"All you have."

"That is impossible," cried Mrs. Darche, incredulously. "I am not
enormously rich, but it is something. It is between four and five
hundred thousand dollars. Is it not? I have heard you say so."

"Something like that," assented Brett, as though the statement did not
alter the case.

Mrs. Darche came close to him, laid her hand upon his arm and gently
pushed him, as though urging him to leave her.

"Go! I say," she cried. "Take it. Do as I tell you. There may be time
yet. It may save them."

But Brett did not move.

"It is utterly useless," he said stolidly. "It is merely throwing money
out of the window. Millions could not stop the inquiry now, nor prevent
the law from taking its course if it is appealed to."

"You will not do it?" asked Marion with something almost like a menace
in her voice.

"No, I will not," said Brett, more warmly. "I will not let you ruin
yourself for nothing."

"Are you really my friend?"

She drew back a little and looked at him earnestly.

"Your friend? Yes--and more--more than that, far more than you can
dream of."

"Will you refuse, do you refuse, to do this for me?"

"Yes, I refuse."

"Then I will do it for myself," she said with a change of tone as
though she had suddenly come to a decision. "I will let my husband do
it for me. You cannot refuse to give me what is mine, what you have in
your keeping."

But Brett drew back and folded his arms.

"I can refuse and I do refuse," he said.

"But you cannot! You have no right."

Her voice was almost breaking.

"That makes no difference," Brett answered firmly. "I have the power. I
refuse to give you anything. You can bring an action against me for
robbing you, and you will win your case, but by that time it will be
too late. You may borrow money on your mere name, but your securities
and title-deeds are in my safe, and there they shall stay."

Marion looked at him one moment longer and then sank back into her
seat.

"You are cruel and unkind," she said in broken tones. "Oh, what shall I
do?"

Brett hesitated, not knowing exactly what to do, and not finding
anything especial to say. It is generally the privilege of man to be
the bearer of whatever bad news is in store for woman, but as yet no
hard and fast rule of conduct has been laid down for the unfortunate
messenger's action under the circumstances. Being at a loss for words
with which to console the woman he loved for the pain he had
unwillingly given her, Brett sat down opposite her and tried to take
her hand. She drew it away hastily.

"No, go away," she said almost under her breath. "Leave me alone. I
thought you were my friend."

"Indeed I am," protested Brett in a soothing tone.

"Indeed you are not."

Marion sat up suddenly and drew back to her end of the sofa.

"Do you call this friendship?" she asked almost bitterly. "To refuse to
help me at such a moment. Do you not see how I am suffering? Do you not
see what is at stake? My husband's reputation, his father's name, good
name, life perhaps--the shock of a disgrace would kill him--and for me,
everything! And you sit there and refuse to lift a finger to help
me--oh, it is too much! Indeed it is more than I can bear!"

"Of course you cannot understand it all now," said Brett, very much
distressed. "You cannot see that I am right, but you will see it soon,
too soon. You cannot save him. Why should you ruin yourself?"

"Why?"

"Is there some other reason," asked Brett, quickly. "Something that I
do not know?"

"All the reasons," she exclaimed passionately, "all the reasons there
ever were."

"Do you love him still?" asked Brett, scarcely knowing what he was
saying.

Marion drew still further back from him and spoke in an altered tone.

"Mr. Brett, you have no right to ask me such a question."

"No right? I? No, perhaps I have no right. But I take the right whether
it is mine or not. Because I love you still, as I have always loved
you, because there is nothing in heaven or earth I would not do for
you, because if you asked me for all I possessed at this moment, you
should have it, to do what you like with it--though you shall have
nothing of what is yours--because, to save you the least pain, I would
take John Darche's place and go to prison and be called a rascal and a
thief before all the world, for your sake, for your dear sake, Marion.
I love you. You know that I love you. Right or wrong--but it is right
and not wrong! There is not a man in the world who would do for any
woman the least of the things I would do for you."

Again he tried to take her hand, though she resisted and snatched it
from him after a little struggle.

"Leave me! leave me!" she cried despairingly. "Let me go!"

"Not until you know, not until you understand that every word I say
means ten thousand times more than it ever meant to any one, not until
you know that I love you through and through with every part of me,
with every thought and action of my life. Look at me! Look into my
eyes! Do you not see it there, the truth, the devotion? No? Is it so
long since I loved you and you said--you thought--you believed for one
little day that you loved me? Can you not remember it? Can you not
remember even the sound of the words? They were so sweet to hear! They
are so very sweet as they come back now--with all they mean now--but
could not mean then!"

"Harry!"

She could not resist pronouncing his name that once.

"I knew it! You loved me then. You love me now. What is the use of
fighting against it, when we love each other so? Marion! Love! Ah God!
At last!"

"Go!"

With a quick movement she sprang to her feet and stood back from him.

"Marion!"

But in a moment it was past. With a gesture she kept him at arm's
length.

"Is that your friendship?" she asked reproachfully.

"No, it is love," he answered almost roughly. "There is no friendship
in it."

"And you talk of helping me!" she cried. "And at such a time as this,
when I am weak, unstrung, you force it all upon me, and drag out what I
have hidden so long. No, no! You do not love me. Go!"

"Not love you!" Again he tried to get near her. "God in heaven! Do not
hurt me so!"

"No," she answered, still thrusting him back. "If you loved me you
would help me, you would respect me, you would honour me, you would not
try to drag me down."

"Drag you down! Ah, Marion!"

He spoke very unsteadily, then turning his face from her he leaned upon
the mantelpiece and watched the fire. A long pause followed. After
awhile he looked up again and their eyes met.

"Harry!" said Mrs. Darche quietly.

"Yes," he answered.

"Come and sit beside me on that chair."

Brett obeyed.

"We must forget this morning," said Marion in her natural tone of
voice. "We must say to ourselves that all this has never happened and
we must believe it. Will you?"

"You ask too much," answered Brett looking away. "I cannot forget that
I have said it--at last, after all these years."

"You must forget it. You must--must--for my sake."

"For your sake?" Still he looked away from her.

"Yes, for my sake," she repeated. "If you cannot forget, I can never
look any one in the face again. Look at me, please," she said, laying
her hand upon his arm. "Look into my eyes and tell me that you will not
remember."

"For your sake I will try not to remember," he said slowly. "But I
cannot promise yet," he added with sudden passion. "Oh no!"

"You will do your best. I know you will," said Marion, in a tone that
was meant to express conviction. "Now go. And remember that I have
forgotten."

"You are very kind," Brett answered with more humility than she had
expected. "You are very good to me. I was mad for a moment. Forgive me.
Try to forgive me."

"There is nothing to forgive, for I remember nothing," said Marion with
a faint smile.

"Good-bye, then." He turned to go.

"Good-bye," she answered quite naturally.

"Now come back, please," she said, when he had almost reached the door.
"You are Mr. Brett now, and I am Mrs. Darche. I am in great trouble and
you are my friend, and you must help me as well as you can."

"In any way I can," he answered, coming back to her. "But I will help
only you, I will not help any one else."

"Not even old Mr. Darche?"

"Yes, I do not mean to except him."

"That is right. And we must act quickly. We must decide what is to be
done. We have," she hesitated, "we have lost time--at any moment it may
be too late."

"It is too late now," Brett answered in a sudden change of tone, as
Stubbs the butler suddenly entered the room.

"Please madam," said Stubbs, who was pale and evidently very much
disturbed, "there are some strange gentlemen to see Mr. John Darche,
and when I told them that he was out, they said they would see old Mr.
Darche, and I said that old Mr. Darche was ill and could see no one,
and they said they must see him; and they are coming upstairs without
leave, and here they are, madam, and I cannot keep them out!"




CHAPTER VII.


Bail was refused, and John Darche remained in prison during the weeks
that intervened between his arrest and his trial. He was charged with
making use of large sums, the property of the Company, for which he was
unable to account, with fraudulently tampering with the books and with
attempting to issue certificates of stock to a very large amount,
bearing forged signatures.

The house in Lexington Avenue was very gloomy and silent. Simon Darche,
who was of course in ignorance of what had taken place, had caught cold
and was confined to his bed. It was said that he was breaking down at
last, and that his heart was affected. Dolly Maylands came daily and
spent long hours with her friend, but not even her bright face could
bring light into the house. Russell Vanbrugh and Harry Brett also came
almost every day. Vanbrugh had undertaken Darche's defence, out of
friendship for Marion, and it was natural that he should come. As for
Brett, he could not stay away, and as Mrs. Darche seemed to have
forgiven and forgotten his passionate outbreak and did not bid him
discontinue his visits, he saw no reason for doing so on any other
ground.

He was, on the whole, a very loyal-hearted man, and was very much
ashamed of having seemed to take advantage of Marion's distress, to
speak as he had spoken. But he was neither over-sensitive nor in any
way morbid. Seeing that she intended to forgive him, he did not
distress himself with self-accusations nor doubt that her forgiveness
was sincere and complete. Besides, her present distress was so great
that he felt instinctively her total forgetfulness of smaller matters,
and even went so far as to believe himself forgotten. Meanwhile he
watched every opportunity of helping Marion, and would have been ready
at a moment's notice to do anything whatever which could have
alleviated her suffering in the slightest degree. Nevertheless, he
congratulated himself that he was not a criminal lawyer, like
Vanbrugh, and that it had not fallen to his share to defend John
Darche, thief swindler, and forger. He would have done that, and more
also, as Vanbrugh was doing, for Marion's sake, no doubt, but he was
very glad that it could not be asked of him. It was bad enough that he
should be put into the witness-box to state on his oath such facts as
he could remember to Darche's advantage, and to be cross-examined and
re-examined, and forced through the endless phases of torture to which
witnesses are usually subjected. He was able, at least, to establish
the fact that not the smallest sum had ever, so far as he knew, passed
from the hands of John Darche to his wife's credit. On being asked why,
as Mrs. Darche's man of business, he had not invested any of her money
in the Company, he replied that his father had managed the estate
before him, and that his father's prejudices and his own were wholly in
favour of investment in real estate, bonds of long-established railways
and first mortgages, and that Mrs. Darche had left her affairs entirely
in his hands.

Marion herself gave her evidence bravely and truthfully, doing her best
to speak to her husband's advantage. Her appearance and manner excited
universal sympathy, to use the language of the reports of the case, but
what she said did not tend in any way to exculpate John Darche. On the
contrary, society learned for the first time from her lips that she had
led a most unhappy life. She suffered acutely under the
cross-examination. Being excessively truthful, she gave her answers
without the slightest distortion of fact, while doing her best to pass
over altogether any statement which could injure her husband's defence.
As often happens, what she omitted to say told most heavily against
him, while the little she was forced to admit concerning his father's
condition amply corroborated the medical opinion of the latter's state,
and proved beyond a doubt that he had been during more than a year a
mere instrument in his son's hands. He, at least, was wholly innocent,
and would be suffered to spend his few remaining years in the dreams of
a peaceful dotage.

The court, to use the current phrase, showed Marion every
consideration. That is, she was tacitly admitted from the first to have
had no connection whatever with the crime of which her husband was
accused. To the last, she intended to be present when the judge summed
up the case, in order to help John to the end by seeming to believe in
his innocence. On that very day, however, Simon Darche was so far
recovered as to be able to leave his room for the first time, and her
presence at his side seemed absolutely necessary. It was most important
that all knowledge of what was happening should be kept from him. He
was quite capable of leaving the house if left to himself, and he would
certainly not have submitted to any suggestion to the contrary offered
by Stubbs.

He might stroll into a club or into the house of some old friend, and
some one would be sure to offer him the tactless sympathy which goes
about to betray secrets. Moreover, he had been told, in explanation of
John's protracted absence, that the latter had been obliged to go away
on business, and he had enough memory and power of reasoning left to be
surprised at receiving no letters. He was sure to make inquiries about
John, if left to his own devices. Marion could not leave him. In the
midst of her extreme anxiety she was obliged to pass the greater part
of the day in reading to him, and in trying to divert his mind from the
thought of John and his absence. His love and mistaken admiration for
his son had been the strongest feelings in his life and continued to
the end.

Dolly Maylands would have been faithful to Marion under any imaginable
consequences, with that whole-souled belief and trust which is
girlhood's greatest charm. On the last day of the trial she came in the
morning and did not leave the house again. Brett appeared at intervals
and told Dolly how matters were going.

He was not a man like Vanbrugh, of very varied acquaintances and wide
experience, but in certain quarters he had great influence, and on
Marion's behalf he exerted it to the utmost on the present occasion.
Foreseeing that the verdict must inevitably be unfavourable, and
knowing of Simon Darche's great anxiety about his son's absence, Brett
succeeded in obtaining an order to bring John Darche to see his father
before he should be taken back to prison after the conclusion of the
trial. It was agreed that the police officers should appear dressed as
civilians, and should be introduced with John to the old man's presence
as men of business accompanying his son. John would then have the
opportunity of quieting his father's apprehensions in regard to his
future absence, and he could take leave of his wife if he wished to do
so, though of course he would not be allowed to be even a moment out of
his guardians' sight. The order was ostensibly granted in consideration
of Simon Darche's mental infirmity, and of the danger to his health
which any shock must cause, and which already existed in the shape of
acute anxiety. In reality, the favour was granted as a personal one to
Brett. When everything was arranged, he returned to Lexington Avenue.
He found Dolly alone in the library and told her what he had done.

It was very quiet in the room, and the dusk was stealing away the last
glow of the sunset that hung over the trees and houses of Gramercy
Park. Dolly sat near the window, looking out, her hands clasped upon
one knee, her fair young face very grave and sad. Brett paced the floor
nervously.

"How kind you are!" Dolly exclaimed.

"Kind?" repeated the young man, almost indignantly, and stopping in his
walk as he spoke. "Who would not do as much if he could?"

"Lots of people."

"Not of her friends--not of those who know her. It is little enough
that I can do for any of them. Vanbrugh has done more than I--can do
much more."

"What a fight he has made!" The ready enthusiasm rang in the girl's
clear voice. Then her tone changed she continued. "Yes," she said
thoughtfully, "Marion is lucky to have such friends as you and Russell
Vanbrugh."

"And you yourself, Miss Maylands."

"I? Oh, I do not count. What can a woman do on days like these? I can
only stay here and try to make her feel that I am a comfortable pillow
for her to lay her head upon, when she is entirely worn out. Poor
Marion! She is the bravest woman I ever knew. But then--"

She stopped, hesitating, and Brett, who was almost too much excited to
follow all the words she spoke, was suddenly aware that she had not
finished the sentence.

"What were you going to say?" he asked, struggling desperately to
remember what she had said already.

"I hardly ought--I suppose," objected Dolly. "But then--what can it
matter? He is sure to be found guilty, is he not?"

"Quite sure," Brett answered slowly.

"Well then--Marion must feel that when this last agony is over she will
have much more peace in her life than she has enjoyed for a long time.
I wonder whether it is very wrong to say such things."

"Wrong? Why? We all think them, I am sure. At least, you and Vanbrugh
and I do. As for society, I do not know what it thinks. I have not had
time to ask, nor time to care, for that matter."

"I suppose everybody sympathises with Marion as we do."

"Oh, of course. Do you know? I believe she will be more popular than
before. Everything that has come out in this abominable trial has been
in her favour. People realise what a life she has been living during
all these years--without a complaint. Wonderful woman! That brute
Darche! I wish he were to be hanged instead of sent to the
Penitentiary!"

"He deserves it," answered Dolly with the utmost conviction. "I suppose
Marion will get a divorce."

Again Brett stopped short in his walk and looked at her keenly. The
idea had doubtless passed through his own mind, but he had not heard
any one else express it as yet.

"After all," he said slowly, "there is no reason why she should not."

Then he suddenly relapsed into silence and resumed his walk.

"And then I suppose," said Dolly thoughtfully, "she would marry again."

Brett said nothing to this, but continued to pace the floor, glancing
at the young girl from time to time, and meditating on the total
depravity of innocence.

"She might marry Russell Vanbrugh, for instance," observed Dolly, as
though talking to herself.

This was too much for Brett. For the third time he stopped and faced
her.

"Why Vanbrugh, of all people?" he asked.

"Of all people, Mr. Vanbrugh, I should think," Dolly answered. "Think
of what he has done, how devoted he has been in all this trouble. And
then, the way she spoils him! Any one can see that she is ready to fall
in love with him. If she were not as good as--as anything can be--as
spring water and snow drops and angels' prayers, so to say, she would
be in love with him already. But then, she is, you know."

"I cannot imagine a woman being in love with Vanbrugh," said Brett
impatiently.

"Oh, can't you? I can. I thought he was your best friend."

"What has that to do with it? My best friend might be deaf and lame and
blind of one eye."

"Also, he might not," said Dolly with a smile.

"Oh, well!" exclaimed Brett, turning away, "if you have made up your
mind that Mrs. Darche is to marry Russell Vanbrugh, of course I have
nothing to say. I daresay people would think it a very good match."

"With John Darche alive and in the Penitentiary?" inquired the young
girl, instantly taking the opposite tack.

"As though any one could care or ask what became of him!" cried Brett,
with something like indignation. "Thank heaven we are just in this
country! We do not visit the sins of the blackguard upon the innocent
woman he leaves behind him. Fortunately, there are no children. The
very name will be forgotten, and Mrs. Darche can begin life over
again."

"Whoever marries her will have to take old Mr. Darche as an
incumbrance," remarked Dolly.

"Of course! Do you suppose that such a woman would leave the poor old
gentleman to be taken care of by strangers? Besides, he is a beggar. He
has not so much as pocket-money for his cigars. Of course Mr. Darche
will stay with them. After all, it will not be so bad. He is very quiet
and cheerful, and never in the way."

Brett spoke thoughtfully, in a tone which conveyed to Dolly the
certainty that he had already revolved the situation of Marion's future
husband in his mind.

"Tell me, Mr. Brett," she said, after a short pause, "will anybody say
that she should have sacrificed her own little fortune?"

"People may say it as much as they please," answered the young man
quickly. "No one will ever make me believe it."

"I thought conscientious people often did that sort of thing."

"Yes, they do. But this does not seem to me to be a case for that. The
bogus certificates of stocks never really were on the market. The first
that were issued excited suspicion, and proceedings began almost
immediately. Whatever John Darche actually stole was practically taken
from the funds of the Company. Now the Company is rich, and it was its
own fault if it did not look after its affairs. In some failures, a lot
of poor people suffer. That is different. It has fortunately not
happened here. The stock will be depreciated for a time, but the
Company will continue to exist and will ultimately hold up its head
again. The bonds are good enough. After all, what is stock? Lend me
some money at your own risk and if I have anything I will pay you
interest. If I have nothing, you get nothing. That is what stock
means."

"I know," answered Dolly, whose clear little brain had long been
familiar with the meanings of common business terms. "Yes, you are
quite right. There is no reason why Marion should give anything of her
own."

"None whatever," assented Brett.

If Dolly drew any conclusions from what Brett had said, she kept them
to herself, and a long silence followed, which was broken at last by
the appearance of Russell Vanbrugh, looking pale and tired. He shook
hands in silence and sat down.

"I suppose it is all over?" said Dolly softly, in a tone of
interrogation.

"Yes, just as we feared."

"What has he got?" inquired Brett, lowering his voice as though he
feared that Marion might overhear him, though she was not in the room.

"Five years."

"Is that all?" asked the younger man almost indignantly.

Vanbrugh smiled faintly at the question.

"I am rather proud of it," he answered, "considering that I defended
the case."

"True, I forgot." Brett began to walk up and down again.

Dolly looked at Vanbrugh and nodded to him with a little smile as
though in approval of what he had done. He seemed pleased and grateful.

"You must be dreadfully tired," she said. "Do let me give you some
tea."

"Thanks--I should like some--but some one ought to tell Mrs. Darche.
Shall I? Where is she?"

"I will tell her," said Brett stopping suddenly. "I will send a message
and she will come down to the drawing-room."

He went out, leaving Dolly to comfort Vanbrugh with tea, for he was far
too much excited to sit down or to listen to their conversation. The
whole matter might be more or less indifferent to them, whose lives
could not be affected directly by Mrs. Darche's misfortunes, but he
felt that his own happiness was in the balance. He knew also that, by
the arrangements he had made, John Darche would be brought to the house
in the course of the next hour, before being taken back to prison for
the night, and it was necessary to warn Marion and to see that the old
gentleman was prepared to receive his son.

"How about old Mr. Darche?" inquired Dolly, when she and Vanbrugh were
left alone.

"Every one is sorry for him," said Vanbrugh, "just as every one
execrates John. I get very little credit for the defence," he added,
with a dry laugh.

"How good you are!" exclaimed Dolly.

"Am I? It seems to me it was the least I could do."

"It will not seem so to every one," said Dolly.

"I would do a great deal for Mrs. Darche," said Vanbrugh.

"Yes, I know you would. You--you are very fond of her, are you not?"
She turned her face away as she asked the question.

"I wish to be a good friend to her."

"And something more?" suggested Dolly, in a tone of interrogation.

"Something more?" repeated Vanbrugh, "I do not understand."

"Oh nothing! I thought you did."

"Perhaps I did. But I think you are mistaken."

"Am I?" Dolly asked, turning her face to him again. "I wish--I mean, I
do not think I am."

"I am sure you are."

"This is a good deal like a puzzle game, is it not?"

"No, it is much more serious," said Vanbrugh, speaking gravely. "This
is certainly not the time to talk of such things, Miss Maylands. John
Darche may come at any moment, and as far as possible his father has
been prepared for his coming. But that isn't it. Perhaps I had better
say it at once. We have always been such good friends, you know, and I
think a great deal of your good opinion, so that I do not wish you to
mistake my motives. You evidently think that I am devoted--to say the
least of it--to Mrs. Darche. After all, what is the use of choosing
words and beat about the bush? You think I am in love with her. I
should be very sorry to leave you with that impression--very, very
sorry. Do you understand?"

Dolly had glanced at him several times while he had been speaking, but
when he finished she looked into the fire again.

"You were in love with her once?" she said quietly.

"Perhaps; how do you know that?"

"She told me so, ever so long ago."

"She told you so?" Vanbrugh's tone betrayed his annoyance.

"Yes. Why are you angry? I am her best friend. Was it not natural that
she should tell me?"

"I hardly know."

A pause followed, during which Stubbs entered the room, bringing tea.
When he was gone and Dolly had filled Vanbrugh's cup she took up the
conversation again.

"Are you thinking about it?" she asked, with a smile.

"About what?" Vanbrugh looked up quickly over his cup.

"Whether it was natural or not?"

"No, I was wondering whether you would still believe it."

"Why should I?" asked Dolly.

"You might. In spite of what I tell you. You know very little of my
life."

"Oh, I know a great deal," said the young girl with much conviction. "I
know all about you. You are successful, and rich and popular and happy,
and lots of things."

"Am I?" asked Vanbrugh rather sadly.

"Yes. Everybody knows you are."

"You are quite sure that I am happy?"

"Unless you tell me that you are not."

"How oddly people judge us," exclaimed Vanbrugh. "Because a man behaves
like a human being, and is not cross at every turn, and puts his
shoulder to the wheel, to talk and be agreeable in society, everybody
thinks he is happy."

"Of course." Dolly smiled. "If you were unhappy you would go and sit in
corners by yourself and mope and be disagreeable. But you do not, you
see. You are always 'on hand' as they call it, always ready to make
things pleasant for everybody."

"That is because I am so good-natured."

"What is good nature?"

"A combination of laziness and vulgarity," Vanbrugh answered promptly.

"Oh!"

"Yes," said Vanbrugh. "The vulgarity that wishes to please everybody,
and the laziness that cannot say no."

"You are not a lawyer for nothing. But you are not lazy and you are not
vulgar. If you were I should not like you."

"Do you like me?" asked Vanbrugh quickly.

"Very much," she answered with a little laugh.

"You just made me define good nature, Miss Maylands. How do you define
liking?"

"Oh, it is very vague," said Dolly in an airy tone. "It is a sort of
uncly, auntly thing."

"Oh. I see."

"Do you?"

"Uncles and aunts sometimes marry, do they not?"

"What an idea? They are always brothers and sisters."

"Unless they are uncles and aunts of different people," suggested
Vanbrugh.

At this point they were interrupted by the entrance of Stubbs. That
dignified functionary had suffered intensely during the last few days,
but his tortures were not yet over. So far as lay in his power he still
maintained that absolute correctness of appearance which distinguished
him from the common, or hirsute "head man"; but he could not control
the colour of his face nor the expression of his eyes. He had been a
footman in the house of Marion's father, in that very house in fact,
and had completely identified himself with the family. Had he
considered that he was in the employment of Simon and John Darche, he
would have long since given notice and sought a place better suited to
his eminent respectability. But having always waited upon Marion since
she had been a little girl, he felt bound by all the tenets of
inherited butlerdom--and by a sort of devotion not by any means to be
laughed at--to stand by his young mistress through all her troubles. By
this time his eyes had a permanently unsettled look in them as though
he never knew what fearful sight he might next gaze upon, and the ruddy
colour was slowly but certainly sinking to the collar line. It had
already descended to the lower tips of his ears.

"Beg pardon, Miss Maylands," he said in a subdued tone, "beg pardon,
sir. Mr. John has come with those gentlemen."

Both Dolly and Vanbrugh started slightly and looked up at him. Vanbrugh
was the first to speak.

"Do you not think you had better go away--to Mrs. Darche?" he asked.
"She may want to see you for a minute."

Dolly rose and left the room.

"I suppose they will come in here," said Vanbrugh, addressing Stubbs.

"Yes, sir," answered the butler nervously, "they are coming."

"Well--let us make the best of it."

A moment later John Darche entered the room, followed closely by three
men, evidently dressed for the occasion, according to superior orders,
in what, at police head-quarters, was believed to be the height of the
fashion, for they all wore light snuff-coloured overcoats, white ties,
dark trousers and heavily-varnished shoes, and each had a perfectly
new high hat in his hand. They looked about the room with evident
curiosity.

Darche himself was deathly pale and had grown thinner. Otherwise he was
little changed. As soon as he caught sight of Vanbrugh, he came
forward, extending his hand.

"I have not had a chance to thank you for your able defence," he said
calmly.

"It is not necessary," answered Vanbrugh coldly, and putting his hands
behind him as he leaned against the mantelpiece. "It was a matter of
duty."

"Very well," said John Darche stiffly, and drawing back a step. "If you
do not want to shake hands we will treat it as a matter of business."

"He is pretty fresh, ain't he?" remarked one of the officers in an
undertone to his neighbour.

"You bet he is," answered the other.

"Now I have got to see the old gentleman," said Darche, speaking to
Vanbrugh. "Before I go, I would like to have a word with you. There is
no objection to my speaking privately to Mr. Vanbrugh, I suppose?" he
inquired, turning to the officer.

"Not if you stay in the room," answered the one who took the lead.

Darche nodded to Vanbrugh, who somewhat reluctantly followed him to the
other end of the room.

"I say," he began in a tone not to be overheard by the detectives. "Can
you not give me another chance?"

"What sort of chance?" replied Vanbrugh, raising his eyebrows.

"If I could get through that door," said John looking over Vanbrugh's
shoulder, "I could get away. I know the house and they do not.
Presently, when my father comes, if you could create some sort of
confusion for a moment, I could slip out. They will never catch me.
There is an Italian sailing vessel just clearing. I have had exact
information. If I can get through that door I can be in the Sixth
Avenue Elevated in three minutes and out of New York Harbour in an
hour."

Vanbrugh had no intention of being a party to the escape. He met
Darche's eyes coldly as he answered.

"No, I will not do it. I have defended you in open court, but I am not
going to help you evade the law."

"Do not be too hard, Vanbrugh," said Darche, in a tone of entreaty.
"Things are not half so bad as they are made out."

"If that is true, I am sorry. But you have had a perfectly fair trial."

"Will you not help me get away?" Darche urged knowing that this was his
last chance.

"No."

"Vanbrugh," said John in an insinuating tone, "you used to be fond of
my wife. You wanted to marry her."

"What has that to do with it?" asked Vanbrugh turning sharply upon him.

"You may marry her and welcome, if you let me get through that door. I
shall never be heard of again."

"You infernal scoundrel!" Vanbrugh was thoroughly disgusted. "Now
gentlemen," he said, turning to the officer in charge, "I will bring
Mr. Darche here to see his son. I am sure that for the old gentleman's
sake, out of mere humanity, you will do the best you can to keep up
the illusion we have arranged. He is old and his mind wanders. He will
scarcely notice your presence."

"Yes, sir," the man answered. "You may trust us to do that, sir. Now
then, boys," he said, addressing his two companions, "straighten up,
best company manners, stiff upper lip--keep your eye on the young man.
He is rather too near that door for my taste."

John Darche's face expressed humiliation and something almost
approaching to despair. He was about to make another attempt, and had
moved a step towards Vanbrugh, when he suddenly started a little and
stood still. Marion stood in the open door beyond three detectives. She
touched one of them on the shoulder as a sign that she wished to pass.

"Pardon me, lady," said the man, drawing back. "Anything that we can do
for you?"

"I am Mrs. Darche. I wish to speak to my husband."

"Certainly, madam," and all three made way for her.

She went straight to her husband, and stood before him at the other end
of the room, speaking in a low voice.

"Is there anything I can do for you, John?" she asked so that he could
barely hear her.

"You can help me to get away--if you will." John Darche's eyes fell
before hers.

She gazed at him during several seconds, hesitating, perhaps, between
her sense of justice and her desire to be faithful to her husband to
the very end.

"Yes, I will," she said briefly.

Before she spoke again she turned quite naturally, as though in
hesitation, and satisfied herself that the three men were out of
hearing. Vanbrugh, perhaps suspecting what was taking place, had
engaged them in conversation near the door.

"How?" she asked, looking at John again. "Tell me quickly."

"Presently, when my father comes, get as many people as you can. Let me
be alone for a moment. Make some confusion, upset something, anything
will do. Give me a chance to get through the door into the library."

"I will try. Is that all?"

"Thank you," said John Darche, and for one moment a look of something
like genuine gratitude passed over his hard face. "Yes, that is all.
You will be glad to get rid of me."

Marion looked one moment longer, hesitated, said nothing and turned
away.

"If you have no objections," said Vanbrugh addressing the officer in
charge, "we will take Mr. Darche to his father's room instead of asking
him to come here."

"Yes, sir," answered the detective. "We can do that."

As they were about to leave the room, Brett met them at the door. He
paused a moment and looked about. Then he went straight to Vanbrugh.

"Has he seen him yet?" he asked.

"No, we are just going," answered Vanbrugh.

"Can I be of any use?"

"Stay with Mrs. Darche."

"Shall we go?" he asked, turning to John.

"How brave you are!" exclaimed Brett when they were alone.

"Does it need much courage?" asked Marion, sinking into a chair. "I do
not know. Perhaps."

"I know that there are not many men who could bear all this as well as
you do," Brett answered, and there was a little emotion in his face.

"Men are different. Mr. Brett--" she began after a short pause.

"Yes, do you want to ask me something?"

"Yes, something that is very hard to ask. Something that you will
refuse."

"That would be hard indeed."

"Will you promise not to be angry?" asked Marion faintly.

"Of course I will," Brett answered.

"Do not be so sure. Men's honour is such a strange thing. You may think
what I am going to ask touches it."

"What is it?"

He sat down beside her and prepared to listen.

"Will you help my husband to escape?" asked Marion in a whisper.
"No--do not say it. Wait until I tell you first how it can be done.
Presently I will get them all into this room. Old Mr. Darche is too
ill to come, I am afraid. You have not spoken alone to John yet. Take
him aside and bring him close to this door on pretence of exchanging a
few words. I will make a diversion of some sort at the other end of the
room and as they all look round he can slip out. If he has one minute's
start they will never see him again. Will you do it?"

"You were right," said Brett gravely. "It is a hard thing to ask."

"Will you do it?"

"It is criminal," he answered.

"Will you do it?"

"For God's sake, give me time to think!" He passed his hand over his
eyes.

"There is no time," said Marion anxiously. "Will you do it for me?"

"How can I? how can I?"

"You told me that you loved me the other day--will you do it for my
sake?"

A change came over Brett's face.

"For your sake?" he asked in an altered tone. "Do you mean it?"

"Yes. For my sake."

"Very well. I will do it." He turned a little pale and closed one hand
over the other.

"Thank you--thank you, Harry." Her voice lingered a little, as she
pronounced his name. "Stay here. I will make them come. It is of no use
to leave them there. It is a mere formality, at best."

"I am ready," said Brett, rising.

Marion left her seat, and crossing the room again tried the door in
question to satisfy herself that it would open readily. She looked out
