
"Then I'm afraid we won't get very far."

"You'll get as far as I will. But I say, what is that under your head,
pard?"

The question had come at last. The thief trembled, and answered
nervously:

"It's--it's--I am using it for a pillow," he faltered.

"Let us see your pillow," said the new arrival suspiciously.

The thief came to a sudden determination, suggested by necessity. Two
would make a stronger guard than one, and, though this man was not the
one he would have selected, accident had thrown them together, and he
would risk it.

"Look here, my friend," he said, "it's a great secret."

"Oh, a secret, is it?"

"Yes, but I am going to make you my confidant. I am greatly in need of a
friend and partner, and I'll make it worth your while to stand by me.
I'll give you a quarter of--what I have here--if you'll see me safe to
Melbourne."

"What is it, pard? Out with it, quick!"

"It's--a nugget, and the biggest one that's been found at Bendigo since
they commenced mining."

"A nugget! Great Jehoshaphat! Let me see it!"

The thief drew the bundle--still wrapped in Obed's red bandanna--from
underneath the pallet, while his companion in intense excitement bent
over to catch a glimpse of the treasure.




CHAPTER XXVII.

BAFFLED CUPIDITY.

An expression of surprise and dismay, almost ludicrous, appeared on the
faces of the two adventurers as the contents of the handkerchief were
revealed.

"Why, it's nothing but a rock!" exclaimed the new-comer, with an oath.

The thief stared at him in helpless consternation, and was unable to
utter a word.

"What does all this mean?" asked the new-comer sternly. "If you are
humbugging me, I'll----" and he finished the sentence with an oath.

"I don't know what it means," answered the thief in a disconsolate tone.
"I'm just as much surprised as you are."

"Where did you get it? How came you to make such a fool of yourself?"
demanded the new-comer, frowning heavily.

"You know that Yankee and the two boys who have a claim next to
Pickett's?"

"Well?"

"Last night I was coming from the Hut"--that was the local name of the
cabin devoted to gambling purposes--"when I saw them coming from their
claim. The Yankee had this ---- rock tied up in yonder handkerchief. Of
course, I supposed it was a nugget. No one would suppose he was taking
all that pains with a common rock."

"Go on! Did you follow them?"

"Yes; that is, I kept them in sight. They entered their cabin, and I
waited, perhaps three-quarters of an hour, till they had time to fall
asleep."

"Were you near the cabin all the time?"

"No; I didn't dare to be too near for fear I should be observed. I
wanted the nugget, but I didn't want to run any risk."

"I have no doubt you were very prudent," said the second, with an
unpleasant sneer. Doubtless he would have done the same, but his
disappointment was so great that he could not resist the temptation of
indulging in this fling at the man who had unintentionally contributed
to it.

"Of course I was," said the first, with some indignation. "Would you
have had me enter the cabin while they were all awake, and carry it off
under their very eyes? That would be mighty sensible."

"At any rate, then you would have got the genuine nugget."

"What do you mean? Do you think there was a nugget?"

"Of course I do. It's as plain as the nose on your face, and that's
plain enough, in all conscience. They've played a trick on you."

"What trick?"

"It appears to me you are mighty stupid, my friend. They hid away the
real nugget, and put this in its place. That Yankee is a good deal
sharper than you are, and he wasn't going to run no risks."

"Do you believe this?" asked the thief, his jaw falling.

"There's no doubt of it. They've had a fine laugh at your expense before
this, I'll be bound."

"Just my luck!" ejaculated the thief dolefully. "After all the pains
I've taken, too."

"Yes, it is hard lines on a poor industrious man like you!" said the
new-comer cynically. "You're not smart enough to be a successful
thief."

"I suppose you are," retorted the other resentfully.

"Yes, I flatter myself I am," returned the other composedly. "When I
take anything, at any rate I have the sense to take something worth
carrying away--not a worthless rock like this. You must have had a fine
time lugging it from the mines."

"It nearly broke my back," said the thief gloomily.

"And now you don't know what to do with it? Take my advice, my friend,
and carry it back to the original owner. He may find it handy another
time."

"I'll be blessed if I do," growled the unhappy thief.

"I doubt that," said his companion dryly. "However, do as you please. It
don't interest me. I don't think on the whole I will accept your offer
of a partnership. When I take a partner I want a man with some small
supply of brains."

The first looked at him resentfully. He did not like these taunts, and
would have assaulted him had he dared, but the new-comer was powerfully
built, and evidently an unsafe man to take liberties with. He threw
himself back on the pallet and groaned.

"Well," said the second after a pause, "when you've got through crying
over spilt milk, will you kindly tell me where I can get something to
eat?"

"I don't know."

"Humph! that's short and to the point. It is something I would like very
much to know, for my part. I feel decidedly hungry."

"I have no appetite," said the luckless thief mournfully.

"You will have, after a while. Then you can't think of any cabin near by
where we could get a breakfast?"

"There's Joe's.'"

"Where's Joe's?"

"About a mile from here on the road to the camp."

"Are you acquainted with Joe?"

"Yes."

"Is your credit good with him?"

"I think he would trust me for a breakfast."

"And me? You can introduce me as a friend of yours."

"You haven't been talking like a friend of mine," said the first
resentfully.

"Perhaps not. However, you must make allowances for my natural
disappointment. You led me into it, you know."

"If it comes to that, I have done you no harm. Even if the nugget wasn't
real, you had no claim to it."

"You excited my hopes, and that's enough to rile any man--that is, when
disappointment follows. However, there's no use crying over spilt milk.
I have an idea that may lead to something."

"What is it?" asked the thief with some eagerness.

"I will tell you--after breakfast. My ideas don't flow freely when I am
hungry. Come, my friend, get up, and lead the way to Joe's. I have an
aching void within, which needs filling up. Your appetite may come
too--after a walk."

Somehow this man, cool and cynical as he was, impressed his fellow
adventurer, and he rose obediently, and led the way out of the cabin.

"I wish I knew what was your idea," he said.

"Well, I don't mind telling you. I believe the Yankee did find a
nugget."

"Well?"

"You haven't got it, but you may get it--that is, we may get it."

"I don't see how. He will be on his guard now."

"Of course he will. I don't mean that we should repeat the blunder of
last night. You may be sure he won't keep it in his cabin another
night."

"Then how are we to get it?"

"Follow him to Melbourne. He'll carry it there, and on the way we can
relieve him of it."

"There's something in that."

"We shall be together, and he won't take me in as readily as he did you.
After breakfast, if we are lucky enough to get any, we must go back to
the camp, and find out what we can about his plans. Do you think anyone
saw you last night when you were in the cabin?"

"No."

"That is well. Then you won't be suspected. But I can't say a word more
till I have had breakfast."

After half an hour's walking--it was only half a mile, but the soil was
boggy, rendering locomotion difficult--they reached a humble wayside
cabin, which was in some sort a restaurant, and by dint of diplomacy and
a promise of speedy payment, they secured a meal to which, despite their
disappointment, they did ample justice.

Breakfast over, they resumed their fatiguing walk, and reached the
mining camp about ten o'clock.




CHAPTER XXVIII.

THE NUGGET IN SAFETY.

Fatigued by their exertions of the previous days and the late hours they
had kept, Obed and the boys rose at a later hour than usual. About eight
o'clock Obed opened his eyes, and noticed that his two young companions
were fast asleep.

"It's time to get up, boys," he said, giving them a gentle shake.

The boys opened their eyes, and realized, by the bright sunshine
entering the cabin, that the day was already well advanced.

"What time is it, Obed?" asked Harry.

"Past eight o'clock. We shall be late at our work."

He smiled, and his smile was reflected on the faces of the boys. Their
success of the day before made it a matter of indifference whether they
accomplished a good day's work or not.

"What are we going to do about the nugget, Obed?" asked Harry.

"After breakfast we will carry it to the office of the commissioner, and
get his receipt for it."

"I shall be glad to get it out of our hands," said Jack.

"If that is the case, Jack, suppose you give your share to me," said
Harry, in joke.

"I didn't mean to get rid of it in that way," said the young sailor.

"You would be as ready to give it as I to accept it," said Harry. "No,
Jack, I want you to have your share. I am sure you will have a use for
it."

After breakfast the three emerged from the cabin, bearing the precious
nugget with them. They did not meet anyone on their way to the office of
the commissioner, for all the miners had gone to their work. This suited
them, for until they had disposed of the nugget, they did not care to
have their good luck made public.

The royal commissioner was a stout Englishman with a red face and
abundant whiskers of the same color. He chanced to be at the door of the
office as the party appeared.

"Well, can I do anything for you?" he asked.

"Yes, sir; you can give us a receipt for this nugget."

"Nugget!" ejaculated the commissioner, fixing his eyes for the first
time on the burden which Mr. Stackpole carried. "Bless my soul! you
don't mean to say that you have found a nugget of that size!"

"That's just what we've done," answered Obed.

"When did you find it?"

"Well, we took it from the mine about midnight. We found it in the
afternoon, but calculated we'd better take possession when there wasn't
so many lookin' on. I say, Mr. Commissioner, I don't think it would
agree with me to be a rich man. I got broken of my rest last night, from
havin' the nugget in the cabin."

"You ran very little risk. No one could have found out that you had it
in your possession," remarked the commissioner.

"That's where you are mistaken, commissioner. We came near being robbed
of it only an hour after we brought it home."

"Bless my soul! How did that happen?"

"A pesky thief sneaked in, and carried it off, as he thought."

"How could he think he carried it off when he did not?"

Upon this Obed explained the trick to which he had resorted, and the
commissioner laughed heartily.

"Do you know the man--the thief, I mean?" he asked.

"Yes, it is, a man that has been prowlin' round the camp for some weeks,
not doin' anything, but watchin' for a chance to appropriate the
property of some lucky miner. I'd like to see the fellow's face when he
opens the handkerchief this morning, and finds the rock."

"It appears you have lost a handkerchief, at any rate," said the
commissioner, with a smile.

"He's welcome to it," answered Obed, "if it will comfort him any. I
brought it away from home two years ago, and now I can afford to buy
another."

By this time the nugget had been carried into the office and exposed to
view.

"It is a splendid specimen," said the commissioner admiringly. "It is
certainly the largest that has ever been found in this camp."

"Has any been found before?" asked Harry.

"Yes; six months ago a Scotch miner, named Lindsay, found one weighing
twenty-two pounds and some ounces."

"Is he here now?"

"Yes, and without a shilling."

"Didn't his nugget benefit him any then?" asked Harry.

"It became a curse to him. He obtained some thousands of dollars for it,
and all went in three months."

"How did he get rid of it?"

"In drinking and gambling. Two months since he drifted back to the camp
in rags. He did not have money enough to buy a claim, but being a good
practical miner he got a chance to work a claim on shares for another
man, who had just come out from Melbourne, and who knew very little of
mining. I hope you will make better use of your money. Are these boys
your partners?"

"Yes, Mr. Commissioner, they are equal partners. What's one's luck, is
the luck of all."

Meanwhile the commissioner was weighing the nugget on a pair of scales.
The three awaited the result with great interest.

"It weighs seventy-four pounds and four ounces," he announced. "My
friend, it will be famous in the annals of Australia. If I am not
mistaken, when it is known it will create a stampede to our mines."

"About how much do you think it will realize?" asked Obed.

"At a rough guess, I should say fifteen thousand dollars. It may be more
and it may be less."

Obed Stackpole's rough face was fairly radiant.

"I say, boys," he remarked, turning to Harry and Jack, "that's a pretty
good day's work, isn't it?"

"I should say so, Obed."

The commissioner made out a receipt, which Obed put away carefully in
his pocket.

"That's better than carrying the nugget round," he said.

"I suppose you will go to Melbourne," said the commissioner.

"Yes, we shall start in a day or two."

Here Obed paused, for it occurred to him that there were practical
difficulties in the way of carrying out his plan.

"That is," he added slowly, "if we can raise the money. I suppose we
can't borrow on the nugget?"

"No, but I can suggest a way out of your difficulties. You can sell your
claim. It will realize a good round sum, as the one from which the
nugget has been taken."

"That's so, Mr. Commissioner. Thank you for the suggestion. Boys, there
is still some business before us. We'll realize something extra, it
seems. I don't care how much, if it's only enough to take us to
Melbourne."

Just then a miner entered the office, and seeing the nugget instantly
made it his purpose to report the lucky find throughout the camp. The
effect was instant and electrical. Every miner stopped work, and there
was a rush to the commissioner's office to see the nugget. All were
cheered up. If there was one nugget, there must be more. Confidence was
restored to many who had been desponding. Obed and the two boys were the
heroes of the hour, and the crowd came near lifting them on their
shoulders, and bearing them off in triumph.

Obed felt that this was a good time to sell the claim.

"Boys," he said, "we struck it rich and no mistake. How rich I don't
know. There may be other nuggets where this came from. But I and my
partners want to go back to America. The claim's for sale. Who wants
it?"




CHAPTER XXIX.

SELLING THE CLAIM.

"Let's adjourn to the mine," said Tom Lewis, a short, sturdy
Englishman.

"Yes, let's see the place where the nugget was found," echoed another.

"All right! I'm agreeable," said Obed.

Followed by a crowd of miners, Obed Stackpole strode to the claim where
he had "struck it rich." In spite of his homely face and ungainly form
there was more than one who would have been willing to stand in his
shoes, homeliness and all. The day before little notice was taken of
him. Now he was a man who had won fame at a bound.

They soon stood around the lucky claim.

"It isn't much to look at, gentlemen," said Obed, "but looks is
deceptive, as my old grandmother used to tell me. 'Handsome is as
handsome does,' and this 'ere hole's done the handsome thing for me and
my partners, and I venture to say it hasn't got through doin' handsome
things. It's made three of us rich, and it's ready to make somebody else
rich. Who'll be the lucky man? Do I hear a bid!"

"Fifty pounds," said Tom Lewis.

"That'll do to start on, but it won't do to take. Fifty pounds I am
offered. Who says a hundred?"

A German miner offered a hundred, and Tom Lewis raised ten pounds.

A Scotch miner, Aleck Graham, offered a hundred and twenty-five.

From that time the bids rose slowly. Obed showed himself an excellent
auctioneer--indeed he had had some experience at home--and by his dry
and droll remarks stimulated the bidding when it became dull, and did
not declare the claim sold till it was clear no higher bid could be
obtained.

"Three hundred pounds, and sold to Frank Scott," he concluded. "Mr.
Scott, I congratulate you. I calculate you've made a pretty good
investment, and I shouldn't wonder if you'd find another nugget within a
week. 'Birds of a feather flock together,' as my writing-book says, and
'it never rains but it pours.'"

Frank Scott came forward and made arrangements for the payment of the
sum he had offered. Within five minutes he was offered an advance of
twenty-five pounds for his bargain, which put him in good humor, though
he declined it. I may as well say here, since we are soon to bid
farewell to Bendigo, that the claim yielded him double the amount of his
investment, and though this was not up to his expectations, he had no
reason to regret his purchase.

The little crowd of miners were just separating when two new-comers
appeared on the scene. They were the well-matched pair who had met
earlier in the morning at the deserted cabin. For convenience' sake we
will call them Colson and Ropes, the former being the man who had stolen
the nugget, as he supposed.

"What's all this crowd?" said Colson in a tone of curiosity.

Ropes put the question to Tom Lewis, who chanced to be passing.

"Haven't you heard about the nugget?" asked Lewis.

"What nugget?" asked Colson innocently.

"That slab-sided Yankee, Obed Stackpole, found a nugget last night--a
regular monster--and he's been selling his claim. I bid for it, but I
didn't bid high enough."

"Where's the nugget?" asked Colson eagerly.

"In charge of the commissioner, who will send it under escort to
Melbourne."

Colson expected this intelligence. Still he looked downcast. The chance
of getting hold of it under such circumstances seemed very small.

"What did the claim go for?" questioned Ropes.

"Three hundred pounds. Frank Scott bought it."

"That's a pretty steep price."

"Yes, but there may be another nugget."

"And there may not."

"Then he'll be a loser. Of course there's a risk."

"Is the Yankee going to stay around here?" asked Colson.

"No; he and the two boys are going to Melbourne. I believe they are
going back to America."

"It's a shame that such a prize should go to Americans," said Colson, in
a discontented tone.

He would have been very glad to head a movement for robbing Obed and the
boys of the proceeds of their lucky discovery, on this flimsy ground.
But Tom Lewis was a fair-minded man.

"I don't see what that has to do with it," said he. "They found it, and
they have a right to it. Of course, I'd rather it had been me; but it
wasn't, and there's an end of it."

"Some people are born lucky!" grumbled Colson, as Lewis walked away. "I
never had any luck."

"The nugget you found wasn't quite so valuable," returned Ropes grimly.

"No; I tugged away for nothing. My arms and shoulders are stiff enough
this morning. And now the nugget is out of our reach."

"But not the three hundred pounds," said Ropes significantly.

"The price of the claim?"

"Yes."

"That's true, but it won't do us any good."

"The Yankee will carry that with him. It's worth trying for."

The suggestion seemed to strike Colson favorably. The two held a
whispered consultation, which seemed to yield mutual satisfaction. They
were, indeed, congenial spirits, and agreed upon one point, that it was
better to make a living by knavery than by doing honest work for honest
wages. Yet there is no harder or more unsatisfactory way of living than
this. Ill-gotten gains seldom benefit the possessor, and the plans of
wicked men often fail altogether.

Gradually the two had drawn near to the claim, and at last drew the
attention of Obed and the boys.

Obed's thin face lighted up with satisfaction as he recognized the man
who had attempted to steal the nugget.

"Good-mornin', squire," he said politely. "You look kind of tired, as if
you was up late last night."

Colson eyed him sharply. "Does he suspect?" thought he. "Yes," he
answered, in an indifferent tone, "I didn't rest very well."

"Where did you pass the night?"

"'Round here," he answered vaguely.

"You look as if you had been taking a long walk."

"You are very observing," said Colson, not over pleased.

"I always was. It pays a man--sometimes."

"I hear you've struck it rich," said Colson, not caring to take notice
of the other's significant tone.

"Found a nugget, they tell me," interpolated Ropes. "How big was it?"

"Weighs about seventy-five pounds!"

"That is luck!" said Colson, with a sickly smile. He could scarcely help
groaning as he thought of his loss.

"Well, yes, it is tolerable hefty. I reckon me and the boys will be able
to take it easy for a few years. But we came near losin' it, after
all."

"How's that?" Colson asked, but he did not venture to meet Obed's
glance.

"Some skunk saw us bringin' back the nugget, and prowled round till he
thought we was all asleep. Then he got into the cabin and carried it
off. That is, he thought he did, but we was a little too sharp for him.
We tied up a big rock in my handkerchief, and I guess he had a sweet
time carryin' it off."

"Ha, ha! A good joke!" said Colson, but his laughter was mirthless.

"I thought you'd enjoy the joke, squire," said Obed. "How I pity the
poor fellow! His arms must ache with luggin' the old rock. The best of
it is we know the fellow that took it."

"You do?" ejaculated Colson, his jaw dropping.

"Yes, Harry woke up just in the nick of time and saw him scootin' out of
the cabin. If I should tell the boys 'round here, I reckon they'd lynch
him!" added Obed quietly.

"Just so," assented Colson, but his face was of a sickly hue, and taking
Ropes by the arm he hurried him away.

"That fellow's well scared," said Obed, turning to his two young
companions. "I reckon he'll make himself scarce till we're out of the
way."




CHAPTER XXX.

THE TWO CONSPIRATORS.

Obed and the boys made arrangements to travel with the party sent by the
commissioner as an escort to the nugget and other sums intrusted to it
by different miners. The strong guard gave them a sense of security
which they would not have had under other circumstances.

They were all in high spirits. They were no longer penniless
adventurers, but, though not rich, were possessed of enough gold to make
them feel so. Now that they were well fixed they were all filled with a
strong desire to see their home across the sea.

"I suppose, Obed, you'll be getting married soon after you reach home?"
said Harry.

"The very first thing I shall do will be to pay off the mortgage on
dad's farm," said Mr. Stackpole. "I want to see him a free man, with a
home that can't be taken from him. Then I'll look after the other
matter."

"You are right, Obed. I only wish I had a father to help and care for,"
said Harry soberly.

"I've got a step-father," said Jack, "but I don't feel much like helping
him."

"You have a mother, Jack."

"Yes, but I shall have to be careful about giving her money, for her
husband would get it away from her before long."

"Well, boys, we won't borrow trouble before the time comes. For all I
know Suke Stanwood may have got tired of waitin' for me, and married
some other feller."

"In that case, Obed, I suppose you would die of a broken heart."

"Not much, but I don't mind sayin' that I should feel uncommon blue."

Two days elapsed before Obed and his party started on their return trip.
Meanwhile Colson and Ropes had disappeared. The boys had expected to see
them about the camp, but they had vanished.

"I wonder what has become of them?" said Harry, just as they were
starting.

"I reckon they're hatchin' some new mischief, wherever they are,"
returned Obed composedly. "You maybe sure they're not engaged in any
honest work."

"Perhaps Colson is trying to sell his nugget," suggested Jack with a
smile.

"He's welcome to all he can get for it," said Obed.

Obed was very near the truth in his conjecture. Their greed was excited
by thoughts of the nugget which our three friends had discovered, and
their brains were busied with plans for obtaining possession of it. The
chances didn't seem very encouraging. It was under strong escort, and it
would be sheer madness for the two to attack an armed party. It would
require a much larger force than they could command to make an attack at
all practicable.

With no special plans, but with the hope that something would turn up in
their favor, the two men started for Melbourne in advance of the
government party. They were indebted for the requisite funds to a
successful theft by Colson, who was an expert in his line. It is
unnecessary to chronicle their daily progress. We will look in upon them
on the fourth day.

They were making toilsome progress, over the boggy road, when all at
once they were confronted by three bushrangers headed by Fletcher.

"Surrender, or you are dead men!" exclaimed Fletcher, with a boldness
which will be easily understood when it is considered that his force
outnumbered the travellers two to one.

Neither Colson nor Ropes appeared to be frightened. Indeed, they were
looking for such an encounter.

"All right, gentlemen," said Ropes quietly. "We are quite ready to
surrender."

"Empty your pockets," was the next order.

"All right again!" said Ropes. "I am sorry to say we haven't much to
surrender."

"Is this all you have?" asked Fletcher, frowning when a pound and ten
shillings were delivered to him as their united contributions to the
bushrangers' fund.

"We haven't a penny more."

"Search them!" said Fletcher to his followers.

A search, however, failed to bring to light anything more.

"Why, you poor tramps!" exclaimed Fletcher in disgust. "You are unworthy
the attention of gentlemen."

"Perhaps not, captain," answered Colson. "May I have a word with you in
private?"

Not without suspicion Fletcher granted this unexpected request, and
stepped aside with Colson a few paces, taking care, however, to keep
near enough to his party to insure his safety.

"Well, what have you to say?" he asked abruptly.

"I have no money to give you," replied Colson, "but I have information
that will enable you to obtain a great deal."

"What is your object in telling me this?" demanded Fletcher, still
suspiciously.

"The fact is, my friend and I want to join with you in the enterprise,
and get a fair share of the booty."

"Do you wish to join our band, then?"

"Well, not permanently, but for a little while."

"Out with the information, then!"

"Will you agree to our terms?"

"What are they?"

"We want half of the prize."

"You are very modest," said Fletcher in a sarcastic tone. "How much will
it amount to?"

"Not far from a hundred thousand dollars."

Fletcher pricked up his ears. This was indeed a prize worth trying for.

"Give particulars," he said.

"A big nugget is on the way to Melbourne, or will be in a day or two. It
was found at Bendigo. I don't know how much it will net, but probably
seventy-five thousand dollars. Then there is a considerable amount of
dust besides."

"Who is to carry it? Is it in the hands of a private party?"

"No, it is under government escort."

Fletcher's countenance changed.

"That is a different matter," he said. "There is danger in attacking a
government party."

"Think of the big sum at stake."

"It would require the co-operation of the whole band."

"Suppose it does."

"There will be more to divide it among. The captain would not agree for
a moment to give away half."

"Say a third, then."

"I am not authorized to make any bargain. That will be for the captain
to decide. You had better tell me all you know about it, and I will lay
it before the captain and secure you the best terms I can on
conditions----"

"Well?"

"That you give me quarter of your share."

"That is unreasonable," said Colson, disappointed.

"Then go ahead and rob the government train yourself."

Colson saw that he was helpless, and must submit to any terms proposed.
He accordingly signified his assent.

"Very well, then," said Fletcher, "you may come with us, and I will
introduce you to the captain. By the way, who found the nugget? You have
not told me that."

"A Yankee and two boys."

"What was the Yankee's name?" asked Fletcher eagerly.

"Stackpole--Obed Stackpole."

Fletcher whistled.

"I know the man," he said. "The boys are about sixteen--one a sailor?"

"Yes."

"I know them all, and I owe them all a grudge. There is nothing I should
like better than to take all they have and leave them penniless."

"I don't like them myself," said Colson, thinking this was the way to
curry favor with his new acquaintance.

"You know them also?"

"Yes; they have treated me meanly."

Colson probably referred to their substituting a common rock for the
rich nugget, and so subjecting him to mortification and disappointment.

Fletcher asked him a few more questions, and then with the new
accessions plunged into the woods, and led his party to the headquarters
of the bushrangers.




CHAPTER XXXI.

TAKEN CAPTIVE.

The new recruits, on being introduced to the captain of the bushrangers,
were subjected to a searching examination by the chief, a suspicion
having arisen in his mind that the two were spies sent out by the
government to lure the outlaws into a trap. He was convinced after a
while that they were acting in good faith, and a conference was called
to decide what should be done in the matter. On this point opinions
differed. The nugget, of course, would be a valuable prize, but it would
be impossible to dispose of it in Melbourne, as the fact of its
discovery would have been published, and any person attempting to sell
it would be instantly arrested. This view was held by Captain Ring
himself.

"That objection is easily met," said Fletcher.

"In what way?"

"One of the band could be sent to America to dispose of it. He could
carry it in his trunk as ordinary luggage."

"Perhaps you would like to undertake the commission," said Captain
Ring.

"I should be very willing," said Fletcher eagerly.

"I don't doubt you would," returned the captain, in a sarcastic tone.
"Who would insure your making over the proceeds to us?"

"I hope you don't doubt my integrity," said Fletcher, with an air of
virtuous indignation.

"Perhaps I had better say nothing on that subject, Fletcher. The band
are unwilling to subject you to the temptation--that's all. Many good
men go wrong."

"You might send someone with me," suggested Fletcher, unwilling to give
up the tempting prospect.

"We haven't got the nugget yet," answered the captain dryly.

Colson and Ropes had listened with interest to the discussion. They
began to fear that nothing would be done. They would have been as much
opposed as anyone to trusting Fletcher, as he had not inspired them with
confidence. It takes a rogue to detect a rogue, and they already
suspected his true character. Their hope of revenge on Obed Stackpole
seemed slipping through their fingers.

"The Yankee and the two boys have a good deal of gold about them,"
suggested Colson. "Of course it isn't much, compared with the nugget,
but it is better than nothing."

"How much has the Yankee?" demanded King.

"Three hundred pounds at least."

"That is something, but as he will travel with the government escort, we
should have to attack the whole party."

"Not necessarily. I have a plan that I think will work."

"Detail it."

Colson did so. What it was will appear in due time.

Meanwhile Obed and the two boys had started on their way to Melbourne.
With a strong military escort they gave themselves up to joyful
anticipations of the bright future that opened before them. They no
longer entertained apprehensions of being waylaid, being secure in the
strength of their party.

They travelled by easy stages, and at night camped out. A sentry was
always posted, who stood guard while the rest were asleep, for, unlikely
as an attack might be, it was deemed necessary to provide against it.

Often, however, after supper Obed and the two boys would take a walk
together, in order to talk over their plans without interruption from
others. On the third evening they unwittingly walked a little further
than usual. Harry was the first to notice it.

"Hadn't we better return, Obed?" he said. "We must be a mile from the
camp."

"You are right," said Obed. "It would be rather unlucky to meet with the
bushrangers, just as we are gettin' on so well."

"That's true; we mustn't run any risks."

They started to return, when Jack, stopping suddenly, said, "I thought I
heard a groan."

"So did I," said Harry.

They paused, and the groan was repeated. It appeared to come from a
couple of rods to the left in the recesses of the forest.

"If there's any poor critter in pain we ought to help him," said Obed,
"come along, boys!"

It was not difficult to discover the spot from which the groan
proceeded. A man of middle age lay outstretched beneath a tree, with an
expression of pain on his face.

"What's the matter, my friend?" asked Obed, standing over him.

"The bushrangers have robbed and beaten me," said the prostrate man
feebly.

"You don't say so! How long since?"

"About an hour."

"Then they must be near by," said Harry.

"No; they went away as soon as they got my money."

Meanwhile Jack had been attentively examining the face of the alleged
victim. He quietly beckoned to Harry to move off to a little distance.

"Well, Jack, what is it?" asked Harry, somewhat surprised.

"That man is one of the bushrangers. I remember his face very well. It
is one of the gang that captured us."

Harry was naturally startled.

"Are you sure of this?" he asked.

"Yes, I know him as well as I do Obed."

"Then it is a plot. We must get away if we can. There is danger in
staying here."

"You are right there, Harry."

"I will go up and take Obed's place while you call him away."

Harry advanced to the side of the victim, and said quietly, "Jack wishes
to speak to you a moment, Obed. He thinks we can carry this gentleman
with us, as he has lost all his money."

"Very well," said Obed, and walked to where Jack was standing.

Harry scrutinized the man's face, and he too recognized him as one of
the gang--but his face did not betray his suspicions.

