face and untrained muscles. So, although 
a boarder in the minister 's family, he had 
adopted the fashions of it without protest. 





Indeed, he had a distant suspicion that the 
system of rustication sometimes involved 
little deviations of this sort from the habits 
of elegant young gentlemen ; and it pleased 
Don 's plucky spirit not to exhibit any as 
tonishment or displeasure. In fact, he had 
accepted Vermont thoroughly ; and the self- 
denials of the parsonage had begun to be 
come a familiar drama in his gay, luxurious, 
young life. 

He had found it rather " slow," it must be 
owned, so far, in the village of East Tipton ; 
the parsonage was by all odds the best part 
of that thin old town, which lay shivering at 
the feet of the awful, snow-clad mountains, 
like a freezing creature overtaken by the 
winter, and trying to warm its poor life at a 
heart of ice. East Tipton was a place in 
which nothing happened. Even Jamie was 
not coming home for the holiday recess. 
Jamie had a chance to tutor his old 
gentleman 's son, at two dollars an hour, through 
vacation ; and a fellow must be better off 
than Jamie to throw away two dollars an 
hour. He had written home a very manly 
letter (he was terribly disappointed, Don 
could see, but he would not show it), simply 
saying that he must stay in Harle, and that 
he was lucky to get the chance. 



 

Fay was coming home, it is true, at the 
holidays ; but Don had never seen Fay ; he 
did not feel an absorbing interest in the fact. 
He fancied her something of a blue-stocking, 
and not at all stylish. Don knew a plenty of 
what are called society girls in New York, 
and, of course, all sorts in Harle ; but the 
Professor 's daughters belonged to another 
class, as much so, in their way, as Merry 
Gorond herself in hers. Don had never 
happened to know any college girls very well ; 
he had notions about them, as gay fellows 
and good dancers are apt to. He thought 
Fay Fleet would probably matronize him, 
and wear spectacles, and a " cloud," like the 
girls in East Tipton whom he met at the 
post-office giggling over the advertising board 
for letters that they never received, and 
nudging each other when the handsome boy 
asked for the minister 's box. 

Still, on the whole, Donald was not sorry 
that the minister 's daughter was coming- 
home that day. It would be some sort of 
change. Don had taken sensibly to the quiet 
life of the parsonage, but there was no de 
nying that it was dull for a lively lad. Dr. 
Fleet put him at once hard at work, that he 
might keep up with his class. This was new 





business for Don ; six hours a day of close 
study, rain or shine, gay or stupid, happy 
or dismal, and not a scrape, not a freak, 
not a frolic, not a fellow to break the pull ! 
Donald had never done any such studying as 
that in all his light, young life. He was 
surprised to find it really interesting at times. 
Dr. Fleet had a " way " with books which 
was to a lazy lad like the Vermont 
mountain wind to a case of swamp malaria. 

For the rest of his days Don will 
remember that old parsonage study, with its shabby 
carpet and well-filled book-shelves, the big 
coal heater, noisy and black and ugly (but 
so much cheaper than the scholar 's luxury of 
an open fire that it was a matter of course), 
the faded shades and patched lounge, and 
the great, hearty rush of sunlight all over 
the rooms on bright days ; the early student- 
lamp with its green shade, when the after 
noons were dark, and the spare figure of 
the minister bent over all sorts of queer, 
rare books in German, French, Old English, 
and who knows what ; his refined face, 
with a strong brow and gentle lips, like 
Jamie s, starting like a medallion from a 
background of dark velvet, and, grown 
unconscious, brilliant and memorable, while he 



 

talked to the careless lad of scholars and of 
scholarly thoughts and deeds and dreams. 

Don had not been without his own ideas, 
as we have said, of that other, graver, higher 
life which some fellows went to college for 
from the start, and which he meant to stop 
and take along before he got through, much 
as he would have reined in and picked up a 
friend on a Saturday afternoon drive with 
his father 's span. 

In those long, lonely winter days, when 
he and the minister sat at their books in the 
pleasant parsonage study, and a man of self- 
denial, application, and consecration was 
intimately revealed for the first time to the 
gay boy, strange thoughts came to his mind, 
strange visions to his heart. Life looked to 
him like a puzzle, of which he had lost the 
key, or, perhaps, had never had it. At times 
he wished for it very much indeed. Dreamily 
and delicately as the light of the winter day 
came into the study, and lay upon the silent 
books, there stole into the lad 's soul the 
stirring of a force which he did not know well 
enough to recognize, aspiration. 

There was something, too, about the life 
of that plain home which amazed the boy. 
Sometimes it touched him deeply. 





Poor as the place was, harsh as the 
conditions of their poverty looked to the luxury- 
accustomed fellow, yet it sometimes seemed 
to him as if he had never truly felt at home 
before. Everything in that house, from the 
washing-day breakfast to the threadbare best 
coat of the preacher ; from the cold entries 
to the cold mutton, was as foreign to its 
guest as if he had been rusticating in 
Zanzibar. But there was something tolerable 
about it all, nevertheless, nay, something 
really pleasant, if you chose to think so. 

Mrs. Fleet was a quiet lady, but she was 
the sweetest-natured one in the world. She 
mothered Don from the first ; she petted him, 
and chatted with him, and cooked little dishes 
for him ; she knew, better than the parson, 
how such a way of life as theirs must strike 
the son of T. B. Marcy ; she used to visit in 
New York when she was a young lady ; and 
she never fussed about little things, or found 
fault with Don, or nagged anybody, or made 
much of matters. She accepted her peaceful, 
narrow lot as serenely as the book did the 
book-shelf, and as sweetly as no one but a 
gentle woman can accept what is downright 
hard to bear. Don wondered at her very 
much, and he came to like her, and to like to 



 

sit with her evenings, in the half-furnished 
little parlor ; such a room as his mother 
would have refitted for her maid. 

In fact, Don had adapted himself to his 
life in the parsonage very smoothly and 
good-naturedly ; but Don was young, and 
the minister and his wife were not, and the 
rusticated boy shook his curls and sighed for 
some other young thing, if only, he said, " to 
wink at." 

Fancy winking at Dr. Fleet ! And as for 
the little maid, she wore crimping-pins, 
and bare elbows, which she burned against 
the boiler, regularly, every Monday. She 
was the only other young creature on the 
place. Even the cat was old ; and she had 
eaten her kittens. 

So it was not without a certain renewed 
interest in life that Donald remembered, 
when he woke that icy December morning, 
that the daughter of the house was expected 
at the parsonage that night. 

This reflection added insensibly to the 
motives for getting up, which were not so 
strong as to be beyond need of relays. It 
occurred to Don that he would cram a little 
on Xenophon that morning ; he believed the 
Smith girls were very learned ; she would 





probably call him out on his Greek at once ; 
and floor him, too. He thought he would 
take an early start into a liberal education, 
to be prepared for the worst, and so plunged 
out of bed. Plunge was the only word. It 
was like to nothing on earth so much as a 
dive into a bath of ice-water. Don caught 
his breath at the shock, and bravely attacked 
the air-tight stove. Now the minister 's air 
tight stove made a conscientious point of 
refusing to burn whenever the thermometer 
went to zero ; and, as the mercury registered 
thirty degrees below, that balmy morning, 
bathing and dressing became a fine art. By 
the time Don had got his collar fastened 
with fingers so numb that he had to trust the 
button and the buttonhole to meet entirely 
on their own responsibility, and by the time 
he had melted his frozen tooth-brush in his 
mouth to brush his teeth therewith, the air 
tight started up merrily. When he got down 
to breakfast it went red-hot ; and before he 
had finished his omelette and griddle-cakes 
a smell of smoke drove the entire family fly 
ing to the guest-room, where that blazing air 
tight, with an air of duty well done, was 
comfortably setting fire to the mantelpiece, 
and had consumed a copy of Xenophon and 
half a pile of young ladies letters. 



 

These incidents were a tremendous 
agitation in East Tiptoii, and Don got to the 
post-office that morning somewhat excited, 
and a little late. 

It was bitingly, bitterly, brutally cold. 
The enormous fall of snow made running 
impossible, and walking an athlete 's job. 
The snow-plows were not yet on the ground ; 
the snow was too deep. The doctor and a man 
who wanted him (for a sick horse) were the 
only men to be seen on the streets besides 
the young collegian. Not a woman was 
visible. 

Don, a fine figure in his astrachan-trimmed 
ulster and long rubber boots and astrachan 
cap, from below which his curls keeled up 
with a sort of defiant jollity, tramped gayly 
through the drifts to the office, a good hard 
mile away. He whistled as he went, and 
sang scraps of college songs, all ending : 

" Here 's to happy Harle 
Drink her down! " 

Many a climate-worn, sorrow-soured woman, 
lank of face and lean of heart, breathed 
little spots in the frosted window, to see the 
stranger lad go by, and felt the warmer, 
somehow, for the sight. If she were an 
elderly woman, she wished she had a boy 





like that, to come tramping the merry snow 
into her entry. If she were a young girl, 
she breathed a bigger hole in the thick frost- 
curtain, and looked a little longer, and 
wished who knows what ? And where do 
all these pretty half - grown, half - known 
wishes come from, or go to, that flutter 
across the lives of denied young people in 
poor places, like visitors whose very names 
they never know, but who bring them a 
breath of some brighter world, as foreign as 
France and as far as Paradise ? And, on the 
whole, are they gladder or sadder for it, 
who can tell ? 

Donald, at the post-office, romped in 
thunderously. The postmistress, who was the 
lankest, the leanest, the saddest, and the 
sourest of all the Tipton ladies, would have 
scolded any other man in the county roundly, 
for flooding her premises with half the snow 
drift in which Don stood, radiant and drip 
ping, taking off his hat to her, and bending 
before her with a bow such as was never 
seen in Tipton before or since. She only 
smiled at Don, and asked him if he wouldn't 
sit awhile by her fire and dry off, and told 
him he had a letter from Jamie, and one 
from a -lady in Harle, and the minister had 




two from New York, she said, and besides, 
there was a postal from Fay. 

" She 's coming home to-day," observed 
the postmistress, as she handed the mail out. 
Don expressed no surprise at this. It was 
always understood in East Tipton that the 
postmasters, especially when they were post 
mistresses, read the postal cards. Fay used 
to write to her father in French when she 
had anything to say not intended for the 
public education. But it was found that 
these cards were only so much longer on the 
way, because the postmistress had to go 
home for her lexicon. 

" She 's coming by the mornin accommo 
dation," added the postmistress. " It must 
be nigh due now." 

" Great Scott ! " cried Don, " there won't 
be anybody to meet her. There 's a go ! " 



CHAPTER XII. 

FAY. 

HAVING taken the postal card, which he 
thought, under the circumstances, he might 
as well share with the post-office department, 
Don read it carefully. It ran, in a clear, 
large hand, thus : 

DEAR PAPA : I shall be home Wednesday 
morning, by accommodation, instead of night
express. Please have Old William at the station 
with the wagon. I shall bring my trunk. Love 
to all. FAY. 

Old William, the parsonage horse, was so 
very old, and so very ecclesiastical, that no 
one had ever thought of calling him Billy, 
nor even Old Billy. That would have been 
a liberty far beyond the dignity of that the 
ological animal, who was known the region 
round, as the postmistress said, " by his 
Christian name." 

" Why, she is due ! " exclaimed Don, 
when he had read the postal card the second 
time. " And Old William hasn't even had 



 

his breakfast. There 's a drift ten feet high 
before the barn. We've got to dig him 
out. Why let me see that train must 
be in ! Don't I hear it whistle ? Her father 
doesn't know she 's coming so early. I 
guess I 'll have to go over and meet her." 

" What good 'll that dew ? " asked the 
postmistress. " It 's a good three mile from 
the depot to her house. A girl can't drabble 
herself up that way with her best gown on. 
Not but what Fay could walk it ; she 's 
broughten up like the rest of us round here ; 
but then, she can't afford to spile that blue 
flannel of hern ; it 's new this term. Why 
don't you go over to Jarsper 's and hire a 
hoss and meet her ? She 's set out already, 
- make your mind on that. She ain't the 
girl to sot in a depot a-waitin for no men- 
folks." 

Fortified by this suggestion, which seemed 
to serve as a sort of chaperon to his own 
eager wish to do something hospitable in the 
exigency, Don ran over to " Jarsper s," the 
neighboring stable, and quickly got out the 
only hack in town, a ragged vehicle on run 
ners, which swayed through the big drifts 
like a little sloop-yacht in a nor easter. Don 
had vigorously helped Mr. Jasper to 
harness, and he vociferously helped him to 
drive ; and owing to these two facts the 
sleigh came in sight of the young lady be 
fore she had reached home. She was, in 
fact, not more than a quarter of a mile from 
the station when The Hack met her and 
halted with great ceremony. Mr. " Jarsper " 
felt this to be an event in his life. Fay 
never rode in The Hack, not even at Tipton 
funerals. It was always reserved (there be 
ing but one) for the chief mourners. 

Don leaped from the box and stood be 
fore the young lady, cap in hand, his brown 
curls blowing madly in the winter wind, his 
handsome face drawn to the precise Greek 
expression which he thought would be
expected of him by the college girl. He had 
just stuffed into his pocket the letter from 
Harle. It was from Merry Gorond, who 
often wrote to him, Heaven knew why ! 
Certainly not because she had been in 
vited to. 

Fay was trudging along stoutly enough. 
She was a strong, well-developed, eager girl, 
in a blue flannel suit, with dark blue water 
proof cloak thrown over it, and her skirts 
tucked up. They were pinned in a little 
bunch in front, and she carried her leather 



 

hand-bag, held over them to keep them down. 
She wore a dark blue hat of felt with plain 
velvet trimmings, and a saucy little white 
veil. There was not so much Greek expres 
sion about her as Don had anticipated. He 
was conscious of feeling quite puzzled for a 
moment. 

" Excuse me, Miss Fleet," he began, with 
his best bow, " but I " - 

Fay had been walking with her head bent, 
the better to pick her way through the two- 
feet fall of unbroken snow, and when she saw 
The Hack, and the elegant young stranger 
perched thereon beside Mr. " Jarsper," she 
lifted her face and looked straight at him 
with a perfectly unconscious, pretty look of 
girlish amazement, at once so modest and so 
straightforward that it was bewitching. 

"I don't know who you are," said the 
young lady sedately, but her eyes she 
had beautiful eyes twinkled. She and 
Don looked at each other for a moment, and 
then Don laughed. The young lady 's lip 
twitched, then curved into a merry smile. 
"Are you anybody in particular ? " she ven 
tured. 

" I in a rusticated college boy from 
Harle. I used to be your brother 's chum, 




and I'm now your father 's guest. My name 
is Marcy, at your service. I came to drive 
you home." 

" Oh ! " cried Fay delightedly. " How 
nice of you. I am pretty wet." 

Don helped the girl into The Hack gal 
lantly, and, seating himself beside her, drew 
the doors and windows close, and ordered 
Mr. Jasper to drive to the parsonage with 
an authority to which The Hack was quite 
unused. Mr. Jasper resented it by driving 
as slowly as he possibly could all the way, 
which Don did not mind in the least. Keally, 
if the truth must be told, the young lady did 
not herself seem oppressed by the length of 
the journey. 

They began at once, and chattered like 
two magpies all the way. 

" How did you happen to get Where 
is Old William ? " began Fay at once. 
" Father ought not to have af 

She had begun to remember the unprece 
dented expense of The Hack, but checked 
herself before the stranger lad. She felt 
instantly that this fur-clad, luxurious fellow 
could not understand her little daughterly 
anxiety about a trifle so small to him, so 
serious to the minister 's struggling family. 



 

So Donald hastened to explain the cir 
cumstance about the postal card, and how 
he happened to venture to .take upon him 
self the honor, etc., etc. ; and The Hack, 
if she would allow him, was his own affair. 
He had got to have it, Don said, to get 
home himself ; he was, in fact, very wet, and 
had had enough of it. 

" You didn't catch me walking home this 
morning," explained Don boldly, " and it 
was awfully jolly it happened so. I only 
had to turn about and get you. Aren't 
you awfully wet ? " 

Fay gave him a little, dark, grateful look ; 
her face flushed slightly ; she did not pursue 
the subject of The Hack. For a moment 
she did not talk of anything ; and then she 
said abruptly : 

" Yes. Soaked. I've only got rubbers 
and gaiters. My rubber boots are at home. 
But I don't mind. I shall change them 
when I get home. A little drenching never 
hurts me. I can stand it." 

" The mischief you can ! " retorted Don. 
" You've caught me there." 

The two young things looked at each other 
with eyes full of pretty defiance, and then 
both broke into a merry laugh. 





" I thought you'd begin to talk about 
the Anabasis directly," said Don confidentially. 

" And I never thought about you at all," 
said Fay saucily. 

" I'm awfully glad you've come," pur 
sued Don nonchalantly, waiving this thrust. 
" With your permission, I 'll make you think 
about me now you've got here." 

" I have a great deal to do," urged Fay. 
" I brought three novels and a new nocturne 
home, and a new dress to make." 

" I'll help," persisted Don. " I'm a first- 
rate dressmaker." 

" Dear me ! " said Fay. " Do you fit well ? 
Can you make a fifty-cent serge look like a 
dollar-and-a-half drap'd ete ? Do you think 
you could if you had to ?" 

" Here 's your pa," called Mr. Jasper, 
hammering on the front glass with the butt 
end of his whip. " The minister 's comin 
to meet The Hack." 



CHAPTER XIII. 

FRIENDSHIP ON A TOBOGGAN. 

LIFE at the parsonage in East Tipton now 
turned over a fairy leaf. New heavens and 
a new. earth opened forthwith for the rusticated
boy. Who would have believed that 
one little girl could so quickly and quietly 
revolutionize a family, a house, a heart ? 

Fay had not been at home a day before 
that entire home took on, like a holiday rib 
bon, the color of the bright, strong individuality 
belonging to the daughter of the house. 
Her mother smiled, and dressed and rested. 
Fay was here. 

" Yes, my dear, I am a little tired ; but 
don't begin to do the dishes too soon. Get 
over your journey first." 

Her father stayed out of his study two 
hours after dinner. Fay had come. He sat 
in his dressing-gown, laughing at college 
stories. 

" Your girls stories," he said, " with the 
fun, and without the devil." 





The little kitchen-maid took her hair out 
of her crimping-pins before dinner, and drew 
her sleeve over her burned elbow, and wildly 
put on a white apron, and tripped over the 
soup tureen and sat down hard on the 
pieces. Miss Fay was home. The cannibal 
cat, who had eaten her kittens, came in with 
an air of high moral virtue, and mounted 
solemnly to Fay 's lap to be chucked under 
the chin, a liberty which she allowed to no 
one but Fay. Old William, when the ten- 
feet drift was cut through, walked rheu- 
matically out of the barn and limped to the 
kitchen window for sugar when he heard 
Fay 's voice. Even the dinner - table went 
mad for Fay 's sake, and struck out into 
Christmas epicureanism before its time. 
They had turkey and cranberry sauce, and 
the white potato was strained through a 
colander, and there were nuts and raisins after 
the pumpkin pies ; and the little maid 
brought coffee, and spilled it and scalded 
the cat with it, and told her it was good 
enough for her ; she wished she'd " 
murthered" her. And it was a very exciting- 
occasion. 

As for Donald, in one hour he did not 
understand how he had ever lived in East 



 

Tipton without Fay, and not " struck " for 
his reason and his life. 

Fay was a healthy, happy, rousing, sing 
ing, sensible girl. She laughed whenever 
she thought of it, and she thought of it very 
often. She ran up and down stairs, I can't 
say like a fawn, for she was a solid girl, but 
like a sracef ul collie that finds it work to 



keep still and play to keep going. She 
bounded in and out and flashed to and fro 
across those plain, poor parsonage rooms 
like the prisms in the rainbow-glass that she 
had brought home for a holiday present for 
her mother. And who ever knew that Fay 
went without silk mittens, such as the other 
girls had, and wore a cheap pair of woolen 
ones all winter, to get that prism ? " Poor 
mother had so few pretty colors in her life ! " 
Fay said. And to Donald she added, in the 
pleasant, instinctive confidence which grows 
so quickly between two young people who 
like each other from the start : 

" I thought it would be nice to see something 
dance in this house, if it 's only a rain 
bow ; don't you ? See them ! Aren't they 
dear, waltzing all over that ugly wall-paper, 
and polkaing across mamma 's cap- 
strings? And just look, one is performing 
a pas seul on. papa 's nose ! It 's a blue 
one, too ; a regular last-act, blue-devil color. 
But he wouldn't recognize it. He never 
e;oes to the play." 


"Do you?" asked Don. 

" I like to," she said quickly. " But I 
don't go unless he says I may. Besides, I 
can't afford it, you know. But I went a few 
times Freshman year. I was visiting a chum 
of mine in New York." 

" What are you now ? " asked Don anx 
iously. " A Senior ? " 

" Only a Junior," nodded Fay. " I'm 
only a year ahead of you. I should be a 
Senior, but I had to stay out a year." 

"Dropped?" asked Don. 

" Do I look like it? " returned Fay, turn 
ing sharply about and facing the mischief in 
his eyes. She stood straight and still before 
him ; a fine figure of a girl, with a face hand 
some this minute, plain the next, winning 
now, rebuffing then, melting with innocent 
coquetry while you looked at her, and with 
drawn into delicate dignity before you could 
speak to her ; a creature full of the whims 
of youth and the second thought of maturity ; 
bubbling with fun and controlled with 
resolve ; a girl made up of mischief and 



 

good sense, of frolic and modesty ; a gym 
nast and a musician, a dancer and a mathematician,
a romp and a scholar, that was 
Fay. 

" You look," said Don, with a low bow, 
" as if the faculty of Smith might have had 
their hands full with you " 

Fay 's delicate eyebrows arched disdain 
fully. 

"But didn't," finished Don. "They 
didn't. You thought you wouldn't. I'm 
afraid you've been the other kind of girl. 
I'm afraid you've learned your lessons and 
stood well, and all that." 

"And why, sir, do you suffer from fear 
on this account ? " 

" Because I haven't," said Don ruefully. 
" I see you're a scholar. It runs in your 
family. I'm not. I'm rusticated for a hazing 
scrape." 

" Dear me ! " said Fay, lifting her black 
eyes with the innocence of a baby. " Are 
you stupid ? " 

Don flushed ; he certainly did ; when had 
a girl 's tongue made Don blush before ? 

" I'm sorry for you," pursued Fay 
blandly. " It must be very uncomfortable. 
I've always thought that would be the hardest 
thing, not to be clever ; not to be able 
to learn things, like other people." 

" I don't know that I'm a born fool! " 
exploded Don viciously. 

" Oh ! aren't you ? Didn't you mean 
that ? I'm so relieved ! I thought I 
supposed I didn't know but you meant 
Then why in the world," demanded Fay vigorously,
" don't you learn your lessons ? 
Why on earth do you act like one ? " 

" One what ? " 

" It was your own word, sir ! Don't make 
me use it. Don't compel me to be rude. 
I don't like those pert girls. I don't think 
it 's good manners to be vicious, do you ? 
I in afraid I've gone too far. Have I been 
impolite ? I didn't mean to be. Shall I 
beg your pardon? " 

Fay 's voice melted into such gentleness 
when she said this, that Don 's smarting 
vanity went under, and he bowed before 
her. 

He thought her adorable, and he thought 
he would tell her so ; but something in Fay 's 
fine, far eyes checked him. She wasn't the 
girl one could make love to at two days 
acquaintance. The expression of Don 's face 
changed as gently almost as her own. 




" No," he said humbly, " don't beg my 
pardon. I deserved it. I'm a harum-scarum 
chap. But I'm not a bad fellow, Miss Fay," 
he added earnestly. He began to feel that 
he wished very much to stand well with Fay, 
in her modest, womanly thoughts of him ; 
he could not bear it that she should believe 
him worse than he was. 

" Oh, I know that ! " said Fay eagerly. 
"I 'll tell you," she hurried on, for her tact 
told her that she had gone far enough into a 
painful subject, "I 'll tell you why I was 
out for a year. I'm not ashamed of it. I 
had to earn my way that year. Jamie was 
sick, and needed every cent. So I took my 
turn. That was all right. You see " the 
girl hesitated, looking timidly at the young 
stranger, so soon a friend "they do have a 
hard time of it here, poor dears, two of us 
in college at once. That 's the worst of it. 
But it won't last long. Then I shall teach, 
and send them O-ooh ! " cried Fay, as 
girlishly as if she had never been to college. 
" I lie awake nights thinking of the things 
I'm going to send them. I've made out 
a list. It 's four pages and a half long
already ! " 

" What did you do," asked Don, with 





unwonted seriousness, " to earn money ? I 
never earned more than fifty dollars in my 
life. Father gave me that once for knock 
ing off cigarettes." 

" Oh, I taught music," said Fay care 
lessly ; " I'm not a player, but I'm accurate, 
and I can get classes. I learned pretty 
thoroughly what I do know. Then some 
times I take a school for a term. That 
helps. I don't mind hard work, I think," 
urged Fay meditatively ; " I like it. Don't 
you?" 

" I begin to think I might be made to," 
replied Don forlornly, "if I took a few 
quarters lessons in How to Do It from a 
girl like you." 

Fay looked at him ; she looked at him 
very soberly indeed, but so charmingly that 
Don hoped she would say something half as 
sweet as her look. But Fay said nothing 
at all. 

Fay never " preached " to him, from first 
to last. But from the beginning until the 
end she gave the boy something better than 
advice, and rebuke, and retort. 

She flashed over the panorama of his 
young life the ideal of a strong, sweet girl, 
educated and womanly, intellectual and tender,
and true, true to the last drop of her 
heart 's blood. Fay Fleet had her faults, but 
she never posed, she never tricked, she did 
not manage. No young man could say that 
Fay flirted, even when there was nothing else 
to do. It was almost as hard to say whether 
she liked a fellow, or not, very much, that 
is, whether one were important to her in any 
way. Don could not tell for the life of him. 
Girls had always liked Don quite easily 
enough. Without undue emphasis of the 
fact, the handsome boy had always had reason
to suppose that a girl 's interest was a 
thing to be lightly won, or indeed, that need 
not be won at all ; it came as a matter of 
course. With Fay it was quite different, 
but he could not have told why, though he 
speculated upon it a great deal. 

When Fay had been at home a week, he 
said to himself, one day : 

" I've got it. It 's because she has some 
thing else than fellows to think about." 

"You care," he said to her, "you really 
do care for what you are up to, college and 
all that. It gives you thoughts. It takes 
your time." 

" I want to be something," said Fay 
dreamily. " That 's all I know about it. I 
am always very busy." 





" You are something," replied Don, in a 
low tone. " That 's the point of it. You're 
the nicest, the the loveliest Miss 
Fay, you are the best girl I ever knew! 
Don't be mad at me," pleaded Don, when 
he saw her pretty blush. " I mean it all 
right. I don't mean to be silly. I've 
known most kinds. If you'd seen some of 
the kinds I have known I wish," he 
urged, with a sort of eager earnestness so 
new to Don Marcy that it seemed to soften 
and envelop him in a beautiful, gentle color, 
as the blush did the little woman, " I wish 
I could be a different kind of fellow, the 
kind well, your kind," he explained can 
didly, turning to look straight at her. 

" Do you really ? " asked Fay softly. 

" I'm very unhappy," replied Don ; "I 
never said so before. I'm not satisfied with 
the way I'm going on. I wish I were the 
other kind of boy." 

" Then be the other kind ! " cried Fay, in 
her rich, ringing voice. 

They were going out tobogganing, when 
this conversation occurred. Don, who was 
used to satisfy every whim that money could 
supply, took the toboggan fever when the 
heavy snow packed down upon the mountain- 




sides, and if there were no toboggan in the 
village, why not send to New York for one ? 
So he sent to New York for the toboggan. 
This was the first time that he and Fay had 
gone together for a long slide ; he had experimented
by himself upon his new-bought 
toy, to make sure of its safety and his own 
skill, and so on, before he trusted Fay upon 
it. But now they were well on their way 
across the wide, snow-blind fields, to give 
the Vermont girl her first toboggan slide ; 
they both wore snow - shoes (for the snow 
" slumped " occasionally, and was very deep), 
and Fay had extemporized some sort of a 
costume for the occasion ; she could not af 
ford a toboggan-suit, of course, but she had 
constructed something out of her gymnasium 
suit and an old red blanket, in which, with 
a red flannel cap and cheap red mittens, she 
was altogether charming. Her cheeks were 
flushed with the fine exercise, and her black 
eyes and hair seemed to snap, electrically, in 
the frosty sunshine. When she said, "Be 
the other kind ! " she turned her bright, 
round face up to Don in a way peculiar to 
herself. Some girls make that feminine 
motion of the head everybody knows it 
with a kind of helplessness, a leaning toward 





a young man, a clinging to him, as if the 
whole nature fell, a pretty burden, upon his 
own, for support, protection, and caressing 
care. This is sometimes interesting to a boy 
for a moment 's play. It becomes tiresome, 
girls, believe me, to a man, for a life 's work. 
Fay had an attitude of stirring and yet of 
gentle independence and strength of her own, 
which Don found delightful. She looked 
like the very soul and sense of the whole 
some, heartsome winter day. All the best of 
the gay boy 's nature sprang gravely to meet 
the effect which she had upon him. 

" Will you be my friend, true blue, 
my faithful friend, if / turn out the other 
kind ? " he asked her very soberly. 

Fay hesitated. 

" If I say I will, I shall, you know," she 
said, with a little, serious nod. "I never said 
that before to anybody, to any boy, I 
