who had not found a place in the first one crowded into her, some of
them jumping overboard in their haste to save themselves.
The first boat shoved off from the side of the Fatimé, and all the
people of the Maud watched it, some of the firing party seizing their
rifles, and preparing to use them, to ascertain what the pirates
intended to do. It contained ten men, as Morris counted them. The four
men at the oars gave way as soon as it was clear of the vessel, but the
head of the boat was directed to the shore.
"Those villains have had fighting enough, and I don't believe they will
give us any more trouble," said Captain Scott, when the boat was fairly
in motion for the shore. It was evident enough that they could do
nothing to save the steamer, and they had abandoned her. The other boat
presently came out from the farther side of the vessel, and it contained
only seven persons, from which it appeared that the Fatimé's ship's
company consisted of only seventeen men, unless some of them had been
killed or wounded, and left on board.
"This looks like the end of the Fatimé, and I don't believe she will
give us any further trouble in our voyage, wherever we may go," said
Captain Scott, while all hands were watching the passage of the two
boats to the shore.
"But why don't she sink?" asked Louis.
"Though that is a big hole in her side, the most of it was above water
in the first of it, and the brine did not flow in very rapidly; but she
is settling very fast now, and it is a question of only a few minutes
with her now," replied the captain, as he rang three bells upon the gong
in the engine-room to back her. "We are rather too near her if she makes
much of a stir-about when she goes down."
"Help! Help! Save me! Save me!" came in rather feeble tones from the
wreck of the Fatimé.
At the same time the form of a man was seen staggering to the end of the
bridge.
"That's Captain Mazagan!" shouted Felix from the forecastle.
"Mazagan!" exclaimed Louis.
"Shall we do anything for that man, Captain Scott?" asked Don, coming to
the front windows of the pilot-house. "If we do, it must be done in a
hurry, for that craft is going to the bottom in less than two minutes."
"Of course we shall save him," replied the captain, looking at Louis.
"Certainly, we must save him!" added Louis with an earnestness that
impressed his companion. "Don't let us forget that we are Christians at
such a moment as this! How shall it be done, Captain? Give your orders,
and count me in as the first volunteer."
"Get the boat into the water, Morris! Be lively about it. Louis and
Felix will go in it to save this man if they can," replied the captain.
The boat on the hurricane deck was a small and light one, and the first
officer had it in the water almost in the twinkling of an eye. Louis and
Felix leaped into it, and in another instant they were pulling for the
wreck. It was a smooth sea, and the distance was not more than fifty
feet; for the captain had rung to stop the backward motion as soon as
the cry from the survivor reached his ears.
"Mind your eye, Louis!" shouted Scott, as soon as they were in motion.
"She may go down at any moment! When I shout to you, back out as fast as
you can! I will watch her, and let you know when she is likely to make
her last dive!"
"Ay, ay!" returned Louis.
"I beg you, Captain Scott, not to let them go any farther," said Don
very earnestly. "She is settling fast by the stern, and she will go down
by the time they get alongside of her. She has settled so that the hole
is more than half under water."
"That is so!" exclaimed Scott, as he glanced at the stern of the wreck.
"Hold on! Hold on!" he shouted with all the force of his lungs. "Back
out!"
The two rowers obeyed the order promptly, and backed water with all
their might; and it was fortunate that they did so, or they would have
been caught in the swirl of the sinking vessel. Before they had
retreated twenty feet, the stern of the Fatimé suddenly went down, with
a mighty rush of the water around her to fill up the vacant space inside
of her, and then she shot to the bottom, disappearing entirely from the
gaze of the beholders, as well in the two boats of the ship's company
that had abandoned her, as of those on board of the Maud.
"That is the end of the pirate!" exclaimed Captain Scott, with a sort of
solemnity in his tones and manner, as though he regarded the fate of the
steamer as a retribution upon her for the use to which she had been
applied.
"Amen!" responded Don at the window of the pilot-house.
The burden of his responsibility began to weigh upon his mind as Captain
Scott witnessed the last scene of the drama. But his thoughts were
recalled to the present moment when he saw Louis and Felix, the
commotion of the water having subsided, pulling with all their might
back to the scene of the catastrophe.
The little boat had not been far enough away from the turmoil of the
water to be unaffected by it; and for a moment the puny craft had rolled
and pitched as though it would toss its passengers into the bay. A
skilful use of the oars had saved the boat from being upset, and Louis
and Felix began to survey the scene of the uproar as soon as the waves
ceased the violence of their motion.
"Mazagan has gone to the bottom with her!" exclaimed Felix, as he looked
about the various objects that had floated away from the wreck as it
sank to the bottom.
"Perhaps not," replied Louis. "He was on the end of the bridge, and he
may have floated off and come to the surface. Give way again, Flix!"
"There he is!" shouted the Milesian, as he bent to his oar with his
boatmate. "His head just up out of the water, as though he had just come
up from the bottom."
A few more strokes brought the boat to the point where Felix had seen
the head just as it rose again. He rushed to the bow, and seized the
drowning man by the collar of his vest, for he wore no coat, and dragged
him to the middle of the boat. He seemed to be exhausted or insensible,
for he did not speak. With a great deal of difficulty they labored to
get him in; but the boat was so small that they did not succeed at once.
"All right, Flix; hold him where he is, if you can. The captain has
started the Maud, and she will be here in a moment," said Louis. "Pass
the painter of the boat under his arms, and make it fast if he is too
much for you, though it will be but for a moment."
"I can hold him in the water easily enough, my darling. I wonder what
made him come up," replied Felix.
"I suppose he was lighter than the water. But here is the Maud."
The little steamer ran alongside the tender, and Don and Pitts leaped
into it. By the order of the captain they drew the insensible form into
the boat, which was then taken on board with the victim in it. It was
shoved aft to the cabin door, in which Morris had made up a bed for the
sufferer.
The engineer and the cook proceeded to examine him. In his right
shoulder they found a bullet-wound, which he must have received while on
the bridge, doing his best for the destruction of the Maud. The cook
declared that it was not a very bad wound, and not at all likely to be
fatal. Pitts brought some brandy from the medicine-chest, and gave him a
small quantity of it.
This stimulant revived him, and then he wanted to talk; but Pitts would
not permit him to do so. He remained with him, while Louis and Felix
went forward to report to the captain, and Don went to the engine-room
to tell Felipe the news.
CHAPTER XIV
THE CONSULTATION IN THE PILOT-HOUSE
Felipe Garcias, the first engineer of the Maud, had filled the same
position on board of her when she was owned and used by Ali-Noury Pacha.
He was a young man of eighteen now, a native of the Canary Islands, and
a very religious Catholic. The orgies conducted by His Highness on board
of the little steamer, not to say the crimes, had disgusted and revolted
the pious soul of the youth, and he had rebelled against his master.
For this he had been abused; and he had run away from his employer,
departing alone in the Salihé, as she was then called. After an
adventure with the unreformed Scott, the "Big Four" had been picked up
at sea in an open boat, and conveyed to Gibraltar, where the Fatimé had
followed the Guardian-Mother from Funchal.
Felipe quieted his conscience for taking the steam-yacht by causing her
to be made fast to the Pacha's steamer, and leaving her there. At that
distance from his home the little craft was an elephant on the hands of
the owner, and he had sold her for a nominal price to one who had
disposed of her to the present owners. Don had been himself an engineer
on board of the Fatimé; but he had been threatened when he criticised
affairs which occurred on board of her, and he was ill-treated. He
escaped from her at Gibraltar, and had been employed by Captain Ringgold
in his present capacity.
"The Fatimé has gone to the bottom, Felipe," said Don as he entered the
engine-room. "There will be no more defiance of the laws of God and man
on board of her, for the present at least."
"God is good, and God is just," replied the chief engineer; but he did
not understand English quite well enough to comprehend the remark of
Don, who proceeded to repeat and explain it.
Captain Scott still remained at the wheel, and had not left it for a
moment. He was thinking all the time of what he had done, and wondering
what his recording angel had written down in regard to his action in the
greatest emergency of his lifetime.
"Mazagan is wounded in the shoulder; but Pitts thinks it will not prove
to be a fatal wound," said Felix as he went into the pilot-house.
"Has he come to his senses?" asked the captain.
"He has; and he wants to talk."
"I should like to hear him talk; for there are some things about this
affair which I do not yet understand."
"The cook says he must not talk yet, and he is taking charge of the
case."
"Where is Louis?"
"He was looking on, and doing what he could for the wounded man. Do you
know, Captain Scott, I believe it was the ball from his rifle that
struck Mazagan!" said Felix, with an impressive expression on his face.
"Nonsense, Flix!" exclaimed Scott. "How under the canopy can you tell
who fired the shot, when five of you were firing at the same time?"
"Within my knowledge Louis has defended himself with a revolver in his
hand three times, and in every one of them he hit his man in the right
shoulder," replied Felix. "He never fires to kill; he is a dead shot,
and he can put the ball just where he pleases every time. If Mazagan had
been shot dead, I should know that Louis did not do it."
"I remember that the fellow in the Muski was hit in the right shoulder,"
added the captain.
"That disables a man without making a very dangerous wound. But,
Captain, darling, don't whisper a word to Louis that he did it, for it
might make him feel bad."
"I won't say a word; but ask him to come to the pilot-house, for I want
to see him, Flix," said Scott, as he had had no opportunity since the
catastrophe to speak to the one he regarded as the most important
personage on board of the Maud.
In fact, but a very few minutes had elapsed since the event occurred.
Those on the wreck had made haste to escape before they should be
carried down with it, and they were still pulling at no great distance
from the Maud for the shore. Louis appeared at the door of the
pilot-house very promptly; for he imagined that his presence before the
wounded man was not agreeable to him, and that it emphasized in his mind
the disastrous failure of his expedition to this island.
"What next, Louis?" asked the captain with a smile on his face; for he
believed he had stolen his friend's first question "after the battle."
"That is for you to decide, Captain Scott, and I intend to avoid any
interference with the duties of the commander," replied Louis.
"But when the commander asks for advice it may be given without
offence," suggested Scott. "We have just got out of the tightest place
in which we have ever been placed, and our experience hitherto has been
boy's play compared with this day's work."
"That is very true; this is by all odds the most serious affair in which
we have ever been engaged," answered Louis, as he seated himself on the
divan.
"I am not going to beat about the bush for a moment, my dear fellow; and
before we talk about anything else, even of what we will do next in this
trying situation, I want to say that I am very much troubled in my mind
in regard to the consequences of what I have done," continued Scott,
as he seated himself by the side of his friend and model on the divan.
"I don't wonder that you are troubled; so am I, for I think we may well
regard what has happened as an extraordinary event," added Louis.
"I say what I have done; for I purposely abstained from asking advice
of you or any other fellow, after I had decided what to do, even if
there had been time for me to consult you. In other words, I took the
entire responsibility upon myself; and there I purpose to have it rest."
"Of course you had no time to ask the opinion of any fellow, even if it
could have been of any use to you."
"I believe I did the best I could. The shallow water at the south of us
prevented me from running away in that direction, as I tried to do, and
the only avenue out of the difficulty was directly ahead of the Maud."
"I understand it all perfectly, for I could measure the situation from
the upper deck," said Louis.
"I headed the steamer to the east. Then came that shot through the
galley. The Fatimé was coming about in order to bring her port gun to
bear upon us. She could not well avoid hitting us if she had tried to do
so, we were so near. If the ball went through the engine or the boiler,
both of which were exposed to the fire, that would have been the last of
us. Half of us might have been scalded to death; or, at the best,
Mazagan might have knocked the Maud all to pieces at his leisure after
he had disabled the vessel."
"Precisely so."
"I might have hoisted a white rag, and surrendered, permitting the
pirate to take you on board his steamer; but if I had done that, I
could never have held up my head again, and I could never have looked my
recording angel in the face to tell him I had let the pirate take Louis
Belgrave out of the Maud."
"It would not have ended in just the way you have pictured it, Captain
Scott," added Louis with a smile. "I think enough of the ship's company
would have stood by me to enable me to make an effectual resistance, and
Mazagan might have got a bullet through his left breast instead of
through his right shoulder."
"Every fellow would have stood by you, my dear fellow, as long as you
stood yourself," replied the captain. "If Mazagan had disabled the Maud,
he could have retired out of reach of our rifle balls, and knocked a
hole through the vessel with his guns, and sunk her. Then he would have
had nothing to do but to pick up his millionaire, and ransom him with
double the sum he demanded in Cairo."
"Perhaps you are right, Captain Scott; but I think we need not discuss
what might have been. We know what is; and this is the problem with
which we have to deal."
"Bluntly, Louis, I desire to ask you whether you approve or disapprove
what I have done as the captain of the Maud?" continued Scott rather
nervously for him.
"I wholly and heartily approve of what you have done!" protested Louis
with emphatic earnestness, and without an instant's hesitation.
"My dear Louis, give me your hand!" exclaimed Scott, springing to his
feet; they clasped hands in front of the wheel, and the captain seemed
disposed to extend it to an embrace. "You have removed all my doubts and
anxiety by what you said and the manner in which you said it. If you
approve my action, I believe the commander will do the same."
"While I do not accept your view of what might have followed if you had
done otherwise, I believe you did the best thing that could be done. If
the end had not come just as you say, it would have amounted to the same
thing. Let us leave the subject now, and come back to the question you
asked me when I came in. What shall be done next?" said Louis.
"I don't think we can do anything but wait here till the Guardian-Mother
comes. If we go to sea, she will not know where to find us," replied
Captain Scott. "What do you think of it, Louis?"
"I am decidedly opposed to remaining where we are. Though you and I may
agree that what has been done is all right, the officers of the Turkish
government in authority on this island may not be of that opinion. There
is no town, or anything like one, in sight, and I have not been able to
make out even a single house or habitation of any kind."
"It is an exceedingly rough-looking country on shore. There are nothing
but mountains and forests to be seen. The nearest town put down on the
chart is more than ten miles distant, though there may be a village or
houses behind those hills on the shore to the south of us. If any of
the inhabitants had heard the three shots fired by the pirate, they
would have shown themselves before this time."
"But I think we had better be farther from the island. When the
Guardian-Mother comes, she must take the same course which we followed
yesterday," persisted Louis. "I quite agree with you that we must remain
in this vicinity. It is almost as calm outside the bay as it is inside.
How is the water off the cape?"
"There are eight fathoms half a mile from the point. I think you are
right, on the whole, Louis; for we don't care to meet any Turkish
officers of any kind," replied the captain, as he rang the gong to go
ahead.
The sound of the bell brought all hands except Morris, who had
volunteered to stay with the patient in the cabin, to the forecastle.
Pitts had gone to the galley to ascertain the condition of his wares
after the passage of a twelve-pound shot through his quarters. The stove
had not been struck, but it had knocked about everything else into the
utmost confusion. He was arranging things as well as he could; for it
was now five o'clock in the afternoon, and time to think of getting
supper.
"How is your patient, Pitts?" asked Louis, coming to the door.
"He is doing well enough, though he has a good deal of pain. I suppose
the ball is still in his shoulder, and he will not be much better till
that is removed, Mr. Belgrave," replied the cook. "We are under way
again, sir."
"We are running out to the cape to wait for the Guardian-Mother,"
returned Louis, as he joined the others on the forecastle.
The two boats from the wreck had made a landing on a point near the
conic rock on the ledge. The course of the Maud took her within half a
mile of them; for she passed over the outer extremity of the ledge.
"They are making signals to us," said Felix to the captain. "There goes
a white cloth on a pole."
A little later a boat put off pulled by four men, with another in the
stern sheets. The captain rang to stop the screw; for he was curious to
know what the men wanted.
"Let the boat come alongside," said he.
There was not force enough to do any mischief if the Moors had been so
disposed. Don was sent for to do the talking; but the first person Louis
saw was Jules Ulbach, who had been Mazagan's assistant in his
operations. Louis talked with him in French. His first statement was
that his employer had been shot in the shoulder, and had gone down with
the wreck. The spokesman for the steamer did not deem it advisable to
contradict this statement.
Then Ulbach begged for a passage to some port from which he could return
to Paris. A few words passed between the captain and Louis, and the
request was peremptorily refused. The Frenchman begged hard, declaring
that the island was a desolate place, and he should starve there. The
men had come to beg some provisions, as they had not a morsel to eat.
"Give them all they want to eat," replied the captain when the request
was translated to him.
"The Guardian-Mother!" suddenly shouted Felix at the top of his lungs.
All hands gave three rousing cheers, to the astonishment of the
Frenchman and those in the boat. Pitts came out of the galley to
ascertain the cause of the demonstration, and he made out for himself
the bow of the ship passing the point of the cape. A plentiful supply of
food was put into the boat, and the Maud continued on her course.
CHAPTER XV
THE ARRIVAL OF THE GUARDIAN-MOTHER
The appearance of the Guardian-Mother in the offing was hailed with
rejoicing by every person belonging to the Maud. Off on an independent
cruise as the boys were, and "when the cat's away the mice will play,"
it would not have been strange if they had enjoyed their freedom from
the restraining presence and influence of the commander; but no such
feeling pervaded the minds of the ship's company.
Not even the captain of the little steamer had felt that he was in
possession of any unusual liberty. It might have been otherwise with him
and his companions if the threatening presence of the Fatimé had not
been a serious damper upon them. As it was, the voyage to Cyprus had
resulted in a tremendous event.
Whatever Scott had said to Louis Belgrave about knocking a hole in the
side of the pirate, as Captain Ringgold had done with the Viking, had no
bearing whatever upon what he had actually done when the critical moment
had come in the encounter. He declared rather lightly that he would
proceed to this extremity if he were the captain of the larger steamer;
but it had not occurred to him to do such a reckless deed with the
little Maud, when his opponent was a steamer of four hundred tons.
Captain Scott and his companions had expected to see the Guardian-Mother
long before she appeared. The commander might naturally have felt some
anxiety in regard to the safety of the Maud in the gale of the night
before, though it had not been a very severe storm; and Scott and Louis
supposed he would make all possible haste to be near her. Instead of
that, she was fully ten hours behind her, even with her superior speed
and more weatherly ability. They could not explain her delay, and it was
useless to attempt to do so.
"What do you suppose will become of those fellows from the pirate,
Captain Scott?" asked Louis, looking at the people from the Fatimé on
the shore.
"I haven't the least idea, and I don't think I shall trouble my head
with the question," replied the captain. "We have given them provisions
enough to keep them alive for several days, and they can make their way
to some town. I don't consider their condition as at all desperate. If
Captain Ringgold thinks it necessary, he will do whatever he deems
advisable."
"I don't consider those men as pirates, or hold them responsible for the
acts of Captain Mazagan," added Louis. "They had to obey his orders, and
I doubt if they had any knowledge of his intentions."
"I did not see a single person, as well as I could make them out in the
boats, who looked like an Englishman. Probably the foreign engineers
retired from the Pacha's service when Mazagan took command of her. They
knew the meaning of piracy. At any rate, the steamer was not officered
nor manned as she was when we saw her at Gibraltar. Don says her cabin
was magnificently furnished, as he had seen through the open door, for
he had never been into it. But he is certain that she is an old steamer,
built for a steam-yacht, but sold by her owner at a big price when she
became altogether behind the times."
"She could not have been very strongly built, or the Maud would not have
knocked a hole in her so easily," said Louis.
"It has been repeated over and over again that the Maud was constructed
of extra strength when she was built. Who was that man of whom she was
purchased?"
"Giles Chickworth, a Scotchman," replied Louis, as he recalled the
character.
"He declared that she was the strongest little vessel of her size that
ever was built. Don examined the inside of her bow immediately after the
blow was struck, and I have done so since. She has not started a plate
or a bolt. But then we had all the advantage. We struck the pirate
fairly on the broadside with the part of our craft where she is the
strongest, and where there could be no give or spring. It does not seem
so strange to me as I think it over."
"Pitts," called the captain a little later, while they were still
watching the approach of the ship, "how is your patient?"
"About the same, sir; I don't see any change in him," replied the cook.
"But he will have the doctor to-night, and that will put him in the way
of getting well."
"Does he talk any?"
"He would talk all the time if I would let him; but I don't answer him
when he asks questions, and I leave him alone most of the time."
"What is the condition of the galley?" asked the captain.
"It is in very bad condition, sir; the cannon-ball tore away all the
shelves on the starboard side, and knocked the tins and dishes all to
pieces. But I can get supper after a fashion," replied the cook.
"You may let the supper go to-night, and we will get it on board of the
ship. We shall be alongside of her in less than fifteen minutes," said
the captain. "Set the colors astern, Flix."
The Maud was going at full speed, and, as the two steamers were
approaching each other, they came within hail off Cape Arnauti. At this
time the captain ordered three cheers to be given; for he wished to make
a demonstration of some kind, and this was the only way within his
means. They were given with hearty good-will, and the seamen responded
from the Guardian-Mother, and both vessels whistled as snappers. Then
the ship stopped her screw, and the sound of escaping steam came from
her.
"Maud, ahoy!" shouted Captain Ringgold from her top-gallant forecastle.
"On board the Guardian-Mother!" responded Captain Scott.
"Come alongside!" added the commander.
"Alongside, sir!" replied the captain.
The Maud made a sweep around, and when she had come about, she came
alongside on the port side of the ship. The gangway was already lowered.
All the cabin party had been watching the approach to the island from
the promenade; but as soon as the Maud came alongside, they all hastened
to the main deck to greet the young cruisers, who had been absent from
the ship about thirty hours.
"Come on board, all of you!" called the commander from the head of the
gangway.
"I think we had better not say anything about what has happened in the
presence of the party," said Scott, as he started to mount the steps.
"Not a word," added Louis; and Morris and Felix repeated the words.
The "Big Four" ascended the gangway stairs to the main deck. The captain
was permitted to pass without any assaulting embraces, but Louis dropped
lovingly and submissively into the arms of his mother, as did Morris
when Mrs. Woolridge presented herself. Felix hung back, for he knew what
awaited him. The commander stepped aside to make room for these
demonstrations.
"Come to my room, all of you, as soon as the others are at liberty,"
said the commander in a low tone to Captain Scott.
"I will, sir," replied he, fully understanding what was meant.
"I am so glad to see you again, Louis!" exclaimed Mrs. Belgrave, as she
continued to hug her boy. "You have had a terrible time, haven't you, my
dear?"
"What makes you think so, mother?" asked Louis, wondering what she
meant; for it seemed impossible that she could know anything about the
"Battle of Khrysoko," as it afterwards came to be called.
"Why, you were out in a terrible storm last night," replied Mrs.
Belgrave. "I was afraid you would be cast away, my son, and I prayed for
you half the night."
"Then your prayers were effectual, for I am safe," answered Louis with a
smile.
"But wasn't it an awful tempest, my boy?" she asked, hugging the young
man with a new impulse.
"Not at all, my dear mother. We had a gale of wind, and it made a rough
night of it; but we got into this bay about eight o'clock this morning
all right," returned Louis, reciprocating her caresses. "But you must
not worry so about me, mother. We were in no danger at any time from the
gale or the heavy sea."
"Here is the commander, and he wants to see you, I know," she said,
stepping aside for him.
Captain Ringgold took the hand of the owner of the ship, and pressed it
warmly.
[Illustration: "SHE SPREAD OUT HER ARMS AND RUSHED UPON HIM." Page
147.]
"He says he has been in no danger from the storm, Captain," added the
lady.
"He knows best about that; but I told you the Maud would go through it
all right," added the commander as he turned to greet Morris.
"Where in the world is Felix?" cried Mrs. Blossom; for the Milesian,
actually dreading the onslaught of the excellent woman who was not his
mother, had dodged in at the door of the boudoir.
"I'm looking for you, grandma," said he, stepping out on the deck.
As soon as she saw him, she spread out her arms and rushed upon him; but
Felix put up his left arm and warded off the burden of the attack,
taking her by the hand with the right.
"How glad I am to see you, grandma!" he exclaimed, still holding her by
the right hand, with his left on guard. "I am delighted to be with you
again. The Guardian-Mother did not come into the bay, and I was afraid
you had all gone to the bottom in the gale."
"Don't you call me 'grandma' again, Felix," protested the worthy woman
quite warmly; for the Milesian had twice applied the opprobrious
appellation to her. "If you ever do it again, I will never hug you
another time!"
"Then I will call you so till my dying day!" Felix declared, to the
great amusement of all those within hearing.
"I am not your grandma! I am only thirty-six years old, and I am not
far enough into years to be the grandmother of a great strapping boy
like you."
"It is only a pet name. But you didn't go to the bottom of the sea after
all, grandma."
"There it is again!"
"Of course it is, grandma. But I will make a fair trade with you. If you
will promise never to hug me any more, I will agree never to call you
grandma again."
"That is fair," said Mrs. Belgrave.
They retired to the boudoir to talk over the matter; but the agreement
was ratified between them. The "Big Four" were cordially greeted by all
the passengers and by all the officers of the ship; but they were
careful not to drop any hint of what had transpired in Khrysoko Bay.
Before the exchange of salutations was finished the gong rang for
dinner.
"For a reason to be given later on, Captain Ringgold, I must ask you to
give the engineers and cook of the Maud their supper to-night," said
Captain Scott at a favorable moment.
The commander sent for Baldy Bickling, the second cook, and ordered him
to provide for them; and Mr. Boulong to send an engineer and a couple of
hands on board of the Maud while the party came on board to supper. The
company in the cabin were in a very jovial state of feeling, and it
would take a chapter to record all the jokes of Dr. Hawkes and Uncle
Moses. It was an excellent dinner even for the Guardian-Mother; for both
the chief steward and the chief cook were artists in their line, and it
was heartily enjoyed by all at the table.
The commander was impatient to hear the report of Captain Scott on his
expedition, and the commander of the Maud was almost as impatient to
learn what had delayed the ship; but fully an hour was spent at the
table, for no one wished to break in upon the agreeable occasion. How he
knew it he could not have told in detail; but the commander was
satisfied, that something important had occurred in the experience of
the young navigators, though not a word had yet been spoken, and he had
failed to notice the ragged hole through the Maud's deck-house at the
location of the galley.
He had expected to find the Fatimé near the little steamer; but though
he had swept the bay with his spy-glass, he could not find her, for she
was no longer visible. Probably she had fallen over on the rocky and
irregular bottom, and that had carried even her short masts under water.
As soon as the party rose from the table, Louis and Morris detached
themselves from their mothers, and hastened to the commander's room,
where they found Captain Scott and Felix.
"I don't see anything of the Fatimé in this bay," said Captain Ringgold,
when he had closed and locked his doors.
"But she is there, sir," replied Scott mysteriously to the commander.
"Where? I looked the bay over with my glass, and I think if she were
here I should have seen her," added Captain Ringgold.
"You could not see her where she is, Captain," replied Scott.
"Where is she, then?" demanded the commander.
"On the bottom, Captain Ringgold," said Captain Scott impressively.
CHAPTER XVI
THE REPORT OF THE BATTLE OF KHRYSOKO
Captain Ringgold looked from one to another of the "Big Four," and a
smile passed over his dignified face. It was evident to him from the
expression of all of them that something of importance had occurred in
Khrysoko Bay, and that Captain Scott, who was, by his position, the
spokesman of the party, proposed to tell his story in his own way, to
which he did not object.
He believed the young men were honest, truthful, and straightforward,
and he had no suspicions of any kind. As the bearer of heavy and
disagreeable intelligence is inclined to approach his topic by degrees,
the young captain did not like to tell the worst of his report in the
beginning.
The commander was not disposed to have the news "broken" to him, and
considered himself able to bear the whole of it in a mass without being
overwhelmed. But he had no idea of the seriousness of the event which
had occurred, and he thought it probable that the boys were making a
great deal more of it than the occasion required. They had all been to
the table at dinner, and were as lively and as full of fun as usual. As
none of them had been killed or injured, nothing very terrible could
have happened.
"When did you reach this bay, Captain Scott?" he asked, after he had
measured the visages of his audience.
"About eight o'clock this morning, sir," replied Scott.
"You had a smart gale about all last night," the commander proceeded.
"Yes, sir; but we made very good weather of it, and it lasted about
twelve hours."
"You had no accident?"
"None of any kind, sir; everything went on as usual."
"I suppose you expected the ship sooner than she came?"
"I looked for her this morning."
"In carrying out the plan which you suggested, Captain Scott, I found
that the Fatimé was not disposed to follow you as long as the
Guardian-Mother was in sight," continued the commander, while the "Big
Four" looked at each other, wondering that Captain Ringgold had turned
aside from the subject which was a burning one to them. "In order to
help Captain Mazagan in his movements, I picked up a pilot off Ras
Bourlos, and stood in behind a neck of land. We took the ground there,
and stuck hard in the soft mud, though the chart gave water enough to
float the ship."
"That was unfortunate," added Scott.
"A government tug hauled us off on the next tide, and I followed you at
the best speed of the ship. I went in at Limasol, though I did not
believe you would make that port in a southerly gale, and the lookout
reported the Maud in this bay. That is the reason of my delay in joining
you as arranged," said the commander, finishing his narrative. "But I
expected to find the Fatimé here also; for she was pressing on after you
the last we saw of her."
"We lost sight of her early last night," added Scott. "Her lights
disappeared, and we could form no idea as to what had become of her. I
think now that we outsailed her; for we carried a reefed foresail before
the gale, and it must have helped a good deal."
"She came into this bay this morning," added Louis, who thought the
conference was moving on very slowly.
"I see that you wish me to drag out of you the particulars of your stay
here, Captain Scott," said the commander with a smile. "As I have not
the least idea what you have been about here, I find some difficulty in
framing my questions. You know that a lawyer, when he examines a witness
in court, is in possession of all the facts, as I am not on the present
occasion. I have learned that the Fatimé came to this bay, and that she
is at the bottom now. Perhaps you will be willing to inform me, Captain,
by this time, how the Pacha's steamer happens to be at the bottom."
"We had a fight here, and I ran the Maud into her, stove a big hole in
her side, and she went to the bottom!" almost shouted Scott, who had
been not a little perplexed at the manner of proceeding of the
commander. "I believe that is telling the whole story in a heap, sir."
Captain Ringgold sprang out of his chair, evidently startled by the
intelligence; and he had never been known to make so much of a
demonstration before since he had been in command of the ship. He stood
looking into the face of Captain Scott as though he were incredulous in
regard to the announcement just made to him; and that a little
steam-yacht only forty feet in length had run into and sunk a vessel of
four hundred tons was calculated to stagger a man of his experience in
nautical affairs.
"Do you mean literally, Captain Scott, that you ran into and sank the
Fatimé?" demanded the commander.
"Literally and exactly, sir, that was what was done," replied the young
captain very decidedly.
"It looks incredible," added the commander, as he resumed his seat.
"It is the exact truth, Captain Ringgold," said Louis.
"I vouch for the truth of the statement, Captain, if my word is good for
anything," Felix followed.
"I give my testimony in the same direction," Morris put in.
"Of course I do not doubt the truth of your statement," replied the
commander. "But it looks like an amazing fact that the little Maud was
able to do so much mischief to a steamer of the size of the Fatimé.
However, she is about as big as some of the little tug-boats in New York
Harbor that drag ships of five hundred tons after them. In spite of all
that has been said in the last six months about the extraordinary
strength of the Maud, I should have supposed the blow, if you went at
the steamer at full speed, would have crushed in her bow."
"It did not start a bolt or bend a plate," replied Scott. "But,
according to the evidence of Don, who knew something about the Pacha's
yacht, she was old and nearly worn out when His Highness bought her."
"That may explain it."
"Before we proceed any farther, I ought to report that Captain Mazagan
is now in the cabin of the Maud, wounded by a rifle ball in the
shoulder, and in need of the services of the doctor," said Captain
Scott.
"Wounded with a rifle ball," repeated the commander. "Then there is a
good deal more of this affair which has not yet come out. But if the
villain is suffering, it is proper that he should be attended to at
once."
"Pitts has had charge of him."
Pinch, the mess steward, was sent for, and ordered to make the hospital
ready for a patient. Mr. Boulong was called in, and directed to
superintend the removal of the wounded Moor to this apartment, under
the direction of the surgeon. Dr. Hawkes was called from the boudoir,
where the company had assembled by this time, and conducted to the
patient.
"With this affair all concealment comes to an end for two reasons," said
the commander, as soon as he had given the orders for the disposal of
the wounded man. "First, there is no longer any necessity for us to keep
our own counsel, for Mazagan is now deprived of the means of following
us on our voyage; and second, it would be impossible to cover up our
movements under the present circumstances. The nervous mothers have no
longer any cause for alarm."
"It did not occur to me that we had made an end of this scare business,"
said Captain Scott. "I had not thought of the matter in that connection,
and all I did was to defend my steamer from the attack of the pirate,
who proposed to come on board and take Louis Belgrave out of her."
"Then you did your duty!" exclaimed Captain Ringgold, rising from his
arm-chair, and extending his hand to the young man. "I congratulate you
on your success, and I am only sorry that the unfortunate grounding of
the Guardian-Mother compelled you to fight the battle alone. I had no
intention of allowing the Maud to be out of my sight more than a few
hours."
Louis, Felix, and Morris clapped their hands with all their might at the
indorsement the commander had given Captain Scott.
"I cannot express to you, Louis, how happy I am to have you still with
us," continued the captain of the ship, as he took the hand of the young
millionaire; "for it appears from the report of Captain Scott that you
have been in imminent danger of being captured and carried off by that
miscreant, and that you have been saved only by the bravery and
determination of the commander of the Maud. He has done no more than I
would have done in his place, and if the pirate had taken you I would
have sunk his steamer at sight to rescue you."
"I am glad you approve the action of Captain Scott, though I had no
doubt you would do so when you learned the facts," replied Louis, as he
pressed the hand of the commander.
"But I have got only a skeleton of the facts yet, and now I should like
to hear the whole story in detail," said Captain Ringgold.
Scott took a paper from his pocket, the one he had drawn off of the
situation of the two steamers in Khrysoko Bay, with the position of the
ledge, the trend of the shore, and some of the soundings as he had taken
them from the chart. He had marked the course of the Maud in all the
movements she had made, and also of the Fatimé, giving the position of
each vessel at the moment of the collision.
He began his recital with the pointing out of the places of each steamer
as soon as the pirate came into the bay. The visit of her boat to the
little steamer followed, and the marshalling of the five members of the
ship's company armed with the repeating-rifles. The interview with
Mazagan was as minutely stated as though a skilled reporter of a
newspaper had taken it down.
"That was the most amazing, presumptuous, groundless, and insane demand
that one person could make upon another," interposed the commander. "It
was sheer piracy!"
Scott had so viewed it, and he proceeded with his narrative. Captain
Ringgold had vacated his chair at the desk, on which the captain of the
Maud had placed his diagram, and pointed out everything as he spoke. The
attempted escape by the supposed channel near the shore was dwelt upon
at some length, in order to enable the young captain to prove that he
had done his best to avoid a collision with the enemy.
The first shots the Fatimé had fired at the Maud, though they had fallen
far short of the mark, were mentioned so as to give them their full
effect; and Captain Ringgold declared that they were a sufficient
declaration of war.
"Only one avenue of escape was open to me," continued Captain Scott,
"and that was directly across the bow of the enemy. If I remained where
I was the Fatimé could come in with the rising of the tide, and sink the
Maud at her leisure. Then the pirate fired the shot from her starboard
gun which passed through the galley, and began to swing to, so as to
bring her port gun to bear on the Maud.
"I won't deny that the shot which went through our upper works made me
mad; but I feared that the next one might go through our boiler or
engine, and then it would have been all over with us. I determined to
prevent such a disaster if I could. I had ordered the hands to use the
rifles; but most of the crew concealed themselves under the top-gallant
forecastle. I shifted the helm, and drove the little steamer's bow
square into the broadside of the Fatimé, just abaft her fore chains.
"It seemed to me from the feeling that she was going to bore her way
through the pirate craft, and I rang to stop and back her. I gave the
speed bell as soon as she began to go astern, and the Maud went clear,
as I was afraid she would not."
The picking up of Mazagan after the Fatimé had gone down, and the visit
of the boat from the shore, were given in detail, and the narrative was
completed.
As soon as the story was finished, the commander took the hand of
Captain Scott again, and pressed it in silence for a moment. He had
listened attentively to the report, interrupting it but once, and had
carefully followed the speaker as he pointed out his movements on the
diagram.
"I approved your conduct, Captain Scott, when I had only a partial
knowledge of what you had done," said he. "I can now approve it with a
full knowledge of the whole affair even more heartily and decidedly than
before. You have been resolute and unflinching from the beginning, and
you have not only fought your ship as bravely and skilfully as any
naval officer could have done it, but you have done your best to avoid a
conflict. I commend you with all my heart and mind."
"I thank you, Captain Ringgold, for all the kind words you have spoken,
and I am rejoiced to be informed on such authority as you are that I
have done my duty faithfully," replied the young commander.
"I suppose the mothers in the boudoir are wondering what has become of
their boys," added the commander. "I give you an hour to pass with them,
and then we must sail for Port Said."
The conference was ended, and the boys all went to the boudoir.
CHAPTER XVII
THE INSIDE HISTORY OF THE VOYAGE
While the Guardian-Mother lay aground, the mothers in the cabin had
become very anxious about their boys, and both of them had spent wakeful
nights in thinking of them. In a comparison of notes it was evident that
the wind had blown harder on the coast of Egypt than farther to the
north. But the ship had escaped from the dilemma in the morning at an
early hour, and had made a quick run to Cape Arnauti.
There was therefore great rejoicing in the cabin when it was ascertained
that the Maud was safe, with all on board of her. Dr. Hawkes operated
upon Mazagan in the hospital, and readily removed the bullet from his
shoulder. Ball, one of the old man-of-war's-men of the crew, who had
seen some service as a nurse, was appointed to take care of him.
The fact that the surgeon had a patient soon became known in the
boudoir, and curiosity ran to the highest pitch to ascertain who and
what he was. All that was known was the fact that he had been brought on
board from the Maud, which Sparks had learned from the sailors who
assisted in removing him. The commander and the "Big Four" were still
closeted on the upper deck, and there was no one to answer any
questions.
Before Captain Scott had finished his report, Dr. Hawkes rejoined the
party; and he was immediately beset by the curious ones for information.
The seal of secrecy had been removed by the commander, and he had not
been instructed to be silent. He knew the patient as soon as he saw him;
for Mazagan had been a prisoner on board of the ship for a considerable
time after his capture in Pournea Bay.
"What is your patient, Dr. Hawkes?" asked Mrs. Blossom before he had
fairly crossed the threshold of the door.
"A wounded man; bullet in the shoulder," replied the surgeon with
professional discretion. "It is not a woman, and Ball has been called in
as his nurse."
"A bullet in the shoulder!" exclaimed the excellent woman. "Will he
die?"
"Undoubtedly he will, though perhaps not for twenty or thirty years."
"Is the wound dangerous?"
"I don't think so."
"But who is the man?"
"Captain Mazagan."
"Captain Mazagan!" exclaimed the good lady; and the name was repeated by
several others, for they had known him as the pirate who had attacked
the Maud for the purpose of robbery, as they supposed, and they had seen
him occasionally on the upper deck when the conferences were in
progress there.
"How happened he to be wounded in the shoulder, doctor?" persisted the
worthy lady.
"Because the bullet hit him there," replied the stout surgeon with a
chuckle, which was promptly communicated to Uncle Moses.
"But who shot him?"
"The man who fired the gun at him."
"Who fired the gun?"
"I don't know."
"What was Captain Mazagan doing here?"
"I don't know."
"Has there been a fight here?"
"Not that I am aware of."
"Then how did he get wounded?"
"I don't know," replied Dr. Hawkes, who evidently enjoyed the defeat of
the inquisitor; and Uncle Moses's huge frame was jarring like a pot of
jelly under the influence of his inward chuckles.
"Have you dressed the wound of your patient without finding out anything
at all about how the man was wounded?" demanded the good lady, disgusted
at her failure.
"It was my affair to dress his wound, and not to pump him, as I should
have done if he had taken a dose of poison," laughed the doctor. "But I
think you need have no anxiety about my patient, for I have no doubt he
will do very well."
"But there must have been a quarrel or a fight somewhere about here,
and I should like to know something about it," continued Mrs. Blossom,
as she dropped herself heavily on one of the divans.
"I can give you no information whatever; for I leave all the fights and
quarrels to our worthy and discreet commander, and do not meddle with
his affairs," added the surgeon.
"Do you really know nothing at all about what has happened here, Dr.
Hawkes?" asked Mrs. Belgrave; and it was plain that the curiosity of the
rest of the party was strongly excited, though they were more guarded in
manifesting it.
"Absolutely nothing, my dear madam, beyond the fact that the man is
Captain Mazagan," replied Dr. Hawkes. "I never inquire into the affairs
of my patients beyond what it is necessary for me to know in treating
the case. I have no doubt Captain Ringgold will give you all the
particulars of whatever has happened here; for it looks as though
something of importance had occurred."
A little later the commander, followed by the four boys, appeared, and
Mrs. Blossom renewed the onslaught. The others were, perhaps, quite as
anxious to learn what had taken place; but they were silent, and waited
for the captain to answer her questions if he was disposed to do so.
"I am sorry to interrupt this pleasant party, ladies and gentlemen, but
I have already given the order to weigh the anchor, and we shall go to
sea immediately," said Captain Ringgold. "The young gentlemen of the
Maud must take their leave, and return to the tender."
"Has anything happened here, Captain Ringgold?" asked Mrs. Belgrave,
taking him by the arm.
"Something has happened here," replied the commander, loud enough to be
heard by all in the boudoir. "But here are the four young men in whom
you are all more or less interested, and you can see that they are not
injured."
"Have you been hurt, Mr. Belgrave?" asked Miss Blanche, by whose side
Louis had taken his place when he entered the apartment, as he was very
much in the habit of doing when the party assembled.
"Not a hair of my head has been damaged," he replied.
"As soon as we are under way, and get clear of the shore, I shall tell
you the whole story of certain events which have transpired in Khrysoko
Bay during our absence," continued the commander. "I am willing to add
that it will make quite a thrilling narrative. About two o'clock
to-morrow afternoon I expect the Guardian-Mother and the Maud will be at
Port Said, at the entrance to the Suez Canal."
The mothers hugged their boys again even for the separation of eighteen
hours, and the hands of the others were duly shaken. Mrs. Blossom did
not attempt to hug the Milesian this time.
"What has happened here, Felix?" she asked in a low tone; for the good
lady would have been glad to get at the solution of the mystery, in
order that she might give a hint of it to the others.
"Captain Ringgold will tell you all about it; it would take me six hours
to do so, and I have not the time," replied Felix as he bolted through
the door.
"Six hours!" exclaimed the amiable lady. "Then we shall have to sit up
about all night to hear the story. I wonder what the boys have been
doing in this lonely place."
She was no wiser than the rest of the party. The two sons tore
themselves away from their mothers, and Louis was permitted to take the
hand of Miss Blanche in bidding her adieu. The commander had sent four
of the old sailors on board of the little steamer to stand the watches
during the trip; for the "Big Four" were believed to be thoroughly
exhausted after a night in the gale and the most exciting day of all
their lives. This was certainly true of Captain Scott, for he had hardly
slept a wink in the last thirty-six hours, and the others were tired
enough.
The chief engineer had been notified of the immediate departure of the
Maud, and the fasts were cast off as soon as the ship's company went on
board. Stevens, the carpenter of the ship, had repaired the damage done
in the galley, and a supply of provisions had been put on board.
Captain Scott had submitted the question as to whether anything was to
be done in regard to the ship's company of the Fatimé. The matter had
been decided at once. Captain Mazagan had declared war against the
Maud, and had proceeded to enforce his preposterous demand. He had made
a failure of it, and outside of the call of ordinary humanity, the
commander believed that it was not his duty to look out for the comfort
of the marauders. A sufficient supply of provisions had been sent to
those on shore, and the pirate himself was under treatment on board of
the ship. What was to be done with him was a question for the future.
Captain Scott remained in the pilot-house of the Maud till the steamer
was well off the cape, and then gave out the course, south and a half
west. It was Morris's watch, and he insisted on remaining on the
forecastle, as he had obtained a portion of his sleep the night before.
The ship soon followed her consort; and as soon as the commander had
given out the course he hastened to the boudoir, where the party were
awaiting his appearance.
"It is hardly necessary for me to give the nautical points involved in
'The Battle of Khrysoko,'" said Captain Ringgold, as he laid the diagram
of the captain of the Maud on the table.
"I beg your pardon, Captain--involved in what?" interrupted Mr.
Woolridge, who seemed to be bothered by the proper name.
"'The Battle of Khrysoko,'" repeated the commander with a smile. "That
is the name the boys gave to the affair, calling it after the bay in
which it occurred, though it is rather a high-sounding designation for
it."
"Are we to understand that a battle has been fought here, Captain
Ringgold?" inquired the magnate of the Fifth Avenue, as Louis had called
him.
"It did not rise to the dignity of a regular naval engagement, though it
took place on the waters of the bay," replied the captain. "Perhaps if
we call it a contest for superiority, it would cover the idea better.
But this party are not prepared to understand what has taken place in
Khrysoko Bay; and I must admit that I have concealed from you for the
last three months certain features of our voyage, a knowledge of which
would have rendered some of you very nervous and unhappy.
"I did not consult Dr. Hawkes in relation to the effect upon one of his
patients, but I am confident he would have advised me to do as I have
done. I am equally confident that another of your number would very soon
have become one of his patients if I had been imprudent enough to put
her in possession of all the facts in the situation. If I had done so at
Athens, Zante, or Alexandria, I am almost certain that the
Guardian-Mother would have been speeding her way across the Atlantic to
New York; for some of the party would have insisted upon abandoning the
voyage as projected.
"My only confidants in the inside history of this voyage for the last
six months, or since we visited Mogadore, were the four young men who
have just left you. Now I will relate this inside history, and give all
the facts without any reservation whatever. I must begin back at
Mogadore; and as I mention the incidents of our cruise so far, you will
remember all of them. 'The Battle of Khrysoko' is the last chapter of
the story, and for the present at least, and I hope forever, has removed
all danger from our path."
By this time the entire party were all attention. The captain began his
review of the incidents of the voyage at Mogadore. He used the time
judiciously, but it took him a full hour to bring the history down to
the final event. Whatever had been dark and mysterious in the past was
made plain. The discovery of the plot made by Louis in the café at
Gallipoli made a tremendous impression, and Dr. Hawkes had to attend to
Mrs. Belgrave, she became so excited and nervous.
The stirring events in the bay were given very cautiously by the
speaker, though he told the whole truth. He stated enough of the
nautical situation to enable the party to understand the affair; and he
warmly commended Captain Scott for the decisive act by which he had
finished the encounter, after he had used every effort to escape a
conflict.
"And did that wicked pirate actually fire cannon-balls into the Maud
while Louis was on board of her?" asked Mrs. Belgrave, very much
excited.
"He put one shot through her, though Louis was on the upper deck, firing
his rifle into the enemy, and he was in no danger," replied the
commander.
It was midnight when the narrative and the comments upon it were
finished. The doctor attended to his patient in the cabin, and then to
the other in the hospital. Mazagan felt better, and wanted to talk; but
Dr. Hawkes would not permit him to do so. The party retired with enough
to think about.
At the time stated by the commander, the Guardian-Mother and the Maud
were off the red light on the end of the breakwater at the entrance to
the Suez Canal.
CHAPTER XVIII
A BRIEF HISTORY OF THE SUEZ CANAL
The sea was quite smooth when the Guardian-Mother and her tender arrived
off Port Said. There was about thirty feet of water off the breakwater;
and though there was an extensive basin at the town, the commander
preferred to anchor outside for purposes he had in view. The trip to
Cyprus had interrupted the educational work of the tourists, and this
was the grand object ever uppermost in his mind.
Though this instructive element of the cruise around the world had been
prominent in his thoughts before the steamer sailed from New York, it
was rather indefinite in its details, so that he had failed to make some
preparations for the work which the experience of a year now suggested
to him. In the lectures, conferences, talks, and explanations to
individuals, the professor and himself had felt the want of suitable
maps on a large scale.
At Alexandria he had obtained a large map of Egypt, though it was not
just what was wanted; but it had answered the purpose tolerably well.
The subjects which would be next in order were full of interest to him,
and were likely to be so to the members of the party; for they included
some of the older countries of the world, such as Syria, Babylonia,
Assyria, Persia, and Arabia. Geographically they were comparatively
unfamiliar to the members of the party, who, unlike the professor, the
surgeon, and Uncle Moses, had not been liberally educated.
The instruction given at the various places on the voyage, and the
studies of the students on the wing, had demonstrated that such maps
were indispensable. But Captain Ringgold was a man of expedients. Every
steamer, especially those engaged in making long voyages, has a
paint-shop on board, more or less abundantly supplied with all necessary
material. All seamen are required to do plain painting; for such a ship
as the Guardian-Mother had to be kept in the nicest condition.
At Alexandria and Cairo the commander had procured such additional
material as was needed for the production of the maps desired. Some of
the sailors were more skilful in the use of the brush than others; and
as soon as the captain mentioned his purpose to the first and second
officers, they were able to point out a couple of men who had some
artistic ideas in their composition.
All the crew were able seamen, and every one of them was skilled in the
use of the sail-needle and palm, though of course in different degrees,
as in all other occupations. Some of these had sewed the canvas together
on which the maps were to be drawn and painted. It was not expected that
anything which would pass the scrutiny of an artist would be produced;
only such work as would answer the purpose of illustration.
In Mr. P. Lord Gaskette, the second officer of the ship, Captain
Ringgold found his ablest assistant. He was a graduate of one of the
most noted colleges of the United States, and had made some progress in
the study of the legal profession. Unfortunately his health had failed
him, and he had turned his attention to artistic pursuits for the sake
of the out-door life to be obtained in sketching. He had taken some
lessons in drawing and painting; but his physician had insisted that he
should go to sea. He had been seven years a wanderer over the world,
having shipped before the mast, and reached his present position.
