She was not hungry, in fact, Gethryn knew 
that the concierge, whose duty it was to feed 
all the creatures, overdid it from pure kindness 
of heart, at Gethryn's expense. 
"Gummidge, you're stuffed up to your eyes, 
aren't you?" he said. 
At the sound of his voice the cat hoisted her 
tail, and began to march in narrowing circles 
about her master's chair, making gentle observations in the cat language. 
Gethryn placed a bit of sardine on a fork 
and held it out, but the little humbug merely 
sniffed at it daintily, and then rubbed against 
her master's hand. 
He laughed and tossed the bit of fish into the 
fire, where it spluttered and blazed until the 
 
parrot woke up with a croak of annoyance. 
Gethryn watched the kettle in silence. 
Faces he could never see among the coals, 
but many a time he had constructed animals 
and reptiles from the embers, and just now he 
fancied he could see a resemblance to a shark 
among the bits of blazing coal. 
He watched the kettle dreamily. The fire 
glowed and flashed and sank, and glowed again. 
Now he could distinctly see a serpent twisting 
among the embers. The clock ticked in meas 
ured unison with the slow oscillation of the flame 
serpent. The wind blew hard against the panes, 
and sent a sudden chill creeping to his feet. 
Bang! Bang! went the blinds. The hall 
way was full of strange noises. He thought he 
heard a step on the threshold; he imagined 
that his door creaked, but he did not turn around 
from his study of the fire; it was the wind, of 
course, 
The sudden hiss of the kettle, boiling over, 
made him jump and seize it. As he turned to 
set it down, there was a figure standing beside 
the table. Neither spoke. The kettle burnt his 
hand and he set it back on the hearth; then he 
remained standing, his eyes fixed on the 
fire. 
After a while Yvonne broke the silence, 
speaking very low: "Are you angry?" 
"Why?" 
"I don't know," said the girl with a sigh. 
The silence was too strained to last, and 
finally Gethryn said, "Won't you sit down?" 
She did so silently. 
"You see I'm I'm about to do a little cook 
ing," he said, looking at the eggs. 
The girl spoke again, still very low. 
"Won't you tell me why you are angry?" 
"I'm not," began Gethryn, but he sat down 
and glanced moodily at the girl. 
"For two weeks you have not been to see 
me." 
"You are mistaken, I have been" he began, 
but stopped. 
"When?" 
"Saturday." 
"And I was not at home?" 
"And you were at home," he said grimly. 
"You had a caller, it was easy to hear his 
voice, so I did not knock," 
 
She winced, but said quietly, "Don't you think 
that is rude?" 
"Yes," said Gethryn, "I beg pardon." 
Presently she continued: "You and and he 
are the only two men who have been in my 
room." 
"I'm honored, I'm sure," he answered, dryly- 
The girl threw back her mackintosh, and 
raised her veil. 
"I ask your pardon again," he said; "allow 
me to relieve you of your waterproof." 
She rose, suffering him to aid her with her 
cloak, and then sat down and looked into the fire 
in her turn. 
"It has been so long, I hoped you would 
come." 
"Whom were you with in the Luxembourg 
Gardens?" he suddenly broke out. 
She did not misunderstand or evade the question, and Gethryn, watching her face, thought 
perhaps she had expected it. But she resented 
his tone. 
"I was with a friend," she said, simply. 
He came and sat down opposite her. 
"It is not my business, "he said, sulkily; "excuse me." 
She looked at him for some moments in si 
lence. 
"It was Mr. Pick," she said at length. 
Gethryn could not repress a gesture of disgust. 
"And that, Jew was in your rooms? That 
Jew!" 
"Yes." She sat nervously rolling and unroll 
ing her gloves. "Why do you care?" she asked, 
looking into the fire. 
"I don't." 
"You do." 
There was a pause. 
"Rex," she said, very low, "will you listen?" 
"Yes, I'll listen." 
"He is a a friend of my sister s. He came 
from her to to " 
"To what!" 
"To borrow a little money. I distrusted 
him, the first time he came, the time you heard 
him in my room, and I refused him. Saturday he stopped me in the street, and, hoping 
to avoid a chance of meeting you, I walked 
through the park," 
 
"And you gave him the money, I saw you!" 
I did, all I could spare." 
"Is he, is your sister married?" 
"No," she whispered. 
"And why" began Gethryn, angrily, "Why 
does that scoundrel come to beg money He 
stopped, for the girl was in evident dis 
tress. 
"Ah! You know why," she said in a scarce 
audible voice. 
The young man was silent. 
"And you will come again ?" she asked timidly. 
No answer. 
She moved toward the door. 
"We were such very good friends." 
Still he was silent. 
"Is it au revoir?" she whispered, and waited 
for a moment on the threshold. 
"Then it is adieu." 
"Yes," he said, huskily, "that is better." 
She trembled a little and leaned against the 
doorway. 
"Adieu, mon ami-" She tried to speak, but 
her voice broke and ended in a sob. 
Then, all at once, and neither knew just how 
it was, she was lying in his arms, sobbing passionately. 
"Rex," said Yovnne, half an hour later, as 
she stood before the mirror arranging her disordered curls, "are you not the least little bit 
ashamed of yourself?" 
The answer appeared to be satisfactory, but 
the curly head was in a more hopeless state of 
disorder than before, and at last the girl gave a 
little sigh, and exclaimed, "There! I'm all 
rumpled, but it's your fault. Will you oblige me 
by regarding my hair?" 
"Better let it alone; I'll only rumple it some 
more!" he cried, omniously. 
"You mustn t! I forbid you!" 
"But I want to!" 
"Not now, then " 
"Yes immediately !" 
    "Rex you mustn't O, Rex II" 
"What?" he laughed, holding her by her slen 
der wrists. 
She flushed scarlet and struggled to break 
away. 
"Only one," 
 
"No." 
"One." 
"None." 
"Shall I let you go?" 
"Yes," she said, but catching sight of his 
face, stopped short. 
He dropped her hands with a laugh and looked 
at her. Then she came slowly up to him, and 
flushing crimson, pulled his head down to hers. 
"Yvonne, do you love me? Truthfully?" 
"Rex, can you ask?" Her warm little head 
lay against his throat, her heart beat against his, 
her breath fell upon his cheek, and her curls 
clustered among his own. 
"Yvonne Yvonne," he murmured, "I love 
you, once and forever." 
"Once and forever," she repeated, in a half 
whisper. 
"Forever," he said. 
' ' ' ' 
An hour later they were seated tete-a-tete at 
Gethryn's little table. She had not permitted 
him to poach the eggs, and perhaps they were 
better on that account. 
"Bachelor habits must cease," she cried, with 
a little laugh, and Gethryn smiled in doubtful 
acquiescence. 
"Do you like grilled sardines on toast?" she 
asked. 
"I seem to," he smiled, finishing his fourth; 
"they are delicious, yours," he added. 
"Oh, that tea!" she cried, "and not one bit 
of sugar. What a hopelessly careless man!" 
But Gethryn jumped up, crying, "Wait a mo 
ment!" and returned triumphantly with a huge 
mass of rock-candy, the remains of one of 
Clifford's abortive attempts at "rye-and-rock." 
They each broke off enough for their cups, 
and Gethryn, tasting his, declared the tea "de 
licious." Yvonne sat, chipping an egg and 
casting sidelong glances at Gethryn, which were 
always met and returned with interest 
"Yvonne, I want to tell you a secret." 
"What, Rex?" 
"I love you." 
"Oh!" 
"And you?" 
"No not at all!" cried the girl, shaking her 
pretty head. Presently she gave him a swift 
glance from beneath her drooping lashes, 
 
"Rex?" 
"What, Yvonne?" 
"I want to tell you a secret." 
"What, Yvonne?" 
"If you eat so many sardines " 
"Oh!" cried Gethryn, half angrily, but laugh 
ing, "you must pay for that!" 
"\Vhat?" she said, innocently, but jumped 
up and kept the table between him and herself. 
"You know!" he cried, chasing her into a 
corner. 
"We are two babies," she said, very red, 
following him back to the table. The pate was 
eaten in comparative quiet. 
"Now," she said, with great dignity, setting 
down her glass, "behave and get me some hot 
water." 
Gethryn meekly brought it. 
"If you touch me while I am washing these 
dishes!!!" 
"But let me help?" 
"No, go and sit down instantly." 
He fled in affected terror, and ensconced him 
self upon the sofa. Presently he inquired, in a 
plaintive voice: "Have you nearly finished?" 
"No," said the girl, carefully drying and ar 
ranging the quaint Egyptian tea-set, "and I 
won't for ages." 
"But you're not going to wash all those 
things? The concierge does that." 
"No, only the wine-glasses and the tea-set. 
The idea of trusting such fragile cups to a con 
cierge! What a boy!" 
But she was soon ready to dry her slender 
hands, and caught up a towel with a demure 
glance at Gethryn. 
"Which do you think most of, your dogs, 
or me?" 
"Pups." 
"That parrot, or me?" 
"Poll." 
"The raven, or me? The cat, or me?" 
"Bird and puss." 
She stole over to his side and knelt down. 
"Rex, if you ever tire of me, if you ever are 
unkind, if you ever leave me, I think I shall 
die." 
He drew her to him. "Yvonne," he whispered, 
"we can't always be together." 
"I know it, I'm foolish," she faltered. 
"I shall not always be a student. I shall not 
always be in Paris, dear Yvonne." 
She leaned closer to him. 
"I must go back to America some day." 
"And and marry?" she whispered, chok- 
"No not to marry," he said, "but it is my 
home." 
"I I know it, Rex, but don't let us think of 
it. Rex," she said, some moments after, "are 
you like all students?" 
"How do you mean?" 
"Have you ever loved, before, a girl, here 
in Paris, like me?" 
"There are none, like you." 
"Answer me, Rex." 
"No, I never have," he said, truthfully. 
Presently he added, "And you, Yvonne?" 
She put her warm little hand across his mouth. 
"Don't ask," she murmured. 
"But I do!" he cried, struggling to see her 
eyes, "won't you tell me?" 
She hid her face tight against his breast. 
"You know I have; that is why I am alone 
here, in Paris," 
"You loved him?" 
"Yes, not as I love you." 
Presently she raised her eyes to his. 
"Shall I tell you all? I am like so many so 
many others. When you know their story, you 
know mine." 
He leaned down and kissed her. 
"Don't tell me," he said. 
But she went on. 
"I was only seventeen I am nineteen now. 
He was an officer at at Chartres, where we 
lived. He took me to Paris." 
"And left you." 
"He died of the fever in Tonquin." 
"When?" 
"Three weeks ago." 
"And you heard?" 
"To-night." 
"Then he did leave you." 
"Don t, Rex, he never loved me, and I I 
never really loved him. I found that out." 
"When did you find it out?" 
"One day, you know when, in a  cab." 
"Dear Yvonne," he whispered, "can't you go 
back to to your family?" 
 
"No, Rex." 
"Never?" 
"I don't wish, to now. No, don't ask me 
why! I can't tell you. I am like all the rest 
all the rest. The Paris fever is only cured 
by death. Don't ask me, Rex; I am content 
indeed I am." 
Suddenly a heavy rapping at the door caused 
Gethryn to spring hurriedly to his feet. 
"Rex!" 
It was Braith's voice. 
"What!" cried Gethryn, hoarsely. 
There was a pause. 
"Aren't you going to let me in?" 
"I can t, old man; I I'm not just up for company to-night," stammered Gethryn. 
"Company be damned, are you ill?" 
"No." 
There was a silence. 
"I'm sorry," began Gethryn, but was cut short 
by a gruff, 
"All right; good-night!" and Braith went 
away. 
Yvonne looked inquiringly at him. 
"It was nothing," he murmured, very pale, 
and then threw himself at her feet, crying, "Oh, 
Yvonne Yvonne !" 
Outside the storm raged furiously. 
Presently she whispered, "Rex, shall I light 
the candle? It is midnight." 
&lt;Yes," he said. 
She slipped away, and after searching for 
some time, cried, "The matches are all gone, 
but here is a piece of paper, a letter; do you 
want it? I can light it over the lamp." 
She held up an envelope to him. 
"I can light it over the lamp," she repeated. 
"What is the address" 
"It is very long, I can't read it all, only Flor 
ence, Italy. ' 
"Burn it, "he said, in a voice so low she could 
scarcely hear him. 
Presently she came over and knelt down by 
his side. Neither spoke or moved. 
"The candle is lighted," she whispered, at 
last. 
"And the lamp?" 
"Is out." 
CHAPTER IX. 
Cholmondeley Rowden had invited a select 
circle of friends to join him in a "petit diner a 
la stag," as he expressed it. 
Eight months of Paris and the cold, cold 
world had worked a wonderful change in Mr. 
Rowden. For one thing, he had shaved his whiskers and now wore only a mustache. For 
another, he had learned to like and respect a 
fair portion of the French students, and in con 
sequence was respected and liked in return. 
He had had two fights, in both of which he 
had contributed to the glory of the British Empire, and prize ring. 
He was a better sparrer than Clifford, and 
was his equal in the use of the foils. Like Clifford, 
he was a capital banjoist, but he insisted that 
cricket was far superior to base-ball, and this 
was the only bone of contention that ever fell 
between the two. 
Clifford played his shameless jokes as usual, 
accompanied by the enthusiastic applause of 
Rowden. Clifford also played "The Widow 
Nolan's Goat" upon his banjo, accompanied by 
the intricate pizzicatos of Rowden. 
Clifford drank numerous bottles of double X 
with Rowden, and Rowden consumed uncounted 
egg- flips with Clifford. They were inseparable; 
in fact, the triumvirate, Clifford, Elliott and 
Rowden, even went so far as to dress alike, and 
mean-natured people hinted that they had but 
one common style in painting. But they did 
not make the remark to any of the triumvirate. 
They were very fond of each other, these pre 
cious triumvirs, but they did not address each 
other by nicknames, and perhaps it was because 
they respected each other enough to refrain 
from familiarities that this alliance lasted as long 
as they lived. 
It was a beautiful sight, that of the three 
youths, when they sallied forth in company, 
hatted, clothed, and gloved alike, and each followed by a murderous-looking bull-dog. The 
animals were of the brindled variety, and each 
was garnished with a steel spiked collar. Timid 
people often crossed to the other side of the 
street on meeting this procession. 
 
Braith laughed at the whole performance, 
but secretly thought that a little of their spare 
energy and imagination might have been spent 
to advantage upon their artistic productions. 
Braith was doing splendidly. His last year's 
picture had been hung on the line and, in spite 
of his number three, he had received a third 
class medal, and had been praised, even generously, by artists and critics, including Albert 
Wolff. He was hard at work on a large canvas for 
the coming International Exhibition at Paris; 
he had sold a number of smaller studies, and 
besides had pictures well hung in Munich, and 
in more than one gallery at home. 
At last, after ten years of hard work, struggles, 
and disappointments, he began to enjoy a meas 
ure of success. He and Gethryn saw little of 
each other this winter, excepting at Julien s. 
That last visit to the Rue Monsieur le Prince 
was never mentioned between them. They were 
as cordial when they met as ever, but Braith 
did not visit his young friend any more, and 
Gethryn never spoke to him of Yvonne. 
"Good-bye, old chap!" Braith would say, 
when they parted, gripping Rex's hand and 
smiling at him. But Rex did not see Braith's 
face as he walked away. 
Braith felt helpless. The thing he most 
dreaded for Rex had happened; he believed he 
could see the end of it all, and yet he could 
prevent nothing. If he should tell Rex that 
he was being ruined, Rex would not listen, and 
who was he that he should preach to another 
man for the same fault by which he had wasted 
his own life? No, Rex would never listen to 
him, and he dreaded a rupture of their friend 
ship. 
Gethryn had made his debut in the Salon 
with a certain amount of eclat. True, he had 
been disappointed in his expectations of a med 
al, but a first mention had soothed him a little, 
and, what was more important, it proved to be 
the needed sop to his discontented aunt. But 
somehow or other his new picture did not pro 
gress rapidly, or in a thoroughly satisfactory 
manner. In bits and spots it showed a certain amount of feverish brilliancy, yes, even 
mature solidity; in fact, it was nowhere bad, 
but still it was not Gethryn and he knew that. 
"Confound it!" he would mutter, standing 
back from his canvas; but even at such times, 
he could hardly help wondering at his own 
marvelous technique. 
"Technique be'd ned! Give me stupidity 
in a pupil every time, rather than cleverness," 
Harrington had said to one of his pupils, and the 
remark often rang in Gethryn's ears even when 
his eyes were most blinded by his own wonder 
ful facility. 
"Some fools would medal this," he thought; 
"but what pleasure could a medal bring me 
when I know how little I deserve it?" 
Perhaps he was his own hardest critic, but it 
was certain that the old, simple honesty, the 
subtle purity, the almost pathetic effort to tell 
the truth with paint and brush, had nearly dis 
appeared from Gethryn's canvases during the last 
eight months, and had given place to a fierce 
and almost startling brilliancy, never, perhaps, 
hitting, but always threatening some brutal note 
of discord. 
Even Elise looked vaguely troubled, though 
she always smiled brightly at Gethryn's criticism of his own work. 
"It is so very wonderful and dazzling, but - 
but the color seems to me unkind." 
And he would groan and answer, "Yes v yes, 
Elise, you're right; oh, I can never paint anoth 
er like the one of last June !" 
"Ah, that!" she would cry, "that was delicious "but checking herself, she would add, 
"Courage, let us try again; I am not tired, 
indeed I am not" 
Yvonne never came into the studio when Gethryn had models, but often, after the light was 
dim, and the models had taken their leave, she 
would slip in, and, hanging lightly over his 
shoulder, her cheek against his, would stand 
watching the touches and retouches with which 
the young artist always eked out the last rays 
of daylight. And when his hand drooped, and 
she could hardly distinguish his face in the 
gathering gloom, he would sigh and turn to her, 
smoothing the soft hair from her forehead, say 
ing: "Are you happy, Yvonne?" And Yvonne 
always answered, "Yes, Rex, when you are." 
Then he would laugh, and kiss her and tell 
her he was always happy with La Belle He"lene, 
and they would stand in the gathering twilight 
until a gurgle from the now well-grown pups 
would warn them that the hour of hunger had 
arrived, 
 
The triumvirate, with Thaxton, Rhodes, 
Carleton, and the rest, had been frequent visitors all winter at the "Menagerie," as Clifford's 
bad pun had named Gethryn's apartment; but, 
of late, other social engagements and, possibly, 
a small amount of work, had kept them away. 
Clifford was a great favorite with Yvonne. . 
Thaxton and Elliott she liked. Rowden she 
tormented, and Carleton she endured. She 
captured Clifford by suffering him to play his 
banjo to her piano. Rowden liked her because 
she was pretty and witty, though he never got 
used to her quiet little digs at his own respected 
and dignified person. Clifford openly avowed 
his attachment, and spent many golden hours 
away from work, listening to her singing. She 
had been taught by a good master, and her 
voice was pure and pliant, although as yet only 
half developed. The little concerts they gave 
their friends were really charming, with 
Clifford's banjo, Gethryn's guitar, Thaxton's 
violin, Yvonne's voice and piano. Clifford made 
the programmes. They were profusely illustrated, and he spent a great deal of time rehearsing, writing verses, and re-hashing familiar airs 
(he called it "composing"), which would have 
been as well devoted to his easel. 
In Rowden, Yvonne was delighted to find 
a cultivated musician. Clifford listened to their 
talk of chords and keys, went and bought a 
"Musical Primer" on the Quai'd Orsay, spent 
a wretched hour groping over it, swore softly, 
and closed the book forever. 
But neither the triumvirate nor the others had 
been to the "Menagerie" for over a fortnight, 
when Rowden, feeling it incumbent upon him 
to return some of Gethryn's hospitality, issued 
very proper cards, indeed they were very swell 
cards for the Latin Quarter, for a "dinner," 
to be followed by a "quiet evening" at the Bal 
Masqud at the Opera. 
The triumvirate had accordingly tied up their 
brindled bull-dogs, "Spit," "Snap" and "Tug;" 
had donned their white ties and collars of awful 
altitude, and were fully prepared to please and 
to be pleased. Although it was nominally a 
"stag" party, the triumvirate would as soon have 
cut off their tender mustaches as have failed to 
invite Yvonne. But she had replied to Row- 
den's invitation by a dainty little note, ending: 
 
"and I am sure that you will understand when I 
say that this time I will leave you gentlemen in 
undisturbed possession of the evening, for I 
know how dearly men love to meet and behave 
like bears all by themselves. But I shall see 
you all afterward at the Opera. Au revoir then, 
at the Bal Masque. Y. D." 
The first sensation to the young men was one 
of disappointment. But the second was that 
Mademoiselle Descarte's tact had not failed 
her. 
The triumvirate were seated upon the side 
board swinging their legs. Rowden cast a sat 
isfied glance at the table laid for fifteen, and 
flicked an imaginary speck from his immac 
ulate shirt front. 
"I think it's all right," said Elliott, noticing 
his look, "eh, Clifford?" 
"Is there enough champagne?" asked that 
youth, calculating four quart bottles to each 
person. 
Rowden groaned. 
"Of course there is. What are you made of?" 
"Human flesh," acknowledged the other 
meekly. 
At eleven the guests began to arrive, welcomed by the triumvirs with great state and dig 
nity. Rovvden, looking about, missed only one 
Gethryn, and he entered at the same moment. 
"Just in time," said Rowden, and made the 
move to the table. As Gethryn sat down, he 
noticed that the place on Rowden's right was 
vacant, and before it stood a huge bouquet of 
white violets. 
"Too bad she isn't here," said Rowden, glancing at Gethryn and then at the vacant place. 
"That's awfully nice of you, Rowden," cried 
Gethryn, with a happy smile; "she will have a 
chance to thank you to-night." 
He leaned over and touched his face to the 
flowers. As he raised his head again, his eyes 
met Braith s. 
"Hello!" cried Braith, cordially. 
Rex did not notice how pale he was, and called 
back, "Hello!" with a feeling of relief at Braith's 
tone. It was always so. When they were apart 
for days, there weighed a cloud of constraint on 
Rex's mind, which Braith's first greeting always 
dispelled. But it gathered again in the next 
interval. It rose from a sullen deposit of self- 
 
reproach down deep in Gethryn's own heart. 
He kept it covered over; but he could not pre 
vent the ghost-like exhalations that gathered 
there and showed where it was hidden. 
Speeches began rather late. Elliott made one 
and offered a toast to "la plus jolie demoiselle de 
Paris, "which was drunk amid great enthusiasm, 
and responded to by Gethryn, ending with a 
toast to Rowden. Rowden's response was stiff, 
but most correct. The same could not be said 
of Clifford's answer to the toast, "The struggling 
Artist Heaven help him!" 
Towards i A. M. Mr. Clifford's conversation 
had become incoherent. But he continued to 
drink toasts. H3 drank Yvonne's health five 
times, he pledged Rowden and Gethryn and 
everybody else he could think of, down to Mrs. 
Gummidge and each separate kitten, and finally 
pledged himself. By that time he had reached 
the lachrymose state. Tears, it seemed, did 
him good. A heart-rending sob was usually the 
sign of reviving intelligence. 
"Well," said Gethryn, buttoning his great 
coat, "I'll see you all in an hour, at the Opera." 
 
Braith was not coming with them to the Ball, 
so Rex shook hands and said "Good-night," and 
calling "Au revoir" to Rowden and the rest, 
ran downstairs three at a time. He hurried into 
the court and after spending five minutes shout 
ing "Cordon!" succeeded in getting out of the 
door, and into the Rue Michelet. From there he 
turned into the Avenue de 1 Observatoire, and 
cutting through into the Boulevard, came to his 
hotel. 
Yvonne was standing before the mirror, tying 
the hood of a white silk domino under her chin. 
Hearing Gethryn's key in the door, she hurriedly 
slipped on her little white mask and confronted 
him. 
"Why, who is this?" cried Gethyrn. "Yvonne, 
come and tell me who this charming stranger is!" 
"You see before you the Princess Helene, 
Monsieur," she said, gravely bending the little 
masked head. 
"Oh, in that case, you needn't come, Yvonne, 
as I have an engagement with the Princess 
Helene of Troy." 
"But you mustn't kiss me!" she cried, hastily 
placing the table between herself and Geth- 
 
ryn; "you have not yet been presented. Oh, 
Rex! Don't be so so idiotic; you spoil my 
dress there, yes, only one, but don't you dare 
to try Oli, Rex! Now I am all in wrinkles, 
you you bear!" 
"Bears hug that's a fact," he laughed. "Come, 
are you ready or I'll just " 
"Don't you dare!" she cried, whipping off 
her mask and attempting an indignant frown. 
She saw the big bunch of white violets in his 
hand, and made a diversion by asking what 
those were. He told her, and she declared, de 
lightedly, that she should carry them with 
Rex's roses to the Ball. 
"They shall have the preference, Monsieur," 
she said, teasingly. "Oh, Rex! don't please " 
she entreated. 
"All right, I won t," he said, drawing her 
wrap around her; and Yvonne, replacing the 
mask and gathering up her fluffy skirts, slipped 
one small gloved hand through his arm, and 
danced down the stairs. 
On the corner of the Vaugirard and the Rue 
de Medicis one always finds a line of cabs, and 
presently they were bumping and bouncing away 
down the Rue de Seine to the river. 
"Je fais ce que sa fantaisie 
Veut m ordonner, 
Et je puis,'s il lui faut ma vie 
La lui dormer, " 
sang Yvonne, deftly thrusting tierce and quarte 
with her fan to make Gethryn keep his distance. 
"Do you know it is snowing?" he said pres 
ently, peering out of the window, as the cab 
rattled across the Pont Neuf. 
"Tant mieux!" cried the girl; "I shall make 
a snowball, a she opened her blue eyes 
impressively, "a very, very large one, and 
"And?" 
"Drop it on the head of Mr. Rowden," she 
announced, with cheerful decision. 
"I'll warn poor Rowden of your intention," 
he laughed, as the cab rolled smoothly up the 
Avenue de 1 Opera, across the Boulevard des 
Italiens, and stopped before the glittering pile 
of the great Opera. 
She sprang lightly to the curbstone and stood 
tapping her little feet against the pavement 
while Gethryn fumbled about for his fare. 
The steps of the Opera and the Plaza were 
covered with figures in dominoes, blue, red or 
 
black, many grotesque and bizarre costumes, 
and not a few sober claw-hammers. The great 
flare of yellow light which bathed and flooded 
the shifting, many-colored throng, also lent a 
strangely weird effect to the now heavily falling 
snow-flakes. Carnages and cabs kept arriving 
in countless numbers. It was half past two, and 
nobody who wanted to be considered anybody 
thought of arriving before that hour. The peo 
ple poured in a steady stream through the por 
tals. Groups of English and American students 
in their irreproachable evening attire, groups of 
French students in someone else's doubtful 
evening attire, crowds of rustling silken dominoes, herds of crackling muslin dominoes, 
countless sad faced Pierrots, fewer sad-faced 
Capuchins, now and then a slim Mephistopheles, 
now and then a fat, stolid Turk, Arry, Tom, 
and Billy, redolent of plum pudding and Seven 
Dials, Gontran, Gaston and Achille, savoring of 
brasseries and the Sorbonne. And then, from 
the carriages and nacres; Mademoiselle Patch 
ouli and good old Monsieur Bonvin, Mademoi 
selle Nitouche and bad young Monsieur de 
Sacrebleu, Mademoiselle Moineau and Don Caesar 
Imberbe; and the pink silk domino of "La Pat- 
aude" mais n importe! 
Aliens, Messieurs, Mesdames, to the cloak 
room to the foyer! To the escalier! or you, 
Madame la Comtesse, to your box, and smooth 
out your crumpled domino; as for "LaPataude," 
she is going to dance to-night. 
Gethryn, with Yvonne clinging tightly to his 
arm, entered the great vestibule and passed 
through the railed lanes to the broad inclined 
aisle which led to the floor. 
"Do you want to take a peep before we go to 
our box?" he asked, leading her to the door 
way. 
Yvonne's little heart beat faster as she leaned 
over and glanced at the dazzling spectacle. 
"Come, hurry, let us go to the box!" she 
whispered, dragging Gethryn after her up the 
stairway. 
He followed, laughing at her excitement, and in 
a few minutes they found the door of their lodge 
and slipped in. 
Gethryn lighted a cigarette and began to 
unstrap his field glasses. 
"Take these, Yvonne," he said, handing them 
 
to her while he adjusted her own tiny gold 
ones. 
Yvonne's cheeks flushed and her eyes sparkled 
under the little mask, as she leaned over 
the velvet railing and gazed at the bewildering 
spectacle below. Great puffs of hot, perfumed 
air bore the crash of two orchestras to their 
ears, mixed with the distant clatter and whirl of 
the dancers, and the shouts and cries of ths 
maskers. 
At the end of the floor, screened by banks 
of palms, sat the musicians, and round 
about, rising tier upon tier, the glittering boxes 
were filled with the elite of the demi-monde, 
who ogled and gossiped and sighed, entirely 
content with the material and social barriers 
which separate those who dance for ten francs 
from those who look on for a hundred. 
But there were others there who should not 
by any means be confounded with their sisters 
of the "half-world." 
The Faubourg St. Germain, the Champs 
Elysees, and the Pare Monceau were possibly 
represented among those muffled and disguised 
beauties, who began the evening with their fans 
so handy in case of need. Ah, well, now they 
lay their fans down quite out of reach in case of 
emergency, and who shall say if disappointment 
lurks under these dainty dominoes, that there is 
so little to bring a blush to modest cheeks, 
alas! few emergencies. 
And you over there you of the "American 
Colony," who are tossed like shuttle-cocks in the 
social whirl, you, in your well-appointed masks 
and silks, it is all very new and exciting yes, 
but why should you come? American women, 
brought up to think clean thoughts, and see with 
innocent eyes, to exact a respectful homage 
from men and enjoy a personal dignity and in 
dependence unknown to women anywhere else, 
why do you want to come here? Do you not 
know that the foundations of that liberty which 
makes you envied in the old world are laid in 
the respect and confidence of men? Undermine 
that, become wise and cynical, learn the mean 
ing of doubtful words and gestures whose signif 
icance you never need have suspected, meet 
men on the same ground where they may any 
day meet fast women of the continent, and fix 
at that moment on yo-ur free limbs the same 
 
chains which corrupt society has forged for the 
women of Europe. 
Yvonne leaned back in her box with a little 
gasp. 
"But I can't make out any one at all," she 
said; "it's all a great, sparkling sea of color." 
"Try the field glasses, "replied Gethryn, giving 
them to her again, at the same time opening her 
big plumy fan and waving it to and fro beside 
the flushed cheek. 
Presently she cried out, "Oh, look! There 
is Mr. Elliott and Mr. Rowden, and I think Mr. 
Clifford, but I hope not," 
He leaned forward and swept the floor with 
the field glass. 
"It's Clifford, sure enough," he muttered; 
"what on earth induces him to dance in that set?" 
It was Clifford. 
At that moment, he was addressing Elliott 
in pleading, though hazy, phrases. 
"Come long, Elliott, don't be so so un- 
comft ble n p tic lar! W t's use of be ng 
shnobbish?"he urged, clinging hilariously to his 
partner, a pigeon-toed ballet girl. But Elliott 
only laughed and said; 
"No; waltzes are all I care for. No quadrille 
for me " 
The crash of the orchestra drowned his voice, 
and Clifford, turning and bowing gravely to his 
partner, and then to his vis-a-vis, began to per 
form such antics and cut such pigeon-wings, 
that his pigeon-toed partner glared at him 
through the slits of her mask in envious astonishment. The floor was dotted with numerous 
circles of maskers, tenor fifteen deep, all watch 
ing and applauding the capers of the hilarious 
couples in the middle. 
But Clifford's set soon attracted a large and 
enthusiastic audience, who were connoisseurs 
enough to distinguish a voluntary dancer from a 
hired one; and when the last thundering chords 
of Offenbach's "March into Hell" scattered the 
throng into a delirious waltz, Clifford reeled 
heavily into the side scenes and sat down, rather 
unexpectedly, in the lap of Mademoiselle Ni- 
touche, who had crept in there with the Baron 
Silberstein for a nice, quiet view of a genuine 
can-can. 
Mademoiselle did not think it funny, but 
the Baron did, and when she boxed Clifford's 
ears he thought it funnier still. 
 
Rowden and Elliott, who were laboriously 
waltzing with a twin pair of flat-footed Watteau 
Shepherdesses, immediately ran to his assist 
ance; and later, with a plentiful application of 
cold water and still colder air restored Mr. 
Clifford to his usual spirits. 
"You're not a beauty, you know," said Row- 
den, looking at Clifford's hair, which was soaked 
into little points and curls; "you're certainly 
no beauty, but I think you're all right now, 
don't you, Elliott?" 
"Certainly," laughed the triumvir, producing 
a little silver pocket-comb and presenting it to 
the woe-begone Clifford, who immediately 
brought out a hand-glass and proceeded to con 
struct a "bang" of wonderful seductiveness. 
In ten minutes they sallied forth from the 
dressing-room, and wended their way through 
the throngs of masks to the center of the floor. 
They passed Thaxton and Rhodes, who, each 
with a pretty nun upon his arm, were trying to 
persuade Bulfinch into taking the third nun, who 
might have been the Mother Superior or pos 
sibly a resuscitated I4th century abbess. 
"No," he was saying, while he blinked painfully at the ci-devant abbess, "I can't go that; 
upon my word, don't ask me, fellows, I
can't." 
"Oh, come," urged Rhodes, "what's the odds?" 
"You can take her and I'll take yours," began 
the wily little man, but neither Rhodes nor 
Thaxton waited to argue longer. 
"No catacombs for me," growled Bulfinch 
eyeing the retreating nuns, but catching sight of 
the triumvirate, his face regained its bird-like 
felicity of expression. 
"Glad to see you indeed I am! That Co 
lossus is too disinterested in securing partners for 
his friends; he is, I assure you. If you're look 
ing for a Louis Quatorze partner, warranted gen 
uine, go to Rhodes." 
"Rex ought to be hereby this time," said 
Rowden; "look in the boxes on that side, and 
Clifford and I will do the same on this." 
"No need," cried Elliott, "I see him with a 
white domino there in the second tier. Look! 
He's waving his hand to us and so is the dom- 
"Come along," said Clifford, pushing his way 
toward the foyer, "I'll find them in a moment. 
 
Let me see," a few minutes later, pausing out 
side a row of white and gilt doors, "let me 
see, seventh box, second tier, here we are," 
he added, rapping loudly. 
Yvonne ran and opened the door. 
"Bonsoir, Messieurs," she said, with a de 
mure curtsy. 
Clifford gallantly kissed the little glove and 
then shook hands with Gethryn. 
"How is it on the floor?" asked the latter, as 
Elliott and Rowden came forward to the edge 
of the box. "I want to take Yvonne out for a 
turn, and perhaps a walt2, if it isn't too crowded." 
"Oh, it's pretty rough just now, but it will 
be better in half an hour," replied Rowden, bar 
ricading the champagne from Clifford. 
"We saw you dancing, Mr. Clifford," observed 
Yvonne, with a wicked glance at him from un 
der her mask. 
Clifford blushed. 
"I I don't make an ass of myself but once 
a year, you know," he said, with a deprecatory 
look at Elliott. 
"Oh," murmured the latter, doubtfully, "glad 
to hear it." 
Clifford gazed at him in meek reproof, and 
then made a flank movement upon the cham 
pagne, but was again neatly foiled by Rowden. 
Yvonne looked serious, but presently leaned 
over and filled one of the long-stemmed gob 
lets. 
"Only one, Mr. Clifford; one for you to drink 
my health, but you must promise me truthfully 
not to take any more wine this evening!" 
Clifford promised with great promptness, and 
taking the glass from her hand with a low bow, 
sprang recklessly upon the edge of the box and 
raised the goblet. 
"A la plus belle demoiselle de Paris !" he cried, 
with all the strength of his lungs, and drained 
the goblet. 
A shout from the crowd below answered his 
toast. A thousand faces were turned upward, 
and people leaned over their boxes, and looked 
at the party from all parts of the house. 
Mademoiselle Nitouche turned to Monsieur 
de Sacrebleu. 
"What audacity!" she murmured. 
Mademoiselle Goujon smiled at the Baron 
Silberstein. 
 
"Tiens!" she cried, "the gayety has begun, I 
hope." 
Little Miss Ducely whispered to Lieutenant 
Faucon: 
"Those are American students," she sighed; 
"how jolly they seem to be, especially Mr. Clifford ! 
I wonder if she is so pretty!" 
Half a dozen riotous Frenchmen in the box 
opposite jumped to their feet and waved their 
goblets at Clifford. 
"A la plus jolie femme du monde!" they 
roared. 
Clifford seized another glass and filled it. 
"She is here!" he shouted, and sprang to the 
edge again. But Gethryn pulled him down. 
"That's too dangerous," he laughed; "you 
could easily fall." 
"Oh, pshaw!" cried Clifford, draining the 
glass, and shaking it at the opposite box. 
Yvonne put her hand on Gethryn's arm. 
"Don't let him have any more," she whispered. 
"Give us the goblet!" yelled the Frenchmen. 
"Le voila!" shouted Clifford, and stepping 
back, hurled the glass with all his strength across 
the glittering gulf. It fell with a crash in the 
box it was aimed at, and a howl cf applause 
went up from the floor. 
Yvonne laughed nervously, but coming to the 
edge of the box buried her mask in her bouquet 
and looked down. 
4 A rose! A rose!" cried the maskers below; 
"a rose from the most charming demoiselle in 
Paris!" 
She half turned to Gethryn, but suddenly 
stepping forward, seized a handful of flowers from 
the middle of the bouquet and flung them into 
the crowd. 
There was a shout and a scramble, and then 
she tore the bouquet end from end, sending a 
shower of white buds into the throng. 
"None for me?" sighed Clifford, watching the 
fast-dwindling bouquet. 
She laughed brightly as she tossed the last 
handful below, and then turned and leaned over 
Gethryn's chair. 
