youth, did not venture to interfere with Jack again, 
but he said to himself that it was a blank shame 
that with such a wife he should go dangling about 
with women like Carmen and Miss Tavish, not that 
the Major himself had any objection to their soci- 
ety, but, hang it all, that was no reason why Jack 
should be a fool. 

In midwinter Jack went to Washington on busi- 
ness. It was necessary to see Mavick, and Mr. 
Henderson, who was also there. To spend a few 
weeks at the capital, in preparation for Lent, has 
become a part of the programme of fashion. There 
can be met people like-minded from all parts of 
the Union, and there is gayety, and the entertain- 
ment to be had in new acquaintances, without in- 
curring any of the responsibilities of social contin- 
uance. They meet there on neutral ground. Half 
Jack's set had gone over or were going. Young 







Van Dam would go with him. It will be only for 
a few days, Jack had said, gayly, when he bade 
Edith good-by, and she must be careful not to let 
the boy forget him. 

It was quite by accident, apparently, that in the 
same train were the Chesneys, Miss Tavish, and 
Carmen going over to join her husband. This gave 
the business expedition the air of an excursion. 
And indeed at the hotel where they stayed this Xew 
York contingent made something of an impression, 
promising an addition to the gayety of the season, 
and contributing to the importance of the house as 
a centre of fashion. Henderson's least movements 
were alwa\ r s chronicled and speculated on, and for 
years he had been one of the stock subjects, out of 
which even the dullest interviewers, who watch 
the hotel registers in all parts of the country, felt 
sure that they could make an acceptable paragraph. 
The arrival of his wife, therefore, was a newspaper 
event. 

They said in Washington at the time that Mrs. 
Henderson was one of the most fascinating of 
women, amiable, desirous to please, approachable, 
and devoted to the interests of her husband. If 
some of the women, residents in established so- 
ciety, were a little shy of her, if some, indeed, 
thought her dangerous women are always think- 
ing this of each other, and surely they ought to 
know nothing of this appeared in the reports. 







The men liked her. She had so much vivacity, 
such esprit, she understood men so well, and the 
world, and could make allowances, and was always 
an entertaining companion. More than one Sen- 
ator paid marked court to her, more than one brill- 
iant young fellow of the House thought himself 
fortunate if he sat next her at dinner, and even 
cabinet officers waited on her at supper. It could 
not be doubted that a smile and a confidential or 
a witty remark from Mrs. Henderson brightened 
many an evening. "Wherever she went her charm- 
ing toilets were fully described, and the public 
knew as well as her jewellers the number and cost 
of her diamonds, her necklaces, her tiaras. But 
this was for the world and for state occasions. At 
home she liked simplicity. And this was what im- 
pressed the reporters when, in the -line of their 
public duty, they were admitted to her presence. 
"With them she was very affable, and she made 
them feel that they could almost be classed with 
her friends, and that they were her guardians 
against the vulgar publicity, which she disliked 
and shrank from. 

There went abroad, therefore, an impression of 
her amiability, her fabulous wealth in jewels and 
apparel, her graciousness and her cleverness and 
her domesticity. Her manners seemed to the re- 
porters those of a " lady," and of this both her wit 
and freedom from prudishness and her courteous 







treatment of them convinced them. And the best 
of all this was that while it was said that Hender- 
son was one of the boldest and shrewdest of oper- 
ators, and a man to be feared in the Street, he was 
in his family relations one of the most generous 
and kind-hearted of men. 

Henderson himself had not much time for the 
frivolities of the season, and he evaded all but the 
more conspicuous social occasions, at which Car- 
men, sometimes with a little temper, insisted that 
he should accompany her. "You would come 
here," he once said, "when you knew I was im- 
mersed in most perplexing business." 

" And now I am here," she had replied, in a tone 
equally wanting in softness, " you have got to make 
the best of me." 

"Was Jack happy in the whirl he was in ? Some 
days exceedingly so. Some days he sulked, and 
some days he threw himself with recklessness born 
of artificial stimulants into the always gay and rat- 
tling moods of Miss Tavish. Somehow he could 
get no nearer to Henderson or to Mavick than when 
he was in New York. Not that he could accuse 
Mavick of trying to conceal anything; Mavick 
bore to him always the open, " all right " attitude, 
but there were things that he did not understand. 

And then Carmen? Was she a little less de- 
pendent on him, in this wide horizon, than in New 
York? And had he noticed a little disposition to 



patronize on two or three occasions ? It was ab- 
surd. He laughed at himself for such an idea. 
' Old Eschelle's daughter patronize him ! And yet 
there was something. She was very confidential 
with Mavick. They seemed to have a great deal 
in common. It so happened that even in the little 
expeditions of sight-seeing these two were thrown 
much together, and at times when the former rela- 
tions of Jack and Carmen should have made them 
comrades. They had a good deal to say to each 
other, and momentarily evidently serious things, 
and at receptions Jack had interrupted their glances 
of intelligence. But what stuff this was ! He jeal- 
ous of the attentions of his friend to another man's 
wife ! If she was a coquette, what did it matter 
to him? Certainly he was not jealous. But he 
was irritated. 

One day after a round of receptions, in which 
Jack had been specially disgruntled, and when he 
was alone in the drawing-room of the hotel with 
Carmen, his manner was so positively rude to her 
that she could not but notice it. There was this 
trait of boyishness in Jack, and it was one of the 
weaknesses that made him loved, that he always 
cried out when he was hurt. 

Did Carmen resent this ? Did she upbraid him 
for his manner ? Did she apologize, as if she had 
done anything to provoke it? She sank down 
wearily in a chair and said : 



" I'm so tired. I wish I were back in New 
Tork." 

" You don't act like it," Jack replied, gruffly. 

"No. You don't understand. And now you 
want to make me more miserable. See here, Mr. 
Delancy," and she started up in her seat and turned 
to him, " you are a man of honor. Would you ad- 
vise me to make an enemy of Mr. Mavick, know- 
ing all that he does know about Mr. Henderson's 
affairs." 

" I don't see what that has got to do with it," 
said Jack, wavering. " Lately your manner " 

" Nonsense !" cried Carmen, springing up and ap- 
proaching Jack with a smile of animation and 
trust, and laying her hand on his shoulder. " We 
are old, old friends. And I have just confided to 
you what I wouldn't to any other living being. 
There !" And looking around at the door, she 
tapped him lightly on the cheek and ran out of 
the room. 

Whatever you might say of Carmen, she had 
this quality of a wise person, that she never cut 
herself loose from one situation until she was en- 
tirely sure of a better position. 

For one reason or another Jack's absence was 
prolonged. He wrote often, he made bright com- 
ments on the characters and peculiarities of the 
capital, and he said that he was tired to death of 
the everlasting whirl and scuffle. People plunged 







in the social whirlpool always say they are weary 
of it, and they complain bitterly of its exactions 
and its tax on their time and strength. Edith 
judged, especially from the complaints, that her 
husband was enjoying himself. She felt also that 
his letters were in a sense perfunctory, and gave 
her only the surface of his life. She sought in 
vain in them for those evidences of spontaneous 
love, of delight in writing to her of all persons in 
the world, the eagerness of the lover that she re- 
called in letters written in other days. However 
affectionate in expression, these were duty letters. 
Edith was not alone. She had no lack of friends, 
who came and went in the common round of so- 
cial exchange, and for many of them she had a 
sincere affection. And there were plenty of rela- 
tives on the father's and on the mother's side. But 
for the most part they were old-fashioned, home- 
keeping New-Yorkers, who wefe sufficient to them- 
selves, and cared little for the set into which 
Edith's marriage had more definitely placed her. 
In any real trouble she would not have lacked 
support. She was deemed fortunate in her mar- 
riage, and in her apparent serene prosperity it was 
believed that she was happy. If she had had 
mother or sister or brother, it is doubtful if she 
would have made either a confidant of her anxi- 
eties, but high-spirited and self-reliant as she was, 
there were days when she longed with intolerable 







heartache for the silent sympathy of a mother's 
presence. 

It is singular how lonely a woman of this nature 
can be in a gay and friendly world. She had her 
interests, to be sure. As she regained her strength 
she took up her social duties, and she tried to re- 
sume her studies, her music, her reading, and she 
occupied herself more and more with the charities 
and the fortunes of her friends who were giving their 
lives to altruistic work. But there was a sense of 
unreality in all this. The real thing was the soul 
within, the longing, loving woman whose heart 
was heavy and unsatisfied. Jack was so lovable, 
he had in his nature so much nobility, if the world 
did not kill it, her life might be so sweet, and so 
completely fulfil her girlish dreams. All these 
schemes of a helpful, altruistic life had been in her 
dream, but how empty it was without the mutual 
confidence, the repose in the one human love for 
which she cared. 

Though she was not alone, she had no confidant. 
She could have none. What was there to confide ? 
There was nothing to be done. There was no 
flagrant wrong or open injustice. Some women 
in like circumstances become bitter and cynical. 
Others take their revenge in a career reckless, but 
within social conventions, going their own way in 
a sort of matrimonial truce. These are not notice- 
able tragedies. They are things borne with a dumb 





ache of the heart. There are lives into which the 
show of spring comes, but without the song of 
birds or the scent of flowers. They are endured 
bravely, with a heroism for which the world does 
not often give them credit. Heaven only knows 
how many noble women noble in this if in noth- 
ing else carry through life this burden of an un- 
satisfied heart, mocked by the outward convention 
of love. 

But Edith had one confidant the boy. And 
he was perfectly safe ; he would reveal nothing. 
There were times when he seemed to understand, 
and whether he did or not she poured out her heart 
to him. Often in the twilight she sat by him in 
this silent communion. If he were asleep and he 
was not troubled with insomnia he was still com- 
pany. And when he was awake, his efforts to 
communicate the dawning ideas of the queer world 
into which he had come were a never-failing de- 
light. He wanted so many more things than he 
could ask for, which it was his mother's pleasure 
to divine ; later on he would ask for so many 
things he could not get. The nurse said that he 
had uncommon strength of will. 

These were happy hours, imagining what the 
boy would be, planning what she would make 
his life, hours enjoyed as a traveller enjoys 
way -side flowers, snatched before an approach- 
ing storm. It is a pity, the nurse would say, that 







his father cannot see him now. And at the 
thought Edith could only see the child through 
tears, and a great weight rested on her heart in all 
this happiness. 



CHAPTER XVI 

WHEN Father Damon parted from Edith he 
seemed to himself strengthened in his spirit. His 
momentary outburst had shown him where he 
stood the strength of his fearful temptation. To 
see it was to be able to conquer it. He would hu- 
miliate himself ; he would scourge himself ; he 
would fast and pray ; he would throw himself more 
unreservedly into the service of his Master. He 
had been too compromising with sin and sinners, 
and with his own weakness and sin, the worst of 
all. 

The priest walked swiftly through the wintry 
streets, welcoming as a sort of penance the biting 
frost which burned his face and penetrated his gar- 
ments. He little heeded the passers in the streets, 
those who hurried or those who loitered, only, if 
he met or passed a woman or a group of girls, he 
instinctively drew himself away and walked more 
rapidly. He strode on uncompromisingly, and his 
clean-shaved face was set in rigid lines. Those who 
saw him pass would have said that there went an 
ascetic bent on judgment. Many who did know 
him, and who ordinarily would have saluted him, 



sure of a friendly greeting, were repelled by his 
stern face and determined air, and made no sign. 
The father had something on his mind. 

As he turned into Bivington Street there ap- 
proached him from the opposite direction a girl, 
walking slowly and undecidedly. When he came 
near her she looked up, with an appealing recogni- 
tion. In a flash of the quick passing he thought 
he knew her a girl who had attended his mission 
and whom he had not seen for several months 
but he made no sign and passed on. 

" Father Damon !" 

He turned about short at the sound of the weak, 
pleading voice, but with no relaxation of his severe, 
introverted mood. " Well ?" 

It was the girl he remembered. She wore a dress 
of silk that had once been fine, and over it an am- 
ple cloak that had quite lost its freshness, and a 
hat still gay with cheap flowers. Her face, which 
had a sweet and almost innocent expression, was 
drawn and anxious. The eyes were those of a 
troubled and hunted animal. 

" I thought," she said, hesitatingly, " you didn't 
know me." 

" Yes, I know you. Why haven't you been at 
the mission lately ?" 

" I couldn't come. I " 

" I'm afraid you have fallen into bad ways." 

She did not answer immediately. She looked 



away, and, still avoiding his gaze, said, timidly : " I 
thought I would tell you, Father Damon, that I'm 
that I'm in trouble. I don't know what to do." 

"Have you repented of your sin?" asked he, 
with a little softening of his tone. " Did you want 
to come to me for help ?" 

" He's deserted me," said the girl, looking down, 
absorbed in her own misery, and not heeding his 
question. 

" Ah, so that is what you are sorry for ?" The 
severe, reproving tone had come back to his voice. 

"And they don't want me in the shop any 
more." 

The priest hesitated. Was he always to preach 
against sin, to strive to extirpate it, and yet always 
to make it easy for the sinner? This girl must 
realize her guilt before he could do her any good. 
" Are you sorry for what you have done ?" 

" Yes, I'm sorry," she replied. Wasn't to be in 
deep trouble to be sorry ? And then she looked 
up, and continued with the thought in her mind, 
" I didn't know who else to go to." 

" Well, my child, if you are sorry, and want to 
lead a different life, come to me at the mission and 
I will try to help you." 

The priest, with a not unkindly good-by, passed 
on. The girl stood a moment irresolute, and then 
went on her way heavily and despondent. What 
good would it do her to go to the mission now ? 





Three days later Dr. Leigh was waiting at the 
mission chapel to speak with the rector after the 
vesper service. He came out pale and weary, and 
the doctor hesitated to make known her errand 
when she saw how exhausted he was. 

" Did you wish me for anything ?" he asked, 
after the rather forced greeting. 

" If you feel able. There is a girl at the Woman's 
Hospital who wants to see you." 

" Who is it ?" 

" It is the girl you saw on the street the other 
afternoon ; she said she had spoken to you." 

" She promised to come to the mission." 

" She couldn't. I met the poor thing the same 
afternoon. She looked so aimless and forlorn that, 
though I did not remember her .at first, I thought 
she might be ill, and spoke to her, and asked her 
what was the matter. At first she said nothing 
except that she was out of work and felt miser- 
able ; but the next moment she broke down com- 
pletely, and said she hadn't a friend in the world." 

" Poor thing !" said the priest, with a pang of 
self-reproach. 

" There was nothing to do but to take her to the 
hospital, and there she has been." 

"Is she very ill?" 

" She may live, the house surgeon says. But she 
was very weak for such a trial." 

Little more was said as they walked along, and 





when they reached the hospital, Father Damon was 
shown without delay into the ward where the sick 
girl lay. Dr. Leigh turned back from the door, and 
the nurse took him to the bedside. She lay quite 
still in her cot, wan and feeble, with every sign of 
having encountered a supreme peril. 

She turned her head on the low pillow as Father 
Damon spoke, saying he was very glad he could 
come to her, and hoped she was feeling better. 

" I knew you would come," she said, feebly. 
" The nurse says I'm better. But I wanted to tell 
you : And she stopped. 

" Yes, I know," he said. " The Lord is very 
good. He will forgive all your sins now, if you 
repent and trust Him." 

" I hope " she began. " I'm so weak. If I 
don't live I want him to know." 

" Want whom to know ?" asked the father, bend- 
ing over her. 

She signed for him to come closer, and then 
whispered a name. 

" Only if I never see him again, if you see him, 
you will tell him that I was always true to him. 
He said such hard words. I was always true." 

" I promise," said the father, much moved. " But 
now, my child, you ought to think of yourself, of 
your" 

" He is dead. Didn't they tell you ? There is 
nothing any more." 







The nurse approached with a warning gesture 
that the interview was too prolonged. 

Father Damon knelt for a moment by the bed- 
side, uttering a hardly articulate prayer. The 
girl's eyes were closed. When he rose she opened 
them with a look of gratitude, and with the sign of 
blessing he turned away. 

He intended to hasten from the house. He 
wanted to be alone. His trouble seemed to him 
greater than that of the suffering girl. What had 
he done? What was he in thought better than 
she? Was this intruding human element always 
to cross the purpose of his spiritual life ? 

As he was passing through the wide hallway 
the door of the reception-room was open, and he 
saw Dr. Leigh seated at the table, with a piece of 
work in her hands. She looked up, and stopped 
him with an unspoken inquiry in her face. It was 
only civil to pause a moment and tell her about the 
patient, and as he stepped within the room she rose. 

" You should rest a moment, Father Damon. I 
know what these scenes are." 

Yielding weakly, as he knew, he took the offered 
chair. But he raised his hand in refusal of the 
glass of wine which she had ready for him on the 
table, and offered before he could speak. 

" But you must," she said, with a smile. " It is 
the doctor's prescription." 

She did not look like a doctor. She had laid 





aside the dusty walking-dress, the business-jacket, 
the ugly little hat of felt, the battered reticule. In 
her simple house costume she was the woman, 
homelike, sympathetic, gentle, with the everlast- 
ing appeal of the strong feminine nature. It was 
not a temptress who stood before him, but a help- 
ful woman, in whose kind eyes how beautiful they 
were in this moment of sympathy there was trust 
and rest and peace. 

" So," she said, when he had taken the much- 
needed draught ; " in the hospital you must obey 
the rules, one of which is to let no one sink in ex- 
haustion." 

She had taken her seat now, and resumed her 
work. Father Damon was looking at her, seeing 
the woman, perhaps, as he never had seen her be- 
fore, a certain charm in her quiet figure and modest 
self-possession, while the thought of her life, of her 
labors, as he had seen her now for months and 
months of entire sacrifice of self, surged through 
his brain in a whirl of emotion that seemed sweep- 
ing him away. But when he spoke it was of the 
girl, and as if to himself. 

" I was sorry to let her go that day. Friendless, 
I should have known. I did know. I should have 
felt. You" 

" No," she said, gently, interrupting him ; " that 
was my business. You should not accuse yourself. 
It was a physician's business." 





"Yes, a physician the great Physician. The 
Master never let the sin hinder his compassion for 
the sinner." 

To this she could make no reply. Presently she 
looked up and said : " But I am sure your visit was 
a great comfort to the poor girl ! She was very 
eager to see you." 

" I do not know." 

His air was still abstracted. He was hardly 
thinking of the girl, after all, but of himself, of the 
woman who sat before him. It seemed to him 
that he would have given the world to escape to 
fly from her, to fly from himself. Some invisible 
force held him a strong, new, and yet not new, 
emotion, a power that seemed to clutch his very 
life. He could not think clearly about it. In all 
his discipline, in his consecration, in his vows of 
separation from the world, there seemed to have 
been no shield prepared for this. The human as- 
serted itself, and came in, overwhelming his guards 
and his barriers like a strong flood in the spring- 
time of the year, breaking down all artificial con- 
trivances. " They reckon ill who leave me out," 
is the everlasting cry of the human heart, the great 
passion of life, incarnate in the first man and the 
first woman. 

"With a supreme effort of his iron will is the 
"Will, after all, stronger than Love? Father Damon 
arose. He stretched out his hand to say farewell. 



She also stood, and she felt the hand tremble that 
held hers. 

" God bless you !" he said. " You are so good." 

He was going. He took her other hand, and 
was looking down upon her face. She looked up, 
and their eyes met. It was for an instant, a flash, 
glance for glance, as swift as the stab of daggers. 

All the power of heaven and earth could not 
recall that glance nor undo its revelations. The 
man and the woman stood face to face revealed. 

He bent down towards her face. Affrighted by 
his passion, scarcely able to stand in her sudden 
emotion, she started back. The action, the instant 
of time, recalled him to himself. He dropped her 
hands, and was gone. And the woman, her knees 
refusing any longer to support her, sank into a 
chair, helpless, and saw him go, and knew in that 
moment the height of a woman's joy, the depth of 
a woman's despair. 

It had come to her! Steeled by her science, 
shielded by her philanthropy, schooled in indiffer- 
ence to love, it had come to her ! And 'it was 
hopeless. Hopeless? It was absurd. Her life 
was determined. In no event could it be in har- 
mony with his opinions, with his religion, which 
was dearer to him than life. There was a great 
gulf between them which she could not pass unless 
she ceased to be herself. And he? A severe priest! 
Vowed and consecrated against human passion ! 







What a government of the world if there were 
any government that could permit such a thing ! 
It was terrible. 

And yet she was loved ! That sang in her heart 
with all the pain, with all the despair. And with 
it all was a great pity for him, alone, gone into the 
wilderness, as it would seem to him, to struggle 
with his fierce temptation. 

It had come on darker as she sat there. The 
lamps were lighted, and she was reminded of some 
visits she must make. She went, mechanically, to 
her room to prepare for going. The old jacket, 
which she took up, did look rather rusty. She went 
to the press it was not much of a wardrobe and 
put on the one that was reserved for holidays. And 
the hat ? Her friends had often joked her about 
the hat, but now for the first time she seemed to 
see it as it might appear to others. As she held it 
in her hand, and then put it on before the mirror, 
she smiled a little, faintly, at its appearance. And 
then she laid it aside for her better hat. She never 
had been so long in dressing before. And in the 
evening, too, when it could make no difference ! 
It might, after all, be a little more cheerful for her 
forlorn patients. Perhaps she was not conscious 
that she was making selections, that she was pay- 
ing a little more attention to her toilet than usual. 
Perhaps it was only the woman who was conscious 
that she was loved. 



It would be difficult to say what emotion was 
uppermost in the mind of Father Damon as he left 
the house mortification, contempt of himself, or 
horror. But there was a sense of escape, of physi- 
cal escape, and the imperative need of it, that 
quickened his steps almost into a run. In the in- 
creasing dark, at this hour, in this quarter of the 
town, there were comparatively few whose obser- 
vation of him would recall him to himself. He 
thought only of escape, and of escape from that 
quarter of the city that was the witness of his la- 
bors and his failure. For the moment to get away 
from this was the one necessity, and without rea- 
soning in the matter, only feeling, he was hurry- 
ing, stumbling in his haste, northward. Before he 
went to the hospital he had been tired, physically 
weary. He was scarcely conscious of it now ; in- 
deed, his body, his hated body, seemed lighter, and 
the dominant spirit now awakened to contempt of 
it had a certain pleasure in testing it, in drawing 
upon its vitality, to the point of exhaustion if pos- 
sible. It should be seen which was master. 

His rapid pace presently brought him into one 
of the great avenues leading to Harlem. That 
was the direction he wished to go. That was 
where he knew, without making any decision, he 
must go, to the haven of the house of his order, on 
the heights beyond Harlem. A train was just 
clattering along on the elevated road above him. 





He could see the faces at the windows, the black 
masses crowding the platforms. It went pounding 
by as if it were freight from another world. He 
was in haste, but haste to escape from himself. 
That way, bearing him along with other people, 
and in the moving world, was to bring him in 
touch with humanity again, and so with what was 
most hateful in himself. He must be alone. But 
there was a deeper psychological reason than that 
for walking, instead of availing himself of the 
swiftest method of escape. He was not fleeing 
from justice or pursuit. When the mind is in tort- 
ure and the spirit is torn, the instinctive effort is 
to bodily activity, to force physical exertion, as if 
there must be compensation for the mental strain 
in the weariness of nature. The priest obeyed this 
instinct, as if it were possible to walk away from 
himself, and went on, at first with almost no sense 
of weariness. 

And the shame ! He could not bear to be ob- 
served. It seemed to him that every one would 
see in his face that he was a recreant priest, per- 
jured and forsworn. And so great had been his 
spiritual pride ! So removed he had deemed him- 
self from the weakness of humanity ! And he had 
yielded at the first temptation, and the commonest 
of all temptations ! Thank God, he had not quite 
yielded. He had fled. And yet, how would it 
have been if Ruth Leigh had not had a moment of 







reserve, of prudent repulsion ! He groaned in an- 
guish. The sin was in the intention. It was no 
merit of his that he had not with a kiss of passion 
broken his word to his Lord and lost his soul. 

It was remorse that was driving him along the 
avenue; no room for any other thought yet, or 
feeling. Perhaps it is true in these days that the 
old-fashioned torture known as remorse is rarely 
experienced except under the name of detection. 
But it was a reality with this highly sensitive nat- 
ure, with this conscience educated to the finest 
edge of feeling. The world need never know his 
moment's weakness ; Ruth Leigh he could trust as 
he would have trusted his own sister to guard his 
honor that was all over never, he was sure, 
would she even by a look recall the past ; but he 
knew how he had fallen, and the awful measure of 
his lapse from loyalty to his Master. And how 
could he ever again stand before erring, sinful men 
and women and speak about "that purity which he 
had violated? Could repentance, confession, peni- 
tence, wipe away this stain ? 

As he went on, his mind in a whirl of humilia- 
tion, self-accusation, and contempt, at length he 
began to be conscious of physical weariness. Ex- 
cept the biscuit and the glass of wine at the hospi- 
tal, he had taken nothing since his light luncheon. 
When he came to the Harlem Bridge he was com- 
pelled to rest. Leaning against one of the timbers 





and half seated, with the softened roar of the city 
in his ears, the lights gleaming on the heights, the 
river flowing dark and silent, he began to be con- 
scious of his situation. Yes, he was very tired. 
It seemed difficult to go on without help of some 
sort. At length he crossed the bridge. Lights 
were gleaming from the saloons along the street. 
He paused in front of one, irresolute. Food he 
could not taste, but something he must have to 
carry him on. But no, that would not do ; he 
could not enter that in his priest's garb. He 
dragged himself along until he came to a drug- 
shop, the* modern saloon of the respectably virtu- 
ous. That he entered, and sat down on a stool by 
the soda-water counter. The expectant clerk stared 
at him while waiting the order, his hand tenta- 
tively seeking one of the faucets of refreshment. 

" I feel a little feverish," said the father. " You 
may give me five grains of quinine in whiskey." 

" That 'll put you all right," said the boy as he 
handed him the mixture. " It's all the go now." 

It seemed to revive him, and he went out and 
walked on towards the heights. Somehow, seeing 
this boy, coming back to common life, perhaps the 
strong and unaccustomed stimulant, gave a new 
shade to his thoughts. He was safe. Presently 
he would be at the Ketreat. He would rest, and 
then gird up his loins and face life again. The 
mood lasted for some time. And when the sense 







of physical weariness came back, that seemed to 
dull the acuteness of his spiritual torment. It was 
late when he reached the house and rang the night- 
bell. No one of the brothers was up except Father 
Monies, and it was he who came to the door. 

" You ! So late ! Is anything the matter ?" 

" I needed to come," the father said, simply, and 
he grasped the door-post, steadying himself as he 
came in. 

" You look like a ghost." 

" Yes. I'm tired. I walked." 

" Walked ? From Kivington Street ?" 

"Nearly. I felt like it." 

" It's most imprudent. You dined first ?" 

" I wasn't hungry." 

" But you must have something at once." And 
Father Monies hurried away, heated some bouillon 
by a spirit-lamp, and brought it, with bread, and 
set it before his unexpected guest. 

" There, eat that, and get to bed as soon as you 
can. It was great nonsense." 

And Father Damon obeyed. Indeed, he was too 
exhausted to talk. 



CHAPTER XVII 

FATHER DAMON slept the sleep of exhaustion. In 
this for a time the mind joined in the lethargy of 
the body. But presently, as the vital currents 
were aroused, the mind began to play its fantastic 
tricks. He was a seminary student, he was or- 
dained, he was taking his vows before the bishop, 
he was a robust and consecrated priest performing 
his first service, shining, it seemed to him, before 
the congregation in the purity of his separation 
from the world. How strong he felt. And then 
came perplexities, difficulties, interests, and conflict- 
ing passions in life that he had not suspected, good 
that looked like evil, and evil that had an alloy of 
virtue, and the way was confused. And then there 
was a vision of a sort of sister of charity working 
with him in the evil and the good, drawing near to 
him, and yet repelling him with a cold, scientific 
scepticism that chilled him like blasphemy ; but so 
patient was she, so unconscious of self, that grad- 
ually he lost this feeling of repulsion and saw only 
the woman, that wonderful creation, tender, pitiful 
comrade, the other self. And then there was dark- 
ness and blindness, and he stood once more before 





bis congregation, speaking words that sounded hol- 
low, hearing responses that mocked him, stared at 
by accusing eyes that knew him for a hypocrite. 
And he rushed away and left them, hearing their 
laughter as he went, and so into the street plainly 
it was Rivington Street and faces that he knew 
had a smile and a sneer, and he heard comments as 
he passed: "Hulloa, Father Damon, come in and 
have a drink." " I say, Father Damon, I seen her 
going round into Grand Street." 

When Father Monies looked in, just before day- 
light, Father Damon was still sleeping, but tossing 
restlessly and muttering incoherently ; and he did 
not arouse him for the early devotions. 

It was very late when he awoke, and opened his 
eyes to a confused sense of some great calamity. 
Father Monies was standing by the bedside with a 
cup of coffee. 

" You have had a good sleep. Now take this, and 
then you may get up. The breakfast will wait for 
you." 

Father Damon started up. " Why didn't you call 
me ? I am late for the mission." 

" Oh, Bendes has gone down long ago. You 
must take it easy ; rest to-day. You'll be all right. 
You haven't a bit of fever." 

" But," still declining the coffee, " before I break 
my fast, I have something to say to you. I 

" Get some strength first. Besides, I have an 







engagement. I cannot wait. Pull yourself to- 
gether ; I may not be back before evening." 

So it was fated that he should be left still with 
himself. After his coffee he dressed slowly, as if it 
were not he, but some one else going through this 
familiar duty, as if it were scarcely worth while to 
do anything any more. And then, before attempt- 
ing his breakfast, he went into the little oratory, 
and remained long in the attitude of prayer, trying 
to realize what he was and what he had done. He 
prayed for himself, for help, for humility, and he 
prayed for her ; he had been used of late to pray 
for her guidance, now he prayed that she might be 
sustained. 

When he came forth it was in a calmer frame of 
mind. It was all clear now. When Father Monies 
returned he would confess, and take his penance, 
and resolutely resume his life. He understood life 
better now. Perhaps this blow was needed for his 
