is, I assure you, of the worst ! " 
Melanchthon Stitt drew breath. In that 
"assure " there was no h. At the Knicker- 
bocker, at the Calumet, there always was. 
But he recowered himself at once. 
" The worst society is often the best, 
don't you think ? " 
Mrs. Smithwick nodded approvingly. She 
had not grasped the jest, but she felt that in 
inviting the novelist she had not made a 
mistake. 
"You see," the earl continued, " there are 
countries where nature is so tempestuous 
that precepts are unavailing. In countries 
of that kind, instead of ethics there are bolts. 
Brazil is one of them. Socially it cannot be 
said to exist." 
" But during the emperor's time " 
" Ah, yes, then there was, I believe, an 
exotic imitation of the Tuileries. But you 
know in what it resulted." 
Conversation of this order stimulated Mrs. 
Smithwick like wine, and she permitted herself a question. 
" Speaking of that, Lord Cloden, you 
have you you have been presented to her 
Majesty ? " 
The earl consulted his plate ; but when 
he looked up, as he instantly did, the mirth 
which for a fleeting second had danced in 
his eyes was gone. 
" Yes, yes." He repeated the word with a 
slight prolongation of the last letter which de- 
lighted Mrs. Smithwick vastly. " I was quite 
young at the time, perhaps three months." 
" Ah ! " 
" She is my godmother." As he said this 
he spoke as though such relationship were 
shared by all the world. 
Mrs. Smithwick beamed, radiant with 
exultation. 
" How delightful, how truly delightful ! 
How you must venerate her ! And did she 
hold you in her arms, and and pet you ? " 
" I don't remember much about that. 
But I don't believe she did ; in fact, I am 
quite sure she didn't. I dare say she looked 
rather cross ; she usually does. I know she 
sent a Prayer-Book " 
" A Prayer-Book ! How good, how kind 
of her ! And you have treasured it, have 
you not, and put it among the heirlooms of 
your house ?" 
But at this naiveti Lord Qoden laughed 
outright. 
" No. I sold it at Eton ; to young 
Trent, the brewer's son. He gave me four 
and six for it ; I tried to get him up to ten 
bob, but it was no go ; he said it was all the 
autograph was worth, and by George, I 
believe now it was too much." 
" Tell me, Lord Cloden, how do you 
like the States? What do you think of it 
here?" 
It was Myrrha that had spoken, the snob- 
bishness of her aunt propelling her into 
platitudes. 
" I think you are a most amazing people," 
the earl, eager, too, perhaps, for a diversion, 
answered quickly. " You have killed off all 
your buffaloes, and now you are amusing 
yourselves by entertaining the descendant 
of the man who discowered them. Most 
amazing, I assure you." 
" Typical and good," laughed Stitt. " But 
it is all for business purposes. You know, 
Lord Cloden, every one over here is in 
trade." 
The earl nodded appreciatively. " It is 
the same thing at home. There is my 
cousin Ogilvy, his wife has a tea-shop in 
Half-Moon Street ; no end of fellows are 
in stocks ; Bredelbane is a cheese-monger, 
and Finsbury, the Duke of Holborn's son, 
you know, runs a music-hall in Islington. 
Oh, I assure you, trade is quite the thing 
with us. But you, Mr. Stitt, if I may ask 
without indiscretion, you are not in business, 
are you ? " 
" I educate little guinea-pigs," the nov- 
elist answered modestly. 
" He does nothing of the sort ! " And 
Mrs. Smithwick made a fine show of indig- 
nation. " He is a poet, a philosopher, a 
a publicist. How dare you say you are in 
trade ? " 
"By guinea-pigs, dear Mrs. Smithwick, I 
presume he means the public, of which I am 
one. I recall a most curious tale, a woman 
making the man she hated kill the man she 
loved. It was called, if I rightly remember, 
Why Not ? and the author's name singu- 
larly resembled his." 
" Of course it was his ! " Mrs. Smithwick 
cried triumphantly, while the novelist pre- 
tended to conceal impossible blushes. " It 
was a novel Owen Meredith might have been 
proud of, or or even or anybody else, for 
that matter," she added, with that decision 
which only ignorance provides. 
" No doubt, but it seemed to me rather 
different from that. How shall I say ? In 
intensity, in atmosphere and manipulation, it 
struck me as rather Russian, a quality which 
I have not noticed among other American 
novelists. There is Mr. Howells, for in- 
stance ; what, may I ask, do you think of 
him, Mr. Stitt ? " 
Mr. Stitt promptly assumed the air and 
attitude of a sphinx. 
"The foremost of the authors that are 
never read ! " 
" Not read ? You surprise me. I have 
not seen a magazine in which his name does 
not appear." 
" Precisely," Stitt answered, with that pontifical mien which only a novelist may as- 
sume. " No one reads magazines except " 
and -he raised a finger tragically " except the advertiser." 
At this Lord Cloden looked expectant, 
Mrs. Smithwick perplexed. Myrrha alone, 
her eyes fastened on the Englishman, seemed 
indifferent. But Mr. Stitt, sure of his effect, 
launched forth. 
" The advertiser, you must know, wishes 
his wares to penetrate everywhere. To 
facilitate that penetration, he has his adver- 
tisements written in a lively and engaging 
fashion. Do you imagine for one second 
that he will pay to have those advertisements 
inserted in a periodical whose reading-matter 
is absorbing ? Why, never in the world. He 
wants his wares heralded in magazines in 
which the reading-matter is so soporific, that 
the subscriber will turn to the advertise- 
ments for relief. The editor, who is not 
half as stupid as he looks, is aware of all 
this, and fully aware, too, that it is not the 
subscriber but the advertiser who must be 
coddled. For it is from the latter that profit 
comes. As a consequence, the contributors 
whom he selects are, considered as writers, 
below par, but as anaesthetists they are un- 
rivalled." 
" Anaesthetist, anaesthetist ! what is 
that ? " 
" Lexicographically, dear Mrs. Smithwick, 
an anaesthetist is a gentleman who holds 
chloroform at you until you sink into the 
gentle and innocent sleep of the cradle. 
Colloquially he is one whose literary produc- 
tions make you regard the advertisement of 
a cure for ' That Tired Feeling ' as a wild 
and thrilling thing, that stamp it indelibly 
on your memory, that force you out of sheer 
cussedness to go and purchase the stuff, by 
the quart at that. Oh, believe me, anaesthe- 
tists have their value, and Mr. Howells has 
his ! " 
" Dear, dear ! " exclaimed Mrs. Smith- 
wick, removing as she spoke her elbows 
from the table. " How delightful it is to 
hear men of talent talk ! But come, Myrrha, 
let us leave them to their smoke. They 
mustn't stay long, though," she concluded 
archly. " Must they, Myrrha ?" 
And circling the girl's waist, she almost 
tripped from the room. 
The men had risen. 
" Harris," said the novelist, as he reseated 
himself, "is there any whiskey in the 
house ? Very good, get me a glass of 
brandy, then. You will have some, won't 
you, Lord Cloden ? " 
" No. I never touch it. I would like 
another drop of Apollinaris, though, if I 
might." 
''Yes, my lord. Thank your lordship." 
And Harris poured out the water with the 
solemnity of an augur offering a libation. 
But presently he disappeared, and the earl 
looked up. 
"That is a most ingenious theory of yours 
about the advertiser. It explains so much. 
But does it explain why the public buy the 
magazines ? " 
"The public the public?" Mr. Stitt 
with grand contempt had raised a hand, the 
fingers extended. " But let me ask you how 
many idiots does it take to make a public ? " 
" Ah, yes, I see ! the little guinea-pigs 
again. But do give a stranger and a pilgrim 
some information. Are you living here ? " 
The earl had crossed his legs, lit a cigar- 
ette, and Mr. Stitt promised himself an 
agreeable ten minutes. 
" I ? Good Lord, no ! I only ran down 
for the day. Family matter. I'm off again 
to-morrow. There will be hardly any one 
here for a month yet. Should you come to 
town, I wish you would look me up." 
" Thanks ; you are very good. But tell 
me, I should think these ladies would find it 
rather dull here." 
Mr. Stitt had also crossed his legs; he, 
too, was smoking ; he was at his second 
glass of brandy, and altogether he felt com- 
fortable and expansive. 
" Dull ? Of course. But then, you see, it 
is rather obligatory. Miss Attersol's father 
has been dead hardly a year ; and he died, 
moreover, in er well, what I might call 
rather oddly, don't you know." 
" Ah ! " And the earl manifested such 
civil interest as earls may. 
" Yes ; a burglar got into the room and 
frightened him to death. Then there was 
no end of a rumpus. A chap named Ban- 
croft, a lawyer, who was stopping here, had 
a shy at him ; but Mr. Burglar was one too 
many, he bowled him over and knifed him 
too." 
Lord Cloden raised the Apollinaris to his 
lips. " But the burglar " 
" Oh, he got off ! Bancroft couldn't give 
any description Here, take my handker- 
chief." 
"Thanks, the napkin will do." And the 
earl began mopping at his shirt on which 
some of the Apollinaris had spilled. "By 
the way, I think I will take a drop of that 
brandy." 
Mr. Stitt passed the decanter, and his 
companion filled a little glass. 
"But the lawyer? Didn't you say that 
the burglar killed him ? " 
"No. Thought he did, I fancy. Ban- 
croft was on his feet in no time. You will 
meet him if you remain a day or two. I 
think it's a match between him and " 
" It's my nerves," exclaimed the earl with 
a smile that was its own apology, for the 
glass had fallen from his hand. "A fellow 
doesn't have yellow fever for nothing. Sup- 
pose we join the ladies." 
CHAPTER III 
THE HAPPIEST MAN ALIVE 
" O LORD CLODEN, do permit me ; this is 
Mr. Bancroft." 
It was on a Monday that the earl had 
first appeared at the Attersol house ; it was 
on Wednesday that the little dinner took 
place. The next day, with that punctilious- 
ness which is the courtesy of kings, and for 
which Englishmen are famous the world 
around, he made his visit of digestion ; be- 
ing urged to remain and break bread a sec- 
ond time, he yielded quite readily. On the 
morrow he enjoyed a stroll with Myrrha, 
drove with her in the afternoon, and in the 
evening brought Mrs. Smithwick a small 
bunch of large roses. But on Saturday it 
was arranged that he should dine again, and 
now, on that evening, as he bent succes- 
sively over extended wrists, Mrs. Smithwick 
accomplished an introduction. 
Bancroft stepped forward at once, his 
hand outstretched : 
" I am glad to meet you, Lord Cloden." 
" How d'ye do ? " responded that nobleman, and seated himself at Myrrha's side. 
Bancroft stared. English tourists were 
apt to be abrupt, he knew, but this particular specimen had been extolled by Mrs. 
Smithwick as rather gracious than the 
reverse. 
" He can tell an attorney a mile away," 
Mrs. Smithwick reflected, and smiled con- 
tentedly to herself. 
But Myrrha sat dumb. The efforts of 
the earl to engage her in talk were, at 
the moment at least, unsuccessful. His 
even, rhythmic flow of words passed her 
unheeded. At dinner on Wednesday, again 
the previous day, she had found herself per- 
plexed as at the whispered sound of her 
own name ; and with it, on each occasion, 
had come a shadowy reminiscence which 
she could not detain, and with which she 
struggled idly. But when Cloden made his 
rather cavalier reply to Bancroft's greeting, 
there had been in his attitude, the poise of 
his head, as in the movement he made as he 
seated himself, an effect intangible, atmos- 
pheric perhaps, but an effect there had 
been which from the borderlands of mem- 
ory recalled something, equally insignificant 
no doubt, but yet precisely similar, which 
seemed to have impressed her somewhere at 
some time long before. 
Dinner had been announced, and she was 
seated at table before she felt in a mood to 
speak. At the moment Cloden was talking. 
The subject, one which had sprung out of 
nothing, concerned the buried cities of 
Yucatan, and he was advancing, in a series 
of serried argument, an opinion that the 
civilization of which those cities had been a 
part was of Egyptian origin. 
In the middle of a sentence Myrrha inter- 
rupted : 
" Lord Cloden, tell me, have you ever 
been tormented by the idea that something 
you had just done, or something you had 
just seen, you had done or seen ages and 
ages before ?" 
Bancroft started, and made as though he 
were about to speak. 
" What's all this ? " cried Mrs. Smith- 
wick. 
Cloden raised a hand in apology, and 
bowed first to his hostess, then to the 
attorney. 
"Permit me; we all have. And by that 
I mean not only ourselves, but people in the 
remotest antiquity. It was Pythagoras, was 
it not, who declared that he had assisted at 
the siege of Troy ? . There was a French- 
man my father knew, who maintained that 
Mary Stuart had kissed him. But these are 
trivial instances. So strong has that idea 
been, that it has founded religions. The 
theory of the transmigration of souls, to 
which the Brahmins hold, the palingenesis of 
the Buddhists, have no other origin. It was 
that same idea which created the tenets of 
the Druids, it is alluded to in the Talmud, 
and it is hinted at in the Gospel which 
bears the name of St. John. But forgive 
this tiresome digression, one which I offer 
only for what it is worth, that is, my own 
researches ; for the idea used to haunt me, 
and continued to, for that matter, until I 
discowered, I won't venture to say the scien- 
tific, but at least the rational explanation of 
it all." 
"Which is?" 
"Which is that things which we have just 
done or seen, and which seem to us things 
which we have done or seen in some ante- 
rior existence, are but the reminiscences of 
forgotten dreams." 
" What ! " 
" Yes ; and the proof of it is at least 
curious. You know that there are any num- 
ber of charming people who never dream at 
all. Well, question any of them, and they 
will tell you they have never been haunted 
by such an idea as that." 
And turning to Bancroft he bowed anew. 
" Pardon me, you were about to say some- 
thing, were you not ? " 
The lawyer looked up abstractedly. 
" Who ? I ? Oh, nothing ! I merely 
wanted to ask for some bread. It is odd, 
though," he added after a pause, "when 
Miss Attersol mentioned the subject, it was 
on my mind too. Have you any explanation 
for that, Lord Cloden?" 
" None whatever." 
" No more have I," retorted Bancroft, 
dryly, and consulted his plate anew. 
During the remainder of the meal little of 
reportable interest occurred. Prodded by 
Mrs. Smithwick, Cloden gave a description 
or two of equatorial life, but Bancroft re- 
mained apathetic, Myrrha dumb, the con- 
versation faltered and languished, revived 
only incidentally by the futilities that flared 
and subsided from the pin-wheels in Mrs. 
Smithwick's brain. 
When the bowls were brought Cloden 
declined to smoke, and leaving Bancroft 
followed the women to the sitting-room 
beyond, where Mrs, Smithwick, seating herself at the piano, attacked the Batti batti, 
and other sweet and antiquated airs, her 
eyes on the ceiling, her head tossing like 
the prime donne of old Academy days. 
Cloden and the girl had seated themselves 
in an S in upholstery the most delightful 
bit of furniture for tte-a-tte purposes, be 
it said, that ever was devised and to the 
accompaniment of strains from Don Giovanni 
and the Favorita, conversed for a while amiably and impersonally, as young people may. 
But at last, as such things will happen, 
the " I " cropped out. 
" I have known you barely a week," the 
young lord sighed, " but I feel as though I 
had known you all my life." 
" And I, too, feel as though I had met you 
before. You remind me of some one I must 
have seen in some place I cannot recall. It 
was because of that I asked you that ques- 
tion at dinner. It has puzzled me, and 
I thought perhaps you might have been 
in Florence when I was there, or in Paris. 
I cannot tell you how strange it is, the 
impression I mean ; it keeps coming back 
to me like the refrain of a song. Were you 
in Florence in the winter of '91, or in Paris 
the year before ? " 
Lord Cloden seemed to reflect. 
" No. I knocked about Italy just before 
I came of age, but in the autumn of '89 I 
went to India ; my regiment was stationed 
there, and it was not until last year that 
I returned." 
" Oh, well, it is a small matter, after all." 
" But not to me. I assure you it is not to 
me. In the first place, it Is not only a great 
compliment on your part, but it is a remark- 
able coincidence that I should have pre- 
cisely the same feeling in regard to you. 
When I first heard your voice, it startled 
me, it awoke an echo, but from where ? Ah, 
that I could not tell ! But the other day, 
after our drive, when I got back to the 
hotel, it seemed to me you were not a stran- 
ger, that you were a friend I had lost, and 
that if memory would but assist in the least 
I would be able to lead you back from one 
horizon to another until that posting-house 
was reached where our destiny changed its 
horses and our hands were first unclasped. 
That was what I thought, Miss Attersol, and 
I thought, too " 
The girl was looking at him, surprised as 
February at a violet ; smiling, too, divinely 
pretty. " I wish I had said that ; it was 
what I felt and could not express." 
Cloden moved his hand as though in 
silent thanks to take hers and press it. But 
he refrained. The girl saw and understood. 
Her eyes met his, and encouraged perhaps 
by some light in them, he bent over and 
brushed the hand with his lips. Myrrha 
started, afraid of a kiss as of a bee. But her 
face colored, and she put a finger on a smile. 
"Forgive me," he murmured. 
The finger fell. 
"But may I not tell you what I thought?" 
To this, with a little movement of mouth 
and eyelids, a movement that was enchant- 
ing, perhaps enchanted, she assented. 
" I thought of the old legend which tells 
that long ago men and women were one, 
that later they separated, and it seemed to 
me if that were true they now must seek 
their earlier selves, and when they find each 
other it is love they find as well. That is 
what I thought, Miss Attersol, for I knew 
that all my life I had been seeking for 
you." 
The girl had made her face a blank, but 
in her throat was a tell-tale muscle. It 
spoke, and in speaking encouraged. 
" And I know, also," he continued, " if by 
any chance you might learn to think so too, 
that life would be fair as a dream." 
The sentence was so harmonious that he 
paused to note its effect. 
But still she said nothing. 
" Look at me," he implored. " Look at 
me, I love your eyes. Speak to me, I love 
your voice." 
He paused again. The girl raised her 
eyes. They were troubled yet eager, anxious and ardent. Lightly as sleep may fall 
he touched and took her hand. For a sec- 
ond it lay unresistant, then both tightened, 
and at once he approached nearer, the 
shoulders advanced a little, but slowly still, 
deliberately, inch by inch, his eyes fixed and 
probing her own. Then an arm went out 
and about her, and he drew the April of her 
lips to his. 
" Myrrha," he murmured, " my soul cries 
Gloria to you, and my heart answers In 
Excel sis." 
He had moved yet nearer, his eyes still in 
hers, her hand in his ; but the girl, emotion- 
alized and distraught, seemed struggling 
with herself. 
" Tell me," he whispered. " Tell me 
that you love. Tell me," he repeated. 
" Surely you must. Always I have hungered 
for you. You have been the odor of the 
feast at which I longed to sit, the shadow of 
the hope I dreamed to claim. At the time I 
did not know, but when I saw you I knew it 
was you I had been seeking ; I knew it, and 
I have found you at last. For I have, 
Myrrha, have I not ? Myrrha, tell me that 
I have. Speak to me, say you love." 
" You know it," she answered, but in that 
semi-breve a leaf uses when it whispers to 
the wind. 
" And may God bless you, then, for the 
gift to me." 
The girl disengaged her hand. The 
accompaniment was ceasing. "For tanf 
d'amor" the notes quawered and sobbed, 
died away in diminuendo, and with a final 
roulade Mrs. Smithwick rose from the 
piano. 
" There ! " she exclaimed. " I feel ten 
years younger." 
Cloden had risen, too. 
" May I, Mrs. Smithwick, with entire 
courtesy, inquire how old you are ? " 
" How old ? " And she laughed gayly. 
" How old ? You really want to know ? 
Well, there ; I am a hundred." 
" I never believe but half what a lady 
tells me," Cloden answered, with a smile as 
gay as her own. " But, if I ask, it is 
because I wished to assure you that in 
all your life you have never seen, never 
heard, never read, never imagined, never 
dreamed " 
" My, my ! What now ? " 
"Of a man a fraction as happy as I. 
Miss Attersol," and at this prelude the smile 
went from his face and a gravity, ceremonious, correct, came in its stead, " has just 
done me the honor to consent to be my 
wife." 
Mrs. Smithwick opened her mouth, closed 
it, opened it again, and stepped back, flab- 
bergasted, undone, speechless with bewilderment and joy. 
"Aunt, dear!" Myrrha exclaimed. "I 
didn't say " 
But the words dissolved the spell. Mrs. 
Smithwick flung herself at the girl, and em- 
braced her hysterically with raptures and 
tears. 
" My darling Myrrha ; you little cat, you 
little cat ! " 
" But, aunt " 
" You darling, darling child ! I knew it, 
I felt it. What am I to say?" 
" May I help ? " 
At her side Bancroft had abruptly surged. 
No one had heard him enter, and now the 
women turned, a trifle confused. 
But in the happiness of the moment Mrs. 
Smithwick forgot her dislike, and in little 
gulps she spluttered : 
" Myrrha is Lord Cloden, I mean. Oh, 
don't you understand ? They are they are 
engaged. " 
It was Bancroft's turn to step back. 
" Is it true, Myrrha ? " 
But the girl could have had no answer 
ready. She looked at him, then turned her 
head. 
" If it be true, Lord Cloden, I cannot 
very well congratulate you, for I had 
thought, God forgive me, that she was to 
be my wife." 
" Ah, indeed," murmured his lordship. 
" I can't very well express my regrets." 
The girl drew him to the window. 
" He did think so," she moaned. "What 
must he think of me now ? What must you 
think of me? What am I to do ? Girls 
don't go into nunneries any more, or I 
would. I would pass my life slaving for 
charity's sake. Tell me, what I am to do." 
In her perplexity she wrung her small 
hands, and she was at once so pretty and so 
miserable that the earl smiled. 
" You are an angel, Myrrha ; be satisfied 
with that. Don't try to be a saint ; it is a 
step backward." 
CHAPTER IV 
WHAT MAY BE READ IN THE PAPER 
AT the announcement of the engagement 
Bancroft had neither changed color nor 
fainted away, but the effect of the stab 
which Quain had dealt was but a vertigo in 
comparison. The love of his life had gone 
down in a trice ; he was as one who, falling 
asleep in Arcadia, awakes on the banks of 
the Styx. It was not alone that he loved, 
like many before and since he loved his 
love ; it was not only the girl, it was the 
hopes he had of her which made her to him 
what she was that little blue flower we call 
the ideal, for whose possession men balk the 
grave, barter life, and then marvel at its 
nothingness. It was that she was to him 
the goal of existence, beyond which happi- 
ness extends, and without which existence 
itself is idle. 
Men worthy of the name cannot eat three 
meals a day, however well served, with noth- 
ing but the morrow's repasts for a future. 
There is that in the human heart which 
makes aspirations and ambitions requisite to 
its pulsations ; there must be a chimera to 
pursue, even though we may suspect the 
chase to be futile, even though we have 
spelled from books of bronze that, quarried, 
the chimera massacres. 
A man who has no beliefs may be sin- 
cerely religious. Bancroft was, but his 
religion was the bella domia who had im- 
paradised his mind. It was for her he ate 
the three meals a day, went downtown, up- 
town, and read the morning papers. Devo- 
tion may be what we accept from others, 
yet it was what he gave to her, regretting 
only that it was not more to give, convulsed 
as by a spasm merely at thought of her lithe 
white arms. Nothing, no guerdon, no crown 
could equal the possibility of their embrace. 
And just when he seemed about to intercept 
the gleam of a coming day in which that 
sweetness might be his; at the moment when 
almost within his grasp glowed that flower 
for which for two years, ignored, rebuffed, 
subjugated yet never despairful, ceaselessly 
he had striven, it was as though he stood 
face to face with death to see it snatched 
from his hand by another. 
Cloden had declared himself the happiest 
man in the world. Bancroft said nothing, 
but he felt the most miserable. When he 
reached his room it was like entering a 
desert, and when he closed the door he 
wondered should he have the strength to 
leave it. 
Life is a song, but death is its refrain. 
And for a while the echo of that burden rip- 
pled harmoniously in his ears, as it has and 
will ripple in the ears of the strongest. The 
man who has never contemplated suicide 
has never loved ; and Bancroft loved so well 
that, at the first shock of the inevitable, 
suicide seemed the only solution, the one 
path to that peace which passes all under- 
standing. 
But to the soul that is sinking hope 
throws a straw. Mentally and physically 
his days had been far too actively employed 
to suffer him now more than a momentary 
contemplation of such a release. It went 
as it had come ; and at once, through the 
influence of that curious optimism which 
visits the condemned, one by one he began 
to review the chances of escape. So many 
presented themselves that when an hour 
had gone the man who sixty minutes before 
had been fumbling death was sound asleep. 
" Nos de"sespoirs sans fin," some one some- 
where has sagely said, " ne durent qu'un 
moment." 
But he slept with that wariness which 
dogs and lovers share, and he awoke, if 
not refreshed, at least alert. 
" I have seen that man before," he de- 
cided as he dressed. " But where ? " 
Then, mentally, he bolted at the eccen- 
tricity of his own thought. " I am daft," 
he told himself. But the thought remained, 
declining to be dismissed. 
Breakfast over he prowled about until an 
opportunity, which meanwhile he had deter- 
mined to seek, occurred. Myrrha went into 
the sitting-room ; he followed and locked 
the door. 
" Nobody can come in except through the 
window, and out of it any one who comes 
will go. Myrrha, I want ten minutes with 
you." 
Obedient, the girl sat down, her fingers 
intertwisted in her lap. But her face was 
very fair, the shadows had gone. The per- 
turbation of the night before had vanished. 
Dreams, tiara'd with coronets perhaps, may 
have reconciled her to fate. 
" Bien, monsieur, et puis ? " 
" Some time ago you asked me to be 
a brother, didn't you ? " 
The girl nodded, affirmatively, eagerly. 
" Very good. Your brother from this out 
I am. As a brother, I possess rights which 
I propose to exercise. In the first place you 
have got to listen, in the second to obey. 
Now tell me, what do you know of Cloden ; 
or rather, wait, let me tell you. You know 
nothing. Nothing," he repeated sewerely, 
" And, what is more, I will thank you not to 
attempt to interrupt. Myrrha, you should 
not have accepted him without consulting 
me. In view of the fact that you have, this 
engagement must remain in abeyance until 
I can learn, what neither of us know, whether 
he is, or is not, a man suited to be your 
husband." 
" I think, Arthur," the girl with silken 
sweetness lisped, " that of that I should be 
the only judge." 
" Why, of course you think so. All girls 
do. It would be extraordinary if they 
didn't. Yet it is just because they do have 
ideas of that kind that brothers were in- 
vented. Now, Myrrha, I don't mean to 
make phrases ; your happiness is dearer to 
me than anything else, and if you don't 
know it, you ought to. If Cloden is the 
man for you and, mind, I don't for a second 
say he isn't I will dance at the wedding. I 
haven't a word in his disfavor. On the 
contrary, I admit that he is well bred, 
well behaved, well educated. I admit, also, 
that to my mind the one visible objection to 
him is his looks ; yes, he is far too good 
looking for a man, though that I can con- 
ceive is not an objection which you would 
share. I admit these things ; I am willing 
to admit more ; but you must also admit that 
they are every one of them on the surface." 
" I don't understand." And the girl 
looked at him with a candor which would 
have delighted Greuze. 
" Yes, you do. You understand perfectly. 
You understand that a man may be well 
bred, well behaved, well educated, and yet 
be out and out a scalawag. The scalawag 
who is none of these things moves in a very 
limited sphere. The devil has to be fasci- 
nating, or how can he ever enthrall ? I don't 
mean to so much as imply that I regard 
Cloden otherwise than as a gentleman, and 
as such incapable of scalawaggery or devil- 
ishness of any kind ; but I happen to be a 
lawyer and " 
" Suspicious by birth," the girl with a 
laugh threw at him. 
" Perhaps ; but when your father bought 
this place, did you think him suspicious 
because he had the title searched ? Very 
good. Then do you care to maintain that 
the marriage contract is less important 
than the conveyance of real estate ? No, of 
course not; no girl ever does. Well, what 
is the little bit of ordinary prudence which 
your father exhibited before purchasing this 
property for himself, in comparison to that 
which he would exhibit were he about to 
purchase a husband for you ? " 
" Purchase ? Purchase, did you say ? " 
The girl's smile had gone, but to her cheeks 
twin roses had come which made her pret- 
tier than before. 
" Why, of course I said purchase ; didn't 
you hear me ? " 
"Then I don't want to hear anymore." 
"Yes, you do, and anyway you can't help 
yourself. Besides, we are advancing mat- 
ters. Purchase and sale come later. What 
we are at present considering are the ele- 
ments of a possible contract. Now, what 
are these elements ? The party of the first 
part is Prince Charming ; the party of the 
second is a little girl who doesn't know her 
own mind. The prince would prefer to 
follow the fashion his ancestors set and get a 
bride from among the nobility of his land. 
But the nobility is poor, the grange is 
crumbling, the moat is choked, sheriffs are 
passing over the drawbridge, there are no 
warders to guard it any more ; in short, 
there are ways and means to be considered, 
and who can supply them so well as that 
little girl ? She is charming, too, and she 
has in her that which will make a princess 
worthy of the name. So quickly will she 
assimilate the impressions of her new exist- 
ence that no one will suspect her origin, no 
one will ever divine that she once had a 
twang, that she lived in a land of savages 
and dressed in feathers and bead. No ; no 
one will know it except the prince, and he 
will be too princely to tell, too considerate 
to let any one for a moment suspect that, 
among the redskins where he found her, 
had she not had bag upon bag of wampum 
he would have rubbed noses and passed on 
his way. And he will be very sweet to that 
little girl, very loving, very thoughtful, very 
courteous, until it occurs to him that there 
^re other women in the land, that a prince 
acknowledges to himself but one law his 
pleasure, and to his princess but one duty 
neglect. And presently in the grange, re- 
built now and rewardered, yet so far from 
the long grass and palm-trees of home, that 
little girl will sit and weep, and she will sit 
and weep alone." 
The fairy tale was stupid, perhaps, as 
fairy tales are apt to be to one no longer a 
child, but in Bancroft's voice there was so 
much affection that the girl must have for- 
got to yawn. To her eyelids a little con- 
traction had come, and she seemed much 
interested in the hands in her lap. 
" Now, Myrrha," he continued, " look at 
me. You are just as pretty as you can 
stick ; you are in the festival of youth, life 
is all before you ; is it worth while to run 
the risk of ruining that beauty with tears, of 
turning that festival into a threnody, of 
blighting all the years that are before you, 
just for the lack of a bit of ordinary fore- 
sight ? Is it ? Answer me candidly and 
honestly ; is it worth while to run such a 
terrible risk ? " 
" But who said it was ? " And Bancroft 
was gratified with a stare gazelle-like in its 
innocence. 
" To tell the truth, I thought you did, but 
I am glad to discover that I am in error. 
You see, I thought you had agreed to be- 
come Prince Charming's bride." 
" Well, supposing I have, what then ? " 
" Then that agreement must remain in 
abeyance until " 
"Oh, pooh! Until what? Until you 
have had a chance to look over the Peer- 
age, I suppose. Well, look it over ; there 
it is." 
" Until I have had time to communicate 
with Sir Julian Pauncefote and hear from 
England as well." 
" And suppose I refuse ? " 
" But you won't refuse. You have too 
much common sense to refuse ; and if 
Cloden be the man I take him to be, he will 
facilitate my investigations in every way." 
" But what are you to investigate ? I 
dare say he has been wicked all men are, 
aren't they ? and I dare say he has debts 
I never heard of an Englishman that hadn't, 
did you ? But these are matters which con- 
cern no one but him and me. If you are 
going to ask to look at his diary, I think he 
would be a fool to show it." 
" And so do I," Bancroft answered dryly. 
" I agree with you in every particular. I 
don't want his diary ; I want his record^ 
I want to know primo, is he here after your 
blue eyes, or is he after your wampum ? " 
Visibly the girl was sitting on the pins 
and needles of impatience, but at this she 
laughed outright. 
" I knew it, Arthur. I knew you would 
say that. Oh, I have been waiting for it, 
and now I have got you he doesn't know 
that I have a penny" 
" What ! " 
" Primo, as you say, how should he ? I 
didn't know it myself until you told me. 
He has been in this country but seven days, 
and five he has passed at the Logerot. The 
letter he got for Aunt Adelaide was given 
before father died. Since then he has been 
in Brazil. Why, Brazil is as far as another 
planet. There was no one there to tell him, 
and since he has been here he has met no 
one who could. Is that enough for primo ? 
It is, is it ? Now for secundo. He has told 
me everything about himself, everything ; 
about Eton, about Oxford, about his regiment, and about his people. He told me 
that his grandfather had been very extravagant, his father also ; that it had been arranged he was to marry his second cousin, 
Lady Maud Manners; that he might 'have 
done so had he cared for her, but that she 
was an heiress, and that, to quote his own 
expression, stuck in his throat. Then he 
told me that he was a democrat, that he had 
determined to make money for himself, that 
his botanizing tour was but a refuge in case 
of failure, that in Brazil he had gone into 
coffee, that he had succeeded with it, and 
that now, instead of his second cousin the 
heiress, he proposed, should he marry at all, 
to marry a girl of his choice. Is that enough 
for secundo ? It is, is it ? Very good ; when 
he told me all that yesterday afternoon, he 
knew no more about my wampum than I 
know about yours. So there ! " 
Bancroft nodded with an air of relief. 
Apparently the premises and conclusion sat- 
isfied him amply. But he had not made a 
study of direct, cross, and redirect examina- 
tion for nothing. He looked at the rug, 
then at the window, finally at the girl, and 
in another tone and rather sadly he asked : 
" Do you really love him ? " 
The girl, her eyes lowered, walked straight 
into the trap. 
" I don't know ; I thought I did last night. 
But I have been mistaken before. Besides, 
does a girl ever know ? " 
"Where a title is concerned she usually 
does. Girls like them, and with reason. A 
title can be divided, a duke makes a duch- 
ess ; whereas a man of brains cannot share 
his intellect with a fool." 
Myrrha looked up ; the twin roses re- 
turned. "Arthur, that is unfair of you. I 
may be a fool, but I am not a snob. You 
know I care nothing for his title." 
"Ah ! Supposing it should appear that he 
has none, would you marry him then, provid- 
ing, I mean, you intend to marry him at 
all ? " 
" And how could such a thing appear ? " 
Myrrha with an assumption of great haughti- 
ness and defiance inquired. 
" From his own account, that botanizing 
tour was a sham ; might not the title be one 
as well ? " 
On the girl's face the roses deepened ; but 
when she spoke, as she instantly did, their 
warmth was not in her tone. 
" Do you mean that you think him an 
impostor ? " 
" I mean that I have seen him before, 
and not at the siege of Troy, either." 
So measured were the words, and so sig- 
nificant too, that autumn must have touched 
the roses they disappeared. 
" So have you," he added. " Now tell 
me where." 
The girl was trembling, her face ashen. 
" Tell me," he insisted ; and projecting 
his teeth, contracting his features, his face 
took on the horror of a Chinese mask. 
" I don't know, I don't know," she cried. 
" You drive me mad. O Arthur, don't " 
The features relaxed. 
" Myrrha, will you promise me that this 
engagement shall remain in abeyance until 
I can learn something about him ? Will 
you ? Will you promise me that ? " 
"Yes," she gasped, "anything." 
Bancroft stood up, crossed the room, unlocked the door and touched a bell. In a 
moment the butler appeared. 
" Harris " 
"Yes, sir." 
" Harris, have you ever seen Lord Cloden 
before this week ? " 
The man stared. 
"Answer me, can't you?" 
" No, sir, I never have. Leastway, not 
that I remember." 
" Have you ever seen any one who at 
all resembled him ? " 
" That I have, sir." 
"Well, where?" 
"At Ascot 'Eath, sir, when I see'd his 
honored pa. I remember it like it was 
yesterday, his lordship stood that near " 
"There, Harris, that will do." 
"Yes, sir; thank you, sir." 
Bancroft turned to the girl again. The 
little interview must have strengthened her, 
for she smiled and pointed a finger at him. 
On the end of it were all sorts of pretty 
gestures ; and in her face, to which some 
trace of color had returned, was the mimic 
of a child saying Fi ! 
"I have your promise, though," he as- 
serted. 
" The ten minutes must be up, aren't they ? " 
" I have your promise, have I not ? " 
But before any reply was possible Harris 
reappeared, and very gravely, with fitting 
rewerence, mumbled : 
" His lordship, the Earl of Cloden." 
As the latter entered Bancroft stepped 
forward, a hand outstretched : 
" Good morning. Miss Attersol and I 
