whither had it betaken itself ? What had become 
of the shame, the anguish, the defilement? The 
infected man looked for one revolting sign and 
another of his acquaintance with disgrace. Was he 
gone blind, or maniac, that he could not find them ? 
Gently through his body, that had been the den of 
torments, the sense of freedom from pain and from 



THE HEALER 151 

impurity, strange as the laws of a foreign organism, 
began to stir. 

The Nazarene stood smiling. He seemed to be 
charged with joy. The happiness of the other looked 
a faint thing beside his own. It was as if he him- 
self had suffered everything that went before, as 
if all that history of woe had been his own. So ex- 
quisite his sympathy that the very thrill of being 
healed seemed to run through him. The delight of 
healing was but a portion of his beautiful pleasure. 
He felt every pang that he had removed, and all the 
bliss that he had given. Gladness like the gladness 
of a God shone all over him. It was one of the 
happiest moments of his life. 

" Go," he said with a low and joyous laugh. 
" Find the priest and be purified." 

Now he who had defied in this act of mercy every 
ecclesiastical law relating to contagious diseases 
which as a Jew and a rabbi he was bound to respect, 
loyally enough deferred to the statutes of his church 
and of his land. 

A stranger thing he did, for he added the peremp- 
tory and totally unexpected order that the manner 
of the cure should be kept a secret between the 
patient and the healer. 

With every intention to obey the Rabbi, the 
cleansed man went his ways. But joy and the curi- 
osity of his friends was too much for him. His head 
was turned with delight. The novelty of health 
bounded through his nerves like delirium. Leap- 
ing, laughing, praying, singing as he ran, he bab- 



152 THE STORY OF JESUS CHKIST 

bled of his good fortune. He had no more power 
to keep the name of the Nazarene out of the affair 
than a child to keep a secret from his mother, and 
the whole town knew it before nightfall. 

The consequence was precisely what Jesus had 
foreseen, and what he had especially tried to avoid. 
Before he could evade the popular excitement, it 
had rolled up against him, a wave of suffering, 
vast and dark. He was immediately overwhelmed 
with the entreaties of the incurable and disfigured 
sick, who, if they could not reach him in any other 
way, crawled upon the sands to his feet, and lay 
there, piteous and hideous, until he considered their 
plight. 

The state of medical education in the East at that 
time was such as to emboss the methods of Christ 
in strong relief upon a background of almost in- 
credible folly and charlatanry. 

The heads of mice, the brains of an owl, the eyes 
of a crab, the fat of a viper, a bat, a grasshopper, 
might be among the popular remedies. If a man 
had a cold in the head, his physician ordered him to 
kiss the nose of a mule. For certain disorders one 
carried about a peculiar species of small snake re- 
ported to possess the accomplishment of traveling 
backwards. The cuttings of vines not four years 
old, burned in seven ditches, were believed to con- 
tain peculiar therapeutic virtues, provided one sat 
in the smoke of the seven ditches, each in turn. 

Such a materia medica was the offering of the 
regular schools to suffering humanity. At such a 
stage and into such a phase of medical science, the 



THE HEALER 153 

healing gift of the Nazarene entered quietly. Its 
simplicity, its good sense, its delicacy, its efficacy, 
its amazing results threatened to overturn the thera- 
peutics of his time. The physicians were derisive, 
then disgruntled, then alarmed. Their consultations 
were neglected; their clienteles thinned out; their 
patients deserted them for the new healer. The 
danger was that the sick public would go over en 
masse to the courageous and singular man whose 
prescriptions required of his patients only clean 
lives and faith in himself. The most learned and 
fashionable physicians in Palestine were set at 
naught. A growing uneasiness ran through their 
ranks. Before he had aroused the serious opposi- 
tion of the clergy to which the heretic preacher was 
inevitably fated, the humane and gentle man who 
began his life's work by such a love of the sick and 
such a sorrow for their sufferings as has never been 
equaled in the records of human sympathy, brought 
down upon himself the enmity of one of the most 
jealous classes in society* He had to meet the an- 
tagonism of the whole medical profession. 

The absence of superstition in the nature of 
Jesus was something that never ceases to astonish. 
Simply reared in a mountain village, in a secluded 
youth, in a devout family, how easy for him to have 
conformed, to have believed, like other men ! But 
freedom of thought was the condition of existence to 
him. Far above his contemporaries, looking off and 
away at an altitude in which they could not breathe, 
he quickly took the broadest view of any practical 
question. He never did an ignorant thing. 



164 THE STORY OF JESUS CHEIST 

Against the medical superstitions of his times he 
directed himself with a progressive independence 
which commands the keenest admiration. Perceiv- 
ing that the people who appealed to him suffered 
more from the abuses of the profession than from 
the effects of disease, he took high ground. He 
antedated by two thoiisand years the efforts of mod- 
ern science to reduce the abominations of a be- 
nighted past in the practice of medicine. He threw 
away all drugs, all nostrums, all nauseous traditions, 
all the disgusting superstitions of the age, and 
brought his patients up to pure living and high 
thinking as his simple code of therapeutics. 

It is never to be forgotten tihat he added to these 
principles in the control of disease the forces of a 
personality that stands apart, beyond reduplica- 
tion. The wisest and most courageous of the mod- 
ern schools does not hope for a similar professional 
success ; only the purest dwells upon it. But he 
who studies that supreme achievement learns his 
subtle formula, if he will, from the " irregular " 
Hebrew physician whose manly faith in God was 
the first and last condition of curing, and whose 
patients found that something not unlike it was the 
inexorable condition of cure. 

An opportunity presented itself for an interest- 
ing thrust at a favorite popular superstition involv- 
ing both medicine and theology, and requiring a 
double amount of courage on the part of him who 
dared to attack it. 

The successes of many healers are largely con- 
fined to disorders of the nervous system. 



THE HEALEB 155 

cures of Jesus were not limited at all to these, but 
lie had performed his share of such. An impres- 
sive and dramatic scene had taken place in Galilee* 
at the home of his friend Peter, a man in comfort- 
able circumstances, whose house was of some size, 
and accommodated both audiences and patients in 
considerable numbers. The R-abbi had preached in 
the house, under the gallery, and the crowd over- 
flowed into the street. Suddenly, in the middle of 
his sermon, there descended at his feet, mysteri- 
ously let down from overhead, a paralyzed person, 
whose muscular and ingenious friends had carried 
him up the outside stairs of the house, or had taken 
" the road of the roofs " from a neighbor's ; so they 
stole a march upon the healer's attention, perhaps 
by tearing up the earth and the brush from the 
gallery roof, and forcing a space large enough for 
their purpose. As this image of woe fell flat at his 
feet, the preacher's voice hushed. Only the eyes of 
the patient could move, and these clasped the per- 
son of the most merciful man whom Galilee had ever 
known or heard of. The entreaty was so piteous 
that the lip of Jesus trembled. He could not go on 
with his discourse till he had cured tne patient. 

The memory of this scene occurred to him poign- 
antly one Sabbath, when, being in Jerusalem at 
an ecclesiastical feast, he walked out alone to one 
of the "wells of healing" in which the East 
abounded. This spot was not far from the market, 
and easily accessible. It was eminent for its legen- 
dary cures, and sure to be frequented by people 
suffering from those forms of nervous disease which 



156 THE STORY OF JESUS CHEIST 

forbid a patient to get too far from home, but 
are sure to take him somewhere in a whimsical 
search for health. The place went by the name of 
Bethesda, and was a pretty pool, picturesquely 
guarded by porches. It was one of the intermit- 
tent springs whose rise and fall was attributed by 
the ignorance of the times to supernatural agency. 
The waters were disturbed at irregular intervals, 
and only the poor wretch who pushed his way in at 
the expense of his weaker companions, and at the 
precise moment when the spring began to swell, had 
any chance* 

Jesus stood beside Bethesda, and it was the Sab- 
bath, the awful Sabbath, in which a man was 
forbidden to carry fuel, a rug, a bundle, or to lift 
the sick upon their beds. Only the dying could 
be carried by good Jews. A medical cure was for- 
bidden. Jesus stood watching the mass of misery 
that had accumulated at the pool. His now prac- 
ticed eye perceived among those wretched people a 
large proportion of nervous patients, and among 
them he readily recognized the worst and most 
genuine case. A helpless man, disabled for thirty- 
eight years, and deserted by his friends who had 
grown tired of taking care of him, lay sadly in one 
of the porches by himself. The ruder and more 
restless sick complained and quarreled around him. 
He alone lay quite still and acquiescent. The pa- 
tience born from long-accepted despair had settled 
upon him. His drawn face demanded nothing ; his 
wasted hands made no appeal. His eyes wore dull 
with endurance that had passed the stage of fever- 



THE HEALER 157 

ishness, hope, or fear. He lay waiting for the 
chance which had never come, which would never 
come. This was the sickest man at the spring, and 
the only one sure to receive no attention. 

Jesus went directly to him. The two were apart. 
No one noticed the Rabbi who came to see Bethesda, 
a common resort for country folk visiting Jerusalem 
and anxious to see the sights. Jesus entered at 
once into conversation with the disabled man, who 
had attracted his interest. He did not insult the 
nervous patient by expressing doubts as to the real- 
ity of his disorder. He did not prejudge hysterical 
symptoms, or underestimate the nature of a suffer- 
ing only too evident to his refined perception. An 
ordinary physician might easily have turned this 
case off as one of the Bethesda hypochondriacs. 

The Galilean healer was too sensitive for that. 
His mind was too keen to make this blunder, be- 
cause it was too fine. Gently drawing from the 
poor man his story, which was not altogether that 
of an innocent sufferer, he sorrowed for the patient 
more than he blamed. His heart ached at the plain- 
tive and uncomplaining, 

" Sir, all the others can get into the water, but 
there is nobody to help me. Before I can get 
down ' 

But there the stranger interrupted him. The 
morbid, motionless man clinging to his superstition 
because he had nothing better, looked, startled, up. 
What words were these? What face was that? 
What fire, half of indignation, half of pity, played 
across those gentle features ? Why did the Rabbi 
shake his head ? 



168 THE STOEY OF JESUS CHRIST 

What ? Not believe in the waters not in the 
Bethesda waters, after all ? Believe only in this 
face, this voice, this sweetest sympathy ever found 
in all a lonely, miserable life ? With a rush of emo- 
tion, it suddenly seemed to the neglected invalid 
that if he had been dead he could have lived had 
this man spoken to him, had he looked at him so. 

" Take it up ! " cried the stranger, pointing to the 
bed. "Carry it. Walk!" 

With this authoritative order he dismissed the 
case, and took himself hurriedly away. 

Later in the day Jesus met his cured patient 
accidentally, and exchanged with him a few words. 
But these were not many, for the story was now 
public property, and a curious crowd crushed upon 
the two. 

A sullen excitement .had set in over the case. 
Both had defied the law; the healer had wrought 
a cure, and the invalid had carried a bed upon the 
Sabbath day! 

Ecclesiastical feeling ran high. A timid man 
would have retreated from it. Jesus, on the con- 
trary, went straight to the Temple, where he was 
sure to meet the full brunt of it. His object in 
coming to Jerusalem at that time had been no light 
one. He was no mere traveler, no comfortable 
worshiper. Strange and strong as the story of his 
career had been for the last few months, the move- 
ment of his own nature had been stranger and 
stronger. He felt the imperious need of a broader 
scope. Braver deeds beckoned him. Deeper dan- 
gers called him. Beautiful Galilee with her listen- 



THE HEALER 159 

ing synagogues and her happy convalescents was 
not the world. Problems of church and state trou- 
bled him. 

The character of his own peculiar mission asked 
Mm awful questions. These gave him no rest. He 
came, and he came alone, definitely to test the 
attitude of the capital towards himself. His method 
of doing this was entirely his own. 

In the cause of humanity he had boldly broken 
the Sabbath laws, ancient as Moses, precious as 
Israel, rigid as death. In the cause of common 
sense he had treated a superstition dear to Jerusa- 
lem with unpardonable contempt. Could he not 
have cured his man on any other of six days out of 
seven? Could he not have done it at some time 
when the spring did rise ? All ecclesiastical laws 
and pathological precedents he had simply ignored. 
The clergy, the people, and the government were 
equally offended. Not fully prepared for the conse- 
quences, Jesus calmly awaited them. If he felt 
any agitation, he did not show it. In the Temple 
he serenely defended himself. A mob was the 
result. 

The very madness of joy looked at him from the 
eyes of one adoring man, the escaped prisoner of 
thirty-eight years of misery. He could see his Be- 
thesda patient excitedly arguing the case with scribe 
and priest and Pharisee. But the church frowned 
on the heretic. The people imitated the -church. 
His own discourse in the Temple, a powerful and 
fearless address, had made everything worse. The 
country Eabbi became in an hour dangerously un- 



160 THE STOKT OF JESUS CHKIST 

popular. With hurt surprise, with pathetic wonder 
that left no room for fear, Jesus perceived that he 
stood in the Temple of his race, in the holy city of 
his heart, in actual peril of his life. 

He had come up from the country filled with no 
man knew what secret hopes, with what growing 
exaltations and exultations too pure for comprehen- 
sion by his nearest friends. He had come up trast- 
fully, looking for some cheerful signs of the popular 
feeling under which he might map out the plan of 
his work. But Jerusalem met him with a malicious 
rebuff, and dismissed him with a murderous threat. 

His independence of conviction soon brought more 
trouble upon him. Having heartily allowed his 
hungry disciples to pick corn on the Seventh Day, 
he found that he had committed an unpardonable 
offense. Jesus defended his innovation wai'mly and 
authoritatively. " I am Lord of the Sabbath," he 
said. 



CHAPTER VII 
THE PREACHER; AND THE DEAD 

WHATEVER had been Bis disappointment in the 
results of his experiment at Jerusalem, Jesus did 
not express or cultivate it. He came back thought- 
fully to Galilee, impulsive, fickle, lovable Galilee, 
where he was affectionately trusted and perplexedly 
admired, and drowned himself again in his work. 
With that noticeable good sense which characterized 
all his public movements, and with his habit of 
following the clear duty instead of urging the doubt- 
ful, he resumed his opportunity among the warm- 
hearted lake-people and their inland neighbors. 
Their welcome was genuine enough, and encouraged 
him, but it never flattered him. He was now 
approaching the height of his fame. He had not 
fully realized its proportions before he left home. 
His return from the capital to the country revealed 
to him some new and pleasant aspects of his growing 
hold upon the people. He accepted his popularity 
with unapproachable simplicity, serenity, and mod- 
esty. He gave no evidence of one dizzy hour. The 
moral vertigo which confuses many great men at 
the whirl of their success did not perceptibly affect 
him. If he ever felt it, he gave no sign of doing 
so. The giddiness was conquered before it reached 
the poise. 



162 THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST 

This was the more to be noticed because he had a 
kind of temptation to lose his balance, which is only 
to be measured by some appreciation of the eminence 
that he refused himself. Beside it, that which he 
allowed himself was a lowly success. This fact, 
which time enunciated with a terrible distinctness, 
began now to murmur to his consciousness. 

Galilee was at his feet. Just then he could have 
done anything with Galilee. The neighboring pro- 
vinces overflowed on the lake side for his sake; 
Judea sought him and studied him ; and even Je- 
rusalem had her delegates at his mass meetings. 
The clergy and officers of his church had begun 
to observe him. His audiences were numbered by 
thousands. His patients were never numbered. 
Sickness, misery, sin, and shame swept against his 
heart as the winds swept Gennesaret, whose shape 
was like a harp. Both audiences and patients were 
increasing with appalling force. He could get little 
sleep. Eest was impossible. He had scarcely time 
to eat, and his nervous vigor was so taxed that food 
was taken with difficulty. It had become necessary 
for him to own or to control a boat for his frequent 
trips across the lake, and that he might push out into 
the water and so use the deck as a pulpit, putting a 
space between himself and the masses which would 
otherwise have disabled Trim from addressing them. 
Wherever he went, he took and left crowds. He 
was trampled by humanity. He was almost crushed 
by its near proximity. The pressure of its woe 
closed upon him till he could have cried out for 
agony from his delicate perception of what that 



THE PBEACHEE; AXD THE DEAD 163 

meant. The sense of its taint bruised against his 
exquisite purity till he could have shrunk away for- 
ever, from sheer moral recoil, out of repulsive con- 
tact. He never did. He had not an atom of false 
sensitiveness. His delicacy had not a morbid nerve 
in it. He took the world as he found it. But he 
did not, he would not, he could not leave it so. 
Where he was, vice hung its head. Where he trod, 
virtue was the only comfortable thing. Misery crept 
like a child to his arms. Assuagement was in his 
touch, because pity and power held the balance of 
his impulses. His life was as foreign to every con- 
ception of life held by the people of his times 
as the unknown continents of the western hemi- 
sphere. He passed through Palestine like a new 
law of moral science, which men obeyed without 
understanding. 

He had been but a short time at home again 
when he found his work so grown upon his hands 
that it was impossible to continue it without respon- 
sible assistants and more of them. 

The selection of these cost him much thought and 
care. More depended upon it than was perceived 
by any spectator. He had already given offense by 
numbering among Ms especial friends a collector of 
the Roman government. With his fearless inde- 
pendence he had never paid the least attention to 
the feeling caused by this expression of indiffer- 
ence to Jewish prejudices, and the collector proved 
to be one of his most valuable men. He chose the 
subordinates he preferred for qualities best appreci- 
ated by himself. Out of them all there was but one 



164: THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST 

failure. An unhappy choice could hardly be called 
a mistake, which was plainly as necessary to the 
action of the mighty drama in which he moved as 
treason, death, or heart-break to the motion of a 
Greek tragedy. 

The night before he completed the organization 
which was the nucleus of the great faith that bears 
his name, he spent in that solitary, solemn manner 
which marked all the critical decisions or events 
of his life. Northward of Capernaum, in the hilly 
region, he knew and loved many lonely haunts. 
Thither he went, and there he wandered. In thought 
and prayer he wore the whole night out. The lake 
that he loved was at his feet ; the stars, acquaintances 
to other men, but comrades to him, were marshaled 
above his head; the stillness that he craved, and 
could never command by day, stole to his nerves. 

Darkness without hid those hours of darkness 
within, of which he told no man. What doubts, 
that he -knew not whether to acknowledge or to 
ignore, beset him ! What fearful questions catechized 
him ! What forebodings tortured him I How often 
did he ask himself if he had mistaken himself, if 
he were deluded about it all, if his own conscious- 
ness rang true ! Had he misread the signs of mere 
popularity for the will of heaven ? Did he hear in 
the clamor of men the voice of God? The first 
trouble in the wilderness by Jordan, the first moral 
emergency, was it his next and next, and always 
his until the last? Was it the cruelest difficulty of 
his solitary mission that he was never quite sure, 
without interruption in his own conviction, of his 




CHRIST BY THE SEA 



THE PREACHER; AND THE DEAD 165 

commission from God? Then was it the grandest 
achievement of his life that he went straight on 
doing the one thing of which he was sure, and leav- 
ing the nature of his mission to take care of itself. 
There was no doubt that the sick were wretched, 
and that he could heal them. There was no doubt 
that men were evil, and that he could make them 
better. There was no doubt that he could comfort 
the unhappy. There was no more doubt that he 
could preach and teach and heal than there was that 
he suffered and was misunderstood. Was he the 
Chosen, the Wonderful, the Anointed, the Messiah 
of his people? Was he the Son of his God? The 
answer to this awful question lay in the lips of 
Jehovah. There were black hours when those lips 
seemed sealed for him who hung upon their motion 
for the breath of his being. There were bright 
hours when whispers inarticulate to common ears 
inexpressibly comforted the lonely man. 

When he came down from the heights at dawn, 
his friends, accustomed to read the changes of his 
dear and noble face, and that with some affection- 
ate skill, as they read the weather on the Galilean 
lake, were moved by his appearance. Plainly 
this had been one of the nights when he had prayed 
almost to exhaustion. Lines of sleeplessness and 
intense feeling were cut upon his face. Yet he 
did not look unhappy. Wan as he was, he smiled 
warmly. Joy came down the hillsides with him. 

The plain men, who loved him better than they 
understood him, connected in their own minds this 
night of vigil and of prayer with the solemn cere- 



166 THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST 

mony through which he immediately called them to 
lifelong allegiance to himself. It was a tremendous 
occasion to them. It was a serious one to him. 
But they soon perceived that he had needed extra 
strength for another purpose. That night of solemn 
preparation was the prelude to a great public ad- 
dress. 

He and his twelve friends had scarcely turned 
their grave faces from one another, each awed with 
his own share in the important compact through 
which they had just passed, when the people, crowd- 
ing up and on, crushed to the Kabbi's feet. He 
was so encompassed by them that he could not have 
been heard or seen ; and, after protesting gently but 
in vain, he withdrew from them and climbed to an 
elevation that commanded the crowd. 

It now contained a vast number of persons, 
how many no one cared to count. For an undi- 
verted interest centred upon the preacher. He did 
not always follow the custom of the Jewish rabbi, 
who sat while he instructed. On certain occasions 
his impulse drew him to his feet. But this was not 
one of them. At the height on which he was, it was 
quite possible to assume the usual ministerial pos- 
ture, and still control his audience. This was now so 
large that he needed to make some effort to be heard 
in the open air. Yet he seemed to make none. His 
enunciation was remarkably distinct, and was under- 
stood by the uttermost straggler on the edge of the 
crowd. 

His voice was carried to a surprising distance. It 
had a clear, vibrant quality, and rang; its vowel 



THE PREACHER; AXD THE DEAD 16T 

sounds were exquisite ; it was music articulate- It 
was a voice to love, to long for, to follow, to obey, 
to recall long after it had ceased, as one recalls 
indescribable pleasure ; it was the organ only to be 
commanded by a pure, high soul united to a power- 
ful intellect. 

Yet, though it could hold an audience of thou- 
sands of restless people, the voice of Jesjis was not 
loud. Its timbre was one of marvelous delicacy. 
Its lowest tone and he preferred the low tones 
could be heard where a coarser man would have 
been obliged to strain all the functions of the throat 
and lungs. He spoke with perfect ease; as if he 
were not obliged to think how he spoke. 

He began that morning in a low, penetrating 
voice. It was music, pity, and power in one. The 
lightest listener in the audience sobered before the 
sound, and the lowest shriveled ; but the most mis- 
erable wept for very comfort. Before their slow 
minds had begun to grasp the significance of what 
he said, his hearers were fascinated by the way in 
which he said it. It was one of the voices that 
predestine the career of an orator. It took but a 
few moments for a cultivated observer of the throng, 
reflecting dispassionately as he studied the scene, to 
decide that a man with that voice, and that presence, 
was created to be the most famous religious orator 
of his times. How could the imagination of any 
Hebrew or Eoman, Greek or Persian, of that day, 
compass the knowledge that he was listening to the 
greatest preacher of history ? Such the Kabbi from 
Nazareth has proved himself to be. His discourse 



168 THE STOKY OF JESUS CHBIST 



^ - 

has gone far to give him the claim to this title. 

It was and remains, seen across the spaa of civ- 
ilization, and jtidged by the standards of the severest 
modern criticism, thegreafc masterpiece of religious 
address. 

Contrasted with his first youthful and interrupted 
sermon in the Nazareth synagogue, this discourse in- 
dicated a natural but obvious growth in the preacher. 
All hesitation, experimentation, were behind him. 
He preached like a man sure of himself and of his 
subject. His facility of expression had become 
more marked. His increased intellectual force had 
an iron grip. His logic closed like lock and key. 
His style had become polished and brilliant. His 
persuasive power was irresistible. Who, reading 
the Sermon^jmJ^ anything like atten- 

tion, wonders at the^exhaustmg night of study that 
preceded it? 

Jesus was what we call an extemporaneous 
speaker ; but, strictly speaking, this was no extem- 
pore effort. The evidences of careful construction 
and finish abound in the discourse itself. He was 
destitute of tricks of speech. His methods were 
never sensational. He used the best of grammar, 
His rhetoric was a model. He did not cater to the 
ignorant by an appearance of ignorance* He 
avoided vulgarisms. He spoke like a gentleman. 
This educated mechanic was a polished orator. He 
was and is the great instance of the eternal truth 
that a superior mind never need abase itself to reach 
an inferior. His simplicity, directness, force, per- 



THE PREACHER; AND THE DEAD 169 

suasiveness, were a compliment & the most ignorant 
person among liis hearers, who responded to them 
without knowing why ; and the most cultivated, who 
knew why, could no more help responding than the 
ignorant. The sermons of Jesus indicate that he 
was an habitual student, and this of no easy type. 
Days and nights of severe application marked his 
career as a preacher. He was no half-taught, half- 
ready, popular talker trusting to his emotions to 
take him through the hour. He was thoroughly 
equipped. 

On the occasion of which we speak, he addressed 
himself particularly to twelve men. Twelve hun- 
dred, or twice or thrice that number, were in the 
audience ; but his disciples, with their fresh vows 
scarcely parted from their lips, were in the fore- 
ground. He placed and retained them in close 
proximity to himself, while he made of the private 
ceremony through which he had but just initiated 
them a solemn public event. He had now reached 
a stage in his life when organization was necessary 
to the advancement of his principles, and when he 
began to feel their advancement an urgent thing. 
This conviction he wished, if possible, to share with 
the witnesses of the scene. Formality, as a rule, he 
avoided. No other great leader of men has scorned 
it as he did. His methods were simple and modest ; 
he was incapable of display ; he always acted like 
a man who did not know the use of it, or who for- 
got that it had any, in human affairs. This was one 
of the very few occasions of his life when he took 
advantage of a ceremony to achieve an end. 



170 THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST 

The beautiful and impressive formalities of the 
morning were not lost upon the crowd ; the dullest 
minds in it understood that Jesus regarded the or- 
ganization of his disciples as a matter of profound 
importance to himself, to them, to the Jewish race, 
and to the world. 

The Jews, being a people born and trained to 
severity, took it as a matter of course. Of mercy 
they kn&w- .little. Commandments carved^ in stone 
by" te greatest of legislators grimly cut their ancient 
laws into the Hebrew instinct. Jehovah had not 
lasted words with the people. It was : Thou shalt 
not, and Thou shalt. With explanation, or appeal, 
or promise He had never concerned himself. Moses 
was not a tender man. The fiat and its conse- 
quences were as unornamented as Sinai, and as hard. 

Jesus, too, came down from a mountain on the 
day when the principles of the Christian faith were 
first publicly laid down. Introducing a reverent 
reference to the ancient laws of his race, which in 
a less sincere man would have been a marvel of dex- 
terity, he succeeded, by a wonderful mingling of 
oratorical tact and genuineness of feeling, in unfold- 
ing his theories of life and of religion* These were 
so startling and original that they took the breath 
away from his audience. 

Instead of commandments, Jesus offered beati- 
tudes. Instead of thunder, there was music. Threats 
were replacecHby promises. PunishmentsTlnterested 
him less than rewards. After a thousand years of 
law, who could understand love ? Amazement which 
amounted almost to stupefaction listened to him. 



THE PEEACHER; AND THE DEAD 171 

He spoke of. incredible things. He treated them in 
an astounding way. Something in his manner was 
more than priestly; it was more than royal. He 
tore down old, solid, respectable errors of church 
and society with the assurance of a God tossing 
aside human affairs. In his audience were a certain 
number of ecclesiastical delegates and pompous pie- 
tists of the established belief. He paid no court to 
their position. He did not on their account soften 
by an adjective anything which he had to say. He 
singled them out, in fact, as he did on more than 
one other occasion, by one of the severest rebukes 
ever known to fall from his gentle lips. He added 
to his enemies on that morning. Conservatives did 
not understand him, and hypocrites feared him. 
Silent and secret jealousies and aversions grew in 
his audience alongside of the admiration, affection, 
and trust which it was impossible for him not to 
inspire. 

For he spoke of strange thoughts in a strange 
way. He offered great things to small people. He 
selected the overlooked, the despised, those who 
were of no consequence. He made extraordinary 
promises for ultimate preeminence to men without 
what is called " spirit ; " to those not quick to take 
provocation, patient people, the gentle, the hum- 
ble ; to those weakened by too much grief ; to the 
tender ; to those whose longing for what he called 
righteousness, or rightness of heart, was & spiritual 
starvation. The unhappy, the slandered ; those who 
loved peace and tried to preserve it ; those who suf- 
fered hardship for a good cause ; all the obscure and 



172 THE STORY OF JESUS CHEIST 

unfortunate whom it was not the fashion to notice, 
these he preferred. 

To one class of men he reserved the most solemn 
and most tender of all his affectionate pledges: 
" The pure in heart," he said, " are blessed. They 
shall see God." His voice sank with these words ; 
it was audible only because it was so clear and 
sweet ; thousands held the breath to catch the fall- 
ing tone ; hundreds hung their heads like children, 
when they understood what the Rabbi said. No 
person looked at his neighbor. Every one was busy 
with his own soul. On the face of the preacher 
crept such a look as an unclean man, beholding, 
might have died of, for very shame. Then dazzling 
brightness smote his countenance. Many in his 
audience covered their eyes before its radiance, 
these as if they had seen, those as if they should 
never see something too precious to speak of ; some- 
thing dearer than life, more inexorable than death. 
>* 

The preacher paused at this point, but only to 
gather strength to proceed with his remarkable dis- 
course. The sermon was not a brief one, and its 
beautiful opening was followed by a train of thought 
whose power and originality were no less great than 
his introduction. What he said was as fearless as 
the lightning, yet as practical as any statute of the 
ancient law. 

He spoke as the maker of a new system, the legis- 
lator of a higher law. He treated of many moral 
offenses. The list ranged from nrarder to rash judg- 
ment, from immorality to excessive anxiety. He 



THE PREACHER; AND THE DEAD 173 

dealt with many virtues ; their names were new to 
his audience. Each watched to see how his neigh- 
bor took these confusing things ; rich travelers and 
poor rustics, philosophers and women, listened with 
a common bewilderment. The few plain men who 
had given their lives to his service lifted trustful 
and affectionate faces to Jesus while he spoke, but 
they experienced their share of the general perplex- 
ity. The preacher stood among his doctrines as if 
he were the creator of a new world. 

In an age when human life was held as cheap as 
the fish in the nets at Galilee, or the ants crushed 
by the hoofs of camels in the caravan, he taught that 
one venomous wish makes a man before God guilty 
of murder. In an age when common decency was 
so defied that the pen refuses to write of the im- 
morality of the times, he taught that one coarse 
look or low thought broke the seventh command- 
ment. 

In an age when private revenge was sweet and 
fashionable, " Forgive thine enemy I " rang from his 
firm lips like a military command spoken in a lan- 
guage unknown to the rank and file. To a people 
whose habits of thought were stiff with the selfish- 
ness of a race to which self-protection has been for 
generations foremost in mind, he flung down the 
incredible demand that they should love their neigh- 
bors as they loved themselves. 

In an age when a slave had not as many rights 
as a pauper dog in our streets to-day, and when a 
prince or a priest treated a poor man as he chose 
and no help for it, when rank and wealth were never 



174 THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST 

asked for their credentials if they trampled obscurity 
and poverty into bruises and blood, 



^ 

of man, the rights of the wronged, jthe 
value of tiwTslighted. In a society of sham he 
scorned woflc&iness by an epigram which, has re- 
mained superb and final from his day to ours. 

To a church dying of ceremony, rotten with 
hypocrisy, and dark with distrust of himself, he 
gently offered an ideal of worship which defied 
every ecclesiastical conception of his race and times. 
An immortal prayer distinguished and hallowed the 
great discourse. It was the most exquisite episode 
in the morning's service. The Lord's Prayer has 
never been approached as a model for public wor- 
ship. All times and all people have appropriated 
that matchless petition. The perplexity of the au- 
dience which listened to Jesus that summer morning 
did not decrease as the sermon proceeded. 

Were they Gentiles, that foreign ideas like these 
should be offered them without apology? Were 
they angels, that virtues never heard of in human 
character should be expected of them ? Who and 
what was this Rabbi ? His air of authority was 
unimpeachable. Whence did he get it ? What did 
he mean by it ? The most willful skeptic in the 
throng felt it. There was no such thing as escaping 
it ; and when were authority and persuasion ever so 
mingled in one address? How could so regal a 
man be so winning ? how could so gentle a man be 
so imperial, commanding ? 

And"~now, indeed, a few thoughtful persons re- 
called those recent rumors ^bout the Wonderful. 



THE PKEACHER; AND THE DEAD 175 

Was this he who once or twice, in his religious 
enthusiasm, was said to have claimed the awful per- 
sonality of the Messiah ? But the preacher that day 
had said nothing on the subject. 

We like to think that he passed the night suc- 
ceeding this great sermon in sleep, for he was worn 
with his recent vigil, and the strain of the day had 
been very heavy. The mere intellectual exercise of 
such an address was no light matter. Add the 
spiritual energy, which was of such a sort as no 
mind not in sympathy with it can appreciate. And 
ho was destined soon to undergo a still greater 
ordeal, one of the supi^eme experiences of his life. 
He needed all his strength. 

He found it, only God and he knew how* His 
strange consciousness that he stood in some excep- 
tional relation to the Deity came to him at times 
in mighty form and force. There were crises when 
he leaned upon it as on an infinite Heart beating 
behind his own, as nothing but the heart of father- 
hood ever beats, whether in divine or human being. 
^Fortified by prayer, encouraged by achievement, 
and calmed by sleep, he left Capernaum and pro- 
ceeded on one of his preaching circuits. His follow- 
ers were with him, much impressed by recent events, 
and fired with new enthusiasm in his service. They 
cast aib him frequent glances of admiration touched 
with reverence. He was unusually silent. They 
wondered why. But they were used to wondering 
Where their Master was concerned. It was their 
habitual state of mind. He was not like other men ; 



176 THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST 

he did not act as other persons did. His person- 
ality, his conduct, his motives were all so much 
above those of common people that at times the 
affection which his twelve friends had for him 
mounted into awe. Yet they loved him too much 
to feel altogether afraid of him. 

They were traveling towards a little Galilean 
town (its name was Nain; "The Delightful"), 
