guide.

"Where is he now?" inquired the captain, as they continued to eat the
dinner of hardtack and herring, washed down with hot coffee.

"There he is near the hospital; he has just sat down to lunch with the
sergeants," replied Deck, pointing to the group.

"Ask him to join us, Lieutenant," said the captain.

Deck obeyed; and Milton immediately responded to the summons. The
lieutenant apologized to him for his want of attention, for he had been
very busy every moment of the time. He was introduced to the commander
and Lieutenant Belthorpe; and the former thanked him warmly for the
service he had rendered, and invited him to join them in the simple
repast before them. He freely answered all the questions put to him. He
declared that Millersville contained a majority of loyal people, many
of whom had enlisted in the Kentucky regiments, while others had formed
a Union Home Guard, and were ready to fight to keep the State in the
Union.

"I judge that your time has not been wasted this forenoon," said Deck.

"It has not, indeed," replied the commander of the company; and he
proceeded to detail his experience with the enemy at Breedings.

He found on his arrival at that place that the marauders were a
foraging-party of regular Confederate cavalry, and not guerillas. It
consisted of at least a platoon, or half a company. They were coming
across the field from the Millersville Road. As soon as they discovered
the Riverlawn force, the enemy retreated, as the captain understood it;
but they were only hastening to a small fortification of earthworks
thrown up by the Confederate Home Guards of the place, who were in the
majority in that locality, although there were several rich planters in
the district who were Union men.

The fort had been armed with two rusty iron cannons, which had been
used for salutes in the time when the Fourth of July had been generally
celebrated. But it was not large enough to hold all the cavalrymen, and
the second platoon of twenty-five men had been sent to a hill on the
other side of the road. The commander sent Lieutenant Belthorpe to
attack them there, while he gave his attention to the enemy in the
fort.

The two guns, loaded with home-made grape-shot, were discharged; but
the gunners were utterly ignorant of the art of handling the pieces,
and the scattering bullets all went over the heads of the loyal
cavalrymen. The captain did not give them time to repeat the
experiment, for he ordered his lieutenant to charge over the earthwork
before they had time to load again. The fort had been constructed in a
very rude manner, without the help of an engineer; and it was only a
sort of windrow of earth, as hay is raked up in a field, and the
mounted men had no difficulty in riding over it.

The Confederates had dismounted, turning their horses into a field.
This was a fatal mistake on the part of their officer. His men were
huddled together with the Home Guards in the small space; and though
they fought bravely, they were soon ridden down, and totally defeated.
Many of them had been killed or disabled, and the Home Guards had run
away as soon as the horses began to ride them down. The officer called
for quarter, and surrendered. He and his men were paroled at once.

At the hill Lieutenant Belthorpe had vigorously attacked the second
platoon, and soon drove them from their ground. When the victory was
won at the fort, Captain Gordon re-enforced Belthorpe with twenty men
while the paroling was in process; and the enemy seeing that they were
outnumbered more than before, when they were driven from the hill, gave
up the fight, and fled at the best speed of their horses by the way
they had come. The lieutenant in command pursued them as far as the
road, when the recall was sounded near the fort, and they returned to
the little village. Captain Letcher was in command of the platoon, and
he had continued to retreat, believing that his pursuers were still
following him.




CHAPTER VIII

BEFORE THE BATTLE OF MILL SPRINGS


Captain Gordon had related the history of the affair at Breedings, and
Deck had learned from Lieutenant Logan considerably more that was not
within the knowledge of the commander. As they finished their simple
dinner, they discovered a gentleman, attended by a couple of men who
looked like mechanics, the latter with muskets on their shoulders, and
all of them mounted on fine horses, approaching the camp. The two
surgeons had finished dressing the wounds of the injured, and had
mounted their horses to depart. The soldiers, the prisoners, and the
horses had all been fed, and it seemed to be time for the next
movement.

"That is Colonel Halliburn coming," said Milton.

"Is his title simply an honorary one, or is he a military man?"
inquired the captain.

"He has been the leading man in the militia for thirty years, though he
has never been in active service," replied Milton. "He is past the
military age now."

The gentleman was introduced to the party, and he gave Deck the most
cordial thanks for the service rendered to his brother.

"How is Miss Grace, Colonel?" asked Win.

"She is well and happy now, though she is much concerned about her
guardian, and would have returned to him if I had permitted her to do
so; but I am going over to my brother's now, and I shall persuade him
and his wife to come to my house, for it is not safe for them to be
alone there. I have brought a couple of my men with me; and if we can
do anything to assist you here, we are at your service."

"Thank you, sir; we have defeated the enemy on all sides, and we are
ready to move on now to join the other company of our squadron,"
replied the captain. "The next question that we have to settle is the
disposition of our wounded, some of whom are not in condition to be
moved."

"My house is at your service for this purpose. I have twenty-five men
who belong to the Home Guard of Millersville residing in my village;
and I have called them out since Miss Morgan came to my house, and they
will be able to defend us from any ordinary enemies, so that your men
will be safe there," said the colonel.

"I thank you with all my heart," answered Captain Gordon. "I shall
avail myself of your kind offer."

"I am the captain of the Home Guards, and Dr. Barlow is the surgeon;
and we will attend to the removal of the men. I will look after the
matter as soon as I return from my brother's. Mr. Milton and the doctor
will remain here till I come."

"I am under very great obligations to you, Colonel Halliburn," added
the captain, "and I hope I shall be able to render you any service in a
time of need which you may require."

The commander of the company paroled the Confederate prisoners, and
permitted them to retire with their horses. They carried their wounded
with them on stretchers or on horseback, and marched up the road to
join the rest of their company. The bugle sounded, and the first
company of the Riverlawns formed in the road. It was only about six
miles to Millersville, and the captain decided to march the guerilla
prisoners to that town. They were placed between the two platoons, with
a guard on the flank; but the fun had all gone out of them, and they
were as submissive as whipped puppies. The column marched, and in about
two hours arrived at their next destination.

They found a company of about fifty Home Guards, armed with muskets,
but without uniforms, drawn up to receive them; for the news of the
skirmish had reached the place, and a considerable body of citizens
were in attendance as spectators.

"I am Lieutenant Ripley, commanding in the absence of Captain Halliburn
the Home Guards, all loyal men, and we give you a Kentucky welcome,"
said the officer of the Guards, saluting the captain. "What can we do
for you?"

"You can take these guerilla prisoners off our hands, for they are a
nuisance to us," replied Captain Gordon with a smile.

"Do you wish us to hang them to those trees yonder?" asked the
lieutenant.

"I do not ask you to do anything of the kind, though it might do them
good to hang them; but we don't treat prisoners in that way, even if
they are guerillas," replied the commander with considerable energy.
"You can confine them in some building, or let them go; but you must
not kill, starve, or ill-treat them, for Union soldiers don't do such
things."

It was nearly sundown, and the captain decided to bivouac for the
night. The camp was laid out in a field, and the tents were pitched. A
supper was cooked for the men, though the commissioned officers were
invited to a private house; but they declined the invitations to sleep
away from the company, though they ate the supper provided for them in
the house of a Union magnate, and repeated again the story of the day's
events. The commander inquired particularly for the news from the seat
of war in this quarter.

"I understand that General Crittenden has joined the army of General
Zollicoffer, and, as he ranks him, has the command of the army,"
replied the host, who seemed to be a very well-informed gentleman. "I
believe most of the Confederate troops on the other side of the
Cumberland River are Tennesseeans, and that is about all I know in
regard to them."

"Do you know where they are located, Mr. Kennedy?" asked the captain.

"We all know that they are on the other side of the Cumberland, about
six miles below the point to which steamboats can ascend. Zollicoffer
has fortified the hills, three or four hundred feet high, and holds a
very strong position; in fact, one of the strongest in the State in the
hands of the enemy. It covers the coal-mines and a great many
salt-wells beyond the river, and these are of the utmost importance to
the Confederacy. But it is well understood in these parts that the army
of Zollicoffer is short of supplies, and some say his men are starving
in the camps. I know that the Tennessee cavalry are foraging on this
side of the river to a considerable extent; and you have met one of
these parties to-day, and defeated them. Compared with the guerillas
that are operating on their own account in many parts of the State, the
foragers are really very mild; for they do not insult women, or take
anything from the farmers and planters except provisions; and they
treat Federalists and Secessionists just alike, for supplies have
become an absolute necessity to their army."

"Troops are constantly arriving from the North; and doubtless they
intend to attack Zollicoffer or General Crittenden, whichever it may
be, in his position near the Cumberland," suggested Captain Gordon.

"I doubt if Zollicoffer will wait for them to do that; for he must find
the Union forces, and beat them, or retreat into Tennessee. Should he
stay where he is, he must either surrender or starve."

It appeared subsequently that he decided upon the alternative of
crossing the Cumberland, and attacking the Union forces wherever he
could find them. He was compelled to do this, as Mr. Kennedy declared,
or starve for the want of supplies. Mill Springs, which is the name
given to the battle that was fought by Zollicoffer, though it is called
Somerset, and also Logan's Cross Roads, is on the south side of the
Cumberland River, and is a post-town. But the battle was not fought on
that side of the river, and it is the name of the position of the
Confederate army before the battle.

The line of defence, or of attack, as might be, chosen by the
Confederate army under General Johnston in Kentucky, appeared to extend
across the southern part of the State, and included three strongholds,
the first of which was Columbus, on the Mississippi River, on the west;
Bowling Green in the centre; and around Mill Springs on the east.
General Crittenden, the Southern commander-in-chief in this section,
had intrenched himself at Beech Grove, in Pulaski County, on the north
side of the river, east of Mill Springs.

Zollicoffer commanded under him, and the battle was fought by him. His
position was fifteen miles south-west of Somerset. General Buell, at
Louisville, then in command of the Union department which included the
State of Kentucky, realized the necessity of reducing this stronghold,
and sent General George H. Thomas, the ideal soldier of the war, though
not then so well known as at a later period, with a considerable force
to this region to accomplish this object. This able general had
approached his destination, but had not yet concentrated his force for
the attack. It was General Crittenden's policy to beat the Union army
in detail before the troops for the assault had been massed for the
final attack; but Zollicoffer, forced by his need of supplies, crossed
the river in a steamer and other craft, with about five thousand men,
and moved towards the north, to attack the force that threatened him.

This was the situation in the vicinity of Somerset and Mill Springs
when the Riverlawn Cavalry was marching in the direction of the former
place; and one company had reached Millersville, while the other was
believed to be at Harrison. The raids in the vicinity by foragers and
guerillas had been the immediate cause of sending the squadron to the
locality. The first company had camped for the night; and the officers
had returned from the residence of Mr. Kennedy, where they had been
entertained at supper. The officers and soldiers were tired enough to
roll themselves up in their blankets in their beds on the grass; and
Captain Gordon was preparing to do so when one of the sentinels
informed him that a man at the lines wished to see him, and he believed
it was the one who had been the guide of the first platoon in the
forenoon, for he gave his name as Winfield Milton.

At the sound of this name, Deck, who had lain down, sprang to his feet.
He feared that he had come for assistance against another attack of
guerillas or foragers. The captain ordered him to be admitted to the
tent, and he soon appeared. He had rendered very valuable service, both
to Deck's command and to the company after it was united.

"I am sorry to disturb you, Captain, at this hour; but I could not get
away any earlier, for we have been busy over at Colonel Halliburn's,
moving his brother and his wife, and transporting the wounded to his
mansion."

"I am very glad to see you, Mr. Milton. It is only eight o'clock, and I
had not retired," replied the captain. "But I hope you have not been
attacked again."

"No, sir, we have not been attacked; and if we had been, we have force
enough at the colonel's to defend ourselves, for we have a part of the
Home Guards from this town to re-enforce those of the little village,"
replied Milton. "I came for another purpose."

"I am glad to see you again, Win," interposed Deck, as he grasped the
hand of the late guide.

"Sorry to turn you out of bed, Lieutenant Lyon; but I was afraid you
would leave before I could get here in the morning," replied the
visitor. "I have been talking with Colonel Halliburn since you left,
and I have felt not a little ashamed that I am not in the Union army in
its time of need. But I have had to look after Grace and her guardian's
family, and that is the best excuse I could give to myself. Now they
are all settled at the colonel's, and I have come over here to enlist
in your company, Captain Gordon, if you will take me. You have lost
some men, and I thought you might want some more."

"We have kept both of our companies full so far, and I shall be glad to
have so good a man as you are in our ranks," promptly answered the
captain. "When shall you be ready to join us?"

"Right now!" exclaimed Milton.

"Is Miss Morgan willing that you should enlist?" asked Deck with a
laugh.

"Grace is as good a girl as ever was raised in Kentucky, and she has
always been ready to have me go to the war. She is as full of
patriotism as a nut is of meat, and says she should be ashamed to make
any objection to my going. I am ready to sign the papers, and take all
the steps to get into your company, Captain," continued the would-be
recruit.

"Our surgeon is with the other company, and you must be examined by a
doctor."

Milton drew a paper from his pocket, which proved to be a certificate
to his physical qualifications, signed by Dr. Barlow, who had been
regularly appointed as an examining surgeon. The Captain wrote down the
particulars in answer to his questions, and Winfield Milton was duly
enlisted in the service. Deck was especially pleased with the result of
this interview, for he had taken a strong liking to Milton.




CHAPTER IX

PREPARING FOR ANOTHER BATTLE IN THE ROAD


The Assembly sounded at five o'clock the next morning; and half an hour
later the troopers had their breakfast of coffee, hardtack, and cold
beef, the last cooked the night before. Milton was supplied with a
uniform and accoutrements from a wagon by the quartermaster-sergeant.
He had served in the militia in a company of mounted men raised in his
county; and though some of the tactics were new to him, he was at home
in most of the duties of the soldier.

At six o'clock, while there was still hardly light enough to recognize
a friend twenty feet off, the company was formed; and Life Knox, who
was the orderly sergeant, reported the fact to the captain. It was but
ten miles to Jamestown, and twenty-five to Harrison, where the two
companies were to unite. Life Knox, who had earned the reputation of
being the most reliable scout in the company or the squadron, was sent
out on this duty with Milton, because the latter was entirely familiar
with all the country in Wayne and Pulaski Counties.

They left the camp somewhat in advance of the column. Colonel Halliburn
arrived at Millersville just as the company were departing; for he had
received important intelligence, brought by a friend who had just come
from Robertsport, on the south side of the Cumberland River, where he
had been on private business. The colonel rode by the side of the
captain for some distance when the company started.

"You must have been up all night, Colonel Halliburn, for you are here
in the gray dawn of the morning," said the captain when his visitor
joined him. "What is the news from your valley?"

"All is quiet there, though we keep a guard on duty by night and day,"
replied the colonel. "The doctor, who spent the night at my house,
reports that all your wounded are doing well, and that his worst case
is likely to recover. But my news is from the other direction."

"From what direction?" asked Captain Gordon, deeply interested by this
time in the remarks of his companion.

"From Jamestown, not ten miles from this town. My friend Squire Walcott
has just returned from Robertsport, which you know is only a few miles
from Mill Springs, and in the midst of Zollicoffer's intrenchments. He
belongs to our company, and had some difficulty in getting across the
river; but he managed it very well, though he was under suspicion. He
walked five miles down the river, and there fell in with a negro who
was just landing from a bateau.

"For a silver dollar the negro ferried him across the river. The fellow
knew more than the law allows down here, and Walcott contrived to let
him understand that he was a Union man; and this won Cuffy's heart, and
he told him all the news about the Confederate army posted there. It
has been known in these parts that this army has been short of
provisions and forage for several weeks, but we did not suppose their
supplies were as limited as this negro reported.

"Both the men and the horses are half starved. Bare existence in the
camp was a hard struggle; and some of the regiments subsisted on
one-third of the ordinary rations, and the horses and mules were hardly
in condition for use. The fractional ration consisted of bread alone in
many portions of the army. The supplies of the north-east counties had
been exhausted; and most of the subsistence had been obtained latterly
from Kentucky, gathered in by foragers of the cavalry.

"Cuffy had a son who was the body-servant of a colonel of a Tennessee
regiment; and he told his father what he learned in the camp, the most
important item of which was that Zollicoffer would soon attack the
Federal forces wherever he could find them. He could remain no longer
in his intrenchments, with starvation staring him full in the face. Of
course I am telling this in my own language, as I translated it from
the negro's gibberish.

"But this is not the most vital news to you at this time, though it may
be of service to you. Walcott made his way on foot to the cabin where
he left his horse, and then rode to Jamestown. At this town he found a
full company of the Seventeenth Tennessee Cavalry, who had camped there
the night before, living on what was left of the fat of the land; for
the place had been raided twice before. They had two wagons with them,
and it was evident that they intended to load them with provisions and
forage.

"Walcott reached his home at midnight, and immediately called upon me
with the news he had gathered. At Jamestown he saw one of the
lieutenants flirting with a girl in front of the hotel. This officer
was summoned to supper, and his companion hastened up the street. She
was the daughter of a storekeeper in the town, which is the county seat
of Russell County; and my friend had often traded there in goods he
could not find in the towns nearer home.

"The girl was speaking to her father when Walcott went in; but the
keeper of the store welcomed him. He had not much to say to the trader;
but he saluted the daughter, and engaged her in conversation. He began
by warning her to be very discreet in her relations with good-looking
officers of the Southern army. Then he asked her what the company were
doing in Jamestown; and she told him they were going to Millersville,
and that he would call and see her on his return. She was a very pretty
girl, and I hope she profited by my friend's advice."

"But when did all this occur?" inquired Captain Gordon, intensely
interested when he heard that the company were coming to Millersville.

"I told you that Walcott got home at midnight," answered the colonel.

"But midnight divides any two days in the month of January, and in
every other month in every year. What particular midnight was it?"

"Why, the very last one that ever was--last night. My friend rode half
the night in order to give me, as the captain of the Home Guards, this
news, as soon as he got to the town, less than half an hour ago. I
called on Lieutenant Ripley, and ordered him to muster our company, and
get as many volunteers to defend the town as he could. The second
lieutenant, who lives near me, will march the men on guard in the
little village to town at once. I believe I have told you all I know,
Captain Gordon."

"I am exceedingly obliged to you for the information you have given
me," replied the commander of the company.

"I am inclined to think I had better take the bull by the horns, and
march my company, all but a guard for the town, over here, and join
you. My men all have horses, and are well armed, though they are not
provided with sabres. Most of them have hunting-rifles, and are dead
shots," continued the colonel.

"I shall not object to your marching your company over here, though I
think I can handle the enemy alone; but you must use your own
judgment," added the captain.

"I would rather fight the battle over here than in the town; and I
shall bring my men, and put them under your command, Captain Gordon. I
think they are all ready by this time," replied the colonel, as he
wheeled his horse, and rode back at a gallop.

The commander communicated the intelligence he had just received to his
two lieutenants; and it was heard by some of the cavalrymen, from whom
it passed along the ranks, till all of them knew that a battle would
soon be fought, perhaps within a couple of hours. The captain rode back
to the head of the column. He had increased the speed of the company
from a walk to a trot while conversing with Colonel Halliburn.

The captain had no doubt that the information he had received was
entirely correct; and he hurried his men somewhat, hoping to find a
better place for the coming combat than he had yet seen along the road,
with woods on each side of the way. But he rode about three miles
farther before he came to a location that suited him. It was a hill
with a rude farmhouse at the top of it, on the right. The land on this
side had been cleared, and the crops had been harvested from it. At the
ascent of the hill on the left, about ten acres had been recently
cleared, while a continuous forest began at the crest of the hill, and
extended as far as he could see.

The captain realized that he could not have found a better location for
his purpose in the whole State of Kentucky; and he gave the order to
halt and to remain at ease when the company was not more than half-way
up the hill. He preferred to make his charge, when it came to that,
down the hill; and he had come to a halt where his force could not be
seen by an enemy on the other side of the elevation.

Captain Gordon was accounted a skilful strategist; and as he sat on his
horse at the head of the column, he matured his plan to meet the
attack, or to begin it, as the case might be. He had not waited much
more than an hour when the Millersville Home Guard galloped up to the
foot of the hill, and halted. The captain rode back to the head of
their column, and the colonel in command saluted him. The horses were
reeking with foam, and seemed to be well nigh winded, so great was the
speed to which they had been urged. It was a horse-raising country, and
the animals were of the highest grade.

"My men are now under your command, Captain Gordon, and personally I
will obey your orders," said the colonel. "I have explained the matter
to my men; and they all understand it, and will recognize you as the
commander of the whole force."

"I shall give my orders to you, sir, as the captain of the company, as
far as practicable," replied Captain Gordon. "How many men have you?"

"Sixty-four, besides the two lieutenants."

"How many of them are armed with rifles?"

"More than I thought when I spoke to you about them, for there are
forty-two of them; and they are skilled in the use of their weapons."

"Call them from the ranks, if you please, and have the first lieutenant
march them to the top of the hill," continued the captain. "If you will
go with me, I will explain my plan of action."

"I obey your orders, Captain."

The men with rifles were called out at once, and formed in fours by
Lieutenant Ripley. The second lieutenant formed the other twenty-two in
the same order. They had muskets slung on their backs, and most of them
had heavy revolvers in their belts, the only uniform any of the company
wore. The captain sent for a quartermaster-sergeant, and ordered him to
bring twenty-two sabres from one of the wagons.

Sergeant Fronklyn was sent for, and he was directed to drill these men
in the most important cuts and thrusts of the manual until the men were
needed for service. The captain, with Colonel Halliburn, returned to
the head of the column, when the plan was explained; and his companion
declared that it would make short work of the approaching company.

The riflemen were posted in the woods on the left, and their lieutenant
was fully informed what was expected of him. They were to dismount,
leave their horses farther in the forest, and then station themselves
behind the trees. When the enemy came within rifle-shot of them, they
were to pick them off, the column being divided among them, so that all
might not fire at the same mark. This was to be the greeting of the
Confederate company.

The captain explained to his companion in what manner the main body of
the company and its re-enforcement were to go into the action. Twenty
men were sent to take away the fence on the right hand of the road; and
it was soon removed, in spite of the protest of the farmer. The rails
and posts were carried far enough to be out of the way. This work was
performed under the supervision of the second lieutenant. It was hardly
completed before Deck discovered the proprietor stealing to the east,
and evidently intending to reach the road on the descent of the hill.
He arrested the man, and he was conducted to the head of the column.

The captain ordered him to be tied to a tree in the shelter of his
cabin; for it was plain that he meant to inform the enemy of the
presence of the Union company. The lieutenants were then instructed
what they were to do; and this had hardly been done, before Life and
Milton were discovered riding furiously up the road. They reported the
enemy approaching very leisurely towards the hill, and not more than
half a mile from it. The sergeant was confident they had not been seen,
for they had been careful to keep out of sight around a bend in the
road.

The company were still too far down the declivity to be seen till the
enemy came to the top of the hill, and the riflemen were likely to
bring them to a halt before they could reach that point. The captain
had taken a position where he could see without being seen. Sooner than
he expected he saw the head of the Confederate column, and ten minutes
later the riflemen began the discharge of their pieces. The first man
to drop from his saddle was the commander of the company, who was the
most conspicuous mark at the head of his command.




CHAPTER X

THE SHARPSHOOTERS OF MILLERSVILLE


The forty-two riflemen of the Home Guard were sharpshooters who had
practised for many years with the weapon, both as hunters and by firing
at a mark. Some of them were past the military age; and the lieutenant
in command of the detachment was sixty years old, and he had won his
spurs as the best shot in the town. He was a man of influence, and his
skill had procured him his present position in the company.

Lieutenant Ripley was at the right of the line of sharpshooters. He had
stationed his men in the woods, and ordered them not to fire till he
did so; and they were to load and fire at will after he had given the
first discharge. When the captain of the Confederate cavalry dropped
from his horse, it was known by whose shot he had fallen. A couple of
men were ordered to dismount, and bear him to the side of the roads;
and the lieutenant who succeeded to the command ordered a halt.

Captain Gordon and Colonel Halliburn were behind the farmer's house,
where they had retired, not to avoid the bullets of the enemy, but to
obtain a position where they could see without being seen. The horse of
the former stood on a knoll, from which his rider could look over the
corner of the low building, and the latter was at his side. Both of
them saw the captain of the company fall from his horse.

"Ripley fired that shot," said the colonel. "He was never known to miss
his aim when he had fair play."

"That was a good beginning, at any rate," added the captain.

"But why don't the next man in the line fire?" mused the commander of
the Home Guard, uttering his thought.

They could not know then the reason; but they learned afterwards that
the lieutenant had ordered them not to do so, as he wished to observe
the effect of the death of the captain, for he had not moved after he
fell. The company seemed to be staggered by the event for the space of
a minute. The men all turned their heads towards the woods; and as no
shot followed the first one at once, they might have inferred that the
fatality to the commander had been the work of an assassin.

This view was immediately confirmed by the captain's successor; for he
ordered four troopers to dismount, and go into the woods in search of
the murderer. But they did not reach the edge of the forest before fire
was opened upon them, and every one of them dropped dead or wounded.
The rifle was a terribly effective weapon in the hands of the
sharpshooters. The company had certainly fallen into an ambush. The
troopers could do nothing on their horses in the woods, and for the
moment they were practically helpless.

The fire continued all along the line of riflemen, one discharge at a
time, so that no two men should aim at the same soldier or officer; and
all along the detachment every one seemed to bring down his man. The
lieutenant saw the havoc made in his command; but Captain Gordon did
not give the order for his company to advance on the plan he had
arranged.

The battle appeared to be fighting itself without any assistance from
the summit of the hill, and it was evident that the enemy had no
knowledge of any force outside of the forest.

"That lieutenant has just given an order, but I could not make out what
he said," observed the colonel. "He is in a tight place, and you have
set a very ugly trap for that company to fall into, Captain Gordon."

"The assistance of your company, Colonel, has given me a very decided
advantage," replied the captain.

"And you have made excellent use of it. My men are safe in the woods,
and the lieutenant seems to be losing his time."

"You can see what his order meant now, for his men are dismounting.
They are going into the woods to clean out the enemy, and that is
really the only thing he can do," replied Captain Gordon. "It will be
time for me to put a finger in the pie very soon, for the protection of
your men, if for nothing else."

"You need not trouble your head about the riflemen, for they all have
legs; and even Ripley, the oldest man among them, can use his
walking-pins as well as any of them. They will retreat through the
woods, using their rifles as they retire."

Every alternate man of the company was dismounted, giving the
bridle-rein of his horse to one mounted. They double-quicked into the
forest; but they began to drop, to cling to the trees for support, or
to retire from the field before the observers on the hill lost sight of
them. Still Captain Gordon did not give the word to advance.

"Isn't it time for this company to move forward?" asked the colonel.

"Not quite; it is best to wait a short time, till the cavalrymen get a
little farther into the woods," answered the captain. "Your men are
firing quite rapidly now, and are evidently retiring in good order."

"I am not at all concerned about them. They can keep behind the trees,
firing as they retreat. The riflemen have hunted through that forest,
which extends five or six miles to the north, and they have known every
acre of it for years. They are quite at home there; and they will not
fall into any creek or mud-hole, as the enemy would without a guide."

"They are brave men, and they have done good work this morning. But it
is now time for my company to make a move; for I will not leave your
guards to do all the fighting," added Captain Gordon, as he descended
from the knoll, followed by his companion.

He had already explained to his two lieutenants in command of the
platoons what they were to do at a signal sounded by the bugler. The
captain rode to the top of the hill, though he did not expose himself
to the fire of the enemy, who were still unaware of his presence.
Stufton was near the head of the column, and he gave him the order to
sound the advance. He did it with full lungs. Lieutenant Lyon,
commanding the second platoon, gave the order to march, and his men
started at a trot, which was immediately changed to a gallop. The
farmer's fence had been removed by order of the captain when he had
arranged his plan for the action; and Deck, on the right flank of his
command, took to the field, where they had plenty of space, though
recent rains had turned the soil into soft mud. But the speed was kept
up in spite of this impediment till the head of the platoon reached the
left, or foot, of the Confederate company.

In response to the bugle signal, Lieutenant Belthorpe advanced upon the
head of the enemy's column, deploying to the side of the road, and
continuing till they filled up the space to the foot of Deck's force.
The enemy had discharged their carbines, or other pieces, at random,
and apparently without orders; but they inflicted no injury upon the
flying horsemen. Deck was the first to give the order to charge; but he
had been prohibited by the captain, to whom some one had reported the
young lieutenant's custom of leading his men into action, from placing
himself in front of his men when he went in upon a charge, unless in a
case of actual emergency.

Deck promised to obey this order, and he did so in the advance of his
platoon; and when he ordered the charge upon the left of the enemy's
column, he was on its right. Every man of the Confederates was
encumbered with an extra horse, though as they confronted the Union
cavalrymen he rid himself of his charge; and thus turned loose, the
animals were soon wandering wherever they found an opening. Deck had
very nearly his full complement of men, and so had Tom Belthorpe; for
the soldiers of the Home Guard had been detailed to guard the
baggage-wagons, and picket the rear of the column. One-half of the
Confederates had been sent into the woods, and by this time they had
advanced a considerable distance in pursuit of the riflemen.

The enemy were at present doubly outnumbered; and though they realized
the fact, they fought as though they had been contending man for man.
Indeed, they contended desperately against the odds before them, and
deserved victory for their steady valor. But with them then it was a
"lost cause," and through no fault of their own. Before the Union
column had reached the position assigned to them, the lieutenant in
command had sent his bugler into the forest to sound the retreat for
the portion of the company pursuing the riflemen.

As he returned, the officer shouted at him to give the signal for the
charge, and his men promptly responded to it. The fighting then became
furious on both sides. The second lieutenant in front of Deck's men was
a noble-looking young man, who fought like a lion at bay, and defended
himself with great skill from the two Union troopers that assailed him
in front; but it was an unequal conflict, and presently he was wounded
in the sword-arm, so that he could no longer use his sabre with that
hand, and grasped it with his left. He struck with it several times;
but he could not handle his weapon as he had before, and he was soon
cut near the shoulder of his left arm, receiving a wound which entirely
disabled him.

Deck, filled with admiration for the brave young officer, ordered one
of the men to lead the horse of the wounded soldier out of the crowd,
which he did, conducting him to the side of the Union lieutenant. It
was soon reported along the line that the first lieutenant of the
Confederates had been disabled, and had retired from the field. By this
time the crack of the rifles was again heard in the forest, though at a
considerable distance from the road. The captain interpreted these
sounds as the retreat of the force of the enemy sent into the woods,
the riflemen shooting them down as they retired.

Before this force, more than decimated by the sharpshooters, could
reach the road, however they hurried, the other half of the company had
been driven to the verge of the forest; but they realized that they
were thoroughly beaten, and that any further resistance meant nothing
but slaughter. The orderly sergeant of the company, who succeeded to
the command, shouted to Lieutenant Belthorpe that he was ready to
surrender. Tom repeated the words to the captain, and Stufton was
ordered to give the proper signal to bring the attack to an end.

"You have fought like a hero, sir, and I am sorry for you; but you are
my prisoner," said Deck to the wounded lieutenant when he was conducted
to his side.

"I surrender," replied the prisoner faintly; and it was evident to Deck
that he was in great pain from the wound in his shoulder.

[Illustration: "THEY LAID HIM ON THE GRASS JUST AS THE RECALL WAS
SOUNDED." Page 141.]

The Union lieutenant called a man to assist him in dismounting the
officer. They laid him on the grass just as the recall was sounded, and
proceeded to remove his coat. The blood was flowing freely from both of
his wounds, and he was quite faint. But Deck saw at once that the wound
was not fatal; and he sent word to the Confederate surgeon, who was
attending to the men that were brought into the field in the rear of
the column, that he was needed for the officer of his command.

In the meantime, Deck tied up the worst wound of the prisoner with his
handkerchief, and did what he could to stop the flow of blood. He used
some of the rags with which his mother had supplied him; but the
surgeon promptly appeared.

"I am sorry to see you wounded, Lieutenant Lawrence," said the doctor,
as he observed the pale face of the young officer; and then gave him a
medicine glass full of a dark fluid, which was probably brandy.

"It was a hard fight, Doctor," replied the sufferer.

"But Lieutenant Lawrence has fought like the bravest of the brave, and
I am sorry for his misfortune," added Deck.

"Who may you be, sir? I see that you wear the uniform of the blue,"
said the surgeon, looking him in the face.

"He is a Yankee officer; but he has been kind to me, and had me brought
out of the fight when I was utterly disabled," said the wounded
officer, apparently revived by the stimulant he had taken. "I am
grateful to him for his kindness."

"I am Lieutenant Lyon of the Riverlawn Cavalry," replied Deck. "This
gentleman's bravery and skill excited my admiration; and I have done
the little I could for him."

"I thank you, Lieutenant Lyon, for what you have done for my friend;
and if you are an enemy, you are a noble one, and I honor you for your
Christianity on the battle-field," replied the surgeon, as he took the
hand of Deck and pressed it warmly. "I reckon all the Yankee officers
are not like you, Lieutenant."

"Those in my squadron are," answered Deck.

"Your name is Lyon. I have heard of the Riverlawn Cavalry in Edmonson
County, where I have an uncle; and I was thinking you were the major in
command of it," added the surgeon, still at work on his patient.

"That is my father," replied the lieutenant.

Life Knox came to Deck at this moment, to announce that another force
of cavalry was approaching from the direction of Jamestown, though he
had not been able to make out what it was, whether friend or foe.




CHAPTER XI

THE APPROACH OF ANOTHER CAVALRY FORCE


The soldiers on both sides were already engaged in removing the dead to
the side of the road next to the woods, and the wounded to the
respective hospitals, which had been established in the fields of the
farmer. The riflemen had heard the recall, and followed the defeated
cavalrymen, bearing their wounded, and handed them over to the surgeon,
who had called in three medical students to his aid. Lieutenant Ripley
had handled his sharpshooters so skilfully that not a single man had
been killed, and only three had been wounded.

He had kept his force behind the trees, and fought the enemy at long
range, in which the carbines and other firearms were not effective; and
this policy explained the absence of all fatalities in Ripley's force.
The three wounded men were not severely injured, and only one was
disabled.

Deck sent Sergeant Knox to Captain Gordon with the information of the
approaching cavalry force which was now the great matter of interest.
He sent Life and Milton as scouts, to ascertain "their politics," as
the sergeant put it. His eyes were very sharp, and always looking about
him, like the skilful seaman when he comes on deck. He reported that he
had seen the force descending a hill more than a mile distant,
disappearing in a few minutes in the valley below. Life and Milton
started off at a gallop, and had soon passed out of sight.

"What does that report mean, Captain Gordon?" inquired Colonel
Halliburn, as soon as the two scouts had dashed down the column.

"I am sure I don't know; but if I should infer anything from the
appearance of a force at this time, it would be that it was another
company of Confederate cavalry," replied the captain. "Can any
intelligence of our movements have reached the enemy to the eastward of
us, Colonel?"

"It is more than possible that some one going across by the private
road passing my brother's mansion may have carried the news of what has
been going on at Breedings, and on the road from Millersville to
Harrison, but not to Jamestown, for the great wood lies in the route,
and no one travels that way."

"It is probable, then, that the force approaching is Confederate, on
its way either to forage or to retrieve the disasters to that side in
the affairs of yesterday; and all we have to do is to prepare to fight
another engagement. I believe the dead and wounded have all been
removed by this time. I see that the sharpshooters have assisted my men
in this work."

"I sent an order to them to that effect," added Colonel Halliburn.

"I thank you for doing so; and all the more that we are threatened by
another force of the enemy," continued the captain. "Your men,
especially the riflemen, have rendered very important service in this
action, and I shall report it to Major Lyon when the squadron is
reunited. The rest of your men have been very useful to us, not only in
guarding the wagons, but in the fight with the second platoon. I think
you had better send an orderly to Lieutenant Ripley with an order that
he remain where he is by the woods; for if we engage another company of
the enemy, the riflemen will be needed to act as sharpshooters, and to
render the same service as before, though they will probably not be
driven back again beyond rifle-shot distance from the road."

"As the enemy approach they will see the hospitals on their left, and
that will apprise them that a battle has been fought here."

"We have not time to remove these hospitals, and put everything as it
was at the beginning of the engagement; but I shall fight this
encounter so far as possible on the same plan as before, for it worked
admirably; and we owe the result as much to our fortunate position as
to anything else, for it enabled me to place your riflemen where they
did the most effective work of the morning."

Captain Gordon had already despatched messengers to his two
lieutenants, instructing them to move their platoons back to the side
of the hill to the positions they had occupied before the action; and
this order was now in process of being executed. Dr. Barlow, though he
had been a fighting man at the beginning of the engagement, was now
attending to the wounded, assisted by some men he had selected from his
own company.

"I think you had better take possession of the house of this Secesh
farmer for the wounded. He would have spoiled the morning's work if he
had escaped, for he would have warned the enemy of their danger from a
superior force."

The captain approved the idea, and instructed the colonel to effect the
removal with his own force. The riflemen were also directed to remove
the dead into the forest until there was time to dispose of them. The
ground was still strewn with the dead, as they had fallen under the
destructive fire of the sharpshooters. With the exception of the
Confederate hospital, which was near the foot of the hill,--for their
own surgeon had chosen the location by the side of a flowing brook, in
the shadow of some mighty walnuts,--the hill presented the same
appearance as when the enemy came in sight of it, and had been lured on
to their defeat by the deceptive silence of the locality; for not a
sound or a moving thing betrayed the peril that surrounded them.

Life Knox and Milton had run their horses to the utmost extent of their
ability for over half a mile. When the tramp of the horses was heard,
they halted and concealed themselves at the side of the road, at a bend
of it; but they had hardly done so before the sound of the horses' feet
ceased to be heard, and it looked as though the force had halted. Life
dismounted, and climbed a tree not less than a hundred feet in height,
which enabled him to see into the low ground on the other side of a
slight elevation.

The cavalry were extended along a brook, watering their horses on both
sides of it. The trees overtopped the stream so that it was quite dark
on its banks, and the distance was so great that Life could not make
out whether the men wore the blue or the gray, especially as he had
made up his mind that the force was an enemy, and the trees half hid
them from his view. He descended from his perch, and waited on the
ground till he heard the clatter of a couple of horses near his
hiding-place. He obtained a view of these men, and they wore blue
uniforms.

"All right!" exclaimed Life. "They wear the blue."

He waited no longer, but darted into the road, followed by Milton. The
two men, who were scouting in advance of the company, brought their
carbines to the shoulder.

"I reckon you needn't shoot, Keene," said the sergeant quietly.

"Sergeant Knox!" cried the chief scout. "How came you here? Where is
your company?"

"They ain't fur from here. Are you piloting the second company of the
Riverlawn Cavalry, Keene?"

"Fox and me are treading down the mud for the company."

"All right; we uns will fall back and report to Major Lyon," said Life,
and he galloped back to the main body of the company.

The commander of the squadron was riding at the head of the second
company, and appeared to be absorbed in his own thoughts. He had
learned a great deal about the situation in Pulaski, Russell, and Adair
Counties, where the Confederate foragers had raided to secure supplies
for the main army, and where, as in many other parts of the State, the
independent partisan bands had conducted operations on their own
responsibility. A spur of the Cumberland Mountains extended through the
eastern part of the first-named county, and most of the region between
this range and Virginia was mountainous. It was not so rich in supplies
for an army as the territory to the west of it, to which the raiders
had confined their depredations.

Major Lyon, like a good soldier, occasionally cast his eyes around him
to take in the condition and topography of the country through which he
was passing; and he discovered the two scouts as they approached the
head of the company. His first supposition was that the first company
had fallen into trouble, and that the two scouts had been sent forward
to hurry up the other company; for the two, as it had been arranged by
the major, were to come together at Harrison, twenty-five miles from
Millersville.

Life Knox rode forward in advance of Milton, and the commander of the
squadron promptly recognized the tall, gaunt form of the sergeant; and
his thoughts dwelt upon the occasion that had brought him this visit.
Life approached the major to within a rod of him, when he stopped his
horse, and saluted him with his usual deference to his superiors.

"Good-morning, Life," said the commander. "I hope no misfortune has
brought you in this direction. Are you escaping from an enemy that has
overwhelmed the first company?"

"Nothin' of the sort, Major Lyon," replied Life, a broad smile lighting
up his face. "We have met an enemy, and they'd run away if we'd let
'em."

This reply removed the burden of anxiety which had fallen upon the mind
of the major when he discovered the scouts, and he smiled in his placid
manner with the sergeant.

"Where is your company, Life?" he asked.

"I reckon it ain't more'n half a mile from here," replied the scout.

"I suppose you have news for me," continued the commander.

