havin' it open for funerals." 
VII. 
Four or five days of perfect weatlier followed one 
another, and Westover worked hard at his picture in 
the late afternoon light he had chosen for it. In the 
morning he tramped through the woods and climbed 
the hUls with Jeff Durgin, who seemed never to do 
anything about the farm, and had a leisure unbroken 
by anything except a rare call from his mother to help 
her in the house. He built the kitchen fire, and got 
the wood for it ; he picked the belated pease and the 
early beans in the garden, and shelled them ; on the 
Monday when the school opened he did a share of the 
family wash, which seemed to have been begun before 
daylight, and Westover saw him hanging out the 
clothes before he started off with his books. He suf- 
fered no apparent loss of self-respect in these employ- 
ments, and while he still had his days free he put 
himself at Westover's disposal with an effect of unim- 
paired equality. He had expected evidently that 
Westover would want to fish or shoot, or at least join 
him in the hunt for woodchucks, which he still carried 
on with abated zeal for lack of his company when the 
 
painter sat down to sketch certain bits that struck him. 
When he found that Westover cared for nothing in 
the way of sport, as people commonly understand it, 
he did not openly contemn him. He helped him get 
the flowers he studied, and he learned to know true 
mushrooms from him, though he did not follow his 
teaching in eating the toadstools, as his mother called 
them, when they brought them home to be cooked. 
If it could not be said that he shared the affection 
which began to grow up in Westover from their com- 
panionship, there could be no doubt of the interest he 
took in him, though it often seemed the same critical 
curiosity which appeared in the eye of his dog when 
it dwelt upon the painter. Fox had divined in his 
way that Westover was not only not to be molested, 
but was to be respectfully tolerated, yet no gleam of 
kindness ever lighted up his face at sight of the paint- 
er ; he never wagged his tail in recognition of him ; he 
simply recognized him, and no more, and he remained 
passive under Westover's advances, which he had the 
effect of covertly referring to Jeff, when the boy was 
by, for his approval or disapproval ; when he was not 
by, the dog's manner implied a reservation of opinion 
until the facts could be submitted to his master. 
On the Saturday morning which was the last they 
were to have together, the three comrades had strayed 
from the vague wood road along one of the unexpected 
levels on the mountain slopes, and had come to a 
standstill in a place which the boy pretended not to 
know his way out of. Westover doubted him, for he 
had found that JefE liked to give himself credit for 
 
woodcraft by discovering an escape from the depths 
of trackless wildernesses. 
"I guess you know where we are," he suggested. 
" No, honestly," said the boy ; but he grinned, and 
AVestover still doubted him. 
" Hark ! What's that ? " he said, hushing further 
speech from him with a motion of his hand.- It was 
the sound of an axe. 
" Oh, I know where we are ! " said Jeff. " It's that 
Canuck chopping in Whitwell's clearing. Come 
along ! " 
He led the way briskly down the mountain-side 
now, stopping from time to time, and verifying his 
course by the sound of the axe. This came and went, 
and by-and-by it ceased altogether, and Jeff crept for- 
ward with a real or feigned uncertainty. Suddenly 
he stopped. A voice called, " Heigh, there ! " and 
the boy turned and fled, crashing through the under- 
brush at a tangent, with his dog at his heels. 
Westover looked after them, and then came for- 
ward. A lank figure of a man at the foot of a poplar, 
which he had begun to fell, stood waiting him, one 
hand on his axe-helve and the other on his hip. There 
was the scent of freshly smitten bark and sap-wood in 
the air; the ground was paved with broad, clean chips. 
" Good-morning," said Westover. 
" How are you ? " returned the other, without moving 
or making any sign of welcome for a moment. But 
then he lifted his axe, and struck it into the carf on 
the tree, and came to meet Westover. 
As he advanced he held out his hand. " Oh, 
 
you're the one that stopped that fellow that day when 
he was tryin' to scare my children. Well, I thought 
I should run across you, some time." He shook hands 
with Westover, in token of the gratitude which did 
not express itself in words. " How are you ? Treat 
you pretty well up at the Durgins ' ? I guess so. The 
old woman knows how to cook, anyway. Jackson's 
about the best o' the lot above ground, though I don't 
know as I know very much against the old man, either. 
But that boy, I declare I 'most feel like takin' the 
top of his head off when he gets at his tricks. Set 
down." 
Whitwell, as Westover divined the man to be, took 
a seat himself on a high stump, which suited his 
length of leg, and courteously waved Westover to a 
place on the log in front of him. A long ragged beard 
of brown, with lines of gray in it, hung from his chin, 
and mounted well up on his thin cheeks toward his 
friendly eyes. His mustache lay sunken on his lip, 
which had fallen in with the loss of his upper teeth. 
From the lower jaw a few incisors showed at this slant 
and that as he talked. 
" Well, well ! " he said, with the air of wishing the 
talk to go on, but without having anything immedi- 
ately to offer himself. 
Westover said, " Thank you," as he dropped on the 
-log, and Whitwell added, relentingly, " I don't suppose 
a fellow's so much to blame, if he's got the devil in 
him, as what the devil is." 
He referred the point with a twinkle of his eyes to 
Westover, who said: "It's always a question, of 
 
course, whether it's the devil. It may be original sin 
with the fellow himself." 
"Well, that's something so," said Whitwell, with 
pleasure in the distinction rather than assent. '' But 
I guess it ain't original sin in the boy. Got it from 
his gran'father pootty straight, I should say, and may- 
be the old man had it second-hand. Ha'd to say just 
where so much cussedness gits statted." 
" His father's father ? " asked Westover, willing to 
humor Whitwell's evident wish to philosophize the 
Durgins' history. 
" Mother's. He kept the old tavern stand on the 
west side of Lion's Head, on the St. Albans Eoad, and 
I guess he kept a pootty good house in the old times 
when the stages stopped with him. Ever noticed how 
a man on the mean side in politics always knows how 
to keep a hotel ? Well, it's something curious. If 
there was ever a mean side to any question, old Mason 
was on it. My folks used to live around there, and I 
can remember when I was a boy hangin' around the 
bar-room nights hearin' him argue that colored folks 
had no souls ; and along about the time the fugitive 
slave law was passed, the folks pootty near run him 
out o' town for puttin' the United States Marshal on 
the scent of a fellow that was breakin' for Canada. 
Well, it was just so when the war come. It was known 
for a fact that he was in with them Secesh devils up 
over the line that was plannin' a raid into Vermont in 
'63. He'd got pootty low down by that time ; railroads 
took o£E all the travel ; tavern 'd got to be a regular 
doggery ; old man always drank some, I guess. That 
 
was a good while after his girl Ijad married Durgin. 
He was dead against it, and it broke him up consid'a- 
ble when she would have him. Well, cue night, the 
old stand burnt up and him in it, and neither of 'em 
insured ! " 
Whitwell laughed with a pleasure in his satire which 
gave the monuments in his lower jaw a rather sinister 
action. But as if he felt a rebuke in Westover's 
silence, he added : " There ain't anything against Mis' 
Durgin. She's done her part, and she's had more 
than her share of hard knocks. If she was tough, to 
sta't with, she's had blows enough to meller her. But 
that's the way I account for the boy. I s'pose I'd 
oughtn't to feel the way I do about him, but he's such 
a pest to the whole neighborhood that he'd have the 
most pop'la' fune'l — Well, I guess I've said enough. 
I'm much obliged to you, though, Mr. — " 
" Westover," the painter suggested. " But the boy 
isn't so bad, all the time." 
" Couldn't be ! " said Whitwell, with a cackle of 
humorous enjoyment. " He has his spells of bein' 
decent, and he's pootty smart, too. But when the 
other spell ketches him, it's like as if the devil got a 
hold of him, as I said in the first place. I lost my 
wife, here, two-three years along back, and that little 
girl you see him tormentin', she's a regular little moth- 
er to her brother ; and whenever Jeff Durgin sees her 
with him, seems as if the Old Scratch got into him. 
Well, I'm glad I didn't come across him, that day. 
How you gittin' along with Lion's Head ? Sets quiet 
enough for you ! " Whitwell rose from the stump, and 
brushed the clinging chips from his thighs. " Folks 
trouble you any, lookin' on ? " 
" Not yet," said Westover. 
" Well, there ain't a great many to," said Whitvvell, 
going back to his axe. " I should like to see you 
workin' some day. Do' know as I ever saw an attist 
at it." 
" I should like to have you," said Westover. " Any 
time." 
" All right." Whitwell pulled his axe out of the 
carf, and struck it in again with a force that made a 
wide, square chip leap out. He looked over his shoul- 
der at Westover, who was moving away. " Say ! Stop 
in, some time you're passin'. I live in that wood-col- 
ored house at the foot of the Durgins' lane." 
VIII. 
In a little sunken place, behind a rock, some rods 
away, Westover found Jefi lurking with his dog, both 
silent and motionless. " Hello ! " he said, inquiringhr. 
" Come back to show you the way," said the boy. 
" Thought you couldn't find it alone." 
" Oh ! why didn't you say you'd wait ? " The boy 
grinned. " I shouldn't think a fellow like you would 
want to be afraid of any man, even for the fun of scar- 
ing a little girl." JefE stopped grinning, and looked 
interested, as if this was a view of the case that had 
not occurred to him. " But perhaps you like to be 
afraid." 
" I don't know as I do," said the boy, and West- 
over left him to the question a great part of the way 
home. He did not express any regret, or promise any 
reparation. But a few days after that, when he had 
begun to convoy parties of children up to see West- 
over at work, in the late afternoon, on their way home 
from school, and to show the painter off to them as a 
sort of family property, he once brought the young 
Whitwells. He seemed on perfect terms with them 
now, and when the crowd of larger children hindered 
 
the little boy's view of the picture, Jeff, in his quality 
of host, lifted him under his arms and held him up so 
that he could look as long as he liked. 
The girl seemed ashamed of the good understand- 
ing, before Westover. JeflE offered to make a place 
for her among the other children who had looked long 
enough, but she pulled the front of her bonnet across 
her face and said that she did not want to look, and 
caught her brother by the hand and ran away with 
him. Westover thought this charming somehow ; he 
liked the intense shyness which the child's intense 
passion had hidden from him before. 
Jeff acted as host to the neighbors who came to 
inspect the picture, and they all came, within a circuit 
of several miles around, and gave him their opinions 
freely, or scantily, according to their several tempera- 
ments. They were mainly favorable, though there was 
some frank criticism, too, spoken over the painter's 
shoulder as openly as if he were not by. There was 
no question but of likeness ; all finer facts were far 
from them ; they wished to see how good a portrait 
Westover had made, and some of them consoled him 
with the suggestion that the likeness would come out 
more when the picture got dry. 
Whitwell when he came attempted a larger view of 
the artist's work, but apparently more out of kindness 
for him than admiration of the picture. He said he 
presumed you could not always get a thing like that 
just right, the first time, and that you had to keep 
trying till you did get it ; but it paid in the end. Jeff 
had stolen down from the house with his dog, drawn 
 
by the fascination which one we have injured always 
has for us; when Whitwell suddenly turned upon him, 
and asked, jocularly, " What do you think, JeS ? " the 
boy could only kick his dog, and drive it home, as a 
means of hiding his feelings. 
He brought the teacher to see the picture, the last 
Friday before the painter went away. She was a cold- 
looking, austere girl, pretty enough, with eyes that 
wandered away from the young man, although JefE 
used all his arts to make her feel at home in his pres- 
ence. She pretended to have merely stopped on her 
way up to see Mrs. Diirgin, and she did not venture 
any comment on the painting; but when Westover 
asked something about her school, she answered him 
promptly enough, as to the number and ages and sexes 
of the school-children. He ventured so far toward a 
joke with her as to ask if she had much trouble with 
such a tough subject as JeS, and she said he could be 
good enough when he had a mind. If he could get 
over his teasing, she said, with the air of reading him 
a lecture, she would not have anything to complain of ; 
and Jefi looked ashamed, but rather of the praise than 
the blame. His humiliation seemed complete when 
she said, finally, " He's a good scholar." 
On the Tuesday following, Westover meant to go. 
It was the end of his third week, and it had brought 
him into September. The weather since he had begun 
to paint Lion's Head was perfect for his work; but 
with the long drought it had grown very warm. Many 
trees now had flamed into crimson on the hill slopes ; 
the yellowing corn in the fields gave out a thin, dry 
 
sound as the delicate wind stirred the blades ; but 
only the sounds and sights were autumnal. The heat 
was oppressive at mid-day, and at night the cold had 
lost its edge. There was no dew, and Mrs. Durgin 
sat out with Weslover on the porch while he smoked 
a final pipe there. She had come to join him for 
some fixed purpose apparently, and she called to her 
boy, " You go to bed, JefE," as if she wished to be 
alone with Westover; the men folks were already in 
bed ; he could hear them cough, now and then. 
" Mr. Westover," the woman began, even as she 
swept her skirts forward before she sat down, " I want 
to ask you whether you would let that picture of yours 
go on part board ? I'll give you back just as much 
as you say of this money." 
He looked round and saw that she had in the hand 
dropped in her lap the bills he had given her after 
supper. 
" Why, I couldn't, very well, Mrs. Durgin," he 
began. 
" I presume you'll think I'm foolish," she pursued. 
" But I do want that picture ; I don't know when I've 
ever wanted a thing more. It's just like Lion's Head, 
the way I've seen it, day in and day out, every summer 
since I come here thirty-five years ago ; it's beautiful ! " 
"Mrs. Durgin," said Westover, "you gratify me 
more than I can tell you. I wish — I wish I could let 
you have the picture. I — I don't know what to say — " 
" Why dmi't you let me have it then ? If we ever 
had to go away from here — if anything happened to 
us — it's the one thing I should want to keep and take 
 
with me. There ! That's the way I feel about it. I 
can't explain ; but I do wish you'd let me have it." 
Some emotion which did not utter itself in the 
desire she expressed made her voice shake in the 
words. She held out the bank-notes to him, and they 
rustled with the tremor of her hand. 
" Mrs. Durgin, I suppose I shall have to be frank 
with you, and you mustn't feel hurt. I have to live by 
my work, and I have to get as much as I can for it — " 
" That's what I say. I don't want to beat you down 
on it. I'll give you whatever you think is right. It's 
my money, and my husband feels just as I do about 
it," she urged. 
" You don't quite understand," he said gently. " I 
expect to have an exhibition of my pictures in Boston 
this fall, and I hope to get two or three hundred dol- 
lars for Lion's Head." 
" I've been a proper fool ! " cried the woman, and 
she drew in a long breath. 
" Oh, don't mind," he begged. " It's all right. . I've 
never had any offer for a picture that I'd rather take 
than yours. I know the thing can't be altogether bad 
after what you've said. And I'll tell you what ! I'll 
have it photographed when I get to Boston, and I'll 
send you a photograph of it." 
" How much will that be ? " Mrs. Durgin asked, as 
if taught caution by her offer for the painting. 
" Nothing. And if you'll accept it, and hang it up 
here somewhere, I shall be very glad.'- 
" Thank you," said Mrs. Durgin, and the meekness, 
the wounded pride, he fancied in her, touched him. 
 
He did not know at first how to break the silence 
which she let follow upon her words. At last he said : 
" You spoke, just now, about taking it with you. Of 
course you don't think of leaving Lion's Head ! " 
She did not answer for so long a time that he 
thought she had not perhaps heard him, or heeded 
what he said, but she answered, finally : " We did think 
of it. The day you come we had about made up our 
minds to leave.*' 
" Oh ! " 
" But I've been thinkin' of something since you've 
been here that I don't know but you'll say is about as 
wild as wantin' to buy a three-hundred-dollar picture 
with a week's board." She gave a short self-scornful 
laugh ; but it was a laugh, and it relieved the tension. 
" It may not be worth any more," he said, glad of 
the relief. 
" Oh, I guess it is," she rejoined, and then she 
waited for him to prompt her. 
" Well ? " 
" Well, it's this ; and I wanted to ask you, anyway. 
You think there'd be any chance of my gettin' sum- 
mer folks to come here and board, if I was to put an 
advertisement in a Boston paper ? I know it's a lone- 
some place, and there ain't what you may call attrac- 
tions. But the folks from the hotels, sometimes, when 
they ride over in a stage to see the view, praise up the 
scenery, and I guess it is sightly. I know that well 
enough; and I ain't afraid but what I can do for 
boarders as well as some, if not better. What do you 
think?" 
 
" I think that's a capital idea, Mrs. Durgin." 
" It's that, or go," she said. " There ain't a livin' 
for us on the farm any more, and we got to do some- 
thin'. If there was anything else I could do ! But 
I've thought it out, and thought it out, and I guess 
there ain't anything I can do but take boarders — if I 
can get them." 
" I should think you'd find it rather pleasant on 
some accounts. Your boarders would be company for 
you," said Westover. 
" We're comjiany enough for ourselves," said Mrs. 
Durgin. " I ain't ever been lonesome here, from the 
first minute. I guess I had company enough when I 
was a girl to last me — the sort that hotel folks are. I 
presume Mr. Whitwell spoke to you about my father ? " 
"Yes; he did, Mrs. Durgin." 
" I don't presume he said anything that wa'n't true. 
It's all right. But I know how my mother used to 
slave, and how I used to slave myself ; and I always 
said I'd rather do anything than wait on boarders ; 
and now I guess I got to come to it. The sight of 
summer folks makes me sick ! I guess I could 'a' had 
'em long ago, if I'd wanted to. There ! I've said 
enough." She rose, with a sudden lift of her power- 
ful frame, and stood a moment as if expecting West- 
over to say something. 
He said, " Well, when you've made your mind up, 
send your advertisement to me, and I'll attend to it 
for you." 
" And you won't forget about the picture ? " 
" No. I won't forget that." ♦ 
 
The next morning he made ready for an early start, 
and in his preparations he had the zealous and even 
affectionate help of Jeff Durgin. The boy seemed to 
wish him to carry away the best impression of him, or 
at least to make him forget all that had been sinister 
or unpleasant in his behavior. They had been good 
comrades since the first evil day ; they had become 
good friends even ; and Westover was touched by the 
boy's devotion at parting. He helped the painter get 
his pack together in good shape, and he took pride in 
strapping it on Westover's shoulders, adjusting and 
readjusting it with care, and fastening it so that all 
should be safe and snug. He lingered about at the 
risk of being late for school, as if to see the last 
of the painter, and he waved his hat to him when 
Westover looked back at the house from half down 
the lane. Then he vanished, and Westover went 
slowly on till he reached that corner of the orchard 
where the slanting gravestones of the family burial- 
ground showed above the low wall. There, suddenly, 
a storm burst upon him. The air rained apples, that 
struck him on the head, the back, the side, and pelted 
in violent succession on his knapsack and canvases, 
camp-stool and easel. He seemed assailed by four or 
five skilful marksmen, whose missiles all told. 
When he could lift his face to look round, he heard 
a shrill, accusing voice, " Oh, Jeff Durgin ! " and he 
saw another storm of apples fly through the air tow- 
ard the little Whitwell girl, who dodged and ran along 
the road below, and escaped in the direction of the 
school-house. Then the boy's face showed itself over 
 
the top of one of the gravestones, all agrin with joy. 
He waited and watched Westover keep slowly on, as 
if nothing had happened, and presently he let some 
apples fall from his hands, and walked slowly back to 
the house, with his dog at his heels. 
When Westover reached the level of the road, and 
the shelter of the woods near Whitwell's house, he 
unstrapped his load to see how much harm had been 
done to his picture. He found it unhurt, and before 
he had got the burden back again, he saw JefE Durgin 
leaping along the road toward the school-house, whirl- 
ing his satchel of books about his head, and shouting 
gayly to the girl, now hidden by the bushes at the 
other end of the lane, " Cynthy ! Oh, Cynthy ! Wait 
for me ! I want to tell you something." 
IX. 
Westover received next spring the copy for an 
advertisement from Mrs. Durgin, which she asked to 
have him put in some paper for her. She said that 
her son Jackson had written it out, and Westover 
found it so well written that he had scarcely to change 
the wording. It offered the best of farm-board, with 
plenty of milk and eggs, berries and fruit, for five 
dollars a week at Lion's Head Farm, and it claimed for 
the farm the merit of the finest view of the celebrated 
Lion's Head Mountain. It was signed, as her letter 
was signed, " Mrs. J. M. Durgin," with her post-office 
address, and it gave Westover as a reference. 
The letter was in the same handwriting as the adver- 
tisement, which he took to be that of Jackson Durgin. 
It inclosed a dollar note to pay for three insertions of 
the advertisement in the Evening Transcript, and it 
ended, almost casually : " I do not know as you have 
heard that my husband, James Monroe Durgin, passed 
to spirit life this spring. My son will help me to run 
the house." 
This death could not move Westover more than it 
 
had apparently moved the widow. During the three 
weeks he had passed under his roof, he had scarcely 
exchanged three words with James Monroe Durgin, 
who remained to him an impression of large, round, 
dull blue eyes, a stubbly upper lip, and cheeks and 
chin tagged with coarse hay-colored beard. The im- 
pression was so largely the impression that he had 
kept of the dull blue eyes and the gaunt, slanted figure 
of Andrew Jackson Durgin that he could not be very 
distinct in his sense of which was now the presence, 
and which the absence. He remembered with an effort 
that the son's beard was straw-colored, but he had to 
make no effort to recall the robust effect of Mrs. Dur- 
gin and her youngest son. He wondered now, as he 
had often wondered before, whether she knew of the 
final violence which had avenged the boy for the pro- 
longed strain of repression Jeff had inflicted upon him- 
self during Westover's stay at the farm. After several 
impulses to go back and beat him, to follow him to 
school and expose him to the teacher, to write to his 
mother and tell her of his misbehavior, Westover had 
decided to do nothing. As he had come off unhurt in 
person and property, he could Afford to be more gen- 
erously amused than if he had suffered damage in 
either. The more he thought of the incident, the more 
he was disposed to be lenient with the boy, whom he 
was aware of having baffled and subdued by his supe- 
rior wit and virtue in perhaps intolerable measure. He 
could not quite make out that it was an act of bad 
faith; there was no reason to think that the good-nat- 
ured things the fellow had done, the constant little 
 
offices of zeal and friendliness, were less sincere than 
this violent outbreak. 
The letter from Lion's Head Farm brought back 
his three weeks there very vividly, and made Westover 
wish he was going there for the summer. But he was 
going over to France for an indefinite period of work 
in the only air where he believed modern men were 
doing good things in the right way. He had had a 
sale, in the winter, and he had sold pictures enough 
to provide the means for this sojourn abroad ; though 
his Lion's Head Mountain had not brought the two 
hundred and fifty or three hundred dollars he had 
hoped for. It brought only a hundred and sixty ; but 
the time had almost come already when Westover 
thought it brought too much. Now, the letter from 
Mrs. Durgin reminded him that he had never sent her 
the photograph of the picture which he had promised 
her. He encased the photograph at once, and wrote 
to her with many avowals of contrition for his neglect, 
and strong regret that he was not soon to see the 
original of the painting again. He paid a decent rev- 
erence to the bereavement she had suffered, and he 
sent his regards to all, especially his comrade Jeff, 
whom he advised to keep out of the apple-orchard. 
Five years later Westover came home in the first 
week of a gasping August, whose hot breath thickened 
round the Cunarder before she got half-way up the 
harbor. He waited only to see his pictures through 
the custom-house, and then he left for the mountains. 
The mountains meant Lion's Head for him, and eight 
hours after he was dismounting from the train at a 
station on the road whicli had been pushed through 
on a new line within four miles of the farm. It was 
called Lion's Head House, now, as he read on the side 
of the mountain-wagon which he saw waiting at the 
platform, and he knew at a glance that it was JefE 
Durgin who was coming forward to meet him and take 
his hand-bag. 
The boy had been the prophecy of the man in even 
a disappointing degree. Westover had fancied him 
growing up to the height of his father and brother, but 
JefE Durgin's stalwart frame was notable for strength 
rather than height. He could not have been taller 
than his mother, whose stature was above the stand- 
ard of her sex, but he was massive without being bulky. 
His chest was deep, his square shoulders broad, his 
powerful legs bore him with a backward bulge of the 
calves that showed through his shapely trousers ; he 
caught up the trunks and threw them into the bag- 
gage wagon with a swelling of the muscles on his short 
thick arms which pulled his coat sleeves from his 
heavy wrists and broad, short hands. 
He had given one of these to Westover to shake 
when they met, but with something conditional in his 
welcome, and with a look which was not so much fur- 
tive as latent. The thatch of yellow hair he used to 
wear was now cropped close to his skull, which was a 
sort of dun-color ; and it had some drops of sweat 
along the lighter edge where his hat had shaded his 
forehead. He put his hat on the seat between him- 
self and Westover, and drove away from the station 
bareheaded, to cool himself after his bout with the 
 
baggage, which was following more slowly in its wag- 
on. There was a good deal of it, and there were half 
a dozen people, women of course, going to Lion's Head 
House. Westover climbed to the place beside Jeff to 
let them have the other two seats to themselves, and 
to have a chance of talking ; but the ladies had to be 
quieted in their several anxieties concerning their bag- 
gage, and the letters and telegrams they had sent 
about their rooms, before they settled down to an ex- 
change of apprehensions among themselves, and left 
Jeff Durgin free to listen to Westover. 
" I don't know but I  ought to have telegraphed you 
that I was coming," Westover said, " but I couldn't 
realize that you were doing things on the hotel scale. 
Perhaps you won't have room for me ? " 
"Guess we can put you up," said Jeff. 
" No chance of getting my old room, I suppose ? " 
" I shouldn't wonder. If there's any one in it, I 
guess mother could change *em." 
" Is that so ? " asked Westover, with a liking for 
being liked, which his tone expressed. " How is your 
mother ? " 
Jeff seemed to think a moment before he answered : 
" Just exactly the same ! " 
"A little older?" 
" Not as I can see." 
" Does she hate keeping a hotel as badly as she 
expected ? " 
" That's what she says," answered Jeff, with a twin- 
kle. All the time, while he was talking with West- 
over, he was breaking out to his horses, which he 
 
governed with his voice, trotting them up hill and 
down, and walking them on the short, infrequent lev- 
els, in the mountain fashion. 
Westover almost feared to ask, " And how is Jack- 
son?" 
"First rate. That is, for him. He's as well as ever 
he was, I guess, and he don't appear a day older. 
You've changed some," said Jeff, with a look round 
at Westover. 
" Yes ; I'm twenty-nine, now, and I wear a heavier 
beard." Westover noticed that Jeff was clean shaved 
of any sign of an approaching beard, and artistically 
he rejoiced in the fellow's young, manly beauty, which 
was very regular and sculpturesque. " You're about 
eighteen ? " 
" Nearer nineteen." 
" Is Jackson as much interested in the other world 
as he used to be ? " 
" Spirits ? " 
"Yes." 
" I guess he keeps it up with Mr. Whitwell. He 
don't say much about it at home. He keeps all the 
books, and helps mother run the house. She couldn't 
very well got along without him." 
" And where do you come in ? " 
" Well, I look after the transportation," said Jeff, 
with a nod toward his horses. " When I'm at home, 
that is. I've been at the Academy in Lovewell the 
last three winters, and that means a good piece of the 
summer too, first and last. But I guess I'll let mother 
talk to you about that." 
 
" All right," said Westover. " What I don't know 
about education isn't worth knowing." 
JeS laughed, and said to the ofi horse, which seemed 
to know that he was meant, " Get up, there ! " 
" And Cynthia ? Is Cynthia at home ? " Westover 
asked. 
" Yes. They're all down in the little wood-colored 
house, yet. Cynthia teaches winters, and summers she 
helps mother. She has charge of the dining-room." 
" Does Franky cry as much aa ever ? " 
" No. Frank's a fine boy. He's in the house too. 
Kind of bell-boy." 
"And you haven't worked Mr. Whitwell in, any- 
where ? " 
" Well, he talks to the ladies, and takes parties of 
'em mountain-climbing. I guess we couldn't get along 
without Mr. Whitwell. He talks religion to 'em." 
He cast a mocking glance at Westover over his shoul- 
der. " Women seem to like religion, whether they 
belong to church or not." 
Westover laughed, and asked, "And Fox? How's 
Fox ? " 
" Well," said Jeff, " we had to give Fox away. He 
was always cross with the boarders' children. My 
brother was on from Colorado, and he took Fox back 
with him." 
" I didn't suppose," said Westover, " that I should 
have been sorry to miss Fox. But I guess I shall be." 
Jeff seemed to enjoy the implication of his words. 
"He wasn't a bad dog. He was stupid." 
When they arrived at the foot of the lane, mounting 
 
to the farm, Westover saw what changes had been 
made in the house. There were large additions, taste- 
less and characterless, but giving the rooms that were 
needed. There was a vulgar modernity in the new 
parts, expressed with a final intensity in the four-light 
windows, which are esteemed the last word of domes- 
tic architecture in the country. JefE said nothing as 
they approached the house, but Westover said, " Well, 
you've certainly prospered. You're quite magnificent." 
They reached the old level in front of the house, 
artificially widened out of his remembrance, with a 
white flag-pole planted at its edge, and he looked up 
at the front of the house, which was unchanged, ex- 
cept that it had been built a story higher back of the 
old front, and discovered the window of his old room. 
He could hardly wait to get his greetings over with 
Mrs. Durgin and Jackson, who both showed a decorous 
pleasure and surprise at his coming, before he asked, 
" And could you let me have my own room, Mrs. Dur- 
gin?" 
" Why, yes," she said. " If you don't want some- 
thing a little nicer." 
" I don't believe you've got anything nicer," West- 
over said. 
" All right, if you think so," she retorted. " You 
can have the old room, anyway." 
X. 
Westover could not have said he felt very much 
at home on his first sojourn at the farm, or that ho 
had cared greatly for the Durgins. But now he felt 
very much at home, and as if he were in the hands of 
friends. 
It was toward the close of the afternoon that he 
arrived, and he went in promptly to the meal that was 
served shortly after. He found that the farm-house 
had not evolved so far in the direction of a hotel as 
to have reached the stage of a late dinner. It was tea 
that he sat down to, but when he asked if there were 
not something hot, after listening to a catalogue of the 
cold meats, the spectacled waitress behind his chair 
demanded, with the air of putting him on his honor, 
" You among those that came this afternoon? " 
Westover claimed to be of the new arrivals. 
" Well, then, you can have steak or chops, and 
baked potatoes." 
He found the steak excellent, though succinct, and 
he looked round in the distinction it conferred upon 
him, on the older guests, who were served with cold 
ham, tongue, and corned bedf. He had expected to 
 
be appointed liis place by Cynthia Whitwell, but Jeff 
came to the dining-room with him, and showed him 
to the table he occupied, with an effect of doing him 
special' credit. 
From his impressions of the berries, the cream, the 
toast, and the tea, as well as the steak, he decided 
that on the gastronomic side there could be no question 
but the Durgins knew how to keep a hotel ; and his 
further acquaintance with the house and its appoint- 
ments confirmed him in his belief. All was very 
simple, but sufficient ; and no guest could have truth- 
fully claimed that he was stinted in towels, in water, 
in lamp-light, in the quantity or quality of bedding, in 
hooks for clothes, or wardrobe or bureau room. West- 
over made Mrs. Durgin his sincere compliments on her 
success, as they sat in the old parlor, which she had 
kept for herself much in its former state, and she 
accepted them with simple satisfaction. 
" But I don't know as I should ever had the cour- 
age to try it, if it hadn't been for you happening along 
just when you did," she said. 
" Then I'm the founder of your fortunes ? " 
" If you want to call them fortunes. We don't 
complain. It's been a fight, but I guess we've got the 
best of it. The house is full, and we're turnin' folks 
away. I guess they can't say that at the big hotels 
they used to drive over from to see Lion's Head at 
the farm." She gave a low, comfortable chuckle, and 
told Westover of the struggle they had made. It was 
an interesting story and pathetic, like all stories of 
human endeavor : the efforts of the most selfish ambi- 
tion have something of this interest ; and the struggle 
of the Durgins had the grace of the wish to keep their 
home. 
" And is Jeff as well satisfied as the rest ? " West- 
over asked, after other talk and comment on the facts. 
" Too much so," said Mrs. Durgin. " I should like 
to talk with you about Jeff, Mr. Westover ; you and 
him was always such friends." 
" Yes," said Westover ; " I shall be glad if I can be 
of use to you." 
" Why, it's just this. I don't see why Jeff shouldn't 
do something besides keep a hotel." 
Westover's eyes wandered to the photograph of his 
painting of Lion's Head which hung over the mantel- 
piece, in what he felt to be the place of the greatest 
honor in the whole house, and a sudden fear came 
upon him that perhaps Jeff had developed an artistic 
talent in the belief of his family. But he waited si- 
lently to hear. 
" We did think that before we got through the im- 
provements last spring a year ago we should have to 
get the savings-bank to put a mortgage on the place ; 
but we had just enough to start the season with, and 
we thought we would try to pull through. We had a 
splendid seas'on, and made money, and this year we're 
doin' so well that I ain't afraid for the future any 
more, and I want to give Jeff a chance in the world. 
I want he should go to college." 
Westover felt all the boldness of the aspiration, but 
it was at least not in the direction of art. " Wouldn't 
you rather miss him in the management ? " 
 
" We should, some. But he would be here the best 
part of the summer, in his vacations, and Jackson and 
I are full able to run the house without him." 
"Jackson seems very well," said Westover, eva- 
sively. 
" He's better. He's only thirty-four years old. His 
father lived to be sixty, and he had the same kind. 
Jeff tell you he had been at Lovewell Academy? " 
" Yes ; he did." 
" He done well, there. All his teachers that he 
ever had," Mrs. Durgin went on, with the mother-pride 
that soon makes itself tiresome to the listener, " said 
Jeff done well at school when he had a mind to, and 
at the Academy he studied real hard. I guess," said 
Mrs. Durgin, with her chuckle, "that he thought that 
was goin' to be the end of it. One thing, he had to 
keep up with Cynthy, and that put him on his pride. 
You seen Cynthy yet ? " 
" No. Jeff told me she was in charge of the dining- 
room." 
" I guess i'm in charge of the whole house," said 
Mrs. Durgin. " Cynthy's the housekeeper, though. 
She's a fine girl, and a smart girl," said Mrs. Durgin, 
with a visible relenting from some grudge, " and she'll 
do well wherever you put her. She went to the Acad- 
emy the first two winters Jeff did. We've about 
scooped in the whole Whitwell family. Franky's here, 
and his father's — well, his father's kind of philosopher 
to the lady boarders." Mrs. Durgin laughed, and 
Westover laughed with her. " Yes, I want Jeff should 
go to college, and I want he should be a lawyer." 
Westover did not find that lie had anything useful 
to say to this; so he said, " I've no doubt it's better 
than being a painter." 
" I'm not so sure ; three hundred dollars for a little 
thing like that." She indicated the photograph of 
his Lion's Head, and she was evidently so proud of it 
that he reserved for the moment the truth as to the 
price he had got for the painting. " I was surprised 
when you sent me a photograph full as big. I don't 
let every one in here, but a good many of the ladies 
are artists themselves — -amatures, I guess, — and first 
and last they all want to see it. I guess they'll all 
want to see you, Mr. Westover. They'll be wild, as 
they call it, when they know you're in the house. Yes, 
I mean JefE shall go to college." 
" Bowdoin, or — Dartmouth ? " Westover suggested. 
" Well, I guess you'll think I'm about as forth-put- 
ting as I was when I wanted you to give me a three- 
hundred-dollar picture for a week's board." 
" I only got a hundred and sixty, Mrs. Durgin," 
said Westover conscientiously. 
"Well, it's a shame. Any rate, three hundred's 
the price to all my boarders, My, if I've told that 
story once, I guess I've told it fifty times ! " 
Mrs. Durgin laughed at herself jollily, and Westover 
noted how prosperity had changed her. It had freed 
her tongue, it had brightened her humor, it had cheered 
her heart ; she had put on flesh, and her stalwart frame 
was now a far greater bulk than he remembered. 
" Well, there ! " she said. " The long and the short 
of it is, I want JeflE should go to Harvard." 
 
He commanded himself to say, " I don't see why he 
shouldn't." 
Mrs. Durgin called out, "Come in, Jackson," and 
Westover looked round and saw the elder son like a 
gaunt shadow in the doorway. '' I've just got where I've 
told Mr. Westover where I want JefE should go. It 
don't seem to have ca'd him off his feet, any, either." 
" I presume," said Jackson, coming in, and sitting 
lankly down in the feather-cushioned rocking-chair 
which his mother pushed towards him with her foot, 
" that the expense would be more at Harvard than it 
would at the other colleges." 
" If you want the best, you got to pay for it," said 
Mrs. Durgin. 
" I suppose it would cost more," Westover answered 
Jackson's conjecture. " I really don't know much 
about it. One hears tremendous stories at Boston of 
the rate of living among the swell students in Cam- 
bridge. People talk of five thousand a year, and that 
sort of thing." Mrs. Durgin shut her lips, after catch- 
ing her breath. " But I fancy that it's largely talk. 
I have a friend whose son went through Harvard for 
a thousand a year, and I know that many fellows do 
it for much less." 
" I guess we can manage to let Jeff have a thousand 
a year," said Mrs. Durgin, proudly, " and not scrimp 
very much, either." 
She looked at her elder son, who said : " I don't be- 
lieve but what we could. It's more of a question with 
me what sort of influence Jeff would come under there. 
I think he's pretty much spoilt here ! " 
 
" Now, Jackson ! " said liis mother. 
" I've heard," said Westover, " that Harvard takes 
the nonsense out of a man. I can't enter into what 
you say, and it isn't my affair; but in regard to influ- 
ence at Harvard, it depends upon the set JefE is thrown 
with, or throws himself with. So, at least, I infer 
from what I've heard my friend say of his son there. 
There are hard-working sets, loafing sets, and fast 
sets ; and I suppose it isn't different at Harvard in 
such matters from other colleges." 
Mrs. Durgin looked a little grave. " Of course," 
she said, " we don't know anybody at Cambridge, ex- 
cept some ladies that boarded with us one summer, and 
I shouldn't want to ask any favor of them. The trou- 
ble would be to get Jeff started right." 
Westover surmised a good many things, but in the 
absence of any confidences from the Durgins he could 
not tell just how much Jackson meant in saying that 
Jeff was pretty much spoiled, or how little. A* first, 
from Mrs. Durgin's prompt protest, he fancied that 
Jackson meant that the boy had been over-indulged 
by his mother. " I understand," he said, in default 
of something else to say, " that the requirements at 
Harvard are pretty severe." 
" He's passed his preliminary examinations," said 
Jackson, with a touch of hauteur, " and I guess he 
can enter this fall, if we should so decide. He'll have 
some conditions, prob'ly, but none but what he can 
work off, I guess." 
"Then, if you wish to have him go to college, by 
all means let him go to Harvard, I should say. It's 
 
our great university, and our oldest. I'm not a col- 
lege man myself; but if I were, I should wish to have 
been a Harvard man. If JefE has any nonsense in 
him, it will take it out ; and I don't believe there's 
anything in Harvard, as Harvard, to make him worse." 
" That's what we both think," said Jackson. 
" I've heard," Westover continued, and he rose and 
stood while he spoke, " that Harvard's like the world. 
A man gets on there on the same terms that he gets 
on in the world. He has to be a man, and he'd bet- 
ter be a gentleman." 
Mrs. Durgin still looked serious. " Have you come 
back to Boston for good, now ? Do you expect to be 
there right along ? " 
" I've taken a studio there. Yes, I expect to be in 
Boston, now. I've taken to teaching, and I fancy I 
can make a living. If Jeff comes to Cambridge, and 
I can be of any use — " 
" We should be ever so much obliged to you," said 
his mother, with an air of great relief. 
" Not at all. I shall be very glad. Your mountain 
air is drugging me, Mrs. Durgin. I shall have to say 
good-night, or I shall tumble asleep before I get up- 
stairs. Oh, I can find the way, I guess ; this part of 
the house seems the same." He got away from them, 
and with the lamp that Jackson gave him found his 
way to his room. A few moments later some one 
knocked at his door, and a boy stood there with a 
pitcher. " Some ice-water, Mr. Westover ? " 
" Why, is that you, Franky ? I'm glad to see you 
again. How are you ? " 
" I'm pretty well," said the boy, shyly. He was a 
very handsome little fellow of distinctly dignified pres- 
ence, and Westover was aware at once that here was 
not a subject for patronage. " Is there anything else 
you want, Mr. Westover? Matches, or soap, or any- 
thing?" He put the pitcher down and gave a keen 
glance round the room. 
" No, everything seems to be here, Frank," said 
Westover. 
" Well, good-night," said the boy, and he slipped 
out, quietly closing the door after him. 
Westover pushed up his window, and looked at 
Lion's Head in the moonlight. It slumbered as if 
with the sleep of centuries, austere, august. The moon- 
rays seemed to break and splinter on the outline of 
the lion-shape, and left all the mighty mass black be- 
low. 
In the old porch under his window Westover heard 
whispering. Then " You behave yourself, JefE Dur- 
gin ! " came in a voice which could be no other than 
Cynthia Whitwell's, and JefE Durgin's laugh followed. 
He saw the girl in the morning. She met him at 
the door of the dining-room, and he easily found in 
her shy, proud manner, and her pure, cold beauty, the 
temperament and physiognomy of the child he remem- 
bered. She was tall and slim, and she held herself 
straight without stiffness; her face was fine, with a 
straight nose, and a decided chin, and a mouth of the 
same sweetness which looked from her still gray eyes ; 
her hair, of the average brown, had a rough effect of 
being quickly tossed into form, which pleased him ; as 
 
she slipped down the room before him to place him 
at table he saw that she was, as it were, involuntarily, 
unwillingly graceful. She made him think of a wild 
sweetbrier, of a hermit-thrush, but if there were this 
sort of poetic suggestion in Cynthia's looks, her acts 
were of plain and honest prose, such as giving West- 
over the pleasantest place and the most intelligent 
waitress in the room. 
He would have liked to keep her in talk a moment, 
but she made businesslike dispatch of all his allusions 
to the past, and got herself quickly away. Afterwards 
she came back to him, with the efEect of having forced 
herself to come, and the color deepened in her cheeks 
while she stayed. 
She seemed glad of his being there, but helpless 
against the instincts or traditions that forbade her to 
show her pleasure in his presence. Her reticence be- 
came almost snubbing in its strictness when he asked 
her about her school-teaching in the winter ; but he 
found that she taught at the little school-house at the 
foot of the hill, and lived at home with her father. 
" And have you any bad boys that frighten little 
