go on with what I was saying. The King rallied her for 
blushing, and this brought up the rest of the blood and 
turned her face to fire. Then he was sorry, seeing what 
he had done, and tried to make her comfortable by saying 
the blush was exceedingly becoming to her and not to 
mind it — which caused even the dog to notice It now, so of 
course the red In Joan's face turned to purple, and the 
tears overflowed and ran down — I could have told anybody 
that that would happen. The King was distressed, and 
saw that the best thing to do would be to get away from 
this subject, so he began to say the finest kind of things 
about Joan's capture of the Tourelles, and presently when 
she was more composed he mentioned the reward again 
and pressed her to name It. Everybody listened with 
anxious interest to hear what her claim was going to be, but 

when her answer came their faces showed that the thing 
she asked for was not what they had been expecting. 

' Oh, dear and gracious Dauphin, I have but one desire 
— only one. If ' 

' Do not be afraid, my child — name it.' 

' That you will not delay a day. My army is strong 
and valiant, and eager to finish its work — march with me 
to Rheims and receive your crown.' 

You could see the indolent King shrink, in his butterfly 
clothes. 

' To Rheims — oh, impossible, my General ! We march 
through the heart of England's power ? ' 

Could those be French faces there ? Not one of them 
lighted in response to the girl's brave proposition, but all 
promptly showed satisfaction in the King's objection. 
Leave this silken idleness for the rude contact of war ? 
None of these butterflies desired that. They passed their 
jewelled comfit-boxes one to another and whispered their 
content in the head butterfly's practical prudence. Joan 
pleaded with the King, saying — 

' Ah, I pray you do not throw away this perfect oppor- 
tunity. Everything is favourable — everything. It is as if 
the circumstances were specially made for it. The spirits 
of our army are exalted with victory, those of the English 
forces depressed by defeat. Delay will change this. See- 
ing us hesitate to follow up our advantage, our men will 
wonder, doubt, lose confidence, and the English will 
wonder, gather courage, and be bold again. Now is the 
time — prithee let us march ! ' 

The King shook his head, and La Tremouille, being 
asked for an opinion, eagerly furnished it : 

' Sire, all prudence is against it. Think of the English 
strongholds along the Loire ; think of those that lie 
between us and Rheims ! ' 

He was going on, but Joan cut him short, and said, 
turning to him —  

' If we wait, they will all be strengthened, re-enforced. 
Will that advantage us ? ' 

' Why— no.' 

' Then what is your suggestion ? — what is it that you 
would propose to do ? ' 

' My judgment is to wait.' 
' Wait for what ? ' 

The minister was obliged to hesitate, for he knew of 
no explanation that would sound well. Moreover, he 
was not used to being catechised in this fashion, with the 
eyes of a crowd of people on him ; so he was irritated, and 
said — 

' Matters of state are not proper matters for public 
discussion.' 

Joan said placidly — 

' I have to beg your pardon. My trespass cam.e of 
ignorance. I did not know that matters connected with 
your department of the government were matters of state.' 

The minister lifted his brows in amused surprise, and 
said, with a touch of sarcasm — 

' I am the King's chief minister, and yet you had the 
impression that matters connected with my department 
are not matters of state ? Pray how is that ? ' 

Joan replied, indifferently — 

' Because there is no state.' 

' No state ! ' 

' No, sir, there is no state, and no use for a minister. 
France is shrunk to a couple of acres of ground ; a sheriff's 
constable could take care of it ; its affairs are not matters 
of state. The term is too large.' 

The King did not blush, but burst into a hearty, care- 
less laugh, and the court laughed too, but prudently turned 
its head and did it silently. La Tremouille was angry, 
and opened his mouth to speak, but the King put up his 
hand, and said —  

' There — I take her under the royal protection. She 
has spoken the truth, the ungilded truth — how seldom I 
hear It ! With all this tinsel on me and all this tinsel 
about me, I am but a sheriff after all — a poor shabby two- 
acre sheriff — and you are but a constable,' and he laughed 
his cordial laugh again.  Joan, my frank, honest General, 
will you name your reward ? I would ennoble you. You 
shall quarter the crown and the lilies of France for blazon, 
and with them your victorious sword to defend them — 
speak the word.' 

It made an eager buzz of surprise and envy in the 
assemblage, but Joan shook her head and said — 

' Ah, I cannot, dear and noble Dauphin. To be allowed 
to work for France, to spend one's self for France, is itself 
so supreme a reward that nothing can add to it — nothing. 
Give me the one reward I ask, the dearest of all rewards, 
the highest in your gift — march with me to Rheims and 
receive your crown. I will beg it on my knees.' 

But the King put his hand on her arm, and there was 
a really brave awakening in his voice and a manly fire in 
his eye when he said — 

' No ; sit. You have conquered me ; it shall be as 
you — ' 

But a warning sign from his minister halted him, and 
he added, to the relief of the Court — 

' Well, well, we will think of it, we will think It over 
and see. Does that content you, impulsive little soldier ? ' 

The first part of the speech sent a glow of delight to 
Joan's face, but the end of it quenched it and she looked 
sad, and the tears gathered in her eyes. After a moment 
she spoke out with what seemed a sort of terrified impulse, 
and said — 

' Oh, use me ; I beseech you, use me — there is but 
little time ! ' 

' But little time ? ' 

' Only a year — I shall last only a year.' I 

' Why, child, there are fifty good years in that compact 
little body yet.' 

' Oh, you err, indeed you do. In one little year the 
end will come. Ah, the time is so short, so short ; the 
moments are flying, and so much to be done. Oh, use 
me, and quickly — it is life or death for France.' 

Even those insects were sobered by her impassioned 
words. The King looked very grave — grave, and strongly 
impressed. His eyes lit suddenly with an eloquent fire, 
and he rose and drew his sword and raised it aloft ; then 
he brought it slowly down upon Joan's shoulder and said : 

' Ah, thou art so simple, so true, so great, so noble — 
and by this accolade I join thee to the nobility of France, 
thy fitting place ! And for thy sake I do hereby ennoble all 
thy family and all thy kin, and all their descendants born 
in wedlock, not only in the male but also in the female line. 
And more ! — more ! To distinguish thy house and honour 
it above all others, we add a privilege never accorded to 
any before in the history of these dominions ; the females 
of thy line shall have and hold the right to ennoble their 
husbands when these shall be of inferior degree.' [Aston- 
ishment and envy flared up in every countenance when the 
words were uttered which conferred this extraordinary 
grace. The King paused and looked around upon these 
signs with quite evident satisfaction.] ' Rise, Joan of Arc, 
now and henceforth surnamed Du Lis in grateful acknow- 
ledgment of the good blow which you have struck for the 
lilies of France ; and they, and the royal crown, and your 
own victorious sword, fit and fair company for each other, 
shall be grouped in your escutcheon and be and remain 
the symbol of your high nobility for ever.' 

As my lady Du Lis rose, the gilded children of privilege 
pressed forward to welcome her to their sacred ranks and 
call her by her new name ; but she was troubled, and said 
these honours were not meet for one of her lowly birth 
and station, and by their kind grace she would remain 
simple Joan of Arc, nothing more — and so be called. 

Nothing more ! As if there could be anything more, 
anything higher, anything greater ! My lady Du Lis — 
why, it was tinsel, petty, perishable. But — Joan of Arc ! 
The mere sound of it sets one's pulses leaping. 



CHAPTER XXIV 

It was vexatious to see what a to-do the whole town, and 
next the whole country, made over the news. Joan of Arc 
ennobled by the King ! People went dizzy with wonder 
and delight over it. You cannot imagine how she was 
gaped at, stared at, envied. Why, one would have sup- 
posed that some great and fortunate thing had happened 
to her. But we did not think any great things of it. To 
our minds no mere human hand could add a glory to Joan 
of Arc. To us she was the sun soaring in the heavens, 
and her new nobility a candle atop of it ; to us it was 
swallowed up and lost in her own light. And she was as 
indifferent to it and as unconscious of it as the other sun 
would have been. 

But it was different with her brothers. They were 
proud and happy in their new dignity, which was quite 
natural. And Joan was glad it had been conferred, when 
she saw how pleased they were. It was a clever thought 
in the King to outflank her scruples by marching on them 
under shelter of her love for her family and her kin. 

Jean and Pierre sported their coat-of-arms right away, 
and their society was courted by everybody, the nobles 
and commons alike. The Standard-bearer said, with 
some touch of bitterness, that he could see that they just 
felt good to be alive, they were so soaked with the comfort 
of their glory, and didn't like to sleep at all, because when 
they were asleep they didn't know they were noble, and so 
sleep was a clean loss of time. And then he said — 

' They can't take precedence of me in military functions 
and state ceremonies, but when it comes to civil ones and 
society affairs I judge they'll cuddle coolly in behind you 

and the knights, and Noel and I will have to walk behind 
them — hey ? ' 

' Yes,' I said, ' I think you are right.' 

'I was just afraid of it— just afraid of it,' said the 
Standard-bearer, with a sigh. ' Afraid of it ? I'm talking 
like a fool : of course I hiew it. Yes, I was talking- hke a 
fool.' 

Noel Rainguesson said, musingly — 

' Yes, I noticed something natural about the tone of it.' 

We others laughed. 

' Oh, you did, did you ? You think you are very clever, 
don't you ? I'll take and wring your neck for you one of 
these days, Noel Rainguesson.' 

The Sieur de Metz said — 

' Paladin, your fears haven't reached the top notch. 
They are away below the grand possibilities. Didn't it 
occur to you that in civil and society functions they will 
take precedence of all the rest of the personal staff— every 
individual of us ? ' 

' Oh, come ! ' 

' You'll find it so. Look at their escutcheon. Its chief- 
est feature is the lilies of France. It's royal, man, royal- 
do you understand the size of that ? The lilies are there 
by authority of the King— do you understand the size of 
thati Though not in detail and in entirety, they do never- 
theless substantially quarter the arms of France m their coat. 
Imagine it ! consider it ! measure the magnitude of it ! We 
walk in front of those boys ? Bless you, we've done that 
for the last time. In my opinion there isn't a lay lord in 
this whole region that can walk in front of them, except 
the Duke d'Alengon, prince of the blood.' 

You could have knocked the Paladin down with a 
feather. He seemed to actually turn pale. He worked 
his lips a moment without getting anything out ; then it 
came : 

' I didn't know that, nor the half of it ; how could I ? 
I ve been an idiot. I see it now — I've been an idiot. I 


met them this morning, and sung out hello to them just as 
I would to anybody. I didn't mean to be ill-mannered, but 
I didn't know the half of this that you've been telling. I've 
been an ass. Yes, that is all there is to it — I've been an 
ass.' 

Noel Rainguesson said, in a kind of weary way : 

' Yes, that is likely enough ; but I don't see why you 
should seem surprised at it.' 

' You don't, don't you ? Well, why don't you ? ' 

' Because I don't see any novelty about it. With some 
people it is a condition which is present all the time. Now 
you take a condition which is present all the time, and the 
results of that condition will be uniform : this uniformity of 
result will in time become monotonous ; monotonousness, 
by the law of its being, is fatiguing. If you had manifested 
fatigue upon noticing that you had been an ass, that would 
have been logical, that would have been rational ; whereas 
it seems to me that to manifest surprise was to be again 
an ass, because the condition of intellect that can enable a 
person to be surprised and stirred by inert monotonousness 
is a ' 

' Now that is enough, Noel Rainguesson ; stop where 
you are, before you get yourself into trouble. And don't 
bother me any more for some days or a week an it please 
you, for I cannot abide your clack.' 

' Come, I like that ! I didn't want to talk. I tried to 
get out of talking. If you didn't want to hear my clack, 
what did you keep intruding your conversation on me 
for?' 

' I ? I never dreamed of such a thing.' 

' Well, you did it, anyway. And I have a right to feel 
hurt, and I do feel hurt, to have you treat me so. It seems 
to me that when a person goads, and crowds, and in a man- 
ner forces another person to talk, it is neither very fair nor 
very good-mannered to call what he says clack."' 

' Oh, snuffle — do ! and break your heart, you poor thing ! 
Somebody fetch this sick doll a sugar-rag. Look you, Sir 

Jean de Metz, do you feel absolutely certain about that 
thing? ' 

' What thing ? ' 

' Why, that Jean and Pierre are going to take prece- 
dence of all the lay noblesse hereabouts except the Duke 
d'Alengon ? ' 

' I think there is not a doubt of it.' 

The Standard-bearer was deep in thoughts and dreams 
a few moments, then the silk-and-velvet expanse of his vast 
breast rose and fell with a sigh, and he said : 

' Dear, dear, what a lift it is ! It just shows what luck 
can do. Well, I don't care. I shouldn't care to be a 
painted accident — I shouldn't value it. I am prouder to 
have climbed up to where I am just by sheer natural merit 
than I would be to ride the very sun in the zenith and have 
to reflect that I was nothing but a poor little accident, and 
got shot up there out of somebody else's catapult. To 
me, merit is everything — in fact, the only thing. All else is 
dross.' 

Just then the bugles blew the assembly, and that cut 
our talk short. 



CHAPTER XXV 

The days began to waste away — and nothing decided, 
nothing done. The army was full of zeal, but it was also 
hungry. It got no pay, the treasury was getting empty, it 
was becoming impossible to feed it ; under pressure of 
privation it began to fall apart and disperse — which pleased 
the trifling Court exceedingly. Joan's distress was pitiful 
to see. She was obliged to stand helpless while her vic- 
torious army dissolved away, until hardly the skeleton of it 
was left. 

At last one day she went to the Castle of Loches, where 
the King was idling. She found him consulting' with three 
of his councillors, Robert le Ma9on, a former Chancellor of 
France, Christophe d'Harcourt, and Gerard Machet. The 

Bastard of Orleans was present also, and it is through him 
that we know what happened. Joan threw herself at the 
King's feet and embraced his knees, saying : 

' Noble Dauphin, prithee hold no more of these long and 
numerous councils, but come, and come quickly, to Rheims 
and receive your crown.' 

Christophe d'Harcourt asked : 

' Is it your Voices that command you to say that to the 
King ? ' 

' Yes, and urgently.' 

' Then will you not tell us in the King's presence in what 
way the Voices communicate with you ? ' 

It was another sly attempt to trap Joan into indiscreet 
admissions and dangerous pretensions. But nothing came 
of it. Joan's answer was simple and straightforward, and 
the smooth Bishop was not able to find any fault with it. 
She said that when she met with people who doubted the 
truth of her mission she went aside and prayed, complaining 
of the distrust of these, and then the comforting Voices 
were heard at her ear saying, soft and low, ' Go forward. 
Daughter of God, and I will help thee.' Then she added, 
' When I hear that, the joy in my heart, oh, it is insup- 
portable ! ' 

The Bastard said that when she said these words her 
face lit up as with a flame, and she was like one in an 
ecstasy. 

Joan pleaded, persuaded, reasoned ; gaining ground 
little by little, but opposed step by step by the council. 
She begged, she implored, leaVe tO march. When they 
could answer nothing further,- they granted that perhaps it 
had been a mistake to let the army waste away, but how 
could we help it now ? how could we march without an 
army ? 

' Raise one,' said Joan. 

' But it will take six weeks.' 

' No matter — begin ! let us begin ! ' 

' It is too late. Without doubt the Duke of Bedford 

has been gathering troops to push to the succour of his 
strongholds on the Loire.' 

'Yes, while we have been disbanding ours — and pity 
'tis. But we must throw away no more time ; we must 
bestir ourselves.' 

The King objected that he could not venture towards 
Rheims with those strong places on the Loire in his path. 
But Joan said : 

' We will break them up. Then you can march.' 

With that plan the King was willing to venture assent. 
He could sit around out of danger while the road was 
being cleared. 

Joan came back in great spirits. Straightway every- 
thing was stirring. Proclamations were issued calling for 
men, a recruiting camp was established at Selles, in Berry, 
and the commons and the nobles began to flock to it with 
enthusiasm. 

A deal of the month of May had been wasted ; and yet 
by June 6 Joan had swept together a new army and was 
ready to march. She had eight thousand men. Think of 
that. Think of gathering together such a body as that in 
that little region. And these were veteran soldiers, too. 
In fact, most of the men in France were soldiers, when 
you came to that ; for the wars had lasted generations 
now. Yes, most Frenchmen were soldiers ; and admirable 
runners, too, both by practice and inheritance ; they had 
done next to nothing but run for near a century. But that 
was not their fault. They had had no fair and proper 
leadership — at least leaders with a fair and proper chance. 
Away back. King and Court got the habit of being treacher- 
ous to the leaders ; then the leaders easily got the habit of 
disobeying the King and going their own way, each for 
himself and nobody for the lot. Nobody could win victories 
that way. Hence, running became the habit of the French 
troops, and no wonder. Yet all that those troops needed 
in order to be good fighters was a leader who would attend 
strictly to business — a leader with all authority in his hands 
in place of a tenth of It along with nine other generals 
equipped with an equal tenth apiece. They had a leader 
rightly clothed with authority now, and with a head and 
heart bent on war of the most intensely businesslike and 
earnest sort — and there would be results. No doubt of that. 
They had Joan of Arc ; and under that leadership their legs 
would lose the art and mystery of running. 

Yes, Joan was in great spirits. She was here and there 
and everywhere, all over the camp, by day and by night, 
pushing things. And wherever she came charging down 
the lines, reviewing the troops, it was good to hear them 
break out and cheer. And nobody could help cheering, 
she was such a vision of young bloom and beauty and grace, 
and such an incarnation of pluck and life and q ! She 
was growing more and more ideally beautiful every day, 
as was plain to be seen — and these were days of development ; 
for she was well past seventeen, now — in fact, she 
was getting close upon seventeen and a half — indeed, just 
a little woman, as you may say. 

The two young Counts de Laval arrived one day — fine 
young fellows allied to the greatest and most illustrious 
houses of France ; and they could not rest till they had seen 
Joan of Arc. So the King sent for them and presented 
them to her, and you may believe she filled the bill of their 
expectations. When they heard that rich voice of hers 
they must have thought it was a flute ; and when they saw 
her deep eyes and her face, and the soul that looked out of 
that face, you could see that the sight of her stirred them 
like a poem, like lofty eloquence, like martial music. One 
of them wrote home to his people, and in his letter he said, 
' It seemed something divine to see her and hear her.' Ah, 
yes, and it was a true word. Truer word was never spoken. 

He saw her when she was ready to begin her march 
and open the campaign, and this is what he said about it : 

' She was clothed all in white armour save her head, 
and in her hand she carried a little battle-axe ; and when 
she was ready to mount her great black horse he reared 

and plunged and would not let her. Then she said, '' Lead 
him to the cross." This cross was in front of the church 
close by. So they led him there. Then she mounted, and 
he never budged, any more than if he had been tied. Then 
she turned toward the door of the church and said, in her 
soft womanly voice, ''You, priests and people of the 
Church, make processions and pray to God for us ! " 
Then she spurred away, under her standard, with her little 
axe in her hand, crying '' Forward — march!" One of 
her brothers, who came eight days ago, departed with her ; 
and he also was clad all in white armour.' 

I was there, and I saw it too ; saw it all, just as he 
pictures it. And I see it yet — the little battle-axe, the 
dainty plumed cap, the white armour — all in the soft June 
afternoon ; I see it just as if it were yesterday. And I 
rode with the staff — the personal staff — the staff of Joan of 
Arc. 

That young Count was dying to go too, but the King 
held him back for the present. But Joan had made him a 
promise. In his letter he said : 

' She told me that when the King starts for Rheims I 
shall go with him. But God grant I may not have to 
wait till then, but may have a part in the battles ! ' 

She made him that promise when she was taking leave 
of my lady the Duchess d'Alenon. The Duchess was 
exacting a promise, so it seemed a proper time for others 
to do the like. The Duchess was troubled for her husband, 
for she foresaw desperate fighting ; and she held Joan to 
her breast, and stroked her hair lovingly, and said : 

' You must watch over him, dear, and take care of him, 
and send him back to me safe. I require it of you ; I will 
not let you go till you promise.' 

Joan said : 

' I give you the promise with all my heart ; and it is 
not just words, it is a promise : you shall have him back 
without a hurt. Do you believe ? And are you satisfied 
with me now ? ' 

The Duchess could not speak, but she kissed Joan on 
the forehead ; and so they parted. 

We left on the 6th and stopped over at Romorantin ; 
then on the 9th Joan entered Orleans in state, under 
triumphal arches, with the welcoming' cannon thundering and 
seas of welcoming flags fluttering in the breeze. The 
Grand Staff" rode with her, clothed in shining splendours of 
costume and decorations : the Duke d'Alengon ; the Bastard 
of Orleans ; the Sire de Boussac, Marshal of France ; the 
Lord de Graville, Master of the Crossbowmen ; the Sire 
de Culan, Admiral of France ; Ambroise de Lore ; Etienne 
de Vignoles, called La Hire ; Gautier de Brusac, and other 
illustrious captains. 

It was grand times : the usual shoutings, and packed 
multitudes, the usual crush to get sight of Joan ; but at 
last we crowded through to our old lodgings, and I saw 
old Boucher and the wife and that dear Catherine gather 
Joan to their hearts and smother her with kisses — and my 
heart ached so ! for I could have kissed Catherine better 
than anybody, and more and longer ; yet was not thought 
of for that office, and I so famished for it. Ah, she was 
so beautiful, and oh, so sweet ! I had loved her the first 
day I ever saw her, and from that day forth she was sacred 
to me. I have carried her image in my heart for sixty- 
three years — all lonely there, yes, solitary, for it never has 
had company — and I am grown so old, so old : but it, oh, 
it is as fresh and young and merry and mischievous and 
lovely and sweet and pure and witching and divine as it 
was when it crept in there, bringing benediction and peace 
to its habitation so long ago, so long ago — for it has not 
aged a day ! 

CHAPTER XXVI 

This time, as before, the King's last command to the 
generals was this : ' See to it that you do nothing without the 
sanction of the Maid. And this time the command was 
obeyed ; and would continue to be obeyed all through the 
coming great days of the Loire campaign. 

That was a change ! That was new ! It broke the 
traditions. It shows you what sort of a reputation as a 
commander-in-chief the child had made for herself in ten 
days in the field. It was a conquering of men's doubts 
and suspicions and a capturing and solidifying of men's 
belief and confidence such as the grayest veteran on the 
Grand Staff had not been able to achieve in thirty years. 
Don't you remember that when at sixteen Joan conducted 
her own case in a grim court of law and won it, the old 
judge spoke of her as ' this marvellous child ' ? It was the 
right name, you see. 

These veterans were not going to branch out and do 
things without the sanction of the Maid — that is true ; and 
it was a great gain. But at the same time there were some 
among them who still trembled at her new and dashing 
war-tactics and earnestly desired to modify them. And so, 
during the loth, while Joan was slaving away at her plans 
and issuing order after order with tireless industry, the 
old-time consultations and arguings and speechifyings were 
going on among certain of the generals. 

In the afternoon of that day they came in a body to hold 
one of these councils of war ; and while they waited for 
Joan to join them they discussed the situation. Now this 
discussion is not set down in the histories ; but I was there, 
and I will speak of it, as knowing you will trust me, I not 
being given to beguiling you with lies. 

Gautier de Brusac was spokesman for the timid ones ; 
Joan's side was resolutely upheld by D'Alenon, the 
Bastard, La Hire, the Admiral of France, the Marshal de 
Boussac, and all the other really important chiefs. 

De Brusac argued that the situation was very grave ; 
that Jargeau, the first point of attack, was formidably 
strong ; its imposing walls bristling with artillery ; with 
7,000 picked English veterans behind them, and at their 
head the great Earl of Suffolk and his two redoubtable 
brothers, the De la Poles. It seemed to him that the pro- 
posal of Joan of Arc to try to take such a place by storm 
was a most rash and over-daring idea, and she ought to 
be persuaded to relinquish it in favour of the soberer and 
safer procedure of investment by regular siege. It seemed 
to him that this fiery and furious new fashion of hurling 
masses of men against impregnable walls of stone, in defi- 
ance of the established laws and usages of war, was — 

But he got no further. La Hire gave his plumed helm 
an impatient toss and burst out with : 

' By God she knows her trade, and none can teach it 
her!' 

And before he could get out anything more, D'Alenon 
was on his feet, and the Bastard of Orleans, and half a 
dozen others, all thundering at once, and pouring out their 
indignant displeasure upon any and all that might hold, 
secretly or publicly, distrust of the wisdom of the 
Commander-in-Chief. And when they had said their say. La 
Hire took a chance again, and said : 

' There are some that never know how to change. Cir- 
cumstances may change, but those people are never able 
to see that they have got to change too, to meet those cir- 
cumstances. All that they know is the one beaten track 
that their fathers and grandfathers have followed and that 
they themselves have followed in their turn. If an earth- 
quake come and rip the land to chaos, and that beaten 
track now lead over precipices and into morasses, those 
people cafCt learn that they must strike out a new road — 
no ; they will march stupidly along and follow the old one 
to death and perdition. Men, there's a new state of 
things ; and a surpassing military genius has perceived it 
with her clear eye. And a new road is required, and that 
same clear eye has noted where it must go and has marked 
it out for us. The man does not live, never has lived, 
never will live, that can improve upon it ! The old state 
of things was defeat, defeat, defeat — and by consequence 
we had troops with no dash, no heart, no hope. Would 
you assault stone walls with such ? No — there was but 
one way with that kind : sit down before a place and wait, 
wait — starve it out, if you could. The new case is the 
very opposite ; it is this : men all on fire with pluck and 
dash and vim and fury and energy — a restrained conflagra- 
tion ! What would you do with it ? Hold it down and 
let it smoulder and perish and go out ? What would Joan 
of Arc do with it ? Turn it loose, by the Lord God of heaven 
and earth, and let it swallow up the foe in the whirlwind of 
its fires ! Nothing shows the splendour and wisdom of her 
military genius like her instant comprehension of the size 
of the change which has come about, and her instant per- 
ception of the right and only right way to take advantage 
of it. With her is no sitting down and starving out ; no 
dilly-dallying and fooling around ; no lazying, loafing, and 
going to sleep ; no, it is storm ! storm ! storm ! and still 
storm ! storm ! storm ! and forever storm ! storm ! storm ! 
hunt the enemy to his hole, then turn her French hurricanes 
loose and carry him by storm ! And that is my sort ! 
Jargeau? What of Jargeau, with its battlements and 
towers, its devastating artillery, its seven thousand picked 
veterans ? Joan of Arc is to the fore, and by the splendour 
of God its fate is sealed ! ' 

Oh, he carried them. There was not another word 
said about persuading Joan to change her tactics. They 
sat talking comfortably enough after that. 

By-and-by Joan entered, and they rose and saluted with 
their swords, and she asked what their pleasure might be. 
La Hire said : 

' It is settled, my General. The matter concerned 
Jargeau. There were some who thought we could not 
take the place.' 

Joan laughed her pleasant laugh ; her merry, care-free 
laugh ; the laugh that rippled so buoyantly from her lips 
and made old people feel young again to hear it ; and she 
said to the company : 

' Have no fears — indeed there is no need nor any 
occasion for'them. We will strike the English boldly by assault, 
and you will see.' Then a far-away look came into her 
eyes, and I think that a picture of her home drifted across 
the vision of her mind ; for she said very gently, and as 
one who muses, ' But that I know God guides us and will 
give us success, I had liefer keep sheep than endure these 
perils.' 

We had a homelike farewell supper that evening — just 
the personal staff and the family. Joan had to miss it ; for 
the city had given a banquet in her honour, and she had 
gone there in state with the Grand Staff, through a riot of 
joy-bells and a sparkling Milky Way of illuminations. 

After supper some lively young folk whom we knew 
came in, and we presently forgot that we were soldiers, 
and only remembered that we were boys and girls and full 
of animal spirits and long-pent fun ; and so there was 
dancing, and games, and romps, and screams of laughter 
— just as extravagant and innocent and noisy a good time 
as ever I had in my life. Dear, dear, how long ago it was ! 
— and I was young then. And outside, all the while, was 
the measured tramp of marching battalions, belated odds 
and ends of the French power gathering for the morrow's 
tragedy on the grim stage of war. Yes, in those days we 
had those contrasts side by side. And as I passed along 
to bed there was another one : the big Dwarf, in brave new 
armour, sat sentry at Joan's door — the stern Spirit of War 
made flesh, as it were — and on his ample shoulder was 
curled a kitten asleep. 



CHAPTER XXVII 

We made a gallant show next day when we filed ou 
through the frowning gates of Orleans, with banners flying 
and Joan and the Grand Staff in the van of the long 
column. Those two young De Lavals were come, now, 
and were joined to the Grand Staff. Which was well ; 
war being their proper trade, for they were grandsons of 
that illustrious fighter Bertrand du Guesclin, Constable of 
France in earlier days. Louis de Bourbon, the Marshal 
de Rais, and the Vidame de Chartres were added also. 
We had a right to feel a little uneasy, for we knew that a 
force of five thousand men was on its way under Sir John 
Fastolfe to reinforce Jargeau, but I think we were not un- 
easy, nevertheless. In truth, that force was not yet in our 
neighbourhood. Sir John was loitering ; for some reason 
or other he was not hurrying. He was losing precious time 
— four days at Etampes, and four more at Janville. 

We reached Jargeau and began business at once. Joan 
sent forward a heavy force which hurled itself against the 
outworks in handsome style, and g'ained a footing and 
fought hard to keep it ; but it presently began to fall back 
before a sortie from the city. Seeing this, Joan raised her 
battle-cry and led a new assault herself under a furious 
artillery fire. The Paladin was struck down at her side, 
wounded, but she snatched her standard from his failing 
hand, and plunged on through the ruck of flying missiles, 
cheering her men with encouraging cries ; and then for 
a good time one had turmoil, and clash of steel, and 
collision and confusion of struggling multitudes, and the hoarse 
bellowing of the guns ; and then the hiding of it all under 
a rolling firmament of smoke ; a firmament through which 
veiled vacancies appeared for a moment now and then, 
giving fitful dim glimpses of the wild tragedy enacting 
beyond ; and always at these times one caught sight of 
that slight figure in white mail which was the centre and 
soul of our hope and trust, and whenever we saw that, with 
its back to us and its face to the fight, we knew that all 
was well. At last a great shout went up — a joyous roar 
of shoutings, in fact — and that was sign sufficient that the 
faubourgs were ours. 

Yes, they were ours ; the enemy had been driven back 
within the walls. On the ground which Joan had won, we 
camped ; for night was coming on. 

Joan sent a summons to the English, promising that if 
they surrendered she would allow them to go in peace and 
take their horses with them. Nobody knew that she could 
take that strong place, but she knew it — knew it well ; yet 
she offered that grace — offered it in a time when such a 
thing was unknown in war ; in a time when it was custom 
and usage to massacre the garrison and the inhabitants of 
captured cities without pity or compunction — yes, even to 
the harmless women and children sometimes. There are 
neighbours all about you who well remember the unspeakable 
atrocities which Charles the Bold inflicted upon the 
men and women and children of Dinant when he took that 
place some years ago. It was a unique and kindly grace 
which Joan offered that garrison ; but that was her way, 
that was her loving and merciful nature — she always did 
her best to save her enemy's life and his soldierly pride 
when she had the mastery of him. 

The English asked fifteen days' armistice to consider 
the proposal in. And Fastolfe coming with 5,000 men ! 
Joan said no. But she offered another grace : they might 
take both their horses and their side-arms — but they must 
go within the hour. 

Well, those bronzed English veterans were pretty hard- 
headed folk. They declined again. Then Joan gave com- 
mand that her army be made ready to move to the assault 
at nine in the morning. Considering the deal of marching 
and fighting which the men had done that day, D'Alengon 
thought the hour rather early ; but Joan said it was best 
so, and so must be obeyed. Then she burst out with one 
of those enthusiasms which were always burning in her 
when battle was imminent, and said : 

' Work ! work ! and God will work with us ! ' 

Yes, one might say that her motto was ' Work ! stick 
to it ; keep on working ! ' for in war she never knew what 
indolence was. And whoever will take that motto and live 
by it will be likely to succeed. There's many a way to win 


in this world, but none of them is worth much without 
good hard work back of it. 

I think we should have lost our big Standard-Bearer 
that day, if our bigger Dwarf had not been at hand to bring 
him out of the mele when he was wounded. He was 
unconscious, and would have been trampled to death by 
our own horse, if the Dwarf had not promptly rescued him 
and haled him to the rear and safety. He recovered, and 
was himself again after two or three hours ; and then he 
was happy and proud, and made the most of his wound, 
and went swaggering around in his bandages showing off 
like an innocent big child — which was just what he was. 
He was prouder of being wounded than a really modest 
person would be of being killed. But there was no harm 
in his vanity, and nobody minded it. He said he was hit 
by a stone from a catapult — a stone the size of a man's 
head. But the stone grew, of course. Before he got 
through with it he was claiming that the enemy had flung 
a building at him. 

' Let him alone,' said Noel Rainguesson. ' Don't 
interrupt his processes. To-morrow it will be a cathedral.' 

He said that privately. And, sure enough to-morrow 
it was a cathedral. I never saw anybody with such an 
abandoned imagination. 

Joan was abroad at the crack of dawn, galloping here 
and there and yonder, examining the situation minutely, 
and choosing what she considered the most effective posi- 
tions for her artillery ; and with such accurate judgment 
did she place her guns that her Lieutenant-General's 
admiration of it still survived in his memory when his 
testimony was taken at the Rehabilitation, a quarter of a 
century later. 

In this testimony the Duke d'Alen9on said that at 
Jargeau that morning of the 12th of June she made her 
dispositions not like a novice, but ' with the sure and clear 
judgment of a trained general of twenty or thirty years' 
experience.' 

The veteran captains of the armies of France said she 
was great in war in all ways, but greatest of all in her 
genius for posting and handling artillery. 

Who taught the shepherd girl to do these marvels — 
she who could not read, and had had no opportunity to 
study the complex arts of war ? I do not know any way 
to solve such a baffling riddle as that, there being no 
precedent for it, nothing in history to compare it with and 
examine it by. For in history there is no great general, 
however gifted, who arrived at success otherwise than 
through able teaching and hard study and some experience. 
It is a riddle which will never be guessed. I think these 
vast powers and capacities were born in her, and that she 
applied them by an intuition which could not err. 

At eight o'clock all movements ceased, and with it all 
sounds, all noise. A mute expectancy reigned. The 
stillness was something awful — because it meant so much. 
There was no air stirring. The flags on the towers and 
ramparts hung straight down like tassels. Wherever one 
saw a person, that person had stopped what he was doing, 
and was in a waiting attitude, a listening attitude. We 
were on a commanding spot, clustered around Joan. Not 
far from us, on every hand, were the lanes and humble 
dwellings of these outlying suburbs. Many people were 
visible — all were listening, not one was moving. A man 
had placed a nail ; he was about to fasten something with 
it to the door-post of his shop — but he had stopped. There 
was his hand reaching up holding the nail ; and there was 
his other hand in the act of striking with the hammer ; but 
he had forgotten everything — his head was turned aside, 
listening. Even children unconsciously stopped in their 
play ; I saw a little boy with his hoop-stick pointed 
slanting toward the ground in the act of steering the hoop 
around the corner ; and so he had stopped and was 
listening — the hoop was rolling away, doing its own steering. 


I saw a young girl prettily framed in an open window, a 
watering-pot in her hand and window-boxes of red flowers 
under its spout — but the water had ceased to flow ; the 
girl was listening. Everywhere were these impressive 
petrified forms ; and everywhere was suspended movement 
and that awful stillness. 

Joan of Arc raised her sword in the air. At the signal, 
the silence was torn to rags ; cannon after cannon vomited 
flames and smoke and delivered its quaking thunders ; and 
we saw answering tongues of fire dart from the towers and 
walls of the city, accompanied by answering deep thunders, 
and in a minute the walls and the towers disappeared, and 
in their place stood vast banks and pyramids of snowy 
smoke, motionless in the dead air. The startled girl 
dropped her watering-pot and clasped her hands together, 
and at that moment a stone cannon-ball crashed through 
her fair body. 

The great artillery duel went on, each side hammering 
away with all its might ; and it was splendid for smoke 
and noise, and most exalting to one's spirits. The poor 
little town around about us suff"ered cruelly. The cannon- 
balls tore through its slight buildings, wrecking them as if 
they had been built of cards ; and every moment or two 
one would see a huge rock come curving through the upper 
air above the smoke clouds and go plunging down through 
the roofs. Fire broke out, and columns of flame and smoke 
rose toward the sky. 

Presently the artillery concussions changed the weather. 
The sky became overcast, and a strong wind rose and blew 
away the smoke that hid the English fortresses. 

Then the spectacle was fine : turreted gray walls and 
towers, and streaming bright flags, and jets of red fire and 
gushes of white smoke in long rows, all standing out with 
sharp vividness against the deep leaden background of the 
sky ; and then the whizzing missiles began to knock up 
the dirt all around us, and I felt no more interest in the 
scenery. There was one English gun that was getting our 
position down finer and finer all the time. Presently Joan 
pointed to it and said : 

' Fair Duke, step out of yoiir tracks, or that machine 
will kill you.' 

The Duke d'Alengon did as he was bid ; but Monsieur 
du Lude rashly took his place, and that cannon tore his 
head off in a moment. 

Joan was watching all along- for the right time to order 
the assault. At last, about nine o'clock, she cried out : 

' Now — to the assault ! ' and the buglers blew the 
charge. 

Instantly we saw the body of men that had been 
appointed to this service move forward toward a point 
where the concentrated fire of our guns had crumbled the 
upper half of a broad stretch of wall to ruins ; we saw this 
force descend into the ditch and begin to plant the scaling- 
