is what "the dear boy really needs as a life-long companion." Once in
a great while, when the chosen bride by some remarkable chance happens
to suit the family fancy, the whole world is informed of the fact, and
the bride elect inwardly pronounces John's blood relations to be
"awfully gushing" or "desperately hypocritical." The happy medium is
difficult of attainment.
Of course there are some exceptions to the general rule of
antagonism. And I am glad to believe that sometimes, even when this
feeling exists, husband and wife are too considerate of one another's
comforts to betray any sign of discontent. Said a woman to me:
"My dear, Mrs. S. is John's mother, and it is my duty to conceal from
him the fact that she is disagreeable to me. I could be a much happier
woman for never seeing my mother-in-law again, but my husband must
never suspect it. The dear fellow flatters himself that his wife and
mother 'hit it off so well together.' To our credit be it said, that
we have never enlightened him as to the true state of affairs."
And for the sake of the man they both loved, these women refrained
from outward evidence of the intense dislike each felt for the other.
The trouble begins very far back. When the boy is laughingly warned
against "the girl with a family," and the girl is reminded that this
or that jolly fellow "has a dragon of a mother," the evil seed is
sown. From that time until the pair are forever united at the altar,
it grows, and with marriage it begins to bring forth the unpeaceable
fruits of endless dissensions. I sometimes wonder if the new life
could be begun with a predisposition towards amity, what the result
would be.
There is fault on both sides from the beginning. It is an accepted
proverb that no house is large enough to hold two families, and
certainly no family is large enough to contain two factions. As soon
as the son of the household marries, an antagonistic element is
introduced. Mother and sisters immediately bring to bear upon the new
bride opera-glasses of criticism,--viewing faults through the small
end, and virtues through the large.
It would be strange indeed if two women who have never met until the
younger one was of a marriageable age, should have the same methods of
housekeeping, etc. But the mother-in-law is inclined to believe that
John's wife should do things her way, and that any other way is
slovenly, new-fangled, or ridiculous. The son's wife--possessing her
share of individuality--resents the interference, and shows that
resentment. Too often, alas! both make the dreary mistake of retailing
their sorrows to John, and then the breach becomes too wide ever to be
bridged over. Unless John is an exceptionally independent man he will
attempt in his clumsy way to bring both women to the same way of
thinking, and the result would be ludicrous were it not also pitiful.
The chances are nine hundred and ninety-nine to one thousand that he
will succeed in making his mother feel that he is unduly influenced
by his silly wife, while said wife thinks indignantly that John is,
and always will be, "under his mother's thumb."
I firmly believe that Mary is often to blame for John's dislike for
her family. When she marries, she revels in the new and delightful
sensation of having some one to "take her part," and sympathize with
her in all her petty annoyances and big troubles. Her father, mother,
sisters and brothers often vex her, and what more natural than that
she should pour her tale of woe into the young husband's ears? He is
delightfully indignant and full of pity for her and resentment towards
those who have caused her discomfort. At all events he understands
her!
By the time the story is told and she is duly consoled she has
forgotten her injuries. She loves her family, and while they are
sometimes very trying, who could expect her to bear a grudge against
the dear ones? The little burst of anger over, she feels towards them
as she has always felt and banishes from her mind all thought of the
little occurrence.
Not so, John! His wife (and the possessive pronoun casts about her an
atmosphere of importance) has been made uncomfortable, and he is up in
arms. His and no one's else is the right to criticise Mary. What
business have these people to interfere? He immediately becomes his
wife's most ardent champion, and while he muses the fire burns, until
he is ready to take the poor little woman away from all her
inconsiderate relatives. What is his chagrin on discovering that the
woman who, but a few hours ago sobbed out to him her wrongs, has
seemingly overlooked all injuries, and is just as fond of sister and
brother, and quite as dependent upon "Papa and Mamma" as she ever was.
In vain he protests and calls to her mind their injustice. Yes, she
remembers it, now that he speaks of it, but the dear people meant
nothing unkind, they love her dearly at heart. For her part she could
not take to heart a little thing like that. And John remarks that if
she is mean-spirited enough to pass by such an occurrence, he has
nothing to say. It is her family, thank goodness, not his! After this,
he is more quick than ever before to detect a fancied slight and to
resent it. Mary laments secretly that "John does not love her family."
It is a genuine grief to her, and she does not appreciate the fact
that she herself began the work that has now gone too far to check.
Were I to give a piece of advice to a bride, it would be--Never
complain to your husband of the actions of a single member of your
family, and never find fault with his nearest of kin. Your liege
lord may disapprove of the members of his own family, or perhaps of
some of his mother's characteristics, and he may talk to you of them.
But he will hotly resent your mention of them, and will exercise all
his masculine ingenuity to prove that his relatives always mean to act
for the best,--exactly what you would have him believe of your nearest
and dearest. A woman who has never had a suspicion of difference with
her relations-in-law, confides to me of the course she has pursued
throughout her married life. She says:
"I have never told Charlie that I notice the faults of his family, nor
have I ever called his attention to any of their foibles. In that way
I have prevented him from feeling that he must side with them against
me. He comes to me often with the story of some difference he has had
with his mother, and he talks freely of his sister's failings and his
brother's inconsistencies. He even sometimes gets righteously
indignant, and fairly sputters. Inwardly, I chuckle with amusement,
and outwardly I appear sympathetic, but never a word do I say to
commit myself. It is his family, and if there is a row, I, to quote
Young America, 'am not in it.'"
I happen to know that this woman's husband's family think that
"Charlie has a none-such of a wife," and that they are all fond of
her.
If tact and diplomacy are ever exercised, it must be in the management
of relations-in-law. The thought that so often the state is one of
hatred, or, at best, tolerance, makes the position of all concerned
strained and delicate. To many a mother the term "mother-in-law" is a
much-dreaded appellation. A woman upon whom this doubtful honor has
recently been laid, said to me:
"I hope my boy will never set his wife against me by asking her to 'do
things as his mother did.' I shudder to think of it. I want him to
tell her that the mince and pumpkin pies, biscuits, muffins, and even
gingerbread, made by his wife are vastly superior to any ever produced
by his mother. I would rather take the second place in my son's
affections than have my new daughter for one moment think of me as her
'mother-in-law.'"
I believe that this is the sincere sentiment of more than one fond
mother, as I am also sure that many a fond wife would rather have her
husband loved by her own family than to receive so much affection
herself. She is sure of her position, but John is a dreadful
"relation-in-law," and it is hard to love such. It is sad to think
such a mother or wife makes a fatal mistake from the very start, and
herself brings about the state of affairs she dreads.
The recognition of a fact often seems to make it doubly true. The
knowledge that relations-in-law are frequently relations-at-war,
predisposes both parties to unjust judgment. Did each determine to see
all the good possible in the other, connections-by-marriage might
become kin-at-heart.
CHAPTER XVIII.
A TIMID WORD FOR THE STEP-MOTHER.
At a luncheon party of a dozen women which I attended last winter,
this very topic was introduced. Strangely enough, there were present
three women whose mothers had died while the children were still
infants, and whose fathers had married again, and two women who were
themselves step-mothers. Each of the three who could not remember her
own mother agreed that she who took her place had filled it so
conscientiously that the child hardly felt the lack. The two
step-mothers confessed that they loved their husbands' children as
dearly as their own. Said one woman:
"When people speak to me of my step-daughter I have to stop and think
which one of the children I did not bring into the world. She is as
dear to me as my own flesh and blood."
After we had gleaned all the evidence of truth from the chaff to which
we are sometimes treated, a lively member of the company remarked
ruefully:
"I declare, all that I have just heard makes me positively ashamed
that I did not have a step-mother, or that there is no prospect as far
as I can see into the dim future, of my ever becoming one."
There is something to be said on both sides, and we may as well face
the facts without prejudice. No woman, however tender, can really take
an own mother's place. Her step-children may think that she does, and
this is one of the instances where ignorance is such genuine bliss
that it would be cruel folly to enlighten it. It would not be natural
if actual mother-love could be felt by a woman toward any children
save those for whom she has braved the danger of death and the
mightiest pain mortal can know. With this suffering comes a love far
greater than the anguish, a passionate devotion which, we are certain,
must reach beyond the grave itself. That mother who, having young
children, still wishes to die, is an anomaly rarely met with. No
matter how much she may be forced to endure, she still prays to live
for her sons' and daughters' sakes. A poor sufferer once said:
"If I had no child I would beg the good Lord to let me die. But while
my baby lives, I beg Him to spare this life which is too valuable to
Him to be lost."
It is not possible that an outsider "whose own the sheep are not"
should know this heaven-given feeling. Still, every unselfish mother
will acknowledge that were she dying, she would be comforted to know
that her children would find some conscientious, true foster-mother
who would bring them up just as faithfully and tenderly as she knew
how to do.
There is no more forlorn being on this wide earth than a widower with
little children, and with no woman-relative to help him look after
them. Why then this rooted hatred and horror of step-mothers?
You--my step-mother reader--are sadly unfortunate if anyone has been
so cruel to you and your charges as to instil into their minds an
aversion for you with whom they must live for years, perhaps all their
lives. But, perhaps, after all, the case is not so bad as you fear.
You may have a morbid sensitiveness on the subject which makes it look
very dark to you. Even if matters are as you think, if you try
conscientiously to overcome the children's prejudice, and your husband
aids you in your efforts, you are bound to live down their dislike.
Children are tender-hearted and clear-sighted. They will soon judge
for themselves, and the one rule against which they will not rebel is
that of love. The first thing for you to do is to begin with your own
feelings. Make yourself love the little ones. Unless they are
unusually unattractive the task will not be a difficult one. Perhaps
you love them already. If so, half the battle is won. In driving a
restless horse, it is absolutely essential that you should not be at
all nervous yourself. Every horseman will tell you that the animal
knows instinctively the character of the person managing him. If a
thrill of fear touches him who holds the reins, the horse responds to
it as to an electric shock, and becomes almost beside himself with
nervousness. If a firm, steady, yet gentle grasp is on the lines, the
creature obeys in spite of himself. This same principle applies to
children. If you cannot control yourself the children know it, and you
may as well give up all idea of curbing them. The nervous twitching at
the bit and the attempt to govern them by reason of your superior age
or knowledge aggravates the evil. It is a mistake to forget that
children are human beings, with sensitive feelings like our own, only
not as hardened and used to the ways of this unsympathetic world as
we are. Their government must have love at its beginning, continuing
and ending if it would be successful.
You may as well recognize the fact first as last that you are laboring
under a disadvantage in that the hyphenized "step" must precede your
name of mother. This being the case, you have need to add to your love
patience, and to that tact, and to that pity. If the children
exasperate you, do not let them guess it. Keep a rigid guard upon the
harsh tongue. If the demon of Impatience tempts you to utter the quick
"Stop that noise!" or "Do be quiet!"--seal your lips as surely as if
life and death depended upon your silence. Your most severe critics
will not be slow in discovering that you love them too much to "scold"
or be cross. You make tremendous strides towards their love when they
cannot point to a single unjust act that you commit against them.
It may be well in passing to remind you that boys and girls remember
an injustice for many years. They themselves are often fair enough to
acknowledge after the first flush of anger is over, that they merited
a punishment which they have received. As a rule, until they are old
men and women, they do not forget the undeserved blow, the unprovoked
sarcasm. We many times receive patiently, as grown men and women,
reminders that we are doing wrong, but we find it hard to pardon the
person who accuses us falsely.
The most powerful auxiliary love can have in accomplishing its end is
tact. Some people have more than others, but at all times it may be
cultivated. Perhaps the best rule by which to learn it is the old one
of "Put yourself in his place." Reverse the positions as in Anstey's
"Vice Versâ," and imagine yourself a hot-headed, sore-hearted,
prejudiced child, with a step-mother against whom your mind has been
poisoned by those older and presumably wiser than yourself. How would
you receive this or that correction? Acquire the habit of thus putting
the matter before your mind's eye, and you will soon find that tactful
patience becomes second nature.
If you can possibly avoid it, do not correct the children in the
presence of other people, or complain to their father of them. If he
once reproves them with the prefix, "Your mother tells me that you
have done so-and-so," he has laid the foundations of a distrust
difficult to remove. Rather let them domineer over you than try to
manage them by appealing to their father, and, thus making them feel
sure that you are attempting to prejudice him against them. They are
naturally suspicious, and it will take very little to make them
positively certain that you are their natural enemy.
Never fail to remember the great and irreparable loss which these
children have suffered in the death of the only person in the wide
world who could thoroughly understand them. If you had a mother to
help you in your childhood, you will know what they miss, or, if you,
too, were a lonely little being, let the memory of that loneliness
make you lovingly pitiful towards the children who suffer in the same
way. Such pity soon leads to an unconquerable love.
Bear in mind in justification of what may seem like unreasonable
prejudice, that all children have heard many stories, some of which
are true, of the cruelties of step-parents. Doubtless, you in your own
life, have known of more than one second wife who was jealous of her
husband's love for the first wife's children. When women are heartless
they are desperately cruel, and do not hesitate to vent their hatred
upon the little ones whose look, Mrs. Browning tells us,--
                        "is dread to see,
For they mind you of their angels in high places,
        With eyes turned on Deity."
She also reminds those whose consciences are so hardened by
selfishness that they dare be cruel to the mere babies in their care
that--
"The child's sob in the darkness curses deeper
  Than the strong man in his wrath."
We have not to do in this Talk with this type of woman, but with
beings of the mother-sex who would, if they were allowed, make life
brighter for the bereaved little ones.
One way to keep step-children's affection is to talk to them often and
reverently of their own mother. This is due to them and to her who
bare them. Do not allow them to forget her, and guard against the
entrance of any jealous feeling into this sacred duty of keeping her
memory fresh. The children were hers, and in the eternal home will be
hers again. They are only lent to you as a sacred trust. It is not
sacrilegious to believe that their mother knows of your efforts to
make them good men and women, and that she, as their guardian angel,
will not forget to bless her who gives her life to the children who
were once "the sweetest flowers" her own "bosom ever bore."
CHAPTER XIX.
CHILDREN AS HELPERS.
A correspondent inquires whether or not children ought to be trained
to do housework and to make themselves useful in the numerous ways in
which the young hands and feet can save the older ones.
Unless you expect to be a millionaire many times over, and in
perpetuity--emphatically Yes!
It is not necessary that your little daughter should become a drudge;
that she should have imposed upon her tasks beyond her strength, or
which interfere with out-door exercise and merry in-door play. But
through all her childhood must be borne in mind the fact that she is
now in training for womanhood, that should she ever marry and have a
home of her own, the weight of unaccustomed household tasks will bend
and bruise the shoulders totally unaccustomed to burdens of any kind.
If you have a colt that in years to come you intend using as a
carriage-horse, you will not let him stand idle in the stable eating
and fattening until he is old enough for your purpose. He would then
be, in horse-parlance, so "soft" that the lightest loads would weary
and injure him. Instead of that, while still young, he is frequently
exercised, and broken in, judiciously, first to the harness, then to
draw a light vehicle, and so on, until he himself does not know when
the training ceases and the actual work begins.
The college-boy, looking forward to "joining the crew," trains for
months beforehand, walking, running, rowing, until the flaccid muscles
become as firm and hard as steel.
In America, where fortunes are made, lost, and made and lost again in
a day, we can never say confidently that our children will inherit so
much money that it will always be unnecessary for them to work. And,
even could we be sure that our daughters will marry wealthy men, we
should, for their own happiness and comfort, teach them that there is
work for everyone in this world, and certain duties which every man
and woman should perform in order to preserve his or her self-respect.
By the time your child can walk, he may begin to make himself useful.
One little boy, three years old, finds his chief delight in "helping
mamma." He has his own "baby duster" with which he assiduously rubs
the rungs of the parlor chairs until his little face beams with the
proud certainty that he is of some use to humanity, and that "dear
mamma" could not possibly have dusted that room without her little
helper. He brings her boots and gloves when she is preparing for a
walk, and begs to be allowed to put her slippers on her feet when she
returns home. Often when she is writing and he has grown weary of
play, the tender treble asks,--
"Dear Mamma, you are vewy busy. Can't I help you?"
Of course it is an interruption, and he cannot be of the least
assistance; but is not that request better than the fretful whine of
the child who is sated with play and still demands more?
"She missed the little hindering thing."
says one line of a heart-breaking old poem descriptive of a bereaved
mother's loneliness.
Eugene Field strikes the same chord, until she who has laid a child
under the sod thrills with remorseful pain:
   "No bairn let hold until her gown,
      Nor played upon the floore,--
   Godde's was the joy; a lyttle boy
   Ben in the way no more!"
Ah, impatient mother! as you put aside the affectionate officiousness
of the would-be assistant, with frown or hasty word, bethink yourself
for one moment of the possible time when, in the dreary calm of a
well-ordered house, you will hearken vainly for shrilly-sweet prattle
and pattering feet!
There are ways in which even the toddlers can make work lighter for
the mothers. When your small daughter has finished with her toys, she
should be obliged to put them away in a box kept for that purpose. The
mother and nurse will thus be spared the bending of the back and
stooping of the knees to accomplish this light task, and the child
will enjoy the occupation, and feel very important and "grown-up" in
putting her doll to bed, and dolly's furniture, clothes, etc., in
their proper place.
When making the beds, allow the little girl to hand you the pillows;
and, even should you stumble over her and them, sometimes, you will do
well to maintain the pious pretence that she lightens your work by
assisting in tucking in the covers, and in gathering up soiled
articles of clothing and putting them in the clothes-bag or hamper.
She will soon learn to dust chair-rungs and legs, and to wipe off the
base-board,--and do it more conscientiously than hireling Abigail. She
may pick bits of thread, string and paper from the carpet, and clean
door-handles and window-sills. One mother, when making pies, places
her four-year old daughter in a chair at the far end of the kitchen
table, and gives her a morsel of dough and a tiny pan. The little one
watches the mother and attempts to handle her portion of pastry as
mamma does. After it is kneaded, it is tenderly deposited, oftentimes
a grayish lump, in spite of carefully washed hands (for little hands
will somehow get dirty, try sedulously though you and their owner may
to prevent it), in the small tin, and it is placed in the oven with
the other pies. It serves admirably at a doll's tea-party, and the
meddlesome fingers have been kept busy, the restless mind contented,
while the housewife's work is accomplished.
By the time your girl is ten years old, she should be equal to making
her own bed, some older person turning the mattresses for her that the
young back may not be strained by lifting, and to dust and keep her
own little room in order. Of course you will have to watch carefully,
and teach her little by little, line upon line. A model housekeeper
used to say that one should "cultivate an eye for dirt." Bear this in
mind, and cultivate your daughter's eye for dust, dirt and cobwebs.
You will find, unless she is a phenomenal exception to the majority of
young people, that she will not see when the soap-cup needs washing,
or that there are finger-smears on the doors, and "fluff" in the
corners. But with the blessed mother-gift of patience, point out to
her, again and again, the seemingly small details, the "hall-marks"
of housewifery, which, heeded, make the thrifty, neat housekeeper,
and, when neglected, the slattern. As she grows older, let her
straighten the parlors every morning, make the cake on Saturdays, and
show her that you regard her as your right-hand woman in all matters
pertaining to domestic affairs. Give her early to understand that it
is to her interest to keep her father's house looking neat, that it is
her home, and reflects credit, or the reverse, upon herself, and that
it is her duty, and should be her pleasure, to help you, her mother,
when you are overwearied and need rest. She will enjoy play as a
child, society and recreation as a girl, all the more because she has
some stated tasks. She may learn to manage the family mending by
aiding you in sorting and repairing the clothes when they come up from
the wash. When she is capable of entirely relieving you of this
burden, pay her a stated amount each week for doing it. She will glory
in the delightful feeling of independence imparted by the knowledge of
her ability to earn her own pocket-money, and take the first lesson in
that much-neglected branch of education,--knowledge of the value of
dollars and cents, and how to take care of them.
Few children are born with a sensitive conscience regarding their
work, so the mother will, at first, find it necessary to keep an eye
on all the tasks performed by the willing, if often careless, girl. Do
not judge her too harshly. Try to recall how you felt when you were a
lazy, because a rapidly growing, girl; bear in mind that it is natural
for kittens and all young creatures to be careless and giddy, and try
to be gentle and forbearing while correcting and training her. If she
is good for anything, your care will be rewarded in years to come by
seeing her trying to do all her work in life "as mamma does."
While it is especially expedient that the girls receive this domestic
training, the boys of the family should not be exempt from their share
of the responsibility. You need not dread that this kind of work will
make your boy unmanly or effeminate. It will rather teach him to be
more considerate of women, more appreciative of the amount that his
mother and sisters have to do, and less careless in imposing needless
labor upon them.
Some mothers go so far as to instruct their sons in the delicate tasks
of darning stockings, and repairing rents in their own clothes. There
is a vast difference in the skill manifested by different boys. Some
seem to have a natural aptitude for dainty work while others have
fingers that are "all thumbs." One man, now a father, cherishes a
tiny cushion of worsted cross-stitch made by himself when a child but
five years of age. He is deft with his fingers, and, as the saying is,
"can turn his hand to anything." May it not be that the manipulation
then acquired still serves him?
Another man tells laughingly how, when a boy at college, he would tie
up the hole, in his socks with a piece of string, and then hammer the
hard lump flat with a stone. He could as easily make a gown as darn a
stocking. Tales such as this fill motherly souls with intense pity for
the poor fellow so powerless to take care of his clothing, and so far
from any woman-helper. If possible, teach your boy enough of the
rudiments of plain sewing to help him in an emergency, so that he can
put on a button, or stitch up a rip, when absent from you.
As many men as women have a natural bias for cookery, and there are
husbands not a few who insist on making all the salad eaten on their
tables.
One branch of work in which boys are sinfully deficient is "putting
things to rights." The floor of your son's room may be littered with
books, papers, cravats, soiled collars and cuffs, but he never thinks
it his duty to pick them up and to keep his possessions in order.
About one man in a thousand is an exception to this rule, and thrice
blessed is she who weds him. It goes without saying in the household
that by some occult principle of natural adaptation, there is always a
"time" for a man to scatter abroad and for a woman to gather together.
Mother or sister attends to "the boy's things." Why has the boy any
more than the girl the right to leave his hat on the parlor table, his
gloves on the mantel, his coat on the newel-post, and his over-shoes
in the middle of the floor? They are left there, and there they remain
until some long-suffering woman puts them away. From hut to palace,
and through uncounted generations, by oral and written enactment, as
well as by tacit consent, whatever other innovations are made, the
custom holds that man can upset without fault, and his nearest of
feminine kin is blamable if she do not "pick up after him."
Teach your son that it is his business to keep his own room in order,
and that there is no more reason why his sister should follow him up,
replacing what he has disarranged, than that he should perform the
same office for her. Inculcate in him habits of neatness. In acquiring
an "eye" for the disorder he has caused, and deftness in rectifying
it, he is taking lessons in tender consideration and growing in
intelligent sympathy for mother, sister and the wife who-is-to-be.
CHAPTER XX.
CHILDREN AS BURDEN-BEARERS.
Those of us who are mothers would do well to read carefully and ponder
deeply St. Paul's assertion that when he was a child he spoke as a
child, and felt as a child, and thought as a child; and that when he
was a man, and not until then, he put away childish things.
Can the same be said of the child of to-day?
In this "bit of talk," I want to enter my protest against thrusting
upon children the care-taking thought that should not be theirs for
years to come. When the responsibility that is inseparable from every
life bears heavily upon us, we sigh for the carefree days of
childhood, but we do not hesitate to inflict upon our babies the
complaints and moans which teach them, all too soon, that life is a
hard school for us. A child must either grieve with us or become so
inured to our plaints that he pays no attention to them. In the latter
case he may be hard-hearted but he is certainly happier than if he
were exquisitely sensitive.
"What a pretty suit of clothes you have!" said I to a four-year-old
boy.
The momentary expression of pride gave way to one of anxiety.
"Yes; but mamma says when these wear out she does not know how papa
will ever buy me any more clothes. I am a great expense! Oh!" with a
long-drawn sigh of wretchedness, "isn't it awful to be poor?"
The poverty-stricken father was at this time managing to dress
himself, wife and baby on an income of four thousand dollars per
annum. In her desire to make her child take proper care of his
clothes, the mother had struck terror to the little fellow's heart.
Such childish terror is genuine, and yet hard to express. The
self-control of childhood is far greater than the average father or
mother appreciates. Some children seem to have an actual dread of
communicating their fears and fancies to other people.
A friend tells me that when she was but six years old she heard her
father say impatiently, as his wife handed him a bill:
"I can't pay this! At the rate at which bills come in nowadays, I soon
will not have a cent left in the world. It is enough to bankrupt a
man!"
At bedtime that night the little daughter asked her mother, with the
indifferent air children so soon learn to assume:
"Mamma, what becomes of people when all their money is gone, and they
can't pay their bills?"
"Sometimes, dear," answered the unsuspicious mother, "their houses and
belongings are sold to pay their bills."
"And when people have no house, and no money, and nothing left, where
do they go? Do they starve to death?"
"They generally go to the poorhouse, my daughter."
"Oh, mamma!" quavered the little voice, "don't you think that is
dreadful?"
"Very dreadful, darling! Now go to sleep."
To sleep! How could she, with the grim doors of the home for the
county paupers yawning blackly to receive her? All through the night
was the horror upon her, and to this day she remembers the sickening
thrill that swept over her while playing with a little friend, when
the thought occurred:
"If this girl's mother knew that we were going to the poorhouse, she
would not let her play with me."
Little by little the impression wore off, aided in the dissipation by
the sight of numerous rolls of bills which papa occasionally drew from
his pocket. But not once in all that time did the child relax the
strict guard set upon her lips, and sob out her fear to her mother.
She does not now know why she did not do it, except that she could
not.
An otherwise judicious father talks over all his business difficulties
with his seven-year-old son. The grown man does not know what a strain
the anxiety and uncertainty of his father's ventures are to the embryo
financier. Not long ago the father announced to him:
"Well, Harold, that man I was telling you of has failed--lost his
money--and one thousand dollars of mine have gone with it."
The boy's white, set face would have alarmed a more observant man.
"Oh, papa! what shall we do!"
"Get along somehow, my boy!" was the unsatisfactory answer.
Then, as the boy sadly and slowly left the room, the man to whom one
thousand dollars were no more than one dime to this anxious child,
explained, laughingly, to a friend, that "that little fellow was
really wonderful; he understood business, and was as much interested
in it as a man of forty could be."
We fathers and mothers have no right to make our children old before
their time. Each age has its own trials, which are as great as any one
person should bear. We know that the troubles that come to our babies
are only baby troubles, but they are as large to them as our griefs
are to us. A promised drive, which does not "materialize," proves as
great a disappointment to your tiny girl as the unfulfilled promise of
a week in the country would to you, her sensible mother. Of course our
children must learn to bear their trials. My plea is that they may not
be forced to bear our anxieties also. If a thing is an annoyance to
you, it will be an agony to your little child, who has not a tenth of
your experience, philosophy and knowledge of life.
There is something cowardly and weak in the man or woman who has so
little self-control that he or she must press a child's tender
shoulders into service in bearing burdens. Teach your children to be
careful, teach them prudence and economy, but let them be taught as
children.
The forcing of a child's sympathies sometimes produces a hardening
effect, as in the case of a small boy whose mother was one of the
sickly-sentimental sort. She had drawn too often upon her child's
sensibilities.
"Charlie," she said, plaintively, to her youngest boy, "what would you
do if poor mamma were to get very sick?"
"Send for the doctor."
"But, Charlie, suppose poor, dear mamma should die! Then, what would
you do?"
"I'd go to the funeral!" was the cheerful response.
To my mind this mother had the son ordained for her from the beginning
of the world.
Many boys are all love and sympathy for their mothers. Mamma appeals
to all that is tender and chivalrous in the nature of the man that is
to be. The maternal tenderness ought to be too strong to impose upon
this sacred feeling.
Perhaps one of the prettiest of Bunner's "Airs from Arcady" is that
entitled, "In School Hours," in which he thus describes the woe of the
thirteen-year-old girl when she receives the cruel letter from the boy
of her admiration. The poet tells us this sorrow "were tragic at
thirty," and asks, "Why is it trivial at thirteen!"
   "Trivial! what shall eclipse
     The pain of our childish woes?
   The rose-bud pales its lips
     When a very small zephyr blows.
   You smile, O Dian bland,
     If Endymion's glance is cold:
   But Despair seems close at hand
     To that hapless thirteen-year old!"
CHAPTER XXI.
OUR YOUNG PERSON.
I well remember a girl's tearful appeal to me when she was stigmatized
and reproved for her "giddy youth!" "It is not my fault that I was
born young! And I am not responsible for the fact that I entered upon
existence seventeen, instead of seventy, years ago. At all events, it
was not a sin even if I was guilty of such a folly!"
Perhaps we older people are too prone to forget that youth is not a
sin to be condemned, or even a folly to be sneered at. "Wad some power
the giftie gie us" to remember that we were not always cool-headed,
clear-seeing and middle-aged! Trouble and responsibility come so soon
to all, that we err in forcing young heads to bow, and strong
shoulders to bend, beneath a load which should not be laid upon them
for many years. As we advance in age, our weaknesses and temptations
change, and no longer take the form of heedlessness, intolerance,
extravagance, and most trying of all to the critical and dignified
observer,--freshness.
We may describe this last-named quality somewhat after the fashion of
the little boy who defined salt as "What makes potatoes taste bad
when they don't put any on 'em!"
So "freshness" is that which makes youth delightful by its absence.
Unfortunately, it is almost inseparable from this period, and while
there are girls, and even boys, in whom the offending quality is
nearly, if not entirely, lacking, they are almost as the red herring
of the wood, and the strawberry of the sea, in nursery rhyme.
Freshness takes many and varied forms, the most common being that of
self-conceit and the desire to appear original and eccentric in
feelings, moods, likes and dislikes. Like the fellows of the club of
which Bertie, in "The Henrietta," was an illustrious member, the
average boy winks, nods, looks wise and "makes the other fellows think
that he is a Harry of a fellow,--but he isn't!"
The desire to be considered worldly-wise--"tough"--is rampant in the
masculine mind between the ages of fifteen and twenty. The boy who has
been to a strict preparatory boarding-school and is just entering upon
his college course, whose theatre-goings have been limited to the
"shows" to which his father has given him tickets, or to which he has
escorted his mother or sisters, and whose wildest dissipations have
consisted in a surreptitious cigarette and glass of beer, neither of
which he enjoyed, but both of which he pretended to revel in for the
sake of being "mannish,"--will talk knowingly of "the latest
soubrette," "a jolly little ballet-dancer," "the wicked ways of this
world," and "the dens of iniquity in our large cities." Dickens tells
us that "when Mr. Feeder spoke of the dark mysteries of London, and
told Mr. Toots that he was going to observe it himself closely in all
its ramifications in the approaching holidays, and for that purpose
had made arrangements to board with two old maiden aunts at Peckham,
Paul regarded him as if he were the hero of some book of travel or
wild adventure, and was almost afraid of such a slashing person."
Why it is considered manly to be "tough" is one of the unsolved
mysteries of the boyish mind. Any uneducated, weak fool can go wrong.
It takes a man to be strong enough to keep himself pure and good.
Another "fresh" characteristic of this age is the pretence of doubt. A
fellow under twenty-one is likely to have doubts, to find articles in
the creed of his church "to which he cannot agree. That kind of thing
is well enough for women and children, but for a man of the
world,"--and then follows an expressive pause, accompanied by a shrug
of the shoulders and lift of the brows.
With a girl this trying age is often given over to sentimental musings
and blues. She is convinced that nobody understands her, her mother
least of all, that she is too sensitive for this harsh world, that she
will never receive the love and consideration due her. Cynicism
becomes her main characteristic, and she bitterly sneers at friendship
and gratitude, declaring that true, disinterested affection exists
only in the imagination. Is it any wonder that mothers sometimes
become discouraged? Poor mothers! whose combined comfort and distress
is the knowledge that the time is fast approaching when their boys and
girls will blush for shame at the remembrance of their "salad days,
when they were green in judgment."
Parents have need of vast patience, and let them, before uttering
condemnation, carefully consider if they themselves are not a little
to blame for the state of their children's minds; if over-indulgence
and unwise consideration have not had much to do with the trouble. One
excellent woman has made of her son an insufferable boor by constantly
deferring to him, no matter in what company, and by allowing him to
see that she considers his very ordinary intellect far above the
average. In a parlor full of educated men and women she went out of
her way to tell what remarkable views "Charlie" had upon certain
religious subjects, and, after attracting the attention of the
assembled company, called upon "Charlie" to give vent to his
sentiments that all present might observe how original they were.
Whereupon the hulk of a son, consequential and patronizing, discoursed
bunglingly, and at length, on his opinions and beliefs, until he was
inflated to speechlessness by conceit, and his hearers disgusted into
responsive silence.
If your girl is clever, do not tell her so, or repeat to others in her
presence her bright observations. But, on the other hand, do not snub
her, or allow her to feel that her intellect is of an inferior order.
The best way to make a fool of the Young Person is to tell him that he
is a fool. Stimulate your child by all the love and appreciation at
your command, but let it be intelligent appreciation, not blind
admiration or prejudiced disapproval. Do you recollect how you felt
and dreamed and gushed when you were a girl, the pages of sentimental
twaddle (as you now call it) which you confided to the diary which you
burned in disgust at twenty-one? Do you remember how genuine your
distresses then seemed? You can smile at the girl you once were, but
still you find it in your heart to pity her, poor, silly child,
foolishly sobbing late into the night over some broken friendship or
imaginary heart-trouble. Perhaps she had no mother to whom to go, or
perhaps her mother "did not understand." See that you do not make the
same mistake, but, while you recognize the folly of the trouble, think
of the heartache back of it all. When your girl was a tiny child, you
petted and comforted her as she wailed over her broken dolly. Was that
grief so much more sensible than this, or do you love her less now?
When your four-year-old boy came to you with his stories of what he
would do when he was "a great big man," you drew him close to you and
encouraged him to "talk it all out." Now, when he is a head taller
than you, and tells you of his hopes and aspirations, you sigh that
"boys are so fresh and visionary!"
It is not necessary to condone or to condemn all. What would you say
to the gardener who let your choice young vines run in straggling
lines all over the ground and in all directions,--or who ruthlessly
cut off all the stalks within an inch of the roots? Young people need
training, encouragement and urging in some directions, repression and
pruning in others. Above all, they need tender forbearance.
Another trying feature of the Young Person is his wholesale
intolerance of everything and everybody. Only himself and perhaps one
or two of his own friends escape his censure. These being covered
with the mantle of his approbation, are beyond criticism. This habit
of uncharitableness is such an odious one that our boy or girl should
avoid it carefully.
If you would acquire the custom of saying no evil, it is advisable to
guard against thinking it. Difficult as it may seem, it is quite
possible to put such a guard upon the mind as to accustom it to look
on the best side of persons and things. Nobody is wholly bad, or, at
least, few people are so entirely given over to disagreeable traits as
the Young Person would lead us to think. Only a few days ago a young
man was speaking in my presence of another fellow, who was, as far as
I know, a respectable, well-bred boy.
"Oh!" said the Young Person, when his name was mentioned, "he is no
good."
"Why not?" queried I. "Is he bad?"
"He is too much of a fool to be bad."
"Is he such a fool? I thought he was considered rather bright?"
"Well, he thinks himself awfully bright. He is a regular donkey."
"Are his manners disagreeable?"
"No-o-o, I don't know that they are. In fact, I believe he prides
himself on the reputation he has acquired for gentlemanliness."
"Then, what is so disagreeable about him?"
"Perhaps," dryly suggested the father of the Young Person, "he is not
particularly fond of you, and that it why you disapprove of him."
"No, sir!" was the indignant rejoinder, "that is not it. To be sure,
he never troubles himself to pay me any marked attention. Nor do I
care to have him do so. He is a low fellow."
Deny it as he might, the reason my young friend disliked the "low
fellow" was because the tiny thorn of neglect had wounded his vanity
and pricked and rankled into a fester. This is human nature, but as we
advance in years, we appreciate that people may be really excellent in
many respects, and yet have no great fondness for us. Youth still has
much to learn.
Ten girls whom I know formed a society for the repression of unkind
criticism. The members pledged themselves to try, as far as in them
lay, to speak kindly of people when it was possible for them to do so,
and when impossible to say nothing. At first it was hard, for
self-conceit would intrude, and it is hard for one girl to praise
another who dislikes her. Little by little the tiny seed of effort
grew into a habit of kindly speech.
What volumes it argues for a woman's gentle ladyhood and Christianity
when it can truthfully be said of her, "She never speaks uncharitably
of anybody!"
Let us older people set an example of tolerance and charitable speech.
Too often our children are but reproductions, perhaps somewhat highly
colored, of ourselves, our virtues, and our faults. And this is
especially true of the mothers. John Jarndyce gives us a word of
encouragement when he says--
    "I think it must somewhere be written that the virtues of the
    mothers shall occasionally be visited upon the children, as
    well as the sins of the father."
Such being the case, let us children of a larger growth show such
tact, unselfishness and tender charity, that our children, seeing
these virtues, may copy them, and thereby aid in removing the
disagreeable traits of, at least, our Young Persons.
CHAPTER XXII.
OUR BOY.
The following is a bona fide letter. It is written in such genuine
earnest, and so clearly voices the sentiments of many young men of the
present day, that I am glad to have an opportunity to answer it.
1. Why should I, a fast-growing, hard-working youth of eighteen, who
go every morning, four miles by street-car, to my office, and the same
back at night, often so weary and faint as to be hardly able to sit,
not to say stand, be obliged to give up my seat to any flighty, flashy
girl who has come down-town to shop, or frolic, or do nothing? Isn't
she as able to "swing corners" holding on to a strap as I? and to hold
her own perpendicular in the aisle?
2. Why isn't it as rude for her and her companions to giggle and whisper
and stare, the objects of amusement being her fellow-passengers, as it
would be for me and my fellows? Yet we would be "roughs"--and she and
her crew must be "treated with the deference due the gentler sex." And
why am I a boor if I do not give her my seat, while she is considered a
lady if she takes it without thanking me?
3. Are girls, take them as a rule, as well-bred as boys?
Judging by appearances, it would seem that many men share in the
feeling expressed in your first query. I am not a "flighty, flashy
girl," but I crossed the city the other night in a horse-car in which
there were twenty men and two women--one of them being myself. I
stood, while the score of men sat and lounged comfortably behind their
newspapers. They were tired after a hard day's work, and would have
been wearied still more by standing. A well woman was worn out and a
delicate woman would have been made ill, by this exertion.
My dear boy! let me ask you one question. Why should you, no matter
how tired you are, spring eagerly forward to prevent your sister from
lifting a piece of furniture, or carrying a trunk upstairs? Why not
let her do it? I can imagine your look of indignant surprise. "Why?
because she is a woman! It would nearly kill her!" Exactly so; but you
will swing the burden on your broad, strong shoulders, bear it to its
destination, and the next minute run lightly down-stairs,--perhaps, as
you would say, "a little winded," but not one whit strained in nerve
or muscle.
There lies the difference. The good Lord who made us women had His own
excellent reason for making us physically weaker than men. Perhaps
because, had we their strength, we would be too ambitious. However
that may be, men, as the stronger sex, should help us in our weakness.
Standing in the horse-car that is jostling over a rough track, holding
on with up-stretched arm to a strap and "swinging corners" during a
two-mile ride, would do more harm to a girl of your own age than you
would suffer were you to stand while making a twenty-mile trip. For
humanity's sake, then, if your gallantry does not prompt you to make
sacrifice, do not allow any woman, old or young, to "hold her
perpendicular in the aisle" when you can offer her a seat and while
you have a pair of capable legs upon which to depend for support.
A true gentleman is always unselfish, be he old or young, rested or
weary; and such being the case, the foreign day-laborer, in blue
blouse and hob-nailed boots, who rises and gives a lady his place in
car or omnibus, is the superior of the several-times-a-millionaire, in
finest broadcloth, spotless linen, patent leathers and silk hat, who
sits still, taking refuge behind his newspaper, in which he is
seemingly so deeply absorbed as to be blind to the fact that a woman,
old enough to be his mother, stands near him. With one gentlemanliness
is instinctive, with the other it is, like his largest diamond stud,
worn for show, and even then is a little "off color." I hope it is
hardly necessary to remind you that true courtesy does not stay to
distinguish between a rich or a poor woman, or to notice whether she
is a pretty young girl, fashionably attired, or a decrepit laundress
taking home the week's wash. She is a woman! That should be sufficient
to arouse your manliness.
This is the truthful reply to query No. 1. Not a pleasant answer
perhaps, but an honest one. To make the advice more palatable, take
it with a plentiful seasoning of gratitude for the gift of physical
strength which makes you a man.
And now for No. 2. Here you are right, and your suggestion has had my
serious consideration. Possibly, thoughtlessness may account for the
foolish "whispering and giggling" you mention, but stares and amused
comments upon fellow-passengers are nothing less than acts of
rudeness, be they perpetrated by boy or girl. But two wrongs never yet
made a right, and because a girl is discourteous is no reason why you
should put yourself on the same footing with her, and fail to observe
towards her "the deference due" all women. If you are in a car with a
profane drunkard, you do not copy his actions, or, if obliged to
address him, adopt his style of language.
The glaring defect in the manners and voice of the American girl is
that she is "loud." German Gretchen or Irish Bridget is more likely to
speak softly in public than her rich young mistress. It is often a
shock to the observer when sweet sixteen seated opposite him in the
horse-car, begins conversation with her companion. Her face is gentle,
her whole mien refined,--but, her voice! She talks loudly and laughs
constantly. One beautiful woman whom I have met,--wealthy and
well-educated, always reminds me of a peacock. You doubtless have seen
and heard peafowls often enough to understand the comparison. The
graceful motion and gorgeous plumage demand our admiration, until the
creature, becoming accustomed to our presence, raises his voice in a
piercing call, something between a hoot and a shriek, which causes us
to cover our ears. After such an experience, we turn with relief to
the sober hens who are contented to cluck peacefully through life,
reserving their cackling until they have done something of which to
boast, and wish to inform us that the egg they have laid is at our
disposal.
As a rule the girl who is prononcée in a public conveyance is not
well-bred, and she who laughs loudly and talks noisily, meanwhile
passing comments on those persons who are so unfortunate as to be her
traveling companions, has no claim to the much-abused title of "lady."
But you can hardly compare your manners and those of your friends with
the deportment of low-born, ill-bred girls. I fancy that you would
find that everyone would pronounce sentence as severe upon them as
upon you, were your actions the same.
I have been amazed before this at what I have been told, and at what I
have myself noticed, of the failure of women to thank men who rise and
offer them seats.
It would seem incredible that any person should so far neglect all
semblance of civility as to accept a place thus offered as a matter of
course. It is a kindness on the part of a man, and should always be
met by some acknowledgment. If, when you rise, and lifting your hat,
resign your place to a woman, and she, without a word, accepts it as
her due, your only consolation will be to fall back on the comforting
thought that you have behaved like a gentleman, and that any
discourtesy of hers cannot detract from the merit of your action. You
did not do it for the thanks you might receive, but because it is
right. It is not pessimistic to assert that all through life, we are
working on this principle--not that we may receive the credit for what
we do, but doing good for the good's sake. Do not be so rash as to say
bitterly--"So much for sacrificing my own comfort!" "Catch me giving a
woman my seat again!" and those other foolish, because angry, things
which a vexed boy is tempted to say under such circumstances. Continue
in the good way, hoping that "next time" you may have the pleasure of
doing a favor to a lady who has the breeding to appreciate and be
grateful for an act of courtesy.
Your third question is one difficult to answer. Are girls as well bred
as boys--Yes--and no! Their training lies along different lines. A
few days ago I was talking with a young man who had a grievance. A
girl of his acquaintance had, the night before, been at a reception
which he had also attended. Feeling a little weary she retired to a
comfortable corner of the room, and sat there during the entire
evening. She "did not feel like dancing," and told her hostess "she
would rather sit still." My young friend had a severe headache, but,
although suffering, his appreciation of les convenances would not
allow him to sit down in a secluded niche for fifteen minutes, during
the entire evening. His "grievance" was that had he done this he would
have been voted a boor, while the girl's action was condoned by
hostess and guests. One thing must always be considered--namely, that
a woman's part is, in many points of etiquette, passive. It is the man
who takes the initiative, and who is made such a prominent figure that
all eyes are drawn to him. Have you ever noticed it? Man proposes,
woman accepts. Man stands, woman remains seated. Man lifts his hat,
woman merely bows. Man acts as escort, woman as the escorted. So, when
a man is careless or thoughtless, it is all the more evident. For this
reason, begin as a boy, to observe all the small, sweet courtesies of
life. I often wish there were any one point in which a woman could
show her genuine ladyhood as a man displays his gentlehood by the
management of his hat,--raising it entirely from the head on meeting a
woman, lifting it when the lady with whom he is walking bows to an
acquaintance, or when his man-companion meets a friend, baring his
head on meeting, parting from, or kissing mother, sister or wife.
These, with other points, such as rising when a woman enters the room,
and remaining standing until she is seated, giving her the precedence
in passing in or out of a door, and picking up the handkerchief or
glove she lets fall--are sure indices of the gentleman, or, by their
absence, mark the boor.
But our girl should not think that she can afford to overlook the acts
of tactful courtesy which are her duty as well as her brother's.
Prominent among these she should place the deference due those who are
older than herself. Her temptation is often to exercise a patronizing
toleration toward her elders, and, while she is not actually
disrespectful, she still has the air of a very superior young being
holding converse with a person who has the advantage merely in the
accident of years. Did she realize how ridiculous these very youthful,
foolish manners are, she would blush for herself. She will--when she
has attained the age of discretion.
Another of our girls' mistakes is that of imagining that brusqueness
and pertness are wit. There is no other error more common with girls
from fifteen to eighteen; they generally choose a boy as the butt of
their sarcastic remarks--and, to their shame be it said, they
frequently select a lad who is too courteous to retort in kind.
But these faults in boy and girl alike are evidences of a "freshness"
which wears off as the years roll on, as the green husk, when touched
by the frost, falls away, leaving exposed the glossy brown shell
enclosing the ripe, sweet kernel of the nut.
If this answer to your letter reads like a sermon, pardon one who is
interested in young people, and who, well remembering when she was
young herself, would fain hold out a helping hand to those who are
stumbling on in the path she trod in years gone by.
CHAPTER XXIII.
THAT SPOILED CHILD.
I was the other day one of many passengers in a railroad train in
which a small girl of four or five years of age was making a journey,
accompanied by her mother and an aunt. The child was beautiful, with a
mass of golden curls. Her velvet coat and the felt hat trimmed
elaborately with ostrich plumes were faultless in their style; her
behavior would compare unfavorably with the manners of a young
Comanche Indian. She insisted upon standing in the centre of the
aisle, where she effectually blocked all passage, and, as the train
was going rapidly, ran a great risk of being thrown violently against
the seats. When remonstrated with by her guardians, she slapped her
aunt full in the face, pulled herself free from her mother's
restraining grasp, and, in a frenzy of rage, threw herself down right
across the aisle. There she lay for a full half hour. When her mother
would have raised her to her feet she uttered shriek after shriek,
until her fellow-travelers' ears rang. After this triumph of young
America over the rule and command of tyrannizing mamma, the innocent
babe was allowed to remain prostrate in her chosen resting-place,
while brakemen, conductor and passengers stepped gingerly over the
recumbent form. She varied the monotony of the situation by occasional
wrathful kicks in the direction of her mother or at some would-be
passer-by.
"It is best to let sleeping dogs lie," sighed the mother of this
prodigy to her sister. "When she gets one of these attacks (and she
has them quite often) I just leave her alone until she becomes
ashamed of it. She can't bear to be crossed in anything."
When I stepped from the train at my destination the humiliation for
which her attendants longed was still a stranger to the willful child.
Trouble-fearing persons have a belief to the effect that it is, in the
long run, easier to let a child have his own sweet way until he has
attained the age of discretion,--say at fourteen or fifteen
years,--when his innate sense of propriety will convince him of the
error of his ways. Such a theorist was a dear old gentleman who, many
years ago, remonstrated with me upon the pains and time I spent in
training my first born. The children of this aged saint had been
reared according to the old-fashioned notion, but when they had babies
of their own they departed from it, and the rising generation had full
and free sway. Their grandparent, albeit frequently the victim of
their pranks, loved them dearly. He now assured me that--
"While they are regular little barbarians, my dear, still they have
all that freedom and wild liberty which should accompany childhood.
They eat when and what they please, go to bed when they feel like it,
rise early or late as the whim seizes them, and know no prescribed
rules for diet and deportment. But they come of good stock and will
turn out all right."
They did come of good, honest parents, and this may have been what saved
their moral, while their physical being has suffered from the course
pursued during their infancy and early youth. There were six children;
now there are four. One died when a mere baby from cold contracted from
running about the house in winter weather in her bare feet. She was so
fond of doing this that her mother could not bear to put shoes and
stockings on the dear little tot. The other, a sweet, affectionate boy,
suffered at regular intervals during the fifteen years of his life from
acute indigestion. Directly after one of these attacks, he, as was his
habit, followed the cravings of an undisciplined appetite, and attended,
late at night, a pea-nut-and-candy supper, almost immediately after
which he was taken violently ill and died in three days. The four
remaining children do not, all told, possess enough constitution to make
one strong man. They are all delicate and constant sufferers.
In this case judicious care might have averted the above-mentioned
evils. Would the game have been worth the candle?
This is a question which parents cannot afford to disregard. It is
expedient for them to consider seriously whether or not the stock on
both sides of the family, of which their children come, is so good as
to warrant neglect or to justify over-indulgence.
Our mother-tongue does not offer us a phrase by which we may express
what we mean by l'enfant terrible. But our father-land produces many
living examples which may serve as translations of the French words.
Such an one was the small boy who, while eagerly devouring grapes,
threw the skins, one after another, into the lap of my new light silk
gown. His mother entered a smilingly gentle protest in the form of--
"Oh, Frankie dear! do you think it is pretty to do that?" to which he
paid as much attention as to my look of distress. The reader who
believes in "lending a hand" in righting the minor evils of society
must have more temerity and a larger share of what the boy of the
