
"She is, though. I suppose me and you will be a good deal together now."

"I don't know what my future plans will be," said Jasper, not very much
elated by this prospect.

"No, I suppose not. Mother'll arrange about them. How much allowance did
your father use to give you?"

Jasper thought at first of refusing to reply, but it occurred to him
that under the new and strange circumstances it was not an improper
question for Nicholas to ask. He therefore decided to reply.

"Five dollars a week," he answered.

"When was it paid?"

"On Saturday."

"See here," said Thorne, drawing from his vest pocket the five-dollar
bill his mother had given him.

"What of it?" said Jasper.

"It's my allowance for this week," said Thorne, triumphantly.

"I congratulate you," said Jasper, coldly.

"That's kind in you," returned Thorne, with a sneer, "especially as you
are cut down."

"What do you mean?" asked Jasper, hastily.

"Mother says five dollars a week is too much for you. She's going to cut
you down to three."

The indignant color came to Jasper's cheek. Was this interloper--this
stranger--to be preferred to him in his own father's house? He was not
excessively fond of money, and had there been need would not have
objected to a reduction of his allowance. But to be deprived of his
rights in favor of a fellow like Thorne was intolerable. If Nicholas
wished to annoy and anger him, he had succeeded.

"Who told you this?" demanded Jasper, sharply.

"My mother," answered Nicholas, with a gratified smile.

"When?"

"About fifteen minutes ago," replied Thorne, with provoking coolness.

"I don't think she would do anything so outrageous."

"Don't you? You'll find mother's got plenty of grit."

"So have I," said Jasper, his face hardening. "If your mother undertakes
to wrong me she will repent it."

"You had better not say that to her," said Thorne, insolently.

"I shall when the proper time comes. My allowance is not due yet. I
don't care for the money, but my father knew what it was proper for me
to have."

"There's going to be a row," thought Nicholas, with satisfaction. "I'll
bet on mother. She'll put down this whipper-snapper."

Jasper turned away, and walked out of the yard.

"Where are you going?" asked Thorne.

"To walk."

"I guess I'll go along, too."

"I would rather go alone."

"You're not very polite."

"Excuse me," said Jasper, with the instinct of a gentleman. "You would
find me very poor company. Another time we will walk together."

"Oh, just as you like; I don't want to intrude," said Thorne, sulkily.

They did not meet again till supper. Mrs. Kent presided. On one side sat
Nicholas, on the other Jasper. Our hero looked sad. The kind, worn face
he was accustomed to see at the head of the table was gone forever. He
felt that he was indeed desolate. His appetite was very small, while, on
the other hand, Nicholas seemed to be famished. His mother kept plying
him with dainties and tidbits, and he appeared to like the treatment
amazingly.

"Why don't you eat, Jasper?" asked Thorne with his mouth full.

"I am not hungry."

"I should think your walk might have given you an appetite."

"It doesn't appear to."

"You look awful glum. Is it what I said this afternoon?"

"About what?"

"Your allowance being cut down."

"I wasn't thinking about that particularly. Besides, you are not the one
from whom I expect to receive such communications."

"It's all true, though, as you will find. Ain't it, mother?" persisted
Nicholas, who was anxious to have the row come off as soon as possible.

Jasper turned his glance upon Mrs. Kent.

"You needn't have introduced the subject, Nicholas," she said, with
slight reproof.

"Why not, mother?"

"It isn't a proper subject to introduce at the supper-table."

"You see, Jasper didn't half believe what I told him."

"He may rely upon your statement," said Mrs. Kent.

"Am I to understand that my allowance is reduced to three dollars a
week?" asked Jasper, who felt that he had been dragged into the
discussion.

"Yes. I consider that three dollars a week is a liberal allowance for a
boy of your age."

"My father gave me five."

"Your father acted according to his judgment," said Mrs. Kent, coldly.
"On some points I differ from him in judgment. I think that he indulged
you too much, probably because you were his only child."

"He was always kind to me," said Jasper. "It was his nature to be kind."

"You will find me kind, too, if you deserve it," said his step-mother.
But her tone belied her words.

"Nicholas tells me that his allowance is to be five dollars," said
Jasper.

"I conceive that the amount of his allowance has nothing to do with
yours," said Mrs. Kent.

"Is it true?" persisted Jasper.

"It is," said Mrs. Kent, with a defiant look, which Jasper interpreted
to mean "What are you going to do about it?"

"Why is he to receive five dollars, if I am only to get three?"

"Because I choose."

"You have answered rightly," said Jasper, scornfully. "Even you are
unable to defend it on the score of fairness or justice."

Mrs. Kent's thin lips compressed.

"Audacious boy!" she exclaimed, "do you dare to speak to me in this
style?"

"I am not aware of any impropriety, madam. I am protesting against your
unjust partiality for Nicholas."

"He is my son."

"I am aware of that; but the money out of which the allowance is paid
came to you from my father."

"Do you dare to continue your impertinent remarks?" exclaimed his
step-mother, pale with rage.

"Madam, I am only stating the truth," said Jasper, sturdily. "You cannot
expect me to submit tamely to such an injustice. Had you reduced my
allowance and given Nicholas no more I would have let it pass."

"I won't submit to this impertinence!" exclaimed Mrs. Kent, furiously.
"Nicholas, will you sit there and see your mother insulted?"

"What do you want me to do, mother?" asked Thorne, not exactly liking
the turn matters had taken.

"Put that unmannerly boy out of the room."

"Oh, there ain't any need of that," said Thorne, who knew by experience
Jasper's strength.

"Do as I say, or I will give you no allowance at all!" said Mrs. Kent,
stamping her foot angrily.

Nicholas unwillingly arose from his seat and approached Jasper.

"You'd better not try it, Thorne," said Jasper, coolly.

"Do you hear that, sir? He has insulted you, too," said Mrs. Kent, in a
furious passion.

It was these words, perhaps, that spurred Nicholas to his task. Jasper
had now risen, and Thorne threw himself upon him.

But Jasper was prepared. In less time than I have required to tell it,
Thorne found himself prostrate on the floor.

"Madam," said Jasper, turning to his step-mother, "I am ready to leave
your presence now, but of my own accord."

He left the room. Mrs. Kent was too astonished to speak. She had felt no
doubt that Nicholas was more than a match for Jasper, as he certainly
was bigger, and weighed twenty pounds more.

"My poor boy!" she said, pitifully, bending over her son; "are you much
hurt?"

"Yes," said Nicholas; "and it's all on account of you!"

"I thought you were stronger than he."

"So I am, but he knows how to wrestle; besides, he's so quick."

"I thought you could have put him out easily."

"Well, don't set me to doing it again," said Thorne, sulkily. "I didn't
want to fight. You made me."

"Don't mind it, my dear boy. It was because I was angry with him."

"Oh, how my head aches!"

"I'll put on some cologne. I'll give you an extra five dollars, too, for
standing by your mother."

"All right, mother," said Thorne, in a more cheerful tone. "That's the
way to talk. Give it to me now."

Jasper did not see either of them again that evening. He called on a
friend, and, entering the house at ten o'clock, went directly to his own
room.




CHAPTER XII.

A SCHEME OF VENGEANCE.


Mrs. Kent had never cared for Jasper. Since the marriage she had
disliked him. Now that he had struck down Nicholas in her presence, she
positively hated him. She did not stop to consider that he was provoked
to it, and only acted in self-defense. She thirsted for revenge--more,
indeed, than Nicholas, who, bully as he was, having been fairly worsted,
was disposed to accept his defeat philosophically. If he could annoy or
thwart Jasper he would have been glad to do it, but he did not desire to
injure him physically.

Not so Mrs. Kent.

Her darling had been assaulted and defeated in her presence. She did not
again wish to put him against Jasper lest he should be again defeated,
but she wished Jasper, her detested step-son, to drink the same cup of
humiliation which had been forced upon Nicholas.

So she sat pondering how to accomplish the object she had in view. She
could not herself beat Jasper, though, had he been younger and smaller,
she would certainly have attempted it. She must do it by deputy.

Under the circumstances she thought of Tom Forbes, a strong and stalwart
hired man, who had been for some months working on the place. Probably
he would not like the task, but she would threaten to discharge him if
he refused to obey her commands, and this, she thought, would bring him
around.

"I wonder where Jasper is?" said Nicholas, about eight o'clock, as he
sat opposite the little table where his mother was sewing.

"Gone out, I suppose," said Mrs. Kent.

"He found the house too hot to hold him," suggested Thorne.

"He certainly will if he conducts himself in the future as he has
already done. He makes a mistake if he thinks I will tolerate such
conduct."

"It's because you're a woman," said her son. "Boys of his age don't make
much account of women."

"Do you speak for yourself as well as for him?" asked Mrs. Kent,
sharply.

"Of course not," said Nicholas, whose interest it was to keep on good
terms with his mother. "Of course not; besides, you are my mother."

"You are much more of a gentleman than Jasper is," said his mother,
appeased.

"I hope so," said Nicholas.

"As for him, I consider him a young ruffian."

"So he is," said Thorne, who was ready to assent to anything that his
mother might say.

"And yet his father thought him a paragon!" continued Mrs. Kent, her lip
curling. "It is strange how parents can be deceived!"

Unconsciously she illustrated the truth of this remark in her own
person. She considered Nicholas handsome, spirited, and amiable--indeed,
as an unusually fascinating and attractive boy. To others he was big,
overgrown, malicious, and stupid. But then mothers are apt to look
through different spectacles from the rest of the world.

"I guess Jasper'll want to change his guardian," said Thorne, laughing.
"You and he won't hitch horses very well."

"Don't use such a common expression, Nicholas. I want you to grow up a
well-bred gentleman."

"Oh, well, I mean to. But I say, if his father liked him so much, what
made him appoint you to take care of him?"

"He didn't know how I felt toward Jasper. I humored his fancies, and
treated him better than I felt toward him."

"Then you wanted to be his guardian?"

"Yes, I wanted to pay off old scores," said Mrs. Kent, again compressing
her lips with unpleasant firmness.

"What made you dislike him?" asked her son, with curiosity.

"He was opposed to my marriage. He would have stopped it if he could,
but there I got the better of him. When he found that he was too late he
treated me with coldness. He never liked me."

"By Jove! I don't think he's had much reason," said Nicholas, laughing
boisterously.

"He'll regret not having treated me with more attention. I can thwart
all his plans and make his life very uncomfortable."

"I'll trust you to do that, mother. You've got spunk enough."

"Don't say 'spunk,' Nicholas."

"What shall I say, then?"

"Resolution--firmness."

"It's all the same."

"There is a choice in words. Remember, my dear boy, I want you to be a
refined and cultivated gentleman."

"Well, I can be, now you're rich. But I say, mother, what are you going
to do? You ain't going to stick down in this dull place all your life,
are you?"

"No, Nicholas. In the summer we'll go travelling."

"Good!" exclaimed Nicholas, with satisfaction. "Where will we go?"

"How would you like to go to Niagara Falls?"

"Bully!"

"Or to Saratoga?"

"I don't know much about that."

"It is a fashionable place."

"Can a fellow have fun there?"

"Of course he can."

"Then I'd like to go. But I say, are you going to take Jasper, too?"

"No," said Mrs. Kent, decidedly. "I certainly shall not give him so much
pleasure."

"I don't know. I might like it better if I had a fellow of my own age to
go around with."

"You will find plenty of companions more agreeable than Jasper."

"All right, mother. I suppose you know best."

"You can trust me to provide for your happiness, Nicholas. It is all I
live for."

The next morning Mrs. Kent arose early, and summoned the hired man, Tom
Forbes.

"Tom," said she, "have you a good whip?"

"Yes, ma'am."

"And a strong arm?"

"Middlin', ma'am," answered the wondering hired man.

"I want you to be in the kitchen, provided with your whip, when
breakfast is over."

"What for?" asked Tom, in surprise.

"Never mind now. I shall inform you at the time."

"All right, ma'am."

Twenty minutes later, Jasper, unaware of his step-mother's benevolent
intentions, took his seat at the breakfast-table.




CHAPTER XIII.

MRS. KENT IS FOILED.


Breakfast was a quiet meal. Mrs. Kent preserved a frigid silence toward
Jasper, interrupted only by necessary questions. Nicholas, who
understood that there was a row in prospect, occasionally smiled as he
looked across the table at Jasper, but he, too, was silent.

When breakfast was over, and the three arose from the table, Mrs. Kent
said, in a cold voice:

"Jasper Kent, I have something to say to you."

"Very well," said Jasper, taking a seat and looking expectant.

"Yesterday you conducted yourself in a most improper manner."

"Please explain," said Jasper, quietly.

"You ought not to require any explanation. You made an assault upon
Nicholas."

"I beg pardon, Mrs. Kent, but he made an assault upon me."

"You knocked him down."

"Not until he attacked me."

"He did so by my direction."

"Did you expect me to make no resistance?" asked Jasper.

"You had insulted me, and it was his duty, as my son, to resent it."

"I don't think you have any right to say that I insulted you, and you
would not have any reason to complain of me if you would treat me with
ordinary justice and politeness."

"You are insulting me now," said Mrs. Kent, angrily.

"I am telling the truth. I am sorry that it is the truth. I would prefer
to live on good terms with you."

"And have your own way!" said his step-mother, sarcastically. "I
understand you, but I will have you know that I am mistress in this
house. Are you ready to apologize for having attacked Nicholas?"

"I did not wish to do it, especially as he didn't attack me of his own
accord, but if he should do so again I should act in the same manner."

"Insolent!" exclaimed his step-mother, reddening.

"You have peculiar ideas of insolence," said Jasper, quietly. "I believe
in defending myself, but I shouldn't like to harm Nicholas."

"You have undertaken to rebel against my authority," said Mrs. Kent,
"but you don't understand me. I am not to be bullied or overcome by a
boy."

"You are in no danger of either from me, madam."

"I shall take care not to give you the power. Nicholas, call Tom."

Jasper looked at his step-mother in amazement. What had Tom Forbes to do
with their colloquy.

Nicholas opened the door of the adjoining room, the kitchen, and
summoned the hired man.

Ignorant of why he was wanted, for Mrs. Kent had not informed him, he
came into the room, and looked about with a perplexed expression.

He was a tall, strong-looking fellow, country-bred, of about twenty-five
or six.

"Where is your whip, Tom?" demanded Mrs. Kent.

"My whip?" repeated Tom.

"Yes; didn't I tell you I wanted you to have it?"

"Yes, ma'am; it's in the kitchen."

"Bring it."

Tom went into the kitchen, and returned bringing the whip.

"What am I to do with it?" he asked.

"I will tell you in a moment. Jasper Kent," said his step-mother,
turning to him, "you have rebelled against my just authority, you have
insulted me in my own house, you have made a brutal attack upon my son
in my presence, and now I am going to have you punished. Tom, I order
you to give Jasper half a dozen lashes with your whip."

It is hard to tell which looked the more surprised at this brutal
command, Jasper or the hired man. They looked at each other in
amazement, but Tom did not stir.

"Did you hear me?" asked Mrs. Kent, sharply, impatient of the delay.

"Yes, ma'am, I heard you," answered Tom, slowly.

"Why don't you obey, then?" she continued, in the same tone.

"Because," said Tom, with manly independence, "I didn't hire out to do
anything of the kind."

"Do you refuse?"

"Yes, I do. You may do your own dirty work."

"It seems you are not only disobedient, but insolent," said Mrs. Kent,
angrily.

"You must be crazy, ma'am!" said the hired man, bluntly.

"No more of this. I discharge you from my employment."

"What! for not flogging Master Jasper?"

"For not obeying me."

"I'll follow your directions, ma'am, so far as they are in the line of
duty, but I won't do that."

"I discharge you."

"As to that, ma'am, if I go, I'll let everybody in the village know why
you sent me away."

For this Mrs. Kent was not altogether prepared. She knew that it was not
prudent to defy public opinion. Perhaps she had already gone too far.
She put a great constraint upon herself, and said:

"Go back to your work. I will speak of this matter hereafter."

Tom withdrew at once, glad of the opportunity. Thus far Mrs. Kent had
been foiled, and she knew it. She could scarcely conceal her
mortification.

Jasper, who had been passive thus far, now spoke. He felt outraged and
disgusted by his step-mother's brutal purpose, though it had failed.

"Mrs. Kent," he said with quiet resolution, "after the scene of this
morning I cannot remain in the same house with you. My father has not
been dead a week, yet you have treated me in a manner which, though I
never liked you, I could not have thought possible. You are left my
guardian. I do not wish to remain another day in this house. Have I your
permission to return to school?"

"No," said his step-mother.

"Why not?"

"Because you wish it. I do not mean to let you have your own way."

"I am willing to go to another school, if you insist upon it."

"You will go to no school. You will stay here."

"In this house?"

"Yes."

"With the opinion which you have of me, Mrs. Kent, I should hardly think
this would be very agreeable to you."

"It will not. I hate the sight of you!" said his step-mother, with
energy.

"I am sorry for that, but I am not surprised. From the way you have
treated me, I should think so. Won't it be better for as both to be
separated?"

"It will gratify your wishes, and therefore I order you to remain here."

"That we may have more such scenes as yesterday and to-day?"

"No; I am determined to break your rebellious will, and teach you to
obey me implicitly."

"I have only to ask if you have fully made up your mind," said Jasper,
quietly, but with suppressed excitement.

"I mean precisely what I say."

"Then, madam, I shall have to leave this house and go out into the
world. I shall find more kindness among strangers than here."

"I have heard boys talk like this before," said Mrs. Kent, with
contemptuous incredulity.

"Boys sometimes mean what they say," retorted Jasper.

He took his hat and left the room without another word.

"I say, mother," said Nicholas, "suppose he don't come back?"

"There's no fear of that," said Mrs. Kent, coldly.

"But I say, mother, he's pretty plucky, Jasper is."

"He won't run away from me as long as I have charge of his property, you
may be sure of that. He'll be coming back and apologizing pretty soon."

"Suppose he doesn't?"

"Then it'll be his own fault."

"You may as well let him go back to school, mother. He'll be out of our
way, and we can enjoy ourselves."

"I am not going to gratify him so far. He has defied me and insulted me,
and he must take the consequences," said Mrs. Kent, with a compression
of her thin lips.

On the whole, Jasper's prospects could not be said to be very
flattering.




CHAPTER XIV.

MEDIATION.


When Jasper left the house he bent his steps to the dwelling of a friend
of his father, Otis Miller, a man of considerable property and good
position. He found Mr. Miller at home.

"I am glad to see you, Jasper," said he, cordially.

"Thank you, sir."

"You have met with a great loss," said Mr. Miller, attributing Jasper's
serious expression to his father's death.

"Yes, sir; I am only just beginning to understand how much."

"A father's place cannot be supplied."

"No, sir; but this is not the extent of my trouble."

"Can I do anything to help you?"

"Yes, sir. I am very much in need of advice."

"I shall be glad to give you the best I can, Jasper. I was your father's
friend, and I shall be glad to be yours also."

"Thank you, sir. My troubles are connected with my step-mother, who
treats me like an enemy."

"Can this be so?" asked Mr. Miller, in surprise.

"I will tell you all, and then ask your advice."

"Do so."

Jasper told the story briefly and without excitement. It was only in his
step-mother's presence that he felt disturbed.

"I have met your step-mother, but I know very little of her," said Mr.
Miller. "She never impressed me very favorably, but I never dreamed that
she would act in such an unreasonable manner. Perhaps even now matters
are not as bad as you think. Sometimes people say things in anger which
they repent of in their cooler moments."

"I don't think it is the case with Mrs. Kent."

"It is unfortunate, since she is your guardian."

"I wish you were my guardian, Mr. Miller."

"For your sake, Jasper, I wish I were. I don't think we should quarrel."

"I know we should not."

"You wish to know what to do?"

"Yes."

"You are quite sure you cannot stay at home?"

"I should be subject to constant persecution from Mrs. Kent."

"You think she would not allow you to go back to school?"

"She has refused to do so."

"There is one thing she cannot do, and that is, keep your portion of the
estate from you when you become of age."

"No, I suppose not."

"You will then be rich."

"But the money won't do me any good now, will it?"

"In this way it will. Suppose I agree to pay your expenses at
school--that is to say, advancing the money, to be repaid when you
obtain yours?"

"That would be very kind, Mr. Miller; but I shouldn't like to subject
you to that risk."

"You mean that a minor's promise would be invalid? Well, Jasper, I have
too much confidence in you to have any doubt of your integrity."

"Thank you, Mr. Miller; but suppose I should die before attaining my
majority?"

"Then I should probably lose the money."

"That is what I thought of. I should not like to have you run the risk."

"But I am willing to do so. However, it may be as well to ascertain
definitely your step-mother's intentions first. I will call upon her in
your interest and find out."

"Thank you, sir. I should like to have you do so, as I don't want to act
too hastily."

"I will go at once. Will you remain here till I return?"

"Yes, sir."

When Mrs. Kent was told that Mr. Miller had called to see her she went
down to meet him, not surmising his errand.

"Mrs. Kent," said he, after the ordinary greetings were over, "I have
called with reference to your relations to your late husband's son,
Jasper."

"Did he ask you to come?" demanded Mrs. Kent, frowning.

"No; but he came to ask my advice as to what he ought to do. I am sorry
to hear that you are unfriendly."

"He has treated me with intolerable insolence," said Mrs. Kent, hotly.

"That surprises me. It is wholly contrary to his reputation with those
who have known him from his infancy," said Mr. Miller, quietly.

"Then you don't know him as he is."

"He tells me you have accorded your own son superior privileges."

"My son treats me with respect."

"Probably you treat him differently from Jasper."

"I have reasons to."

"You will admit that it is aggravating to see a stranger--an intruder, I
may say--preferred to him in his own home?"

"Who calls my son an intruder?" asked Mrs. Kent, hastily.

"Let us call him a stranger, then. Was Mr. Kent aware that you had a
son?"

"I decline to answer your question," answered Mrs. Kent, with asperity.

"To pass on, then. Have you refused Jasper permission to return to the
school at which his father placed him?"

"I have."

"May I ask why?"

"I don't know that I am responsible to you."

"Mrs. Kent," said Mr. Miller, gravely, "I was the friend of your late
husband. I am the friend of his son, Jasper. As the friend of both, I
ask you your reason."

"I will answer you, though I do not acknowledge your right to ask. I
refuse to let Jasper go back to school, because I wish to punish him for
his insolence and disobedience."

"It cannot be any satisfaction to you to have him at home, I should
think."

"It is not. I have no reason to like his society."

"Then it appears that you punish yourself in keeping him here."

"Yes."

"Do you think, Mrs. Kent, that you have any right to deprive him of the
opportunity to obtain an education?"

"He can attend school in this village," said Mrs. Kent.

"You know as well as I that there is neither a classical nor a high
school here. He would be compelled to give up the course of study upon
which he has commenced."

"That is his own fault," returned Mrs. Kent, doggedly.

"This, then, is your unalterable determination?"

"For the present, yes. If Jasper repents his ill-conduct, and makes up
his mind to yield me that implicit obedience which is my due, I may
hereafter consent to return him to school. But he must turn over a new
leaf."

"Madam," said Mr. Miller, disgusted at the woman's manner, "do you
consider that you are carrying out his father's wishes in reference to
his son?"

"That is a question for me to decide," said Mrs. Kent, coldly. "I have
undertaken the responsibility, and I have no fears about carrying out
his wishes. I must trust my own judgment, not that of others."

"Madam," said Mr. Miller, after a pause, "there is one other question
which I should like to put to you."

"Very well, sir."

"This guardianship imposed upon you is a certain amount of care. Are you
willing to relinquish it to another?"

"To you, perhaps?" suggested Mrs. Kent, with a sneer.

"I should be willing to undertake it for Jasper's sake."

"I have no doubt you would, and I presume Jasper would be very glad to
have you do so."

"I think he would, though he didn't authorize me to speak to you about
it," said Mr. Miller.

"Then, sir, I refuse in the most emphatic terms. I shall not relinquish
the power which his father's will gives me over him. He shall yet repent
his insolence."

"I regret your animosity, Mrs. Kent," said Mr. Miller, with dignity,
rising as he spoke. "I was inclined to think that Jasper had exaggerated
his account of the difficulties. I see now that he was correct. I have
only, in wishing you good-morning, to predict that you will yet regret
the manner in which you have treated your step-son."

"I will take my chance of that," said Mrs. Kent. "You may report to
Jasper that my only terms are unconditional submission."

"I will do so, madam; but you know, as well as I, what his answer will
be. His nature is too manly to submit to tyranny, even from his
step-mother."

"You are not over-polite, sir," said Mrs. Kent, angrily.

"I am truthful, madam," was the grave reply.




CHAPTER XV.

GOOD-BYE.


"Without exception, Jasper," said Mr. Miller, on his return, "I consider
your step-mother the most disagreeble woman I ever met."

Jasper could not help smiling at the look of disgust upon the features
of his father's friend.

"Then, sir, I infer that you did not succeed in your mission," he said.

"Succeed? No. She will offer no terms except unconditional submission on
your part."

"That I won't agree to." said Jasper, promptly.

"I don't blame you--not a particle," said Mr. Miller.

"So much is settled, then," said Jasper. "Now the question comes
up--what am I to do?"

"How old are you?"

"Nearly sixteen."

"Then five years must elapse before you come into possession of your
property?"

"Yes, sir."

"And for that length of time you are to be under the guardianship of
Mrs. Kent?"

"Yes, sir."

"It is unfortunate," said the old gentleman, shrugging his shoulders. "I
took the liberty to suggest to your step-mother that if the cares of a
guardian should prove burdensome to her I would assume them."

"What did she say?"

"She replied in a sarcastic manner, and avowed her determination to
remain your guardian."

"What would you advise me to do, then, Mr. Miller?"

"Before answering, Jasper, I will tell you a secret."

Jasper looked curious.

"Your father left in my hands a paper to be opened two years after his
death. It undoubtedly relates to you."

"What do you think it is?"

"It may relate to the guardianship, but that is only conjecture."

"Does my step-mother know of this?"

"Neither she nor anyone else, save you and myself."

"It will do us no good at present?"

"No; but it influences my advice. Go to school for the next two years. I
will advance the money to pay your bills. If at the end of that time the
paper is what I hope it is, you will then be able to pay me, and for the
balance of your minority I can become your guardian."

"I wish you might, Mr. Miller; but I don't think, under the
circumstances, I want to go back to school."

"What do you wish to do, Jasper?"

"I am young, and I would like to see something of the world. I would
like to imagine myself a poor boy, as I really am just now, and see if I
cannot make my own way."

"I hardly know what to say to that, Jasper. I am afraid you do not
appreciate the difficulties in your way."

"To battle against them will make me strong."

"Suppose you get in a tight place?"

"Then I will write to you for help."

"That's better. On this condition I will make no further opposition to
your wishes. But have you any money?"

"Ten dollars."

"Rather a small sum to begin the world with."

"Yes, sir. If you are willing to lend me fifty more I think I can get
along till I can earn some."

"Willingly. Where do you propose to go?"

"To the West. My father has a cousin, a lady, married, and living in a
small town on the banks of the Mississippi. I have never been to the
West. I should like to go out there and see if I can't find some
employment in that neighborhood."

"I suppose I must not object, but your plan appears to me rather
quixotic."

"You might not have thought so at my age, Mr. Miller."

"No; we look upon such things differently as we grow older. When do you
want to start?"

"To-morrow."

"Stay at my house till then."

