
    P. S. Your clothes are in the closet in the hall. The key is in
    the washstand drawer.

Patience felt in better cheer after reading Miss Merrien’s kindly
greeting, but the day dragged along very heavily. She went out and
bought all the newspapers, and studied them attentively for hints; but
they did not tell her inexperience anything, and after a time she let
them fall to the floor and sat staring at the blank windows opposite.
For the first time doubts assailed her. She had been so full of young
confidence, and pride in her brains and health and courage, that she had
not regarded the issue of her struggle with the world in the light of a
problem; but face to face with the practical details, she felt short of
breath and weak in the knees.

At two o’clock Miss Merrien came in, looking very tired. There were
black scoops under her eyes, and the lines about her mouth were strongly
accentuated. But she smiled brightly as Patience rose to greet her.

“Well, you are here,” she said. “I changed my mind fifty times about
your coming, but on the whole I thought you would. Fortunately I have
nothing on hand for this afternoon. I’ll rest, and then go down with you
to the shop. Oh, I am so tired, my dear. Can I lie down on your bed
awhile?”

“I shall be delighted to learn how to open it,” said Patience, who was
wondering if her fair face was to become scooped and lined.

Miss Merrien deftly manipulated the bed, loosened her frock, and flung
herself full length.

“I spent all day yesterday and half the night tramping over Brooklyn
hunting up facts in the case of that girl who was found dead in a
tenement-house bed in a grand ball gown. A great story that, but it has
done me up. Tell me—how do you feel?”

“Oh, I’m glad I’m here, but I wish it was six months from now.”

“Of course you do. That’s the way we all feel. But you’ll soon swing
into place, and be too busy to think. I do wish you could get work in
the office, so that you could keep regular hours and meals, and not lose
your good looks; but there’s no berth of that sort. I tell you it is a
sad day when a girl under twenty-five sees the lines coming. The
Revolting Sisterhood say that the next century is to be ours; but I
doubt it. Men lighten our burdens a little now, but I’m afraid they’ll
hate us if we worry and supplant them any further. Well, I’m going to
take a nap. Wake me promptly at 3.10.”

She closed her eyes and fell asleep immediately. The lines grew fainter
as she slept, and the hair fell softly about her face. Patience
reflected gratefully that three months of absolute leisure and peace of
mind would give back to the girl all her freshness and rounded contours.
At ten minutes past three she awakened her. Miss Merrien sat up with a
sigh.

“I feel better, though. Cultivate those cat-naps. They refresh you
wonderfully. Now, we’ll go.”


                                   II

They went down town on the Elevated, leaving it at Park Row. Patience
was so much interested in the great irregular mass of buildings
surrounding City Hall Square, at the dense throngs packing the crooked
side streets, at the fakirs with their nonsensical wares, at the
bewildering array of gilt newspaper names on the rows and stories of
polished windows, that she forgot her errand for the moment, and was
nearly run over.

“Yes, this is the heart of New York, sure enough,” assented Miss
Merrien. “All those big buildings over there are on the famous Newspaper
Row. Brooklyn Bridge is just behind. This is the Post Office on the
right, and that flat building in the square is the City Hall. I tell you
when you get down here, the rest of New York, including all the smart
folk, seems pretty insignificant.”

“Oh,” exclaimed Patience, with a sudden sinking of the heart, “there is
the ‘Day’ building.”

“That is our shop. Now, brace up.”

Patience needed the admonition. She forgot City Hall Park. All her
doubts returned, with others in their wake. She knew something of the
snobbery of the world. As Mrs. Beverly Peele she had been an object of
respectful interest to Mr. Field. What would she be as an applicant for
work? True, he had been kind to her when she was a small nobody, but
that might have been merely a caprice.

They climbed up two narrow stairs in an ugly old building, and entered a
large gas-lit room full of desks. Many young men were writing or moving
about; several were in their shirt sleeves.

“This is the City room,” said Miss Merrien, “and these are the
reporters. Those men in that little room there are the editors and
editorial writers. Mr. Field’s room is just beyond. Now send your card
in by this boy. The Chief’s harder to see than the President of the
United States, but I guess he’ll see you.”

Patience gave the boy her card, and at the end of half an hour, during
which she was much stared at by some of the men and totally ignored by
others, the boy returned and conducted her to Mr. Field’s office.

It was a typical editor’s den of the old-fashioned type. A big desk
covered with papers, a revolving chair, and one other chair completed
the furniture. A large cat was walking about, switching its tail. The
floor was bare. The light straggled down between the tall buildings
surrounding, and entered through small windows. It was Mr. Field’s pride
to have the greatest newspaper and the most unpretentious “shop” in the
United States.

He rose as Patience entered, his eyes twinkling.

“Well,” he said, as he handed her the extra chair, “there’s a mighty row
on, isn’t there? Peele has been here, and now we do not speak as we pass
by. But we hadn’t had a good woman sensation for a month. I tried to
explain that to Peele, but it didn’t seem to impress him. I suppose
you’ve come to beg for mercy.”

“No—I haven’t come for that.”

“Why, what is the matter? I never saw you look the least bit rattled
before. You are always the young queen with a court of us old fellows at
your feet. But tell me; you know there’s nothing I wouldn’t do for you.”

Patience drew a long breath of relief.

“Oh, you make it easier—I’ve been horribly frightened. But I’ll get to
the point—I suppose you’re very busy down here. Can I have ten
minutes?”

He laughed. “We are usually what you might call busy in this office, but
you may have twenty minutes. Take your time.”

“Well, it’s this: I’ve left Peele Manor for good and all, and I want to
be a newspaper woman.”

Mr. Field’s shaggy white brows rushed up his forehead. His black eyes
expanded.

“My God! What did you make such a break as that for?”

“There are many reasons. I can’t give them all. But all the same I’ve
left, and I’m not going back.”

“Well, your reasons must be good, for you had a delightful position, and
you became it. Are you sure you are not acting rashly?”

“I’ve thought and thought and thought about it. I can’t understand why I
didn’t leave before. I suppose my ideas and intentions didn’t
crystallise until I met Miss Merrien. She has been very kind. I sent my
clothes to her by degrees; she engaged a room for me in her house; we
are going to cook together; and I have given her what money I have to
take care of.”

“Well, well, you have acted deliberately. I don’t know that I am so much
surprised, after all, and I’ll say nothing to persuade you to go back. I
respect your courage and independence, and I’ll do all I can. I haven’t
the slightest idea what you can do, but we’ll find out.” He leaned
forward and patted her hand. Patience had one moment of painful
misgiving, but again she had misjudged him. “If you get discouraged,
just remember that the old man at the helm is your friend and won’t let
you go under.”

“I’m sure you’re awfully good,” said Patience, tears of contrition and
gratitude in her eyes. “I knew you would.”

Mr. Field touched a bell. A boy entered.

“If Mr. Steele is still in the office ask him to step here,” said the
chief.

“Steele is the editor of the Evening ‘Day,’” he explained, “and has a
remarkable faculty for discovering other people’s abilities.”

Patience expected to see a man of middle years and business-like
demeanour. She stared in amazement as a young man under thirty entered
and was presented. He was closely built, but held himself carelessly.
His smooth rather square face was very pale, and despite the
irregularity of feature, bore an odd resemblance to the Greek fauns. The
mouth was large and full, the eyes large, dark blue, and very cold. His
fashionable attire accentuated the antiquity of his face and head.

“Mr. Steele,” said Mr. Field, “this is Mrs. Beverly Peele, of whom you
have heard so much lately. She has made up her mind to support herself.
When she was a little girl I told her that I should one day make a
newspaper woman of her, and she has come to hold me to my word—much to
my satisfaction. I put her in your hands, and feel confident you will
make a success of her.”

Patience expected to see a look of blank surprise cross the young
editor’s face, but she did not know the modern newspaper youth. Mr.
Steele could not have displayed less emotion had the new-comer been a
young woman with letters from Posy County, Illinois. He merely bowed to
her, then to his chief. Patience rose at once.

“I won’t keep you,” she said to Mr. Field. “I’ll only thank you again,
and promise to work as hard as Miss Merrien.”

“I haven’t the slightest doubt of your success. Always remember that,”
said Mr. Field. Patience saw Mr. Steele’s eyebrow give a slight
involuntary jerk; but it was immediately controlled, and he bowed her
through the door.

“We had better go upstairs to the evening room,” he said. “There is no
one there at present.”

Patience followed him up a precipitous stairway into a walled-off
section of the composing-room.

“Sit down,” he said politely, but Patience for the first time in her
life felt terrified and humble. This young man, of whom she had never
heard before, had the air of a superior being, omnipotent in her
destiny. His manner conveyed that he was not one whit impressed by the
fact that she had stepped down from the Sacred Reservation, took not the
faintest interest in her as a pretty woman. She was merely a young
person particularly recommended by his chief, and as such it was his
duty to give her consideration.

He took a chair opposite her own, and she felt as if those classic
guileless eyes were exploring her innermost brain.

“What can you do?” he asked coldly.

“Oh, nothing,” she said desperately, “absolutely nothing. I suppose you
feel like remarking that the ‘Day’ is not a kindergarten.”

“Well, it certainly is not. Nevertheless, as Mr. Field thinks that you
have ability, and wishes you to write for his paper, I, of course, shall
do all I can to abet him. I shall begin by giving you a few words of
advice. Have you a good memory; or should you prefer to write them
down?”

He spoke very slowly, as if he had a deep respect for the value of
words.

“I have read a great deal,” said Patience, proudly, “and my memory is
very good indeed.”

There was a faint twitching of one corner of Mr. Steele’s mouth, but he
continued in the same business-like tone:—

“Read the ‘Day’ through carefully, morning and evening. Observe the
style in which facts are presented, and the general tone and atmosphere
of the paper. Cultivate that general style, not your own. Remember that
you are not on this newspaper to make an individual reputation, but to
become, if possible, a unit of a harmonious whole, and to give the
public the best news in the style to which this newspaper has accustomed
it. When you are sent on an assignment remember that you are to gather
facts—facts. Keep your eyes open, and cultivate the faculty of
observation for all it is worth. When you have gathered these facts put
them into as picturesque a shape as you choose—or as you can. But no
rhetoric, no rhapsodies, no flights, no theories. If the facts admit of
being treated humorously, treat them in that way, by all means,—that
is, if you can imitate a man’s humour, not a woman’s flippancy. A good
many women can. And never forget that it must not be your humour but the
inherent humour of the subject. Be concise. When you feel disposed to
say a thing in ten words say it in five. That is all I can think of at
present. Be here at eight o’clock to-morrow, and I will give you an
assignment.”

He rose, and Patience felt herself dismissed. She sat for a minute
looking at him with angry eyes. Not even in the early days of her
married life had she been so patronised as by this unknown young man.
She felt as if he had plucked her individuality out with his thumb and
finger and contemptuously tossed it aside.

“Is anything the matter?” he asked indifferently, although one corner of
his mouth twitched again.

“No!” Patience sprang to her feet and ran down the stair, at the
imminent risk of breaking her neck. Miss Merrien was waiting for her.

“Why, what on earth is the matter?” she exclaimed.

“Oh, let us get out into the air! Come, and then I’ll tell you.”

But they were not able to converse until seated in the Elevated Train.
Then Patience exclaimed with an accent of cutting sarcasm,—

“Who, who is Mr. Steele?”

Miss Merrien smiled broadly. “Oh, I see. Did he patronise you? You must
get used to editors. Remember they are monarchs in a small way, and love
their power—the more because their dominion is confined within four
walls. But Morgan Steele is one of the kindest men in the office. I’d
rather work for him than for any one. He puts on an extra amount of side
on account of his youth, but the reporters all adore him. He won’t keep
an incompetent man two days, and during those two days the man’s life is
a burden; but he is always doing good turns to the boys he likes. When
you know him you’ll like him.”

“I think him an insolent young cub, and if I didn’t hate to bother Mr.
Field I’d refuses to write for him. What on earth is a youngster like
that in such a responsible position for?”

“Oh, my dear, this is the young man’s epoch. Just cast your eyes over
the United States and even England, and think of the men under thirty
that are editors and authors and special writers and famous artists and
leaders of enterprises. They are burnt out at forty, but they begin to
play a brilliant part in their early twenties. I heard a man say the
other day of another man who is only twenty-six and supposed to be
ambitious: ‘Well, he’d better hump himself. He’s no chicken.’ A man
feels a failure nowadays if he hasn’t distinguished himself before
thirty.”

“They are certainly distinguished for conceit.”

“Oh, when you get used to newspaper men you’ll like them better than any
men you’ve known. What is objectionable is counteracted by their brains
and their intimate and wonderfully varied knowledge of life. A newspaper
man who is at the same time a gentleman, is charming. It is true they
have no respect for anybody nor anything. They believe in no woman’s
virtue and no man’s honesty—under stress. Their kindness—like Morgan
Steele’s—is half cynical, and they look upon life as a thing to be
lived out in twenty years—and then dry rot or suicide. But no men know
so well how to enjoy life, know so thoroughly its resources, or have all
their senses so keenly developed, particularly the sense of humour,
which keeps them from making fools of themselves. No man can feel so
strongly for a day, and that after all is the philosophy of life. All
this makes them very interesting, although, I must confess, I should
hate to marry one. It seems to be a point of honour among them to be
unfaithful to their wives; however, I imagine, the real reason is that
no one woman has sufficient variety in her to satisfy a man who sees
life from so many points of view daily that he becomes a creature of
seven heads and seven hearts and seven ideals. Now, tell me all about
your interviews with Mr. Field and Morgan Steele.”

Patience told the tale, and Miss Merrien raised her eyebrows at its
conclusion. “Well, you need not lie awake nights trembling for the
future. You are in for push and no mistake. If the Chief has taken you
under his wing in that fashion you can be sure that Morgan Steele will
work you for all that is in you, whether he wants to or not.” Suddenly
she laughed, and leaning over looked quizzically at Patience. “You vain
girl,” she said, “you are piqued because Morgan Steele did not succumb
as other men—including Mr. Field—have done to your beauty and charm.
But I’ll tell you this, by way of consolation: it is a point of
etiquette—or prudence—among editors never to pay the most commonplace
attentions to, or manifest the slightest interest in the women of the
office. It would not only lead to endless complications, but would
impair the lordlings’ dignity: in other words, they would be guyed. So
cheer up. You haven’t gone off since this morning. I see three men
staring at you in true Elevated style.”

Patience laughed. “Well, I will admit that I have no respect whatever
for a man that is unappreciative of the charms of woman. I’d like to
give Mr. Steele a lesson, but I won’t. I wouldn’t condescend. I’ll be as
business-like as he is. He knew why I was angry to-day, I am afraid, but
he won’t see me angry again. Why is Mr. Field so much nicer?”

“Oh, he owns the paper.”


                                  III

Patience’s indignation had worn itself out by bedtime. When Miss Merrien
left her for the night she locked her door and spread her arms out with
an exultant sense of freedom. She seemed to feel the ugly weight of the
past two years fall from her, and to hear it go clattering down the
quiet streets. Her sense of humour and the liveliness of her mind had
saved her from morbidity at any time, although she had not escaped
cynicism. She now felt that she could turn her back squarely on the
past, that she was not a woman whose mistakes and dark experiences would
corrode the brain and spirit, ruining present and future. She could not
make the same mistake again; and it was better to have made it in early
youth when the etchery of experience eats the copper of the ego more
lightly. The future seemed to her to be full of infinite possibilities.
She could be her own fastidious dreaming idealising self again. New
friends dotted the dusk like stars. She felt ten years away from the man
to whom she had nodded a careless good-bye that morning. A vague
pleasurable loneliness assailed her, the instinct of plurality. Then she
laughed suddenly and went to bed.

The next morning, at eight o’clock, after a cup of black coffee to
stiffen her nerves, she presented herself in the evening room of the
“Day.” Two men and a woman were writing at little tables. Mr. Steele in
his shirt sleeves was at his desk, reading copy. She sat down, priding
herself that her face was as impassive as his own. In a few moments he
called her to his desk.

“You have read in the newspapers, I suppose, of this crusade of Dr.
Broadhead, the fashionable Presbyterian clergyman, against the voting of
Immigrants?” he asked.

“Of course.”

“Well, he is doing his best to get the women of New York to help him,
and is holding his first meeting this morning in Cooper
Union—eleven-thirty. One of our best men will go to report the
addresses, but I want you to go and sit in the audience, and observe how
many fashionable women are there, what they wear, and what degree of
interest they appear to take in the proceedings. Above all, I want you
to keep your eyes and ears open for any significant fact which may or
may not appear. It usually does. That is all.—Well, what do you want?”
This to the office boy.

Patience went slowly downstairs, feeling as if she had been sent out to
discover the North Pole with a chart and a row-boat. When she reached
Cooper Union, two hours later, and found herself for the moment an
integer of one of the many phases of current history, she forgot the
agonising travail of the “news sense,” and became so deeply interested
that she observed the many familiar faces abstractedly, and, later,
“faked” their costumes.

She hurried to her room before the meeting was over and wrote her
“story.” It concluded thus:—

    “Some four hundred women were present, at half-past eleven in
    the morning; the hour indicating that they were women of
    leisure, which in its turn presupposes the large measure of
    education and refinement, and a general superiority over the
    toiling millions. They were very enthusiastic. When Dr.
    Broadhead entered the applause was deafening. They interrupted
    him every few minutes. When he sat down, and Mr. Lionel Chambers
    came forward he, too, was warmly welcomed, for his popularity is
    well established. He smiled, and began something like this:—

    “‘Ladies: Dr. Broadhead has left me little to say. I being
    somewhat versed in politics, however, in other words, in hard
    fighting with the enemy, he believes that I may be able to give
    you a little useful advice.’ (Applause and cries of ‘Yes! Yes!’)
    ‘Now, ladies, there are several points upon which I must ask
    your attention.’ (No man ever had more serious attention.) ‘I
    will check them off in detail. First of all, ladies, my advice
    to you is to—’ (every ear went forward)—‘is—to—pray.’

    “He paused. There was an intense and disgusted silence, with the
    exception of one or two muttered exclamations of impatience.
    There were just four hundred women in the city of New York who
    were beyond that sort of thing. He saw his mistake at once,
    blundered on confusedly, recovered himself, and gave them much
    sound, practical advice which they received with every mark of
    gratitude.”

She hastened down to the office, her eyes shining with the proud delight
of authorship. Steele looked busier than any one she had ever seen, but
he asked sharply:

“Got anything?”

“Yes.”

“Let me see it. Skip the descriptive part.”

She handed him the latter part of her story, and he ran his eye hastily
over it. A gleam shot from his eyes, but he compressed his lips.

“That’s not bad—but I don’t know that I dare print it. The religious
hypocrisy of this country beats that of England, strange as it may
appear. However, I’ll think it over. Come down to-morrow morning.”

The article was printed, and the result was a shower of protesting
letters from clergymen and religious women. Patience was sent to
interview a number of representative women, of various spheres of life,
on the subject, and found herself fairly launched. She hardly had time
to realise whether she liked the work or not, but when she was not too
tired, concluded that she did. As this phase wore off, she developed
considerable enthusiasm, and felt her bump of curiosity enlarge.

She practically forgot the past, except to wonder occasionally that she
heard nothing from the Peeles. Upon her arrival in New York, on the
morning of her departure from Peele Manor, she had mailed a note to
Beverly, which merely announced that she had left him, never to return.
He was the sort of a man to put the matter in the hands of a detective,
but so far—and the weeks were growing into a month—he had given no
sign of any kind. She cared little for the cause of his silence,
however; she was too thankful for the fact. Occasionally Steele gave her
a brief word of praise, and she was more delighted than she had ever
been at the admiration of man.


                                   IV

Patience sprang out of bed, full of the mere joy of living. She felt as
happy as a wild creature of the woods, and for no reason whatever. She
longed for Rosita’s voice that she might carol, and wondered if it were
possible that she had ever thought herself the most miserable of women.
The small room would not hold her, and she went out and took a long walk
in the sharp white air; it was Sunday, and she was not obliged to go to
the office.

When she returned, the servant told her that a gentleman awaited her in
the parlour. She turned cold, but went defiantly in. The visitor was Mr.
Field, and the revulsion of feeling was so great, and her exuberance of
spirits so undiminished, that she ran forward, threw her arms about his
neck, and kissed him.

“I am so happy I must kiss some one,” she said, “and after all you are
the right person, for it is owing to you that I am happy.”

“Well! well!” he said laughing, “I am delighted; and also relieved that
you did not take it into your head to do that down at the office. I’ve
just dropped in to ask after your health and to say good-bye. How do you
stand it?”

“Oh, I am well. I never felt so well. I get tired, but I sleep it off. I
made twenty-five dollars last week, and I celebrated the occasion by
coming home in a cab. Oh, I can tell you I feel all made over, and Peele
Manor seems prehistoric.”

“You always did live at a galloping rate mentally. You are doing first
rate—not but what you’ll do better a year from now. There’s pulse in
your stuff. Keep your enthusiasm as long as you can. Nothing takes its
place. Here’s something for you.”

A messenger boy had entered with a note.

“For me?”

“For Mrs. Beverly Peele.”

“Oh, dear!” she exclaimed, “it has come. This is from Mr. Peele. Do let
me read it—I can’t wait.”

She tore the envelope open and read hastily:—

    DEAR PATIENCE,—On the night of the day of your departure from
    Peele Manor, my son came up to us in a distracted condition. He
    had also contracted the grippe. The combination of disorders
    produced delirium and serious illness. For that reason and
    others we have not endeavoured to communicate with you. In fact,
    I only ascertained yesterday that you were working for Mr.
    Field, who I consider has further betrayed my friendship in
    associating himself with you in your insubordination.

    Of course you are at liberty to act as you choose. The laws of
    this country are wretchedly inadequate regarding the authority
    of the husband. But one thing I insist upon: that you call upon
    us and make a definite statement of what you purpose to do. If
    you have repented and wish to return to us, we will overlook
    this wretched mistake. If you intend definitely to leave your
    husband and to follow the disgraceful life of a reporter on a
    sensational newspaper, you owe it to us to come here in person
    and define your position. The family with which you have allied
    yourself, my dear young woman, is not one to be dismissed with a
    note of three lines.

    I particularly request that you call at three o’clock this
    afternoon.

                                                   Yours truly
                                                  GARDINER PEELE.

Patience handed the note to Mr. Field, who read it with much interest.

“Go by all means,” he said; “otherwise they will annoy you with petty
persecutions, and Beverly will haunt the ‘Day.’ Keep up all your pluck,
and remember that this is a free country, and that they can compel you
to do nothing you do not wish to do. You are mistress of the situation,
and can call upon me for proof that you are supporting yourself
adequately.”

“Oh, I don’t want to go. I never want to look at one of them again. I’d
just managed to forget them all.”

“But you must go. It would look cowardly if you didn’t; and, when you
come to think of it, you certainly do owe them some sort of explanation.
Poor Peele! he must have actually suffered at being treated in such
cavalier fashion.”

“Oh, well, I’ll go! I’ll go! But I wish I’d never seen them.”

“You don’t look at all pretty with that face, and I shall run. By the
way, I came to tell you that I start for Paris to-morrow to join my
wife, who has been on the other side for some months. Otherwise she
would have called before this. Steele will take care of you.”


                                   V

When Patience went up to her room she slammed the door, closed the
window violently, then sat down and beat a tattoo on the floor with her
heels. Her spirits were still high, but cyclonic. She would willingly
have smashed things, and felt no disposition to sing.

Nevertheless she rang the bell of the house in Eleventh Street at three
o’clock. The butler bowed solemnly, and announced that the family
awaited her in the library. Patience, piqued that they were assured of
her coming, was half inclined to turn back, then shrugged her shoulders,
walked down the hall, and through the dining-room to the library in the
annex.

The afternoon sun irradiated the cheerful room, but Beverly, with sunken
eyes and pallid face, sat huddled by the fire. He sprang to his feet as
Patience entered, then turned away with a scowl and sank back in his
chair. His mother sat opposite. She merely bent her head to Patience,
then turned her solicitous eyes to her son’s face. Honora came forward
and kissed her sweetly. Mr. Peele did not shake hands with her, but
offered her a chair by the long table. Patience took it, and experienced
a desire to laugh immoderately. They had the air of a Court of Inquiry,
and appeared to regard her as a delinquent at the bar.

Mr. Peele sat in his revolving chair, tipped a little back. He had
crossed his legs and leaned his elbows on the arms of the chair,
pressing his finger tips lightly together.

“Now,” he said coldly, “we are ready to hear you.”

“I have nothing in particular to say. I gave you fair warning, and you
refused to listen, or to let me go abroad and so avoid publicity. I
therefore took the matter in my own hands and went.”

“You ignore your duty to your husband; your marriage vows?”

“There is only one law for a woman to acknowledge, and that is her self
respect.”

“The husband that loves you is entitled to no consideration?”

“Not when he exercises none himself. I refuse to admit that any human
being has the right to control me unless I voluntarily submit myself to
that control.”

“Are you aware that you are uttering the principles of anarchy?”

“Well, the true anarchists of this world are not the bomb throwers. When
a man and woman are properly married there is no question of authority
or disobedience; but a woman is a common harlot who lives with a man
that makes her curse the whole scheme of creation.”

Honora lifted a screen and hid her face. Beverly muttered inaudible
remarks. Mrs. Peele lifted her eyebrows and curled her mouth. Mr. Peele
moved his head slowly back and forth.

“I shall not attempt to contradict any of your remarkable theories,” he
said. “It is apparent that you are imbued with all the pernicious
thought of the time. I am thankful that it is not my destiny to live
among the next generation of women. Will you kindly tell me how you
should have acted in this matter if you had had children?”

“Oh, I don’t know! I have thought of that. No woman should have a child
until she has been married three years. By that time she would know
whether or not she had made a mistake.”

“And what shall you do if you are unable to support yourself?”

“Starve. No one has a right to live that the world has no use for, that
can give the world nothing. Man’s chief end is not bread and butter. If
I can give the world anything it will be glad to give me a living in
return. If I am a failure I’ll walk out of existence as quietly as I
altered my life. But I haven’t the slightest doubt of my ability to take
care of myself.”

Mr. Peele pressed his lips together. The old man and the young woman
regarded each other steadily, the one with malevolence in his eye, the
other with defiance in hers. In that moment Mr. Peele hated her, and she
knew it. She had made him feel old and a component part of the decaying
order of things, while she represented the insolent confidence of youth
in the future.

“Women make too much fuss,” continued Patience. “If they don’t like
their life why don’t they alter it quietly, without taking it to the
lecture platform or the polemical novel? If they don’t like the way man
governs why don’t they educate their sons differently? They can do
anything with the plastic mind. I am sure it could be proved that most
corrupt politicians and bad husbands had weak or careless mothers. If
the men of a country are bad you can be sure the women are worse—”

Beverly sprang to his feet, overturning his chair. “Damn it!” he cried.
“You can talk all you like, but you are mine and I’ll have you.”

Patience turned and fixed her angry eyes on his face. “Oh, no, you will
not. Your father will tell you that I am quite free.”

Mr. Peele gave a short dry laugh. “She has the best of it,” he said.
“You cannot compel her to return to you, and she has the air of one who
has tasted of the independence of making money—”

“Then I’ll dog her steps. I’ll make life hell for her—”

“You will do nothing of the sort, sir. Much as I disapprove of this
young woman’s course, she has in me an unwilling abettor. I shall not
have my domestic affairs made food for the newspapers and their hordes
of vulgar readers. Field would take up her cause and hound me to my
grave. You will keep quiet, and in the course of time get a divorce of
which no one will be the wiser until you marry again. If the gossip does
not get into the papers it will not rise above a murmur. If you add to
my annoyance I shall turn you out of Peele Manor and cut you off without
a cent. You will not pretend that you can support yourself.”

Patience rose. “If you have nothing more to ask I shall go,” she said.
“Beverly can bring his suit as soon as he chooses. It will go by
default.”

Beverly flung off his mother’s restraining arm and rushed forward. “You
shall not go!” he cried.

“Don’t touch me!” cried Patience; but before she could reach the door
Beverly had caught her in his arms. Excitement gave him strength. He
held her with hard muscles and kissed her many times.

The ugly temper she had kept under control broke loose. She lifted her
hand and struck him violently on the mouth. Her face too was convulsed,
but with another passion. She felt as if the past month had been
annihilated.

“Will you let me go?” she gasped. “Oh, how I hate you!” Then as he
kissed her again, “I could kill you! I could kill you!” She flung
herself free, and shaking with passion faced the scandalised family.

“You had better keep him out of the way,” she said. “Do you know that
once I nearly killed my own mother?”


                                   VI

Patience slept little that night. Her head ached violently. When she
presented herself at the office Steele sent her to report a morning
lecture. It was dull, and she fell asleep. When she returned to the
office Steele happened to be alone.

“I have no report,” she said. “I fell asleep. That is all I have to
say.”

For a few seconds he stared at her, then turned on his heel. In a moment
he came back. “The next time you do that,” he said, “hunt up the
reporter of some other newspaper and get points from him. First-class
reporters always stand in together. Here’s a good story badly written
that has come up from Honduras. Take it home and revamp it, and let me
have it to-morrow.”

“You are awfully good. I thought you would tell me to go, and I
certainly deserve to.”

“You certainly do, but we won’t discuss the matter further.”

That was an unhappy week for Patience, and she lost faith in her star. A
great foreign actress, whom she was sent to interview, haughtily refused
to be seen, and the next morning capriciously sent for a reporter of the
“Eye,” the hated rival of the “Day.” She was put on the trail of a
fashionable scandal and failed to gather any facts. She was sent to
interview a strange old woman, supposed to have a history, who lived on
a canal boat, and became so interested in the creature that she forgot
all about the “Day,” and did not appear at Mr. Steele’s desk for three
days. When she did he looked sternly at her guilty face, although the
corners of his mouth twitched.

“I’m delighted to see you have not forsaken us,” he said sarcastically.
“May I ask if the canal boat woman quite slipped your memory?”

“N-o-o. I have been there ever since.”

“Indeed?” His ears visibly twitched. “That alters the case. Did you get
the story out of her?”

Patience looked at him steadily for a moment, then dropped her eyes.

“There is nothing to tell,” she answered.

Steele sprang to his feet.

“Come out here,” he said. He led her into a corner of the
composing-room, and they sat down on a bench.

“Now tell me,” he said peremptorily. “What have you heard? You have news
in your eye. I see it.”

“I have nothing to tell.”

“Suppose you tell the truth. You have the story, and you won’t give it
up. Why not?”

“Well—you see—she confided in me—she said I was the only woman who
had given her a decent word in twenty years; and if I told the story she
would be in jail to-morrow night. Do you think I’d be so low as to tell
it?”

“Sentimentality, my dear young woman, is fatal to a newspaper reporter.
Suppose the entire staff should go silly; where would the ‘Day’ be?”

“It might possibly be a good deal more admirable than it is now.”

“We won’t go into a discussion of theory v. practice. I want that
story.”

“You won’t get it.”

“Indeed.” He looked at her with cold angry eyes. “The trouble is that
you have not been made to feel what the discipline of a newspaper office
is—”

Patience leaned forward and smiled up audaciously into his face. “You
would do exactly the same thing yourself,” she said; “so don’t scold any
more. I admit that you frighten me half to death, but all the same I
know that you would never send a poor old woman to prison—not to be
made editor-in-chief.”

He reddened, and looked anything but pleased at the compliment. “Do you
know that you have just said that I am a jay newspaper man?” he asked.

But Patience only continued to smile, and in a moment he smiled back at
her, then, with an impatient exclamation, left her and returned to his
desk.


                                  VII

Two months later Steele asked her to come to the office at six o’clock,
an hour at which the evening room was empty, and suggested that she
should give up reporting, and start a column of paragraphs.

“I should like it better, of course,” said Patience, after he had fully
explained the requirements of the new department. “I was going to tell
you that I would not go to that Morgue again.”

“Oh, you wouldn’t? Well, you stood it rather longer than I thought you
would.”

“And I’m tired of interviewing insolent conceited people. Oh, by the
way, I should thank you for all these nice things you’ve just said to
me.”

He dropped his business-like manner suddenly. “How do you stand it?” he
asked. Then in reply to her look of surprise: “Oh, you know, the Chief,
when he went away, told me to look out for you.”

Patience immediately became the charming woman accustomed to the homage
of man. Steele’s pre-eminence was gone from that moment.

“I am remarkably well, thank you, considering how you have bullied
me—and I can tell you that I did not fancy at all being ordered about
by such an infant.”

“Oh! Thanks! But when a man’s too polite he doesn’t get anything done
for him—not in this business. And is it a crime to be an editor before
you are thirty?”

“Oh, you have reason to be proud of yourself.”

“You mean that I have the big head. Well, that is the disease of the
age, you know. It would never do for a newspaper man to get a reputation
for eccentricity. You’ll have it yourself inside of six months if these
paragraphs are a success.”

“Never! I scorn to be so unoriginal.”

“Well, we’ll encourage your sentiments, and keep you as the office
curio; but I didn’t really bully you, did I?”

“Oh, I’ll admit that you were kinder than I deserved, once in a while:
when I fell asleep at the lecture, for instance.”

He laughed heartily. “That was the richest joke. There was absolutely
nothing to say to you. If you only stood at the end of a long
perspective of this business and could fully appreciate the humour of
that situation! An experienced reporter, if he couldn’t have lied out of
it, or borrowed news, would never have shown up. You looked like a
naughty child expecting to have its ears boxed.”

“Oh, yes, Miss Merrien guyed me for a whole week; I know all about that
now. And now that you’ve come down off your pedestal I’ll thank you for
all your patience and good training. If I’ve learned to write I owe it
to your blue pencil; and I don’t need to be told by Miss Merrien that
you’ve saved me from a great deal of hard work.”

He smiled charmingly. There were times when he looked like an old man
with the mask of youth; to-day he looked a mere boy. “Oh, any one would
do as much for you, even if the Chief hadn’t given orders. You are an
unusual woman, you know. You proved that—but, of course, I have no
right to speak to you of that.” He stood up suddenly and held out his
hand. “Well, be good to yourself,” he said. “If you feel yourself
breaking, take a rest.”

“I wonder,” she thought, as she went downstairs, “if that young man
knows he betrayed the fact that he has been thinking a good deal about
me? He certainly is an interesting youth, and I should like to know him
better.”

Patience did not find her paragraphs as easy as she expected. It was one
thing to work on a given idea, and another to supply idea and execution
both; but after a time her sharpened brain grew more magnetic and life
fuller of ideas than of lay figures. The men in the office frequently
gave her tips, and one clever young reporter, who worshipped her from
afar, fell into the daily habit of presenting her with a slip of
suggestions.

Her choicest paragraphs were usually edited by Steele’s ruthless hand,
and now and again she was moved to wrath. Upon such occasions Mr. Steele
merely smiled, and she was forced to smile in return or retire with the
sulks.


                                  VIII

Patience was writing busily in her little bedroom. The March winds were
howling down the street. Her door opened, and a very elegant young woman
entered.

“Hal!” cried Patience.

“You dear bad girl!”

They kissed a half dozen times, then sat down and looked at each other.
Hal had quite the young married woman air, and held herself with a mien
of conscious importance, entirely removed from conceit: she was grande
dame, and the late object of attentions from smart folks abroad.

“Well, how are you?” asked Patience. “Oh, but I am glad to see you. Tell
me all about yourself. When did you get back?”

“Day before yesterday. I’ve returned with thirty-two trunks, the
loveliest jewels you ever saw, and quite a slave of a husband. I must
say I never thought Latimer would keep up such a prolonged bluff, but he
fills the rôle as if he’d been husbanding all his life. Oh, no. Don’t
look at me like that. I’ve forgotten it, and I’ve no regrets. Mon
Dieu! To think that I might be in Boston on four hundred a month! I
shall be a leader, my dear. You can do as much with a hundred and fifty
thousand a year as you can with a million, for you can only spend just
so much money anyhow. All that the big millionaires get out of their
wealth is notoriety. Nobody’d remember about them if it wasn’t for the
newspapers. But you bad bad girl! What have you been and gone and done?
Why didn’t you wait for me? I would have rescued you.”

“Oh, you couldn’t, Hal dear. I didn’t want to be rescued for a day or a
month. I’ve run away for good and all.”

“But, Patience, what an alternative! Do you mean to say you live in this
cubby-hole?”

“I’m mighty happy in this cubby-hole, I can tell you; happier than I
ever was at Peele Manor.”

“That certainly was the mistake of my life. However, you’ve solved the
problem more promptly than most women do. The celerity with which you
untied that knot when you set about it moved me to admiration. By the
way, do you know that Bev is ill?”

“Is he? What is the matter?”

“I don’t know exactly,—one of those organic afflictions that men are
always getting. How uninteresting men are when their interior
decorations get out of gear. And they always will talk about them.
Latimer is ever groaning with his liver; but no wonder. I’ve had to eat
so much rich stuff to keep him from feeling lonesome that I’ve actually
grown fat. Well, we don’t know what is the matter with Bev, yet. The
doctor says it’s a result of the influenza. He has some pain, and makes
an awful fuss, like all men.”

“Where are you going to stay, now?”

“I am at the Holland, but will spend the summer at the Manor and the
fall at Newport. Our house on the Avenue—opposite the park, you
know—will be finished by winter. That house will be a jewel. I got the
most beautiful things abroad for it. Then you will come and live with
me.”

Patience shook her head.

“It wouldn’t do, and you will see it. I belong to another sphere now;
but I can see you sometimes.”

“Well, put up that stuff, and come to the Holland and dine with me. You
can finish up to-night. I have yards and yards to talk to you about.
I’ll never give you up,—remember that.”


                                   IX

When the hot days and nights of summer came Patience did not find
routine and the hunt as fascinating sport as when the electric thrill of
cooler seasons was in the air. Her paragraphs acquired some reputation,
and her mind grew tense in the effort to keep them up to a high
standard, and to prepare at least one surprise a day. She grew thin and
nervous, and began to wonder what life and herself would be like five
years hence. Mr. Field and Steele helped her as much as they dared, and
she managed to make about fifty dollars a week: her success gave Mr.
Field the excuse to pay her special rates. It never occurred to her to
give up, and she assured Hal that she would have nervous prostration
four times a year before she would return to Peele Manor.

There were times when she passionately longed for the isolation of a
mountain top. Nature had been part of her very individuality for all the
years of her life until this last, and a forested mountain top alone was
the antithesis of Park Row. She sometimes had a whimsical idea that her
grey matter was becoming slowly modelled into a semblance of that famous
precinct. She loved it loyally; but the isolation of high altitudes sent
their magnetism to another side of her nature. She was getting farther
and farther away from herself in the jealous absorption of her
work,—the skurrying practical details of her life. She felt that she
could no longer forecast what she should do under given circumstances,
that something in her was slowly changing. What the result would be she
could not predict; and she craved solitude and the opportunity to study
herself out.

In August Mrs. Field took her to her house in the Berkshire hills.
Although she had no solitude there, she returned much refreshed, and did
good work all winter. Steele she never saw outside of the office, but he
managed to treat her with a certain knightliness, and she lay awake,
occasionally, thinking about him. Hard work and the practical side of
life had disposed of a good deal of her romance, but she was still given
to vagaries. Steele’s modernity fascinated her. No other epoch but this
extraordinary last quarter of the nineteenth century could have produced
him.

She was a great favourite in the office. Again a thaw had succeeded a
second glacier period, induced by entire change of environment, and she
liked nearly everybody she knew, and became a most genial and expansive
young woman. She often laughed at herself, and concluded that she would
never strike the proper balance until she fell in love (if she ever
did), when the large and restless currents of her nature would unite and
find their proper destination. She had no “weird experiences.” Her
