zigzag path througli the fields of stars in the deeps of space ; 
and this soft picture will remind him of the time that he sat in 
the midst of it and told his poor little tale and felt so lonesome 
when he got through. - 

Fifty Indians and Chinamen asleep in a big tent in the waist 
of the ship forward ; they lie side by side with no space between ; t
he former wrapped up, head and all, as in the Indian 

streets, the Chinamen uncovered; the lamp and things for 
opium smoking in the center. 

A passenger said it was ten 2-ton truck loads of dynamite 
that lately exploded at Johannesburg. Hundreds killed ; he 
doesn't know how many ; limbs picked up for miles around. 
Glass shattered, and roofs swept away or collapsed 200 yards 
off; fragment of iron flung three and a half miles. 



It occurred at 3 p. m. ; at 6. £65,000 had been subscribed. 
When this passenger left, £35,000 had been voted by city and 
state governments and £100,000 by citizens and business cor- 
porations. When news of the disaster was telephoned to the 
Exchange £35,000 were subscribed in the first five minutes. 
Subscribing was still going on when he left ; the papers had 
ceased the names, only the amounts — too many names ; not 
enough room, £100,000 subscribed by companies and citizens ; 
if this is true, it must be what they call in Australia " a record " 
— the biggest instance of a spontaneous outpour for charity in 
history, considering the size of the population it was drawn 
from, $8 or $10 for each white resident, babies at the breast 
included. 

Monday May If.. Steaming slowly in the stupendous Del- 
agoa Bay, its dim arms stretching far away and disappearing 
on both sides. It could furnish plenty of room for all the 
ships in the world, but it is shoal. The lead has given us 3i 
fathoms several times and we are drawing that, lacking 6 
inches. 

A bold headland — precipitous wall, 150 feet high, very 
strong, red color, stretching a mile or so. A man said it was 
Portuo:uese blood — battle foug'ht here with the natives last 
year. I think this doubtful. Pretty cluster of houses on the 
tableland above the red — and rolling stretches of grass and 
groups of trees, like England. , 

The Portuguese have the railroad (one passenger train a 
day) to the border — YO miles — then the Netherlands Com- 
pany have it. Thousands of tons of freight on the shore — no 
cover. This is Portuguese all over — indolence, piousness, pov- 
erty, impotence. 

Crews of small boats and tugs, all jet black woolly heads 
and very muscular. 

Winter. The South African winter is just beginning now, 


but nobody but an expert can tell it from summer. However, 
I am tired of summer ; we have had it unbroken for eleven 
months. We spent the afternoon on shore. Delagoa Bay. A 
small town — no sights. No carriages. Three 'rickshas, but 
we couldn't get them — apparently private. These Portuguese 
are a rich brown, like some of the Indians. Some 
of the blacks have the long horse heads and very 
long chins of the negroes of the picture 
books; but most of them are exactly like 
the negroes of our Southern States — 
round faces, flat noses, good-natured, 
and easy laughers. 

Flocks of black 
women passed along, 
outrageously heavy 
freight on 
quiver of 
foot was 
strain exhib- 
showed 
strength the 
stevedores, 
dore's work, 
when un- 
ing weights 
just like the 

their heads — the 
their leg as the 
planted and the 
ited by their bodies 
what a tax upon their 
load was. They were 
and doing full steve- 
They were very erect 
laden — from carry- 
on their heads — 
Indian women. It 
proud, fine carriage. 

Sometimes one saw a woman carrying on her head a laden 
and top-heavy basket the shape of an inverted pyramid — its 
top the size of a soup-plate, its base the diameter of a teacup. 
It required nice balancing — and got it. 

No bright colors ; yet there were a good many Hindoos. 

The Second Class Passenger came over as usual at " lights 
out" (11) and we lounged along the spacious vague solitudes 
of the deck and smoked the peaceful pipe and talked. He told 
me an incident in Mr. Barnum's life which was evidently char- 
acteristic of that great showman in several ways : 

This was Barnum's purchase of Shakespeare's birthplace, a 
quarter of a century ago. The Second Class Passenger was in 
Jamrach's employ at the time and knew Barnum well. He 
said the thing began in this way. One morning Barnum and 
Jam.rach were in Jamrach's little private snuggery back of the 
wilderness of caged monkeys and snakes and other common- 
places of Jamrach's stock in trade, refreshing themselves after 
an arduous stroke of business, Jamrach with something ortho- 
dox, Barnum with something heterodox — for Barnum was a 
teetotaler. The stroke of business was in the elephant line. 
Jamrach had contracted to deliver to Barnum in New York 18 
elephants for $360,000 in time for the next season's opening. 
Then it occurred to Mr. Barnum that he needed a " card." He 
suggested Jumbo. Jamrach said he would have to think of 
something else — Jumbo couldn't be had ; the Zoo wouldn't 
part with that elephant. Barnum said he was willing to pay 
a fortune for Jumbo if he could get him. Jamrach said it was 
no use to think about it ; that Jumbo was as popular as the 
Prince of "Wales and the Zoo wouldn't dare to sell him ; all 
England would be outraged at the idea ; Jumbo was an English 
institution ; he was part of the national glory ; one might as 
well think of buying the IS'elson monument. Barnum spoke 
up with vivacity and said — 

" It's a first-rate idea. Fll luy the Monument.'' 

Jamrach was speechless for a second. Then he said, like 
one ashamed — 

" You caught me. I was napping. For a moment I 
thought you were in earnest." 



Barnum said pleasantly — 

" I was in earnest. I know they won't sell it, but no mat- 
ter, I will not throw away a good idea for all that. All I 
want is a big advertisement. I will keep the thing in mind, 
and if nothing better turns up I will offer to buy it. That will 
answer every purpose. It will furnish me a couple of columns 
of gratis advertising in every English and American paper for 
a couple of months, and give my show the biggest boom a 

show ever had in this world." 

Jamrach started to deliver a burst of admiration, but was 

interrupted by Barnum, who said — 

" Here is a state of things ! England ought to blush." 
His eye had fallen upon something in the newspaper. He 

read it through to himself, then read it aloud. It said that 

the house that Shakespeare was born in at Stratford-on-won 

was falling gradually to ruin through neglect ; that the room 
where the poet first saw the light was now serving as a 
butcher's shop; that all appeals to England to contribute 
money (the requisite sum stated) to buy and repair the house 
and place it in the care of salaried and trustworthy keepers 
had fallen resultless. Then Barnum said — 

" There's ray chance. Let Jumbo and the Monument alone 
for the present — they'll keep. I'll buy Shakespeare's house. 
I'll set it up in my Museum in New York and put a glass case 
around it and make a sacred thing of it ; and you'll see all 
America flock there to worship ; yes, and pilgrims from the 
whole earth ; and I'll make them take their hats off, too. In 
America we know how to value anything that Shakespeare's 
touch has made holy. You'll see." 

In conclusion the S. C. P. said : 

" That is the way the thing came about. Barnum did buy 
Shakespeare's house. He paid the price asked, and received 
the properly attested documents of sale. Then there was an 
explosion, I can tell you. England rose ! What, the birth- 
place of the master-genius of all the ages and all the climes — 
that priceless possession of Britain — to be carted out of the 
country like so much old lumber and set up for sixpenny dese- 
cration in a Yankee show-shop — the idea was not to be toler- 
ated for a moment. England rose in her indignation, and 
Barnum was glad to relinquish his prize and offer apologies. 
However, he stood out for a compromise ; he claimed a con- 
cession — England must let him have Jumbo. And England 
consented, but not cheerfully." 

It shows how, by help of time, a story can grow — even 

after Barnum has had the first innings in the telling of it. 

Mr. Barnum told me the story himself, years ago. He said 

that the permission to buy Jumbo was not a concession ; the 

purchase was made and the animal delivered before the public 
knew anything about it. Also, that the securing of Jumbo 
was all the advertisement he needed. It produced many 
columns of newspaper talk, free of cost, and he was satisfied. 
He said that if he had failed to get Jumbo he would have 
caused his notion of buying the Nelson Monument to be treach- 
erously smuggled into print by some trusty friend, and after 
he had gotten a few hundred pages of gratuitous advertising 
out of it, he would have come out with a blundering, obtuse, 
but warm-hearted letter of apology, and in a postscript to it 
would have naively proposed to let the Monument go, and 
take Stonehenge in place of it at the same price. 

It was his opinion that such a letter, written with well- 
simulated asinine innocence and gush would have gotten his 
ignorance and stupidity an amount of newspaper abuse worth 
six fortunes to him, and not purchasable for twice the money. 

I knew Mr. Barnum well, and I placed every confidence in 
the account which he gave me of the Shakespeare birthplace 
episode. He said he found the house neglected and going to 
decay, and he inquired into the matter and was told that many 
times earnest efforts had been made to raise money for its 
proper repair and preservation, but without success. He then 
proposed to buy it. The proposition was entertained, and a 
price named — $50,000, I think ; but whatever it was, Barnum 
paid the money down, without remark, and the papers were 
drawn up and executed. He said that it had been his purpose 
to set up the house in his Museum, keep it in repair, protect it 
from name-scribblers and other desecrators, and leave it by 
bequest to the safe and perpetual guardianship of the Smith- 
sonian Institute at Washington. 

But as soon as it was found that Shakespeare's house had 
passed into foreign hands and was going to be carried across 
the ocean, England was stirred as no appeal from the custodians
of the relic had ever stirred England before, and protests 
came flowing in — and money, too, to stop the outrage. Offers 
of re-purchase were made — offers of double the money that 
Mr. Barnum had paid for the house. He handed the house 
back, but took only the sum which it had cost him — but on the 
condition that an endowment sufficient for the future safe- 
guarding and maintenance of the sacred relic should be raised. 
This condition was fulfilled. 

That was Barnum's account of the episode ; and to the end 
of his days he claimed with pride and satisfaction that not 
England, but America — represented by him — saved the birth- 
place of Shakespeare from destruction. 

At 3 p. M., May 6th, the ship slowed down, off the land, and 
thoughtfully and cautiously picked her way into the snug 
harbor of Durban, South Africa. 





CHAPTER LXY. 

In statesmanship get the formalities right, never miud about the moralities. 

— Pudd'nhead Wilson's New Calendar. 

rROM Diary: 
Royal . Hotel. Comfortable, good table, good service 
of natives and Madrasis. Curious jumble of modern 
and ancient city and village, primitiveness and the other thing. 
Electric bells, but they don't ring. Asked why they didn't, 
the watchman in the office said he thought they must be out 
of order ; he thought so because some of them rang, but most 
of them didn't. Wouldn't it be a good idea to put them in 
order? He hesitated — like one who isn't quite sure — then 
conceded the point. 

May 7. A bang on the door at 6. Did I want my boots 
cleaned ? Fifteen minutes later another bang. Did we want 
coffee ? Fifteen later, bang again, my wife's bath ready ; 15 
later, my bath ready. Two other bangs ; I forget what they 
were about. Then lots of shouting back and forth, among the 
servants just as in an Indian hotel. 

Evening. At 4 p. m. it was unpleasantly warm. Half -hour 
after sunset one needed a spring overcoat ; by 8 a winter one. 

Durban is a neat and clean town. One notices that with- 
out having his attention called to it. 

Rickshaws drawn by splendidly built black Zulus, so over- 
flowing with strength, seemingly, that it is a pleasure, not a 
pain, to see them snatch a rickshaw along. They smile and 
laugh and show their teeth — a good-natured lot. Not allowed 
to drink; 2' per hour for one person; 3* for two; Z for a 

course — one person. 



The chameleon in the hotel court. He is fat and indolent 
and contemplative; but is business-like and capable when a 
fly comes about — reaches out a tongue like a teaspoon and 
takes him in. He gums his tongue first. He is always pious, 
in his looks. And pious and thankful both, when Providence 
or one of us sends him a fly. He has a froggy head, and a 
back like a new grave — for shape; and hands like a bird's 
toes that have been frost- 
bitten. But his eyes are his 
exhibition feature. A couple 
of skinny cones project from 
the sides of his head, with a 
wee shiny bead of an eye set 
in the apex of each ; and 
these cones turn bodily like 
pivot-guns and point every- 
which-way, and they are in- 
dependent of each other; 
each has its own exclusive 
machinery. "When I am be- 
hind him and C. in front of 
him, he whirls one eye rear- 
wards and the other forwards 
— which gives him a most 
Congressional expression (oneye on the constituency and one 
on the swag) ; and then if something happens above and below 
him he shoots out one eye upward like a telescope and the 
other downward — and this changes his expression, but does 
not improve it. 

Natives must not be out after the curfew bell without a 
pass. In Natal there are ten blacks to one white. 

Sturdy plump creatures are the wom.en. They comb their 
wool up to a peak and keep it in position by stiffening it with 

brown-red clay — half of this tower colored, denotes engage- 
ment ; the whole of it colored denotes marriage. 

None but heathen Zulus on the police ; Christian ones not 
allowed. 

May 9. A drive yesterday with friends over the Berea. 
Yery fine roads and lofty, overlooking the whole town, the 
harbor, and the sea — beautiful views. Kesidences all along, 

set in the midst of green lawns 
with shrubs and generally one 
or two intensely red out- 
bursts of poinsettia — the 
flaming splotch of blinding 
red a stunning contrast with 
the world of surrounding 
green. The cactus tree — 
candelabrum - like ; and one 
twisted like gray writhing 
serpents. The " flat-crown " 
(should be flat-roof) — half a 
dozen naked branches full of 
elbows, slant upward like arti- 
ficial supports, and fling a roof 
of delicate foliage out in a 
horizontal platform as flat as a floor ; and you look up through 
this thin floor as through a green cobweb or veil. The branches 
are japanesich. All about you is a bewildering variety of un- 
familiar and beautiful trees ; one sort wonderfully dense foliage 
and very dark green — so dark that you notice it at once, not- 
withstanding there are so many orange trees. The " flamboy- 
ant " — not in flower, now, but when in flower lives up to its 
name, we are told. Another tree with a lovely upright tassel 
scattered among its rich greenery, red and glowing as a fire- 
coal. Here and there a gum-tree ; half a dozen lofty Norfolk" 

Island pines lifting their fronded arms skyward. Groups of 
tall bamboo. 

Saw one bird. Not many birds here, and they have no 
music — and the flowers not much smell, they grow so fast. 

Everything neat and trim and clean like the town. The 
loveliest trees and the greatest variety I have ever seen any- 
where, except approaching Darjeeling. Have not heard any- 
one call Natal the garden of South Africa, but that is what it 
probably is. 

It was when Bishop of Natal that Colenso raised such a 
storm in the religious world. The concerns of religion are a 
vital matter here yet. A vigilant eye is kept upon Sunday. 
Museums and other dangerous resorts are not allowed to be 
open. You may sail on the Bay, but it is wicked to play 
cricket. For a while a Sunday concert was tolerated, upon 
condition that it must be admission free and the money taken 
by collection. But the collection was alarmingly large and 
that stopped the matter. They are particular about babies. 
A clergyman would not bury a child according to the sacred 
rites because it had not been baptized. The Hindoo is more 
liberal. He burns no child under three, holding that it does 
not need purifying. 

The King of the Zulus, a fine fellow of 30, was banished six 
years ago for a term of seven years. He is occupying Napo- 
leon's old stand — St. Helena.' The people are a little nervous 
about having him come back, and they may well be, for Zulu 
kings have been terrible people sometimes — like Tchaka, 
Dingaan, and Cetewayo. 

There is a large Trappist monastery two hours from Dur- 
ban, over the country roads, and in company with Mr. Milligan 
and Mr. Hunter, general manager of the Natal government 
railways, who knew the heads of it, we went out to see it. 

There it all was, just as one reads about it in books and 

cannot believe that it is so — I mean the rough, hard work, 
the impossible hours, the scanty food, the coarse raiment, the 
Maryborough beds, the tabu of human speech, of social inter- 
course, of relaxation, of amusement, of entertainment, of the 
presence of woman in the men's establishment. There it all 
was. It was not a dream, it was not a lie. And yet with the 
fact before one's face it was still incredible. It is such a 
sweeping suppression of human instincts, such an extinction of 
the man as an individual. 

La Trappe must have known the human race well. The 
scheme which he invented hunts out everything that a man 
wants and values — and withholds it from him. Apparently 
there is no detail that can help make life worth living that 
has not been carefully ascertained and placed out of the Trap- 
pist's reach. La Trappe must have known that there were 
men who would enjoy this kind of misery, but how did he 
find it out? 

If he had consulted you or me he would have been told 
that his scheme lacked too many attractions ; that it was im- 
possible ; that it could never be floated. But there in the 
monastery was proof that he knew the human race better 
than it knew itself. He set his foot upon every desire that 
a man has — yet he floated his project, and it has prospered 
for two hundred years, and will go on prospering forever, no 
doubt. 

Man likes personal distinction — there in the monastery it 
is obliterated. He likes delicious food — there he gets beans 
and bread and tea, and not enough of it. He likes to lie 
softly — there he lies on a sand mattress, and has a pillow and 
a blanket, but no sheet. When he is dining, in a great com- 
pany of friends, he likes to laugh and chat — there a monk 
reads a holy book aloud during meals, and nobody speaks or 
laughs. "When a man has a hundred friends about him, even- 
ings, he likes to have a good time and run late — there he and 
the rest go silently to bed at 8 ; and in the dark, too ; there is 
but a loose brown robe to discard, there are no night-clothes to 
put on, a light is not needed. Man likes to lie abed late — 
there he gets up once or twice in the night to perform some 
religious office, and gets up finally for the day at two in the 
morning. Man likes light work or none at all — there he 
labors all day in the field, or in the blacksmith shop or the 
other shops devoted to the mechanical trades, such as shoe- 
making, saddlery, carpentry, and so on . Man likes the society of 
girls and women — there he never has it. He likes to have 
his children about him, and pet them and play with them — 
there he has none. He likes billiards — there is no table there. 
He likes outdoor sports and indoor dramatic and musical and 
social entertainments — there are none there. He likes to bet 
on things — I was told that betting is forbidden there. When 
a man's temper is up he likes to pour it out upon somebody — 
there this is not allowed. A man likes animals — pets; there 
are none there. He likes to smoke — there he cannot do it. 
He likes to read the news — no papers or magazines come 
there. A man likes to know how his parents and brothers and 
sisters are getting along when he is away, and if they miss him 
— there he cannot know. A man likes a pretty house, and 
pretty furniture, and pretty things, and pretty colors — there 
he has nothing but naked aridity and sombre colors. A man 
likes — name it yourself : whatever it is, it is absent from that 
place. 

From what I could learn, all that a man gets for this is 
merely the saving of his soul. 

It all seems strange, incredible, impossible. But La Trappe 
knew the race. He knew the powerful attraction of unattract- 
iveness ; he knew that no life could be imagined, howsoever 
comfortless and forbidding, but somebody would want to try it. 

This parent establishment of Germans began its work fif- 
teen years ago, strangers, poor, and unencouraged ; it owns 
15,000 acres of land now, and raises grain and fruit, and makes 
wines, and manufactures all manner of things, and has native 
apprentices in its shops, and sends them forth able to read and 
write, and also well equipped to earn their living by their 
trades. And this young establishment has set up eleven 
branches in South Africa, and in them they are christianizing 
and educating . and teaching wage-yielding mechanical trades 
to 1,200 boys and girls. Protestant Missionary work is coldly 
regarded by the commercial white colonist all over the heathen 
world, as a rule, and its product is nicknamed " rice-Christians" 
(occupationless incapables who join the church for revenue 
only), but I think it would be difficult to pick a flaw in the 
work of these Catholic monks, and I believe that the disposi- 
tion to attempt it has not shown itself. 

Tuesday May 12. Transvaal politics in a confused condi- 
tion. First the sentencing of the Johannesburg Reformers 
startled England by its severity ; on the top of this came 
Kruger's exposure of the cipher correspondence, which showed 
that the invasion of the Transvaal, with the design of seizing 
that country and adding it to the British Empire, was planned 
by Cecil Rhodes and Beit — which made a revulsion in Eng- 
lish feeling, and brought out a storm against Rhodes and the 
Chartered Company for degrading British honor. For a good 
while I couldn't seem to get at a clear comprehension of it, it 
was so tangled. But at last by patient study I have managed 
it, I believe. As I understand it, the Uitlanders and other 
Dutchmen were dissatisfied because .the English would not 
allow them to take any part in the government except to pay 
taxes. Next, as I understand it. Dr. Kruger and Dr. Jameson, 
not having been able to make the medical business pay, made 
a raid into Matabeleland with the intention of capturing the 
capital, Johannesburg, and holding the women and children to 
ransom until the Uitlanders and the other Boers should grant 
to them and the Chartered Company the political rights which 
had been withheld from them. They would have succeeded in 
this great scheme, as I understand it, but for the interference 
of Cecil Rhodes and Mr. Beit, and other Chiefs of the Mata- 
bele, who persuaded their countrymen to revolt and throw off 
their allegiance to Germany. This, in turn, as I understand 
it, provoked the King of Abyssinia to destroy the Italian army 
and fall back upon Johannesburg ; this at the instigation of 
Rhodes, to bull the stock market. 




CHAPTER LXYI. 

Every one is a moon, and has a dark side which he never shows to anybody. — 
Pudd''nhead Wilsoiis New Valeiidar. 

WHEN I scribbled in ray note-book a year ago the para- 
graph which ends the preceding chapter, it was 
meant to indicate, ill an extravagant form, two 
things : the conflicting nature of the information conveyed by 
the citizen to the stranger concerning South African politics, 
and the resulting confusion created in the stranger's mind 
thereby. 

But it does not seem so very extravagant now. Nothing 
could in that disturbed and excited time make South African 
politics clear or quite rational to the citizen of the country be- 
cause his personal interest and his political prejudices were in 
his way ; and nothing could make those politics clear or 
rational to the stranger, the sources of his information being 
such as they were. 

I was in South Africa some little time. "When I arrived 
there the political pot was boiling fiercely. Four months pre- 
viously, Jameson had plunged over the Transvaal border with 
about 600 armed horsemen at his back, to go to the " relief of 
the women and children " of Johannesburg ; on the fourth day 
of his march the Boers had defeated him in battle, and carried 
him and his men to Pretoria, the capital, as prisoners ; the Boer 
government had turned Jameson and his officers over to the 
British government for trial, and shipped them to England ; 
next, it had arrested 64 important citizens of Johannesburg as 
raid-conspirators, condemned their four leaders to death, then 

commuted the sentences, and now the 64 were waiting, in jail, 
for further results. Before midsummer they were all out ex- 
cepting two, who refused to sign the petitions for release ; 58 
had been fined $10,000 each and enlarged, and the four leaders 
had gotten off with fines of $125,000 each — with permanent 
exile added, in one case. 

Those were wonderfully interesting days for a stranger, 
and I was glad to be in the thick of the excitement. Every- 
body was talking, and I expected to understand the whole of 
one side of it in a very little while. 

I was disappointed. There were singularities, perplexities, 
unaccountabilities about it which I was not able to master. I 
had no personal access to Boers — their side was a secret to me, 
aside from what I was able to gather of it from published 
statements. My sympathies were soon with the Eeformers in 
the Pretoria jail, with their friends, and with their cause. By 
diligent inquiry in Johannesburg I found out — apparently — 
all the details of their side of the quarrel except one — what 
they expected to accomplish hy an armed rising, 

Nobody seemed to know. 

The reason why the Reformers were discontented and 
wanted some changes made, seemed quite clear. In Johannes- 
burg it was claimed that the Uitlanders (strangers, foreigners) 
paid thirteen-fifteenths of the Transvaal taxes, yet got little or 
nothing for it. Their city had, no charter; it had no municipal 
government ; it could levy no taxes for drainage, water-supply, 
paving, cleaning, sanitation, policing. There was a police 
force, but it was composed of Boers, it was furnished by the 
State Government, and the city had no control over it. Min- 
ing was very costly ; the government enormously increased the 
cost by putting burdensome taxes upon the mines, the output, 
the machinery, the buildings; by burdensome imposts 

upon incoming materials; by burdensome railway-freight- 
charges. Hardest of all to bear, the government reserved to 
itself a monopoly in that essential thing, dynamite, and 
burdened it with an extravagant price. The detested Hol- 
lander from over the water held all the public offices. The 
government was rank with corruption. The Uitlander had no 
vote, and must live in the State ten or twelve years before he 
could get one. He was not represented in the Kaad (legis- 
lature) that oppressed him and fleeced him. Religion was not 
free. There were no schools where the teaching was in Eng- 
lish, yet the great majority of the white population of the 
State knew no tongue but that. The State would not pass a 
liquor law ; but allowed a great trade in cheap vile brandy 
among the blacks, with the result that 25 per cent, of the 
50,000 blacks employed in the mines were usually drunk. and 
incapable of working. 

There — it was plain enough that the reasons for wanting 
some changes made were abundant and reasonable, if this state- 
ment of the existing grievances was correct. 

What the Uitlanders wanted was reform — under the exist- 
ing Republic. 

What they proposed to do was to secure these reforms by 
prayer, petition, and persuasion. 

They did petition. Also, they issued a Manifesto, whose 
very first note is a bugle-blast of loyalty: "We want the 
establishment of this Republic as a true Republic." 

Could anything be clearer than the Uitlander's statement 
of the grievances and oppressions under which they were 
sujffering ? Could anything be more legal and citizenlike and 
law-respecting than their attitude as expressed by their Mani- 
festo ? No. Those things were perfectly clear, perfectly com- 
prehensible. 

But at this point the puzzles and riddles and confusions 

begin to flock in. You have arrived at a place which you can- 
not quite understand. 

For you find that as a preparation for this loyal, lawful, 
and in every way unexceptionable attempt to persuade the gov- 
ernment to right their grievances, the Uitlanders had smug- 
gled a Maxim gun or two and 1,500 muskets into the town, 
concealed in oil tanks and coal cars, and had begun to form 
and drill military companies composed of clerks, merchants, 
and citizens generally. 

What was their idea ? Did they suppose that the Boers 
would attack them for petitioning for redress f That could 
not be. 

Did they suppose that the Boers would attack them even 
for issuing a Manifesto demanding relief under the existing 
government 1 

Yes, they apparently believed so, because the air was full of 
talk of forcing the government to grant redress if it were not 
granted peacefully. 

The Reformers were men of high intelligence. If they 
were in earnest, they were taking extraordinary risks. They 
had enormously valuable properties to defend ; their town was 
full of women and children ; their mines and compounds were 
packed with thousands upon thousands of sturdy blacks. If 
the Boers attacked, the mines would close, the blacks would 
swarm out and get drunk ; riot and conflagration and the Boers 
together might lose the Reformers more in a day, in money, 
blood, and suffering, than the desired political relief could com- 
pensate in ten years if they won the fight and secured the 
reforms. 

It is May, 1897, now ; a year has gone by, and the confu 
sions of that day have been to a considerable degree cleared 
away. Mr. Cecil Rhodes, Dr. Jameson, and others responsible 
for the Raid, have testified before the Parliamentary Committee 

of Inquiry in London, and so have Mr. Lionel PJiillips and 
other Johannesburg Reformers, monthly -nurses of the Revolu- 
tion which was born dead. These testimonies have thrown 
light. Three books have been added much to this light : 
" South Africa As It Is," by Mr. Statham, an able writer 
partial to the Boers ; "The Story of an African Crisis," 
by Mr. Garrett, a brilliant writer partial to Rhodes ; and " A 
Woman's Part in a Revolution," by Mrs. John Hays Ham- 
mond, a vigorous and vivid diarist, partial to the Reformers. 
By liquifying the evidence of the prejudiced books and of 
the prejudiced parliamentary witnesses and stirring the whole 
together and pouring it into my own (prejudiced) moulds, I 
have got at the truth of that puzzling South African situation, 
which is this : 

1. The capitalists and other chief men of Johannesburg 
were fretting under various political and financial burdens im- 
posed by the State (the South African Republic, sometimes 
called " the Transvaal") and desired to procure by peaceful 
means a modification of the laws. 

2. Mr. Cecil Rhodes, Premier of the British Cape Colony, 
millionaire, creator and managing director of the territorially- 
immense and financially unproductive South Africa Company ; 
projector of vast schemes for the unification and consolidation of 
all the South African States into one imposing commonwealth 
or empire under the shadow and general protection of the 
British flag, thought he saw an opportunity to make profitable 
use of the Uitlander discontent above mentioned — make the 
Johannesburg oat help pull out one of his consolidation chest- 
nuts for him. "With this view he set himself the task of warm- 
ing the lawful and legitimate petitions and supplications of the 
Uitlanders into seditious talk, and their frettings into threat- 
enings — the final outcome to be revolt and armed rebellion. 
If he could bring about a bloody collision between those people 

and the Boer government, Great Britain would have to inter- 
fere ; her interference would be resisted by the Boers ; she 
would chastise them and add the Transvaal to her South Afri- 
can possessions. It was not a foolish idea, but a rational and 
practical one. 

After a couple of years of judicious plotting, Mr. Rhodes 
had his reward ; the revolutionary kettle was briskly boiling in 
Johannesburg, and the Uitlander leaders were backing their 
appeals to the government — now hardened into demands — 
by threats of force and bloodshed. By the middle of De- 
cember, 1895, the explosion seemed imminent. Mr. Rhodes was 
diligently helping, from his distant post in Cape Town. He 
was helping to procure arms for Johannesburg ; he was also 
arranoino: to have Jameson break over the border and come to 
Johannesburg with 600 mounted men at his back. Jameson — 
as per instructions from Rhodes, perhaps — wanted a letter 
from the Reformers requesting him to come to their aid. It 
was a good idea. It would throw a considerable share of the 
responsibility of his invasion upon the Reformers. He got the 
letter — that famous one urging him to fly to the rescue of the 
women and children. He got it two months before he flew. 
The Reformers seem to have thought it over and concluded 
that they had not done wisely ; for the next day after giving 
Jameson the implicating document they wanted to withdraw 
it and leave the women and -children in danger ; but they were 
told that it was too late. The original had gone to Mr. Rhodes 
at the Cape. Jameson had kept a copy, though. 

From that time until the 29th of December, a good deal of 
the Reformers' time was taken up with energetic efforts to 
keep Jameson from coming to their assistance. Jameson's in- 
vasion had been set for the 26th. The Reformers were not 
ready. The town was not united. Some wanted a fight, 
some wanted peace ; some wanted a new government, some 

wanted the existing one reformed ; apparently very few wanted 
the revolution to take place in the interest and under the ulti- 
mate shelter of the Imperial flag — British ; yet a report began 
to spread that Mr. Rhodes's embarrassing assistance had for its 
end this latter object. 

Jameson was away up on the frontier tugging at his leash, 
fretting to burst over the border. By hard work the Reform- 
ers got his starting-date postponed a little, and wanted to get 
it postponed eleven days. Apparently, Rhodes's agents were 
seconding their efforts — in fact wearing out the telegraph 
wires trying to hold him back. Rhodes was himself the only 
man who could have effectively postponed Jameson, but that 
would have been a disadvantage to his scheme ; indeed, it could 
spoil his whole two years' work. 

Jameson endured postponement three days, then resolved 
to wait no longer. Without any orders — excepting Mr. 
Rhodes's significant silence — he cut the telegraph wires on the 
29th, and made his plunge that night, to go to the rescue of the 
women and children, by urgent request of a letter now nine 
days old — as per date, — a couple of months old, in fact. He 
read the letter to his men, and it affected them. It did not af- 
fect all of them alike. Some saw in it a piece of piracy of 
doubtful wisdom, and were sorry to find that they had been 
assembled to violate friendly territory instead of to raid native 
kraals, as they had supposed. 

Jameson would have to ride 150 miles. He knew that there 
were suspicions abroad in the Transvaal concerning him, but he 
expected to get through to Johannesburg before they should 
become general and obstructive. But a telegraph wire had 
been overlooked and not cut. It spread the news of his inva- 
sion far and wide, and a few hours after his start the Boer 
farmers were riding hard from every direction to intercept 
him. 


As soon as it was known in Johannesburg that he was on 
his way to rescue the women and children, the grateful people 
put the women and children in a train and rushed them for 
Australia. In fact, the approach of Johannesburg's saviour cre- 
ated panic and consternation there, and a multitude of males 
of peaceable disposition swept to the trains like a sand-storm. 
The early ones fared best; they secured seats — by sitting in 
them — eight hours before the first train was timed to leave. 

Mr. Rhodes lost no time. He cabled the renowned Johan- 
nesburg letter of invitation to the London press — the gray- 
headedest piece of ancient history that ever went over a cable. 

The new poet laureate lost no time. He came out with a 
rousing poem lauding Jameson's prompt and splendid heroism 
in flying to the rescue of the women and children ; for the poet 
could not know that he did not fly until two months after the 
invitation. He was deceived by the false date of the letter, 
which was December 20th. 

Jameson was intercepted by the Boers on New Year's Day, 
and on the next day he surrendered. He had carried his copy 
of the letter along, and if his instructions required him — in 
case of emergency — to see that it fell into the hands of the 
Boers, he loyally carried them out. Mrs. Hammond gives him 
a sharp rap for his supposed carelessness, and emphasizes her 
feeling about it with burning italics : " It was picked up on the 
battle-field in a leathern pouch, supposed to be Dr. Jameson's 
saddle-bag. TF7«y, in the name of all that is discreet and hon- 
oi'able, didn't he eat it ! " 

She requires too much. He was not in the service of the 
Reformers — excepting ostensibly; he was in the service of Mr. 
Rhodes. It was the only plain English document, undarkened 
by ciphers and mysteries, and responsibly signed and authenti- 
cated, which squarely implicated the Reformers in the raid, and 
it was not to Mr, Rhodes's interest that it should be eaten. Besides, 
that letter was not the original, it was onl}' a copy. Mr. 
Khodes had the original — and didn't eat it. He cabled it to 
the London press. It had already been read in England and 
America and all over Europe before Jameson dropped it on the 
battlefield. If the subordinate's knuckles deserved a rap, the 
principal's deserved as many as a couple of them. 

That letter is a juicily dramatic incident and is entitled to 
all its celebrity, because of the odd and variegated effects which 
it produced. All within the space of a single week it had made 
Jameson an illustrious hero in England, a pirate in Pretoria, 
and an ass without discretion or honor in Johannesburg ; also 
it had produced a poet-laureatic explosion of colored fireworks 
which filled the world's sky with giddy splendors, and the 
knowledge that Jameson was coming with it to rescue the 
women and children emptied Johannesburg of that detail of 
the population. For an old letter, this was much. For a let- 
ter two months old, it did marvels ; if it had been a year old it 
would have done miracles. 



CHAPTER LXYII. 

First catch your Boer, then kick him. — Pudd''nhead Wilson's New Calendar, 

rHOSE latter days were days of bitter worry and 
trouble for the harassed Reformers. 
From Mrs, Hammond we learn that on the 31st (the 
day after Johannesburg heard of the invasion), " the Reform 
Committee repudiates Dr. Jameson's inroad." 

It also publishes its intention to adhere to the Manifesto. 

It also earnestly desires that the inhabitants shall refrain 
from overt acts against the Boer government. 

It also "distributes arms" at the Court House, and fur- 
nishes horses " to the newly -enrolled volunteers." 

It also brings a Transvaal flag into the committee-room, 
and the entire body swear allegiance to it " with uncovered 
heads and upraised arms." 

Also "one thousand Lee-Metford rifles have been given 
out" — to rebels. 

Also, in a speech. Reformer Lionel Phillips informs the 
public that the Reform Committee Delegation has " been re- 
ceived with courtesy by the Government Commission," and 
" been assured that their proposals shall be earnestly consid- 
ered." That " while the Reform Committee regretted Jame- 
son's precipitate action, they would stand by him." 

Also the populace are in a state of " wild enthusiasm," and 
" can scarcely be restrained ; they want to go out to meet 
Jameson and bring him in with triumphal outcry." 

Also the British High Commissioner has issued a damnify- 
ing proclamation against Jameson and all British abettors of 

his game. It arrives January 1st. 


It is a difficult position for the Reformers, and full of hin- 
drances and perplexities. Their duty is hard, but plain : 

1. They have to repudiate the inroad, and stand by the 
inroader. 

2. They have to swear allegiance to the Boer government, 
and distribute cavalry horses to the rebels. 

3. They have to forbid overt acts against the Boer gov- 
ernment, and distribute arms to its enemies. 

4. They have to avoid collision with the British govern- 
ment, but still stand by Jameson and their new oath of allegi- 
ance to the Boer government, taken, uncovered, in presence of 
its flag. 

They did such of these things as they could ; they tried to 
do them all ; in fact, did do them all, but only in turn, not 
simultaneously. In the nature of things they could not be 
made to simultane. 

In preparing for armed revolution and in talking revolu- 
tion, were the Reformers " bluffing," or were they in earnest ? 
If they were in earnest, they were taking great risks — as has 
been already pointed out. A gentleman of high position told 
me in Johannesburg that he had in his possession a printed 
document proclaiming a 7iew government and naming its presi- 
dent — one of the Reform leaders. He said that this proclama- 
tion had been ready for issue, but was suppressed when the 
raid collapsed. Perhaps I misunderstood him. Indeed, I must 
have misunderstood him, for I have not seen mention of this 
large incident in print anywhere. 

Besides, I hope I am mistaken ; for, if I am, then there is 
argument that the Reformers were privately not serious, but 
were only trying to scare the Boer government into granting 
the desired reforms. 

The Boer government was scared, and it had a right to be. 
For if Mr. Rhodes's plan was to provoke a collision that would 

compel the interference of England, that was a serious matter. 
If it could be shown that that was also the Eeformers' plan 
and purpose, it would prove that they had marked out a 
feasible project, at any rate, although it was one which could 
hardly fail to cost them ruinously before England should 
arrive. But it seems clear that they had no such plan nor 
desire. If, when the worst should come to the worst, they 
meant to overthrow the government, they also meant to inherit 
the assets themselves, no doubt. 

This scheme could hardly have succeeded. With an army 
of Boers at their gates and 50,000 riotous blacks in their midst, 
the odds against success would have been too heavy — even if 
the whole town had been armed. With only 2,500 rifles in 
the place, they stood really no chance. 

To me, the military problems of the situation are of more 
interest than the political ones, because by disposition I have 
always been especially fond of war. No, I mean fond of dis- 
cussing war ; and fond of giving military advice. If I had 
been with Jameson the morning after he started, I should have 
advised him to turn back. That was Monday ; it was then that 
he received his first warning from a Boer source not to violate 
the friendly soil of the Transvaal. It showed that his invasion 
was known. If I had been with him on Tuesday morning and 
afternoon, when he received further warnings, I should have 
repeated my advice. If I had" been with him the next morn- 
ing — New Year's — when he received notice that " a few 
hundred " Boers were waiting for him a few miles ahead, I 
should not have advised, but commanded him to go back. 
And if I had been with him two or three hours later — a thing 
not conceivable to me — I should have retired him by force ; 
for at that time he learned that the few hundred had now 
grown to 800 ; and that meant that the growing would go on 
growing. 


For, by authority of Mr. Garrett, one knows that Jame- 
son's 600 were only 530 at most, when you count out his native 
drivers, etc. ; and that the 530 consisted largely of " green " 
youths, " raw young fellows," not trained and war-worn Brit- 
ish soldiers ; and I would have told Jameson that those lads 
would not be able to shoot effectively from horseback in the 
scamper and racket of battle, and that there would not be any- 
thing for them to shoot at, anyway, but rocks ; for the Boers 

would hide behind the rocks, not out in the open. I would have 
told him that 300 Boer sharpshooters behind rocks would be 
an overmatch for his 500 raw young fellows on horseback. 

If pluck were the only thing essential to battle-winning, the 
English would lose no battles. But discretion, as well as pluck, 
is required when one fights Boers and Red Indians. In South 
Africa the Briton has always insisted upon standing bravely 
