and laity, and both grumbled at and 
slandered them. Harrison gives a good 
account of the higher clergy; he says 
the bishops were loved for their pain- 
ful diligence in their calling, and that 
the clergy of England were reputed on 
the Continent as learned divines, skil- 
ful in Greek and Hebrew and in the 
Latin tongue. There was, however, a 
scarcity of preachers and ministers in 
Elizabeth's time, and their character 
was not generally high. What could be 
expected when covetous patrons can- 
celled their debts to their servants by 
bestowing advowsons of benefices upon 
their bakers, butlers, cooks, grooms, 
pages, and lackeys — when even in the 
universities there was cheating at elec- 
tions for scholarships and fellowships, 
and gifts were for sale ! The morals of 
the clergy were, however, improved by 
frequent conferences, at which the good 
were praised and the bad reproved ; and 
these conferences were " a notable spur 
unto all the ministers, whereby to ap- 
ply their books, which otherwise (as in 
times past) would give themselves to 
hawking, hunting, tables, cards, dice, 
tipling at the ale house, shooting, and 
other like vanities." The clergy held 
a social rank with tradespeople ; their 
sons learned trades, and their daughters 
might go out to service. Jewell says 
many of them were the " basest sort 
of people " — unlearned, fiddlers, pipers, 
and what not. " Not a few," says Har- 
rison, " find fault with our thread-bare 
gowns, as if not our patrons but our 
wives were the causes of our woe." He 
thinks the ministers will be better when 
the patrons are better, and he defends 
the right of the clergy to marry and to 
leave their goods, if they have any, to 
their widows and children instead of to 
the church, or to some school or alms- 
house. What if their wives are fond, 
after the decease of their husbands, to 
bestow themselves not so advisedly as 
their calling requireth ; do not duch- 
esses, countesses, and knights' wives 
offend in the like fully so often as they ? 
And Eve, remarks the old philosopher 
of Radwinter — " Eve will be Eve, 
though Adam would say nay." 

The apparel of the clergy, at any rate, 
was more comely and decent than it 
ever was in the popish church, when 
the priests " went either in divers colors 
like players, or in garments of light hue, 
as yellow, red, green, etc. ; with their 
shoes piked, their hair crisped, their 
girdles armed with silver ; their shoes, 
spurs, bridles, etc., buckled with like 
metal ; their apparel (for the most part) 
of silk, and richly furred; their caps 
laced and buttoned with gold; so that 
to meet a priest, in those days, was to 
behold a peacock that spreadeth his tail 
when he danceth before the hen." 

Hospitality among the clergy was 
never better used, and it was increased 
by their marriage; for the meat and 
drink were prepared more orderly and 
frugally, the household was better looked 
to, and the poor oftener fed. There 
was perhaps less feasting of the rich 
in bishops' houses, and " it is thought 
much peradventure, that some bishops 
in our time do come short of the ancient 




 

gluttony and prodigality of their prede- 
cessors"; but this is owing to the cur- 
tailing of their livings, and the excessive 
prices whereunto things are grown. 

Harrison spoke his mind about digni- 
taries. He makes a passing reference 
to Thomas a Becket as " the old Cocke 
of Canturburie," who did crow in be- 
half of the see of Rome, and the " young 
cockerels of other sees did imitate his 
demeanour." He is glad that images, 
shrines, and tabernacles are removed 
out of churches. The stories in glass 
windows remain only because of the cost 
of replacing them with white panes. He 
would lft£ to stop the wakes, guilds, 
paternities, church-ales, and brides-ales, 
with all their rioting, and he thinks 
they could get on very well without the 
feasts of apostles, evangelists, martyrs, 
the holy-days after Christmas, Easter, 
and Whitsuntide, and those of the Vir- 





 

gin Mary, with the rest. " It is a world 
to see," he wrote of 1552, "how ready 
the Catholicks are to cast the commun- 
ion tables out of their churches, which 
in derision they call Oysterboards, and 
to set up altars whereon to say mass." 
And he tells with sinful gravity this tale 
of a sacrilegious sow : " Upon the 23d 
of August, the high altar of Christ 
Church in Oxford was trimly decked up 
after the popish manner; and about the 
middest of evensong, a sow cometh into 
the quire, and pulled all to the ground ; 
for which heinous fact, it is said she 
was afterwards beheaded ; but to that I 
am not privy." Think of the condition 
of Oxford when pigs went to mass ! 
Four years after this there was a sick- 
ness in England, of which a third part 
of the people did taste, and many clergy- 
men, who had prayed not to live after 
the death of Queen Mary, had their de- 




 

sire, the Lord hearing their prayer, says 
Harrison, " and intending thereby to 
give his church a breathing time." 

There were four classes in England 
— gentlemen, citizens, yeomen, and ar- 
tificers or laborers. Besides the nobles, 
any one can call himself a gentleman 
who can live without work and buy a 
coat of arms — though some of them 
" bear a bigger sail than his boat is 
able to sustain." The complaint of 
sending abroad youth to be educated is 
an old one ; Harrison says the sons of 
gentlemen went into Italy, and brought 
nothing home but mere atheism, infidel- 
ity, vicious conversation, and ambitious, 
proud behavior, and retained neither 
religion nor patriotism. Among citizens 
were the merchants, of whom Harrison 
thought there were too many ; for, like 
the lawyers, they were no furtherance to 
the commonwealth, but, raised the price 





 

of all commodities. In former, free- 
trade times, sugar was sixpence a pound, 
now it is two shillings sixpence ; rai- 
sins were one penny, and now sixpence. 
Not content with the old European 
trade, they have sought out the East 
and West Indies, and likewise Cathay 
and Tartary, whence they pretend, from 
their now and then suspicious voyages, 
they bring home great commodities. 
But Harrison cannot see that prices are 
one whit abated by this enormity, and 
certainly they carry out of England the 
best of its wares. 

The yeomen are the stable, free men, 
who for the most part stay in one place, 
working the farms of gentlemen, are 
diligent, sometimes buy the land of un- 
thrifty gentlemen, educate their sons to 
the schools and the law courts, and leave 
them money to live without labor. These 
are the men that made France afraid. 





 

Below these are the laborers and men 
who work at trades, who have no voice 
in the commonwealth, and crowds of 
young serving-men who become old beg- 
gars, highway-robbers, idle fellows, and 
spreaders of all vices. There was a 
complaint then, as now, that in many 
trades men scamped their work, but, on 
the whole, husbandmen and artificers 
had never been so good ; only there were 
too many of them, too many handicrafts 
of which the country had no need. It 
appears to be a fault all along in history 
that there are too many of almost every 
sort of people. 

In Harrison's time the greater part of 
the building in cities and towns was of 
timber, only a few of the houses of the 
commonalty being of stone. In an old 
plate giving a view of the north side 
of Cheapside, London, in 1638, we see 
little but quaint gable ends and rows of 





 

small windows set close together. The 
houses are of wood and plaster, each 
story overhanging the other, terminat- 
ing in sharp pediments ; the roofs pro- 
jecting on cantilevers, and the windows 
occupying the whole front of each of the 
lower stories. They presented a lively 
and gay appearance on holidays, when 
the pentices of the shop fronts were 
hung with colored draperies, and the 
balconies were crowded with spectators, 
and every pane of glass showed a face. 
In the open country, where timber was 
scarce, the houses were, between studs, 
impanelled with clay — red, white, or blue. 
One of the Spaniards who came over in 
the suite of Philip remarked the large 
diet in these homely cottages : " These 
English," quoth he, " have their houses 
made of sticks and dirt, but they 
fare commonly so well as the king." 
" Whereby it appeareth," comments 





 

Harrison, " that he liked better of our 
good fare in such coarse cabins, than of 
their own thin diet in their prince-like 
habitations and palaces." The timber 
houses were covered with tiles ; the other 
sort with straw or reeds. The fairest 
houses were ceiled within with mortar 
and covered with plaster, the whiteness 
and evenness of which excited Harrison's 
admiration. The walls were hung with 
tapestry, arras-work, or painted cloth, 
whereon were divers histories, or herbs, 
or birds, or else ceiled with oak. Stoves 
had just begun to be used, and only in 
some houses of the gentry, " who build 
them not to work and feed in, as in 
Germany and elsewhere, but now and 
then to sweat in, as occasion and need 
shall require." Glass in windows, which 
was then good and cheap, and made 
even in England, had generally taken the 
place of the lattices and of the horn, and 
c 



 

of the beryl which noblemen formerly 
used in windows. Gentlemen were be- 
ginning to build their houses of brick and 
stone, in stately and magnificent fashion. 
The furniture of the houses had also 
grown in a manner " passing delicacy," 
and not of the nobility and gentry only, 
but of the lowest sort. In noblemen's 
houses there was abundance of arras, 
rich hangings of tapestry, and silver ves- 
sels, plate often to the value of one 
thousand and two thousand pounds. 
The knights, gentlemen, and merchants 
had great provision of tapestry, Turkie 
work, pewter, brass, fine linen, and cup- 
boards of plate worth perhaps a thou- 
sand pounds. Even the inferior ar- 
tificers and many farmers had learned 
also to garnish their cupboards with 
plate, their joined beds with silk hang- 
ings, and their tables with fine linen — 
evidences of wealth for which Harrison 





 

thanks God and reproaches no man, 
though he cannot see how it is brought 
about, when all things are grown to such 
excessive prices. 

Old men of Radwinter noted three 
things marvellously altered in England 
within their remembrance. The first 
was the multitude of chimneys lately 
erected ; whereas in their young days 
there were not, always except those in 
the religious and manor houses, above 
two or three chimneys in most upland 
towns of the realm ; each one made his 
'fire against a reredos in the hall, where 
he dined and dressed his meat. The 
second was the amendment in lodging. 
In their youth they lay upon hard straw 
pallets covered only with a sheet, and 
mayhap a dogswain coverlet over them, 
and a good round log for pillow. If in 
seven years after marriage a man could 
buy a mattress and a sack of chaff to 





 

rest his head on, he thought himself as 
well lodged as a lord. Pillows were 
thought meet only for sick women. As 
for servants, they were lucky if they 
had a sheet over them, for there was 
nothing under them to keep the straw 
from pricking their hardened hides. 
The third notable thing was the ex- 
change of treene (wooden) platters into 
pewter, and wooden spoons into silver 
or tin. Wooden stuff was plenty, but a 
good farmer would not have above four 
pieces of pewter in his house ; with all 
his frugality, he was unable to pay his 
rent of four pounds without selling a 
cow or horse. It was a time of idleness, 
and if a farmer at an ale-house, in a 
bravery to show what he had, slapped 
down his purse with six shillings in it, 
all the rest together could not match it. 
But now, says Harrison, though the rent 
of four pounds has improved to forty, 
the farmer has six or seven years' rent 
lying by him, to purchase a new term, 
garnish his cupboard with pewter, buy 
three or four feather-beds, coverlets, 
carpets of tapestry, a silver salt, a nest 
of bowls for wine, and a dozen spoons. 
All these things speak of the growing 
wealth and luxury of the age. Only a 
little before this date, in 1568, Lord 
Buckhurst, who had been ordered to 
entertain the Cardinal de Chatillon in 
Queen Elizabeth's palace at Sheen, 
complains of the meanness of the furni- 
ture of his rooms. He showed the offi- 
cers who preceded the cardinal such 
furniture and stuff as he had, but it did 
not please them. They wanted plate, he 
had none ; such glass vessels as he had 
they thought too base. They wanted 
damask for long tables, and he had only 
linen for a square table, and they re- 
fused his square table. He gave the 
cardinal his only unoccupied tester and 
bedstead, and assigned to the bishop the 
bedstead upon which his wife's waiting- 
women did lie, and laid them on the 
ground. He lent the cardinal his own 
basin and . ewer, candlesticks from his 
own table, drinking-glasses, small cush- 
ions, and pots for the kitchen. My 
Lord of Leicester sent down two pair 
of fine sheets for the cardinal and one 
pair for the bishop. 

Harrison laments three things in his 
day : the enhancing of rents, the daily 
oppression of poor tenants by the lords 
of manors, and the practice of usury — 
a trade brought in by the Jews, but now 
practised by almost every Christian, so 
that he is accounted a fool that doth 
lend his money for nothing. He prays 
the reader to help him, in a lawful man- 
ner, to hang up all those that take cent, 
per cent, for money. Another grievance, 
and most sorrowful of all, is that 
many gentlemen, men of good port and 
countenance, to the injury of the farm- 
ers and commonalty, actually turn gra- 
ziers, butchers, tanners, sheep-masters, 
and woodmen. Harrison also notes the 
absorption of lands by the rich ; the de- 
cay of houses in the country, which 
comes of the eating up of the poor by 
the rich ; the increase of poverty ; the 
difficulty a poor man had to live on an 
acre of ground ; his forced contentment 
with bread made of oats and barley, and 
the divers places that formerly had good 
tenants and now were vacant, hop-yards 
and gardens. 

Harrison says it is not for him to de- 
scribe the palaces of Queen Elizabeth ; 
he dare hardly peep in at her gates. 
Her houses are of brick and stone, neat 
and well situated, but in good masonry 
not to be compared to those of Henry 
VIII. 's building ; they are rather curi- 
ous to the eye, like paper-works, than 
substantial for continuance. Her court 
is more magnificent than any other in 
Europe, whether you regard the rich 
and infinite furniture of the household, 
the number of officers, or the sumptuous 
entertainments. And the honest chroni- 
cler is so struck with admiration of the 
virtuous beauty of the maids of honor 
that he cannot tell whether to award 
pre-eminence to their amiable counte- 
nances or to their costliness of attire, 
between which there is daily conflict and 
contention. The courtiers of both sexes 
have the use of sundry languages and 
an excellent vein of writing. Would to 
God the rest of their lives and conver- 
sation corresponded with these gifts ! 
But the courtiers, the most learned, 
are the worst men when they come 
abroad that any man shall hear or read 
of. Many of the gentlewomen have 
sound knowledge of Greek and Latin, 
and are skilful in Spanish, Italian and 
French ; and the noblemen even surpass 
them. The old ladies of the court avoid 
idleness by needle-work, spinning of silk, 
or continual reading of the Holy Script- 
ures or of histories, and writing diverse 
volumes of their own, or translating for- 
eign works into English or Latin ; and 
the young ladies, when they are not 
waiting on her majesty, " in the mean 
time apply their lutes, citherns, prick- 
song, and all kinds of music." The 
elders are skilful in surgery and the dis- 
tillation of waters, and sundry other 
artificial practices pertaining to the orna- 
ture and commendation of their bodies ; 
and when they are at home they go into 
the kitchen and supply a number of deli- 
cate dishes of their own devising, mostly 
after Portuguese receipts ; and they prepare 
bills of fare (a trick lately taken up) 
to give a brief rehearsal of all the dishes 
of every course. I do not know whether 
this was called the " higher education of 
women " at the time. 

In every office of the palaces is a 
Bible, or book of acts of the church, or 
chronicle, for the use of whoever comes 
in, so that the court looks more like a 
university than a palace. Would to 
God the houses of the nobles were ruled 
like the queen's ! The nobility are fol- 
lowed by great troops of serving-men in 
showy liveries ; and it is a goodly sight 
to see them muster at court, which, be- 
ing filled with them, " is made like to 
the show of a peacock's tail in the full 
beauty, or of some meadow garnished 
with infinite kinds and diversity of 
pleasant flowers." Such was the disci- 
pline of Elizabeth's court that any man 
who struck another within it had his 
right hand chopped off by the execu- 
tioner in a most horrible manner. 

The English have always had a pas- 
sion for gardens and orchards. In the 
Roman time grapes abounded and wine 
was plenty, but the culture disappeared 
after the Conquest. From the time of 
Henry IV. to Henry VIII. vegetables 
were little used, but in Harrison's day 
the use of melons, pompions, radishes, 
cucumbers, cabbages, turnips, and the 
like was revived. They had beautiful 
flower-gardens annexed to the houses, 
wherein were grown also rare and me- 
dicinal herbs ; it was a wonder to see 
how many strange herbs, plants, and 
fruitswere daily brought from the Indies, 
America, and the Canaries. Every rich 
man had great store of flowers, and in 
one garden might be seen from three 
hundred to four hundred medicinal herbs. 
Men extol the foreign herbs to the neg- 
lect of the native, and especially tobac- 
co, "which is not found of so great effi- 
cacy as they write." In the orchards 
were plums, apples, pears, walnuts, fil- 
berts; and in noblemen's orchards store 
of strange fruit — apricots, almonds, 
peaches, figs, and even in some oranges, 
lemons, and capers. Grafters also were 
at work with their artificial mixtures, 
" dallying, as it were, with nature and her 
course, as if her whole trade were perfect- 
ly known unto them : of hard fruits they 
will make soft, of sour sweet, of sweet 
yet more delicate ; bereaving also some 
of their kernels, others of their cores, 
and finally endowing them with the flavor 
of musk, amber, or sweet spices at their 
pleasure." Gardeners turn annual into 
perpetual herbs, and such pains are 
they at that they even used dish-water 
for plants. The Gardens of Hesperides 
are surely not equal to these. Pliny 
tells of a rose that had sixty leaves on 
one bud, but in 1585 there was a rose in 
Antwerp that had one hundred and 
eighty leaves ; and Harrison might have 
had a slip of it for ten pounds, but 
he thought it a " tickle hazard." In 
his own little garden, of not above 
three hundred square feet, he had near 
three hundred samples, and not one of 
them of the common, or usually to be 
had. 

Our kin beyond sea have always been 
stout eaters of solid food, and in Eliz- 
abeth's time their tables were more 
plentifully laden than those of any other 
nation. Harrison scientifically accounts 
for their inordinate appetite. " The 
situation of our region," he says, "ly- 
ing near unto the north, does cause the 
heat of our stomachs to be of somewhat 
greater force ; therefore our bodies do 
crave a little more ample nourishment 
than the inhabitants of the hotter re- 
gions are accustomed withal, whose di- 
gestive force is not altogether so vehe- 
ment, because their internal heat is not 
so strong as ours, which is kept in by 
the coldness of the air, that from time 
to time (specially in winter) doth envi- 
ron our bodies." The north Britons in 
old times were accustomed often to great 
abstinence, and lived when in the woods 
on roots and herbs. They used some- 
times a confection, " whereof so much as 
a bean would qualify their hunger above 
common expectation"; but when they 
had nothing to qualify it with, they 
crept into the marsh water up to their 
chins, and there remained a long time, 
" only to qualify the heat of their stom- 
achs by violence." 

In Harrison's day the abstemious 
Welsh had learned to eat like the Eng- 
lish, and the Scotch exceeded the latter 
in " over much and distemperate 
gormandize." The English eat all they 
can buy, there being no restraint of any 
meat for religion's sake or for public 
order. The white meats — milk, but- 
ter, and cheese — though very dear, are 
reputed as good for inferior people, but 
the more wealthy feed upon the flesh of 
all sorts of cattle and all kinds of fish. 
The nobility (" whose cooks are for the 
most part musical-headed Frenchmen 
and strangers ") exceed in number of 
dishes and change of meat. Every day 
at dinner there is beef, mutton, veal, 
lamb, kid, pork, conie, capon, pig, or 
as many of these as the season yielded, 
besides deer and wild-fowl and fish, and 
sundry delicacies " wherein the sweet 
hand of the seafaring Portingale is not 
wanting." The food was brought in 
commonly in silver vessels at tables of 
the degree of barons, bishops, and upwards, 
and referred first to the principal 
personage, from whom it passed to the 
lower end of the table, the guests not 
eating of all, but choosing what each 
liked; and nobody stuffed himself. The 
dishes were then sent to the servants, 
and the remains of the feast went to the 
poor, who lay waiting at the gates in 
great numbers. 

Drink was served in pots, goblets, 
jugs, and bowls of silver in noblemen's 
houses, and also in Venice glasses. It 
was not set upon the table, but the cup 
was brought to each one who thirsted ; 
he called for such a cup of drink as he 
wished, and delivered it again to one of 
the bystanders, who made it clean by 
pouring out what remained, and restored 
it to the sideboard. This device was 
to prevent great drinking, which might 
ensue if the full pot stood always at the 
elbow. But this order was not used in 
noblemen's halls, nor in any order under 
the degree of knight or squire of great 
revenue. It was a world to see how the 
nobles preferred to gold and silver, which 
abounded, the new Venice glass, whence 
a great trade sprang up with Murano 
that made many rich. The poorest 
even would have glass, but home-made 
— a foolish expense, for the glass soon 
went to bits, and the pieces turned to 
no profit. Harrison wanted the philos- 
opher's stone to mix with this molten 
glass and toughen it. 

There were multitudes of dependants 
fed at the great houses, and everywhere, 
according to means, a wide-open hospi- 
tality was maintained. Froude gives a 
notion of the style of living in earlier 
times by citing the details of a feast 
given when George Neville, brother of 
Warwick the king - maker, was made 
archbishop of York. There were present, 
including servants, thirty-five hun- 
dred persons. These are a few of the 
things used at the banquet : three hun- 
dred quarters of wheat, three hundred 
tuns of ale, one hundred and four tuns 
of wine, eighty oxen, three thousand 
geese, two thousand pigs, four thousand 
conies, four thousand heronshaws, four 
thousand venison pasties cold and five 
hundred hot, four thousand cold tarts, 
four thousand cold custards, eight seals, 
four porpoises, and so on. 

The merchants and gentlemen kept 
much the same tables as the nobles, es- 
pecially at feasts, but when alone were 
content with a few dishes. They also 
desired the dearest food, and would have 
no meat from the butcher's but the most 
delicate, while their list of fruits, cakes, 
cates, and outlandish confections is as 
long as that at any modern banquet. 
Wine ran in excess. There were used 
fifty-six kinds of light wines, like the 
French, and thirty of the strong sorts, 
like the Italian and Eastern. The strong- 
er the wine, the better it was liked. The 
strongest and best was in old times called 
theologicum, because it was had from the 
clergy and religious men, to whose houses 
the laity sent their bottles to be filled, 
sure that the religious would neither 
drink nor be served with the worst ; for 
the merchant would have thought his 
soul should have gone straightway to the 
devil if he had sent them any but the 
best. The beer served at noblemen's 
tables was commonly a year old, and 
sometimes two, but this age was not 
usual. In households generally it was 
not under a month old, for beer was 
liked stale if it were not sour, while 
bread was desired as new as possible so 
that it was not hot. 

The husbandman and artificer ate such 
meat as they could easiest come by and 
have most quickly ready ; yet the ban- 
quets of the trades in London were not 
inferior to those of the nobility. The 
husbandmen, however, exceed in pro- 
fusion, and it is incredible to tell what 
meat is consumed at bridals, purifica- 
tions, and such like odd meetings ; but 
each guest brought his own provision, 
so that the master of the house had only 
to provide bread, drink, house-room, and 
fire. These lower classes Harrison found 
very friendly at their tables — merry 
without malice, plain without Italian or 
French subtlety — so that it would do a 
man good to be in company among them; 
but if they happen to stumble upon a 
piece of venison or a cup of wine or very 
strong beer, they do not stick to com- 
pare themselves with the lord-mayor — 
and there is no public man in any city 
of Europe that may compare with him 
in port and countenance during the term 
of his office. 

Harrison commends the great silence 
used at the tables of the wiser sort, and 
generally throughout the realm,and like- 
wise the moderate eating and drinking. 
But the poorer countrymen do babble 
somewhat at table, and mistake ribaldry 
and loquacity for wit and wisdom, and 
occasionally are cup-shotten ; and what 
wonder, when they who have hard diet 
and small drink at home come to such 
opportunities at a banquet ! The wealth- 
ier sort in the country entertain their 
visitors from afar, however long they 
stay, with as hearty a welcome the last 
day as the first; and the countrymen 
contrast this hospitality with that of 
their London cousins, who joyfully re- 
ceive them the first day, tolerate them 
the second, weary of them the third, and 
wish 'em at the devil after four days. 



The gentry usually ate wheat bread, 
of which there were four kinds ; and the 
poor generally bread made of rye, bar- 
ley, and even oats and acorns. Corn 
was getting so dear, owing to the fore- 
stalled and middle-men, that, says the 
historian, " if the world last a while after 
this rate, wheat and rye will be no grain 
for poor men to feed on ; and some 
catterpillers [two - legged speculators] 
there are that can say so much al- 
ready." 

The great drink of the realm was, of 
course, beer (and it is to be noted that 
a great access of drunkenness came into 
England with the importation much later 
of Holland gin) made from barley, hops, 
and water, and upon the brewing of it 
Harrison dwells lovingly, and devotes 
many pages to a description of the proc- 
ess, especially as "once in a month prac- 
tised by my wife and her maid servants." 





 

They ground eight bushels of malt, add- 
ed half a bushel of wheat meal, half a 
bushel of oat meal, poured in eighty gal- 
lons of water, then eighty gallons more, 
and a third eighty gallons, and boiled 
with a couple of pounds of hops. This, 
with a few spices thrown in, made three 
hogsheads of good beer, meet for a poor 
man who had only forty pounds a year. 
This two hundred gallons of beer cost al- 
together twenty shillings ; but although 
he says his wife brewed it " once in a 
month," whether it lasted a whole month 
the parson does not say. He was particu- 
lar about the water used : the Thames is 
best, the marsh worst, and clear spring 
water next worst ; " the fattest standing 
water is always the best." Cider and 
perry were made in some parts of Eng- 
land, and a delicate sort of drink in 
Wales, called metheglin ; but there was 
a kind of " swish-swash " made in Es- 





 

sex from honey-combs and water, called 
mead, which differed from the metheglin 
as chalk from cheese. 

In Shakespeare's day much less time 
was spent in eating and drinking than 
formerly, when, besides breakfast in the 
forenoon and dinners, there were " bev- 
erages" or " nuntion " after dinner, and 
supper before going to bed — "a toie 
brought in by hardie Canutus," who 
was a gross feeder. Generally there 
were, except for the young who could 
not fast till dinner-time, only two meals 
daily, dinner and supper. Yet the Nor- 
mans had brought in the habit of sitting 
long at the table — a custom not yet al- 
together abated, since the great people, 
especially at banquets, sit till two or 
three o'clock in the afternoon ; so that it 
is a hard matter to rise and go to even- 
ing prayers and return in time for sup- 
per. 





 

Harrison does not make much account 
of the early meal called " breakfast "; 
but Froude says that in Elizabeth's time 
the common hour of rising, in the coun- 
try, was four o'clock, summer and win- 
ter, and that breakfast was at five, after 
which the laborers went to work and 
the gentlemen to business. The Earl 
and Countess of Northumberland break- . 
fasted together and alone at seven. The 
meal consisted of a quart of ale, a quart 
of wine, and a chine of beef; a loaf of 
bread is not mentioned, but we hope 
(says Froude) it may be presumed. The 
gentry dined at eleven and supped at 
five. The merchants took dinner at 
noon, and, in London, supped at six. 
The university scholars out of term ate 
dinner at ten. The husbandmen dined at 
high noon, and took supper at seven or 
eight. As for the poorer sort, it is need- 
less to talk of their order of repast, for 





 

they dined and supped when they could. 
The English usually began meals with 
the grossest food and ended with the 
most delicate, taking first the mild wines 
and ending with the hottest ; but the 
prudent Scot did otherwise, making 
his entrance with the best, so that 
he might leave the worse to the me- 
nials. 

.1 will close this portion of our sketch 
of English manners with an extract from 
the travels of Hentzner, who visited 
England in 1598, and saw the great 
queen go in state to chapel at Green- 
wich, and afterwards witnessed the lay- 
ing of the table for her dinner. It was 
on Sunday. The queen was then in her 
sixth-fifth year, and " very majestic," 
as she walked in the splendid procession 
of barons, earls, and knights of the gar- 
ter: " her face, oblong, fair, but wrin- 
kled ; her eyes small, yet black and pleas- 





 

ant ; her nose a little hooked ; her lips 
narrow, and her teeth black (a defect 
the English seem subject to from their 
great use of sugar). She had in her 
ears two pearls with very rich drops ; 
she wore false hair, and that red ; upon 
her head she had a small crown, reported 
to be made of some of the gold of'the 
celebrated Lunebourg table. Her bosom 
was uncovered, as all the English ladies 
have it till they marry ; and she had on 
a necklace of exceeding fine jewels; her 
hands were small, her fingers long, and 
her stature neither small nor low; her 
air was stately, her manner of speaking 
mild and obliging. That day she was 
dressed in white silk, bordered with 
pearls of the size of beans, and over it 
a mantle of black silk, shot with silver 
threads ; her train was very long, and 
the end of it borne by a marchioness; 
instead of a chain she had an oblong collar 
of gold and jewels." As she swept 
on in this magnificence, she spoke gra- 
ciously first to one, then to another, and 
always in the language of any foreigner 
she addressed ; whoever spoke to her 
kneeled, and wherever she turned her 
face, as she was going along, everybody 
fell down on his knees. When she pulled 
off her glove to give her hand to be 
kissed, it was seen to be sparkling with 
rings and jewels. The ladies of the court, 
handsome and well shaped, followed, 
dressed for the most part in white ; 
and on either side she was guarded 
by fifty gentlemen pensioners with gilt 
battle-axes. In the ante-chapel, where 
she graciously received petitions, there 
was an acclaim of " Long live Queen 
Elizabeth !" to which she answered, " I 
thank you, my good people." The music 
in the chapel was excellent, and the 
whole service was over in half an hour. 

 

This is Hentzner's description of the 
setting out of her table : 

" A gentleman entered the room bear- 
ing a rod, and along with him another 
who had a table-cloth, which, after they 
had both kneeled three times, he spread 
upon the table ; and after kneeling again 
they both retired. Then came two 
others, one with the rod again, the other 
with a salt-cellar, a plate, and bread ; and 
when they had kneeled as the others had 
done, and placed what was brought upon 
the table, they two retired with the same 
ceremonies performed by the first. At 
last came an unmarried lady (we were 
told she was a countess) and along with 
her a married one, bearing a tasting- 
knife ; the former was dressed in white 
silk, who, when she had prostrated her- 
self three times, in the most graceful 
manner approached the table, and rubbed 
the plates with bread and salt, with as 
much awe as if the Queen had been pres- 
ent. When they had waited there a lit- 
tle while the Yeomen of the Guard en- 
tered, bare-headed^ clothed in scarlet, 
with a golden rose upon their backs, 
bringing in at each turn a course of twen- 
ty-four dishes, served in plate, most of 
it gilt ; these dishes were received by a 
gentleman in the same order they were 
brought, and placed upon the table, while 
the Lady Taster gave to each of the 
guard a mouthful to eat, of the particu- 
lar dish he had brought, for fear of any 
poison. During the time that this guard, 
which consists of the tallest and stout- 
est men that can be found in all Eng- 
land, being carefully selected for this 
service, were bringing dinner, twelve 
trumpets and two kettle-drums made 
the hall ring for half an hour together. 
At the end of all this ceremonial, a num- 
