Californias; one was black, the other as 
white as crystal. The family and guests 
of Casa Carillo sat on their horses, in their 
carretas, or stood just outside the fence 
surrounding the field. At one end were 
the several hundred Indians employed by 
Don Tiburcio, and several hundred more 
from the Mission. Father Osuna had 
also joined the party from the Casa, and 
Roldaa who had seen hundreds of horse 
races and was built on a more complex 
plan than his contemporaries, got as close 
to the priest as he dared and gave him his 
undivided attention. Padre Osuna was a 
man of unusual height and heaviness of 
build. His black eves were set close to 
his fine Roman nose. The mouth was so 
tightly compressed that its original curves 
were quite destroyed, and the intellectual 
development of the brow was very marked. 
His hands exerted a peculiar fascination 
over Roldan. They were of huge size, 
even for so big a man, lean and knotted, 
with square-tipped fingers. The skin on 
them was fine and brown : it looked as 
- jft as a woman's. He used them a good 
deal when talking, and not ungracefully; 
but they seemed to claw and grasp the 
air, to be independent of the arms hidden 
in the voluminous sleeves of the smart 
brown cassock. Other people watched 
those hands too they seemed to poss 
a magnetism of their own ; and everv one 
showed this priest great deference : he was 
one of the most successful disciplinarians 
in the Department of California, a bril 
liant speaker, an able adviser in matters 
of state, and a man of many social graces. 
" More agreeable to meet in the sala of 
the Mission than in a cave at midnight
thought Roldan. "Still " His scent for 
danger, particularly if it involved a match 
ing of wits, was very keen. 
The word was given. The race began. 
The dons shouted, the lovely faces between 
the bright folds of the rebosos flushed ex 
pectantly. From the black mass of Indians 
opposite came a mighty gurgle, which grad 
ually broke into a roar, 
" The black ! Fifty hides on the black ! " 
"The little bronze! She is a length 
ahead! Maclre cle dios! Six doubloons 
of Mexico on the little bronze ! " 
The priest pushed his way to the 
speaker, a wealthy ranchero who had been 
more than once to Mexico. 
" The white against the bronze, senor," 
he said. " Twenty otter skins to the six 
doubloons of Mexico." 
" Done, your reverence. I am honoured 
that you bet with me. But the white 
have you thought well, my father? " 
"She breathes well, and her legs are 
very clean." 
 
" True, my father, but look at the 
muscles of the little bronze. How they 
swell ! And the fire in the nostrils ! " 
" True, Don Jaime ; and if she wins, the 
skins are yours." 
As the horses darted down the track 
almost neck to neck, the excitement 
routed Spanish dignity. The dons stood 
up in their saddles, shouting and betting 
furiously. The women clapped their white 
idle hands, and cheered, and bet but 
with less recklessness : a small jewel or a 
second-best mantilla. As they could not 
remember what they had bet when the 
excitement was over, these debts were never 
paid ; but it pleased them mightily to 
make their little wagers. The men were 
betting ranchitas, horses, cattle, and, finally, 
their jewels and saddles and serapes. For 
each horse represented a different district 
of the Department, and there was much 
rivalry. 
The priest did not shout, and he made 
no more bets, but his eyes never left those 
figures speeding like arrows from the bow, 
the riders motionless as if but the effigies
of men strapped to the creatures of 
fire beneath. Sometimes the black gained, 
then the little bronze; once the white 
dashed a full three yards beyond his
fellows, and Roldan saw the great hands of 
the priest, which had been clinched against 
his shoulders, open spasmodically, then 
close harder than ever as the white quickly 
dropped back again. 
It was a very close race. The excite 
ment grew tense and painful. Even Rol 
dan felt it finally, and forgot the priest. 
The big bronze had quite dropped out 
of it and was lagging homeward, hardly 
greeted by a hiss. The others were almost 
neck and neck, the little bronze slightly in 
the lead. "She wins," thought Roldan, 
"No! No! The black! the black! Ay, 
no, the bronze! but no! no! Ay! Ay! 
Ay!" A roar went up that ended in a 
shriek. The black had won. 
Roldan looked at the priest. His skin 
was livid, his nostrils twitching. But his 
mouth and eyes told nothing. 
The crowd rode home, still excited, 
gay, cheerful. Their losses mattered not. 
 
Were not their acres numbered by the 
hundred thousand ? Did they not have 
more horses and cattle than they would 
ever count ? In those days of pleasure 
and plenty, of luxury and unconsidered 
generosity, a rancho, a caponara the less, 
meant a loss neither to be felt nor 
remembered. 
After the bountiful supper the guests 
loitered for a time in the courtyard, then 
the sala was cleared and the dance began. 
Several of the girls danced alone, while 
the caballeros clapped and shouted. Then 
all waltzed or took part in their only square 
dance, the contradanza. They kept it up 
until morning. Needless to say, our 
heroes went to bed at an early hour. 
They were up the next morning with 
the dawn, and in company with Rafael and 
the other guests of their own age, went for 
their canter. This time they avoided the 
hills behind the Mission, as they had no 
wish to share their secret, and a chance 
word might divulge all. They rode toward 
the hills at the head of the valley. Roldan 
was still the hero of the hour, and Rafael, 
 
although the most generous of boys, 
resented it a little. He was not without 
ambitions of his own, and determined to 
seize the first opportunity to remind his 
companions that the son of Don Tiburcio 
Carillo, the greatest ranchero of that
section of the Californias, had not the habit 
to occupy the humble position of tag- 
behind even to so brilliant and adventur 
ous a guest as Rolclan Castaiiada. 
He soon found his opportunity. 
As they reached the first hill they saw a 
bull feeding on its summit. " Aha ! " cried 
the young don of the Rancho Encarna- 
cion. " Now I will make for you a little 
morning entertainment, my friends. Col- 
iar! coliar!" 
"No! no! "cried the boys. "The hill 
is too steep. It is like the side of a 
house. You will break your neck, my 
friend." 
Roldan said : " It is dangerous, but it 
could be done." 
" I can do it," said Rafael, proudly, 
"and I shall." 
The other boys, good sportsmen as they 
 
all were, shouted, " No ! no ! " again ; but 
Rafael laughed gaily, and forced his horse 
up the almost perpendicular declivity, l
eisurely unwinding his lariat from the high 
pommel of his saddle, and tossing it into 
big snake-like loops, which he gathered 
one by one into his hand, the last about 
his thumb. The bull fed on unsuspecting, 
for the early green of winter was very de 
licious after eight months of unrelenting 
sunshine. When Rafael reached the summit
he rode back for some distance, then 
came at the bull full charge, yelling like 
a demon. The bull, terrified and indig 
nant, gave a mighty snort and leaped over 
the brow of the hill. It was much like 
descending the slightly inclined side of a 
cliff, but he kept his footing. The boys 
held their breath as Rafael rode straight 
over the brow in the wake of the bull. 
With one hand he held the bridle in a 
tight grip, in the other he held aloft the 
coils of the lariat. It looked like a huge 
snake, and quivered as if aware that it was 
about to spring. There was no cheering; 
the boys were too much alarmed. A mis- 
 
step and there would be a hideous heap 
at the foot of the hill. 
The little mustang appeared scarcely to 
touch the uneven surface of the descent. 
He looked as if galloping in air, and 
tossed his head fiercely as though to shake 
the rising sun out of his eyes. The bull 
seemed continually gathering himself for 
a great leap, his clumsy bulk heaving from 
side to side. But a quarter of the distance 
had been traversed when the great curves 
of the lasso sprang forward, and, amidst a 
hoarse murmur from the boys, caught the 
bull below the horns. But that was all. 
The bull would not down ! There would 
be no coliar! He merely ran on the 
brute! the beast! jerking his horns 
defiantly, putting down his head, nearly 
dragging Rafael from the saddle. But 
no ! but no ! Rafael has risen in his saddle, 
he has forced his mustang the harder, he 
is almost level with the bull he has 
passed ! He gives a great jerk, dragging 
the bull to his knees, then another, and 
the bull is on his side and rolling over and 
over down the hill, Rafael following fast, 
 
slackening his lariat. The boys now cheer 
wildly, although danger is not over yes, 
in another moment it is, and Rafael, smiling
complacently, is at the foot of the hill, 
disengaging the humbled bull. 
" Bravo ! " said a voice from behind the 
horses. All turned with a start. It was 
the priest. " Coliar was never better 
done," he added graciously; and Rafael 
felt that the day was his. 
The priest had ridden up unnoted in 
the tense excitement of the last few mo 
ments. He sat a big powerful horse, and 
his bearing was as military as that of the 
two great generals of the Californias, 
Castro and Vallejo. 
As the boys, congratulations and modest 
acknowledgement over, were making for 
home and breakfast, the priest pressed his 
horse close to Roldan's. " I interested 
you much at the race yesterday, Don 
Roldan," he said, with a good-humoured 
smile. "Why was that?" 
Roldan was not often embarrassed, but 
he was so taken aback at the abrupt sally 
he forgot to be flattered-that the priest had 
 
evidently thought it worth while to inquire 
his name ; and stammered : " I well, you 
see, my father, you are not like other 
priests." Which was not undiplomatic. 
The priest smiled, this time with a faint 
flush of unmistakable pleasure. " You are 
right, my son, I am not as other priests in 
this wilderness. Would to Heaven I were, 
or " 
" Or that you were in Spain ? " Roldan 
could not resist saying, then caught his 
breath at his temerity. 
The priest turned about and faced him 
squarely. " Yes," he said deliberately, 
" and that I were a cardinal of Rome. 
Such words I have never uttered to mortal 
before; but if I am not as other men, neither 
are you as other lads. Some day you will 
be a Castro or an Alvarado; it is written 
in your face. Perhaps something more, 
for changes may come and your oppor 
tunities be greater. But I I am no 
longer young ; there is no hope in 
California for me." 
" Why do you not return to Spain ? " 
" I have written. They will not answer. 
 
In my youth I was wild. They forced 
me to come here. I had no money. I 
was obliged to obey. I have christianised 
a few hundred worthless savages who were 
better off in their barbarism, and I have 
made myself a power among a few thou 
sand men of whom the outer world, the 
great world, knows nothing. My Mission 
is the most prosperous in the Californias 
and I " he set and ground his teeth. 
Roldan thought of the gold. "When 
I am governor of the Californias, my 
father," he said, " I shall send you back to 
Spain, for then I shall have great
influence and much o^old." 
At the last word the priest's eyes flamed 
with so fierce a light that Roldan shrank 
back repelled, feeling himself in the pres 
ence of a passion of which he had no 
knowledge. But the priest controlled him 
self at once. " Thank you, my son," he 
said with a brilliant smile. " And I do 
not ask you to guard as your own what I 
have said. It is a part of the power of 
such natures as yours that you know what 
to repeat and what to leave unsaid." Then 
as they approached the house he suddenly 
took Roldan's slender elegant hand in one 
of his mighty paws, shook it heartily, and 
flinging his bridle to a vaquero, sprang 
lightly to the ground and entered the 
courtyard, leaving our hero in a condition 
of flattered bewilderment. 
XVI 
THAT day there was to be a grand 
rodeo, or " round-up : " the branding 
of cattle ; not only of the stock belonging 
to Don Tiburcio, but of many of his neigh 
bours, which would be driven over to his 
rancho for the operation. This was one 
of the great occasions of the year. Im 
mediately after breakfast the neighbours 
began to arrive, magnificently mounted, 
sparkling with gold and silver lace, their 
wives and daughters each surrounded by 
her cavalcade. About ten the gorgeous 
company, led by the host, started for an 
immense corral about three miles from 
the house. The boys were well to the 
front, and established themselves on the 
wall of the corral. The rest of the party 
remained on their horses, but mounted the 
little slopes. The green winter landscape 
 
had suddenly become a blaze of colour, 
and never was there a more animated 
scene. Over all hung a light haze. The 
distant mountains, which could be seen 
from the outer valley, were almost invisible.
The priest, a huge brown figure, on 
his big brown horse, stood on the very 
apex of the highest knoll. 
Presently, from various directions rose 
a low deep murmur, then a rumble of 
growing volume as of an approaching 
earthquake. Men and women grasped 
their bridles with firmer fingers, and 
pressed still nearer to the crests of the 
many mounds. Then over the hills on 
every side came a mass of tossing horns 
and sleek shining bodies, separated here 
and there by a shouting vaquero, whose 
black and silver seemed pierced at every 
point by those white curving horns. The 
cattle, several thousand in number, trotted 
over the hills and toward the corral swiftly, 
but in good order, held well in check by 
the careful vaqueros. There was no cheer 
ing, for excitement was to be avoided. 
The cattle would stand any amount of the 
 
shouting they were used to, but little from 
unaccustomed throats. 
In the corral, at its farther end, stood, 
by an oven, a tall muscular Indian, the 
most famous brander in that part of the 
country. He was stripped to the waist, 
and as the first steer was driven through 
the narrow gate, he plucked a red-hot 
iron from the coals. The beast, kicking 
and bellowing, was flung to the ground 
by a dexterous twist of his tail, two more 
Indians held him in position, and the 
branding was accomplished. 
Almost before he was up another was 
prostrate ; and they followed each other in 
such rapid succession that the wonder 
was some were not branded twice. As 
fast as each brute received his mark he 
was driven out of another gate and over 
the hills, lest his ill-nature should be the 
cause of wild disorder. 
The vaqueros handled their dangerous 
charges with admirable skill, keeping those 
to be branded in groups of a hundred or 
more at some distance from the corral, 
riding round them constantly with peremptory 
shouts. Other vaqueros, belong 
ing to the same herd, segregated the 
animals immediately required and drove 
them in a straight line for the corral. 
There was not a moment of pause. The 
vaqueros, the brander, and his assistants 
seemed impervious to fatigue ; the cattle, 
shifting uneasily in their bands, leaped 
eagerly from the lines at the first signal 
from the vaquero bearing down on them 
like a fury from the corral. On the far 
side, otherwise deserted, the sore indig 
nant beasts scampered as fast as their legs 
could carry them whithersoever their 
vaquero chose to drive. 
After two hours or more, the atmos 
phere was charged with a certain breath 
less excitement, as was natural enough. 
The constant cyclonic rush of vaqueros 
and cattle, the angry bellowings, the in 
creasing masses of animals, the furious 
shouts of the men, had changed a peace 
able landscape into a vast theatre full of 
tragic possibilities. The waiting cattle 
were growing more and more restless, and 
there was a low rumble among them. 
 
Don Tiburcio motioned to his guests that 
it was time to leave ; moreover, it was nearly
the dinner hour. 
" Rafael ! " he called. His son turned 
his head impatiently, but prepared to 
obey ; the California!! youth was brought 
up on rigid lines. 
" Ay, must we go ? " cried Adan. " I 
could stand here till night, even without 
dinner, my friends." 
" I, too, am sorry," began Roldan. " But 
what is the matter ? " 
The great masses of cattle had begun 
to heave suddenly. They were uttering 
hoarse growls of terror. The mustangs 
of the vaqueros stood suddenly still, quiv 
ering. Then, abruptly, a horrible stillness 
fell. All things breathing seemed to pet 
rify. But only for numbered seconds. 
From beneath came a low roar, gather 
ing in volume like the progression of a 
tidal wave; then the world heaved and 
rocked. 
" Temblor ! temblor ! " went up as from 
one mighty horrified throat. The priest 
shouted to the boys : " Stay where you 
are;" to Don Tiburcio and his guests: 
" With all your speed after me." 
They understood his meaning. The 
cattle were leaping over one another, 
bellowing madly, giving no heed to the 
hoarse cries of the terrified vaqueros. In 
a moment a blaze of colour was flying 
down the valley, a long brown arm lifted 
high above it. In twenty seconds five 
thousand tossing horns and blazing eyes 
and heaving flanks were in pursuit. 
The vaqueros did their best, although 
their faces were white and their lips
shaking. Three that were between the unit 
ing herds, had their legs crushed into their 
mustangs sides, and were borne along and 
aloft, shrieking horribly, adding to the fury 
of the stampede. Another, trying to head 
the cattle off, rode into a sudden split in 
the hard adobe soil and went down beneath 
those iron feet. 
The boys clung together. The wall 
was broad, but it rocked continuously, 
whether from other shocks or from the 
hoof-assaulted earth it would have been 
impossible to say. A curving outer flank 
 
of the flying mass bulged against it, and 
it quivered horribly with the impact. The 
boys strained their eyes after the retreat 
ing points of colour. Would they escape ? 
Were the frightened mustangs fleeter of 
foot than those maddened brutes? And 
if they were the Casa! 
"I think," said Roldan, "that we had 
better get down on the other side. This 
wall may go down any minute; and the 
cattle are all looking in one direction." 
"You are right," said Rafael. "This 
way Ay de mi ! " 
There was another heave of the earth, 
distinct from the steady vibration of
stampeding cattle. The adobe wall rocked 
violently, sprang, twisted, crumbled to the 
ground, a heap of dust. 
For a moment the boys were invisible. 
Then they emerged, one by one, choking 
and spitting, rubbing their eyes with their 
knuckles. When they had recovered some 
measure of vision they huddled together, 
staring with affrighted eyes at the 
moving wall of cattle not twenty yards to their 
left, hardly able to keep their balance. 
Suddenly Roldan pulled his wits to 
gether. "Sit down," he said. "We are 
the colour now of the earth. If we keep 
quiet and look no taller than weeds they 
will not see us and we shall not be hurt." 
The boys dropped to the ground and sat 
in silence, staring ahead of them. Would 
that rushing, heaving, bellowing mass have 
no end ? It was indeed a long time before 
the last line, curiously compact, swept by. 
Occasionally the earth jumped with brief 
abruptness, causing hair to crackle at the 
roots, and dust-laden as it was, make as if 
to rise on end. The squirrels were screech 
ing in the trees. The birds pitifully twit 
tered. Even the leaves rustled in response 
to those terrible quivers. 
The cattle were a red streak at the end 
of the perspective. The boys rose, shook 
themselves, and walked heavily to their 
tethered mustangs. The poor beasts were 
trembling and whinnying ; they greeted 
their young masters with a quavering neigh 
of relief. The boys mounted ; but although 
they rode rapidly, with ever increasing 
impatience, they paused every few moments 
 
to listen ; there was likely to be a return 
stampede at any moment. More than 
once they were obliged to swerve suddenly 
aside from yawning rifts, and they passed 
a spring of boiling water, spouting and 
hissing upward, which had not been there 
in the morning. They were too frightened 
to talk ; not only the paralysing awe of the 
earthquake was upon them, but the least 
imaginative saw his home levelled to the 
ground, his relatives and friends trodden 
down into the cracking earth. Hills lay 
between them and the Casa Encarnacion. 
There were two exits from the valley 
where the branding had taken place: one, 
very narrow, to the right, which led 
directly to the house, the other straight 
ahead, almost as broad as the valley itself. 
The boys saw at a glance that pursued 
and pursuers had taken the more spacious 
way, and they followed without consultation. 
The crushed grass looked like green 
blood, but there was no other evidence of 
slaughter; the mustangs had been fleeter 
than the cattle. The latter had evidently 
 
kept well together, for on either side of a 
swath some three hundred yards in width, 
the grass stood high. 
They were in a wide valley now ; they 
could see the great mountains, still faint 
under their vapourous mist, the redwoods 
as rigid of outline as if the heart of the 
world beneath had never changed its 
measure. Just beyond this valley was a 
wood, then the Mission. Were twenty 
thousand hoofs trampling among its 
ruins ? 
They left the valley, entered the wood, 
galloped down its narrow path, and 
emerged. The Mission stood on its pla 
teau above the river, as serene and proud 
as the redwoods on the mountain. She 
had held her own against many earthquakes 
and would against many more. But there 
was not a horn, a horse, a man, nor a 
woman to be seen. 
The boys dismounted, not daring to 
think. They walked toward the build 
ings, then paused to listen. Through the 
open doors of the church rolled the sono 
rous tones of Padre Osuna's voice, inton- 
 
ing mass. The boys ran forward to enter 
the building. They paused on the threshold, 
held by a sight, the like of which had 
never been seen in California before, and 
never shall be again. 
Near the entrance of the vast building 
were a multitude of half-clothed dusky 
forms, prone. Between them and the 
altar were more than an hundred horses, 
caparisoned with silver and carved leather, 
and gay aquera. They stood as if petrified. On them, huddled to the arching 
necks, in an attitude of prostrate devotion, 
were magnificent bunches of colour; scarce 
an outline could be seen of the proudly 
attired men and women who had fled 
before a tidal wave of tossing horns. 
Father Osuna, in his coarse brown woollen 
robes, stood before the altar, chanting the 
mass of thanksgiving. The church blazed 
with the light of many candles. The air 
was thick and sweet with incense. 
XVII 
AFTER the mass was over the boys 
learned the sequel of the morning's 
terrible adventure. Between the second 
valley and the wood the cattle, diverted by 
one of those mysterious impulses which 
govern masses of all grades of intelligence, 
had deflected suddenly and raced for the 
hills. The gay company was much shaken, 
but somewhat restored by the calm of the 
church and the solemn monotonous roll 
of Father Osuna's voice. They cantered 
slowly homeward, and crossed themselves 
fervently when they saw the Casa Encarnacion none the worse for her shaking, 
beyond a few fallen tiles. After dinner 
and siesta they recovered their natural 
spirits, and the men and boys went forth 
with the vaqueros to hunt the cattle. 
These were found at the foot of the 
mountain, weary and humble. Not a 
 
horn was tossed in defiance at the volley 
of abuse hurled upon them, and they 
allowed themselves to be driven to the 
ranches of their respective owners without 
a protest. 
That evening the household and guests 
of Casa Encarnacion spent in music and 
dancing ; so light of heart and careless of 
mind were the people of that time and 
country. 
A number of cattle had been trampled 
to death in the stampede, and the bodies 
lay within a few miles of the mountains. 
It was inevitable that bears would come out 
to eat the carcasses. On the night of the 
day of terrifying memory no one felt equal 
to the exertion of another ten mile ride 
and the subsequent battle with a possible 
herd of bears. But at eight o'clock orb 
the following night Don Tiburcio, Padre 
Osuna, the boys, some ten of the caba- 
lleros, and as many vaqueros mounted 
and rode forth for a good night's sport. 
The moon was thin and low. As they 
approached the spot where the first of the 
wild band had succumbed to fatigue they 
saw a dark object moving beside the carcass. The approach was stealthy, but the 
bear suddenly raised his head. In a second five or six lassos had sprung through 
the air. One caught the bear a brown 
bear of moderate size about the neck, 
another about a hind leg. The brute 
drew his legs together like a bucking 
horse and leaped into the air, then plunged 
toward his tormentors ; but those that had 
him in lasso galloped in different directions, and poor bruin was quickly strained 
and strangled to death. Two vaqueros 
were left to skin him, and the party rode 
on. In a very few moments they saw a 
moving group some distance ahead. Spur 
ring their mustangs they dashed forward, 
letting the lassos fly. Now the sport be 
came truly exciting and dangerous. Some 
six or eight brown bears, of varying sizes, 
growled furiously and bounded toward 
the intruders. Three were caught in the 
meshes of the rope, the others were making straight for the horses. There was only 
one thing to do. The men put spurs and 
galloped rapidly away, the bears plunging 
 
heavily in pursuit. When the men had 
outdistanced the bears by a hundred yards 
or more, they wheeled suddenly and trotted 
back, once more letting fly the lasso. 
This time all but one were roped; as they 
kicked in fury, their hind legs were caught 
by the lariats held in reserve ; and there 
followed a scene of plunging and springing, galloping, shouting, growling ; and 
neighing, for the mustangs were fully 
alive to their part. 
The one bear at liberty rode straight for 
Roldan. 
He had hurled his lasso with the rest, 
and it was trailing. He jerked about and 
fled for a mile or more, holding on with 
his legs while both hands were occupied 
gathering in the rope and coiling it 
about the high pommel of his saddle. 
Then he turned and charged full at the 
bear, who was hot in pursuit and no mean 
runner. He hurled the lariat. It fell 
short, and lay quivering on the ground 
like a huge wounded snake. Roldan gave 
an exclamation, of surprise as much as of 
dismay: he was an expert with the rope. 
He turned, however, dragging it in. It 
caught about the mustang's hind legs. 
The beast went down, neighing with 
horror. Roldan tried to jerk him to his 
feet. He seemed hopelessly entangled. 
Roldan extricated himself, knowing that 
he was comparatively safe, as bears prefer 
horse-meat to man's. He had no sooner 
got his feet free of the boots than the 
mustang leaped to his feet and fled like a 
hare, dragging the lariat in a straight line 
after him. 
Roldan was alone, the bear not ten 
yards away. The rest of his party were a 
mile and more behind. No one appar 
ently had noticed his flight with the solitary bear. The light was uncertain and 
the excitement over there intense. 
Roldan took to his agile young heels. 
But the bear gathered himself and leaped, 
not once but several times. There was 
no doubt that his blood was up, and that 
he meant a duel to the death. Roldan 
turned with a catching of what breath was 
left in him. He mechanically drew his 
knife from its pocket and flourished it at 
the advancing bear. Bruin cared as little 
for steel as for rope. He came on with a 
mighty growl. 
Roldan gave one rapid glance about. 
There was not even a tree in sight. From 
his point of departure an object seemed 
approaching, but it was too dark to tell as 
yet whether it was a horseman or another 
bear. The brute was almost on him, pant 
ing mightily. All the senses between 
Roldan's skeleton and his skin concen 
trated in the determination to live. He 
sprang forward and plunged his long 
knife into the protruding injected eye of 
the bear, then leaped aside, his dripping 
knife in his hand, and danced about the 
maddened beast with the agility of a 
modern prize-fighter. The bear, too, 
danced, as if obsessed by some infernal 
music ; and the skipping, and leaping, and 
dodging, and waltzing of these two would 
have been ludicrous had it not been a 
matter of life and horrid death. Through 
it all Roldan was vaguely conscious of 
approaching hoof beats, but there was no 
room in his consciousness for hope or 
 
despair. He was not even aware that he 
was panting as if his lungs and throat 
were bursting, nor even that his vision was 
a trifle blurred from constant and rapid 
change of focus and surcharged veins. 
But he executed his dance of life as unerringly as if fresh from his bed and bath. 
The bear, a clumsy creature at best, and 
streaming and blinded with his blood, was 
slackening a little, but there was life in 
him yet, and twice its measure of vengeance. Suddenly he lay down, but be 
came so abruptly inert that Roldan was 
not deceived. Instead of putting himself 
within reach of those waiting arms he fled 
with all his strength. It was then that he 
knew how fully that strength was spent: 
his lungs and legs refused to work with his 
will and impulse after the first hundred 
yards, and he fell to the ground with a 
sensation of utter indifference, longing only 
for physical rest. He heard the bear 
plunging after, the loud sound of a horse's 
hoofs, mingled with a single shout, then 
gave up his consciousness. 
He awoke in a few moments. Adan 
was bending over him, propping his head. 
" The bear ? " he demanded, ashamed of 
the pitiful quality of his voice. 
" I came just in time to rope him," 
replied Adan. " You were a fool, my 
friend, to go off alone like that but very 
brave," he added hastily, knowing that 
Roldan did not like criticism. 
" You are quite right. And this is the 
second time you and your lariat have 
saved me. Perhaps it may be the other 
way some time." 
" Likely it will if you go on hunting for 
adventures as the old women hunt for 
fleas of a night. Do you feel able to 
get on my horse ? It will carry the two 
of us." 
" If I were not equal to that much I 
should find another bear and go to sleep 
in his arms." 
XVIII 
AT last the night arrived for the 
gold quest. The guests had gone. 
Roldan, A dan, and Rafael were alone on 
their side of the great house. They 
waited, kicking their heels together with 
leashed impatience, until eleven o'clock. 
The family and servants of Casa Encarnacion went to bed at ten o'clock, but 
it was the custom of Don Tiburcio to 
go the rounds a half or three quarters 
of an hour later and see that his strict 
laws were as strictly obeyed. To-night, 
when he opened the doors of the three 
young dons in succession, heels were 
still, and breathing was as monotonous as 
his own would be an hour later. At 
eleven the boys dressed and swung from 
their windows, not daring to leave by the 
courtyard. Nor did they dare go to the 
corral and abstract three horses. Much 
 
to their distaste, for there was nothing the 
California!! hated so much as to travel on 
two legs, they were obliged to walk the 
miles between the Casa and the hills. But 
their legs were young and their brains 
eager; in little over an hour they were in 
sight of the Mission. 
It looked very white and ghostly in the 
pale blaze of the moon, a huge mass, full 
of prayer and discontent. Close beside it, 
but without the walls, the Indians slept in 
the rancheria, quiescent enough, for they 
had no Anastacio. At midnight the great 
bells in the tower had rung out, filling the 
valley with their sweet silver clamour ; but 
as the boys approached and skirted the 
wall, some distance to the right, the Mission might have been as lifeless as it is 
this year, in its desertion and decay. 
The hills were a mile behind. The 
Mission, like all of its kind, stood on a 
broad open, that no hostile tribe might 
approach unseen. Cows and horses lay 
in their first heavy sleep, their breathing 
hardly ruffling the profound stillness. So 
great an air of repose did the silent walls 
 
and sleeping beasts give to the landscape 
that the boys felt the quiet of the night as 
they had not done in the other valley, and 
drew closer together, almost holding their 
breath lest the priests might hear it. A 
quarter of an hour later they were among 
the hills and standing before the aperture 
whose secrets were known only to Padre 
Osuna. They glanced at each other out 
of the corners of their eyes. Brave as 
they were, they did not altogether like the 
idea of a possible encounter with a rattle 
snake or a bear in the dark and narrow 
confines of a cave. And if there should 
be another earthquake ! However, they 
had not come to turn back, and Roldan 
pushed boldly in, the others following 
close. 
For a time their way lay along a narrow 
passage. They had made two abrupt turns 
before they dared to light the lantern they 
had brought. When Rafael did, it revealed 
nothing but earthy walls and the imprint 
of feet on the ground. After a little, 
however, the passage suddenly widened, 
and it was Adan who uttered the first exclamation of surprise. It was, indeed, a 
hoarse gurgle. The walls were veined 
with what appeared to be irregular bands 
of dirty crystal, pricked with glittering 
yellow There were, perhaps, a thousand 
of these little points bared from the jealous 
earth, and they shone with a steady baleful 
glare, magnetising six youthful eyes, stir 
ring in three careless brains the ghosts of 
ancient gold-lust, whose concrete substance 
lay in the marble vaults of Spain. Immediately Roldan's sympathy went out to 
the priest ; and he knew that that com 
manding intelligence could teach him one 
thing the less. 
There was a rough pick on the ground, 
and many junks of quartz. Roldan struck 
and rubbed two pieces together. In a 
moment his palm was filled with jagged 
pieces of yellow metal. He blew on them 
lovingly, then put them in his pocket. 
" Dios de mi alma ! " gasped Rafael, 
whose eyes were bulging from his head. 
" It is as beautiful as the stars of the sky, 
the stars in the milky way with the film 
over them." 
" But we need no more stars," said Adan. 
" We shall take away our pockets full, but 
what shall we do with it ? Surely this will 
not made to rot with the earth. But it is 
too small for what you call money, if that 
is so big as you say, Roldan. It would 
make fine nails for a church door." 
" Now is not the time to think what you 
will do with it," said Roldan. "It is 
enough that we have it to get. Much is 
very loose in the crystal. Rub free all 
that you can, and fill every pocket. We 
will take all we can carry away, and come 
again and again. Some day, when we are 
men, perhaps, we will find a use for it. I 
for one do not believe that anything that 
makes you love it can do harm. Does 
not the Church teach us to love all things ? 
Now let us work and not talk." 
The boys in turn hacked out great 
pieces of quartz and rubbed the free gold 
loose. Much of it could only be crushed 
out in machinery made for the purpose, 
but a sufficient quantity of the quartz was 
poor and soft. As the boys worked, they 
grew more and more silent, more and more 
 
absorbed. They forgot their delight in 
rodeo, coliar, bear-hunts, bull-fights, riding 
about the ranches from morning till noon, 
the race, the religious processions, the 
dulces of their mothers cooks. A new 
and mighty passion possessed them, the 
strongest they had ever known. Their 
lips were pressed hard together those 
soft Spanish lips that were usually half 
apart their eyes glowed with a steady 
fire. Their chests rose and fell in short 
regular spasms. 
Suddenly a thrill ran through Roldan. 
He had felt it before when a rattlesnake, 
ready to strike, had fixed its green malig 
nant eyes upon him. He flashed the lan 
tern about swiftly, twisting his neck with 
deep anxiety. It would be no minor adventure to encounter a coiled rattler in 
this narrow place. Then he saw some 
thing white shining out of the darkness 
high above the rays, a large white disk, in 
which glittered two points of light inexpressibly infuriate. 
Roldan sprang to his feet with a warning cry. The other boys, greed routed by 
  
the danger sense, were on their feet as 
quickly. As the three lads, none very tall 
for his age, faced the gigantic bulk of the 
priest, they looked cornered and helpless. 
The priest, unconsciously beyond doubt, 
lifted his huge hands, opening and shutting 
them slowly. The movement had an ugly 
significance, and the hands, in the miser 
able glimmer of light, looked like great 
bats, and seemed to pervade the cavern. 
Involuntarily the boys squirmed. Then 
Roldan, mindful always of his proud posi 
tion as captain of his small band, stepped 
in front of that band and spoke with a 
vocal control that did him much credit, 
considering that his heart seemed to be 
kicking in the middle of his stomach. 
" These hills are just beyond the Mission 
grant, Padre Osuna," he said. " Nor are 
they on any rancho. Therefore what is in 
them is as much ours as any man's. This 
is the first time that we have been here, 
but it will not be the last ; and when I am 
the governor of all the Californias, I shall 
send many Indians to dig the very heart 
out of these hills. So pick out all that 
 
you can now, Padre Osuna, for ten years 
hence " 
As he spoke fear gave place to exulta 
tion in finding himself pitted against a man 
whom he intuitively respected more than 
any he had ever met, and whom he knew 
most men feared and none understood. 
Moreover, he heard two sets of teeth clattering behind him, and that alone would 
have sent the blood of a born leader of 
men back to its skin. 
But his speech did not proceed to the 
finish. The priest swooped down and 
caught the three necks between his hands, 
easily spanning them, pressing the heads 
hard together. Then he lifted the boys 
high in the air and held them there, a 
kicking, humiliated trio. The blanched 
olive of his face was reflected in the pallid 
brows at the extremity of his rigid arms. 
His voice, which had been lost in passion, 
found itself. 
"And when your Indians come, Senor 
Don Roldan," he said, " they will find three 
skeletons six feet beneath the floor of this 
cave. You will never leave this cave, not 
 
one of you. When you are dead for want 
of food and drink, I shall return and bury 
you. And no one will seek you here." 
Suddenly he dashed them to the ground. 
" A thousand curses go with you," he 
shrieked, " to make a murderer of me. I 
was near enough to hell before " 
" And our fingers will scratch the 
ground beneath your feet," interrupted 
Roldan, who between mortification and 
rage felt equal himself to murder, but 
determined as ever to hold his own. " Our 
skulls will grin at you from every corner 
as you work " 
