
There were two quaint rush-bottomed chairs and a yellow stool, such as
we tie with ribbons and call a milking stool. A nice warm rug lay at the
side of the bed, and a smaller one at the washing stand. These were
woven like rag carpet, but made of woolen rags with plenty of ends
standing up all over, like the surface of a Moquette carpet. They were
considered quite handsome then, as they were more trouble than braided
rugs, and so soft to the foot. Some strenuous housekeepers declared them
terrible dust catchers.

Doris' delight in the room amply repaid Miss Recompense. She had learned
her way about, and could come down alone, now that the weather had grown
pleasanter, and she was full of joy over everything. Occasionally Uncle
Winthrop would be out, then she and Miss Recompense would have what they
called a "nice talk."

Miss Recompense Gardiner was quite sure she had never seen just such a
child. Indeed at five-and-forty she was rather set in her ways, disliked
noise and bustle, and could not bear to have a house "torn up," as she
phrased it. Twelve years before she had come here to "housekeep," as the
old phrase went. She had not lacked admirers, but she had been very
particular. Her sisters said she was a born old maid. There was in her
soul a great love of refinement and order.

Mr. Winthrop Adams just suited her. He was quiet, neat, made no trouble,
and did not smoke. That was a wretched habit in her estimation. Cousin
Charles used to come over, and different branches of the family were
invited in now and then to tea. Cary was a rather proper, well-ordered
boy, trained by his mother's sister, who had married and gone away just
before the advent of Miss Gardiner. There had been some talk that Mr.
Winthrop might espouse Miss Harriet Cary in the course of time, but as
there were no signs, and Miss Cary had an excellent offer of marriage,
she accepted it.

Cary went to the Latin School and then to Harvard. He was a fair average
boy, a good student, and ready for his share of fun at any time. His
father had marked out his course, which was to be law, and Cary was
indifferent as to what he took up.

So they had gone on year after year. It promised a pleasant break to
have the little girl.

The greatest trouble, Miss Recompense thought, would be making Solomon
feel at home. Doris brought his cushion, and the box he slept in at
night was sent. Warren brought him over in a bag and they put him in the
closet for the night. He uttered some pathetic wails, and Doris talked
to him until he quieted down. He was a good deal frightened the next
morning, but he clung to Doris, who carried him about in her arms and
introduced him to every place. He was afraid of Mr. Adams and Cato, his
acquaintance with men having been rather limited. After several days he
began to feel quite at home, and took cordially to his cushion in the
corner.

"He doesn't offer to run away," announced Doris to Aunt Priscilla. "He
likes Miss Recompense. Uncle Winthrop thinks him the handsomest cat he
has ever seen."

"Poor old Polly! She set a great deal of store by Solomon. I never did
care much for a cat, but I do think Solomon was most as wise as folks. I
don't know what I should have done last winter when I was so miserable
if it had not been for him. He seemed to take such comfort that it was
almost as good as a sermon. And sometimes when he purred it was like the
sound of a hymn with the up and down and the long notes. I don't believe
he would have stayed with anyone else though. Child, what is there
about you that just goes to the heart of even a dumb beast?"

Doris looked amazed, then thoughtful. "I suppose it is because I love
them," she said simply.

There was a great stir everywhere, it seemed. The slow spring had really
come at last. The streets were being cleared up, the gardens put in
order, some of the houses had a fresh coat of paint; the stores put out
their best array, the trees were misty-looking with tiny green shoots,
and the maples Doris thought wonderful. There were four in the row on
Common Street; one was full of soft dull-red blooms, one had little
pale-green hoods on the end of every twig, another looked as if it held
a tiny scarlet parasol over each baby bud, and the fourth dropped
clusters of brownish-green fringe.

"Oh, how beautiful they are!" cried Doris, her eyes alight with
enthusiasm.

And then all the great Common began to put on spring attire. The marsh
grass over beyond sent up stiff green spikes and tussocks that looked
like little islands, and there were water plants with large leaves that
seemed continually nodding to their neighbors. The frog concerts at the
pond were simply bewildering with the variety of voices, each one
proclaiming that the reign of ice and snow was at an end and they were
giving thanks.

"They are so glad," declared Doris. "I shouldn't like to be frozen up
all winter in a little hole."

Miss Recompense smiled. Perhaps they were grateful. She had never
thought of it before.

Doris did not go back to Mrs. Webb's school, though that lady said she
was sorry to give her up. Uncle Win gave her some lessons, and she went
to writing school for an hour every day. Miss Recompense instructed her
how to keep her room tidy, but Uncle Win said there would be time enough
for her to learn housekeeping.

Then there were hunts for flowers. Betty came over; she knew some nooks
where the trailing arbutus grew and bloomed. The swamp pinks and the
violets of every shade and almost every size--from the wee little fellow
who sheltered his head under his mother's leaf-green umbrella to the
tall, sentinel-like fellow who seemed to fling out defiance. Doris used
to come home with her hands full of blooms.

The rides too were delightful. They went over the bridges to West Boston
and South Boston and to Cambridge, going through the college
buildings--small, indeed, compared with the magnificent pile of to-day.
But Boston did seem almost like a collection of islands. The bays and
rivers, the winding creeks that crept through the green marsh grass, the
long low shores held no presentiment of the great city that was to be.

Although people groaned over hard times and talked of war, still the
town kept a thriving aspect. Men were at work leveling Beacon Hill.
Boylston Street was being made something better than a lane, and Common
Street was improved. Uncle Winthrop said next thing he supposed they
would begin to improve him and order him to take up his house and walk.
For houses were moved even then, when they stood in the way of a street.

The earth from the hill, or rather hills, went to fill in the Mill Pond.
Lord Lyndhurst had once owned a large part, but he had gone to England
to live. Charles Street was partly laid out--as far as the flats were
filled in. It was quite entertaining to watch the great patient oxen,
which, when they were standing still, chewed their cud in solemn content
and gazed around as though they could predict unutterable things.

From the house down to Common Street was a kind of garden where Cato
raised vegetables and Miss Recompense had her beds of sweet and
medicinal herbs. For then the housekeeper concocted various household
remedies, and made extracts by the use of a little still for flavoring
and perfumery. She gathered all the rose leaves and lavender blossoms
and sewed them up in thin muslin bags and laid them in the drawers and
closets.

And, oh, what roses she had then! Great sweet damask roses, pink and the
loveliest deep red, twice as large as the Jack roses of to-day. And
trailing pink and white roses climbing over everything. Aunt Elizabeth
said Miss Recompense could make a dry stick grow and bloom.

Uncle Winthrop found a new and charming interest in the little girl. She
was so fond of taking walks and hearing the legends about the old
places. She could see where the old beacon had stood when the place was
called Sentry Hill, and she knew it had been blown down in a gale, and
that on the spot had been erected a beautiful Doric column surmounted by
an eagle, to commemorate "the train of events that led to the American
Revolution and finally secured liberty and Independence."

But the State House had made one great excavation, and the Mill Pond
Corporation was making others, and they were planning to remove the
monument.

"We ought to have more regard for these old places," Uncle Win used to
say with a sigh.

Cary had not been a companionable child. He was a regular boy, and the
great point of interest in Sentry Hill for him was batting a ball up the
hill. It was a proud day for him when he carried it farther than any
other boy. He was fond of games of all kinds, and was one of the
fleetest runners and a fine oarsman, and could sail a boat equal to any
old salt, he thought. He was a boy, of course, and Uncle Win did not
want him to be a "Molly coddle," so he gave in, for he did not quite
know what to do with a lad who could tumble more books around in five
minutes than he could put in order in half an hour, and knew more about
every corner in Old Boston than anyone else, and was much more confident
of his knowledge.

But this little girl, who soon learned the peculiarity of every tree,
the song of the different birds, and the season of bloom for wild
flowers, and could listen for hours to the incidents of the past, that
seem of more vital importance to middle-aged people than the matters of
every day, was a veritable treasure to Mr. Winthrop Adams. He did not
mind if she could not knit a stocking, and he sometimes excused her
deficiencies in arithmetic because she was so fond of hearing him read
poetry. For Doris thought, of all the things in the world, being able to
write verses was the most delightful, and that was her aim when she was
a grown-up young lady. She did pick up a good deal of general knowledge
that she would not have acquired at school, but Uncle Win wasn't quite
sure how much a girl ought to be educated.

She began to see considerable of the Chapman girls, and Madam Royall
grew very fond of her. But she did not forget her dear friends in
Sudbury Street. Sometimes when Uncle Win was going out to a supper or to
stay away all the evening she would go up and spend the night with
Betty, and sit in the old corner, for it was Uncle Leverett's favorite
place whether there was fire or not. He was as fond as ever of listening
to her chatter.

She always brought a message to Aunt Priscilla about Solomon. Uncle
Winthrop thought him the handsomest cat he had ever seen, and now
Solomon was not even afraid of Cato, but would walk about the garden
with him, and Miss Recompense said he was so much company when she,
Doris, was out of the house.

Indeed, he would look at her with inquiring eyes and a soft, questioning
sound in his voice that was not quite a mew.

"Yes," Miss Recompense would say, "Doris has gone up to Sudbury Street.
We miss her, don't we, Solomon? It's a different house without her."

Solomon would assent in a wise fashion.

"I never did think to take comfort in talking to a cat," Miss Recompense
would say to herself with a touch of sarcasm.

About the middle of June, when roses and spice pinks and ten-weeks'
stocks, and sweet-williams were at their best, Mr. Adams always gave a
family gathering at which cousins to the third and fourth generation
were invited. Everything was at its loveliest, and the Mall just across
the street was resplendent in beauty. Even then it had magnificent trees
and great stretches of grass, green and velvety. Already it was a
favorite strolling place.

Miss Recompense had sent a special request for Betty on that particular
afternoon and evening. There was to be a high tea at five o'clock.

"I shall have my new white frock all done," said Betty delightedly.
"There is just a little needlework around the neck and the skirt to sew
on."

"But I wouldn't wear it," rejoined her mother. "You may get a fruit
stain on it, or meet with some accident. Miss Recompense will expect you
to work a little."

"Have you anything new, Doris?"

"Oh, yes," replied Doris. "A white India muslin, and a cambric with a
tiny rosebud in it. Madam Royall chose them and ordered them made. And
Betty, I have almost outgrown the silk already. Madam Royall is going
to see about getting it altered. And in the autumn Helen Chapman will
have a birthday company, and I am invited already, or my frock is," and
Doris laughed. "She has made me promise to wear it then."

"You go to the Royalls' a good deal," exclaimed Aunt Priscilla
jealously. She was sitting in a high-backed chair, very straight and
prim. She was not quite at home yet, and kept wondering if she wouldn't
rather have her own house if she could get a reasonable sort of servant.
Still, she did enjoy the sociable side of life, and it was pleasant here
at Cousin Leverett's. They all tried to make her feel at home, and
though Betty tormented her sometimes by a certain argumentativeness, she
was very ready to wait on her. Aunt Priscilla did like to hear of the
delightful entertainments her silk gown had gone to after being hidden
away so many years. As for the hat, a young Englishman had said "She
looked like a princess in it."

"You are just eaten up with vanity, Betty Leverett," Aunt Priscilla
tried to rejoin in her severest tone.

Doris glanced over to her now.

"Yes," she answered. "Uncle Winthrop thinks I ought to know something
about little girls. Eudora is six months older than I am. They have such
a magnificent swing, four girls can sit in it. Helen is studying French
and the young ladies can talk a little. They do not see how I can talk
so fast."

Doris laughed gleefully. Aunt Priscilla sniffed. Winthrop Adams would
make a flighty, useless girl out of her. And companying so much with
rich people would fill her mind with vanity. Yes, the child would be
ruined!

"And we tell each other stories about our Boston. This Boston," making
a pretty gesture with her hand, "has the most splendid ones about the
war and all, and the ships coming over here almost two hundred years
ago. It is a long while to live one hundred years, even. But I knew
about Mr. Cotton and the lady Arabella Johnston. They had not heard
about the saint and how his body was carried around to make it rain."

"To make it rain! Whose body was it, pray?" asked Aunt Priscilla
sharply, scenting heresy. She was not quite sure but so much French
would shut one out from final salvation. "Did you have saints in Old
Boston?"

"Oh, it was the old Saint of the Church--St. Botolph." Doris hesitated
and glanced up at Uncle Leverett, who nodded. "He was a very, very good
man," she resumed seriously. "And one summer there was a very long
drought. The grass all dried up, the fruit began to fall off, and they
were afraid there would be nothing for the cattle to feed upon. So they
took up St. Botolph in his coffin and carried him all around the town,
praying as they went. And it began to rain."

"Stuff and nonsense! The idea of reasonable human beings believing
that!"

"But you know the prophet prayed for rain in the Bible."

"But to take up his body! Are they doing it now in a dry time?" Aunt
Priscilla asked sarcastically.

"They don't now, but it was said they did it several times, and it
always rained."

"They wan't good orthodox Christians. No one ever heard of such a
thing."

"But our orthodox Christians believed in witches--even the descendants
of this very John Cotton who came over to escape the Lords Bishops,"
said Warren.

"And, unlike Mr. Blacksone, stayed and had a hard time with the Lords
Brethren," said Mr. Leverett. "I hardly know which was the
worst"--smiling with a glint of humor. "And you more than half believe
in witches yourself, Aunt Priscilla."

"I am sure I have reason to. Grandmother Parker was a good woman if ever
there was one, and she was bewitched. And would it have said in the
Bible--'Thou shalt not suffer a witch to live,' if there had not been
any?"

"They were telling stories at Madam Royall's one day. And sometime Uncle
Winthrop is going to take us all to Marblehead, where Mammy Redd lived.
Eudora said this:

    "'Old Mammy Redd
    Of Marblehead
    Sweet milk could turn
    To mold in churn.'

And Uncle Winthrop has a big book about them."

"He had better take you to Salem. That was the very hot-bed of it all,"
said Warren.

Doris came around to Aunt Priscilla. "Did your grandmother really see a
witch?" she asked in a serious tone.

"Well, perhaps she didn't exactly see it. But she was living at Salem
and had a queer neighbor. One day they had some words, and when
grandmother went to churn her milk turned all moldy and spoiled the
butter. Grandmother didn't even dare feed it to the pigs. So it went on
several times. Then another neighbor said to her, 'The next time it
happens you just throw a dipper-full over the back log.' And so
grandmother did. It made an awful smell and smoke. Then she washed out
her churn and put it away. She was barely through when someone came
running in, and said, 'Have you any sweet oil, Mrs. Parker? Hetty Lane
set herself afire cleaning the cinders out of her oven, and she's
dreadfully burned. Come right over.' Grandmother was a little afraid,
but she went, and, sure enough, it had happened just the moment she
threw the milk in the fire. One side of her was burned, and one hand.
And although the neighbors suspected her, they were all very kind to her
while she was ill. But grandmother had no more trouble after that, and
it was said Hetty Lane never bewitched anybody again."

"It's something like the kelpies and brownies Barby used to tell about
that were in England long time ago," said Doris, big-eyed. "They hid
tools and ate up the food and spoiled the milk and the bread, turning it
to stone. They went away--perhaps someone burned them up."

Aunt Priscilla gave her sniff. To be compared with such childish stuff!

"It was very curious," said Mrs. Leverett. "I have always been glad I
was not alive at that time. Sometimes unaccountable things happen."

"Did you ever see a truly witch yourself, Aunt Priscilla?" asked the
child.

"No, I never did," she answered honestly.

"Then I guess they did go with the fairies and kelpies. Could I tell
your story over sometime?" she inquired eagerly.

Telling ghost stories and witch stories was quite an amusement at that
period.

"Why, yes--if you want to." She was rather pleased to have it go to the
Royalls'.

"The last stitch," and Betty folded up her work. "Come, Doris, say
good-night, and let us go to bed."

Doris put a little kiss on Aunt Priscilla's wrinkled hand.




CHAPTER XV

A FREEDOM SUIT


Aunt Priscilla had a dozen changes of mind as to whether to go to Cousin
Adams' or not. But Betty insisted. She trimmed her cap and altered the
sleeves of her best black silk gown. The elderly people were wearing
"leg-o'-mutton" sleeves now, while the young people had great puffs.
Long straight Puritan sleeves were hardly considered stylish. And then
Cousin Win sent the chaise up for her.

Mrs. March, Cary's aunt, had come up to Boston to make a little visit.
Mr. March was a ship builder at Plymouth. She was quite anxious to see
this cousin that Cary had talked about so much, and she was almost
jealous lest he should be crowded out of his rightful place. She had no
children of her own, but her husband had four when they were married. So
a kind of motherly sympathy still went out to Cary.

Betty came over in the morning. She and Miss Recompense were always very
friendly. They talked of jells and jams and preserves; it was too early
for any fresh fruit except strawberries, and Cato always took a good
deal of pains to have these of the very nicest.

The wide fireplace was filled in with green boughs and the shining
leaves of "bread and butter." The rugs were taken up and the floor had a
coat of polish. The parlor was wide open, arrayed in the stately
furnishings of a century ago. There were two Louis XIV. chairs that had
really come from France. There were some square, heavy pieces of
furniture that we should call Eastlake now. And the extravagant thing
was a Brussels carpet with a scroll centerpiece and a border in
arabesque.

The guests began to come at two. Miss Recompense and Betty had been
arranging the long table with its thick basket-work cloth that was
fragrant with sweet scents. Betty wore her blue and white silk, as that
had met with some mishaps at Hartford. Miss Recompense had on a brown
silk with a choice bit of thread lace, and a thread lace cap. Many of
the elderly society ladies wore immense headgears like turbans, with
sometimes one or two marabou feathers, which were considered extremely
elegant. But Miss Recompense kept to her small rather plain cap, and
looked very ladylike, quite fit to do the honors of the house.

Some of the cousins had driven in from Cambridge and South Boston. Miss
Cragie, who admired her second-cousin Adams very much, and it was said
would not have been averse to a marriage with him, came over from the
old house that had once been Washington's headquarters and was to be
more famous still as the home of one of America's finest poets. She took
a great interest in Cary and made him a welcome guest.

We should call it a kind of lawn party now. The guests flitted around
the garden and lawn, inspected the promising fruit trees, and were
enthusiastic over the roses. Then they wandered over to the Mall and
discussed the impending changes in Boston, and said, as people nearly
always do, that it would be ruined by improvements. It was sacrilegious
to take away Beacon Hill. It was absurd to think of filling in the
flats! Who would want to live on made ground? And where were all the
people to come from to build houses on these wonderful streets? Why, it
was simply ridiculous!

There were some young men who felt rather awkward and kept in a little
knot with Cary. There were a few young girls who envied Betty Leverett
her at-homeness, and the fact that she had spent a winter in Hartford.
Croquet would have been a boon then, to make a breach in the walls of
deadly reserve.

Elderly men smoked, walked about, and talked of the prospect of war.
Most of them had high hopes of President Madison just now.

Doris was a point of interest for everybody. Her charming simplicity
went to all hearts. Betty had dressed her hair a dozen different ways,
but found none so pretty as tying part of the curls on top with a
ribbon. She had grown quite a little taller, but was still slim and
fair.

Miss Cragie took a great fancy to her and said she must come and spend
the day with her and visit the notable points of Cambridge. And next
year Cary would graduate, and she supposed they would have a grand time.

The supper was quite imposing. Cato's nephew, a tidy young colored lad,
came from one of the inns, and acquitted himself with superior elegance.
It was indeed a feast, enlivened with bright conversation. People
expected to talk then, not look bored and indifferent. Each one brought
something besides appetite to the feast.

Afterward they went out on the porch and sang, the ice being broken
between the younger part of the company. There were some amusing
patriotic songs with choruses that inspired even the older people.
"Hail, Columbia!" was greeted with applause.

There were sentimental songs as well, Scotch and old English ballads.
Two of Cary's friends sang "Queen Mary's Escape" with a great deal of
spirit. Then Uncle Win asked Doris if she could not sing a little French
song that she sang for him quite often, and that was set to a very
touching melody.

She hung back and colored up, but she did want to please Uncle Win. She
was standing beside him, so she straightened up and took a step out, and
holding his hand sang with a grace that went to each heart. But she hid
herself behind Uncle Win's shoulder when the compliments began. Cary
came around, and said "She need not be afraid; it was just beautiful!"

After that the company began to disperse. Everybody said "It always was
delightful to come over here," and the women wondered how it happened
that such an attractive man as Mr. Winthrop Adams had not married again
and had someone to entertain regularly.

There was a magnificent full moon, and the air was delicious with
fragrance. One after another drove away, or taking the arm of a
companion uttered a cordial good-night. Mr. Adams had sent some elderly
friends home in a carriage, and begged the Leveretts to wait until it
came back.

Warren had not been very intimate with the young collegian; their walks
in life lay quite far apart. But Cary came and joined them as they were
all out on the porch.

"I hope you had a pleasant time," he began. "If it had not been a family
party I should have asked the club to come over and sing some of the
college songs. Arthur Sprague has a fine voice. And you sing very well,
Warren."

"I have been in a singing class this winter, I like music so much."

"You ought to hear half a dozen of our fellows together! But this little
bird warbled melodiously," and he put his arm over the shoulder of
Doris. "I did not know she could move an audience so deeply."

"I was so frightened at first," began Doris with a long breath. "I don't
mind singing for Uncle Win, and one day when there were some guests
Madam Royall asked me to sing a little French song she had known in her
youth. Isn't it queer a song should last so long?"

"The fine songs ought to last forever. I hope we will have some national
songs presently besides the ridiculous 'Yankee Doodle.' It doesn't seem
quite so bad when it is played by the band and men are marching to it."

Cary straightened himself up. Being slender he often allowed his
shoulders to droop.

"Now you look like a soldier," exclaimed Warren.

"I'd like to be one, first-rate. I'd leave college now and go in the
Navy if there was another boy to follow out father's plans. But I can't
bear to disappoint him. It's hard to go against your father when you are
all he has. So I suppose I will go on and study law, and some day you
will hear of my being judge. But we are going to have a big war, and I
would like to take a hand in it. I wish I was twenty-one."

"I shall be next month. I am going to have a little company. I'd like
you to come, Cary."

"I just will, thank you. What are you going to do?"

"I shall stay with father, of course. I have been learning the business.
I think I shouldn't like to go to war unless the enemy really came to
us. I should fight for my home."

"There are larger questions even than homes," replied Cary.

Betty came around the corner of the porch with Uncle Win, to whom she
was talking in her bright, energetic fashion. Aunt Elizabeth said it was
very pleasant to see so many of the relatives again.

"The older generation is dropping out, and we shall soon be among the
old people ourselves," Mr. Leverett said. "I was thinking to-night how
many youngish people were here who have grown up in the last ten years."

"We each have a young staff to lean upon," rejoined Mr. Adams proudly,
glancing at the two boys.

The carriage came round. Aunt Priscilla shook hands with Cousin
Winthrop, and said, much moved:

"I've had a pleasant time, and I had a good mind not to come. I'm
getting old and queer and not fit for anything but to sit in the corner
and grumble, instead of frolicking round."

"Oh, don't grumble. Why, I believe I am going backward. I feel ten years
younger, and you are not old enough to die of old age. Betty, you must
keep prodding her up."

He handed her in the carriage himself, and when they were all in Doris
said:

"It seems as if I ought to go, too."

Uncle Win caught her hand, as if she might run away.

"I do think Cousin Winthrop has improved of late," said Mrs. Leverett.
"He has gained a little flesh and looks so bright and interested, and he
talked to all the folks in such a cordial way, as if he was really glad
to see them. And those strawberries did beat all for size. Betty, the
table looked like a feast for a king, if they deserve anything better
than common folks."

"Any other child would be clear out of bonds and past redemption,"
declared Aunt Priscilla. "Everybody made so much of her, as if it was
her party. And how the little creetur does sing! I'd like to hear her
praising the Lord with that voice instead of wasting it on French things
that may be so bad you couldn't say them in good English."

"That isn't," replied Betty. "It is a little good-night that her mother
used to sing to her and taught her."

Aunt Priscilla winked hard and subsided. A little orphan girl--well,
Cousin Winthrop would be a good father to her. Perhaps no one would ever
be quite tender enough for her mother.

Everybody went home pleased. Yet nowadays such a family party would have
been dull and formal, with no new books and theaters and plays and
tennis and golf to talk about, and the last ball game, perhaps. There
had been a kind of gracious courtesy in inquiries about each other's
families--a true sympathy for the deaths and misfortunes, a kindly
pleasure in the successes, a congratulation for the younger members of
the family growing up, a little circling about religion and the recent
rather broad doctrines the clergy were entertaining. For it was a time
of ferment when the five strong points of Calvinism were being severely
shaken, and the doctrine of election assaulted by the doctrine that,
since Christ died for all, all might in some mysterious manner share the
benefit without being ruled out by their neighbors.

Winthrop Adams would hardly have dreamed that the presence of a little
girl in the house was stirring every pulse in an unwonted fashion. He
had brooded over books so long; now he took to nature and saw many
things through the child's fresh, joyous sight. He brushed up his
stories of half-forgotten knowledge for her; he recalled his boyhood's
lore of birds and squirrels, bees and butterflies, and began to feast
anew on the beauty of the world and all things in their season.

It is true, in those days knowledge and literature were not widely
diffused. A book or two of sermons, the "Pilgrim's Progress," perhaps
"Fox's Book of Martyrs," and the Farmer's Almanac were the extent of
literature in most families. Women had too much to do to spend their
time reading except on Saturday evening and after second service on the
Sabbath--then it must be religious reading.

But Boston was beginning to stir in the education of its women. Mrs.
Abigail Adams had said, "If we mean to have heroes, statesmen, and
philosophers, we should have learned women." They started a circle of
sociality that was to be above the newest pattern for a gown and the
latest recipe for cake or preserves. A Mrs. Grant had written a volume
called "Letters from the Mountains," which they interested themselves in
having republished. Hannah Adams had written some valuable works, and
was now braiding straw for a living; and Mrs. Josiah Quincy exerted
herself to have so talented a woman placed above indigence. She also
endeavored to have Miss Edgeworth's "Moral Tales" republished for young
people. Scott was beginning to infuse new life with his wonderful tales,
which could safely be put in the hands of younger readers. The first
decade of the century was laying a foundation for the grand work to be
done later on. And with nearly every vessel, or with the travelers from
abroad, would come some new books from England. Though they were dear,
yet there were a few "foolish" people who liked a book better than
several dollars added to their savings.

Warren's freedom suit and his freedom party interested Doris a great
deal. Since Betty's return there had been several evening companies,
with the parlor opened and the cake and lemonade set out on the table
instead of being passed around. Betty and Jane Morse were fast friends.
They went "uptown" of an afternoon and had a promenade, with now and
then a nod from some of the quality. Betty was very much elated when
Cary Adams walked home with her one afternoon and planned about the
party. He would ask three of the young fellows, and with himself they
would give some college songs. He knew Miss Morse's cousin, Morris
Winslow, very well--he met him quite frequently at the Royalls'. Indeed,
Cary knew he was a warm admirer of Isabel Royall.

After all, the much-talked-of suit was only a best Sunday suit of black
broadcloth. Doris looked disappointed.

"Did you expect I would have red and white stripes down the sides and
blue stars all over the coat?" Warren asked teasingly. "And an eagle on
the buttons? I am afraid then I should be impressed and taken out to
sea."

"Betty," she said afterward, "will you have a freedom suit when you are
twenty-one. And must it be a black gown?"

"I think they never give girls that," answered Betty laughingly. "Theirs
is a wedding gown. Though after you are twenty-one, if you go anywhere
and earn money, you can keep it for yourself. Your parents cannot claim
it."

Warren had a holiday. His father said he did not want to see him near
the store all day long. He went over to Uncle Win's, who was just having
some late cherries picked to grace the feast, and he was asked into the
library, where Uncle Win made him a very pleasant little birthday speech
and gave him a silver watch to remember the occasion by. Warren was so
surprised he hardly knew how to thank him.

Betty was sorry there could be no dancing at the party, especially as
Mr. Winslow had offered black Joe. But mother would be so opposed they
did not even suggest it.

The young people began to gather about seven. They congratulated the
hero of the occasion, and one young fellow recited some amusing verses.
They played games and forfeits and had a merry time. The Cambridge boys
sang several beautiful songs, and others of the gay, rollicking order.
The supper table looked very inviting, Betty thought. Altogether it was
a great pleasure to the young people, who kept it up quite late, but
then it was such a delightful summer night! Doris thought the singing
the most beautiful part of all.

Warren's great surprise occurred the next morning. There was a new sign
up over the door in the place of the old weather-beaten one that his
father had admitted was disgraceful. And on it in nice fresh lettering
was:

     F. LEVERETT & SON.

"Oh, father!" was all he could say for a moment.

"Hollis was a good, steady boy--I've been blest in my boys, and I thank
God for it, so when Hollis was through with his trade, and had that good
opportunity to go in business, I advanced him some money. He has been
prospered and would have paid it back, but I told him to keep it for his
part. This will be your offset to it. Cousin Winthrop is coming down
presently, and Giles Thatcher, and we will have all the papers signed,
so that if anything happens to me there will be no trouble. You've been
a good son, Warren, and I hope you will make a good, honorable man."

The tears sprang to Warren's eyes. He was very glad he had yielded some
points to his father and accepted obedience as his due to be rendered
cheerfully. For Mr. Leverett had never been an unreasonable man.

Uncle Win congratulated him again. Betty and her mother went down in the
afternoon to see the new sign. Aunt Priscilla thought it rather risky
business, for being twenty-one didn't always bring good sense with it,
and too much liberty was apt to spoil anyone with no more experience
than Warren.

Betty said Aunt Priscilla must have something to worry about, which was
true enough. She had come to the Leveretts' to see how she could stand
"being without a home," as she phrased it. But she found herself quite
feeble, and with a cough, and she admitted she never had quite gotten
over the winter's cold which she took going to church that bitter
Sunday. As just the right person to keep her house had not come to hand,
and as it really was cheaper to live this way, and gave one a secure
feeling in case of illness, she thought it best to go on. Elizabeth
Leverett made her feel very much at home. She could go down in the
kitchen and do a bit of work when she wanted to, she could weed a little
out in the garden, she could mend and knit and pass away the time, and
it was a pleasure to have someone to converse with, to argue with.

She had been in great trouble at first about black Polly. That she had
really entertained the thought of getting rid of her in a helpless old
age seemed a great sin now.

"And the poor old thing had been so faithful until she began to lose her
memory. How could I have resolved to do such a thing!" she would
exclaim.

"You never did resolve to do it, Aunt Priscilla," Mr. Leverett said one
day. "I am quite sure you could not have done it when it came to the
pinch. It was one of the temptations only."

"But I never struggled against it. That is what troubles me."

"God knew just how it would end. He did not mean the poor creature to
become a trouble to anyone. If he had wanted to try you further, no
doubt he would have done it. Now, why can't you accept the release as
he sent it? It seems almost as if you couldn't resign yourself to his
wisdom."

"You make religion so comfortable, Foster Leverett, that I hardly know
whether to take it that way. It isn't the old-fashioned way in which I
was brought up."

"There was just one Doubting Thomas among the Twelve," he replied
smilingly.

There was little need of people going away for a summering then, though
they did try to visit their relatives in the country places about.
People came up from the more southern States for the cool breezes and
the pleasant excursions everywhere. There were delightful parties going
out almost every day, to the islands lying off the city, to the little
towns farther away, to some places where it was necessary to remain all
night. Madam Royall insisted upon taking Doris with the girls for a
week's excursion, and she had a happy time. Cary went to Plymouth to his
aunt's, and was fascinated with sea-going matters and the naval wars in
progress. Josiah March was a stanch patriot, and said the thing would
never be settled until we had taught England to let our men and our
vessels alone.

Only a few years before our commerce had extended over the world.
Boston--with her eighty wharves and quays, her merchants of shrewd and
sound judgment, ability of a high order and comprehensive as well as
authentic information--at that time stood at the head of the maritime
world. The West Indies, China,--though Canton was the only port to which
foreigners were admitted,--and all the ports of Europe had been open to
her. The coastwise trade was also enormous. From seventy to eighty sail
of vessels had cleared in one day. Long Wharf, at the foot of State
Street, was one of the most interesting and busy places.

The treaty between France and America had agreed that "free bottoms
made free ships," but during the wars of Napoleon this had been so
abridged that trade was now practically destroyed. Then England had
insisted upon the right of search, which left every ship at her mercy,
and hundreds of our sailors were being taken prisoners. There was a
great deal of war talk already. Trade was seriously disturbed.

There was a very strong party opposed to war. What could so young a
country, unprepared in every way, do? The government temporized--tried
various methods in the hope of averting the storm.

People began to economize; still there was a good deal of money in
Boston. Pleasures took on a rather more economical aspect and grew
simpler. But business was at a standstill. The Leveretts were among the
first to suffer, but Mr. Leverett's equable temperament and serene
philosophy kept his family from undue anxiety.

"It's rather a hard beginning for you, my boy," he said, "but you will
have years enough to recover. Only I sometimes wish it could come to a
crisis and be over, so that we could begin again. It can never be quite
as bad as the old war."

Doris commenced school with the Chapman girls at Miss Parker's. Uncle
Win had a great fancy for sending her to Mrs. Rowson.

"Wait a year or so," counseled Madam Royall. "Children grow up fast
enough without pushing them ahead. Little girlhood is the sweetest time
of life for the elderly people, whatever it may be for the girls. I
should like Helen and Eudora to stand still for a few years, and Doris
is too perfect a little bud to be lured into blossoming. There is
something unusual about the child."

When anyone praised Doris, Uncle Win experienced a thrill of delight.

Miss Parker's school was much more aristocratic than Mrs. Webb's. There
were no boys and no very small children. Some of the accomplishments
were taught. French, drawing and painting, and what was called the "use
of the globe," which meant a large globe with all the countries of the
world upon it, arranged to turn around on an axis. This was a new thing.
Doris was quite fascinated by it, and when she found the North Sea and
the Devonshire coast and the "Wash" the girls looked on eagerly and
straightway she became a heroine.

But one unlucky recess when she had won in the game of graces a girl
said:

"I don't care! That isn't anything! We beat your old English in the
Revolutionary War, and if there's another war we'll beat you again. My
father says so. I wouldn't be English for all the gold on the Guinea
coast!"

"I am not English," Doris protested. "My father was born in this very
Boston. And I was born in France."

"Well, the French are just as bad. They are not to be depended upon. You
are a mean little foreign girl, and I shall not speak to you again,
there now!"

Doris looked very sober. Helen Chapman comforted her and said Faith
Dunscomb was not worth minding.

She told it over to Uncle Win that evening.

"I suppose I can never be a real Boston girl," she said sorrowfully.

"I think you are a pretty good one now, and of good old Boston stock,"
he replied smilingly. "Sometime you will be proud that you came from the
other Boston. Oddly enough most of us came from England in the
beginning. And the Faneuils came from France, and they are proud enough
of their old Huguenot blood."

She had been to Faneuil Hall and the Market with Uncle Winthrop. They
raised all their vegetables and fruit, unless it was something quite
rare, and Cato did the family marketing.

Only a few years before the Market had been enlarged and improved. Fifty
years earlier the building had burned down and been replaced, but even
the old building had been identified with liberty of thought, and had a
well-known portrait painter of that day, John Smibert, for its
architect. In the later improvements it had been much enlarged, and the
beautiful open arches of the ground floor were closed by doors and
windows, which rendered it less picturesque. It was the marketplace par
excellence then, as Quincy Market came in with the enterprise of the
real city. But even then it rejoiced in the appellation of "The Cradle
of Liberty," and the hall over the market-space was used for political
gatherings.

Huckster and market wagons from the country farms congregated in Dock
Square. The mornings were the most interesting time for a visit. The
"quality" came in their carriages with their servant man to run to and
fro; or some young lady on horseback rode up through the busy throng to
leave an order, and then the women whose servant carried a basket, or
those having no servant carried their own baskets, and who went about
cheapening everything.

So Doris was quite comforted to know that Peter Faneuil, who was held in
such esteem, had not even been born in Boston, and was of French
extraction.

But girls soon get over their tiffs and disputes. Play is the great
leveler. Then Doris was so obliging about the French exercises that the
girls could not stay away very long at a time.

Miss Parker's typified the conventional idea of a girl's education
prevalent at that time: that it should be largely accomplishment. So
Doris was allowed considerable latitude in the commoner branches. Mrs.
Webb had been exacting in the few things she taught, especially
arithmetic. And Uncle Win admitted to himself that Doris had a poor head
for figures. When she came to fractions it was heartrending. Common
multiples and least and greatest common divisors had such a way of
getting mixed up in her brain, that he felt very sorry for her.

She brought over Betty's book in which all her sums in the more
difficult rules had been worked out and copied beautifully. There were
banking and equation of payments and all the "roots" and progression and
alligation and mensuration.

"I don't know what good they will really be to Betty," said Uncle Win
gravely. Then, as his face relaxed into a half-smile, he added: "Perhaps
Mary Manning's fifty pairs of stockings she had when she was married may
be more useful. Betty has a good head and "twinkling feet." Did you know
a poet said that? And another one wrote:

    "'Her feet beneath her petticoat,
    Like little mice stole in and out
      As if they feared the light;
    But, oh, she dances such a way!
    No sun upon an Easter day
      Is half so fair a sight.'"

"Oh, Uncle Win, that's just delightful! Did your poet write any more
such dainty things, and can I read them? Betty would just go wild over
that."

"Yes, I will find it for you. And we won't worry now about the hard
knots over in the back of the arithmetic."

"Nor about the stockings. Miss Isabel is knitting some beautiful silk
ones, blossom color."

Ladies and girls danced in slippers then and wore them for evening
company, and stockings were quite a feature in attire.

Uncle Win was too indulgent, of course. Miss Recompense said she had
never known a girl to be brought up just that way, and shook her head
doubtfully.

Early in the new year an event happened, or rather the tidings came to
them that seemed to have a bearing on both of these points. An old sea
captain one day brought a curious oaken chest, brass bound, and with
three brass initials on the top. The key, which was tied up in a small
leathern bag, and a letter stowed away in an enormous well-worn wallet,
he delivered to "Mr. Winthrop Adams, Esq."

It contained an unfinished letter from Miss Arabella, beginning "Dear
and Honored Sir," and another from the borough justice. Miss Arabella
was dead. The care of her sister had worn her so much that she had
dropped into a gentle decline, and knowing herself near the end had
packed the chest with some table linen that belonged to the mother of
Doris, some clothing, two dresses of her own, several petticoats, two
pairs of satin slippers she had worn in her youth and outgrown, and six
pairs of silk stockings. Doris would grow into them all presently.

Then inclosed was a bank note for one hundred pounds sterling, and much
love and fond remembrances.

The other note announced the death of Miss Arabella Sophia Roulstone,
aged eighty-one years and three months, and the time of her burial. Her
will had been read and the bequests were being paid. Mr. Millington
requested a release before a notary, and an acknowledgment of the safe
arrival of the goods and the legacy, to be returned by the captain.

Mr. Adams went out with the captain and attended to the business.

Doris had a little cry over Miss Arabella. It did not seem as if she
could be eighty years old. She could recall the sweet, placid face under
the snowy cap, and almost hear the soft voice.

"That is quite a legacy," said Uncle Win. "Doris, can you compute it in
dollars?"

We had come to have a currency of our own--"decimal" it was called,
because computed by tens.

We still reckoned a good deal in pounds, shillings, and pence, but ours
were not pounds sterling.

Doris considered and knit her delicate brows. Then a soft light
illumined her face.

"Why, Uncle Win, it is five hundred dollars! Isn't that a great deal of
money for a little girl like me? And must it not be saved up some way?"

"Yes, I think for your wedding day."

"And then suppose I should not get married?"




CHAPTER XVI

A SUMMER IN BOSTON


The Leveretts rejoiced heartily over Doris' good fortune. Aunt Priscilla
began to trouble herself again about her will. She had taken the usual
autumnal cold, but recovered from it with good nursing. Certainly
Elizabeth Leverett was very kind. Aunt Priscilla had eased up Betty
while her mother spent a fortnight at Salem, helping with the fall
sewing and making comfortables. And this time she brought home little
Ruth, who was thin and peevish, and who had not gotten well over the
measles, that had affected her eyes badly. Ruth was past four.

"I wish Mary did not take life so hard," said Mrs. Leverett with a
sigh. "They have been buying a new twenty-acre pasture lot and two new
cows, and it is just drive all the time. That poor little Elizabeth will
be all worn out before she is grown up. And Ruth wouldn't have lived the
winter through there."

Ruth was extremely troublesome at first. But grandmothers have a
soothing art, and after a few weeks she began to improve. The visits of
Doris fairly transported her, and she amused grandpa by asking every
morning "if Doris would come to-day," having implicit faith in his
knowledge of everything.

Aunt Priscilla counted on the visits as well. She kept her room a good
deal. Ruth's chatter disturbed her. Pattern children brought up on the
