“Not at all!” I cried.  “There’s an abundance of room.  My wife’s keeping
the places for you,”—in fact, I saw her putting her arm out along the
bench, and explaining to a couple who had halted in front of her that the
seats were taken—“and she’ll be disappointed.”
“Well,” the woman consented, with a little sigh of triumph that touched
me, and reanimated all my interest in her and in her friend.  She said,
with a sort of shy, instinctive politeness, “I don’t know as you and Mr.
Deering got acquainted last night.”
“My name is March,” I said, and I shook the hand of Mr. Deering.  It was
rather thick.
“And this—is our friend,” Mrs. Peering went on, in presentation of me to
the young lady, “Miss Gage, that’s come with us.”
I was delighted that I had guessed their relative qualities so perfectly,
and when we arrived at Mrs. March I glibly presented them.  My wife was
all that I could have wished her to be of sympathetic and intelligent.
She did not overdo it by shaking hands, but she made places for the
ladies, smiling cordially; and Mrs. Deering made Miss Gage take the seat
between them.  Her husband and I stood awhile in front of them, and then
I said we would go off and find chairs somewhere.
We did not find any till we had climbed to the upland at the south-east
of the park, and then only two iron ones, which it was useless to think
of transporting.  But there was no reason why we should not sit in them
where they were: we could keep the ladies in plain sight, and I could not
mistake “Washington Post” when the band came to it.  Mr. Deering sank
into one of the chairs with a sigh of satisfaction which seemed to
complete itself when he discovered in the thick grass at his feet a twig
from one of the tall, slim pines above us.  He bent over for it, and
then, as he took out his penknife and clicked open a blade to begin
whittling, he cast up a critical glance at the trees.
“Pretty nice pines,” he said; and he put his hand on the one next to us
with a sort of appreciation that interested me.
“Yes; the trees of Saratoga are the glory of the place,” I returned.  “I
never saw them grow anywhere else so tall and slim.  It doesn’t seem the
effect of crowding either.  It’s as if there was some chemical force in
the soil that shot them up.  They’re like rockets that haven’t left the
ground yet.”
“It’s the crowding,” he said seriously, as if the subject were not to be
trifled with.  “It’s the habit of all these trees—pines and oaks and
maples, I don’t care what they are—to spread, and that’s what we tell our
customers.  Give the trees plenty of room; don’t plant ’em too thick if
you want to get all the good out of ’em.”  As if he saw a question in my
eye, he went on: “We do a forest-tree business exclusively; these
shade-trees, and walnuts, hickories, chestnuts, and all kinds.  It’s a
big trade, getting to be, and growing all the time.  Folks have begun to
find out what fools they were to destroy the forests, and the children
want to buy back what the fathers threw away.”
I scarcely needed to prompt him; he was only too glad to talk on about
his business, and he spoke with a sort of homesick fondness.  He told me
that he had his nurseries at De Witt Point, up on the St. Lawrence, where
he could raise stock hardy enough for any climate, and ship by land or
water.
“I’ve got to be getting home right away now,” he said finally, clicking
his knife-blade half shut and open with his thumb.
“It’s about time for our evergreen trade, and I don’t want the trees to
stay a minute in the ground after the middle of the month.”
“Won’t the ladies find it hard to tear themselves away from the gaieties
of Saratoga?” I asked with apparent vagueness.
“Well, that’s it,” said Mr. Deering; and he shut his knife and slipped it
into his pocket, in order to take his knee between his clasped hands and
lift his leg from the ground.  I have noticed that this is a
philosophical attitude with some people, and I was prepared by it for
some thoughtful generalising from my companion.  “Women would be willing
to stay on in a place for a year to see if something wouldn’t happen; and
if you take ’em away before anything happens, they’ll always think that
if they’d stayed something would have happened the next day, or maybe the
day they left.”
He stared upward into the pine boughs, and I said: “Yes, that’s so.  I
suppose we should be like them if we had the same conditions.  Their
whole life is an expectation of something to happen.  Men have the
privilege of making things happen—or trying to.”
“Oh, I don’t know as I want to criticise ’em.  As you say, I guess we
should be just so.”  He dropped his leg, and bent over as if to examine
the grass; he ended by taking a blade of it between his teeth before he
spoke again, with his head still down.  “I don’t want to hurry ’em; I
want to give ’em a fair show now we’re here, and I’ll let the stock go as
long as I can.  But I don’t see very much gaiety around.”
I laughed.  “Why, it’s all gaiety, in one way.  Saratoga is a perpetual
Fourth of July, we think.”
“Oh yes; there’s enough going on, and my wife and me we could enjoy it
first rate.”
“If the young lady could?” I ventured, with a smile of sympathetic
intelligence.
“Well, yes.  You see, we don’t know anybody, and I suppose we didn’t take
that into account.  Well, I suppose it’s like this: they thought it would
be easy to get acquainted in the hotel, and commence having a good time
right away.  I don’t know; my wife had the idea when they cooked it up
amongst ’em that she was to come with us.  But I swear I don’t know how
to go about it.  I can’t seem to make up my mouth to speak to folks
first; and then you can’t tell whether a man ain’t a gambler, or on for
the horse-races anyway.  So we’ve been here a week now, and you’re the
first ones we’ve spoken to besides the waiters since we came.”
I couldn’t help laughing, their experience was so exactly as I had
imagined it when I first saw this disconsolate party.  In my triumph at
my own penetration, I would not have had their suffering in the past one
pang the less; but the simple frankness of his confession fixed me in the
wish that the future might be brighter for them.  I thought myself
warranted by my wife’s imprudence in taking a step toward their further
intimacy on my own account, and I said:
“Well, perhaps I ought to tell you that I haven’t been inside the
Saratoga Club or bet on the races since I’ve been here.  That’s my name
in full,”—and I gave him my card,—“and I’m in the literary line; that is,
I’m the editor of a magazine in New York—the Every Other Week.”
“Oh yes; I know who you are,” said my companion, with my card in his
hand.  “Fact is, I was round at your place this morning trying to get
rooms, and the clerk told me all about you from my description.  I felt
as mean as pu’sley goin’; seemed to be takin’ kind of an advantage of
you.”
“Not at all; it’s a public house,” I interrupted; but I thought I should
be stronger with Mrs. March if I did not give the fact away to her, and I
resolved to keep it.
“But they couldn’t rest easy till I tried, and I was more than half glad
there wasn’t any rooms.”
“Oh, I’m very sorry,” I said; and I indulged a real regret from the
vantage I had.  “It would have been very pleasant to have you there.
Perhaps later—we shall be giving up our rooms at the end of the month.”
“No,” he said, with a long breath.  “If I’ve got to leave ’em, I guess
it’ll be just as well to leave ’em where they’re acquainted with the
house anyway.”  His remark betrayed a point in his thinking which had not
perhaps been reached in his talk with the ladies.  “It’s a quiet place,
and they’re used to it; and I guess they wouldn’t want to stay through
the rest of the month, quite.  I don’t believe my wife would, anyway.”
He did not say this very confidently, but hopefully rather, and I thought
it afforded me an opening to find out something yet more definite about
the ladies.
“Miss Gage is remarkably fine-looking,” I began.
“Think so?” he answered.  “Well, so does my wife.  I don’t know as I like
her style exactly,” he said, with a kind of latent grudge.
“Her style is magnificent,” I insisted.
“Well, maybe so.  I guess she’s good enough looking, if that’s what you
mean.  But I think it’s always a kind of a mistake for three persons to
come off together, I don’t care who they are.  Then there’s three
opinions.  She’s a nice girl, and a good girl, and she don’t put herself
forward.  But when you’ve got a young lady on your hands, you’ve got
her, and you feel bound to keep doin’ something for her all the time; and
if you don’t know what to do yourself, and your wife can’t tell—”
I added intelligently, “Yes.”
“Well, that’s just where it is.  Sometimes I wish the whole dumb town
would burn up.”  I laughed and laughed; and my friend, having begun to
unpack his heart, went on to ease it of the rest of its load.  I had not
waited for this before making some reflections concerning him, but I now
formulated them to myself.  He really had none of that reserve I had
attributed to him the night before; it was merely caution and this is the
case with most country people.  They are cautious, but not reserved; if
they think they can trust you, they keep back none of their affairs; and
this is the American character, for we are nearly all country people.  I
understood him perfectly when he said, “I ruther break stone than go
through what I have been through the last week!  You understand how it
is.  ’Tain’t as if she said anything; I wish she would; but you feel all
the while that it ain’t what she expected it to be, and you feel as if it
was you that was to blame for the failure.  By George! if any man was to
come along and make an offer for my contract I would sell out cheap.
It’s worse because my wife asked her to come, and thought she was doin’
her all kinds of a favour to let her.  They’ve always been together, and
when we talked of coming to Saratoga this summer, nothing would do my
wife but Julia must come with us.  Her and her father usually take a trip
off somewhere in the hot weather, but this time he couldn’t leave;
president of our National Bank, and president of the village, too.”  He
threw in the fact of these dignities explanatorily, but with a
willingness, I could see, that it should affect me.  He went on: “They’re
kind of connections of my first wife’s.  Well, she’s a nice girl; too
nice, I guess, to get along very fast.  I see girls all the way along
down gettin’ acquainted on the cars and boats—we come east on the
Ogdensburg road to Rouse’s Point, and then took the boat down Lake
Champlain and Lake George—but she always seemed to hold back.  I don’t
know’s she’s proud either; I can’t make it out.  It balls my wife all up,
too.  I tell her she’s fretted off all the good her trip’s goin’ to do
her before she got it.”
He laughed ruefully, and just then the band began to play the “Washington
Post.”
“What tune’s that?” he demanded.
“‘Washington Post,’” I said, proud of knowing it.
“By George! that tune goes right to a fellow’s legs, don’t it?”
“It’s the new march,” I said.
He listened with a simple joy in it, and his pleasure strengthened the
mystic bond which had formed itself between us through the confidences he
had made me, so flatteringly corroborative of all my guesses concerning
him and his party.
IV
I LONGED to have the chance of bragging to my wife; but this chance did
not come till the concert was quite over, after I rejoined her with my
companion, and she could take leave of them all without seeming to
abandon them.  Then I judged it best to let her have the word; for I knew
by the way she ran her hand through my arm, and began pushing me along
out of earshot, that she was full of it.
“Well, Basil, I think that is the sweetest and simplest and kindest
creature in the world, and I’m perfectly in love with her.”
I did not believe somehow that she meant the girl, but I thought it best
merely to suggest, “There are two.”
“You know very well which I mean, and I would do anything I could for
her.  She’s got a difficult problem before her, and I pity her.  The
girl’s very well, and she is a beauty; and I suppose she has been
having a dull time, and of course you couldn’t please Mrs. Deering half
so well as by doing something for her friend.  I suppose you’re feeling
very proud that they’re just what you divined.”
“Not at all; I’m so used to divining people.  How did you know I knew
it?”
“I saw you talking to him, and I knew you were pumping him.”
“Pumping?  He asked nothing better than to flow.  He would put to shame
the provoked spontaneity of any spring in Saratoga.”
“Well, did he say that he was going to leave them here?”
“He would like to do it—yes.  He was very sweet and simple and kind, too,
Isabel.  He complained bitterly of the goddess, and all but said she
sulked.”
“Why, I don’t know,” said my wife.  “I think, considering, that she is
rather amiable.  She brightened up more and more.”
“That was prosperity, or the hope of it, my dear.  Nothing illumines us
like the prospect of pleasant things.  She took you for society smiling
upon her, and of course she smiled back.  But it’s only the first smile
of prosperity that cheers.  If it keeps on smiling it ends by making us
dissatisfied again.  When people are getting into society they are very
glad; when they have got in they seem to be rather gloomy.  We mustn’t
let these things go too far.  Now that you’ve got your friends in good
humour, the right way is to drop them—to cut them dead when you meet
them, to look the other way.  That will send them home perfectly
radiant.”
“Nonsense!  I am going to do all I can for them.  What do you think we
can do?  They haven’t the first idea how to amuse themselves here.  It’s
a miracle they ever got that dress the girl is wearing.  They just made a
bold dash because they saw it in a dressmaker’s window the first day, and
she had to have something.  It’s killingly becoming to her; but I don’t
believe they know it, and they don’t begin to know how cheap it was: it
was simply thrown away.  I’m going shopping with them in the morning.”
“Oh!”
“But now the question is, what we can do to give them some little glimpse
of social gaiety.  That’s what they’ve come for.”
We were passing the corner of a large enclosure which seems devoted in
Saratoga to the most distracting of its pleasures, and I said: “Well, we
might give them a turn on the circular railway or the switchback; or we
could take them to the Punch and Judy drama, or get their fortunes told
in the seeress’s tent, or let them fire in the shooting-gallery, or buy
some sweet-grass baskets of the Indians; and there is the pop-corn and
the lemonade.”
“I will tell you what,” said Mrs. March, who had not been listening to a
word I said; for if she had heard me she would not have had patience with
my ironical suggestions.
“Well, what?”
“Or, no; that wouldn’t do, either.”
“I’m glad you don’t approve of the notion, on second thoughts.  I didn’t
like it from the beginning, and I didn’t even know what it was.”
“We could have them up to the house this evening, and introduce them to
some of our friends,—only there isn’t a young man in the whole place,—and
have them stay to the charades.”
“What do you think,” I said, “of their having come up this morning and
tried to get rooms at our house?”
“Yes; they told me.”
“And don’t you call that rather forth-putting?  It seems to me that it
was taking a mean advantage of my brags.”
“It was perfectly innocent in them.  But now, dearest, don’t be tiresome.
I know that you like them as well as I do, and I will take all your
little teasing affectations for granted.  The question is, what can we do
for them?”
“And the answer is, I don’t in the least know.  There isn’t any society
life at Saratoga that I can see; and if there is, we are not in it.  How
could we get any one else in?  I see that’s what you’re aiming at.  Those
public socialities at the big hotels they could get into as well as we
could; but they wouldn’t be anywhere when they got there, and they
wouldn’t know what to do.  You know what hollow mockeries those things
are.  Don’t you remember that hop we went to with the young Braceys the
first summer?  If those girls hadn’t waltzed with each other they
wouldn’t have danced a step the whole evening.”
“I know, I know,” sighed my wife; “it was terrible.  But these people are
so very unworldly that don’t you think they could be deluded into the
belief that they were seeing society if we took a little trouble?  You
used to be so inventive!  You could think up something now if you tried.”
“My dear, a girl knows beyond all the arts of hoodwinking whether she’s
having a good time, and your little scheme of passing off one of those
hotel hops for a festivity would never work in the world.”
“Well, I think it is too bad!  What has become of all the easy gaiety
there used to be in the world?”
“It has been starched and ironed out of it, apparently.  Saratoga is
still trying to do the good old American act, with its big hotels and its
heterogeneous hops, and I don’t suppose there’s ever such a thing as a
society person at any of them.  That wouldn’t be so bad.  But the
unsociety people seem to be afraid of one another.  They feel that there
is something in the air—something they don’t and can’t understand;
something alien, that judges their old-fashioned American impulse to be
sociable, and contemns it.  No; we can’t do anything for our hapless
friends—I can hardly call them our acquaintances.  We must avoid them,
and keep them merely as a pensive colour in our own vivid memories of
Saratoga.  If we made them have a good time, and sent them on their way
rejoicing, I confess that I should feel myself distinctly a loser.  As it
is, they’re a strain of melancholy poetry in my life, of music in the
minor key.  I shall always associate their pathos with this hot summer
weather, and I shall think of them whenever the thermometer registers
eighty-nine.  Don’t you see the advantage of that?  I believe I can
ultimately get some literature out of them.  If I can think of a fitting
fable for them Fulkerson will feature it in Every Other Week.  He’ll
get out a Saratoga number, and come up here and strike the hotels and
springs for ad’s.”
“Well,” said Mrs. March, “I wish I had never seen them; and it’s all your
fault, Basil.  Of course, when you played upon my sympathies so about
them, I couldn’t help feeling interested in them.  We are a couple of
romantic old geese, my dear.”
“Not at all, or at least I’m not.  I simply used these people
conjecturally to give myself an agreeable pang.  I didn’t want to know
anything more about them than I imagined, and I certainly didn’t dream of
doing anything for them.  You’ll spoil everything if you turn them from
fiction into fact, and try to manipulate their destiny.  Let them alone;
they will work it out for themselves.”
“You know I can’t let them alone now,” she lamented.  “I am not one of
those who can give themselves an agreeable pang with the unhappiness of
their fellow-creatures.  I’m not satisfied to study them; I want to
relieve them.”
She went on to praise herself to my disadvantage, as I notice wives will
with their husbands, and I did not attempt to deny her this source of
consolation.  But when she ended by saying, “I believe I shall send you
alone,” and explained that she had promised Mrs. Deering we would come to
their hotel for them after tea, and go with them to hear the music at the
United States and the Grand Union, I protested.  I said that I always
felt too sneaking when I was prowling round those hotels listening to
their proprietary concerts, and I was aware of looking so sneaking that I
expected every moment to be ordered off their piazzas.  As for convoying
a party of three strangers about alone, I should certainly not do it.
“Not if I’ve a headache?”
“Not if you’ve a headache.”
“Oh, very well, then.”
“What are you two quarrelling about?” cried a gay voice behind us, and we
looked round into the laughing eyes of Miss Dale.  She was the one
cottager we knew in Saratoga, but when we were with her we felt that we
knew everybody, so hospitable was the sense of world which her kindness
exhaled.
“It was Mrs. March who was quarrelling,” I said.  “I was only trying to
convince her that she was wrong, and of course one has to lift one’s
voice.  I hope I hadn’t the effect of halloaing.”
“Well, I merely heard you above the steam harmonicon at the switchback,”
said Miss Dale.  “I don’t know whether you call that holloaing.”
“Oh, Miss Dale,” said my wife, “we are in such a fatal—”
“Pickle,” I suggested, and she instantly adopted the word in her
extremity.
“—pickle with some people that Providence has thrown in our way, and that
we want to do something for”; and in a labyrinth of parentheses that no
man could have found his way into or out of, she possessed Miss Dale of
the whole romantic fact.  “It was Mr. March, of course, who first
discovered them,” she concluded, in plaintive accusation.
“Poor Mr. March!” cried Miss Dale.  “Well, it is a pathetic case, but it
isn’t the only one, if that’s any comfort.  Saratoga is reeking with just
such forlornities the whole summer long; but I can quite understand how
you feel about it, Mrs. March.”  We came to a corner, and she said
abruptly: “Excuse my interrupting your quarrel!  Not quite so loud, Mr.
March!” and she flashed back a mocking look at me as she skurried off
down the street with astonishing rapidity.
“How perfectly heartless!” cried my wife.  “I certainly thought she would
suggest something—offer to do something.”
“I relied upon her, too,” I said; “but now I have my doubts whether she
was really going down that street till she saw that it was the best way
to escape.  We’re certainly in trouble, my dear, if people avoid us in
this manner.”
V
“I AM doing it entirely on Mrs. Deering’s I account,” said my wife that
evening after tea, as we walked down the side-street that descended from
our place to Broadway.  “She has that girl on her hands, and I know she
must be at her wits’ end.”
“And I do it entirely on Deering’s account,” I retorted.  “He has both of
those women on his hands.”
We emerged into the glistening thoroughfare in front of the vast hotels,
and I was struck, as I never fail to be, with its futile and unmeaning
splendour.  I think there is nothing in our dun-coloured civilisation
prettier than that habit the ladies have in Saratoga of going out on the
street after dark in their bare heads.  When I first saw them wandering
about so in the glitter of the shop-windows and the fitful glare of the
electrics everywhere, I thought they must be some of those
Spanish-Americans mistaking the warm, dry air of the Northern night for
that of their own latitudes; but when I came up with them I could hear,
if I could not see, that they were of our own race.  Those flat and
shapeless tones could come through the noses of no other.  The beauty and
the elegance were also ours, and the fearless trust of circumstance.
They sauntered up and down before the gaunt, high porticoes of the
hotels, as much at home as they could have been in their own houses, and
in much the same dress as if they had been receiving there.  The effect
is one of incomparable cheer, and is a promise of social brilliancy which
Saratoga no more keeps than she does that of her other characteristic
aspects; say the forenoon effect of the same thoroughfare, with the
piazzas banked with the hotel guests, and the street full of the light
equipages which seem peculiar to the place passing and repassing, in the
joyous sunlight and out of it, on the leaf-flecked street.  Even the
public carriages of Saratoga have a fresh, unjaded air; and to issue from
the railway station in the midst of those buoyant top-phaetons and
surreys, with their light-limbed horses, is to be thrilled by some such
insensate expectation of pleasure as fills the heart of a boy at his
first sally into the world.  I always expect to find my lost youth
waiting for me around the corner of the United States Hotel, and I accuse
myself of some fault if it disappoints me, as it always does.  I can
imagine what gaudy hopes by day and by night the bright staging of the
potential drama must awaken in the breast of a young girl when she first
sees it, and how blank she must feel when the curtain goes down and there
has been no play.  It was a real anguish to me when that young girl with
the Deerings welcomed my wife and me with a hopeful smile, as if we were
the dramatis personæ, and now the performance must be going to begin.
I could see how much our chance acquaintance had brightened the
perspective for her, and how eagerly she had repaired all her illusions;
and I thought how much better it would have been if she had been left to
the dull and spiritless resignation in which I had first seen her.  From
that there could no fall, at least, and now she had risen from it only to
sink again.
But, in fact, the whole party seemed falsely cheered by the event of the
afternoon; and in the few moments that we sat with them on their
verandah, before going to the music at the Grand Union, I could hear the
ladies laughing together, while Deering joyously unfolded to me his plan
of going home the next morning and leaving his wife and Miss Gage behind
him.  “They will stay in this hotel—they might as well—and I guess they
can get along.  My wife feels more acquainted since she met Mrs. March,
and I shan’t feel so much like leavin’ her among strangers here I don’t
know when she’s taken such a fancy to any one as she has to your wife, or
Miss Gage either.  I guess she’ll want to ask her about the stores.”
I said that I believed the fancy was mutual, and that there was nothing
my wife liked better than telling people about stores.  I added, in
generalisation, that when a woman had spent all her own money on dress,
it did her quite as much good to see other women spending theirs; and
Deering said he guessed that was about so.  He gave me a push on the
shoulder to make me understand how keenly he appreciated the joke, and I
perceived that we had won his heart too.
We joined the ladies, and I thought that my sufferings for her authorised
me to attach myself more especially to Miss Gage, and to find out all I
could about her.  We walked ahead of the others, and I was aware of her
making believe that it was quite the same as if she were going to the
music with a young man.  Not that she seemed disposed to trifle with my
grey hairs; I quickly saw that this would not be in character with her;
but some sort of illusion was essential to her youth, and she could not
help rejuvenating me.  This was quite like the goddess she looked, I
reflected, but otherwise she was not formidably divine; and, in fact, I
suppose the goddesses were, after all, only nice girls at heart.  This
one, at any rate, I decided, was a very nice girl when she was not
sulking; and she was so brightened by her little adventure, which was
really no adventure, that I could not believe I had ever seen her
sulking.
The hotel people did not keep us from going into the court of the hotel,
as I was afraid they might, and we all easily found places.  In the
pauses of the music I pointed out such notables and characters as I saw
about us, and tried to possess her of as much of the Saratoga world as I
knew.  It was largely there in that bold evidence it loves, and in that
social solitude to which the Saratoga of the hotels condemns the denizens
of her world.  I do not mean that the Saratoga crowd is at all a
fast-looking crowd.  There are sporting people and gamblers; but the
great mass of the frequenters are plain, honest Americans, out upon a
holiday from all parts of the country, and of an innocence too inveterate
to have grasped the fact that there is no fashion in Saratoga now but the
fashion of the ladies’ dresses.  These, I must say, are of the newest and
prettiest; the dressing of the women always strikes me there.  My
companion was eager to recognise the splendours which she had heard of,
and I pointed out an old lady by the door, who sat there displaying upon
her vast person an assortment of gems and jewels which she seemed as
personally indifferent to as if she were a show-window, and I was glad to
have the girl shrink from the spectacle in a kind of mute alarm.  I tried
to make her share my pleasure in a group of Cubans—fat father, fat
mother, fat daughter—who came down the walk toward us in the halo of
tropical tradition; but she had not the taste for olives, and I saw that
I failed to persuade her of the æsthetic value of this alien element
among us.  She apparently could do almost as little with some old figures
of bygone beaus spectrally revisiting the hotel haunts of their youth;
but she was charmed with the sylvan loveliness of that incomparable
court.  It is, in fact, a park of the tall, slim Saratoga trees enclosed
by the quadrangle of the hotel, exquisitely kept, and with its acres of
greensward now showing their colour vividly in the light of the
electrics, which shone from all sides on the fountain flashing and
plashing in the midst.  I said that here was that union of the sylvan and
the urban which was always the dream of art, and which formed the
delicate charm of pastoral poetry; and although I do not think she quite
grasped the notion, I saw that she had a pleasure in the visible fact,
and that was much better.  Besides, she listened very respectfully, and
with no signs of being bored.
In the wait between the two parts of the concert I invited her to walk
around the court with me, and under the approving eye of Mrs. March we
made this expedition.  It seemed to me that I could not do a wiser thing,
both for the satisfaction of my own curiosity and for the gratification
of the autobiographical passion we all feel, than to lead her on to speak
of herself.  But she had little or nothing to say of herself, and what
she said of other things was marked by a straightforward good sense, if
not a wide intelligence.  I think we make a mistake when we suppose that
a beautiful woman must always be vain or conscious.
I fancy that a beauty is quite as often a solid and sensible person, with
no inordinate wish to be worshipped, and this young lady struck me as
wholly unspoiled by flattery.  I decided that she was not the type that
would take the fancy of De Witt Point, and that she had grown up without
local attention for that reason, or possibly because a certain coldness
in her overawed the free spirit of rustic love-making.  No doubt she knew
that she was beautiful, and I began to think that it was not so much
disappointment at finding Saratoga as indifferent as De Witt Point which
gave her the effect of disgust I had first noted in her the night before.
That might rather have come from the sense of feeling herself a helpless
burden on her friends, and from that young longing for companionship
which is as far as may be from the desire of conquest, of triumph.
Finding her now so gratefully content with the poor efforts to amuse her
which an old fellow like me could make, I perceived that the society of
other girls would suffice to make Saratoga quite another thing for her,
and I cast about in my mind to contrive this somehow.
I confess that I liked her better and better, and before the evening was
out I had quite transferred my compassion from the Deerings to her.  It
was forlorn and dreary for her to be attached to this good couple,
whose interests were primarily in each other, and who had not the first
of those arts which could provide her with other company.  She willingly
told about their journey to Saratoga, and her story did not differ
materially from the account Deering had already given me; but even the
outward form of adventure had fallen from their experience since they had
come to Saratoga.  They had formed the habit of Congress Park by
accident; but they had not been to the lake, or the races, or the House
of Pansa, or Mount M’Gregor, or Hilton Park, or even the outlying
springs.  It was the first time they had been inside of the Grand Union.
“Then you have never seen the parlour?” I asked; and after the concert I
boldly led the way into the parlour, and lavished its magnificence upon
them as if I had been the host, or one of the hotel guests at the very
least.  I enjoyed the breathlessness of the Deerings so much, as we
walked up and down the vast drawing-rooms accompanied by our images in
the mirrors, that I insisted upon sitting down with them all upon some of
the richest pieces of furniture; and I was so flown with my success as
cicerone that I made them come with me to the United States.  I showed
them through the parlours there, and then led them through to the inner
verandah, which commanded another wooded court like that of the Grand
Union.  I tried to make them feel the statelier sentiment of the older
hotel, and to stir their imaginations with a picture of the old times,
when the Southern planters used to throng the place, and all that was gay
and brilliant in fashionable society was to be seen there some time
during the summer.  I think that I failed in this, but apparently I
succeeded in giving them an evening of dazzling splendour.
“Well, sir, this has been a great treat,” said Mr. Deering, when he bade
us goodbye as well as good-night; he was going early in the morning.
The ladies murmured their gratitude, Mrs. Deering with an emotion that
suited her thanks, and Miss Gage with a touch of something daughterly
toward me that I thought pretty.
VI
“WELL, what did you make of her, my dear?” Mrs. March demanded the
instant she was beyond their hearing.  “I must say, you didn’t spare
yourself in the cause; you did bravely.  What is she like?”
“Really, I don’t know,” I answered, after a moment’s reflection.  “I
should say she was almost purely potential.  She’s not so much this or
that kind of girl; she’s merely a radiant image of girlhood.”
“Now, your chicquing it, you’re faking it,” said Mrs. March, borrowing
the verbs severally from the art editor and the publisher of Every Other
Week.  “You have got to tell me just how much and how little there
really is of her before I go any further with them.  Is she stupid?”
“No—no; I shouldn’t say stupid exactly.  She is—what shall I
say?—extremely plain-minded.  I suppose the goddesses were plain-minded.
I’m a little puzzled by her attitude toward her own beauty.  She doesn’t
live her beauty any more than a poet lives his poetry or a painter his
painting; though I’ve no doubt she knows her gift is hers just as they
do.”
“I think I understand.  You mean she isn’t conscious.”
“No.  Conscious isn’t quite the word,” I said fastidiously.  “Isn’t there
some word that says less, or more, in the same direction?”
“No, there isn’t; and I shall think you don’t mean anything at all if you
keep on.  Now, tell me how she really impressed you.  Does she know
anything?  Has she read anything?  Has she any ideas?”
“Really, I can’t say whether they were ideas or not.  She knew what
Every Other Week was; she had read the stories in it; but I’m not sure
she valued it at its true worth.  She is very plain-minded.”
“Don’t keep repeating that!  What do you mean by plain-minded?”
“Well, honest, single, common-sense, coherent, arithmetical.”
“Horrors!  Do you mean that she is mannish?”
“No, not mannish.  And yet she gave me the notion that, when it came to
companionship, she would be just as well satisfied with a lot of girls as
young men.”
Mrs. March pulled her hand out of my arm, and stopped short under one of
those tall Saratoga shade-trees to dramatise her inference.  “Then she is
the slyest of all possible pusses!  Did she give you the notion that she
would be just as well satisfied with you as with a young man!”
“She couldn’t deceive me so far as that, my dear.”
“Very well; I shall take her in hand myself to-morrow, and find out what
she really is.”
Mrs. March went shopping the next forenoon with what was left of the
Deering party; Deering had taken the early train north, and she seemed to
have found the ladies livelier without him.  She formed the impression
from their more joyous behaviour that he kept his wife from spending as
much money as she would naturally have done, and that, while he was not
perhaps exactly selfish, he was forgetful of her youth, of the difference
in years between them, and of her capacity for pleasures which he could
not care for.  She said that Mrs. Deering and Miss Gage now acted like
two girls together, and, if anything, Miss Gage seemed the elder of the
two.
“And what did you decide about her?” I inquired.
“Well, I helped her buy a hat and a jacket at one of those nice shops
just below the hotel where they’re stopping, and we’ve started an evening
dress for her.  She can’t wear that white duck morning, noon, and night.”
“But her character—her nature?”
“Oh!  Well, she is rather plain-minded, as you call it.  I think she
shows out her real feelings too much for a woman.”
“Why do you prefer dissimulation in your sex, my dear?”
“I don’t call it dissimulation.  But of course a girl ought to hide her
feelings.  Don’t you think it would have been better for her not to have
looked so obviously out of humour when you first saw her the other
night?”
“She wouldn’t have interested me so much, then, and she probably wouldn’t
have had your acquaintance now.”
“Oh, I don’t mean to say that even that kind of girl won’t get on, if she
gives her mind to it; but I think I should prefer a little less
plain-mindedness, as you call it, if I were a man.”
I did not know exactly what to say to this, and I let Mrs. March go on.
“It’s so in the smallest thing.  If you’re choosing a thing for her, and
she likes another, she lets you feel it at once.  I don’t mean that she’s
rude about it, but she seems to set herself so square across the way, and
you come up with a kind of bump against her.  I don’t think that’s very
feminine.  That’s what I mean by mannish.  You always know where to find
her.”
I don’t know why this criticism should have amused me so much, but I
began to laugh quite uncontrollably, and I laughed on and on.  Mrs. March
kept her temper with me admirably.  When I was quiet again, she said—
“Mrs. Deering is a person that wins your heart at once; she has that
appealing quality.  You can see that she’s cowed by her husband, though
he means to be kind to her; and yet you may be sure she gets round him,
and has her own way all the time.  I know it was her idea to have him go
home and leave them here, and of course she made him think it was his.
She saw that as long as he was here, and anxious to get back to his
‘stock,’ there was no hope of giving Miss Gage the sort of chance she
came for, and so she determined to manage it.  At the same time, you can
see that she is true as steel, and would abhor anything like deceit worse
than the pest.”
“I see; and that is why you dislike Miss Gage?”
“Dislike her?  No, I don’t dislike her; but she is disappointing.  If she
were a plain girl her plain-mindedness would be all right; it would be
amusing; she would turn it to account and make it seem humorous.  But it
doesn’t seem to go with her beauty; it takes away from that—I don’t know
how to express it exactly.”
“You mean that she has no charm.”
“No; I don’t mean that at all.  She has a great deal of charm of a
certain kind, but it’s a very peculiar kind.  After all, the truth is the
truth, Basil, isn’t it?”
“It is sometimes, my dear,” I assented.
“And the truth has its charm, even when it’s too blunt.”
“Ah, I’m not so sure of that.”
“Yes—yes, it has.  You mustn’t say so, Basil, or I shall lose all my
faith in you.  If I couldn’t trust you, I don’t know what I should do.”
“What are you after now, Isabel?”
“I am not after anything.  I want you to go round to all the hotels and
see if there is not some young man you know at one of them.  There surely
must be.”
“Would one young man be enough?”
“If he were attentive enough, he would be.  One young man is as good as a
thousand if the girl is the right kind.”
“But you have just been implying that Miss Gage is cold and selfish and
greedy.  Shall I go round exploring hotel registers for a victim to such
a divinity as that?”
“No; you needn’t go till I have had a talk with her.  I am not sure she
is worth it; I am not sure that I want to do a single thing for her.”
VII
THE next day, after another forenoon’s shopping with her friends, Mrs.
March announced: “Well, now, it has all come out, Basil, and I wonder you
didn’t get the secret at once from your Mr. Deering.  Have you been
supposing that Miss Gage was a poor girl whom the Deerings had done the
favour of bringing with them?”
“Why, what of it?” I asked provisionally.
“She is very well off.  Her father is not only the president, as they
call it, of the village, but he’s the president of the bank.”
“Yes; I told you that Deering told me so—”
“But he is very queer.  He has kept her very close from the other young
people, and Mrs. Deering is the only girl friend she’s ever had, and
she’s grown up without having been anywhere without him.  They had to
plead with him to let her come with them—or Mrs. Deering had,—but when he
once consented, he consented handsomely.  He gave her a lot of money, and
told them he wanted her to have the best time that money could buy; and
of course you can understand how such a man would think that money would
buy a good time anywhere.  But the Deerings didn’t know how to go about
it.  She confessed as much when we were talking the girl over.  I could
see that she stood in awe of her somehow from the beginning, and that she
felt more than the usual responsibility for her.  That was the reason she
was so eager to get her husband off home; as long as he was with them she
would have to work everything through him, and that would be double
labour, because he is so hopelessly villaginous, don’t you know, that
he never could rise to the conception of anything else.  He took them to
a cheap, second-class hotel, and he was afraid to go with them anywhere
because he never was sure that it was the right thing to do; and he was
too proud to ask, and they had to keep prodding him all the time.”
“That’s delightful!”
“Oh, I dare say you think so; but if you knew how it wounded a woman’s
self-respect you would feel differently; or you wouldn’t, rather.  But
now, thank goodness; they’ve got him off their hands, and they can begin
to breathe freely.  That is, Mrs. Deering could, if she hadn’t her heart
in her mouth all the time, wondering what she can do for the girl, and
bullying herself with the notion that she is to blame if she doesn’t have
a good time.  You can understand just how it was with them always.  Mrs.
Deering is one of those meek little things that a great, splendid, lonely
creature like Miss Gage would take to in a small place, and perfectly
crush under the weight of her confidence; and she would want to make her
husband live up to her ideal of the girl, and would be miserable because
he wouldn’t or couldn’t.”
“I believe the good Deering didn’t even think her handsome.”
“That’s it.  And he thought anything that was good enough for his wife
was good enough for Miss Gage, and he’d be stubborn about doing things on
her account, even to please his wife.”
“Such conduct is imaginable of the good Deering.  I don’t think he liked
her.”
“Nor she him.  Mrs. Deering helplessly hinted as much.  She said he
didn’t like to have her worrying so much about Miss Gage’s not having a
good time, and she couldn’t make him feel as she did about it, and she
was half glad for his own sake that he had to go home.”
“Did she say that?”
“Not exactly; but you could see that she meant it.  Do you think it would
do for them to change from their hotel, and go to the Grand Union or the
States or Congress Hall?”
“Have you been putting them up to that, Isabel?”
“I knew you would suspect me, and I wouldn’t have asked for your opinion
if I had cared anything for it, really.  What would be the harm of their
doing it?”
“None whatever, if you really want my worthless opinion.  But what could
they do there?”
“They could see something if they couldn’t do anything, and as soon as
Miss Gage has got her new gowns I’m going to tell them you thought they
could do it.  It was their own idea, at any rate.”
“Miss Gage’s?”
“Mrs. Deering’s.  She has the courage of a—I don’t know what.  She sees
that it’s a desperate case, and she wouldn’t stop at anything.”
“Now that her husband has gone home.”
“Well, which hotel shall they go to?”
“Oh, that requires reflection.”
“Very well, then, when you’ve reflected I want you to go to the hotel
you’ve chosen, and introduce yourself to the clerk, and tell him your
wife has two friends coming, and you want something very pleasant for
them.  Tell him all about yourself and Every Other Week.”
“He’ll think I want them deadheaded.”
“No matter, if your conscience is clear; and don’t be so shamefully
modest as you always are, but speak up boldly.  Now, will you?  Promise
me you will!”
“I will try, as the good little boy says.  But, Isabel, we don’t know
these people except from their own account.”
“And that is quite enough.”
“It will be quite enough for the hotel-keeper if they run their board.  I
shall have to pay it.”
“Now, Basil dear, don’t be disgusting, and go and do as you’re bid.”
It was amusing, but it was perfectly safe, and there was no reason why I
should not engage rooms for the ladies at another hotel.  I had not the
least question of them, and I had failed to worry my wife with a
pretended doubt.  So I decided that I would go up at once and inquire at
the Grand Union.  I chose this hotel because, though it lacked the fine
flower of the more ancient respectability and the legendary charm of the
States, it was so spectacular that it would be in itself a perpetual
excitement for those ladies, and would form an effect of society which,
with some help from us, might very well deceive them.  This was what I
said to myself, though in my heart I knew better.  Whatever Mrs. Deering
might think, that girl was not going to be taken in with any such simple
device, and I must count upon the daily chances in the place to afford
her the good time she had come for.
As I mounted the steps to the portico of the Grand Union with my head
down, and lost in a calculation of these chances, I heard my name gaily
called, and I looked up to see young Kendricks, formerly of our staff on
Every Other Week, and still a frequent contributor, and a great
favourite of my wife’s and my own.  My heart gave a great joyful bound at
sight of him.
“My dear boy, when in the world did you come?”
“This morning by the steamboat train, and I am never, never going away!”
“You like it, then?”
“Like it!  It’s the most delightful thing in the universe.  Why, I’m
simply wild about it, Mr. March.  I go round saying to myself, Why have I
thrown away my life?  Why have I never come to Saratoga before?  It’s
simply supreme, and it’s American down to the ground.  Yes; that’s what
makes it so delightful.  No other people could have invented it, and it
doesn’t try to be anything but what we made it.”
“I’m so glad you look at it in that way.  We like it.  We discovered it
three or four years ago, and we never let a summer slip, if we can help
it, without coming here for a week or a month.  The place,” I enlarged,
“has the charm of ruin, though it’s in such obvious repair; it has a
past; it’s so completely gone by in a society sense.  The cottage life
here hasn’t killed the hotel life, as it has at Newport and Bar Harbour;
but the ideal of cottage life everywhere else has made hotel life at
Saratoga ungenteel.  The hotels are full, but at the same time they are
society solitudes.”
“How gay it is!” said the young fellow, as he gazed with a pensive smile
into the street, where all those festive vehicles were coming and going,
dappled by the leaf-shadows from the tall trees overhead.  “What air!
what a sky!”  The one was indeed sparkling, and the other without a
cloud, for it had rained in the night, and it seemed as if the weather
could never be hot and close again.
I forgot how I had been sweltering about, and said: “Yes; it is a
Saratoga day.  It’s supposed that the sparkle of the air comes from the
healthful gases thrown off by the springs.  Some people say the springs
are doctored; that’s what makes their gases so healthful.”
“Why, anything might happen here,” Kendricks mused, unheedful of me.
“What a scene! what a stage!  Why has nobody done a story about
Saratoga?” he asked, with a literary turn I knew his thoughts would be
taking.  All Gerald Kendricks’s thoughts were of literature, but
sometimes they were not of immediate literary effect, though that was
never for long.
“Because,” I suggested, “one probably couldn’t get his young lady
characters to come here if they were at all in society.  But of course
there must be charming presences here accidentally.  Some young girl,
say, might come here from a country place, expecting to see social
gaiety—”
“Ah, but that would be too heart-breaking!”
“Not at all.  Not if she met some young fellow accidentally—don’t you
see?”
“It would be difficult to manage; and hasn’t it been done?”
“Everything has been done, my dear fellow.  Or, you might suppose a young
lady who comes on here with her father, a veteran politician, delegate to
the Republican or Democratic convention—all the conventions meet in
Saratoga,—and some ardent young delegate falls in love with her.  That
would be new ground.  There you would have the political novel, which
they wonder every now and then some of us don’t write.”  The smile faded
from Kendricks’s lips, and I laughed.  “Well, then, there’s nothing for
it but the Social Science Congress.  Have a brilliant professor win the
heart of a lovely sister-in-law of another member by a paper he reads
before the Congress.  No?  You’re difficult.  Are you stopping here?”
“Yes; are you?”
“I try to give myself the air of it when I am feeling very proud.  But
really, we live at a most charming little hotel on a back street, out of
the whirl and rush that we should prefer to be in if we could afford it.”
He said it must be delightful, and he made the proper inquiries about
Mrs. March.  Kendricks never forgot the gentleman in the artist, and he
was as true to the convenances as if they had been principles.  That
was what made Mrs. March like his stories so much more than the stories
of some people who wrote better.  He said he would drop in during the
afternoon, and I went indoors on the pretext of buying a newspaper.
Then, without engaging rooms for Mrs. Deering and Miss Gage, I hurried
home.
VIII
“WELL, did you get the rooms?” asked my wife as soon as she saw me.
She did not quite call it across the street to me as I came up from where
she sat on the piazza.
“No, I didn’t,” I said boldly, if somewhat breathlessly.
“Why didn’t you?  You ought to have gone to the States if they were full
at the Grand Union.”
“They were not full, unless Kendricks got their last room.”
“Do you mean that he was there?  Mr. Kendricks?  If you are hoaxing me,
Basil!”
“I am not, my dear; indeed I’m not,” said I, beginning to laugh, and this
made her doubt me the more.
“Because if you are I shall simply never forgive you.  And I’m in earnest
this time,” she replied.
“Why should I want to hoax you about such a vital thing as that.
Couldn’t Kendricks come to Saratoga as well as we?  He’s here looking up
the ground of a story I should think from what he said.”
“No matter what he’s here for; he’s here, and that’s enough.  I never
knew of anything so perfectly providential.  Did you tell him, Basil?
Did you dare?”
“Tell him what?”
“You know; about Miss Gage.”
“Well, I came very near it.  I dangled the fact before his eyes once, but
I caught it away again in time.  He never saw it.  I thought I’d better
let you tell him.”
“Is he coming here to see us?”
“He asked if he might.”
“He’s always nice.  I don’t know that I shall ask him to do anything for
them, after all; I’m not sure that she’s worth it.  I wish some commoner
person had happened along.  Kendricks is too precious.  I shall have to
think about it; and don’t you tease me, Basil, will you?”
“I don’t know.  If I’m not allowed to have any voice in the matter, I’m
afraid I shall take it out in teasing.  I don’t see why Miss Gage isn’t
quite as good as Kendricks.  I believe she’s taller, and though he’s
pretty good-looking, I prefer her style of beauty.  I dare say his family
is better, but I fancy she’s richer; and his family isn’t good beyond New
York city, and her money will go anywhere.  It’s a pretty even thing.”
“Good gracious, Basil! you talk as if it were a question of marriage.”
“And you think it is.”
“Now I see that you’re bent upon teasing, and we won’t talk any more,
please.  What time did he say he would call?”
“If I mayn’t talk, I can’t tell.”
“You may talk that much.”
“Well, then, he didn’t say.”
“Basil,” said my wife, after a moment, “if you could be serious, I should
like very much to talk with you.  I know that you’re excited by meeting
Mr. Kendricks, and I know what you thought the instant you saw him.  But,
indeed, it won’t do, my dear.  It’s more than we’ve any right to ask, and
I shall not ask it, and I shall not let you.  She is a stiff, awkward
village person, and I don’t believe she’s amiable or intelligent; and to
let a graceful, refined, superior man like Mr. Kendricks throw away his
time upon her would be wicked, simply wicked.  Let those people manage
for themselves from this out.  Of course you mustn’t get them rooms at
the Grand Union now, for he’d be seeing us there with them, and feel
bound to pay her attention.  You must try for them at the States, since
the matter’s been spoken of, or at Congress Hall.  But there’s no hurry.
We must have time to think whether we shall use Mr. Kendricks with them.
I suppose it will do no harm to introduce him.  If he stays we can’t very
well avoid it; and I confess I should like to see how she impresses him!
Of course we shall introduce him!  But I insist I shall just do it merely
as one human being to another; and don’t you come in with any of your
romantic nonsense, Basil, about her social disappointment.  Just how much
did you give the situation away?”
I told as well as I could remember.  “Well, that’s nothing.  He’ll never
think of it, and you mustn’t hint anything of the kind again.”
I promised devoutly, and she went on—
“It wouldn’t be nice—it wouldn’t be delicate to let him into the
conspiracy.  That must be entirely our affair, don’t you see?  And I
don’t want you to take a single step without me.  I don’t want you even
to discuss her with him.  Will you?  Because that will tempt you
further.”
That afternoon Kendricks came promptly to call, like the little gentleman
he was, and he was more satisfactory about Saratoga than he had been in
the morning even.  Mrs. March catechised him, and she didn’t leave an
emotion of his unsearched by her vivid sympathy.  She ended by saying—
“You must write a story about Saratoga.  And I have got just the heroine
for you.”
I started, but she ignored my start.
Kendricks laughed, delighted, and asked, “Is she pretty?”
“Must a heroine be pretty?”
“She had better be.  Otherwise she will have to be tremendously clever
and say all sorts of brilliant things, and that puts a great burden on
the author.  If you proclaim boldly at the start that she’s a beauty, the
illustrator has got to look after her, and the author has a comparative
sinecure.”
Mrs. March thought a moment, and then she said: “Well, she is a beauty.
I don’t want to make it too hard for you.”
“When shall I see her?” Kendricks demanded, and he feigned an amusing
anxiety.
“Well, that depends upon how you behave, Mr. Kendricks.  If you are very,
very good, perhaps I may let you see her this evening.  We will take you
to call upon her.”
“Is it possible?  Do you mean business?  Then she is—in society?”
“Mr. Kendricks!” cried Mrs. March, with burlesque severity.  “Do you
think that I would offer you a heroine who was not in society?  You
forget that I am from Boston!”
“Of course, of course!  I understand that any heroine of your
acquaintance must be in society.  But I thought—I didn’t know—but for the
moment—Saratoga seems to be so tremendously mixed; and Mr. March says
there is no society here: But if she is from Boston—”
“I didn’t say she was from Boston, Mr. Kendricks.”
“Oh, I beg your pardon!”
“She is from De Witt Point,” said Mrs. March, and she apparently enjoyed
his confusion, no less than my bewilderment at the course she was taking.
I was not going to be left behind, though, and I said: “I discovered this
heroine myself, Kendricks, and if there is to be any giving away—”
“Now, Basil!”
“I am going to do it.  Mrs. March would never have cared anything about
her if it hadn’t been for me.  I can’t let her impose on you.  This
heroine is no more in society than she is from Boston.  That is the
trouble with her.  She has come here for society, and she can’t find
any.”
“Oh, that was what you were hinting at this morning,” said Kendricks.  “I
thought it a pure figment of the imagination.”
“One doesn’t imagine such things as that, my dear fellow.  One imagines a
heroine coming here, and having the most magnificent kind of social
career—lawn-parties, lunches, teas, dinners, picnics, hops—and going back
to De Witt Point with a dozen offers of marriage.  That’s the kind of
work the imagination does.  But this simple and appealing situation—this
beautiful young girl, with her poor little illusions, her secret hopes
half hidden from herself, her ignorant past, her visionary future—”
“Now, I am going to tell you all about her, Mr. Kendricks,” Mrs. March
broke in upon me, with defiance in her eye; and she flung out the whole
fact with a rapidity of utterance that would have left far behind any
attempt of mine.  But I made no attempt to compete with her; I contented
myself with a sarcastic silence which I could see daunted her a little at
last.
“And all that we’ve done, my dear fellow”—I took in irony the word she
left to me—“is to load ourselves up with these two impossible people, to
go their security to destiny, and answer for their having a good time.
We’re in luck.”
“Why, I don’t know,” said Kendricks, and I could see that his fancy was
beginning to play with the situation; “I don’t see why it isn’t a
charming scheme.”
“Of course it is,” cried Mrs. March, taking a little heart from his
courage.
“We can’t make out yet whether the girl is interesting,” I put in
maliciously.
“That is what you say,” said my wife.  “She is very shy, and of course
she wouldn’t show out her real nature to you.  I found her very
interesting.”
“Now, Isabel!” I protested.
“She is fascinating,” the perverse woman persisted.  “She has a
fascinating dulness.”
Kendricks laughed and I jeered at this complex characterisation.
“You make me impatient to judge for myself,” he said.
“Will you go with me to call upon them this evening?” asked Mrs. March.
“I shall be delighted.  And you can count upon me to aid and abet you in
your generous conspiracy, Mrs. March, to the best of my ability.  There’s
nothing I should like better than to help you—”
“Throw ‘dust in her beautiful eyes,’” I quoted.
“Not at all,” said my wife.  “But to spread a beatific haze over
everything, so that as long as she stays in Saratoga she shall see life
rose-colour.  Of course you may say that it’s a kind of deception—”
“Not at all!” cried the young fellow in his turn.  “We will make it
reality.  Then there will be no harm in it.”
“What a jesuitical casuist!  You had better read what Cardinal Newman
says in his Apologia about lying, young man.”
Neither of them minded me, for just then there was a stir of drapery
round the corner of the piazza from where we were sitting, and the next
moment Mrs. Deering and Miss Gage showed themselves.
“We were just talking of you,” said Mrs. March.  “May I present our
friend Mr. Kendricks, Mrs. Deering?  And Miss Gage?”
At sight of the young man, so well dressed and good-looking, who bowed so
prettily to her, and then bustled to place chairs for them, a certain
cloud seemed to lift from Miss Gage’s beautiful face, and to be at least
partly broken on Mrs. Deering’s visage.  I began to talk to the girl, and
she answered in good spirits, and with more apparent interest in my
conversation than she had yet shown, while Kendricks very properly
devoted himself to the other ladies.  Both his eyes were on them, but I
felt that he had a third somehow upon her, and that the smallest fact of
her beauty and grace was not lost upon him.  I knew that her rich, tender
voice was doing its work, too, through the commonplaces she vouchsafed to
me.  There was a moment when I saw him lift a questioning eyebrow upon
Mrs. March, and saw her answer with a fleeting frown of affirmation.  I
cannot tell just how it was that, before he left us, his chair was on the
other side of Miss Gage’s, and I was eliminated from the dialogue.
He did not stay too long.  There was another tableau of him on foot,
taking leave of Mrs. March, with a high hand-shake, which had then lately
come in, and which I saw the girl note, and then bowing to her and to
Mrs. Deering.
“Don’t forget,” my wife called after him, with a ready invention not lost
on his quick intelligence, “that you’re going to the concert with us
after tea.  Eight o’clock, remember.”
“You may be sure I shall remember that,” he returned gaily.
IX
THE countenances of the ladies fell instantly when he was gone.  “Mrs.
March,” said Mrs. Deering, with a nervous tremor, “did Mr. March get us
those rooms at the Grand Union?”
“No—no,” my wife began, and she made a little pause, as if to gather
plausibility.  “The Grand Union was very full, and he thought that at the
States—”
“Because,” said Mrs. Deering, “I don’t know as we shall trouble him,
after all.  Mr. Deering isn’t very well, and I guess we have got to go
home—”
“Go home!” Mrs. March echoed, and her voice was a tone-scene of a
toppling hope and a widespread desolation.  “Why, you mustn’t!”
“We must, I guess.  It had begun to be very pleasant, and—I guess I have
got to go.  I can’t feel easy about him.”
“Why, of course,” Mrs. March now assented, and she waved her fan
thoughtfully before her face.  I knew what she was thinking of, and I
