Mr. Mudge, but altogether and only for her 
self. This truth filled out for her there the 
whole experience she was about to relinquish, 
suffused and coloured it as a picture that she 
should keep and that, describe it as she 
might, no one but herself would ever really 
see. Moreover she had no desire whatever 
to make Mr. Mudge jealous; there would be 
no amusement in it, for the amusement she 
had lately known had spoiled her for lower 
pleasures. There were even no materials for 
it. The odd thing was that she never 
doubted that, properly handled, his passion 
was poisonable; what had happened was 
that he had calmly selected a partner with 
no poison to distil. She read then and there 
that she should never interest herself in 





anybody as to whom some other sentiment, 
some superior view, wouldn't be sure to 
interfere, for him, with jealousy. And 
what did you get out of that? he asked with 
a concern that was not in the least for his 
honour. 

Nothing but a good chance to promise 
him I wouldn't forsake him. He 's one of 
my customers. 

Then it 's for him not to forsake you. 

Well, he won t. It 's all right. But I 
must just keep on as long as he may want 
me. 

Want you to sit with him in the Park? 

He may want me for that but I shan t. 
I rather like it, but once, under the circum 
stances, is enough. I can do better for him 
in another manner. 

And what manner, pray? 

Well, elsewhere. 

Elsewhere ! I say! 

This was an ejaculation used also by Cap 
tain Everard, but, oh, with what a different 
sound! You needn't "say" there 's noth- 





ing to be said. And yet you ought perhaps 
to know. 

Certainly I ought. But what up to 
now? 

Why, exactly what I told him. That I 
would do anything for him. 

What do you mean by "anything"? 

Everything. 

Mr. Mudge 's immediate comment on this 
statement was to draw from his pocket a 
crumpled paper containing the remains of 
half a pound of sundries. These sundries 
had figured conspicuously in his prospective 
sketch of their tour, but it was only at the 
end of three days that they had defined 
themselves unmistakably as chocolate- 
creams. Have another? that one, he said. 
She had another, but not the one he indi 
cated, and then he continued: What took 
place afterwards? 

Afterwards? 

What did you do when you had told him 
you would do everything? 

I simply came away. 





Out of the Park? 

Yes, leaving him there. I didn' t let him 
follow me. 

Then what did you let him do? 

I didn' t let him do anything. 

Mr. Mudge considered an instant. Then 
what did you go there for? His tone was 
even slightly critical. 

I didn' t quite know at the time. It was 
simply to be with him, I suppose just 
once. He 's in danger, and I wanted him to 
know I know it. It makes meeting him 
t Cocker's, for it 's that I want to stay on 
for more interesting. 

It makes it mighty interesting for me! 1 
Mr. Mudge freely declared. Yet he didn' t 
follow you? he asked, I would! 

Yes, of course. That was the way you 
began, you know. You're awfully inferior 
to him. 

Well, my dear, you're not inferior to any 
body. You've got a cheek ! What is he in 
danger of? 

Of being found out. He 's in love with a 





lady and it isn' t right and I've found him 
out. 

That ll be a look-out for me! Mr. Mudge 
joked. You mean she has a husband? 

Never mind what she has! They're in 
awful danger, but his is the worst, because 
he 's in danger from her too. 

Like me from you the woman  I love? 
If he 's in the same funk as me 

He 's in a worse one. He 's not only 
afraid of the lady he 's afraid of other 
things. 

Mr. Mudge selected another chocolate 
cream. Well, I'm only afraid of one! But 
how in the world can you help this party? 

I don't know perhaps not at all. But 
so long as there 's a chance 

You won't come away? 

No, you've got to wait for me. 

Mr. Mudge enjoyed what was in his 
mouth. And what will he give you? 

Give me? 

If you do help him. 

Nothing. Nothing in all the wide world. 



i 5 o   

Then what will he give mef Mr. Mudge 
inquired. 4 1 mean for waiting. 

The girl thought a moment ; then she got 
up to walk. He never heard of you, she 
replied. 

You haven't mentioned me? 

We never mention anything. What I've 
told you is just what I've found out. 

Mr. Mudge, who had remained on the 
bench, looked up at her ; she often preferred 
to be quiet when he proposed to walk, but 
now that he seemed to wish to sit she had a 
desire to move. But you haven't told me 
what he has found out. 

She considered her lover. He'd never 
find^M, my dear! 

Her lover, still on his seat, appealed to her 
in something of the attitude in which she 
had last left Captain Everard, but the 
impression was not the same. Then where 
do I come in? 

You don't come in at all. That 's just 
the beauty of it! and with this she turned 
to mingle with the multitude collected round 





the band. Mr. Mudge presently overtook 
her and drew her arm into his own with a 
quiet force that expressed the serenity of 
possession; in consonance with which it 
was only when they parted for the night at 
her door that he referred again to what she 
had told him. 

Have you seen him since? 

Since the night in the Park? No, not 
once. 

Oh, what a cad! said Mr. Mudge. 



XX 

It was not until the end of October that 
she saw Captain Everard again, and on that 
occasion the only one of all the series on 
which hindrance had been so utter no 
communication with him proved possible. 
She had made out, even from the cage, that 
it was a charming golden day: a patch 
of hazy autumn sunlight lay across the 
sanded floor and also, higher up, quick 
ened into brightness a row of ruddy 
bottled syrups. Work was slack and the 
place in general empty; the town, as they 
said in the cage, had not waked up, and 
the feeling of the day likened itself to 
something that in happier conditions she 
would have thought of romantically as St. 
Martin 's summer. The counter-clerk had 
gone to his dinner; she herself was busy 
with arrears of postal jobs, in the midst of 

which she became aware that Captain 






Everard had apparently been in the shop a 
minute and that Mr. Buckton had already 
seized him. 

He had, as usual, half a dozen telegrams, 
and when he saw that she saw him and their 
eyes met he gave, on bowing to her, an 
exaggerated laugh in which she read a new 
consciousness. It was a confession of awk 
wardness ; it seemed to tell her that of course 
he knew he ought better to have kept his 
head, ought to have been clever enough to 
wait, on some pretext, till he should have 
found her free. Mr. Buckton was a long 
time with him, and her attention was soon 
demanded by other visitors: so that noth 
ing passed between them but the fulness of 
their silence. The look she took from him 
was his greeting, and the other one a simple 
sign of the eyes sent her before going out. 
The only token they exchanged, therefore, 
was his tacit assent to her wish that, since 
they couldn't attempt a certain frankness, 
they should attempt nothing at all. This 
was her intense preference ; she could be as 





still and cold as any one when that was the 
sole solution. 

Yet, more than any contact hitherto 
achieved, these counted instants struck her 
as marking a step : they were built so just 
in the mere flash on the recognition of his 
now definitely knowing what it was she 
would do for him. The anything, any 
thing she had uttered in the Park went to 
and fro between them and under the poked- 
out chins that interposed. It had all at last 
even put on the air of their not needing now 
clumsily to manoeuvre to converse: their 
former little postal make-believes, the 
intense implications of questions and 
answers and change, had become in the 
light of the personal fact, of their having 
had their moment, a possibility compara 
tively poor. It was as if they had met for 
all time it exerted on their being in pres 
ence again an influence so prodigious. 
When she watched herself, in the memory 
of that night, walk away from him as if she 
were making an end, she found something 





too pitiful in the primness of such a gait. 
Hadn't she precisely established on the part 
of each a consciousness that could end only 
with death? 

It must be admitted, that, in spite of this 
brave margin, an irritation, after he had 
gone, remained with her; a sense that 
presently became one with a still sharper 
hatred of Mr. Buckton, who, on her friend 's 
withdrawal, had retired with the telegrams 
to the sounder and left her the other work. 
She knew indeed she should have a chance 
to see them, when she would, on file; and 
she was divided, as the day went on, between 
the two impressions of all that was lost and 
all that was reasserted. What beset her 
above all, and as she had almost never 
known it before, was the desire to bound 
straight out, to overtake the autumn after 
noon before it passed away for ever and 
hurry off to the Park and perhaps be with 
him there again on a bench. It became, 
for an hour, a fantastic vision with her that 
he might just have gone to sit and wait for 





her. She could almost hear him, through 
the tick of the sounder, scatter with his stick, 
in his impatience, the fallen leaves of 
October. Why should such a vision seize 
her at this particular moment with such a 
shake? There was a time from four to 
five when she could have cried with happi 
ness and rage. 

Business quickened, it seemed, toward 
five, as if the town did wake up; she had 
therefore more to do, and she went through 
it with little sharp stampings and jerkings: 
she made the crisp postal-orders fairly snap 
while she breathed to herself : It 's the last 
day the last day! The last day of what? 
She couldn't have told. All she knew now 
was that if she were out of the cage she 
wouldn't in the least have minded, this time, 
its not yet being dark. She would have 
gone straight toward Park Chambers and 
have hung about there till no matter when. 
She would have waited, stayed, rung, asked, 
have gone in, sat on the stairs. What the 
day was the last of was probably, to her 





strained inner sense, the group of golden 
ones, of any occasion for seeing the hazy 
sunshine slant at that angle into the smelly 
shop, of any range of chances for his wish 
ing still to repeat to her the two words 
that, in the Park, she had scarcely let him 
bring out. See here see here ! the sound 
of these two words had been with her per 
petually ; but it was in her ears to-day with 
out mercy, with a loudness that grew and 
grew. What was it they then expressed? 
what was it he had wanted her to see? She 
seemed, whatever it was, perfectly to see it 
now to see that if she should just chuck 
the whole thing, should have a great and 
beautiful courage, he would somehow make 
everything up to her. When the clock 
struck five she was on the very point of say 
ing to Mr. Buckton that she was deadly ill 
and rapidly getting worse. This announce 
ment was on her lips, and she had quite 
composed the pale, hard face she would 
offer him: I can't stop I must go home. 
If I feel better, later on, I ll come back. 





I'm very sorry, but I must go. At that 
instant Captain Everard once more stood 
there, producing in her agitated spirit, by 
his real presence, the strangest, quickest 
revolution. He stopped her off without 
knowing it, and by the time he had been a 
minute in the shop she felt that she was 
saved. 

That was from the first minute what she 
called it to herself. There were again other 
persons with whom she was occupied, and 
again the situation could only be expressed 
by their silence. It was expressed, in fact, 
in a larger phrase than ever yet, for her eyes 
now spoke to him with a kind of supplica 
tion. Be quiet, be quiet! they pleaded; 
and they saw his own reply: I ll do what 
ever you say; I won't even look at you 
see, see! They kept conveying thus, with 
the friendliest liberality, that they wouldn't 
look, quite positively wouldn t. What she 
was to see was that he hovered at the other 
end of the counter, Mr. Buckton 's end, 
surrendered himself again to that frustra- 





tion. It quickly proved so great indeed that 
what she was to see further was how he 
turned away before he was attended to, and 
hung off, waiting, smoking, looking about 
the shop; how he went over to Mr. Cocker 's 
own counter and appeared to price things, 
gave in fact presently two or three orders 
and put down money, stood there a long 
time with his back to her, considerately 
abstaining from any glance round to see if 
she were free. It at last came to pass in 
this way that he had remained in the shop 
longer that she had ever yet known him to 
do, and that, nevertheless, when he did turn 
about she could see him time himself she 
was freshly taken up and cross straight to 
her postal subordinate, whom some one 
else had released. He had in his hand all 
this while neither letters nor telegrams, and 
now that he was close to her for she was 
close to the counter-clerk it brought her 
heart into her mouth merely to see him look 
at her neighbor and open his lips. She was 
too nervous to bear it. He asked for a Post- 





office Guide, and the young man whipped out 
a new one; whereupon he said that he 
wished not to purchase, but only to consult 
one a moment; with which, the copy kept 
on loan being produced, he once more wan 
dered off. 

What was he doing to her? What did he 
want of her? Well, it was just the aggra 
vation of his See here! She felt at this 
moment strangely and portentously afraid 
of him had in her ears the hum of a sense 
that, should it come to that kind of tension, 
she must fly on the spot to Chalk Farm. 
Mixed with her dread and with her reflec 
tion was the idea that, if he wanted her so 
much as he seemed to show, it might be 
after all simply to do for him the anything 
she had promised, the everything she had 
thought it so fine to bring out to Mr. Mudge. 
He might want her to help him, might have 
some particular appeal; though, of a truth, 
his manner didn' t denote that denoted on 
the contrary, an embarrassment, an inde 
cision, something of a desire not so much to 

be helped as to be treated rather more nicely 
than she had treated him the other time. 
Yes, he considered quite probably that he 
had help rather to offer than to ask for. 
Still, none the less, when he again saw her 
free he continued to keep away from her, 
when he came back with his Giiide it was 
Mr. Buckton he caught it was from Mr. 
Buckton he obtained half-a-crown 's worth of 
stamps. 

After asking for the stamps he asked, quite 
as a second thought, for a postal-order for 
ten shillings. What did he want with so 
many stamps when he wrote so few letters? 
How could he enclose a postal-order in a 
telegram? She expected him, the next 
thing, to go into the corner and make up 
one of his telegrams half-a-dozen of them 
on purpose to prolong his presence. She 
had so completely stopped looking at him 
that she could only guess his movements 
guess even where his eyes rested. Finally 
she saw him make a dash that might have 
been towards the nook where the forms 





were hung; and at this she suddenly felt 
that she couldn't keep it up. The counter- 
clerk had just taken a telegram from a 
slavey, and, to give herself something to 
cover her, she snatched it out of his hand. 
The gesture was so violent that he gave her 
an odd look, and she also perceived that 
Mr. Buckton noticed it. The latter person 
age, with a quick stare at her, appeared for 
an instant to wonder whether his snatching 
it in his turn mightn't be the thing she 
would least like, and she anticipated his 
practical criticism by the frankest glare she 
had ever given him. It sufficed: this time 
it paralyzed him ; and she sought with her 
trophy the refuge of the sounder. 



XXI 

It was repeated the next day; it went on 
for three days ; and at the end of that time 
she knew what to think. When, at the 
beginning-, she had emerged from her 
temporary shelter Captain Everard had 
quitted the shop ; and he had not come again 
that evening, as it had struck her he possibly 
might might all the more easily that there 
were numberless persons who came, morn 
ing and afternoon, numberless times, so that 
he wouldn't necessarily have attracted atten 
tion. The second day it was different, and 
yet on the whole worse. His access to her 
had become possible she felt herself even 
reaping the fruit of her yesterday 's glare at 
Mr. Buckton; but transacting his business 
with him didn' t simplify it could, in spite 
of the rigour of circumstance, feed so her 
new conviction. The rigour was tremen 
dous, and his telegrams not, now, mere 






pretexts for getting at her were apparently 
genuine ; yet the conviction had taken but a 
night to develop. It could be simply 
enough expressed; she had had the glim 
mer of it the day before in her idea that he 
needed no more help than she had already 
given ; that it was help he himself was pre 
pared to render. He had come up to town 
but for three or four days; he had been 
absolutely obliged to be absent after the 
other time ; yet he would, now that he was 
face to face with her, stay on as much 
longer as she liked. Little by little it was 
thus clarified, though from the first flash of 
his reappearance she had read into it the 
real essence. 

That was what the night before, at eight 
o clock, her hour to go, had made her hang 
back and dawdle. She did last things or 
pretended to do them ; to be in the cage had 
suddenly become her safety, and she was 
literally afraid of the alternate self who 
might be waiting outside. He might be 
waiting; it was he who was her alternate 





self, and of him she was afraid. The most 
extraordinary change had taken place in 
her from the moment of her catching the 
impression he seemed to have returned on 
purpose to give her. Just before she had 
done so, on that bewitched afternoon, she 
had seen herself approach, without a scruple, 
the porter at Park Chambers; then, as the 
effect of the rush of a consciousness quite 
altered, she had, on at last quitting Cocker's, 
gone straight home for the first time since 
her return from Bournemouth. She had 
passed his door every night for weeks, but 
nothing would have induced her to pass it 
now. This change was the tribute of her 
fear the result of a change in himself as to 
which she needed no more explanation than 
his mere face vividly gave her; strange 
though it was to find an element of deter 
rence in the object that she regarded as the 
most beautiful in the world. He had taken 
it from her in the Park that night that she 
wanted him not to propose to her to sup; 
but he had put away the lesson by this time 





he practically proposed supper every time 
he looked at her. This was what, for that 
matter, mainly rilled the three days. He 
came in twice on each of these, and it was as 
if he came in to give her a chance to relent. 
That was, after all, she said to herself in the 
intervals, the most that he did. There 
were ways, she fully recognised, in which 
he spared her, and other particular ways as 
to which she meant that her silence should 
be full, to him, of exquisite pleading. The 
most particular of all was his not being out 
side, at the corner, when she quitted the 
place for the night. This he might so easily 
have been so easily if he hadn't been so 
nice. She continued to recognise in his 
forbearance the fruit of her dumb supplica 
tion, and the only compensation he found 
for it was the harmless freedom of being 
able to appear to say: Yes, I'm in town only 
for three or four days, but, you know, I 
would stay on. He struck her as calling 
attention each day, each hour, to the rapid 
ebb of time ; he exaggerated to the point of 





putting it that there were only two days 
more, that there was at last, dreadfully, 
only one. 

There were other things still that he 
struck her as doing with a special intention ; 
as to the most marked of which unless 
indeed it were the most obscure she might 
well have marvelled that it didn' t seem to 
her more horrid. It was either the frenzy 
of her imagination or the disorder of his 
baffled passion that gave her once or twice 
the vision of his putting down redundant 
money sovereigns not concerned with the 
little payments he was perpetually making 
so that she might give him some sign of 
helping him to slip them over to her. 
What was most extraordinary in this 
impression was the amount of excuse that, 
with some incoherence, she found for him. 
He wanted to pay her because there was 
nothing to pay her for. He wanted to offer 
her things that he knew she wouldn't take. 
He wanted to show her how much he 
respected her by giving her the supreme 




chance to show him she was respectable. 
Over the driest transactions, at any rate, 
their eyes had out these questions. On the 
third day he put iu a telegram that had evi 
dently something of the same point as the 
stray sovereigns a message that was, in 
the first place, concocted and that, on a 
second thought, he took back from her 
before she had stamped it. He had given 
her time to read it and had only then 
bethought himself that he had better not 
send it. If it was not to Lady Bradeen at 
Twindle where she knew her ladyship then 
to be this was because an address to Doctor 
Buzzard at Brickwood was just as good, 
with the added merit of its not giving away 
quite so much a person whom he had still, 
after all, in a manner to consider. It was 
of course most complicated, only half 
lighted; but there was, discernibly enough, 
a scheme of communication in which Lady 
Bradeen at Twindle and Dr. Buzzard at 
Brickwood were, within limits, one and the 
same person. The words he had shown 





her and then taken back consisted, at all 
events, of the brief but vivid phrase: Abso 
lutely impossible. The point was not that 
she should transmit it; the point was just 
that she should see it. What was absolutely 
impossible was that before he had settled 
something at Cocker 's he should go either 
to Twindle or to Brickwood. 

The logic of this, in turn, for herself, was 
that she could lend herself to no settlement 
so long as she so intensely knew. What 
she knew was that he was, almost under 
peril of life, clenched in a situation : there 
fore how could she also know where a poor 
girl in the P. O. might really stand? It was 
more a nd more between them that if he 
might convey to her that he was free, that 
everything she had seen so deep into was a 
closed chapter, her own case might become 
different for her, she might understand and 
meet him and listen. But he could convey 
nothing of the sort, and he only fidgeted and 
floundered in his want of power. The 
chapter wasn' t in the least closed, not for 




the other party ; and the other party had a 
pull, somehow and somewhere: this his 
whole attitude and expression confessed, at 
the same time that they entreated her not 
to remember and not to mind. So long as 
she did remember and did mind he could 
only circle about and go and come, doing 
futile things of which he was ashamed. 
He was ashamed of his two words to Dr. 
Buzzard, and went out of the shop as soon 
as he had crumpled up the paper again and 
thrust it into his pocket. It had been an 
abject little exposure of dreadful, impossible 
passion. He appeared in fact to be too 
ashamed to come back. He had left town 
again, and a first week elapsed, and a 
second. He had had naturally to return to 
the real mistress of his fate; she had insisted 
she knew how, and he couldn't put in 
another hour. There was always a day when 
she called time. It was known to our young 
friend moreover that he had now been des 
patching telegrams from other offices. She 
knew at last so much that she had quite lost 





her earlier sense of merely guessing. There 
were no shades of distinctness it all bounced 
out. 



XXII 

Eighteen days elapsed, and she had begun 
to think it probable she should never see 
him again. He too then understood now: 
he had made out that she had secrets and 
reasons and impediments, that even a poor 
girl at the P. O. might have her complica 
tions. With the charm she had cast on him 
lightened by distance he had suffered a final 
delicacy to speak to him, had made up his 
mind that it would be only decent to let her 
alone. Never so much as during these 
latter days had she felt the precariousness 
of their relation the happy, beautiful, 
untroubled original one, if it could only 
have been restored in which the public 
servant and the casual public only were 
concerned. It hung at the best by the 
merest silken thread, which was at the 
mercy of any accident and might snap at 

any minute. She arrived by the end of the 







fortnight at the highest sense of actual 
fitness, never doubting that her decision was 
now complete. She would just give him a 
few days more to come back to her on a 
proper impersonal basis for even to an 
embarrassing representative of the casual 
public a public servant with a conscience did 
owe something and then would signify to 
Mr. Mudge that she was ready for the little 
home. It had been visited, in the further 
talk she had had with him at Bournemouth, 
from garret to cellar, and they had especially 
lingered, with their respectively darkened 
brows, before the niche into which it was to 
be broached to her mother that she was to 
find means to fit. 

He had put it to her more definitely than 
before that his calculations had allowed for 
that dingy presence, and he had thereby 
marked the greatest impression he had ever 
made on her. It was a stroke superior even 
again to his handling of the drunken soldier. 
What she considered that, in the face of it, 
she hung on at Cocker 's for, was some- 





thing that she could only have described as 
the common fairness of a last word. Her 
actual last word had been, till it should be 
superseded, that she wouldn't abandon her 
other friend, and it stuck to her, through 
thick and thin, that she was still at her post 
and on her honor. This other friend had 
shown so much beauty of conduct already 
that he would surely, after all, just reappear 
long enough to relieve her, to give her 
something she could take away. She saw 
it, caught it, at times, his parting present; 
and there were moments when she felt her 
self sitting like a beggar with a hand held 
out to an almsgiver who only fumbled. She 
hadn't taken the sovereigns, but she would 
take the penny. She heard, in imagination, 
on the counter, the ring of the copper. 
Don't put yourself out any longer, he 
would say, for so bad a case. You've done 
all there is to be done. I thank and acquit 
and release you. Our lives take us. I don't 
know much though I have really been 
interested about yours ; but I suppose 





you've got one. Mine, at any rate, will take 
me and where it will. Heigh-ho! Good 
bye. And then once more, for the sweet 
est, faintest flower of all: Only I say see 
here!" She had framed the whole picture 
with a squareness that included also the 
image of how again she would decline to 
see there, decline, as she might say, to see 
anywhere or anything. Yet it befell that 
just in the fury of this escape she saw more 
than ever. 

He came back one night with a rush, near 
the moment of their closing, and showed her 
a face so different and new, so upset and 
anxious, that almost anything seemed to 
look out of it but clear recognition. He 
poked in a telegram very much as if the 
simple sense of pressure, the distress of 
extreme haste, had blurred the remembrance 
of where in particular he was. But as she 
met his eyes a light came; it broke indeed 
on the spot into a positive, conscious glare. 
That made up for everything, for it was an 
instant proclamation of the celebrated dan- 





ger ; it seemed to pour things out in a flood. 
Oh yes, here it is it 's upon me at last! 
Forget, for God 's sake, my having worried 
or bored you, and just help me, just save 
me, by getting this off without the loss of a 
second ! Something grave had clearly 
occurred, a crisis declared itself. She 
recognized immediately the person to whom 
the telegram was addressed the Miss Dol 
man, of Parade Lodge, to whom Lady 
Bradeen had wired, at Dover, on the last 
occasion, and whom she had then, with her 
recollection of previous arrangements, fitted 
into a particular setting. Miss Dolman had 
figured before and not figured since, but she 
was now the subject of an imperative appeal. 
Absolutely necessary to see you. Take last 
train Victoria if you can catch it. If not, 
earliest morning, and answer me direct 
either way. 

Reply paid? said the girl. Mr. Buckton 
had just departed, and the counter - clerk 
was at the sounder. There was no other 
representative of the public and she had 




never yet, as it seemed to her, not even in 
the street or in the Park, been so alone with 
him. 

Oh yes, reply paid, and as sharp as possi 
ble, please. 

She affixed the stamps in a flash She ll 
catch the train! she then declared to him 
breathlessly, as if she could absolutely guar 
antee it. 

I don't know I hope so. It 's awfully 
important. So kind of you. Awfully sharp, 
please. It was wonderfully innocent now, 
his oblivion of all but his danger. Anything 
else that had ever passed between them was 
utterly out of it. Well, she had wanted him 
to be impersonal ! 

There was less of the same need, there 
fore, happily for herself ; yet she only took 
time, before she flew to the sounder, to gasp 
at him: You're in trouble? 

Horrid, there 's a row! But they parted, 
on it, in the next breath, and as she dashed 
at the sounder, almost pushing, in her 
violence, the counter-clerk off the stool, she 





caught the bang with which, at Cocker 's 
door, in his further precipitation, he closed 
the apron of the cab into which he had 
leaped. As he rushed off to some other 
precaution suggested by his alarm his appeal 
to Miss Dolman flashed straight away. 

But she had not on the morrow, been in 
the place five minutes before he was with 
her again, still more discomposed and quite, 
now, as she said to herself, like a frightened 
child coming to its mother. Her compan 
ions were there, and she felt it to be 
remarkable how, in the presence of his 
agitation, his mere scared, exposed nature, 
she suddenly ceased to mind. It came to her 
as it had never come to her before that with 
absolute directness and assurance they might 
carry almost anything off. He had nothing 
to send she was sure he had been wiring 
all over and yet his business was evidently 
huge. There was nothing but that in his 
eyes not a glimmer of reference or memory. 
He was almost haggard with anxiety and 
had clearly not slept a wink. Her pity for 





him would have given her any courage, and 
she seemed to know at last why she had been 
such a fool. She didn' t come ? she panted. 

Oh yes, she came, but there has been 
some mistake. We want a telegram. 

A telegram? 

