the vice-consul from her balcony coming, as it seemed 
to her, with another figure in his gondola, and a 
thousand conjectures whirled through her mind, and 
then centred upon one idea. After the first glance 
she kept her eyes down, and would not look again 
while she told herself incessantly that it could not 
be, and that she was a fool and a goose and a perfect 
coot, to think of such a thing for a single moment. 
When she allowed herself, or forced herself, to look 
a second time, as the boat drew near, she had to cling 
to the balcony parapet for support, in her disappoint 
ment. 
The person whom the vice-consul helped out of the 
gondola was an elderly man like himself, and she took 
a last refuge in the chance that he might be Hinkle 's 
father, sent to bring her to him because he could not 
come to her ; or to soften some terrible news to her. 
Then her fancy fluttered and fell, and she waited 
patiently for the fact to reveal itself. There was 
something countrified in the figure of the man, and 
something clerical in his face, though there was noth 
ing in his uncouth best clothes that confirmed this 
impression. In both face and figure there was a vague 
resemblance to some one she had seen before, when 
the vice-consul said : 
" Miss Claxon, I want to introduce the Rev. Mr. 
James B. Orson, of Michigan." Mr. Orson took 
Clementina 's hand into a dry, rough grasp, while he 
peered into her face with small, shy eyes. The vice- 
consul added with a kind of official formality, " Mr. 
Orson is the half-nephew of Mr. Lander," and then 
ONE DAY SHE SAW THE VICE-CONSUL FROM HER BALCONY. 
 
Clementina now knew whom it was that he resembled. 
u He has come to Venice," continued the vice-consul, 
" at the request of Mrs. Lander ; and he did not know 
of her death until I informed him of the fact. I 
should have said that Mr. Orson is the son of Mr. 
Lander 's half-sister. He can tell you the balance 
himself." The vice-consul pronounced the conclud 
ing word with a certain distaste, and the effect of 
gladly retiring into the background. 
" Won 't you sit down ? " said Clementina, and she 
added with one of the remnants of her Middlemount 
breeding, " Won 't you let me take your hat ? " 
Mr. Orson in trying to comply with both her invi 
tations, knocked his well worn silk hat from the hand 
that held it, and sent it rolling across the room, where 
Clementina pursued it and put it on the table. 
" I may as well say at once," he began in a flat ir- 
resonant voice, " that I am the representative of Mrs. 
Lander 's heirs, and that I have a letter from her 
enclosing her last will and testament, which I have 
shown to the consul here " 
"Vice-consul," the dignitary interrupted with an 
effect of rejecting any part in the aifair. 
" Vice-consul, I should say, and I wish to lay them 
both before you, in order that " 
" Oh, that is all right," said Clementina sweetly. 
" I 'm glad there is a will. I was afraid there wasn 't 
any at all. Mr. Bennarn and I looked for it every - 
whe e." She smiled upon the Rev. Mr. Orson, who 
silently handed her a paper. It was the will which 
Milray had written for Mrs. Lander, and which, with 
 
whatever crazy motive, she had sent to her husband 's 
kindred. It provided that each of them should be 
given five thousand dollars out of the estate, and that 
then all should go to Clementina. It was the will 
Mrs. Lander told her she had made, but she had never 
seen the paper before, and the legal forms hid the 
meaning from her so that she was glad to have the 
vice-consul make it clear. Then she said tranquilly, 
" Yes, that is the way I supposed it was." 
Mr. Orson by no means shared her calm. He did 
not lift his voice, but on the level it had taken it be 
came agitated. " Mrs. Lander gave me the address 
of her lawyer in Boston when she sent me the will, 
and I made a point of calling on him when I went 
East, to sail. I don 't know why she wished me to 
come out to her, but being sick, I presume she nat 
urally wished to see some of her own family." 
He looked at Clementina as if he thought she 
might dispute this, but she consented at her sweetest, 
" Oh, yes, indeed," and he went on : 
" I found her affairs in a very different condition 
from what she seemed to think. The estate was 
mostly in securities which had not been properly 
looked after, and they had depreciated until they were 
some of them not worth the paper they were printed 
on. The house in Boston is mortgaged up to its full 
value, I should say ; and I should say that Mrs. Lan 
der did not know where she stood. She seemed to 
think that she was a very rich woman, but she lived 
high, and her lawyer said he never could make her 
understand how the money was going. Mr. Lander 
 
seemed to lose his grip, the year he died, and engaged 
in some very unfortunate speculations ; I don 't know 
whether he told her. I might enter into details" 
" Oh, that is not necessary," said Clementina, po 
litely, witless of the disastrous quality of the facts 
which Mr. Orson was imparting. 
" But the sum and substance of it all is that there 
will not be more than enough to pay the bequests to 
her own family, if there is that." 
Clementina looked with smiling innocence at the 
vice-consul. 
"That is to say," he explained, "there won 't be 
anything at all for you, Miss Claxon." 
" Well, that 's what I always told Mrs. Lander I 
rather, when she brought it up. I told her she ought 
to give it to his family," said Clementina, with a sat 
isfaction in the event which the vice-consul seemed 
unable to share, for he remained gloomily silent. 
" There is that last money I drew on the letter of 
credit, you can give that to Mr. Osson." 
" I have told him about that money," said the vice- 
consul, dryly. "It will be handed over to him when 
the estate is settled, if there isn 't enough to pay the 
bequests without it." 
" And the money which Mrs. Landa gave me before 
that," she pursued, eagerly. Mr. Orson had the effect 
of pricking up his ears, though it was in fact merely 
a gleam of light that came into his eyes. 
" That 's yours" said the vice-consul, sourly, almost 
savagely. " She didn 't give it to you without she 
wanted you to have it, and she didn 't expect you to 
pay her bequests with it. In my opinion," he burst 
out, in a wrathful recollection of his own sufferings 
from Mrs. Lander, " she didn 't give you a millionth 
part of your due for all the trouble she made you ; 
and I want Mr. Orson to understand that, right here." 
Clementina turned her impartial gaze upon Mr. 
Orson as if to verify the impression of this extreme 
opinion upon him ; he looked as if he neither accepted 
nor rejected it, and she concluded the sentence which 
the vice-consul had interrupted. " Because I rather 
not keep it, if there isn 't enough without it." 
The vice-consul gave way to violence. " It 's none 
of your business whether there 's enough or not. What 
you 've  got to do is to keep what belongs to you, and 
I 'm going to see that you do. That 's what I 'm here 
for." If this assumption of official authority did not 
awe Clementina, at least it put a check upon her head 
long self-sacrifice. The vice-consul strengthened his 
hold upon her by asking, "What would you do. I 
should like to know, if you gave that up ? " 
" Oh, I should get along," she returned, light-heart 
edly, but upon questioning herself whether she should 
turn to Miss Milray for help, or appeal to the vice- 
consul himself, she was daunted a little, and she 
added, " But just as you say, Mr. Bennam." 
" I say, keep what fairly belongs to you. It 's only 
two or three hundred dollars at the outside," he ex 
plained to Mr. Orson 's hungry eyes ; but perhaps the 
sum did not affect the country minister 's imagination 
as trifling; his yearly salary must sometimes have 
been little more. 
 
The whole interview left the vice-consul out of hu 
mor with both parties to the affair; and as to Clem 
entina, between the ideals of a perfect little saint, and 
a perfect little simpleton he remained for the present 
unable to class her. 
XXXV. 
CLEMENTINA and the vice-consul afterwards agreed 
that Mrs. Lander must have sent the will to Mr. Orson 
in one of those moments of suspicion when she dis 
trusted everyone about her, or in that trouble concern 
ing her husband 's kindred which had grown upon her 
more and more, as a means of assuring them that they 
were provided for. 
" But even then," the vice-consul concluded, " I 
don 't see why she wanted this man to come out here. 
The only explanation is that she was a little off her 
base towards the last. That 's the charitable suppo 
sition." 
" I don 't think she was herself, some of the time," 
Clementina assented in acceptance of the kindly construction. 
The vice-consul modified his good will toward Mrs. 
Lander 's memory so far as to say, "Well, if she'd 
been somebody else most of the time, it would have 
been an improvement." 
The talk turned upon Mr. Orson, and what he would 
probably do. The vice-consul had found him a cheap 
lodging, at his request, and he seemed to have settled 
 
down at Venice either without the will or without the 
power to go home, but the vice-consul did not know 
where he ate, or what he did with himself except at 
the times when he came for letters. Once or twice 
when he looked him up he found him writing, and 
then the minister explained that he had promised to 
"correspond" for an organ of his sect in the North 
west ; but he owned that there was no money in it. 
He Avas otherwise reticent and even furtive in his 
manner. He did not seem to go much about the city, 
but kept to his own room ; and if he was writing of 
Venice it must have been chiefly from his acquaintance with the little court into which his windows 
looked. He affected the vice-consul as forlorn and 
helpless, and he pitied him and rather liked him as a 
fellow-victim of Mrs. Lander. 
One morning Mr. Orson came to see Clementina, 
and after a brief passage of opinion upon the weather, 
he fell into an embarrassed silence from which he 
pulled himself at last with a visible effort. " I hardly 
know how to lay before you what I have to say, Miss 
Claxon," he began, " and I must ask you to put the 
best construction upon it. I have never been reduced 
to a similar distress before. You would naturally 
think that I would turn to the vice-consul, on such an 
occasion ; but I feel, through our relation to the to 
Mrs. Lander ah somewhat more at home with you." 
He stopped, as if he wished to be asked his busi 
ness, and she entreated him, " Why, what is it, Mr. 
Osson? Is there something I can do? There isn 't 
anything I wouldn 't ! " 
 
A gleam, watery and faint, which still could not be 
quite winked away, came into his small eyes. " Why, 
the fact is, could you ah advance me about five 
dollars ? " 
" Why, Mr. Osson ! " she began, and he seemed to 
think she wished to withdraw her offer of help, for 
he interposed. 
" I will repay it as soon as I get an expected remit 
tance from home. I came out on the invitation of 
Mrs. Lander, and as her guest, and I supposed " 
" Oh, don 't say a wo'd ! " cried Clementina, but 
now that he had begun he was powerless to stop. 
" I would not ask. but my landlady has pressed me 
for her rent I suppose she needs it and I have 
been reduced to the last copper " 
The girl whose eyes the tears of self pity so rarely 
visited, broke into a sob that seemed to surprise her 
visitor. But she checked herself as with a quick in 
spiration : " Have you been to breakfast ? " 
" Well ah not this morning," Mr. Orson admit 
ted, as if to imply that having breakfasted some other 
morning might be supposed to serve the purpose. 
She left him and ran to the door. u Maddalena, 
Maddalena ! " she called ; and Maddalena responded 
with a frightened voice from the direction of the 
kitchen : 
" Vengo subito ! " 
She hurried out with the coffee-pot in her hand, as 
if she had just taken it up when Clementina called; 
and she halted for the whispered colloquy between 
them which took place before she set it down on the 
table already laid for breakfast ; then she hurried out 
of the room again. She came back with a cantaloupe 
and grapes, and cold ham, and put them before Clem 
entina and her guest, who both ignored the hunger 
with which he swept everything before him. When 
his famine had left nothing, he said,, in decorous com 
pliment : 
"That is very good coffee, I should think the 
genuine berry, though I am told that they adulterate 
coffee a great deal in Europe." 
" Do they ? " asked Clementina. " I didn 't know 
it." 
She left him still sitting before the table, and came 
back with some bank-notes in her hand. " Are you 
sure you hadn 't betta take moa ? " she asked. 
" I think that five dollars will be all that I shall 
require," he answered, with dignity. "I should be 
unwilling to accept more. I shall undoubtedly receive 
some remittances soon." 
" Oh, I know you will," Clementina returned, and 
she added, " I am waiting for lettas myself ; I don 't 
think any one ought to give up." 
The preacher ignored the appeal which was in her 
tone rather than her words, and went on to explain at 
length the circumstances of his having come to Europe 
so unprovided against chances. When he wished to 
excuse his imprudence, she cried out, " Oh, don 't say 
a wo'd ! It 's just like my own fatha," and she told 
him some things of her home which apparently did 
not interest him very much. He had a kind of dull, 
cold self-absorption in which he was indeed so little 
 
like her father that only her kindness for the lonely 
man could have justified her in thinking there was 
any resemblance. 
She did not see him again for a week, and mean 
time she did not tell the vice-consul of what had hap 
pened. But an anxiety for the minister began to 
mingle with her anxieties for herself; she constantly 
wondered why she did not hear from her lover, and 
she occasionally wondered whether Mr. Orson were 
not falling into want again. She had decided to be 
tray his condition to the vice-consul, when he came, 
bringing the money she had lent him. He had 're 
ceived a remittance from an unexpected source, and he 
hoped she would excuse his delay in repaying her loan. 
She wished not to take the money, at least till he was 
quite sure he should not want it, but he insisted. 
"I have enough to keep me, now, till I hear from 
other sources, with the means for returning home. I 
see no object in continuing here, under the circum 
stances." 
In the relief which she felt for him Clementina 's 
heart throbbed with a pain which was all for herself. 
Why should she wait any longer either? For that 
instant she abandoned the hope which had kept her 
up so long ; a wave of homesickness overwhelmed her. 
" I should like to go back, too," she said. " I don 't 
see why I 'm staying. Mr. Osson, why can 't you let 
me " she was going to say " go home with you ? " 
But she really said what was also in her heart, " Why 
can 't you let me give you the money to go home ? It 
is all Mrs. Landa 's money, anyway." 
 
" There is certainly that view of the matter," he 
assented with a promptness that might have suggested 
a lurking grudge for the vice-consul 's decision that 
she ought to keep the money Mrs. Lander had given 
her. 
But Clementina urged unsuspiciously: "Oh, yes, 
indeed ! And I shall feel better if you take it. I 
only wish I could go home, too ! " 
The minister was silent while he was revolving, 
with whatever scruple or reluctance, a compromise 
suitable to the occasion. Then he said, "Why should 
we not return together ? " 
" Would you take me ? " she entreated. 
" That should be as you wished. I am not much 
acquainted with the usages in such matters, but I pre 
sume that it would be entirely practicable. We could 
ask the vice-consul." 
"Yes" 
" He must have had considerable experience in 
cases of the kind. Would your friends meet you in 
New York, or " 
" I don 't know," said Clementina with a pang for 
the thought of a meeting she had sometimes fancied 
there, when her lover had come out for her, and her 
father had been told to come and receive them. 
" No," she sighed, " the e wouldn 't be time to let 
them know. But it wouldn 't make any difference. I 
could get home from New Yo k alone," she added, 
listlessly. Her spirits had fallen again. She saw 
that she could not leave Venice till she had heard 
in some sort from the letter she had written. " Per- 
 
haps it couldn 't be done, after all. But I will see Mr. 
Bcnnam about it, Mr. Osson ; and I know lie will want 
you to have that much of the money. He will be 
coming he e, soon." 
He rose upon what he must have thought her hint, 
and said, u I should not wish to have him swayed 
against his judgment." 
The vice-consul came not long after the minister 
had left her, and she began upon what she wished to 
do for him. 
The vice-consul was against it. " I would rather 
lend him the money out of my own pocket. How arc 
you going to get along yourself, if you let him have 
so much ? " 
She did not answer at once. Then she said, hope 
lessly, " Tve a great mind to go home with him. I 
don 't believe there 's any use waiting here any longa." 
The vice-consul could not say anything to this. She 
added, " Yes, I believe I will go home. We we e 
talking about it, the other day, arid he is willing to 
let me go with him." 
" I should think he would be," the vice-consul 're 
torted in his indignation for her. " Did you offer to 
pay for his passage ? " 
" Yes," she owned, " I did," and again the vice- 
consul could say nothing. " If I went, it wouldn 't 
make any difference Avhether it took it all or not. I 
should have plenty to get home from New York with." 
" Well," the vice-consul assented, dryly, "it 's for 
you to say." 
" I know you don 't want me to do it ! " 
 
" Well, I shall miss you," he answered, evasively. 
" And I shall miss you, too, Mr. Bennam. Don 't 
you believe it ? But if I don 't take this chance to 
get home, I don 't know when I shall eva have anotha. 
And there isn 't any use waiting no, there isn 't ! " 
The vice-consul laughed at the sort of imperative 
despair in her tone. "How are you going? Which 
way, I mean." 
They counted up Clementina 's debts and assets, and 
they found that if she took the next steamer from 
Genoa, which was to sail in four days, she would have 
enough to pay her own way and Mr. Orson 's to New 
York, and still have some thirty dollars over, for her 
expenses home to Middlemount. They allowed for a 
second cabin-passage, which the vice-consul said was 
perfectly good on the Genoa steamers. He rather 
urged the gentility and comfort of the second cabin- 
passage, but his reasons in favor of it were wasted 
upon Clementina 's indifference; she wished to get 
home, now, and she did not care how. She asked the 
vice-consul to see the minister for her, and if he were 
ready and willing, to telegraph for their tickets. He 
transacted the business so promptly that he was able 
to tell her when he came in the evening that every 
thing was in train. He excused his coming; he said 
that now she was going so soon, he wanted to see all 
he could of her. He offered no excuse when he came 
the next morning ; but he said he had got a letter for 
her and thought she might want to have it at once. 
He took it out of his hat and gave it to her. It 
was addressed in Hinkle 's writing ; her answer had 
come at last; she stood trembling with it in her 
hand. 
The vice-consul smiled. " Is that the one ? " 
" Yes," she whispered back. 
" All right." He took his hat, and set it on the 
back of his head before he left her without other sal 
utation. 
Then Clementina opened her letter. It was in a 
woman 's hand, and the writer made haste to explain 
at the beginning that she was George W. Hinkle 's 
sister, and that she was writing for him ; for though 
he was now out of danger, he was still very weak, and 
they had all been anxious about him. A month be 
fore, he had been hurt in a railroad collision, and had 
come home from the West, where the accident hap 
pened, suffering mainly from shock, as his doctor 
thought ; he had taken to his bed at once, and had 
not risen from it since. He had been out of his head 
a great part of the time, and had been forbidden 
everything that could distress or excite him. His 
sister said that she was writing for him now as soon 
as he had seen Clementina 's letter ; it had been for 
warded from one address to another, and had at last 
found him there at his home in Ohio. He wished to 
say that he would come out for Clementina as soon 
as he was allowed to undertake the journey, and in 
the meantime she must let him know constantly where 
she was. The letter closed with a few words of love 
in his own handwriting. 
Clementina rose from reading it, and put on her 
hat in a bewildered impulse to go to him at once ; she 
 
knew, in spite of all the cautions and reserves of the 
letter that he must still be very sick. "When she 
came out of her daze she found that she could only 
go to the vice-consul. She put the letter in his hands 
to let it explain itself. " You 'll undastand, now," she 
said. " What shall I do ? " 
When he had read it, he smiled and answered, " I 
guess I understood pretty well before, though I wasn 't 
posted on names. Well, I suppose you 'll want to lay 
out most of your capital on cables, now ? " 
" Yes," she laughed, and then she suddenly lament 
ed, " Why didn 't they telegraph ? " 
" Well, I guess he hadn 't the head for it," said the 
vice-consul, " and the rest wouldn 't think of it. They 
wouldn t, in the country." 
Clementina laughed again, in joyous recognition of 
the fact, " No, my fatha wouldn t, eitha ! " 
The vice-consul reached for his hat, and he led the 
way to Clementina 's gondola at his garden gate, in 
greater haste than she. At the telegraph office he 
framed a dispatch which for expansive fullness and 
precision was apparently unexampled in the experience 
of the clerk who took it and spelt over its English 
with them. It asked an answer in the vice-consul 's 
care, and, " I 'll tell you what, Miss Claxon," he said 
with a husky weakness in his voice, " I wish you'd 
let this be my treat." 
She understood. " Do you really, Mr. Bennam ? " 
" I do indeed." 
"Well, then, I will," she said, but when he wished 
to include in his treat the dispatch she sent home to 
 
her father announcing her coming, she would not let 
him. 
He looked at his watch, as they rowed away. " It 's 
eight o clock here, now, and it will reach Ohio about 
six hours earlier ; but you can 't expect an answer to 
night, you know." 
" No " She had expected it though, he could 
see that. 
" But whenever it comes, I 'll bring it right round 
to you. Now it 's all going to be straight, don 't you 
be afraid, and you 're going home the quickest way you 
can get there. I 've  been looking up the sailings, and 
this Genoa boat will get you to New York about as 
soon as any could from Liverpool. Besides there 's 
always a chance of missing connections and losing- 
time between here and England. I should stick to 
the Genoa boat." 
" Oh I shall," said Clementina, far less fidgettcd 
than he. She was, in fact, resting securely again in 
the faith which had never really deserted her, and had 
only seemed for a little time to waver from her when 
her hope went. Now that she had telegraphed, her 
heart was at peace, and she even laughed as she an 
swered the anxious vice-consul. 
XXXVI. 
THE next morning Clementina watched for the vice- 
consul from her balcony. She knew he would not 
send ; she knew he would come ; but it Avas nearly 
noon before she saw him coming. They caught sight 
of each other almost at the same moment, and he 
stood up in his boat, and waved something white in 
his hand, which must be a dispatch for her. 
It acknowledged her telegram and reported George 
still improving; his father would meet her steamer in 
New York. It was very reassuring, it was everything 
hopeful ; but when she had read it she gave it to the 
vice-consul for encouragement. 
"It 's all right, Miss Claxon," he said, stoutly. 
" Don 't you be troubled about Mr. Hinkle 's not com 
ing to meet you himself. He can 't keep too quiet for 
a while yet. 
" Oh, yes," said Clementina, patiently. 
" If you really want somebody to worry about, you 
can help Mr. Orson to worry about himself ! " the vice- 
consul went on, with the grimness he had formerly 
used in speaking of Mrs. Lander. " He 's sick, or he 
thinks he 's going to be. He sent round for me this 
 
morning, and I found him in bed. You may have to 
go home alone. But I guess he 's more scared than 
hurt." 
Her heart sank, and then rose in revolt against 
the mere idea of delay. " I wonder if I ought to go 
and see him," she said. 
" Well, it would be a kindness," returned the vice- 
consul, with a promptness that unmasked the appre 
hension he felt for the sick man. 
He did not offer to go with her, and she took 
Maddalena. She found the minister seated in his 
chair beside his bed. A three days beard heightened 
the gauntness of his face ; he did not move when his 
padrona announced her. 
" I am not any better," he answered when she said 
that she was glad to see him up. " I am merely 
resting ; the bed is hard. I regret to say," he added, 
with a sort of formal impersonality, " that I shall be 
unable to accompany you home, Miss Claxon. That 
is, if you still think of taking the steamer this week." 
Her whole being had set homeward in a tide that 
already seemed to drift the vessel from its moorings. 
" What what do you mean ? " she gasped. 
" I didn 't know," he returned, " but that in view of 
the circumstances all the circumstances you might 
be intending to defer your departure to some later 
steamer." 
" No, no, no ! I must go, now. I couldn 't wait a 
day, an hour, a minute after the first chance of going. 
You don 't know what you are saying ! He might die 
if I told him I was not coming ; and then what should 
 
I do ? " This was what Clementina said to herself ; 
but what she said to Mr. Orson, with an inspiration 
from her terror at his suggestion was, " Don 't you 
think a little chicken broth would do you good, Mr. 
Osson ? I  don 't believe but what it would." 
A wistful gleam came into the preacher 's eyes. 
" It might," he admitted, and then she knew what 
must be his malady. She sent Maddalena to a trat 
toria for the soup, and she did not leave him, even 
after she had seen its effect upon him. It was not 
hard to persuade him that he had better come home 
with her ; and she had him there, tucked away with 
his few poor belongings, in the most comfortable room 
the padrone could imagine, when the vice-consul came 
in the evening. 
" He says he thinks he can go, now," she ended, 
when she had told the vice-consul. " And I know he 
can. It wasn 't anything but pooa living." 
" It looks more like no living," said the vice-consul. 
Why didn 't the old fool let some one know that he 
was short of money ? " He went on with a partial 
transfer of his contempt of the preacher to her, " I 
suppose if he'd been sick instead of hungry, you'd 
have waited over till the next steamer for him." 
She cast down her eyes. " I don 't know what 
you 'll think of me. I should have been sorry for 
him, and I should have wanted to stay." She lifted 
her eyes and looked the vice-consul defiantly in the 
face. " But he hadn 't the fust claim on me, and I 
should have gone I couldn 't have helped it ! I 
should have gone, if he had been dying ! " 
" Well, you 've  got more horse-sense," said the 
vice-consul, " than any ten men I ever saw," and he 
testified his admiration of her by putting his arms 
round her, where she stood before him, and kissing 
her. "Don 't you mind," he explained. "If my 
youngest girl had lived, she would have been about 
your age." 
" Oh, it 's all right, Mr. Bennam," said Clementina. 
When the time came for them to leave Venice, Mr. 
Orson was even eager to go. The vice-consul would 
have gone with them in contempt of the official 're 
sponsibilities which he felt to be such a thankless 
burden, but there was really no need of his going, and 
he and Clementina treated the question with the mat 
ter-of-fact impartiality which they liked in each other. 
He saw her off at the station where Maddalena had 
corne to take the train for Florence in token of her 
devotion to the signorina, whom she would not outstay 
in Venice. She wept long and loud upon Clemen 
tina 's neck, so that even Clementina was once moved 
to put her handkerchief to her tearless eyes. 
At the last moment she had a question which she 
referred to the vice consul. " Should you tell him ? " 
she asked. 
"Tell who what?" he retorted. 
" Mr. Osson that I wouldn 't have stayed for 
him." 
" Do you think it would make you feel any better ? " 
asked the consul, upon reflection. 
" I believe he ought to know." 
" Well, then, I guess I should do it." 
 
The time did not come for her confession till they 
had nearly reached the end of their voyage. It fol 
lowed upon something like a confession from the min 
ister himself, which he made the day he struggled on 
deck with her help, after spending a week in his berth. 
" Here is something," he said, " which appears to 
be for you, Miss Claxon. I found it among some let 
ters for Mrs. Lander which Mr. Bennam gave me after 
my arrival, and I only observed the address in looking 
over the papers in my valise this morning." He 
handed her a telegram. " I trust that it is nothing 
requiring immediate attention." 
Clementina read it at a glance. "No," she an 
swered, and for a while she could not say anything 
more ; it was a cable message which Hinkle 's sister 
must have sent her after writing. No evil had come 
of its failure to reach her, and she recalled without 
bitterness the suffering which would have been spared 
her if she had got it before. It was when she thought 
of the suffering of her lover from the silence which 
must have made him doubt her, that she could not 
speak. As soon as she governed herself against her 
first resentment she said, with a little sigh, " It is all 
right, now, Mr. Osson," and her stress upon the word 
seemed to trouble him with no misgiving. "Besides, 
if you 're to blame for not noticing, so is Mr. Bennam, 
and I don 't want to blame any one." She hesitated a 
moment before she added : " I have got to tell you 
something, now, because I think you ought to know 
it. I am going home to be married, Mr. Osson, and 
this message is from the gentleman I am going to be 
married to. He has been very sick, and I don 't know 
yet as he 'll be able to meet me in New Yo k ; but 
his fatha will." 
Mr. Orson showed no interest in these facts beyond 
a silent attention to her words, which might have 
passed for an open indifference. At his time of life 
all such questions, which are of permanent importance 
to women, affect men hardly more than the angels 
who neither marry nor are given in marriage. Be 
sides, as a minister he must have had a surfeit of all 
possible qualities in the love affairs of people intend 
ing matrimony. As a casuist he was more reasonably 
concerned in the next fact which Clementina laid be 
fore him. 
" And the otha day, there in Venice when you we e 
sick, and you seemed to think that I might put off 
stahting home till the next steamer, I don 't know but 
I let you believe I would." 
" I supposed that the delay of a week or two could 
make no material difference to you." 
" But now you see that it would. And I feel as if 
I ought to tell you I spoke to Mr. Bennam about it, 
and he didn 't tell me not to that I shouldn 't have 
staid, no not for anything in the wo ld. I had to do 
what I did at the time, but eva since it has seemed as 
if I had deceived you, and I don 't want to have it 
seem so any longer. It isn 't because I don 't hate to 
tell you ; I do ; but I guess if it was to happen over 
again I couldn 't feel any different. Do you want I 
should tell the deck-stewahd to bring you some beef- 
tea?" 
 
" I think I could relish a small portion," said Mr. 
Orson, cautiously, and he said nothing more. 
Clementina left him with her nerves in a flutter, 
and she did not come back to him until she decided 
that it was time to help him down to his cabin. He 
suffered her to do this in silence, but at the door he 
cleared his throat and began : 
" I have reflected upon what you told me, and I 
have tried to regard the case from all points. I be 
lieve that I have done so, without personal feeling, 
and I think it my duty to say, fully and freely, that I 
believe you would have done perfectly right not to 
remain." 
" Yes," said Clementina, " I thought you would 
think so." 
They parted emotionlessly to all outward effect, 
and when they met again it was without a sign of 
having passed through a crisis of sentiment. Neither 
referred to the matter again, but from that time the 
minister treated Clementina with a deference not with 
out some shadows of tenderness such as her helpless 
ness in Venice had apparently never inspired. She 
had cast out of her mind all lingering hardness tow 
ard him in telling him the hard truth, and she met 
his faint relentings with a grateful gladness which 
showed itself in her constant care of him. 
This helped her a little to forget the strain of the 
anxiety that increased upon her as the time shortened 
between the last news of her lover and the next ; and 
there was perhaps no more exaggeration in the import 
than in the terms of the formal acknowledgment which 
 
Mr. Orson made her as tlieir steamer sighted Fire 
Island Light, and they both knew that their voyage 
had ended: " I may not be able to say to you in the 
hurry of our arrival in New York that I am obliged 
to you for a good many little attentions, which I 
should be pleased to reciprocate if opportunity offered. 
I do not think I am going too far in saying that they 
are such as a daughter might offer a parent." 
" Oh, don 't speak of it, Mr. Osson ! " she protested. 
" I haven 't done anything that any one wouldn 't have 
done." 
" I presume," said the minister, thoughtfully, as if 
retiring from an extreme position, " that they are such 
as others similarly circumstanced, might have done, 
but it will always be a source of satisfaction for you 
to reflect that you have not neglected them." 
XXXVII. 
IN the crowd which thronged the steamer 's dock at 
Hoboken, Clementina strained her eyes to make out 
some one who looked enough like her lover to be his 
father, and she began to be afraid that they might 
miss each other when she failed. She walked slowly 
down the gangway, with the people that thronged it, 
glad to be hidden by them from her failure, but at 
the last step she was caught aside by a small black- 
eyed, black-haired woman, who called out " Isn 't this 
Miss Claxon ? I 'm Georrge 's sisterr. Oh, you rre just 
like what he said ! I knew it ! I knew it ! " and 
then hugged her and kissed her, and passed her to the 
little lean dark old man next her. " This is fatherr. 
I knew you couldn 't tell us, because I take afterr him, 
and Georrge is exactly like motherr." 
George 's father took her hand timidly, but found 
courage to say to his daughter, " Hadn 't you bettcrr 
let her own fatherr have a chance at herr ? " and 
amidst a tempest of apologies and self blame from 
the sister, Claxon showed himself over the shoulders 
of the little man. 
" Why, there wain 't no hurry, as long as she 's 
 
he a," lie said, in prompt enjoyment of the joke, and 
he and Clementina sparely kissed each other. 
" Why, fatha ! " she said. " I didn 't expect you 
to come to New Yo k to meet me." 
"Well, I didn 't ha dly expect it myself; but I'd 
neva been to Yo k, and I thought I might as well 
come. Things ah rather slack at home, just now, any 
way." 
She did not heed his explanation. " We e you 
sca ed when you got my dispatch ? " 
" No, we kind of expected you'd come any time, 
the way you wrote afta Mrs. Landa died. We thought 
something must be up." 
" Yes," she said, absently. Then, " Whe e 's mo- 
tha ? " she asked. 
" Well, I guess she thought she couldn 't get round 
to it, exactly," said the father. " She 's all right. 
Needn 't ask you ! " 
" No, I 'm fust-rate," Clementina returned, with a 
silent joy in her father 's face and voice. She went 
back in it to the girl of a year ago, and the world 
which had come between them since their parting- 
rolled away as if it had never been there. 
Neither of them said anything about that. She 
named over her brothers and sisters, and he answered, 
* Yes, yes," in assurance of their well-being, and then 
he explained, as if that were the only point of real 
interest, "I see your folks waitin he e for somebody, 
and I thought I'd see if it wain 't the same one, and 
we kind of struck up an acquaintance on your account 
befo e you got he e, Clem." 
 
" Your folks ! " slic silently repeated to herself. 
" Yes, they ah mine ! " and she stood trying to realize 
the strange fact, while George 's sister poured out a 
voluminous comment upon Claxon 's spare statement, 
and George 's father admired her volubility with the 
shut smile of toothless age. She spoke with the burr 
which the Scotch-Irish settlers have imparted to the 
whole middle West, but it was music to Clementina, 
who heard now and then a tone of her lover in his 
sister 's voice. In the midst of it all she caught sight 
of a mute unfriended figure just without their circle, 
his traveling shawl hanging loose upon his shoulders, 
and the valise which had formed his sole baggage in 
the voyage to and from Europe pulling his long hand 
out of his coat sleeve. 
" Oh, yes," she said, " here is Mr. Osson that came 
ova with me, fatha; he 's a relation of Mr. Landa s," 
and she presented him to them all. 
He shifted his valise to the left hand, and shook 
hands with each, asking, "What name?" and then 
fell motionless again. 
" Well," said her father, " I guess this is the end 
of this paht of the ceremony, and I 'm goin to see 
your baggage through the custom-house, Clementina; 
I 've  read about it, and I want to know how it 's done. 
I want to see what you ah tryin to smuggle in." 
" I guess you won 't find much," she said. " But 
you 'll want the keys, won 't you ? " She called to him, 
as he was stalking away. 
" Well, I guess that would be a good idea. Want 
to help, MissHinkle?" 
 
" I guess we might as well all lielp," said Clemen 
tina, and Mr. Orson included himself in the invitation. 
He seemed unable to separate himself from them, 
though the passage of Clementina 's baggage through 
the customs, and its delivery to an expressman for the 
hotel where the Hinkles said they were staying might 
well have severed the last tie between them. 
" Ah  you going straight home, Mr. Osson ? " she 
asked, to rescue him from the f orgetf ulness into which 
they were all letting him fall. 
" I think I will remain over a day," he answered. 
" I may go on to Boston before starting West." 
" Well, that 's right," said Clementina 's father with 
the wish to approve everything native to him, and an 
instinctive sense of Clementina 's wish to befriend the 
minister. " Betta come to oua hotel. We 're all goin 
to the same one." 
" I presume it is a good one ? " Mr. Orson assented. 
" Well," said Claxon, " you must make Miss Hin- 
kle, he a, stand it if it ain t. She 's got me to go to 
it." 
Mr. Orson apparently could not enter into the joke ; 
but he accompanied the party, which again began to 
forget him, across the ferry and up the elevated road 
to the street car that formed the last stage of their 
progress to the hotel. At this point George 's sister 
fell silent, and Clementina 's father burst out, " Look 
he a ! I guess we betta not keep this up any longa ; 
I don 't believe much in supprises, and I guess she 
betta know it now." 
He looked at George 's sister as if for authority to 
 
speak further, and Clementina looked at her, too, 
while George 's father nervously moistened his smiling 
lips with the tip of his tongue, and let his twinkling 
eyes rest upon Clementina 's face. 
" Is he at the hotel ? " she asked. 
" Yes," said his sister, monosyllabic for once. 
" I knew it," said Clementina, and she was only 
half aware of the fullness with which his sister now 
explained how he wanted to come so much that the 
doctor thought he had better, but that they had made 
him promise he would not try to meet her at the 
steamer, lest it should be too great a trial of his 
strength. 
"Yes," Clementina assented, when the story came 
to an end and was beginning over again. 
She had an inexplicable moment when she stood 
before her lover in the room where they left her to 
meet him alone. She faltered and he waited con 
strained by her constraint. 
" Is it all a mistake, Clementina ? " he asked, with 
a piteous smile. 
" No, no ! " 
" Am I so much changed ? " 
"No; you are looking betta than I expected" 
" And you are not sorry for anything ? " 
" No, I am Perhaps I have thought of you too 
much ! It seems so strange." 
"I understand," he answered. "We have been 
like spirits to each other, and now we find that we are 
alive and on the earth like other people ; and we are 
not used to it." 
 
" It must be something like that." 
" But if it 's something else if you have the least 
regret, if you would rather " He stopped, and they 
remained looking at each other a moment. Then she 
turned her head, and glanced out of the window, as if 
something there had caught her sight. 
" It 's a very pleasant view, isn 't it ? " she said ; and 
she lifted her hands to her head, and took off her hat, 
with an effect of having got home after absence, to 
stay. 
XXXVIII. 
IT was possibly through some sense finer than any 
cognition that Clementina felt in meeting her lover 
that she had taken up a new burden rather than laid 
down an old one. Afterwards, when they once 're 
curred to that meeting, and she tried to explain for 
him the hesitation which she had not been able to 
hide, she could only say, " I presume I didn 't want to 
begin unless I was sure I could carry out. It would 
have been silly." 
Her confession, if it was a confession, was made 
when one of his returns to health, or rather one of the 
arrests of his unhealth, flushed them with hope and 
courage ; but before that first meeting was ended she 
knew that lie had overtasked his strength, in coming 
to New York, and he must not try it further. "Fa- 
tha," she said to Claxon, with the authority of a wo 
man doing her duty, " I 'm not going to let Geo ge go 
up to Middlemount, with all the excitement. It will 
be as much as he can do to get home. You can tell 
mother about it ; and the rest. I did suppose it would 
be Mr. Richling that would marry us, and I always 
wanted him to, but I guess somebody else can do it 
as well." 
 
" Just as you say, Clem," her father assented. 
" Why not Brother Osson, he a ? " he suggested with 
a pleasure in the joke, whatever it was, that the min 
ister 's relation to Clementina involved. " I guess he 
can put off his visit to Boston long enough." 
" Well, I was thinking of him," said Clementina. 
" Will you ask him ? " 
" Yes. I 'll get round to it, in the mohning." 
" No now ; right away. I 've  been talking with 
Geo ge about it; and the e 's no sense in putting it off. 
I ought to begin taking care of him at once." 
" Well, I guess when I tell your motha how you 're 
layin hold, she won 't think it 's the same pusson," 
said her father, proudly. 
" But it is ; I haven 't changed a bit." 
" You hain 't changed for the wohse, anyway." 
" Didn 't I always try to do what I had to ? " 
"I guess you did, Clem." 
"Well, then!" 
Mr. Orson, after a decent hesitation, consented to 
perform the ceremony. It took place in a parlor of 
the hotel, according to the law of New York, which 
facilitates marriage so greatly in all respects that it is 
strange any one in the. State should remain single. 
He had then a luxury of choice between attaching 
himself to the bridal couple as far as Ohio on his 
journey home to Michigan, or to Claxon who was go 
ing to take the boat for Boston the next day on his 
way to Middlemount. He decided for Claxon, since 
he could then see Mrs. Lander 's lawyer at once, and 
arrange with him for getting out of the vice-consul 's 
hands the money which he was holding for an author 
itative demand. He accepted without open reproach 
the handsome fee which the elder Hinkle gave him 
for his services, and even went so far as to say, " If 
your son should ever be blest with a return to health, 
he has got a helpmeet such as there are very few of." 
He then admonished the young couple, in whatever 
trials life should have in store for them, to be 're 
signed, and always to be prepared for the worst. 
When he came later to take leave of them, he was 
apparently not equal to the task of fitly acknowledg 
ing the return which Hinkle made him of all the 
money remaining to Clementina out of the sum last 
given her by Mrs. Lander, but he hid any disappoint 
ment he might have suffered, and with a brief, "Thank 
you," put it in his pocket. 
Hinkle told Clementina of the apathetic behavior 
of Mr. Orson ; he added with a laugh like his old self, 
" It 's the best that he doesn 't seem prepared for." 
"Yes," she assented. "He wasn 't very chee ful. 
But I presume that he meant well. It must be a trial 
for him to find out that Mrs. Landa wasn 't rich, after 
all." 
It was apparently never a trial to her. She went to 
Ohio with her husband and took up her life on the 
farm, where it was wisely judged that he had the best 
chance of working out of the wreck of his health and 
strength. There was often the promise and always 
the hope of this, and their love knew no doubt of the 
future. Her sisters-in-law delighted in all her strange 
ness and difference, while they petted her as some- 
 
thing not to be separated from him in their petting of 
their brother ; to his mother she was the darling which 
her youngest had never ceased to be ; Clementina once 
went so far as to say to him that if she was ever any 
thing she would like to be a Moravian. 
The question of religion was always related in their 
minds to the question of Gregory, to whom they did 
justice in their trust of each other. It was Hinkle 
himself who reasoned out that if Gregory was narrow, 
his narrowness was of his conscience and not of his 
heart or his mind. She respected the memory of her 
first lover ; but it was as if he were dead, now, as well 
as her young dream of him, and she read with a curi 
ous sense of remoteness, a paragraph which her hus 
band found in the religious intelligence of his Sunday 
paper, announcing the marriage of the Rev. Frank 
Gregory to a lady described as having been a frequent 
and bountiful contributor to the foreign missions. 
She was apparently a widow, and they conjectured 
that she was older than he. His departure for his 
chosen field of missionary labor in China formed part 
of the news communicated by the rather exulting par 
agraph. 
