
 

cliair ; her hands, in her lap, pressed themselves together, 
and her wan smile brought a tear into each of her eyes 
by the very effort to be brighter. It might have been 
guessed of her that she hated to seem to care, but that 
she had other dislikes too. '  If one were to take up, you 
know, some of the things you say — !" And she positively 
sighed for the fulness of amusement at them of which 
her tears were the sign. 

Her friend could quite match her indifference. " Well, 
my child, take them up ; if you were to do that with 
them, candidly, one by one, you would do really very 
much what I should like to bring you to. Do you see ?" 
Mrs. Brookenham's failure to repudiate the vision ap- 
peared to suffice, and her visitor cheerfully took a further 
jump.  ' As much of Tishy as she wants — after. But 
not before." , 

"After what r 

"Well— say after Mr. Mitchett. Mr. Mitchett won't 
take her after Mrs. Grendon." 

" And what are your grounds for assuming that he'll 
take her at all ?" Then as the Duchess hung fire a mo- 
ment : " Have you got it by chance from Lord Petherton?" 

The eyes of the two women met for a little on this, 
and there might have been a consequence of it in the 
manner of the rejoinder. "Fve got it from not being a 
fool. Men, I repeat, like the girls they marry — " 

"Oh, I already know your old song ! The way they 
like the girls they donH marry seems to be,'' Mrs. Brook- 
enham mused, "what more immediately concerns us. 
You had better wait till you liave made Aggie's fortune, 
perhaps, to be so sure of the working of your system. 
Excuse me, darling, if I don't take you for an example 
until you've a little more successfully become one. The 
sort of men I know anything about, at any rate, are not 
looking for mechanical dolls. They're looking for smart, 
o„p  -.-nsible English girls." 





  

The Duchess glanced at the clock. "What is Mr. 
Yanderbank looking for ?" 

Her hostess appeared to oblige her by anxiously think- 
ing. " Oh, he, Tm afraid, poor dear — for nothing at all" 

The Duchess had taken off a glove to appease her ap- 
petite, and now, drawing it on, she smoothed it down. 
" I think he has his ideas." 

" The same as yours ?" 

''Well, more like them than like yours." 

''Ah, perhaps then — for he and I," said Mrs. Brooken- 
ham, "don't agree, I think, on two things in the world. 
You think poor Mitchy then," she went on, '  who's the 
son of a shoemaker and who might be the grandson of a 
grasshopper, good enough for my child." 

The Duchess appreciated for a moment the superior fit 
of her glove. "I look facts in the face. It's exactly 
what I'm doing for Aggie." Then she broke into a cer- 
tain conscious airiness. " What are you giving her ?" 

But Mrs. Brookenham took without wincing whatever, 
as between a masterful relative and an exposed frivolity, 
might have been the sting of it. " That you must ask 
Edward. I haven't the least idea." 

" There you are again — the virtuous English mother ! 
I've got Aggie's little fortune in an old stocking, and I 
count it over every night. If you've no old stocking for 
Nanda, there are worse fates than shoemakers and grass- 
hoppers. Even with one, you know, I don't at all say 
that I should sniff at poor Mitchy. We must take what 
we can get, and I shall be the first to take it. You can't 
have everything for ninepence." And the Duchess got 
up, shining, however, with a confessed light of fantasy. 
" Speak to him, my dear — speak to him !" 

" Do you mean offer him my child ?" 

The Duchess laughed at the intonation. " There you 
are once more — vous autres! If you're shocked at the 
idea, you place drolement your delicacy. I'd offer mine 





 

to the son of a chimney-sweep if the principal guarantees 
were there. Nanda's charming — you don't do her jus- 
tice. I don't say Mr. Mitchett is either beautiful or 
noble, and he hasn't as much distinction as would cover 
the point of a pin. He takes, moreover, his ease in talk 
— but that," added the Duchess with decision,  ''is much 
a matter of whom he talks with. A.nd after marriage, 
what does it signify ? He has forty thousand a year, an 
excellent idea of how to take care of it and a good dis- 
position." 

Mrs. Brookenham sat still ; she only looked up at her 
friend. '  Is it by Lord Petherton that you know of his 
excellent idea ?" 

The Duchess showed she was challenged, but also that 
she was indulgent.  'I go by my impression. But Lord 
Petherton has spoken for him.'  

'' He ought to do that," said Mrs. Brookenham — 
'' since he wholly lives on him." 

" Lord Petherton— on Mr. Mitchett ?" The Duchess 
stared, but rather in amusement than in horror,  '  Why, 
hasn't he a — property ?" 

" The loveliest. Mr. Mitchett's his property. Didn't 
you ? There was an artless wail in Mrs. Brooken- 
ham's surprise. 

'  How should I know — still a stranger as I'm often 
rather happy to feel myself here, and choosing my friends 
and picking my steps very much, I can assure you — how 
should I know about all your social scandals and things ?" 

 ' Oh, we don't call tliat a social scandal !" Mrs. Brook- 
enham inimitably returned. 

" Well, if you should wish to, you'd have the way that 
I told you of to stop it. Divert the stream of Mr. Mitch- 
ett's wealth." 

" Oh, there's plenty for every one !" — Mrs. Brooken- 
ham kept up her tone.  '' He's always giving us things — 
bonbons and dinners and opera boxes." 





  

"He has never given me any," the Dnchess content- 
edly declared. 

Mrs. Brookenham waited a little. "Lord Petherton 
has the giving of some. He has never in his life before, 
I imagine, made so many presents." 

"Ah then, it's a shame one has nothing !" On which, 
before reaching the door, the Duchess changed the sub- 
ject. " You say I never bring Aggie. If yon like. Til 
bring her back." 

Mrs. Brookenham wondered. " Do you mean to-day ?" 

" Yes, when Fve picked her up. It will be something 
to do with her till Miss Merriman can take her." 

" Delighted, dearest ; do bring her. And I think she 
should see Mr. Mitchett." 

" Shall I find him too, then ?" 

" Oh, take the chance." 

The two women, on this, exchanged, tacitly and across 
the room — the Duchess at the door, which a servant had 
arrived to open for her, and Mrs. Brookenham still at her 
tea-table — a further stroke of intercourse, over which the 
latter was not, on this occasion, the first to lower her lids. 
" I think Fve shown high scruples," the Duchess said, 
"but I understand, then, that I'm free." 

" Free as air, dear Jane." 

"Good." Then just as she was off, "Ah, dear old 
Edward !" the visitor exclaimed. Her kinsman, as she 
was fond of calling him, had reached the top of the stair- 
case, and Mrs. Brookenham, by the fire, heard them meet 
on the landing — heard also the Duchess protest against 
his turning to see her down. Mrs. Brookenham, listen- 
ing to them, hoped that Edward would accept the protest 
and think it sufficient to leave her with the footman. 
Their common consciousness, not devoid of satisfaction, 
that she was a kind of cousin, was quite consistent with 
a view, early arrived at, of the absurdity of any fuss 
about her. 





 



VI 

When Mr. Brookenliam appeared his wife was prompt. 
" She's coming back for Lord Petherton." 

'  Oh" he simply said. 

'• There's something between them.'' 

 '  Oh !" he merely repeated. But it would have taken 
many such sounds on his part to represent a spirit of re- 
sponse discernible to any one but his wife. 

"There have been things before," she went on, "but 
I haven't felt sure. Don't you know how one has some- 
times a flash ?" 

It could not be said of Edward Brookenham, who 
seemed to bend, for sitting down, more hinges than most 
men, that he looked as if he knew either this or any- 
thing else. He had a pale, cold face, marked and made 
regular, made even in a manner handsome, by a hardness 
of line in which, oddly, there was no significance, no ac- 
cent. Clean shaven, slightly bald, with unlighted gray 
eyes and a mouth that gave the impression of not work- 
ing easily, he suggested a stippled drawing by an in- 
ferior master. Lean moreover and stiff, and with the 
air of having here and there in his person a bone or two 
more than his share, he had once or twice, at fancy-balls, 
been thought striking in a dress copied from one of 
Holbein's English portraits. But when once some such 
meaning as that had been put into him it took a long 
time to put another, a longer time than even his ex- 
treme exposure, or anybody's study of the problem, had 
yet made possible. If anything particular had finally 
been expected from him it might have been a summarj , 
or an explanation, of the things he had always not said, 
but there was something in him that had long since paci- 
fied impatience and drugged curiosity. He had never in 
his life answered such a question as his wife had just put 





  

him and which she would not have put had she feared a 
reply. So dry and decent and even distinguished did he 
look, as if he had positively been created to meet a pro- 
priety and match some other piece, his wife, with her 
notorious perceptions, would no more have appealed to 
him seriously on a general proposition than she would, 
for such a response, have rung the drawing-room bell. 
He was none the less held to have a great general ade- 
quacy.  ' What is it that's between them ?" he demanded. 

 '' What's between any woman and the man she's mak- 
ing up to ?" 

 ' Why, there may often be nothing. I didn't know 
she even particularly knew him," Brookenham added. 

 ' It's exactly what she would like to prevent any one's 
knowing, and her coming here to be with him when she 
knows I know she knows — don't you see ? — that he's to 
be here, is just one of those calculations that are subtle 
enough to put off the scent a woman who has but half a 
nose." Mrs. Brookenham, as she spoke, appeared to tes- 
tify, by the pretty star-gazing way she thrust it into the 
air, to her own possession of the totality of such a feat- 
ure. ''I don't know yet quite what I think, but one 
wakes up to such things soon enough." 

"Do you suppose it's her idea that he'll marry her ?" 
Brookenham asked in his colorless way. 

" My dear Edward !" his wife murmured for all an- 
swer. 

" But if she can see him in other places, why should 
she want to see him here ?" Edward persisted in a voice 
destitute of intonation. 

I. Mrs. Brookenham now had plenty of that. " Do you 
mean if she can see him in his own house ?" 

"No cream, please," her husband said. "Hasn't she 
a house too ?" 

"Yes, but so pervaded all over by Aggie and Miss 
Merriman." 





 

 ' Oh !" Brookenliam observed. 
 ' " There has always been some man — Fve always known 
there has. And now it's Petherton," said his companion. 

'' But whereas the attraction ?" 

" In iim ? Why, lots of women could tell you. Pether- 
ton has had a career." 

" But I mean in old Jane." 

 ''Well, I dare say lots of men could tell you. She's 
no older than any one else. She has also such great ele- 
ments." 

 ' Oh, I dare say she's all right.' Brookenham returned 
as if his interest in the case had dropped. You might 
have felt you got a little nearer to him on guessing 
that, in so peopled a circle, satiety was never far from 
him. 

'  I mean for instance she has such a grand idea of 
duty. She thinks we're nowhere ?" 

 '' Nowhere?" 

 '' With our children — with our home life. She's aw- 
fully down on Tishy." 

'' Tishy ?" — Brookenham appeared for a moment at a 
loss. 

   Tishy Grendon — and her craze for Nanda." 

" Has she a craze for Nan da ?" 

'  Surely I told you Nanda's to be with her for Easter." 

'  I believe you did," Brookenham bethought himself, 
" but you didn't say anything about a craze. And where's 
Harold ?" he went on. 

 '' He's at Brander. That is he will be by dinner. He 
has just gone." 

" And how does he get there ?" 

"Why, by the Southwestern. They'll send to meet 
him." 

Brookenham appeared to view this statement, for a 
moment, in the dry light of experience. " They'll only 
send if there are others too." 





  

''Of course then there'll be others — lots. The more 
the better for Harold.' 

This young man's father was silent a little. '' Perhaps 
— if they don't play high." 

"Ah' said his mother, "however Harold plays, he 
has a way of winning." 

" He has a way, too, of being a hopeless ass. What I 
meant was how he comes there at all," Brookenham ex- 
plained. 

"Why, as any one comes — by being invited. She 
wrote to him — weeks ago." 

Brookenham was discoverably affected by this fact, but 
it would not have been possible to say if his satisfaction 
exceeded his surprise. " To Harold ? Very good-nat- 
ured." He had another short reflection, after which he 
continued : " If they don't send, he'll be in for five miles 
in a fly — and the man will see that he gets his money." 

"They will send — after her note." 

" Did it say so ?" 

Mrs. Brookenham's melancholy eyes seemed, from afar, 
to run over the page. " I don't remember — but it was 
so cordial." 

Again Brookenham meditated. "That often doesn't 
prevent one's being let in for ten shillings." 

There was more gloom in this forecast than his wife 
had desired to produce. " Well, my dear Edward, what 
do you want me to do ? AVhatever a young man does, it 
seems to me, he's let in for ten shillings." 

"Ah, but he needn't be — that's my point,  I wasn't at 
his age." 

Harold's mother took up her book again. "Perhaps 
you weren't the same success ! I mean at such places." 

"Well, I didn't borrow money to make me one — as I 
have a sharp idea our young scamp does." 

Mrs. Brookenham hesitated. "From whom do you 
mean — the Jews ?" 


He looked at her as if her vagueness might be assumed. 
'' No. They, I take it, are not quite so   cordial ' to him, 
as you call it, as the old ladies. He gets it from Mitchy." 

" Oh !" said Mrs. Brookenham. " Are you very sure ?" 
she then demanded. 

He had got up and put his empty cup back upon the 
tea-table, wandering afterwards a little about the room 
and looking out, as his wife had done half an hour be- 
fore, at the dreary rain and the now duskier ugliness. 
He reverted in this attitude, with a complete uncon- 
sciousness of making for irritation, to a question they 
might be supposed to have dropped.  '  He'll have a 
lovely drive for his money !" His companion, however, 
said nothing, and he presently came round again. "No, 
I'm not absolutely sure — of his having had it from 
Mitchy. If I were, I should do something. '' 

'' What would you do ?" She put it as if she couldn't 
possibly imagine. 

" I would speak to him." 

"To Harold?" 

" No — that might just put it into his head." Brooken- 
ham walked up and down a little with his hands in his 
pockets ; then, with a complete concealment of the steps 
of the transition, "Where are we dining to-night ?" he 
brought out. 

" Nowhere, thank Heaven. We grace our own board.'' 

" Oh — with those fellows, as you said, and Jane ?" 

" That's not for dinner. The Baggers and Mary Pin- 
thorpe and — upon my word I forget." 

" You'll see when she comes," suggested Brookenham, 
who was again at the window. 

" It isn't a she — it's two or three he's, I think," his 
wife replied with her indifferent anxiety. "But I don't 
know what dinner it is," she bethought herself ; "it may 
be the one that's after Easter. Then that one's this one," 
she added with her eyes once more on her book. 





  

'' Well, it's a relief to dine at home " — and Brooken- 
liani faced about. '' AVould yon mind finding out ?" lie 
asked with some abruptness. 

" Do you mean who's to dine ?" 

"No, that doesn't matter. But whether Mitchy has 
come down." 

"I can only find out by asking him." 

" Oh,  I  could ask him." He seemed disappointed at 
his wife's want of resource. 

"And you don't want to ?" 

He looked coldly, from before the fire, over the pretti- 
ness of her brown, bent head. " It will be such a beastly 
bore if he admits it." 

" And yon think poor I can make him not admit it ?" 
She put the question as if it were really her own thought 
too, but they were a couple who could, even face to face 
and unlike the augurs behind the altar, think these 
things without laughing. " If he sliould admit it," Mrs. 
Brookenham threw in, "will you give me the money — ?" 

"The money?" 

"To pay Mitchy back." 

She had now raised her eyes to her husband, but, turn- 
ing away, he failed to meet them. " He'll deny it." 

" Well, if they all deny it," she presently remarked, 
"it's a simple enough matter. I'm sure  I  don't want 
them to come down on ns ! But that's the advantage," 
she almost prattled on, " of having so many such charm- 
ing friends — they don't come down." 

This again was a remark of a sweep that there appeared 
to be nothing in Brookenham's mind to match ; so that, 
scarcely pausing in the walk into which he had again 
fallen, he only said : " Who do you mean by 'all' ?" 

" Why, if he has had anything from Mitchy, I dare say 
he has had something from Van." 

"Oh !" Brookenham returned, as if with a still greater 
drop of interest. 





 

' Tliey oughtn't to do it' she declared; "they ought 
to tell us, and when they don't it serves them right." 
Even this observation, however, failed to rouse in her 
husband a response, and, as she had quite formed the 
habit of doing, she philosophically answered herself. 
 '' But I don't suppose they do it on spec." 

It was less apparent than ever what Edward supposed. 
" Oh, Van hasn't money to chuck about." 

 '   Ah, I only mean a sovereign here and there." 

 '' Well," Brookenham threw out after another turn, " I 
think Van, you know, is your affair." 

" It all seems to be my affair !" she exclaimed with too 
dolorous a little wail to have other than a comic effect. 
" And of course then it will be still more so if he should 
begin to apply to Mr. Longdon." 

''We must stop that in time." 

" Do you mean by warning Mr. Longdon and request- 
ing him immediately to tell us ? That won't be very 
pleasant," Mrs. Brookenham sighed. 

"Well, then, wait and see." 

She waited only a minute — it might have seemed that 
she already saw. " I want him to be kind to Harold, and 
I can't help thinking he will." 

" Yes, but I fancy that that will be his notion of it — 
keeping him from making debts. I dare say one needn't 
trouble about him," Brookenham added. " He can take 
care of himself." 

" He appears to have done so pretty well all these 
years," his wife mused. "As I saw him in my childhood 
I see him now, and I see now that I saw then even how 
awfully in love he was with mamma. He's too lovely 
about mamma," Mrs. Brookenham pursued. 

" Oh !" her husband replied. 

This delicate past held her a moment. " I see now I 
must have known a lot as a child." 

" Oh !" her companion repeated. 





  

'  I want him to take an interest in ns. Above all in the 
children. He ought to like us " — she followed it up.  '  It 
will be a sort of 'poetic justice." He sees, himself, the 
reasons, and we mustn t prevent it." She turned the pos- 
sibilities over a moment, but they produced another soft 
wail.  '' The thing is that I don't see how he can like 
Harold." 

'' Then he won't lend him money," said Brooken- 
ham. 

This contingency too she considered. " You make me 
feel as if I wished he would — which is too dreadful. And 
I don't think he really likes me" she went on. 

" Oh !" her husband again ejaculated. 

" I mean not utterly really. He has to try to. But it 
won't make any difference," she next remarked. 

 '' Do you mean his trying ?" Brookenham inquired. 

"No — I mean his not succeeding. He'll be just the 
same." She Saw it steadily and saw it whole. '' On ac- 
count of mamma." 

Her husband also, with his perfect propriety, put it be- 
fore himself. " And will he — on account of your mother 
— also like me ?" 

Mrs. Brookenham weighed it. "No, Edward." She 
covered him with her loveliest expression. "No, not 
really, either. But it won't make any difference." This 
time she had pulled him up. 

"Not if he doesn't like Harold, or like you, or like 
me ?" Brookenham, clearly, found himself able to accept 
only the premise. 

" He'll be perfectly loyal. It will be the advantage of 
mamma !" Mrs. Brookenham exclaimed. " Mamma, Ed- 
ward," she brought out with a flash of solemnity—" mam- 
ma was wonderful. There have been times when I've 
felt that she's still with us, but Mr. Longdon makes it 
vivid. Whether she's with me or not, at any rate, she's 
with Mm; so that when he's with me, don't you see — ?" 





 

"It comes to the same thing?" her husband intel- 
ligently asked.  ' I see. And when was he with you 
last r 

"Not since the day he dined — but that was only last 
week. He'll come soon — I know from Van." 

" And what does Van know ?" 

" Oh, all sorts of things. He has taken the greatest 
fancy to him.'' 

"The old man— to Van ?" 

"Van to Mr. Longdon. And the other way too. Mr. 
Longdon has been most kind to him." 

Brookenham still moved about. " Well, if he likes 
Van and doesn't like us, what good will that do us ?" 

" You would understand soon enough if you felt Van's 
loyalty." 

" Oh, the things you expect me to feel, my dear !" Ed- 
ward Brookenham lightly moaned. 

" Well, it doesn't matter. But he is as loyal to me as 
Mr. Longdon to mamma." 

The statement produced on Brookenham's part an un- 
usual vision of the comedy of things. " Every Jenny 
has her Jockey !" Yet perhaps — remarkably enough — 
there was even more imagination in his next words. 
"And what sort of means — ?" 

"Mr. Longdon ? Oh, very good. Mamma wouldn't 
have been the loser. Not that she cared. He must like 
Nanda," Mrs. Brookenham wound up. 

Her companion appeared to look at the idea and then 
meet it. " He'll have to see her first." 

" Oh, he shall see her !" Mrs. Brookenham affirmed. 
" It's time for her, at any rate, to sit downstairs." 

" It was time, you know,  I thought, a year ago." 

"Yes, I know what you thought. But it wasn't." 

She had spoken with decision, but he seemed unwill- 
ing to concede the point. "You admitted yourself that 
she was ready." 





  

'  She was ready — yes. But I wasn't. I am now' 
Mrs. Brookenham, with a fine emphasis on her adverb, 
proclaimed as she turned to meet the opening of the 
door and the appearance of the butler, whose announce- 
ment — " Lord Petherton and Mr. Mitchett " — might, for 
an observer, have seemed immediately to offer support to 
her changed state. 

VII 

Lord Petherton, a man of five-and-thirty, whose ro- 
bust but symmetrical proportions gave to his dark blue 
double-breasted coat an air of tightness that just failed 
of compromising his tailor, had for his main facial sign a 
certain pleasant brutality, the effect partly of a bold, 
handsome parade of carnivorous teeth, partly of an ex- 
pression of nose suggesting that this feature had paid a 
little, in the heat of youth, for some aggression at the 
time admired and even publicly commemorated. He 
(' would have been ugly, he substantively granted, had he 
not been happy; he would have been dangerous had he 
not been warranted. Many things, doubtless, performed 
for him this last service, but none so much as the delight- 
ful sound of his voice, the voice, as it were, of another 
man, a nature reclaimed, supercivilized, adjusted to the 
perpetual " chaff " that kept him smiling in a way that 
would have been a mistake, and indeed an impossibility, 
if he had really been witty. His bright familiarity was 
that of a young prince whose confidence had never had 
to falter, and the only thing that at all qualified the re- 
semblance was the equal familiarity excited in his sub- 
jects. 

Mr. Mitchett had so little intrinsic appearance that an 
observer would have felt indebted, as an aid to memory, 
to the rare prominence of his colorless eyes and the posi- 
tive attention drawn to his chin by the precipitation of 





 

its retreat from detection. Dressed, on the other hand, 
not as gentlemen dress, in London, to pay their respects 
to the fair, he excited by the exhibition of garments tliat 
had nothing in common save the violence and the inde- 
pendence of their pattern a suspicion that, in the despera- 
tion of humility, he wished to make it public that he had 
thrown to the winds the effort to please. It was written 
all over him that he had judged, once for all, his personal 
case, and that as his character, superficially disposed to 
gaiety, deprived him of the resource of shyness and shade, 
the effect of comedy might not escape him if secured by 
a real plunge. There was comedy therefore in the form 
of his pot-hat and the color of his spotted shirt, in the 
systematic disagreement, above all, of his coat, waistcoat 
and trousers. It was only on long acquaintance that his 
so many ingenious ways of showing that he recognized 
his commonness could present him as secretly rare. 

"And Where's the child, this time ?'' he asked of his 
hostess as soon as he was seated near her. 

"Why do you say Hhis time'? — as if it were different 
from any other time !" she replied, as she gavQ him his 
tea. 

" Only because, as the months and the years elapse, it's 
more and more of a wonder, whenever I don't see her, to 
think what she does with herself — or what you do with 
her. What it does show, I suppose," Mr. Mitchett went 
on, "is that she takes no trouble to meet me." 

" My dear Mitchy," said Mrs. Brookenham, "what do 
you know about ' trouble ' — either poor Nanda's, or mine, 
or anybody's else ? You've never had to take any in your 
life, you're the spoiled child of fortune, and you skim 
over the surface of things in a way that seems often 
to represent you as supposing that everybody else has 
wings. Most other people are sticking fast in their na- 
tive mud." 

" Mud, Mrs. Brook — mud, mud !" he protestingly cried 



  

as, while he watched his fellow- visit or move to a distance 
with their host, he glanced about the room, taking in 
afresh the Louis Quinze secretary, which looked better 
closed than open, and for which he always had a know- 
ing eye. '' Remarkably charming mud !" 

 ' Well, that's what a great deal of the element really 
appears, to-day, to be thought ; and precisely, as a speci- 
men, Mitchy dear, those two French books you were so 
good as to send me and which — really, this time, you ex- 
traordinary man !'' She fell back, intimately reproachful, 
from the effect produced on her, renouncing all expres- 
sion save that of the rolled eye. 

 ''Why, were they particularly dreadful?" — Mitchy 
was honestly surprised. " I rather liked the one in the 
pink cover — what's the confounded thing called ? — I 
thought it had a sort of a something-or-other." He had 
cast his eye about as if for a glimpse of the forgotten 
title, and she caught the question as he vaguely and good- 
humoredly dropped it. 

 ' A kind of a morbid modernity ? There is that," she 
dimly conceded. 

'' Is that what they call it ? Awfully good name. You 
must have got it from old Van !" he gaily declared. 

'' I dare say I did. I get the good things from him 
and the bad ones from you. But you're not to suppose," 
Mrs. Brookenham went on, "that I've discussed your 
horrible book with him." 

" Come, I say !" Mr. Mitchett protested ; " I've seen 
you with books from Vanderbank which, if you have dis- 
cussed them with him — well," he laughed, " I should like 
to have been there !" 

 '  You haven't seen me with anything like yours — no, 
no, never, never !" She was particularly positive. " He, 
on the contrary, gives tremendous warnings, makes apol- 
ogies, in advance, for things that — well, after all, haven't 
killed one." 





 

" That have even perhaps a little, after the warnings, 
let one down ?" 

Mrs. Brookenham took no notice of this pleasantry ; 
she simply adhered to her thesis. " One has taken one's 
dose, and one isn't such a fool as to be deaf to some fresh, 
true note, if it happens to turn up. But for abject, hor- 
rid, unredeemed vileness, from beginning to end — " 

'  So you read to the end ?" Mr. Mitchett interposed. 

'  I read to see what you could possibly have sent such 
things to me for, and because so long as they were in my 
hands they were not in the hands of others. Please to 
remember in future that the children are all over the 
place and that Harold and Nanda have their nose in 
everything." 

''I promise to remember," Mr. Mitchett returned, 
'' as soon as you make old Van do the same." 

 '  I do make old Van — I pull old Van up much oftener 
than I succeed in pulling you. I must say," Mrs. Brook- 
enham went on, "you're all getting to require, among 
you, in general, an amount of what one may call edit- 
ing — !" She gave one of her droll universal sighs. " I've 
got your books, at any rate, locked up, and I wish you'd 
send for them quickly again ; one's too nervous about 
anything happening and there being perhaps found 
among one's relics. Charming literary remains !" she 
laughed. 

The friendly Mitchy was also much amused. " By 
Jove, the most awful things are found ! Have you 
heard about old Randage and what his executors have 
just come across ? The most abominable — " 

 '' I haven't heard," she broke in, " and I don't want to ; 
but you give me a shudder, and I beg you'll have your 
offerings removed, for I can't think of confiding them, 
for the purpose, to any one in this house. I might burn 
them up in the dead of night, but even then I should be 
fearfully nervous." 





  

"I'll send then my usual messenger' said Mitcliy, "a 
person I keep for such jobs, thoroughly seasoned, as you 
may imagine, and of a discretion — what do you call it ? — 
d touts  preuve. Only you must let me say that I like 
your terror about Harold ! Do you suppose he spends 
liis time over Dr. Watts's hymns ?" 

Mrs. Brookenham just hesitated, and nothing, in gen- 
eral, was so becoming to her as the act of hesitation. 
'' Dear Mitchy, do you know I want awfully to talk to 
you about Harold ?" 

" About his reading, Mrs. Brook ?" Mitchy responded 
with interest. "The worse things are, let me just men- 
tion to you about that, the better they seem positively to 
be for one's feeling up in the language. They're more 
difficult, the bad ones — and there's a lot in that. All 
the young men know it — those who are going up for 
exams." 

She had her eyes for a little on Lord Petherton and 
her husband ; then, as if she had not heard what her in- 
terlocutor had just said, she overcame her last scruple. 
" Dear Mitchy, has he had money from you ?" 

He stared with his good goggle eyes— he laughed out. 
"Whv on earth — ? But do you suppose I'd tell you if 
he had ?" 

" He hasn't really borrowed the most dreadful sums ?" 

Mitchy was highly diverted. " Why should he ? For 
what, please ?" 

" That's just it — for what ? What does he do with it 
all ? What in the world becomes of it ?" 

"Well," Mitchy suggested, "he's saving up to start a 
business. Harold's irreproachable — hasn't a vice. Who 
knows, in these days, what may happen ? He sees fur- 
ther than any young man I know. Do let him save." 

She looked far away with her sweet world-weariness. 
" If you weren't an angel, it would be a horror to be 
talking to you. But I insist on knowing." She insisted 



 

now with lier absurdly pathetic eyes on him. '' What 
kind of sums ?" 

 '' You shall never, never find out," Mr. Mitchett re- 
plied with extravagant firmness. " Harold is one of my 
great amusements — I really have awfully few ; and if you 
deprive me of him you'll be a fiend. There are only one 
or two things I want to live for, but one of them is to 
see how far Harold will go. Please give me some more 
tea.'' 

' Do you positively swear — ?" she asked with intensity 
as she helped him. Then without waiting for his an- 
swer : "You have the common charity to us, I suppose, 
to see the position you would put us in. Fancy Ed- 
ward — !" she quite austerely threw off. 

Mr. Mitchett, at this, had, on his side, a hesitation. 
" Does Edward imagine — ?" 

"My dear man, Edward never 'imagined' anything 
in life." She still had her eyes on her interlocutor. 
" Therefore, if he sees a thing, don't you know ? it must 
exist." 

Mitchy, for a little, fixed the person mentioned as he 
sat with his other guest, but, whatever this person saw, 
he failed just then to see his wife's companion, whose 
eyes he never met. His face only offered itself, like a 
clean, domestic vessel, a receptacle with the peculiar 
property of constantly serving, yet never filling, to Lord 
Petherton's talkative splash. " Well, only don't let him 
take it up. Let it be only between you and me," Mr. 
Mitchett pleaded; "keep him quiet — don't let him 
speak to me." He appeared to convey, with his pleasant 
extravagance, that Edward looked dangerous, and he 
went on with a rigour of levity: "It must be our little 
quarrel." 

There were different ways of meeting such a tone, but 
Mrs. Brookenham's choice was remarkably prompt. "I 
don't think I quite understand what dreadful joke you 





  

may be making, but I dare say if you had let Harold 
borrow, you Avould have another manner, and I was at 
any rate determined to have the question out with you.' 

 'Let us always have everything out — that's quite my 
own idea. It's you,'' said Mr. Mitchett, ''who are by no 
means always so frank with me as I recognize — oh, I do 
that! — what it must have cost you to be over this little 
question of Harold. There's one thing, Mrs. Brook, you 
