
"No, I didn't care for prose. I like poetry best. I wish we were alone,
so I could speak something for you."

"We will go on an excursion some Sunday--say to Weehawken--and then I
shall have a chance to hear you."

"I am afraid I shall not be able to stay in the city," said Leslie,
gloomily. "I have met nothing but disappointment since I came here."




CHAPTER XXII.

TRYING TO BE AN ACTOR.


"Have you inquired for work?" asked Rupert.

"Yes."

"What kind of work?"

"I wanted to be an actor. So I applied at Palmer's Theatre and Daly's
this forenoon, and this afternoon I went to others."

"How were you received?" asked Rupert, in considerable curiosity.

"They wouldn't talk with me," answered Leslie, indignantly. "One of the
managers laughed at me when I asked if he would let me speak a piece, so
that he might judge of my ability."

"Perhaps they had no vacancy," suggested Rupert, trying to keep his
countenance.

"They asked me if I had ever acted. Of course I can't till I get the
chance. I told him I would be willing to work for five dollars a week
till I got some experience. I told them they might try me in small
parts. One of them asked me if I had ever played Hamlet. He must have
been in fun."

"I should think so."

"Of course great actors like Booth must have served an apprenticeship. I
was reading an account of Booth's early life lately, and he began just
as I want to begin."

"I expect the profession must be crowded. There was an actor staying at
the hotel last week. He is out of employment, and I think he must be out
of funds, for he got me to go out and pawn an overcoat for him."

"I am sure I could succeed if I only had a show," continued Leslie. "You
don't happen to know any manager, do you?"

"No. Perhaps you would stand a better chance of getting into a variety
theatre. Can you sing or dance?"

"No; I should not be willing to. I don't think Booth ever did, or
Irving, or Forrest."

"No. I don't think they did."

"And I'll get some time to be a famous actor, so I wouldn't like to
have it mentioned in my biographies that I ever played in a variety
theatre."

"Are you going to make any more applications, Leslie?"

"I shall apply to every manager in the city," answered Leslie,
energetically.

"I like your pluck. You deserve to succeed."

"Didn't you ever think of being an actor?"

"No; I don't think I have any talent for it."

"Don't you like to speak pieces?"

"Pretty well, but I like to write compositions better. How long do you
expect to stay in the city?"

"Well, I'll tell you how I am situated. I had twelve dollars in a
savings bank in Newark, and I took it out without letting my father
know. I was sure he wouldn't approve it, especially if he thought I was
trying to go on the stage. You see he doesn't approve of theatres. It is
very strange, considering that the greatest man that ever lived was an
actor and dramatic author."

"You mean Shakespeare?"

"Yes. However, father is old-fashioned in his ideas. I should like to
become a great actor, and make piles of money. Then he might be proud of
me."

Leslie's face flushed and his voice trembled, he was so carried away by
the thought of becoming a dramatic star.

"You said you had twelve dollars?" remarked Rupert, by way of bringing
him back to solid ground.

"Yes; but I have spent four dollars, though I have tried to be
economical. I pay seventy-five cents a day for my room, and that counts
up."

"Yes, so it does. If you were going to stop long in the city I think I
could get a room for you at two dollars a week."

"I should like that, but I can't pay even that if I don't get something
to do."

"In that case I suppose you would go home."

"I should have to. I suppose my father is very angry at me."

"Did you leave home without letting him know?"

"Yes; I knew he wouldn't let me come if he knew my plans."

"Didn't you leave a note for him?"

"Yes. I'll tell you what I wrote. I have a copy of it here."

Leslie drew from his pocket a half sheet of note paper, and read aloud
the following words:


     "DEAR FATHER--

     "When you read these words I shall be far from home. I suppose I
     ought not to go, but I am tired of the country, and I want to win
     fame and fortune. I have a plan in view which I have considered for
     years. I won't tell you what it is now, for though strictly
     honorable, you might not approve it. I think I understand myself
     better than you do, though you are my father. I will let you hear
     from me soon. Your son,

     LESLIE WATERS."


"Of course you don't know how this was received by your father?"

"I met a boy from Rahway this morning. He told me that father was mad,
and said he washed his hands of me, that I was a fool, and would very
soon find it out."

"Then you don't think he will pursue you?"

"No, he isn't that kind of a man."

"It will be rather awkward for you to go home."

"Yes. I wouldn't like to do that."

"Suppose you don't get a chance to go on the stage, would you be willing
to take a business place?"

"Yes, I would rather do that than go home. Here I should be in the midst
of life, and if I bided my time I might get a chance to go on the stage
after all."

"That is true. Now I will tell you why I asked. One of the bell-boys
here is going to leave. I might get the position for you."

"You are a bell-boy, are you not?"

"Yes."

"How much do you get?"

"Five dollars a week and my meals. I have to hire a room outside."

"And you say I can get a room for two dollars a week?"

"Yes. Perhaps for a dollar and a half."

"Then I could get along."

"You might not like the duties of a bell-boy."

"What are they?"

Rupert explained.

"How early should I get off at night?"

"At six o'clock. The bell-boy who is about to leave is on through the
day like myself."

"That would suit me. I could go to the theatre in the evening."

"True."

"If I don't get a chance to act to-day I will take the place if you can
get it for me. It will be much better than going back to Rahway.
Besides, my father will think better of me if he hears that I have found
a place where I can make my expenses."

"Does he know that you have had thoughts of becoming an actor?"

"No; I never told him, but my mother knows it."

"What does she say to it?"

"She thinks I am smart enough to succeed, but fears I might get into bad
company."

"There is danger of that."

"Not for me. I don't care for drinking, and I belong to the temperance
society."

"So do I."

"When a boy is ambitious to be great I don't think he is likely to get
dissipated."

"Perhaps you are right. One thing I must say to you, Leslie. If you take
the place of bell-boy you must try to give satisfaction."

"I will, for it will keep me in the city. In Rahway there is no chance
of my rising in life."

Rupert foresaw that there was very little chance of his new friend
getting a position in any theatre, and he spoke at once to the manager
of the hotel about giving a place as bell-boy to Leslie.

"Is he a friend of yours, Rupert?" asked the manager.

"Yes, sir."

"Have you known him long?"

"Not long enough to be sure that he will be satisfactory. Still you
might be willing to take him on trial."

"I will try him for a week. If at the end of that time he suits me
moderately well I will retain him."

"I will coach him a little and instruct him in his duties."

"That will help."

In the evening Leslie came home just before Rupert got through his day's
work. He did not look as if he had succeeded. Still he was not as sober
as the day before.

"Well?" said Rupert. "What luck?"

"I don't get a place. In some of the theatres they did not treat me
respectfully, though one manager admitted that he went on the stage
earlier than I did."

"Where was that?"

"In Brooklyn."

"Then I suppose you will be ready to accept the place of bell-boy?"

"Yes; but if a chance should come of my going on the stage I should want
to resign it."

"You had better not say anything about that. Wait till the chance
comes."

"I have one piece of good news," said Leslie, more cheerfully. "In two
weeks a spectacular piece will be put on the stage at Niblo's, and they
have promised me a place as supe."

"How much will you be paid?"

"Only twenty-five cents a night, but it will be a beginning. I shall
have a place behind the footlights. More than one actor has made his
start in that way."

"I am glad for you. I will go and see you when you make your first
appearance."




CHAPTER XXIII.

A BAFFLED SCHEME.


Both Julian Lorimer and his father felt mortified at the failure of
their attempt to humiliate Mr. Benton. They had supposed he had neither
friends nor influence and were very much surprised at his securing
another position elsewhere at an advanced salary. They tried to find out
where he was now employed, but without success. Julian inquired of
Rupert one day when he met him, but the bell-boy refused to tell.

"Oh, it's a secret, is it?" sneered Julian.

"Yes, to you," answered Rupert. "Why did you wish to know?"

Rupert was confident that Julian meant mischief, and in the interest of
Mr. Benton he declined to give him any information.

Of course this made Julian all the more anxious to gain his point. He
got in the way of visiting every dry-goods store, and scanning the
clerks and salesmen. But there are a good many such stores in New York,
and it was some time before he made any discovery.

One day, however, he strayed into Grand Street, and entered a large
store in quest of some cheap neckties which he saw exposed outside.
Julian was rather a dude, and these ties had attracted his notice.

As he was passing through the store without any special thought of his
father's old clerk, he chanced to pass by the counter where dress goods
were sold. His face lighted up with malicious joy when he saw Benton
measuring off a dress pattern for a lady. He stopped until the salesman
was at leisure. Then, stepping up to the counter, he said, "Good
morning, Mr. Benton."

Benton certainly was not pleased to see his old persecutor. Perhaps his
countenance expressed his feelings as he answered, "Good morning,
Julian."

"So it is here you are employed?"

"Yes, as you see."

"Did you come here directly from pa's store?"

"Yes. How did you find out that I was here?"

"I didn't find out till just now."

"Can I do anything for you? Do you wish to buy anything in my line?"

"No. I came in for some neckties. Do you ever see anything of Rupert
Rollins?"

"Yes, he has a room at my house."

"Oho, I didn't know that. That accounts for his interest in you."

"I am glad he has an interest in me. He is a very good friend of mine."

"A poor boy like him isn't much of a friend. He can't do much for you."

"He got me this position."

"Did he?" said Julian, in some surprise.

"Yes."

Benton might have told Julian that Rupert owned two valuable lots in
Harlem, but he thought it more proper that Rupert himself should make it
known whenever he saw fit.

"Well, so long. I may see you again before long."

"I am not in the least desirous of it," thought Benton, but he answered
civilly.

"Well, pa," said Julian, at dinner, "I saw your old clerk, Benton,
to-day."

"Did you, indeed," said Mr. Lorimer, interested. "Is he out of work?"

"No; he's employed in a Grand Street store."

"Did you speak to him?"

"Yes."

"How did he appear?"

"He was better dressed than when he worked for you."

"I mean was he cordial?"

"Not very. I don't think he was very glad to see me. Good reason why."

"I wonder whether he is well paid?"

"I didn't ask him, for I knew he wouldn't tell me if I did. I have no
doubt he gets a good deal more than what you paid him."

"They must have taken him without a recommendation," mused Lorimer.

"You wouldn't give him a recommendation, would you?"

"No, I should have to say that he was insubordinate and gave me
trouble."

Julian Lorimer could be depended upon to act meanly and maliciously,
without any scruples of conscience. Two days later Mr. Benton was
summoned to the superintendent's room.

"You wished to see me, sir?" he said.

"Yes. I wish to show you a letter which the firm has received."

Henry Benton took the proffered letter, and read with what feelings can
be imagined the following communication:


     "GENTLEMEN--

     "In visiting your store yesterday I saw a Mr. Benton behind the
     dress goods counter who used to work in our, that is, my father's
     store. I was surprised that you should employ him. He brought no
     recommendation from us, or if he presented one it was forged. My
     father found him unsatisfactory, and was quite glad to get rid of
     him. He is a poor man, and I don't want to injure him, but I
     thought it only right that I should tell you what my father thinks
     of him. He would not tell us where he was going, and it was only by
     chance that I found out.

     Yours truly,
     "JULIAN LORIMER."


"Well, Mr. Wilson, I have read the letter," said Benton. "Is there
anything you would like to ask me in reference to it?"

"Is the writer correct in his statements?"

"So far from it that his father asked me to stay longer, and offered me
an additional dollar a week."

"Did you have any trouble when in Mr. Lorimer's store?"

"Yes; this boy Julian, who has nothing to do with the business,
interfered with my work and was very insolent. I rebuked him and he
succeeded in getting his father to discharge me. Afterward his father
revoked the dismissal and wished me to stay. But I had already a
situation offered me here, and I declined. I hope this letter will not
prejudice you against me."

"By no means. Even without your explanation I understood pretty well the
character of the writer of the note."

"Shall you answer it?"

"Yes; I have a curiosity to see the boy."

Julian Lorimer smiled with satisfaction when he received a letter
inviting him to call at the Grand Street store.

"Things are working as I desired," he said to himself. "I think, Mr.
Benton, your career will be brief, and you will soon be looking for
another position."

He entered the store about ten o'clock, and took good care to walk by
the counter behind which Mr. Benton was employed. The latter saw him,
but after his interview with the superintendent he did not feel anxious.

"I am Julian Lorimer," announced Julian, as he entered the presence of
the superintendent.

"You wrote us a letter, I believe?"

"Yes, sir."

"In relation to a clerk in our employ?"

"Yes. Mr. Benton."

"He used to work for your father?"

"Yes, sir. He was in father's employ rather more than a year."

"He stayed some time, then?"

"Yes; father didn't want to discharge him as he had a family."

"Very considerate on your father's part, certainly," said Mr. Wilson, in
a peculiar tone, in which Julian did not detect the sarcasm.

"On the whole, your father did not find him satisfactory? What was the
matter? Isn't he a good salesman?"

"Pretty fair," answered Julian. "Nothing alarming."

"Then what fault did he find with him? I suppose he was honest?"

"Yes, so far as we know."

"And still your father found him unsatisfactory. There must have been
some cause of complaint?"

"He was impudent," said Julian. "He felt too large for his position."

"Was he impudent to your father?"

"No."

"To whom, then?"

"To me."

"Oh, to you. Were you employed in the store?"

"No, sir."

"Then I don't see how you could have come in contact with him."

"I used to go into the store sometimes. That was very natural, as it was
my father's store."

"And on one of these occasions he was impudent to you?"

"Yes, sir."

"This is a serious charge. What would you advise me to do? Do you think
I ought to discharge him?"

"I will only say this, that my father would not have him in the store."

"You said in your letter that you did not wish to injure him. If he
should be discharged that would certainly be an injury."

"Yes, sir, I suppose so," answered Julian, with hesitation.

He was puzzled and could not understand what Mr. Wilson was driving at.

"I will send for Mr. Benton."

When Benton came into the presence of the superintendent, Mr. Wilson
said,

"Mr. Benton, this boy, Mr. Julian Lorimer, has been bringing charges
against you."

"I am not surprised to hear it, sir."

"He says you did not treat him respectfully when you were in his
father's store; that, in short, you were impudent to him."

"There is some truth in my not treating him respectfully. He came up to
my counter and interfered with my work."

"You were aware that he was Mr. Lorimer's son?"

"Oh, yes, sir."

"And yet you rebuked or snubbed him?"

"Yes, sir."

"He thinks that a serious matter. He thinks I ought to discharge you. My
own feeling is that you treated him just right."

Julian looked paralyzed.

"And to make up to you for his malicious attempt to injure you, I will
raise your salary two dollars a week."

"Thank you, sir."

"As for you, young man, I don't wish to see you in the store again.
James, you may show Mr. Lorimer out."

Julian lost no time in getting out of the place. He had never felt so
humiliated before. It would be hard to describe his blended rage and
mortification. It was certainly aggravating to reflect that he had only
succeeded in raising Mr. Benton's salary.




CHAPTER XXIV.

LESLIE'S PROGRESS.


Leslie Waters obtained the situation of bell-boy through Rupert's
recommendation, and entered upon his duties at once. He had failed in
his ambition to become an actor. With his elevated ideas of the position
of a member of the profession, he did not immediately become reconciled
to figuring as a bell-boy, but it enabled him to live in the great city,
which became daily more and more attractive to him.

Rupert engaged for him a small hall bedroom in the same house in which
he was himself living. The price agreed upon was only a dollar and a
half weekly, which, with his salary, he could pay without inconvenience.

Rupert was afraid that Leslie would prove too flighty and impracticable
for his humble duties, but was agreeably disappointed. Accustomed to
work on a farm in a quiet country town, Leslie found hotel life very
attractive, and labored zealously to give satisfaction. The day after he
went to work he wrote to his father in Rahway as follows:


     "DEAR FATHER--

     "I hope you are not angry at my leaving home so suddenly. I had got
     tired of country life, and felt that I was destined to a career in
     the city. I was not sure what employment awaited me, but hoped in
     some way to make a living. I have succeeded--I have secured a
     position in the Somerset Hotel, on Broadway. I take my meals at the
     hotel, and am paid a salary of five dollars per week besides. I
     have to pay a dollar and a half for a room, and the balance of my
     pay will defray the rest of my expenses.

     "I owe my success to a very friendly boy, not quite as old as I am,
     who is employed in the hotel. My hours are from six to six, so that
     I have my evenings to myself. I think you will agree that I am
     doing better and earning more than I ever did in Rahway. Of course
     I hope to be promoted, perhaps to go into some more congenial
     business when I get better acquainted in the city. If you should
     come to the city at any time I shall be glad to have you call at
     the hotel.

     "Your son,
     "LESLIE WATERS."


In reply, Leslie received the following letter, written in a cramped
hand, indicating that the writer was not accustomed to epistolary
composition:


     "SON LESLIE--

     "I have received your letter, and am glad to learn that you are not
     quite so foolish as I supposed. I was afraid you had the foolish
     notion of becoming a play actor. I never knew one in that
     profession who was a solid, sensible man. To my mind it is a very
     poor business. It is all very well for boys to speak pieces at
     school exhibitions, but when they start in to speak pieces for a
     livelihood it is very foolish. I surmised from some things I had
     observed in you that you had such a notion in your head, but I am
     glad I was mistaken.

     "The hotel business is a good business, I am told. You don't tell
     me what your duties are, but you seem to be earning pretty good
     pay. I hope you will give satisfaction. You never earned even three
     dollars a week at farming, so that perhaps it may be well for you
     to stay where you are really earning a good income. Some time you
     may be qualified to keep a hotel yourself. Your mother's cousin
     keeps a hotel somewhere in Kansas, and I hear that he is making
     money. You did wrong to leave home without permission, but I will
     not find fault with you under the circumstances. When I go to New
     York I will call in and see how you are getting along. Your mother
     will make up a bundle of clothing and send you by express.

     "Your father,
     "JETHRO WATERS."


Leslie showed this letter to Rupert.

"Your father doesn't suspect that you came to the city intending to go
on the stage?" he said.

"No, he thinks I have given up my ambition to become an actor. He has no
idea what a glorious profession it is. I don't suppose he ever went to
the theatre in his life. I wish he could see Edwin Booth, or Irving, or
Joseph Jefferson. Yet I suppose he would rather have me keep a hotel
than become as great as either of these."

"It takes a smart man to keep a hotel, Leslie. Very likely Booth or
Irving wouldn't succeed in that line."

"I hope some time I may get a chance on the stage. Will you go with me
to-night to see Mansfield in 'Jekyll and Hyde'?"

"Yes; I have no other engagement."

That evening the two bell-boys had front seats in the gallery of a
Broadway theatre, and saw Mr. Mansfield in his remarkable impersonation
of the two contrasted characters. Leslie was filled with admiration.

"Do you know, Rupert, I think I will learn to act those parts in time?"

"You might succeed in Jekyll, but it would be more difficult to play the
part of Hyde."

"Perhaps so. Indeed, I know you are right. But it is a part which I
should enjoy. I have a great mind to make a study of it."

"If I were you I would try something easier."

"It is the hard parts that are best worth acting," said Leslie, grandly.

Rupert thought little more of this conversation, but two evenings later,
as he sat playing checkers with Harry Benton, there was a knock at the
door of Mrs. Benton's apartment. On the door being opened, Mrs. Spenser
appeared. She was the lady of whom Leslie hired his room. She seemed to
be quite excited.

"Oh, Mr. Rollins," she exclaimed, addressing Rupert, "I wanted to see
you. I am so frightened."

Rupert looked up in surprise.

"What is the matter, Mrs. Spenser?"

"Your friend, Mr. Waters, is making a terrible noise. Is he subject to
fits?"

"Not that I ever heard."

"I don't dare to go in. He is acting like a wild man. I never heard
anything to equal it. Do you know if any of his family were ever crazy?"

"I will go and see what is the matter. I don't think you need be
alarmed."

"If he is really crazy," continued Mrs. Spenser, "I don't think I can
keep him, though I need the money he pays for room rent."

Rupert abandoned his game, and, accompanied by the frightened woman,
proceeded to the part of the house where Leslie lodged. As he stood
outside in the hall he heard Leslie in a low, guttural voice rehearsing
the part of Hyde. One who was not familiar with the rôle or the play
might be excused for being startled.

Rupert tried the door, and entered.

There was his associate bell-boy, half-crouching, and with his black
hair carefully disordered, walking across the room, with his naturally
pleasant face distorted by a grin as fiendish as he could make it.

"Look at him! He is certainly crazy!" ejaculated the terrified landlady.
"He looks awful."

"What are you doing, Leslie?" asked Rupert.

Leslie looked up, and his face showed embarrassment when he saw his
visitors.

"I am practicing the part of Hyde," he said.

"I thought so. You have frightened Mrs. Spenser, who thought you had a
fit or were crazy."

Instead of being offended, Leslie took this as a tribute to his art.

"Yes," he said, "it is a frightful character. Did I really look
dreadful?"

"Awful!" said Mrs. Spenser.

"That's the way Mansfield looked. Isn't it, Rupert?"

"Something like it, Leslie, but I shouldn't think you would like to
imitate such a personation. Why don't you try Romeo?"

"Romeo is a silly character. He is only a sixteenth century dude."

"Then imitate Claude Melnotte, in the 'Lady of Lyons.'"

"I never saw it."

"In that character, instead of looking frightful, you would need to look
handsome, romantic and attractive. If Mrs. Spenser should see you in
that she wouldn't be frightened."

"Are you an actor, Mr. Waters?" asked the landlady, curiously.

"I hope to be some day," returned Leslie, much flattered.

"I am going to have some friends come in to see me Christmas evening. I
should be very much obliged if you would do some acting for us, only not
that Hyde," and she shuddered.

"I shall be pleased to do what I can, Mrs. Spenser," replied Leslie,
graciously. "I will speak some pieces for you--some pieces that require
acting. I have a recitation called 'The Tramp.'"

"I shall be very glad to have you. It will be a great favor. Don't you
act, too, Mr. Rollins?"

"No; I leave all that to my friend Leslie."

The landlady retired, leaving the two boys alone.

"What did you think of my acting, Rupert?" said Leslie.

"If I could see it again I think it would give me a nightmare."

"I consider that a compliment," said Leslie, complacently. "I shall
never be satisfied, Rupert, till I go on the stage."




CHAPTER XXV.

LESLIE WATERS AS A DRAMATIC STAR.


A year passed; not an eventful year, however, nor did it materially
change the position of the principal characters introduced in our story.
Rupert was still a bell-boy in the Somerset Hotel. He had been raised
three dollars a week, however, and was now receiving a salary of eight
dollars, besides his board.

His friend Leslie Waters was doing satisfactory service at six dollars.
He had by no means lost his love for the stage. He economized on
clothing in order to attend the theatre. It must be said that his taste
was good, and that he preferred standard plays and good acting to the
sensational pieces that too often eclipse in success the better class of
dramas. He had joined the Violet Dramatic Club of young men, meeting
weekly somewhere on West Fourteenth Street. The members of the club
laboriously rehearsed short plays, and offered their services
gratuitously, or for a slight compensation, to charitable societies, and
thus obtained some valuable training and a share of applause.

Of course Leslie Waters was always cast for a prominent part. Of all the
members of the society he was the most ambitious, and the most willing
to work. For a long time he tried to induce his fellow-members to essay
a long play. He was particularly desirous of playing Claude Melnotte, in
the "Lady of Lyons." The main difficulty, however, was in obtaining a
young lady capable of playing Pauline. At length that difficulty was
surmounted. A young lady of eighteen, from Brooklyn, the cousin of one
of the members of the club, who, like Leslie, thought herself born for
the stage, offered her services, and was adjudged competent, although
rather disposed to overdo the part.

One day Leslie brought to his friend Rupert a circular to the following
effect:


     "The Violet Dramatic Club beg leave to inform their friends and
     the public generally that they will produce Bulwer's noted play,

          THE LADY OF LYONS,

     At Amaranth Hall, on First Avenue, on the evening of Thursday, May
     6, with the distinguished actor, Leslie Waters, in the character of
     Claude Melnotte. Miss Ida Strassburger, an accomplished amateur
     from Brooklyn, will appear as Pauline.

     "Tickets, 25 and 50 cents."

     "The proceeds will be given to the Society for the Relief of
     Indigent Laundresses."


"What do you think of that, Rupert?" asked Leslie, with a complacent
smile.

"I congratulate you on your opportunity to make a hit. I am glad it is
you, and not I, who is to play the part of Claude."

"Of course you would hardly be competent. If you would like some light
part, like that of a servant, I think I might have got you into the
cast."

"Thank you, Leslie, but I have no ambition in that direction. Who is the
Pauline? Do you know her?"

"It is Ida Strassburger, of Brooklyn. She is a cousin of one of our
members."

"How does she play?"

"Pretty well, but she has something of the Bowery style; that is, she
rather overdoes her part. I have tried to tone her down."

"Does she look the part?"

"Well, no. I am sorry to say it, but she is rather short and fat. She is
German, as you may guess from her name. Still I think she will do, if
she will be guided by me. You see we can't afford to be too particular
about a Pauline, for it is harder to get actresses than actors."

"Do you feel at all nervous about your first appearance in a star part?"

"Oh, no, I never was troubled with stage fright. I have considerable
confidence in myself."

This was quite true. Had Leslie been requested to appear as Hamlet, he
would have had no misgivings, but with sufficient time for preparation
would have walked on the stage prepared to enact the rôle of the
melancholy Dane.

"I hope you will win the popular favor, and get your name before the
public."

"I hope so. One of our members, who sometimes reports for the Evening
News, has promised to write an account for that paper, and we hope to
be noticed by the Sun and World."

"Suppose your father reads the account? Does he take either of these
papers?"

"I hope he will. In fact I shall make sure that he does, for I will send
the papers to him marked, getting you to address the wrappers. While he
would object to my going on the stage professionally, I don't think he
will mind my appearing for the benefit of a charitable society."

"Do you know anything about the Society for the Relief of Indigent
Laundresses?"

"No."

"Yet you are going to work very hard for them."

"Oh, I don't care anything for the society. I would be willing to work
for any society, as long as I got a chance to appear in a prominent
part."

"I am not sure," said Rupert, laughing, "but I would like to have your
club give a performance for the benefit of destitute bell-boys."

"I am quite ready, if any such society should be formed."

"I'll think about forming one, though I am glad to say I don't know of
any destitute bell-boys at present."

Rupert bought several tickets, and invited the entire Benton family,
including his young charge, to attend the performance.

Mrs. Spenser and her daughters received an invitation from Leslie Waters
himself. The widow felt quite flattered.

"I am sure, Mr. Waters," she said, "I am proud to think a distinguished
actor like you is a lodger of mine. It will seem so odd to see you on
the stage. I don't see how you can do it."

"It comes natural to me, Mrs. Spenser," said Leslie, much flattered.

"And do you think you will ever go on the stage as a regular business,
Mr. Waters?"

"I will if I have a good opportunity. To be a bell-boy does not satisfy
my ambition."

"It is a good, steady business."

"Yes, but I feel that I was born for higher things. Anyone can be a
bell-boy, but there are few who are qualified to become actors."

"I wonder your friend Mr. Rollins doesn't act."

"Well, you see, Rupert is a very good fellow, but I don't think he is
gifted enough to become an actor, that is, a prominent actor. I offered
to get him the part of a servant, but he didn't care to attempt it. Some
time, Mrs. Spenser, when a child is needed in any of my plays, I may get
the chance for your Sophie."

"Oh, Mr. Waters, how kind you are. Do you really think Sophie could
act?"

"Yes, if I should train her. You know not very much is expected of a
child."

"I should feel so proud to see my little girl on the stage. Did you ever
see Elsie Leslie act?"

"Yes, she is very clever. I only wish she were old enough, and would
consent to take the part of Pauline. She would be far better than Ida
Strassburger."

"Is she pretty?"

"She is fair-looking, but she is too fat. However, she has a lover, a
stout, young German, who, I understand, is jealous because on the stage
I am to personate her lover. I presume he will be present. I will harrow
him up by being a little extra affectionate."

"Now, Mr. Waters, you are really too bad. You ought to consider the
feelings of the poor young man."

"His name is Otto Schaefer, and he is a butcher's assistant, I
understand. I really hope he won't bring a butcher knife with him, for
it might prove serious for me."

"Rupert," said Leslie in a mysterious tone, a few hours before the play,
"I will tell you a secret if you won't breathe a word about it."

"Is it that you are engaged to the fair Pauline?"

"Oh, bother, no. Otto Schaefer may have her, if he wishes."

"What is it, then?"

"I have sent complimentary tickets to Palmer and Daly. Do you think they
will come?"

"I imagine they are both very busy men, and cannot afford the time."

"I thought, if they should be impressed with my playing, one of them
might offer me an engagement in his stock company."

"And you would like that?"

"Would I like it? It would make me supremely happy."

"Then you are not satisfied with the position of a bell-boy?"

"Certainly not. Are you?"

"For the present, yes."

"Should you be willing to be a bell-boy for the next twenty years?"

"No, I don't think I should, but I am still very young. I have just
passed seventeen."

