


delight was to have Sherburne declaim from the Latin 
orations, or repeat striking passages of the Greek poets. 

Lawrence was not in sight. After giving some direc- 
tions to Maum Chloe, since the governess had gone home 
on a vacation, and feeling confident the child would 
finally go to Aunt Fanny's, they took up their line of 
march. 

They had gone a mile perhaps when Bertram made a 
plunge in a wayside thicket to capture a moth. There 
was a trodden path much frequented by the negroes as a 
short cut, coming out on the road. 

" Hillo ! " he exclaimed. 

Lawrence gave a short, triumphant laugh and looked 
the very picture of elation. 

" I can walk well enough," he began. "I've walked 
miles and miles, and I can go along just as well as not." 

"O Lawrence," said Ned, persuasively, " you would 
get tired to death. And there is nothing to amuse a lit- 
tle boy. See here, to-morrow we'll drive over to Mason's 
creek, and you shall row the boat." 

Sherburne was vexed at the evasion. He seized his 
little brother by the arm and drew him out in the road. 

" Go on, boys," he said, turning the child around and 
walking back rapidly. Lawrence gave a sulky kick but 
missed his brother's leg, and though he tried to lag, the 
elder hurried him along by his superior strength. 

" Where are you going? " he asked, curiosity as to his 
fate getting the better of him. 

"I am going back home with you and shall lock you 
up in the schoolroom," said the elder, resolutely. 

" I will climb out of the window," defiantly. 

"I'll put old Crissy in to watch you." 

Old Crissy was a sharp negress, big and strong, and 





handy with a strap, and was famous for keeping the 
younger generation of darkies in order. 

"She wouldn't dare strike me. I'd just write to 
papa 



"You deserve a thrashing, you little rascal! But if 
she didn't thrash you she could keep you from climbing 
out of the window." 

That was true enough. Larry's dark eyes blazed at 
being outgeneraled. " I just hate you ! " he cried, with 
anger. 

Sherburne made no reply but hurried on. To be shut 
up with old Crissy did not look inviting, and the child 
began to consider. 

" See here, Slier," he cried, at length, still in a furious 
temper, "don't have me locked up! I won't follow 
you, honest and true. I'll — I'll stay. But I don't want 
— to be locked up," — crying in good earnest. 

Sherburne paid no attention. 

"O Sher, please don't," he entreated. " I won't do 
anything but just play round, unless I go to Aunt 
Fanny's. Yes, I'll go there." 

"Will you, truly?" Sherburne stopped and looked 
his little brother over with much severity in his aspect. 

" Yes, I will — I just will," he pleaded. 

"Very well, then. And if you shouldn't, Larry, I'll 
punish you severely myself, to-morrow — do you hear ? ' ' 

The boy nodded. Sherburne released his arm, and 
watched him a moment as he trudged on slowly without 
glancing around. 

"Be a good boy," he sang out, resuming his own 
journey. 

They had a grand day fishing, lying about in the 
shade arguing several points which led to a rather heated 





interest, but no anger. Bertram captured a number of new 
specimens. Never had lunch tasted better, and never 
had there been a finer day for their purpose. They took 
a nap on the bed of dry pine needles, and then, refreshed, 
started slowly homeward. Ned was enjoying life as he 
never had before, "crawling out of his shell," Sher- 
burne told him. 

"Sher, you will make a great success in life, I know. 
You inspire people. I never gave you credit for half 
your virtues. I used to think it a great pity you were so 
pleasure-loving, but there is a good deal beside that in 
you, and you make the pleasures exhilarating and attract- 
ive. All work and no play does make Jack a dull boy. 
I've found out that." 

"Thank you," and Sherburne laughed joyously. 
"You see I always acquired everything easily and had 
lots of time to spend in fooling, and I suppose it did give 
me the appearance of a careless fellow. And now I am 
in real earnest, but I can't turn hermit for all that. I 
shall always like a bit of fun." 

The girls had taken supper at Aunt Fanny's, and were 
sitting on the steps, but they sprang up and greeted the 
boys with a glad shout. 

"We're so lonesome ! O Sher, don't you wish Ruth 
and Ray were back here, and Mrs. Kenneth, to tell us 
stories? We've sat here and watched and watched." 

Sherburne laughed as he kissed both girls. 

" O Sher," cried Milly, "wouldn't it be just awful to 
be orphans and have no father or mother ! To be sure, 
Ruth hasn't any, but she has Mrs. Kenneth, and Ray 
has Aunt Julia " 

Yes, they did miss the heads of the household very 
much. 





" Where is the little lad ? " he asked. 

" O, didn't he go with you?" returned Millicent. 
" He did not come over to Aunt Fanny's and the boys 
were so sorry." 

Sherburne started. Perhaps he had gone to grand- 
papa's, where he was a great favorite. Supper was all 
ready, and they were hungry as bears. But the elder 
brother rose when the serving was done. 

" Brad," he said to the black boy, "get out one of the 
horses and go over to Beaumanoir. If Larry is all right 
and wants to stay, let him. But I'd like to know." 

"Yes, Mas'r." 

They went on with their supper. Sherburne felt 
strangely annoyed and a little apprehensive. And he 
was startled when Brad came tearing back. 

"He ain't bin dar, Mas'r Sherburne. W'y we all 
tought he gone wid you. Where d' s'pose he be ? Juno, 
she been whinin' round." 

" What is it ? " asked Ned. " Larry ? He must have 
wandered off somewhere." 

" Dat boy know ebery inch er groun' fer miles an' 
miles. But he's awful reckless." 

"Get out the dogs and the lanterns. Let us go at 
once and hunt him up," exclaimed Sherburne in alarm. 

Juno whined and sprang from one to the other. Caesar 
was quieter, but moved his tail with a dawning sense of 
responsibility. They rushed on ahead and were soon 
lost to sight as well as sound. 

"Something has happened to him," began Bertram, 
gravely. " He wouldn't have stayed out in the woods all 
day with nothing to eat." 

" He could have gone in some cabin. It wouldn't 
have been the first time." 





"We have spoiled him some way," subjoined Ber- 
tram, seriously. "He won't mind one of us, and he 
always did obey mamma." 

Sherburne felt quite helpless on the subject of parental 
authority. The Beaumanoirs had been trained in truth- 
telling and promise-keeping, and Lawrence had said 
" Honest and true. " 

They went stumbling on, calling now and then to the 
boy and to the dogs. They heard an occasional bay. 
Should they take this path or that ? They had no heart 
for any but the briefest sentences. 

Then Caesar came rushing with a swish through the 
darkness. Bertram held up the lantern and the eager 
fiery eyes blinked. 

"Good dog, good Caesar, what is it? " 

He ran a few steps, barking loudly, then turned wist- 
fully and ran on again. They followed rapidly on 
through the woods that had been partly cleared. 

Juno was keeping watch over something and gave low, 
melancholy howls. When they reached the spot Sher- 
burne stooped and picked up his little brother, pallid and 
cold. 

"O, he isn't dead ! " cried Bertram. 

" Let us get back as quickly as possible." Then he 
tried to think what would be best. " Brad, run on ahead 
and get out the big carriage. Come down the road and 
meet us. We had better get over to Doctor Underwood's 
with all speed." 

" Let me carry him," said Ned, presently. " You are 
tired and we can get along faster." 

It was true. Sherburne settled the limp body on his 
cousin's shoulder, and they almost ran. The carriage 
was waiting. 





" We shall not all be needed," exclaimed Sherburne. 
" Bert, you and Randolph go home and comfort the 
girls. We will send Brad back with a message as soon 
as there is any word." 

The boys went reluctantly. The others entered the 
carriage with their burthen, and drove swiftly to their 
haven. 

"O," cried Aunt Fanny, "the doctor went to the 
hospital not more than ten minutes ago. Little Larry — 
what could have happened ! Drive right over. He has a 
rather serious case and will be gone half an hour or so. 
Yes, go at once." 

In five minutes they were there and Doctor Under- 
wood had taken the apparently lifeless body to one of the 
wards. Miss Eunis came and disrobed it. There was 
a broken leg, how much more they could not tell, or 
whether, at first, there was any life left in him. Sher- 
burne paced up and down in a state of agonizing ap- 
prehension. Ned knew any attempt at comfort was 
useless and wisely kept quiet. 

It seemed hours before Doctor Underwood came in, 
with a grave face. 

" He is not dead," he said, but from present indica- 
tions he has been unconscious a long while. He has a 
broken leg, a very clean break, which will cause no 
trouble and it is set. Tell me how it happened." 

Sherburne repeated the day's events in a rather un- 
steady tone. 

"Well — I don't see that you were to blame," an- 
nounced his uncle, anxious to relieve the dreadful sense 
of responsibility he read in the young face. "Maybe 
it would have been better if you had switched him all the 
way home. Boys are trying conglomerates. Now — both 





of you get back to Sherburne House as soon as you can. 
Stop and tell Aunt Fanny I shall stay here all night. 
Try and get some sleep. You can't help nor hinder." 

"But — " began Sherburne, eagerly. 

"You can't do me an atom of good; you will only be 
a bother. Come over as soon as you like in the morn- 
ing. Meanwhile — don't do anything until we know 
what we have to do." 

"Not send for " 

" He will be dead or better before Carew could get 
here," said the doctor, testily. "And your father and 
mother can't fly over. I am capable of doing all that 
can be done, and I have trained watchers and helpers. 
There — go. I can't spend any more time talking." 

Thus dismissed in Doctor Underwood's peremptory 
fashion, they returned to the carriage. Aunt Fanny was 
more amenable and sympathized warmly with them. 

" If anything can be done the doctor is equal to it," 
said she, with wifely pride and confidence. 

But if nothing could be done ! 

They drove silently homeward. It was past mid- 
night. The girls had gone to bed and cried themselves 
to sleep in awesome terror. The boys still sat on the 
porch, and had no heart to retire. 

He could have prevented all this by taking the child 
with him. It would have been a nuisance, of course, for 
all of them would have had to give up a little of their 
enjoyment for his entertainment, and already Sherburne 
had devoted days to the children's pleasure. Inexpe- 
rience could not tell when to indulge and when to deny 
likewise motherhood. But would not the days and nights 
of anxiety more than counterbalance the one day's grati- 
fication ? It was a grave question. 





There was little sleep for him. Soon after dawn he 
mounted his horse and almost flew over to the pretty 
hospital, which was the fruition of many years' dreamii-g 
on the part of its founder. 

Doctor Underwood had been lying half asleep on a 
couch. The horse's gallop startled him. He ruffled up 
his hair with his hands and came out. 

" You're early," in a brief, almost curt tone. 

" I wanted to know " 

"There isn't anything to know. I am not omniscient. 
The child breathes slowly, and is unconscious. He 
may lie this way for days. We shall do our best and 
hope." 

"Then you do think — " in a glad, relieved tone. 

"I do not think at all except to do what is best. I 
simply hope that all will go well, since he was not dead 
last night. Children have wonderful recuperative pow- 
ers, and nature understands her work pretty well." 

" Ought I to send — to papa ? " 

"No, Sherburne, I am going to take this responsibil- 
ity. You could not do any good by sending for them. 
Before they could get here the child would be dead or on 
the mend. Your father is improving rapidly, and will 
be better during the next ten years for this chance of re- 
laxation. Your mother needed it as well. Now let them 
enjoy it. If they have to sup sorrow, let it be at the very 
last, when the thing is inevitable." 

" But if they should blame me — O, I know mamma 
would, if I kept it from her until it was too late." 

" Don't you see it would be too late anyhow? " said 
the doctor, in a tone of irritation. " Ten days or a fort- 
night ! And to give them such a shock if it turns out to 
be needless ! No, take my advice." 





"And I could have helped it all ! If I had taken him 
with me ! " 

"Sherburne, don't be such a girl ! " cried the other, 
testily. " Girls and women are always bemoaning if 
they had done this or that, and seeing a hundred things 
that after all would not have amounted to a row of 
crooked pins. When a thing is done, why it is done. 
All the bewailing can't alter. We may learn some wis- 
dom for the future. But do you think you or any one 
can watch Lawrence every moment of his life until he 
reaches manhood ? Were you watched that way ? " 

No, it would not be possible. 

" You four fellows had the right to go off pleasuring 
for a day. I can't see but that you took every precau- 
tion with Larry. He promised to go back to the house, 
and he did not. Even if you had gone to the porch with 
him he might have strayed off afterward. These are the 
things we have to leave to an overruling Providence. 
There was a moment of carelessness on the child's part, 
and God did not work a special miracle at that moment. 
I don't know as we could demand it, though I think He 
does often interpose, and we scarcely remark it. Don't 
be so strenuous and self-accusing, but just go on and leave 
it in God's hands." 

"You are very comforting," Sherburne said, brokenly. 

" Then take my advice and act upon it, and go about 
your business as if you had some faith in me, and in the 
overruling Power. Let us wait a few days and see." 

"Could I just take one glimpse of him," Sherburne 
asked, tremulously. 

"O yes. What a reviving air there is this morning. 
It makes one wish the morning and evening could be all 
there was of the day. Yes, come in." 




Lawrence lay on the white cot as if he were already 
dead. How beautiful he was, like a bit of sculptured 
marble. The golden brown curls were soft and shining, 
the brows perfect in their penciling, the long bronze 
lashes making shadows on the white cheeks, the lips 
sweet and smiling, and one might have thought the child 
asleep but for the deadly pallor. Sherburne wondered 
at his beauty as if he had never seen it before. 

" Thank you," he said, softly, but his eyes were full of 
tears. " And for all your care " 

"That's my business," was the curt reply. 

The household were bitterly disappointed that he did 
not bring hope, and the servants lamented as if the child 
was already dead. 

But there were letters from abroad. One to Delia 
from Princess, who seemed to be having a very grand 
time in London, and whose vivid descriptions made it al- 
most as good as seeing for one's self. And mamma's 
lovely letter that came in nearly every steamer. 

Both girls promised solemnly not to say a word about 
Larry in their replies. But the zest had gone out of the 
household. They lounged around and read a little, and 
the piano was untouched, the merry voices no longer 
rang in song or jest. 

"If he was only here where we could see him," 
moaned Milly. "But uncle doctor is very cross about 
it. O Sherburne, tell us again how he looked. Can't 
he speak or anything ? " 

Several times a day they heard. The word was al- 
ways the same — no change. 

And yet the duties of life went on. Sherburne discussed 
with Ned the two offers the latter had, one at a western 
college, the other in New York at a little less salary. 





"But you see I could do considerable beside in the 
city. There are always students to coach, and one can 
get up classes in language. And this year I do mean to 
be a little more social. Aunt Millicent's home is so 
charming. And do you know those evenings at Mrs. 
Townsend's were just fascinating. I didn't go to many 
of them, but I enjoyed them very much. And your Un- 
cle Con and his bright agreeable wife. Yes, I think I 
prefer the city." 

"O do stay," rejoined Sherburne. "Not that I shall 
be there, but you seem nearer. And now that we have 
begun such a good, solid friendship, we ought to go 
on." 

"And I can run down to Washington now and then. 
Well, I will write and give up the western proffer." 

Randolph Carew found a great deal to entertain him- 
self with. He liked Mr. Armitage and he used to haunt 
the old house. The neighborhood about Ardmore related 
incidents concerning his grandfather. He became inter- 
ested in the hospital, and he found a youngish man who 
had served in the frontier army under General Custer, 
and though lame and an invalid, was still full of the fire 
and the spirit of military life. 

Sherburne went to church on Sunday and joined 
heartily in the prayer for the sick child. How sweet, 
solemn and near it seemed ! " Like as a father pitieth his 
children." He could just see how his own father would 
gather Lawrence in his arms. 

They were all to go to Beaumanoir to dine with grand- 
papa. Doctor Underwood's man touched Sherburne on 
the arm as he was coming out and said, 

"If you please sah, the doctor want you at de hos- 
pital." 





Sherburne went with a heart full of fear, but the first 
glance at the doctor's face reassured him. 

"He has spoken," the elder man said, in a tone he 
strove to make as commonplace as possible. " He has 
asked for you. I want you to sit here by him until he 
wakes again, then look at him steadily, and answer, but 
do not touch him or agitate him in any way." 

Sherburne was struck with the positive improvement. 
The child was still pale but it was not the deathlike 
pallor, and there was a shade of color in his lips while 
his breathing was perceptible. 

Sitting there, Sherburne almost went back to his fancy 
for medicine. A physician seemed to him the incarna- 
tion of power and skill and patience. He thought too, 
of his father, and those hours of agonized watching. 

The boy stirred and opened his eyes. Sherburne had 
much ado not to clasp him in his arms. So long and 
steadily he looked the elder began almost to fear. 

"Sherburne — "how weak and tremulous the little 
voice was. " I want to tell you — I forget — I'm so tired." 

Then he dropped asleep again. 

Sherburne told this over to his uncle and pleaded to 
remain. 

"Go to Aunt Fanny's and get some dinner, then you 
may stay all the afternoon." 

Sherburne could only press his hand. 

Dr. Underwood felt for the thread of a pulse, and 
looking at the small face was not at all sure the danger 
line had passed. 

Sherburne resumed his watching presently. He had 
Keeble's Lyra Innocentium in his pocket, Princess' favor- 
ite, and he had picked it up from her table that morning. 
How many beautiful hymns there were ! 





Lawrence did not speak again. Several times he 
moved uneasily and sighed, and at dusk the doctor dis- 
missed the elder. But he could not help a light and 
hopeful feeling pervading his very soul. 

The next morning there was an improvement. And 
now he wanted Sherburne again, and a faint gleam of 
pleasure shone in the eyes so like his mother's. 

" Sherburne," he said, a day or two after, " won't you 
take me in your strong arms? I'm so tired lying here." 

"Lift him carefully," subjoined Doctor Underwood. 

The arms were clasped about his neck and the head 
dropped on his shoulder with a contented sigh. The 
strong arms held him firmly, gently. 

"What is the matter with my leg ? It's so stiff." 

It was in the plaster cast. " You have broken it, 
dear," said the voice, gently. 

" O, is that it? I can't seem to think " 

" Never mind. Do not bother about thinking. You 
can do that when you get well." 

" Can't you take me home ? " in a whisper. 

" Not until your leg gets well. Uncle doctor has to 
care for it." 

" O — next week, perhaps." 

"Yes, perhaps then." 

After a while he begged to be laid down again, and 
then to be read to, and went fast asleep. 

Ned thought it his duty to go to Baltimore and visit 
his father and took advantage of Sherburne being thus 
occupied. There was a reasonable hope that Lawrence 
would pull through with careful treatment, but he had 
not begun to remember much of anything. If there 
were no internal injuries and his brain was all right — 
serious provisos. 





Princess and her husband had gone over to Paris 
where they met Mr. and Mrs. Phillips, and were coming 
home together, would reach New York early in Septem- 
ber. The judge and his wife would be home a week or 
ten days afterward, and the Amory party not until October. 
Then Randolph was sent for and the two boys looked 
forward to the renewal of friendship a few weeks later. 
The governess returned to Sherburne House, and though 
actual lessons did not begin, the girls were glad to have 
her for company. Laura Underwood was to study with 
them this winter. 

Sherburne spent a good part of every day in the hos- 
pital. There was a young medical student, a male nurse, 
Miss Eunis and a young colored girl she had in training. 
He began to like Miss Eunis very much. She was two 
or three and thirty, and knew almost as much as a doc- 
tor. 

" Indeed," she said, " if Doctor Underwood gave up 
the hospital, I should go to New York and study for a 
degree, though I like the nursing best." 

He was very much startled to learn from her that there 
had been grave doubts as to the little boy's entire recov- 
ery. The doctor had been afraid of some injury to the 
brain with the serious concussion. 

"Sher," he began, one day when he was lying in his 
brother's arms, and the familiar abbreviation sounded so 
good, "Sher, what happened? How did my leg get 
broken. I can't seem to get things straight." 

"We think you must have fallen from a tree. You 
were coming home you know. You wanted to go with 
us big fellows " 

Larry drew a long breath and the color fluttered over 
his pale face. Then after a long silence 





" Yes, I remember now. I — oh, Slier, I didn't come 
home — not right away. But I didn't mean to go back. 
I promised you. And I did climb up a tree. I was 
tired and hungry and it was so warm. And I suppose I 
fell out. How did you find me ? " 

Sherburne related the story. "You see if we could 
have found you right away it would not have been so bad." 

"And if you had not found me at all ! O Sher! " 
He crept closer and put his soft little hand under his 
brother's chin with a caressing movement. "If I had 
stayed out there all night would I have been dead by 
morning ? And then I never could have seen mamma 
again, nor, — nor any one." 

The child began to cry softly. 

" O, Juno would have found you," said Sherburne, in 
a comforting tone. 

There was another long silence. 

" Sher," in a tremulous whisper, " I was very bad that 
day — wasn't I? " 

"Rather," but the tone had a smile in it as well as 
the face. 

" Very bad. And I suppose God let me break my leg 
to make me remember that when one promises to do a 
thing, they must do it at once. That is what papa says. 
Was it long ago ? " 

"Three weeks." 

" And how many weeks before I will be well ? " 

"About three more." 

"Sher — I'm awful sorry. You oughtn't be so good 
to me." 

"Yes, I ought to be good to you. I am the oldest and 
the wisest, I hope. And I ought to set you an example, 
so that you will be kind and true and " 





"And obedient. what did papa say?" 

" Papa doesn't know. We didn't want to spoil their 
delightful journey." 

"Sherburne," in a soft, solemn tone, "I think I will 
never be so naughty to you again. Will you please for- 
give me and let me try ? " 

The big boy and the little boy sealed their contract with 
a kiss. 



CHAPTER XXIV. 

IN THE OLD HOUSE. 

"THAT a year it had been for Sherburne Beaumanoir 
! It came over him this September evening 
as he sat on the porch with the cablegram in his hand 
that said the travelers had just started and that the pro- 
fessor and Mrs. Kenneth would be in shortly. Ned had 
begged that Bertram and the two girls would come to 
Baltimore for a week. His stepmother would be glad to 
see them and give them a warm welcome. 

Then Lawrence had come home amid enthusiastic 
greetings, almost as if he had been raised from the dead. 
He was allowed to walk with a crutch and was a very 
happy boy. His memory had returned and there was no 
fear of any brain trouble, but his back seemed a little 
weak, and the doctor advised carefulness for some time 
to come. He had always adored his big brother, as 
small boys are apt to do, but there was a new tenderness 
between them, and the elder brother was realizing more 
thoroughly all that that term meant. 

Doctor Underwood was very proud of his success. 
Sherburne said laughingly one day, "that he was almost 
persuaded back to medicine again ; it had such large pos- 
sibilities." 

"No, don't," returned the doctor. "It would be a 
lifelong disappointment to you father." 

He wondered sometimes if he had any mind at all ! 
He had wavered so between the two, he had been crazily 

 





in love with Gertrude Maurice when he might have seen 
from the very beginning that it was unwise, and that she 
had only a friendly regard for him. He was humiliated 
by his own folly and self-love. 

And yet the gold came out of the mines in a crude 
state and this mineral and that had to be separated from 
it by different processes and the dross purged from it, and 
presently you came to the true and perfect material. It 
was not all at once. He must have needed the discipline 
to draw away the dross and foolishness. 

He would not disappoint his father. In fact he had 
been doing some good solid reading this summer, and he 
would go in the office in the fall and try his very best. 
He had never tried much in any respect, things had 
come so easy to him. If where much was given much 
was to be required, he needed to bestir himself. 

For some days Lawrence had been his only companion. 
It touched him to see the child make his small efforts at 
self-control, and not interrupt him when he was busy, and 
wait patiently until he was at liberty. It was really very 
sweet and touching. He had often delighted in teasing 
the small boy to see him fly in a temper, but he had 
come to care too much for him. And when he held 
Lawrence in his arms as he did now for an hour or two 
before bedtime, enjoying the fragrant out of doors and 
listening to the myriads of insects, sometimes singing a 
little song himself, the child would say as he clung to 
him. 

"O, how awful sweet you are, Sherburne." 

Then there was Bertram to whom he could be an elder 
brother, steady, studious Bertram who would not be 
likely to rush into vagaries as he had done, but who might 
enjoy sympathy, affection and sometimes counsel. And 





there was the sonship, the duties to his parents, the love 
for their declining years when it came to that. Yes there 
was plenty of real work in the world, and now he felt 
glad and eager to take up his share. 

The children had a delightful visit. Why they never 
knew Uncle Edward was so nice, only he wasn't funny 
and bright like papa, and Aunt Bessy was just splendid ! 
Cousin Ned and Len had taken them everywhere, and it 
had all been just wonderful. 

But the most magnificent thing of all would be to go 
up to New York and meet the travelers and escort them 
home. Sherburne thought they could go, and Bertram 
must to enter his classes. So Sherburne telegraphed the 
plan to the Kenneths that they might not come down and 
miss everybody. 

Aunt Millicent took them in. Hope was a big girl 
already, and Carew measured every month to see how 
much he gained on papa. Margaret Phillips and her 
husband, Mrs. Kenneth and Ruth had gone to the new 
home and had already welcomed the professor and his 
wife, much to the dissatisfaction of Uncle Con. 

Margaret said her uncle had grown really stout and 
handsome, but that it was quite ridiculous to think of 
calling Princess aunt, when she was years the oldest. 
Princess had gained a curious bit of dignity that was very 
becoming, and she looked so quaintly pretty in her Paris 
gowns, that had been fitted to her style, rather than 
transforming her to some other style and destroying her 
individuality. 

There had been one amusing attempt at changing her 
name. Now that she was married they though it would 
be a good time to begin calling her Aurelia. '|gut the 
professor forgot and made such funny work of it, and she 





was so amazed that she couldn't remember, so one day 
when they both laughed at the blunder, he kissed her and 
said 

" My darling, it was the name I first knew you by, and 
you have always been my princess. A queen would have 
been too grand for me, but I dared to aspire to the next 
round of royalty. And so we will go back to the dear 
name that suits you so well." 

" And there is no confusion to it," returned Princess, 
merrily. "There are so many Millys and Dells and 
Violets." 

"And only one Princess, my Princess." 

They had done a good deal of love making on their 
wedding journey to make up for the lack of it before- 
hand. 

Mrs. Kenneth declared that she was one of the hap- 
piest women in the world with three girls that she could 
claim as her very own. 

And Larry found that his broken leg made him quite a 
hero. They did not tell the saddest side of the accident. 

As for the Carews they had all come home well and 
happy. New York was busy and bustling, and work had 
begun in earnest. Boys and girls were off at school, and 
there were the duties of another year stretching out be- 
fore them. 

Judge Beaumanoir returned in the best of health and 
spirits, quite eager for the coming opportunities. He 
was beginning to show the advance of middle life, but it 
was dignified, and brought the aspect of ripened experi- 
ence. He thought of all the joys of home-coming, the 
keenest was to clasp his son's hand with an understand- 
ing of what they were to be to each other in the years 
that were to unfold. 





The Carews insisted upon entertaining them for the 
few days of their stay, and the children had a fine time 
together. 

" After all," said Dell to her husband, " we must just 
trust that Randolph will get over his fancy for West 
Point. We must make other pursuits attractive to him. 
When he is as old as Sherburne ' ' 

"And Sherburne was very trying last year. I did 
feel quite discouraged with him. Of course the foolish- 
ness about Gertrude had some weight. What a fine 
thing for him that she really was in love with some one 
else. My dear, what are you sighing about? " 

" Love-making and all that. Getting children settled 
in the right groove in life. And then — O Bertram, their 
going out of your life ! " 

"My darling, we will not meet trouble half-way. 
There are years first." 

The three mothers had delightful talks about old times. 
How old, indeed, they seemed when Tessy was a young 
girl gathering the sweetness of common daily living; 
Millicent almost surprised at her own success in literature, 
Lyndell eager, strenuous, longing for her part in the 
great world. And now it was living anew in their chil- 
dren's lives. 

" The next great family event," said the Judge, " will 
be Sherburne's coming of age. You know Dell you de- 
sired the name to be perpetuated. So do I. I am proud 
of it, and there should always be Sherburnes in the old 
house where they have reigned for nearly two centuries. 
My plan is for him to take the name legally. In my old 
age I shall go back to Beaumanoir, for that is still dear 
to me. Sherburne will marry some time, and I hope he 
and his will love the old home as we have all loved it. 





So we must gather in all the clan on this occasion, small 
and great. There have been so few breaks in it, but we 
cannot hope to have it go on that way many years 
longer." 

"That will be a delightful reunion," returned Doctor 
Carew. " Yes, we will come, with all the children that 
have been given to us." 

Leonard came around to Lyndell and laid his hand 
affectionately on her shoulder. 

"O Dell," and there was a depth of emotion in his 
tone, "do you never regret your wedding gift to Tessy 
and myself? Every year it grows in sacredness to me, 
every year it seems more heroic in you. For you have 
sons — you were a Sherburne ' ' 

" And my sons might not care for it. Then my heart 
would be indeed broken. And while Randolph enjoyed 
his summer wonderfully, I can see that he is longing for 
the fray and the struggle that breaks from the very soul 
of active life. He would find those leisurely aspects irk- 
some. Even Bertram, proud as he is of Doctor Under- 
wood's work, would not be happy doing it. O, I am 
afraid we are recreant to the Sherburne blood. And you 
know I have had a great deal more than that in the value 
of the coal mines. It is right that great-grandfather's 
wealth should be divided." 

" I feel that you have given me the better part. No 
money could recompense me for the loss of it. And 
Sherburne is proud of the home of his ancestors." 

Then he kissed her tenderly. 

"None of my sisters are dearer than you, Lyndell," 
he said, with fervent emotion. 

Bertram Carew asked her the same question that night, 
and she answered him with a kiss. 





The autumn was one of magnificence, late and glow- 
ing. Indeed from the profusion of flowers it might have 
been early summer. Honeysuckle made all the air sweet, 
