the air of a benignant father. "I will say a few words."

"Attention all!" exclaimed Mrs. Fogson in a sharp voice. "Squire Dixon
has consented to make a few remarks. I hope you will appreciate your
privilege in hearing him."




CHAPTER III.

THE SCRANTON POORHOUSE.


"Ahem!" began Squire Dixon, clearing his throat; "the announcement of my
friend Mrs. Fogson furnishes me with a text. I hope you all appreciate
your privileges in sharing this comfortable home at the expense of the
town. Here all your material wants are cared for, and though you are
without means, you need have no anxiety. A well-filled board is spread
for you three times a day, and you enjoy the maternal care of Mrs.
Fogson."

Here there was a shrill laugh from one of the old women.

Squire Dixon frowned, and Mrs. Fogson looked anything but maternal as
she scowled at the offending "boarder."

"I am surprised at this unseemly interruption," said Squire Dixon
severely. "I am constrained to believe that there is at least one
person present who does not appreciate the privileges of this happy
home. You are probably all aware that I am the Overseer of the Poor, and
that it was through my agency that the services of Mr. and Mrs. Fogson
were obtained."

Here it would have been in order for some one to propose "Three cheers
for Mr. and Mrs. Fogson," but instead all looked gloomy and depressed.

"I don't know that I have any more to say," concluded Squire Dixon after
a pause. "I will only exhort you to do your duty in the position in
which Providence has placed you, and to give as little trouble as
possible to your good friends Mr. and Mrs. Fogson."

Here there was another cackling laugh, which caused Mrs. Fogson to look
angry.

"I'm on to you, Sally Stokes," she said sharply. "You'll have to go
without your supper to-night."

The poor, half-witted creature immediately burst into tears, and rocked
to and fro in a dismal manner.

"You have done perfectly right in rebuking such unseemly behavior, Mrs.
Fogson," said Squire Dixon.

"I didn't mind the insult to myself, squire," returned Mrs. Fogson
meekly. "It made me angry to have you insulted while you were making
your interesting remarks. The paupers are very ill-behaved; I give you
my word that I slave for them from morning till night, and you see how I
am repaid."

"Mrs. Fogson, virtue is its own reward," observed the squire solemnly.

"It has to be in my case," said Mrs. Fogson; "but it comforts me to
think that you at least appreciate my efforts."

"I do; I do, indeed! You can always rely upon me to--to--in a word, to
back you up."

Here a diversion was made by the appearance of Mr. Fogson and the two
boys.

"Oh, Simeon!" exclaimed Mrs. Fogson impulsively. "You don't know what
you have lost."

Mr. Fogson mechanically glanced at his vest to see whether his
watch-chain and the watch appended were gone.

"What have I lost?" he demanded.

"Squire Dixon's interesting speech to the paupers. It was truly
eloquent."

"My dear Mrs. Fogson," said the squire, looking modest, "you quite
overrate my simple words."

"They were simple, but they were to the point," said the lady of the
poorhouse, "and I hope--I do hope that the paupers will lay them to
heart."

There was an amused smile on the face of Jed, who was sharp enough to
see through the shallow humbug which was being enacted before him. He
understood very well the interested motives of Mrs. Fogson, and why she
saw fit to flatter the town official from whom she and her husband had
received their appointment.

"I wish you had heard the squire, too, Jed!" said Mrs. Fogson, detecting
the smile on the boy's face.

"Perhaps, ma'am, you can tell me what he said," returned Jed demurely.

Mrs. Fogson was a little taken aback, but she accepted the invitation.

"He said you ought to consider yourself very lucky to have such a
comfortable home."

"I do," said Jed with a comical look.

"I am glad to hear it," said Mrs. Fogson, suspiciously, "though it
hasn't always looked that way, I am bound to say."

"Are you going to stay much longer, father?" asked Percy, who was
getting tired.

"Perhaps we had better go," said Squire Dixon. "We have staid quite a
while."

"When do you have dinner?" asked Percy, turning to Jed.

"In about an hour. I have no doubt Mrs. Fogson will invite you, if you
would like to stay."

"Me--eat with paupers?" retorted Percy with fine scorn.

"I don't think you would like it," said Jed. "I don't."

"Why, you are a pauper yourself."

"I don't think so. I earn my living, such as it is. I work from morning
till night."

"What do they give you for dinner?" asked Percy, moved by curiosity.

"Mrs. Fogson puts a bone in the boiler and makes bone soup," answered
Jed gravely. "You can't tell how good it is till you try it."

"Is there anything else?"

"A few soggy potatoes, and some stale bread without butter."

"Don't you have tea?"

"Once on Sundays. It don't do to pamper us, you know."

"Do you have puddings or pies?"

"No; the town can't afford it," returned Jed without a smile. "What do
you think of our bill of fare?"

"Pretty mean, I think. Do Mr. and Mrs. Fogson eat with you?"

"No; they eat later, in the small room adjoining."

"Do they have the same dinner as you?"

"Sometimes they have roast chicken, and the other day when I went into
the room there was a plum pudding on the table."

Percy laughed.

"Just what I thought. The old man and old woman aren't going to get
left."

"I don't know about that."

"What do you mean?"

"I'll explain another time," said Jed, nodding. "I wish I was Overseer
of the Poor."

"What would you do?"

"I'd turn out the Fogsons and put back Mr. and Mrs. Avery."

"Father says they spoiled the paupers."

"At any rate they didn't starve them."

"Old Fogson is saving money to the town--so father says."

"Wait till the end of the year. You'll find the town will have just as
much to pay. What they save off the food they will put into their own
pockets."

"What are you talking about?" asked Mrs. Fogson suspiciously.

Jed did not have to reply, for Percy took offense at what he rightly
judged to be a piece of impertinence.

"Mrs. Fogson," he said, "what we are talking about is no concern of
yours."

A bright red spot showed itself in either cheek of Mrs. Fogson, and she
would have annihilated the speaker if she could; but she was politic,
and remembered that Percy was the son of the overseer.

"I didn't mean any offense, Master Percy," she said. "It was simply a
playful remark on my part."

"I'm glad to hear it," responded Percy. "You didn't look very playful."

Squire Dixon was conversing with Mr. Fogson, and didn't hear this little
conversation.

"I am just digging my potatoes," said Fogson deferentially. "I have some
excellent Jackson whites. I will send you round a bushel to try."

"You are very kind, Mr. Fogson," said the squire, smiling urbanely. "I
shall appreciate them, you may be sure. Mr. Avery never would have made
me such an offer. It is clear to me that you are the right man in the
right place."

"I am proud to hear you say so, Squire Dixon. With such an Overseer of
the Poor as you are, I am sure the interests of the town will be safe."

"Thank you! Good-by."

"Come again soon, squire," said Mrs. Fogson with a frosty smile. She did
not extend a similar invitation to Percy, who had wounded her pride by
his unceremonious words.

"They are very worthy people, Percy," said the squire as they rode away.

"Do you think so, father? I don't admire your taste."

"My son, I am surprised at you," but in his secret heart the squire
agreed with Percy.

Soon after Squire Dixon and Percy left the poorhouse dinner was served.
It answered very well the description given by Jed. Though the boy was
hungry, he found it almost impossible to eat his portion, scanty though
it was.

"Turning up your nose at your dinner as usual!" said Mrs. Fogson
sharply. "If you don't like it you can get another boarding-house."

"I think I shall," answered Jed.

"What do you mean by that?" demanded Mrs. Fogson quickly.

"If the board doesn't improve I shall dry up and blow away," returned
Jed.

Mrs. Fogson sniffed and let the matter drop.

Towards the close of the afternoon, as Jed was splitting wood in the
yard, his attention was drawn to a runaway horse which was speeding down
the road at breakneck speed, while a lady's terrified face was visible
looking vainly around in search of help.

Jed dropped his axe, ran to the bend of the road, and dashed out, waving
a branch which he picked up by the roadside. The horse slowed down, and
Jed, seizing the opportunity, ran to his head, seized him by the bridle,
and brought him to a permanent stop.

"How brave you are!" said the lady. "Will you jump into the buggy and
drive me to my home? I don't dare to trust myself alone with the horse
again."

Jed did as desired, and at the end of the ride Mrs. Redmond (she was the
wife of Dr. Redmond) gave him a dollar, accompanying it with hearty
thanks.

"I suppose Fogson will try to get this dollar away from me," thought
Jed, "but he won't succeed."




CHAPTER IV.

AN EXCITING CONTEST.


Jed was not mistaken.

When he returned to the poorhouse supper was ready, and Mr. and Mrs.
Fogson were waiting for him with sour and angry faces.

"Where have you been?" demanded Fogson.

"Absent on business," announced Jed coolly.

"Don't you know that your business is to stay here and work?"

"I have been working all day."

"No, you haven't. You have been to the village."

"I had a good reason for going."

"Why didn't you ask permission of me or Mrs. Fogson?"

"Because there wasn't time."

"You are two minutes late for supper. I've a good mind to let you go
without," said Mrs. Fogson.

"It wouldn't be much of a loss," answered Jed, not looking much alarmed.

"You are getting more and more impudent every day. Why do you say there
wasn't time to ask permission to leave your work?"

"Because the runaway horse wouldn't stop while I was asking."

"What runaway horse?" demanded Fogson with sudden interest.

"While I was splitting wood I saw Dr. Redmond's wife being run away
with. She looked awfully frightened. I ran out to the bend and stopped
the horse. Then she wanted me to drive her home, for she was afraid he
would run off again."

"Is that so? Well, of course that makes a difference. Did she give you
anything?"

"Now it's coming," thought Jed.

"Yes," he answered.

"How much?" asked Mr. Fogson with a greedy look.

"A dollar."

"Quite handsome, on my word. Well, hand it over."

"What?" ejaculated Jed.

"Give me the dollar!" said Fogson in a peremptory tone.

"The dollar is mine."

"You are a pauper. You can't hold any property. It's against the law."

"Is it? Who told you so?"

"No matter who told me so. I hope I understand the law."

"I hope I understand my rights."

"Boy, this is trifling. You'd better not make me any trouble, or you
will find yourself in a bad box."

"What do you want to do with the dollar?"

"None of your business! I shall keep it."

"I have no doubt you will if you get it, but it is mine," said Jed
firmly.

"Mrs. Fogson," said her husband solemnly, "did you ever hear of such
perverseness?"

"No. The boy is about the worst I ever see."

"Mr. Fogson," said Jed, "when Mr. Avery was here I had money given me
several times, though never as much as this. He never thought of asking
me for it, but always allowed me to spend it for myself."

"Mr. Avery and I are two different persons," remarked Mr. Fogson with
asperity.

"You are right, there," said Jed, in hearty concurrence with the
speaker.

"And he was very unwise to let you keep the money. If it was five cents,
now, I wouldn't mind," continued Mr. Fogson with noteworthy liberality.
"But a dollar! You couldn't be trusted to spend a sum like that properly
at your age."

"I am almost sixteen," said Jed significantly.

"No matter if you are. You are still a mere boy. But I don't propose to
waste any more words. Hand over that money!"

Jed felt that the critical moment had come. He must submit to a flagrant
piece of injustice or resist.

He determined to resist.

He met Fogson's glance firmly and resolutely, and uttered but two words:
"I won't!"

"Did you ever hear such impudence, Mrs. Fogson?" asked her husband, his
face becoming red and mottled in his excitement.

"No, Simeon, I didn't!" ejaculated Mrs. Fogson.

"What shall I do?"

"Thrash him. It's the only way to cure him of his cantankerous conduct."

Jed was of good height for his age, and unusually thickset and strong.
Though poorhouse fare was hardly calculated to give him strength, he had
an intimate friend and school companion on a farm near by whose mother
often gave him a substantial meal, so that he alone of the inmates of
the poorhouse could afford to be comparatively indifferent to the mean
table kept by the managers.

Jed was five feet six, and Simeon Fogson but two inches taller. Fogson,
however, was not a well man. He was a dyspeptic, and frequently indulged
in alcoholic drinks, which, as my young readers doubtless know, have a
direct tendency to impair physical vigor.

"Get me the whip, Gloriana," said Mr. Fogson fiercely, addressing his
wife by her rather uncommon first name. "I will see whether this young
upstart is to rule you and me and the whole establishment."

"I don't care about ruling anybody except myself," said Jed.

"You can't rule yourself. I am put in authority over you."

"Who put you in authority over me?" asked Jed defiantly.

"The town."

"And did the town give you leave to rob me? Answer me that!"

"Did you ever hear the like?" exclaimed Mrs. Fogson, raising her arms in
almost incredulous surprise.

By this time Mr. Fogson had the whip in his hand, and with an air of
enjoyment drew the lash through his fingers.

"Take off your coat!" he said.

"I would rather keep it on," replied Jed undauntedly.

"It won't do you any good. I shall strike hard enough for you to feel it
even if you had two coats on."

"You'd better not!" said Jed, eyeing Mr. Fogson warily.

"Are you going to stand the boy's impudence, Simeon?" demanded his wife
sharply.

"No, I'm not;" and Simeon Fogson, flourishing the whip, brought it down
on Jed's shoulders and back.

Then something happened which took the poorhouse superintendent by
surprise. Jed sprang toward him, and, grasping the whip with energy,
tore it from his grasp, and with angry and inflamed face confronted his
persecutor. Mr. Fogson turned pale, and looked undecided what to do.

"Shall I hold him, Simeon?" asked his wife venomously.

"No; I'm a match for a half-grown boy like him," returned Fogson,
ashamed to ask for help in so unequal a contest.

He sprang forward and grabbed Jed, who accepted the gage of battle and
clinched with his adversary. A moment afterward they were rolling on the
floor, first one being uppermost, then the other.




CHAPTER V.

JED SECURES AN ALLY.


It was trying to Mrs. Fogson to see her husband apparently getting the
worst of it from "that young viper," as she mentally apostrophized Jed,
and she longed to take a part, notwithstanding her husband's refusal to
accept her assistance.

A bright but malicious idea struck her. She seized a tin dipper and
filled it half full from the tea-kettle, the water in which was almost
scalding. Then she seized an opportunity to empty it over Jed. But
unfortunately for the success of her amiable plan, by the time she was
ready to pour it out it was Mr. Fogson who was exposed, and he received
the whole of the water on his neck and shoulder.

"Help! Help! Murder!" he shrieked in anguish. "You have scalded me,
you--you she cat!"

As he spoke he released his hold on Jed, who sprang to his feet and
stood watching for the next movement of the enemy.

"Did I scald you, Simeon?" asked Mrs. Fogson in dismay.

"Yes; I am almost dead. Get some flour and sweet oil--quick!"

"I didn't mean to," said his wife repentantly. "I meant it for that
boy."

"You're an idiot!" roared Fogson, stamping his foot. "Go and get the
oil--quick!"

Mrs. Fogson, much frightened, hurried to obey orders, and the next
fifteen minutes were spent in allaying the anguish of her lord and
master, who made it very unpleasant for her by his bitter complaints and
upbraidings.

"I think I'd better get out of this," thought Jed. "The old woman will
be trying to scald me next."

He disappeared through the side door, leaving the amiable couple busily
but not pleasantly employed.

He had scarcely left the house when Dr. Redmond drove up, his errand
being to see one of the inmates of the poorhouse.

"How are you, Jed?" he said pleasantly. "My wife tells me you did her a
great service to-day?"

"I was glad to do it, doctor," said Jed.

"Here's a dollar. I am sure you can use it."

"But, doctor, Mrs. Redmond gave me a dollar."

"Never mind! You can use both."

"Thank you," said Jed. "You'd better go right in, doctor; Mrs. Fogson
has just scalded her husband, and he is in great pain."

"How did it happen?" asked the doctor in amazement.

"Go in and they'll tell you," said Jed. "I'll see you afterwards and
tell you whether their story is correct."

When Mr. and Mrs. Fogson saw the doctor enter they were overjoyed.

"Oh, Dr. Redmond," groaned Fogson, "do something to relieve me quick.
I'm in terrible pain."

"What's the matter?" asked Dr. Redmond.

"I am scalded."

"How did it happen?"

"She did it!" said Fogson, pointing scornfully to Mrs. Fogson.

Dr. Redmond set himself at once to relieve the suffering one, making use
of the remedies that Fogson himself had suggested to his wife. When the
patient was more comfortable he turned gravely to Mrs. Fogson and asked:
"Will you explain how your husband got scalded?"

"The woman poured hot water on me," interrupted Fogson with an ugly
scowl. "It would serve her right if I treated her in the same manner."

"You don't mean that she did it on purpose, Mr. Fogson?" exclaimed the
doctor.

"Of course I didn't," retorted Mrs. Fogson indignantly. "I meant it for
Jed."

"You meant to scald Jed?" said the doctor sternly.

"Yes; he assaulted my husband, and I feared he would kill him. It was
all the way I could help."

"Mrs. Fogson, I can hardly believe you would be guilty of such an
atrocious act even on your own confession, nor can I believe that Jed
would assault your husband without good cause."

"It is true, whether you believe it or not," said Mrs. Fogson sullenly.

Dr. Redmond's answer was to open the outer door and call "Jed!"

Jed entered at once, and stood in the presence of his persecutors, calm
and undisturbed.

"Jed," said the doctor, "Mrs. Fogson admits that she scalded her husband
in trying to scald you, and urges, in defense, that you assaulted Mr.
Fogson. What do you say to this?"

"That Mr. Fogson struck me over the shoulder with a horsewhip, and that
I pulled it away from him. Upon this he sprang at me, and in
self-defense I grappled with him, and while we were rolling over the
floor Mrs. Fogson poured a dipper of hot water over her husband, meaning
it for me."

"Is this true, Mr. Fogson?" asked the doctor.

"Yes, it's about so. Mrs. Fogson acted like an idiot."

"If she had scalded Jed instead of you, would you say the same thing?"

"Well, of course that would have been different."

"I can see no difference," said Dr. Redmond sternly. "It was not an
idiotic, but a brutal and inhuman act."

"Come, doctor, that's rather strong," protested Fogson uncomfortably.

"It is not too strong! I don't think there is a person in the village
but would agree with me. Had the victim of the scalding been Jed, I
would have reported the matter to the authorities. Now tell me why you
attempted to horsewhip the boy?"

"Because he was impudent," replied Fogson evasively.

"And that was all?"

"He disobeyed me."

"Jed, let me hear your version of the story."

"Mr. Fogson knew that I had a dollar given me by Mrs. Redmond, and he
called upon me to give it up to him. I wouldn't do it, and upon that he
tried to horsewhip me."

"You see he owns up to his disobeying me, doctor," put in Fogson
triumphantly.

"Why did you require him to give you the dollar, Mr. Fogson?"

"Because he is a pauper, and a pauper has no right to hold money."

"I won't discuss that point. What did you propose to do with the dollar
in case you had obtained it from Jed?"

"As you are not Overseer of the Poor, Dr. Redmond, I don't know that I
have any call to tell you. When Squire Dixon asks me I will make it all
straight with him."

"Probably," answered the doctor in a significant tone, for he as well as
others understood that there was some secret compact between Mr. Fogson
and the town official, and he had earnestly opposed Squire Dixon at the
polls.

"Not only you, but Squire Dixon will have to give an account of your
stewardship," he said. "If any outrage should be committed against the
boy Jed, or any one else in this establishment, you will find that
making it straight with Squire Dixon won't be sufficient."

"I will report what you say to Squire Dixon," said Fogson defiantly.

"I wish you would. I shouldn't object to saying the same thing to his
face. Now, Mrs. Fogson, if you will lead the way I will go and see Mrs.
Connolly."

"Come along, then," said Mrs. Fogson, compressing her thin lips. "I
don't believe there is anything the matter with that old woman."

"I am a better judge of that matter than you, Mrs. Fogson."

The poor old woman looked thin and wan, and hardly had strength to lift
up her head to meet the doctor's glance.

After a brief examination he said: "Your trouble is nervous debility.
You have no strength. What you need is nourishment. Do you have tea
three times a day, Mrs. Connolly?"

"Only once a week, doctor," wailed the poor old woman, bursting into
tears.

"Only once a week!" repeated the doctor shocked. "What does this mean,
Mrs. Fogson?"

"It means, Dr. Redmond," answered the mistress of the poorhouse, "that
this is not a first-class hotel."

"I should say not," commented the doctor. "How often did you have tea,
Mrs. Connolly, when Mr. and Mrs. Avery were here?"

"At breakfast and supper, and on Sundays three times a day."

"Precisely. What do you say to that, Mrs. Fogson?"

"I say, as everybody says, that the Averys squandered the town's money."

"They certainly didn't put it into their own pockets. The town, I think
I am safe in saying, doesn't mean to starve the poor people whom it
provides for. Do I understand that you are actuated by a desire to save
the town's money?"

"Of course I am, and Squire Dixon approves all I do," answered Mrs.
Fogson defiantly.

"If he approves your withholding the necessities of life from those
under your charge he is unfit for his position. When the accounts of the
poorhouse are audited at the end of the year I shall make a searching
examination, and ascertain how much less they are under your
administration than under that of your predecessors."

Judging from her looks, Mrs. Fogson was aching to scratch Dr. Redmond's
eyes out; but as he was not a pauper she was compelled to restrain her
anger.

"Now, Mrs. Connolly," said the doctor, "you are to have tea twice a day,
and three times on Sunday. I shall see that it is given to you," he
added, with a significant glance at Mrs. Fogson.

"Oh, how glad I am!" said the poor creature. "God bless you, Dr.
Redmond!"

"Mrs. Fogson," went on the doctor, "do you limit yourself to tea once a
week?"

"I ain't a pauper, Dr. Redmond!" replied Mrs. Fogson indignantly.

"No; you are much stronger than a pauper, and could bear the deprivation
better. Let me tell you that you needn't be afraid to supply decent food
to the poor people in your charge. It won't cost any more than it did
under the Averys, for prices are, on the whole, cheaper."

"Perhaps if it does cost more you'll pay it out of your own pocket."

"I contribute already to the support of the poorhouse, being a large
taxpayer, and I give my medical services without exacting payment. The
town is not mean, and I will see that no fault is found with reasonable
bills."

"I wish you'd fall and break your neck, you old meddler," thought Mrs.
Fogson, but she did not dare to say this.

"One thing more, madam!" said the doctor, who had now entered the room
where Jed and her husband were; "reserve your hot water for its
legitimate uses. No more scalding, if you please."

"That's well put, doctor!" growled Fogson. "If she wants to scald
anybody else, she had better try herself."

"That's all the gratitude I get for taking your part, Simeon Fogson,"
said the exasperated helpmeet. "The next time, Jed may beat you black
and blue for all I care."

"It strikes me," remarked the doctor dryly, "that your husband is a
match for a boy of sixteen, and need be under no apprehension. No more
horsewhips, Mr. Fogson, if you please, and don't trouble yourself
about any small sums that Jed may receive. Jed, jump into my buggy, and
I will take you home with me. I think Mrs. Redmond will give you some
supper."

"The boy hasn't done his chores," said Mrs. Fogson maliciously.

"Very well, I will make a bargain with you. Don't object to his going,
and I won't charge Mr. Fogson anything for my attendance upon him just
now."

This appeal to the selfish interests of Mr. Fogson had its effect, and
Jed jumped into the doctor's buggy with eager alacrity.




CHAPTER VI

MR. FOGSON MAKES UP HIS MIND.


"I don't know, Jed, whether I can make up to you for the supper you will
lose at the poorhouse," observed the doctor jocosely. "Mrs. Redmond may
not be as good a cook as Mrs. Fogson."

"I will risk it," said Jed.

"Is the fare much worse than it was when Mrs. Avery was in charge?"

"Very much worse. I don't mind it much myself, for I often get a meal at
Fred Morrison's, but the poor old people have a hard time."

"I will make it my business to see that there is an improvement."

"Dr. Redmond," said Jed after a pause, "do you think it would be wrong
for me to run away from the poorhouse?"

"Have you any such intention?" asked the doctor quickly.

"Yes; I think I can earn my own living, and a better living than I have
there. I am young and strong, and I am not afraid to try."

"As to that, Jed, I don't see why there should be any objection to your
making the attempt. The town of Scranton ought not to object to
lessening the number it is required to support."

"Mr. and Mrs. Fogson would object. They would miss my work."

"Have you ever spoken to them on the subject?"

"I did one day, and they said I would have to stay till I was
twenty-one."

"That is not true."

"I don't think I could stay that long," said Jed soberly. "I should be
dead before that time if I had to live with Mr. and Mrs. Fogson, and
fared no better. Besides, you see how I am dressed. I should think you
would be ashamed to have me at your table."

Jed's clothes certainly were far from becoming. They were of unknown
antiquity, and were two sizes too small for him, so that the sleeves
and the legs of the trousers were so scant as to attract attention. In
his working hours he wore a pair of overalls, but those he took off when
he accepted Dr. Redmond's invitation.

"I didn't invite your clothes, Jed; I invited you," responded the
doctor. "I confess, however, that your suit is pretty shabby. How long
have you worn it?"

"It was given me nearly two years ago."

"And you have had no other since?"

"No. If I stayed there till I was twenty-one I expect I should have to
wear the same old things."

Dr. Redmond laughed.

"I am bound to say, Jed, that in that case you would cut a comical
figure. However, I don't think it will be as bad as that. My son Ross is
in college. He is now twenty. I will ask my wife to look about the house
and see if there isn't an old suit of his that will fit you. It will, at
any rate, be a good deal better than this."

"Thank you, doctor; but will you save it till I am ready to leave
Scranton?"

"Yes, Jed. I will have it put in a bundle, and it will be ready for you
any time you call for it."

"There's another thing, doctor. I think Mr. Fogson will try to get my
money away, notwithstanding all you said."

"He wouldn't dare to."

"He is very cunning. He will find some excuse."

Jed was right. To prove this, we will go back to the poorhouse and
relate the conversation between the well-matched pair after Dr.
Redmond's departure.

"Simeon," said his wife, "if you had any spunk you wouldn't let Dr.
Redmond insult and bully you, as he did just now."

"What would you have me to do?" demanded her husband irritably. "I
couldn't knock him down, could I?"

"No, but you could have talked up to him."

"I did; but you must remember that he is an important man in the town,
and it wouldn't be wise to make him an enemy."

"Squire Dixon is still more important. If he backs you up you needn't
be afraid of this trumpery doctor."

"Well, what would you advise?"

"Go this evening and see the squire. Tell him what has happened, and if
he gives you authority to take Jed's money, take it."

"Really, that is a good suggestion, Mrs. F. I will go soon after
supper."

"It would do no good to triumph over Dr. Redmond. He is an impertinent
meddler."

"So he is. I agree with you there."

Soon after seven o'clock Squire Dixon was somewhat surprised when the
servant ushered Mr. Fogson into his presence.

"Ah, Fogson," he exclaimed. "I was not expecting to see you. Has
anything gone wrong?"

"I should think so. Jed has rebelled against my lawful authority, and
Dr. Redmond is aiding and abetting him in it."

"You astonish me, Fogson. Are you sure you are not mistaken?"

"I'll tell you the whole story, squire, and you can judge for yourself."

Upon this Mr. Fogson gave an account of the scenes that had taken place
in the poorhouse, including his contest with Jed, and Mrs. Fogson's
ill-judged attempt to assist him.

"Certainly, you were in bad luck," said the squire. "Is the injury
serious?"

"The burn is very painful, squire. Mrs. Fogson acted like an idiot. Why
didn't she take better aim?"

"To be sure, to be sure. Wasn't the boy scalded at all?"

"Not a particle," answered Fogson in an aggrieved tone. "Now, what I
want to know is, didn't I have a right to take the money from Jed?"

"Yes, I think so. The boy would probably have made bad use of it."

"The ground I take, squire, is that a pauper has no right to possess
money."

"I quite agree with you. Since the town maintains him, the town should
have a right to exact any money of which he becomes accidentally
possessed."

"I don't quite see that the town should have it," said Fogson. "As the
boy's official guardian, I think I ought to keep it, to use for the boy
whenever I thought it judicious."

"Yes, I think that view is correct. I had only given the point a
superficial consideration."

"Dr. Redmond denies this. He says I have no right to take the money from
Jed."

"Dr. Redmond's view is not entitled to any weight. He has no official
right to intermeddle."

"You'd think he had, by the manner in which he lectured Mrs. Fogson and
myself. I never heard such impudence."

"Dr. Redmond assumes too much. He doesn't appear to understand that I,
and not he, was appointed Overseer of the Poor."

"He says you are not fit for the position," said Fogson, transcending
the limits of strict accuracy, as the reader will understand.

"What?" ejaculated Squire Dixon, his face flushing angrily.

"That's just what he said," repeated Fogson, delighted by the effect of
his misrepresentations. "It's my belief that he wanted the office
himself."

"Very likely, very likely!" said the squire angrily. "Do I understand
you to say that he actually called me unfit for the position?"

"Yes he did. He appears to think that he can boss you and Mrs. F. and
myself. Why, he stood by that boy, though he had actually assaulted me,
and invited him home to supper."

"You don't mean this, Mr. Fogson?"

"Yes I do. Jed is at this very moment at the doctor's house. What
mischief they are concocting I can't tell, but I am sure that I shall
have more trouble with the boy."

Squire Dixon was very much disturbed. He was a vain man, and his pride
sustained a severe shock when told that the doctor considered him unfit
for his position.

"However," resumed the crafty Fogson, "I suppose we shall have to give
in to the doctor."

"Give in!" exclaimed the squire, his face turning purple. "Never, Mr.
Fogson, never!"

"I hate to give in, I confess, squire, but the doctor is a prominent
man, and----"

"Prominent man! I should like to know whether I am not a prominent man
also, Mr. Fogson? Moreover, I represent the town, and Dr. Redmond
doesn't."

"I am glad you will stand by me, squire. With you on my side, I will not
fear."

"I will stand by you, Mr. Fogson."

"I should hate to be triumphed over by a mere boy."

"You shall not be, Mr. Fogson."

"Then will you authorize me to demand the money from him?"

"I will authorize you, Mr. Fogson, and if the boy persists in refusing,
I authorize you to use coercive measures. Do you understand?"

"I believe I do, squire. You will let it be understood that you have
given me authority, won't you? Suppose the boy complains to Dr.
Redmond?"

"You may refer Dr. Redmond to me, Mr. Fogson," said the squire
pompously. "I think I shall be tempted to give this meddling doctor a
piece of my mind."

Mr. Fogson took leave of the squire and pursued his way homeward with a
smile on his face. He had accomplished what he desired, and secured a
powerful ally in his campaign against the boy Jed and Dr. Redmond.

He returned home a little after eight, and just before nine Jed made his
appearance at the door of the poorhouse. He was in good spirits, for he
had decided that he would soon turn his back upon the place which had
been his home for fourteen years.




CHAPTER VII.

FOGSON'S MISTAKE.


"So you have got home?" said Mr. Fogson with an unpleasant smile as he
opened the door to admit Jed later that evening.

"Yes, sir."

"You had a pleasant time, I presume?"

"Yes, sir," answered Jed, wondering to what all these questions tended.

"I suppose Dr. Redmond put himself out to entertain such a distinguished
guest?"

"No, Mr. Fogson, I don't think he did."

"He didn't make arrangements to run the poorhouse, with your help, did
