very good, you know !' McDonald, I just hate 
him. He makes me so uneasy." 
 
" But don't you know, child," said Miss Mc- 
Donald, laughing, " that we are required to love 
our enemies ?" 
" So I would," replied the girl, quickly, " if 
he were an enemy and would keep away. Ah, 
me ! McDonald, I want to ask you something. 
Do you suppose he would hang around a girl 
who was poor, such a sweet, pretty, dear creat- 
ure as Alice Maitland, who is a hundred times 
nicer than I am ?" 
" He might," said Miss McDonald, still quizzi- 
cally. " They say that like goes to like, and it 
is reported that the Duke of Tewkesbury is as 
good as ruined." 
" Do be serious, McDonald." The girl nestled 
up closer to her and took her hand. " I want to 
ask you one question more. Do you think — no, 
don't look at me, look way off at that sail — do — 
you — think that, if I had been poor, Mr. Burnett 
would have seen me only twice, just twice, all 
last season ?" 
Miss McDonald put her arm round Evelyn and 
clasped the little figure tight. " You must not 
give way to fancies. We cannot, as life is ar- 
ranged, be perfectly happy, but we can be true 
to ourselves, and there is scarcely anything that 
resolution and patience cannot overcome. I 
ought not to talk to you about this, Evelyn. But 
I must say one thing : I think I can read Philip 
 
Burnett. Oh, he has plenty of self-esteem, but, 
unless I mistake him, nothing could so mortify 
him as to have it said that he was pursuing a 
girl for the sate of her fortune." 
" And he wouldn't !" cried the girl, looking up 
and speaking in an unsteady voice. 
" Let me finish. He is, so I think, the sort of 
man that would not let any fortune, or anything 
else, stand in the way when his heart was con- 
cerned. I somehow feel that he could not 
change — faithfulness, that is his notion. If he 
only knew — " 
" He never shall ! he never shall !" cried the 
girl in alarm — " never !" 
" And you think, child, that he doesn't know ? 
Come ! That sail has been coming straight tow- 
ards us ever since we sat here, never tacked 
once. That is omen enough for one day. See 
how the light strikes it. Come !" 
The Newport season was not, after all, very 
gay. Society has become so complex that it 
takes more than one Englishman to make a sea- 
son. Were it the business of the chronicler to 
study the evolution of this lovely watering-place 
from its simple, unconventional, animated days 
of natural hospitality and enjoyment, to its pres- 
ent splendid and palatial isolation of a society- — 
during the season — which finds its chief satisfac- 
 
tion in the rivalry of costly luxury and in an at- 
mosphere of what is deemed aristocratic exclu- 
siveness, he would have a theme attractive to 
the sociologist. But such a noble study is not 
for him. His is the humble task of following 
the fortunes of certain individuals, more or less 
conspicuous in this astonishing flowering of a 
democratic society, who have become dear to 
him by long acquaintance. 
It was not the fault of Mrs. Mavick that the 
season was so frigid, its glacial stateliness only 
now and then breaking out in an illuminating 
burst of festivity, like the lighting-up of a Mon- 
treal ice-palace. Her spacious house was always 
open, and her efforts, in charity enterprises and 
novel entertainments, were untiring to stimulate 
a circulation in the languid body of society. 
This clever woman never showed more courage 
or more tact than in this campaign, and was 
never more agreeable and fascinating. She was 
even popular. If she was not accepted as a lead- 
er, she had a certain standing with the leaders, 
as a person of vivacity and social influence. Any 
company was eager for her presence. Her ac- 
tivity, spirit, and affability quite won the regard 
of the society reporters, and those who know 
Newport only through the newspaper would have 
concluded that the Mavicks were on the top of 
the wave. She, however, perfectly understood 
 
her position, and knew that the sweet friends, 
who exchanged with her, whenever they met, the 
conventional phrases of affection commented sar- 
castically upon her ambitions for her daughter. 
It was, at the same time, an ambition that they 
perfectly understood, and did not condemn on 
any ethical grounds. Evelyn was certainly a 
sweet girl, rather queerly educated, and never 
likely to make much of a dash, but she was an 
heiress, and why should not her money be put 
to the patriotic use of increasing the growing 
Anglo-American cordiality. 
Lord Montague was, of course, a favorite, in 
demand for all fauctions, and in request for the 
private and intimate entertainments. He was 
an authority in the stables and the kennels, and 
an eager comrade in all the sports of the island. 
His easy manner, his self-possession everywhere, 
even his slangy talk, were accepted as evidence 
that he was above conventionalities. " The little 
man isn't a beauty," said Sally McTabb, " but he 
shows ' race.' " He might be eccentric, but when 
you came to know him you couldn't help liking 
the embryo duke in him. 
In fact, things were going very well with Mrs. 
Mavick, except in her own household. There 
was something there that did not yield, that did 
not flow with her plans. With Lord Montague 
she was on the most intimate and confidential 
 
relations. He was almost daily at the house. 
Often she drove with him ; frequently Evelyn was 
with them. Indeed, the three came to be asso- 
ciated in the public mind. There could be no 
doubt of the intentions of the young nobleman. 
That he could meet any opposition was not con- 
ceived. 
The noble lord, since they had been in New- 
port, had freely opened his mind to Mrs. Mavick, 
and on a fit occasion had formally requested her 
daughter's hand. Needless to say that he was 
accepted. Nay, more, he felt that he was trusted 
like a son. He was given every opportunity to 
press his suit. Somewhat to his surprise, he did 
not appear to make much headway. He was 
rarely able to see her alone, even for a moment. 
Such evasiveness in a young girl to a man of his 
rank astonished him. There could be no reason 
for it in himself; there must be some influence 
at work unknown to his social experience. 
He did not reproach Mrs. Mavick with this, but 
he let her see that he was very much annoyed. 
" If I had not your assurance to the contrary, 
Mrs. Mavick," he said one day in a pet, " I 
should think she shunned me." 
" Oh, no. Lord Montague, that could not be. 
I told you that she had had a peculiar education ; 
she is perfect^ ignorant of the world, she is shy, 
and — well, for a girl in her position, she is uncon- 
 
ventional. She is so young that she does not 
yet understand what life is." 
" You mean she does not know what I offer 
her?" 
" "Why, my dear Lord Montague, did you ever 
offer her anything ?" 
"JSTot flat, no," said my lord, hesitating. 
" Every time I approach her she shies off like a 
young filly. There is something I don't under- 
stand." 
" Evelyn," and Mrs. Mavick spoke with feel- 
ing, "is an affectionate and dutiful child. She 
has never thought of marriage. The prospect is 
all new to her. But I am sure she would learn 
to love you if she knew you and her mind were 
once turned upon such a union. My lord, why 
not say to her what you feel, and make the offer 
you intend ? You cannot expect a young girl to 
show her inclination before she is asked." And 
Mrs. Mavick laughed a little to dispel the seri- 
ousness. 
"By Jove! that's so, good enough. I'll do it 
straight out. I'll tell her to take it or leave it. 
No, I don't mean that, of course. I'll tell her 
that I can't Kve without her — that sort of thing, 
you know. And I can't, that's just the fact." 
"You can leave it confidently to her good 
judgment and to the friendship of the family 
for you." 
 
Lord Montague was silent for a moment, and 
seemed to be looking at a problem in his shrewd 
mind. For he had a shrewd mind, which took 
in the whole situation, Mrs. Mavick and all, with 
a perspicacity that would have astonished that 
woman of the world. 
" There is one thing, perhaps I ought not to say 
it, but I have seen it, and it is in my head that it 
is that — I beg your pardon, madam — that damned 
governess." 
The shot went home. The suggestion, put 
into language that could be more easily compre- 
hended than defended, illuminated Mrs. Mavick's 
mind in a flash, seeming to disclose the source 
of an opposition to her purposes which secretly 
irritated her. Doubtless it was the governess. 
It was her influence that made Evelyn less pli- 
able and amenable to reason than a young girl 
with such social prospects as she had would 
naturally be. Besides, how absurd it was that a 
young lady in society should still have a govern- 
ess. A companion ? The proper companion for 
a girl on the edge of matrimony was her mother ! 
CHAPTER XXI 
This idea, once implanted in Mrs. Mavick's 
mind, bore speedy fruit. No one would have ac- 
cused her of being one of those uncomfortable 
persons who are always guided by an inflexible 
sense of justice, nor could it be said that she was 
unintelligently unjust. Facile as she was, in all 
her successful life she had never acted upon im- 
pulse, but from a conscience keenly alive to what 
was just to herself. Miss McDonald was in the 
way. And Mrs. Mavick had one quality of good 
generalship — she acted promptly on her convic- 
tions. 
When Mr. Mavick came over next day to 
spend Sunday in what was called in print the 
bosom of his family, he looked very much worn 
and haggard and was in an irritated mood. He 
had been very little in Newport that summer, 
the disturbed state of business confining him to 
the city. And to a man of his age, New York 
in midsummer in a panicky season is not a recre- 
ation. 
The moment Mrs. Mavick got her husband 
 
alone she showed a lively solicitude about his 
health. 
" I suppose it has been dreadfully hot in the 
city «" 
" Hot enough. Everything makes it hot." 
" Has anything gone wrong ? Has that odious 
Ault turned up again ?" 
" Turned up is the word. Half the time that 
man is a mole, half the time a bull in a china- 
shop. He sails up to you bearing your own flag, 
and when he gets aboard he shows the skull and 
cross-bones." 
"Is it so bad as that?" 
" As bad as what ? He is a bad lot, but he is 
just an adventurer — a Napoleon who will get his 
Waterloo before fall. Don't bother about things 
you don't understand. How are things down 
here?" 
" Going swimmingly." 
" So I judged by the bills. How is the lord ?" 
" Now don't be vulgar, Tom. You must keep 
up your end. Lord Montague is very nice ; he is 
a great favorite here." 
" Does Evelyn like him?" 
" Yes, she likes him ; she likes him very much." 
" She didn't show it to me." 
" No, she is awfully shy. And she is rather 
afraid of him, the big title and all that. And 
then she has never been accustomed to act for 
V 
 
herself. She is old enough to be independent 
and to take her place in the world. At her age 
I was not in leading-strings." 
" I should say not," said Mavick. 
"Except in obedience to my mother," con- 
tinued Carmen, not deigning to notice the sar- 
casm. "And I've been thinking that McDon- 
ald—" 
" So you want to get rid of her ?" 
" What a brutal way of putting it ! No. But 
if Evelyn is ever to be self-reliant it is time she 
should depend more on herself. You know I am 
devoted to McDonald. And, what is more, I am 
used to her. I wasn't thinking of her. You 
don't realize that Evelyn is a young lady in so- 
ciety, and it has become ridiculous for her to 
still have a governess. Everybody would say 
so." 
" Well, call her a companion." 
" Ah, don't you see it would be the same ? 
She would still be under her influence and not 
able to act for herself." 
" What are you going to do ? Turn her adrift 
after eighteen — what is it, seventeen ? — years of 
faithful service ?" 
" How brutally you put it. I'm going to tell 
McDonald just how it is. She is a sensible wom- 
an, and she will see that it is for Evelyn's good. 
And then it happens very luckily. Mrs. Yan 
 
Cortlandt asked me last winter if I wouldn't let 
her have McDonald for her little girl when we 
were through with her. She knew, of course, 
that we couldn't keep a governess much longer 
for Evelyn. I am going to write to her. She 
will jump at the chance." 
" And McDonald ?" 
" Oh, she likes Mrs. Yan Cortlandt. It will 
just suit her." 
" And Evelyn ? That will be another wrench." 
Men are so foolishly tender-hearted about women. 
" Of course, I know it seems hard, and will be 
for a little. But it is for Evelyn's good, I am 
perfectly sure." 
Mr. Mavick was meditating. It was a mighty 
unpleasant business. But he was getting tired 
of conflict. There was an undercurrent in the 
lives of both that made him shrink from going 
deep into any domestic dififerenoe. It was best 
to yield. 
" Well, Carmen, I couldn't have the heart to do 
it. She has been Evelyn's constant companion all 
the child's life. Ah, well, it's your own affair. 
Only don't stir it up till after I am gone. I 
must go to the city early Monday morning." 
Because Mavick, amid all the demands of busi- 
ness and society, and his ambitions for power in 
the world of finance and politics, had not had 
much time to devote to his daughter, it must not 
be supposed that he did not love her. In the 
odd moments at her service she had always been 
a delight to him ; and, in truth, many of his am- 
bitions had centred in the intelligent, affection- 
ate, responsive child. But there had been no 
time for much real comradeship. 
This Sunday, however, and it was partly be- 
cause of pity for the shook he felt was in store 
for her, he devoted himself to her. They had a 
long walk on the cliff, and he talked to her of 
his life, of his travels, and his political experi- 
ence. She was a most appreciative listener, and 
in the warmth of his confidence she opened her 
mind to him, and rather surprised him by her 
range of intelligence and the singular upright- 
ness of her opinions, and more still by her ready 
wit and playfulness. It was the first time she 
had felt really free with her father, and he for 
the first time seemed to know her as she was in 
her inner life. When they returned to the house, 
and she was thanking him with a glow of en- 
thusiasm for such a lovely day, he lifted her up 
and kissed her, with an emotion of affection that 
brought tears to her eyes. 
A couple of days elapsed before Mrs. Mavick 
was ready for action. During this time she had 
satisfied herself, by apparently casual conversa- 
tion with her daughter and Miss McDonald, that 
the latter would be wholly out of sympathy with 
her intentions in regard to Evelyn. Left to her- 
self she judged that her daughter would look 
with more favor upon the brilliant career offered 
to her by Lord Montague. When, therefore, one 
morning the governess was summoned to her 
room, her course was decided on. She received 
Miss McDonald with more than usual cordiality. 
She had in her hand a telegram, and beamed 
upon her as the bearer of good news. 
" I have an excellent offer for you. Miss Mc- 
Donald." 
"An offer for me?" 
" Yes, from Mrs. Van Cortlandt, to be the gov- 
erness of her daughter, a sweet little girl of six. 
She has often spoken about it, and now I have 
an urgent despatch from her. She is in need 
of some one at once, and she greatly prefers 
you." 
"Do you mean, Mrs. Mavick, that — you — 
want — that I am to leave Eveh'n, and you?" 
The room seemed to whirl around her. 
" It is not what we want, McDonald," said 
Mrs. Mavick calmly and still beaming, " but 
what is best. Tour service as governess has con- 
tinued much longer than could have been antici- 
pated, and of course it must come to an end some 
time. You understand how hard this separation 
is for all of us. Mr. Mavick wanted me to ex- 
press to you his infinite obligation, and I am sure 
he will take a substantial way of showing it. 
Evelyn is now a young lady in society, and of 
course it is absurd for her to continue under 
pupilage. It will be best for her, for her char- 
acter, to be independent and learn to act for her- 
self in the world." 
" Did she^has Evelyn—" 
" No, I have said nothing to her of this offer, 
which is a most advantageous one. Of course 
she will feel as we do, at first." 
" "Why, all these years, all her life, since she 
was a baby, not a day, not a night, Evelyn, and 
now — so sweet, so dear — why, Mrs. Mavick!" 
And the Scotch woman, dazed, with a piteous 
appeal in her eyes, trying in vain to control her 
face, looked at her mistress. 
" My dear McDonald, you must not take it 
that way. It is only a change. You are not 
going away really, we shall all be in the same 
city. I am sure you will like your new home. 
Shall I tell Mrs.VanCortlandt?" 
"Tell Mrs. Van Cortlandt? Yes, tell her, 
thanks. I will go — soon — at once. In a little 
time, to — get — ^ready. Thanks." The governess 
rose and stood a moment to steady herself. All her 
life was in ruins. The blow crushed her. And 
she had been so happy. In such great peace. It 
seemed impossible. To leave Evelyn ! She put 
out her hand as if to speak. Did Mrs. Mavick 
understand what she was doing? That it was 
the same as dragging a mother away from her 
child ? But she said nothing. "Words would not 
come. Everything seemed confused and blank. 
She sank into her chair. 
" Excuse me, Mrs. Mavick, I think I am not 
very strong this morning." And presently she 
stood on her feet again and steadied herself. 
"You will please tell Evelyn before — before I 
see her." And she walked out of the room as 
one in a trance. 
The news was communicated to Evelyn, quite 
incidentally, in the manner that all who knew 
Mrs. Mavick admired in her. Evelyn had just 
been in and out of her mother's room, on one 
errand and another, and was going out again, 
when her mother said : 
" Oh, by-the-way, Evelyn, at last we have got 
a splendid place for McDonald." 
Evelyn turned, not exactly comprehending. 
" A place for McDonald ? For what ?" 
"As governess, of course. With Mrs. Van 
Cortlandt." 
" "What ! to leave us ?" The girl walked back 
to her mother's chair and stood before her in an 
attitude of wonder and doubt. " You don't mean, 
mamma, that she is going away for good ?" 
" It is a great chance for her. I have been 
anxious for some time about employment for her, 
 
now that you do not need a governess — haven't 
really for a year or two." 
" But, mamma, it can't be. She is part of us. 
She belongs to the family; she has been in it 
almost as long as I have. "Why, I have been 
with her every day of my life. To go away? 
To give her up ? Does she know ?" 
" Does she know ? "What a child ! She has ac- 
cepted Mrs. Van Cortlandt's offer. I telegraphed 
for her this morning. To-morrow she goes to 
town to get her belongings together. Mrs. Van 
Cortlandt needs her at once. I am sorry to see, 
my dear, that you are thinking only of your- 
self." 
" Of myself ?" The girl had been at first con- 
fused, and, as the idea forced itself upon her mind, 
she felt weak, and trembled, and was deadly pale. 
But when the certainty came, the enormitj' and 
cruelty of the dismissal aroused her indignation. 
" Myself !" she exclaimed again. Her eyes blazed 
with a wrath new to their tenderness, and, step- 
ping back and stamping her foot, she cried out : 
" She shall not go ! It is unjust ! It is cruel !" 
Her mother had never seen her child like that. 
She was revealing a spirit of resistance, a tem- 
per, an independence quite unexpected. And 
yet it was not altogether displeasing. Mrs. Ma- 
vick's respect for her involuntarily rose. And 
after an instant, instead of responding with se- 
 
verity, as was her first impulse, she said, very 
calmly : 
"Naturally, Evelyn, you do not hke to part 
with her. None of us do. But go to your room 
and think it over reasonably. The relations of 
childhood cannot last forever." 
Evelyn stood for a moment undecided. Her 
mother's calm self-control had not deceived her. 
She was no longer a child. It was a woman 
reading a woman. All her lifetime came back 
to her to interpret this moment. In the reac- 
tion of the second, the deepest pain was no long- 
er for herself, nor even for Miss McDonald, but 
for a woman who showed herself so insensible 
to noble feeling. Protest was useless. But why 
was the separation desired? She did not fully 
see, but her instinct told her that it had a rela- 
tion to her mother's plans for her; and as life 
rose before her in the society, in the world, into 
which she was newly launched, she felt that she 
was alone, absolutely alone. She tried to speak, 
but before she could collect her thoughts her 
mother said : 
" There, go now. It is useless to discuss the 
matter. We all have to learn to bear things." 
Evelyn went away, in a tumult of passion and 
of shame, and obeyed her impulse to go where 
she had always found comfort. 
Miss McDonald was in her own room. Her 
trunk was opened. She had taken her clothes 
from the closet. She was opening the drawers 
and laying one article here and another there. 
She was going from closet to bureau, opening 
this door and shutting that in her sitting-room 
and bedroom, in an aimless, distracted way. Out 
of her efforts nothing had so far come but con- 
fusion. It seemed an impossible dream that she 
was actually packing up to go away forever. 
Evelyn entered in a haste that could not wait 
for permission. 
" Is it true ?" she cried. 
McDonald turned. She could not speak. Her 
faithful face was gray with suffering. Her eyes 
were swollen with weeping. For an instant she 
seemed not to comprehend, and then a flood of 
motherly feeling overcame her. She stretched 
out her arms and caught the girl to her breast 
in a passionate embrace, burying her face in her 
neck in a vain effort to subdue her sobbing. 
What was there to say ? Evelyn had come to 
her refuge for comfort, and lo ! it was she herself 
who must be the comforter. 
Presently she disengaged herself and forced the 
governess into an easy chair. She sat down on 
the arm of the chair and smoothed her hair and 
kissed her again and again. 
" There. I'm going to help you. You'll see 
you have not taught me for nothing." She 
 
jumped up and began to bustle about. "You 
don't know what a packer I am." 
"I knew it must come some time," she was 
saying, with a weary air, as she followed with 
her eyes the light step of the graceful girl, who 
was beginning to sort things and to bring order 
out of the confusion, holding up one article after 
another and asking questions with an enforced 
cheerfulness that was more pathetic than any 
burst of grief. 
" Yes, I know. There, that is laid in smooth." 
She pretended to be thinking what to put in 
next, and suddenly she threw herself into Mc- 
Donald's lap and began to talk gayly. "It is all 
my fault, dear ; I should have stayed little. And 
it doesn't make any difference. I know you love 
me, and oh, McDonald, I love you more, a hun- 
dred times more, than ever. If you did not love 
me ! Think how dreadful that would be. And 
we shall not be separated — only by streets, don't 
you know. They can't separate us. I know you 
want me to be brave. And some day, perhaps " 
(and she whispered in her ear — how many hun- 
dred times had she told her girl secrets in that 
way !), " if I do have a home of my own, then — " 
It was not very cheerful talk, however it 
seemed to be, but it was better than silence, and 
in the midst of it, with many interruptions, the 
packing was over, and some sort of serenity was 
 
attained even by Miss McDonald. "Tes, dear 
heart, we have love and trust and hope." 
But when the preparations were all made, and 
Evelyn went to her own room, there did not seem 
to be so much hope, nor any brightness in the 
midst of this first great catastrophe of her life. 
CHAPTER XXII 
The great Mavick ball at Newport, in the 
summer long remembered for its financial dis- 
asters, was very much talked about at the time. 
Long after, in any city club, a man was sure to 
have attentive listeners if he began his story or 
his gossip with the remark that he was at the 
Mavick ball. 
It attracted great attention, both on account 
of the circumstances that preceded it and the 
events which speedily followed, and threw a light 
upon it that gave it a spectacular importance. 
The city journals made a feature of it. They 
summoned their best artists to illustrate it, and 
illuminate it in pen-and-ink, half-tones, startling 
colors, and photographic reproductions, sketches 
theatrical, humorous, and poetic, caricatures, pict- 
ures of tropical luxury and aristocratic preten- 
sion; in short, all the bewildering affluence of 
modern art which is brought to bear upon the 
aesthetic cultivation of the lowest popular taste. 
They summoned their best novelists to throw 
themselves recklessly upon the English language, 
 
and extort from it its highest expression in color 
and lyrical beauty, the novelists whose mission 
it is, in the newspaper campaign against realism, 
to adorn and dramatize the commonest events of 
life, creating in place of the old-fashioned " news" 
the highly spiced " story," which is the ideal 
aspiration of the reporter. Whatever may be 
said about the power of the press, it is undeni- 
able that it can set the entire public thinking 
and talking about any topic, however insignifi- 
cant in itself, that it may elect to make the sensa- 
tion of the day — a wedding, a murder, a political 
scandal, a divorce, a social event, a defalcation, a 
lost child, an unidentified victim of accident or 
crime, an election, or that undefined quickener 
of patriotism called a casus helli. It can impose 
any topic it pleases upon the public mind. In 
case there is no topic, it is necessary to make 
one, for it is an indefeasible right of the public 
to have news. 
These reports of the Mavick ball had a peculiar 
interest for at least two people in New York. 
Murad Ault read them with a sardonic smile and 
an enjoyment that would not have been called 
altruistic. Philip searched them with the fever- 
ish eagerness of a maiden who scans the report 
of a battle in which her lover has been engaged. 
All summer long he had lived upon stray bits 
of news in the society columns of the news- 
papers. To see Evelyn's name mentioned, and 
only rarely, as a guest at some entertainment, 
and often in connection with that of Lord Mon- 
tague, did not convey much information, nor vs^as 
that little encouraging. "Was she well? "Was 
she absorbed in the life of the season ? Did she 
think of him in surroundings so brilliant? "Was 
she, perhaps, unhappy and persecuted ? No tid- 
ings came that could tell him the things that he 
ached to know. 
Only recently intelligence had come to him 
that at the same time wrung his heart with pity 
and buoyed him up with hope. He had not seen 
Miss McDonald since her dismissal, for she had 
been only one night in the city, but she had 
written to him. Relieved by her discharge of 
all obligations of silence, she had written him 
frankly about the whole affair, and, indeed, put 
him in possession of unrecorded details and in- 
dications that filled him with anxiety, to be 
sure, but raised his courage and strengthened 
his determination. If Evelyn loved him, he had 
faith that no manoeuvres or compulsion could 
shake her loyalty. And yet she was but a girl ; 
she was now practically alone, and could she 
resist the family and the social pressure? Few 
women could, few women do, effectively resist 
under such circumstances. "With one of a tender 
heart, duty often takes the most specious and 
deceiving forms. In yielding to the impulses 
of her heart, which in her inexperience may be 
mistaken, has a girl the right — from a purely 
rational point of view — to set herself against, 
nay, to destroy, the long-cherished ambitions of 
her parents for a brilliant social career for her, 
founded upon social traditions of success? For 
what had Mr. Mavick toiled? For what had 
Mrs. Mavick schemed all these years? Could 
the girl throw herself away ? Such disobedience, 
such disregard for social law, would seem im- 
possible to her mother. 
Some of the events that preceded the Mavick 
ball throw light upon that interesting function. 
After the departure of Miss McDonald, Mrs. 
Mavick, in one of her confidential talks with her 
proposed son-in-law, confessed that she experi- 
enced much relief. An obstacle seemed to be 
removed. 
In fact, Evelyn rather surprised her mother 
by what seemed a calm acceptance of the situa- 
tion. There was no further outburst. If the 
girl was often preoccupied and seemed listless, 
that was to be expected, on the sudden removal 
of the companion of her lifetime. But she did 
not complain. She ceased after a while to speak 
of McDonald. If she showed little enthusiasm 
in what was going on around her, she was com- 
pliant, she fell in at once with her mother's suggestions, 
and went and came in an attitude of 
entire obedience. 
" It isn't best for you to keep up a correspond- 
ence, my dear, now that you know that Mc- 
Donald is nicely settled — all reminiscent corre- 
spondence is very wearing — and, really, I am 
more than delighted to see that you are quite 
capable of walking alone. Do you know, Eve- 
lyn, that I am more and more proud of 5'ou every 
day, as my daughter. I don't dare to tell you 
half the nice things that are said of you. It 
would make you vain." And the proud mother 
kissed her affectionately. The letters ceased. 
If the governess wrote, Evelyn did not see the 
letters. 
As the days went by, Lord Montague, in high 
and confident spirits, became more and more a 
familiar inmate of the house. Daily he sent 
flowers to Evelyn ; he contrived little excursions 
and suppers ; he was marked in his attentions 
wherever they went. " He is such a dear fel- 
low," said Mrs. Mavick to one of her friends ; " I 
don't know how we should get on without him." 
Onl}'', in the house, owing to some unnatural 
perversity of circumstances, he did not see much 
of Evelyn, never alone for more than a moment. 
It is wonderful what efficient, though invisible, 
defences most women, when they will, can throw 
about themselves. 
That the afPair was "arranged" Lord Mon- 
tague had no doubt. It was not conceivable that 
the daughter of an American stock-broker would 
refuse the offer of a position so transcendent and 
so evidently coveted in a democratic society. 
Not that the single-minded young man reasoned 
about it this way. He was born with a most 
comfortable belief in himself and the knowledge 
that when he decided to become a domestic man 
he had simply, as the phrase is, to throw his hand- 
kerchief. 
At home, where such qualities as distinguished 
him from the common were appreciated with- 
out the need of personal exertion, this might be 
true; but in America it did seem to be some- 
how different. American women, at least some of 
them, did need to be personally wooed ; and many 
of them had a sort of independence in the be- 
stowal of their affections or, what they under- 
stood to be the same thing, themselves that must 
be taken into account. And it gradually dawned 
upon the mind of this inheritor of privilege that 
in this case the approval of the family, even the 
pressure of the mother, was not sufficient ; he 
must have also Evelyn's consent. If she were a 
mature woman who knew and appreciated the 
world, she would perceive the advantages offered 
to her without argument. But a girl, just re- 
leased from the care of her governess, unaccustomed 
to society, might have notions, or, in the 
vernacular of the scion, might be skittish. 
And then, again, to do the wooer entire jus- 
tice, the dark little girl, so much mistress of 
herself, so evidently spirited, with such an air of 
distinction, began to separate herself in his mind 
as a good goer against the field, and he had a 
real desire to win her affection. The more in- 
different she was to him, the keener was his de- 
sire to possess her. His unsuccessful wooing 
had passed through several stages, first aston- 
ishment, then pique, and finally something very 
like passion, or a fair semblance of devotion, 
backed, of course, since all natures are more or 
less mixed, by the fact that this attractive figure 
of the woman was thrown into high relief by the 
colossal fortune behind her. 
And Evelyn herself ? ISTeither her mother nor 
her suitor appreciated the uncommon circum- 
stances that her education, her whole training in 
familiarity with pure and lofty ideals, had ren- 
dered her measurably insensible to the social 
considerations that seemed paramount to them, 
or that there could be any real obstacle to the 
bestowal of her person where her heart was not 
engaged. Yet she perfectly understood her situ- 
ation, and, at times, deprived of her life-long 
support, she felt powerless in it, and she suf- 
fered as only the pure and the noble can suffer. 
 
Day after day she fought her battle alone, now 
and then, as the situation confronted her, assailed 
by a shudder of fear, as of one awakening in the 
night from a dream of peril, the clutch of an 
assassin, or the walking on an icy precipice. If 
McDonald were only with her! If she could 
only hear from Philip! Perhaps he had lost 
hope and was submitting to the inevitable. 
The opportunity which I<ord Montague had 
long sought came one day unexpectedly, or per- 
haps it was contrived. They were waiting in 
the drawing-room for an afternoon drive. The 
carriage was delayed, and Mrs. Mavick excused 
herself to ascertain the cause of the delay. 
Evelyn and her suitor were left alone. She was 
standing by a window looking out, and he was 
standing by the fireplace watching the swing of 
the figure on the pendulum of the tall mantel- 
piece clock. He was the first to break the 
silence. 
" Tour clock. Miss Mavick, is a little fast." No 
reply. "Or else I am slow." Still no reply. 
" They say, you know, that I am a little slow, 
over here." iN^o reply. "I am not, really, you 
know. I know my mind. And there was some- 
thing. Miss Mavick, something particular, that I 
wanted to say to you." 
" Yes ?" without turning round. " The carriage 
will be here in a minute." 
 
" Never mind that," and Lord Montague moved 
away from the fireplace and approached the girl ; 
"take care of the minutes and the hours will 
take care of themselves, as the saying is." At 
this unexpected stroke of brilliancy Evelyn did 
turn round, and stood in an expectant attitude. 
The moment had evidently come, and she would 
not meet it like a coward. 
" We have been friends a long time ; not so 
very long, but it seems to me the best part of 
my life"— he was looking down and speaking 
slowly, with the modest deference of a gentle- 
man — " and you must have seen, that is, I wanted 
you to see, you know^well, that is — er — what I 
was staying on here for." 
" Because you like America, I suppose," said 
Evelyn, coolly. 
" Because I like some things in America — that 
is just the fact," continued the little lord, with 
more confidence. "And that is why I stayed. 
You see I couldn't go away and leave what was 
best in the world to me." 
There was an air of simplicity and sincerity 
about this that was unexpected, and could not 
but be respected by any woman. But Evelyn 
waited, still immovable. 
" It wasn't reasonable that you should like a 
stranger right off," he went on, " just at first, and 
I waited till you got to know me better. Ways 
 
are different here and over there, I know that, 
but if you came to know me. Miss Mavick, you 
would see that I am not such a bad sort of a 
fellow." And a deprecatory smile lighted np his 
face that was almost pathetic. To Evelyn this 
humility seemed genuine, and perhaps it was, for 
the moment. Certainly the eyes she bent on the 
odd little figure were less severe. 
" All this is painful to me, Lord Montague." 
" I'm sorry," he continued, in the same tone. 
" I cannot help it. I must say it. I — you must 
know that I love you." And then, not heeding 
the nervous start the girl gave in stepping back- 
ward, " And — and, will you be my wife ?" 
" You do me too much honor. Lord Monta- 
gue," said Evelyn, summoning up all her cour- 
age. 
" No, no, not a bit of it." 
"I am obliged to you for your good opinion, 
but you know I am almost a school -girl. My 
governess has just left me. I have never thought 
of such a thing. And, Lord Montague, I cannot 
return your feeling. That is all. You must see 
how painful this is to me." 
"I wouldn't give you pain. Miss Mavick, not 
for the world. Perhaps when you think it over 
it will seem different to you. I am sure it will. 
Don't answer now, for good." 
"No, no, it cannot be," said Evelyn, with 
 
something of alarm in her tone, for the full 
meaning of it all came over her as she thought 
of her mother. 
" You are not offended ?" 
" No," said Evelyn. 
" I couldn't bear to ofPend you. You cannot 
think I would. And you will not be hard-hearted. 
You know me. Miss Mavick, just where I am. 
I'm just as I said." 
"The carriage is coming," said Mrs. Mavick, 
who returned at this moment. 
The group for an instant was silent, and then 
Evelyn said: 
" We have waited so long, mamma, that I am 
a little tired, and you will excuse me from the 
drive this afternoon ?" 
" Certainly, my dear." 
When the two were seated in the carriage, 
Mrs. Mavick turned to Lord Montague : 
"Well?" 
"No go," replied my lord, as sententiously, 
and in evident bad humor. 
" What ? And you made a direct proposal ?" 
" Showed her my whole hand. Made a square 
offer. Damme, I am not used to this sort of 
thing." 
" You don't mean that she refused you ?" 
"Don't know what you call it. Wouldn't 
start." 
 
"She couldn't have understood you. What 
did she say ?" 
"Said it was too much honor, and that rot. 
By Jove, she didn't look it. I rather liked her 
pluck. She didn't flinch." 
" Oh, is that all ?" And Mrs. Mavick spoke as 
if her mind were relieved. ""What could you 
expect from such a sudden proposal to a young 
gir], almost a child, wholly unused to the world? 
I should have done the same thing at her age. It 
will look different to her when she reflects, and 
understands what the position is that is offered 
her. Leave that to me." 
Lord Montague shook his head and screwed 
up his keen little eyes. His mind was in full 
play. " I know women, Mrs. Mavick, and I tell 
you there is something behind this. Somebody 
has been in the stable." The noble lord usually 
dropped into slang when he was excited. 
" I don't understand your language," said Mrs. 
Mavick, straightening herself up in her seat. 
" I beg pardon. It is just a way of speaking 
on the turf. When a favorite goes lame the 
morning of the race, we know some one has been 
tampering with him. I tell you there is some 
one else. She has some one else in her mind. 
That's the reason of it." 
"Nonsense," cried Mrs. Mavick, with the 
energy of conviction. " It's impossible. There is 
 
nobody, couldn't be anybody. She has led a se- 
cluded life till this hour. She hasn't a fancy, I 
know." 
" I hope you are right," he replied, in the tone 
of a man wishing to take a cheerful view. " Per- 
haps I don't understand American girls." 
" I think I do," she said, smiling. " They are 
generally amenable to reason. Evelyn now has 
something definite before her. I am glad you 
proposed." 
And this was the truth. Mrs. Mavick was 
elated. So far her scheme was completely suc- 
cessful. As to Evelyn, she trusted to various in- 
fluences she could bring to bear. Ultimate diso- 
bedience of her own wishes she did not admit 
as a possible thing. 
A part of her tactics was the pressure of pub- 
lic opinion, so far as society represents it — that 
is, what society expects. And therefore it hap- 
pened in a few days that a strong suspicion got 
about that Lord Montague had proposed formally 
to the heiress. The suspicion was strengthened 
by appearances. Mrs. Mavick did not deny the 
rumor. That there was an engagement was not 
affirmed, but that the honor had been or would 
be declined was hardly supposable. 
In the painful interview between mother and 
daughter concerning this proposal, Evelyn had 
no reason to give for her opposition, except that 
 
she did not love him. This point Mrs. Mavick 
skilfully evaded and minimized. Of course she 
would love him in time. The happiest marriages 
were founded on social fitness and the judgment 
of parents, and not on the inexperienced fancies 
of young girls. And in this case things had gone 
too far to retreat. Lord Montague's attentions 
had been too open and undisguised. He had 
been treated almost as a son by the house. So- 
ciety looked upon the affair as already settled. 
Had Evelyn reflected on the mortification that 
would fall upon her mother if she persisted in 
her unreasonable attitude? And Mrs. Mavick 
shed actual tears in thinking upon her own hu- 
miliation. 
The ball which followed these private events 
was also a part of Mrs. Mavick's superb tactics. 
It would be in a way a verification of the public 
rumors and a definite form of pressure which 
public expectation would exercise upon the lonely 
girl. 
The splendor of this function is still remem- 
bered. There were, however, features in the 
glowing descriptions of it which need to be men- 
tioned. It was assumed that it was for a pur- 
pose, that it was in fact, if not a proclamation, 
at least an intimation of a new and brilliant 
Anglo-Saxon alliance. No one asserted that an 
engagement existed. But the prominent figures 
 
in the spectacle were the English lord and the 
young and beautiful American heiress. There 
Avere portraits of both in half-tone. The full 
names and titles expectant of Lord Montague were 
given, a history of the dukedom of Tewkesbury 
and its ancient glory, with the long line of noble 
names allied to tha young lord, who was a social 
star of the first magnitude, a great traveller, a 
sportsman of the stalwart race that has the 
world for its field. (" Poor little Monte," said 
the managing editor as he passed along these 
embellishments with his approval.) 
On the other hand, the proposed alliance was 
no fall in dignity or family to the English house. 
The heiress was the direct descendant of the 
Eschelles, an old French family, distinguished 
in camp and court in the glorious days of the 
Grand Monarch. 
CHAPTER XXIII 
Peobably no man ever wrote and published 
a book, a magazine story, or a bit of verse with- 
out an instant decision to repeat the experiment. 
The inclination once indulged becomes insatiable. 
It is not altogether the gratified vanity of seeing 
one's self in print, for, before printing was, the 
composers and reciters of romances and songs 
were driven along the same path of unrest and 
anxiety, when once they had the least recogni- 
tion of their individual distinction. The impulse 
is more subtle than the desire for wealth or the 
