"Is--is that all?" inquired my little neighbour.

"Can't you guess the rest?"

But she only sighed, looking down at the lace handkerchief which she had
been absently twisting in her lap.

"You know," said I, "what keys unlock the meaning of all stories?"

She nodded.

"The keys of The Past," I said.

She sighed, looking down into her smooth little empty hands:

"I threw them away, long ago," she said. "For me there remains only one
more door. And that unlocks of itself."

And we sat there, thinking, through the still summer afternoon.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

CHAPTER XXI

IN A BELGIAN GARDEN


That evening I found Williams curled up in his corner at the Café Jaune.

"You are sun-burned," he said, inspecting me.

"A little. I've been in Florida."

"What?"

"With the ghosts of years ago. But it seemed very realistic to me as I
sat in the sun and recalled it. Possibly it was even real enough to
sun-burn me a little."

He eyed me with considerable chagrin. Perhaps he thought that he had the
monopoly of poetic fancies. It was most agreeable to me to touch him
up. They're a jealous bunch, those whittlers of fact into fiction.

However, he brightened as he drew a letter from his pocket:

"You remember Kingsbury, of course?" he asked.

"Perfectly."

"And his friend Smith?"

"Certainly."

"I've a letter here from Kingsbury. He expects to be in Paris this
autumn."

"I'd like to see him," said I, "but I'm going home before Autumn."

"Haven't you seen him in all these years?"

"Not once."

"And you never heard----"

"Oh, go on, Williams, and tell your story. I'm perfectly willing to
listen. Cut out all that coy business and tear off a few page-proofs.
Besides," I added, maliciously, "I know how it's done, now."

"How do you know?"

"Because I did a little in that line myself this afternoon. Let me tell
you something; there isn't a profession in all the world which can be so
easily and quickly acquired as yours. Therefore pin no more orders and
ribbons and stars and medals on yourself. The only difference between
you and your public is that they have no time to practice your
profession in addition to their own."

Which took him down a peg or two, until we both took down another peg or
two. But when I called the waiter and ordered a third, he became more
cheerful.

"You're a jollier," he said, "aren't you?"

"I did a little this afternoon. Go on about Kingsbury and Smithy. After
all, Williams, you really do it much better than I."

Which mollified him amazingly, and he began with a brisk confidence in
his powers of narration:

       

When Kingsbury had finished his course at the University of Paris, there
appeared to be little or nothing further in the way of human knowledge
for him to acquire. However, on the chance of disinterring a fragment or
two of amorphous information which he might find use for in his
projected book, The Economy of Marriage, he allowed himself another year
of travel, taking the precaution to invite Smith--the flippancy of Smith
being calculated to neutralise any over-intellectual activity in
himself.

He needed a rest; he had had the world on his hands too long--ever since
his twentieth year. Smith was the man to give him mental repose. There
was no use attempting to discuss social economy with Smith, or of
interesting that trivial and inert mind in race suicide. Smith was
flippant. Often and often Kingsbury thought: "How can he have passed
through The University of Paris and remained flippant?" But neither
Sorbonne nor Pantheon produced marked effect upon Smith, and although it
is true that Paris horridly appealed to him, in the remainder of Europe
he found nothing better to do than to unpack his trout-rod and make for
the nearest puddle wherever they found themselves, whether in the Alps,
the Tyrol, the Vosges, or the forests of Belgium, where they at present
occupied a stucco-covered villa with servants, stables, hot-houses, and
a likely trout stream for Smith to dabble in, at a sum per month so
ridiculously reasonable that I shall not mention it for fear of
depopulating my native land.

Besides, they had the youthful and widowed Countess of Semois for their
neighbour.

And so it came about that, in this leafy, sunny land of cream and honey,
one very lovely morning, young Kingsbury, booted and spurred and still
flushed from his early gallop through the soft wood-roads of the forest,
found Smith at breakfast under the grape-arbour, immersed in a popular
novel and a bowl of strawberries.

"Hello," said Smith, politely, pushing the fruit across the table. "The
berries are fine; I took a corking trout an hour ago; we'll have it
directly."

"I saw the Countess," said Kingsbury, carelessly unbuttoning his gloves
as he stood there.

"Oh, you did? Well, which one is the Countess, the girl with the dark
hair, or that stunning red-haired beauty?"

"How could I tell? I couldn't ride up and ask, could I? They were
driving, as usual. The King was out, too; I wish he'd wear a decent
hat."

"With the moral welfare of two hemispheres on your hands, you ought not
to feel responsible for the King's derby," observed Smith.

Any exaggeration of fact always perplexed Kingsbury. He flattened out
his gloves, stuck his riding-crop into his left boot, and looked at
Smith through his monocle.

"For all the talk about the King," he said, "the peasantry salute him as
reverently as though he were their father."

To which Smith, in his flippancy, replied:

  "The children for their monarch pray,
    Each buxom lass and laddie;
  A thousand reasons good have they
    To call the King their daddy."

Kingsbury retired to make his toilet; returned presently smelling less
of the stables, seated himself, drowned a dozen luscious strawberries
in cream, tasted one, and cast a patronising eye upon the trout, which
had been prepared à la Meunière.

"Corker, isn't he?" observed Smith, contemplating the fish with
pardonable pride. "He's poached, I regret to inform you."

"Poached?"

"Oh, not like an egg; I mean that I took him in private waters. It was a
disgusting case of poaching."

"What on earth did you do that for?"

"Now, I'll explain that in a minute. You know where our stream flows
under the arch in the wall which separates our grounds from the park
next door? Well, I was casting away on our side, never thinking of
mischief, when, flip! flop! spatter! splash! and, if you please, right
under the water-arch in the wall this scandalous trout jumped. Of
course, I put it to him good and plenty, but the criminal creature, on
purpose to tempt me, backed off down stream and clean through the arch
into our neighbour's water.

"'Is it poaching if I go over after him?' thought I. And, Kingsbury, do
you know I had no time to debate that moral question, because, before I
could reply to myself, I found myself hoisting a ladder to the top of
the wall and lowering it on the other side--there are no steps on the
other side. And what do you think? Before I could rouse myself with the
cry of 'Trespasser! Help!' I found myself climbing down into the park
and casting a fly with sinful accuracy.

"'Is it right?' I asked myself in an agony of doubt. But, alas,
Kingsbury, before I had a ghost of a chance to answer myself in the
negative I had hooked that trout fast; and there was the deuce to pay,
for I'd forgotten my landing-net!"

He shook his head, helped Kingsbury to a portion of the trout, and
refilled his own cup. "Isn't it awful," he said.

"It's on a par with most of your performances," observed the other,
coldly. "I suppose you continued your foolish conduct with that girl,
too."

"What girl?"

"And I suppose you kissed her again! Did you?"

"Kiss a girl?" stammered Smith. "Where have you been prowling?"

"Along the boundary wall on my side, if you want to know. A week ago I
chanced to be out by moonlight, and I saw you kiss her, Smith, across
the top of the park wall. It is your proper rôle, of course, to deny it,
but let me tell you that I think it's a pretty undignified business of
yours, kissing the Countess of Semois's servants----"

"What the deuce----"

"Well, who was it you kissed over the top of the wall, then?"

"I don't know," said Smith, sullenly.

"You don't know! It wasn't the Countess, was it?"

"Of course it wasn't the Countess. I tell you I don't know who it was."

"Nonsense!"

"No, it isn't. What happened was this: I climbed up the niches to sit on
the wall by moonlight and watch the trout jump; and just as my head
cleared the wall the head of a girl came up on the other side--right
against the moon, so it was just a shadow--a sort of silhouette. It was
an agreeable silhouette; I couldn't really see her features."

"That was no reason for kissing them, was it?"

"No--oh, not at all. The way that came about was most extraordinary.
You see, we were both amazed to find our two noses so close together,
and I said--something foolish--and she laughed--the prettiest,
disconcerted little laugh, and that moon was there, and suddenly, to my
astonishment, I realised that I was going to kiss her if she didn't
move.... And--she didn't."

"You mean to say----"

"Yes, I do; I haven't the faintest notion who it was I kissed. It
couldn't have been the Countess, because I've neither fought any duels
nor have I been arrested. I refuse to believe it could have been the
cook, because there was something about that kiss indescribably
aromatic--and, Kingsbury, she didn't say a word--she scarcely breathed.
Now a cook would have screamed, you know----"

"I don't know," interrupted Kingsbury.

"No, no, of course--neither do I."

"Idiot!" said Kingsbury wrathfully. "Suppose it had been the Countess!
Think of the consequences! Keep away from that wall and don't attempt to
ape the depravity of a morally sick continent. You shocked me in Paris;
you're mortifying me here. If you think I'm going to be identified with
your ragged morals you are mistaken."

"That's right; don't stand for 'em. I've been reading novels, and I need
a jar from an intelligence absolutely devoid of imagination."

"You'll get it if you don't behave yourself," said Kingsbury
complacently. "The Countess of Semois probably knows who we are, and ten
to one we'll meet her at that charity bazar at Semois-les-Bains this
afternoon."

"I'm not going," said Smith, breaking an egg.

"Not going? You said you would go. Our Ambassador will be there, and we
can meet the Countess if we want to."

"I don't want to. Suppose, after all, I had kissed her! No, I'm not
going, I tell you."

"Very well; that's your own affair," observed the other, serenely
occupied with the trout. "Perhaps you're right, too; perhaps the happy
scullion whom you honoured may have complained about you to her
mistress."

Smith sullenly tinkled the bell for more toast; a doll-faced maid in cap
and apron brought it.

"Probably," said Kingsbury in English, "that is the species you
fondled----"

Smith opened his novel and pretended to read; Kingsbury picked up the
morning paper, propped it against a carafe, sipped his coffee, and
inspected the headlines through his single eyeglass. For a few minutes
peace and order hovered over the American breakfast; the men were young
and in excellent appetite; the fragrance of the flowers was not too
intrusive; discreet breezes stirred the leaves; and well-behaved little
birds sang judiciously in several surrounding bushes.

As Kingsbury's eyes wandered over the paper, gradually focussing up a
small paragraph, a frown began to gather on his youthful features.

"Here's a nice business!" he said, disgusted.

Smith looked up indifferently. "Well, what is it?" he asked, and then,
seeing the expression on his friend's face, added: "Oh, I'll bet I
know!"

"This," said Kingsbury, paying him no attention, "is simply sickening."

"A young life bartered for a coronet?" inquired Smith, blandly.

"Yes. Isn't it shameful? What on earth are our women thinking of? Are
you aware, Smith, that over ninety-seven and three tenths per cent of
such marriages are unhappy? Are you? Why, I could sit here and give you
statistics----"

"Don't, all the same."

"Statistics that would shock even you. And I say solemnly, that I, as an
American, as a humanitarian, as a student of social economics----"

"Help! Help!" complained Smith, addressing the butter.

"Social economics," repeated the other, firmly, "as a patriot, a man,
and a future father, I am astounded at the women of my native land! Race
suicide is not alone what menaces us; it is the exportation of our
finest and most vigorous stock to upbuild a bloodless and alien
aristocracy at our expense."

Smith reached for the toast-rack.

"And if there's one thing that irritates me," continued Kingsbury, "it's
the spectacle of wholesome American girls marrying titles. Every time
they do it I get madder, too. Short-sighted people like you shrug their
shoulders, but I tell you, Smith, it's a terrible menace to our country.
Beauty, virtue, wealth, all are being drawn away from America into the
aristocratic purlieus of England and the Continent."

"Then I think you ought to see about it at once," said Smith, presenting
himself with another slice of toast.

Kingsbury applied marmalade to a muffin and flattened out the newspaper.

"I tell you what," he said, "some American ought to give them a dose of
their own medicine."

"How?"

"By coming over here and marrying a few of their titled women."

Smith sipped his coffee, keeping his novel open with the other hand: "We
do that sort of thing very frequently in literature, I notice. There's
an American doing it now in this novel. I've read lots of novels like
it, too." He laid his head on one side, musing. "As far as I can
calculate from the romantic literature I have absorbed, I should say
that we Americans have already carried off practically all of the
available titled beauties of Europe."

"My friend," said Kingsbury, coldly, "do you realise that I am serious?"

"About what?"

"About this scandalous chase after titles. In the book on which I am now
engaged I am embodying the following economic propositions: For every
good, sweet, wholesome American girl taken from America to bolster up a
degenerate title, we men of America ought to see to it that a physically
sound and titled young woman be imported and married to one of us."

"Why a titled one?"

"So that Europe shall feel it the more keenly," replied Kingsbury
sternly. "I've often pondered the matter. If only one American could be
found sufficiently self-sacrificing to step forward and set the example
by doing it, I am convinced, Smith, that the tardy wheels of justice
would begin to revolve and rouse a nation too long imposed upon."

"Why don't you do something in that way yourself? There's a fine
physical specimen of the Belgian nobility in the villa next door."

"I don't know her," said Kingsbury, turning a delicate shell pink.

"You will when you go to the bazar. Stop fiddling with that newspaper
and answer me like a man."

But Kingsbury only reopened the newspaper and blandly scanned the
columns. Presently he began muttering aloud as he skimmed paragraph
after paragraph; but his mutterings were ignored by Smith, who,
coffee-cup in hand, was again buried in his novel.

"I've a mind to try it," repeated Kingsbury in a higher key. "It is the
duty of every decent American to improve his own race. If we want
physical perfection in anything don't we select the best type
obtainable? Why don't we do it in marrying? I tell you, Smith, this is
the time for individual courage, honesty and decency. Our duty is clear;
we must meet the impoverishment, which these titled marriages threaten,
with a restless counter-raid into the enemy's country. When a European
takes from us one of our best, let us take from Europe her best, health
for health, wealth for wealth, title for title! By Heaven, Smith, I'm
going to write a volume on this."

"Oh, you're going to write about it."

"I am."

"And then what?" asked Smith taking the newspaper from Kingsbury and
opening it.

"What then? Why--why, some of us ought to give our country an example.
I'm willing to do it--when I have time----"

"Here's your chance, then," urged Smith, studying the society column.
"Here's all about the charity bazar at Semois-les-Bains this afternoon.
The Countess sells dolls there. Our Ambassador will be on hand, and you
can meet her easily enough. The rest," he added, politely, "will, of
course, be easy."

Kingsbury lighted a cigar, leaned back in his chair, and flung one
booted leg over the other.

"If I were not here in Belgium for a rest--" he began.

"You are--but not alone for bodily and mental repose. Think how it would
rest your conscience to offset that marriage which has irritated you by
marrying the Countess of Semois--by presenting to your surprised and
admiring country a superb and titled wife for patriotic purposes."

"I don't know which she is," retorted Kingsbury, intensely annoyed. "If
she's the tall girl with dark hair and lots colour I could manage to
fall in love easily enough. I may add, Smith, that you have an
extraordinary way of messing up the English language."

He arose, walking out toward the gate, where the smiling little postman
came trotting up to meet him, fishing out a dozen letters and papers.

"Letters from home, Smith," he observed, strolling back to the arbour.
"Here's one for you"--he laid it beside Smith's plate--"and here's one
from my sister--I'll just glance at it if you'll excuse me." He opened
it and read placidly for a few moments. Then, of a sudden a terrible
change came into his face; he hastily clapped his monocle to his eye,
glared at the written page, set his teeth, and crumpled it furiously in
his hand.

"Smith," he said, hoarsely, "my sister writes that she's engaged to
marry an--an Englishman!"

"What of it?" inquired Smith.

"What of it? I tell you my sister--my sister--my sister--is going to
marry a British title!"

"She's probably in love, isn't she? What's the harm----"

"Harm?"

For a full minute Kingsbury stood petrified, glaring at space, then he
cast his cigar violently among the roses.

"I have a mind," he said, "to get into a top hat and frock coat and
drive to Semois-les-Bains.... You say she sells dolls?"

"She's due to sell 'em, according to the morning paper."

For a few moments more Kingsbury paced the lawn; colour, due to wrath or
rising excitement, touched his smooth, handsome face, deepening the mask
of tan. He was good to look upon, and one of the most earnest young men
the gods had ever slighted.

"You think I'm all theory, don't you?" he said, nervously. "You shrug
those flippant shoulders of yours when I tell you what course an
American who honors his country should pursue. Now I'll prove to you
whether or not I'm sincere. I am deliberately going to marry the
Countess of Semois; and this afternoon I shall take the necessary
measures to fall in love with her. That," he added, excitedly, "can be
accomplished if she is the dark-haired girl we've seen driving."

"Now, I don't suppose you really intend to do such a----"

"Yes, I do! It sounds preposterous, but it's logical. I'm going to
practice what I expect to spend my life in preaching; that's all. Not
that I want to marry just now--I don't; it's inconvenient. I don't want
to fall in love, I don't want to marry, I don't want to have a dozen
children," he said, irritably; "but I'm going to, Smith! I'm going to,
for the sake of my country. Pro patria et gloria!"

"Right away?"

"What rot you talk, sometimes! But I'm ready to make my words mean
something; I'm ready to marry the Countess of Semois. There is no
possible room for doubt; any man can marry any woman he wants to; that
is my absolute conviction. Anyhow, I shall ask her."

"As soon as you meet her?"

"Certainly not. I expect to take several days about it----"

"Why employ several days in sweet dissembling?"

"Confound it, I'm not going to dissemble! I'm going to let her know that
I admire her the moment I meet her. I'm going to tell her about my
theory of scientific marriages. If she is sensible--if she is the woman
America requires--if she is the dark-haired girl--she'll understand." He
turned squarely on Smith: "As for you, if you were the sort of American
that you ought to be you would pick out some ornamental and wholesome
young Belgian aristocrat and marry her in the shortest time that decency
permits! That's what you'd do if you had a scintilla of patriotism in
your lazy make-up!"

"No, I wouldn't----"

"You would! Look at yourself--a great, hulking, wealthy, idle young man,
who stands around in puddles catching fish while Europe runs off our
loveliest women under your bovine nose. Shame on you! Have you no desire
to be up and doing?"

"Oh, of course," said Smith, unruffled; "if several passion-smitten
duchesses should climb over the big wall yonder and chase me into the
garden----"

Kingsbury swung on his spurred heels and strode into the house.




[Illustration]

CHAPTER XXII

A YOUTHFUL PATRIOT


Smith sauntered out to the terrace, looked at the sky, sniffed the
roses, and sat down in the shadow of a cherry tree, cocking his feet up
and resting his novel on his knees. Several hours later, aroused by the
mellow clash of harness and noise of wheels, he looked out over the
terrace wall just in time to catch a glimpse of the victoria of his
neighbour, gold and green livery, strawberry roans, flashing wheels and
all; and quite alone under her brilliant sunshade, the dark-haired girl
whom Kingsbury had decided to marry as soon as he could arrange to fall
in love with her.

"I fancy she's the Countess, all right," mused Smith; "but, to me, the
girl with red hair is vastly--more--more alluring----"

The sound of wheels again broke the thread of his sleepy meditation;
their dog-cart was at the gate; and presently he perceived Kingsbury,
hatted and gloved to perfection, get in, take the reins from the
coachman, loop his whip, assume the posture popularly attributed to
pupils of Howlett, and go whirling away through the lazy sunshine of a
perfect Belgian afternoon.

"The beast has lunched without me," muttered Smith, yawning and looking
at his watch. Then he got up, stretched, tinkled the bell, and when the
doll-faced maid arrived, requested an omelet à la Semois and a bottle of
claret.

He got it in due time, absorbed it lazily, casting a weatherwise eye on
the sky at intervals with a view to afternoon fishing; but the sun was
too bright; besides, his book had become interesting in a somewhat
maudlin fashion, inasmuch as the lovers must come to a clinch in the
next chapter or not at all.

"You can't tell in modern novels," he muttered; "a girl has a way of
side-stepping just as the bell rings: but the main guy ought to make
good within the next page or two. If he doesn't he's a dub!"

With which comment he sought his hammock for an hour's needed repose;
but he had slumbered longer than that when he found himself sitting bolt
upright, the telephone bell ringing in his ears.

Comfortably awake now, he slid from the hammock, and, entering the
house, stepped into the smoking-room.

"Hello!" he said, unhooking the receiver.

Kingsbury's voice replied: "I'm here in Semois-les-Bains, at the charity
bazar. Can you distinguish what I say?"

"Perfectly, my Romeo! Proceed."

"I'm in a fix. Our Ambassador didn't come, and I don't know anybody to
take me over and present me."

"Buy a doll, idiot!"

"Confound it, I've already bought ten! That doesn't give me the
privilege of doing anything but buying ten more. She's busy; about five
million people are crowding around her."

"Buy every doll she has! Put her out of business, man! Then if you can't
fix it somehow you're a cuckoo. Is the Countess the dark-haired girl?"

"Certainly."

"How do you know?"

"Isn't she here selling dolls? Didn't the paper say she was going to?"

"Yes--but hadn't you better find out for certain before you----"

"I am certain; anyway, I don't care. Smith, she is the most
radiantly----"

"All right; ring off----"

"Wait! I wanted to tell you that she has the prettiest way of smiling
every time I buy a doll. And then, while she wraps up the infernal thing
in ribbons and tissue we chat a little. I'd like to murder our
Ambassador! Do you think that if I bought her entire stock----"

"Yes, I do!"

"What do you think?"

"What you do."

"But I don't think anything at all. I am asking you----"

"Try it, anyhow."

"All right. Hold the wire, Smith. I'll report progress----"

"What! Stand here and wait----"

"Don't be selfish. I'll return in a moment."

The "moment" stretched into a buzzing, crackling half hour, punctuated
by impatient inquiries from Central. Suddenly an excited: "Hello,
Smith!"

"Hello, you infernal----"

"I've done it! I've bought every doll! She's the sweetest thing; I told
her I had a plan for endowing a ward in any old hospital she might name,
and she thinks we ought to talk it over, so I'm going to sit out on the
terrace with her--Smith!"

"What?"

"Oh, I thought you'd gone! I only wanted to say that she is far, far
lovelier than I had supposed. I can't wait here talking with you any
longer. Good-by!"

"Is she the Countess?" shouted Smith incredulously. But Kingsbury had
rung off.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

CHAPTER XXIII

ON THE WALL


Smith retired to his room to bathe, clothed himself in snowy linen and
fresh tennis flannels, and descended again, book under his arm, to
saunter forth through heavy tangles of cinnamon-tinted Flemish roses and
great sweet-scented peonies, musing on love and fate.

"Kingsbury and his theories! The Countess of Semois will think him
crazy. She'll think us both crazy! And I am not sure that we're not;
youth is madness; half the world is lunatic! Take me, for example; I
never did a more unexpected thing than kissing that shadow across the
wall. I don't know why, I don't know how, but I did it; and I am out of
jail yet. Certainly it must have been the cook. Oh, Heavens! If cooks
kiss that way, what, what must the indiscretion of a Countess
resemble?... She did kiss back.... At least there was a soft,
tremulous, perfumed flutter--a hint of delicate counter-pressure----"

But he had arrived at the wall by that time.

"How like a woodland paradise!" he murmured sentimentally, youthful face
upraised to the trees. "How sweet the zephyr! How softly sing the
dicky-birds! I wonder--I wonder--" But what it was that perplexed him he
did not say; he stood eying the top of the wall as the furtive turkey
eyes its selected roost before coyly hopping thither.

"What's the use? If I see her I'll only take fright and skulk homeward.
Why do I return again and again to the scene of guilt? Is it Countess or
cook that draws me, or some one less exalted in the culinary confine?
Why, why should love get busy with me? Is this the price I pay for that
guileless kiss? Am I to be forever 'it' in love's gay game of tag?"

He ascended the steplike niche in the wall, peeped fearfully over into
his neighbour's chasse. Tree and tangle slept in the golden light of
afternoon; a cock-pheasant strutted out of a thicket, surveyed the
solitude with brilliant eyes, and strutted back again; a baby rabbit
frisked across the carrefour into the ferny warren beyond; and "Bubble,
bubble, flowed the stream, like an old song through a dream."

Sprawling there flat on top of the sun-warmed stucco wall, white
sunlight barring the pages of his book, he lifted his head to listen.
There was a leafy stirring somewhere, perhaps the pheasant rustling in
the underbrush. The sing-song of the stream threaded the silence; and as
he listened it seemed to grow louder, filling the woods with low,
harmonious sounds. In the shallows he heard laughter; in the pouring
waterfalls, echoes like wind-blown voices calling. Small grey and
saffron tinted birds, passing from twig to twig, peered at him
fearlessly; a heavy green lizard vanished between the stones with an
iridescent wriggle. Suddenly a branch snapped and the underbrush
crackled.

"Probably a deer," thought Smith, turning to look. Close inspection of
the thicket revealed nothing; he dropped his chin on his hands, crossed
his legs, and opened his book.

The book was about one of those Americans who trouble the peace of mind
of Princesses; and this was the place to read it, here in the enchanted
stillness of the ancient Belgian forest, here where the sunshine spread
its net on fretted waters, where lost pools glimmered with azure when
the breeze stirred overhead--here where his neighbor was a Countess and
some one in her household wore a mass of gold-red hair Greek
fashion--and Aphrodite was not whiter of neck nor bluer eyed than she.

The romance that he read was designed to be thickly satisfying to
American readers, for it described a typical American so accurately that
Smith did not recognize the type. Until he had been enlightened by
fiction he never imagined Americans were so attractive to exotic
nobility. So he read on, gratified, cloyed, wondering how the Princess,
although she happened to be encumbered with a husband, could stand for
anything but ultimate surrender to the Stars and Stripes; and trustfully
leaving it to another to see that it was done morally.

Hypnotized by the approaching crisis, he had begun already to finger the
next page, when a slight crash in the bushes close by and the swish of
parting foliage startled him from romance to reality.

But he had looked up too late; to slink away was impossible; to move was
to reveal himself. It was she! And she was not ten feet distant.

One thing was certain: whether or not she was the shadowy partner of his
kiss, she could not be the Countess, because she was fishing,
unattended, hatless, the sleeves of her shirtwaist rolled up above her
white elbows, a book and a short landing-net tucked under her left arm.
Countesses don't go fishing unattended; gillies carry things. Besides,
the Countess of Semois was in Semois-les-Bains selling dolls to
Kingsbury.

The sun glowed on her splendid red hair; she switched the slender rod
about rather awkwardly, and every time the cast of flies became
entangled in a nodding willow she set her red lips tight and with an
impatient "Mais, c'est trop bête! Mais, c'est vraiment trop----"

It was evident that she had not seen him where he lay on the wall; the
chances were she would pass on--indeed her back was already toward
him--when the unexpected happened: a trout leaped for a gnat and fell
back into the pool with a resounding splash, sending ring on ring of
sunny wavelets toward the shore.

"Ah! Te voilà!" she said aloud, swinging her line free for a cast.

Smith saw what was coming and tried to dodge, but the silk line whistled
on the back-cast, and the next moment his cap was snatched from his head
and deposited some twenty feet out in the centre of the pool.

The amazement of the fair angler was equal to his own as she looked
hastily back over her shoulder and discovered him on the wall.

There is usually something undignified about a man whose hat has been
knocked off; to laugh is as fatal as to show irritation; and Smith did
neither, but quietly dropped over to her side of the wall, saying, "I'm
awfully sorry I spoiled your cast. Don't mind the cap; that trout was a
big one, and he may rise again."

He had spoken in English, and she answered in very pretty English: "I am
so sorry--could I help you to recover your hat?"

"Thank you; if you would let me take your rod a moment."

"Willingly, monsieur."

She handed him the rod; he loosened the line, measured the distance with
practiced eye, turned to look behind him, and, seeing there was scant
room for a long back-cast, began sending loop after loop of silken line
forward across the water, using the Spey method, of which none except an
expert is master.

The first cast struck half-way, but in line; the next, still in line,
slipped over the cap, but failed to hook. Then, as he recovered, there
was a boiling rush in the water, a flash of pink and silver, and the rod
staggered.

"I--I beg your pardon!" he exclaimed aghast; "I have hooked your trout!"

"Play him," she said quickly. The elfin shriek of the reel answered; he
gave the fish every ounce the quivering rod could spare, the great trout
surged deeply, swerved, circled and bored slowly upstream.

"This fish is magnificent," said Smith, guiltily. "You really must take
the rod----"

"I shall not, indeed."

"But this is not fair!"

"It is perfectly fair, monsieur--and a wonderful lesson in angling to
me. Oh, I beg you to be careful! There is a sunken tree limb beyond!"

Her cheeks were the colour of wild roses, her blue eyes burned like
stars.

"He's down; I can't stir him," said Smith. "He's down like a salmon!"

She linked her hands behind her back. "What is to be done?" she asked
calmly.

"If you would gather a handful of those pebbles and throw one at a time
into the pool where he is lying----"

Before he finished speaking she had knelt, filled her palms with golden
gravel, and stood ready at the water's edge.

"Now?" she nodded, inquiringly.

"Yes, one at a time; try to hit him."

The first pebble produced no effect; neither did the second, nor yet the
third.

"Throw a handful at him," he suggested, and braced himself for the
result. A spray of gravel fell; the great fish sulked motionless.

"There's a way--" began Smith, feeling in his pockets for his key-ring.
It was not there.

"Could I be of any use?" she asked, looking up at Smith very
guilelessly.

"Why, if I had something--a key-ring or anything that I could hang over
the taut line--something that would slide down and jog him gently----"

"A hairpin?" she asked.

"I'm afraid it's too light."

She reflected a moment; her bent forefinger brushed her velvet lips.
Then she began to unfasten a long gold pin at her throat.

"Oh, not that!" exclaimed Smith, anxiously. "It might slip off."

"It can't; there's a safety clasp. Anyway, we must have that trout!"

"But I could not permit----"

"It is I who permit myself, monsieur."

"No, no, it is too generous of you----"

"Please!" She held the pin toward him; he shook his head; she hesitated,
then with a quick movement she snapped the clasp over the taut line and
sent it spinning toward the invisible fish.

He saw the gold glimmer become a spark under water, die out in dusky
depths; then came a rushing upheaval of spray, a flash, the rod quivered
to the reel-plate, and the fight began in fury. The rod was so slim, so
light--scarce three ounces--that he could but stand on the defensive at
first. Little by little the struggle became give and take, then
imperceptibly he forced the issue, steadily, delicately, for the tackle
was gossamer, and he fought for the safety of the golden clasp as well
as for his honour as an angler.

"Do you know how to net a trout?" he asked presently. She came and stood
at his shoulder, net poised, blue eyes intent upon the circling fish.

"I place it behind him, do I not?" she asked coolly.

"Yes--when I give the word----"

One more swerve, a half circle sheering homeward, nearer, nearer----

A moment later the huge trout lay on the moss; iridescent tints played
over its broad surface, shimmering hues deepened, waxing, warning; the
spots glowed like rubies set in bronze.

Kneeling there, left hand resting on the rod, Smith looked up at her
over his shoulder; but all she said was: "Ah, the poor, brave thing! The
gallant fish! This is wrong--all wrong. I wish we had not taken a life
we cannot give again."

"Shall I put the trout back madame?"

She looked at him surprised.

"Would you?" she asked incredulously.

"If you desire it."

"But it is your fish."

"It is yours, madame."

"Will it live? Oh, try to make it live!"

He lifted the beautiful fish in both hands, and, walking to the water's
edge, laid it in the stream. For a while it floated there, gold and
silver belly turned to the sky, gills slowly inflating and collapsing.
Presently a fin stirred; the spasmodic movement of the gill-covers
ceased, and the breathing grew quiet and steady. Smith touched the
pectoral fins; the fish strove to turn over; he steadied the dorsal fin,
then the caudal, righting the fish. Slowly, very slowly, the great trout
moved off, farther, farther, sinking into cool, refreshing depths; there
was a dull glitter under the water, a shadow gliding, then nothing
except the green obscurity of the pool criss-crossed with surface
sunshine.

When Smith turned around the girl was pensively regarding the water. His
cap had stranded on a shoal almost at his feet; he recovered it, wrung
the drops from it, and stood twirling it thoughtfully in the sunlight.

"I've ruined it, haven't I?" she asked.

"Oh, no; it's a shooting-cap. Like Tartarin, I shall probably ventilate
it later in true Midi fashion."

She laughed; then, with the flushed composure of uneasiness: "Thank you
for a lesson in angling. I have learned a great deal--enough at least
to know that I shall not care to destroy life, even in a fish."

"That is as it should be," he replied coolly. "Men find little charm in
women who kill."

"That is scarcely in accord with the English novels I read--and I read
many," she said laughing.

"It is true, nevertheless. Saint Hubert save us from the woman who can
watch the spark of life fade out in the eye of any living thing."

"Are you not a little eccentric, monsieur?"

"If you say so. Eccentricity is the full-blown blossom of mediocrity."

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

CHAPTER XXIV

A JOURNEY TO THE MOON


There was a silence so politely indifferent on her part that he felt it
to be the signal for his dismissal. And he took his leave with a
formality so attractive, and a good humour so informal, that before she
meant to she had spoken again--a phrase politely meaningless in itself,
yet--if he chose to take it so--acting as a stay of execution.

"I was wondering," he said, amiably, "how I was going to climb back over
the wall."

A sudden caprice tinged with malice dawned in the most guileless of
smiles as she raised her eyes to his:

"You forgot your ladder this time, didn't you?"

Would he ever stop getting redder? His ears were afire, and felt
enormous.

"I am afraid you misunderstood me," she said, and her smile became
pitilessly sweet. "I am quite sure a distinguished foreign angler could
scarcely condescend to notice trespass signs in a half-ruined old
park----"

His crimson distress softened her, perhaps, for she hesitated, then
added impulsively: "I did not mean it, monsieur; I have gone too
far----"

"No, you have not gone too far," he said. "I've disgraced myself and
deserve no mercy."

"You are mistaken; the trout may have come from your side of the
wall----"

"It did, but that is a miserable excuse. Nothing can palliate my
conduct. It's a curious thing," he added, bitterly, "that a fellow who
is decent enough at home immediately begins to do things in Europe."

"What things, monsieur?"

"Ill-bred things; I might as well say it. Theoretically, poaching is
romantic; practically, it's a misdemeanor--the old conflict between
realism and romance, madame--as typified by a book I am at present
reading--a copy of the same book which I notice you are now carrying
under your arm."

She glanced at him, curious, irresolute, waiting for him to continue.
And as he did not, but stood moodily twirling his cap like a sulky
schoolboy, she leaned back against a tree, saying: "You are very severe
on romance, monsieur."

"You are very lenient with reality, madame."

"How do you know? I may be far more angry with you than you suspect.
Indeed, every time I have seen you on the wall--" she hesitated, paling
a trifle. She had made a mistake, unless he was more stupid than she
