"That's it, governor," said Bolton, thinking it necessary to confirm
the statement. "I've got five small children at home almost starvin',
your honor."

"That is sad. What is your business, my man?"

It was Bolton's turn to be embarrassed.

"My business?" he repeated.

"That is what I said."

"I'm a blacksmith, but I'm willing to do any honest work."

"That is commendable; but don't you know that it is very ill-bred to
smoke a pipe in a gentleman's house?"

"Excuse me, governor!"

And Bolton extinguished his pipe, and put it away in a pocket of his
corduroy coat.

"I was just telling him the same thing," said Curtis. "Don't trouble
yourself any further, uncle. I will inquire into the man's
circumstances, and help him if I can."

"Very well, Curtis. I came down because I thought I heard voices."

John Linden slowly returned to his chamber, and left the two alone.

"The governor's getting old," said Bolton. "When I was butler here,
fifteen years ago, he looked like a young man. He didn't suspect that
he had ever seen me before."

"Nor that you had carried away his son, Bolton."

"Who hired me to do it? Who put me up to the job, as far as that
goes?"

"Hush! Walls have ears. Let us return to business."

"That suits me."

"Look here, Tim Bolton," said Curtis, drawing up a chair, and lowering
his voice to a confidential pitch, "you say you want money?"

"Of course I do."

"Well, I don't give money for nothing."

"I know that. What's wanted now?"

"You say the boy is alive?"

"He's very much alive."

"Is there any necessity for his living?" asked Curtis, in a sharp,
hissing tone, fixing his eyes searchingly on Bolton, to see how his
hint would be taken.

"You mean that you want me to murder him?" said Bolton, quickly.

"Why not? You don't look over scrupulous."

"I am a bad man, I admit it," said Bolton, with a gesture of
repugnance, "a thief, a low blackguard, perhaps, but, thank Heaven! I
am no murderer! And if I was, I wouldn't spill a drop of that boy's
blood for the fortune that is his by right."

"I didn't give you credit for so much sentiment, Bolton," said Curtis,
with a sneer. "You don't look like it, but appearances are deceitful.
We'll drop the subject. You can serve me in another way. Can you open
this secretary?"

"Yes; that's in my line."

"There is a paper in it that I want. It is my uncle's will. I have a
curiosity to read it."

"I understand. Well, I'm agreeable."

"If you find any money or valuables, you are welcome to them. I only
want the paper. When will you make the attempt?"

"To-morrow night. When will it be safe?"

"At eleven o'clock. We all retire early in this house. Can you force
an entrance?"

"Yes; but it will be better for you to leave the outer door unlocked."

"I have a better plan. Here is my latchkey."

"Good! I may not do the job myself, but I will see that it is done.
How shall I know the will?"

"It is in a big envelope, tied with a narrow tape. Probably it is
inscribed: 'My will.'"

"Suppose I succeed, when shall I see you?"

"I will come around to your place on the Bowery. Good-night!"

Curtis Waring saw Bolton to the door, and let him out. Returning, he
flung himself on a sofa.

"I can make that man useful!" he reflected. "There is an element of
danger in the boy's presence in New York; but it will go hard if I
can't get rid of him! Tim Bolton is unexpectedly squeamish, but there
are others to whom I can apply. With gold everything is possible. It's
time matters came to a finish. My uncle's health is rapidly failing--
the doctor hints that he has heart disease--and the fortune for which
I have been waiting so long will soon be mine, if I work my cards
right. I can't afford to make any mistakes now."




Chapter IV.
Florence.


Florence Linden sat in the library the following evening in an
attitude of depression. Her eyelids were swollen, and it was evident
she had been weeping. During the day she had had an interview with her
uncle, in which he harshly insisted upon her yielding to his wishes,
and marrying her cousin, Curtis.

"But, uncle," she objected, "I do not love him."

"Marry him, and love will come."

"Never!" she said, vehemently.

"You speak confidently, miss," said Mr. Linden, with irritation.

"Listen, Uncle John. It is not alone that I do not love him. I dislike
him--I loathe--him."

"Nonsense! that is a young girl's extravagant nonsense."

"No, uncle."

"There can be no reason for such a foolish dislike. What can you have
against him?"

"It is impressed upon me, uncle, that Curtis is a bad man. There is
something false--treacherous--about him."

"Pooh! child! you are more foolish than I thought. I don't say Curtis
is an angel. No man is; at least, I never met any such. But he is no
worse than the generality of men. In marrying him you will carry out
my cherished wish. Florence, I have not long to live. I shall be glad
to see you well established in life before I leave you. As the wife of
Curtis you will have a recognized position. You will go on living in
this house, and the old home will be maintained."

"But why is it necessary for me to marry at all, Uncle John?"

"You will be sure to marry some one. Should I divide my fortune
between you and Curtis, you would become the prey of some unscrupulous
fortune hunter."

"Better that than become the wife of Curtis Waring----"

"I see, you are incorrigible," said her uncle, angrily. "Do you refuse
obedience to my wishes?"

"Command me in anything else, Uncle John, and I will obey," pleaded
Florence.

"Indeed! You only thwart me in my cherished wish, but are willing to
obey me in unimportant matters. You forget the debt you owe me."

"I forget nothing, dear uncle. I do not forget that, when I was a poor
little child, helpless and destitute, you took me in your arms, gave
me a home, and have cared for me from that time to this as only a
parent could."

"You remember that, then?"

"Yes, uncle. I hope you will not consider me wholly ungrateful."

"It only makes matters worse. You own your obligations, yet refuse to
make the only return I desire. You refuse to comfort me in the closing
days of my life by marrying your cousin."

"Because that so nearly concerns my happiness that no one has a right
to ask me to sacrifice all I hold dear."

"I see you are incorrigible," said John Linden, stormily. "Do you know
what will be the consequences?"

"I am prepared for all."

"Then listen! If you persist in balking me, I shall leave the entire
estate to Curtis."

"Do with your money as you will, uncle. I have no claim to more than I
have received."

"You are right there; but that is not all."

Florence fixed upon him a mute look of inquiry.

"I will give you twenty-four hours more to come to your senses. Then,
if you persist in your ingratitude and disobedience, you must find
another home."

"Oh, uncle, you do not mean that?" exclaimed Florence, deeply moved.

"I do mean it, and I shall not allow your tears to move me. Not
another word, for I will not hear it. Take twenty-four hours to think
over what I have said."

Florence bowed her head on her hands, and gave herself up to sorrowful
thoughts. But she was interrupted by the entrance of the servant, who
announced:

"Mr. Percy de Brabazon."

An effeminate-looking young man, foppishly dressed, followed the
servant into the room, and made it impossible for Florence to deny
herself, as she wished to do.

"I hope I see you well, Miss Florence," he simpered.

"Thank you, Mr. de Brabazon," said Florence, coldly. "I have a slight
headache."

"I am awfully sorry, I am, upon my word, Miss Florence. My doctor
tells me it is only those whose bwains are vewy active that are
troubled with headaches."

"Then, I presume, Mr. de Brabazon," said Florence, with intentional
sarcasm, "that you never have a headache."

"Weally, Miss Florence, that is vewy clevah. You will have your joke."

"It was no joke, I assure you, Mr. de Brabazon."

"I--I thought it might be. Didn't I see you at the opewa last
evening?"

"Possibly. I was there."

"I often go to the opewa. It's so--so fashionable, don't you know?"

"Then you don't go to hear the music?"

"Oh, of course, but one can't always be listening to the music, don't
you know. I had a fwiend with me last evening--an Englishman--a
charming fellow, I assure you. He's the second cousin of a lord, and
yet--you'll hardly credit it--we're weally vewy intimate. He tells me,
Miss Florence, that I'm the perfect image of his cousin, Lord Fitz
Noodle."

"I am not at all surprised."

"Weally, you are vewy kind, Miss Florence. I thought it a great
compliment. I don't know how it is, but evewybody takes me for an
Englishman. Strange, isn't it?"

"I am very glad."

"May I ask why, Miss Florence?"

"Because---- Well, perhaps I had better not explain. It seems to give
you pleasure. You would, probably, prefer to be an Englishman."

"I admit that I have a great admiration for the English character.
It's a gweat pity we have no lords in America. Now, if you would only
allow me to bring my English fwiend here----

"I don't care to make any new acquaintances. Even if I did, I prefer
my own countrymen. Don't you like America, Mr. de Brabazon?"

"Oh, of courth, if we only had some lords here."

"We have plenty of flunkeys."

"That's awfully clevah, 'pon my word."

"Is it? I am afraid you are too complimentary. You are very
good-natured."

"I always feel good-natured in your company, Miss Florence. I--wish I
could always be with you."

"Really! Wouldn't that be a trifle monotonous?" asked Florence,
sarcastically.

"Not if we were married," said Percy, boldly breaking the ice.

"What do you mean, Mr. de Brabazon?"

"I hope you will excuse me, Miss Florence--Miss Linden, I mean; but
I'm awfully in love with you, and have been ever so long--but I never
dared to tell you so. I felt so nervous, don't you know? Will you
marry me? I'll be awfully obliged if you will."

Mr. de Brabazon rather awkwardly slipped from his chair, and sank on
one knee before Florence.

"Please arise, Mr. de Brabazon," said Florence, hurriedly. "It is
quite out of the question--what you ask--I assure you."

"Ah! I see how it is," said Percy, clasping his hands sadly. "You love
another."

"Not that I am aware of."

"Then I may still hope?"

"I cannot encourage you, Mr. de Brabazon. My heart is free, but it can
never be yours."

"Then," said Percy, gloomily, "there is only one thing for me to do."

"What is that?"

"I shall go to the Bwooklyn Bwidge, climb to the parapet, jump into
the water, and end my misewable life."

"You had better think twice before adopting such a desperate
resolution, Mr. de Brabazon. You will meet others who will be kinder
to you than I have been----"

"I can never love another. My heart is broken. Farewell, cruel girl.
When you read the papers tomorrow morning, think of the unhappy Percy
de Brabazon!"

Mr. de Brabazon folded his arms gloomily, and stalked out of the room.

"If my position were not so sad, I should be tempted to smile," said
Florence. "Mr. de Brabazon will not do this thing. His emotions are as
strong as those of a butterfly."

After a brief pause Florence seated herself at the table, and drew
toward her writing materials.

"It is I whose heart should be broken!" she murmured; "I who am driven
from the only home I have ever known. What can have turned against me
my uncle, usually so kind and considerate? It must be that Curtis has
exerted a baneful influence upon him. I cannot leave him without one
word of farewell."

She took up a sheet of paper, and wrote, rapidly:

    "Dear Uncle: You have told me to leave your house, and I
    obey. I cannot tell you how sad I feel, when I reflect that I
    have lost your love, and must go forth among strangers--I
    know not where. I was but a little girl when you gave me a
    home. I have grown up in an atmosphere of love, and I have
    felt very grateful to you for all you have done for me. I
    have tried to conform to your wishes, and I would obey you in
    all else--but I cannot marry Curtis; I think I would rather
    die. Let me still live with you as I have done. I do not care
    for any part of your money--leave it all to him, if you think
    best--but give me back my place in your heart. You are angry
    now, but you will some time pity and forgive your poor
    Florence, who will never cease to bless and pray for you.
    Good-bye!

                                                 "Florence."

She was about to sign herself Florence Linden, but reflected that she
was no longer entitled to use a name which would seem to carry with it
a claim upon her uncle.

The tears fell upon the paper as she was writing, but she heeded them
not. It was the saddest hour of her life. Hitherto she had been
shielded from all sorrow, and secure in the affection of her uncle,
had never dreamed that there would come a time when she would feel
obliged to leave all behind her, and go out into the world, friendless
and penniless, but poorest of all in the loss of that love which she
had hitherto enjoyed.

After completing the note, Florence let her head fall upon the table,
and sobbed herself to sleep.

An hour and a half passed, the servant looked in, but noticing that
her mistress was sleeping, contented herself with lowering the gas,
but refrained from waking her.

And so she slept on till the French clock upon the mantle struck
eleven.

Five minutes later and the door of the room slowly opened, and a boy
entered on tiptoe. He was roughly dressed. His figure was manly and
vigorous, and despite his stealthy step and suspicious movements his
face was prepossessing.

He started when he saw Florence.

"What, a sleeping gal!" he said to himself. "Tim told me I'd find the
coast clear, but I guess she's sound asleep, and won't hear nothing. I
don't half like this job, but I've got to do as Tim told me. He says
he's my father, so I s'pose it's all right. All the same, I shall be
nabbed some day, and then the family'll be disgraced. It's a queer
life I've led ever since I can remember. Sometimes I feel like leaving
Tim, and settin' up for myself. I wonder how 'twould seem to be
respectable."

The boy approached the secretary, and with some tools he had brought
essayed to open it. After a brief delay he succeeded, and lifted the
cover. He was about to explore it, according to Tim's directions, when
he heard a cry of fear, and turning swiftly saw Florence, her eyes
dilated with terror, gazing at him.

"Who are you?" she asked in alarm, "and what are you doing there?"




Chapter V.
Dodger.


The boy sprang to the side of Florence, and siezed her wrists in his
strong young grasp.

"Don't you alarm the house," he said, "or I'll----"

"What will you do?" gasped Florence, in alarm. The boy was evidently
softened by her beauty, and answered in a tone of hesitation:

"I don't know. I won't harm you if you keep quiet."

"What are you here for?" asked Florence, fixing her eyes on the boy's
face; "are you a thief?"

"I don't know--yes, I suppose I am."

"How sad, when you are so young."

"What! miss, do you pity me?"

"Yes, my poor boy, you must be very poor, or you wouldn't bring
yourself to steal."

"No. I ain't poor; leastways, I have enough to eat, and I have a place
to sleep."

"Then why don't you earn your living by honest means?"

"I can't; I must obey orders."

"Whose orders?"

"Why, the guv'nor's, to be sure."

"Did he tell you to open that secretary?"

"Yes."

"Who is the guv'nor, as you call him?"

"I can't tell; it wouldn't be square."

"He must be a very wicked man."

"Well, he ain't exactly what you call an angel, but I've seen wuss men
than the guv'nor."

"Do you mind telling me your own name?"

"No; for I know you won't peach on me. Tom Dodger."

"Dodger?"

"Yes."

"That isn't a surname."

"It's all I've got. That's what I'm always called."

"It is very singular," said Florence, fixing a glance of mingled
curiosity and perplexity upon the young visitor.

While the two were earnestly conversing in that subdued light,
afforded by the lowered gaslight, Tim Bolton crept in through the door
unobserved by either, tiptoed across the room to the secretary,
snatched the will and a roll of bills, and escaped without attracting
attention.

"Oh, I wish I could persuade you to give up this bad life," resumed
Florence, earnestly, "and become honest."

"Do you really care what becomes of me, miss?" asked Dodger, slowly.

"I do, indeed."

"That's very kind of you, miss; but I don't understand it. You are a
rich young lady, and I'm only a poor boy, livin' in a Bowery dive."

"What's that?"

"Never mind, miss, such as you wouldn't understand. Why, all my life
I've lived with thieves, and drunkards, and bunco men, and----"

"But I'm sure you don't like it. You are fit for something better."

"Do you really think so?" asked Dodger, doubtfullly.

"Yes; you have a good face. You were meant to be good and honest, I am
sure."

"Would you trust me?" asked the boy, earnestly, fixing his large, dark
eyes eloquently on the face of Florence.

"Yes, I would if you would only leave your evil companions, and become
true to your better nature."

"No one ever spoke to me like that before, miss," said Dodger, his
expressive features showing that he was strongly moved. "You think I
could be good if I tried hard, and grow up respectable?"

"I am sure you could," said Florence, confidently.

There was something in this boy, young outlaw though he was, that
moved her powerfully, and even fascinated her, though she hardly
realized it. It was something more than a feeling of compassion for a
wayward and misguided youth.

"I could if I was rich like you, and lived in a nice house, and
'sociated with swells. If you had a father like mine----"

"Is he a bad man?"

"Well, he don't belong to the church. He keeps a gin mill, and has
ever since I was a kid."

"Have you always lived with him?"

"Yes, but not in New York."

"Where then?"

"In Melbourne."

"That's in Australia."

"Yes, miss."

"How long since you came to New York?"

"I guess it's about three years."

"And you have always had this man as a guardian? Poor boy!"

"You've got a different father from me, miss?"

Tears forced themselves to the eyes of Florence, as this remark
brought forcibly to her mind the position in which she was placed.

"Alas!" she answered, impulsively, "I am alone in the world!"

"What! ain't the old gentleman that lives here your father?"

"He is my uncle; but he is very, very angry with me, and has this very
day ordered me to leave the house."

"Why, what a cantankerous old ruffian he is, to be sure!" exclaimed
the boy, indignantly.

"Hush! you must not talk against my uncle. He has always been kind to
me till now."

"Why, what's up? What's the old gentleman mad about?"

"He wants me to marry my cousin Curtis--a man I do not even like."

"That's a shame! Is it the dude I saw come out of the house a little
while ago?"

"Oh, no; that's a different gentleman. It's Mr. de Brabazon."

"You don't want to marry him, do you?"

"No, no!"

"I'm glad of that. He don't look as if he knew enough to come in when
it rained."

"The poor young man is not very brilliant, but I think I would rather
marry him than Curtis Waring."

"I've seen him, too. He's got dark hair and a dark complexion, and a
wicked look in his eye."

"You, too, have noticed that?"

"I've seen such as him before. He's a bad man."

"Do you know anything about him?" asked Florence, eagerly.

"Only his looks."

"I am not deceived," murmured Florence, "it's not wholly prejudice.
The boy distrusts him, too. So you see, Dodger," she added, aloud, "I
am not a rich young lady, as you suppose. I must leave this house, and
work for my living. I have no home any more."

"If you have no home," said Dodger, impulsively, "come home with me."

"To the home you have described, my poor boy? How could I do that?"

"No; I will hire a room for you in a quiet street, and you shall be my
sister. I will work for you, and give you my money."

"You are kind, and I am glad to think I have found a friend when I
need one most. But I could not accept stolen money. It would be as bad
as if I, too, were a thief."

"I am not a thief! That is, I won't be any more."

"And you will give up your plan of robbing my uncle?"

"Yes, I will; though I don't know what my guv'nor will say. He'll half
murder me, I expect. He'll be sure to cut up rough."

"Do right, Dodger, whatever happens. Promise me that you will never
steal again?"

"There's my hand, miss--I promise. Nobody ever talked to me like you.
I never thought much about bein' respectable, and growin' up to be
somebody, but if you take an interest in me, I'll try hard to do
right."

At this moment, Mr. Linden, clad in a long morning gown, and holding a
candle in his hand, entered the room, and started in astonishment when
he saw Florence clasping the hand of one whose appearance led him to
stamp as a young rough.

"Shameless girl!" he exclaimed, in stern reproof. "So this is the
company you keep when you think I am out of the way!"




Chapter VI.
A Tempest.


The charge was so strange and unexpected that Florence was
overwhelmed. She could only murmur:

"Oh, uncle!"

Her young companion was indignant. Already he felt that Florence had
consented to accept him as a friend, and he was resolved to stand by
her.

"I say, old man," he bristled up, "don't you go to insult her! She's
an angel!"

"No doubt you think so," rejoined Mr. Linden, in a tone of sarcasm.
"Upon my word, miss, I congratulate you on your elevated taste. So
this is your reason for not being willing to marry your Cousin
Curtis?"

"Indeed, uncle, you are mistaken. I never met this boy till to-night."

"Don't try to deceive me. Young man, did you open my secretary?"

"Yes, sir."

"And robbed it into the bargain," continued Linden, going to the
secretary, and examining it. He did not, however, miss the will, but
only the roll of bills. "Give me back the money you have taken from
me, you young rascal!"

"I took nothing, sir."

"It's a lie! The money is gone, and no one else could have taken it."

"I don't allow no one to call me a liar. Just take that back, old man,
or I----"

"Indeed, uncle, he took nothing, for he had only just opened the
secretary when I woke up and spoke to him."

"You stand by him, of course, shameless girl! I blush to think that
you are my niece. I am glad to think that my eyes are opened before it
is too late."

The old merchant rang the bell violently, and aroused the house.
Dodger made no attempt to escape, but stood beside Florence in the
attitude of a protector. But a short time elapsed before Curtis Waring
and the servants entered the room, and gazed with wonder at the
tableau presented by the excited old man and the two young people.

"My friends," said John Linden, in a tone of excitement, "I call you
to witness that this girl, whom I blush to acknowledge as my niece,
has proved herself unworthy of my kindness. In your presence I cut her
off, and bid her never again darken my door."

"But what has she done, uncle?" asked Curtis. He was prepared for the
presence of Dodger, whom he rightly concluded to be the agent of Tim
Bolton, but he could not understand why Florence should be in the
library at this late hour. Nor was he able to understand the evidently
friendly relations between her and the young visitor.

"What has she done?" repeated John Linden. "She has introduced that
young ruffian into the house to rob me. Look at that secretary! He has
forced it open, and stolen a large sum of money."

"It is not true, sir," said Dodger, calmly, "about taking the money, I
mean. I haven't taken a cent."

"Then why did you open the secretary?"

"I did mean to take money, but she stopped me."

"Oh, she stopped you?" repeated Linden, with withering sarcasm. "Then,
perhaps, you will tell me where the money is gone?"

"He hasn't discovered about the will," thought Curtis, congratulating
himself; "if the boy has it, I must manage to give him a chance to
escape."

"You can search me if you want to," continued Dodger, proudly. "You
won't find no money on me."

"Do you think I am a fool, you young burglar?" exclaimed John Linden,
angrily.

"Uncle, let me speak to the boy," said Curtis, soothingly. "I think he
will tell me."

"As you like, Curtis; but I am convinced that he is a thief."

Curtis Waring beckoned Dodger into an adjoining room.

"Now, my boy," he said, smoothly, "give me what you took from the
secretary, and I will see that you are not arrested."

"But, sir, I didn't take nothing--it's just as I told the old duffer.
The girl waked up just as I'd got the secretary open, and I didn't
have a chance."

"But the money is gone," said Curtis, in an incredulous tone.

"I don't know nothing about that."

"Come, you'd better examine your pockets. In the hurry of the moment
you may have taken it without knowing it."

"No, I couldn't."

"Didn't you take a paper of any kind?" asked Curtis, eagerly.
"Sometimes papers are of more value than money."

"No, I didn't take no paper, though Tim told me to."

Curtis quietly ignored the allusion to Tim, for it did not suit his
purpose to get Tim into trouble. His unscrupulous agent knew too much
that would compromise his principal.

"Are you willing that I should examine you?"

"Yes, I am. Go ahead."

Curtis thrust his hand into the pockets of the boy, who, boy as he
was, was as tall as himself, but was not repaid by the discovery of
anything. He was very much perplexed.

"Didn't you throw the articles on the floor?" he demanded,
suspiciously.

"No, I didn't."

"You didn't give them to the young lady?"

"No; if I had she'd have said so."

"Humph! this is strange. What is your name?"

"Dodger."

"That's a queer name; have you no other?"

"Not as I know of."

"With whom do you live?"

"With my father. Leastways, he says he's my father."

There was a growing suspicion in the mind of Curtis Waring. He scanned
the boy's features with attention. Could this ill-dressed boy--a
street boy in appearance--be his long-lost and deeply wronged cousin?

"Who is it that says he is your father?" he demanded, abruptly.

"Do you want to get him into trouble?"

"No, I don't want to get him into trouble, or you either. Better tell
me all, and I will be your friend."

"You're a better sort than I thought at first," said Dodger. "The man
I live with is called Tim Bolton."

"I though so," quickly ejaculated Curtis. He had scarcely got out the
words before he was sensible that he had made a mistake.

"What! do you know Tim?" inquired Dodger, in surprise.

"I mean," replied Curtis, lamely, "that I have heard of this man
Bolton. He keeps a saloon on the Bowery, doesn't he?"

"Yes."

"I thought you would be living with some such man. Did he come to the
house with you tonight?"

"Yes."

"Where is he?"

"He stayed outside."

"Perhaps he is there now."

"Don't you go to having him arrested," said Dodger, suspiciously.

"I will keep my promise. Are you sure you didn't pass out the paper
and the money to him? Think now."

"No, I didn't. I didn't have a chance. When I came into the room
yonder I saw the gal asleep, and I thought she wouldn't hear me, but
when I got the desk open she spoke to me, and asked me what I was
doin'."

"And you took nothing?"

"No."

"It seems very strange. I cannot understand it. Yet my uncle says the
money is gone. Did anyone else enter the room while you were talking
with Miss Linden?"

"I didn't see any one."

"What were you talking about?"

"She said the old man wanted her to marry you, and she didn't want
to."

"She told you that?" exclaimed Curtis, in displeasure.

"Yes, she did. She said she'd rather marry the dude that was here
early this evenin'."

"Mr. de Brabazon!"

"Yes, that's the name."

"Upon my word, she was very confidential. You are a queer person for
her to select as a confidant."

"Maybe so, sir; but she knows I'm her friend."

"You like the young lady, then? Perhaps you would like to marry her
yourself?"

"As if she'd take any notice of a poor boy like me. I told her if her
uncle sent her away, I'd take care of her and be a brother to her."

"How would Mr. Tim Bolton--that's his name, isn't it?--like that?"

"I wouldn't take her to where he lives."

"I think, myself, it would hardly be a suitable home for a young lady
brought up on Madison Avenue. There is certainly no accounting for
tastes. Miss Florence----"

"That's her name, is it?"

"Yes; didn't she tell you?"

"No; but it's a nice name."

"She declines my hand, and accepts your protection. It will certainly
be a proud distinction to become Mrs. Dodger."

"Don't laugh at her!" said Dodger, suspiciously.

"I don't propose to. But I think we may as well return to the
library."

"Well," said Mr. Linden, as his nephew returned with Dodger.

"I have examined the boy, and found nothing on his person," said
Curtis; "I confess I am puzzled. He appears to have a high admiration
for Florence----"

"As I supposed."

"She has even confided to him her dislike for me, and he has offered
her his protection."

"Is this so, miss?" demanded Mr. Linden, sternly.

"Yes, uncle," faltered Florence.

"Then you can join the young person you have selected whenever you
please. For your sake I will not have him arrested for attempted
burglary. He is welcome to what he has taken, since he is likely to
marry into the family. You may stay here to-night, and he can call for
you in the morning."

John Linden closed the secretary, and left the room, leaving Florence
sobbing. The servants, too, retired, and Curtis was left alone with
her.

"Florence," he said, "accept my hand, and I will reconcile my uncle to
you. Say but the word, and----"

"I can never speak it, Curtis! I will take my uncle at his word.
Dodger, call for me to-morrow at eight, and I will accept your
friendly services in finding me a new home."

"I'll be on hand, miss. Good-night!"

"Be it so, obstinate girl!" said Curtis, angrily. "The time will come
when you will bitterly repent your mad decision."




Chapter VII.
Florence Leaves Home.


Florence passed a sleepless night. It had come upon her so suddenly,
this expulsion from the home of her childhood, that she could not
fully realize it. She could not feel that she was taking her last look
at the familiar room, and well-remembered dining-room, where she had
sat down for the last time for breakfast. She was alone at the
breakfast table, for the usual hour was half-past eight, and she had
appointed Dodger to call for her at eight.

"Is it true, Miss Florence, that you're going away?" asked Jane, the
warm-hearted table girl, as she waited upon Florence.

"Yes, Jane," answered Florence, sadly.

"It's a shame, so it is! I didn't think your uncle would be so
hard-hearted."

"He is disappointed because I won't marry my Cousin Curtis."

"I don't blame you for it, miss. I never liked Mr. Waring. He isn't
half good enough for you."

"I say nothing about that, Jane; but I will not marry a man I do not
love."

"Nor would I, miss. Where are you going, if I may make so bold?"

"I don't know, Jane," said Florence, despondently.

"But you can't walk about the streets."

"A trusty friend is going to call for me at eight o'clock; when he
comes admit him."

"It is a--a young gentleman?"

"You wouldn't call him such. He is a boy, a poor boy; but I think he
is a true friend. He says he will find me a comfortable room
somewhere, where I can settle down and look for work."

"Are you going to work for a living, Miss Florence?" asked Jane,
horrified.

"I must, Jane."

"It's a great shame--you, a lady born."

"No, Jane, I do not look upon it in that light. I shall be happier for
having my mind and my hands occupied."

"What work will you do?"

"I don't know yet. Dodger will advise me."

"Who, miss?"

"Dodger."

"Who is he?"

"It's the boy I spoke of."

"Shure, he's got a quare name."

"Yes; but names don't count for much. It's the heart I think of, and
this boy has a kind heart."
