


 

" Good-mornin'," she drawled. "I had a mind to 
set up for you last night, but I was tired. You like 
to get up early, don't you ? It 's just six. Miss Walker 
and Miss Carter don't git up till eight, Mr. Emory till 
nine fifteen, and your ma till eleven. The Major 's 
uncertain. But I'm real glad you like gittin' up 
early " 

"Will you kindly send me a boy?" interrupted 
Betty. " I wish a letter taken to the post-office." 

The woman came forward and extended her hand. 
" I'll give it to him," she said. 

" Send the boy to me. I have other orders to give 
him." 

As the woman turned away, Betty thought she detected a shade of disappointment on her face. " Has 
she that most detestable vulgarity of her class, curiosity?" she thought. " She seems to have observed 
the family very closely." 

The boy came, accompanied by Miss Trumbull, who 
made a slight but perceptible effort to see the address 
of the letter as Betty handed it to him. 

"Take this at once and bring me back a dollar's 
worth of stamps ; and go also to the village store and 
bring me some samples of worsted." 

She thought of several other things she did not 
want,- reflecting that she must in the future herself 
take to the post-office such letters as she did not wish 
Miss Trumbull to inspect and possibly read. The boy 
went his way, and Betty turned to the housekeeper and 
regarded her sharply. 

" I 'm afraid you'll find this a lonely situation," she 
said. "We are only here for a few months in the 



 

Well, of course I like the society of nice people, 
but I guess I can stand it. Poor folks can't pick and 
choose, and I suppose you wouldn't.mind my havin' 
a friend with me in the winter, would you ? " 

"Certainly not," said Betty, softening a little. But 
she did not like the woman, who was not frankly 
plebeian, but had buttered herself over with a coat of 
third-rate pretentiousness. And her voice and method 
of speech were irritating. She had a fat inflection and 
the longest drawl Betty had ever heard. Upon every 
fourth or fifth word she prolonged the drawl, and accomplished the effect of smoothing down her voice 
with her tongue. Capable as she might be, Betty 
wondered if she could stand Miss Trumbull through 
the summer. But the position was a very difficult one 
to fill. Even an old couple found it lonely, and a 
woman with a daughter never had been permitted to 
remain for two consecutive years. If the woman 
could be kept in the background, it might be worth 
while to give her a trial. 

Betty went out of doors and down to the lake. It 
lay in the cup of a peak, and about it towered higher 
peaks, black with pine forests, only a path here and 
there cutting their primeval gloom. Betty stepped 
into a boat and rowed beyond sight of her house and 
the hotel. Then she lay down, pushed a cushion 
under her head, and drifted. It had been a favorite 
pastime of hers since childhood, but this morning her 
mind for the first time opened to the danger of a 
wild and brooding solitude, still palpitating with the 
passions which had given it birth, for those whose 
own were awake. 

" Civilization does wonders for us," she said aloud 



 

she could have raised her voice and been unheard, 
and she revelled in her solitude. " It makes us really 
believe that conventions are the only comfortable conditions in the world, certainly indispensable. Up 
here " 

" If he and I were here alone for one week," she 
continued uncompromisingly and aloud to the mountains, " the world would cease to exist as far as we 
both were concerned. And I wish he were here and 
the Adirondacks adrift in space ! " 

She sat up suddenly after this wish; but although 
it had flushed her face, she had said the words deliberately and made no haste to unsay them. She 
looked ahead to the north end of the lake and the 
dark quiet aisles above. And when she met him there 
on Saturday morning, she must hold down her passion 
as she would hold down a mad dog. She must look 
with bright friendly eyes at the man to whose arms her 
imagination had given her unnumbered times. It 
seemed to her that she was an independent intellect 
caught and tangled in a fish-net of traditions. To 
violate the greatest of social laws was abhorrent to 
every inherited instinct. Her intellect argued that 
man was born for happiness and was a fool to put it 
from him. The social laws were arbitrary and had 
their roots in expediency alone ; man and his needs 
were made before the community. But the laws had 
been made long before her time, and they were bone 
of her bone. 

She knew that he would not be the one to break 
down the barrier, that he would leave her if she 
manifested uncontrollable weakness, not from the 
highest motives only, but because he had long since 



 

ceased to court ruin by folly; his self-control was 
many years older than herself. Doubtless he would 
never betray himself to her, no matter how much he 
might love her, unless she so tempted him that passion 
leaped above reason. And she knew that this was 
possible. There was no mistaking the temperament of 
the man. He was virile and sensual, but he had 
ordered that his passions should be the subjects of his 
brain; and so no doubt they were. 

Betty had no intention of forcing any such crisis, 
often as she might toy with the idea in her mind. 
But for the first time she compelled herself to look 
beyond the present, beyond the time when she could 
no longer sit in her boudoir and play to him, and 
shake him lightly by the hand as he left her. Perhaps 
she could not even get through this summer without 
betraying the flood that shook her nerves. If the 
barriers went down she must look into what? She 
gave her insight its liberty, and turned white. It 
seemed to her that the lake and the forest disappeared 
and a blank wall surrounded her. She lay down in the 
boat and pressed the corner of the cushion against her 
eyes. A thousand voices in her soul, for generations 
dumb and forgotten, seemed to awake and describe the 
agony of women, an agony which survived the mortal 
part that gave it expression, to live again and again in 
unwary hearts. 

She sat up suddenly and took hold of the oars. 
"That will do for this morning," she said. "It is so 
true that none of us can stand more than just so much 
intensity that I suppose if this dear dream of mine 
went to pieces I should have intervals when life would 
seem brilliant by contrast with my misery. I might 





even find mental rest in pouring tea again for attache's. 
And there is always the pleasure of assuaging hunger. 
I am ravenous." 



IV 



AFTER breakfast an almost hilarious meal, for Emory 
and Sally Carter were in the highest spirits and sparred 
with much vigor Betty and Harriet went for a walk. 
There was a long level path about the lake for a mile 
or more before they turned into the forest, and Betty 
noted that Harriet, although her gait still betrayed 
indolence, held herself with an air of unmistakable 
pride. She had improved in other respects ; her 
arrangement of dress and hair no longer looked rural, 
she not only had ceased to bite her nails, but had 
put them in vivid order, and the pronunciation of her 
words was wholly white. 

" She will be a social success one of these days," 
thought Betty, " or with that voice and beauty she 
could doubtless win fame and wealth, and have a 
brilliant and enjoyable life. The tug will come when 
she wants to marry; but perhaps she won't want to 
for a long while or will fall in love with a foreigner 
who won't mind." 

She longed to ask Harriet if she were happy, if she 
had forgotten ; but she dreaded reviving a distasteful 
subject. She would be glad never to hear it alluded to 
again. 

Harriet did not allude to it. She talked of her 
studies, of the many pleasures she had found in Washington, of the kindness of Mr. Emory and Sally Carter, 
and of her delight to see Betty again. As she talked, 
Betty decided that the change in her went below the 
surface. She had regained all the self-control that her 
sudden change of circumstances had threatened, and 
something more. It was not hardness, nor was it 
exactly coldness. It was rather a studied aloofness. 
" Has she decided to shut herself up within herself? " 
thought Betty. " Does she think that will make life 
easier for her?" 

Aloud she said, 

" Would not you like to go to Europe for a year or so ? 
I could easily find a chaperon, and you would enjoy it." 

" Oh, yes, I shall enjoy it. I feel as if I held the 
world in the hollow of my hand, now that I have got 
used to gratifying every wish ; " and she threw back her 
head and dilated her nostril. 

"What have I launched upon the world?" thought 
Betty. " She certainly will even with Fate in some 
way." But she said, " I am glad you and Sally get on 
well. She has her peculiarities." 

" I reckon I could get on with any one ; but she 
doesn't like me, all the same." 

"Are you sure? Why shouldn't she? " 

"I don't know," replied Miss Walker, dryly. 
" Women don't always understand each other." 

Sally's name suggested the housekeeper to Betty. 

" I don't want you to be offended with me, Harriet," 
she said hesitatingly, " if I ask you not to be familiar 
with Miss Trumbull. You have not had the experience 
with that type that I have had. You cannot give them 
an inch. If you treat them consistently as upper ser- 
vants when they are in your employ, and ignore them 



 

if they are not, they will keep their place and give you 
no annoyance ; but treat them with something more 
than common decency and they leap at once for 
equality." 

"Well you must remember that I was not always 
so fine as I am now, and Miss Trumbull does not seem 
so much of an inferior to me as she does to you. To 
tell you the truth, it does me good to come down off 
my high horse occasionally. I reckon I'll get over 
that; sometimes I want to so hard I could step on 
everybody that is common and second-class. I don't 
deny I 'm as ambitious as I reckon I 've got a right to 
be, but old habits are strong, and I 'm lazy, and it's 
lonesome up here. Your mother and Major Carter 
talk from morning till night about the South before the 
War. Mr. Emory and Sally are always together, and 
talk so much about things I don't understand that I 
feel in the way. Miss Trumbull knows the private 
affairs of most every one in her village, and amuses 
me with her gossip ; that is all." 

Betty pricked up her ears at one of Harriet's revela- 
tion, and let the painful fact of her hospitality for vulgar gossip pass unnoticed. 

" Do you mean," she asked, " do you think that 
Mr. Emory is beginning to care for Sally? " 

" One can never be sure. I am certain he likes and 
admires her." 

" Oh, yes, he always has done that. But I wish he 
would fall in love with her. I am nearly sure that she 
more than likes him." 

" I am quite sure," said Harriet, dryly. "She would 
marry him about as quickly as/he asked her. I knew 
that the first time I saw them together." 



 

"And she certainly would make him happy," said 
Betty, thinking aloud. " She is so bright and amusing 
and cheerful. She is the only person I know who can 
always make him laugh, and the more he laughs the 
better it is for him, poor old chap ! And I think he 
is too old now for the nonsense of ruining his happiness because a woman has more money Harriet ! " 

Harriet had one of those mouths that look small in 
repose, but widen surprisingly with laughter. Betty, 
who had only seen her smile slightly at rare intervals, 
happened to glance up. Harriet's mouth had stretched 
itself into a grin revealing nearly every tooth in her 
head. And it was the fatuous grin of the negro, and 
again Betty saw her black. She gasped and covered 
her face with her hands. 

"Oh, never do that again," she said sharply. 
" Never laugh again as long as you live. Oh, poor 
girl ! poor girl ! " 

" I won't ask you what you mean," said Harriet, hur- 
riedly. "I reckon I can guess. Thank you for one 
more kindness." 

And the horror of that grin remained so long with 
Betty that it was some time before she thought to won- 
der what had caused it. 



BETTY amused herself for the next day or two observ- 
ing Jack Emory and Sally Carter. They unquestionably 
enjoyed each other's society, and Sally at times looked 
almost pretty again. But at the end of the second 
day Miss Madison shook her head. 

 

" He is not in love," she thought. " It does not 
affect him in that way." And she felt more satisfaction 
in her discovery than she would have anticipated. A 
woman would have a man go through life with only a 
skull cap where his surrendered scalp had been. To 
grow another is an insult to her power and pains her 
vanity. 

It occurred to Betty that she was not the only observant person in the house. She seemed always stum- 
bling over Miss Trumbull, who did not appear to listen 
at doors but was usually as closely within ear-shot as 
she could get. It was idle to suppose that the woman 
had any malignant motive in that well-conducted house- 
hold, and she seemed to be good-natured and even 
kindly. Interest in other people's affairs was evidently, 
save vanity, her strongest passion. It was the natural 
result of an empty life and a common mind. But 
simple or not, it was objectionable. 

Her vanity, her mistress had cause to discover, was 
more so. On Wednesday morning Betty returned 
home from a long tramp, earlier than was her habit, 
and went to her room. Miss Trumbull was standing 
before the mirror trying on one of her hats. 

" That 's real becomin' to me," she drawled, as Miss 
Madison entered the room. "I always could wear 
a hat turned up on one side, and most of your colors 
would suit me." 

Betty controlled her temper, but the effort hurt her. 
She would have liked to pour her scorn all over the 
creature. 

"You may have the hat," she said. "Only do me 
the favor not to enter my room again unless I send for 
you. The maid is very neat, and it needs no inspection." 



 

The woman's face turned a dark red. " I* m sorry 
you're mad," she said, "but there 's no harm, as I can 
see, in tryin' on a hat." 

"It is a matter of personal taste, not of right 
or wrong. I particularly dislike having my things 
touched." 

" Oh, of course I won't, then ; but I like nice things, 
and I haven't.seen too many of them." 

Again Betty relented. " I will leave you a good 
many at the end of the summer," she said. And the 
woman thanked her very nicely and went away. 

" I am glad I was not brutal to her," thought Betty. 
" Democracy is a great institution in spite of its nuisances. Still, I admire Hamilton more than Jefferson." 

When, that night, Mrs. Madison had a painful 
seizure, and Miss Trumbull was sympathetic and efficient, sacrificing every hour of her night's rest, Betty 
was doubly thankful that she had not been brutal. In 
the morning she gave her a wrap that matched the hat. 
Miss Trumbull tried it on at once, and revolved three 
times before the mirror, then strutted off with such evident delight in her stylish appearance that Betty's 
smile was almost sympathetic. But she dared not be 
more gracious, and Miss Trumbull only approached 
her when it was necessary. 

On Thursday afternoon Betty and Sally were rowing 
on the lake when the latter said abruptly, 

"Have you noticed anything between Jack and 
Harriet?" 

Betty nearly dropped her oars. " What Jack and 
Harriet?" 

Sally nodded. Her mouth was set. There was an 
angry sparkle in her eyes. " Yes, yes. They pretend 



 

to avoid each other, but they are in love or I never saw 
two people in love. I suspected it in Washington, but 
I have become sure of it up here. What is the matter ? 
I don't think she is his equal, if she is our thirty-first 
cousin, for I would bet my last dollar there was a mis- 
alliance somewhere but you look almost horror- 
struck." 

" I was, but I can't tell you why. I don't believe 
it 's true, though. She is not Jack's style. She hasn't.
a grain of humor in her." 

" When a man's imagination is captured by a beauty 
as perfect as that, he doesn't.discover that it is without humor till he has married it. Besides, any man 
can fall in love with any woman ; I 'm convinced of 
that. You might as well try to turn this lake upside 
down as to mate types." 

" I don't think she would deceive me," exclaimed 
Betty, hopefully. "I cannot tell you all, but I am 
nearly sure she would never do that." 

" Any woman who has a secret constantly on her 
mind is bound to become secretive, not to say deceitful 
in other ways. What is her secret?" she asked 
abruptly. " Has she negro blood in her veins? " 

" Oh, Sally ! " This time Betty did drop the oars, 
and her face was scarlet as she lunged after them. 
She was furious at having betrayed Harriet's secret, but 
Sally Carter had a fashion of going straight for the 
truth and getting it. 

" I thought so," said Miss Carter, dryly. " Don't take 
the trouble to deny it. And don't think for a moment, 
Betty dear, that I am going to embarrass you with 
further questions. I could never imagine you actuated by any but the highest motives. I should consider the whole thing none of my business if it were 
not for Jack. Faugh ! how he would hate her if he 
knew ! " 

" I am afraid he would. I don't believe he is man 
enough to love her better for her miserable inheritance." 

"He is a Southern gentleman; I should hope he 
would not. I am by no means without sympathy for 
her. I pity her deeply, and have ever since I dis- 
covered that she loved him. For he must be told." 

"Shall you tell him?" 

Sally did not answer for a moment, and her face 
flushed deeply. Then she said unsteadily : " No ; for I 
could not be sure of my motive. Here is my secret. 
I have loved Jack Emory ever since I can remember. 
It is impossible for me to assure myself that I would 
consider interference in their affairs warrantable if I 
cared nothing for him. I cannot afford to despise 
myself for tattling out of petty jealousy. But you are 
responsible for her. You should tell him." 

" I will speak to her as soon as we go back. If it is 
true that they are engaged, and if she refuses to tell 
him, I shall. But I 'd almost rather come out here and 
drown myself." 

"So should I." 

" You 're a brick, Sally, and I wish to heaven you 
were going to marry Jack to-morrow. That would be 
a really happy marriage." 

" So I have thought for years ! When he got over 
his attack of you, I began to hope, although I'd got 
wrinkles crying about him. I never thought of any 
other woman in the case." She laughed, with a defiant 
attempt to recover her old spirits. "And I cannot 
have the happiness of seeing him one day in bronze, 




and feeling that he is all mine ! For he hasn't.even 
that spark of luck which so often passes for infinitesi- 
mal greatness, poor dear !" 

" How did you guess that she had the taint in her? " 
asked Betty, as they were about to land. " She has 
not a suggestion of it in her face." 

" I felt it. So vaguely that I scarcely put it in words 
to myself until lately. And I never saw such an amount 
of pink on finger-nails in my life." 



VI 



BETTY went in search of Harriet, and found her in a 
summer-house reading an innocuous French romance 
which her professor had selected. There was no 
place near by where Miss Trumbull might lie concealed, and Betty went to the point at once. 

"Harriet," she said, "I am obliged to say something horribly painful if you want to marry any man 
you must tell him the truth. It would be a crime 
not to. The prejudices of of Southerners are 
deep and bitter; and and Oh, it is a terrible 
thing to have to say but I must if you had children they might be black." 

For a moment Betty thought that Harriet was dead, 
she turned so gray and her gaze was so fixed. But 
she spoke in a moment. 

" Why do you say this to me now ? " 

" Because I fear you and Jack Oh, I hope it is 
not true. The person who thinks you love each other 



 

may have been mistaken. But I could not wait to 
warn you. I should have told you in the beginning 
that when the time came either you must tell the 
man or I should ; but it was a hateful subject. God 
knows it is hard to speak now." 

Harriet seemed to have recovered herself. The 
color returned slowly to her face, her heavy lids 
descended. She rose and drew herself up to her full 
height with the air of complete melancholy which 
recalled one or two other memorable occasions. But 
there was a subtle change. The attitude did not 
seem so natural to her as formerly. 

"Your informant was only half right," she said 
sadly. " I love him, but he cares nothing for me. 
He is the best, the kindest of friends. It is no 
wonder that I love him. I suppose I was bound to 
love the first man who treated me with affectionate 
respect. I reckon I 'd have fallen in love with Uncle 
if he 'd been younger. Perhaps in Europe I may 
get over it. But he does not love me." 

Betty rose and looked at her steadily. What was 
in the brain behind those sad reproachful eyes? She 
laid her hand on the girl's shoulder. 

" Harriet," she said solemnly, " give me your word 
of honor that you will not marry him without telling 
him the truth. It may be that he does not love you, 
but he might and if you were without hope you 
would be unhappy. Promise me." 

Down in the depths of those melancholy eyes there 
was a flash, then Harriet lifted her head and spoke 
with the solemnity of one taking an oath. 

" I promise," she said. " I will marry no man 
without telling him the truth." 




This time her tone carried conviction, and Betty, relieved, sought Sally Carter. 

" Nonsense ! " exclaimed Miss Carter, when Betty 
had related the interview. " He is in love with her, 
although for some reason or other he is making an 
elaborate effort to conceal it." 

"She spoke very convincingly," said Betty, who 
would not admit doubt. 

" Anything with a drop of negro blood in it will lie. 
It can't help it. I wish the race were exterminated." 

"I wish the English had left it in Africa. They 
certainly saddled us with an everlasting curse." 

She was tempted to wish that Mr. Walker had never 
discovered her address; but although she did not love 
Harriet, she was grateful still for the opportunity to 
rescue her from the usual fate of her breed. But 
assuredly she did not wish her old friend to be 
sacrificed. 

Again she observed him closely, and came to the 
conclusion that Harriet had spoken the truth. He 
was gayer than of old, but his health was better and 
he was in cheerful company, not living his days and 
nights in his lonely damp old house on the Potomac 
River. He appeared to enjoy talking to Harriet, but 
there was nothing loverlike in his attitude, and he 
was almost her guardian. True, he was occasionally 
moody and absent, but a man must retain a few of 
his old spots ; and if he avoided somewhat the cousin 
whom he had once loved to melancholy, it was doubt- 
less because she found him as uninteresting as she 
found all men but one, and was not at sufficient pains 
to conceal her indifference. And then she admitted 
with a laugh that in the back of her mind she had 




never acknowledged the possibility of his loving an- 
other woman. 

She but half admitted that she wished to believe 
no storm was gathering under her roof. She had no 
desire to handle a tragedy. 



VII 

It was Saturday morning. Betty arose at four, brewed 
herself a cup of coffee over a spirit lamp, and ate 
several biscuit with it. She hoped Senator North 
would take the same precaution. Healthy animals 
when hungry cannot take much interest in each other. 

She dressed herself in airy white with a blue ribbon 
in her hair. There was no necessity for a hat at that 
hour in the morning, but she took a white organdie 
onA down to the boat and put it under a seat, lest 
she be late in returning and the sun freckling. 

It was faintly dawn as she pulled out into the 
middle of the lake and rowed toward its northern end. 
Even the trailing thickets on the water's edge looked 
black, and the dark forest rising on every side seemed 
to whisper of old deeds of war and heroism, the 
bravery and the treachery of Indian tribes, the mortal 
jealousies of French and English. Every inch of 
ground about her was historical. These forests had 
resounded for years with the ugly sounds of battle, and 
more than once with the shrieks of women and 
children. To-day the woodpecker tapped, the blue- 
jay cried in those depths unaffrighted ; the singing of 
a mountain stream, the roar of a distant waterfall 



 

alone lifted a louder voice to the eternal whisper 
of the pines. The forest looked calmly down upon 
this flower of a civilization which no man in its first 
experience of man would have ventured to forecast, 
skimming the water to keep tryst with one whose 
ancestors had hewn a rougher wilderness than this 
down to a market-place that their inheritor might win 
the higher honors of the great Republic to come. 

But Betty was not thinking of the honors he had 
won. She was wondering if by so much as a glance 
he would betray that he cared a little for her. Or did 
he care ? In her thought he had been as full of love 
as herself. But reality was waiting for her there in 
the forest, reality after three months of uninterrupted 
imaginings. Perhaps he merely found her agreeable 
and amusing. But the idea did not start a tear. The 
uncertainty of his affections and the certainty that she 
was about to see him again were alike thrilling and 
gladdening. Pleasurable excitement possessed her, and 
her hands would have trembled but for their tight grip 
on the oars. 

He stood watching her as she rowed toward him, 
and she was sure that she made a charming picture 
out on that great dark lake below the pines. The 
forest rose almost straight behind him, but she knew 
the winding paths which made ascent easy, and many 
a dry leafy platform where one might sit. A hundred 
times she had imagined herself in that forest with 
him; its dim vast solitude had become almost his 
permanent setting in her fancy. But as the boat 
grazed the shore, she said hurriedly, 

" Get in and let us float about. I am sure it is cold 
in there. I am so glad to see you again." 



 

As her hands were occupied, he took the seat in the 
stern at once, and she pulled out a few yards, then 
crossed her oars. 

" You see, I have obeyed orders," he said, smiling. 
" Fortunately, I am an early riser, particularly in the 
country." 

" I thought the change would do you good. It 
must be hot in Washington." 

" It is frightful." 

He looked as well as usual, however, and his thin 
grey clothes became his spare though thickset figure. 
He was smiling humorously into Betty's eyes, but 
his own were impenetrable. They might harbor the 
delight of a lover at a precious opportunity, or the 
amusement of a man of the world. But there was 
no doubt that he was glad to see her and that he 
appreciated the picture she made. 

" I hope I never may see you in anything but white 
again," he said. " You are a gracious vision to 
conjure up on stifling afternoons in the Senate." 

Betty did not want to talk about herself. " Tell 
me the news," she said. " How is that Tariff Bill 
going? " 

" A story has just leaked out that a stormy scene 
occurred in the Ways and Means Committee Room 
between our friend Montgomery and two members of 
the Committee whose names I won't mention. He 
openly accused them of accepting bribes from certain 
Trusts. It even is reported that they came to blows, 
but that is probably an exaggeration. We have had 
our sensation also. One of our fire-eaters accused 
at the top of his voice the entire Senate of bribery 
and corruption. He is new and will think better of 



 

us in time. Meanwhile he would amuse us if such 
things did not affect the dignity of the Senate with 
the outside world. Unfortunately we are obliged to 
accept whomsoever the people select to represent 
them, and can only possess our souls in patience till 
time and the Senate tone the raw ones down." 

"Is he representative, that man? And those 
hysterical members of the House, whose speeches 
make me wonder if humor is really a national 
quality? " 

" They are only too representative, unfortunately, 
but they are more hysterical than the average because 
they have the opportunity their constituents lack, of 
shouting in public. The House is America let loose. 
When a former private citizen belonging to the party 
out of power gets on his feet in it, he develops a 
species of hysteria for which there is no parallel in 
history. He seems to think that the louder he shouts 
and the more bad rhetoric he uses, the less will his 
party feel the stings of defeat. Some of them tone 
down and become conscientious and admirable legis- 
lators, but these are the few of natural largeness of 
mind. Party spirit, a magnificent thing at its best, 
warps and withers the little brain in the party out of 
power. But politics are out of place in this wilderness. There should be redskins and bows and arrows 
on all sides of us. I used to revel in Cooper's yarns, 
but I suppose you never have read them." 

Betty shook her head. "When can you come up 
here to stay?" 

" Probably not for a month yet. There will be a 
good deal more wrangling before the bill goes through. 
I don't like it in its present shape and don't expect to 



 

in its ultimate ; neither do a good many of us. But I 
shall vote for it, because the country needs a high tariff, 
and anything will be better than nothing for the pres- 
ent. Later, the whole matter will be reopened and 
war waged on the Trusts." 

" Sally says they have bought up the atmosphere." 

" They may be said to have bought up several climates. I have spent a great many hours puzzling over 
that question, for they have put an end to the old days 
when young men could go into business with the hope 
of a progressive future. Now they are swallowed up at 
once, depersonalized, and the whole matter is one of 
the great questions affecting the future development of 
the Republic." 

He was not looking at Betty ; he was staring out on 
the lake. His eyes and mouth were hard again ; he 
looked like a mere intellect, nothing more. 

As Betty watched him, she experienced a sudden 
desire to put him back on the pedestal he had occupied in the first days of their acquaintance, and to 
worship him as an ideal and forget him as a man. 
That had been a period of intellectual days and quiet 
nights. And as he looked now, he seemed to ask no 
more of any woman. 

But in a moment he had turned to her again with 
the smile and the peculiar concentration of gaze which 
made women forget he was a statesman. 

" Not another word of politics," he said. " I did 
not get up at four in the morning to meet the most 
charming woman in America and talk politics. Do you 
know that it is over three months since I saw you last? " 

" You left Washington, so, naturally, I left it too." 

"I wonder how much you mean? If I were to 



 

judge you by myself Your few notes were very 
interesting. Did you enjoy California?" 

"California was made to enjoy, but I felt very 
much alone in it." 

"Of course you did. Nature is a wicked old 
matchmaker. You have felt quite as lonely up here 
since your return." 

" Yes, I have ! But I have had a good deal to 
occupy my mind. Sally terrified me by asserting that 
Harriet and my cousin Jack Emory were in love with 
each other." 

"Who is Harriet?" 

" Oh, you have forgotten ! And you made me take 
her into the bosom of my family." 

" Oh yes ; I had forgotten her name. I hope 
she is not making trouble for you." 

" She admitted that she loves him, but insists that he 
does not love her, and I don't think he does." 

" Probably not. I should as soon think of falling in 
love with a weeping figure on a tombstone." 

"What kind of women do you fall in love with? " 
asked Betty, irresistibly. She was sure of herself now. 
The passions of women are often calmed by the pres- 
ence of their lover. Passion is so largely mental in 
them that it reaches heights in the imagination that 
reality seldom justifies and mere propinquity quells. 
For this reason they often are recklessly unfair to men, 
who are made on simpler lines. 

They had floated under the spreading arms of a 
thicket on the water's edge, and she was a brilliant 
white figure in the gloom. 

"I have no recipe," he said, smiling. "Certainly 
not with the women that weep, poor things ! " 






 

Betty wondered what his personal attitude was to 
the tears of twenty years. She knew from Sally that 
Mrs. North had long attacks of depression. But his 
mind had been occupied; that meant almost every- 
thing. And his heart? 

" Do you love anybody now? " she broke out. " Is 
there a woman in your life ? Some one who makes you 
happy?" 

The smile left his lips. It was too much to say that 
it had been in his eyes, but they changed also. 

" There is no woman in my life, as you put it. Why 
do you ask? " 

" Because I want to know." 

They regarded each other squarely. In a moment 
he said deliberately: "The greatest happiness that I 
have had in the past few months has been my friend- 
ship with you. If I were free, I should make love to 
you. If you will have the truth, I can conceive of no 
happiness so great as to be your husband. I have 
caught myself dreaming of it and over and over again. 
But as it is I am not going to make love to you. 
When the strain becomes too great, I shall leave you. 
Until then Ah, don't ! " 

Betty, who had dropped her head when he began 
to speak, had raised it slowly, and her face concealed 
nothing. 

" I, too, love you," she said in a moment. " I love 
you, love you, love you. If you knew what a relief it 
is to say it. That is the reason I would not go up 
into the forest with you just now. I was afraid. I 
have been with you there too often ! " 

For the first time she saw the muscles of his face 
relax, and she covered her face with her hands. " I 



 

shouldn't.have told you," she whispered, " I shouldn't.
have told you. I have made it harder. You will go 
away at once." 

He did not speak for some minutes. Then he 
said, 

" Can you do without what we have? " 

" Oh, no ! " she said passionately. " Oh, no ! 
no!" 

" Nor can I without the hope and the prospect of 
an occasional hour with you, of the sympathy and 
understanding which has grown up between us. I 
have conquered myself many times, relinquished many 
hopes, and I think and believe that my self-control is 
as great as a man's can be. I shall not let myself go 
with you unless you tempt me beyond endurance ; for 
as I said before, if I find that I am not strong enough, 
I shall leave you. You are a beautiful and seductive 
woman, and your power if you chose to exert it would 
madden any man. Will you forget it ? Will you help 
me?" 

She dropped her hands. "Yes," she said, "I'd 
rather suffer anything, I'd rather make myself over 
than do without you. And I couldn't! I couldn't! 
Every least thing that happens, I want to go straight 
to you about it. I know that trouble is ahead, 
although I haven't.admitted it before. I want you in 
every way ! in every way ! and I can't even have you 
in that. I never will speak like this again, but I 'd 
like you to know. If you love me, you must know 
how terrible it is. I am not a child. I am twenty- 
seven years old." 

"I know," he replied; and for a few moments he 
said no more, but looked down into the water. 



 

" I am not a believer in people parting because they 
can't have everything," he continued finally. " It is 
only the very young who do that. They take the 
thing tragically; passion and disappointment trample 
down common- sense. If love is the very best thing 
in life, it is not the only thing. Every time I have 
seen you I have wanted to take you in my arms, and 
yet I have enjoyed every moment spent in your presence. The thought of giving you up is intolerable. 
We both are old enough to control ourselves. And I 
believe that any habit can be acquired." 

" And will you never take me in your arms ? Have 
I got to go through life without that? I must say 
everything to-day I will row out into the middle of 
the lake if you like, but I must know that." 

" You can stay here. There are certain things that 
no man can say, Betty, even to the most loved and 
trusted of women. The only answer that I can make to 
your question is, that if I find I must leave you, I certainly shall take you in my arms once." 

