except that I've never seen a person more unquenchably radiant."

He almost jumped at it. "Well, that's just it!"

"But just what?"

"Why, what they're all talking about. That she is so awfully radiant.
That she's so tremendously happy. It's the question," he explained, "of
what in the world she has to make her so."

I winced a little, but tried not to show it. "My dear man, how do I
know?"

"She thinks you know," he after a moment answered.

I could only stare. "Mrs. Server thinks I know what makes her happy?" I
the more easily represented such a conviction as monstrous in that it
truly had its surprise for me.

But Brissenden now was all with his own thought. "She isn't happy."

"You mean that that's what's the matter with her under her
appearance----? Then what makes the appearance so extraordinary?"

"Why, exactly what I mention--that one doesn't see anything whatever in
her to correspond to it."

I hesitated. "Do you mean in her circumstances?"

"Yes--or in her character. Her circumstances are nothing wonderful. She
has none too much money; she has had three children and lost them; and
nobody that belongs to her appears ever to have been particularly nice
to her."

I turned it over. "How you do get on with her!"

"Do you call it getting on with her to be the more bewildered the more I
see her?"

"Isn't to say you're bewildered only, on the whole, to say you're
charmed? That always--doesn't it?--describes more or less any engrossed
relation with a lovely lady."

"Well, I'm not sure I'm so charmed." He spoke as if he had thought this
particular question over for himself; he had his way of being lucid
without brightness. "I'm not at all easily charmed, you know," he the
next moment added; "and I'm not a fellow who goes about much after
women."

"Ah, that I never supposed! Why in the world should you? It's the last
thing!" I laughed. "But isn't this--quite (what shall one call it?)
innocently--rather a peculiar case?"

My question produced in him a little gesture of elation--a gesture
emphasised by a snap of his forefinger and thumb. "I knew you knew it
was special! I knew you've been thinking about it!"

"You certainly," I replied with assurance, "have, during the last five
minutes, made me do so with some sharpness. I don't pretend that I don't
now recognise that there must be something the matter. I only
desire--not unnaturally--that there should be, to put me in the right
for having thought, if, as you're so sure, such a freedom as that can be
brought home to me. If Mrs. Server is beautiful and gentle and
strange," I speciously went on, "what are those things but an
attraction?"

I saw how he had them, whatever they were, before him as he slowly shook
his head. "They're not an attraction. They're too queer."

I caught in an instant my way to fall in with him; and not the less that
I by this time felt myself committed, up to the intellectual eyes, to
ascertaining just how queer the person under discussion might be. "Oh,
of course I'm not speaking of her as a party to a silly flirtation, or
an object of any sort of trivial pursuit. But there are so many
different ways of being taken."

"For a fellow like you. But not for a fellow like me. For me there's
only one."

"To be, you mean, in love?"

He put it a little differently. "Well, to be thoroughly pleased."

"Ah, that's doubtless the best way and the firm ground. And you mean
you're not thoroughly pleased with Mrs. Server?"

"No--and yet I want to be kind to her. Therefore what's the matter?"

"Oh, if it's what's the matter with you you ask me, that extends the
question. If you want to be kind to her, you get on with her, as we were
saying, quite enough for my argument. And isn't the matter also, after
all," I demanded, "that you simply feel she desires you to be kind?"

"She does that." And he looked at me as with the sense of drawing from
me, for his relief, some greater help than I was as yet conscious of the
courage to offer. "It is that she desires me. She likes it. And the
extraordinary thing is that I like it."

"And why in the world shouldn't you?"

"Because she terrifies me. She has something to hide."

"But, my dear man," I asked with a gaiety singularly out of relation to
the small secret thrill produced in me by these words--"my dear man,
what woman who's worth anything hasn't?"

"Yes, but there are different ways. What she tries for is this false
appearance of happiness."

I weighed it. "But isn't that the best thing?"

"It's terrible to have to keep it up."

"Ah, but if you don't for her? If it all comes on herself?"

"It doesn't," Guy Brissenden presently said. "I do--'for' her--help to
keep it up." And then, still unexpectedly to me, came out the rest of
his confession. "I want to--I try to; that's what I mean by being kind
to her, and by the gratitude with which she takes it. One feels that one
doesn't want her to break down."

It was on this--from the poignant touch in it--that I at last felt I had
burnt my ships and didn't care how much I showed I was with him. "Oh,
but she won't. You must keep her going."

He stood a little with a thumb in each pocket of his trousers, and his
melancholy eyes ranging far over my head--over the tops of the highest
trees. "Who am I to keep people going?"

"Why, you're just the man. Aren't you happy?"

He still ranged the tree-tops. "Yes."

"Well, then, you belong to the useful class. You've the wherewithal to
give. It's the happy people who should help the others."

He had, in the same attitude, another pause. "It's easy for you to
talk!"

"Because I'm not happy?"

It made him bring his eyes again down to me. "I think you're a little so
now at my expense."

I shook my head reassuringly. "It doesn't cost you anything if--as I
confess to it now--I do to some extent understand."

"That's more, then, than--after talking of it this way with you--I feel
that I do!"

He had brought that out with a sudden sigh, turning away to go on; so
that we took a few steps more. "You've nothing to trouble about," I then
freely remarked, "but that you are as kind as the case requires and
that you do help. I daresay that you'll find her even now on the terrace
looking out for you." I patted his back, as we went a little further,
but as I still preferred to stay away from the house I presently stopped
again. "Don't fall below your chance. Noblesse oblige. We'll pull her
through."

"You say 'we,'" he returned, "but you do keep out of it!"

"Why should you wish me to interfere with you?" I asked. "I wouldn't
keep out of it if she wanted me as much as she wants you. That, by your
own admission, is exactly what she doesn't."

"Well, then," said Brissenden, "I'll make her go for you. I think I want
your assistance quite as much as she can want mine."

"Oh," I protested for this, "I've really given you already every ounce
of mine I can squeeze out. And you know for yourself far more than I
do."

"No, I don't!"--with which he became quite sharp; "for you know how
you know it--which I've not a notion of. It's just what I think," he
continued, facing me again, "you ought to tell me."

"I'm a little in doubt of what you're talking of, but I suppose you to
allude to the oddity of my being so much interested without my having
been more informed."

"You've got some clue," Brissenden said; "and a clue is what I myself
want."

"Then get it," I laughed, "from Mrs. Server!"

He wondered. "Does she know?"

I had still, after all, to dodge a little. "Know what?"

"Why, that you've found out what she has to hide."

"You're perfectly free to ask her. I wonder even that you haven't done
so yet."

"Well," he said with the finest stroke of unconsciousness he had yet
shown me--"well, I suppose it's because I'm afraid of her."

"But not too much afraid," I risked suggesting, "to be hoping at this
moment that you'll find her if you go back to where most of our party is
gathered. You're not going for tea--you're going for Mrs. Server: just
of whom it was, as I say, you were thinking while you sat there with
Lady John. So what is it you so greatly fear?"

It was as if I could see through his dim face a sort of gratitude for my
making all this out to him. "I don't know that it's anything that she
may do to me." He could make it out in a manner for himself. "It's as
if something might happen to her. It's what I told you--that she may
break down. If you ask me how, or in what," he continued, "how can I
tell you? In whatever it is that she's trying to do. I don't understand
it." Then he wound up with a sigh that, in spite of its softness, he
imperfectly stifled. "But it's something or other!"

"What would it be, then," I asked, "but what you speak of as what I've
'found out'? The effort you distinguish in her is the effort of
concealment--vain, as I gather it strikes you both, so far as I, in my
supernatural acuteness, am concerned."

Following this with the final ease to which my encouragement directly
ministered, he yet gave me, before he had quite arrived, a queer
sidelong glance. "Wouldn't it really be better if you were to tell me? I
don't ask her myself, you see. I don't put things to her in that way."

"Oh, no--I've shown you how I do see. That's a part of your admirable
consideration. But I must repeat that nothing would induce me to tell
you."

His poor old face fairly pleaded. "But I want so to know."

"Ah, there it is!" I almost triumphantly laughed.

"There what is?"

"Why, everything. What I've divined, between you and Mrs. Server, as the
tie. Your wanting so to know."

I felt as if he were now, intellectually speaking, plastic wax in my
hand. "And her wanting me not to?"

"Wanting me not to," I smiled.

He puzzled it out. "And being willing, therefore----"

"That you--you only, for sympathy, for fellowship, for the wild wonder
of it--should know? Well, for all those things, and in spite of what
you call your fear, try her!" With which now at last I quitted him.




VIII


I'm afraid I can't quite say what, after that, I at first did, nor just
how I immediately profited by our separation. I felt absurdly excited,
though this indeed was what I had felt all day; there had been in fact
deepening degrees of it ever since my first mystic throb after finding
myself, the day before in our railway-carriage, shut up to an hour's
contemplation and collation, as it were, of Gilbert Long and Mrs.
Brissenden. I have noted how my first full contact with the changed
state of these associates had caused the knell of the tranquil mind
audibly to ring for me. I have spoken of my sharpened perception that
something altogether out of the common had happened, independently, to
each, and I could now certainly flatter myself that I hadn't missed a
feature of the road I had thus been beguiled to travel. It was a road
that had carried me far, and verily at this hour I felt far. I daresay
that for a while after leaving poor Briss, after what I may indeed call
launching him, this was what I predominantly felt. To be where I was, to
whatever else it might lead, treated me by its help to the taste of
success. It appeared then that the more things I fitted together the
larger sense, every way, they made--a remark in which I found an
extraordinary elation. It justified my indiscreet curiosity; it crowned
my underhand process with beauty. The beauty perhaps was only for
me--the beauty of having been right; it made at all events an element
in which, while the long day softly dropped, I wandered and drifted and
securely floated. This element bore me bravely up, and my private
triumph struck me as all one with the charm of the moment and of the
place.

There was a general shade in all the lower reaches--a fine clear dusk in
garden and grove, a thin suffusion of twilight out of which the greater
things, the high tree-tops and pinnacles, the long crests of motionless
wood and chimnied roof, rose into golden air. The last calls of birds
sounded extraordinarily loud; they were like the timed, serious
splashes, in wide, still water, of divers not expecting to rise again. I
scarce know what odd consciousness I had of roaming at close of day in
the grounds of some castle of enchantment. I had positively encountered
nothing to compare with this since the days of fairy-tales and of the
childish imagination of the impossible. Then I used to circle round
enchanted castles, for then I moved in a world in which the strange
"came true." It was the coming true that was the proof of the
enchantment, which, moreover, was naturally never so great as when such
coming was, to such a degree and by the most romantic stroke of all, the
fruit of one's own wizardry. I was positively--so had the wheel
revolved--proud of my work. I had thought it all out, and to have
thought it was, wonderfully, to have brought it. Yet I recall how I even
then knew on the spot that there was something supreme I should have
failed to bring unless I had happened suddenly to become aware of the
very presence of the haunting principle, as it were, of my thought. This
was the light in which Mrs. Server, walking alone now, apparently, in
the grey wood and pausing at sight of me, showed herself in her clear
dress at the end of a vista. It was exactly as if she had been there by
the operation of my intelligence, or even by that--in a still happier
way--of my feeling. My excitement, as I have called it, on seeing her,
was assuredly emotion. Yet what was this feeling, really?--of which,
at the point we had thus reached, I seemed to myself to have gathered
from all things an invitation to render some account.

Well, I knew within the minute that I was moved by it as by an
extraordinary tenderness; so that this is the name I must leave it to
make the best of. It had already been my impression that I was sorry for
her, but it was marked for me now that I was sorrier than I had
reckoned. All her story seemed at once to look at me out of the fact of
her present lonely prowl. I met it without demur, only wanting her to
know that if I struck her as waylaying her in the wood, as waiting for
her there at eventide with an idea, I shouldn't in the least defend
myself from the charge. I can scarce clearly tell how many fine strange
things I thought of during this brief crisis of her hesitation. I wanted
in the first place to make it end, and while I moved a few steps toward
her I felt almost as noiseless and guarded as if I were trapping a bird
or stalking a fawn. My few steps brought me to a spot where another
perspective crossed our own, so that they made together a verdurous
circle with an evening sky above and great lengthening, arching recesses
in which the twilight thickened. Oh, it was quite sufficiently the
castle of enchantment, and when I noticed four old stone seats, massive
and mossy and symmetrically placed, I recognised not only the influence,
in my adventure, of the grand style, but the familiar identity of this
consecrated nook, which was so much of the type of all the bemused and
remembered. We were in a beautiful old picture, we were in a beautiful
old tale, and it wouldn't be the fault of Newmarch if some other green
carrefour, not far off, didn't balance with this one and offer the
alternative of niches, in the greenness, occupied by weather-stained
statues on florid pedestals.

I sat straight down on the nearest of our benches, for this struck me as
the best way to express the conception with which the sight of Mrs.
Server filled me. It showed her that if I watched her I also waited for
her, and that I was therefore not affected in any manner she really need
deprecate. She had been too far off for me to distinguish her face, but
her approach had faltered long enough to let me see that if she had not
taken it as too late she would, to escape me, have found some pretext
for turning off. It was just my seating myself that made the
difference--it was my being so simple with her that brought her on. She
came slowly and a little wearily down the vista, and her sad, shy
advance, with the massed wood on either side of her, was like the
reminiscence of a picture or the refrain of a ballad. What made the
difference with me--if any difference had remained to be made--was the
sense of this sharp cessation of her public extravagance. She had folded
up her manner in her flounced parasol, which she seemed to drag after
her as a sorry soldier his musket. It was present to me without a pang
that this was the person I had sent poor Briss off to find--the person
poor Briss would owe me so few thanks for his failure to have found. It
was equally marked to me that, however detached and casual she might, at
the first sight of me, have wished to show herself, it was to alight on
poor Briss that she had come out, it was because he had not been at the
house and might therefore, on his side, be wandering, that she had taken
care to be unaccompanied. My demonstration was complete from the moment
I thus had them in the act of seeking each other, and I was so pleased
at having gathered them in that I cared little what else they had
missed. I neither moved nor spoke till she had come quite near me, and
as she also gave no sound the meaning of our silence seemed to stare
straight out. It absolutely phrased there, in all the wonderful
conditions, a relation already established; but the strange and
beautiful thing was that as soon as we had recognised and accepted it
this relation put us almost at our ease. "You must be weary of walking,"
I said at last, "and you see I've been keeping a seat for you."

I had finally got up, as a sign of welcome, but I had directly
afterwards resumed my position, and it was an illustration of the terms
on which we met that we neither of us seemed to mind her being meanwhile
on her feet. She stood before me as if to take in--with her smile that
had by this time sunk quite to dimness--more than we should, either of
us, after all, be likely to be able to say. I even saw from this moment,
I think, that, whatever she might understand, she would be able herself
to say but little. She gave herself, in that minute, more than she
doubtless knew--gave herself, I mean, to my intenser apprehension. She
went through the form of expression, but what told me everything was the
way the form of expression broke down. Her lovely grimace, the light of
the previous hours, was as blurred as a bit of brushwork in water-colour
spoiled by the upsetting of the artist's glass. She fixed me with it as
she had fixed during the day forty persons, but it fluttered like a bird
with a broken wing. She looked about and above, down each of our dusky
avenues and up at our gilded tree-tops and our painted sky, where, at
the moment, the passage of a flight of rooks made a clamour. She
appeared to wish to produce some explanation of her solitude, but I was
quickly enough sure that she would never find a presentable one. I only
wanted to show her how little I required it. "I like a lonely walk," I
went on, "at the end of a day full of people: it's always, to me, on
such occasions, quite as if something has happened that the mind wants
to catch and fix before the vividness fades. So I mope by myself an
hour--I take stock of my impressions. But there's one thing I don't
believe you know. This is the very first time, in such a place and at
such an hour, that it has ever befallen me to come across a friend
stricken with the same perversity and engaged in the same pursuit. Most
people, don't you see?"--I kept it up as I could--"don't in the least
know what has happened to them, and don't care to know. That's one way,
and I don't deny it may be practically the best. But if one does care to
know, that's another way. As soon as I saw you there at the end of the
alley I said to myself, with quite a little thrill of elation, 'Ah, then
it's her way too!' I wonder if you'll let me tell you," I floundered
pleasantly on, "that I immediately liked you the better for it. It
seemed to bring us more together. That's what I sat straight down here
to show you. 'Yes,' I wished you to understand me as frankly saying, 'I
am, as well as you, on the mope, or on the muse, or on whatever you
call it, and this isn't half a bad corner for such a mood.' I can't tell
you what a pleasure it is to me to see you do understand."

I kept it up, as I say, to reassure and soothe and steady her; there was
nothing, however fantastic and born of the pressure of the moment, that
I wouldn't have risked for that purpose. She was absolutely on my hands
with her secret--I felt that from the way she stood and listened to me,
silently showing herself relieved and pacified. It was marked that if I
had hitherto seen her as "all over the place," she had yet nowhere
seemed to me less so than at this furthermost point. But if, though only
nearer to her secret and still not in possession, I felt as justified as
I have already described myself, so it equally came to me that I was
quite near enough, at the pass we had reached, for what I should have to
take from it all. She was on my hands--it was she herself, poor
creature, who was: this was the thing that just now loomed large, and
the secret was a comparative detail. "I think you're very kind," she
said for all answer to the speech I have reported, and the minute after
this she had sunk down, in confessed collapse, to my bench, on which she
sat and stared before her. The mere mechanism of her expression, the
dangling paper lantern itself, was now all that was left in her face.
She remained a little as if discouraged by the sight of the weariness
that her surrender had let out. I hesitated, from just this fear of
adding to it, to commiserate her for it more directly, and she spoke
again before I had found anything to say. She brought back her attention
indeed as if with an effort and from a distance. "What is it that has
happened to you?"

"Oh," I laughed, "what is it that has happened to you?" My question
had not been in the least intended for pressure, but it made her turn
and look at me, and this, I quickly recognised, was all the answer the
most pitiless curiosity could have desired--all the more, as well, that
the intention in it had been no greater than in my words. Beautiful,
abysmal, involuntary, her exquisite weakness simply opened up the depths
it would have closed. It was in short a supremely unsuccessful attempt
to say nothing. It said everything, and by the end of a minute my
chatter--none the less out of place for being all audible--was hushed to
positive awe by what it had conveyed. I saw as I had never seen before
what consuming passion can make of the marked mortal on whom, with fixed
beak and claws, it has settled as on a prey. She reminded me of a sponge
wrung dry and with fine pores agape. Voided and scraped of everything,
her shell was merely crushable. So it was brought home to me that the
victim could be abased, and so it disengaged itself from these things
that the abasement could be conscious. That was Mrs. Server's tragedy,
that her consciousness survived--survived with a force that made it
struggle and dissemble. This consciousness was all her secret--it was at
any rate all mine. I promised myself roundly that I would henceforth
keep clear of any other.

I none the less--from simply sitting with her there--gathered in the
sense of more things than I could have named, each of which, as it came
to me, made my compassion more tender. Who of us all could say that his
fall might not be as deep?--or might not at least become so with equal
opportunity. I for a while fairly forgot Mrs. Server, I fear, in the
intimacy of this vision of the possibilities of our common nature. She
became such a wasted and dishonoured symbol of them as might have put
tears in one's eyes. When I presently returned to her--our session
seeming to resolve itself into a mere mildness of silence--I saw how it
was that whereas, in such cases in general, people might have given up
much, the sort of person this poor lady was could only give up
everything. She was the absolute wreck of her storm, accordingly, but to
which the pale ghost of a special sensibility still clung, waving from
the mast, with a bravery that went to the heart, the last tatter of its
flag. There are impressions too fine for words, and I shall not attempt
to say how it was that under the touch of this one I felt how nothing
that concerned my companion could ever again be present to me but the
fact itself of her admirable state. This was the source of her wan
little glory, constituted even for her a small sublimity in the light of
which mere minor identifications turned vulgar. I knew who he was now
with a vengeance, because I had learnt precisely from that who she
was; and nothing could have been sharper than the force with which it
pressed upon me that I had really learnt more than I had bargained for.
Nothing need have happened if I hadn't been so absurdly, so fatally
meditative about poor Long--an accident that most people, wiser people,
appeared on the whole to have steered sufficiently clear of. Compared
with my actual sense, the sense with which I sat there, that other
vision was gross, and grosser still the connection between the two.

Such were some of the reflections in which I indulged while her
eyes--with their strange intermissions of darkness or of light: who
could say which?--told me from time to time that she knew whatever I
was thinking of to be for her virtual advantage. It was prodigious what,
in the way of suppressed communication, passed in these wonderful
minutes between us. Our relation could be at the best but an equal
confession, and I remember saying to myself that if she had been as
subtle as I--which she wasn't!--she too would have put it together that
I had dreadfully talked about her. She would have traced in me my
demonstration to Mrs. Briss that, whoever she was, she must logically
have been idiotised. It was the special poignancy of her collapse that,
so far at least as I was concerned, this was a ravage the extent of
which she had ceased to try to conceal. She had been trying, and more or
less succeeding, all day: the little drama of her public unrest had had,
when one came to consider, no other argument. It had been terror that
had directed her steps; the need constantly to show herself detached and
free, followed by the sterner one not to show herself, by the same
token, limp and empty. This had been the distinct, ferocious logic of
her renewals and ruptures--the anxious mistrust of her wit, the haunting
knowledge of the small distance it would take her at once, the
consequent importance of her exactly timing herself, and the quick
instinct of flight before the menace of discovery. She couldn't let
society alone, because that would have constituted a symptom; yet, for
fear of the appearance of a worse one, she could only mingle in it with
a complex diplomacy. She was accordingly exposed on every side, and to
be with her a while thus quietly was to read back into her behaviour the
whole explanation, which was positively simple to me now. To take up
again the vivid analogy, she had been sailing all day, though scarce
able to keep afloat, under the flag of her old reputation for easy
response. She had given to the breeze any sad scrap of a substitute, for
the play of mind once supposed remarkable. The last of all the things
her stillness said to me was that I could judge from so poor a show what
had become of her conversability. What I did judge was that a frantic
art had indeed been required to make her pretty silences pass, from one
crisis to another, for pretty speeches. Half this art, doubtless, was
the glittering deceit of her smile, the sublime, pathetic overdone
geniality which represented so her share in any talk that, every other
eloquence failing, there could only be nothing at all from the moment it
abandoned its office. There was nothing at all. That was the truth; in
accordance with which I finally--for everything it might mean to
myself--put out my hand and bore ever so gently on her own. Her own
rested listlessly on the stone of our seat. Of course, it had been an
immense thing for her that she was, in spite of everything, so lovely.

All this was quite consistent with its eventually coming back to me
that, though she took from me with appreciation what was expressed in
the gesture I have noted, it was certainly in quest of a still deeper
relief that she had again come forth. The more I considered her
face--and most of all, so permittedly, in her passive, conscious
presence--the more I was sure of this and the further I could go in the
imagination of her beautiful duplicity. I ended by divining that if I
was assuredly good for her, because the question of keeping up with me
had so completely dropped, and if the service I so rendered her was not
less distinct to her than to myself--I ended by divining that she had
none the less her obscure vision of a still softer ease. Guy Brissenden
had become in these few hours her positive need--a still greater need
than I had lately amused myself with making out that he had found her.
Each had, by their unprecedented plight, something for the other, some
intimacy of unspeakable confidence, that no one else in the world could
have for either. They had been feeling their way to it, but at the end
of their fitful day they had grown confusedly, yet beneficently sure.
The explanation here again was simple--they had the sense of a common
fate. They hadn't to name it or to phrase it--possibly even couldn't had
they tried; peace and support came to them, without that, in the simple
revelation of each other. Oh, how I made it out that if it was indeed
very well for the poor lady to feel thus in my company that her burden
was lifted, my company would be after all but a rough substitute for
Guy's! He was a still better friend, little as he could have told the
reason; and if I could in this connection have put the words into her
mouth, here follows something of the sense that I should have made them
form.

"Yes, my dear man, I do understand you--quite perfectly now, and (by I
know not what miracle) I've really done so to some extent from the
first. Deep is the rest of feeling with you, in this way, that I'm
watched, for the time, only as you watch me. It has all stopped, and I
can stop. How can I make you understand what it is for me that there
isn't at last a creature any more in sight, that the wood darkens about
me, that the sounds drop and the relief goes on; what can it mean for
you even that I've given myself up to not caring whether or no, amongst
others, I'm missed and spoken of? It does help my strange case, in fine,
as you see, to let you keep me here; but I should have found still more
what I was in need of if I had only found, instead of you, him whom I
had in mind. He is as much better than you as you are than everyone
else." I finally felt, in a word, so qualified to attribute to my
companion some such mute address as that, that it could only have, as
the next consequence, a determining effect on me--an effect under the
influence of which I spoke. "I parted with him, some way from here, some
time ago. I had found him in one of the gardens with Lady John; after
which we came away from her together. We strolled a little and talked,
but I knew what he really wanted. He wanted to find you, and I told him
he would probably do so at tea on the terrace. It was visibly with that
idea--to return to the house--that he left me."

She looked at me for some time on this, taking it in, yet still afraid
of it. "You found him with Lady John?" she at last asked, and with a
note in her voice that made me see what--as there was a precaution I had
neglected--she feared.

The perception of this, in its turn, operated with me for an instant
almost as the rarest of temptations. I had puzzled out everything and
put everything together; I was as morally confident and as
intellectually triumphant as I have frankly here described myself; but
there was no objective test to which I had yet exposed my theory. The
chance to apply one--and it would be infallible--had suddenly cropped
up. There would be excitement, amusement, discernment in it; it would be
indeed but a more roundabout expression of interest and sympathy. It
would, above all, pack the question I had for so many hours been
occupied with into the compass of a needle-point. I was dazzled by my
opportunity. She had had an uncertainty, in other words, as to whom I
meant, and that it kept her for some seconds on the rack was a trifle
compared to my chance. She would give herself away supremely if she
showed she suspected me of placing my finger on the spot--if she
understood the person I had not named to be nameable as Gilbert Long.
What had created her peril, of course, was my naming Lady John. Well,
how can I say in any sufficient way how much the extraordinary beauty of
her eyes during this brevity of suspense had to do with the event? It
had everything--for it was what caused me to be touched beyond even what
I had already been, and I could literally bear no more of that. I
therefore took no advantage, or took only the advantage I had spoken
with the intention of taking. I laughed out doubtless too nervously, but
it didn't compromise my tact. "Don't you know how she's perpetually
pouncing on him?"

Still, however, I had not named him--which was what prolonged the
tension. "Do you mean--a--do you mean----?" With which she broke off on
a small weak titter and a still weaker exclamation. "There are so many
gentlemen!"

There was something in it that might in other conditions have been as
trivial as the giggle of a housemaid; but it had in fact for my ear the
silver ring of poetry. I told her instantly whom I meant. "Poor Briss,
you know," I said, "is always in her clutches."

Oh, how it let her off! And yet, no sooner had it done so and had I
thereby tasted on the instant the sweetness of my wisdom, than I became
aware of something much more extraordinary. It let her off--she showed
me this for a minute, in spite of herself; but the next minute she
showed me something quite different, which was, most wonderful of all,
that she wished me to see her as not quite feeling why I should so much
take for granted the person I had named. "Poor Briss?" her face and
manner appeared suddenly to repeat--quite, moreover (and it was the
drollest, saddest part), as if all our friends had stood about us to
listen. Wherein did poor Briss so intimately concern her? What, pray,
was my ground for such free reference to poor Briss? She quite
repudiated poor Briss. She knew nothing at all about him, and the whole
airy structure I had erected with his aid might have crumbled at the
touch she thus administered if its solidity had depended only on that. I
had a minute of surprise which, had it lasted another minute as surprise
pure and simple, might almost as quickly have turned to something like
chagrin. Fortunately it turned instead into something even more like
enthusiasm than anything I had yet felt. The stroke was extraordinary,
but extraordinary for its nobleness. I quickly saw in it, from the
moment I had got my point of view, more fine things than ever. I saw for
instance that, magnificently, she wished not to incriminate him. All
that had passed between us had passed in silence, but it was a different
matter for what might pass in sound. We looked at each other therefore
with a strained smile over any question of identities. It was as if it
had been one thing--to her confused, relaxed intensity--to give herself
up to me, but quite another thing to give up somebody else.

And yet, superficially arrested as I was for the time, I directly
afterwards recognised in this instinctive discrimination--the last, the
expiring struggle of her native lucidity--a supremely convincing bit of
evidence. It was still more convincing than if she had done any of the
common things--stammered, changed colour, shown an apprehension of what
the person named might have said to me. She had had it from me that he
and I had talked about her, but there was nothing that she accepted the
idea of his having been able to say. I saw--still more than this--that
there was nothing to my purpose (since my purpose was to understand)
that she would have had, as matters stood, coherence enough to impute to
him. It was extremely curious to me to divine, just here, that she
hadn't a glimmering of the real logic of Brissenden's happy effect on
her nerves. It was the effect, as coming from him, that a beautiful
delicacy forbade her as yet to give me her word for; and she was
certainly herself in the stage of regarding it as an anomaly. Why, on
the contrary, I might have wondered, shouldn't she have jumped at the
chance, at the comfort, of seeing a preference trivial enough to be
"worked" imputed to her? Why shouldn't she have been positively pleased
that people might helpfully couple her name with that of the wrong man?
Why, in short, in the language that Grace Brissenden and I had used
together, was not that lady's husband the perfection of a red herring?
Just because, I perceived, the relation that had established itself
between them was, for its function, a real relation, the relation of a
fellowship in resistance to doom.

Nothing could have been stranger than for me so to know it was while
the stricken parties themselves were in ignorance; but nothing, at the
same time, could have been, as I have since made out, more magnanimous
than Mrs. Server's attitude. She moved, groping and panting, in the
gathering dusk of her fate, but there were calculations she still could
dimly make. One of these was that she must drag no one else in. I verily
believe that, for that matter, she had scruples, poignant and exquisite,
even about letting our friend himself see how much she liked to be with
him. She wouldn't, at all events, let another see. I saw what I saw, I
felt what I felt, but such things were exactly a sign that I could take
care of myself. There was apparently, I was obliged to admit, but little
apprehension in her of her unduly showing that our meeting had been
anything of a blessing to her. There was no one indeed just then to be
the wiser for it; I might perhaps else even have feared that she would
have been influenced to treat the incident as closed. I had, for that
matter, no wish to prolong it beyond her own convenience; it had already
told me everything it could possibly tell. I thought I knew moreover
what she would have got from it. I preferred, none the less, that we
should separate by my own act; I wanted not to see her move in order to
be free of me. So I stood up, to put her more at her ease, and it was
while I remained before her that I tried to turn to her advantage what I
had committed myself to about Brissenden.

"I had a fancy, at any rate, that he was looking for you--all the more
that he didn't deny it."

She had not moved; she had let me take my hand from her own with as
little sign as on her first feeling its touch. She only kept her eyes on
me. "What made you have such a fancy?"

"What makes me ever have any?" I laughed. "My extraordinary interest in
my fellow-creatures. I have more than most men. I've never really seen
anyone with half so much. That breeds observation, and observation
breeds ideas. Do you know what it has done?" I continued. "It has bred
for me the idea that Brissenden's in love with you."

There was something in her eyes that struck me as betraying--and the
appeal of it went to the heart--the constant dread that if entangled in
talk she might show confusion. Nevertheless she brought out after a
moment, as naturally and charmingly as possible: "How can that be when
he's so strikingly in love with his wife?"

I gave her the benefit of the most apparent consideration. "Strikingly,
you call it?"

"Why, I thought it was noticed--what he does for her."

"Well, of course she's extremely handsome--or at least extremely fresh
and attractive. He is in love with her, no doubt, if you take it by
the quarter, or by the year, like a yacht or a stable," I pushed on at
random. "But isn't there such a state also as being in love by the day?"

She waited, and I guessed from the manner of it exactly why. It was the
most obscure of intimations that she would have liked better that I
shouldn't make her talk; but obscurity, by this time, offered me no more
difficulties. The hint, none the less, a trifle disconcerted me, and,
while I vaguely sought for some small provisional middle way between
going and not going on, the oddest thing, as a fruit of my own delay,
occurred. This was neither more nor less than the revival of her
terrible little fixed smile. It came back as if with an audible
click--as a gas-burner makes a pop when you light it. It told me visibly
that from the moment she must talk she could talk only with its aid. The
effect of its aid I indeed immediately perceived.

"How do I know?" she asked in answer to my question. "I've never been
in love."

"Not even by the day?"

"Oh, a day's surely a long time."

"It is," I returned. "But I've none the less, more fortunately than you,
been in love for a whole one." Then I continued, from an impulse of
which I had just become conscious and that was clearly the result of the
heart-breaking facial contortion--heart-breaking, that is, when one knew
what I knew--by which she imagined herself to represent the pleasant
give-and-take of society. This sense, for me, was a quick horror of
forcing her, in such conditions, to talk at all. Poor Briss had
mentioned to me, as an incident of his contact with her, his
apprehension of her breaking down; and now, at a touch, I saw what he
had meant. She would break down if I didn't look out. I found myself
thus, from one minute to the other, as greatly dreading it for her,
dreading it indeed for both of us, as I might have dreaded some physical
accident or danger, her fall from an unmanageable horse or the crack
beneath her of thin ice. It was impossible--that was the extraordinary
impression--to come too much to her assistance. We had each of us all,
in our way, hour after hour, been, as goodnaturedly as unwittingly,
giving her a lift; yet what was the end of it but her still sitting
there to assure me of a state of gratitude--that she couldn't even
articulate--for every hint of a perch that might still be held out?
What could only, therefore, in the connection, strike me as indicated
was fairly to put into her mouth--if one might do so without showing too
ungracefully as alarmed--the words one might have guessed her to wish to
use were she able to use any. It was a small service of anticipation
that I tried to render her with as little of an air as possible of being
remedial. "I daresay you wonder," I remarked on these lines, "why, at
all, I should have thrust Brissenden in."

"Oh, I do so wonder!" she replied with the refined but exaggerated
glee that is a frequent form in high companies and light colloquies. I
did help her--it was admirable to feel it. She liked my imposing on
her no more complex a proposition. She liked my putting the thing to her
so much better than she could have put it to me. But she immediately
afterwards looked away as if--now that we had put it, and it didn't
matter which of us best--we had nothing more to do with it. She gave me
a hint of drops and inconsequences that might indeed have opened up
abysses, and all the while she smiled and smiled. Yet whatever she did
or failed of, as I even then observed to myself, how she remained
lovely! One's pleasure in that helped one somehow not to break down on
one's own side--since breaking down was in question--for commiseration.
I didn't know what she might have hours of for the man--whoever he
was--to whom her sacrifice had been made; but I doubted if for any other
person she had ever been so beautiful as she was for me at these
moments. To have kept her so, to have made her more so--how might that
result of their relation not in fact have shone as a blinding light into
the eyes of her lover? What would he have been bound to make out in her
after all but her passion and her beauty? Wasn't it enough for such
wonders as these to fill his consciousness? If they didn't fill
mine--even though occupying so large a place in it--was that not only
because I had not the direct benefit of them as the other party to the
prodigy had it? They filled mine too, for that matter, just at this
juncture, long enough for me to describe myself as rendered subject by
them to a temporary loss of my thread. What could pass muster with her
as an account of my reason for evoking the blighted identity of our
friend? There came constantly into her aspect, I should say, the
strangest alternatives, as I can only most conveniently call them, of
presence and absence--something like intermissions of intensity,
cessations and resumptions of life. They were like the slow flickers of
a troubled flame, breathed upon and then left, burning up and burning
down. She had really burnt down--I mean so far as her sense of things
went--while I stood there.

I stood long enough to see that it didn't in the least signify whether
or no I explained, and during this interval I found myself--to my
surprise--in receipt of still better assistance than any I had to give.
I had happened to turn, while I awkwardly enough, no doubt, rested and
shifted, to the quarter from which Mrs. Server had arrived; and there,
just at the end of the same vista, I gathered material for my proper
reply. Her eyes at this moment were fixed elsewhere, and that gave me
still a little more time, at the end of which my reference had all its
point. "I supposed you to have Brissenden in your head," I said,
"because it's evidently what he himself takes for granted. But let him
tell you!" He was already close to us: missing her at the house, he had
started again in search of her and had successfully followed. The effect
on him of coming in sight of us had been for an instant to make him hang
back as I had seen Mrs. Server hang. But he had then advanced just as
she had done; I had waited for him to reach us; and now she saw him. She
looked at him as she always looked at all of us, yet not at either of us
as if we had lately been talking of him. If it was vacancy it was
eloquent; if it was vigilance it was splendid. What was most curious, at
all events, was that it was now poor Briss who was disconcerted. He had
counted on finding her, but not on finding her with me, and I
interpreted a certain ruefulness in him as the sign of a quick, uneasy
sense that he must have been in question between us. I instantly felt
that the right thing was to let him know he had been, and I mentioned to
him, as a joke, that he had come just in time to save himself. We had
been talking of him, and I wouldn't answer for what Mrs. Server had been
going to say. He took it gravely, but he took everything so gravely that
I saw no symptom in that. In fact, as he appeared at first careful not
to meet my eyes, I saw for a minute or two no symptom in anything--in
anything, at least, but the way in which, standing beside me and before
Mrs. Server's bench, he received the conscious glare of her recognition
without returning it and without indeed giving her a look. He looked all
about--looked, as she herself had done after our meeting, at the
charming place and its marks of the hour, at the rich twilight, deeper
now in the avenues, and at the tree-tops and sky, more flushed now with
colour. I found myself of a sudden quite as sorry for him as I had been
for Mrs. Server, and I scarce know how it was suggested to me that
during the short interval since our separation something had happened
that made a difference in him. Was the difference a consciousness still
more charged than I had left it? I couldn't exactly say, and the
question really lost itself in what soon came uppermost for me--the
desire, above all, to spare them both and to spare them equally.

The difficulty, however, was to spare them in some fashion that would
not be more marked than continuing to observe them. To leave them
together without a decent pretext would be marked; but this, I eagerly
recognised, was none the less what most concerned me. Whatever they
might see in it, there was by this time little enough doubt of how it
would indicate for my own mind that the wheel had completely turned.
That was the point to which I had been brought by the lapse of a few
hours. I had verily travelled far since the sight of the pair on the
terrace had given its arrest to my first talk with Mrs. Briss. I was
obliged to admit to myself that nothing could very well have been more
singular than some of my sequences. I had come round to the opposite
pole of the protest my companion had then drawn from me--which was the
pole of agreement with herself; and it hung sharply before me that I was
pledged to confess to her my revolution. I couldn't now be in the
presence of the two creatures I was in the very act of finally judging
to be not a whit less stricken than I had originally imagined them--I
couldn't do this and think with any complacency of the redemption of my
pledge; for the process by which I had at last definitely inculpated
Mrs. Server was precisely such a process of providential supervision as
made me morally responsible, so to speak, for her, and thereby
intensified my scruples. Well, my scruples had the last word--they were
what determined me to look at my watch and profess that, whatever sense
of a margin Brissenden and Mrs. Server might still enjoy, it behoved me
not to forget that I took, on such great occasions, an hour to dress for
dinner. It was a fairly crude cover for my retreat; perhaps indeed I
should rather say that my retreat was practically naked and unadorned.
It formulated their relation. I left them with the formula on their
hands, both queerly staring at it, both uncertain what to do with it.
For some passage that would soon be a correction of this, however, one
might surely feel that one could trust them. I seemed to feel my trust
justified, behind my back, before I had got twenty yards away. By the
time I had done this, I must add, something further had befallen me.
Poor Briss had met my eyes just previous to my flight, and it was then I
satisfied myself of what had happened to him at the house. He had met
his wife; she had in some way dealt with him; he had been with her,
however briefly, alone; and the intimacy of their union had been afresh
impressed upon him. Poor Briss, in fine, looked ten years older.




IX


I shall never forget the impressions of that evening, nor the way, in
particular, the immediate effect of some of them was to merge the light
of my extravagant perceptions in a glamour much more diffused. I
remember feeling seriously warned, while dinner lasted, not to yield
further to my idle habit of reading into mere human things an interest
so much deeper than mere human things were in general prepared to
supply. This especial hour, at Newmarch, had always a splendour that
asked little of interpretation, that even carried itself, with an
amiable arrogance, as indifferent to what the imagination could do for
it. I think the imagination, in those halls of art and fortune, was
almost inevitably accounted a poor matter; the whole place and its
participants abounded so in pleasantness and picture, in all the
felicities, for every sense, taken for granted there by the very basis
of life, that even the sense most finely poetic, aspiring to extract the
moral, could scarce have helped feeling itself treated to something of
the snub that affects--when it does affect--the uninvited reporter in
whose face a door is closed. I said to myself during dinner that these
were scenes in which a transcendent intelligence had after all no
application, and that, in short, any preposterous acuteness might easily
suffer among them such a loss of dignity as overtakes the newspaper-man
kicked out. We existed, all of us together, to be handsome and happy, to
be really what we looked--since we looked tremendously well; to be that
and neither more nor less, so not discrediting by musty secrets and
aggressive doubts our high privilege of harmony and taste. We were
concerned only with what was bright and open, and the expression that
became us all was, at worst, that of the shaded but gratified eye, the
air of being forgivingly dazzled by too much lustre.

Mrs. Server, at table, was out of my range, but I wondered if, had she
not been so, I shouldn't now have been moved to recognise in her fixed
expressiveness nothing more than our common reciprocal tribute. Hadn't
everyone my eyes could at present take in a fixed expressiveness? Was I
not very possibly myself, on this ground of physiognomic congruity, more
physiognomic than anyone else? I made my excellence, on the chance, go
as far as it would to cover my temporary doubts. I saw Mrs. Brissenden,
in another frock, naturally, and other jewels from those of the evening
before; but she gave me, across the board, no more of a look than if she
had quite done with me. It struck me that she felt she had done--that,
as to the subject of our discussion, she deemed her case by this time
so established as to offer comparatively little interest. I couldn't
come to her to renew the discussion; I could only come to her to make my
submission; and it doubtless appeared to her--to do her justice--more
delicate not to triumph over me in advance. The profession of joy,
however, reigned in her handsome face none the less largely for my not
having the benefit of it. If I seem to falsify my generalisation by
acknowledging that her husband, on the same side, made no more public
profession of joy than usual, I am still justified by the fact that
there was something in a manner decorative even in Brissenden's wonted
gloom. He reminded me at this hour more than ever of some fine old
Velasquez or other portrait--a presentation of ugliness and melancholy
that might have been royal. There was as little of the common in his
dry, distinguished patience as in the case I had made out for him.
Blighted and ensconed, he looked at it over the rigid convention, his
peculiar perfection of necktie, shirt-front and waistcoat, as some aged
remnant of sovereignty at the opera looks over the ribbon of an order
and the ledge of a box.

I must add, however, that in spite of my sense of his wife's indulgence
I kept quite aware of the nearer approach, as course followed course, of
my hour of reckoning with her--more and more saw the moment of the
evening at which, frankly amused at last at having me in a cleft stick,
she would draw me a little out of the throng. Of course, also, I was
much occupied in asking myself to what degree I was prepared to be
perjured. Was I ready to pretend that my candour was still
unconvinced? And was I in this case only instinctively mustering my
arguments? I was certainly as sorry that Mrs. Server was out of my view
as if I proposed still to fight; and I really felt, so far as that went,
as if there might be something to fight for after the lady on my left
had given me a piece of news. I had asked her if she happened to know,
as we couldn't see, who was next Mrs. Server, and, though unable to say
at the moment, she made no scruple, after a short interval, of
ascertaining with the last directness. The stretch forward in which she
had indulged, or the information she had caused to be passed up to her
while I was again engaged on my right, established that it was Lord
Lutley who had brought the lovely lady in and that it was Mr. Long who
was on her other side. These things indeed were not the finest point of
my companion's communication, for I saw that what she felt I would be
really interested in was the fact that Mr. Long had brought in Lady
John, who was naturally, therefore, his other neighbour. Beyond Lady
John was Mr. Obert, and beyond Mr. Obert Mrs. Froome, not, for a wonder,
this time paired, as by the immemorial tradition, so fairly comical in
its candour, with Lord Lutley. Wasn't it too funny, the kind of
grandmotherly view of their relation shown in their always being put
together? If I perhaps questioned whether "grandmotherly" were exactly
the name for the view, what yet at least was definite in the light of
this evening's arrangement was that there did occur occasions on which
they were put apart. My friend of course disposed of this observation by
the usual exception that "proved the rule"; but it was absurd how I had
thrilled with her announcement, and our exchange of ideas meanwhile
helped to carry me on.

My theory had not at all been framed to embrace the phenomenon thus
presented; it had been precisely framed, on the contrary, to hang
together with the observed inveteracy of escape, on the part of the two
persons about whom it busied itself, from public juxtaposition of more
than a moment. I was fairly upset by the need to consider at this late
hour whether going in for a new theory or bracing myself for new facts
would hold out to me the better refuge. It is perhaps not too much to
say that I should scarce have been able to sit still at all but for the
support afforded me by the oddity of the separation of Lord Lutley and
Mrs. Froome; which, though resting on a general appearance directly
opposed to that of my friends, offered somehow the relief of a
suggestive analogy. What I could directly clutch at was that if the
exception did prove the rule in the one case it might equally prove it
in the other. If on a rare occasion one of these couples might be
divided, so, by as uncommon a chance, the other might be joined; the
only difference being in the gravity of the violated law. For which pair
was the betrayal greatest? It was not till dinner was nearly ended and
the ladies were about to withdraw that I recovered lucidity to make out
how much more machinery would have had to be put into motion
consistently to prevent, than once in a way to minimise, the
disconcerting accident.

All accidents, I must add, were presently to lose themselves in the
unexpectedness of my finding myself, before we left the dining-room, in
easy talk with Gilbert Long--talk that was at least easy for him,
