“Are you not afraid of the big ocean?” 




He smiled. ,“Why our river has nearly as much terror 
in its bosom. It is sleepy enough in these tranquil times, 
but in its stormy fury quite a giant. Hardly a year but 
some place is swept away. More than once the city has 
been inundated. Some day, perhaps, there will be suf- 
ficient wisdom to protect us and to manage it. Ah, how 
magnificent it must have looked to those early travellers 
with its great reaches of unbroken forests, its myriads 
of birds, its beautiful creatures that were wild vet not 
afraid, the glow and brilliance of its sunrise and sunset. 
From St. Louis down to the Gulf, and then across the 
Gulf — it is all a marvellous country! Yet one dreams 
occasionally of the other far side — but one would not 
wish to see the storm and terror that have fallen upon it.” 

The grave eyes had so much soul in them that 
Angelique felt he was a poet, though her intellectual 
knowledge was extremely limited. 

‘T am so glad we came away,” said Sylvie proudly. 
“And I do not mean ever to go back. I do not know but 
two or three people in all France, and they may be dead; 
but there are so many delightful folks here, and it is so 
amusing to go down in the town and see all the strange 
sights and the little black children tumbling about ready 
to make any funny antics for you if you only smile on 
them. And every flower-covered house, almost it seems 
like a great garden.” 

“Ah, what a happy light youth lends ! Child, keep 
these eyes that can see so much joy as long as you can.” 

“I shall keep them always.” She raised them in their 
azure softness. “I want to be merry and glad all the days 
of my life.” 

“I think thou wilt be.” 

She was like a bird darting hither and thither. Claire 
was vivacious as well, and was quite at home in the old 





house. Angelique was delighted to visit the sort of study 
where the master spent his hours of recreation. Here 
indeed was quite a library picked up at various times and 
places, and the young girl remarked some old friends 
among them. 

“You see I was so much with my cousin the last year 
in France,” she said, half in apology for knowing them. 
“And he was fresh from school. There were no girls, 
and the Marquise was ill most of the time. And now we 
have been learning Spanish and a little English, and I 
have time to read and think.” 

“But forget not a woman’s true sphere,” he suggested 
gently. “That is the best and happiest destiny.” 

The dinner was at the old-time noon hour. The host 
insisted that Madame Fleurien should grace the head of 
the table, which she did charmingly. Were there not 
some of his own that he could draw around his board 
and make a family circle, he wondered ? For in the years 
to come when the cares of business would be less exact- 
ing, would it not be a pleasure to have some dear faces 
about him ? 

The cotton gin was quite a new thing in those days, 
and they must see that. Here was the other great sugar- 
making house, with its busy, happy laborers who had a 
cheerful smile for their master as he passed them. And 
until the day of his death, which was to be of ripe old age, 
they were devoted to him — a devotion he meant nobly to 
repay, but his last wishes were disregarded by the State 
he had served so well. 

Sylvie was charmed with Pointe Coupee and Papa 
Fleurien, and he was loath to let her go. 

“And now we must go to the last cutting,” he declared 
one day. “You must not miss that.” 

It was quite a grand ceremony. When they came to 




the last row the tallest cane was chosen and left uncut, 
while the green forest fell all about it. After it was 
carried in, the gang came out to the place with the over- 
seer and commandeiir, one of the head negroes, who tied 
a blue ribbon to the cane, sang' to it and danced around 
it as an Indian might have done, and suddenly cut it down 
with a shout. The work was ended. Mounting a cart, 
it was borne aloft in triumph amid singing and shout- 
ing, the women waving bright handkerchiefs, and carried 
to the great house, where the master accepted it with a 
speech. Then they were treated and the day ended with 
a dance in one of the cleared spaces where pine torches 
could be lighted with no danger of firing anything. 

‘‘Why, it is like a picture !” cried Sylvie, enthusias- 
tically. “If only Monsieur Poydras could paint it !” 

“Or put it in verse,” said Papa Fleurien. 

“It is quite delightful to have a friend so near one's 
age,” said Claire. “I shall miss thee sorely. Zenobie is 
so full of girl’s whims and pranks and does not enjoy 
our quiet. Still, Angelique,” caressing her tenderly, 
“thou art too sweet to comb St. Catharine’s hair. Some 
husband must have the gift of thy devotion.” 

Angelique blushed. What was it that held her back 
from dreams of marriage and home ? 

Barbe and Jaques gave them a most fervent welcome. 
Viny went wild with delight. 

“It has been like a convent for stillness. Missy,” she 
cried. “And Telano has nearly died of grief.” 

“Oh, my poor fellow !” But Hylas would have the 
first attention and looked unutterable confessions with his 
eager eyes. Telano put his head in his mistress’s hand 
and gave a pathetic cry. 

“Oh, Telano, I’ve had such a splendid time, but it was 
dreadful to leave you so long. Hylas had the boys, but, 




my poor bird, you had no one, though I know Viny was 
good to you. And now I shall not go in ever so long 
again, and we will have good times together. Oh, you 
must not grieve so, now that you have me back again. 
We will sit by the lake and you shall hear about the 
sugar-making. And the deers are lovely and tame, and 
such beautiful peacocks ! But you are my heart’s delight, 
you know so much, Telano.” 


CHAPTER XVI. 

Christmas was a church day, rather solemn in the 
morning, toned down by Advent, which was quite devoutly 
kept. But New Year’s was the great festival. Before 
it was fairly light the slaves were swarming out of their 
cabins to the great house, to awaken the master and 
mistress, and the first one to greet them was envied all 
the year. Then began gift-giving. New suits of clothes, 
gay kerchiefs for the women, and the mother of a new 
baby always had something extra. On the plantations 
they always formed for a dance, interspersed with songs. 
In the city the dance had been forbidden, but there was 
often a beautiful song or two, accompanied by the plain- 
tive sound of the rude home-manufactured violin. 

The rest of the day was given over to jollity. True, 
many of the slaves paid for two much vehemence in the 
calaboose. But it was their one grand holiday. Servants 
were hired out, slaves took to themselves wives, and for 
a week there was more or less commotion. Indeed, the 




lower class of whites and the half-breeds were more dis- 
orderly than the negroes. Drinking brawls, gaming, and 
disreputable balls raged like a carnival. Then everybody 
settled to the old routine. 

There was a rather sharp winter after that, and the 
older people recalled their stories of snow and the big 
freeze when the fruit was blighted. And once the river 
was frozen over. 

“How curious it must have seemed !” commented 
Sylvie. ‘T should like to see snow.” 

Fires in the wide chimneys felt good. The child sat 
in the glow with Hylas by her side and dreamed all 
manner of strange things as one does on the dividing line 
when one longs for something new and yet is almost 
afraid of that unknown land called the future. 

When Gervaise came home ! He was having a won- 
derful time journeying about. None of it could be told 
in a letter. It would take all one’s time. But there 
seemed a great deal of space devoted to Monsieur Norton, 
and mysterious allusions to some great future happening. 
The Union of the colonies was so much grander than 
one could imagine. In the new capital, which was for 
the whole country, a splendid body of men came to 
represent every State and present its needs. He had seen 
the President, Monsieur Adams, but the grand general 
who had led the armies to victory and snatched his 
country from foreign domination, giving it the larger 
liberty, and again served it as President, had died in his 
beautiful country home, whither he had retired to spend 
his old age. The whole country had mourned him. 

Once they had quite given up the search for Cousin 
Hugh, as the fact of his death seemed to be established. 
And then M. Norton had found another clue. They 
were to come back by an overland journey whidi would 




bring them to the place indicated, but if they did succeed 
it would be owing to M. Norton’s perseverance and 
knowledge of the country. 

“Do you hear that?’’ Sylvie said to Hylas. “Your dear 
master may find our Cousin Hugh, and we shall all be 
so glad.” 

Public events to change the destiny of the whole 
Province of Louisiana had been marching on rapidly. 
Governor Gayoso had died in the midst of an intrigue 
with Wilkinson and his party. The Marquis Caso Calvo 
proving weak had been succeeded by Don Manuel de 
Salcedo. But the intendant Morales held the real power 
and hampered American commerce, as well as discourag- 
ing emigration. The M oniteitr de Louisiane was the only 
paper, and being published in French, and having French 
interests at heart, was not likely to disseminate much 
American news. True, there had been an undercurrent 
of feeling that the province had been transferred back to 
France, and yet there was terror as well as exultation 
in it. For had not the redoubtable First Consul, who was 
fast making himself the arbiter of Europe, said to the St. 
Domingans, “Whatever be your color or your origin, you 
are free” ? What if this should be his fiat to them ! 

They heard little about the political aspect of matters 
in the quiet home on the St. John Road. Father Antoine 
no longer worked the small plantation, and Jaques had 
two hired slaves. Zenobie and Hortense had so far out- 
stripped Sylvie that they were young ladies going to balls, 
and having whispered confidences about a “parti.” 
Zenobie held her head high and coquetted even under the 
careful eyes of her mother; Claire was wildly happy in 
the possession of twin boys; and gra’mere still lived, 
thanks to the devotion of Olympie. Mrs. Murch and 
her two boys had followed her husband to Kentucky, 





where he had succeeded in obtaining a farm and building 
a log cabin. 

‘T don’t know what I should do without you, Hylas,” 
Sylvie said a dozen times a day, in a most melancholy 
tone. “I don’t believe any one will ever come back to us ! 
And Angel does nothing but pore over those stupid books, 
while Hortense, with all her protestations, has ceased to 
care for me, and Laure is really going to be a nun !” 

In the midst of these lamentations the young traveller 
returned. 

Was this indeed Gervaise? He was taller and more 
manly, and so changed that Barbe declared she would 
never have known him. Angelique was proud of him. 
Sylvie, half afraid, was stunned by the complete alteration 
in him. She could not run to him and hang on his arm, 
or order him about with her pretty imperiousness. She 
did not understand how much of the change was in 
herself. 

Oh, one could never have written half the wonderful 
things he had to relate ! Angelique asked herself seri- 
ously if it could be true. Sylvie listened enraptured. 
There wxre a few old French stories of the simpler sort 
that girls were allowed to read, but this surpassed them 
all. No Arabian Nights was ever so marvellous as these 
cities of the East, where little girls went to school quite 
alone by themselves and had no end of pretty plays. 

Two days after Gervaise’s return there was a great 
commotion in old New Orleans. The cession that had 
been suspected and denied, and kept a secret from those 
most interested, was suddenly announced. The First 
Consul had exchanged the petty Italian kingdom of 
Etruria for this magnificent province. On the 26th of 
March, 1803, M. Laussat, the French Colonial Prefect, 
landed, commissioned to prepare for the advent of General 





Victor with a large body of troops to institute the new 
form of government. 

There was much indignation and wonderment that this 
cession had been kept a secret so long, and certainly the 
Louisianians had been cheapened by the bargain. Laus- 
sat, to allay their fears about the slaves, proclaimed the 
good-will and friendship of Napoleon, and that it was his 
intention to preserve the colony in all its rights and 
privileges, amending only such abuses as might have 
crept in. 

Yet it was not easy to satisfy the inhabitants at first. 
They could not understand all the diplomacy back of it. 
For Napoleon at war with England saw this was a 
vulnerable point to strike. Their ships of war were 
already in the Gulf of Mexico. And he understood the 
desire of the United States to possess it. There had been 
more than one conference in the garden of St. Cloud 
with Marbois and Talleyrand. President Adams was 
ready to descend upon it. There was the other counter- 
plotting. And he needed money to prosecute his war. 

‘‘Let them give you one hundred million francs, pay 
their own claims, and take the country,” he said to 
M. Marbois, who had the negotiations in hand, with 
Messrs. Livingston and Monroe. 

And while the dickering was going on. New Orleans 
was coming to believe herself really French once more, 
and beginning to rejoice in the fact of their reunion to 
France, which they had always desired. The enthusiasm 
grew. The French language was used without stint and 
openly taught. Many restrictions were honored in the 
breach. 

Gervaise Aubreton wondered if he really was a French- 
man ! He had seen no more beautiful country than this, 
yet his soul had been fired with the larger liberty of the 




Republic. The narrowness and illiberal policy that had- 
so retarded the growth of the city struck him as never 
before; indeed, he had not considered it at all in that old 
boyish time. 

Old friends welcomed him. Henri de Longpre, grown 
the same as himself, but now an active business person, 
contemplating marriage and casting his eyes toward 
Zenobie Lavalette, was enthusiastic over his return. 
Madame Henriade, looking not a day older, still had her 
pretty apartments thronged with visitors and gave him a 
delightful welcome. 

“Truly you have come to full manhood, nion ami'' 
she said with her charming smile. “You are quite in 
condition to captivate our poor girls, and they must be 
warned as to your attractions. And you have seen so 
much of the world, learned that some of the finest plans 
go astray.” 

He studied her a moment, compelling his eyes to 
betray more curiosity than knowledge. 

“Yes — they did not succeed ” 

“General Villaineuve was deeply disappointed. It 
would have been a magnificent empire.” 

“But to whom would it have belonged? It was never 
really meant for Spain.” 

“Ah bah ! Spain ! And though there is no royal blood 
in this Napoleon, if he gives us a good government we 
will not quarrel with him. But a truce to these things 
women have no right to meddle with. Mon ami, what 
do you mean to do with your pretty cousin? She will 
have no lovers. Was there some one left behind in 
France?” 

“Angelique, do you mean? Oh, no. No one ever 
came to the chateau ” then he flushed a little, why 





he could not exactly tell, though he had more than half 
suspected Norton’s secret. 

“Youth goes so fast — a girl’s sweet youth that it is a 
pity not to make the best of it. And you Protestants 
have no convents where one may make single life a 
virtue.” 

Gervaise found Angelique curiously interesting. She 
was more like the women he had met in the Eastern 
cities, where education was making progress. True, they 
had studied not a little together and her mind was not 
full of childish frivolities, nor her eyes of the demureness 
that was half coquetry, yet indescribably attractive. And 
she was eager to hear about his journeys and the people 
he had met. 

But poor Sylvie felt herself crowded out of all this. 
She was not old enough to appreciate any of the larger 
views of life, and she was growing out of childishness. 
Indeed, a little girl’s life outside of the convent or the 
schools was rather dull at this period. As Barbe com- 
plained, there were slaves to do almost everything, even to 
fine sewing, and, alas ! Sylvie did not like to sew. She 
soiled her lace-work and had stitches too tight or too 
loose. Barbe had tried her at darning stockings, but 
Viny did it so much neater and often begged off for the 
child, or mended them when they were hardly dry from 
the wash. 

So she roamed in the old garden filling it with her 
plaints. She stood under the great tall stalks of lilies, 
snowy-white, purple-clouded, and scarlet, and reaching up 
to them kissed the white ones, for the others gave her a 
strange fear, as if they might be transformed into some- 
thing she should shrink from. She buried her face in 
the roses and showered the leaves all over her ; she patted 





and caressed the magnolias with her soft, slender fingers. 
Or she hid under the dark tall pines, whose thick boughs 
seemed instinct with some mysterious whispering. She 
might have been a later none in the vale of Ida, for 
surely this beautiful spot was perfect enough, fragrant 
enough, and full of all enchanting voices that impressed 
her and yet she was unable to translate. For she was 
no Greek girl dwelling among naiads and dryads by 
melodious fountains, where the gods could come and hold 
converse with her. For if they did, they were birds 
calling mysteriously, warbling their sweetest notes to 
each other, making a dazzle in the sunshine or a flutter 
among the leaves and vanishing. The swans talked to 
their young, the ducks chattered and clattered in friendly 
rivalry. 

'‘And no one cares about me any more. They do not 
love me. Gervaise does not, for all I am to be his little 
wife so soon, when I am twelve. But he loves Angelique, 
I know. It is just like the birds. If she goes out on the 
gallery he follows. And when I come they stop talking, 
or they go somewhere else. And even Barbe is cross, 
and says, ‘Run away, Sylvie,’ or ‘Run out in the garden.’ 
Oh Telano, it is very hard not to have any one love 
you best of all, only one slave girl who doesn’t belong 
to you !” 

Telano made a lugubrious sound and thrust his head 
under his young mistress’s arm. Hylas stood before her, 
wide-eyed and upbraiding. 

“Oh, I know what you mean, Hylas, but it isn’t so ; 
you would fly in a moment if your master was here. 
Do you know that he is coming — M’sieu Norton — 
Roger Norton,” in a slow, beguiling tone. 

Hylas gave a turn as if he could fly to the ends of the 
earth, and uttered two short exultant cries as if he said, 




“When? when?” His ears were all aquiver, his nostrils 
dilated with very eagerness, and a tiny pulsation seemed 
to ripple all over his body. Oh, the intense earnestness of 
his eyes as he studied the fair face ! 

“Oh, yes, I knew it would be so ! And when you hear 
his voice you will go wild with delight. You will forget 
all about me. He will take you away, and you won’t 
mind, you will be so happy. And there will be only 
Telano. Then what if Telano should die .” 

The soft, fragrant wind was gay rather than mournful ; 
the leaves danced about, the birds fairly shouted out 
melody. Yes, it was very hard for a little girl who had 
no resources, for whom there were no fairy tales of en- 
. chanting transformations, no charming history of grand 
' and noble deeds, no novels such as fire a young girl’s life 
and make her long for days of usefulness, of ambition, of 
satisfaction ! 

" Ah, no wonder Sylvie was lonely in the great beautiful 
! garden, for a human soul is always longing for humanity. 
What a little of true childhood the world knew then, 
a hundred years ago ! 

Gervaise came in with a note and a shout. He whirled 
' the letter round and round his head. “He has been 
, found ! He is alive ! He is coming, they are coming 
! as fast as they can !’' 

“Oh, it can’t be true,” cried Barbe, clasping her hands, 
i “He would have taken some pains all this time to find us. 

I You would have heard ” 

“The old Indian woman who nursed him took him 
away. Some one said she had buried him in the forest. 
Then we heard of him at one of the forts — just the same 
name — Hugh de Brienne. But we went to Pittsburg and 
then on east ; and all trace was lost. Yet once or twice, 
even, we found we had been on the wrong trail. And 
how would he hear about us ?” 





For while Barbe considered him dead — as in her 
secret heart this fear was uppermost — she forgave him 
many things that looked like neglect. She knew nothing 
of a man’s life of adventure. Yet suddenly a hard feel- 
ing toward him sprang up as if she could call him to 
account severely. 

“Norton does not go into particulars. There are 
always so many things to do, and so few — what shall I 
call them? — conveniences in that rough life. But Heaven 
only knows how glad I shall be. For, Barbe, since I 
have been back it has been desperately trying with the 
little one. And how we are ever to get out of the tangle 
— if Hugh were really dead, I suppose ” 

“Hush,” commanded Barbe, and, following the direc- 
tion of her eyes, Gervaise saw Sylvie with her two com- 
panions. 

“How vexatious !” he exclaimed, irritably. 

“I wish some one would take a nice long walk with 
me,” said the child. “Fm tired of the garden. It is so 
lonely and sorrowful.” 

“Let Viny take you down in the town ” 

“I don’t want to go in the town,” pettishly. 

“To-morrow we will go somewhere, anywhere you lixe. 
We will sail down on the lake.” 

“And now go up to Angelique and say a lesson or read. 
I want to talk to Gervaise.” 

Oh, that was the old story ! No one wanted to talk 
to her. Her heart swelled with indignation. She went 
slowly with tears in her eyes. 

Barbe took the young man’s arm and led him out in 
the court. 

“It is such a queer thing, such a wild thing it seems 
now. I can’t understand. Did he really desire it, do 
you think? He was so much older. To be sure, there 




was all the fortune, but no one knows about it now. And 
if he should insist ” 

‘I hoped she would get over her fondness for me,” 
Gervaise said, with a sigh. “She is like a darling little 
sister, that is all. And the bond with Hugh is legal, I 
suppose, though no one kept the copy with the signatures. 
It may still be in the old chateau. Yes, as you say, it is a 
desperate tangle, and he can best unravel it. But if he 
should repudiate it ?” 

She turned her anxious eyes to his face, that was not 
any nearer satisfaction than her own. 

“Oh, we can do nothing but wait. It will not be very . 
long, thank Heaven ! Why, Hugh coming back to us is 
like a miracle. But I suppose he is changed in every 
respect. I can recall my boyish adoration of him, and 
when he came to America I was crazy to come also. I 
chafed like a tiger when I was sent back to that dull little 
school. And now I keep saying, ‘Shall we like him or 
not?’ All adventurers are not noble or grand or lovable. 

I have learned that, Barbe.” 

“I know so little of him !” 

“But I was a boy under his wing, as one may say. 
He taught me to ride without fear, and to shoot. And 
he was always so brave and proud and abhorred lies. He 
thrashed me once because I was afraid to own up a truth, 
and then he caressed me afterward and was so affec- 
tionate. I should hate to have him changed.” 

“Angelique should know. She has much wisdom in 
her girl's head, Gervaise, and when the pinch comes she 
may see a clearer path than any of us.” 

“Yes.” He started up the stone stairway. Then he 
bethought himself that they had sent Sylvie to Angelique, 
and slowly retraced his steps, turning into the garden. 
Hylas lay on the stone flag. 




‘'Hylas, old fellow, your master is coming home. Oh, 
how wild you will be, you faithful creature. And he 
would not take a duke’s ransom for you !” 

Hylas sprang up and bounded about with short, quick 
cries, as if he could hardly contain himself for joy. 

“He really does understand !” Gervaise patted and 
stroked him. “Poor Sylvie will be jealous again. If she 
could understand, but she is too young.” 

In the midst of her English which she was rendering 
with many disheartening blunders, she heard the voice 
and the dog’s joy, and her heart bled afresh. 

“You are very careless, Sylvie. Now as a punishment 
you are to stay here and study half an hour. I shall go 
down in the garden.” 

Sylvie felt spiritless, heart-broken, and the big tears 
dropped slowly on her page. 

Angelique Saucier wondered within herself how she 
could take the tidings so calmly. She remembered the day 
he had ridden away from the old chateau, bright, joyous, 
full of splendid hopes and enthusiasms. He had pressed 
a kiss upon her forehead and said, “Give me a place in 
thy prayers, sweet cousin, and let no one crowd me out.” 
The words still sounded in her brain as he had uttered 
them then. But he had desired this marriage for the sake 
of the rich Du Chatilly heritage, and it had struck a hard 
blow to her young soul. What made her so cold and 
indifferent now ? 

“Poor little Sylvie,” Gervaise said, pityingly. “Of 
course Hugh will have to decide what will be done. It 
was an unfortunate affair. But she is so young. And 
Angelique, think how queer some marriages are. 
I should want an unmistakable preference of my 
own, should you not? Oh, there was that ,young 
Spaniard ” 



She flushed and laughed. “Yet many of the marriages 
are happy. There is Claire Lavalette’s.” 

“Oh, we must go up the river and see them all.'' 


CHAPTER XVII. 

HUGH DE BRIENNE. 

Laure Gorgas was walking up and down the shaded 
court with a baby in her arms. Its mother was dead, its 
father had taken a sea-trip, being a sailor, and the little 
one was left to the kindly care of the nuns, but a paid 
boarder at that. She was giving it the air, as it had not 
been very well. The soft baby face was pressed in the 
nest between chin and shoulder, and occasionally she 
kissed the tiny cheek or pressed the small fingers to her 
lips. Ah, Blessed Virgin, how sweet it was ! And the 
poor mother lay in the grave ! That made Laure shud- 
der. She hated dying and graves and going-out of life. 
Monotonous as this life was, it was much better and 
pleasanter than to be out of it and in purgatory for one’s 
sins. Were they all sins, these disquieting thoughts? 
Mother Annette never had them, she did her whole duty, 
that was all. Sister Lisa said no one had any business 
with such thoughts, it showed a depraved soul. Father 
Moras said she must keep busy, and the Evil One would 
not find so many places to plant his ungodly seed. Busy 
— why, she was busy all the time. She never took walks 
for pleasure any more. But she was glad to be the baby’s 
nurse — it preferred her to all the rest, perhaps it loved 
her. She too had such a wicked human longing to be 
loved. 





Father Moras was out visiting the sick when a strange 
priest called. He had been there a full hour examining 
the convent and the chapel, and the Father had not yet 
come in. Mother Anastasia was ill in bed with a raging 
headache, and Sister Catharine had been taking him 
through. There was only a hedge of clipped spruce 
between the walks. 

“Then you do not know “ he paused. 

“There have been so many emigres, Father Gilbert. 
And they would be likely to go to some of the heretical 
settlements.” 

“It was told me they were in the city. There was this 
young girl. Mademoiselle Saucier, but she may be mar- 
ried before this. Husbands seem easy to get in this new 
land. It is the child Sylvie Perrier who is needed. She 
and all she has were bequeathed to the Church. It is 
hunting a lost sheep.” 

“I will make inquiries. Father. Our good priest will 
be likely to know. Come in again.” 

He gave her his blessing. 

Why, that was little Sylvie ! And she, Laure, had been 
praying for her conversion. Bequeathed to the Church ! 
Then she had no right to be a Huguenot, or any other 
“not” that disbelieved. Laure quickened her pace and 
came out at the end of the walk just as the priest reached 
his. He raised his hand in blessing. 


“Pardon me. Father, hut I accidentally caught some- 
thing you said to Sister Catharine. You are looking for 
Sylvie Perrier?” 

“Ah, yes. Do you know her?” 

“Yes,” answered the girl, rather hesitatingly. “And 
you said — she had been bequeathed to the Church?” 

“That is true. It is my business to find her.” 

There was a little exultation in Laure’s mind that she 



had a knowledge above Sister Catharine’s, and that she 
could guide even a priest of the Church. 

“We go around gathering up our stray lambs,” he said, 
in a soft voice. “And whoever helps does a worthy deed. 
My child, where shall I find her?” 

“I have prayed night and morning for her conversion 
to the true faith.” Laure wanted credit for her good 
works. 

“Thou art a little missionary then. Thou wilt make a 
devoted Sister. Take my blessing. And now — where 
shall I find these people. There is a Monsieur Aubreton, 
and — I have the names in a list; it escapes me at this 
moment.” 

“It is on the St. John Road. There are not many 
houses. This has a magnolia avenue, and two giant pines 
at the gateway.” 

“Thanks, thanks, my daughter,” and the hands were 
folded over her head. 

It was full time to go back with the baby. Soeur 
Catharine scolded because it had been kept out in the 
evening air, and said it must be fed and put to bed at 
once. 

So Sylvie Perrier, with all her saucy pride and inde- 
pendence and her tendency to scoff at the Church, really 
belonged to it. She would be made to conform. And 
what if she had to be a nun ! It would be good for some 
of these pleasure-loving girls who were always talking of 
balls and lovers when two or three of them had their heads 
together. The poor girls with no homes and no families, 
no dowries, yes, that was the proper place for them. 
But some of the more favored ones ought to be made to 
take up the cross. Why should only the gay, bright side 
be reserved for them ? 

Father Gilbert inquired again the next morning. 





Yes, the convent girl had been correct. Monsieur and 
Madame Champe ! He smiled rather sardonically. What 
airs people put on in this new country ! Gervaise Aubre- 
ton — Angelique Saucier, Sylvie Perrier. And now it was 
a good thing this foolish marriage had taken place, 
though at first Pere Mambert had protested against it. 
How astute he had been in the marriage agreement ! 

Marti answered the clang at the gate. Gervaise had 
put up a larger bell when he went away, so they could 
even hear it in the garden to summon Jaques. A priest 
in his long cassock stood there, and Marti bowed her 
head and crossed herself. 

'T wish to see Madame Champe,” he said, briefly. 
“And Mademoiselle Saucier.” 

The court down here was comfortable enough to 
receive any casual guest. Some of the rustic seats had 
cushions on them. How ease-loving these heretics were ! 

Madame Champe looked askance at the new-comer, 
who bowed formally. Angelique had followed her, and 
cried, “Oh, are you from Pointe Coupee. Is there — 
news?” She could not bring herself to say “bad news.” 

“I am not from Pointe Coupee, but from France — 
Paris.” 

The two women glanced at each other. What word 
was this ? A sudden terror smote both. 

“In the latter part of the year seventeen ninety-five, 
there was a marriage solemnized at the Chateau de 
Brienne at the command of the Marquise, who was dy- 
ing,” he said, in an assured tone. 

Barbe made a half inclination of the head, hardly 
knowing whether to admit or not. 

“Father Mambert of St. Eudor’s officiated. The con- 
vent was near-by. The contracting parties were Sylvie 
Perrier, an orphan child, and Hugh de Brienne, the 



proxy being his cousin, Gervaise Aubreton,” and he 
looked up confidently. 

That was all true enough. She made no comment, but 
a shade of paleness passed over her countenance, for she 
apprehended trouble. 

‘T suppose the marriage contract was read by you all, 
since you all signed it?’' 

The tone had a suavity that was irritating. 

'‘No. I am not sure the Marquise heard it even. 
And the strange thing about it was its disappearance. 
We never saw it after the signing,” said Madame, de- 
cisively. 

“It was given into the Father’s care. The child-wife 
was to be under his protection, was indeed to reside at 
the convent until such time as her husband returned.” 

“I cannot believe that! Madame was not a Catholic,” 
cried Barbe, indignantly. 

“Allow me to refresh your memory.” He drew from 
an inside pocket a roll of parchment tied up in a shabby 
velvet case, and began to unroll it. “A circumstance that 
might reasonably have been feared, has occurred, and as 
a wise precaution this was taken into account and pro- 
vided for; therefore the law and the desires of the Mar- 
quise must go into effect. Let me read to you.” 

He adjusted his glasses and shook out the parchment, 
eying both women from under long drooping lids. 

“You cannot deny the marriage?” he said, defiantly. 

“I do not deny the marriage.” Barbe’s tone was cold 
and resentful and showed plainly that she would be glad 
to, if she could. 

Then he began to read. There was much stilted ver- 
biage, the fashion of that time which has come down to 
us. The relationships were duly traced on both sides. 
Sylvie, daughter of Armand Perrier of Liscourt, and 




Constance de Chatilly, heiress of Chatilly Court, of Petit 
Marais, of Saint Morne, wife of Armand Perrier, mother 
of Sylvie de Chatilly Perrier. Then followed the mar- 
riage contract, the delegation of all powers as guardian 
of the Marquise de Brienne to the Convent of St. Eudor ; 
that the said Sylvie be educated and cared for; and if 
Hugh de Brienne should die, the whole fortune and the 
ward should remain in the hands of the Fathers and the 
Mother Superior.” 

“I do not believe it!” burst out Barbe, indignantly. 
“The Marquise was not a Catholic, the Perriers were all 
Huguenots I The Marquise never could have done such 
a wicked thing. It is false. We fled because we 
heard there was a plot ” 

“You can examine for yourself. And now that the 
province has gone back to France you will find the same 
laws govern both places. We therefore demand this 
Sylvie Perrier. She must return to France, and I am 
invested with all legal authority to convoy her thither. 
I warn you that fighting will be useless. For Hugh dc 
Brienne, the only other person who could claim her, is 
dead.” 

“He is not dead!” cried Angelique, vehemently. “We 
have heard — he is on his way to New Orleans.” 

The priest gave a wave of his hand that was at once 
superior and indicated a rather ironical pity. 

“He is dead,” he returned. “He was wounded in an 
Indian skirmish at Lapeer on the Flint River, and taken 
prisoner, but left behind to die. An Indian woman 
nursed him — I had established a mission not far from 
there. I visited him twice. I administered the last rites 
of the Church ; and he was hardly conscious at the end. 
He could not have lived an hour. A week afterward the 
wigwam was burned. It was his funeral pyre.” 



Barbe turned to Angelique in desperation. Which 
story was true? One or the other must be mistaken. 
A dying man, wounded at that, could not recover in so 
short a time and leave the place, and with no trace, dis- 
appear mysteriously. 

Angelique recovered herself first. “Monsieur,” she 
began, with dignity, “we know nothing about you. You 
may be an impostor in a priest’s garb. You must have 
some one to corroborate your story, to prove that you 
have a right to act in this matter. Sylvie Perrier has 
friends who will fight for her to the last.” 

“Mademoiselle, will not this go a long way in any 
court?” and he tapped the parchment that he had care- 
fully rolled up again. “Sylvie Perrier and her estates 
belong to the Convent of St. Eudor. Even the Spanish 
law would admit that. I warn you it will be a sharp 
fight and you will be worsted.” 

Barbe was about to speak, but Angelique made a sign. 

“Still we shall not turn her over to you until the courts 
so decide. And we must have better proof that Hugh de 
Brienne is dead.” 

The priest looked at her steadily, but she never 
blanched, though every nerve was in a quiver. 

“As to that, the proof will be forthcoming. I am well 
known at the mission — I served seven years and only 
returned a year ago. Because I knew these particulars 
I was selected for this important matter.” 

“I think, too. Monsieur Aubreton, the cousin and next 
in the succession, may have something to say. He is of 
age.” 

“He can hardly marry his cousin’s widow,” returned 
the priest with a sneer. 

“We are all Huguenots, Monsieur ; besides, the relation- 
ship between them is not so near as cousins. I doubt if 




the Marquise knew what she was signing. I for one did 
not. It should have been read to us.” 

The priest shrugged his shoulders and deepened the 
lines on either side of his mouth by a peculiar compression 
of the lips. 

“May I see this young person?” 

“Not to-day, Monsieur,” Angelique answered, de- 
cisively. 

“To-morrow, at ten then. And I will bring not only 
witnesses for myself, but an alcalde and a notary. 
Meanwhile — it will not do to try another escape.” 

“We are among friends now, Sir Priest,” the girl said, 
