and the Bellestres took their house. Pani had been given her freedom,
but remained with the new owners. She was a very useful woman, but
subject to curious spells of longing for her olden friends. Sometimes
she would disappear for days, spending the time among the Indian squaws
outside the stockade. She was there one evening when this child was
dropped in her lap by a young Indian woman. Touchas, the woman she was
staying with, corroborates the story. The child was two years or more
old, and talked French; cried at first for her 'maman.' Madame Bellestre
insisted that Pani should bring the child to her. She had lost a little
one by death about the same age. She supposed at first that some one
would claim it, but no one ever did. Then she brought the child to me
and had it christened by the name on the card, Jeanne Angelot. Madame
had a longing for the ministrations of the Church, but her husband was
opposed. In her last illness he consented. He loved her very dearly. I
think he was afraid of the influence of a priest, but he need not have
been. She gave me all the things belonging to the child, and I promised
to yield them up to the one who claimed her, or Jeanne herself when she
was eighteen, or on her wedding day when she was married. Her husband
promised to provide for the child as long as she needed it. He was very
fond of her, too."
"And was there no suspicion?" St. Armand hesitated.
The pale face betrayed a little warmth and the slim fingers clasped each
other.
"I understand, Monsieur. There was and I told him of it. With his hand
on God's word he declared that he knew no more about her than Pani's
story, and that he had loved his wife too well for his thoughts ever to
stray elsewhere. He was an honest, upright man and I believe him. He
planned at first to take the child to New Orleans, but Mademoiselle, who
was about fourteen, objected strenuously. She was jealous of her
father's love for the child. M. Bellestre was a large, fair man with
auburn hair and hazel eyes, generous, kindly, good-tempered. The child
is dark, and has a passionate nature, beats her playmates if they offend
her, though it is generally through some cruel thing they have done. She
has noble qualities but there never has been any training. Yet every one
has a good word for her and a warm side. I do not think the child would
tell a lie or take what did not belong to her. She would give all she
had sooner."
"You interest me greatly. But would it not be wiser for her to have a
better home and different training? Does M. Bellestre consent to have
her grow up in ignorance?"
"I have proposed she and Pani should come to the Recollet house. We have
classes, you know, and there are orphan children. Several times we have
coaxed her in, but it was disastrous. She set our classes in an uproar.
The sister put her in a room by herself and she jumped out of the window
and threatened to run away to the woods if she were sent again. M.
Bellestre thinks to come to Detroit sometime, when it will be settled no
doubt. His daughter is married now. He may take Jeanne back with him."
"That would be a blessing. But she has an eager mind and now we are
learning that a broader education is necessary. It seems a pity--"
"Monsieur, there are only two lines that seem important for a woman. One
is the training to make her a good wife and mother, and in new countries
this is much needed. It is simplicity and not worldly arrogance,
obedience and not caviling; first as a daughter, then as a wife. To
guide the house, prepare the meals, teach her children the holy truths
of the Church, and this is all God will require of her. The other is to
devote her whole life to God's work, but not every one has this gift.
And she who bears children obeys God's mandate and will have her
reward."
"Whether the world is round or square," thought the Sieur St. Armand,
but he was too courteous even to smile. Jeanne Angelot would need a
wider life than this, and, if unduly narrowed, would spring over the
traces.
"You think M. Bellestre means to come?"
"He has put it off to next year now. There is so much unrest and
uncertainty all over the country, that at present he cannot leave his
business."
St. Armand sighed softly, thinking of Jeanne.
"Would you show the clothes and the trinkets?"
"O yes, Monsieur, to a person like you, but not to the idly curious.
Indeed, for that matter, they have been mostly forgotten. So many things
have happened to distract attention."
He rose and went to the old escritoire. Unlocking a drawer he took out a
parcel folded in a piece of cloth.
"The clothes she wore," he said, "even to the little shoes of deerskin.
There is nothing special about them to denote that she was the child of
a rich person."
That was very true, St. Armand saw, except that the little stockings
were fine and bore the mark of imported goods. He mused over them.
The priest opened a small, oblong box that still had the scent of snuff
about it. On it was the name of Bellestre. So that was no clew.
"Here is the necklet and the little ring and the paper with her name.
Madame Bellestre placed these in my hand some time before she died."
The chain was slender and of gold, the locket small; inside two painted
miniatures but very diminutive, and both of them young. One would hardly
be able to identify a middle aged person from them. There was no mark or
initials, save an undecipherable monogram.
"It is a pity there are no more chances of identification," St. Armand
said. "This and the stockings come from France. And if the poor mother
was dead--"
"There are so many orphans, Monsieur. Kind people take them in. I know
of some who have been restored to their families. It is my dream to
gather them in one home and train them to useful lives. It may come if
we have peace for a while."
"She has a trusty guardian in you."
"If I could decide her fate, Monsieur. Truly she is a child of the
Church, but she is wild and would revolt at any abridgment of her
liberty. We may win her by other means. Pani is a Christian woman though
with many traits of Indian character, some of the best of them,"
smiling. "It cannot be that the good Father above will allow any of his
examples to be of none effect. Pani watches over her closely and loves
her with untiring devotion. She firmly upholds M. Bellestre's right and
believes he will return. The money to support them is sent to M. Loisel,
the notary, and he is not a churchman. It is a pity so many of out brave
old fathers should die for the faith and the children not be gathered in
one fold. In Father Bonaventure's time it was not so, but the English
had not come."
The good priest sighed and began folding up the articles.
"Father Gilbert believes in a stricter rule. But most of the people have
years of habit that they put in the place of faith. Yet they are a good,
kindly people, and they need some pleasures to compensate for their hard
lives. They are gay and light-hearted as you have no doubt seen, but
many of them are tinctured with Indian superstitions as well. Then for a
month, when the fur traders come in, there is much drinking and
disorder. There have been many deep-rooted prejudices. My nation cannot
forgive the English for numberless wrongs. We could always have been
friends with the Indians when they understood that we meant to deal
fairly by them. And we were to blame for supplying them with fire water,
justly so called. The fathers saw this and fought against it a century
ago. Even the Sieur Cadillac tried to restrict them, though he did not
approve the Jesuits. Monsieur, as you may have seen, the Frenchman
drinks a little with the social tendency of his race, the Indian for the
sake of wild expansion. He is a grand hero to himself, then, ready for a
war dance, for fighting, cruelty, rapine, and revenge. I hope the new
nation will understand better how to deal with them. They are the true
children of the forest and the wilderness. I suppose in time they would
even destroy each other."
St. Armand admitted to himself that it was hard to push them farther to
the cold, inhospitable north, which would soon be the only hunting
ground left them unless the unknown West opened a future resource.
"They are a strange race. Yet there have been many fierce peoples on our
earth that have proved themselves amenable to civilization."
"Let us hope for better times and a more lasting peace. Prejudices die
out in a few generations." Then he rose. "I thank you sincerely for your
kindness, father, and hope you will be prospered in your good work, and
in the oversight of the child."
"You are not to remain--"
St. Armand smiled. "I have much business on my hands. There are many
treaty points to define and settle. I go to Washington; I may go to
France. But I wish you all prosperity under the new government."
The priest bowed.
"And you will do your best for the child?"
"Whatever I am allowed to do, Monsieur."
There was still much soreness about religious matters. The English
laxity had led to too much liberty, to doubting, even.
They bade each other a cordial adieu, with hopes of meeting again.
"Strange there should be so many interested in the child," St. Armand
mused. "And she goes her own way serenely."
CHAPTER VI.
IN WHICH JEANNE BOWS HER HEAD.
General Anthony Wayne was a busy man for the next few weeks, though he
was full of tireless activity to his finger tips. There was much to be
done in the town that was old already and had seen three different
régimes. English people were packing their worldly goods and starting
for Canada. Some of the French were going to the farther western
settlements. Barracks were overhauled, the palisades strengthened, the
Fort put in a better state of defense. For there were threats that the
English might return. There were roving bands of Indians to the north
and west, ready to be roused to an attack by disaffected French or
English.
But the industrious inhabitants plied their vocations unmindful of
change of rulers. Boat loads of emigrants came in. Stores of all kinds
were dumped upon the wharf. The red painted windmills flew like great
birds in the air, though some of the habitans kept to their little home
hand mill, whose two revolving stones needed a great expenditure of
strength and ground but coarsely. You saw women spinning in doorways
that they might nod to passers-by or chat with a neighbor who had time
to spare.
The children played about largely on the outside of the palisade. There
were waving fields of maize that farmers had watched with fear and
trembling and now surveyed with pride. Other grains were being
cultivated. Estates were staked out, new log houses were erected, some
much more pretentious ones with great stone chimneys.
Yet people found time for pleasure. There were canoe loads of merry
girls going down or up the river, adroitly keeping out of the way of the
larger craft and sending laughing replies to the chaff of the boatmen.
And the evenings were mostly devoted to pleasure, with much music and
singing. For it was not all work then.
Jeanne roamed at her own wayward will, oftenest within the inclosure
with Pani by the hand. The repairs going on interested her. The new
soldiers in their Continental blue and buff, most of it soiled and worn,
presented quite a contrast to the red and gold of the English to which
their eyes had become so accustomed. Now and then some one spoke
respectfully to her; there was much outward deference paid to women even
if the men were some of them tyrants within.
And Jeanne asked questions in her own fearless fashion. She had picked
up some English and by dint of both languages could make herself
understood.
"Well?" exclaimed a young lieutenant who had been overseeing some work
and cleaning up at the barracks, turning a smiling and amused face
towards her, "well, Mademoiselle, how do you like us--your new
masters?"
"Are you going to be masters here for long? Are you sure the English
will not come back?"
She raised her head proudly and her eyes flashed.
"It looks as if we might stay," he answered.
"You will not be everybody's master. You will not be mine."
"Why, no. What I meant was the government. Individuals you know have
always a certain liberty."
She wondered a little what individuals were. Ah, if one could know a
good deal! Something was stirring within her and it gave her a sort of
pain, perplexing her as well.
What a bright curious face it was with the big eyes that looked out so
straightforwardly!
"You are French, Mam'selle, or--"
"Am I like an Indian?"
She stood up straight and seemed two or three inches taller. He turned a
sudden scarlet as he studied the mop of black curling hair, the long
lashes, through which her eyes glittered, the brown skin that was sun
kissed rather than of a copper tint, the shapely figure, and small hands
that looked as if they might grasp and hold on.
"No, Mam'selle, I think you are not." Then he looked at Pani. "You live
here?"
"Oh, not far away. Pani is my--oh, I do not know what you call
it--guard, nurse, but I am a big girl now and do not need a nurse.
Monsieur, I think I am French. But I dropped from the clouds one evening
and I can't remember the land before that."
The soldier stared, but not impertinently.
"Mam'selle, I hope you will like us, since we have come to stay."
"Ah, do not feel too sure. The French drove out the Indians, the English
conquered the French, and they went away--many of them. And you have
driven out the English. Where will the next people come from?"
"The next people?" in surprise.
"The people to drive you out." She laughed softly.
"We will not be driven out."
"Are you as strong as that?"
"Mam'selle, we have conquered the English from Maine to the Carolinas,
and to the Mississippi river. We shall do all the rest sometime."
"I think I shall be an American. I like people who are strong and can
never be beaten."
"Of course you will have to be an American. And you must learn to speak
English well."
"Monsieur," with much dignity, "if you are so grand why do you not have
a language of your own?"
"Because"--he was about to say--"we were English in the beginning," but
the sharp, satirical curves lurking around her mouth checked him. What
an odd, piquant creature she was!
"Come away," and Pani pulled her hand. "You talk too much to people and
make M'sieu idle."
"O Pani!" She gave an exultant cry and sprang away, then stopped short.
For it was not only her friend, but a number of gentlemen in military
attire and mounted on horses with gay trappings.
Monsieur St. Armand waved his hand to her. She shrank back and caught
Pani's gown.
"It is General Wayne," said the lieutenant, and paid him something more
than the demands of superior rank, for admiration was in his eyes and
Jeanne noticed it.
"My little friend," said St. Armand, leaning down toward Jeanne, "I am
glad to see you again." He turned a trifle. The general and his aids
were on a tour of inspection, and now the brave soldier leaped from the
saddle, giving the child a glance.
"I have been coming to find you," began Monsieur. "I have many things to
say to your attendant. Especially as in a few days I go away."
"O Monsieur, is it because you do not like--" her eyes followed the
general's suite.
"It is because I like them so well. I go to their capital on some
business, and then to France. But I shall return in a year, perhaps. A
year is not very long."
"Just a winter and a summer. There are many of them to life?"
"To some lives, yes. I hope there will be to yours, happy ones."
"I am always happy when I can run about or sail on the river. There are
so many delightful things when no one bothers you."
"And the bothers are, I suppose, when some one considers your way not
the best for you. We all meet with such things in life."
"My own way is the best," she replied, willfully, a daring light
shining in her eyes. "Do I not know what gives me the most pleasure? If
I want to go out and sing with the birds or run mad races with the dogs,
or play with the children outside, that is the thing which gives me joy
and makes my blood rush warm and bright in my veins. Monsieur, I told
you I did not like to be shut up."
"Well, well. Remain in your little cottage this afternoon, and let me
come and talk to you. I think I will not make you unhappy."
"Your voice is so sweet, Monsieur, but if you say disagreeable things,
if you want me to learn to sew and to read--and to spin--the De Bers
have just had a spinning wheel come. It is a queer thing and hums
strangely. And Marie will learn to spin, her mother says. Then she will
never be able to go in the woods for wild grapes and nuts. No, I cannot
spend my time being so busy. And I do not care for stockings. Leggings
are best for winter. And Touchas makes me moccasins."
Her feet and ankles were bare now. Dainty and shapely they were, and
would have done for models.
"Monsieur, the soft grass and the warm sand is so pleasant to one's
feet. I am glad I am not a grand lady to wear clumsy shoes. Why, I could
not run."
St. Armand laughed. He had never seen such a free, wild, human thing
rejoicing exultantly in its liberty. It seemed almost a shame to capture
her--like caging a bird. But she could not always be a child.
General Wayne had made his round and given some orders, and now he
reappeared.
"I want to present you to this little girl of Detroit," began M. St.
Armand, "so that in years to come, when she hears of all your exploits,
she will be proud that she had the honor. Jeanne Angelot is the small
maid's name. And this is our brave General Wayne, who has persuaded the
Indians to peace and amity, and taught the English to keep their word.
But he can fight as well as talk."
"Monsieur, when they gave you welcome, I did not think you looked grand
enough for a great general. But when I come near by I see you are brave
and strong and determined. I honor you, Monsieur. I am glad you are to
rule Detroit."
"Thank you, my little maid. I hope Detroit will become a great city, and
that you may live many years in it, and be very happy."
She made a courtesy with free, exquisite grace. General Wayne leaped
into his saddle and waved his hand.
"What an odd and charming child," he remarked to St. Armand. "No woman
of society could have been more graceful and less abashed, and few would
own up change of opinion with such naïve sweetness. Of course she is a
child of the people?"
"I am interested in learning who she really is;" and St. Armand repeated
what he knew of her story.
"Her mother may have been killed by the Indians. There will be many a
sad romance linked in with our early history, Sieur St. Armand."
As for Jeanne Angelot, many a time in after years she recalled her
meeting with the brave general, and no one dreamed then that his
brilliant career was to end so soon. Until November he held the post,
repairing fortifications, promulgating new laws, redressing abuses,
soothing the disaffected and, as far as he could, studying the best
interests of the town. In November he started for the East, but at
Presque Isle was seized with a fatal malady which ended his useful and
energetic career, and proved a great loss to the country.
Monsieur St. Armand was late in keeping his word. There had been many
things pressing on his attention and consideration. Jeanne had been very
restless. A hundred desires flew to her mind like birds on the wing.
Never had there seemed so many charms outside of the walls. She ran down
to see Marie at the new spinning wheel. Madame De Ber had not used one
in a long time and was a little awkward.
"When I have Marie well trained I think I will take thee in hand," she
said, rather severely. "Thou wilt soon be a big girl and then a maiden
who should be laying by some garments and blankets and household gear.
And thou canst not even knit."
"But why should I? There are no brothers and sisters, and Wenonah is
glad to make garments for me. Though I think M. Bellestre's money pays
for them. And Touchas sends such nice fur things."
"I should be ashamed to have other people work while I climbed trees and
ran about with Indian children. Though it is half suspected they are
kin to thee. But the French part should rule."
Jeanne threw up her head with a proud gesture.
"I should not mind. I often feel that they must be. They like liberty,
so do I. We are like birds and wild deer."
Then the child ran back before any reply could be made. Yet she was not
as indifferent as she seemed. She had not minded it until lately, but
now when it came in this sort of taunt she could not tell why a
remembrance of Louis Marsac should rise before her. After all, what did
a little Indian blood matter? Many a girl smiled on Louis Marsac, for
they knew his father was a rich fur trader. Was it the riches that
counted?
"He will not come," she said half angrily to Pani. "The big ladies are
very proud to have him. They wear fine clothes that come from France,
and they can smile and Madame Fleury has a harp her daughters play upon.
But they might be content with the young men."
"It is not late yet," trying to console her darling.
"Pani, I shall go outside the gates. I am so tired. I want to run races
to get my breath. It stops just as it does when the fog is in the air."
"No, child, stay here a little longer. It would be sad to miss him. And
he is going away."
"Let him go. I think all men are a great trouble! You wait and wait for
them. Then, if you go away they are sure to come."
Pani laughed. The child was brimming over with unreason. Yet her eyes
were like stars, and in an uncomprehended way the woman felt the charm
of her beauty. No, she would never part with her.
"O Pani!" The child sprang up and executed a pas seul worthy of a
larger audience. Her first impulse was to run to meet him. Then she
suddenly subsided from some inexplicable cause, and a flush came to her
cheek as she dropped down on a seat beside the doorway, made of the
round of a log, and folded her hands demurely, looking out to the
barracks.
Of course she turned when she heard the steps. There was a grave
expression on her face, charming innocence that would have led anyone
astray.
Pani rose and made an obeisance, and brought forward a chair.
"Or would Monsieur rather go in doors?" she inquired.
"O no. Little one--" he held out his hand.
"I thought you had forgotten. It is late," she said plaintively.
"I am a busy man, my child. I could wish for a little of the freedom
that you rejoice in so exuberantly, though I dare say I shall have
enough on my journey."
What a companion this gay, chattering child would be, going through new
scenes!
"Mademoiselle, are you ever serious? Or are you too young to take
thought of to-morrow?"
"I am always planning for to-morrow, am I not, Pani? And if it rains I
do not mind, but go the same, except that it is not always safe on the
river, which sometimes seems as if the giant monster of the deep was
sailing about in it."
"There is another kind of seriousness, my child, and a thought of the
future that is not mere pleasure. You will outgrow this gay childhood.
You may even find it necessary to go to some other country. There may be
friends awaiting you that you know nothing of now. You would no doubt
like to have them pleased with you, proud of you. And for this and true
living you need some training. You must learn to read, to speak English,
and you will find great pleasure in it. Then you will enjoy talking to
older people. You see you will be older yourself."
His eyes were fixed steadily on hers and would not allow them to waver.
She felt the power of the stronger mind.
"I have been talking with M. Bellestre's notary. He thinks you should go
to school. There are to be some schools started as soon as the autumn
opens. You know you wanted to learn why the world was round, and about
the great continent of Europe and a hundred interesting subjects."
"But, Monsieur, it is mostly prayers. I do not so much mind Sunday, for
then there are people to see. But to have it every day--and the same
things over and over--"
She gave a yawn that was half ridiculous grimace.
"Prayers, are very good, Mam'selle. While I am away I want you to pray
for me that sometime God will bring me back safe and allow me to see
you again. And I shall say when I see the sun rising on the other side
of the world, 'It is night now in old Detroit and there is a little girl
praying for me.'"
"O Monsieur, would you be glad?" Her eyes were suffused with a mistlike
joy. "Then I will pray for you. That is so different from praying for
people you don't know anything about, and to--to saints. I don't know
them either. I feel as if they sat in long rows and just nodded to you."
"Pray to the good God, my child," he returned gravely. "And if you learn
to read and write you might send me a letter."
Her eyes opened wide in amazement. "Oh, I could never learn enough for
that!" she cried despairingly.
"Yes, you can, you will. M. Loisel will arrange it for you. And twice a
week you will go to the sisters, I have promised Father Rameau. There
will be plenty of time to run and play besides."
Jeanne Angelot looked steadily down on the ground. A caterpillar was
dragging its length along and she touched it with her foot.
"It was once a butterfly. It will spin itself up in a web and hang
somewhere all winter, and in the spring turn to a butterfly again."
"That ugly thing!" in intense surprise.
"And how the trees drop their leaves in the autumn and their buds are
done up in a brown sheath until the spring sunshine softens it and the
tiny green leaf comes out, and why the birds go to warmer countries,
because they cannot stand snow and sleet, and return again; why the bee
shuts himself up in the hollow tree and sleeps, and a hundred beautiful
things. And when I come back we will talk them over."
"O Monsieur!" Her rose lips quivered and the dimple in her chin deepened
as she drew a long breath that stirred every pulse of her being.
He had touched the right chord, awakened a new life within her. There
was a struggle, yet he liked her the better for not giving up her
individuality in a moment.
"Monsieur," she exclaimed with a new humility, "I will try--indeed I
will."
"That is a brave girl. M. Loisel will attend to the matter. And you will
be very happy after a while. It will come hard at first, but you must be
courageous and persevering. And now I must say good-by for a long while.
Pani I know will take excellent care of you."
He rose and shook hands with the woman, whose eyes were full of love for
the child of her adoption. Then he took both of Jeanne's little brown
hands in his and pressed them warmly.
She watched him as he threaded his way through the narrow street and
turned the corner. Then she rushed into the house and threw herself on
the small pallet, sobbing as if her heart would break. No one for whom
she cared had ever gone out of her life before. With Pani there was
complete ownership, but Monsieur St. Armand was a new experience.
Neither had she really loved her playmates, she had found them all so
different from herself. Next to Pani stood Wenonah and the grave
brown-faced babies who tumbled about the floor when they were not
fastened to their birch bark canoe cradle with a flat end balancing it
against the wall. She sometimes kissed them, they were so quaint and
funny.
"Ma mie, ma mie, let me take thee to my bosom," Pani pleaded. "He will
return again as he said, for he keeps his word. And thou wilt be a big
girl and know many things, and he will be proud of thee. And M.
Bellestre may come."
Jeanne's sobs grew less. She had been thrust so suddenly into a new
world of tender emotion that she was frightened. She did not want to go
out again, and sat watching Pani as she made some delicious broth out of
fresh green corn, that was always a great treat to the child.
It was true there was a new stir in the atmosphere of old Detroit. For
General Wayne with the prescience of an able and far-sighted patriot had
said, "To make good citizens they must learn the English language and
there must be schools. Education will be the corner stone of this new
country."
Governor St. Clair had a wide territory to look after. There were many
unsettled questions about land and boundaries and proper laws. New
settlements were projected, but Detroit was left to adjust many
questions for itself. A school was organized where English and various
simple branches should be taught. It was opposed by Father Gilbert, who
insisted that all the French Catholics should be sent to the Recollet
house, and trained in Church lore exclusively. But the wider knowledge
was necessary since there were so many who could not read, and the laws
and courts would be English.
The school session was half a day. The better class people had a few
select schools, and sometimes several families joined and had their
children taught at the house of some parent and shared expenses.
Jeanne felt like a wild thing caught and thrust into a cage. There were
disputes and quarrels, but she soon established a standing for herself.
The boys called her Indian, and a name that had been flung at her more
than once--tiger cat.
"You will see that I can scratch," she rejoined, threateningly.
"I will learn English, Pani, and no one shall interfere. M. Loisel said
if I went to the sisters on Wednesday and Friday afternoons that Father
Rameau would be satisfied. He is nice and kindly, but I hate Father
Gilbert. And," laughingly, "I think they are all afraid of M. Bellestre.
Do you suppose he will take me home with him when he comes? I do not
want to leave Detroit."
Pani sighed. She liked the old town as well.
Jeanne flew to the woods when school was over. She did envy the Indian
girls their freedom for they were not trained in useful arts as were the
French girls. Oh, the frolics in the woods, the hunting of berries and
grapes, the loads of beautiful birch and ash bark, the wild flowers that
bloomed until frost came! and the fields turning golden with the
ripening corn, secure from Indian raids! The thrifty French farmers
watched it with delight.
Marie De Ber had been kept very busy since the spinning began. Madame
thought schooling shortsighted business except for boys who would be
traders by and by, and must learn how to reckon correctly and do a
little writing.
They went after the last gleaning of berries one afternoon, when the
autumn sunshine turned all to gold.
"O Marie," cried Jeanne, "here is a harvest! Come at once, and if you
want them don't shout to anyone."
"O Jeanne, how good you are! For you might have called Susanne, who goes
to school, and I have thought you liked her better than you do me."
"No, I do not like her now. She pinched little Jacques Moet until he
cried out and then she laid it to Pierre Dessau, who was well thrashed
for it, and I called her a coward. I am afraid girls are not brave."
"Come nearer and let us hide in this thicket. For if I do not get a big
lot of berries mother will send Rose next time, she threatened."
"You can have some of mine. Pani will not care; for she never scolds at
such a thing."
"Pani is very good to you. Mother complains that she spoils you and that
you are being brought up like a rich girl."
Jeanne laughed. "Pani never struck me in my life. She isn't quite like a
mother, you see, but she loves me, loves me!" with emphasis.
"There are so many for mother to love," and the girl sighed.
"Jeanne," she began presently, "I want to tell you something. Mother
said I must not mention it until it was quite settled. There is--some
one--he has been at father's shop and--and is coming on Sunday to see
mother--"
Jeanne stood up suddenly. "It is Martin Lavosse," she said. "You danced
with him. He is so gay. O Marie!" and her face was alight.
"No, it is not Martin. I would not mind if it were. But he is so young,
only eighteen."
"You are young, too."
Marie sighed again. "You have not seen him. It is Antoine Beeson. He is
a boat builder, and has been buying some of the newly surveyed land down
at the southern end. Father has known him quite a long while. His sister
has married and gone to Frenchtown. He is lonely and wants a wife."
"But there are many girls looking for husbands," hesitated Jeanne, not
knowing whether to approve or oppose; and Marie's husband was such a new
idea.
"So father says. And we have five girls, you know. Rose is as tall as I
and has a prettier face and dances like a sprite. And there are so many
of the fur hunters and traders who drink and spend their money, and
sometimes beat their wives. Margot Beeson picked out a wife for him, but
he said she was too old. It was Lise Moet."
Jeanne laughed. "I should not want to live with her, her voice goes
through your head like a knife. She is little Jacques' aunt and the
children are all afraid of her. How old is Antoine?"
"Twenty-eight!" in a low, protesting tone.
"Just twice as old as you!" said Jeanne with a little calculation.
"Yes, I can't help but think of it. And when I am thirty he will be an
old man sixty years old, bent down and wrinkled and cross, maybe."
"O no, Marie," cried Jeanne, eagerly. "It is not that way one reckons.
Everything does not double up so fast. He is fourteen years older than
you, and when you are thirty he can only be fourteen years older than
you. Count up on your ten fingers--that makes forty, and four more, he
will be forty-four."
Marie's mouth and eyes opened in surprise. "Are you quite sure?" with an
indrawn breath.
"O yes, sure as that the river runs to the lake. It is what they teach
at school. And though it is a great trouble to make yourself remember,
and you wonder what it is all about, then at other times you can use the
knowledge and are happy and glad over it. There are so many queer
things," smiling a little. "And they are not in the catechism or the
prayers. The sisters shake their heads over them."
"But can they be quite right?" asked Marie in a kind of awesome tone.
"Why they seem right for the men to know," laughed Jeanne. "How else
could they be bartering and counting money? And it is said that Madame
Ganeau goes over her husband's books every week since they found Jules
Froment was a thief, and kept wrong accounts, putting the money in his
own pocket."
Jeanne raised her voice triumphantly.
"Oh, here they are!" cried Cecile followed by a string of girls. "And
look, they have found a harvest, their pails are almost full. You mean,
selfish things!"
"Why you had the same right to be hunting everywhere," declared Jeanne
stoutly. "We found a good place and we picked--that is all there is of
it."
"But you might have called us."
Jeanne laughed in a tantalizing manner.
"O Jeanne Angelot, you think yourself some great things because you live
inside the stockade and go to a school where they teach all manner of
lies to the children. Your place is out in some Indian wigwam. You're
half Indian, anyhow."
"Look at us!" Jeanne made a sudden bound and placed herself beside
Cecile, whose complexion was swarthy, her hair straight, black, and
rather coarse, and her dark eyes had a yellowish tinge, even to the
whites. "Perhaps I am the descendant of some Indian princess--I should
be proud of it, for the Indians once held all this great new world; and
the French and English could not hold it."
There was a titter among the girls. Never had Jeanne looked prouder or
handsomer, and Cecile's broad nose distended with anger while her lips
were purple. She was larger but she did not dare attack Jeanne, for she
knew the nature and the prowess of the tiger cat.
"Let us go home; it gets late," cried one of the girls, turning her
companion about.
"O Jeanne," whispered Marie, "how splendid you are! No husband would
ever dare beat you."
"I should tear out his eyes if he did."
CHAPTER VII.
LOVERS AND LOVERS.
There were days when Jeanne Angelot thought she should smother in the
stuffy school, and the din of the voices went through her head like the
rushing noise of a whirlwind. She had stolen out of the room once or
twice and had not been called to an account for it. Then one day she saw
a boy whipped severely for the same thing. Children were so often beaten
in those days, and yet the French habitans were very fond of their
offspring.
Jeanne lingered after the children made their clumsy bows and shuffled
out.
"Well, what is it?" asked the gruff master.
"Monsieur, you whipped the Dorien boy for running away from school."
"Yes, and I'll do it again. I'll break up the bad practice. Their
parents send them to school. They do a mean, dishonest thing and then
they lie about it. Don't come sniveling to me about Dorien."
"Monsieur, I was not going to snivel for anybody. You were right to keep
your word. If you had promised a holiday and not given it to us we
should have felt that you were mean and not of your word. So what is
right for one side is right for the other."
He looked over the tops of his glasses, and he made deep wrinkles in
his forehead to do it. His eyes were keen and sharp and disconcerted
Jeanne a little.
"Upon my word!" he ejaculated.
Jeanne drew a long breath and was almost afraid to go on with her
confession. Only she should not feel clean inside until she had uttered
it.
"There'd be no trouble teaching school if the pupils could see that.
There'd be little trouble in the world if the people could see it. It is
the good on my side, the bad shoved off on yours. Who taught you such a
sense of fairness, of honesty?"
If he could have gotten his grim face into smiling lines he would have
done it. As it was it softened.
"Monsieur, I wanted to tell you that I had not been fair. I ran out of
school the second day. It was like daggers going through my head and
there were stars before my eyes and such a ringing in my ears! So I ran
out of doors, clear out to the woods and stayed there up in a high tree
where the birds sang to me and the wind made music among the leaves and
one could almost look through the blue sky where the white boats went
sailing. I thought I would not come to school any more."
"Well--you did though." He was trying to think who this strange child
was.
"You see I had promised. And I wanted to learn English and many other
things that are not down in the prayers and counting beads. Pani said it
was wrong. So I came back. You did not know I had run away, Monsieur."
"No, but there was no rule then. I should have been glad if half of them
had run away."
He gave a chuckle and a funny gleam shone out of his eye, and there was
a curl in his lip as if the amusement could not get out.
Jeanne wanted to smile. She should never be afraid of him again.
"And there was another time--"
"How many more?"
"No more. For Pani said, 'Would you like to tell Monsieur St.
Armand?'--and I knew I should be ashamed."
A delicate flush stole over her face, going up to the tangle of rings on
her forehead. What a pretty child she was!
"Monsieur St. Armand?" inquiringly.
"He was here in the summer. He has gone to Paris. And he wanted me to
study. It is hard and sometimes foolishness, but then people are so much
nicer who know a great many things."
"Oh," he said thoughtfully, "you live with an Indian woman up by the
barracks? It is Monsieur Loisel's protégée?" and he gave her an
inquiring look.
"Monsieur, I would like to know what a protégée is," with a puzzled
look.
"Some one, generally a child, in whom you take an interest."
She gave a thoughtful nod, then a quick joy flamed up in her face. She
was Monsieur St. Armand's protégée and she was very glad.
"You are a courageous child. I wish the boys were as brave. I hate
lying;" the man said after a pause.
"O M'sieu, there are a great many cowardly people--do you not think so?"
she returned naïvely.
He really smiled then, and gave several emphatic nods at her youthful
discrimination.
"And you think you will not run away any more?"
"No, Monsieur, because--it is wrong."
"Then we must excuse you."
"Thank you, Monsieur. I wanted you to know. Now I can feel light
hearted."
She made a pretty courtesy and half turned.
"If you did not mind I should like to hear something about your Monsieur
St. Armand, that is, if you are not in a hurry to get home to your
dinner."
"Oh, Pani will wait."
She told her story eagerly, and he saw the wish to please this friend
who had shown such an interest in her was a strong incentive. But she
had a desire for knowledge beside that. So many of the children were
stupid and hated study. He would watch over her and see that she
progressed. This, no doubt, was the friend M. Loisel had spoken of.
"You have been very good to me, M'sieu," she said with another courtesy
as she turned away.
Several days had elapsed before she saw Marie again, for Madame De Ber
rather discountenanced the intimacy now. She had not much opinion of the
school; the sisters and the priests could teach all that was necessary.
And Jeanne still ran about like a wild deer, while Marie was a woman.
On Sunday Antoine Beeson came to pay his respects to Madame, the mamma.
He surely could not be considered a young girl's ideal,--short, stout,
red-faced from exposure to wind and water and sun, his thick brown hair
rather long, though he had been clean shaven the evening before. He wore
his best deerskin breeches, his gray sort of blouse with a red belt, and
low, clumsy shoes with his father's buckles that had come from France,
and he was duly proud of them. His gay bordered handkerchief and his
necktie were new for the occasion.
Monsieur De Ber had satisfied himself that he would make a good
son-in-law.
"For you see there is the house all ready, and now the servant has no
head and is idle and wasteful. I cannot stand such work. I wish your
daughter was two or three years older, since I cannot go back myself,"
the admirer exclaimed rather regretfully.
"Marie will be fifteen in the spring. She has been well trained, being
the eldest girl, and Madame is a thrifty and excellent housekeeper. Then
we all mend of youth. You will have a strong, healthy woman to care for
you in your old age, instead of a decrepit body to be a burthen to you."
"That is well thought of, De Ber;" and the suitor gave a short chuckle.
There was wisdom in the idea.
Madame had sent Marie and Rose out to walk with the children. She knew
she should accept the suitor, for her husband had said:--
"It is quite a piece of luck, since there are five girls to marry off.
And there's many a one who would jump at the chance. Then we shall not
have to give Marie much dowry beside her setting out. It is not like
young people beginning from the very hearthstone."
She met the suitor with a friendly greeting as if he were an ordinary
visitor, and they talked of the impending changes in the town, the
coming of the Americans, the stir in business prospects, M. Beeson was
not much of a waster of words, and he came to the point presently.
"It will be hard to spare Marie," she said with an accent of regret.
"Being the eldest she has had a great deal of experience. She is like a
mother to the younger ones. She has not been spending her time in
fooling around idly and dancing and being out on the river, like so many
girls. Rose is not worth half of Marie, and I do not see how I shall
ever get the trifler trained to take Marie's place. But there need be no
immediate haste."
"O Madame, we can do our courting afterward. I can take Mam'selle out to
the booths Saturday night, and we can look at the dancing. There will be
all day Sunday when I am at liberty. But you see there is the house
going to wrack, the servant spending my money, and the discomfort. I
miss my sister so much. And I thought we would not make a long story.
Dear Madame, you must see the need."
"It is sad to be sure. But you see Marie being so young and kept rather
close, not having any admirers, it takes us suddenly. And the wedding
gear--"
"Mam'selle always looks tidy. But I suppose a girl wants some show at
the church and the maids. Well, one doesn't get married many times in
one's life. But I would like it to be by Christmas. It will be a little
dull with me no doubt, and toward spring it is all hurry and drive,
Antoine here and Antoine there. New boats and boats to be patched and
canoes and dugouts. Then the big ships are up for repairs. I have worked
moonlight nights, Madame. And Christmas is a pleasurable time."
"Yes, a pleasant time for a girl to remember. I was married at
Pentecost. And there was the great procession. Dear! dear! It is not
much over seventeen years ago and we have nine children."
"Pierre is a big lad, Madame, and a great help to his father. Children
are a pleasure and comfort in one's old age if they do well. And thine
are being well brought up. Marie is so good and steady. It is not wisdom
for a man like me to choose a flighty girl."
"Marie will make a good wife," returned Madame, confidently.
And so when Marie returned it was all settled and Antoine had been
invited to tea. Marie was in a desperate flutter. Of course there was
nothing for her to say and she would not have had the courage to say it
if there had been. But she could not help comparing him with Martin
Lavosse, and some of the young men who greeted her at church. If his
face were not quite so red, and his figure so clumsy! His hands, too,
were broad with stubby ends to the fingers. She looked at her own; they
were quite shapely, for youth has a way of throwing off the marks of
toil that are ready enough to come back in later life.
"Ma fille," said her mother when the lover had wished them all good
night, rather awkwardly, and her father had gone out to walk with him;
"ma fille, Monsieur Beeson has done us the honor to ask for thy hand.
He is a good, steady, well-to-do man with a nice home to take thee to.
He does not carouse nor spend his money foolishly, but will always stay
at home with thee, and make thee happy. Many a girl will envy thy lot.
He wants the wedding about Christmas time, so the betrothal will be
soon, in a week or so. Heaven bless and prosper thee, my child! A good
daughter will not make an ill wife. Thy father is very proud."
Rose and Marie looked unutterable things at each other when they went to
bed. There were little pitchers in the trundle-bed, and their parents in
the next room.
"If he were not so old!" whispered Rose.
"And if he could dance! But with that figure!"
"Like a buffalo!" Marie's protest forced its way up from her heart. "And
I have just begun to think of things that make one happy. There will be
dances at Christmastide."
"I wonder if one is sure to love one's husband," commented Rose.
"It would be wicked not to. But how does one begin? I am so afraid of
his loud voice."
"Girls, cease whispering and go to sleep. The night will be none too
long," called their mother.
Marie wiped some tears from her eyes. But it was a great comfort to her
when she was going to church the next Sunday and walking behind the
Bronelle girls to hear Hortense say:--
"I have my cap set for Tony Beeson. His sister has kept close watch of
him, but now he is free. I was down to the dock on Friday, and he was
very cordial and sent a boy over the river with me in a canoe and would
take no pay. Think of that! I shall make him walk home with me if I
can."
Marie De Ber flushed. Some one would be glad to have him. At first she
half wished he had chosen Hortense, then a bit of jealousy and a bit of
triumph surged through her slow pulses.
Antoine Beeson walked home on the side of M. De Ber. The children old
enough to go to church were ranged in a procession behind. Pierre
guarded his sisters. Jeanne was on the other side of the street with
Pani, but the distance was so small that she glanced across with
questioning eyes. Marie held her head up proudly.
"I do believe," began Jeanne when they had turned out of St Anne's
street, "that Marie De Ber is going to be betrothed to that rough boat
builder who walks beside her father."
"Antoine Beeson has a good record, and she will do well," returned Pani
briefly.
"But I think it would not be easy to love him," protested Jeanne.
"Child, you are too young to talk about love. It is the parents who
decide such matters."
"And I have none. You could not make me marry anyone, Pani. And I do not
like these common men."
"Heaven forbid! but I might advise."
"I am not going to marry, you know. After all, maybe when I get old I
will be a sister. It won't be hard to wear a black gown then. But I
shall wait until I am very old. Pani, did you ever dream of what might
happen to you?"
"The good God sends what is best for us, child."
"But--Monsieur Bellestre might come. And if he took me away then
Monsieur St. Armand might come. Pani, is Monsieur Bellestre as nice as
Monsieur St. Armand? I cannot seem to remember him."
"Little maids should not be thinking of men so often. Think of thy
prayers, Jeanne."
Sunday was a great time to walk on the parade ground, the young men
attired in their best, the demoiselles gay as butterflies with a mother
or married sister to guard them from too great familiarity. But there
was much decorous coquetting on both sides, for even at that period many
a young fellow was caught by a pair of smiling eyes.
Others went to walk in the woods outside the farms or sailing on the
river, since there was no Puritan strictness. They did their duty by the
morning mass and service, and the rest of the day was given over to
simple pleasure. There was a kind of half religious hilarity in the very
air.
And the autumn was so magnificently beautiful. The great hillsides with
their tracts of timber that looked as if they fenced in the world when
the sun dropped down behind them, but if one threaded one's way through
the dark aisles and came out on the other side there were wonderful
pictures,--small prairies or levels that suggested lakes and then a sort
of avenue stretching out until another was visible, undulating surfaces,
groves of pine, burr oak, and great stalwart hickories, then another
woody ridge, and so on and on through interminable tangles and over
rivers until Lake Michigan was reached. But not many of the habitans, or
even the English, for that matter, had traveled to the other side of the
state. The business journeys called them northward. There were Indian
settlements about that were not over friendly.
Jeanne liked the outside world better. She was not old enough for smiles
and smirks or an interest in fine clothes. So when she said, "Come,
Pani," the woman rose and followed.
"To the tree?" she asked as they halted a little.
"To the big woods," smilingly.
The cottages were many of them framed in with vines and high pickets,
and pear and apple orchards surrounded them, whose seed and, in some
instances, cuttings had been brought from France; roses, too, whose
ancestors had blossomed for kings and queens. Here and there was an oak
turned ruddy, a hickory hanging out slender yellow leaves, or a maple
flaunting a branch of wondrous scarlet. The people had learned to
protect and defend themselves from murderous Indian raids, or in this
vicinity the red men had proved more friendly.
Pierre De Ber came shambling along. He had grown rapidly and seemed
loose jointed, but he had a kindly, honest face where ignorance really
was simplicity.
"You fly over the ground, Jeanne!" he exclaimed out of breath. The day
was very warm for September. "Here I have been trying to catch up to
you--"
"Yes, Mam'selle, I am tired myself. Let us sit down somewhere and rest,"
said Pani.
"Just to this little hillock. Pani, it would make a hut with the
clearing inside and the soft mosses. If you drew the branches of the
trees together it would make thatching for the roof. One could live
here."
"O Mam'selle,--the Indians!" cried Pierre.
Jeanne laughed. "The Indians are going farther and farther away. Now,
Pani, sit down here. Then lean back against this tree. And now you may
take a good long rest. I am going to talk to the chipmunks and the
birds, and find flowers."
Pani drew up her knees, resting on her feet as a brace. The soft air had
made her sleepy as well, and she closed her eyes.
"It is so beautiful," sighed Jeanne. "Something rises within me and I
want to fly. I want to know what strange lands there are beyond the
clouds. And over there, far, farther than one can think, is a big ocean
no one has ever seen. It is on the map. And this way," inclining her
head eastward, "is another. That is where you go to France."
"But I shall never go to France," said the literal youth. "I want to go
up to Michilimackinac, and there is the great Lake Huron. That is
enough for me. If the ocean is any bigger I do not want to see it."
"It is, oh, miles and hundreds of miles bigger! And it takes more than a
month to go. The master showed me on a map."
"Well, I don't care for that," pulling the leaves off a branch he had
used for a switch.
The rough, rugged, and sometimes cross face of the master was better,
because his eyes had a wonderful light in them. What made people so
different? Apples and pears and ears of corn generally grew one like the
other. And pigs--she smiled to herself. And the few sheep she had seen.
But people could think. What gave one the thinking power? In the brain
the master said. Did every one have brains?
"Jeanne, I have something wonderful to tell you."
"Oh, I think I know it! Marie has a lover."
He looked disappointed. "Who told you?"
"No one really told me. I saw Monsieur Beeson walking home with your
father. And Marie was afraid--"
"Afraid!" the boy gave a derisive laugh. "Well, she is no longer afraid.
They are going to be betrothed on Michaelmas eve. Tony is a good
fellow."
"Then if Marie is--satisfied--"
"Why shouldn't she be satisfied? Father says it is a great chance, for
you see she can really have no dowry, there are so many of us. We must
all wait for our share until father has gone."
"Gone? Where?" She looked up in surprise.
"Why, when he is dead. Everybody has to die, you know. And then the
money they leave is divided."
Jeanne nodded. It shocked her in a vague sort of fashion, and she was
glad Pani had no money.
"And Tony Beeson has a good house and a good business. I like him," the
boy said, doggedly.
"Yes," assentingly. "But Marie is to marry him."
"Oh, the idea!" Pierre laughed immoderately. "Why a man always marries a
woman."
"But your liking wouldn't help Marie."
"Oh, Marie is all right. She will like him fast enough. And it will be
gay to have a wedding. That is to be about Christmas."
Jeanne was looking down the little slant to the cottages and the
wigwams, and speculating upon the queerness of marriage.
"I wish I had made as much fortune as Tony Beeson. But then I'm only a
little past sixteen, and in five years I shall be twenty-one. Then I am
going to have a wife and house of my own."
"O Pierre!" Jeanne broke into a soft laugh.
"Yes, Jeanne--" turning very red.
The girl was looking at him in a mirthful fashion and it rather
disconcerted him.
"You won't mind waiting, Jeanne--"
"I shan't mind waiting, but if you mean--" her cheeks turned a deeper
scarlet and she made a little pause--"if you mean marrying I should mind
that a good deal;" in a decisive tone.
"But not to marry me? You have known me always."
"I should mind marrying anyone. I shouldn't want to sweep the house, and
cook the meals, and wash, and tend babies. I want to go and come as I
like. I hated school at first, but now I like learning and I must crack
the shell to get at the kernel, so you see that is why I make myself
agree with it."
"You cannot go to school always. And while you are there I shall be up
to the Mich making some money."
"Oh," with a vexed crease in her forehead, "I told you once before not
to talk of this--the day we were all out in the boat, you remember. And
if you go on I shall hate you; yes, I shall."
"I shall go on," said the persistent fellow. "Not very often, perhaps,
but I thought if you were one of the maids at Marie's wedding and I
could wait on you--"
"I shall not be one of the maids." She rose and stamped her foot on the
ground. "Your mother does not like me any more. She never asks me to
come in to tea. She thinks the school wicked. And you must marry to
please her, as Marie is doing. So it will not be me;" she declared with
emphasis.
"Oh, I know. That Louis Marsac will come back and you will marry him."
The boy's eyes flamed with jealousy and his whole face gloomed over with
cruelty. "And then I shall kill him. I couldn't stand it," he
continued.
"I hate Louis Marsac! I hate you, Pierre De Ber!" she cried vehemently.
The boy fell at her feet and kissed the hem of her frock, for she
snatched away her hands.
"No, don't hate me. I'm glad to have you hate him."
"Get up, or I shall kick you," she said viciously.
"O Jeanne, don't be angry! I'll wait and wait. I thought you had
forgotten, or changed somehow. You have been so pleasant. And you smiled
so at me this morning. I know you have liked me--"
"If ever you say another word--" raising her hand.
"I won't unless you let me. You see you are not grown up yet, but
sometimes people are betrothed when they are little children--"
She put her fingers in her ears and spun round and round, going down the
little decline. Then she remembered Pani, who had fallen asleep. She
motioned to Pierre.
"Go home," she commanded as he came toward her. "And if you ever talk
about this to me again I shall tell your father. I am not for anybody. I
shall not mind if I am one of St. Catherine's maids."
"Jeanne--"
"Go!" She made an imperative motion with her hand.
He walked slowly away. She started like a mad thing and ran through the
woods at the top of her speed until her anger had vanished.
"Poor Pierre," she said. "This talk of marriage has set him crazy. But
I could never like him, and Madame Mère just hates me."
She went slowly back to Pani and sat down by her side. How tired she
looked!
"And I dragged her way up here," she thought remorsefully. "I'm glad she
didn't wake up."
So she sat there patiently and let the woman finish her nap. But her
beautiful thoughts were gone and her mind was shadowed by something
grave and strange that she shrank from. Then Pani stirred.
"O child, I've been sleeping stupidly and you have not gathered a
flower--" looking at the empty hands. "Have you been here all the time?"
"No matter. Pani, am I a tyrant dragging you everywhere?" Her voice was
touching with regret.
"No, cherie. But sometimes I feel old. I've lived a great many years."
"How many?"
"Oh, I cannot count them up. But I am rested now. Shall we walk about a
little and get my knees limber? Where is Pierre?"
"He went home. Pani, it is true Marie is to be betrothed to M'sieu
Beeson, and married at Christmastide."
"And if the sign holds good Madame De Ber will be fortunate in marrying
off her girls, for, if the first hangs on, it is bad for the rest. Rose
will be much prettier, and no doubt have lovers in plenty. But it is not
always the prettiest that make the best wives. Marie is sensible. They
will have a grand time."
"And I shall not be counted in," the child said proudly.
"Jeanne, little one--" in surprise.
"Madame does not like me because I go to the heretic school. And--I do
not sew nor spin, nor sweep the house--"
"There is no need," interrupted Pani.
