But the king’s ball was the great thing. In the early afternoon the
dames and demoiselles met and the gifts were arranged for the evening.
Of the fruit and flour a big cake was baked in which were put four large
beans. When all was arranged the girls and the mothers donned their best
finery, some of it half a century old, and kept only for state
occasions. The older people opened the ball with the minuet de la
cour, which was quite grand and formal.
Then the real gayety began. With it all there was a certain charming
respect, a kind of fine breeding the French never lost. Old gentlemen
danced with the young girls, and the young men with matrons. Children
were allowed in also, and had corners to themselves. It was said of them
that the French were born dancing.
There were no classes in this festivity. Even some of the upper kind of
slaves came, and the young Indians ventured in.
Gaspard Denys took the little girl, who was all eagerness. M. and Madame
Garreau brought their guests, the Marchands, for society had quite taken
in the beautiful young Indian, who held her head up so proudly no one
would have dared to offer her a slight.
Among the gayest was Barbe Guion. She had not taken young Maurice, who
had gone off to New Orleans. People were beginning to say that she was a
bit of a coquette. Madame Renaud announced that Alphonse Maurice was too
trifling and not steady enough for a good husband. In her heart Barbe
knew that she had never really meant to marry him.
At midnight the cake was cut and every young girl had a piece. This was
the great amusement, and everybody thronged about.
“A bean! a bean!” cried Manon Dupont, holding it high above her head so
all could see.
Then another, one of the pretty Aubry girls, whose sister had been
married at Easter.
“And I, too,” announced Barbe Guion, laughing.
They cleared a space for the four queens to stand out on the floor. What
eager glances the young men cast.
Manon Dupont chose her lover, as every one supposed she would, but there
was no fun or surprise in it, though a general assent.
“And how will she feel at the next ball when he has to choose a
queen?” said some one. “She is a jealous little thing.”
Ma’m’selle Aubry glanced around with a coquettish air and selected the
handsomest young fellow in the room.
Who would Barbe Guion choose? She looked dainty enough in a white
woollen gown with scarlet cloth bands; and two or three masculine hearts
beat with a thump, as the eyes fairly besought.
Gaspard Denys was talking with the burly commandant of the fort, though
it must be admitted there was very little to command. She went over to
him and handed him her rose.
He bowed and a slight flush overspread his face, while her eyes could
not conceal her delight.
“You do me a great deal of honor, ma’m’selle, but you might have
bestowed your favor on a younger and more suitable man. I thank you for
the compliment,” and he pinned the rose on his coat.
She smiled with a softened light in her eyes.
“It is the first time I have had a chance to choose a king,” she said in
a caressing sort of voice. “I could not have suited myself better. And—I
am almost eighteen. Elise was married a year before that.”
“You are not single for lack of admirers, ma’m’selle.” She remembered he
used to call her Barbe. “What did you do with Alphonse, send him away
with a broken heart?”
“His was not the kind of heart to break, monsieur. And a girl cannot
deliberately choose bad luck. There is sorrow enough when it comes
unforeseen.”
Then they took their places. Renée had been very eager at first and
watched the two closely. M. Marchand had appealed to her on some trifle,
and now she saw Barbe and Uncle Gaspard take their places in the dance.
“Did she—choose Uncle Gaspard?” the child exclaimed with a long
respiration that was like a sigh, while a flush overspread her face.
“He is the finest man in the room! I would have chosen him myself if I
had been a maid. And if you had been sixteen wouldn’t you have taken
him, little girl? Well, your day will come,” in a gay tone.
Wawataysee placed her arm over the child’s shoulder. “Let us go around
here, we can see them better. What an odd way to do! And very pretty,
too!”
Renée’s first feeling was that she would not look. Then with a quick
inconsequence she wanted to see every step, every motion, every glance.
Her king! Barbe Guion had chosen him, and the child’s eyes flashed.
It was a beautiful dance, and the gliding, skimming steps of light feet
answered the measure of the music exquisitely. Other circles formed. The
kings and the queens were not to have it all to themselves.
The balls were often kept up till almost morning, though the children
and some of the older people went home. Gaspard made his way through the
crowd. Madame Marchand beckoned him, and as he neared them he saw Renée
was clinging to her with a desperate emotion next to tears.
“Is it not time little ones were in bed?” she asked with her fascinating
smile and in pretty, broken French. “Madame Garreau wishes to retire. It
is beautiful, and every one is so cordial. I have danced with delight,”
and her pleasure shone in her eyes. “But we will take the child safe to
Mère Lunde if it is your will.”
“Oh, thank you. Yes. You will go, Renée? You look tired.” She was pale
and her eyes were heavy.
“And you—you stay here and are Ma’m’selle Barbe’s king,” she said in a
tone of plaintive reproach that went to his heart.
“That is only for to-night. There are other queens beside her.”
“But she is your queen.” The delicate emphasis amused him, it betrayed
the rankling jealousy.
“And you are my queen as well, to-morrow, next week, all the time. So do
not grudge her an hour or two. See, I am going to give you her rose,
my rose, to take home with you.”
She smiled, albeit languidly, and held out her small hand, grasping it
with triumph.
He broke the stem as he drew it out, leaving the pin in his coat.
“Now let me see you wrapped up snug and tight. Mind you don’t get any
cold. Tell Mère Lunde to warm the bed and give you something hot to
drink.”
She nodded and the party went to the dressing room. The two Indian women
chattered in their own language, or rather in a patois that they had
adopted. Wawataysee was very happy, and her soft eyes shone with
satisfaction. Her husband thought her the prettiest woman in all St.
Louis.
Renée gave her orders and Mère Lunde attended to them cheerfully.
“For if you should fall ill again our hearts would be heavy with sorrow
and anxiety.” she said.
Renée had carried the rose under her cloak and it was only a little
wilted. She put it in some water herself, and brought the stand near the
fireplace, for sometimes it would freeze on the outer edges of the room,
though they kept a big log fire all night.
Gaspard went back to Ma’m’selle Barbe.
“Oh, your rose!” she cried. “Where is it?”
He put his hand to his coat as if he had not known it. “The pin is
left,” he said. “What a crowd there is! St. Louis is getting overrun
with people,” laughing gayly. “Give me a rose out of your nosegay, for
it would signify bad luck to go on the floor without it.”
He took one and fastened it in his coat again, and they were soon
merrily dancing. There was no absolute need of changing partners, and
the queens were proud of keeping their admirers all the evening.
Barbe was delighted and happy, for Gaspard evinced no disposition to
stray off, and danced to her heart’s content, if not his. He had grown
finer looking, certainly, since he had relinquished the hardships of a
trapper’s life. His complexion had lost the weather-beaten look, his
frame had filled out, and strangely enough, he was a much more ready
talker. Renée chattered so much, asked him so many questions, and made
him talk over people and places he had seen that it had given him a
readiness to talk to women. Men could always find enough to say to each
other, or enjoy silence over their pipes.
She seemed to grow brighter instead of showing fatigue, and her voice
had musical cadences in it very sweet to hear. The touch of her hand on
his arm or his shoulder in the dance did give him a peculiar sort of
thrill. She was a very sweet, pretty girl. He was glad not to have her
wasted on Alphonse Maurice.
But the delicious night came to an end for her. There was a curious
little strife among some of the young men to make a bold dash and
capture a queen. The girls were sometimes willing enough to be caught.
Barbe had skilfully evaded this, he noted.
“Ma’m’selle Guion has the bravest king of them all,” said a neighbor.
“He is a fine fellow. I wonder, Mère Renaud, you do not fan the flame
into a blaze. He is prospering, too. Colonel Chouteau speaks highly of
him and holds out a helping hand. If I had daughters no one would suit
me better.”
Madame Renaud smiled and nodded as if she had a secret confidence.
Mothers in old St. Louis were very fond and proud of their daughters and
were watchful of good opportunities for them. And those who had none
rather envied them. It was the cordial family affection that made life
in these wilderness places delightful.
Barbe was being wound up in her veil so that her pretty complexion
should suffer no ill at this coldest hour of the twenty-four, after
being heated in the dance. She looked very charming, very tempting. If
he had been a lover he would have kissed her.
“You come so seldom now,” she said in a tone of seductive complaint.
“And we were always such friends when you returned from your journeys.
The children have missed you so much. And Lisa wonders—”
“I suppose it is being busy every day. At that time you know there was a
holiday between.”
“But there is no business now until spring opens,” in a pleading tone.
“Except for the householder, the shopkeeper. Oh, you have no idea how
ingenious I have become. And the men drop in to talk over plans and
berate the Governor because things are not in better shape. We would
fare badly in an attack.”
“Are we in any danger from the British?”
“One can never tell. Perhaps they may take up Pontiac’s wild dream of
driving us over the mountains into the sea. No,” with a short laugh, “I
am not much afraid. And our Indians are friendly also.”
“Come, Barbe,” counselled Madame Renaud, but she took her husband’s arm
and marched on ahead like an astute general.
Barbe clung closely to her attendant, for in some places it was
slippery.
“Next time you will transfer your attentions,” she said with a touch of
regret. “I wonder who will be your queen for a night?”
“The prettiest girl,” he said gayly.
“Madame Marchand is beautiful.”
“But she is no longer a girl.”
“Oh, no. You see a good deal of her, though?”
“They are over often. We are excellent friends.”
“Renée is quite bewitched with her.”
“Yes, they are very fond of each other.”
And somehow she, Barbe, was no more fond of the child than the child was
of her.
Madame Renaud studied her sister’s face as they were unwinding their
wraps. It was rather pale, not flushed and triumphant as she hoped.
Gaspared Denys stirred the fire in his shop and threw himself on a pile
of skins and was asleep in five minutes. It had been a long while since
he had danced all night.
They all slept late. There was no need of stirring early in the morning.
They made no idol of industry, as the energetic settlers on the eastern
coast did. Pleasure and happiness were enough for them. It ran in the
French blood.
When Gaspard woke he heard a sound of an eager chattering voice. He
rubbed his limbs and stretched himself, looked down on his red sash and
then saw a withered red rose that he tossed in the fire.
“Ah, little one, you are as blithe as a bee,” was his greeting.
“Oh, Uncle Gaspard, you have on your ball clothes. When did you come
home?” she asked.
“I dropped asleep in them. I am old and stiff this morning. I tumbled
down on a pile of skins and stayed there.”
“You don’t look very old. And—are you a king now?” rather curiously.
“I must be two weeks hence. Then I resign my sceptre, and become an
ordinary person.”
“And Mère Lunde said you had to choose a new queen.” There was a touch
of elation in her voice.
“That is so. And I told Ma’m’selle Guion I should look out for the very
prettiest girl. I shall be thinking all the time.”
“I wish you could take Wawataysee. She is the prettiest of anybody, and
the sweetest.”
“And she has already chosen her king for life.”
“The breakfast will get cold,” warned Mère Lunde.
There were more snows, days when you could hardly stir out and paths had
to be shovelled. The next ball night it stormed, but Renée did not care
to go, because M. and Madame Marchand were staying all night and they
would play games and have parched corn and cakes and spiced drinks.
Wawataysee would sing, too. And though the songs were odd, she had an
exquisite voice, and she could imitate almost any bird, as well as the
wind flying and shrieking through the trees, and then softening with
sounds of spring.
Sometimes they danced together, and it was a sight to behold, the very
impersonation of grace; soft, languid mazes at first and then warming
into flying sprites of the forest. And how Renée’s eyes shone and her
cheeks blossomed, while the little moccasined feet made no more sound
than a mouse creeping about.
There was no especial carnival at St. Louis, perhaps a little more
gayety than usual, and the dances winding up at midnight. Nearly every
one went to church the next morning, listened to the prayers reverently,
had a small bit of ashes dropped on his or her head, went home and
fasted the rest of the day. But Lent was not very strictly kept, and the
maids were preparing for Easter weddings.
“It is strange,” said grandaunt Guion, “that Barbe has no lover. She is
too giddy, too much of a coquette. She will be left behind. And she is
too pretty to turn into an old maid. Guion girls were not apt to hang on
hand.”
CHAPTER VIII
THE SURPRISE
There was, it is true, a side not so simple and wholesome, and this had
been gathering slowly since the advent of the governor. More drunken men
were seen about the levee. There was talk of regular orgies taking place
at the government house, and the more thoughtful men, like the
Chouteaus, the Guerins, the Guions, and the Lestourniers, had to work
hard to get the fortifications in any shape, and the improvements made
were mostly done by private citizens.
Of course there were many rumors, but old St. Louis rested securely on
her past record. What the people about her were losing or gaining did
not seem to trouble her. Now and then a river pirate was caught, or
there was some one tripped up and punished who had traded unlawfully.
This had been the case with a French Canadian named Ducharme, who had
been caught violating the treaty law, trading with Indians in Spanish
territory, and giving them liberal supplies of rum in order to make
better bargains with furs. His goods were seized and confiscated, but he
was allowed to go his way, breathing threats of retaliation.
France had recognized the independence of the colonies, which had
stirred up resentment in the minds of many of the English in northern
Michigan. It was said an English officer at Michilimackinac had formed a
plan of seizing or destroying some of the western towns and stations
where there was likely to be found booty enough to reward them. Ducharme
joined the scheme eagerly and gathered roving bands of Ojibways.
Winnebagoes and Sioux, and by keeping well to the eastern side of the
Mississippi marched down nearly opposite Gabaret Island, and crossed
over to attack the town.
Corpus Christi was a great festival day of the church. Falling late in
May, on the 25th, it was an out-of-doors entertainment. After mass had
been said in the morning, women and children, youths and maidens, and
husbands who could be spared from business, went out for a whole day’s
pleasure with baskets and bags of provisions.
The day was magnificent. The fragrance of spruce and fir, the breath of
the newly grown grasses, the bloom of trees and flowers, was like the
most exhilarating perfume, and stirred all the senses.
Spies had crept down the woods to reconnoitre and assure themselves
their arrival had not been suspected. It seemed indeed an opportune
moment. It was now mid-afternoon. There had been dancing and merriment,
the children had run and played, gathered wild strawberries and flowers,
and some of the more careful ones had collected their little children
and started homeward.
To the westward was Cardinal Spring, owned by a man of that name, but
considered free property. He and another hunter had been shooting game,
and as he stooped for a drink his companion espied an Indian cautiously
creeping through the trees.
“Indians! Indians!” he shouted, and fired.
Cardinal snatched up his gun, but a storm of bullets felled him. Rivière
was captured. A young Frenchman, catching sight of the body of Indians,
gave the alarm.
“Run for your lives! Fly to the fort!” he shouted.
There were men working in the fields, and nearly every one took his gun,
as much for the chance at game as any real fear of Indians. They covered
the retreat a little, and as this was a reconnoitring party, the main
body was at some distance.
“Fly! Fly!” Men who had no weapons caught little ones in their arms and
ran toward the fort. All was wild alarm.
“What is it?” cried Colonel Chouteau, who had been busy with some papers
of importance.
“The Indians! The Indians!” shouted his brother.
“Call out the militia! Where is the Governor?”
“In his own house, drunk as usual,” cried Pierre indignantly, and he ran
to summon the soldiers.
There had been a small body of troops under the command of Captain
Cartabona, a Spaniard sent from Ste. Genevieve at the urgent request of
the chief citizens, but it being a holiday they were away, some canoeing
down the river or fishing, and of the few to be found most of them were
panic stricken. The captain had been having a carouse with the Governor.
“Then we must be our own leaders. To arms! to arms! every citizen! It is
for your wives and children!” was the inspiriting cry.
“You shall be our leader!” was shouted in one voice almost before the
Colonel had ceased. For Colonel Chouteau was not only admired for his
friendliness and good comradeship, but trusted to the last degree.
Every man rushed for his gun and ran to the rescue, hardly knowing what
had happened save that the long-feared attack had come upon them
unawares. They poured out of the fort, but the flying women and children
were in the advance with the Indians back of them.
Colonel Chouteau marshalled his little force in a circuitous movement,
and opened a volley that took the Indians by surprise. They fell back
brandishing their arms and shouting to their companions to come on. Then
the Colonel saw that it was no mere casual attack, but a premeditated
onslaught. Already bodies were lying on the ground struggling in death
agonies.
The aim was so good that the assailants halted, then fell back to wait
for their companions. This gave most of the flying and terrified throng
an opportunity to reach the fort. For the wounded nothing could be done
at present.
Now the streets were alive with men who had no time to pick out their
own families, but ran, musket or rifle in hand, to man the fort. Colonel
Chouteau and his brother Pierre were experienced artillerists, and
stationed themselves at the cannon.
The Indians held a brief colloquy with the advancing body. Then it was
seen that an attack was determined upon. They approached the fort,
headed by several white leaders, and opened an irregular fire on the
place.
“Let them approach nearer,” commanded the Colonel. The walls of the
stockade and the roofs of the nearest houses were manned with the
residents of the town. A shower of arrows fell among them. Surprised at
no retaliation, the enemy ventured boldly, headed by Ducharme.
Then the cannons poured out their volley, which swept down the foremost.
From the roofs muskets and guns and even pistols made a continuing
chorus. Ducharme fell. Two of the white leaders were wounded also. Then
another discharge from the cannons and the red foes fell back. The plan
had been to wait until almost dusk for the attack, but the incident at
the spring had hastened it.
Ducharme had not counted on the strength of the fort, and he knew the
town was but poorly supplied with soldiers, so he had persuaded the
Indians it would fall an easy prey and give them abundant pillage. But
the roar and the execution of the cannon dismayed them, and many of them
fled at once. Others marched slowly, helping some of the wounded.
General Cartabona came out quite sobered by the fierceness of the
attack.
“Would it not be well to order a pursuit?” he questioned.
“And perhaps fall into a trap!” returned Colonel Chouteau with a touch
of scorn. “No, no; let us bring in the wounded as we can.”
Gaspard Denys had been among the first to rush to the defence of the
town. Marchand had gone out with the party, and Mère Lunde was to care
for Renée. He had not stopped to look or inquire. He saw Madame Renaud.
“Oh, thank heaven my children are safe! But Barbe! I cannot find Barbe!”
she cried.
“And Renée?” his voice was husky.
“She was with the Marchands. They were going to the woods. Oh, M’sieu
Denys, what a horrible thing! And we felt so safe. The Indians have been
so friendly. But can you trust them?”
He was off to look after the wounded. A number were lying dead on the
field. No, Renée was not among them. They carried the wounded in gently,
the dead reverently. The good priest proffered his services, and Dr.
Montcrevier left his beloved experiments to come and minister to them.
The dead were taken to the church and the priest’s house.
All was confusion, however. Darkness fell before families were reunited.
Children hid away in corners crying, and were too terrified to come out
even at the summons of friendly voices. Colonel Chouteau and his brother
were comforting, aiding, exhorting, and manning the fort anew. General
Cartabona set guards at the gates and towers, for no one knew what might
happen before morning.
Denys had hurried home as soon as he could be released. “Renée!” he
called. “Mère Lunde!” but no one replied. He searched every nook and
corner. He asked the Pichous. No one had seen them. A great pang rent
his heart. And yet—they might have hidden in the forest. Ah, God send
that they might not be taken prisoners! But Marchand was with them. He
knew the man’s courage well. He would fight to the death for them.
“I must go out and search,” he said in a desperate tone. “Who will
accompany me?”
A dozen volunteered. They were well armed, and carried a rude lantern
made of tin with a glass in one side only. They saw now that their fire
had done good execution among their red foes. The trampled ground showed
which way the party had gone, and they were no longer in sight.
“Let us try the woods. They came by the way of the spring,” said one of
the party.
They found the body of Cardinal and that of an old man, both dead. They
plunged into the woods, and, though aware of the danger, Denys shouted
now and then, but no human voice replied. Here, there, examining some
thicket, peering behind a clump of trees, startling the denizen of the
woods, or a shrill-voiced nighthawk, and then all was silence again.
They left the woods and crossed the strip of prairie. Here lay something
in the grass—a body. Denys turned it over.
“My God!” he exclaimed in a voice of anguish. “It is François Marchand.”
He dropped on the ground overwhelmed. If he was dead, then the others
were prisoners. There was no use to search farther to-night. To-morrow a
scouting party might go out.
They made a litter of the men’s arms and carried Marchand back to the
fort, to find that he was not dead, though he had a broken leg and had
received a tremendous blow on the head.
A sad morning dawned over St. Louis, where yesterday all had been joy.
True, it might have been much worse. In all about a dozen had been
killed, but the wounded and those who had fallen and been crushed in the
flight counted up many more. And some were missing. What would be their
fate? And oh, what would happen to Wawataysee if some roving Indian
should recognize her! As for Renée, if he had not wholly understood
before, he knew now how the child had twined herself about his heart,
how she had become a part of his life.
Marchand’s blow was a dangerous one. The Garreaus insisted upon nursing
and caring for him, but Madame Garreau was wild about the beautiful
Wawataysee. She knew the Indian character too well to think they would
show her any mercy, if she was recognized by any of the tribe. And
Renée, what would be her fate?
General Cartabona was most anxious to make amends for past negligence.
The militia was called to a strict account and recruited as rapidly as
possible, and the fortifications made more secure. He took counsel with
Colonel Chouteau, who had the best interests of the town at heart.
“We must make an appeal for the Governor’s removal,” insisted the
Colonel. “It is not only this cowardly episode, but he is narrow-minded
and avaricious, incompetent in every respect, and drunk most of the
time. He cares nothing for the welfare of the town, he takes no interest
in its advancement. After such men as Piernas and Cruzat he is most
despicable. Any Frenchman born would serve Spain better.”
“That is true. I will head a petition of ejectment, and make it strong
enough to be heeded.”
The dead were buried, the living cared for. Even the fallen enemies had
been given decent sepulture outside the town. And Gaspard Denys felt
that he must start on his journey of rescue, if indeed that was
possible.
He chose two trusty young fellows, after shutting his house securely,
providing his party with ammunition, and provisions for a part of their
journey, as much as they could carry. He found the Indians had boats in
waiting on the Illinois River, and after proceeding some distance they
had separated in two parties, going in different directions. Some of the
prisoners had been left here, as they did not care to be bothered with
them.
The one party kept on up the river. They learned there were some women
with them, and were mostly Indians. It was not an easy trail to follow.
There had been a quarrel and another separation, a drunken debauch, part
stopping at an Indian village. And here Denys heard what caused him
almost a heart-break.
They had fallen in with some Hurons who had bought two of the captives.
An old woman was set free with two men and sent down the river. The
others were going up north.
“It is as I feared, Jaques,” he said. “They will carry Madame Marchand
to her old home as a great prize. Ah, if François were only well! But I
shall go on for life or death. I will not ask you to share my perils.
Wawataysee came from somewhere up by the straits. She ran away with
Marchand. She was to be married to an old Indian against her will. And
no doubt he will be wild with gratification at getting her back, and
will treat her cruelly. The child is mine and I must save her from a
like fate. But you and Pierre may return. I will not hold you bound by
any promises.”
“I am in for the adventure,” and Pierre laughed, showing his white
teeth. “I am not a coward nor a man to eat one’s words. I am fond of
adventure. I will go on.”
“I, too,” responded Jaques briefly.
“You are good fellows, both of you. I shall pray for your safe return,”
Denys said, much moved by their devotion.
“And we have no sweethearts,” subjoined Pierre with a touch of mirth.
“But if I could find one as beautiful and sweet as Madame Marchand I
should be paid for a journey up to Green Bay.”
“It might be dangerous,” said Denys sadly.
He wondered if it was really Mère Lunde they had set free. It would be
against her will, he was sure, and it would leave the two quite
defenceless. A thousand remembrances haunted him day and night. He could
see Renée’s soft brown eyes in the dusk, he could hear her sweet voice
in the gentle zephyrs, that changed and had no end of fascinating tones.
All her arch, pretty moods came up before him, her little piquant
jealousies, her pretty assumptions of dignity and power, her dainty,
authoritative ways. Oh, he could not give her up, his little darling.
There was sorrow in more than one household in old St. Louis, but time
softened and healed it. And now the inhabitants congratulated themselves
on their freedom heretofore from raids like these. Towns had been
destroyed, prisoners had been treated to almost every barbarity. Giving
up their lives had not been the worst.
But the summer came on gloriously, and Colonel Chouteau made many plans
for the advancement of the town. He was repairing the old house where
his friend had lived, and improving the grounds, and everyone felt that
in him they had a true friend.
One July day three worn and weary people came in at the northern gate,
and after the guards had looked sharply at them there was a shout of
joy. Pierre Duchesne, whose family had lived on a faint hope, young
Normand Fleurey, and Mère Lunde, looking a decade older and more
wrinkled than ever.
She sat down on a stone and wept while the sounds of joy and
congratulation were all about her.
Who could give her any comfort? She suffered Gaspard Denys’s pain as
well as her own. And though there had been adventures and hiding from
roving Indians, living on barks and roots, she could not tell them over
while her heart was so sore.
She went to the old house, where the three had known so much content.
“He will come back some day,” she said, “but the child—” and her voice
would break at that.
She heard Marchand had been very ill with a fever, beside the wounds. He
had come near to losing his leg, and was still a little lame, and very
weak and heartbroken. His wife had been torn from his arms when an
Indian had given him the blow on his head with a club, and there memory
had stopped. Though Mère Lunde would talk to no one else, to him she
told the sad story. And he had been lying helpless all the time
Wawataysee had been in such danger! Yes, he knew what would happen to
her now, but presently he would go up to the strait and never rest until
he had killed all who worked her ill. Oh, if she had fallen into the
hands of her old tribe!
That thought was madness. But he understood what the courage of her
despair would be. She would not suffer any degradation, death would be a
boon instead. Ah, if he could have joined Denys! He knew the cruelty and
treachery of those whose hands she had fallen into. And the child!
But it would be useless to start disabled as he was, although his anger
was fierce enough, and Denys was well on the journey. Yet it was
terrible to wait with awful visions before his eyes. He had seen both
men and women tortured, and the agonies prolonged with fiendish delight.
Mère Lunde opened the house and cleared up the dust and disorder. The
garden was overgrown with weeds and everything was running riot.
Marchand insisted upon lending a helping hand here. Many an evening they
sat in the doorway wondering, hoping and despairing.
CHAPTER IX
PRISONERS
The wild cry of “The Indians! the Indians!” had roused a small group
from their desultory enjoyment. They were pouring down in what seemed a
countless throng. Marchand had no weapon except his knife.
“Run,” he cried. “Make for the fort! Keep at the edge of the wood while
we can!”
Wawataysee seized Renée’s hand. The Indian girl was as fleet as a deer.
She could have saved herself, but she would not leave the child. They
had now reached the open. All was screams and confusion and flying
fugitives.
A tall Indian was behind them with a club. Wawataysee gave a wild shriek
and the next instant stumbled over her husband’s prostrate body. The
Indian rushed on.
“Oh!” cried Renée in wild affright, standing still in terror, the flying
crowd like swirling leaves before her eyes.
The sharp crack of a rifle made her spring back. Were both killed now?
But Wawataysee moved, groaned.
“They have shot him now, my beloved!” She raised the bleeding head and
pressed it to her bosom. “Oh, he has been killed, I know. Why did I not
die with him? Oh, Renée—”
Escape now was as impossible as succor. The Indian girl moaned over her
husband, and made a futile attempt to drag him back to the edge of the
wood to hide him. But suddenly she was violently wrenched away, and an
Indian with a hand hold of each began to run with them toward the river.
At last Renée fell and he had to pause. Meanwhile the firing from the
fort had begun with its execution.
Wawataysee began to plead with her captor, who turned a deaf ear to her
entreaties. Renée was crying in a desperate fashion, from both fright
and fatigue. He raised his club, but the young wife clasped the child in
her arms.
“Kill us both,” she exclaimed, “as you have already killed my husband.”
“White man?” with a grunt. “Squaw woman. Make some Indian glad.” Other
prisoners were being brought in this direction, and among them Mère
Lunde, who had started to reach the fort and bear the tidings to
Gaspard.
“Oh, my dear child,” she cried. “The good God help us. They are trying
to take the town.” And she almost fell at their feet.
Then they were marched on, the Indian guards behind with clubs and
tomahawks, now and then goaded by a light blow that would not disable.
The cries grew fainter, though they still heard the roar of the cannon.
And now the sun was slanting westward and the trees cast long shadows,
the sound of the river fell on their ears mingled with the homeward song
of birds. The heat began to wane, the air was dewy sweet.
It was almost dusk when they reached the boats, and they were bidden to
get in and were conveyed to the opposite shore. Here they were bound
together, two and two, with their hands fastened behind them. One Indian
was detailed to watch them while the others took the boats back.
Ducharme’s arm hung helplessly by his side, and the English renegades
began to upbraid him, while the Indians, seeing that no pillage was
possible and no gain could be made, drew away sullenly and began to
march toward the rendezvous, leaving some of their own badly wounded
behind. It was midnight before they rejoined the others. Then, fearing
pursuit, they started up the river again, rousing those who had fallen
asleep. All told they had barely thirty prisoners, and had left as many
of their own behind.
Mère Lunde had been allowed near the two girls, and now they huddled
together in the boat. Renée had fallen asleep again.
“You do not know where they will take us?” Mère Lunde inquired.
Wawataysee shook her head. “They will go up the Illinois River,” she
whispered.
“Do you think they will not follow?” in a low, desperate tone. “Master
Denys and—”
“Oh, he is dead,” with a heart-breaking moan. “I held him to my heart
and he made no stir, I kissed his cold lips and there was no warmth. But
for the sweet child I should have begged them to kill me too, so that my
spirit should be with his. If she could be restored safely, my own life
I would hold as nothing.”
“They have started ere this. Do not despair,” and her lips were close to
the Indian girl’s ear.
“Then I shall thank the Great Spirit for the child’s sake.” Heaven grant
they might be rescued.
The stir and lap of the river and the boats had a mysterious sound in
the weird darkness. Then the cry of some wild animal or a bit of wind
sweeping through the trees at the edge, here and there. The stars shone
out overhead. Mère Lunde dropped asleep also. But Wawataysee sat with
wide-open eyes. One moment she said to herself that he could not be
dead, the next his white face and half-closed, dulled eyes were against
her breast. She felt as if she must shriek and tear her hair, but there
was the Indian’s self-control, and the thought of her companions who
might be made to suffer for her. But she could not go out of life for
her own satisfaction merely, unless it came to the martyrdom worse than
death, for the child was a sacred charge. Gaspard Denys would go to the
death, even, for both of them, and she was grateful for all the kindness
and countenance he had given her at St. Louis.
They turned up a small stream, tributary to the Illinois. At noon they
drew the boats up to what looked like an impenetrable brushwood, and
disembarked, pulling in the boats and canoes. There was a sort of
trodden path through the wild shrubbery, and tangled vines overhung it.
Two of the Indians went ahead, the prisoners were driven next, and the
rest of the party brought up the rear.
“Oh, where are we going?” cried Renée in affright, clutching
Wawataysee’s dress with both hands.
The girl shook her head.
They were stiff from their cramped position in the boats and faint from
hunger. Now and then one received a blow and an admonition to hurry on.
At length they came in sight of a clearing, an Indian settlement, with
wigwams and a space planted with corn. Women were moving about over
their fires, children playing or stretched out in the sun. Skins were
tacked from tree to tree drying, and several women were busy making
garments and leggings, some young girls cutting fringes. It was a
pretty, restful scene to the tired travellers.
An old man rose, it almost seemed from the earth itself. He was thin and
gaunt, hollow-cheeked and wrinkled to the last degree. From his attire
and his head-dress of feathers one could gather that he was the chief of
the small settlement.
“Why all this warlike array and these prisoners?” he asked sharply. “We
are at peace with our white brothers. We have gathered in the remnant of
our tribe, we have few young braves among us, we are mostly women and
children. We have nothing to be despoiled of, we do no hunting save for
ourselves.”
“We want only a little food and rest, good father Neepawa. We will not
molest you and yours. We are going up to the Great Lakes. We have been
led astray by a white chief who promised us much plunder, but the town
was too strong for us. He has gone south to one of the English forts and
taken some of his followers, leaving the prisoners with us. Give us some
food and we will go on.”
Their request was acceded to, but with no special cordiality. The thing
they would most have liked was whiskey, but that was not to be supplied
at this simple Indian village.
“Oh, if we could stay here!” sighed Renée. “Do you know where they mean
to take us?” and her eyes dilated with fear.
“Only that we are going farther north.”
Wawataysee was fain to have some conversation with the Indian women, but
she soon saw that every effort was adroitly frustrated. Still, they were
fed abundantly and some provisions given the party. They reembarked late
in the afternoon and made their way down to the Illinois River and up
farther on their journey, until their provisions were gone, when they
were obliged to land again.
After foraging about awhile they met a party of Indians and traders
quite plentifully supplied with whiskey. This led to quarrels and
disputes. A number of them were tired of having the prisoners to feed,
and had changed their minds about going north. They were roving Indians
who had no strong ties anywhere. Half a dozen decided to cast in their
lot with the traders.
And now those going on picked out the most likely of the prisoners. Some
of the strong young men who would be useful in the capacity of slaves,
one half-breed woman who had astuteness enough to make herself of
account in preparing food and did not resent the small indignities
offered.
As they marched down to the river’s edge these were first put on the
boat. Then Wawataysee and the child. Mère Lunde started to follow, but
was rudely thrust back.
“I must, I must!” she shrieked, struggling with her captor; “I must stay
with the child!”
“Push off!” was the command. Three Indians stepped in and the boat was
propelled out in the stream. Then Wawataysee saw what had happened and
half rose, crying wildly that they should take on the poor creature
begging in her desperation.
“She is ours! We cannot do without her!”
The Indian pushed her down on her seat and uttered a rough threat.
“Oh, what will they do with her?” shrieked Renée.
A blow was the only answer. Renée fell into her companion’s lap sobbing
wildly. Wawataysee tried to soothe and comfort her. But she felt
strangely defenceless. The half-breed she mistrusted. If there could be
some escape! She studied every point. They were no longer bound, but out
here on the river one could do nothing.
So passed another night and day and a second night. No place of refuge
had been found in their brief landings. But they reached another
settlement, not as orderly or inviting as that of Chief Neepawa. Still,
they were glad of a rest. And now their captors seemed undecided again.
Two or three were already tired of the journey with its hardships.
An Indian woman found a place in her wigwam for the two girls. They were
bound at night and their keeper had strict injunctions about them.
The Elk Horn, as one of the most authoritative Indians was called, now
assumed the command. He had an idea, that he kept quite to himself, that
he might dispose of his prisoners to some advantage, to make up in part
for the ill-advised raid on St. Louis. There were many roving Indians
about whose tribes had been decimated by wars and sickness, and who
attached themselves to the English or American cause, whichever offered
the most profit, and who liked a lawless, wandering life and plunder.
The keeper seemed kindly disposed toward the two girls and treated them
well, though she watched them sharply. Wawataysee had been careful to
talk in a patois of broken French and the Sioux that she had picked up.
She understood nearly all that her captors said and thus held them at a
disadvantage, but she could not learn what Elk Horn’s plans were, if
indeed he had any certain ones. She admitted that she had left a husband
in St. Louis, for there were moments when she could not believe him
dead, and that this was the end of their tender love! And she was young,
she had just tasted of the sweetness of it all.
There were hours of heart-break, when it seemed as if she could not
endure Renée’s prattle, and would fain shake off the soft touch on her
arm, the kisses on her forehead, for the awful, desperate want of the
other kisses, the other clasp. And oh, how strong the longing was at
times to throw herself headlong into the river and let her spirit of
love fly to that other land, that the good God provided for His
children.
Then she would think of Gaspard Denys and his love for the little maid.
He had seen enough of the cruelty of her race to know the danger. Ah,
why had the great All-Father allowed any human beings to become such
fiends? Up in her northern home she had heard things that turned the
blood to ice. And she had been so near the white settlements.
Yes, she must care for the little one, keep with her, befriend her, try
to restore her to her dear protector.
It was best to claim that Renée was her little sister by adoption. If
they could only get back! Why should they go up north? What was that
more than any other place!
The woman at this would shake her head doubtfully. Yet Wawataysee could
see that she softened, and once she asked how far it was to St. Louis,
and how one could get there.
Wawataysee’s heart beat high with hope. Yet how could two girls reach
there alone? They might meet other Indian bands who would capture them.
There were wild animals. And they might not get a canoe. They had no
money. Still, she would escape if they could and pray to the good God to
keep them safe. Often and often she and Renée comforted themselves with
the sweet, brief prayers they had learned. And oh, where was poor Mère
Lunde!
Several days of rest were vouchsafed to them. Then one day a company of
hunters joined them, among which there were a few white prisoners as
well. One, a young fellow, strolled about with evident curiosity, and
came upon the girls in a leafy covert near the wig-wam. They were given
a little liberty by their keeper on promising by the Great Manitou they
would not attempt to escape.
“It would be of no use,” said the woman. “An alarm would be given, and
you do not know your way anywhere. Then you might be beaten when you
were captured, and confined with thongs. Have patience. Sometimes all
the braves go off to hunt.”
The young man listened to the French with delight. Two of the other
captives were English and they had conversed mostly with signs and
Indian words they had picked up.
Renée heard a stir in the leaves and started with a little cry. The hand
was raised for silence.
“Pardon me. I will do you no harm,” he said, with an appeal in his
voice. “It was the language that sounded so sweet to me. I am French. I
come from Detroit. But we fell in with a band of Indians and only three
of us escaped unhurt. We were made prisoners.”
“And we are prisoners, too,” returned Wawataysee, with a sigh. “We come
from St. Louis.”
“St. Louis! How strange! I had meant to go there. I have an uncle,
Pierre Valbonais.”
“Oh, I know!” cried Renée with delight, as if she had found a friend.
“He comes in my uncle’s shop; and Uncle Gaspard likes him. They sit and
smoke together.”
“And I am André Valbonais. We are companions in adversity, both
prisoners. Whither are you going?”
Wawataysee shook her head. “We do not know, m’sieu.”
He laughed softly. “How natural that sounds! I am glad to hear a
familiar voice. Neither do I know my destination. It is one thing
to-day, another to-morrow. I do not think they know themselves. Black
Feather is chief of the gang. Now and then they quarrel. He killed two
Indians not more than a week ago who wanted to have their own way, but
he has not been cruel to us. Still, I dream of escape continually.”
“Ah, if we could compass it together!” and Wawataysee’s beautiful eyes
went to his very heart.
The woman came out with her beadwork in her hand.
“You are not of our people,” she said. “You have no right here. Go your
way.”
“Perhaps not. I am a sort of compulsory guest, but I will say adieu,”
and bowing, he disappeared in the shrubbery; but his last glance said he
would find them again.
“Who was it?” The woman looked from one to the other.
“He is French, and a prisoner. The chief is Black Feather. But the young
man comes from Detroit.”
She gave a nod, as if she knew this much already.
Elk Horn and Black Feather had cemented a friendship over their whiskey.
They would start the next morning. The word was given to be early astir,
and the woman roused them.
“Every step takes us farther away,” said Wawataysee regretfully. Yet
they would be in the company of Valbonais, who had resolved upon escape.
She walked slowly down to the river’s edge, holding Renée by the hand.
Black Feather caught sight of her. Her tall, lithe figure, her airy
step, the poise of the head, had a touch of familiarity. Ah, yes! and
the name. The pretty Firefly had been taken away from the strait by a
white trader, and her brother had been unsuccessful in his attempt to
capture her. Ah, if this was she, then he was truly in luck!
He did not attempt to come nearer, but saw her and the child step into
the boat. Elk Horn took command of this. Black Feather gathered his
small force together, and his boatload of treasures of different kinds
with which he could purchase supplies, and the other looked on with
envy.
All day Black Feather watched warily, more and more certain that this
girl would prove a treasure to him if he managed rightly. He would buy
her of Elk Horn.
“What do you know about her?” he inquired. “She comes from St. Louis.
Who was her father? for she has Indian blood, and I am sure I know her
tribe.”
Elk Horn looked amazed. “I believe she married a trader and came with
him. I will ask her.”
“No. Cannot some of the men tell you?”
“Oh, I think so. Have you been smitten with her charms?”
The Indian nodded, but his face showed no emotion.
They made a rude camp for the night and proceeded to cook some supper.
“I have found out,” announced Elk Horn. “A Frenchman, Marchand, married
her. He was killed, I believe, in the assault on the town.”
“Yes, I like her. I will buy her of you. Let us make a bargain.”
“And the little one?” inquiringly.
“Oh, I do not want her. Yet she has some beauty, according to pale-face
ideas. But no, I will take only the Indian girl.”
They ate their supper of broiled fish, and then smoked in the gathering
darkness. Elk Horn deliberated. He had not exactly thought of selling
her, though it was often done with female captives. He had two wives
now, and did not want to be burdened with a third who was a helpless
young girl. Wives were for profit, in his estimation.
Black Feather was as wary. He was not sure he wanted to marry her. She
might prove turbulent and headstrong. Half breeds were not as tractable
as Indian women. And they were not as strong. They might die on your
hands, and what, then, would one have for the bargain?
“You will take the child. I will not part them. You can spare a trifle
more. She will soon grow up.”
Black Feather shrugged his shoulders and was silent.
“Then there is no bargain,” declared Elk Horn. “I will offer my wares to
some other chief. I think of one farther up in the Illinois country. But
our ways may be together a few days longer. It need not make ill
friends.”
Black Feather brought out some whiskey. He knew how to tempt his
brother. To have a supply of this for days would be more satisfying than
any future gain. For the present was the great thing to the Indian’s
improvident nature. And so Black Feather made his bargain, including the
child that he really did not care for. Yet perhaps it would be better
not to separate them at present.
Elk Horn had not slept off all his potion. His compeer was awake early,
and had laid aside the promised treasures for his inspection. Then he
called his men and stealthily manned his own boats. He judged rightly
that Elk Horn would not leave the place until the last drop of firewater
had been drained, and then it would take him a few days to get over his
debauch.
“Come,” he exclaimed roughly, at length. “Here is your portion—beads,
wampum, skins and whiskey.”
Elk Horn nodded and rubbed his bleared eyes. He looked at the goods and
they seemed magnified to his sight, so adroitly were they spread about.
“Ugh! It is early,” with a yawn.
“I must be on my way. You can overtake me at night. We will share the
same fire, and I will have everything prepared for my brother. But I
wish you to rouse the two captives and have them ready also. You will
lead them to the boat, so there need be no disturbance.”
Elk Horn considered. Wawataysee might object to her new master. He felt
his part had been rather underhand, but was she not his property?
They were a little surprised at the summons, and to be hurried off
without breakfast. The canoes were already out in the river. The larger
boat had a few men in it. Elk Horn put in Renée first.
“Where are we going?” the Indian girl asked, turning toward him.
“Up the river,” roughly, in a thick, guttural voice. “Come, get in.”
She stepped aboard, not especially remarking the men. Then suddenly her
eye fell upon Valbonais, who greeted her with a joyous expression. Had
he been handed over to Elk Horn? She experienced a certain contentment,
and suspicion was allayed.
But as they emerged from the shadow of the overhanging trees she saw
that all the faces were strange. She had not noted the newcomers in the
camp, having been kept in seclusion, and it also being her choice. Now a
chill of terror ran over her. Noting the aspect of two of the rowers
more closely, she saw to her dismay that they were Hurons. One man had
his head turned from her and bowed down.
“Why do we go so early?” asked Renée. “And we have had no breakfast.”
“I do not know,” tremblingly.
“And why did Elk Horn stay on shore?”
“Did he?” with a curious lift of the brows.
“Oh, yes; I saw him. And these men—oh, where are Pierre and Jules? But
there is the young man who came and talked to us. Oh, Wawataysee, shall
we never stay anywhere again? How can we get back to St. Louis?”
“Hush, dear; hush!”
“But I am getting hungry. And I am so tired of sailing.”
She leaned her head down on Wawataysee’s lap. Every moment the Indian
girl grew more terrified. True, Elk Horn and his men might come on. But
these Hurons!
The boat glided along. The sun rose higher and made of the river a band
of gold and gems, where each little wavelet dazzled in strange colors.
They passed great plains where grass grew rank and waved in the wind
like another sea of green. Then a belt of pines or walnut, the first
standing stiff and strong, the others mound-like.
The bowed figure had straightened itself and spoken to the men, but not
turned his face. Now he gave an order and the boat swerved in toward the
shore, grating a little on the pebbly beach. The other one in advance
turned also. Some food was distributed. He spoke in the Huron language,
and said they must make Bear Creek by night.
It was dreadful to go out in the broiling sun again, but presently a
cooling breeze blew up. They passed a chain of boats well laden, going
down, the French sailors singing a merry lilt, and they gave each other
greeting. The shadows began to grow longer and a reviving fragrance was
wafted over from the shore edge. There were fields abloom with gay
flowers, then shrubby clumps, and when the sun went down they had neared
a little cove where one could see two rather dilapidated wigwams. Here
they were to stop for the night.
The men began to make a fire, while provisions were brought out of the
boat. The two girls had been left alone, but now the chief—Wawataysee
knew he was that by his dress and a long black feather stuck through the
topknot of hair—turned to her. Oh, then she was quite sure she had seen
him before and her heart stood still. Yes, it was in that life she had
fled from.
He addressed her in the Huron tongue; she answered irrelevantly in
French. A frown crossed his brow, but he handed them both out of the
boat with a firm grasp on the arm of each, and led them to the smaller
tent of the two. Some fir and hemlock branches had been thrown on the
ground and covered with a blanket.
“You and the child will be safe here. You will be well guarded,” with a
cruel little smile. “Some supper will be sent you. Compose yourself.”
She gave no sign of recognition.
“You cannot deceive me, Firefly of the Hurons, even if some French blood
does course in your veins and you are tricked out in this attire. Your
brother’s anger was kindled against you when you made him break his
word, when you ran off with a vile Frenchman. If you could have been
found justice would have been swift and sure. And now you will go back.
You will not be a wife this time, but a slave to your master and his
other wives.”
“I am a wife already,” she answered proudly in his language, since it
was no use to feign. “I have been wedded a year by a priest, and the
Great Manitou will call down vengeance upon those who dare interfere
with his ordinances. And what right have you to bring me here?”
“I bought you, Mistress Insolence. And I shall double my price when the
Chief Pamussac hears that you will be at his service.”
There was a little dagger lying in a treasure box at home. Her husband
had given it to her. If she had it here she would stab him to the heart.
“Well, what is your reply?” he asked in a tone of triumph. “Your white
lord is dead. He cannot come at your call.”
“My reply is that we are both hungry and want some supper,” she returned
in an impatient tone. “And then some more blankets,” glancing
disdainfully at the pile of boughs. “You will hardly double your money
if you starve or maltreat me. I may die on your hands.”
Black Feather was more than amazed at the effrontery of the girl. He
stared at her, and his fingers worked as if he would like to clutch her
by the throat. Yes, what she said was true enough.
Wawataysee knew well that an Indian despised any sign of weakness or
cowardice, and that to secure good treatment she must put on the
boldness of the soldier who does not fear even death, and from whom his
persecutors can extort no groan.
“I will send you some supper. And guards shall be set to keep you from
harm,” in a mocking tone.
“Take my thanks for that,” she flung out sharply. “I am mortally afraid
of the wild beasts of the forests. And I would like some sleep after
this hot, fatiguing day and the early start of the morning.”
“Oh, what did he say?” and Renée clung to her with desperation. “He was
so fierce I thought he would kill us. And why are we here? Where is Elk
Horn?”
“My little darling, it seems that we have been sold and are to be taken
up north, unless the Great Manitou or the pitying Virgin listens to our
prayers and sends us rescue. It is a long way and something may happen.”
Renée began to cry.
“Sweet, take courage. I do not know why, but I have a curious faith that
overrides my fears, that something will intervene. Elk Horn has dealt
treacherously, after the fashion of his tribe. Oh, my darling! I know
you will see Uncle Gaspard again, so dry your tears.”
“I am so tired of the journeying and those fierce men. Do you remember
the old Chief Neepawa and the women of the village? They seemed like
ours at home.”
“Ah, I wish we were there!”
The supper came in, and, in spite of their fears, they were hungry. The
wind rose and the air was delightfully cool. Wawataysee spread the bed
and the child was soon peacefully asleep. The tent pole was a tree that
had been trimmed for that purpose, and the young girl leaned against it,
watching the flicker of the fire without and the pine torches that had
been lighted. Courageous as she had appeared, every pulse shrank and
throbbed. But there was death. She would be no man’s slave. Only Renée
must not be left behind. She knew of poisonous plants for which there
was no remedy. Oh, would she have the courage to take another’s life?
She dozed at length, even in her uncomfortable position. Then something
roused her, a rending crash and a glare that seemed to be the world on
fire. She sprang up, and the next crash she knew was the storm that had
broken over them with the wildest fury. Were there cries of beast and
men mingled with it? The deluge seemed to sweep the ground, the trees
writhed and groaned and crashed in the fury of the gale. In the
intervals she could hear voices without. Presently the flashes of
bewildering light ceased, though the mutterings of thunder could still
be heard, and the trees were wind-swept by the fierceness of the mighty
power. One and another came down, but her tent stood the storm and was
sheltered by an angle of three trees.
The gray light of morning began to dawn sullenly. She watched the faint
streaks stealing through the loopholes. Renée still slept. She went to
the flap of the wigwam and raised it. The rain was pouring in torrents.
There at her feet lay a body, the leggings and deer-skin breeches
ploughed by a curious zigzag streak, scorched and torn, and the blanket
shrivelled to fragments. Some figures were moving about like wraiths in
the dusky light. It was a weird picture. She was not at all afraid. She
was used to forest storms.
One of the figures came nearer. “Ma’m’selle!” it said in a whisper.
The familiar word was the sweetest music. She stretched out her hand.
“I never saw anything so terrible. And you—lived? Others have gone.
Three are dead. One is drowned, and Black Feather—” Valbonais’s voice
trembled.
“Well!” with a long breath. Did she hope for his death?
“He ordered the men to look after the boats. They had been drawn up, but
the ground was sloping, the rain a torrent, the blackness something
fearful save when the blinding blaze of light came. He was there
ordering, cursing, threatening. Then a tree crashed down and pinned him
to the earth. He is badly hurt about the legs, but has voice enough left
in him for four.”
Wawataysee shuddered.
“Ma’m’selle!” in a breathless manner.
“Yes?” with eager inquiry.
“I am going to escape. There never can be a more favorable moment.”
“Oh! oh! oh!” she cried in a piercing tone.
“I shall find my way to St. Louis. Ma’m’selle, if you and the child
dared and would trust me. For if I have heard aright, you are to be
taken to some chief up in the straits. And if you shrank from going——”
“I shall never reach there alive. I know a swift, unfailing poison—” And
her words came out sharply.
He gave her a half-horrified, half-entreating look.
“It will be a hard journey. But if we should start now there is not much
chance of our being overtaken. Everything is in such confusion, and it
may be weeks before Black Feather is able to move about. We would follow
