"Here he is! Hooray!"

The plebe was about a hundred yards from the shore, and swimming weakly;
the girl, still unconscious, was floating upon her back--and her
rescuer, holding her by the arms--was slowly towing her toward the
shore.

A dozen swam out to aid him as soon as he was seen; strong arms lifted
the girl and bore her high upon the bank, others supporting the
half-fainting plebe to a seat.

"Is she dead?" was Mark's first thought, as soon as he could speak at
all.

"I don't know," said Fischer, chafing the girl's hands and watching for
the least sign of life. "Somebody hustle up for the doctor there!
Quick!"

Several of the cadets set out for the hospital at a run; and the rest
gathered about the two and offered what help they could.

"It's Judge Fuller's daughter," said Fischer, who was busily dosing the
unconscious figure with a flask of reddish liquid surreptitiously
produced by one of the cadets.

"Do you know her?" inquired Mark, in surprise.

"Know her!" echoed half the bystanders at once. "Why, she lives just
across the river!"

"That's an ugly looking wound on the head there," continued Fischer,
bending over the prostrate form. "Gosh! but that boom must have struck
her. And here, Mallory," he added, "you'd best take a taste of this
brandy. You look about dead yourself."

"No, I thank you," responded Mark, smiling weakly. "I'm all right. Only
I'm glad it's all over and----"

Mark got no farther; as if to mock his words came a cry that made the
crowd whirl about and look toward the river in alarm.

"Help! Help!"

"By George!" cried Fischer, "it's one of the fellows!"

"It's Alan!" shouted Mark. "Alan Dewey!"

And before any one could divine his intention he sprang up and made a
dash for the river. For Mark knew how Dewey had come there; he had swum
out, cripple though he was, to hunt for him; and with his one well arm,
poor gallant Dewey was finding trouble in getting back.

Mark had been quick, but Fischer was a bit too quick for him and seized
him by the arm.

"Come back here!" he commanded, sternly. "And don't be a fool. You're
near dead. Some of you fellows swim out and tow that plebe in."

Half a dozen had started without being asked; and Mark's overzealous
friend was grabbed by the hair and arms and feet and rushed in in great
style. He came up smiling as usual.

"Got out too far, b'gee!" he began. "Very foolish of me! Reminds me of a
story I once heard---- Oh, say!"

This last explanation came as the speaker caught sight of the figure of
the young girl; and his face lost its smile on the instant.

"She's alive, isn't she?" he cried.

"Don't know," said Fischer. "Here comes the doctor now."

"Well, she certainly is a beautiful girl!" responded Dewey, shaking his
head. "B'gee, we don't want that kind to die!"

The doctor was coming on a run; and a minute later he was kneeling
beside the young girl's body.

"Jove!" he muttered. "Almost a fractured skull! No, she's alive! See
here, who got her out?"

"Mr. Mallory," responded the captain, turning toward where Mark had sat.
And then he gave vent to a startled exclamation.

"Good heavens! He's fainted! What's the matter?"

"Fainted?" echoed the surgeon, as he noticed the young man's white lips
and bloodless cheek. "Fainted! I should say so! Why, he's almost as near
dead as she! We must take him to the hospital."




CHAPTER XXVIII.

MARK MEETS THE SUPERINTENDENT.


"Yes, colonel, the lad is a hero, and I want to tell him so, too!"

The speaker was a tall, gray-haired gentleman, and he whacked his cane
on the floor for emphasis as he spoke.

"It was a splendid act, sir, splendid!" he continued. "And I want to
thank Mark Mallory for it right here in your office."

The man he addressed wore the uniform of the United States army; he was
Colonel Harvey, the superintendent of the West Point Academy.

"I shall be most happy to have you do so," he replied, smiling at this
visitor's enthusiasm. "You have certainly," he added, "much to thank the
young man for."

"Much!" echoed the other. "Much! Why, my dear sir, if that daughter of
mine had been drowned I believe it would have killed me. She is my only
child, and, if I do say it myself, sir, the sweetest girl that ever
lived."

"Wasn't it rather reckless, judge," inquired the other, "for you to
allow her to go sailing alone?"

"She is used to the boat," responded Judge Fuller, "but no one on earth
could have handled it in such a gale. I do not remember to have seen
such a one in all the time I have lived up here."

"Nor I, either," said the superintendent. "It was so dark that I could
scarcely see across the parade ground. It is almost miraculous that
Mallory should have succeeded in finding the boat as he did."

"Tell me about it," put in the other. "I have not been able to get a
consistent account yet."

"Cadet Captain Fischer told me," responded the colonel. "It seems that
he and Mallory were just at the finish of a swimming race when the storm
broke. They caught sight of the boat with your daughter in it coming
down stream. The plebe turned, exhausted though he was, and headed for
it. It got so dark then that those on shore could scarcely see; but the
lad managed to catch the boat as it passed and climbed aboard. Just then
the boom swung round and flung the girl into the water. Mallory dived
again at once----"

"Splendid!" interrupted the other.

"And swam ashore with her."

"And then fainted, they say," the judge added.

"Yes," said Colonel Harvey. "Dr. Grimes told me that it was one of the
worst cases of exhaustion he had ever seen. But the lad is doing well
now; he appears to be a very vigorous youngster--and I've an idea
several of the yearlings found that out to their discomfort. The doctor
told me that he thought he would be out this morning; the accident was
only two days ago."

"That is fortunate," responded the other. "The boy is too good to lose."

"He appears to be a remarkable lad generally," continued the
superintendent. "I have heard several tales about him. Some of the
stories came to me 'unofficially,' as we call it, and I don't believe
Mallory would rest easily if he thought I knew of them. Young Fischer,
who's a splendid man himself, I'll tell you, informed me yesterday that
the plebe had earned his admission fee by bringing help to a wrecked
train and telegraphing the account to a New York paper."

"I heard he had been in some trouble about demerits," put in Judge
Fuller.

"In very serious trouble. I had to take a very radical step to get him
out of it. Every once in a while I find that some new cadet is being
'skinned,' as the cadets call it, demerited unfairly. I always punish
severely when I find that out. In this case, though, I had no proof;
Mallory would say nothing, though he was within five demerits of
expulsion. So I decided to end the whole matter by declaring a new rule
I've been contemplating for some time. I've found that new cadets get
too many demerits during the first few weeks, before they learn the
rules thoroughly. So I've decided that in future no demerits shall be
given for the first three weeks, and that delinquencies shall be
punished by extra hours and other penalties. That let Mallory out of his
trouble, you see."

"A very clever scheme!" laughed the other. "Very clever!"

It may be of interest to notice that Colonel Harvey's rule has been in
effect ever since.

There was silence of a few moments after that, during which Judge Fuller
tapped the floor with his cane reflectively.

"You promised to let me see this Mallory," he said, suddenly. "I'm ready
now."

By way of answer, the superintendent rang a bell upon his desk.

"Go over to the hospital," he said to the orderly who appeared in the
doorway, "and find out if Cadet Mallory is able to be about. If he is,
bring him here at once."

The boy disappeared and the colonel turned to his visitor and smiled.

"Is that satisfactory?" he inquired.

"Very!" responded the other. "And I only wish that you could send for my
daughter to come over, too. I hope those surgeons are taking care of
her."

"As much as if she were their own," answered the colonel. "I cannot tell
you how glad I was to learn that she is beyond danger."

"It is God's mercy," said the other, with feeling. "She could not have
had a much narrower escape."

And after that neither said anything until a knock at the door signaled
the arrival of the orderly.

"Come in," called the superintendent, and two figures stepped into the
room. One was the messenger, and the other was Mark.

"This," said the superintendent after a moment's pause, "is Cadet
Mallory."

And Cadet Mallory it was. The same old Mark, only paler and more weak
just then.

Judge Fuller rose and bowed gravely.

"Sit down," said he, "you are not strong enough to stand."

And after that no one said anything for fully a minute; the last speaker
resumed his seat and fell to studying Mark's face in silence. And Mark
waited respectfully for him to begin.

"My name," said he at last, "is Fuller."

"Judge Fuller?" inquired Mark.

"Yes. And Grace Fuller is my daughter."

After that there was silence again, broken suddenly by the excitable old
gentleman dropping his cane, springing up from his chair, and striding
over toward the lad.

"I want to shake hands with you, sir! I want to shake hands with you!"
he cried.

Mark was somewhat taken aback; but he arose and did as he was asked.

"And now," said the judge, "I guess that's all--sit down, sir, sit down;
you've little strength left, I can see. I want to thank you, sir, for
being the finest lad I've met for a long time. And when my daughter gets
well--which she will, thank the Lord--I'll be very glad to have you
call on us, or else to let us call on you--seeing that we live beyond
cadet limits. And if ever you get into trouble, here or anywhere, just
come and see me about it, and I'll be much obliged to you. And that's
all."

Having said which, the old gentleman stalked across the room once more,
picked up his hat and cane, and made for the door.

"Good-day, sir," he said. "I'm going around now to see my daughter.
Good-day, and God bless you."

After which the door was shut.

It was several minutes after that before Colonel Harvey said anything.

"You have made a powerful friend, my boy," he remarked, smiling at the
recollection of the old gentleman's strange speech. "And you have
brought honor upon the academy. I am proud of you--proud to have you
here."

"Thank you, sir," said Mark, simply.

"All I have to say besides that," added the officer, "is to watch out
that you stay. Don't get any more demerits."

"I'll try not, sir."

"Do. And I guess you had best go and join your company now if the doctor
thinks you're able. Something is happening to-day which always interests
new cadets. I bid you good-morning, Mr. Mallory."

And Mark went out of that office and crossed the street to barracks
feeling as if he were walking on air.




CHAPTER XXIX.

THE SEVEN IN SESSION.


It is fun indeed to be a hero, to know that every one you pass is gazing
at you with admiration. Or if one cannot do anything heroic, let him
even do something that will bring him notoriety, and then--

    "As he walks along the Boulevard,
    With an independent air."

he may be able to appreciate the afore-mentioned sensation.

There was no boulevard at West Point, but the area in barracks served
the purpose, and Mark could not help noticing that as he went the
yearlings were gazing enviously at him, and the plebes with undisguised
admiration. He hurried upstairs to avoid that, and found that he had
leaped, as the phrase has it, from the frying pan to the fire. For there
were the other six of the "Seven Devils" ready to welcome him with a
rush.

"Wow!" cried Texas. "Back again! Whoop!"

"Bless my soul, but I'm glad!" piped in the little round bubbly voice of
"Indian." "Bless my soul!"

"Sit down. Sit down," cried "Parson" Stanard, reverently offering his
beloved volume of "Dana's Geology" for a cushion.

"Sit down and let us look at you."

"Yes, b'gee!" chimed in Alan Dewey. "Yes, b'gee, let's look at you.
Reminds me of a story I once heard, b'gee--pshaw, what's the use of
trying to tell a good story with everybody trying to shout at once."

The excitement subsided after some five minutes more, and Mark was glad
of it. With the true modesty natural to all high minds he felt that he
would a great deal rather rescue a girl than be praised and made
generally uncomfortable for it. So he shut his followers up as quickly
as he could, which was not very quickly, for they had lots to say.

"How is the girl?" inquired Dewey, perceiving at last that Mark really
meant what he said, and so, hastening to turn the conversation.

"She's doing very well now," said Mark.

"Always your luck!" growled Texas. "She's beautiful, and her father's a
judge and got lots of money. Bet he runs off and marries her in a week.
Oh, say, Mark, but you're lucky! You just ought to hear the plebes talk
about you. I can't tell you how proud I am, man! Why----"

"Right back at it again!" interrupted Mark, laughing. "Right back again!
Didn't I tell you to drop it? I know what I'll do----"

Here Mark arose from his seat.

"I hereby declare this a business meeting of the Seven Devils, and as
chairman I call the meeting to order."

"What for?" cried the crowd.

"To consider plans for hazing," answered Mark. "I----"

"Wow!" roared Texas, wildly excited in an instant. "Goin' to haze
somebody? Whoop!"

And Mark laughed silently to himself.

"I knew I'd make you drop that rescue business," he said. "And Mr.
Powers, you will have the goodness to come to order and not to address
the meeting until you are granted the floor. It is my purpose, if you
will allow me to say a few words to the society--ahem!"

Mark said this with stern and pompous dignity and Texas subsided so
suddenly that the rest could scarcely keep from laughing.

"But, seriously now, fellows," he said, after a moment's silence. "Let's
leave all the past behind and consider what's before us. I really have
something to say."

Having been thus enjoined, the meeting did come to order. The members
settled themselves comfortably about the room as if expecting a long
oration, and Mark continued, after a moment's thought.

"We really ought to make up our mind beforehand as to just exactly what
we're going to do. I suppose you all know what's going to happen
to-day."

"No!" cried the impulsive Texas. "I don't. What is it, anyhow?"

"We're to move to camp this afternoon," responded Mark.

"I know; but what's that got to do with it?"

"Lots. Several of the cadets have told me that there's always more
hazing done on that one day than on all the rest put together. You see,
we leave barracks and go up to live with the whole corps at the summer
camp. And that night the yearlings always raise Cain with the plebes."

"Bully, b'gee!" chimed in Dewey, no less pleased with the prospect.

"So to-night is the decisive night," continued Mark. "And I leave it for
the majority to decide just what we'll do about it. What do you say?"

Mark relapsed into silence, and there was a moment's pause, ended by the
grave and classic Parson slowly rising to his feet. The Parson first
laid his inevitable "Dana" upon the floor, then glanced about him with a
pompous air and folded his long, bony arms. "Ahem!" he said, and then
began:

"Gentlemen! I rise--ahem!--to put the case to you as I see it; I rise to
emulate the example of the immortal Patrick Henry--to declare for
liberty or death! Yea, by Zeus, or death!"

"Bully, b'gee!" chimed in Dewey, slapping his knee in approval and
winking merrily at the crowd from behind the Parson's back.

"Gentlemen!" continued the Parson. "Once before we met in this same room
and we did then make known our declaration of independence to the world.
But there is one thing we have not yet done, and that we must do! Yea,
by Zeus! I am a Bostonian--I may have told you that before--and I am
proud of the deeds of my forefathers. They fought at Bunker Hill; and,
gentlemen, we have that yet to do."

"Betcher life, b'gee!" cried Dewey, as the Parson gravely took his seat.
Then the former arose and continued the discussion. "Not much of a hand
for making a speech," he said, "as the deaf-mute remarked when he lost
three fingers; but I've got something to say, and, b'gee, I'm going to
say it. To-night is the critical night, and if we are meek and mild now,
we'll be it for the whole summer. And I say we don't, b'gee, and that's
all!"

With which brief, but pointed and characteristic summary of the
situation, Alan sat down and Texas clapped his heels together and gave
vent to a "Wow!" of approval.

"Anybody else got anything to say?" inquired Mark.

"Yes, bah Jove! I have, don't ye know."

This came from Mr. Chauncey Van Rensallear Mount-Bonsall. Chauncey wore
a high collar and a London accent; he was by this time playfully known
as "the man with a tutor and a hyphen," both of which luxuries it had
been found he possessed. But Chauncey was no fool for all his
mannerisms.

"Aw--yes," said he, "I have something to say, ye know. Those deuced
yearlings will haze us more than any other plebes in the place. Beastly
word, that, by the way. I hate to be called a plebe, ye know. There is
blue blood in our family, bah Jove, and I'll guarantee there isn't one
yearling in the place can show better. Why, my grandfather----"

"I call the gentleman to order," laughed Mark. "Hazing's the business on
hand. Hazing, and not hancestors."

"I know," expostulated Chauncey, "but I hate to be called a plebe, ye
know. As I was going to say, however, they'll haze us most. Mark
has--aw--fooled them a dozen times, bah Jove! Texas chastised four of
them. Parson, I'm told, chased half a dozen once. My friend Indian here
got so deuced mad the other day that he nearly killed one, don't ye
know. Dewey's worse, and as for me and my friend Sleepy here--aw--bah
Jove!----"

"You did better than all of us!" put in Mark.

Chauncey paused a moment to make a remark about "those deuced drills, ye
know, which kept a fellah from ever having a clean collah, bah Jove!"
And then he continued.

"I just wanted to say, ye know, that we were selected for the hazing
to-night, and that we might as well do something desperate at once, bah
Jove! that's what I think, and so does my friend Sleepy. Don't you,
Sleepy?"

"I ain't a-thinkin' abaout it 't all," came a voice from the bed where
Methusalem Zebediah Chilvers, the farmer, lay stretched out.

"Sleepy's too tired," laughed Mark. "It seems to be the unanimous
opinion of the crowd," he continued, after a moment's pause, "that we
might just as well be bold. In other words, that we have no hazing."

"B'gee!" cried Dewey, springing to his feet, excitedly. "B'gee, I didn't
say that! No, sir!"

"What did you say, then?" inquired Mark.

"I said that we shouldn't let them haze us, b'gee, and I meant it, too.
I never said no hazing! Bet cher life, b'gee! I was just this moment
going to make the motion that we carry the war into the enemy's country,
that we upset West Point traditions for once and forever, and with a
bang, too. In other words"--here the excitable youngster paused, so that
his momentous idea might have due weight--"in other words, b'gee, that
we haze the yearlings!"

There was an awed silence for a few moments to give that terrifically
original proposition a chance to settle in the minds of the amazed
"devils."

Texas was the first to act and he leaped across the room at a bound and
seized "B'gee" by the hand.

"Wow!" he roared. "Whoop! Bully, b'gee!"

And in half a minute more the seven, including the timid Indian, had
registered a solemn vow to do deeds of valor that would "make them ole
cadets look crosseyed," as Texas put it.

They were going to haze the yearlings!




CHAPTER XXX.

THE MOVE INTO CAMP.


The new cadets at West Point are housed in barracks for two weeks after
their admission. During this time "squad drill" is the daily rule, and
the strangers learn to march and stand and face--everything a new
soldier has to learn, with the exception of the manual of arms. After
that they are adjudged fit to associate with the older cadets, and are
marched up to "Camp McPherson." This usually takes place about the first
day of July.

Our friends, the seven, had been measured for uniforms along with the
rest of the plebe company during their first days in barracks. The
fatigue uniforms had been given out that morning, to the great
excitement of everybody, and now "cit" clothing, with all its fantastic
variety of hats and coats of all colors, was stowed away in trunks "for
good," and the plebes costumed uniformly in somber suits of gray, with
short jackets and only a black seam down the trousers for ornament. Full
dress uniforms, such as the old cadets up at camp were wearing, were
yet things of the future.

That morning also the plebes had been "sized" for companies.

Of "companies" there are four, into which the battalion of some three
hundred cadets is divided, "for purposes of instruction in infantry
tactics, and in military police and discipline." (For purposes of
"academic instruction," they are of course divided into the four
classes: First, second, third, or "yearlings," and fourth, the
"plebes".) The companies afore-mentioned are under the command of
tactical officers. These latter report to the "commandant of cadets,"
who is, next to the superintendent, the highest ranking officer on the
post.

The companies are designated A, B, C and D. A and D are flank companies,
and to them the tallest cadets are assigned. B and C are center
companies. Mark and Texas, and also the Parson and Sleepy, all of whom
were above the average height, found themselves in A. The remainder of
the Seven Devils managed to land in B; and the whole plebe class was
ordered to pack up and be ready to move immediately after dinner.

The cadets are allowed to take only certain articles to camp; the rest,
together with the cit's clothing, was stored in trunks and put away in
the trunk room.

Right here at the start there was trouble for the members of our
organization. Texas, it will be remembered, had a choice assortment of
guns of all caliber, sixteen in number. These he had stored up the
chimney of his room for safety. (The chimney is a favorite place of
concealment for contraband articles at West Point). But there was no
such place of concealment in camp; and no way of getting the guns there
anyhow. There are no pockets in the cadets' uniforms except a small one
for a watch. Money they are not allowed to carry, and their
handkerchiefs are tucked in the breasts of their coats.

It was a difficult situation, for Texas, with true Texan cautiousness,
vowed he'd never leave his guns behind.

"Why, look a yere, man," he cried. "I tell you, t'ain't safe now fo' a
feller to go up thar 'thout anything to defend himself. You kain't tell
what may happen!"

The Parson was in a similar quandary. His chimney contained a various
assortment of chemicals, together with sundry geological specimens,
including that now world-famous cyathophylloid coral which had been
discovered "in a sandstone of Tertiary origin." And the Parson vowed
that either that cyathophylloid went to camp or he stayed in
barracks--yea, by Zeus!

There was no use arguing with them; Mark tried it in vain. Texas was
obdurate and talked of holding up the crowd that dared to take those
guns away; and the Parson said that he had kept a return ticket to
Boston, his native town, a glorious city where science was encouraged
and not repressed.

That was the state of affairs through dinner, and up to the moment when
the cry, "New cadets turn out!" came from the area. By that time Texas
had tied his guns in one of his shirts, and the Parson had variously
distributed his fossils about his body until he was one bundle of lumps.

"If you people will congregate closely about me," he exclaimed, "I
apprehend that the state of affairs will not be observed."

It was a curious assembly that "turned out"--a mass of bundles, brooms
and buckets, with a few staggering plebes underneath. They marched up to
camp that way, too, and it was with audible sighs of relief that they
dropped their burdens at the end.

A word of description of "Camp McPherson" may be of interest to those
who have never visited West Point. It is important that the reader
should be familiar with its appearance, for many of Mark's adventures
were destined to happen there--some of them this very same night.

The camp is half a mile or so from barracks, just beyond the Cavalry
Plain and very close to old Fort Clinton. The site is a pretty one, the
white tents standing out against the green of the shade trees and the
parapet of the fort.

The tents are arranged in four "company streets" and are about five feet
apart. The tents have wooden platforms for floors and are large enough
for four cadets each. A long wooden box painted green serves as the
"locker"--it has no lock or key--and a wooden rod near the ridge pole
serves as a wardrobe. And that is the sum total of the furniture.

The plebes made their way up the company streets and the cadet officers
in charge, under the supervision of the "tacs," assigned them to their
tents. Fortunately, plebes are allowed to select their own tent mates;
it may readily be believed the four devils of A company went together.
By good fortune the three remaining in B company, as was learned later,
found one whole tent left over and so were spared the nuisance of a
stranger in their midst--a fact which was especially gratifying to the
exclusive Master Chauncey.

Having been assigned to their tents, the plebes were set to work under
the brief instructions of a cadet corporal at the task of arranging
their household effects. This is done with mathematical exactness. There
is a place for everything, and a penalty for not keeping it there.
Blankets, comforters, pillows, etc., go in a pile at one corner. A
looking-glass hangs on the front tent pole; a water bucket is deposited
on the front edge of the platform; candlesticks, candles, cleaning
materials, etc., are kept in a cylindrical tin box at the foot of the
rear tent pole; and so on it goes, through a hundred items or so. There
are probably no more uniform things in all nature than the cadet tents
in camp. The proverbial peas are not to be compared with them.

The amount of fear and trembling which was caused to those four friends
of ours in a certain A company tent by the contraband goods of Texas and
the Parson is difficult to imagine. The cadet corporal, lynx-eyed and
vigilant, scarcely gave them a chance to hide anything. It was only by
Mark's interposing his body before his friends that they managed to
slide their precious cargoes in under the blankets, a temporary hiding
place. And even when the articles were thus safely hidden, what must
that officious yearling do but march over and rearrange the pile
accurately, almost touching one of the revolvers, and making the four
tremble and quake in their boots.

They managed the task without discovery, however, and went on with their
work. And by the first drum beat for dress parade that afternoon,
everything was done up in spick-and-span order, to the eye at any rate.

Dress parade was a formality in which the plebes took no part but that
of interested spectators. They huddled together shyly in their newly
occupied "plebe hotels" and watched the yearlings, all in spotless snowy
uniforms, "fall in" on the company street outside. The yearlings were
wild with delight and anticipation at having the strangers right among
them at last, and they manifested great interest in the plebes, their
dwellings, and in fact in everything about them. Advice and criticism,
and all kinds of guying that can be imagined were poured upon the
trembling lads' heads, and this continued in a volley until the second
drum changed the merry crowd into a silent and motionless line of
soldiers.

Mark could scarcely keep his excitable friend Texas from sallying out
then and there to attack some of the more active members of this
hilarious crowd. It was evident that, while no plebe escaped entirely,
there was no plebe hotel in A company so much observed as their own. For
the three B. J.-est plebes in the whole plebe class were known to be
housed therein. Cadet Mallory, "professional hero," was urged in all
seriousness to come out and rescue somebody on the spot, which
oft-repeated request, together with other merry chaffing, he bore with a
good-natured smile. Cadet Stanard was plagued with geological questions
galore, among which the "cyathophylloid" occupied a prominent place.
Cadet Powers was dared to come out and lasso a stray "tac," whose
blue-uniformed figure was visible out on the parade ground. And Mr.
Chilvers found the state of "craps" a point of great solicitude to all.

It was all stopped by the drum as has been mentioned; the company
wheeled by fours and marched down the street, leaving the plebes to an
hour of rest. But oh! those same yearlings were thinking. "Oh, won't we
just soak 'em to-night!"

And, strange to say, the same thought was in the minds of seven
particular plebes that stayed behind. For Mark had a plot by this time.




CHAPTER XXXI.

"FIRST NIGHT."


Dress parade leaves but a few moments for supper, with no chance for
"deviling." But when the battalion marched back from that meal and broke
ranks, when the dusk of evening was coming on to make an effective
screen, then was the time, thought the cadets. And so thought the
plebes, too, as they came up the road a few minutes later, trembling
with anticipation, most of them, and looking very solemn and somber in
their dusky fatigue uniforms.

"First night of plebe camp," says a well-known military writer, "is a
thing not soon to be forgotten, even in these days when pitchy darkness
no longer surrounds the pranks of the yearlings, and when official
vigilance and protection have replaced what seemed to be tacit
encouragement and consent.

"Then--some years ago--it was no uncommon thing for a new cadet to be
dragged out--'yanked'--and slid around camp on his dust-covered blanket
twenty times a night, dumped into Fort Clinton ditch, tossed in a tent
fly, half smothered in the folds of his canvas home, ridden on a tent
pole or in a rickety wheelbarrow, smoked out by some vile, slow-burning
pyrotechnic compound, robbed of rest and sleep at the very least after
he had been alternately drilled and worked all the livelong day."

In Mark's time the effort to put a stop to the abuses mentioned had just
been begun. Army officers had been put on duty at night; gas lamps had
been placed along the sentry posts--precautions which are doubled
nowadays, and with the risk of expulsion added besides. They have done
away with the worst forms of hazing if not with the spirit.

The yearlings "had it in" for our four friends of company A that
evening. In fact, scarcely had the plebes scattered to their tents when
that particular plebe hotel was surrounded. The cadets had it all
arranged beforehand, just what was to happen, and they expected to have
no end of fun about it.

"Parson Stanard" was to be serenaded first; the crowd meant to surround
him and "invite" him to read some learned extracts from his beloved
"Dana." The Parson was to recount some of the nobler deeds of Boston's
heroes, including himself; he was to display his learning by answering
questions on every conceivable subject; he was to define and spell a
list of the most outlandish words in every language known to the angels.

Texas was to show his skill and technique in hurling an imaginary lasso
and firing an imaginary revolver from an imaginary galloping horse. He
was to tell of the geography, topography, climate and resources of the
Lone Star State; he was to recount the exploits of his "dad," "the Hon.
Scrap Powers, sah, o' Hurricane Co.," and his uncle, the new
Senator-elect. Mark was to give rules for rescuing damsels, saving
expresses and ferryboats, etc. And Mr. Methusalem Zebediah Chilvers of
Kansas was to state his favorite method of raising three-legged chickens
and three-foot whiskers.

That was the delicious programme as finally agreed upon by the
yearlings. And there was only one drawback met in the execution of it.
The four plebes could not be found!

They weren't in their tent; they weren't in camp! Preposterous! The
yearlings hunted, scarcely able to believe their eyes. The plebes, of
course, had a perfect right to take a walk after supper if they chose.
But the very idea of daring to do it on the first night in camp, when
they knew that the yearlings would visit them and expect to be
entertained! It was an unheard-of thing to do; but it was just what one
would have expected of those B. J. beasts, so the yearlings grumbled, as
they went off to other tents to engage other plebes in conversation and
controversy.

But where were the four? No place in particular. They had simply joined
the other three and had the impudence to disappear in the woods for a
stroll until tattoo. They had come to the conclusion that it was better
to do that than to stay and be "guyed," as they most certainly would be
if they refused their tormentors' requests. And Mark had overruled
Texas' vehement offer to stay and "do up the hull crowd," deciding that
the cover of the night would be favorable to the sevens' hazing, and
that until then they should make themselves scarce.

In the meantime there was high old sport in Camp McPherson. In response
to the requests of the merry yearlings, some plebes were sitting out on
the company streets and rowing desperate races at a 34-to-the-minute
stroke with brooms for oars and air for water; some were playing
imaginary hand-organs, while others sang songs to the tunes; some
"beasts" were imitating every imaginable animal in a real "menagerie,"
and some were relating their personal history while trying to stand on
their heads.

All this kind of hazing is good-natured and hurts no one physically,
however much the loss of dignity may torment some sensitive souls. It is
the only kind of hazing that remains to any great extent nowadays.

In the midst of such hilarity time passes very rapidly--to the
yearlings, anyway. In almost no time tattoo had sounded; and then the
companies lined up for the evening roll call, the seven dropping into
line as silently as they had stolen off, deigning a word to no one in
explanation of their strange conduct.

"That's what I call a pretty B. J. trick!" growled Cadet Harris. Bull
had been looking forward with great glee to that evening's chance to
ridicule Mark, with all his classmates to back him; it was a lost chance
now, and Bull was angry in consequence.

Bull's cronies agreed with him as to the "B. J.-ness" of that trick. And
they, along with a good many others, too, agreed that the trick ought
not be allowed to succeed.

"We ought to haze him ten times as hard to-night to make up for it!" was
the verdict.

And so it happened that the seven, by their action, brought down upon
their heads all the hazing that was done after taps. This hazing, too,
was by far the least pleasant, for it was attended to only by the more
reckless members of the class, members who could not satisfy their taste
for torture by making a helpless plebe sing songs, but must needs tumble
him out of bed and ride him on a rail at midnight besides.

The fact, however, that all such members of the yearling class had
decided to concentrate their torments upon him did not worry Mark in the
least. In fact, that was just what Mark had expected and prepared for.

And so there was destined to be fun that night.

"Now go to your tents, make down your bedding just as you were taught at
barracks; do not remove your underclothing; hang up your uniforms where
each man can get his own in an instant; put your shoes and caps where
you can get them in the dark if need be; turn in and blow your candle
out, before the drum strikes 'taps,' at ten. After that, not a sound!
Get to sleep as soon as you can and be ready to form here at reveille."

So spoke Cadet Corporal Jasper; and then at the added command, "Break
ranks, march!" the plebe company scattered, and with many a sigh of
relief vanished as individuals in the various tents.

The corporal's last order, "be ready to form here at reveille," is a
source of much worriment to the plebe. But the one before it, "get to
sleep as soon as you can," is obeyed with the alacrity born of hours of
drill and marching. Long before tattoo, which is the signal for "lights
out," the majority of the members of the class were already dreaming.
Perhaps they were not resting very easily, for most of them had a vague
idea that there might be trouble that night; but they knew that lying
awake would not stop it, and they were all too sleepy anyway.

The last closing ceremony of a West Point day in camp is the watchful
"tac's" inspection. One of these officers goes the rounds with a dark
lantern, flashing it into every tent and making sure that the four
occupants are really in bed. (The "bed" consists of a board floor, and
blankets.) Having attended to this duty, the tac likewise retires and
Camp McPherson sinks into the slumbers of the night.

After that until five the next morning there is no one awake but the
tireless sentries. A word about these. The camp is a military one and is
never without guard from the moment the tents are stretched until the
29th of August, when the snowy canvas comes to the ground once more. The
"guard tent" is at the western end of the camp, and is under the charge
of the "corporal of the guard," a cadet. The sentries are cadets, too,
and there are five of them, numbered--sentry No. 1 and so on. The
ceremony each morning at which these sentries go on duty is called
"guard-mounting." And during the next twenty-four hours these sentries
are on duty two hours in every six--two hours on and then four off,
making eight in the twenty-four.

These sentries being cadets themselves--and yearlings at present--hazing
is not so difficult as it might seem. A sentry can easily arrange to
have parties cross his beat without his seeing them; it is only when the
sentry is not in the plot that the thing is dangerous.

The "tac"--Lieutenant Allen was his name--had made his rounds for the
night, finding plebes and yearlings, too, all sleeping soundly, or
apparently so. And after that there was nothing moving but the tramping
sentinels, and the shadows of the trees in the moonlight as they fell
on the shining tents--that is, there was nothing moving that was
visible. The yearlings, plenty of them, were wide awake in their tents
and preparing for their onslaught upon the sleeping plebes.

Sleeping? Perhaps, but certainly not all of them. Some of those plebes
were as wide awake as the yearlings, and they were engaged in an
occupation that would have taken the yearlings considerably by surprise
if they had known it. There were seven of them in two tents, tents that
were back to back and close together, one being in Company A and one in
B.

They were very quiet about their work; for it was a risky business.
Discovery would have meant the sentry's yelling for the corporal of the
guard; meant that Lieutenant Allen would have leaped into his trousers
and been out of his tent at the corporal's heels; meant a strict
investigation, discovery, court-martial and dismissal. It was all right
for yearlings to be out at night; but plebes--never!

It grew riskier still as a few minutes passed, for one of the B. J.
beasts had the temerity to come out of his tent. He came very
cautiously, it was true, worming his way along the ground silently, in
true Indian--or Texas style. For Texas it was, that adventurous youth
having vowed and declared that if he were not allowed to attend to this
particular piece of mischief he would go out and hold up a sentry
instead; the other three occupants were peering under the tent folds
watching him anxiously as he crawled along.

As a fact, Texas' peril was not as great as was supposed, for the
sentries had no means of telling if he was a yearling or not. The idea
of a plebe's daring to break rules would not have occurred to them
anyhow. Be that as it may, at any rate nobody interrupted the Seven
Devils' plans. Cadet Powers made his way across the "street," deposited
his burden, a glistening steel revolver some two feet long. And then he
stole back and the crowd lay still in their tents and watched and
waited.

They had not long to do that. Texas barely had time to crawl under the
canvas and to mutter to his friends--for the hundredth time:

"Didn't I tell ye them air guns 'ud come in handy?"

At that very moment a sound of muffled laughter warned them that the
moment had arrived.

"Just in time!" whispered Mark, seizing his friend by the hand and at
the same time giving vent to a subdued chuckle. "Just in time. S-sh!"

The four, who lay side by side under the tent, could hear each other's
hearts thumping then.

"Will it work? Will it work?" was the thought in the mind of every one
of them.




CHAPTER XXXII.

CONCLUSION.


The yearlings were a merry party, about ten of them, and they were out
for fun and all the fun that could be had. They were going to make it
hot for certain B. J. plebes, and they meant to lose no time about it,
either. They crept up the company street, laughing and talking in
whispers, for fear they should arouse the tac. The sentries they did not
care about, of course, for the sentries were pledged to "look the other
way."

It was decided that the first thing to be done to those B. J. plebes was
to "yank 'em." Yanking is a West Point invention. It means that the
victim finds his blanket seized by one corner and torn from under him,
hurling him to the ground. Many a plebe's nightmares are punctuated with
just such periods as these.

It seems that a "yanking" was just what the four had prepared for. They
had prepared for it by huddling up in one corner and rigging dummies to
place in their beds. The dummies consisted of wash basins, buckets,
etc., and it was calculated that when these dummies were yanked they
would be far from dumb.

The yearlings stole up cautiously; they did not know they were watched.
The breathless plebes saw their shadows on the tent walls, and knew just
what was going on. They saw the figures line up at the back; they saw
half a dozen pairs of hands gently raise the canvas, and get a good firm
grip on the blankets. Then came a subdued "Now!" and then--well, things
began to happen after that!

The yearlings "yanked" with all the power of their arms. The blankets
gave way, and the result was a perfectly amazing clatter and crash. Have
you ever heard half a dozen able-bodied dishwashers working at once?

Naturally the wildest panic resulted among the attacking party. They did
not know what they had done, but they did know that they had done
something desperate, and that they wished they hadn't. As the sound
broke out on the still, night air they turned in alarm and made a wild
dash for their tents.

Two of them raced down the company street at top speed; both of them
suddenly struck an unexpected obstruction and were sent flying through
the air. It was a string; and at one end of it was the Texas
.44-caliber. The result was a bang that woke the camp with a jump. And
then there was fun for fair.

The sentries knew then that every one was awake, including the "tac,"
and that they might just as well, therefore, "give the alarm." All five
of them accordingly set up a wild shout for the corporal of the guard.
This brought the young officer and Lieutenant Allen on the scene in no
time. Also it brought from the land of dreams every cadet in the corps
who had managed to sleep through the former racket. And nearly all of
them rushed to their tent doors wondering what would happen next.

The seven meanwhile had been working like beavers. The instant the gun
had gone off Texas, who held the string, had yanked it in and stowed it
away with his other weapons, shaking with laughter in the meanwhile. The
others had gone to work with a will; pitcher, basin, bucket, everything,
had been hastily set in place; blankets had been relaid; and everything,
in short, was put in order again, so that by the time that Lieutenant
Allen got around to their tent--the officer had seized his lantern and
set out on a hasty round to discover the jokers--he found four "scared"
plebes, sitting up in beds, sleepily rubbing their eyes, and inquiring
in anxiety:

"What's the matter?"

He didn't tell them, for he hadn't the remotest idea himself. And nobody
told him; the yearlings couldn't have if they had wanted to.

Of course the lieutenant didn't care to stay awake all night,
fruitlessly asking questions; so he went to bed. The sentries resumed
their march, wondering meanwhile what on earth had led their classmates
to make so much rumpus, and speculating as to whether it could possibly
be true, what one cadet had suggested--that that wild and woolly Texan
had tried to shoot some one who had hazed him. The rest of the cadets
dropped off to sleep. And soon everybody was quiet again--that is,
except the Seven Devils.

The Seven Devils had only just begun. They lay and waited until things
were still, and then Mark gave the order, and the crowd rose as one man
and stole softly out into the street. This included even the trembling
Indian, who was muttering "Bless my soul!" at a great rate.

"I guess they're all asleep now," whispered Mark.

"What are you going to do?" inquired Indian.

"Yank 'em," responded Mark, briefly. "Come ahead."

Mark had seen that the yearlings came up boldly, which told him at once
that the sentries were "fixed," and he calculated that just at the
moment the moon being clouded, the sentries would not know yearlings
