Salle and Tonti, was a mine of treasure to her. Later 
New Orleans, with its changes of government, Napo 
leon's marvellous history and the purchase of the West, 
was a great source of interest to us both. Mr. Harris 
was my mentor. Between getting and giving I added 
much to my incomplete boyish education. 
But it was not all history. Every volume of poems 
I met with I borrowed, and we read the old ones over. 
I think we both knew pages of "The Lady of the 
Lake," our first love. 
One evening an odd incident happened to me that 
in the beginning was rather a source of annoyance. I 
was to go to Mr. Harris's and had a list of inquiries in 
my mind to talk over. At the side of the cheerful fire 
in the arm-chair with the high cushioned back sat 
a gentleman of distinguished appearance that I had 
caught sight of in the warehouse, a tall man with a 
rather spare but not thin figure, a fine face that, no 
doubt, had been handsome in youth. The forehead 
was high, but rather narrow, the hair, that now had 
only a few dark threads in it, but a certain silvery 
gloss, an aquiline nose, and the beard, snowy-white, 
trimmed in the Van Dyck fashion. The eyes held me. 
They were large and dark, but with a kind of winning 
softness. The eyebrows were still dark and so were 
the long lashes. 
"This is Mr. LeMoyne, Norman, and this," turning 
to the gentleman, "is the young friend I was telling 
you of." 
 
He did not rise, but extended his hand with such a 
grace that I felt self-condemned for my discourteous 
thought. 
"We have been talking about you," he began, and 
there was something in his voice that completed his 
sudden ascendency over me. "Mr. Harris was saying 
you were much interested in New Orleans, and that 
you had never seen any of our larger cities. I have 
been in that quaint southern French town for some 
months." 
I knew I smiled with pleasure. There was such a 
charm in his manner. But I felt tongue-tied, abashed. 
"You cannot have much of an idea of it from this 
place, except as Mr. Harris tells me that you are 
almost in a sea of mud except when you are frozen up. 
They have a great deal of it in the way of inundations, 
and part of the city lies very low. But there is no real 
winter and everything is abloom with roses. Such 
luxurious trees, indeed all kinds of vegetation. It is 
really a French city, much more so than St. Louis. 
The States seem to have taken in almost every nation 
and I wonder how they will assimilate them." 
"I should like to see the year 1900," laughed Mr. 
Harris. "We are not half through a wonderful cen 
tury. It is not sixty years yet since we achieved our 
independence, a few poor struggling colonies, and 
already we are stretching beyond the Mississippi. 
"What madness took possession of France I can 
never understand, except that she set out to rule men's 
religious consciences while she herself plunged into 
the depths of depravity. The Huguenots would have 
been a crown of enlightenment to her, and she 
martyred them, cast them out, and then slowly fol 
lowed the loss of all this great empire, for which she 
had paid so much in the lives of her finest and bravest 
men. From New Orleans to Montreal!" 
"Have you been to Canada also?" I ventured to 
inquire. 
"To Canada, to the cities on the Atlantic, to Eng 
land, France, Holland, indeed as far as Moscow, Con 
stantinople and the Mediterranean," and the smile he 
gave me completed his conquest. 
Then we went back to New Orleans with its French, 
Spanish and Creoles living in harmony, its odd, nar 
row streets, its great outlying estates, its sugar planta 
tions, its bloom and beauty until my heart was aflame 
with a desire to see it. And its antithesis was Montreal, 
Quebec. 
It seemed to me when the clock struck nine there had 
never been so short an hour and a half. I knew I must 
go, but it was as if some curious power held me back, 
pervaded every pulse. I could believe in enchantment. 
"I hope you have had a pleasant evening," said Mr. 
Harris at the door, "and that it may lead to something 
more advantageous." 
"I can't express it," I returned bunglingly. "I never 
heard any one talk so delightfully before, and to think 
what Mr. Le Moyne must know !" 
He laughed softly. 
We were very busy the next day with some accounts, 
and said nothing about the evening until lunch time. 
I had brought mine. Then I heard that Mr. Le Moyne 
 
was one of the partners in a large fur-trading com 
pany and also in the new copper mining in Northern 
Michigan, that was being rapidly developed. In his 
youth he had fled from France to Canada in the time 
of the Huguenot persecution, and had become deeply 
interested in business later on. I was very enthusi 
astic. 
"Yes, I was glad to have you see him. Such men 
are worth knowing." 
It seemed quite absurd that I should ever have the 
opportunity of knowing much about him. Men of his 
stamp were not frequent visitors in our provincial 
town. 
If I had been enraptured myself I have no word to 
describe Ruth's delight. After all, we were very sim 
ple children, though our reading had broadened our 
minds, and I had found before this that Mr. Gaynor, 
indifferent as he seemed to what is called culture, was 
a very well-informed man on general topics and 
shrewd in his observations. I did not know then that 
education was much more widely diffused at the East. 
The outcome of this was a proposal I could not have 
imagined. Mr. Le Moyne dropped in the rough little 
office several times and we had a few suggestive talks 
about business which seemed rather for Mr. Harris 
than for me. One day my father was called into 
council, which amazed me, for when he went out he 
gave me such a mysterious look. 
"We'll knock off now," said Mr. Harris. "There's 
nothing to suffer, and I have a plan to lay before you, 
an opportunity that doesn't happen more than once in 
a lifetime, and I hope you will take it. Your father has 
given his consent." 
The offer was from Mr. Le Moyne, who wanted 
what would be called a private secretary nowadays, 
perhaps a little more. With his perfect health he had 
been seized with a mysterious eye trouble, a dimness 
of vision that nothing could cure, but that rest and 
carefulness would assist in putting off the evil day, 
and that he might never be totally blind. He wanted 
a young intelligent person who would be pleased to 
travel, who would be companionable, who could read 
to him, write his private letters, who was trusty, honest 
and reliable, and who had the enthusiasms of youth. 
He would give me a good salary and put me in the 
way of making a fortune if I stayed with him. But we 
would make our bargain first for two years. 
I was absolutely speechless from surprise. My 
brain was in a whirl. I was glad to have Mr. Harris 
go on pointing out the advantages, though I am afraid 
I could not have told one of them afterward. 
"Well?" presently, in an inquiring tone. 
"I am so confused," I began. "Of course it is a 
splendid chance, only I had never thought of going 
away " 
"Two years soon passes, and you may come back 
before that. Mr. Le Moyne is a delightful gentleman. 
If I was young I'd jump at the chance. Yes, I sup 
pose it is a surprise," with a little heartsome laugh. 
"But you'll take it. You see it isn't even as if your 
parents had no other sons. There's enough of you 
boys to settle a town. One won't be missed." 
 
Ah, but I knew one who would miss me. 
I went home in a dream. Father had been telling 
mother and Homer, who had wrenched his ankle skat 
ing. The two boys were out snowballing. 
"Well, that's equal to a lottery prize!" declared 
father. "Norme, some of your fine notions stand you 
in good stead. I've sometimes thought with your 
mother that you should have been a girl, but now we 
see the sense of them. This Mr. Le Moyne wouldn't 
look at a great rough lout. Well, if he'd laid a hun 
dred dollars in gold in my hand I really think I 
couldn't be gladder." 
"It's wonderful," said mother in a softened tone. 
"I've jawed an' scolded at the way you boys run 
through stockings an' wear out trousers, but I shall be 
awful sorry to have you go away, only this is a chance 
out of a thousand. But you c'n write, an' two years 
isn't long." 
"Well, I wish it had been me !" 
"You!" cried mother with disdain. 
"Homer's a smart lad in his way. I look for him 
to build up half Chicago before he dies. They're all 
good lads, if Dan is a bit wild." 
We talked all the evening. Of course, there was no 
refusing. The next morning Mr. Le Moyne came in, 
and I signed an agreement to stay with him the two 
years. 
"That's to tide you over the homesickness at first. 
I wouldn't give much for a lad who wasn't a 
little touched by parting with his own folks. But 
we will have some nice times together, and you'll 
see a good deal of the world. I hope you'll like 
me." 
Like him! If it hadn't been for the Little Girl I 
could have knelt at his feet for very joy and gone all 
over the world with him. 
I went to supper at the Gaynors'. Ruth had been 
making Johnny cake, and it was delicious. She had 
some funny sayings of M'liss' to repeat, and we 
laughed, of course. 
"Now that you're here I'll go down to Baubein's and 
smoke an hour," Mr. Gaynor exclaimed, rising from 
the table. 
"Don't go !" I blurted out, and I believe I was alrribst 
crying. "I have something to tell you." 
"Nothing bad, I hope !" He studied me curiously. 
I don't know how I told the story. It was all in 
a jumble. He looked as if he didn't half believe me. 
"Not that tall, white-bearded Frenchman, who 
looks as if he had just come from a King's Cabinet. 
Well, I swan! Norman Hayne, you're born for luck. 
Give us your hand." 
He wrung it almost off. 
"I'll sit down and hear the story over again. That 
Frenchman is said to be worth a mint of money, and 
you're on the right side. You just keep there, with 
care." 
He made various comments as I went over the 
happenings. Then he seized his beaver cap. 
"You don't mind if I tell it?" laughing. "I know 
just how a woman feels when she's dying to retail a 
bit of gossip. But this is uncommon." 
 
"No," I replied, "I expect father's spreading it 
abroad." 
"So would I if I had such a boy." Then he went out 
and slammed the door. 
We stood and looked at each other. Ruth's eyes 
filled with tears that slowly rolled down her cheeks. 
"Oh, Ruth, don't! don't!" I cried, and my arms 
were around her. Her face was buried on my 
breast. 
"Oh, how can I let you go!" The tender accent 
pierced me to the heart. 
It is curious what people do in times of great emo 
tion or anguish. She released herself presently, wiped 
her eyes, and said, "We must clear the table. I am glad 
you liked the Johnny cake." 
"It was delicious, only I was so full of the " the 
bad news, I was about to say, but paused. 
"Of course, it is splendid, and you will see so much 
of the world. There are so many beautiful places that 
we have read about. And it will be Norman, you 
will be a gentleman. But you won't " her voice 
trembled and broke. 
"If you mean that I will not forget, you may be 
sure of that, and I shall never outgrow anything, not 
even dear old Chicago, even if other cities were paved 
with gold," I replied emphatically. 
"Nothing is but the New Jerusalem," she said 
solemnly. "Whatever happens, we shall be together 
there." 
"Nothing will happen. I shall come back in two 
years. Business may bring me back before that." 
We washed the dishes and put them away. Then I 
stirred the fire and we sat down side by side. How 
often we had done it two years how long it 
looked ! 
I loved her very much. More than ever I wished 
she was my sister and that mother could watch over 
her. She would gladly, I knew. A little girl, barely 
twelve years old and not large for her age. Once or 
twice a thought crossed my mind, but when I looked at 
her it seemed sacrilege, like pulling the bud open be 
fore it was ready to unfold. She was so sweet and 
innocent. 
I told her all I knew about Mr. Le Moyne, and how 
he had really charmed me. "I should like to bring him 
to see you," I said. 
"Oh, I should be so glad!" 
Mr. Gaynor came home, but he had not recovered 
from the surprise. I loitered awhile, but I knew my 
mother would be waiting for me. 
I was quite a hero, I found. The older men congrat 
ulated me, the boys envied me. Mr. Le Moyne was 
very gracious and affable. He came and had a long talk 
with mother and she was charmed with him. He went 
to the Gaynors' with me and pronounced Mr. Gaynor 
shrewd and intelligent. Ruth, he thought sweet and 
pretty, but she was very shy. 
Oh, how quickly the time sped by. A winter jour 
ney was no light thing in those days, but Mr. Le 
Moyne was well prepared and a seasoned traveller. 
The good-bys and the good wishes were enough to 
start one on a prosperous journey. And when I 
 
glanced back I saw my mother had the Little Girl by the 
hand. They were the two dearest souls on the earth 
to me. How would she look when I met her again? 
Oh, what long, long years! Even then I could have 
turned back gladly. 
CHAPTER VII 
FROM THE LITTLE GIRL'S SIDE 
I WAS so lonely after Norman went away. I suppose 
it had been almost like having a brother. Mrs. Hayne 
and I went to see him start, and there was quite a 
crowd of friends. The sun was shining as if it was a 
May day, with that curious quiver in the air, and it 
was truly pleasant. Of course, pinning our faith to the 
Almanac, we could safely have said winter had come 
to an end, but in Chicago March did not mean spring. 
What a handsome face that Mr. Le Moyne had, and 
his voice was so sweet as he said, "Never fear, he will 
come back safe. You may see us both before you ex 
pect it." 
I suppose that was meant for Norman's mother, but 
he gave me the smile as well. 
"You had better come home with me," she said, still 
holding my hand. 
"Oh, no, I can't," I replied. "I am mending some 
bags for father. I couldn't finish them yesterday." 
"These hands are too little to sew rough bags." 
"M'liss is going to help me." 
 
"Oh, then, I suppose I must let you go. Come over 
to supper, won't you?" 
"I will see," but I felt my cheeks burn, for I really 
did not mean to, much as I loved her. I did not want to 
hear them talk about Norman and rejoice at his good 
fortune. It was good, I know, but I was not quite 
ready to be glad over it. I wanted a little time to get 
my mind steady. 
M'liss had the bags strewn around and the baby in 
the midst of them. He really was growing better look 
ing, his chin was filling out and his forehead began to 
be a little bump that broke the smooth descent from 
the top of his head. But it seemed as if his mouth 
grew wider. 
"D'yr know what I've jest gone an' done? Yer pop'll 
scold like fire 'n' tow, but that ther' bag jest wasn't any 
bag at all but holes. 'N' I've jest took it to mend 
t'others. Two patches an' that ther' little smitch was 
all I could git out of it. Holes ginerally speaking 
haven't much savin' grace to 'em. You jest can't con 
vert 'em to anything." 
I looked rather askance. Bags were bags in those 
days. 
"What yer pop wants is to git a piece o' baggin'. 
Marty Pettingil's weavin' of it. For a good strong 
heft o' corn er grain 'll punch new holes in 'em 
quicker'n wink. En ther's somethin' 'bout puttin' new 
wine in old bottles, though I don't see jest why if you 
leave stoppers out. Any fool oughter know enough 
fer that. En patchin' old bags is like darnin' old 
stockin's, tears out jest above en below an' all round. 
I put a patch on 'em now. That's an idee of my own 
en saves a lot o' stitches. Them bags is mended." 
I shook out two and laid them by. Then I brought 
out a wolf rug and put the baby on that. He crowed 
a little and then returned to his former employment of 
gnawing his fist. "The baby is real good," I said. 
"Does he ever cry?" 
"Oh, Lord yes! But he's findin' out that it don't 
amount to much an' times whenst he's cross en don't 
have stomach ache I hit him a good slap, en I give him 
a piece o' pork rind to chaw on. It's good as a dose 
o' ile." 
There was not much science or sanitary knowledge 
in those days. Yet children throve and grew. 
I hunted up my work-box. Homer had made it, 
though it was Norman's gift. We had pasted 
some bits of pretty paper in most of the compart 
ments. 
"Now you jest g'long," said M'liss, brandishing her 
formidable needle. "Tain't enny kind o' work for you, 
an Norme he stopped t'other night an' said 'You jest 
do the hard things and chores, M'liss, to save her. She 
ain't strong ernough to tackle 'em, an' I'll make it all 
straight with you when I kem back.' " 
"It was so good in him to think of that !" 
"'N' if you want to work go out en hunt aiggs. 
Caton's folks sent over. Two dozen ef you've got 'em 
to spare." 
I was very glad to do that. It was a mystery to our 
neighbors how father could make hens lay in cold 
weather. They had a good tight house for the night, 
 
and he seldom let them out until noon. We threw the 
corn in on the ear, and it was quite fun to see them 
tumble over each other to pick it off. 
I only found fourteen, but I knew there would be 
more by noon. How pretty and white they were, 
almost like living things. 
I took up my knitting. Men's stockings came up 
over the knees then, and it was a good long stretch to 
knit the legs. M'liss had pared a great panful of 
potatoes, so I filled up the big kettle with water and 
swung it over the blaze. 
"Now ef you kin find a crust o' bread I guess that 
youngun's hungry, en I don't want no growlin'." 
"Why, he can't eat bread with no teeth !" 
"Well, he kin gnaw it, en if he thinks he's gittin' 
some it'll be all the same." 
"It wouldn't be for a hungry man," and I smiled. 
"Land no ! En if he takes after his father the Lord 
help us! Jed Hatch kin eat mor'n any two men I 
know." 
The bags were mended and piled up in the out 
kitchen. M'liss cooked the potatoes and fried the pork 
while I laid the table. The baby rolled over asleep 
with his crust still in his hand and his mouth. Father 
came in and gave my cheek a soft pinch. 
"I was afraid you had been crying your eyes out," 
he said. "Brave little girl, we'll miss him bad enough, 
but it's such a fine chance and there's such a lot of 
Hayne boys. Guess he's the smartest of the lot 
though, where books are concerned, but it isn't every 
body that's wantin' book learning. Why, it's said that 
fine old fellow Mr. Le Moyne's worth thousands and 
thousands !" 
"I've been kinder respectin' yer feelin's," said M'liss 
in a low tone "en thought I wouldn't say anythin' 
about Norme goin' away, seein' as ye was sich 
friends. Yer'll miss him jest orful, he was here so 
much." 
I winked hard to keep the tears back. 
"Harris says they won't find another boy like him in 
a hurry. I don't know what's got into boys nowa 
days, they ain't worth their salt. Seem to think they 
were put into the world jest to loaf round. That 
horse-racing will be the ruin of them. I'd have it 
stopped if I was boss." 
I didn't so much mind the talk of boys in general. 
Father ate a good hearty dinner and went off to work, 
pleased to find the bags mended. M'liss ate her din 
ner, fed her baby, washed the dishes and took some 
potatoes home with her, though she '"lowed she'd stay 
and company me if she hadn't promised to rub out 
Mis' Crane's wash, seein' she had rheumatiz' and 
wasn't strong." 
It was a lonely afternoon, for I was thinking of the 
evenings in all the two years to come. If I had a 
sister! There were no girls near by. Over the other 
side of the river there were so many of them and they 
were always having such good times. 
It was a long, long afternoon. I fed the chickens 
and shut them up and then cooked the supper. We 
were hardly through when there was a cheery whistle 
in the outer kitchen and Ben Hayne came in. 
 
"Mother sent me over to say she was coming this 
afternoon only Mis' Carpenter an' Mis' Wooley 
come a-visiting. They are there yet. I was kep' in 
school." 
"Then you haven't had any supper. Come and have 
a bite, though I expect you have lots of good things 
at home." 
People in those days made a great spread for com 
pany. 
"Yes, and stay a bit with Ruth while I go out and 
smoke a pipe," said father. 
Ben nodded and sat down at the table. 
"Ruth," he began, when he had demolished a big 
slice of bread, "I feel somehow as if there had been a 
funreal. I s'pose it is 'cause we know Norme isn't 
coming back in ever so long. But say, won't he have 
just the beatinest time! We were looking up the places 
on the map. Norme was such a good fellow. I'm 
going to try to get in a store next year. Father says 
I may." 
"That will be a nice thing." 
"And over here, too. Then I can drop in just as 
Norme used to. Mother doesn't see what you're going 
to do alone. She'll be over to-morrow. Wouldn't it 
be a great scheme for you to move ?" 
"Oh, father couldn't move the ground and every 
thing," I returned. 
"No, I s'pose not." Then he laughed. "They're going 
to move some ground though come summer to fill up 
the slough. Dear me, I wish we had some moun 
tains !" 
I could recall some mountains in the old State we 
had come from, yet, somehow, I had begun to love 
the long stretch of prairie. 
"Tell me what you are learning at school," I said, 
as I was putting away the supper things. 
He was in full swing when there was a rap at the 
door. To my great surprise it was Mr. Abner Harris. 
He greeted Ben very cordially, and they began to talk 
about Norman at once, and what a splendid prospect 
he had before him. 
"He is worthy of it, too," said Mr. Harris, "or I 
could not have recommended him. I am about as 
sorry to part with him as any one. I don't know when 
we will find such another painstaking fellow. You 
will miss him about reading, won't you?" turning to 
me, "and I came over to say that if you'd like to bor 
row any of the books I have, you'd be welcome to 
them. My sister is going to call on you. Why, you 
must get lonesome here with no one but your father." 
"I've never had any one else," I replied, "and every 
body has been very good to me." 
"And you are your father's housekeeper?" 
"Partly a woman comes in to help." 
"I thought you were larger, older, though I have 
never noticed you especially. Well, some evening I'll 
bring my sister over. She has no children, to her great 
sorrow, so you must make friends." 
"I shall be very glad to," I said. 
Father came in before he went and they had a little 
talk, mostly about the good fortune that had befallen 
Norman. 
 
Then we shut up the house and went to bed. Yes, it 
must be something like a funeral. The body went out 
of the house. I wondered how any one could bear to 
have it put in the ground. Norman had read about 
some country I think it was Egypt where they 
built real houses for their dead and put in them the 
things their relatives had used while alive, painted and 
carved pictures on the walls and went in to see them 
now and then. That seemed ever so much nicer than 
lowering them into the earth. 
"But Norman isn't dead," I said to myself, "and he 
surely will come back." I ran it over in my mind. 
Seven hundred and thirty days. Each day would 
count. 
I recalled the time I had first seen him and the warm 
welcome Mrs. Hayne had given us after that long 
journey. That was more than four years ago, and 
then I laughed softly to myself why he would 
be away only half that time, and the four years 
had not seemed long. So I dropped asleep quite 
happy. 
For some time I think I lived mostly in the past. I 
began to go to school again. Spring came in early and 
everybody was astir. Indians came down with pelts 
they had gathered through the winter and there were 
some wigwams put up out on the prairies where they 
held powwows and dances and laid out in the sun and 
smoked pipes. They were a lazy lot and they hung 
around until all their money was spent. They were 
paid largely in clothing, blankets and useful articles, 
but they kept trading them off, and though there were 
some stringent rules about selling them any quantity 
of whiskey, they managed to get it all the same. Then, 
by degrees they started off north again to join their 
brethren who objected to civilized life. 
But there was quite a stationary residue. The 
squaws seemed to improve much faster than the braves, 
though they had all the hard work to do. They dug 
up the ground and planted corn and other vegetables, 
they dressed skins and made clothing and moccasins 
and ornamental bead work, which they sold. Occa 
sionally some of the traders bought a store of it to 
take to the eastward. 
Father kept adding to his stretch of prairie land all 
the time. He had the true Yankee thrift as I came 
to know afterwards. Yet at this early date Yankees 
were not held in very high esteem and peddlers were 
rather tabooed. Indeed, at one time there had been a 
license of fifty dollars exacted for selling wooden 
clocks in the whole State. The law was against 
"bringing in and selling." But the shrewd Yankee 
evaded this by some parties bringing them in, and 
quite another party selling them. So it was proved 
that neither man was amenable to the law, which pres 
ently fell into desuetude. 
There had been another funny point in the license of 
Mr. Mark Baubein when his ferry was first estab 
lished. He kept two racing horses and was very fond 
of getting up a trial of speed with some of the young 
Indians who were crazy over this amusement. So 
he was ordered to ferry the citizens of Cook County 
from daylight in the morning until dark without stop- 
 
ping, and the query was whether the citizens were 
compelled to go without stopping. 
The Tremont Hotel was being builded anew, and 
some of the seventeen houses erected again. Much 
more care was taken. There seemed to be a general 
awakening throughout the town. Streets were length 
ened and Wolf's Point at the junction of the two 
branches of the river did not seem near so far away. 
There were public and private schools, the latter 
being used mostly for girls. I began to make friends 
with them, living over the river and going only 
in pleasant weather had kept me out of their latitude 
and influence. I had been rather a shy little girl and 
Norman had been company enough. But I came to 
have a wistful sort of longing for some of my own 
kind. 
Mrs. Hayne was very sweet and motherly. She 
tried to persuade father to move over her side of the 
river. It had the most advantages, she would argue. 
"You wait and see," father would reply. "We're 
going to spread out, I can tell you. There's room 
enough for two cities, and I have so much outlying 
land. I'm in for raising hogs now and I want plenty 
of room." 
Then he would look doubtfully at me and with a 
half laugh say: "I wish I had two girls instead of 
one," and I wished it as well. 
Mr. Harris brought his sister to see us. She was a 
Mrs. Chadwick, a very sweet, quiet-looking woman, 
with none of the breeziness of Mrs. Hayne. Her hus 
band was very much interested in the government and 
improvement of the town, and as there were no public 
halls the men generally gathered at some of the better 
class taverns and discussed the public weal. Father 
often went, though he did not take any active part. 
Neither did Mr. Harris, for he attended closely to busi 
ness and spent his evenings at home. 
"But what does your little girl do?" asked Mrs. 
Chadwick. "Surely you do not leave her alone?" 
"I'm not afraid," I said. "I put up the bar and sew 
or read until he comes home, or M'liss comes up and 
sometimes the boys." 
"Abner, we must have her up with us. I have no 
little girls, but I think we could entertain you. We 
have plenty of books to read." 
"I'd be mighty glad to have you take her in hand," 
said father. "Mrs. Hayne's been like a mother, but 
you see that's a good streak off, and when she doesn't 
go to school it's rather lonesome." 
"Of course you miss Norman very much," Mr. 
Harris commented, "he was a nice steady fellow. 
Dan's smart too, but rather wild. I don't know as this 
town is the best place to bring up boys, but still we've 
turned out some pretty nice men. I suppose there's a 
time when most of them kick over the traces, but they 
get broken in when they marry." 
There had one letter come to Mrs. Hayne from 
Norman. They were at Detroit and were going up to 
the Straits. He had been very busy and a good deal 
homesick, he admitted, but he liked Mr. Le Moyne, 
and would never be sorry that he had started out in 
life. There were so many wonderful things in the 
world. At the Straits he would write more at length. 
"Give my love to little Ruth," he said, "and tell her she 
shall have a good long letter." 
A week or so after their visit Mr. Harris came for 
me. It was not very far. They had quite a pretty 
cottage and a really beautiful garden. It was light 
enough to walk through it, and I was delighted. I had 
a vague idea that I had seen such gardens in our old 
State. Great bunches of camomile with their snowy 
disks and pungent odor, sweet Williams of almost 
every color, a tall row of hollyhocks just coming into 
bloom ranged along the fence, a bed of sweet herbs, 
lavender, thyme, sage, and there had been roses. I 
thought the most beautiful of all were the tall spikes of 
pure white lilies that I had never seen before, but I 
came to know afterward were annunciation lilies, and 
I never see the Virgin with her branch of bloom but 
it carries me back to that evening in the old garden. 
The house downstairs had a sitting-room, a 
kitchen with a sort of shed-room off, and a sleeping- 
room. The first named had a fine rag carpet on the 
floor of Marty Pettengill's weaving and several 
boughten chairs that had come from Buffalo. Tall 
brass candlesticks and a pair of curious bronze-like 
pitchers with a gay-colored band about their necks and 
an oval of a girl's face set in their sides, that always 
interested me very much ; a table between the windows 
with a Bible and hymn book, and a somewhat tar 
nished gilt frame mirror that broadened out at the top 
with a sort of cornice that enclosed a picture that I 
used to study of a young man in a boat and a girl just 
stepping into it. She held up a blue gown that was 
meant for silk by the shine of it, and had the daintiest 
slippered foot laced up over the instep with black cord. 
I admired her very much at first, then I grew tired of 
her, for I wanted to have her step into the boat and 
see him row away. 
Upstairs, where we went presently, Mr. Harris had 
a sleeping chamber and what we might now call a 
library, or a den. There was a pair of huge antlers 
over the narrow mantle that divided off the fireplace. 
There were several guns and powder horns and some 
Indian trophies, and curious things I knew afterward 
were lichens from forest trees. The chairs were 
mostly homemade, and there was a box lounge with an 
Indian blanket over it. In both corners of the chimney 
from there to the wall were shelves with books and 
various curiosities from many parts of the continent. 
"Here's where Norman and I sat and read after I 
found he had a liking for books," Mr. Harris said. 
"Books are my choicest friends. You run to verses, 
though, don't you?" looking at me. "I suppose that is 
natural for girls." 
"Well, I don't know," interposed Mrs. Chadwick. 
"When I was a little girl I just hated verses, perhaps 
because I was compelled to learn them by heart, and 
occasionally speak a piece for the entertainment of my 
mother's friends. Stories were considered very demor 
alizing and giving children and young people false 
views of life. We were allowed 'Rosamond and the 
Purple Jar on account of the fine moral." 
She laughed softly. 
 
"Rosamond " I repeated doubtfully. 
"Oh, haven't you ever seen that?" 
"No, ma'am," I admitted frankly. 
"Oh, Abner, do read it to the child," she exclaimed 
smilingly. 
Mr. Harris had lighted two candles and stood them 
on a stand that I remember was painted green, and a 
gay-colored mat on it. 
So I heard Rosamond and her unwise choice. I had 
seen some glass jars with colored liquid in them at Mr. 
Carpenter's drug store, but I couldn't understand 
even then how any one could make such a sacrifice to 
possess one. 
"Why, I should have found some poke berries and 
mashed them up and put some water on them," I said, 
"and there are dye stuffs " 
"Perhaps poke didn't grow in Rosamond's country," 
said Mrs. Chadwick with a laugh. 
"I'd rather had a jar of flowers, though that would 
not have lasted," I added as an afterthought. 
"And you do not like the story?" 
"I think Rosamond was a foolish girl." 
"So her mother thought, and she made her suffer 
for it learn by experience, as we say." 
Mr. Harris laughed heartily. 
"What else did you do when you were a little girl ?" 
I asked with some curiosity. It seems strange to one 
in childhood that a grown-up woman could ever have 
been a little girl. 
She had lived in Philadelphia and been one of quite 
a large family of plain Methodist people, almost as 
strict as Quakers. She had gone to Western New 
York with a married sister and had met Mr. Chad- 
wick there and married him, and after they had moved 
to Chicago her brother Abner had come out. Most of 
the older members of the family were dead. Her 
sister lived at Ithaca now and had quite a large family, 
with some grandchildren. 
I was wonderfully interested in these reminiscences ; 
indeed, I was quite captivated by Mrs. Chadwick. She 
was very different from Mrs. Hayne, and I wondered 
if it was not disloyal to like her so well. I understood 
afterward that it was the difference made by education 
and leisure. 
It was a very pleasant evening and gave me some 
new ideas. Mr. Harris brought me home. Father had 
come back and was sitting on the doorstep smoking 
his pipe. 
"I was wondering if I had lost my little girl !" he 
exclaimed with a short half laugh. "But I guess I 
should have known where to look for her." 
"We shall be very glad to have her any time," was 
the response, "and you must not leave her here alone. 
Not that there's anything to fear, but it's lonesome." 
"I look out for that," and father nodded, drawing 
me closer to his knee and tightening his arm about me. 
We did love each other dearly, but people in that day 
were not effusive. There was so much work to do in 
the new countries that affection ran more to deeds than 
words or caresses. 
A few days after I had my grand, glad surprise a 
letter from Norman. From Detroit they had gone up 
 
to Marquette on Lake Superior, where there was a 
great deal of business to straighten out and claims to 
adjust. The world was wonderful and splendid. One 
hardly had any idea of it in Chicago, and Mr. Le 
Moyne was proving one of the most generous and 
charming of friends. Norman was learning French. 
It was almost universally used up there, and Mr. Le 
Moyne was a great reader of French literature and 
knew pages of it by heart. "I wish you could study 
it, too," he wrote, and then he gave me places to trace 
out on the map where they had been; and there was 
the great Lake Superior and the Indian countries, the 
most elegant furs one could imagine, and a variety 
of strange and beautiful animals. The trad 
ing stations and the small towns were so picturesque, 
the people curious indeed. Altogether it sometimes 
seemed like a dream to him, and he could not put half 
the wonderful things in a letter. They were to return 
to Detroit and I was to send a letter there and tell him 
all about myself, and if I missed him very much, if 
I took the old walks and read the old poems over, and 
what I was learning. 
At that period mails were slow and uncertain, and 
letters were often sent by friends. An appeal had been 
made to the general government, and Mr. Hogan was 
postmaster, combining it with some other businesses. 
The little old place was quite a rendezvous on mail day, 
though no one was ever certain of that even. A row 
of old boots nailed up for mail boxes created much 
amusement. But mere friendship letters were a rarity. 
Indeed, writing a letter was considered a great feat. If 
one heard from friends once a year it brought 
content. Postage was very high, and in new countries 
money was scarce. 
I labored over my letter, writing it first on various 
scraps of paper, as I could think of things I wanted to 
say. Books are written nowadays with more ease. 
CHAPTER VIII 
WITHOUT NORMAN 
IT seemed suddenly as if Chicago took a great leap. 
Perhaps the whole country was more prosperous. But 
everybody was full of business, and immigrants were 
pouring in at the rate of ten a day, the newspaper 
announced. They were of all kinds. Some from 
Virginia, many from the two States south of us, hardy 
people with an uncouth dialect and new ways that were 
more or less picturesque. The men had been great 
hunters and could hardly adapt themselves to any em 
ployment at first. The women were used to all kinds 
of household work. They hetcheled flax and it was 
very entertaining to me to see the mass swept across 
the sharp wires and the person drawing her body back 
with a monotonous croon, then starting forward again. 
The soft silvery stuff was laid in a pile by itself, and 
how beautiful it looked. The rough and coarse strands 
were for common uses. 
I could spin quite well now, but I used to love to 
watch these other spinners with their deft motions. 
The big wheel fairly fascinated me, and the nimble 
running back and forth. The great dye tubs, too, 
with their yellows and browns, blues, and reds and the 
long hanks of yarn hung out in the sun, dipped over 
and over to darken them until they made some really 
handsome shades. 
Besides these people there came quite a colony of 
French in our neighborhood. I was glad of this, 
though it seemed as if their "jabber" was too intricate 
to be taken up by any native tongue. Their attire was 
much more picturesque than that of the Kentucky 
women, and they disported themselves in brighter 
colors. A short skirt, a bodice laced up both front and 
back, and above this a white body with sleeves, the neck 
drawn in with a ruffle and tied with a bright ribbon. 
White stockings and low shoes with a great buckle, 
though some of the older people had these laid by as 
mementoes of their younger days. The church was at 
quite a distance and a priest came over and held ser 
vice in the morning for them in a little log house. I 
used to love to watch them going to and fro with 
prayer book and rosary and happy, smiling faces, 
always chattering. 
There were Germans, too. We seemed fair to be a 
conglomerate town. All along the lake, houses were 
stretching up north and down to the southern end. 
The shipyard was a scene of activity; indeed, most 
people were very busy. Wheat fields and cornfields 
increased and cattle were multiplying. Everything 
rushed through the summer; indeed, it seemed as 
though one could see the corn grow; and was there 
ever a prettier sight than when it tasselled out and 
blossomed in the soft yellow. It was like a great army. 
I used to look at it sometimes until I could believe it 
was a giant host advancing, and I would shrink back 
in fright. 
We had a school on our side that summer, and what 
with that and Mrs. Chadwick, I did not go to the 
Haynes' as often as before. Ben and Homer came 
over frequently. Homer was a big fellow, almost as 
tall as Dan, and quite a favorite with the girls as well. 
There were many pleasure parties for the grown-up 
ones rowing, when the lake was not too rough, and 
sailing parties. Some of the more venturesome ones 
took an excursion over to Black Rock. 
Our nearest French neighbors were the Piagets, and 
the two girls, Sophie and Nanette, soon became very 
friendly. Nanette was a little younger than I, Sophie, 
nearly two years older, bright, vivacious girls, who 
had some accomplishments beyond our ken. We 
sewed patchwork, but it was difficult to get pieces, 
though now and then a quilt was made of blue and 
white. But Sophie could make fringe with an ingen 
ious knot in it, and she could knit edging. That set all 
us girls crazy to learn. 
They talked rather broken English and were very 
eager to perfect themselves. And after screwing my 
courage up many degrees I confessed I would like 
to learn French. What work we made of it, and how 
we laughed at the German tongue ! You began to hear 
it quite often in the street. 
M'liss had taken up her abode with us. Jed Hatch 
had gone lumbering up the lake, above where Mil- 
waukee now stands, where there was some fine timber 
that could be rafted down in auspicious weather. 
They had what we should now call a logging camp. 
Father wondered how they had ever persuaded Jed to 
join them, but I think M'liss had a strong hand in it. 
So she brought little Joe, who was now quite a 
respectable baby. Mrs. Chadwick had more than once 
said to father some woman ought to come in and take 
charge, and M'liss thought she made a good bargain 
hiring out her house for a certain amount of repairs. 
M'liss brought her big wheel, the little one I had 
already, but when I would have spun she turned me 
away with a gentle push and 
"Oh, you jest g'lang. Ther' be time er nough nex' 
winter, when you can't run out en play en skip round. 
En ther's so little work to do I'm main afeared I'll git 
rickets by so much sittin' still." 
Then M'liss was in her element cooking, and father 
enjoyed that. 
Sophie was very eager to see Chicago. They had 
lived inland many miles from Kaskaskia, and as I came 
to know afterward, had a hard struggle with poverty. 
"I think everybody has come from somewhere else," 
she said one day, when I had been telling about the 
Haynes, the Wrights, and ourselves. 
"Why, of course," I said, "people don't grow in new 
countries like trees. They have to come from some 
where else," and she laughed. 
It was true enough. When we arrived at a time 
when we would have liked a Mayflower or a Holland 
Mynheer, Virginia Cavaliers, or Spanish Dons, behold 
 
we had no ancestry that had risen out of the foam or 
been transplanted by fabled Deity. Only sturdy, 
courageous, hard-working pioneers who had seen an 
objective point and seized it and dreamed of being a 
connecting link between the East and the West 
and then worked mightily to make the dream come 
true. 
We rambled about the old places. The Ouilmette 
cabin had fallen into ruins, but the memory of the 
trader and his Indian wife still hung about it. We 
went over to the fort, that began to show signs of 
neglect. Here were the unmarked graves of those who 
had perished and we trod softly. Grass and a few wild 
flowers were springing up over them. Mrs. Heald and 
her beautiful horse stirred Sophie as it had me. 
"If you came out here and stayed until midnight, 
don't you suppose you could see her go riding down 
to escape the Indians?" 
I shuddered. "I don't believe I should want to be 
here at midnight," I said, rather awestricken. 
"Wouldn't you try a charm to see your future hus 
band?" she queried. 
"I don't imagine I shall ever have a husband," I 
said, with a curious kind of assurance about the future. 
I seemed to belong altogether to father. 
"Oh, I wouldn't stay single for anything," she cried, 
"and here, where you don't need to have a dot, it must 
be easy to get a husband." 
"A dot?" I repeated in perplexity. 
"Why, yes. In France, Ma mtre had to have some 
money beside a string of gold beads and two rings and 
some bed and table linen. Papa's mother would hardly 
consent then. You have to get the permission of the 
parents on both sides, and then you have two mar 
riages." 
"How queer! Why, it is almost like buying your 
wife," I said, and I felt my eyes open wide. 
"And now we are poor enough," and she sighed. "I 
don't know whether Nanette and I could have any 
dot. Then you generally go in a convent and become 
a sister, but I shouldn't like to be shut up and only 
visit poor people and those in trouble. There is a con 
vent in New Orleans and in Canada." 
I did not think I should like convent life either. The 
Piaget girls went to the Catholic Church in state, and 
the priest was Father Shoffer. It was moved to the 
rear of St. Mary's Cathedral afterward and used as a 
school-room, but children of all denominations went to 
school together. The Methodist Church had been 
moved across the river two years before on scows, the 
first building of any account to be moved intact. 
Everybody had thronged to see the wonderful achieve 
ment. 
We used to wander by the edge of the great lake, 
often picking up shells in the sand. I had quite a col 
lection, some beautiful ones Norman had given me. 
Homer had made me a box that I covered with them, 
arranging the choicest ones on the top in a figure as 
near to a rose as I could get it. 
Ben used to walk with us sometimes. The magnifi 
cence of the lake down here, where there was no busi 
ness and nothing but the swelling waves to ruffle its 
 
bosom, always filled me with a kind of reverent awe. 
The great space ending where ? To my childish mind 
it was like the ocean that I had never seen. I could 
not truly believe there were villages and wide stretches 
of ground on the other side. I liked its immensity. 
Several times we had been here on a moonlight even 
ing, when it was silvered over and set with tiny gems. 
All at the west and south stretched the dusky, blurring 
expanse, but to the eastward one could imagine that 
one could sail into the heaven that touched the farther 
boundary of the great inland sea. That wonderful 
angelic blue with its myriad stars ! Were they worlds 
in which the souls of the redeemed lived again? I 
wanted to talk all my new thoughts over with Nor 
man. I seemed to have acquired so many in this brief 
while. 
There was another great excitement about this time. 
Was it really four years since the last Presidential elec 
tion ? The town was all astir again. The same candi 
dates were put up. Dan Hayne did a good deal of 
electioneering, though it was not in such a very eager 
manner. I believe most of the people felt very sore 
about the canal that was to open the Mississippi to us, 
which dragged along to little purpose. Then the pos 
tal regulations were so inefficient, and there was a 
complaint about many things, confusing State and 
general government. The Kentucky people were all 
for General Jackson, and some of the old men declared 
they'd vote for him as long as they lived whether he 
was alive or not. The two papers indulged in sharp 
rejoinders, and occasionally stretched the point of 
truth, at least each accused the other of doing it. 
Father pinned his faith upon the American. 
People were very busy, too, with the abundant har 
