
He smiled and frowned.

"Count!" she insisted authoritatively.

They started like a flash, the shadows dancing on the path. Elena
gained. Victor grew angry, and came after them; then Laverne gave a
sudden swift swirl and turned on her antagonist.

Lena stopped with a laugh. She was not angry.

"How you can run!" she exclaimed. "I wish you lived here. We would
have races twenty times a day. And--can you climb trees?"

"Oh, yes."

"And swim?"

"No," admitted Laverne frankly.

"Then you can't do everything that I can."

"And she can do something you cannot. She can read French and Spanish,
while you really can't read English; she can do sums and write
letters, and--and sew," he was guessing at accomplishments now.

"There are the women to sew."

"But you might be wrecked on an island where there were no women, and
tear your frocks, as you generally do."

Laverne smiled. How find a needle and thread on a desolate island?
Lena did not see the point, and looked rather nonplussed.

"Oh, well, I shouldn't care then," she retorted.

"Come, let us go to the aviary. Miss Laverne will like to see the
birds."

There was a large space netted in from tree to tree in which there
were many rare birds of most exquisite plumage, and quantities of tiny
South American love birds, gossiping with each other in low, melodious
tones.

"Oh, how wonderful!" Laverne exclaimed.

"It's a great fancy of father's. Sea captains bring him birds from all
countries. After a while, when they get really acclimated and can
protect themselves, he lets them out to settle in the woods about. Do
you see those two with the beautiful long tails? They came from the
island of Java. Do you know where that is?"

"Oh, it is one of the Sunda Islands down by the Indian Ocean. Uncle
Jason has been to Borneo and Sumatra. And coffee comes from Java."

"How do you know? Have you been there?" questioned Elena.

"Father knows, and he has not been there," returned Victor. "He could
tell you a good many things if you did not like to learn them out of
books."

Laverne walked round the inclosure in a trance of delight. And though
the voices now and then made discord, on the whole it was a
fascinating orchestra.

"Couldn't you tame some of them?"

"It would take a long time, I think. Those bright Brazilian birds are
very wild. Every one cannot charm birds, and father is a pretty busy
man."

Elena soon tired of the birds, and inquired if Laverne had a pony.
Then they might ride after luncheon.

"And it must be nearly that now. Come, let us go up to the house."

Elena chattered like a magpie, and danced about, now and then hopping
on one foot, and running to and fro.

"You will think we are a rather queer lot," Victor said, half in
apology.

"Oh, you are not queer. I like you very much." She raised her clear,
innocent eyes, and it seemed a very sweet compliment to him.

"There isn't much training. Mamacita could not govern a cat, though,
for that matter, I don't believe cats are easily governed. Cats are
queer things. But school straightens up one, I suppose. Elena will go
to a convent to be trained presently. Isola cannot, so she has a
governess to teach her music and a few things. You must hear her play
on the organ. All she cares about is music."

"Is she very ill?"

"Oh, not very, I think. But she won't ride, which the doctor thinks
would be good for her, and she goes about in that wheeling chair when
she ought to walk, and lies in the hammock. Mamacita would like her to
be gay and bright and entertaining to the young men, as Isabel is,
because all girls are expected to marry. Mamacita was only fifteen
when papa met her at a ball at New Orleans. That must be a very gay
place, without the crime and rough life that San Francisco has. I do
hope sometime we will be civilized, and not have to take in the
off-scourings of all lands. I want it to be a splendid city, like Rome
on its seven hills. And there is the grand sea outlook that Rome did
not have, though she made herself mistress of the seas."

The little girl watched him with such intelligent eyes that it was a
great satisfaction to talk to her. She was different from any one he
had known. For those of the Southern blood were coquettes from their
very cradle, and wanted to talk of pleasure only. Of course, she was
being brought up by a great traveller, even if he had never risen
higher than mate of a trading vessel. And then the eastern women were
somehow different.

Elena ran on, and announced with a shout "that they were coming." The
porch was set out with little tables. Mrs. Personette was the matron
of the one that had her daughters and the two young men. Mrs. Savedra
took charge of Elena and Isola, and left Miss Holmes to Laverne and
Victor.

There were flowers and fruits, dainty summer viands, and much gay
chatting, since they were near enough to interchange with each other.
Laverne was very enthusiastic about the aviary.

"Oh, you must go out and see it," she said eagerly.

Victor was thinking of the great difference between Miss Holmes and
Mam'selle Claire. Of course, she could talk about musicians, she
seemed to have them at her tongue's end, and some French writers. He
was not of an age to appreciate them; young, energetic souls were
quoting Carlyle, even Emerson had crept out here on the Western coast.
In a way there was a good deal of politics talked, and a rather bitter
feeling against the East for turning so much of the cold shoulder to
them. Even the suggestion of war with England over the northern
boundary did not seem very stirring to these people. It was their own
advancement, the appreciation of all they held in their hands, the
wonderful possibilities of the Oriental trade. And though it seemed
quite necessary to study French, when there were so many French
citizens, the young fellow considered the literature rather
effeminate. But Miss Holmes was conversant with the march of the
Carthaginian general over the Alps, and later, that of Napoleon, and
the newer scheme that had set their wisdom at naught, and that the
railroad was a necessity if the Union was not to part in the middle.
He liked Miss Holmes' admiration of California. Mam'selle Claire
thought it rude and rough.

There was lounging in the hammocks afterward, the sun was too hot to
drive about. Isola went in the room presently, and played some soft,
low chords on the organ. Laverne crept in, enchanted. She liked the
voluntaries in church when they had no grand crushes in them. Victor
was talking with Miss Holmes, so she slipped away, for Elena had found
the quiet irksome, and there were always dogs to play with. The dogs
she thought better company than most people.

Laverne had never been near an organ. This was not a very large one,
but sweet-toned for parlor use. She crept nearer and nearer, and
almost held her breath, while the tears came to her eyes. It seemed
the sad story of some one, the story the ocean waves told at times, or
the wind in the trees, when twilight was falling, and now it was
darkness, and you could almost hear the stars pricking through the
blue. Then one faint call of a bird, and a far-off answer, and lower,
lower, until the sound wandered away and was lost.

"Oh," she breathed, "oh!"

"You like it?"

Laverne drew a long breath. "Oh, that isn't the word," she said. "We
may like a good many things, but they do not all go to your heart."

Isola took the fair face in both hands, which were cold, but the child
did not shrink, she was still so impressed with the melody.

"Let me look at you. Oh, what beautiful eyes you have--sometimes you
find that color in the sky. But music goes to the soul, the brain,
and I wish I could see yours. Did you feel as if you could swoon
away?"

"I wanted to cry," Laverne said, in a tremulous tone. "But it was not
from sorrow nor joy; you sometimes do cry when you are full of
delight, but--at times when I hear the right music in church, I think
that is what heaven will be like."

"What was that like--not heaven?"

"It was night when I am sitting out on the step, and not thinking, but
just watching the stars come out."

"Oh, you little darling. I wish you could stay here always. I wish
they, your people, would fancy Elena, and we could change. She laughs,
and it goes through me like a bolt of lightning, and leaves me numb.
I'd like to have some one who listens that way. Mam'selle declares the
playing is wrong because I do not follow the notes, and one day when
she insisted, I flung myself down on the floor and cried until I was
sick. And now I am let to play what I like most of the time. I hate
books--do you like to study dry, prosy things? What does it matter
whether the world is round or square?"

"Why, it might not revolve in quite the right way, and I guess the
ships couldn't sail as well." She smiled at the thought of the
corners.

"Now, we will have morning."

First it was a wind rustling among the trees. The sort of metallic
swish of the evergreens, the whisper of the pines, the patter of the
oaks; then a bird singing somewhere, another answering, hardly awake;
young ones peeping a hungry cry, then a gay, swinging, dashing chorus,
with a merry lark going higher and higher, until he was out of
hearing. Sounds growing discordant, impatient, harsh.

"That's the world," she explained; "morning down on the bay; the
people working, scolding, swearing; don't you hate all that?"

"We are not near enough to hear it."

"But if you have heard it once you can imagine it. And some music
isn't much better. Mam'selle plays things that set my teeth on edge.
Do you know what your soul is?"

Laverne was startled. "Why," hesitatingly, "it is the part that goes
to heaven."

"Well--heaven must be sweet and soft and fair, if it is full of
angels. And why don't we keep to the soft and lovely sides of
everything if we are to go there. Is kneeling on a hard stone floor in
a convent at all like heaven?"

"I should think not."

"Mam'selle considers it useful discipline. Why, it is being dead to be
shut up in a cold, dark cell. And I think you are taken up in strong,
tender arms, and wafted above the clouds, like this----"

Then she began to play again. The sound stole along softly, halting a
little, murmuring, comforting, entreating, floating on and on to
sounds so sweet that the tears did overflow Laverne's eyes, and yet
she was not crying.

Victor glanced through the wide doorway.

"Why, that child has even found a way to Isola's heart," he said.

"I have been listening. Your sister is really a musical genius," Miss
Holmes replied.




CHAPTER XII

NEW EXPERIENCES


Mr. Savedra came home early to have a share in the guests. It was
pleasant now for riding and driving, for the wind was coming from the
ocean, and wafting with it the inspiration that started the pulses
afresh. There were ponies and saddle horses. Laverne must ride.

"I will go if she can sit by me in the carriage," said Isola.

Laverne gave a quick breath. She would rather have had the mount, but
the almost melancholy eyes decided her. She held out her hand with a
smile, and she saw that it pleased Mr. Savedra also.

Victor had a little of his mother, but he had taken most of his good
looks from his father.

"Aunt Grace, won't you go with them?" he said persuasively. "I want
Miss Holmes. Both of us will be needed to keep watch of this monkey."

"As if I didn't go alone often and often!" Elena retorted, wrinkling
up her face in a funny fashion.

They took their way to the eastward, and were soon in the open
country, with the great Sierra Range towering in the distance. Summer
had not scorched up the fields or the woods. Hill and valley were
spread out before them, here glowing with flowers, there still green
with herbage, where Mexican shepherds were letting their flocks
browse. Some pastures had been eaten off to the roots and glinted in
golden bronze. Tangles of wild grapes, with their pungent fragrance,
reaching up and climbing over clumps of trees. The far-off points
seemed to touch the very sky that was like a great sea with drifts one
could imagine were an array of ships bound to some wondrous port.
Laverne thought of the weird experiences of the "Ancient Mariner."

Yellow wings, blues of every shade, black and gold and iridescent,
dashed here and there or floated lazily as if the butterfly had no
body.

Isola held the child's hand, but did not say anything, she hated
exclamations. Mrs. Savedra smiled to herself, she knew her daughter
was enjoying her companion. Laverne felt half mesmerized by the hand
that had been cold at first, and was now gently throbbing with some
human warmth. She seemed to have gone into a strange country.

The sun set gorgeously as they were returning. There was a tempting
supper spread for them, and some lanterns were lighted at the edge of
the porch. Then Mr. Savedra insisted upon sending the party home in
the carriage.

"I hope you have had a nice time, Laverne," Mrs. Personette said, in a
most cordial tone. "I don't know what the Savedras will do with that
daughter. I'd like to shake her up out of that dreaminess. She'll be
in a consumption next. As for you two girls, I think you have had your
fill of attention to-day," and she laughed. "You have a stepmother
out of a thousand, and I hope you will never do her any discredit."

They certainly had enjoyed their day wonderfully, never imagining
Victor had planned it so that he could be left at liberty.

The little girl sat out under the rose vine that trailed over their
little porch, thinking of the beautiful house, the garden, the
grounds, the birds, and, oh, the organ with its bewildering music.

"An organ must cost a good deal," she said, in a grave tone, but there
was no longing in it. "And then if you couldn't play--I like the
things that are not tunes, that just go on when you don't know what is
coming next, and the voices of the birds and the sound of the waves
and all sweet things. It was like fairyland, only I don't believe
fairyland could be quite so satisfying, and this is all real and won't
vanish when you wake up." She laughed tenderly in her joy. "Mr.
Savedra must be very rich," she continued.

"Yes, he is," said Uncle Jason.

She leaned her head down on the broad breast where the heart beat for
her alone.

"And you had a happy day?"

"Oh, so happy. If you had been there!"

She should have all these things some day. He was working and saving
for her. And times had changed very much. He and her mother could have
been happy in a little cottage where the sharp north winds rushed
down, and the drifts of snow hedged one in half the winter. She busy
about household work, he wresting scanty crops from the grudging
earth. Yet if she could have seen a world like this! Well, the little
one should have it all, and see strange lands and no end of beautiful
things, for the world kept improving all the time.

He began to feel a good deal more secure about her. At first, when he
saw men from every State in the Union, men who had committed various
crimes, tramps, and scamps, he had a vague fear that somewhere among
them David Westbury would come to light. He would not know him, only
the name. And he wished now he had changed his in this new western
world. But he would know nothing about the child unless he went to the
old home, and that was hardly likely. But if some day, stepping off a
vessel or wandering around the docks, a man should clap him on the
shoulder and say, "Hello, Chadsey, old man, I never thought to find
you here!" he would shake him off, or pay his way somewhere else.

It had never happened, and was not likely to now. He could go on
planning this delightful life for the little girl. Presently they
would make another move, have a better house and finer furniture. He
had lost nothing through this snap of hard times, neither had he made,
but business looked brighter. Occasionally he had a longing to go to
the mines. Several times he had dreamed of finding a great nugget, and
once he dreamed that in stumbling over rocks and wilds, he had lost
her. Night came on and all through the darkness he called and called,
and woke with great drops of cold perspiration streaming down his
brow. No, he could not go to the gold fields and leave her behind.

The weeks and months passed on. There was vacation when she went over
to Oaklands, and had splendid times again, and was fascinated by Isola
and her music, and they took up a peculiar friendship that seemed to
rouse the dreamy girl and delight Mrs. Savedra. Then Mrs. Personette
was going down to Monterey with her two girls for a fortnight, and
nothing would do but Miss Holmes and Laverne should accompany them. It
was not the Monterey of forty years later, but a queer old Spanish
town with its convent, where they found Carmencita Estenega, who did
not look like a joyous, happy girl, though next year she was to be
married.

"Dear me!" exclaimed Mrs. Personette; "it seems the same thing
everywhere, just lovers and marriage. There is really no career for
girls here but that, and the convent people are as anxious to marry
them off as any one else. To be sure, they can become sisters, which
covers the obloquy of old maidism. And so many of the husbands are not
worth having, and desert their wives on the slightest pretext. I'd
counted on taking some comfort with my girls, but here is Isabel
considering every young man as a matrimonial subject, wanting to leave
school and go into society, and her father saying, 'Why not?'"

Miss Holmes smiled a little.

"We used to think a girl ought to look at marriage in a serious light,
and get ready for the important step; now it is fine clothes, an
engagement ring, and a wedding gown. But I suppose in this wonderful
land where your fruit buds, and blossoms, and ripens in a night, girls
do mature sooner."

Some weeks later she saw her friend again and announced that she had
been compelled to yield.

"Isabel would not go to school," she said. "If there had been a good
boarding school anywhere near, I should have pleaded hard for that.
But her father would not listen to her being sent East. She has a
smattering of several branches. She can converse quite fluently in
French and Spanish, she dances with grace and elegance, she has
correct ideas of the fitness of things that are certainly attractive,
and is quick at repartee. She reads the fashion magazines when they
arrive, and the newspaper bits of arranging a table, cooking odd
dishes, giving luncheons and dinners. She is really a fashionable
young lady. And we are to give a ball for her, and after that I must
see that she is properly chaperoned. My dear Marian, we do belong to
the past generation, there is no denying it. And I half envy you that
you can live out of the hurly-burly."

"I am glad myself," Miss Holmes returned. "So far as most things go,
we could be living in some quaint old Puritan town. I don't know
whether it is really best for the child, but it suits her uncle to
have it so. Now she is going over to the Savedras two afternoons a
week to study piano music. They think Isola improves by the
companionship. And those French children, the Verriers, are very nice
and trusty. They are up here quite often. She likes some of her
schoolmates very well, and she and Olive have friendly spells,"
laughing.

"Olive blows hot and cold. She takes up a girl with a certain vehement
preference and for a while can think of no one else. Then she finds
her friend has some faults, or fails in two or three points, and she
is on with a new admiration. Girls are crude, funny creatures! Do you
suppose we were like them?" she questioned with laughing, disavowing
eyes.

"No, we were not," returned Marian. "Times have changed. Life and its
demands have changed. We were taught to sew, to darn, to do fine
needlework; here a Mexican or a Spanish woman will do the most
exquisite work for a trifle. Every country lays its treasures at our
feet; it would be folly to spin and to weave. And there is money to
buy everything with. How careful we were of a bit of lace that our
grandmother had! The women of the street flaunt in yards and yards of
it, handsomer than we could ever have achieved. We are on the other
side of the country, and are topsy-turvy. We have begun at the big end
of everything. Whether we are to come out at the little end----" and
she paused, her eyes indecisive in their expression.

"Would you like to go back?"

"I'd like to see dear old, proper Boston, and really feel how much we
had changed. But the breadth and freedom here are fascinating. It has
not the hardships of new settlers. Even the men who sleep out on the
foothills with the blue sky for covering may be rich six months hence,
and putting up fine buildings. And when you come to that there is no
lack of intelligence. Haven't we some of the best brain and blood of
the East, as well as some of the worst? Our papers are teeming with
news, with plans, with business schemes, that would craze an Eastern
man. No, I do not believe I should be satisfied to take up the old
life there again."

"And now I must consider my daughter's entrée into society. Think of
the mothers in the old novels, who took their daughters to Bath or to
London, and looked over the list of eligibles and made two or three
selections. Our young women will select for themselves in a
half-mercenary fashion, and one can't altogether blame them. Poverty
is not an attractive subject."

Miss Holmes was out for a little shopping expedition, and went in her
friend's carriage. Every year saw great changes. Fire destroyed only
to have something grander rise from the ashes. There was already an
imposing line of stores, and a display of fabrics that roused envy and
heart-burning. Where there had been one-story shanties filled with the
miscellany of a country store, only a few years ago, now all things
were systematized and compared well with some Eastern towns, not as
much, but certainly as great a variety. It had taken San Francisco
only a few years to grow up. She sprang from childhood to full
stature.

Then one drove round the Plaza to Russ's, mingling in the gay
cavalcade until a stranger might have considered it a gala day of some
sort. Then to Winn's for luncheon, tickets, perhaps, to the theatre
where Laura Keene was drawing full houses of better-class people.

The little girl was not in much of this. She went to school regularly;
she found some very congenial friends. She never could tell how much
she liked Olive, and she was accustomed to be taken up with fervor
and then dropped with a suddenness that might have dislocated most
regards, and would if she had set her heart on Olive. She had a serene
sort of temperament not easily ruffled; she had brought that from
Maine with her. She talked over her lessons with Uncle Jason, who
seemed to know so many things, more she thought than Miss Holmes,
though she had taught school in Boston.

She had a host of squirrel friends now, though Snippy was amusingly
jealous, and at times drove the others off. There were flocks of
birds, too, who would hop up close or circle round her and
occasionally light on her shoulder, and sing deafeningly in her ear,
trills and roulades, such as Mam'selle played on the piano--she was
not so fond of the organ, it was fit only for church and convents in
the Frenchwoman's estimation.

It was funny to see Balder follow her about. During the rainy season
he found so many puddles in which to stop and rest and disport
himself, but in the dry times they filled a tub for him, and he was
content. Pablo caught fish for him, and it was his opinion that Balder
lived like some grand Señor. She never tired of the flowers, and was
always finding stray nooks where they bloomed. She and Miss Holmes
often went over to the ocean and sat on the rocks, looking, wondering.

"Sometime Uncle Jason is going to take me way over yonder," nodding
her head. "We shall go to the Sandwich Islands, which he says are
still more beautiful than California. And then to China. Perhaps then
all the gates of Japan will be open and they will let us in. I'd like
to see the little girls in Japan; they don't drown them there, they
never have too many. And then there will be India, and all those
queer islands. You wouldn't think there would be room for Australia,
which is almost a continent by itself, would you? The world is very
wonderful, isn't it?"

Sometimes they watched magnificent sunsets when the whole Pacific
seemed aflame with gorgeous tints, for which there could be no name,
for they changed as quick as thought. Then they noted a faint
pearl-gray tint just edging the horizon line, it seemed, and then
spreading out in filmy layers, growing more distinct and yet darker,
marching on like an army. Gulls circled and screamed, great loons and
murres gave their mournful cry, cormorants swept on, hardly stirring a
wing until, with one swift lurch, they went down and came up
triumphant. Then the sky and sea faded, though you knew the sea was
there because it dashed upon the rocks, though its tone was curiously
muffled.

"Come," Miss Holmes would say, "we shall be caught in the fog."

"I'd just like to be damp and cold. It has been so dry that one wants
to be wet through and through."

"We shall have to pick our way."

It would sometimes come up very fast, woolly, soft to the skin, at
others like a fine cutting mist, when the west wind drove it in. And
now it was all gray like a peculiar twilight that made ghosts out of
the rocks, piled about and shut out the Golden Gate and the peaks
beyond, but they drew long breaths of the sea fragrance that were
reviving. The ponies stepped carefully down this way, and across that
level, and then on the road Pablo was making for his mistress. The
ponies shook their heads and whinnied for very gladness. Bruno gave
his cheerful bark. Balder made a funny grumbling noise as if he were
scolding.

"Oh, you know you like the fog. You are dripping wet," with a hug of
tenderness.

They were dripping wet, too, but they soon found dry clothes. Miss
Holmes kindled up the fire, for Pablo kept them well supplied, though
sometimes he went long distances and came home with a great bundle on
his back that almost bent him double.

"Now you look just like a German peasant," Laverne would declare; and
Pablo would shake his head mysteriously. The young Missy had seen so
many wonderful things.

Wood was a rather scarce article in this vicinity, and was expensive.
Coal likewise, though now some had been discovered nearer home. The
charcoal venders were familiar figures in the streets. Wild indeed
would he have been who had ventured to predict a gas range, even the
useful kerosene stove.

The fog storms were all they would have for a time in the summer, and
it was wonderful how in a night vegetation would start up.

Then Uncle Jason would come in puffing and blowing, fling off his
long, wet coat, and stand before the fire and declare that Maine
people said:

     "An August fog would freeze a dog,"

which always made Laverne laugh.

Miss Holmes did not go to the ball given in honor of Miss Isabel
Personette, but Miss Gaines was among the grown people. It was at one
of the fine halls used for such purposes, and was beautifully
decorated with vines and flowers and American flags. The greatest
curiosity was the really splendid chandelier with its branching
burners and glittering prisms. Few of the real boy friends were
invited--there were enough young men very glad to come and dance their
best. No one had to entreat them in those days. Indeed, dancing
parties were the great entertainment for young people. True, women
played cards and lost and won real money, but it was done rather
privately and not considered the thing for any but the seniors.

It was very gay and delightful, quite an ovation to Miss Personette,
and the banquet part eminently satisfactory to the elders. Of course,
Victor Savedra was included, being a cousin, and went, and it brought
freshly to his mind the party when he had danced with the sweet,
fair-haired, little girl, who had no knowledge, but infinite grace,
and how happy she had been.

Even with politics, city improvements, vigilance committees, quarrels,
and crimes, there was found space in the papers of the day for the
social aspects of life, and though "sweet girl graduates" had not come
in fashion, débutantes were graciously welcomed. Miss Isabel felt much
elated. She had shot up into a tall girl and was very well looking.
Miss Gaines had transformed her into beauty.

Olive considered it very hard and cruel that she could not go, but she
was quite a heroine at school for several days. It was truly the next
thing to a wedding.

"And to think of all the splendid things that come to real young
ladies!" she complained, yet there was a kind of pride in her tone as
well. "Two theatre parties, and she goes to Sausalito to a birthday
ball, and stays three days with some very stylish English people,
friends of father's. I just hate being thought a little schoolgirl!
And I want to go to the Seminary."

And then she said to Laverne:

"I don't see what you find in Isola to be so devoted to her. I
wouldn't go over there twice a week and bother with her for all the
music in the world. And those cold hands of hers make you shiver.
They're like a frog."

"They have grown warmer. She goes to ride every day now. And we read
French and English, and--verses. I like the music so much."

Olive was still secretly jealous of Victor. But presently he was going
away to finish his education. And she knew several boys who went to
the Academy that she thought much more fun. Victor was growing too
sober, too intellectual.

They had all become very fond of the little girl at the Savedras. Even
wild Elena, in a half-bashful way, copied her. She could run races and
climb and ride the pony with the utmost fearlessness, she did not
squeal over bugs and mice and the little lizards that came out to sun
themselves. Lena had thrown one on her, and she had never told of it.
She was not a bit like Isola, although she could sit hours over the
music and reading of verses. And she knew so much of those queer
countries where tigers and lions and elephants lived.

"But you have never been there," the child said with severe disbelief.

"You study it in books and at school."

"I hate to study!"

"You will love it when you are older. Some day your father may take
you to France, and then you will want to know the language."

"I know a little of it, enough to talk."

"Mam'selle will be glad to teach you the rest."

"And Spanish--I knew that first."

"And I had to learn it, and French, with a good deal of trouble."

"But you knew English," rather jealously.

"Just as you knew Spanish--in my babyhood."

That seemed very funny, and Lena laughed over it.

"Then you really were a baby, just like Andrea, only whiter. Will your
hair always be goldy like that?"

"I think so. Uncle Jason likes it."

She asked dozens of inconsequent questions.

"You must not let her trouble you so much," Mrs. Savedra said. "She
will have more sense as she grows older."

Laverne only smiled a little.

Isola found her such a companion, such a listener as she had never
known before. Isabel did not care for music; Olive teased her, and she
put her stolid side out. She would not get angry and satisfy them. And
then it seemed as if Victor suddenly cared more for her, and she half
unconsciously did some of the things he suggested. She did not know
that Laverne had said to him, "Oh, you ought to do the things that
please her, and then she will love you. I wish I had a sister."

She wondered a little whom she would want her like? It was a serious
matter to have a sister who would be with one continually. She was
used to Miss Holmes, and that was more like--well, like an aunt.
Sometimes she tried to think of her mother, but the remembrance was
vague. She could seem to see her old grandmother much easier, fretting
and scolding.

Victor was glad and proud that she had found a way to all their
hearts.

There were Christmas and New Year's with all their gayety. And in a
month spring, that had run away from the tropics.

"It goes on too fast," she said to Uncle Jason. "And do you see how I
am growing? Miss Holmes says something has to be done to my frocks all
the time. I don't want to be big and grown up."

He studied her in amazement. He did not want her to be big and grown
up either. These years were so satisfying.




CHAPTER XIII

BALDER THE BEAUTIFUL


They were planning at the school for a May Celebration. They would go
clear up the bay in a boat to San Pablo, and have a picnic and a dance
out of doors, and come home in the moonlight.

So it was a little late, and Bruno stood watching out for her. "Good
old fellow!" she said, with a pat. Miss Holmes had a visitor, she saw
through the open window. She went round by the kitchen.

Bruno tugged at her skirt.

"What is it, Bruno?"

His eyes had a sorrowful look, she thought. "What is it, what do you
want?"

He tugged again at her skirt.

"Well, come on. Though I've stacks of lessons to learn. Look at all
those books."

She dropped them on the step, and followed the dog. Up the winding
path, and now there was water enough for a musical trickle over the
stones.

There was Balder's basin, where he was so fond of disporting himself
after the rains filled it up. Oh, what was that lying on the side,
that still white thing glistening in the sunshine!

"Bruno?" She stamped her foot and looked upbraidingly at him. Had he
been playing roughly with her pet? Oh, what was the meaning of these
blood-stained feathers about his neck! She flung herself down beside
him. The eyes were dull and partly closed. She stroked the white
feathers with tender hands.

"Bruno, I shall never love you again, never! Oh, how could you!"

He took a few steps away. Then he dragged some tumbled gray thing to
her feet. Why, that was a fox, with his bushy tail. They had been
hunted a good deal and were giving civilization a rather wide berth.

She looked at the dog, who told the story with his eyes as he glanced
from one to the other. She reached up and put her arms about his neck.

"Oh, Bruno, I'm sorry I blamed you. I thought perhaps you were a
little rough, but you cared so for my beautiful Balder that I might
have known you couldn't hurt him! And that wicked, wretched fox! Well,
I am glad he has his deserts. But that will not bring back my dear
Balder. Oh, have you gone to join the old heroes in Valhalla? For I
can't think you were just a common bird. You would have gone back to
your kind if you had been. I ought to write a lament for you."

Pablo was coming up the road with a back load of brush. But he dropped
it in dismay as she called.

Bruno pawed the fox, then gave it a push, and glanced up at Pablo.

"You see--the fox must have crept up here, and seized my dear Balder
by the neck and killed him. And Bruno made him pay for it."

When Pablo was deeply moved or amazed, he went back to his Mexican
patois, that Bruno had come to understand very well, and nodded
sagaciously.

"The thief! The murderer! Last year, you know, your uncle and I shot
two of the bloody thieves over the ridge there, and I've not seen one
since. Bruno seized him by the throat, and has torn him well. Look at
the brush--why, a lady could put it on her tippet. And the skin--I'll
have that. We'll throw him out to feed the hawks. Oh, the poor gull!
He was like folks, Missy, you had all trained him so much. Oh, don't
cry so, Missy."

Bruno came up and rubbed her shoulder, licked her hand, and gave a
low, mournful lament of sympathy.

Laverne rose and took the dead bird in her arms. The visitor had gone,
and Miss Holmes stood out by the door, wondering. The procession took
their way thither.

"The mean, sneaking brute, that he should have come just when I had
gone. The bird was so fond of paddling round there. Strange that he
never wanted to go with his kind, but most things want to keep by you,
Missy."

They told the sad story over. Laverne laid the gull down tenderly on a
bit of matting.

"Pablo, will you wash his neck and have him all clean and white?"

"My dear," Miss Holmes said, and clasped the child in her arms,
letting her cry out her sorrow. She and Bruno went down to meet Uncle
Jason presently. No grief, hardly a disappointment, had come near her
until now. How could he comfort his darling? And he felt with Pablo
that the bird had been almost human.

"I wonder," he said in the evening, "if you would like to have him
mounted. There's an old Frenchman down in Rincon Street who does this
to perfection. The birds look alive."

Laverne considered. "No, I believe I would rather have him buried. I
should think how the sly fox crept up and dragged him out before he
could turn to defend himself. We will put him in a box and bury him.
Oh, Balder, I shall miss you so much."

"I think I could capture one easily."

"To be sure you could. They're stupid things," subjoined Pablo.

"But he wasn't. Uncle Jason, I think some wicked fairy changed him
from something else, for he used to look at times as if he had a story
in his eyes. No, I don't want another. And I should always be afraid
of a fox."

He snuggled her up with his arm close about her. So they sat until the
stars came out, twinkling like live spirits in the cloudless blue. It
was warm, with all manner of odors in the air, and the hum of the
city, lying below them, came up faintly. Oh, how he loved her. And he
prayed there might never come any deeper sorrow to touch her tender
heart.

Pablo dug a grave the next morning, and they buried Balder the
beautiful. All day she dreamed of the Norse gods, and of Hermod, who
took the journey to the barred gates of Hell, at Frigga's earnest
persuasion, and how every rock, and tree and all living things wept
for him, except one old hag, sitting in the mouth of a cavern, who
refused because she hated him, and so Balder could not return. She was
a little absent, and missed two or three questions, and Miss Bain
asked her if her head ached, she made such an effort to keep the tears
from her eyes.

So Balder slept under a straight young pine near the little lake they
had made for him. Pablo skinned the fox with great zest, and made of
it a fine rug, with a strip of black bearskin for a border.

She wondered whether she ought to feel merry enough to go on the May
party. But the children insisted. The boat was a fine strong one, and
there really was no danger; Uncle Jason was assured of that. Then it
was such a glorious day. There was a fog early in the morning, and the
fight between the golden arrows of the sun and the gray armor that
came up out of the sea. Sometimes it did conquer, and came over the
city, but this morning it was pierced here and there, and then torn to
tatters, driven out beyond the strait, into the ocean.

Miss Bain took supervision of her scholars, and Miss Holmes had many
charges not to let the little girl out of her sight a moment. There
were a number of schools, but some of the children preferred the May
walk, and the treat afterward. They started off with flags flying, and
the young Geary Band had volunteered their services. There were a
drum, two fifes, a cornet, and a French horn, and the boys began with
the stirring patriotic tunes. But even here the old negro melodies had
found their way, many of them pathetic reminders of the cotton fields
of the South, that seemed to gain melody from the stretch of bay.

They passed Fort Point and Alcatraz Island, where the government was
beginning magnificent defences, its high point looming up grandly.
Angel Island, then almost covered with a forest of oak, yet oddly
enough containing a fine quarry, where laborers were at work, hewing
into the rock, almost under the shadow of the waving trees. Yerba
Buena, with its fragrant odors blown about by the wind, smaller
islands, big rocks rising out of the sea, the inhabitants being
chiefly birds; vessels of nearly every description, and intent mostly
upon trade, plied hither and thither. Here was another strait opening
into San Pablo Bay, into which emptied creeks and rivers, the
Sacramento washing down golden sands; and the San Joaquin. And up
there was the wonderful land where the Argonauts were searching for
treasure with less toil and anxiety than the elder Jason, though here,
too, there were treachery and murder.

Almost by the strait there was a beautiful point of land jutting out
in the water, and nearly covered with magnificent trees, that had
grown so close together that the branches interlaced and made arches,
while underneath were aisles, carpeted with fallen leaves and moss,
that made you feel as if you were walking over velvet. You could see
San Raphael and San Quentin, and the mountain range with the one high
peak, as you looked westward; eastward there was, after the woodland,
meadows of richest verdure, with their thousand blooms nodding gayly
to each other, and softly gossiping, perhaps about these strange
newcomers, who were presently to disturb their long, long
possessorship. There the great, grand Sierras, that looked so near in
the marvellously clear air.

They found a choice spot, and built a fire--it would not have been a
picnic without that. There were boys, of course, though a girl was
restricted to a brother or cousin. I fancy some cousins were smuggled
in. They ran about; they were even young enough to play "tag," and
"blind man in a ring," and "fox and geese," which was the greatest fun
of all. Then they spread out their tablecloths on a level space, and
though real paper plates and thin wooden ones had not come in yet,
they had made some for themselves that answered the purpose. They were
merry enough with jests and laughter.

Olive Personette was quite the heroine of the day. Miss Isabel's
engagement to Captain Gilbert, who had been appointed to take some
charge at Alcatraz, and had come of an old Californian family, beside
being educated at West Point, was still a topic of interest, because
there had been two other aspirants for her hand who had quarrelled and
fought a duel, which was quite an ordinary matter in those days,
though frowned upon by the best people. So neither had won her heart.
One was lying in the hospital, the other had fled northward. But it
had made quite a stir.

Of course, she had asked Victor, importuned him, though he had meant
all the time to come. He was a fine, manly fellow now, and the girls
did flock about him. He had such a grave, courteous manner, and
never descended into rudeness, though he was quick enough at fun, and
it does not need an intricate order of wit to amuse before one is
twenty.

Olive picked out the most prominent girls for him, and kept him busy
enough. But he managed now and then to pass Laverne and say a word to
show that she was in his mind.

"I think Isola wanted to come very much," he announced to her once.
"She's taking such an interest in the pleasures that girls have, and
she has grown stronger. Father is planning some day to take a sail all
around the bay, just a little party of us, and we want you and Miss
Holmes."

That was such a delight. She did not refuse to talk to other boys, but
she liked the girls better. Her rather secluded life had not given her
so much interest in hunting and fishing and ball-playing and
race-running. Then on Sunday there was always horse-racing up on the
track by the old Mission. Church-going people, not really members, but
those who considered it the proper thing to pay a decorous attention
to religion, went to church in the morning and drove out in the
afternoon. Throngs of fine carriages, and handsomely dressed ladies,
men on horseback, with enough of the old-style attire to stamp them as
Mexican, Spanish, or the more than half Old Californian. Many of the
more successful ones began to plume themselves on a sort of
aristocracy.

The boys knew the favorite horses, some of their fathers owned a fast
trotter. But somehow she did not care much to talk about them, though
she had gone out occasionally with Uncle Jason, and it was exciting to
witness the trials of speed. But she liked better to jog about on
Pelajo and talk in the lovely by-paths they were always finding.

After the repast they swung in hammocks and talked over plans, or
rambled about, then the band played for dancing. No gathering would
have been perfect without that. Of course, they flirted a little, that
was in the young blood, but they came home merry, and had not disputed
unduly about their respective admirers.

Victor found time to say that he should come over next Saturday.
"We'll have a nice time, all to ourselves," he whispered, and she
glanced up with delighted eyes.

All her life thus far had been very quiet, in spite of the fact that
she was in such a turbulent place, and with all sorts of people,
gathered from the ends of the earth; where seldom a day passed without
some tragedy. And it seemed as if the city was coming nearer and
nearer, though it went southward, too, and all along the bay, docks
and wharves and warehouses were springing up in a night.

Victor came over the following Saturday as he had promised. They sat
under the pine tree and wrote verses to Balder's memory. Victor had
found a volume of Scandinavian legends and poems, and they were
fascinated with it.

"Of course, we can't write anything like that," she said simply, "but
you notice these do not rhyme. Do you not think it really grander,
tenderer?"

     "I heard a voice that cried
     'Balder the Beautiful
     Is dead, is dead!
     And through the misty air,
     Passed like the mournful cry
     Of sunward sailing cranes.'"

"You repeat poetry so beautifully," he exclaimed, enchanted with the
pathetic voice, that could express so much, yet was so simply sweet.

They were not born poets. He had great trouble about his Latin
hexameters. He could feel it floating through his brain, but it was
very elusive, vanishing before it was caught. She made a few little
lines without rhyming.

Then he told her of the other god that had ruled a realm of lovely
thoughts, until, as the legend ran, when Christ, the Redeemer of
mankind, was born, a great groan was heard all over the isles of
Greece, the rushes bowed their heads, and the waves shuddered when it
was proclaimed that Olympus was dethroned, and Pan was dead.

       "And that dismal cry rose slowly,
       And sank slowly through the air,
       Full of spirit's melancholy
       And eternity's despair
     As they heard the words it said--
     Pan is dead, great Pan is dead--
                     Pan, Pan is dead."

And then, as they listened, the gulls' cry came to them, toned by the
distance, softened by the murmur of the wind into a requiem for the
dead Balder.

After all he did not tell her what he had meant to. He would put off
the evil day.

