
She could by no means listen to reason, and was angry because her friend
tried to argue with her. She rose with an energy she seldom displayed,
and began to walk up and down the verandah. Her face was very pale, her
lip quivered when she spoke, and there was an unnatural light in her
eyes. There was room for much moderate affection in her gentle nature;
she had loved her first husband; she loved Corbario dearly; but the
passion of her life was her son, and at the first presentiment of real
danger to him the dominant preoccupation of her heart took violent
possession of everything else in her, regardless of reason, friendship,
consideration for others, or common sense.

Maddalena walked up and down beside her, putting one arm affectionately
round her waist, and doing the best she could to allay the tempest.

It subsided suddenly, and was followed by a stony silence that
frightened the Contessa. It was time for luncheon, and Aurora came back,
hoping to find that she had been forgiven during her absence, but the
Signora only looked at her coldly once or twice and would not speak.
None of the three even pretended to have an appetite.

"I shall not go back to Rome to-day," said the Contessa. "I cannot
leave you in such anxiety."

"Folco will take care of me," answered the Signora in a dull tone. "Do
not change your plans on my account. The carriage is ordered at three
o'clock."

She spoke so coldly that Maddalena felt a little pardonable resentment,
though she knew that her friend was not at all herself.

"Very well," she answered quietly. "If you had rather that I should not
stay with you we will go back this afternoon."

"It will be much better."

When the carriage appeared neither Folco nor any of the men had
returned. The Signora made an evident attempt to show a little of her
habitual cordiality at parting, and she even kissed Aurora coldly on the
forehead, and embraced Maddalena with something like her usual
affection. The two looked back as they drove away, calling out a last
good-bye, but they saw that the Signora was not even looking after them;
she was leaning against one of the wooden supports of the verandah,
gazing towards the trees, and pressing one hand to her forehead.

"Do you think it was my fault, mamma?" asked Aurora, when they were out
of sight of the cottage.

"No, dear," answered Maddalena. "Something has happened, I wish I knew
what!"

"I only told him he was a baby," said Aurora, settling herself in the
corner of the carriage, and arranging her parasol behind her so that it
rested on the open hood; for the weather had cleared and the sun was
shining brightly after the storm.

So she and her mother went back to Rome that afternoon. But when the
Signora was alone, she was sorry that her friend was gone, and was all
at once aware that her head was aching terribly. Every movement she made
sent an agonizing thrill through her brain, and her hand trembled from
the pain, as she pressed her palm to her forehead.

She meant to go down to the beach alone, for she was sure that she could
find Marcello, and at least she would meet the men who were searching
for him, and have news sooner than if she stayed in the cottage. But she
could not have walked fifty steps without fainting while her headache
lasted. She would take five grains of phenacetine, and in a little while
she would be better.

She found the glass tube with the screw cap, and swallowed one of the
tablets with a little water. Then she sat down on the edge of her long
chair in the verandah to wait for the pain to pass. She was very tired,
and presently, she scarcely knew how it was, she was lying at full
length in her chair, her head resting comfortably against the cushion.

The sunlight fell slanting across her feet. Amongst the trees two or
three birds were twittering softly; it was warm, it was dreamy, she was
forgetting Marcello. She tried to rouse herself as the thought of him
crossed her mind, and she fancied that she almost rose from the chair;
but she had hardly lifted one hand. Then she saw his face close before
her, her lips relaxed, the pain was gone, she smiled happily, and she
was asleep.

Half an hour later her maid came quietly out to ask whether she needed
anything, and seeing that she was sleeping peacefully spread a light
shawl over her feet, placed the silver handbell within easy reach on the
table, and went away again.

Towards evening Folco came back and then the men, straggling in on their
tired little horses, for they had ridden far and fast. Marcello was not
with them.

Corbario came in alone, and saw his wife lying in her chair in the
evening light. He stood still a moment, and then came over and bent near
her, looking earnestly into her quiet face.

"Already," he said aloud, but in a very low voice.

His hand shook as he laid it on her heart, bending low. Then he started
violently and stood bolt upright, as an unearthly howl rent the air.

Nino, Ercole's queer dog, was close beside him, his forepaws planted on
the upper step of the verandah, his head thrown up, his half-open jaws
showing his jagged teeth, his rough coat bristling like spikes of
bearded barley.

And Ercole, still a hundred yards away amongst the trees, shook his head
and hurried forward as he heard the long-drawn note of brute terror.

"Somebody is dead," he said to himself.




CHAPTER V


For a few weeks all Italy was profoundly interested in the story of
Marcello Corbario's disappearance and of his mother's almost
unaccountable death. It was spoken of as the "double tragedy of the
Campagna," and the newspapers were full of it.

The gates of the beautiful villa on the Janiculum were constantly
assailed by reporters; the servants who came out from time to time were
bribed, flattered, and tempted away to eat sumptuous meals and drink the
oldest wine in quiet gardens behind old inns in Trastevere, in the hope
that they might have some information to sell. But no one gained
admittance to the villa except the agents of the police, who came daily
to report the fruitless search; and the servants had nothing to tell
beyond the bare truth. The young gentleman had gone for a walk near the
sea, down at the cottage by the Roman shore, and he had never been heard
of again. His mother had been suffering from a bad headache, had lain
down to rest in a cane chair on the verandah, and had been found dead,
with a smile on her face, by her husband, when he came back from his
first attempt to find Marcello. The groom who always went down with the
carriage could describe with greatest accuracy the spot where the
Signorina Aurora had last seen him; the house servants gave the most
minute details about the cane chair, the verandah, and the position in
which the poor lady had been found; but that was all, and it was not at
all what the reporters wanted. They had all been down to the cottage,
each with his camera and note-book, and had photographed everything in
sight, including Nino, Ercole's dog. What they wanted was a clue, a
story, a scandal if possible, and they found nothing of the sort.

Folco Corbario's mourning was unostentatious and quiet, but none of the
few persons who saw him, whether detectives or servants, could doubt
that he was profoundly affected. He grew paler and thinner every day,
until his own man even began to fear that his health was failing. He had
done, and continued to do, everything that was humanly possible. He had
brought his wife's body to Rome, and had summoned the very highest
authorities in the medical profession to discover, if possible, the
cause of her death. They had come, old men of science, full of the
experience of years, young men of the future, brimming with theories,
experts in chemistry, experts in snake poisons; for Folco had even
suggested that she might have been bitten by a viper or stung by a
venomous spider, or accidentally poisoned by some medicine or something
she had eaten.

But the scientific gentlemen were soon agreed that no such thing had
happened. Considerably disappointed, and with an unanimity which is so
unusual in the confraternity as to be thought absolutely conclusive when
it is observed, they decided that the Signora Corbario had died of
collapse after intense excitement caused by the disappearance of her
son. Thereafter she was buried out at San Lorenzo, with the secret, if
there were any; masses were said, the verdict of the doctors was
published, with the signatures of the most eminent practitioners and
specialists in Italy; and the interest of the public concentrated itself
upon the problem of Marcello's mysterious removal, or abduction, or
subduction, or recession, or flight, from the very bosom of his family.

This problem had the merit of defying solution. In a comparatively open
country, within a space of time which could certainly be limited to five
minutes, at a place whence he should have been clearly seen by Folco
Corbario as soon as Aurora dell' Armi could no longer see him, the boy
had been spirited away, leaving not even the trace of his footsteps in
the sand. It was one of the most unaccountable disappearances on record,
as Folco insisted in his conversations with the Chief of Police, who
went down with him to the cottage and examined the spot most carefully,
with several expert detectives. Folco showed him exactly where Aurora
had stood, and precisely the direction he himself had followed in
approaching the gap, and he declared it to be almost a physical
impossibility that Marcello should have become suddenly invisible just
then.

The official thought so too, and shook his head. He looked at the
detectives, and they shook their heads, also. And then they all looked
at Corbario and expressed the opinion that there was some mistake about
the length of time supposed by Aurora to have elapsed between the
moment when Marcello left her and the instant of Folco's appearance
before her. She had not looked at her watch; in fact, she had not
carried a watch. The whole story therefore depended upon her more or
less accurate judgment of time. It might have been a quarter of an hour
instead of five minutes, in which case Corbario had not yet left the
cottage, and Marcello would have had ample leisure to disappear in any
direction he pleased. Ercole had been away at Porto d'Anzio, the men had
been all at the hut; if Folco had not been on the path precisely at the
time guessed by Aurora, everything could be accounted for.

"Very well," Corbario answered. "Let us suppose that my stepson had time
to get away. In that case he can be found, alive or dead. Italy is not
China, nor Siberia, and I can place unlimited funds at your disposal.
Find him for me; that is all I ask."

"We shall find him, never fear!" answered the Chief of Police with a
confidence he did not feel.

"We shall find him!" echoed the three detectives in chorus.

Ercole watched the proceedings and listened to what was said, for he
considered it his duty to attend on such an occasion, his dog at his
heels, his gun slung over his shoulder. He listened and looked from one
to the other with his deep eyes and inscrutable parchment face,
shrivelled by the malarious fever. But he said nothing. The Chief of
Police turned to him at last.

"Now what do you think about it?" asked the official. "You know the
country. Had there been any suspicious characters about, fellows who
could have carried off the boy?"

"Such people would ask a ransom," answered Ercole. "You would soon hear
from them. But I saw no one. There have been no brigands about Rome for
more than twenty years. Do you dream that you are in Sicily? Praise be
to Heaven, this is the Roman Campagna; we are Christians and we live
under King Victor! Where are the brigands? They have melted. Or else
they are making straw hats in the galleys. Do I know where they are?
They are not here. That is enough."

"Quite right, my friend," answered the Chief of Police. "There are no
brigands. But I am sorry to say that there are thieves in the Campagna,
as there are near every great city."

Ercole shrugged his angular shoulders contemptuously.

"Thieves would not carry a man away," he answered. "You know that, you
who are of the profession, as they say. Such ruffians would have knocked
the young gentleman on the head to keep him quiet, and would have made
off. And besides, we should have found their tracks in the sand, and
Nino would have smelt them."

Nino pricked up one ragged ear at the sound of his name.

"He does not look very intelligent," observed the official. "A clever
dog might have been used to track the boy."

"How?" inquired Ercole with scorn. "The footsteps of the young gentleman
were everywhere, with those of all the family, who were always coming
and going about here. How could he track them, or any of us? But he
would have smelt a stranger, even if it had rained. I know this dog. He
is the head dog on the Roman shore. There is no other dog like him."

"I daresay not," assented the Chief of Police, looking at Nino. "In
fact, he is not like any animal I ever saw."

The detectives laughed at this.

"There is no other," said Ercole without a smile. "He is the only son of
a widowed mother. I am his family, and he is my family, and we live in
good understanding in this desert. If there were no fever we should be
like the saints in paradise--eating our corn meal together. And I will
tell you another thing. If the young gentleman had been wounded anywhere
near here, Nino would have found the blood even after three days. As for
a dead man, he would make a point for him and howl half a mile off,
unless the wind was the wrong way."

"Would he really?" asked Corbario with a little interest.

Ercole looked at him and nodded, but said no more, and presently the
whole party of men went back to Rome, leaving him to the loneliness of
the sand-banks and the sea.

Then Ercole came back to the gap and stood still a little while, and
his dog sat bolt upright beside him.

"Nino," he said at last, in a rather regretful tone, "I gave you a good
character. What could I say before those gentlemen? But I tell you this,
you are growing old. And don't answer that I am getting old too, for
that is my business. If your nose were what it was once, we should know
the truth by this time. Smell that!"

Ercole produced a small green morocco pocket-book, of the sort made to
hold a few visiting cards and a little paper money, and held it to
Nino's muzzle.

Nino smelt it, looked up to his master's face inquiringly, smelt it
again, and then, as if to explain that it did not interest him, lay down
in the sand with his head on his forepaws.

"You see!" growled Ercole. "You cannot even tell whether it belonged to
the boy or to Corbario. An apoplexy on you! You understand nothing! Ill
befall the souls of your dead, you ignorant beast!"

Nino growled, but did not lift his head.

"You understand that," said Ercole, discontentedly. "If you were a
Christian you would stick a knife into me for insulting your dead! Yet
you cannot tell whose pocket-book this is! And if I knew, I should know
something worth knowing."

The pocket-book disappeared in the interior recesses of Ercole's
waistcoat. It was empty and bore no initial, and he could not remember
to have seen it in Corbario's or Marcello's hands, but he was quite
sure that it belonged to one of them. He was equally sure that if he
showed it to Corbario the latter would at once say that it was
Marcello's, and would take it away from him, so he said nothing about
it. He had found it in the sand, a little way up the bank, during his
first search after Marcello's disappearance.

Ercole's confidence in the good intentions of his fellow-men was not
great; he was quite lacking in the sort of charity which believeth all
things, and had a large capacity for suspicion of everybody and
everything; he held all men to be liars and most women to be something
worse.

"Men are at least Christians," he would say to Nino, "but a female is
always a female."

If he took a liking for any one, as for Marcello, he excused himself for
the weakness on the ground that he was only human after all, and in his
heart he respected his dog for snarling at everybody without
discrimination. There was no doubt, however, that he felt a sort of
attachment for the boy, and he admitted the failing while he deplored
it. Besides, he detested Corbario, and had felt that his own common
sense was insulted by the fact that Folco seemed devoted to Marcello.
The suspicion that Folco had got rid of his stepson in order to get his
fortune was therefore positively delightful, accompanied as it was by
the conviction that he should one day prove his enemy a murderer.
Perhaps if he could have known what Folco Corbario was suffering, he
might have been almost satisfied, but he had no means of guessing that.
In his opinion the man knew what had become of Marcello, and could be
made to tell if proper means were used. At night Ercole put himself to
sleep by devising the most horrible tortures for his master, such as no
fortitude could resist, and by trying to guess what the wretched man
would say when his agony forced him to confess the truth.

He was almost sure by this time that Marcello was dead, though how Folco
could have killed him, carried off his body to a great distance and
buried him, without ever absenting himself from the cottage, was more
than Ercole could imagine. He paid Corbario's skill the compliment of
believing that he had not employed any accomplice, but had done the deed
alone.

How? That was the question. Ercole knew his dog well enough, and was
perfectly sure that if the body had been concealed anywhere within a
mile of the cottage Nino would have found it out, for the dog and his
master had quartered every foot of the ground within three days after
Marcello had been lost. It was utterly, entirely impossible that Folco,
without help, could have dragged the dead boy farther. When he had gone
on his pretended search he had not been alone; one of the men had ridden
with him, and had never lost sight of him, as Ercole easily ascertained
without seeming to ask questions. Ercole had obtained a pretty fair
knowledge of Corbario's movements on that day, and it appeared that he
had not been absent from the cottage more than half an hour at any time
before he went to look for Marcello.

"If Corbario himself had disappeared in that way," said Ercole to
himself and Nino, "it would be easy to understand. We should know that
the devil had carried him off."

But no such supernatural intervention of the infernal powers could be
supposed in Marcello's case, and Ercole racked his brains to no purpose,
and pondered mad schemes for carrying Corbario off out of Rome to a
quiet place where he would extract the truth from him, and he growled at
the impossibility of such a thing, and fell to guessing again.

In the magnificent library of the villa on the Janiculum, Folco was
guessing, too, and with no better result. But because he could not guess
right, and could get no news of Marcello, his eyes were growing hollow
and his cheeks wan.

The lawyers came and talked about the will, and explained to him that
all the great property was his, unless Marcello came back, and that in
any case he was to administer it. They said that if no news of the boy
were obtained within a limited time, the law must take it for granted
that he had perished in some unaccountable way. Folco shook his head.

"He must be found," he said. "I have good nerves, but if I do not find
out what has become of him I shall go mad."

The lawyers spoke of courage and patience, but a sickly smile twisted
Folco's lips.

"Put yourself in my place, if you can," he answered.

The lawyers, who knew the value of the property to a farthing, wished
they could, though if they had known also what was passing in his mind
they might have hesitated to exchange their lot for his.

"He was like your own son," they said sympathetically. "A wife and a son
gone on the same day! It is a tragedy. It is more than a man can bear."

"It is indeed!" answered Corbario in a low voice and looking away.

Almost the same phrases were exchanged each time that the two men came
to the villa about the business, and when they left they never failed to
look at each other gravely and to remark that Folco was a person of the
deepest feeling, to whom such an awful trial was almost worse than
death; and the elder lawyer, who was of a religious turn of mind, said
that if such a calamity befell him he would retire from the world, but
the younger answered that, for his part, he would travel and see the
world and try to divert his thoughts. In their different ways they were
hard-headed, experienced men; yet neither of them suspected for a moment
that there was anything wrong. Both were honestly convinced that Folco
had been a model husband to his dead wife, and a model father to her
lost son. What they could not understand was that he should not find
consolation in possessing their millions, and they could only account
for the fact by calling him a person of the deepest feeling--a feeling,
indeed, quite past their comprehension.

Even the Contessa dell' Armi was impressed by the unmistakable signs of
suffering in his face. She went twice to see him within three weeks
after her friend's death, and she came away convinced that she had
misjudged him. Aurora did not go with her, and Corbario barely asked
after her. He led Maddalena to his dead wife's room and begged her to
take some object that had belonged to the Signora, in memory of their
long friendship. He pressed her to accept a necklace, or a bracelet, or
some other valuable ornament, but Maddalena would only take a simple
little gold chain which she herself had given long ago.

Her own sorrow for her friend was profound but undemonstrative, as her
nature had grown to be. Aurora saw it, and never referred to it,
speaking only now and then of Marcello, to ask if there were any news of
him.

"He is not dead," the girl said one day. "I know he will come back. He
went away because I called him a baby."

Her mother smiled sadly and shook her head.

"Did you love him, dear?" she asked softly.

"We were children then," Aurora answered. "How do I know? I shall know
when he comes back."

It was true that the girl had changed within a few weeks, and her mother
saw it. Her smile was not the same, and her eyes were deeper. She had
begun to gather her hair in a knot, closer to her head, and that altered
her expression a little and made her look much older; but there was more
than that, there was something very hard to describe, something one
might call conviction--the conviction that the world is real, which
comes upon girlhood as suddenly as waking on sleep, or sleep on waking.
She had crossed the narrow borderland between play and earnest, and she
had crossed it very soon.

"He will come back," she said. "He went away on that little ship that
was tossing in the storm. I know it, though I cannot tell how he got out
to it through the breaking waves."

"That is perfectly impossible, child," said Maddalena with certainty.

"Never mind. If we knew what ship that was, and where she is now, we
could find Marcello. I am as sure of it as I am sure of seeing you at
this moment. You know you often say that my presentiments come true. As
soon as we knew he was gone I thought of the little ship."

It was natural, perhaps. The picture of the small brigantine, fighting
for existence, had graved itself in her memory. With its crew so near
death, it had been the only thing within sight that suggested human life
after Marcello was gone. The utter impossibility of a man's swimming out
through the raging sea that broke upon the bar was nothing compared with
Aurora's inward conviction that the little vessel had borne away the
secret of his disappearance. And she had not been wrecked: Aurora knew
that, for a wreck anywhere on the Roman shore would have been spoken of
at once. They are unfortunately common enough, and since her childhood
Aurora had more than once seen a schooner's masts sticking up out of
the treacherous water a cable's length from the shore. The brigantine
had got away, for the gale had moderated very suddenly, as spring gales
do in the Mediterranean, just when the captain was making up his mind to
let go both anchors and make a desperate attempt to save his vessel by
riding out the storm--a forlorn hope with such ground tackle as he had
in his chain lockers. And then he had stood out, and had sailed away,
one danger more behind him in his hard life, and one less ahead. He had
sailed away--whither? No one could tell. Those little vessels, built in
the south of Italy, often enough take salt to South America, and are
sold there, cargo and all; and some of the crew stay there, and some get
other ships, but almost all are dispersed. The keeper of the San Lorenzo
tower, who had been a deep-water man, had told Aurora about it. He
himself had once gone out in a Sicilian brigantine from Trapani, and had
stayed away three years, knocking about the world in all sorts of craft.

Yet this one might have been on a coastwise trip to Genoa and
Marseilles. That was quite possible. If one could only find out her
name. And yet, if she had put into a near port Marcello would have come
back; for Aurora was quite sure that he had got on board her somehow. It
was all a mystery, all but the certainty she felt that he was still
alive, and which nothing could shake, even when every one else had given
him up. Aurora begged her mother to speak to Corbario about it. With his
experience and knowledge of things he would know what to do; he could
find some way of tracing the vessel, wherever she might be.

The Contessa was convinced that the girl's theory was utterly untenable,
and it was only to please her that she promised to speak of it if she
saw Corbario again. Soon afterward she decided to leave Rome for the
summer, and before going away she went once more to the villa. It was
now late in June, and she found Folco in the garden late in the
afternoon.

He looked ill and tired, but she thought him a little less thin than
when she had seen him last. He said that he, too, meant to leave Rome
within a few days, that he intended to go northward first to see an old
friend of his who had recently returned from South America, and that he
should afterwards go down to Calabria, to San Domenico, and spend the
autumn there. He had no news of Marcello. He looked thoughtfully down at
his hands as he said this in a tone of profound sorrow.

"Aurora has a fixed idea," said Maddalena. "While she was talking with
Marcello at the gap in the bank there was a small ship tossing about not
far from the shore."

"Well?" asked Corbario. "What of it?"

As he looked up from the contemplation of his hands Maddalena was struck
by his extreme pallor and the terrible hollowness of his eyes.

"How ill you look!" she exclaimed, almost involuntarily. "The sooner you
go away the better."

"What did Aurora say about the brigantine?" he asked earnestly, by way
of answer.

Maddalena knew too little about the sea to understand that he must have
noticed the vessel's rig to name it correctly, as he did, and without
hesitation.

"She is convinced that Marcello got on board of her," she answered.

Corbario's face relaxed a little, and he laughed harshly.

"That is utterly absurd!" he answered. "No swimmer that ever lived could
have got to her, nor any boat either! There was a terrific surf on the
bar."

"Of course not," assented Maddalena. "But you saw the ship, too?"

"Yes. Aurora was looking at her when I reached the gap. That is why I
noticed the vessel," Corbario added, as if by an afterthought. "She was
a Sicilian brigantine, and was carrying hardly any sail. If the gale had
lasted she would probably have been driven ashore. Her only chance would
have been to drop anchor."

"You know all about ships and the sea, don't you?" asked Maddalena, with
a very little curiosity, but without any particular intention.

"Oh, no!" cried Corbario, as if he were protesting against something. "I
have made several long voyages, and I have a knack of remembering the
names of things, nothing more."

"I did not mean to suggest that you had been a sailor," Maddalena
answered.

"What an idea! I, a sailor!"

He seemed vaguely amused at the idea. The Contessa took leave of him,
after giving him her address in the north of Italy, and begging him to
write if he found any clue to Marcello's disappearance. He promised
this, and they parted, not expecting to meet again until the autumn.

In a few days they had left Rome for different destinations. The little
apartment near the Forum of Trajan where the Contessa and her daughter
lived was shut up, and at the great villa on the Janiculum the solemn
porter put off his mourning livery and dressed himself in brown linen,
and smoked endless pipes within the closed gates when it was not too hot
to be out of doors. The horses were turned out to grass, and the
coachman and grooms departed to the country. The servants opened the
windows in the early morning, shut them at ten o'clock against the heat,
and dozed the rest of the time, or went down into the city to gossip
with their friends in the afternoon. It was high summer, and Rome went
to sleep.




CHAPTER VI


"What do we eat to-day?" asked Paoluccio, the innkeeper on the Frascati
road, as he came in from the glare and the dust and sat down in his own
black kitchen.

"Beans and oil," answered his wife.

"An apoplexy take you!" observed the man, by way of mild comment.

"It is Friday," said the woman, unmoved, though she was of a distinctly
apoplectic habit.

The kitchen was also the eating-room where meals were served to the
wine-carters on their way to Rome and back. The beams and walls were
black with the smoke of thirty years, for no whitewash had come near
them since the innkeeper had married Nanna. It was a rich, crusty black,
lightened here and there to chocolate brown, and shaded off again to the
tint of strong coffee. High overhead three hams and half a dozen huge
sausages hung slowly curing in the acrid wood smoke. There was an open
hearth, waist high, for roasting, and having three square holes sunk in
it for cooking with charcoal. An enormous bunch of green ferns had been
hung by a long string from the highest beam to attract the flies, which
swarmed on it like bees on a branch. The floor was of beaten cement,
well swept and watered. Along three of the walls there were heavy
tables of rough-hewn oak, with benches, polished by long and constant
use. A trap-door covered the steps that led down to the deep cellar,
which was nothing but a branch of those unexplored catacombs that
undermine the Campagna in all directions. The place was dim, smoky, and
old, but it was not really dirty, for in his primitive way the Roman
wine-carter is fastidious. It is not long since he used to bring his own
solid silver spoon and fork with him, and he will generally rinse a
glass out two or three times before he will drink out of it.

The kitchen of the inn was cool compared with the road outside, and
though it smelt chiefly of the stale smoke of green wood, this was
pervaded and tempered by odours of fern, fresh cabbages, goats'-milk
cheese, and sour red wine. The brown earthen pot simmered over one of
the holes in the hearth, emitting little clouds of steam; but boiling
beans have no particular smell, as everybody knows.

Paoluccio had pushed his weather-beaten soft hat back on his head, and
sat drumming on the oak table with his knotty fingers. He was a strong
man, thickset and healthy, with grizzled hair and an intensely black
beard. His wife was fat, and purple about the jaws and under the ears.
She stood with her back to the hearth, looking at him, with a wooden
spoon in her hand.

"Beans," she said slowly, and she looked up at the rafters and down
again at her husband.

"You have told me so," he growled, "and may the devil fly away with
you!"

"Beans are not good for people who have the fever," observed Nanna.

"Beans are rather heavy food," assented the innkeeper, apparently
understanding. "Bread and water are better. Pour a little oil on the
bread."

"A man who has the fever may die of eating beans," said Nanna
thoughtfully. "This is also to be considered."

"It is true." Paoluccio looked at his wife in silence for a moment. "But
a person who is dead must be buried," he continued, as if he had
discovered something. "When a person is dead, he is dead, whether he
dies of eating beans or--"

He broke off significantly, and his right hand, as it lay before him,
straightened itself and made a very slight vibrating motion, with the
fingers all close together. It is the gesture that means the knife among
the southern people. Nanna instantly looked round, to be sure that no
one else was in the room.

"When you have given that medicine, you cannot send for the doctor," she
observed, lowering her voice. "But if he eats, and dies, what can any
one say? We have fed him for charity; it is Friday and we have given him
beans. What can we know? Are not beans good food? We have nothing else,
and it is for charity, and we give what we have. I don't think they
could expect us to give him chickens and French wine, could they?"

Paoluccio growled approval.

"It is forty-seven days," continued Nanna. "You can make the account.
Chickens and milk and fresh meat for forty-seven days! Even the bread
comes to something in that time, at least two soldi a day--two forties
eighty, two sevens fourteen, ninety-four--nearly five francs. Who will
give us the five francs? Are we princes?"

"There is the cow," observed Paoluccio with a grin.

"Imbecile," retorted his wife. "It has been a good year; we bought the
wine cheap, we sell it dear, without counting what we get for nothing
from the carters; we buy a cow with our earnings, and where is the
miracle?"

The innkeeper looked towards the door and the small window suspiciously
before he answered in a low voice.

"If I had not been sure that he would die, I would not have sold the
watch and chain," he said. "In the house of my father we have always
been honest people."

"He will die," answered Nanna, confidently and with emphasis. "The girl
says he is hungry to-day. He shall eat beans. They are white beans, too,
and the white are much heavier than the brown."

She lifted the tin cover off the earthen pot and stirred the contents.

"White beans!" grumbled Paoluccio. "And the weather is hot. Do you wish
to kill me?"

"No," answered Nanna quietly. "Not you."

"Do you know what I say?" Paoluccio planted a huge finger on the oaken
board. "That sick butterfly upstairs is tougher than I am. Forty-seven
days of fever, and nothing but bread and water! Think of that, my Nanna!
Think of it! You or I would be consumed, one would not even see our
shadows on the floor! But he lives."

"If he eats the white beans he has finished living," remarked Nanna.

A short silence followed, during which Paoluccio seemed to be
meditating, and Nanna began to ladle the beans out into four deep
earthenware bowls, roughly glazed and decorated with green and brown
stripes.

"You are a jewel; you are the joy of my heart," he observed
thoughtfully, as Nanna placed his portion before him, covered it with
oil, and scattered some chopped basil on the surface.

"Eat, my love," she said, and she cut a huge piece from a coarse loaf
and placed it beside him on a folded napkin that looked remarkably clean
in such surroundings, and emitted a pleasant odour of dried lavender
blossoms.

"Where is the girl?" asked Paoluccio, stirring the mess and blowing upon
it.

As he spoke, the door was darkened, and the girl stood there with a
large copper "conca," the water-jar of the Roman province, balanced on
her head--one of the most magnificent human beings on whom the sun of
the Campagna ever shone. She was tall, and she bent her knees without
moving her neck, in order to enter the door without first setting down
the heavy vessel.

[Illustration: " ... THE DOOR WAS DARKENED, AND THE GIRL STOOD THERE
WITH A LARGE COPPER 'CONCA' ..."]

Her thick dark hair grew low on her forehead, almost black, save for
the reddish chestnut lights where a few tiny ringlets curled themselves
about her small and classic ears. Straight black eyebrows outlined the
snow-white forehead, and long brown lashes shaded the fearless eyes,
that looked black too. She smiled a little, quite unconsciously, as she
lowered herself with the weight and gracefully rose to her height again
after she had entered. One shapely brown hand steadied the conca above,
the other gathered her coarse skirt; then she stood still, lifted the
load from her head with both hands and without any apparent effort, and
set it down in its place on a stone slab near the hearth. Most women
need a little help to do that.

She laid aside the twisted cloth on which the conca had rested while she
carried it, and she smoothed her hair carelessly.

"There are beans," said Nanna, giving the girl one of the bowls. "There
is the bread. While they are cooling take the other portion upstairs."

The girl looked at the bowl, and at Nanna, and then at Paoluccio, and
stood stock still.

"Hey, there!" the man cried, with a rough laugh. "Hey! Reginella! Are
you going to sleep, or are you turning into a statue?"

"Am I to give him the beans to eat?" asked Regina, looking hard at the
innkeeper.

"You said he was hungry. That is what there is for dinner. We give him
what we have."

Regina's dark eyes lightened; her upper lip rose in a curve and showed
her closed teeth, strong and white as those of a young animal.

"Do as you are told," added Paoluccio. "This is charity. When you
examine your conscience at Easter you can say, 'I have fed the hungry
and cared for the sick.' The beans are mine, of course, but that makes
no difference. I make you a present of them."

"Thank you!"

"Welcome," answered Paoluccio, with his mouth, full.

Regina took the fourth bowl and a piece of bread and went out. The steps
to the upper part of the house were on the outside, as is common in the
houses of the Campagna.

"How old is she?" Paoluccio asked when she was gone.

"She must be twenty," answered Nanna. "It must be ten years since her
mother died, and her mother said she was ten years old. She has eaten
many loaves in this house."

"She has worked for her food," said the innkeeper. "And she is an honest
girl."

"What did you expect? That I should let her be idle, or make eyes at the
carters? But you always defend her, because she is pretty, you ugly
scamp!"

Nanna uttered her taunt in a good-natured tone, but she glanced
furtively at her husband to see the effect of her words, for it was not
always safe to joke with Paoluccio.

"If I did not defend her," he answered, "you would beat the life out of
her."

"I daresay," replied Nanna, and filled her mouth with beans.

"But now," said Paoluccio, swallowing, "if you are not careful she will
break all your bones. She has the health of a horse."

So the couple discussed matters amiably, while Regina was out of the
way.

In a garret that had a small unglazed window looking to the north, the
girl was bending over a wretched trestle-bed, which was literally the
only piece of furniture in the room; and on the coarse mattress, stuffed
with the husks and leaves of maize, lay all that the fever had left of
Marcello Consalvi, shivering under a tattered brown blanket. There was
little more than the shadow of the boy, and his blue eyes stared dully
up at the girl's face. But there was life in him still, thanks to her,
and though there was no expression in his gaze, his lips smiled faintly,
and faint words came from them.

"Thank you," he said, "I am better to-day. Yes, I could eat something."

Regina bent lower, smiling happily, and she kissed the boy's face three
times; she kissed his eyes and dry lips. And he, too, smiled again.

Then she left the bedside and went to a dark corner, where she
cautiously moved aside a loose board. From the recess she took a common
tumbler and a bottle of old wine and a battered iron spoon. She crouched
upon the floor, because there was no table; she took two fresh eggs out
of the folds of the big red and yellow cotton handkerchief that covered
her shoulders and was crossed over her bosom, and she broke them into
the glass, and hid the empty shells carefully in the folds again, so
that they should not be found in the room. For she had stolen these for
Marcello, as usual, as well as the old wine. She poured a little of the
latter into the glass and stirred the eggs quickly and softly, making
hardly any noise. From the recess in the wall she got a little sugar,
which was wrapped up in a bit of newspaper brown with age and smoke, and
she sweetened the eggs and wine and stirred again; and at last she came
and fed Marcello with the battered spoon. She had put off her coarse
slippers and walked about in her thick brown woollen stockings, lest she
should be heard below. She was very quiet and skilful, and she had
strangely small and gentle hands for a peasant girl. Marcello's head was
propped up by her left arm while she fed him.

She had kept him alive six weeks, and she had saved his life. She had
found him lying against the door of the inn at dawn, convulsed with ague
and almost unconscious, and had carried him into the house like a child,
though he had been much heavier then. Of course the innkeeper had taken
his watch and chain, and his jacket and sleeve-links and studs, to keep
them safe, he said. Regina knew what that meant, but Paoluccio had
ordered her to take care of him, and she had done her best. Paoluccio
felt that if the boy died it would be the will of heaven, and that he
probably would not live long with such care and such nourishment as he
would get up there in the attic. When he was dead, it would be time
enough to tell the carabineers who passed the house twice every
twenty-four hours on their beat; they would see that a sick boy had been
taken in, and that he had died of the fever, and as they need never know
how long he had been in the inn, the whole affair would redound to
Paoluccio's credit with them and with customers. But as long as he was
alive it was quite unnecessary that any one should know of his
existence, especially as the watch and chain had been converted into
money, and the money into a fine young cow. That Marcello could get well
on bread and water never entered Paoluccio's head.

But he had counted without Regina; that is to say that he had overlooked
the love and devotion of an intensely vital creature, younger, quicker,
and far cleverer that he, who would watch the sick boy day and night,
steal food and wine for him, lose sleep for him, risk blows for him, and
breathe her strong life into his weak body; to whom the joy of saving
him from death would be so much greater than all fatigue, that there
would be no shadow under her eyes, no pallor in her cheek, no weariness
in her elastic gait to tell of sleepless nights spent by his bedside in
soothing his ravings, or in listening for the beat of his heart when he
lay still and exhausted, his tired head resting on her strong white arm.
And when he seemed better and at ease she often fell asleep beside him,
half sitting, half lying, on the pallet bed, her cheek on the straw
pillow, her breath mingling with his in the dark.

He was better now, and she felt the returning life in him, almost before
he was sure of it himself; and while her heart was almost bursting with
happiness, so that she smiled to herself throughout her rough work all
day long, she knew that he could not stay where he was. Paoluccio
expected him to die, and was beginning to be tired of waiting, and so
was Nanna. If he recovered, he would ask for his watch and other things;
he was evidently a fine young gentleman to whom some strange accident
had happened, and he must have friends somewhere. Half delirious, he had
spoken of them and of his mother, and of some one called Aurora, whom
Regina already hated with all her heart and soul. The innkeeper and his
wife had never come near him since the former had helped the girl to
carry him upstairs, but if they suspected that he was recovering she
would not be able to prevent them from seeing him; and if they did, she
knew what would happen. They would send her on an errand, and when she
came back Marcello would be dead. She might refuse to go, but they were
strong people and would be two to one. Brave as Regina was, she did not
dare to wait for the carabineers when they came by on their beat and to
tell them the truth, for she had the Italian peasant's horror and dread
of the law and its visible authority; and moreover she was quite sure
that Paoluccio would murder her if she told the secret.

"If I could only take you to Rome!" she whispered, bending over him
when he had swallowed the contents of the glass. "You could tell me
where your friends are."

"Rome?" he repeated, with a vacant questioning.

She nodded and smiled, and then sighed. She had long been sure that the
fever had affected his memory, and she had tried many times to awaken
it.

She loved him because he had the face of an angel, and was fair-haired,
and seemed so gentle and patient, and smiled so sweetly when she kissed
him. That was all. He could thank her; he could tell her that he was
better or worse; he could speak of what he saw; he could even tell her
that she was beautiful, and that was much. He was Marcello, he had told
her that, but when she asked what other name he had, he looked at her
blankly at first, and then an expression of painful effort came over his
face, and she would not disturb him any more. He could not remember. He
did not know how he had come to the inn door; he had been walking in the
Campagna alone and had felt tired. He knew no more.

If only she could get him to Rome. It was not more than seven or eight
miles to the city, and Regina had often been there with Nanna. She had
been to Saint John Lateran's at midsummer for the great festival, and
she knew where the hospital was, in which famous professors cured every
ill under the sun. If she could bring Marcello to them, he would get
well; if he stayed much longer at the inn, Paoluccio would kill him;
being a woman, and a loving one, Regina only regarded as possible what
she wished, where the man she loved was concerned.

She made up her mind that if it could not be done by any other means she
would carry Marcello all the way. During his illness she had often
lifted him from his bed like a little child, for he was slightly built
by nature and was worn to a shadow by the fever. Even Aurora could have
raised him, and he was a featherweight in the arms of such a creature as
Regina. But it would be another matter to carry such an awkward burden
for miles along the highroad; and besides, she would meet the
carabineers, and as she would have to go at night, they would probably
arrest her and put her in prison, and Marcello would die. She must find
some other way.

She laid his head tenderly on the pillow and left him, promising to come
back as soon as she could. For safety she had brought the dish of beans
with her, lest Nanna should follow her, and she took it with her, just
as it was; but at the foot of the outer stairs she ran along the back of
the house to the pig-sty, and emptied the mess into the trough,
carefully scraping the bowl with the spoon so that it looked as if some
one had eaten the contents. Then she went back to the kitchen.

"Has he eaten?" inquired Nanna, and Paoluccio looked up, too.

"You see," answered Regina, showing the empty bowl.

"Health to him!" answered Paoluccio. "He has a good appetite."

"Eat your own," said Nanna to the girl.

She suspected that Regina might have eaten the beans meant for Marcello,
but her doubt vanished as she saw how the hungry young thing devoured
her own portion.

"Are there any more left?" Regina asked when she had finished, for she
understood perfectly what was going on in the minds of the other two.

She looked into the earthen cooking-pot which now stood on the corner of
the hearth.

"Not even the smell of any more," answered Nanna. "There is bread."

Regina's white teeth crushed the hard brown crust as if she had not
eaten for a week. There could be no doubt but that the sick boy had
eaten the beans; and beans, especially white ones, are not good for
people who have the fever, as Nanna had justly observed.

"On Sunday he shall have a dish of liver and cabbage," she said, in a
cheerful tone. "There is much strength in liver, and cabbage is good for
the blood. I shall take it to him myself, for it will be a pleasure to
see him eat."

"The beans were soon finished," said Regina, with perfect truth.

"I told you how it would be," Paoluccio answered.

But Regina knew that the time had come to get Marcello away from the inn
if he ever was to leave it alive, and in the afternoon, when Nanna was
dozing in her chair in the kitchen and Paoluccio was snoring upstairs,
and when she had smoothed Marcello's pillow, she went out and sat down
in front of the house, where there was shade at that hour, though the
glare from the dusty road would have blinded weaker eyes than hers. She
sat on the stone seat that ran along the house, and leaned against the
rough wall, thinking and scheming, and quite sure that she should find a
way.

At first she looked about, while she thought, from the well-known
mountains that bounded her world to the familiar arches of the distant
aqueduct, from the dry ditch opposite to the burning sky above and the
greyish green hillocks below Tivoli. But by and by she looked straight
before her, with a steady, concentrated stare, as if she saw something
happening and was watching to see how it would end.

She had found what she wanted, and was quite sure of it; only a few
details remained to be settled, such as what was to become of her after
she left the inn where she had grown up. But that did not trouble her
much.

She was not delicately nurtured that she should dread the great world of
which she knew nothing, nor had Nanna's conversation during ten years
done much to strengthen her in the paths of virtue. Her pride had done
much more and might save her wherever she went, but she was very well
aware of life's evil truths. And what would her pride be compared with
Marcello, the first and only being she had ever loved? To begin with,
she knew that the handsome people from the country earned money by
serving as models for painters and sculptors, and she had not the
slightest illusion about her own looks. Since she had been a child
people who came to the inn had told her that she was beautiful; and not
the rough wine-carters only, for the fox-hunters sometimes came that
