"And he asked that of you?" Helen was still 
resentful. 
"Why shouldn't I give something when so 
much has been given me? You came to me in 
my loneliness. Mrs. Howard has been a warm 
and interested friend. And Mrs. Aldred and all 
the others. Do you remember a package that 
came a few days ago? It was from Mr. Gart- 
ney. I want you to read the letter. A woman 
with more money than she knows how to spend 
ought to be of some service to the world. I do 
not want to live just for myself, just to cultivate 
the finer graces, to take the indulgences of for- 
tune. And with the letter came two books of 
poems, gathered from magazines. I've hardly 
had time to look into them." 
Helen felt the hot blood rush from her heart 
to her face. She had misjudged Juliet, no not 
that; she had been afraid of a temptation and 
there had been no temptation, only the purest 
pity. She had been jealous, too, of these chil- 
dren, motherless girls, and now orphans. She 
could not get over it all in a moment, and she 
felt somehow she had lost the first place in the 
heart of her friend. Did anybody care first for 
her? Her brain had a kind of desperate dull- 
ness as if the shade and melancholy of the ad- 
vancing years were destroying the brightness of 
girlhood when one hoped for and believed all 
things possible. Of course one couldn't go on 
forever in the glamour of childhood. You grew 
wiser, more experienced, you learned to judge 
more correctly. It was very unreasonable to sup- 
pose that life was going to be a path of roses. 
The sun was going down behind the hills. 
The air was growing cooler and giving out the 
fragrant odors of all new growths. From a 
group of trees at the end of one street that led 
to the little river came the song of the wood 
thrush that seemed to end with a mournful ques- 
tion — oh why? oh why? 
 
"We must turn about or we shall be late for 
dinner/' said Helen after some moments of si- 
lence. 
Juliet was a little chilled by the lack of sym- 
pathy. Helen had heretofore been so ready with 
that, and understood most matters so quickly. 
"Are you tired? You look so," Helen said 
with more solicitude in her tone. "Haven't we 
walked too far?" 
"My headache is mostly all gone. And I shall 
come in to dinner." 
Afterward Helen went to the study room and 
loitered with the girls. It seemed strange to 
her that she could be so bright and cheerful with 
such a heavy heart. 
She entered her room at length. Juliet had 
been looking over the books of poems. 
"They are exquisite," she said glancing up. "I 
was waiting for you. I want you to read this 
letter." 
"Do you truly? I shall not feel hurt," Helen 
replied from a sense of delicacy. 
"I want you to know why I have resolved to 
do a little kindly work for those really in need. 
And then I want to talk over my plans." 
The first page or two was about Mr. Gartney's 
impending trouble that he had mistrusted for 
some time, that had now increased rapidly, and 
that rendered death certain unless something was 
done. There was danger in the present step, but 
there was also the promise of hope. Life was 
very sweet to him. He had realized some of his 
ambitions and was on the eve of greater suc- 
cesses. He was not a rich man but it looked 
now as if fortune might smile upon him. For 
his children's sake, as well as that of his wife, 
he hoped to be spared. But if the worst came he 
had one favor to beg of her. He had made ar- 
rangements with Mrs. Aldred for the children's 
education, even if their mother's money had to 
be used at the last. What he desired for them 
was the love and Sympathy and guidance of an 
elder sister. She had been so kind to them and 
they adored her, could she add a little supervision 
in vacations when they tired of school life? He 
wanted them to know what a tender affection 
was like, and if she would sometimes talk of 
him and help them to recall the earlier years 
when they had been all in all to him and had the 
sole right to welcome his coming. "This is my 
earnest prayer," the letter went on. "There are 
very few I could ask this of, but I knew when 
you watched Elma's faint breathing and held her 
hands in love's clasp, warding off death if it were 
 
possible, you were one of the women whose heart 
was large and loyal and had room in it for gen- 
erous affection. So I have the courage to ask 
this from you if I have said good-bye to my dar- 
lings for the last time." 
"He did love them/' exclaimed Helen impul- 
sively. "But I can't imagine a woman not car- 
ing at all for such gentle, clinging little things 
who show their delight so plainly when one prof- 
fers them tenderness. Oh, it must have been bit- 
terly hard for him to know she would not, could 
not be a mother to them, I suppose it was jeal- 
ousy!" 
The tears of regret and shame rushed to 
Helen's eyes, for like a sudden shaft of light 
breaking through some confused space she 
seemed to be mysteriously enlightened about her- 
self. She had felt proud of her sense of justice, 
of giving good measure everywhere, but here she 
had been jealous and harbored a wicked, shame- 
ful suspicion. What if Juliet was to love some 
one better, if the other one could fill a higher 
niche! And these two children needed all the 
affection any friend might bestow upon them 
to make their path sunnier after the great cloud 
that had fallen upon it! 
"I think I do not quite understand jealousy 
myself, which Holy Writ has declared 'Cruel as 
the grave/ " returned Juliet. "I could be hurt 
by neglect, I could be filled with pain and long- 
ing if a friend for whom I cared sincerely had 
turned away from me, but I feel that I do not 
possess all the graces and fine qualities in my own 
nature. God doesn't give each one every good 
gift, and some of the longings are little seeds 
implanted in us that we are to nurse and cherish 
until they unfold and bloom. And since I could 
not attract every one I ought to be willing to 
have them cull a flower here and there that does 
not grow in my garden." 
"You shame me by your generosity," and 
Helen's voice broke while her eyes grew limpid 
with tears. "I am filled with self-reproach and 
regret that I should have grudged any one your 
regard." 
"If I thought I should lose sight of you al- 
together I should have courage enough to take 
the four years in college — " 
"No," interposed Helen. "I should not allow 
you to spend four years over matters that you 
are really not in love with for my sake merely. 
A successful college girl ought to be inspired 
with a love of study, an ambition to climb the 
hill tops and let nothing daunt. Of course all 
 
girls may not be as enthusiastic," and she smiled 
a little over her flight. 
"In a certain way I love study and I hope to 
go on learning all my life. But my heart craves 
something beside. I suppose my resolve seemed 
sudden to you, but I had been thinking it over 
and asked counsel of Mrs. Aldred. Something 
Mrs. Howard wrote when her loss was freshest 
moved me immeasurably. She said: *If I only 
had a daughter like you. Sons may be kind and 
you may feel proud of them but a daughter goes 
to your heart and you are no longer alone.' I 
fancy she idealized me;" and Juliet flushed and 
smiled. "But I fondly remember the interest she 
evinced when I think I must have been rather in- 
significant and unpromising. But for her I 
should not have come here to school, should not 
have known you and had these happy years that 
have opened to me vistas of true living." 
"Yes, I see that now. And she certainly has 
some claim. Fm not going to be selfish a day 
longer. I did not think I could be so ungen- 
erous ;" and the tears sprang to Helen's eyes. 
"Then came the trouble about the house. Sud- 
denly I felt as if I wanted a true home of my 
own, and some mothering, and both came straight 
in my way." 
"And I seem to have had some lovely mothers 
all along," said Helen with deep contrite feel- 
ing. 
"I hardly knew how to break this to you, Helen. 
I don't mean it shall separate us in the slightest 
respect. I shall have a lovely home and I want 
you to come to me as any sister would. You 
see you have hardly left girlhood and I have 
crossed the boundary of womanhood. Here are 
some delightful, satisfactory years unfolding be- 
fore me ; I want to be happy and useful ; to whom 
much is given much will be required, you know. 
I think it means money as well as other things. 
There are women doing grand and noble works 
in the world, and though I do not expect to 
emulate them, I may make a few people happy." 
Helen studied her in a sort of girlish surprise. 
She felt they had suddenly taken their rightful 
places. She had been the leader in many things ; 
so many of the decisions had been hers that she 
had hardly thought of Juliet planning for her- 
self, or really having force enough. 
"And then came this sorrowful episode about 
the Gartneys," Juliet resumed. "He confided 
part of his trouble to Mrs. Aldred when Elma 
was ill ; he had to explain why it was best not to 
take the child home for recuperation. And he 
 
half suggested that his own health was not to be 
depended upon. I do not know whether he could 
have placed matters on a better foundation in the 
beginning, but that is all ended now and specula- 
tion is fruitless. You know I have said more 
than once I was fond of growing girls ; I couldn't 
carry on a school, I have not Mrs. Aldred's 
discrimination in dealing with character and tem- 
peraments. And when these children were com- 
mended to my love I felt I might indeed be their 
elder sister. You see I shall not be able to spoil 
them during vacations, and Mrs. Aldred will have 
the real training of them. But I mean that my 
home shall be theirs and I want them to grow up 
loving me." 
"But if Mrs. Howard doesn't favor the plan?*' 
and Helen glanced up inquiringly. 
"I am sure she will not object. If she could 
take pity on an awkward, ignorant girl such 
as I was, she will have a warm sympathy for 
these children, who are really attractive when you 
come to know them well. And I am sure I can 
count on your indulgence ;" with a winsome smile. 
Oh, how generous you are, Juliet!" 
"But you see I make no sacrifice. Can that 
be called generosity? The pretty attractive home 
is for my pleasure, the thing I do really most de- 
Sire. And I want to bring to it the people I 
love, and the people who need love and pleasure 
and happiness. I want to make it a little oasis in 
the lives of some tired souls, so they can go on 
their way refreshed, and as I do not need a col- 
lege degree for this, I am anxious to begin. We 
will have our summer together and I shall want 
to keep watch of every step of your way and be 
proud of your successes. You make an abso- 
lute joy of study. Mrs. Aldred said in the winter 
when we had so many talks, that a school of 
girls like you, who were as honest, as ambitious 
and thorough, would be the most delightful work 
in life that she could think of." 
"Did she say that?" Helen's face glowed with 
pleasure. "Then I must be careful and live up 
to my reputation." 
"And now is it all explained? You see there 
were matters of which I could not tell the end 
from the beginning. And they might not have 
ended this way. But it was from no lack of 
love—" 
"And I really Tacked the trust. I am ashamed 
of the doubts that crept in. And in a way I 
certainly was jealous, and I just hate jealousy, 
too, it is such a mean, grudging vice. I think 
 
you have the most to forgive, I am sorry not to 
have you for my college chum — " 
"And keep prodding me up continually, lest I 
should fall behind," laughed Juliet interrupting 
her friend. 
"I can see that your choice is better for your- 
self and I will not be so narrow and self-con- 
ceited as not to admit it. But I shall miss you. 
I am finding out every moment how much you 
have been to me this last year." 
"I am glad if I have made any return for what 
you were to me at first. Oh, you with your hope- 
ful nature can hardly realize the dreariness and 
the longings of those first few months, unless 
it was that time you thought you would have to 
go away from all your friends to England." 
The tears glistened in Helen's eyes, remember- 
ing that time little more than a year ago. Out 
of that dismal time had blossomed this rich and 
happy year. Had she not something beside the 
cup of cold water to give? 
Yet after the lights were out and all was still, 
Helen thought of the change and wondered if she 
would make new friends as easily as she had 
heretofore. The four years of study did not 
look so glowing and enticing as they had. She 
wondered if she would consider it a necessity if 
she had Juliet's fortune. How little her friend 
had ever plumed herself upon itl 
"I do not believe I could have been so modest 
and unconcerned. Most girls were proud enough 
of rich fathers, even when there were more chil- 
dren to provide for, and hers was all her own." 
A day or two after in a leisure hour they looked 
over Mrs. Gartney's poems. They were of the 
intense school with perfect rhythm and most 
musical ; choice in their selection of words and es- 
caping the tendency to hopelessness that seemed 
to shadow so many of the younger poets. Through 
the most sombre rift came a gleam of light cheer- 
ing in its very unexpectedness. 
In the second volume were some Christmas 
poems of the Virgin and her babe that breathed 
the most exquisite mother love and watchful 
solicitude, and prefiguring the sorrow of the days 
to come. There was "Good night to a Child" 
that touched one with its tender pathos, and other 
little gems that went to one's heart. 
Helen had been reading them aloud. Some- 
times there were little breaks and halts in her 
voice for they did appeal strongly to her emo- 
tional nature. 
There was a silence of some moments, then 
Helen exclaimed indignantly — 
 
"She could have so much imaginary tenderness 
for dream children, and none for these to whom 
she was to fulfill the duties of real motherhood !" 
"Perhaps she did fulfill the outward duties." 
"But the inward grace surely was lacking. 
And it looks like a direct punishment. She 
crowded them out of their father's love and now 
God has taken him from her. I dare say she will 
write some most pathetic poems of sorrow and 
loss, and the world will say — 'How she loved 
him.' " 
"Which will be the truth. I suppose there are 
exclusive natures that can love only one person." 
"One person at a time," subjoined Helen with 
a touch of scorn. "And if we should keep up 
our knowledge of her we shall hear in the course 
of a few years that she is married again." 
Juliet felt it was not wise to gainsay this. 
After a week the children were returned to 
school robed in deepest mourning, and with a 
trunk full of new garments. Mrs. Gartney's 
letter was almost tragic. She thought it strange 
the children did not feel their loss more, she was 
simply overwhelmed, and she had only had Mr. 
Gartney barely three years. But she possessed 
a nature that suffered intensely, and her love had 
a depth that few could ever know. She had or- 
dered the children's wardrobe, the other gar- 
ments could be given to the poor. Mr. Gartney's 
business was in a sad state of confusion and he 
had died too young to amass much of a fortune. 
Whether there would be anything beside their 
mother's estate for them she could not tell at 
present. She would have no charge of the busi- 
ness. 
"She had better not have bought such expen- 
sive outfits for the children," Grace Aldred said 
to her mother. "It seems cruel to load them with 
it. Summer is coming and by next fall the frocks 
will be outgrown. I cannot bear to see children 
shrouded in such deep mourning." 
"They will wear white most of the time. Yes, 
it is really a waste," was the sensible reply. 
Wilma expressed her opinions with girlish 
vehemence. 
"I hate black frocks ! What makes you have 
to wear them? All my sorrow and pain is in- 
 side, in my heart, and just makes it harder to 
look at the black things. I told mamma I didn't 
want them and she said I was a heartless little 
girl. I'm so glad we shall not have to live with 
her, and I am sure papa must be happier in 
heaven." 
"What a pity children's hearts should carry 
 
such a remembrance of dislike/' Juliet said with 
a sigh. "Of course they hardly realize their 
loss, they have seen so little of him the past 
year." 
"And they will be comforted." Helen glanced 
up at her friend. "I could almost envy them 
these years with their big sister, if I didn't mean 
to have a full sisterhood myself. They will have 
to take the school terms, so I shall not be jealous, 
only they will be here for Mrs. Aldred to mother, 
and I shall not find any mother in college walls." 
"But you have that sweet Mrs. Bell. And I 
will give you a share in my Mrs. Howard if you 
like." 
Helen smiled. They were warm friends again 
but on quite a different basis. Every day she 
discerned some new strength in Juliet, a womanly 
grace and tenderness. The girlish timidity seemed 
to have dropped away like a garment. 
There were no regular holidays at Easter, 
which this year was late. Mrs. Howard came 
to make Miss Craven a little visit and talk over 
plans. 
Helen did not wonder that the shy, unformed 
girl had been charmed with her. She was not 
specially handsome, but the sweetness and serene 
grace attracted one at once. Her refinement was 
ingrained in her very nature, something nice and 
delicate and sweet that seemed to suggest the 
fragrance of violets. It had not been worn 
threadbare here and there by her two years of 
waiting on an invalid, and though he had grown 
irritable by the continual failure of hopes for re- 
covery, she remembered the earlier days of his 
joyous and heartsome love and sweetened her 
way with it. Her softly waving hair was a lit- 
tle touched with silver and she had just the fore- 
head to comb it loosely above her ears, and 
enough to make a pretty coil at the back. The 
narrow edge of white at her throat, and the white 
cuffs at her wrists softened the black attire. She 
had more of a society air than Mrs. Bell, neither 
did she resemble Mrs. Aldred. There was a really 
winsome expression to her blue-gray eyes, as if 
they might never grow old. And her voice had 
an indescribable sweetness. At the very last Mr. 
Howard had said — "No one reads or talks as you 
do. Your voice has such a soothing sound." 
Mrs. Howard was delighted with the im- 
provement in her protege. The letters had indi- 
cated it, and she knew a girl ambitious for and 
amenable to such training as Mrs. Aldred's must 
develop on the right lines. 
She had so much to say about Grey Court 
 
Manor. A part of it had been transformed un- 
der a new name, Overcliff, a residential place 
much affected by wealthy city people. "So you 
may be sure your bargain will be an excellent 
one, Juliet, though Mr. Davis was quite inclined 
to depreciate it." 
"Overcliff ! Why that is where Daisy Bell went 
to the grand wedding last winter, a Miss Duer 
was married," interposed Helen. 
Oh, at the Newells* place. It was remodeled 
from a fine old country house and is a most 
imposing mansion. I shouldn't want to leave it 
for months together if it was mine. Juliet, do not 
ever consent to having a dozen homes about the 
country, and just a bare modicum of time to 
spend at each." 
"No, I want a real home, and I shall stay at 
it so much that I shall miss its familiar charms 
when I go away. I sometimes think of the wan- 
dering life I should lead with Mrs. Davis. She 
was at Washington, then at Havana, then Palm 
Beach, and' has insisted that I should go abroad 
with her the last of May." 
"Would you like to go ?" asked Mrs. Howard. 
"Not to be married off," laughed Juliet in an 
amused fashion. "That seems her greatest 
trouble about me, and she strives to impress me 
with the fact that men are not looking for edu- 
cated women, but those who are attractive and 
stylish." 
"She is one of the most restless of women, 
though it is true that Mr. Davis seems to have 
business everywhere. But they seldom travel in 
the same direction. And I have been about so 
much searching for healthful places that when I 
do get settled down I am afraid I shall be hard 
to move. I sometimes think Mr. Howard would 
have lived as long with home comforts and quiet, 
as to be wandering about from place to place. 
Still, 'All that a man hath will he give for his 
life ;' " and she sighed softly. 
Helen was much interested in the description 
of the Manor, and Overcliff , which was on higher 
ground, while the Manor stood at the end of 
the long beautiful slope. The Newells came 
every summer for two or three months. That 
made her think about Daisy. One little note had 
reached her and been speedily answered, and that 
was all. 
Mrs. Howard was much pleased with Juliet's 
proteges and evinced a warm sympathy in their 
lonely lot. 
"And how often one meets with people who 
 
have hardly a near relation. I am alone Helen 
is an orphan, and these too—" 
"And Miss Kent and Miss Logan, and that 
Miss Weir and Miss Bradbury," interposed Helen 
laughingly. "Why we are almost an orphan 
asylum. Yet we are not positively doleful." 
"I do not think you are of the doleful order," 
replied Mrs. Howard. "I am sure we shall be 
counting on your coming. But Juliet and I can 
plan for an entertaining summer, and we shall 
hardly be dull when winter comes." 
They were fain to make Helen promise to 
come to them at once, but there were several 
calls elsewhere. Mrs. Bell was pleading for a 
visit. Then it would never do to put Hope off to 
the last. And there would be college prepara- 
tions to make. 
"Unless I flunk at the last moment, which 
would be horrible indeed," cried Helen, but there 
was no misgiving sound in her voice. 
"There is a most beautiful garret to the Manor 
house," declared Mrs. Howard ; "and one cham- 
ber to sleep in. You shall have the sole use of 
it if misfortunes overtake you and you are com- 
pelled to retire to solitude to disentangle your 
brain from the cobwebs of too much pleasure." 
"You might it appear very attractive," replied 
the girl brightly. 
"She's just splendid/' declared Helen as they 
were walking back from the station after saying 
good-bye to Mrs. Howard, "I can't get quite 
resigned to not having you in college, but you 
will be very happy with her, I know. She has 
such a sweet, motherly way it goes to one's heart. 
I don't wonder that she made a deep impression 
on you. And though the world in general insists 
that women can't agree for any length of time, 
you as an advanced woman must disprove the 
statement." 
"I am so glad and thankful to have a mother- 
friend, and a real home. And do you think I 
have a bad disposition?" 
They both laughed at that. 
"Is the lady, Mrs. Howard, going to be your 
new mamma ?" Wilma asked Juliet that evening. 
"I like her very much, but do you suppose she 
will have love enough for us all if we go to 
live with you?" 
"Oh, she has a large share of love. She will 
not be my mother exactly, but you may like her 
for a grandmamma." 
"I think I will like that better," returned the 
child with a long breath of satisfaction. 
CHAPTER XVII 
TURNING THE LEAF OF GIRLHOOD 
"Only three weeks of the term left !" 
"And hardly a girl has decided on her col- 
lege." 
"Miss Anderson is going to Vassar.' 
"There are such hosts of girls at Vassar. I'd 
rather be in a smaller one." 
"Oh, you poor, hard-worked being !" cried 
Polly Henderson. "Why, I wouldn't go to col- 
lege for a fortune unless my lover was recreant 
and I heart-broken. No, I believe then I'd hide 
my grief in a convent. And to think my lover is 
waiting with bated breath — isn't that the state 
the hero is in generally? and mamma is getting 
my trousseau ready as far as she can. And 
there's a delightful journey to Europe — " 
"After us the deluge," said some one senten- 
tiously. 
"Oh, I don't want any deluge until I get back," 
cried Polly with mock apprehension. 
They were going so many different ways and 
with different plans. Some were to be home 
girls, two were to teach as soon as places could 
be obtained, and some were undecided. 
"If it wasn't for the name of the thing I'd 
be a milliner. I can just dream out the most 
ravishing hats. Lady Something in London has 
some rooms and charges immense prices. I don't 
believe she can make a better bow than I can. If 
I had a title I wouldn't mind." 
"Labor ipse voluptas." 
"No, it isn't a pleasure either. Quote Italian 
for pleasure." 
So they chattered. Miss Logan came around 
to Helen. 
"Have you decided?" she asked. 
"No. I am going up to Vassar with a friend 
just for a view and a consideration. Then there's 
the Women's College at Baltimore, and Mount 
Holyoke. O dear, it is the embarrassment of 
riches." 
"I'd like to study the domestic sciences at Win- 
throp. Anything with domestic to it is like the 
saucepan handle to me, something good and 
strong to take hold of. But you see Kate de- 
sires something that will lead up to medicine, 
laboratories and all that. And we both want com- 
parative cheapness, so long as it isn't too cheap. 
And a place where they don't give teas and par- 
ties all the time, and you have to get costly 
changes of raiment." 
"I have to think a little of that myself," re- 
turned Helen smilingly. 
"And your friend is not going?" 
"No. In some respects I am very sorry. But 
it is better for her. And she has an opportunity 
to have a most delightful home." 
"And is she really going to take those little 
Gartney children?" 
"Not exactly. They are to be educated here 
and spend their vacations with her. Mrs. Al- 
dred and she are made guardians, and a man 
friend looks after their money." 
"And their step-mother has gone to Europe." 
"We had not heard of that," in surprise. 
"There was a little item in this morning's 
paper. I suppose she was beautiful, and she 
will soon pick up another husband. Well, the 
children really were nothing to her, I fancy, and 
they are fortunate in falling into Mrs. Aldred's 
hands. I never knew much about boarding 
schools. Kate came here because the certificate 
admitted to college, and she's studied like a 
Trojan. Surely this is the loveliest place one 
could well imagine. It is like a beautiful little 
world. There's a largeness about it, a kind of 
honor that makes a good, robust character. I 
suppose there will always be some silly girls, 
where the graces and accomplishments are taught, 
and they ought to be for women. I've been 
learning how much they add to any one. You 
know you can spoil truth by making it disagree- 
able, and you can make it very attractive without 
adding anything that is not true. And bright, 
neat, pretty attire makes a smile still more lovely. 
Oh, you do feel more like smiling with a con- 
sciousness that you look well." 
"That is true enough," rejoined Helen. 
"This has been such a happy year that I am 
almost afraid to go away. I don't believe I ever 
can find another place like it. And since happi- 
ness is such a blessed thing I am going to try to 
deal some of it out to others. That is one of 
the lessons I've learned. It doesn't take very 
much sometimes to add a joy to sombre life." 
"And that is another excellent thing to keep 
in mind." Helen felt that she needed to try 
also. 
"O dearl we must go to our studies or we 
never will pass. Kate is pegging away, bound 
to succeed. I just wish we were through. But 
then, there's that other study. However, we 
can be living together in the city then, in two or 
three rooms, and oh, how many times we shall 
say — 'Do you remember this at Aldred House, or 
that little happening?' There, good-bye and 
study." 
She gave a soft, cheerful laugh, and almost 
danced away. She had a really pretty laugh. 
Helen took her book and went out of doors, find- 
ing a rustic seat. But somehow she could not 
study. The birds were flinging melodious notes all 
about, the leaves were dancing, now catching the 
sunshine, now hiding from it, the purple Canter- 
bury bells were nodding and frisking, the roses 
and carnations made the air fragrant with now 
and then a pungent breath of the firs and cedars. 
Yes, it had been a happy year to her. She, 
too, had learned some lessons. Not to judge too 
hastily, not to claim too much. An old couplet 
flashed through her mind — 
Love compelling love to pay, 
Sees him bankrupt every day. 
No one person could go gathering all the blos- 
soms of love for himself. God had so ordered 
it. Like the heavenly manna, there was enough 
for each a share, and it was many of the little be- 
tweens that join this and that in the perfect 
chain, the words that made remembrance sweet. 
There were treasures to lay up for the com- 
ing womanhood so that it might not take her 
unawares. Strength and truth of character, and 
the broad purposes of a useful life, the interests 
that would drive out trivialities, yet keep the 
sweetness of all social graces that could render 
life blessed to others. 
Helen had the valedictory. "I almost feel like 
crying over it," she declared to Miss Aldred. 
"And what if I should break down?" 
"My dear girl, we shall all be sorry to let you 
go, but there will be your career to watch with 
pride." 
"If I were going to be a Doctor, or study law 
or go into literature — " regretfully. 
"Yet teaching is the key note. You may help 
girls to all of these." 
Margaret Holden was the class poet Her peo- 
ple were rich enough to afford her the leisure to 
cultivate her talents ; Nora Westwood was the 
beauty, tall and striking, yet she had hardly 
created the interest that Daisy Bell had last 
year ; Edith Ray was going home to care for an 
invalid father and a flock of motherless children, 
and so the destinies ran on. 
Miss Kent made an absolute protest about 
wearing a white graduation dress, but was over- 
ruled of course. The warm weather gave the 
 
short hair at the edge of her forehead a tendency 
to curl, when she was persuaded not to brush it 
back so severely, and it did soften her face. In- 
deed every girl admitted to each other, that if 
she should outlive her rigid notions she might 
not be so bad after all. 
The two friends were to remain in Westchester 
for awhile and had secured a pleasant boarding 
place and made an excellent friend in Mr. Dan- 
forth. 
"For I shall have to study up in a good many 
things," said Miss Logan. "And my little shanty 
is hired out to a man who wants to buy it It 
would be folly to go back there and be questioned 
and commented on by everybody, and advised to 
put your money to a better use, and hear all 
the little gossip of a narrow country place. Why, 
I don't think I could breathe there now!" and 
Miss Logan's face and voice were full of humor. 
Commencement was peerless, it always was at 
Aldred House. There was an influx of guests 
and the exercises were highly complimented. 
Helen bore herself bravely, though some of the 
girls surreptitiously wiped a few tears from their 
eyes. 
Mrs. Danforth sought her out afterwards. 
"I hardly had time to come," she said to 
Helen, "but I wouldn't have missed it for any- 
thing. No one really can estimate the good Mrs. 
Aldred does in training young women for useful 
lives. But Gordon wrote that I must remember 
and tell him everything about you. I shall be so 
sorry to have you go ; but I suppose we shall see 
you now and then. You can't quite forget us." 
"Indeed I shall not," Helen replied from her 
full heart. She colored too at the thought of the 
remembrance and interest of Gordon Danforth, 
and the old refrain passed through her mind. 
"It is such a pleasure to have your children 
do well," and there was a lovely light shining in 
the mother's eyes that Helen wished Gordon 
might see. "And I think you can estimate them 
pretty truly by the kind of girls they admire, and 
their companions. He thought so much of that 
Travis family. I do suppose they were charm- 
ing." 
"Indeed they were," Helen replied warmly. 
"And he was so sorry not to come home this 
summer. Well, I shall write him a nice long 
letter to-day," said the mother. 
There was a good deal of confusion to be sure, 
and some sad farewells. The dinner table showed 
many vacant places, and the girls gathered in a 
group afterward. 
 
"I don't know why/' Helen said, "but I feel 
quite as if I was coming back in the fall. I can't 
realize that I am going somewhere else to work 
and study. And oh, wouldn't it be odd if I should 
come back here and teach, and sink gently into 
declining womanhood ? Isn't that a pretty way to 
put it?" and she laughed archly. 
"You won't be likely to decline alone," declared 
Miss Logan with a face brimful of mirth. "You'll 
have lovers and lovers. You'll come out of col- 
lege and step into a wedding gown." 
"I don't know about that. Why, I haven't even 
an ideal. I never even had any boy admirers." 
"Oh, yes, there was Jim," returned Juliet gayly. 
"If they're going to be like that I should run 
away." 
"And who was Jim?" asked Miss Logan. 
"A big boy who thought himself a young man, 
and who bored me terribly," Helen answered 
with some impatience. "If they are all like that 
I do not want any of them." 
"They grow up into men and improve, get a 
little sense, at least some of them do. But it 
is safe to have an ideal. It is like a yard stick 
and you can measure every one with it. Of 
course they'll fall short, and therein lies salvation. 
But one reason I have liked to be with you two 
girls, and I dare say I have often bored you, is 
that you do not talk of lovers incessantly. I 
know I am doomed to be an old maid. Does that 
amuse you?" glancing at Helen in perfect good 
nature. 
"I was thinking of a Miss Lane who taught 
when I was first here. She was twenty-nine, if I 
remember, and the girls had settled her fate for 
her. But she married a really fine clergyman to 
their surprise." 
"Twenty-nine. Then there is almost seven 
years' grace for me ;" and Miss Logan turned 
away laughing. 
Juliet had arranged to take most of Helen's 
things away with her. She was to have a room 
with her own pictures and gift articles, and they 
would arrange it when she came, which would not 
be in several weeks. Mrs. Bell had written 
urgently for her, and she must visit Hope. 
"We will study over the colleges then," Juliet 
said, "so have a nice care-free time. But I shall 
grudge every day." 
The children were very eager to go to their 
new home. "It almost seems as if we might find 
papa there," Elma said plaintively. "Can't you 
ever come back when you are dead?" 
 
"You will go to him sometime, in his new 
home. Heaven/' Juliet said softly. 
"And we shall have him quite to ourselves/* 
drawing a long breath of content. 
Helen had a tender and delightful talk that 
last evening with Mrs. Aldred, who realized that 
this girl had grown very dear to her. She had 
enough mental equipment to make a mark any- 
where, and that it might not be spoiled, that she 
might keep her own sweet, truthful, generous 
self, her sweet readiness to do the things God 
placed in her way, for life was not all clear sail- 
ing, as she had learned, and it took wisdom and 
patience to guide the little barque of life aright. 
To be able to think correctly and unselfishly, to 
educate the conscience as well as the will and the 
intellect, to be so pure and strong that the de- 
light of life should come in compassion, tender- 
ness, and that high graciousness that thinketh 
no evil, that loveth the neighbor as one's self. 
There were tears in Helen's eyes as Mrs. Al- 
dred kissed her good night. She had not always 
deserved the praise. There was a profound humil- 
ity in her heart. 
Juliet was placing some last things in a trunk. 
"There was a time a few weeks ago, Juliet, 
when I was very unjust to you, more deeply in my 
heart than any words confessed just then. I shall 
miss you very much out of my life, but I do not 
think any one will ever be dearer. And if you 
will take me as a sister, and let me redeem — " 
"Oh, hush, Helen," she interrupted. "If you 
had not loved me there would have been no 
soreness. If I could have felt it best there would 
have been no parting of the ways ; but it was im- 
pressed upon me by the Giver of all good that 
I must be of some use in His great world. And 
if you will accept my love and hope, and let us 
keep the same warm interest in each other's lives, 
you will give me the greatest happiness." 
Both voices trembled a little, both eyes were 
dewy with tears. Out of the girl-fancies this was 
true friendship. 
The next day each went her way. She could 
not well refuse Mrs. Bell's urgent appeal and 
Willard was waiting for her at the station. 
"I was so afraid some of those girls would get 
hold of you first," he declared. "I can hardly 
believe in my good luck." 
"But I promised your mother," she replied. 
"And you certainly are a girl of your word," 
with an appreciative smile. 
Mr. Bell came to join them, and when they 
reached home Helen found Mr. and Mrs. Hollis 
 
had come over to stay all night. What a sweet 
and gracious woman Mrs. Hollis was, an ideal 
clergyman's wife, Helen thought. Willard sat 
on her side of the table at dinner, and his small 
attentions brought the color to her cheek. Why 
should there be any uncomfortable consciousness? 
She wondered I 
They had a most delightful evening. Mrs. 
Bell thought her improved in some indescribable 
manner, and she came very near to the mother's 
heart 
They went over to Woody Crest the next day. 
The rectory had been finished simply, and yet it 
had a decidedly picturesque aspect. Mr. Hollis 
had a fine library and many of the books were 
splendidly bound, "too beautiful to use," Helen 
said. And then they held an animated talk on the 
true uses of beauty, and the ability to appreciate 
it in its highest significance as in purity, and in 
raising the standard of many things, in making, 
doing right, and seeking good, attractive ways, 
instead of the hard and cold, but always keeping 
to the line of truth. 
"That young girl has a fine mind," Lawrence 
Hollis said to his wife. "But unless she has a 
deal of reserve strength I am afraid she will not 
come out of college with as high ideals." 
"I think it needs girls of just such ideals to 
go to college. They may have an influence for 
the very best over others." 
"She is the kind of girl to be set in a home 
and exert her influence there. High-minded 
women striving to do their best are needed in 
the homes of to-day where there is so little desire 
for anything save pleasure. Marjorie, it is a pity 
Willard is not a few years older. What an ad- 
mirable .couple they would make." 
"And yet they say women do all the match- 
making," laughed Marjorie. 
Daisy and her husband had started for Japan 
and were to go round the world. 
"Though I expect you get enthusiastic letters," 
Mrs. Bell remarked, "Daisy was so sorry not to 
have her dearest friends apprised of her wedding, 
but it came so sudden, I really did not know how 
to consent to it. Well, I hope all will go well 
with them. But I should have been better pleased 
if we could have kept her six months longer." 
Helen would not say that she had received only 
one brief note from Daisy. Long ago she had 
learned the pain that even truthful admissions 
might give. 
And there were so many delightful subjects to 
talk over, for Helen soon discerned that there was 
 
a sense of discomfort in Daisy's marriage and 
tried not to notice that. The little grand-daughter 
was a great source of interest, and the mother 
came up every week or two with it. 
Willard came home early, and they often went 
to drive. He was very earnest in getting through 
his law studies, and sure of his position after- 
ward. 
"It is such a fine, honorable firm," he declared 
proudly. "They never do any dirty work, but it 
is curious how many people come to them for it, 
and try to conceal the real point at issue. Mr. 
Fiske never pleads, but Mr. Ryder is very elo- 
quent, though he will never take criminal cases. 
There is so much business in the large estates 
nowadays." 
"Honor and integrity are fine foundation 
stones for a man's character and for his life," 
Helen returned enthusiastically. 
He had seen considerable of the Travis fam- 
ily through the winter. The Osbomes had a 
lovely home. Annie had several admirers and he 
fancied she would soon make her choice. Jim 
was still at the Institute, but now was a base ball 
fiend, and had done splendid work in several 
games, and won two trophies. 
So passed the week all too fast. They were 
eager to have her stay, but there was so much to 
do, so many to visit who would feel hurt by her 
neglect. 
"I wish there were not such a host of them," 
Willard remarked pettishly. 
"You would not like to be ruled out I" she re- 
turned with spirit. 
"But we are old friends. Mother loves you 
so. Why, Helen, you take Daisy's place. You 
are really a daughter of the house." 
They were out on the old porch steps. Helen 
was startled with a vague uneasiness. Then she 
said laughingly — "You are the newest friends of 
all. The Hope people I have known always, that 
is most of them, and Miss Craven came to school 
soon after I did. Then I have to go there to set- 
tle some matters pertaining to college." 
"Oh, you will do well enough without going 
to college. Lawrence thinks so. I wish I was 
— well about five years older." 
"Oh, no, one gets old fast enough.** 
"Can you guess what I would do?" in a very 
earnest tone. 
"Start in making a fortune f in a gay voice. 
"I should ask you to marry me.' 
"Willard !" with a strand of indignation. 
"Well — I'd have the right in five years." 
 
"If I hadn't— if I wasn't," confusedly. 
"You haven't any lovers, I know. College girls 
don't get them easily, I believe, though they're 
sometimes awful flirts. And if you will promise 
to wait until we're both older — " 
"I will not promise anything." She tried to 
rise, but he held her back. "Don't be angry, 
Helen, I think I've loved you since that first 
summer you were here, and I'm not sure but it 
put ambition in me to get to a place where I 
would have the right to say it. No one could 
be dearer to father and mother than you. Father 
really covets you. Oh you don't know how we 
talk of you, and what a pleasure it is to him. I 
know we are young and all that, and I didn't 
quite mean to say this, but you know it now and 
I am not ashamed of it. When I meet other girls 
I say in my heart — Helen is the most splendid 
of them all." 
"Oh, I wish you had not, that you did not — " 
she rose then, but he still held her hand. 
"But I have. I am not asking you to be en- 
gaged, only I am glad to have you know this. 
Oh, Helen, you really are innocent as a baby. 
I've done dozens of little things that would 
make a girl feel sure, but you don't under- 
stand—" 
"I don't want it so. I can't have it so," she 
cried vehemently, her cheeks a flaming scarlet. 
"It is so nevertheless. I know you haven't been 
thinking of love, but I've had it right before me 
for so long. Marjorie and Larry are splendid 
lovers. I think I did not quite like Mr. Duer, he 
was too extravagant, but it seemed to suit Daisy. 
