these three weeks of almost open-air life, much heat, and uninterrupted
freedom, and carried his tall, thin figure with military erectness,
while his keen eyes seemed always laughing and there was a tinge of
color in his dark face. He now not only looked the handsome, highly
bred, intelligent Englishman who might have had an Italian or Spanish
ancestor, but his magnetism was alive again, and the observant Catalina
noticed that women stared at him and occasionally lay in wait.
The hotel in Madrid where they were all stopping was full of travellers
and of deputies, many of whose wives were handsome, and dressed like
women who looked to life to furnish them with much amusement. Catalina
speculated and occasionally flew into a rage; for this trip in Spain he
was all hers, if she never saw him again, and she was ready to spit fire
upon possible rivals.
She was not in her most amiable mood to-day. The hotel was on the Puerta
del Sol, the noisiest plaza in Europe. If the throngs that haunt it ever
go to bed they must get up again at once, and Catalina, whose rest was
broken, wondered how Spain had ever acquired the reputation for
indolence. Moreover, it was quite true that the horrors of the bull-ring
had haunted her almost to the point of obsession, and as she was too
philosophical to wish the done undone, she took refuge in wrath against
herself for not meeting the inevitable with her usual stolidity. She
prided herself greatly upon her Oriental serenity, and looked upon her
temper as a mere annex, which, no doubt, would be absorbed in time.
She turned suddenly with a little frown.
“There’s an end to our travelling third. I broached the subject last
night, and Mrs. Rothe looked as if I were stark mad. She has no snobbish
scruples, but I suppose the poor thing has never been uncomfortable in
her life. She asked me politely if I could not afford to go in the luxe
that runs between here and Granada once a week, and, of course, I had to
admit that I could. But I hate it. Couldn’t we go third and meet her
there?”
“I am afraid we have no good excuse—and it would take nearly two days by
the slow trains. I rather think you should be thankful for the solution
of Mrs. Rothe.”
“You need not preach. I am. But when I come back to Europe I’m going to
pretend to be a widow and travel by myself.”
“Are you so in love with liberty?”
“Yes, I am.”
“Well, I have always thought highly of it myself,” he said, lightly.
“How do you like Mrs. Rothe, on the whole? Don’t you find her a good
sort, in spite of her foibles?”
“Follies, I should call them. Yes, I like her, if only because she has
taught me that a person may be foolish and yet be wise; decorate herself
like a cocotte and yet be a lady; violate half the rules one has been
brought up on and yet be more estimable than the wholly virtuous—Cousin
Miranda, for instance.”
“Those would be dangerous deductions for some girls, but you have a
ripping strong head. You ought to be as grateful for that as for your
beauty.”
“I wish you’d stop preaching.”
“I never preached in my life,” he said, indignantly. “I was merely
thinking aloud—uttering an obvious fact. I might add that I wish your
temper was in the same class with your good looks and common-sense.”
“Well, it isn’t. Do you approve of second marriages?”
“Never given a thought to the subject. If ever I married it would not be
with the divorce court among the future possibilities.”
“I was not thinking of divorce—although Mrs. Rothe, in a way, suggested
the question. But I wonder how it feels to be married to a second man,
especially if you were in love with the first—and most youthful
marriages are for love. I picked up an old volume of Hawthorne the other
day and came across the phrase, apropos of a second marriage, ‘the
dislocation of the heart’s principles.’ You never forget a phrase like
that. And I have been wondering.”
“One is so different at twenty-five and thirty-five. It is almost like
being reborn. And so many youthful marriages result in disillusion and
disappointment you can hardly blame the victims for taking another try
at it. There is such a thing as sacrificing too much, and I fancy Mrs.
Rothe has. Still, there is something magnificent in the big gambler, and
Mrs. Rothe must have more courage than weakness to stake all on one
throw.”
“I don’t know that I blame her if she never was happy before; but
sometimes first love is real love—I mean, of course, when it is; mere
fancies don’t count. But if one has any brain and a moderate amount of
experience, one must know when one has been through the real thing. I am
thinking now of two people who have been married long enough to find
out. It is, no doubt, a matter for speculation before that; and that is
the reason so many girls marry and are happy, even though they have
broken their hearts several times—you see, women live the life of the
imagination until they can live in fact. But when one has actually lived
for some years with a man and loved him and he dies—that is what I mean.
Don’t you think it is the second-rate person who marries again? I have a
theory, in spite of Hawthorne, that mistaken marriages don’t count—I
mean so far as the soul, the inner life, is concerned,—but that the real
one counts forever, and that consolement with another partner
presupposes shallowness and a lack of true spirituality. Fancy being
equally happy and in deepest accord with two men. It is disgusting.”
“It certainly is unideal. And every Jack has his Jill. I don’t doubt
that—don’t in the least believe a man could be equally happy with any
one of a hundred charming and intelligent women—not if he wanted the
best out of life. But it is fortunate, perhaps, that the majority don’t
do any deep imagining. Then you think yourself capable of being faithful
to a memory?” he added, curiously.
“I know I could be—and happy, in a way; certainly far happier than if I
settled down into a commonplace content with another man. It is the
inner life that counts, nothing else.”
“How do you know these things?”
“How did you know you would be brave in battle before you were ever in
one?”
“Didn’t. Was awfully afraid I’d funk it.”
“Well,” she said, laughing, “perhaps that wasn’t a fortunate comparison.
But one can have intuitions without experience, especially if one lives
a more or less solitary life, and thinks. However, I have visions of
myself as an old maid on the ranch with half a dozen adopted children.
Falling in love is too hard work.”
“Is it?”
“Well—it has always seemed so to me.” She colored, more angry with
herself than with him. “I don’t pretend to any great amount of
experience, but you are so ridiculously literal.”
“You make cocksure assertions, and then get in a rage if I treat them
respectfully. When I don’t, you hiss at me like a snake. I don’t
complain, however, for I am now a qualified and hardened subject for
matrimony.”
“I suppose you mean that I will make all other women seem like angels.
You will have something to thank me for.”
“If any man ever has the courage to propose to you, and you bend so far
as to accept him, and his courage carries him as far as the altar, is it
your intention to nag him through life as you have nagged me in the past
three weeks?”
“Have I nagged you?” She turned her wondering eyes upon him. “I never—so
I thought—have treated any one so well.”
“Great God!” But he was nonplussed at her sudden change of front, as he
always was. “There have been times,” he continued in a moment, “when you
have been quite the most charming woman in the world.”
Her wondering eyes were still on his, the rest of her face as immobile
as the Sphinx. He blundered along.
“I have been on the verge of proposing to you more than once.”
“Why didn’t you?”
“You have a way of breaking the spell just at the critical moment. I am
never sure whether the you I am sometimes in love with is really there
or only assumed, like one of your rarely worn gowns. There are times
when I think you have every possibility, and others when I believe you
to be merely a more subtle variety of the American flirt.”
“Well, I’m sorry you didn’t propose,” she said, sedately. “Now I suppose
you never will. You would have been quite a feather in my cap.”
“That means you would not have accepted me?”
“Did you imagine I would?”
“There have been times when I did.” He was now goaded into boldness.
“Well, you’re just a conceited Englishman!” she cried, furiously. “If I
thought you meant that I’d never speak to you again!”
“Now I know where I am,” he said, serenely. “This, after all, is the
only you I am at home with.”
“Well, don’t speak to me again for twenty-four hours. I can’t stand you.
Thank Heaven, there is the train!”
Some hours later he found her sitting at the drawing-room window of the
hotel looking down upon the most characteristic sight in Madrid—the
afternoon procession of carriages.
From four o’clock until any hour of a fine night, while the national
stew simmers on the back of the stove, the wealth and fashion, and those
that would be or seem to be both, drive out the Calle de Alcala to the
great paseos and parks, and back through the narrow Carrera San Jeronimo
in an unbroken line that bewilders the eye and creates the delusion of
an endless and automatic chain. There are more private carriages in
Madrid than in any city in the world, and in bright weather their owners
would appear to live in them, indifferent to hunger or fatigue. Those
who have Paris gowns exhibit them, those who have not hide their poverty
under the always picturesque mantilla; but few are so poor as not to own
a turnout. A woman of any degree of fashion in Madrid will sell her
house if necessary, her furniture, her jewels, and live in two rooms
with one or no servant, but have her carriage and her daily drive she
will; for to lose one’s place in that distinguished chain would be to
lose one’s hold on the world itself. So long as they can see and be seen
daily in the avenues they love, bow to the same familiar faces, and
criticise the gowns of friend and foe, the olla podrida can burn and
the frock under the mantilla be darned and turned, the daughters
dowerless, and even theatre tickets unavailable. They have, at least,
the best in life; and then there is always the long morning in bed and
the bull-fight. And who would not envy a people so tenacious of the
desirable and so bravely satisfied?
Catalina was at the window on the Carrera San Jeronimo, and there was no
one else in the sala at the moment. Over approached in some trepidation,
not having been spoken to since the final word on the slope of the
Escorial; but Catalina, diverted by the bright birds of paradise on
their homeward flight, looked up and smiled charmingly. She wore one of
her white frocks, and a string of pearls in her hair, and stirred the
languid air with a large black fan. In a strong light she was always
beautiful, and in the late, sun-touched shadows of evening, with her
pretty teeth showing between the red, waving line of her lips, she
looked very sweet and seductive.
“I suppose I ought to apologize,” said Over, who had had no thought of
apologizing.
“You did say very rude things, but I squared them by losing my temper.
If we begin to apologize—” She shrugged her shoulders and lowered her
lashes to the hats and mantillas below.
He took the chair before her. “Let us talk it out,” he said. “What do
you think? Is this close companionship of ours going to end in love, or
are we the usual passing jests of propinquity? I admit I have never been
so hard hit in my life; but at the same time I am not completely
floored. Perhaps that is only because I am too contented in a way. If we
were separated for a time, I fancy I’d know.”
“Your sense of humor must have flown off with your national caution. I
never before heard of a man asking a girl to straighten out his
sentiments for him.”
“I don’t care a hang about traditions. If I love you I want to marry
you, and if I don’t I’d rather be shot. I am talking it out in cold
blood when I can, and this unromantic spot, with all that infernal
clatter down there, is as good a place as any. Besides, I don’t want you
to think that I am not capable of being serious—of appreciating you.
Life would be unthinkable happiness if we loved each other—”
“You take for granted that if you managed to reach the dizzy height, I
should arrive by the same train.” She spoke flippantly, but he saw that
she had broken the sticks of her fan.
“I told you once before to-day that I believed every Jack had his Jill.
If I loved you it would be for what you had in you for me alone—I know
what the other thing means. You are as much in doubt as I am. As for
myself, I perhaps would be sure if you were not so beautiful; but there
are times when you blind, and I don’t intend to make that particular
kind of a silly ass of myself.”
“Well,” said Catalina, rising, “I have a fancy we will find out in
Granada—by moonlight in the Alhambra and all that sort of thing. One
thing is positive—we are in the dark at present, and the conditions are
not illuminating. Here comes Mrs. Rothe.” As she moved off she turned
suddenly. “If you should continue indefinitely in this painful state of
vacillation,” she said, sweetly, “you may consider these two little
conversations decently buried. For my part, I like friendship, and we
have become quite adept at that.”
                                 XVIII
“This is Granada—Granada—Granada—and we are living in the
Alhambra—somehow I always pictured the Alhambra as a mere palace, not as
a whole military town where thousands lived; and to be actually
domiciled in one of its old streets—its old, steep, narrow, crooked
streets—I don’t quite realize it, do you?”
“I shall feel more romantic when I have cleaned up—and some one has
stolen my pipe.”
“Oh, I hate you!” said Catalina, but she forgot him in a moment.
She had persuaded Mrs. Rothe to go to a pension instead of a hotel—she
had heard of one frequented mainly by artists—and with less difficulty
than she had anticipated, for it was the season of travelling Americans,
and her erring but sensitive chaperon was weary of being stared at. The
front windows of the pension looked upon a street whose paving-stones
and walls had echoed the tramp of Moorish feet for nearly 1000 years,
and are still as eloquent of that indomitable race as if the Spanish
conquerors had never passed under the Gate of Justice. In an angle at
the back of the house was a garden with a long, latticed window in its
high wall, and beyond were the great shade-trees of Alhambra Park. There
was a sound of running water and the hum of drowsy insects, but it
seemed as quiet as a necropolis after the long flight from the station
behind the jingling mules into Granada, and the following drive over the
rough streets of the city up to the heights of the Alhambra.
Catalina’s room had windows on both street and garden, and she could
look down into Over’s room in the other side of the angle, on the floor
below. The garden, although the kitchen opened upon it, was full of
sweet-smelling flowers and rustic chairs, and at one end was a long
table where a man sat painting. There were no palms here, for Granada is
2000 feet above the Mediterranean and the eternal snows are on the
Sierras behind her.
“I suppose, then,” said Catalina, after a half-hour’s dreaming, “that
you don’t mind if I go for a walk without you?”
“Oh, do wait! I’m quite fit now.”
“I’ll meet you down in the street.”
On her way through the quaint, irregular house she met a tall,
fine-looking girl, who half smiled and bowed as if welcoming her to the
pension. For a moment Catalina wondered if by any chance her family
could have bought out the Spanish proprietors, but dismissed the
thought. The girl was not only unmistakably American, but of the
independent class. She wore a blue veil about the edge of her large hat,
and her ashen hair in a single deep curve on her forehead. Her white
shirt-waist and white duck skirt were adjusted with a perfection of
detail that suggested the habit of a maid or of time and concentrated
thought. Her features were good, and in spite of a hint of selfishness
and rigidity about the mouth, and a pair of rather cold gray eyes, her
smile was very sweet. But her claim to distinction was in her grooming,
her beauty mien, and in her subtle air of gracious patronage.
“She looks like a princess and yet not quite like a lady,” thought
Catalina. “What can she be?”
Over joined her, and as the two gray, harmonious figures walked down the
street Catalina turned suddenly and looked at the pension. The girl in
white was leaning from one of the upper windows. But this time the cool
gray eyes had no message for one of her own sex. They dwelt upon the
Englishman’s military and distinguished back. Catalina thrilled to the
vague music of unrest deep in some unexplored nook of her being. The
second response was a snapping eye which she turned upon Over.
“I met an American girl as I was coming out that I have taken a dislike
to,” she announced. “She has a most absurd patronizing manner, and looks
as if she were trying to be the great lady but couldn’t quite make it. I
prefer the Moultons, who are frankly suburban.”
“I thought the Moultons very jolly—poor souls. I suppose they have
reached the haven of an Atlantic liner by this.”
“Did you see that girl?” asked Catalina, sharply.
“What girl? Oh, in the pension, just now. I passed a rather stunning
girl on the stairs—but there are so many girls! Shall we wander about
outside a bit before getting the tickets?”
The great red towers of the Alhambra were before them, and Catalina
forgot the Unknown. There happened to be no one else in the Plaza de los
Aljibes as they entered it, and the afternoon was very warm and still.
They lingered between the hedges of myrtle, the flower best beloved of
the Moor, and disdaining the upstart palace of Charles V. looked
wonderingly at the featureless wall that hid so much beauty, and in its
time had secluded from the vulgar the daily life and gorgeous state of
the most picturesque court in Europe, and such harems of varied
loveliness as never will be seen again. Only the Tower of Comares,
rising sheer from the northern wall of the Assabica Hill, is as visible
from the plaza, as from the courts, of whose life it was once a part.
“It was from that window that the Sultana Ayxa la Horra, the mother of
Boabdil el Chico, let him down to the Darro with a rope made of shawls
so that he could escape from Granada before his dreadful old father
murdered him,” volunteered Catalina. “But of course you have read all
about it—there never was a more delicious book than The Conquest of
Granada.”
“Never heard of it, and am densely ignorant of the whole thing. You will
have to coach me, as usual.”
“Then I suppose you don’t know that we should have no Alhambra
to-day—hardly one stone on another—if it hadn’t been for Irving—an
American! How do you like that?”
“You know I have no race jealousy, and I had just as lief it had been
Irving as any other Johnny. What difference does it make, anyhow? We
have the Alhambra. It’s like bothering about who wrote Shakespeare’s
plays.”
“That doesn’t interest you?”
“Not a bit. The plays don’t much, for that matter. I’m glad our
literature has them, but all that sort of speculation seems to me a
crying waste of time and mental energy. Let’s have the lecture. What did
you say your black’s name was?”
“Black! Boabdil had beautiful golden hair and blue eyes.” And she
sketched the vacillating fate of that ill-starred young monarch while
they sat on a bench opposite the great façade of the Alcazaba, that once
impregnable citadel swarming with turbaned Moors. To Catalina they were
almost visible to-day, so vivid was her historical sense; and, as ever,
she caught Over in the rush of her enthusiasm. He always invited these
little disquisitions, less for the information, which he usually forgot,
than for the pleasure of watching the changing glow on Catalina’s so
often immobile face. Moreover, she was invariably amiable when roaming
through history. Her voice, in spite of its little Western accent, was
soft and rich and lingered in his ear long after she had fallen into a
silence which presented a contemptuous front to such masculine
artfulness as he possessed.
To-day, after they had passed through the little door of the Alcazaba,
she fell abruptly from garrulity into a state of apparent dumbness; but
Over walked contentedly beside her in the warm and fragrant silence of
the ruin. Except for the ramparts and the two great watch-towers where
the Moor had contemplated for so many anxious months the vast army and
glittering camp of Ferdinand and Isabella on the vega beyond Granada,
and the sheer sides of the rock on which the fortress was built, there
was little to suggest that it had once been the warlike guardian of the
palace. It rather looked as if it had been the pleasure-gardens of a
pampered harem, with its winding walks between terraces of bright
flowers, its fountains, overgrown, like the fragments of wall, with ivy,
and its grottos, always cool, and of a delicious fragrance; while from
every point there was a glimpse of snow mountain or sunburned plain.
After they had rambled in silence for an hour Catalina emerged from her
centres and suggested that they go up to the platform of the Torre de la
Vela. From that high point, famous for having been the first in Granada
to fly the pennons of Aragon and Castile, they saw the perfect rim of
hills and mountains that curve about the city and its vega. On the
tremendous ridges and peaks of the Sierras, no less than on the blooming
slopes of the lower ranges, there once were watch-towers and fortified
towns, the outer rind of the pomegranate which the Spaniards stripped
off bit by bit until they reached the luscious pith that so aptly
symbolized the delights of the Moorish stronghold. The fortresses are
gone, but the eternal snows still glitter, the Xenil is as silvery as of
yore, while the sloping city of Granada itself presents an indescribably
ancient appearance, with its millions of tiles, baked and faded by the
centuries into a soft, pinkish gray, its streets so narrow that one
seems to look down upon a vast roof, from which crosses and towers rise
like strange growths that mar the harmony of a scene otherwise perfect
in line and delicate color. The solitary tower of the cathedral rises
from the mass of roofs like a mere monument above the tombs of Ferdinand
and Isabella, who, for all they lie in consecrated stone, have ever
about them the phantom of the ancient mosque.
Above the roofs the very air was pink; and out on the shimmering vega to
the western hills the sun was seeking to pay his evening visit. On the
right, or north, of the Alhambra, across the river Darro, was the
Albaicin on a steep mountain spur, once both sister and rival of the
palace hill, “the whole surrounded by high walls three leagues in
circuit, with twelve gates, and fortified by 1030 towers.” It was, in
general, faithful to Boabdil el Chico, Catalina informed her companion,
thirsty for knowledge, and was the scene of terrific battles between
that whim of destiny and his unrighteous old father Muley Aben Hassan.
To-day it is given over to thousands of gypsies, who are faithful to
nothing but their nefarious and ofttimes murderous instincts. But by far
the most imposing objects in the extensive panorama, after the snow
mountains, were the ruined towers of the Alhambra itself. Besides the
three in the foreground, and Comares, or romantic memories, was a line
in varying stages of picturesque decay, extending along the precipitous
bluff overhanging the Darro. Between were gardens of glowing flowers,
narrow streets, ruined walls, wild patches of wood where the cliff-side
jutted; and on the south side of the Alhambra hill, parallel with the
Darro, the dense park of elms planted by the Duke of Wellington.
“There is the town of Santa Fé,” said Catalina, pointing to a speck on
the edge of the vega. “Ferdinand and Isabella caused it to be built when
they were in camp. The articles of Granada’s capitulation were signed
there, and their contract with Columbus. Over there in the Sierras,
somewhere, is the spot where Boabdil turned to take a last look at
Granada, and was reproached by his mother—who was far more of a man than
he was—for weeping like a woman for what he could not defend like a man.
When I was a child my mother used to sing me to sleep with ‘The Last
Sigh of the Moor.’”
And she suddenly trilled forth with an abandonment of sorrow which
startled Over more than any phase she had yet exhibited.
“‘Ay, nunca, nunca, nunca mas veré!’ That means, ‘Aye, never, never,
never more to see,’” she translated, practically. “How close it brings
the island of Santa Catalina, undiscovered by the tourist then, and our
lonely little inn! My mother always sang me to sleep in a big
rocking-chair, and my father sat by a student-lamp and read, frowning
until she had finished. It all seems a thousand years ago.”
“Did you miss your parents much?” asked Over, curiously.
For a second it seemed to him that he saw a window open in the depths of
her eyes. Then she turned her back on him. “I don’t live in the past,”
she said. “Let us go down into the park. It will be dusk in a few
moments, and the nightingales will sing.”
They lingered awhile among the terraces watching the sun go down, then
descended through the Gate of Justice into the park. There the steep
aisles were dim, there was the murmur of running water, and in a few
moments the nightingales burst forth into song.
Over and Catalina sat down on a grassy bank. There appeared to be no one
in the park but themselves. The man looked up, half expecting to see
turbaned heads and flashing eyes on the towers and ramparts above; or
the glittering cavalcade of Ferdinand and Isabella crowding through the
Gate of Justice; or the faithless wife of Boabdil stealing out to her
fatal tryst with Hammet of the Abencerrages. In the warm duskiness of
the wood under the watch-towers and ramparts, and the fountain of
Charles V. beside them, the music of nightingale and distant waters
thrilling the soft, voluptuous air, it was easy to imagine that the
walls of Granada had yielded to neither the Spaniard nor to time. They
were the most romantic moments he had ever known; and the Alhambra is
the most romantic ruin on earth, the one where the modern world seems
but a bit of prophetic history, and 400 years are as naught.
But there came a moment when he retraced his flight and stole a glance
at Catalina. If she were as thrilled with the sense of his nearness as
he with hers in these glades of teeming memories, she gave no sign. With
her head thrown back and eyes half closed she appeared to be drinking in
the delicious notes of the nightingales. She was quite as beautiful as
any of the captive sultanas who had whiled away the hours for their
fierce lords in the mysterious apartments above—and startlingly like.
Such women, white of skin, dark and sphinxlike of eye, with delicate
features and tender forms, were sought throughout the East to tempt the
sated appetite of the Moorish tyrants. Just so had women with wistful,
upturned profiles listened to the dulcet notes of the nightingale
floating down from the trees beside Comares into the spacious courts
beneath their narrow windows, dreaming of the lovers they would never
see. How like she was! In looks, yes; but he laughed outright as his
fancy pictured Catalina as even the reigning favorite of a harem where a
mistaken monarch sought to filch her of her liberty and bend her will.
His abrupt, half-conscious laughter rent the spell of the evening, and
Catalina sprang to her feet.
“I forgot to ask the dinner-hour,” she said. “But it must be time. I am
starved.”
She walked rapidly up the hill, and Over followed, conscious that he had
thrown away one of the exquisite moments of life, and hardly knowing,
now that the intoxication had passed, whether he would have it so or
not.
                                  XIX
They found the guests of the pension at dinner in the garden. There were
ten or twelve people at the table, and Over and Catalina were conscious
of a conspicuous entrance; and a certain familiar lighting of the eye in
those facing the door heralded them as a distinguished young couple on
their honeymoon. Catalina, whose spirits had ebbed far out, frowned and
took the vacant chair beside Mrs. Rothe, that at least she might not be
obliged to talk to a man, and Over sat himself beside the husband. In a
moment Catalina saw her mistake; there was but one person between her
cavalier and the blonde young woman who had inspired her with distrust.
The American girl sat at the head of the table with the air of a hostess
entertaining her guests. She was perhaps twenty-six, but she had the
aplomb of a woman who not only has been a gracious hostess for many
years, but has exacted and received much tribute. She wore a thin black
gown which became her fairness marvellously well, and had dressed her
smooth, ashen hair both high and low. Her long back was straight without
effort, and if her shoulders were a shade too broad her waist and hips
were less mature. Everybody else looked dowdy in comparison, even Mrs.
Rothe suffering an eclipse.
But if her toilette was triumphant, her manner was more so. On one side
of her sat a Frenchman, on the other a Spaniard, opposite Captain Over a
German, and she addressed each in his language, taking care that none
should suffer at the expense of the other; and it was manifest that they
all adored her. She was, in fact, a brilliant figure, and if her sweet
smile was somewhat mechanical, and her fine, gray eyes keen and
passionless, her swains were too dazzled by her manner and her handsome
appearance to detect the flaws.
Catalina cocked her ears, but found neither wisdom nor cleverness in the
remarks that fell from the thin, well-cut lips. It was the girl’s
linguistic accomplishment, her bright manner of saying nothing, and
willingness to hear men talk, that were responsible for the delusion
that she was a brilliant woman. Catalina’s curiosity could no longer
contain itself, and she turned abruptly to Mrs. Rothe and spoke for the
first time.
“Who is she?” she asked. “Have you heard?”
“Her name is Holmes, and I heard her sister, that dowdy little artist
over there, call her Edith.”
“I wonder who—what—she is?”
“Nobody in particular, I should think.”
“But she—she—dominates everything.”
“That is the American girl—a certain type. You’ll see a great many of
them if you go about enough. This specimen was born with a respectable
amount of good looks, a high opinion of herself, and some magnetism. On
her way through life she has acquired what some call autorité, others
bluff. She probably has no position to speak of at home—she never would
wear her hair in that Florodora lump on her forehead if she had—but she
has made a great deal of running in summer and winter resorts, and in
Europe. The study of her life is twofold: dress and how to please
men—while deluding them that they are graciously permitted to please
her. Her knack for languages stands her in good stead, her tact is
almost—never quite—perfect; for she too often makes the mistake of
snubbing women. She knows the value of every glance, she has a genius
for small talk and dress—probably she has not an income of a hundred and
fifty dollars a month, and her sister has to dress like a sweep to help
her out—and I should be willing to stake all I have that she dances to
perfection. She is the sort of girl that men delight to make a belle of,
not only because she flatters them and is always ‘all there,’ but
because she does them so much credit. But they usually are quite content
to swell her train, and forget to propose. What she is on the lookout
for, of course, is a rich husband; but every year she becomes more and
more the veteran flirt, more polished and mechanical, and less
seductive, and will end by taking any one she can get.”
“She is a type, then. I fancied her unique.”
“Dear me! There are hundreds like her.”
“All the same, I can’t take my eyes off her. She fascinates me. I don’t
like her—but I think I’d like to be like her.”
“Heaven forbid! She is a very second-rate person, my dear, and your
beauty is real, while hers is only a matter of effect. She fascinates
you because she is young and successful, and you see her like for the
first time. But she is nothing in the world but a man’s woman, and while
as chaste as an Amazon—I suppose Amazons were chaste—has probably been
engaged several times—the type is sentimental—I might add, experimental.
I caught Lolly hanging over her this afternoon, and she will doubtless
put him through his paces. It won’t hurt him; she is not the type that
men die for—not even what the French call an allumeuse—just a plain
American flirt.”
“She has style,” sighed Catalina.
“Of a sort,” said the New-Yorker, indifferently. Then she turned
suddenly to Catalina with the charming sympathy of glance and manner
that blinded her friends to the poor ruin of her face. “How you could
rout her if you would!” she said. “Don’t you know, my dear, that the
woman who receives that sort of promiscuous adulation is always the
woman who wants it, who works for it? Given a decent amount of natural
charm, and any determined woman can be a belle. But it means more work
and self-repression, more patience with bores as well as with the wary,
than you would ever give to it. And it means popularity with men and
nothing more; no depth of accomplishment or interest in anything vital;
and under that assumption of glorified independence she is really a
slave, afraid to relax her vigilance lest she lose her hold, never
daring to be absent-minded or careless in her dress. Of all the girls I
have ever known you have the least reason to envy any one—so banish the
cloud!”
Catalina glowed, and reminded herself of the opportunities thrust upon
her to be the belle of a season that she had spurned with less than
politeness; but in a moment her brows met and she lost her appetite.
Over had been drawn into the magnetic current at the head of the table.
Miss Holmes was leaning forward as if graciously permitting the stranger
to enter, yet herself lured by the wisdom—it was a comment on the
narrowness of Moorish streets—that flowed from his lips.
“What idiots men are!” thought Catalina, viciously. “I suppose if I hung
on his words like that he’d not hesitate a minute about being in love
with me. But I’d like to see myself!”
                                   XX
After dinner Catalina went up to her room to brush her hair—her head
ached slightly—and sit for a while by herself before the evening walk.
As a rule, she was the first to be down, but to-night she had a perverse
desire for Over to come or send for her. She was suddenly tired of
meeting him half-way, of being the frank, almost sexless, comrade; she
wanted to be sought and made much of. Miss Holmes might be a
second-rate, but she was an artist, and Catalina was not above taking a
leaf out of her book.
“I’d rather be a hermit and have smallpox than bother forever as she
does, according to Mrs. Rothe; and flatter men—not I! But I think I
should be more feminine and difficult.”
Her hands trembled a little as she burnished her hair, and once her eyes
filled with tears; but she brushed them off with a scowl, and still
refused to think. She had been too much with Over, and their friendship
had run too smoothly for her thoughts to have been tempted to revolve
about him when alone. There were times when she turned cold and then hot
if he came upon her suddenly, and his touch and glance had thrilled her
more than once. But she had kept it steadily before her that this was
but a summer friendship and that in a short time she would be in
California and he in England. It is true that her imagination
supplemented the separation with a meeting in one country or the other
not later than a year hence, but she had not permitted her mind to dwell
upon the significance of his audible self-analysis in Madrid, holding
that when a man doubted the depth of his sentiments the time had not
come to take him seriously. Moreover, to speculate upon the significance
of a man’s attentions was not only indelicate but put her in the class
with other girls, and nothing distressed her more than to approach the
average. Therefore, had she never sought to discover what lay beneath
her daily pleasure in Over’s society and her matter-of-fact assumption
that for the time he was hers.
Nor would she permit herself to analyze her sense of disappointment
to-night. Her soul had been floating on the high, golden notes of the
nightingales, and not alone; it had plunged down with a velocity that
left it sick and dizzy, but as Catalina banged the large pins into her
hair she still refused to demand the reason.
The people were talking in the garden. She shut her window overlooking
it and sat down before the one opposite. The moon had not risen; the
street, lit by a solitary lamp, was full of shadows. It was easy to
convert the shadows into swarthy men with turbaned heads and flowing
robes, but she was not in a historical mood. Even a man with a long
Spanish cloak folded closely about him and holding manifestly to the
heavier shadows failed to arrest her attention. In spite of her
admirable self-control her mind wondered uneasily why Over did not call
her, how he was occupied; for the time was passing.
Her eyes wandered to the height behind the Albaicin. There were lights;
they might be watch-fires. It was not so long ago that that turbulent
quarter had rung with the clamor of battle, of civil strife, that its
gates had been secretly opened to Boabdil in the night, and his father
or uncle been defied to come over and redden its streets. What were four
centuries?
“I shall always have that pleasure, that resource,” thought Catalina,
arrogantly. “I can always take refuge in the past on a moment’s notice.
Where on earth can he be? Does he suppose I don’t want to walk—as I
haven’t gone down? Or is he too interested—”
Her spine stiffened. She listened intently, then stood up silently and
looked down. Over and Miss Holmes were standing in the doorway of the
pension, talking. Catalina could not distinguish the words. Over had a
low voice of no great carrying power, and Miss Holmes had neglected none
of the charms that man finds excellent in woman. But he was leaning to
her words in a fashion that denoted interest, and oblivion of all else
for the moment. In a flash Catalina realized just how attractive he was
to women.
Still talking, they moved from the doorway into the street, and then
down in the direction of the palace. Catalina leaned out with a gasp,
hardly believing the evidence of her eyes. For a moment astonishment
routed other sensations. Was it possible that Over was on his way to
visit the Alhambra for the first time by moonlight with another
woman?—that he was going for his evening walk at all without her? Never
had he thought of doing such a thing before; they went off together,
frequently alone, every evening. Even in Toledo he had come directly to
the Casa Villéna after dinner, and sooner or later, by one device or
another, had managed to carry her off for a stroll. But there he was,
complacently walking down street with another woman, and not so much as
a backward glance. And the other woman had white lace about her head and
shoulders, and no doubt looked like a lorelei. The only beauty she had
ever heard Over praise was the beauty of fair women, which was as it
should be. And Englishmen laughed at American distinctions. If this girl
were second class, how was Over to find her out on a moonlight night in
a tricksy frame, how discover that she wore her hair like a shop-girl?
Doubtless, if he thought at all about the matter, he would elevate Miss
Holmes above herself in the social scale. She at least did not suggest
the cow-boy.
And still he did not turn his head. Perhaps he was only strolling for a
few minutes with the new acquaintance, waiting for his usual companion
to descend. Catalina leaned farther out. In a moment they passed the old
mosque and disappeared.
She fell back from the window, unable for a moment to think coherently;
the blood was pounding in her head. Her impulse was to run after them
and twist her rival’s neck. She panted with hate, with the desire for
vengeance, with the lust to kill. She stood like a wooden idol, but she
boiled with the worst passions of the ancient races behind her. She
conceived swift plans of vengeance. She would make friends with the
girl, poison her peace of mind, kill her if she could not inveigle her
into killing herself. The malignant, treacherous nature of the
aboriginal controlled her, obsessed her. Civilization fell away; she was
capable of the worst; she cared nothing for consequences. Literally, she
wanted the enemy’s scalp. Then, without premeditation, she wept
stormily, like an undisciplined child—or a savage—beside itself. And
then the obsession passed and she was horrified.
It was not thus her imagination had dwelt upon the great revelation. She
had visioned love among the stars, and had expected—groping, perhaps—to
find it there. But to discover it in a fit of jealous rage, writhing in
the most ignoble of the passions, her soul shrieking for revenge—she
descended to the depths of discouragement, humiliation. She doubted if
she were worthy of being loved even by a mere man—for the moment she
despised the entire sex for Over’s weakness and inconstancy. Of course,
like others, he had succumbed to this enchantress, who didn’t even wear
her hair like a lady, and was therefore unworthy of even the rage she
had flung after him. She longed to despise him so hotly that her love
would be reduced to a charred ember, and thought she had succeeded; then
it flamed all through her, and she sprang to her feet.
“There is one thing I can do,” she thought, and lit the candle. “I’ll
leave to-morrow. Never will I go through this again, and never will I
see him again if I can help it.”
She had the instinct of all wounded things, and a terror of the emotions
that had torn her. Pain she could stand, and had a dim foreshadowing
that in solitude she might attain that dignity of soul that sorrow and
meditation bring to great natures, but never the passionate conflict of
emotions that confused her now. As she locked her trunk there was a
knock on her door. She answered mechanically, and Mrs. Rothe entered.
“What—”
Catalina, who was sitting on the floor, sprang to her feet. Her hair was
disordered and her eyes red. There was no use attempting to conceal
anything from this keen-eyed woman, whose sufferings were stamped in the
loosened muscles of her face. She stood silent and haughty. She would
deny nothing, but nothing was further from her mind than confession.
“May I sit down?” asked Mrs. Rothe. “Have you a headache? I was afraid
you must have, as you did not come down.”
“My head doesn’t ache, but I am sick of Spain. I am going to start for
home to-morrow.”
“Oh, I am sorry. It will be dreary without you. And I thought it so
enchanting here. Can’t I induce you to change your mind?”
Catalina sat down on her trunk, but she shook her head. “I want to go
home,” she said.
Mrs. Rothe turned her kind, bitter eyes full upon Catalina. “Don’t run
away,” she said. “It is unworthy of you. And this means nothing. What is
more natural—he being a man—than that he should accept the minor
offerings of the gods when the best is not forthcoming? Moreover, when a
man has talked steadily to one girl for three weeks”—she shrugged her
shoulders—“that is the way they are made, my dear, the way we are all
made, for that matter, as you will discover in time for yourself. It is
better to accept men as they are, and early than late.”
“I never want to see another man again—and this was our first night in
Granada. There was—had been for weeks—a tacit understanding that we
should do every bit of it together—”
“But you disappeared. No doubt he thought you were indisposed—”
“I wanted him to come after me, for once.”
“Oh, my dear, men are so dense. When they love us desperately they
rarely do what we most long to have them. If I don’t sympathize with
you—well, I think of my own throes, not only at your age, but so often
after. It is so easy to fall in love, so difficult to remain there. You
can marry Over if you wish—and two or three years hence—the pity of it!”
“Do you mean that no love lasts?”
“In tenacious natures like yours it may. Nevertheless, there will be
times when he will bore you, get on your nerves, when you will plan to
get away from him for a time. A few years ago I still clung—in the face
of experience—to my delusions. Then I would have held your hand and wept
sympathetic tears. Now, I can only say, go in and win, but don’t break
your heart over an imagined capacity for love at an interminable high
pitch.”
“You must have loved Mr. Rothe when you married him,” said Catalina,
with curiosity, and feeling that Mrs. Rothe had opened the gates and
bade her enter.
“I did,” said the older woman, dryly. “For what other reason, pray,
would I make a fool of myself, and disgust and antagonize those whom I
had loved so long? What a fool the world is!” she burst out. “And
writers, for that matter! They are always harping on the death of the
man’s love, upon the punishment that will be visited upon the woman of
mature years who marries a man younger than herself! I am capable of the
profoundest feeling, and I have never been able really to love a man in
my life. I have deluded myself again and again, and invariably the man
has disappointed or disgusted me. This is my third husband. The first
died, but not soon enough to leave me with a blessed memory. The second,
whom I had found irresistible, developed into a gourmand with a bad
temper. I lived with him for fifteen years. When I met Rothe I was
forty, the beginning of the most critical period in the life of women of
my sort—when if not happy we would stake our souls for happiness. It
seemed to me that I could not continue to live without love, and yet
that I could not die unless I had, if only for a day, loved to the full
capacity of my nature. When I met Rothe and he fell head over heels in
love with me—I was a very handsome woman five years ago—I was at first
flattered; then his ardor struck fire in me and I made no effort to
extinguish it. It was what I had waited for, prayed for, and I
encouraged it, fanned the flame. I was convinced that it was the grand
passion at last; and I went out to Dakota. I gloried in the sacrifice,
gloated over it. And in spite of divorce and scandal I suppose I was
happy for a time.”
“And now?” asked Catalina, breathlessly. She had forgotten Over and Miss
Holmes. Never had she been so close to living tragedy. Mrs. Rothe, in
her negligée of pale yellow silk and much lace, her ruffled petticoat
and slippers of the same shade, indescribably fresh and dainty, and, in
the light of the solitary candle, a beautiful woman once more, was to
Catalina the very embodiment of “the world,” and for the moment far more
interesting than herself.
“Now! I hate the sight of him. I am bored beyond the power of words to
tell. I have to remind myself that he is not my son, and when I do not
long for my own son, who was far brighter, I long for a man of my own
age to exchange ideas with, who will understand me in a degree. There
are a few women with eternal youth in their souls, but I am not one of
them. I am tired of all his little habits; the very expression of his
face when he smokes a cigarette with his after-dinner coffee gets on my
nerves. I am sick of making-up and pretending to be interested in the
things that interest a young man. I want to be frankly myself—of course,
I should hate growing old in any case, but I am sick of being a
slave—that is what it amounts to when you don’t dare to be yourself. But
I must keep up the farce lest I lose him, and the world laugh and once
more remind itself of its perspicacity. I give him a long rope; he is
still fond of me; my pride mounts as everything else fades away. There
you are!”
Catalina had hardly drawn breath during this jeremiade. She no longer
had any desire to run from her own pain. After all, what had Over done
but take a walk with a strange girl in her own absence? She had beaten a
mole-hill as high as a mountain. But she could think of nothing to say.
In the bitter misery before her there was the accent of finality, and
comment would have been resented if heard.
“I have told you all this,” said Mrs. Rothe, “partly because the impulse
after five years of repression was irresistible, partly to show you that
the great tragedy of a woman’s life is when not the man, but she, ceases
to love. Better far death and desolation, and a great memory, than a
nature in ruins, and the magic that would rebuild gone out of hope
forever. As for you—congratulate yourself that you are able to feel and
suffer as you have done to-night. Over is a better sort than most. Marry
him and prove that you are of greater and finer stuff than I. I should
be delighted. And if this girl should develop into a rival of a sort,
welcome the stimulation, and show your mettle—”
“I won’t fight over any man!”
“Certainly not. Simply be more charming than she is. Nothing could be
easier. You could not make the mistake of eagerness if you tried, but
you can be obliviously delightful—and you know him far better than she
does, and have no machine-made methods. Now go to bed and sleep, and
ignore the episode in the morning. You went to bed with a headache and
neither knew nor cared what Over did with himself.”
                                  XXI
Thus it came about that the next morning, not long after dawn, Catalina
was leaning out of her garden window humming a Spanish air when Over
pushed aside his curtain and looked up expectantly.
“Coffee?” he whispered. She nodded. He pointed down to a little table in
the window in the wall. They stole like conspirators through the dark
house and down to the garden. Over was first at the tryst, and never had
he greeted her with such effusion. He held her hand a moment and gazed
solicitously into her eyes with an entire absence of humor as he
tenderly demanded if she had been ill or only tired the night before,
and assured her of his disappointment in being cheated of their walk.
His conscience hurt him, and he felt the more penitent as he saw that
disapproval in any of its varied manifestations was not to be his
portion. For Catalina looked nothing short of angelic. Her eyes were a
trifle heavy, as if with pain, but her beautiful mouth curled and
wreathed with sweetness. She wore for the first time a white blouse and
a duck skirt, and about her throat she had knotted a scarlet ribbon. The
fine, soft masses of her hair looked as if spread with a golden net that
caught the fire of the mounting sun, and she looked several years
younger, fresher, more ingenuous than Miss Holmes, though older than
herself.
She ground the coffee while he boiled the water, and when he alluded,
with an enthusiasm that was almost sentimental, to their first
coffee-making in Tarragona, recalling the solitary palm against the blue
sea, her face lit up and her lips parted. So, all in a night, had their
attitude of almost excessive naturalness towards each other dissolved
into the historic duel of the man and the maid. Both were acutely
sensible of the change, yet neither resented it, for it heralded the new
chapter and its unfolded mysteries. Catalina had the advantage, for she
understood and he did not; he only felt the subtle change, and the
conviction that she was even more provocative than during the episode of
the mantilla.
“No one in the world can make such good coffee,” she said, politely, as
she sipped hers and looked through the bars at the dark arbors of the
park. “I still had rather a headache when I awoke, but this is all I
need. Did you go for a walk last night?”
She held her breath, but he replied, promptly: “I walked round a bit
with Miss Holmes—that fair girl who sat at the head of the table. But
the moon rises late and there was nothing to see. I was in bed by ten
o’clock. I hope you will be quite fit to-night so that we can see the
Alhambra by moonlight together. I am very keen on that.”
“So am I,” and she gave him an enchanting smile, but without a trace of
self-consciousness. “How do you find Miss Holmes? I long to meet her.
She attracts me very much.”
“Oh, she is very jolly. Can talk about anything and has the knack of
your race and sex for putting a fellow quite at his ease. You are
certain to like her. She has given up her home life and wanders about
Europe for the sake of her sister, who is an artist; has a deuced fine
nature, I should say. What?”
“Nothing. Shall we take a walk? We can’t get the cards for the palace
for an hour or two yet.”
“I hoped you would feel like a jolly long walk this morning. We really
had no exercise yesterday, and after that ride from Madrid I feel as if
I’d like to be on my legs for a week.”
They walked for two hours along one of the country roads behind the
Alhambra, racing occasionally, glimpsing many beautiful vistas,
lingering for a while before the Generalife, the summer palace of the
Moorish kings; Catalina gloating over the profusion and variety of the
flowers, not only in the famous garden, but cropping out of every
crevice of the walls themselves. As they sat in the warm sunshine of one
of the terraces she gave him another little lecture on the history of
Granada in a curiously exultant voice that made him oblivious of the
useful information she imparted. Never had he been so attractive to her
as in this new rôle of the mere man endeavoring to propitiate his
goddess, and happiness bubbled and sparkled within her; if by chance
their eyes met her lashes played havoc with the expression of hers. She
radiantly felt that he belonged to her; she obliterated the future and
forgot the seductress. She informed Over that it was Granada, Spain, the
golden morning, that made her happy, and was careful to remove any
impression he might harbor that she was making an effort to please him;
for pride and a diabolical cunning stood her in the stead of experience.
She merely had put her moody, undisciplined side to rest and exhibited
in high relief her luminous, exultant girlhood; and Over stared and said
little.
But she was determined that if he did address her it should not be in
direct sequence to her wiles, for she had a passionate wish to be
sought, to be pursued. She would continue to dazzle him with the jewels
of her nature and make him forget the weeds and clay that had inspired
him with uneasiness, but she would go no further.
“Come!” she exclaimed, springing to her feet. “We can get into the
Alhambra now, and I simply cannot wait any longer.”
“Do you know,” she said, as they walked down the hill towards the
fortress, “I have had an uneasy sense of being watched ever since I came
here? I was conscious of it several times while we were exploring
yesterday, and last night as I sat by my window for a few moments before
I went to bed”—she stammered, caught her breath, and went on—“I felt it
again; and in the night I woke up and heard two men talking under my
window. I suppose there was nothing remarkable in that, but they stood
there a long time, and one of the voices, although it was pitched very
low, sounded dimly familiar. This morning, just before we reached the
high-road I had again the sense of being watched—I am very sensitive to
a powerful gaze.”
Over, who was probably afraid of nothing under the sun, was looking at
her in alarm. “You know I have always said that you must not go out
alone in Spain,” he said, authoritatively. “And there is danger quite
aside from your beauty. Not only are all Americans supposed by the
ignorant, rapacious lower classes of Europe to be phenomenally wealthy,
but Californians in particular. And doubtless California is a legend
with the Spaniard. I am not given to melodrama, but there is a desperate
lot over in the Albaicin.”
“I don’t see what could happen to me in broad daylight, and certainly I
am not going to run after you or ‘Lolly’ every time I want to go out.
What a bore!”
“Not for me. I wish you would promise—”
“Well, I’ll be careful,” she said, lightly. “I have no desire for
adventures of that sort. They must be horribly dirty over in the
Albaicin, and after our experience with Spanish banks it might be some
time before I could be ransomed.”
The Albaicin might be dirty and abandoned to wickedness, but they
decided, as they leaned over the parapet of the Plaza de los Aljibes
before entering the palace, there was no doubt of its picturesqueness.
Far beneath them sparkled the Darro, and beyond it, parallel with the
Alhambra Hill, rising from the plain almost to the very top of the steep
mountain spur, was another vast roof of pinkish-gray tiles. But here
they could distinguish one or two narrow streets, mere cuts in a bed of
rock, from their perch, and high balconies full of flowers between the
Moorish arches, a glimpse of bright interiors, the towers and patios of
a great convent where the nuns walked among the orange-trees and the
pomegranates, the roses and geraniums. Not a sound rose from the ancient
city; it might have been as dead as the turbulent race that made its
history. It lay steeping, swimming, in the pink light that seemed to
rise like a vapor from its roofs. It looked like some huge stone tablet
of antiquity, with hieroglyphics raised that the blind might read.
“I shall come and look at this in every light,” said Catalina, “so if I
disappear you will know where to find me.”
They entered the palace through the little door in the non-committal
wall, and, after bribing the guide to let them alone, lingered for a
time in the Court of Myrtles, where the orange-trees no longer grow
beside the pool, but where the arcades and overhanging gallery are as
graceful as when the court was the centre of life of the Comares Palace,
first in this group of palaces. Then, through an arcade that abutted
into a fairy-like pavilion, they entered the Court of Lions.
Probably the Alhambra is the one ruin in the world where the most ardent
expectations are gratified. From a reasonable distance the restored
arabesque patterns on the walls, like Oriental carpets of many colors,
and raised in stucco, present the illusion of originals; and all else,
except the tiles gaudy in the primal colors, on the many roofs which
project over the arcades into the courts, and the marble floors, are as
the Africans left it. The twelve hideous lions upholding the double
fountain in the famous court must have been designed by artists that had
never penetrated the African jungle nor visited a menagerie, and, as the
only ugly objects amid so much light and graceful beauty, serve as an
accent rather than a blot. Upholding the arches of the arcades that
surround the court are 128 pillars so light and slender, so mellowed by
time, that they look far more like old ivory than marble. Above the
arches the multicellular carving again looks like old ivory, and through
them are seen the gay convolutions of the arabesques on the walls of the
corridor. Above the cluster of shafts at the eastern end, which forms
one of the two pavilions, the florid roofs multiply and rise to a dome
of all the colors. Overhanging the north side of the court—in the second
story—is a long line of low windows. They once gave light and glimpses
of history to the captives of the king’s harem.
“You must half close your eyes and imagine silken curtains waving
between those slender pillars, which were meant to simulate tent-poles,”
said Catalina. “And Oriental rugs and divans in those arcades, and the
lounging gentlemen of the court, and turbaned soldiers keeping guard,
and women eternally peeping through the jalousies above. They must have
seen this court red a thousand times: Muley Aben Hassan had two of his
sons beheaded by this very fountain to please a new sultana; and when
they weren’t beheading under orders they were flying into passions and
killing one another. And the women could look straight into that room
over there where Boabdil had the Abencerrages killed because one of
them, as I told you, fell in love with his sultana. Do you see it all?”
“I confess I don’t,” said Over, laughing. “But I see quite enough—too
much would make me apprehensive. How would you have liked that life?” he
asked, curiously, as they crossed to the Hall of the Abencerrages. “I
mean to have been the sultana of the moment, of course, not one of those
captives up there.”
“I should probably have been nothing but devil,” replied Catalina,
dryly. “It would have given me some pleasure to stick a knife into Muley
Aben Hassan, and to have applied a sharp stick to Boabdil.”
They stood for a few moments in the lofty room with its domed ceiling
like a cave of stalactites, its fountain and ugly brown stains, and then
Catalina shuddered and ran out.
“I can stand courts where murder has been done,” she said, “for the sky
always seems to clean things up. But that room is full of a sinister
atmosphere. I should commit murder myself if I stayed in it too long.”
The impression vanished and she moved her head slowly on the long column
of her throat, smiling with her eyes, which met Over’s.
“I hate ugly fancies and atmospheres,” she said, softly. “And the rest
of the palace looks like a pleasure house; only I wish there were
furniture and curtains—it seems to me they could be reproduced as
successfully as the arabesques and roofs. Now one receives the
impression that they slept and sat on the floor.”
They were entering the Room of the two Sisters, opposite the Hall of the
Abencerrages, once the chief room of the sultana’s winter suite. There
are two slabs of marble in the floor that look like recumbent
tombstones. What their original purpose was legend sayeth not, unless it
was to give an easy designation to a room which needs no such trivial
spur to the memory. For the ceiling of this great apartment is one of
the curiosities of the world. The dome is like a vast bee-hive, its 5000
cells wrought with the very colors of the flowers from which the
ambitious builders brought their honey sweets. It might be a sort of
Moorish heaven for the souls of bees, those tiny amazons who alone have
demonstrated the superiority of the female over the male.
Catalina mentioned this conceit, and Over laughed grimly.
“When women are willing to do all the work—” he began, and then lifted
his hat. Miss Holmes entered the room from the sala beyond.
She came forward with a smile of welcome, her manner quite that of a
chatelaine welcoming the stranger to the halls of her ancestors.
“I am so glad I happen to be here,” she said, “I know you are people
whom guides only bore. I have lived in the Alhambra three weeks now, and
am thinking of offering my services at the office; but you may have them
for nothing.” She included Catalina in her smiling gaze. “I hope your
headache is better,” she added, politely.
“Yes, thank you,” replied Catalina, who longed to scratch her. She
reminded herself of her new rôle, however, and gave her a dazzling smile
that filled her eyes with warmth and accented the gray coldness of the
orbs, which, like her own, faced Over. “How I envy you for having been
here three weeks!” she said. “I feel as if I couldn’t wait to know, to
be familiar with it all. Do you live in Spain?”
“If you call boarding in pensions frequented by artists of all the
nationalities, living in a country, I have been here a year.”
She piloted them through the rooms, reciting the information that lies
in Baedeker, adroitly compelled by Catalina’s intelligent questions to
address the lecture to her. By the time they reached the queen’s boudoir
in the Torre del Peinador, Catalina noted that the guide chafed visibly
at being compelled to ignore the man, and it was evident by her
wandering glances and the inflections of her voice that she not only
admired the Englishman’s good looks, but appreciated his social
superiority over the gentlemen of the brush who so often were her
portion at pensions. Here, however, it was obviously the woman who would
be interested in the perforated stone slab in a corner of the floor,
which may have been built to perfume a queen or merely to warm her, and
as she and Catalina disputed amiably, Over leaned on the stone wall of
