Plank said deliberately: "should be, if my inter- 
ests were locked up in Amalgamated Electric." 
" Could you tell me why that would worry you .? " 
she asked, smiling persuasively across at him. 
" No," he said, " I can't tell you." 
" Because I Mouldn't understand? " 
" Because I myself don't understand." 
She thought awhile, brushing the rose velvet of her 
mouth wath the fan's edge, then, looking up confidently : 
" Mr. Siward is such a boy. I'm so glad he has you 
to advise him in such matters." 
"What matters.?" asked Plank bluntly. 
" Why, in — in financial matters." 
" But I don't advise him." 
" Why not.? " 
" Because he hasn't asked me to, Miss Landis." 
" He ought to ask you. . . . He must ask you. . . . 
Don't wait for him, Mr. Plank. He is only a boy in 
such things." 
And, as Plank was silent: 
" You will, won't you.? " 
" Do what — make his business my business, without 
an invitation ? " asked Plank, so quietly that she flushed 
with annoyance. 
" If you pretend to be his friend is it not your duty 
to advise him.? " she asked impatiently. 
" No ; that is for his business associates to do. 
Friendship comes to grief when it crosses the frontiers 
of business." 
" That is a narrow view to take, Mr. Plank." 
" Yes, straight and narrow. The boundaries of 
friendship are straight and narrow. It is best to keep 
to the trodden path; best not to walk on the grass or 
trample the flowers." 
" I think you are sacrificing friendship for an epi- 
gram," she said, careless of the undertone of contempt 
in her voice. 
" I have never sacrificed friendship." He turned, 
and looked at her pleasantly. " I never made an epi- 
 
gram consciously, and I have never required of a 
friend more than I had to oifer in return. Have you? " 
The flush of hot displeasure stained her cheeks. 
" Are you really questioning me, Mr. Plank ? " 
" Yes. You have been questioning me rather seri- 
ously — have you not? " 
'' I did not comprehend your definition of friendship. 
I did not agree with it. I questioned it, not you ! That 
is all." 
Plank rested his head on one big hand and stared 
at the clusters of dim blossoms behind her; and after a 
while he said, as though thinking aloud: 
" Many have taken my friendship for granted, and 
have never offered their own in return. I do not know 
about Mr. Siward. There is nothing I can do for him, 
nothing he can do for me. If there is to be friendship 
between us it will be disinterested ; and I would rather 
have that than anything in the world, I think." 
There was a pause ; but when Sylvia would have 
broken it his gesture committed her to silence with the 
dignity one might use in checking a persistent child. 
" You question my definition of friendship. Miss 
Landis. I should have let your question pass, however 
keenly it touched me, had it not also touched him. Now 
I am going to say some tilings which lie within the 
straight and narrow bounds I spoke of. I never knew 
a man I cared for as much as I care for Mr. Siward. 
I know why, too. He is disinterested. I do not believe 
he wastes very many thoughts on me. Perhaps he will. 
I want him to like me, if it's possible. But one thing 
you and I may be sure of : if he does not care to return 
the friendship I offer him he will never accept anything 
else from me, though he might give at my request ; and 
that is the sort of a man he is ; and that is why he is 
every inch a man; and so I like liini, Miss Landis. Do 
jou wonder? " 
She did not reply. 
"Do you wonder?" he repeated sharply. 
" No," she said. 
" Then — " He straightened up, and the silent sig- 
nificance of his waiting attitude was plain enough to 
her. 
But she shook her head impatiently, saying : " I 
don't know whose dance it is, and I don't care. Please 
go on. It is — is pleasant. I like Mr. Siward; I like 
to hear men speak of him as you do. I like you for 
doing it. If you should ever come to care for my 
friendship that is the best passport to it — your loyalty 
to Mr. Siward." 
" No man can truthfully speak otherwise than I 
have spoken," he said gravely. 
" No, not of these things. But — you know w-what 
is — is usually said when his name comes up among men." 
" Do you mean about liis habits ? " he asked simply. 
" Yes. Is it not an outrage to drag in that sort 
of thing? It angers me intensely, Mr. Plank. Why 
do they do it? Is there a single one among them quali- 
fied to criticise Mr. Siward? And besides, it is not true 
any m.ore ! ... is it.' — what was once said of him with 
— with some truth? Is it? " 
The dull red blood mantled Plank's heavy visage. 
The silence grew grim as he did his slow, laborious 
thinking, the while his eyes, expressionless and almost 
opaque in the dim light, never left her's, until, under 
the unchanging, merciless inspection, the mask dropped 
for an instant from her anxious face, and he saw what 
he saw. 
He was no fool. What he had come to believe she 
 
at last had only confirmed; and now the question be- 
came simple: was she worth enlightening? And by 
what title did she demand his confidence? 
" You ask me if it is true any more. You mean 
about his habits. If I answer you it is because I cannot 
be indifferent to what concerns him. But before I an- 
swer I ask you this: Would your interest in his for- 
tunes matter to him ? " 
She waited, head bent ; then : 
" I don't know, Mr. Plank," very low. 
" Did your interest in his fortunes ever concern 
him?" 
" Yes, once." 
He looked at her sternly, his jaw squaring until his 
heavy under lip projected. " Within m definition of 
friendship, is he your friend? " 
" You mean he " 
" No, I mean you ! I can answer for him. How is 
it with you? Do you return what he gives — if there is 
really friendship between you ? Or do jou take what he 
offers, offering nothing in return? " 
She had turned rather white under the direct im- 
pact of the questions. The jan'ing repetition of his 
voice itself was like the dull echo of distant blows. Yet 
it never occurred to her to resent it, nor his attitude, 
nor his self-assumed privilege. She did not care; she 
no longer cared what he said to her or thought about 
her; nor did she care that her mask had fallen at last. 
It was not what he was saying, but what her own heart 
repeated so heavily that drove the colour from her face. 
Not he, but she herself had become the pitiless attorney 
for the prosecution ; not his voice, but the clamouring 
conscience within her demanded by what right she used 
the name of friendship to characterise the late rela- 
tions between her and the man to whom she had denied 
herself. 
Then a bitter impatience swept her, and a dawning 
fear, too; for she had set her foot on the fallen mask, 
and the impulse rendered her reckless. 
" Why don't you speak .f' " she said. " Yes, I have 
a right to know. I care for him as much as you do. 
Why don't you answer me. I tell you I care for 
him ! " 
"Do you.?" he said in a dull voice. "Then help 
me out, if you can, for I don't know what to do ; and 
if I did, I haven't the authority of friendship as my 
warrant. He is in New York. He did go to the coun- 
try; and, at his home, the servants suppose he is still 
away. But he isn't ; he is here, alone, and sick — sick of 
his old sickness. I saw him, and " — Plank rested his 
head on his hand, dropping his eyes — " and he didn't 
know me. I — I do not think he will remember that he 
met me, or that I spoke. And — I could do nothing, 
absolutely nothing. And I don't know where he is. He 
will go home after a while. I call — every day — to see — 
see what can be done. But if he were there I would not 
know what to do. When he does go home I won't know 
what to say — what to try to do. . . . And that is an 
answer to your question, Miss Landis. I give it, be- 
cause you say you care for him as I do. Will you 
advise me what to do.'' — you, who are more entitled 
than I am to know the truth, because he has given 
you the friendship which he has as yet not accorded 
to me." 
But Sylvia, dry-eyed, dry-lipped, could find no 
voice to answer; and after a little wliile they rose and 
moved through the fragrant gloom toward the spark- 
ling lights beyond. 
 
Her voice came back as they entered the brilliant 
rooms : " I should like to find Grace Ferrall," she said 
very distinctly. " Please keep the others off, Mr. 
Plank." 
Her small hand on his arm lay with a weight out 
of all proportion to its size. Fair head averted, she no 
longer guided him with that impalpable control; it was 
he who had become the pilot now, and he steered his 
own way through the billowy ocean of silk and lace, 
master of the course he had set, heavily bland to the 
interrupter and the importunate from whom she turned 
a deaf ear and dumb lips, and lowered eyes that saw 
nothing. 
Fleetwood had missed his dance with her, but she 
scarcely heard his eager complaints. Quarrier, coldly 
inquiring, confronted them; was passed almost without 
recognition, and left behind, motionless, looking after 
them out of his narrowing, black-fringed eyes of a 
woman. 
Then Ferrall came, and hearing his voice, she 
raised her colourless face. 
" Will you take me home with you, Kemp, when you 
take Grace.'' " she asked. 
" Of course. I don't know where Grace is. Are 
you in a hurry to go? It's only four o'clock." 
They were at the entrance to the supper-room. 
Plank drew up a chair for her, and she sank down, 
dropping her elbows on the small table, and resting her 
face between her fingers. 
" Pegged out, Sylvia.? " exclaimed Ferrall incredu- 
lously. " You? What's the younger set coming to? " 
and he motioned a servant to fill her glass. But she 
pushed it aside with a shiver, and gave Plank a strange 
look which he scarcely understood at the moment. 
" More caprices ; all sorts of 'em on the programme," 
muttered Ferrall, looking down at her from where he 
stood beside Plank. " tempora ! O Sylvia ! . . . 
Plank, would you mind hunting up my wife? I'll stay 
and see that this infant doesn't fall asleep." 
But Sylvia shook her head, saying: "Please go, 
Kemp. I'm a little tired, that's all. When Grace is 
ready, I'll leave with her." And at her gesture Plank 
seated himself, while Ferrall, shrugging his square 
shoulders, sauntered off in quest of his wife, stopping 
a moment at a neighbouring table to speak to Agatha 
Caithness, who sat there with Captain Voucher, the 
gemmed collar on her slender throat a pale blaze of 
splendour. 
Plank was hungry, and he said so in his direct 
fashion. Sylvia nodded, and exchanged a smile with 
Agatha, who turned at the sound of Plank's voice. For 
a while, as he ate and drank largely, she made the ef- 
fort to keep up a desultory conversation, particularly 
when anjbody to whom she owed an explanation hove 
darkly in sight on the horizon. But Plank's appetite 
was in proportion to the generous lines on which nature 
had fashioned him, and she paid less and less attention 
to convention and a trifle more to the beauty of 
Agatha's jewels, until the silence at the small table in 
the comer remained unbroken except by the faint tinkle 
of silver and crystal and the bubbling hiss of a glass 
refilled. 
Major Belwether, his white, fluff}', chop-whiskers 
brushed rabbit fashion, peeped in at the door, started 
to tiptoe out again, caught sight of them, and came 
trotting back, beaming rosy eff'usion. He leaned ro- 
guishly over the table, his moist eyes a-twinkle with sup- 
pressed mirth ; then, bestowing a sprightly glance on 
 
Plank, which said very plainly, " I'm up to one of my 
irrepressible j okes again ! " he held up a smooth, white, 
and over-manicured forefinger: 
" I was in Tiffany's yesterday," he said, " and I 
saw a young man in there who didn't see me, and I 
peeped over his shoulder, and what do you think he was 
doing? " 
She lifted her eyes a little wearily: 
" I don't know," she said. 
" I do," he chuckled. " He was choosing a collar of 
blue diamonds and aqua marines ! — Te-he ! — probably to 
wear himself ! — Te-he ! Or perhaps he was going to be 
married ! — He-he-he ! — next winter — ahem ! — next No- 
vember — Ha-ha !  don't know, I'm sure, what he meant 
to do with that collar. I only " 
Something in Sylvia's eyes stopped him, and, fol- 
lowing their direction, he turned around to find Quar- 
rier standing at his elbow, icy and expressionless. 
" Oh," said the aged jester, a little disconcerted, 
" I'm caught talking out in church, I see ! It was only 
a harmless little fun, Howard." 
" Do you mean you saw me? " asked Quarrier, pale 
as a sheet. " You are in error. I have not been in Tif- 
fany's in months." 
Belwether, crestfallen under the white menace of 
Quarrier's face, nodded, and essayed a chuckle without 
success. 
Sylvia, at first listless and uninterested, looked in- 
quiringly from the major to Quarrier, surprised at the 
suppressed feeling exhibited over so trivial a gaucherie. 
If Quarrier had chosen a collar like Agatha's for her, 
what of it? But as he had not, on his own statement, 
what did it matter? Why should he look that way at 
the foolish major, to whose garrulous gossip he was 
accustomed, and whose inability to refrain from prying 
was notorious enough. 
Turning disdainfully, she caught a glimpse of 
Plank's shocked and altered face. It relapsed instantly 
into the usual inert expression; and a queer, uncom- 
fortable perplexity began to invade her. What had 
happened to stir up these three men.'' Of what import- 
ance was an indiscretion of an old gentleman whose 
fatuous vanity and consequent blunders everybody was 
familiar with.'' And, after all, Howard had not bought 
anything at Tiffany's ; he said so himself. . . . But 
it was evident that Agatha had chanced on the collar 
that Belwether thought he saw somebody else exam- 
ining. 
She turned, and looked at the dead-white neck of 
the girl. The collar was wonderful — a miracle of pale 
fire. And Sylvia, musing, let her thoughts run on, 
dreamy ejes brooding. She was glad that Agatha's 
means permitted her now to have such things. It had 
been understood, for some years, that the Caithness 
fortune was in rather an alarming condition. Howard 
had been able recently to do a favour or two for old 
Peter Caithness. She had heard the major bragging 
about it. Evidently Mr. Caithness must have improved 
the chance, if he was able to present such gems to 
liis daughter. And now somebody would marry her; 
perhaps Captain Voucher ; perhaps even Alderdene ; per- 
haps, as rumour had it now and then, Plank might 
venture into the arena. . . . Poor Plank ! More of a 
man than people understood. She understood. She 
And her thoughts swung back like the returning tide 
to Siward, and her heart began heavily again, and the 
slightly faint sensation returned. She passed her un- 
gloved, unsteady fingers across her eyelids and fore- 
 
head, looking up and around. The major and Howard 
had disappeared ; Plank, beside her, sat staring stupidly 
into his empty wine-glass. 
" Isn't Mrs. Ferrall coming.'' " she said wearily. 
Plank gathered his cumbersome bulk and stood up, 
trying to see through the entrance into the ball-room. 
After a moment he said : " They're in there, talking to 
Marion. It's a good chance to make our adieux." 
As they passed out of the supper-room Sylvia paused 
behind Agatha's chair and bent over her. " The collar 
is beautiful," she said, " and so are you, Agatha " ; and 
with a little impulsive caress for the jewels she passed 
on, unconscious of the delicate flush that spread from 
Agatha's shoulders to her hair. And Agatha, turning, 
encountered only the stupid gaze of Plank, moving pon- 
derously past on Sylvia's heels. 
" If you'll find Leila, I'm ready at any time," she 
said carelessly, and resumed her tete-a-tete with Vou- 
cher, who had plainly been annoyed at the interruption. 
Plank went on, a new trouble dawning on his thick- 
ening mental horizon. He had completely forgotten 
Leila. Even with all the demands made upon him; 
even with all the time he had given to those whose use 
of him he understood, how could he have forgotten Leila 
and the recent scene between them, and the new attitude 
and new relations with her that he must so carefully 
consider and ponder over before he presented himself 
at the house of Mortimer again ! 
Ferrall and his wife and Sylvia were making their 
adieux to Marion and her mother when he came up ; 
and he, too, took that opportunity. 
Later, on his quest for Leila, Sylvia, passing 
through the great hall, shrouded in silk and ermine, 
turned to offer him her hand, saying in a low voice: 
" I am at home to you ; do you understand ? Always,'' 
she added nervously. 
He looked after her with an unconscious sigh, un- 
aware that anything in himself had claimed her respect. 
And after a moment he swung on his broad heels to 
continue his search for Mrs. Mortimer. 
CHAPTER X 
About four o'clock on the following afternoon Mrs. 
Mortimer's maid, who had almost finished drying and 
dressing her mistress' hair, was called to the door by 
a persistent knocking, which at first she had been bidden 
to disregard. 
It was Mortimer's man, desiring to know whether 
Mrs. Mortimer could receive Mr. Mortimer at once on 
matters of importance. 
" No," said Leila petulantly. " Tell Mullins to say 
that I can not see anybody," and catching a glimpse of 
the shadowy Mullins dodging about the dusky corridor : 
"What is the matter.? Is Mr. Mortimer ill.?" 
But Mullins could not say what the matter might 
be, and he went away, only to return in a few moments 
bearing a scratchy note from his master, badly blotted 
and still wet; and Leila, with a shrug of resignation, 
took the blotched scrawl daintily between thumb and 
forefinger and unfolded it. Behind her, the maid, 
twisting up the masses of dark, fragrant hair, read the 
note very easily over her mistress' shoulder. It ran, 
without preliminaries : 
" I'm going to talk to you, whether you like it or not. Do 
you understand that? If you want to know what's the matter 
with me you'll find out fast enough. Fire that French girl out 
before I arrive." 
She closed the note thoughtfully, folding and 
double-folding it into a thick wad. The ink had come 
off, discolouring her finger-tips ; she dropped the soiled 
paper on the floor, and held out her hands, plump fin- 
gers spread. And when the maid had finished removing 
the stains and had repolished the pretty hands, her 
mistress sipped her chocolate thoughtfully, nibbled a 
bit of dry toast, then motioned the maid to take the 
tray and her departure, leaving her the cup. 
A few minutes later Mortimer came in, stood a mo- 
ment blinking around the room, then dropped into a 
seat, sullen, inert, the folds of his chin crowded out on 
his collar, his heavy abdomen cradled on his short, thick 
legs. He had been freshly shaved; linen and clothing 
were spotless, yet the man looked unclean. 
Save for the network of purple veins in his face, 
there was no colour there, none in his lips; even his 
flabby hands were the hue of clay. 
'' Are you ill .'' " asked his wife coolly. 
" No, not very. I've got the jumps. What's that? 
Tea.? Ugh! it's chocolate. Push it out of sight, will 
yoxi? I can smell it." 
Leila set the delicate cup on a table behind her. 
" What time did you return this morning.'' " she 
asked, stifling a yawn. 
" I don't know ; about five or six. How the devil 
should I know what time I came in ? " 
Sitting there before the mirror of her dresser she 
stole a second glance at his marred features in the glass. 
The loose mouth, the smeared eyes, the palsy-like trem- 
ors that twitched the hands where they tightened on 
the arms of his chair, became repulsive to the verge of 
fascination. She tried to look away, but could not. 
" You had better see Dr. Grisby," she managed to 
say. 
 
" I'd better see you; that's what I'd better do," he 
retorted thickly. " You'll do all the doctoring I want. 
And I want it, all right." 
"Very well. What is it.? " 
He passed his swollen hand across his forehead. 
"What is it.?" he repeated. "It's the limit, this 
time, if you want to know. I'm all in." 
" Roulette.? " raising her eyebrows without interest. 
" Yes, roulette, too. Everything ! They got me up- 
stairs at Burbank's. The game's crooked ! Every box, 
every case, every wheel, every pack is crooked ! crooked ! 
crooked, by God ! " he burst out in a fever, struggling 
to sit upright, his hands alwaj's tightening on the arms 
of the chair. "It's nothing but a creeping joint,. run 
by a bunch of hand-shakers ! I — I'll " 
Stuttering, choking, stammering imprecations, his 
hoarse clamour died away after a while. She sat there, 
head bent, silent, impassive, acquiescent under the physi- 
cal and mental strain to which she had never become 
thoroughly hardened. How many such scenes had she 
witnessed! She could not count them. They differed 
very little in detail, and not at all in their ultimate 
object, which was to get what money she had. This 
was his method of reimbursing himself for his losses. 
He made an end to his outburst after a while. Only 
his dreadful fat breathing now filled the silence ; and 
supposing he had finished, she found her voice with an 
effort: 
" I am sorry. It comes at a bad time, as you 
know " 
" A bad time ! " he broke out violently. " How can 
it come at any other sort of time.? With us, all times 
are bad. If this is worse than the average it can't be 
helped. We are in it for keeps this time ! " 
" We ? " 
" Yes, we! " he repeated ; but his face had grown 
ghastly, and his uncertain eyes were fastened on her's 
in the mirror. 
" What do you mean — exactly ? " she asked, turning 
from the dresser to confront him. 
He made no effort to answer ; an expression of dull 
fright was growing on his visage, as though for the 
first time he had begun to realise what had happened. 
She saw it, and her heart quickened, but she spoke 
disdainfully : " Well, I am ready to listen — as usual. 
How much do you want.' " 
He made no sign ; his lower lip hung loose ; his eyes 
blinked at her. 
" What is it.'' " she repeated. " What have you been 
doing? How much have you lost? You can't have lost 
very much ; we hadn't much to lose. If you have given 
your note to any of those gamblers, it is a shame — a 
shame ! Leroy, look at me ! You promised me, on your 
honour, never to do that again. Have you lied, after 
all the times I have helped you out, stripped myself, 
denied myself, put off tradesmen, faced down creditors? 
After all I have done, do you dare come here and ask 
for more — ask for what I have not got — with not one 
bill settled, not one servant paid since December " 
" Leila, I— I've got— to tell you " 
" What? " she demanded, appalled by the change in 
his face. If he was overdoing it, he was overdoing it 
realistically enough. 
" I — I've used Plank's cheque ! " he mumbled, and 
moistened his lips with his tongue. 
She stared back at him, striving to comprehend. 
"Plank's!" she repeated slowly, "Plank's cheque? 
What cheque ? What do you mean ? " 
 
" The one he gave you last night. I've used that. 
Now you know ! " 
" The one he — But you couldn't ! How could you? 
It was not filled in." 
" I filled it." 
Her dawning horror was reacting on him, as it al- 
ways did, like a fierce tonic; and his own courage came 
back in a sort of sullen desperation. 
" You . . . You are trying to frighten me, Leroy," 
she stammered. " You are trying to make me do some- 
thing — give you what you want — force me to give you 
what you want! You can't frighten me. The cheque 
was made out to me — to my order. How could you have 
used it, if I had not indorsed it.'' " 
" I indorsed it. Do you understand that ! " he said 
savagely. 
" No, I don't ; because, if you did, it's forgery." 
" I don't give a damn what you think it is ! " he 
broke in fiercely. " All I'm worried over is what Plank 
will think. I didn't mean to do it; I didn't dream of 
doing it; but when Burbank cleaned me up I fished 
about, and that cursed cheque came tumbling out ! " 
In the rising excitement of self-defence the colour 
was coming back into his battered face; he sat up 
straighter in his chair, and, grasping the upholstered 
arms, leaned forward, speaking more distinctly and with 
increasing vigour and anger: 
" When I saw that cheque in my hands I thought 
I'd use it temporarily — merely as moral collateral to 
flash at Burbank — something to back my I. O. U.'s. 
So I filled it in." 
" For how much.'' " she asked, not daring to believe 
him ; but he ignored the question and went on : "I filled 
it and indorsed it, and " 
" How could jou indorse it? " she interrupted coolly, 
now unconvinced again and suspicious. 
" I'll tell you if you'll stop that fool tongue a mo- 
ment. The cheque was made to ' L. Mortimer,' wasn't 
it.'' So I wrote ' L. Mortimer' on the back. Now do 
you know.'' If you are L. Mortimer, so am I. Leila 
begins with L; so does Leroy, doesn't it.? I didn't 
imitate your two-words-to-a-page autograph. I put my 
own fist to a cheque made out to one L. Mortimer; and 
I don't care what you think about it as long as Plank 
can stand it. Now put up your nose and howl, if you 
Uke." 
But under her sudden pallor he was taking fright 
again, and he began to bolster up his courage with 
bluster and noise, as usual: 
"Howl all you like!" he jeered. "It won't alter 
matters or square accounts with Plank. What are you 
staring at.'' Do you suppose I'm not sorry .f' Do you 
fancy I don't know what a fool I've been.'' What are 
you turning white for.'' What in hell " 
" How much have you — " She choked, then, reso- 
lutely : " How much have you — taken ? " 
" Taken ! " he broke out, with an oath. " What do 
you mean.? I've borrowed about twenty thousand dol- 
lars. Now yelp ! Eh .? What .? — no yelps ? Probably 
some weeps, then. Turn 'em on and run dry ; I'll wait." 
And he managed to cross one bulky leg over the other 
and lean back, affecting resignation, while Leila, bolt 
upright in her low chair, every curved outline rigid 
under the flowing, silken wrap, stared at him as though 
stunned. 
" Well, we're good for it, aren't we.? " he said 
threateningly. " If he's going to turn ugly about it, 
here's the house." 
 
"My— house?" 
" Yes, your house ! I suppose you'd rather raise 
something on the house than have the thing come out 
in the papers." 
" Do you think so? " she asked, staring into his 
bloodshot eyes. 
" Yes, I do. I'm damn sure of it ! " 
" You are wrong." 
" You mean that you are not inchned to stand by 
me? " he demanded. 
" Yes, I mean that." 
" You don't intend to help me out ? " 
" I do not intend to — not this time." 
He began to show his big teeth, and that nervous 
snickering " tick " twitched his upper lip. 
" How about the courts ? " he sneered. " Do you 
want to figure in them with Plank ? " 
" I don't want to," she said steadily, " but you can 
not frighten me any more by that thrieat." 
" Oh ! Can't frighten you ! Perhaps you think 
you'll marry Plank when I get a decree? Do you? 
Well, you won't for several reasons ; first, because I'll 
name other corespondents and that will make Plank 
sick; second, because Plank wants to marry somebody 
else and I'm able to assist him. So where do you come 
out in the shuffle? " 
" I don't know," she said, under her breath, and 
rested her head against the back of the chair, as though 
suddenly tired. 
" Well, I know. You'll come out smirched, and you 
know it," said Mortimer, gazing intently at her. " Look 
here, Leila: I didn't come here to threaten you. I'm 
no black-mailer; I'm no criminal. I'm simply a decent 
sort of a man, who is pretty badly scared over what he's 
done in a moment of temptation. You know I had no 
thought of anything except to borrow enough on my 
I. O. U.'s to make a kilhng at Burbank's. I had to 
show them something big, so I filled in that cheque, not 
meaning to use it; and before I knew it I'd indorsed it, 
and was plunging against it. Then they stacked every- 
thing on me — by God, they did ! and if I had not been in 
the condition I was in I'd have stopped payment. But 
it was too late when I realised what I was against. 
Leila, you know I'm not a bad man at heart. Can't you 
help a fellow.'' " 
His manner, completely changed, had become the re- 
sentful and fretful appeal of the victim of plot and 
circumstance. All the savage brutality had been elimi- 
nated ; the sneer, the truculent attempts to browbeat, the 
pitiful swagger, the cynical justification, all were gone. 
It was really the man himself now, normally scared and 
repentant ; the frightened, overfed pensioner on his 
wife's bounty ; not the human beast maddened by 
fear and dissipation, half stunned, half panic-stricken, 
driven by sheer terror into a role which even he shrank 
from — had shrunk from all these years. For, leech and 
parasite that he was, Mortimer, however much the dirty 
acquisition of money might tempt him in theory, had 
not yet brought himself to the point of attempting the 
practice, even when in sorest straits and bitterest need. 
He didn't want to do it ; he wished to get along without 
it, partly because of native inertia and an aversion to 
the mental nimbleness that he would be required to show 
as a law-breaker, partly because the word " black-mail " 
stood for what he did not dare suggest that he had come 
to, even to himself. His distaste was genuine ; there 
were certain things which he didn't want to commit, and 
extortion was one of them. He could, at a pinch, lie 
 
to his wife, or try to scare her into giving him money ; 
he could, when necessary, " borrow " from such men as 
Plank ; but he had never cheated at cards, and he had 
never attempted to black-mail anybody except his wife 
— which, of course, was purely a family matter, and 
concerned nobody else. 
Now he was attempting it again, with more sin- 
ccrrt}, energy, and determination than he ever before 
had been forced to display. Even in his most profane 
violence the rage and panic were only partly real. He 
was, it is true, genuinely scared, and horribly shaken 
physically, but he had counted on violence, and he 
stimulated his own emotions and made them serve him, 
knowing all the while that in the reaction his ends 
would be accomphshed, as usual. This policy of alter- 
nately frightening, dragooning, and supplicating Leila 
had carried him so far; and though it was true that 
this was a more serious situation than he had ever yet 
faced, he was convinced that his wife would pull him 
out somehow; and how that was to be accomplished he 
did not very much care, as long as he was pulled out 
safely. 
" What this household requires," he said, " is econ- 
omy." He spread his legs, denting the Aubusson carpet 
with his boot-heels, and glanced askance at his wife. 
" Economy," he repeated, furtively wetting his lips 
with a heavily coated tongue ; " that's the true solution ; 
economical administration in domestic matters. Re- 
trenchment, Leila ! retrenchment ! Fewer folderols, 
I've a notion to give up that farm, and stop trying to 
breed those damfool sheep. They cost a thousand apiece, 
and do you know what I got for those six I sent to 
Westbury.'' Just twelve hundred dollars from Fleet- 
wood — the bargaining shopkeeper! Twelve hundred! 
Think of that! And along comes Granby and sells a 
single ram for six thousand plunks ! " 
Leila's head was lowered. He could not see her ex- 
pression, but he had always been confident of his ability 
to talk himself out of trouble, so he rambled on in 
pretence of cainaraderie, currying favour, as he believed, 
ingratiating himself with the coarse bluntness that 
served him among some men, even among some women. 
" We'll fix it somehow," he said reassuringly ; " don't 
you worry, Leila. I've confidence in you, little girl! 
You've got me out of sticky messes before, eh.'' Well, 
we've weathered a few, haven't we.' " 
Even the horrible parody on wedded loyalty left her 
silent, unmoved, dark eyes brooding; and he began to 
grow a little restless and anxious as his jocularity increased without a movement in either response or aversion from his wife. 
" You needn't be scared, if I'm not," he said reproachfully. " The house is worth two hundred and 
fifty thousand, and there's only fifty on it now. If that 
fat, Dutch skinflint. Plank, shows his tusks, we can clap 
on another fifty." And as she made no sound or movement in reply : " As far as Plank goes, haven't I done 
enough for him to square it.'' What have we ever got 
out of him, except a thousand or two now and then 
when the cards went against \ne? If I took it, it was 
practically what he owes me. And if he thinks it's too 
much — look here, Leila ! I've a trick up my sleeve. I 
can make good any time I wish to. I'm in a position 
to marry that man to the girl he's mad about — stark, 
raving mad." 
Mrs. Mortimer slowly raised her head and looked at 
her husband. 
" Leroy, are you mad.''" 
 
" I ! Not much ! " he exclaimed gleefully. " I can 
make him the husband of the most-run-after girl in 
New York— if I want to. And at the same time I can 
puncture the most arrogant, the most cold-blooded, sel- 
fish, purse-proud, inflated nincompoop that ever sat at 
the head of a director's table. 0-ho ! Now you're star- 
ing, Leila. I can do it; I can make good. What are 
you worrying about.'' Why, I've got a hundred ways 
to square that cheque, and each separate way is a win- 
ner." 
He rose, shook out the creases in his trousers, and 
adjusted the squat, gold fob which ornamented his pro- 
truding waistcoat. 
" So you'll fix it, won't you, Leila.? " he said, ap- 
parently oblivious that he had expressed himself as able 
to adjust the matter in one hundred equally edifying 
and satisfactory manners. 
She did not answer. He lingered a moment at the 
door, looking back with an ingratiating leer; but she 
paid him no attention, and he took himself off, confident 
that her sulkiness could not result in anything unpleas- 
ant to anybody except herself. 
Nor did it, as far as he could see. The days brought 
no noticeable change in his wife's demeanour toward 
him. Plank, when he met him, was civil enough, though 
it did occur to Mortimer that he saw very httle of Plank 
in these days. 
" Ungrateful beggar ! " he thought bitterly ; " he's 
toadying to Belwether now. I can't do anything more 
for him, so I don't interest him." 
And for a while he wore either a truculent, aggrieved 
air in Plank's presence, or the meeker demeanour of a 
martyr, sentimentally misunderstood, but patient under 
the affliction. 
Then there came a time when he needed money. 
During the few days he spent circling tentatively and 
apprehensively around his wife he learned enough to 
know that there was nothing to be had from her at pres- 
ent. No doubt the money she raised to placate Plank — 
if she had placated him in that fashion — was a strain 
on her resources, whatever those resources were. 
One thing was certain: Plank had not remained 
very long in ignorance of the cheque drawn against his 
balance, if indeed, as Mortimer feared, the bank itself 
had not communicated with Plank as soon as the cheque 
was presented for payment. Theretorc Plank must have 
been placated by Leila ; how, Mortimer was satisfied not 
to know. 
" Some of these days," he said to himself, " I'll catch 
her tripping, and then there'll be a decent division of 
property, or — there'll be a divorce." But, as usual, 
Mortimer found such practices more attractive in theory 
than in execution, and he was really quite contented to 
go on as things were going, if somebody would see that 
he had some money occasionally. 
One of these occasions w hen he needed it was ap- 
proaching. He had made a " killing " at Desmond's, 
and had used the money to stop up the more threaten- 
ing gaps in the tottering financial fabric known as his 
" personal accounts." The fabric would hold for a 
while, but meantime he needed money to go on with. 
And Leila evidently had none. He tried everybody ex- 
cept Plank. He had scarcely the impudence to go to 
Plank just yet; but when, completing the vicious circle, 
he found his borrowing capacity exhausted, and him- 
self once more face to face with the only hope. Plank, 
he sat down to consider seriously the possibihty of the 
matter. 
 
Of course Plank owed him more than he could 
ever pay — the ungrateful parvenu ! — but what Plank 
had thought of that cheque transaction he had never 
been able to discover. 
Somehow or other he must put Plank under fresh 
obligations ; and that might have been possible had not 
Leila invaded the ground, leaving nothing, now that 
Plank was secure in club life. 
Of course the first thing that presented itself to 
Mortimer's consideration was the engineering of Plank's 
matrimonial ambitions. Clearly the man had not 
changed. He was always at Sylvia's heels; he was seen 
with her in public; he went to the Belwether house a 
great deal. No possible doubt but that he was as in- 
fatuated as ever. And Quarrier was going to marry 
her next November — that is, if he, Mortimer, chose to 
keep silent about a certain midnight episode at Shot- 
over. 
It was his inclination, except in theory, to keep si- 
lent, partly because of his native inertia and unwilling- 
ness to go to the physical and intellectual exertion of 
being a rascal, partly because he didn't really want to 
be a rascal of that sort. 
Like a man with premonitions of toothache, who 
walks down to the dentist's just to see what the number 
of the house looks like, and then walks around the block 
to think it over, so Mortimer, suffering from lack of 
money, walked round and round the central idea, un- 
able to bring himself to the point. 
Several times he called up Quarrier on the 'phone 
and made appointments to lunch with him; but these 
meetings never resulted in anything except luncheons 
which Mortimer paid for, and matters were becoming des- 
perate. 
So one day, after having lunched too freely, he sat 
down and wrote Plank the following note : 
My dear Beverly : You will remember that I once 
promised you my aid in securing what, to you, is the dearest 
object of your existence. I have thought, I have pondered, 
I have given the matter deep and, I may add without irrev- 
erence, prayerful consideration, knowing that the life's happi- 
ness of my closest friend depended on my judgment and 
wisdom and intelligence to secure for him the opportunity to 
crown his life's work by the acquisition of the brightest jewel 
in the diadem of old Manhattan. 
" By George ! that's wickedly good, though ! " 
chuckled Mortimer, refreshing himself with his old stand- 
by, an apple, quartered, and soaked in very old port. 
So he sopped his apple and swallowed it, and picked up 
his pen again, chary of overdoing it. 
All I say to you is, be ready ! The time is close at hand 
when you may boldly make your avowal. But be ready ! 
All depends upon the psychological moment. An instant 
too soon, an instant too late, and you are lost. And she is 
lost forever. Remember.' Be faithful; trust in me, and 
wait. And the hi.stant I say, ''Speak ! " pour out your soul, 
my dear friend, and be certain you are not pouring it out in 
vain. L. M. 
Writing about " pouring out " made him thirsty, so 
he fortified himself several times, and then, sealing the 
letter, went out to a letter-box and stood looking at it. 
" If I mail it I'm in for it," he muttered. After a 
while he put the letter in his pocket and walked on. 
" It really doesn't commit me to anything," he re- 
flected at last, halting before another letter-box. And 
as he stood there, hesitating, he glanced up and saw 
Quarrier entering the Lenox Club. The next moment 
he flung up the metal box lid, dropped in his letter, and 
followed Quarrier into the club. 
 
Then events tumbled forward almost without a push 
from him. Quarrier was alone in a window corner, 
drinking vichy and milk and glancing over the after- 
noon papers. He saw Mortimer, and invited him to 
join him; and Mortimer, being thirsty, took champagne. 
" I've been trying a new coach," said Quarrier, in 
his colourless and rather agreeable voice; and he went 
on leisurely explaining the points of the new mail-coach 
which had been built in Paris after plans of his own, 
while Mortimer gulped glass after glass of chilled wine, 
which seemed only to make him thirstier. Meantime he 
listened, really interested, except that his fleshy head 
was too full of alcohol and his own project to con- 
tain additional statistics concerning coaching. Besides, 
Quarrier, who had never been over-cordial to him, was 
more so now — enough for Mortimer to venture on a few 
tentative suggestions of a financial nature ; and though, 
as usual, Quarrier was not responsive, he did not, as 
usual, get up and go away. 
A vague hope stirred Mortimer that it might not 
be beyond his persuasive tongue to make this chilly, ret- 
icent young man into a friend some daj — a helpful 
friend. For Mortimer all his life had trusted to his 
tongue; and though poorly enough repaid, the few lin- 
gual victories remained in his memory, along with an 
inexhaustible vanity and hope ; while his countless 
defeats and the many occasions on which his tongue 
had played him false were all forgotten. Besides, he 
had been drinking more heavily all day than was his 
custom. 
So Quarrier talked, sparingly, about his new coach, 
about Billy Fleetwood's renowned string of hunters, 
about Ashley Spencer's new stable and his chances at 
Saratoga with Roy-a-neh, for which he had paid a fabu- 
lous sum — the sum and the story probably equally 
fabulous. 
Mortimer's head was swimming with ideas; he was 
also talking a great deal, much more than he had in- 
tended; he was saying things he had not exactly in- 
tended to say, either, in just that way. He realised it, 
but he went on, unable to stop his own tongue, the noise 
of which intoxicated him. 
Once or twice he thought Quarrier looked at him 
rather strangely ; but he would show Quarrier that he 
 was nobody's fool ; he'd show Quarrier that he was a 
friend, a good, staunch friend; and that Quarrier had 
long, long undervalued liim. Waves of sentiment spread 
through and through him ; his affection for Quarrier 
dampened his eyes ; and still he blabbed on and on, gaz- 
ing with brimming eyes upon Quarrier, who sat back 
silent and attentive as Mortimer circled and blundered 
nearer and nearer to the crucial point of his destination. 
Midway in one of his linguistic ellipses Quarrier 
leaned forward and caught his arm in a grip of steel. 
Another man had entered the room. Mortimer, made 
partly conscious by the pain of Quarrier's vise-like grip, 
was sober enough to recognise the impropriety of his 
continuing aloud the veiled story he had been construct- 
ing with what he supposed to be a cunning as matchless 
as it was impenetrable. 
Later he found himself up-stairs in a private card- 
room, facing Quarrier across a table, and still talking 
and quenching his increasing thirst. He knew now what 
he was telling Quarrier; he was unveiling the parable; 
he was stripping metaphor from a carefully precise 
story. He used Siward's name presently ; presently he 
used Sylvia's name, A moment later — or was it an 
hour.? — Quarrier stopped him, coldly, without a trace 
 
of passion, demanding corroborative detail. And Mor- 
timer gave it, wagging his head and one fat forefinger 
as emphasis. 
" You sa-iv that.P " repeated Quarrier, deadly white 
of a sudden. 
" Yes ; an' I " 
"At three in the morning?" 
" Yes ; an' I want " 
" You saw him enter her room ? " 
" Yes ; an' I wan' tersay thish to you, because I'm 
your fr'en'. Don' wan' army fr'en's mine get fooled on 
women! See.f' Thash how I feel. I respec' the sect! 
See ! Women, lovely women ! See ? Respec' sect ! 
Gimme y'han', buzzer — er — brother Quar'er! Your m' 
fr'en' ; I'm your fr'en'. I know how it is. Gotter wife 
m'own. Rotten one. Stingy ! Takes money outter 
m' pockets. Dam 'stravagant. Ruin me ! . . . Say, 
old boy, what about dividend due 'morrow on Orange 
County Eclectic — mean Erlextic — no ! — mean 'Letric ! 
Damn! — Wasser masser tongue? " 
Opening his fond and foggy eyes, and finding him- 
self alone in the card-room, he began to cry ; and a little 
later, attempting to push the electric button, he fell 
over a lounge and lay there, his shirt-front soiled with 
wine, one fat leg trailing to the floor; not the ideal 
position for slumber, perhaps, but what difference do 
attitudes and postures and poses make when a gentle- 
man, in the sacred seclusion of his own club, is wooing 
the drowsy goddess with blasts of votive music through 
his empurpled nose? 
In the meantime, however, he was due to dine at the 
Belwether house; and when eight o'clock approached, 
and he had not returned to dress, Leila called up Sylvia 
Landis on the telephone: 
" My dear, Leroy hasn't returned, and I suppose 
he's forgotten about the Bridge. I can bring Mr. Plank, 
if you Hke." 
" Very well," said Sylvia, adding, " if Mr. Plank 
is there, may I speak to him a moment.'' " 
So Leila rose, setting the receiver on the desk, and 
Plank came in from the library and settled himself 
heavily in the chair : 
" Did you wish to speak to me. Miss Landis .'' " 
"Is that you, Mr. Plank.? Yes; will you dine 
with us at eight .- Bridge afterward, if you don't 
mind." 
" Thank you." 
" And, Mr. Plank, you had a note from me this 
morning.'' " 
" Yes." 
" Please disregard it.'' 
" If you wish." 
" I do. It is not worth while." And as Plank made 
no comment, " I have no further interest in the matter. 
Do you understand.'' " 
" Io," said Plank doggedly. 
" I have nothing more to say. I am sorry. We dine 
at eight," concluded Sylvia hurriedly. 
Plank hung up the receiver and sat eyeing it for a 
while in silence. Then his jaw began to harden and his 
under Hp protruded, and he folded his great hands, 
resting them in front of him on the edge of the desk, 
brooding there, with eyes narrowing like a sleepy giant 
at prayer. 
When Leila entered, in her evening wraps, she found 
him there, so immersed in reverie that he failed to hear 
her; and she stood a moment at the doorway, smihng 
to herself, thinking how pleasant it was to come down 
 
ready for the evening and find him there, as though 
he belonged where he sat, and was part of the famihar 
environment. 
Recently she had grown younger in a smooth- 
skinned, full-lipped way — so much -ounger that it was 
spoken of. Something girlish in figure, in spontaneity, 
in the hesitation of her smile, in the lack of that hard, 
brilliant confidence which once characterised her, had 
developed ; as though she were beginning her debut 
again, reverting to a softness and charai prematurely 
checked. Truly, her youth's discoloured blossom, forced 
by the pale phantom of false spring, was refolding to 
a bud once more ; and the harsher tints of the inclement 
years were fading. 
" Beverly," she said, " I am ready." 
Plank stood up, dazed from his reverie, and walked 
toward her. His white tie had become disarranged ; she 
raised her hands, halting him, and pulled it into shape 
for him, consciously innocent of the intimacy. 
" Thank you," he said. " Do you know how pretty 
you are this evening. " 
" Yes ; I was very happy at my mirror. Do you 
know, the withered years seem to be dropping from me 
like leaves from an autumn sapling. And I feel young 
enough to say so poetically. . . . Did Sylvia try to 
flirt with you over the wire.? " 
" Yes, as usual," he said drily, descending the stairs 
beside her. 
" And really you don't love her any morei" " she 
queried. 
" Scarcely." His voice was low and rather disagree- 
able, and she looked up. 
" I wish I knew what you and Sylvia find to talk 
