 
sported a blue cloth dress coat with gilt but- 
tons and a ruffled shirt-front, hair tied in a 
queue, and dancing-pumps with immense silver 
buckles. 
“ That’s Carol Saybrook,” whispered a girl. 
“ My ! doesn't she make a splendid young 
fellow! Everybody will be crazy to dance 
with her.” 
The colored band struck up some old-fash- 
ioned tune, for the first quadrille. They had 
ransacked all the old music-books to make out 
their programme. One of their number called 
off, waving a baton vigorously. The merri- 
ment was infectious. Cheeks grew rosy, neck- 
ties seemed to lose their serene adjustment, 
and they were of many garish hues. Mascu- 
lines looked sheepishly at sweethearts and 
held fair hands in mimic adoration, stole off in 
a corner and shelled peanuts for the fair one, 
or took her to the lemonade-can and treated 
her, making a pretense of hunting up change 
in a great leathern wallet. What jigs were 
danced ! Sailors’ hornpipe ! Highland fling ! 
and a merry crew they were. 
Miss Saybrook was certainly the beau of 
the evening. Girls were brave enough to 
besiege her just for “ two or three turns,” and 
more than one was vexed at being refused. 
She drifted around to Helen, who was in 
a faded blue gown and pigtails, and who had 
insisted on some wallflowers being rescued. 
“ I'm trying to get around,” she said in a 
rather drawling tone, though it always had 
a broad, soft accent. “ But what is one among 
so many? Well, — we were freshmen once, 
but it seems as if every year they need being 
salted down more than once.” 
“ And we grow wiser with the experience, 
I suppose,” Helen returned, smilingly. 
“ But they consider themselves quite supe- 
rior at first. I’m glad I had no adoring fam- 
ily to set me up on a pinnacle and believe the 
very sun rose just on purpose to light my 
superior brain. And so I wasn’t much disap- 
pointed; I aimed at no wonderful heights.” 
“ I suppose girls come to college from a 
great variety of motives,” Helen ventured. 
Miss Saybrook appeared rather cynical. 
“ Well, it seems to me most of them have 
an idea that they will soon distinguish them- 
 
selves. Very few do. Women, for the most 
part, are about on an average. The conceit 
gets rubbed out after a while, and they find the 
level of the hundred and one. But I forgot — 
you were not the average girl. You were very 
modest over your last year’s triumphs.” 
“ They surprised me as much as any one. 
I really had no thought of either,” and Helen 
flushed warmly. 
“ Did you come with a well-defined motive ? 
Oh, let us walk about and skip that quadrille! 
It is one I don’t like, the basket part, perhaps 
because I am so tall. I hate to be thumped on 
the head.” 
“ But you wouldn’t be.” 
“ Oh, I forgot my part! ” laughing. 
“ You take it admirably.” With very hon- 
est appreciation. 
“ I’ve done it so many times. I’m cast for 
the men’s parts always. I suppose I should 
have been one. But I should hate business, 
and I fancy every woman does, whether she is 
willing to admit it or not. What are you go- 
ing in for, a Ph. D. and a professorship? ” 
“ Not immediately.” 
“ I suppose your people were very proud of 
you,” Miss Saybrook said with a peculiar ac- 
cent that somehow touched Helen. It seemed 
to have a longing in it. 
k ‘ I haven’t any near folks. I have only a 
few relatives and some friends.” 
“ Perhaps you are just as well off. And I 
suppose you have income enough to follow 
your own sweet will.” 
“ When my will doesn’t desire too much.” 
“ Oh ! Wasn’t your father some sort of 
high light? But they never get rich. Very 
few people earn a fortune. It seems to come 
by pure blind luck, or you marry for it.” 
“ I must earn mine,” Helen announced with 
a touch of pride. She would not sail under 
false colors. There was a general impression 
that Miss Carol Saybrook had about every- 
thing she wanted. Certainly, her attire was 
of the expensive kind. 
“ Perhaps it isn’t wise to come to college 
when you have to marry for it, though five of 
the last year’s seniors married almost at once.” 
The music stopped with a quick, sharp 
bang, as if the instruments had exploded. The 
 
long table was uncovered. Girls with caps and 
aprons began to run up and down. There was 
pushing and crowding and laughing. The 
refreshments were not all beans and pumpkin 
pie; some of the delicacies dear to the heart 
of girls had been smuggled in. Even the 
psuedo-masculines forgot their sweethearts in 
their eagerness not to lose a share of the 
feast. The appetites of all were amazing, and 
before everything had been demolished, the 
clock struck twelve. 
“O dear! O dear!” was heard with pro- 
longed wails, for though they might continue 
orgies to the wee sma’ hours in the sanctity 
of their own rooms, midnight quenched public 
entertainments. There was a scrambling for 
the last of the olives, the nuts and grapes and 
doughnuts. The lights began to glimmer and 
dropped out. 
“ It’s lucky we planned to have some one 
come early in the morning and look after the 
debris, for we have had fun up to the last 
minute. I never had a better time in my life, 
and you couldn’t guess who the beaux were at 
first. I never mistrusted Addie North, she 
gave her voice such a masculine sound. O 
dear, I should have liked it to go on until 
morning! I’m not a bit sleepy.” 
“ The lights are fled, the garlands dead, 
The dancing-hall deserted,” 
travestied another as they scurried through the 
dimly lighted corridors, but there were half- 
smothered laughs coming through the tran- 
soms. 
“ It wasn’t so bad as last year! ” declared 
one of a group of girls, who were the next 
day disporting themselves on the dry turf 
bordering the tennis court, “ Why! nearly all 
the F’s and S’s were in disgrace. I studied the 
evening before and ran over things in the 
morning ; I knew we'd be full of our fine togs 
all the afternoon. And the horrid ghost-sto- 
ries last year ! Ugh ! it makes me shiver now ! 
And Carrie Dane’s fright ! Isn’t it funny that 
we do the same things year in and year out, 
and we do not believe in them, either? ” 
“ Why are we so eager to look into the 
future? If it is good, we hardly dare believe 
it; if it isn’t good, we do not believe it at all. 
And it is better fun just living along to see 
what will turn up next. Anyway, you can’t 
help, nor hinder.” 
“ But if you knew of an unfortunate thing, 
you would avoid it.” 
“Oh, we don’t always!” laughed some 
one. “ We do know certain consequences.” 
“ Well, I want some fun sandwiched in with 
my weighty knowledge, and we did have it 
last evening. But I just escaped by the skin 
of my teeth, or by sheer good luck, as a ques- 
tion came to me that I did know. Well, a 
miss is as good as a mile in some cases. 
“ Girls, what’s next on the carpet? There’s 
Thanksgiving, and the seniors are to give a 
farce, strictly original, the work of three mas- 
ter minds. And nothing between ! How shall 
we exist ! ” 
“Nothing! Why, there’s chestnutting and 
two or three ball games and the races! Noth- 
ing indeed! ” Scornfully. 
“ Well, those have been talked over and 
over. A right spandy new thing that will 
excite us all and have just enough uncertainty 
to keep us wondering — ” 
“ There’s enough uncertainty as to how you 
are going to stand at the close of the semester. 
I don’t want any more; we’re crowded full 
now. Some day our minds will burst with the 
striving after the unattainable, or the un- 
knowable, or the unrememberable.” 
There was a general laugh at that. Sadie 
Connor was always dipping into queer things 
and finding out reasons, and then combating 
them. They suddenly dropped into silence, as 
a great flock of belated birds were winging 
their way across the sky of peerless blue. The 
lawn and oval were full of drifting shadows, 
as the tall trees waved their branches and 
shook down yellow leaves that were like dainty 
birds running over the green turf. Far away 
fields and hills bathed in softened sunlight; a 
road wound round in the distance; there was 
a stillness that could be felt. 
“If I had my camera — ” began Gertie 
Hamilton, advancing toward them. “ You are 
posed like the nymphs in some Grecian grove. 
What a waste of good material ! I envy you 
the peaceful mood. I’ve just been having a 
tearing discussion with Jane Ferris on our 
future President.” 
 
“Of college or class or club?" asked a 
voice in a lazy tone. “ None of them is 
worth tearing to tatters, for you do not know 
who they will be next year.” 
“ The President of the whole country, child. 
College women should take an interest in poli- 
tics since suffrage is making some advance. 
We may be called upon to vote." 
“ Our convictions will be settled by our 
fathers and brothers and lovers. Why should 
we worry about that? ” 
“ Then it is time we cultivated minds of 
our own. We may not have husbands to en- 
lighten us, poor single sisteren.” 
“ A woman is supposed to be incapable of 
understanding the broad questions of political 
life — ” 
“ She isn’t.” A tall girl, with a great 
crown of bronze hair and shining hazel eyes 
that when she was moved deeply radiated 
golden lights, sprang up with alertness, her 
voice ringing. “ We have an interest. We 
have been studying some of the points in polit- 
ical economy, taxation, the tariff — ” 
“And the Monroe Doctrine; whether we 
shall keep the Philippines and allow the Sul- 
tan of Sulu — is Sulu a country, or only an 
operetta ? — to have as many wives as he 
pleases," interrupted another. 
“ Certainly, you would hardly be able to 
take an intelligent view of politics,” declared 
the first speaker, bitingly. 
“What did Miss Ferris say? She has 
opinions," and a girl laughed merrily. 
“ And she is a radical, a Democrat, without 
endorsing her party. She believes in intellec- 
tual independence, if there is such a thing." 
“ But don’t you think the independence a 
really noble thing? Our party, right or 
wrong, seems very partisan to me." 
“ I should want to vote for the best man, 
irrespective of party.” 
“ But a good man might have some very 
erroneous ideas.” 
“ Query : Could a thoroughly good man 
espouse a bad cause, act on a wrong prin- 
ciple?” 
“ History is full of such incidents. They 
may have thought themselves right. ‘ And to 
him that thinketh, so it is.’ I know that isn’t 
just right. I like Beatrice's reason better — 
‘ I think it so because I think it so.’ There 
you have a woman’s philosophy in a nutshell." 
“ We might make that an excuse for every- 
thing we want to do without regard for our 
neighbor’s rights.” 
“ Girls, the dew is beginning to fall, and 
some of you have no wraps. I think we had 
better have a run about, and meet again this 
evening to form a club that is evenly balanced. 
Both sides shall be heard in argument, and we 
can discuss the chief points of both parties. 
We’ll put Miss Ferris at the head of the Demo- 
cratic side, but how will we make a choice 
among the bright and shining Republican 
lights ? ” 
“ Applause!” shouted some one, and there 
was a general clapping of hands. 
“ Three cheers for the best man, — no, — 
I mean woman ! ” 
The air rang with a merry hurrah; then 
they indulged in the college yell. The sun had 
dropped down behind the range of hills that 
were now purple-black with a glowing aureola 
on their summits. There was a slight chill in 
the air, and several of the group began to 
run. 
“What do you think of the plan?” Lor- 
raine asked Miss Brooks. “ Have you any 
politics?” 
“ Yes. Republican. And I feel quite certain 
the election will go that way. But it will be 
a very good thing if we can keep our tem- 
pers. And you know we have been going over 
some financial problems. Women really ought 
to take more interest in these things. And you, 
Miss Grant? ” 
Helen gave a short laugh. “ I think Hope 
Township was generally Republican and 
strong on the tariff question. Are politics a 
matter of inheritance? ” 
“ I do believe they are mostly. I follow in 
the footsteps of my family, I confess.” 
“ I haven’t any politics,” Lorraine admitted 
rather ruefully. 
“ Then you will do for an umpire. And on 
our side we will elect Gertie Hamilton. She 
is humorous and can keep her temper. Her 
father has had two terms as a representative.” 
“ And Lois Taylor. There ought to be 
at least six on a side. Oh, look at the win- 
dows ! ” 
The lights flashed in long rows like a small 
city illuminated. Girls were huddling in the 
doorways, and quite a procession wound round 
the oval. 
“Oh, the warmth feels good, doesn't it!” 
and Lorraine shivered out the cold with a 
bright laugh. “ Let us run to the parlor until 
we hear the welcome sound of the dinner- 
bell.” 
“ I'm going to hunt up some girls and ex- 
ploit the idea of a discussion. I want to see 
how many are interested. And we can meet 
in the Gym.” 
Leslie Brooks hurried away. She was very 
fond of the junior girls, and Miss Hamilton 
was, as she expressed it, quite eager for the 
fray. She mentioned several others that she 
called strong and level-headed girls. 
Lorraine and Helen dropped on a divan that 
some one had rolled up to get the benefit of 
the cheery blaze, although it was warm enough 
anywhere about the large room. Some of the 
girls were reading, and small groups were 
having animated discussions. Miss Ferris, a 
good student, although she had some peculiar- 
ities, sat quite by herself. She disliked to echo 
commonly received opinions, and always found 
a loophole of dissent ; a sort of protest against 
what she called arbitrary rules that were not 
needed out of childhood, since self-government 
was the order of the college. Before entering 
any contest, she went over all the arguments 
pro and con that she might not be caught nap- 
ping. Her face showed rather severe lines, 
as if it had always been turned to the serious 
side of life and despised frivolity. 
Lorraine had been studying her. She was 
not analytical and believed strongly in intui- 
tion, though she had no fancy for weak char- 
acters. She mentally decided that Gertie 
Hamilton would win in the argument. 
Helen’s thoughts went back to Uncle Jason, 
who seldom talked politics, but labored under 
the impression that every Democratic admin- 
istration had nearly ruined the country. And 
then the latest letter from Willard Bell flashed 
across her mind. The excitement of the com- 
ing election pervading New York had roused 
 
him, and as he was to put in his first vote he 
was all eager interest. She had really enjoyed 
it, since it was not filled with appeals to her. 
Willard and his father were to come to New 
York for the winter. Mrs. Bell was to go to 
Bermuda to Daisy, who somehow did not get 
as strong as they had hoped. For a while she 
had enjoyed her companion very much, and 
written one glowing note that Helen had 
smiled over, that would have wounded her if 
she had loved Daisy deeply. She was glad 
for Willard to have a new interest, even if 
it was only temporary. There could be no 
Christmas invitation to the Bells', and that re- 
lieved her. 
Just as the summons to dinner came, one of 
the seniors approached Miss Ferris and walked 
out with her through the corridor. 
“ Yes,” she said, “ yes, I will be there. 
Nine o'clock, sharp.” 
A matter like this was soon buzzed about. 
Most of the girls took it in the sense of 
amusement, but a few fell into arguments. It 
was history night after chapel, but the gym- 
nasium began to fill up promptly. It presented 
quite a different aspect from the previous eve- 
ning; the bars and trestles and rowing- 
machines were in place, and the end was 
shrouded in duskiness. Several girls were 
seated at a long table; the others crowded 
about, eager to learn what was to be done. 
After the preliminaries were through, the 
chairman announced the purpose of the meet- 
ing. Six girls were to be appointed on the 
Democratic side, six on the Republican, and 
each was to bring forward the most cogent 
arguments for her side. The leaders were to 
be Miss Hamilton and Miss Ferris. The de- 
bate would occupy two evenings, six speakers 
each night. Everybody in favor of this was 
requested to vote. The ayes were uproarious ; 
not a dissenting voice. They were to consider 
the remaining speakers, and vote on them 
Saturday afternoon. Each side was to select 
its strongest girl, and each girl to take up one 
of the most prominent points of her party. 
The meeting on Saturday was wildly en- 
thusiastic. There had been much electioneer- 
ing during the three days, though on the first 
ballot there was considerable scattering. 
 
Professor Bowne, who was a pronounced 
suffragist, and several of the other teachers 
were present. 
“ I really must congratulate you upon the 
order of your meeting,” Miss Bowne said, 
graciously. “ College training is beginning to 
show in several ways. It would be possible 
to educate women politically, in spite of the 
sneers and slurs that are often flung out. They 
need a good groundwork to know where they 
stand and why this foundation is more secure 
than any other.” 
There was a sudden interest in congressional 
reports, in the books on finance, trade, taxa- 
tion. 
“ There's such a little time that all you 
girls must send in whatever fact you find; 
anything from Carey and Porter and Calhoun 
and Mr. Gladstone and John Mill and some 
of our own senators, whatever makes for my 
side, which is free trade and lower taxation, 
and whatever interferes with freedom of in- 
dustry and the best markets. Let us get our 
first debate in order, before we go at the sec- 
ond. That will be on the night the question 
is settled,” and the speaker laughed. “ We 
shall not hear in some days unless it is a 
rousing victory for our side.” 
“ Girls, we ought to have an illumination 
and a procession for the side that wins. Are 
any of us brave enough to interview the pres- 
ident?” 
They looked at each other in consternation 
at first. 
“ I think that would take more courage than 
going to the polls and dropping in a vote,” 
said one of the seniors. 
“ Courage to meet an emergency is one of 
the first steps toward our emancipation,” de- 
clared Miss Bowne. “ But if you will em- 
power me, I will present the case in your 
behalf.” 
“ A committee of the juniors should go,” 
said Miss Ferris with decision. 
“Oh, no! Miss Bowne! Miss Bowne!” 
cried a host of voices. 
Miss Ferris straightened herself and looked 
displeased. 
“ We have the best-looking leader,” whis- 
pered Miss Brooks. “ And it has been said 
 
that women would vote for the handsomest 
candidate irrespective of merit, which is a 
libel, of course; we have more principle.” 
“ Miss Ferris wouldn’t,” Helen said, deci- 
sively. 
“ It would depend on whether her party put 
him up. Still it would be a sort of bitter pill. 
She is thoroughly honest in her beliefs.” 
“ One’s beliefs may not always be right.” 
That was true enough, Helen thought. 
For a proposal beginning in jest, the plan 
of the discussion created a wonderful interest. 
The lecture-room was offered to the juniors, 
and the plan of the procession approved of 
under certain restrictions. There was to be 
no undue triumphing over the losing side. 
There was a throng going to the lecture- 
room on Saturday. The tennis meet had been 
in the morning; also the botany club. Girls 
dressed in holiday attire to do credit to “ our 
class.” There was also a sprinkling of seniors 
and a number of under classmen, women 
rather. It quite appalled the committee. 
The chairman announced the purpose of the 
meeting and introduced the first speaker, Miss 
Ferris, who glanced calmly about the audience, 
seeming in no wise disturbed by the familiar 
faces of teachers. Her black gown was just 
 
relieved at throat and wrists with a line of 
white. She was statuesque rather than stiff, 
and so thoroughly convinced of her own ar- 
guments that there was not the slightest hesi- 
tation in explaining what her party had done 
for the country since its earliest infancy, and 
what policies the present candidate had pro- 
posed to carry out to the great advancement 
along lines of certain prosperity. Every 
woman had an interest in this, wives, mothers, 
young women in training for the duties of life. 
She had a clear, decisive voice, and there was 
no hesitancy in her manner. Her words were 
well chosen, her arguments were clear as far 
as they went, and her air of earnest conviction 
made them apparently cover the ground. 
Miss Hamilton was more sprightly, and 
brought to the fore an inspiriting air of pa- 
triotism. She, too, had her tale of hard-won 
victories to recount, of what the party had 
saved the country from, of its glowing aims 
for the future, and she moved her audience to 
applause. 
Then followed schemes of taxation, one 
flatly contradicting the other, and both mak- 
ing points and dropping into fallacies. Plans 
of other nations in raising revenue were ex- 
ploited, and the discussion closed amid great 
applause. 
kk But I do not think you were as convinc- 
ing as you might have been, Gertie. I wanted 
Miss Ferris routed altogether.” 
“ The truth lies between two extremes,” 
she returned, sententiously. “ I’m saving up 
some of my ammunition to the last. Oh, you’ll 
be amazed at Miss Corsen’s protective tariff 
arguments! She goes way back to the times 
of Greece and quotes Aristophanes, who sati- 
rizes the Achanians, who, because they burned 
charcoal, were not ready to have free trade 
forced upon them by war. It’s simply im- 
mense. And old Carthage was strong for 
protection.” 
“ Well, but oughtn’t countries, like individ- 
uals, to improve? Don’t we know more than 
those old Carthaginians ? I always feel mad 
at them because they treated Hannibal so at 
the last.” 
“ But our difference is between M. and N. 
Which will make the better President? 
 
“ The man with the better party back of 
him. After all, Congress is the great thing.” 
“ The Democratic party upheld slavery, any- 
how. I can say it outside,” and the speaker's 
cheeks turned very red. “ I wouldn’t be 
a — ” 
“ Hush! You know we were to taboo per- 
sonalities, and slavery, and the Civil War. It 
is just the politics of to-day.” 
“ But I want the whole truth told. I 
thought of some telling points Miss Hamilton 
might have made. Men don’t scruple to say 
things, and see what scathing articles are in 
the newspapers.” 
“ We are going to put politics on a new 
basis, a cleaner, more generous foundation. It 
is to be principles, not men.” 
“ Not a man ! ” cried some one in a whim- 
sical tone. “ The women are to get the fat 
offices.” 
“ They won’t know how to fill them. They 
can’t rise to heights of political consideration.” 
“ Why, they are doing it out in the new 
States, and no great cataclysm has occurred.” 
“ Women are essentially narrow.” 
“ College education is to broaden them out.” 
“ I don’t care about the broadening. 
Women will be Democrats and Republicans, 
and so long as my party beats, I shall be sat- 
isfied. Oh, girls, to think election is only a 
week and two days off ! It makes me tremble 
to think of it ! ” 
“ A specimen of the new woman ! ” 
“ Well, I don’t care to be an old woman just 
yet. And the large-minded, public-spirited 
men are saying and printing all sorts of slan- 
ders about each other.” 
“ Will they pick the women candidates to 
pieces that way, and rake up all the silly and 
wrong things their fathers and grandfathers 
did? If so, I am not for women’s suffrage.” 
There were lessons and exercises to think 
about; the Christmas exams would come so 
soon afterward. But there was a distracting 
interest in the great contest now that they were 
warmed up, and they said sharp and satirical 
things to each other, some quoting from the 
papers of the day. It was rather consoling to 
pay off some old scores under this cover. 
Their second line of argument was listened 
to with much attention and applause. If any- 
thing, the tariff speakers made the best show- 
ing. 
“ And now the great question is settled,” 
they said as they wended their way to their 
rooms, inviting compeers in to partake of tea 
and various refreshments, and talk it over. 
The little parties happily were mostly of the 
same belief, so they were the more amicable. 
Everybody made a rush for the papers the 
next morning. There was the glowing head- 
line : Great Republican Victory Assured. 
A shout went up; more than half of the 
juniors came from Republican families. 
Miss Ferris took the defeat of her party 
with great calmness. “ The right often fails,” 
she said with a sort of grand composure, “ but 
it wins in the end.” 
“ My idea is that one party isn’t so very 
much nearer right than the other, and it seems 
there must always be two parties.” 
“ I hope it will not be a bad experience for 
you girls,” said Miss Morse. “ I consider it 
a good thing, for it has set you to looking 
up some truths about your country and the 
methods and policies that come home to you 
in a different manner than from the mere 
study of text-books. I was afraid at first it 
might create some disturbance, but you all 
deserve much credit. Perhaps politics for 
women may not be such an impossibility. 
Now, for the next four years, you must follow 
the politics of your party and its chief men 
and see how near they come to the campaign 
promises.” 
There was great rejoicing. The winning 
party had their procession. They had worked 
upon transparencies, they had borrowed flags, 
even from their less successful neighbors. 
There was a band with numerous fifes and 
several horns, with mouthpieces and even two 
large jew’s-harps, very well played, triangles, 
and a tambourine. Every patriotic girl placed 
a light, and some several, in her window. All 
the college buildings were illuminated, and it 
was an inspiriting sight, for the successful 
candidate was a man of the highest integrity 
and irreproachable morals, worthy of the es- 
teem of the whole country. 
Although Miss Ferris took her defeat 
 
calmly, there was no light in her window, and 
she did not even view the merrymaking, but 
sat in her room and studied. 
“ One party always has to lose,' said the 
spokesman of a group of girls, philosophically. 
“ And it would be queer if we were mad at the 
other party when we lose at any of the 
games.’ 
“ But there isn’t any real principle involved 
in that; only honesty and fair play.” 
“ Well, I think honesty a big principle. 
And now I’m going in for the fun of the pro- 
cession. It won’t do the defeated party any 
good for a few college girls to sit and mope 
and chew the cud of bitter reflection or disap- 
pointment.” 
“ The country has always been going to 
ruin under every change of administration; 
yet, it holds up its head and goes on prosper- 
ing, and I notice the men who have said bitter 
things and the men who have been berated 
are friends afterward,” said Miss Hamilton. 
“ Few of the dire predictions materialize. 
And we must remember the safeguard of hav- 
ing two parties.” 
“ But where a king or emperor rules — ” 
suggested a listener. 
“ Except in autocratic Russia or a govern- 
ment like Turkey, you will find two parties.” 
“ Why, yes. Look at the Blouse of Com- 
mons and the French and the Germans, and 
how the minorities make their power felt after 
awhile. But we must get ready to process. 
“ Light your lanterns, beat your drums, 
We have done the greatest sums.” 
“We!” exclaimed a girl, scornfully. 
“ Wait until we have suffrage ! ” 
“ I’m not going to wait for anything so 
far off. I’ll take my fun now, and then, too, 
if there is any to be had.” 
They lighted the transparencies and lan- 
terns and marched around all the halls and 
several of the buildings, responding to cheers 
and cheering wildly themselves. They 
marched out to the president’s residence, and 
although it was a rather crisp autumn night, 
the broad piazza was filled with professors, 
post-graduates, and not a few of the seniors. 
As they paused in excellent order, being on 
their best behavior as representative college 
 
girls, the president stepped forward and gave 
them a little speech, quite complimentary, re- 
joicing with them on the success of their can- 
didate, as well as that of the majority of the 
country. Then the wildest of cheers went up, 
and they filed slowly by. 
“ It’s been great fun all the way through,” 
said Betty Gamier. “ If this is a taste of 
politics, I don’t wonder the men like a whole 
meal of it when they win the right to the 
feast. But I want to go in and hug a steam- 
pipe and have some hot chocolate. It’s been 
heavenly weather, though; the most beautiful 
autumn I have ever seen. And, girls, if it 
will only be nice until Saturday! ” 
“ Why, we want Saturday as well. I’ve 
been tackling the second hurdle and have it 
about perfect. And, Helen Grant, you are in 
the races. You’ll have to look sharp, too.” 
“ A run to bed would be most comforting 
to me,” was the laughing reply. 
“ But you must stop and get good and 
warm.” 
They huddled over radiators, laughing and 
jesting. There was a fragrance of tea and 
chocolate and toasting crackers. The largest 
rooms were taking in the feasters, who sat al- 
most on each other’s knees and filled the 
floor. 
Helen had been very much occupied all 
day, and now, tired and sleepy, she tumbled 
into bed. She could not go over her lessons 
now; she must rise early the next morning, 
was her last conscious thought. 
She was enjoying college life so much 
among the juniors. The crudenesses of girl- 
hood had been toned down by new experiences 
and wider knowledge. There was more am- 
bition ; there was a pervading pride in the 
honor of the college; there was more intel- 
lectual stimulus in the pleasant routine of 
study and diversion, and in the social inter- 
course. For various reasons she had not 
joined in this last so much in her freshman 
year; she had a more vivid general interest, 
and a finer degree of appreciation. She would 
find a quality she admired in a girl who might 
be quite deficient in some other line, and yet 
she liked her, and was glad to be liked in turn. 
She and Lorraine were very warm friends. 
 
Helen slept late the next morning and had 
barely time to glance over the earliest lessons. 
There were some bad breaks in the classes, but 
no one seemed to take them deeply to heart. 
She spent her noontime going over some ex- 
ercises with Lorraine, who seemed rather lan- 
guid. 
“ How generous you are,’’ the girl said, 
reaching over and leaning lightly on Helen’s 
shoulder. “ I hope I shall never bore you with 
my shortcomings. I wish I had your certainty 
about everything. Other girls are confident ; 
you are sure.” 
“ But I study to be sure. My heart was up 
in my throat this morning. I really think I 
should have missed if some points had been 
demanded of me.” 
The afternoon was all excitement again. 
Saturday was really a junior field-day, the last 
of the season, and there were plans to discuss 
and various matters to settle. Girls were ex- 
ercising, and the one anxious hope of all was 
that there would be no rain on Saturday. 
“ We can’t count on this weather, for we 
have had such a bountiful supply of it. And 
then, girls, Thanksgiving and skating and 
snow and Christmas ! ” 
“ And tests and worries as to how one 
stands. I wish we were back in October.” 
“ I’m ready for Christmas any time,” 
laughed a light-hearted girl. “ I don’t count 
on getting into the seniors. There’s no hurry 
for me to get through.” 
Helen had taken a decided fancy to athletics, 
while in her first year the gymnasium had 
rather bored her. She knew now it was more 
the class of girls than real lack of interest in 
the exercise. She had protested at first, how- 
ever, at being put on any of the lists, since 
there were sophomores who had done meri- 
torious work. 
All was eagerness to catch the first glimpse 
of the morning. There were long level bars 
of light with a few clouds drifting about, then 
a hazy dull-gold sun still suggestive of Indian 
summer appeared. Feet scampered up and 
down the corridor ; there were bangs at doors 
that could only be made with the heel of a 
shoe in a determined hand. Yes, it would be 
a day made to order. 
 
“ Take a good stout breakfast to fortify 
yourself," advised more than one to the 
athletes. 
Spectators began to gather and occupy the 
seats in the long rectangle, friends of the 
near-by pupils. A rope was extended along 
the track to reserve plenty of room, but eager 
faces pressed closely up to it. Each girl had 
her warm adherents, and a committee had pre- 
pared prizes for the winners. 
There was some fine vaulting, and the run- 
ning jumps were very well executed. Only 
two stumbled and failed to recover promptly. 
There was a burst of clapping and applause 
that fairly rent the air, but two were so evenly 
matched that it was hard to distinguish the 
winner. 
There was a breathing space for the audi- 
ence, and guesses ran round as to who would 
be best at the hurdles. Several fell out at the 
third one, more at the fourth, and there was 
only one, who was greeted with immense ap- 
plause, at the finish. Then all eyes were 
turned to the girls in their blue suits with 
white trimmings, ready for the starter’s sig- 
nal. 
They were off like a flash, at first in a 
straight line across, scarcely swerving, skim- 
ning lightly along, two of them using some 
unnecessary vigor and growing rosy every 
minute. All eyes were eagerly turned on them, 
for none of them seemed to gain any advan- 
tage. They had made more than half the dis- 
tance when the first one lagged a little. The 
others were cheered on by a burst of applause. 
“ Ada Foster will win, of course. She made 
a minute on the record yesterday, and you 
know she won for the sophomores in the tests 
with last year’s juniors. Miss Grant goes 
splendidly. Now it lies between them.” 
The second girl had lost a few paces and 
was swinging her arms like a windmill in the 
desire for recovery. The third point was 
passed. Helen, of course, desired to do credit 
to her coterie of friends, who had been so in- 
sistent that she should enter, but she had 
. hardly hoped to win. She heard her com- 
panion’s step lag a trifle, and her breathing was 
more strenuous. How many times back in 
 
Hope she had run races with the boys and 
beaten some of the best of them! She heard 
Aunt Jane’s voice again in its ungraciousness, 
“ Oh, yes, if you’d go about the work as you 
do running with the boys, it would be worth 
while!” 
Faster! faster! Helen seemed to have 
wings to her feet. The bar before her ap- 
peared to enlarge and rise up out of her reach. 
She made one grasp at it before it vanished. 
One, two, three, four, five seconds before Ada, 
flushed and wild-eyed, touched it. Helen was 
too generous to turn her face, and felt almost 
sorry for her rival as the plaudits rang out. 
The umpire stepped to the front and 
pounded lustily on it with her gavel. After 
a moment the cheering died down in eager 
attention. 
“ Miss Grant has broken the record by 
three seconds ; won by five. We are proud of 
our new champion.” 
There was an uproar again wild enough for 
a boys’ college. Girls evidently had good 
lungs. Then they indulged in the class yell, 
and all was confusion as groups pressed for- 
ward to congratulate Helen and introduce her 
to that and this friend. Some of the mothers 
and sisters had come up from Bedford, and 
there were a number of masculines. 
“ My foot turned,” Ada was explaining to 
her circle. “ Then I gave up, although I was 
so near the goal. I’m sorry I disappointed you 
girls, and I lost my own time by two seconds. 
But you see it was just a speeding between 
ourselves, and was not as if we had challenged 
the seniors, or anything, and it really doesn’t 
count. Before next June, Miss Grant will 
likely lose it. And the prizes, you know, are 
not important.” 
Still Ada Foster was deeply mortified, for 
she had been very sure of success, and her 
aim was to hold the class championship all the 
year. 
Helen was escorted around the circle in 
triumph. There was a crowd in the gymna- 
sium when the class president, who this year 
was Miss Van Duyne, made a felicitious 
speech and distributed the prizes, which were 
not very grand, to be sure. Helen hurried to 
her room, took a good rub-down, and gowned 
herself for luncheon. 
“ I’m so proud of you,” Lorraine declared. 
“ And I am so glad you are my chum. Half 
the girls are envying me! ” 
“ You'll make me vainer than a peacock,” 
Helen replied with a bright, wholesome laugh. 
“ But when you look at your feet you won’t 
have to drop your plumage,” was the arch 
reply. “ You have such splendid health and 
strength, Helen, and to-day the feet deserve 
all credit.” 
“ The feet had a master. I didn’t think of 
winning, truly, until that last quarter. And 
then I tried with all my might, a sort of self- 
ish might, wasn’t it? ” 
“ Why, no. For the honor of the class you 
were to do your best.’’ 
“But just a foot-race! And the many 
splendid intellectual matters one might excel 
in. I almost envy the girls who can write 
fine poems.” 
The girls were waiting in the corridor to 
squeeze her hand and say delightful things, 
and several girls were brave enough to kiss 
her. Helen had not encouraged effusiveness; 
some of the sentimental girls disgusted her. 
“ Now we must go to town this afternoon,” 
declared Miss Grainger. “ I want some music 
I have ordered, and Strong & Alden have a 
show of moving pictures — free at that. Let’s 
make a party and storm the town.” 
A crowd of girls eagerly assented, though 
more than one felt conscience-smitten at chos- 
ing between pleasure and study. But Satur- 
days came only once a week, while one had to 
study every day. 
Lorraine was eager to go, as she had a few 
articles to purchase. Helen really felt that she 
was pushed in the forefront by the plan, so it 
would not do for her to decline. She was 
fond of pleasure, too. 
They did have a gay time. Strong & Alden 
had almost what one might call a department 
store, an innovation in the pretty town. They 
had also a branch library, occasionally an ex- 
hibition of pictures, and a music-room, with 
a polite young clerk, an attraction to the col- 
lege girls. Moving pictures were quite a new 
thing and aroused a good deal of curiosity. 
 
Every half-hour they were put in motion. 
Some of the girls had not seen them at all. 
They were just in time for one display. It 
did seem wonderful ; trees waving in the wind, 
birds flying, a barn-yard with cattle moving 
about, and a flock of chickens. There was also 
a regatta on the river, and the girls could 
hardly refrain from cheering the winning boat. 
Last of all was the renowned chariot-race, and 
then everybody applauded. 
They dawdled over the shopping and bought 
various ornamental things that they would be 
puzzled to find space for; then went to the 
confectioner’s to lay in a stock of sweets, and 
through into the clean, pretty parlor for 
refreshments. 
“ It is to be a Dutch treat,’  announced Miss 
Van Duyne. “No girl is to suffer for an- 
other’s extravagance, but if you are madly 
wild to treat a friend and waste your money, 
that will be your own affair.” 
“ Except Miss Grant. We ought all to send 
her some choice bit,” declared one girl. 
“ Miss Grant is my particular guest,” an- 
nounced Miss Denman. “ I am to see that 
she keeps herself in good order. Let us re- 
member dinner and the variety of Saturday 
night desserts, and have a due regard for our 
pocketbooks as well as our stomachs.” 
Two or three clapped their thumb-nails in 
applause. 
“ ‘ Man, says the sage of Ecclefechan, ‘ is 
not a happy animal, his appetite for sweet 
victual is so enormous. ’ Did he mean to in- 
clude women? ” 
“ I think he knew nothing about college 
girls. He could not have refrained from a 
scathing diatribe if he had.” 
“ When your mind weakens and drops 
down, a dose of Carlyle is a good tonic. You 
fight every step of the way and are the better 
for it. But to our sweets, and then home, or 
we shall be late for dinner.” 
CHAPTER V 
FRIENDS AND A CHRISTMAS CONFIDENCE 
Helen was conscious of a desire as well as 
a preference for pretty things about her. 
Some girls made shrines of beauty out of their 
rooms, had hangings and cushions and rugs, 
a jardiniere with a pot of flowers, a tea-table 
with the choicest china they could afford, book- 
shelves with some fine editions of poets, and 
portfolios of engravings. She had been se- 
verely plain her first year, largely out of regard 
for her roommate, and then, also, she had not 
really cared for so much adornment. She 
had not spent all her allowance, as she wished 
to have a little left when her college life was 
over. But now that she had skipped one year 
