steps of her cousin upon the piazza, and turned 
at his familiar hand upon the door to meet and 
greet him. This she did with a cordiality so 
assumed that he felt it — his hurt face showed 
how much. He glanced from her to her tenant, 
first with the priest's and then with the prophet's 
look. 

Clyde came out slowly to extend the hospitality 
of the cottage to its kinsman. The dog walked 
with dignity. Not a cloud of guilt lurked in his 
fine eyes. He spurned the floor with a lofty pride. 

 

He had the air of a noble avenger, who had righted 
the wrongs of a race. 

Impulsively, without remembering that she was 
not free to speak of it, and because she had always 
told everything to Sterling Hart, Carolyn hastened 
to give the story of what had happened. She saw 
that Mr. Hart was troubled, if not alarmed. 

" I will go right over and see him," he said, 
turning about. 

" Excuse me," interrupted the physician, stepping 
forward, " but this matter is not to be known, 
if you please. Mrs. Dane very naturally made an 
exception of you — as I was forced to make one of 
her. But nothing whatever should be said. In any 
event, I am sure you would wish to wait before 
calling on Dr. Frost. He is really in too much 
suffering to see any person." 

" I am not attached to Dr. Frost," urged Mr. 
Hart, with some feeling, " but it is precisely where 
there is suffering that my profession calls me." 

" And that mine, in this instance, must dissuade 
you," said the physician. " I would advise you to 
wait for some days. We don't know yet how this 
is going to turn out. I may have to spend most of 
the night with him. He is considerably hurt." 

The two men regarded each other in surcharged 
silence. 

" Very well," said the clergyman, " if the case is 


yours, I will not go — not at present. Instead, if 
you please, Dr. Royal, I should like a short 
interview with yourself. In fact I may admit, if you 
will excuse me, Cousin Carolyn, that I came with 
this purpose in view. I thought I should find you, 
sir, at your office hours." 

Carolyn moved away quickly, and her cousin 
shut the office door. She thought, but she might 
have been mistaken, that he slipped the key. He 
remained in the office for a long time. She could 
hear the poignant murmur of their voices, interspersed 
with significant silences. She grew uneasy, 
she could not have told why. As the interview 
progressed, her discomfort increased. 

To escape her unpleasant position, she wan- 
dered restlessly about the house, and thinking to 
make sure that Kathleen had left the dampers as 
they should be, went into the kitchen. Now Clyde 
had shadowed her closely, aggrieved that he was 
denied the society of the two gentlemen upon an 
evening so eventful in the family history ; jealous 
of attention, and nervous for praise, he pushed 
through the pantry and pawed at the office door. 
This was not locked, and Clyde, who was distin- 
guished for his ability to open doors, forced the 
latch by means best known to himself, and lunged 
in, heavily and pleasantly wagging. There was a 
distinct interval before the door was closed again, 

 

and in this time there wandered out to Mrs. 
Dane's apprehension the articulation of these 
words : — 

" You may be the most irreproachable man in 
this world, sir, but we know nothing about you. 
Your past is a blank to us. Your present is a mys- 
tery. Apparently you have no antecedents, or none 
which you are willing to present. I am the only 
living kinsman of this lady who has the right to 
protect her. In my judgment, your presence in 
Mrs. Dane's house has continued long enough 
. . . if not too long," added Sterling Hart, with 
fervor. 

Wincing and quivering, with fire in her cheeks, 
and her heart leaping in her throat, Carolyn shrank 
back. Her first impulse was to enter the room — 
it was hers — and confront the two men with the 
matter under dispute between them — it was her 
affair. But the instinct of a lady to avoid a scene 
deterred her. She went back into the living-room, 
and stood still, — tall and distinct beneath the 
lighted gas, trying to decide what she should 
do. 

This she found not easy, and she still remained 
irresolute when the key slid in the office lock, and 
the door opened. Mr. Hart held it ajar with his 
hand upon the knob. He had his giant look ; his 
face was imperturbable and grave. He was saying 

 

— and it struck Carolyn that he made no effort to 
conceal from her that he was saying: — 

" I have put the case to you plainly, man to 
man. I have explained my reasons to you — why 
I experience the uneasiness that I do. I will deal 
with you fairly, but you will do as much by me 
. . . and by this lady, sir. Give us your
credentials. Clear up the points that I have mentioned. 
I will give you, — Dr. Royal, I give you a week." 

Sterling Hart crossed the cottage hall, and con- 
fronted Mrs. Dane with a gesture at once com- 
manding and entreating. 

" Good-night, Cousin Carolyn," he said gently. 
" I am afraid that I perplex or grieve you. I have 
no alternative. I will explain myself — with Dr. 
Royal's permission — at another time. We are all 
tired to-night." 

He closed the cottage door, and his strong step 
rang down the walk. Mrs. Dane and her tenant 
stood regarding each other silently. The collie 
ran between them, restlessly whining. Joyce in 
his bed upstairs waked and called : — 

"Mum — mumma?" Maudlin with sleep, the 
little fellow dribbled into the dialect of his baby- 
hood: "Mum — mumma? Pup — puppa? Mum 

— ma ? " 

Mrs. Dane ran up to the boy, and when she 
came down the office was empty. The doctor had 

 

gone for the night. She realized, not without a 
pang of perplexity, or even anxiety, that he had 
gone without a word. 

The vivisector lay upon the couch in the Ster- 
ling drawing-room and nursed his mangled hand. 
His wife devoted herself to his emergency without 
a weakened nerve. She read to him for hours ; 
her strong throat never tired. She tramped on 
errands for him all over the village. Her well- 
developed feet made frolic of the six-mile walk 
to Balsam which she took to find the particular 
orchids that struck his scientific fancy. For what 
might be called more human flowers, Thomas 
Frost did not care. It occurred to him that he 
had married a healthy, sensible, and not a selfish 
girl, who could attach herself to a man in the 
proper feminine ways as successfully as she had 
wielded a brassie. He went so far as to wonder if 
the golf girl, after all, might not prove a champion 
wife. But upon mere matters of sentiment his 
mind did not dwell tenaciously. His enforced 
inactivity and acute suffering had converted him 
into a raging schemer. His gray eyes smouldered 
like cool embers. 

Against the dog he was powerless, perforce. A 
man cannot sacrifice his reputation, or even his 
domestic happiness, to private vengeance upon an 

 

animal. Unfortunately, Mrs. Frost was fond of 
dogs ; she had three in her father's home. 

Then, if the story should leak out, his colleagues 
would be ill pleased. The new professor would 
start under a sentimental cloud. A disabled hand 
might be overcome ; demonstrators could be found 
to perform the butchery while he supplied the 
oratory of his brilliant experiments. But when it 
came to a moral blur, what could be done ? No 
understudy could supply the ethical quality. 

But for this obstinate fact, Clyde would have 
been shot through the head without delay. The 
vivisector was not stupid, and he accepted his 
situation. Against the dog he could not avenge 
himself; but the woman remained. 

Thomas Frost had some years since passed the 
point of sensitiveness to the sight of suffering. It 
had become as easy for him to inflict as for an- 
other man to spare. He thought of Carolyn Dane 
with a cold conviction that if she could be made 
to suffer for the fault of her dog, it would not be 
more than she deserved, at least no more than 
he was willing to impose. He brooded upon the 
matter with an icy bitterness. 

While receiving the surgical attention of Charles 
Royal, he scrutinized the man. A chance ques- 
tion to the old Balsam doctor ; a clever hint to the 
consulting surgeon from the city; a few flying 

 

arrows shot into the mind of Sterling Hart when 
the preacher made his priestly call — these psy- 
chological experiments occupied the ruined honey- 
moon of the vivisector. The human heart had 
become his laboratory, and in this, though some- 
thing of a bungler at that finer art, he worked 
with a determination which was a substitute for 
skill. The experiment did not occupy much time. 
Within two weeks Dr. Frost returned with his wife 
to her father's house, where three fine dogs em- 
braced the bride, and sniffed at the bridegroom. 

Sterling Hart did not return to Dr. Royal's 
office within the week whose iron boundary he 
had set before the man. He lingered two weeks; 
he delayed for three. If he came to see his cousin, 
it was at hours when the tenant could not be found, 
and to speak of subjects in which the doctor had 
no concern. 

It could be seen that Mr. Hart obviously avoided 
the matter which had annoyed and troubled Caro- 
lyn upon his earlier visit; and she, full of a mingled 
emotion, half resentment and half fear, did not 
herself recall it. 

But one evening in the later May — a rainy 
evening, when patients would be few — the 
preacher presented himself in office hours, and 
asked distinctly for the doctor. 

 



The two men met courteously, but without 
cordiality. The preacher, with some hesitation, took 
the patient's chair. The physician retained his 
own. His manner was as grave as that of the 
other, and possessed, it might be said, an equal 
dignity. He was, in fact, the first to speak. 

" Well," he said, " my time is more than up. I 
am not sure whether I should thank you for the 
reprieve. But I am ready to hear whatever you 
have to say to me." 

" It will not take long," replied the preacher ; 
curtly for Sterling Hart. " It is chiefly in a word: 
You have given me to understand that you are 
an educated physician, properly graduated." 

" I have, because I am." 

" You possess, of course, the diploma of some 
accredited institution ? " 

" I don't frame it and hang it," returned Dr. 
Royal, with a smile whose bitterness was disguised 
by its gentleness. " It is in one of the drawers of 
my desk." 

"Are you willing — pray excuse me — that I 
should see it?" asked the preacher point-blank. 

" No," said the physician, with equal bluntness. 
" At least," he added, " not under the present 
circumstances. I can conceive of those in which I 
might be." 

" Pardon me," proceeded Sterling Hart,
without smiling, " but the time has come when I must 
tell you that it is said, — I have been told, — the 
authority is good, Dr. Royal, or you will believe 
that I should not act upon it. I learn that your 
name does not stand upon the list of registered 
physicians of this state." 

" Have you been meddling — looking that up ? " 

The lame doctor got to his feet, and took fire, 
like a less gentle man. 

"I never thought of it!" blazed back the 
preacher. " If I had, I should undoubtedly have 
done so. I have my cousin's interests to protect. 
Nothing else matters to me beside those. I could 
not have a charlatan — an adventurer — assuming 
and sustaining the position which you hold in this 
house." 

The doctor waved these words off with a ees- 
ture whose dignity impressed itself upon the 
preacher even in that agitated moment. 

" You would be quite right," he replied with 
unexpected self-possession. " I should not blame 
you. ... I suppose," he added, wheeling, " Frost 
told you this ? " 

Mr. Hart, too, got to his feet. He made no 
reply to this question, and the eyes of the two 
men met poignantly. Then the preacher said : — 

"Would it matter who discovered the fact — if 
it were a fact ? If it be a fact ? " 

 



" He is capable of it," mused the doctor,
looking into the fire more drearily than angrily. " I 
might have thought of it — I didn't, that 's all. 
. . . Mr. Hart ! " He turned his marred face with 
a pathetic movement, half appeal, half pain. " Mr. 
Hart! The time has come, I see, when I must 
answer your questions — some of them, at least. 
We both belong to the confessional professions. 
I ought to be able to trust you. Do you demand 
my confidence ? " 

" I demand nothing," returned the preacher, 
quickly. 

"Will you accept it, then ? " 

The preacher hesitated. " I can't put myself 
under bonds — " he argued hurriedly. " You must 
see that. All I can say is : I have never betrayed 
a human soul — that I can remember — in my 
life." 

" It can't be helped, at any rate," replied the 
doctor, wearily. " There is no other way. I must 
risk it. If you will be seated, Mr. Hart? Thank 
you. I am rather lame to conduct a difficult 
conversation on my feet. Are the doors all shut? 
Where is Mrs. Dane?" 

Mr. Hart looked out into the hall, and closed 
and locked the office door again. 

" I think she must be upstairs with Joyce," he 
said. He returned to his chair before the office 

 

fire. The doctor sat looking into it. It was some 
moments before he spoke. 

It was half an hour, it was an hour, it was two, 
but the interchange of voices in the office did not 
cease. Some time after ten o'clock, Carolyn came 
down to put out the gas and go up to bed. Sud- 
denly the office door opened, and she heard her 
cousin saying gently : — 

" How much time do you want ? " 

"How can I tell you?" returned the doctor. 
" It may be a month ; it might be a day." 

Then Sterling Hart came through the door- 
way with bowed head. His manner indicated 
emotion so great that Cara shrank back, afraid to 
speak to him. But he took a step or two, and 
approached her silently. Without a word he 
stretched his arms above her head — not touching 
her — as if he blessed her; as a priest, and as a 
man, and as a kinsman ; as if he blessed her 
altogether and forever ; and so, still mute, he left her. 
In that moment she had seen his noble face ; and 
that it rained with tears. 

Now, the evening and the morning were the 
next day. The storm was spent. It was a shining 
day, and blossomed like a white, hot rose. It was 
the national Memorial Day, as it befell, and Caro- 
lyn had been early to the churchyard, taking her 

 

boy and her flowers with her. This made her late 
at her day's work, and she left Joyce, as her habit 
was, in Kathleen's quite trustworthy care, and 
hurried away, disregarding the child's peremptory 
demand "to see some soiljers," without her usual 
attention to his fixed ideas. 

Dr. Royal (to whom she offered that day an 
abstracted greeting, as if the anniversary had 
detached her altogether from him) paid his early 
morning call on Solomon Hops, and was about 
to proceed upon his rounds, when a change of 
purpose took him ; he left his horse at his office 
hitching-post, and made across the lawn of the 
Sterling place towards the house of Mr. Hart, 
musing as he walked. As he leisurely approached 
the ravine and the iron bridge he heard, or fancied 
that he heard, a scream, followed by another, and 
another, each cleaving the May morning like a 
rapier, and seeming to him like a succession of 
mortal stabs. The lame man limped into a chaotic 
run, and hobbled up — slowly, at his best — in 
time to meet the preacher coming towards him 
rapidly. Mr. Hart in his coffin will be no grayer 
than he was at that monstrous moment. 

In his arms he clasped a little shrinking figure. 
It was Cara's boy. 

" What is it? " demanded the doctor. " Let me 
have him ! Let me have him — quickly ! " 

 

But the preacher held his little kinsman to his 
leaping heart. The motion was automatic and im- 
perious. 

" He fell," gasped Sterling Hart. " He was com- 
ing to find me, I think. He slipped and rolled — 
off — off — " He shivered, and hid his eyes upon 
the sobbing child. 

" Not there ! " 

Dr. Royal pointed to the chasm with a finger 
that shook like a ribbon in a gale. 

" He fell, and rolled — his little clothes caught 
somewhere — I think it was the leather belt — he 
was hanging — over the — over the — when I found 
him. There was a break in the railing we put up 
after Timothy George — nobody knew it. I was 
out walking. It just happened so ; that is all." 

" Give him to me!" insisted the physician, with 
a formidable look. " You should not yield to any 
feeling you have — any impulse or affection till we 
know — God ! Don't you see Joyce is in 
convulsions? Give me — that is — the child, I say!" 

The preacher's mighty arms surrendered the 
boy to the doctor, who laid him on the grass and 
examined him in absolute silence. After a few 
moments he lifted the lad jealously again to his 
own breast, and the two men walked on with their 
shuddering little burden. 

In the May morning they looked at each other. 


Their eyes said: "Which of us must tell her?" 
" What will this do to her? " They had gone but 
a short and difficult distance when they met Kath- 
leen running and panting. 

" It was but the drop of me eyelash, the twist 
of me head," argued Kathleen, " an' when I turns 
the tail of me eye, he was not forninst me. He 'd 
been that crazy over them soldiers since the drums 
begun. He says, 'Mr. Cousin Sterling Hart 'll 
show me some soiljers — ' Mother of Heaven! 
Mother of God ! " cried Kathleen. She gave one 
glance at the writhing child, threw her apron over 
her head, and dropped upon the grass. The two 
men strode on. 

When they approached the cottage they stopped 
and stood irresolute. A woman's figure, draped 
in translucent black, moved uneasily about the 
grounds, and a woman's voice — the tenderest in 
all the world of women that either the physician 
or the preacher knew — was calling with 
penetrating sweetness: — 

"Joyce? Joyce? My baby! My little man! 
Where is mother's precious boy ? " 

From the village churchyard, a mile away, the 
throb of military music, like the beat of a heart, 
pulsated plainly, and seemed to answer her. Now 
the bugle was calling taps above the soldiers' 
graves, where the living had left all they had to 

 

give the dead, — their flowers and their tears. 
But Joyce did not hear the " soiljers." Without a 
wound, without a break, without a bruise upon his 
perfect little body, the child, smitten by terror and 
shock, passed from convulsion to convulsion in 
the doctor's arms. 



CHAPTER XVII 

Carolyn crept, leaning upon one elbow. She 
had put the child into her own bed at the first, 
and there, on the edge of the broad mattress, she 
had lain day and night. The sleeve of her loose 
white gown was worn through to her bare flesh 
from the constraint and persistence of her posi- 
tion. She was able in this way at once to watch 
the boy's face and to hold his hand while he slept; 
so to foretell, by the tightening of little fingers on 
her own, the advance of the throes in which he 
would awake. 

Outside of the sickroom it was laughing June. 
For three weeks the child had floated between 
life and death, as the little flags on the soldiers' 
graves fluttered and fell with wind or calm upon 
their fragile staffs. The flowers were ashes upon 
the mounds, but the small human soul clung to 
its rights in its racked body. Brain fever with 
complications, superinduced by shock, were om- 
inous words. The mother listened to them dully. It 
did not seem to her to matter what they called it. 
Nothing mattered. The child would die ; that was 
all. Nothing could save him. Consultants from 

 

the city came and went. She listened stupidly to 
what they said. Dr. Royal would understand. She 
turned to Dr. Royal. Carolyn's natural courage 
had quite forsaken her in this last extremity. She 
had reached the point of endurance where a 
woman ceases to hope, or even to struggle for any 
form of happiness, since fate has denied her so 
many, and accepts as her lot that reiteration of 
sorrow which we find to be the portion of certain 
lives. All the optimism of the situation came from 
the nature of Charles Royal. All the will power, 
all the hope concentrated upon the sinking boy, 
were his. He had held the flickering life in the 
hollow of his hand. For three weeks he had not 
known a night's rest or a day's relief. He watched 
the disease as a burning glass observes a piece of 
scorching paper. Sometimes it seemed to shrivel, 
whether before his professional skill or his 
personal absorption. Then the lad subtly lost more 
than he gained, and the unequal contest set in 
again. The physician did not yield his case by the 
width of a wearied moment, or the weakness of a 
diverted purpose. Carolyn had no heart to wonder 
at the tenacity of his determination to save the 
patient, or at his affection for the child ; but she 
was steadily and acutely conscious of both. 

Now, with the breadth of the little lad's bed 
between them, they sat, she on its edge, he on a 

 



chair at the other side. It was a warm evening, 
and all the windows were flung wide. There was 
but one light in the sickroom, and that, shaded 
from the little patient, embossed the doctor's face 
and head and hands in a soft illumination against 
the shadow of a screen. The screen was black, 
and its embroidery gold. Carolyn could see that 
one of his hands was clenched ; the other played 
along the boy's pulse like a listening finger on 
an invisible flute, — a magical instrument, which 
offered music, but did not yield it. 

The " sorryfool man " looked older than usual. 
It seemed to Mrs. Dane that he had aged rapidly 
within the last few weeks. His hair was a shade 
whiter; the hollows in his cheeks were gaunt. His 
gray beard drooped at the corners of his mouth, 
and she was sure that his unseen lips trembled. 
Her wasted eyes traversed the familiar map of his 
face. Perhaps for the first time it occurred to her 
that there were spaces upon it marked " unex- 
plored." Certain sacred words forced themselves 
upon her imagination, and her thought repeated 
them, not irreverently: — 

" For his visage was so marred, more than any 



man." 



How brutally that wreck had treated him ! A 
dark scar ran across his forehead and his temple; 
one of his cheeks was quite defaced. The strain 

 

of his battle for the life of her child, the long- 
drawn vigil, the lost vitality, and the sensitive 
anxiety which she could not deceive herself in 
thinking that he had experienced — these had em- 
phasized his physical defects and deformities. His 
hoarse voice was fainter than she had ever known 
it ; more raucous, more unpleasant to the ear. 
She had never seen him limp so much as he did 
now. Her haggard eyes absorbed every feature, 
every gesture of the disfigured and exhausted 
man. 

" He stands between me and the worst," she 
thought. 

Her hurt heart crawled towards him as a 
wounded creature seeks the only shelter it can 
find. She leaned to him with the passion of pity 
which only tender women know for unselfish, un- 
attractive men. Cara thought : " If you were well, 
and strong, and handsome, and fortunate, I should 
not care so much." 

A clock in the room ticked gently, and the boy 
stirred. 

" Hasn't he slept a good while ? " his mother 
asked. 

" Longer than at any time before." 

" What did Dr. Strang say ? " 

" Oh, he agreed with the rest." 

" Doesn't he think there is any hope ? " 
 

" Why do you ask me these questions ? " 

" What did he say to you when you were alone 
together ? " 

" The usual things. He advised anodynes, and 
so forth." 

" Have you given them ? " 

"No." 

" Do you mean to give them ? " 

" No." 

Carolyn looked at the child. Her face worked. 

" Do you want Dr. Strang to take the case ? 
I should not blame you. You are trusting me 
very far." 

" I shall trust you farther, — to the uttermost, 
to the end." 

Although subdued conversation did not disturb 
the boy, but tended rather to soothe him (so large 
a part had the element of terror taken in his dis- 
order), yet they had been speaking in the lowest 
whispers, scarcely articulate. Their own voices 
sounded unreal to them. The physician did not 
reply to Mrs. Dane's last words. His emotion over- 
came him, and he made no effort to conceal that 
it did so, but averted his scarred face from her. 
His finger crept back to the child's pulse. 

" He is still sleeping ! " breathed Carolyn. 

The doctor glanced at his watch. " Almost an 
hour more than at any time before." 

 

Her eyes ran to the little wrist where the trained 
ringer tip rested as lightly as a leaf. 

" Stronger," he whispered, " a little. More even, 
I think." 

Across his disfigured face a frail smile stirred. 
Carolyn's courage took fire from it. She sat with 
held breath, as if the child's life — still a part of 
her own being — would exhale with the action of 
her lungs. Her eyes sought the physician eagerly. 
But his cautiously replied. 

Now, when Mrs. Dane turned her head, Kath- 
leen at the door was standing with hot soup, and 
beckoning to the doctor. 

" You, too," he said ; and Carolyn followed him. 
Kathleen took the watcher's place beside the boy, 
and the two sat down in the hall. There was a 
divan beneath the window, and a small light table. 
They put the cups of soup upon the table, and 
sipped comfortably; they had never taken a meal 
together, and both remembered the fact. Carolyn 
felt curiously comforted, as a woman does by the 
domestic atmosphere in her saddest moments. 
This had suddenly and subtly become something 
lighter and brighter than a sad moment. 

" Is there any chance ? " she asked outright. 

" Do not be too sure of it," he parried gently. 
" It seems to me possible ; that 's all I can say." 

" If Joyce should get well — " Panting, she set 


her cup down. " I think I would never complain of 
anything, never ask for anything again. It would 
be ... so much happiness. I should not know 
how to . . . bear it." 

" Do you mean," demanded the doctor, unex- 
pectedly, " that there would be no room left in 
you for any other happiness ? Of any other kind, 
I mean." 

His lowered voice took for the first time since 
they had been together the tone which no woman 
can mistake. Carolyn's eyes fled before the con- 
centration of his. 

" If the little fellow should live — could you not 
bear any more joy? Would that exhaust your 
capacity ? You could be very happy, you know. 
Power to be glad is measured by power to suffer. 
And you—" 

He stopped. Carolyn lifted her trembling face. 
Before she could check herself her innermost, ut- 
termost soul sprang to her lips. 

" His poor father ! " she said. " His poor father ! " 

The doctor did not answer. He regarded her 
solemnly. The child waked, calling faintly, and the 
two returned to the sickroom together 

The doctor did not leave it again until morn- 
ing. He expelled the mother from the room 
peremptorily, ordered her to go to sleep, and him- 

 

self watched the night out. When Carolyn came 
back, the June morning was in the room. Birds 
were singing everywhere. The pale, pearl-pink 
dawn tinged the cheeks of the sleeping child. His 
forehead was moist ; his curls lay close upon it 
in pretty rings. One hand closed about the doc- 
tor's finger. The physician gently loosened the 
clasp, and rose. He stood shining against the tall, 
black screen. He limped across the room softly, 
and took Mrs. Dane's hands in both of his. She 
stood flooded in his emotion and her own. 

" There was a change at three o'clock," he said, 
" when the tide turned to come in. The worst 
symptoms are under control of the last remedy. If 
it holds — if it lasts — I think " — he choked. 

Before Carolyn could speak he had raised her 
hand to his lips, and she felt them quivering upon it. 

The doctor did not watch the next night, but he 
did not leave the house. To Mrs. Dane's sugges- 
tion that he should occupy a comfortable bed in 
one of her empty rooms (for he was wasted with 
vigil) he returned a quick refusal, and went down- 
stairs. 

" I 'm all right on the office sofa," he said. " I 
shall stay there, as I have done before." 

He slept, and heavily, for no emergency 
disturbed him. The child fared well. Carolyn took 




her turn at watching, but was scarcely needed. 
Joyce passed from one sane, sweet sleep to another, 
and with the second daybreak his mouth curled 
into a smile, and from it the dearest word in the 
world stole out quite distinctly: — 

" Mum — mumma? " 

Carolyn dared not kiss, and could not cry, but 
she lay upon the ragged elbow of her white 
gown, and put her cheek to his. When the doctor 
came in she rose and stood, — a statue of rapture. 
She could have knelt at his feet, and knew that 
she could. Perhaps he had some consciousness of 
what was thrilling in her, for he extended his 
hand involuntarily, as if to check the expression 
of her gratitude. 

The June day had a celestial gentleness. The 
sunrise warmed without the window and within 
the room. The child put out his little fingers as if 
he would grasp the light, laughed softly, and slept 
again. The doctor moved unsteadily towards the 
bed. 

Now, at that moment, the collie came thumping 
up the stairs, and Mrs. Dane, fearing the effect of 
the disturbance in the sickroom, hurried out to 
send the dog away. This proved to be a matter 
of some moments. It was necessary to persuade 
Clyde or to convince him that he was not wanted 
(never under any circumstances an easy task), and 

 

in the end she was obliged to take him by the 
collar and tug him downstairs. When she returned, 
stepping without sound in her knit woolen slip- 
pers, the doctor was sitting in her place upon the 
empty side of the bed. He did not see her; he 
did not hear her; and as she stood upon the 
threshold, hesitating, she perceived that his arm 
had crept beneath the child, and that his tears were 
storming upon the pillow. Faintly to her ears 
there came these smothered words : — 

"Joy! Joyce! My little boy! Papas sonny boy " 
Then he lifted his wet, disfigured face. Carolyn 
stood staring upon him. He gently withdrew his 
arm, got to his feet, and made as if he would leave 
the room, but fell back that she might precede 
him. In the hall they confronted each other. 

" Cara ! " he said, " dont you know me — after 
all?" 



CHAPTER XVIII 

The great miracles of the healing art are the quiet 
ones. The boy was now sleeping more soundly 
than at any moment hitherto. A deep renewal of 
brain and body had passed upon him. Only his 
gentle, even breathing could be heard in the sol- 
emn stillness of the house. 

The two in the hall stood looking upon each 
other, as two might who had met in the after life 
that follows pain, and joy, and trust, and love, and 
all the mere emotions of an unreal earth. Both were 
as gray as the dead ; but the woman in her long 
white gown acquired an added pallor from the 
circumstance of it. She was the first to speak. 

" Dr. Royal, will you repeat what you said to 
me — just now? I am pretty tired, — and you, — 
you have not slept. We are neither of us quite 
ourselves. I should not wish to . . . wrong you 
... in any way." 

She uttered the words gently, as one speaks to 
a person mentally confused. It was plain to him 
that her instinct was to treat him as though he had 
given utterance to some temporary but unpardon- 
able hallucination. 

 

" I have said it," he replied with a terrible brevity. 
" I am your husband. I am Chanceford Dane." 

She retreated from him with an evasive, pitying 
glance. 

" My husband — you know that — is dead. He 
is buried in Balsam Cemetery. I put flowers on his 
grave the day that Joyce — that Joyce — Go and 
rest! " she urged compassionately. " You have ex- 
hausted yourself — for our sake. You are starving 
for sleep. Go — go, and feed the famine of your 
brain. Then — " 

" Only one thing can feed my famine," he made 
answer to her. " I am your husband. I am your 
husband, Chanceford Dane. I know that I have 
forfeited my right to be believed. You must do 
as you choose about that. But, as God lives, I am 
telling you the truth. That poor fellow yonder in 
the churchyard . . . whom you cried over that 
day when you took the flowers ... is my little 
brother Clay." 

" Come downstairs," said Carolyn, quietly. " I 
will call Kathleen to stay with Joyce. Get on the 
office sofa, and sleep, Dr. Royal. You must, — do 
you see? You must! It is more necessary than 
you understand." 

"If you call Kathleen — just yet — I shall tell 
her. I shall tell everybody. Cara ! stand where you 
are and listen to me. I will speak ... at last. I 

 

tell you I will speak, and you shall listen. Cara ! 
Cava! Look at me. Don't turn away so soon. 
Look back. Lift your eyes. Don't you know me 
in spite of all? Don't you see anything about me 
that you can recognize if you try, — if you should 
want to try ? " 

In a silence cruder than any words she shook 
her head. 

" Oh, I know what a wreck I am ! A shattered, 
grotesque thing; a mask; a gargoyle! Even my 
voice — if my voice had been left me, I could not 
have carried it out. But I thought — I hoped — 
if I told you (I always meant to tell you, when I 
dared) that you would find something in me that 
would remind you . . . Cara! Look! Look again! 
Don't you see? Cant you see? " 

She turned her head and obeyed him slowly. 
Her eyes searched his marred face, lighted now 
by brilliant, insomniac eyes; traversed his gaunt 
figure; took note of every physical defect and 
deformity that had ravaged him. Not a feature, 
not a contour recalled the beauty, the grace, the 
scintillant face and frame which had held the 
debonair soul of Chanceford Dane. She did not 
speak. 

" Now I understand," he said, " how dead people 
feel. I never did before. They come into their old 
homes ; nobody knows it ; nobody knows them. I 

 

have always pitied them. They must be an uncom- 
fortable lot for a while." 

Something in the whimsical words — what was 
it? — for a startled instant reminded her of Dane. 
That glint in his dark eyes, burning through the 
solemnity of the situation, stabbed her like a fine 
electric needle. Chanceford never tolerated the 
intense; he always threw it off as soon as he could. 
Few tragedies but yielded to his sense of humor. 
His wilful voracity for joy had remained with her 
as the most memorable thing about him. In the 
forced merrimentof that momentsomething leaped 
from the being of the man to hers. She received 
a current of mystery charged with a thousand volts 
of emotion. It seemed to her that either ecstasy 
or annihilation hung upon the instant. Old
remembered hours, old forgotten things, closed and 
crashed about her. Smitten half with terror, half 
with joy, her lifted face received the impact of his 
personality. Her brain began to reel. 

" It is not he who is delirious," she thought. 
" It must be I." 

