surrounded by smart, bright and pretty women, the parties at the castle,
and at Arcot House in London, were seldom surpassed in either brilliancy
or interest. And as his rent-roll was abnormal, there was no sign of
dilapidation within the gray walls and towers of the ancient castle, but
much comfort and luxury against a background of countless treasures
accumulated throughout the centuries. He had taken an immediate fancy to
Isabel and promised to show her the lower rooms as soon as she tired of
dancing.

Hexam watched her with an amused indulgence that in no wise tempered his
mounting admiration. She was radiant. Her blue eyes were shining and
almost black, her cheeks flooded with a delicate pink. She wore a gown
of white tulle upon whose floating surface were a few dark-blue lilies.
The masses of her black hair were piled on her head in the fashion of
her Californian grandmothers, and confined by a high Spanish comb of
gold and tortoise-shell. Her only other jewel was a long string of Baja
California pearls that had glistened on warm white necks in many an old
California ballroom before ever an American had crossed the threshold of
Arcot Castle. They had been given by Concha Argüello, when she assumed
the gray habit of the Third Order of the Franciscan nuns, to the wife of
her brother Santiago and so had come down to Isabel.

And to-night this descendant of that powerful clan, unimaginable in her
modern complexities to their simple minds, was receiving homage in the
ballroom of one of the greatest houses in Europe. For there was no
question, even in the minds of the young married women, who carry all
before them in English society, that the American girl had created a
furore among the men. Isabel had confided to the duke, who had lunched
that day at Capheaton, and to Hexam, her haunting fear of being a
wall-flower, and both had vowed that she should have no lack of partners
at her first English ball. But to Hexam's disgust, at least, their
solicitude came to an untimely end, and he was able to secure but two
waltzes and a square dance. The duke had spoken for the cotillon, which
he had no intention of dancing. He was a most estimable person, but he
never ignored an opportunity to talk with a new and interesting woman.

Isabel could hardly have failed to be a belle that night, for her spirit
was pitched to a height of joy and triumph that charged her whole being
with a powerful magnetism. Possibly with a presentiment that it was to
be an isolated experience, she abandoned herself recklessly to the mere
delight of living, her will imperious for the fulness of one of the
dearest of girlhood's ideals. She was one of those women, cast, as she
well knew, for tragic and dramatic contacts with life, but Nature in
compensation had granted her a certain wildness of spirit that sprang
spontaneously to meet the pleasure, trifling or great, of the mere
present; no matter for how long a period, or how hard, its wings had
been smitten.

So she danced, and talked far more than was her wont, surpassing herself
in every way, and no more interested in poor Hexam than in twenty
others. He took her in to supper, however, and after three hours of
dancing she was glad to rest and be sheltered by his determined bulk,
planted squarely before her corner. She knew that she had a coronet very
close to her footstool, and that this brilliant night might be but the
prologue to a lifetime of the only society in the world worth while, but
she was not conscious of any desire beyond the brimming cup of the
moment. Moreover, she had never so thoroughly enjoyed being a girl, and
love-making would have bored her grievously.

The duke claimed her, and after a desultory tour of the great
reception-rooms and an infinite number of little cabinets, containing
some of the most valuable of the Japanese and Indian treasures, he led
her to the library, a luxurious room conducive to rapid friendship.

With that amiable desire, peculiar to the kindly Englishman, to gratify
the ingenuous curiosity of the American, he produced a huge leather
volume containing the various patents of nobility that marked the upward
evolution of his house from a barony in some remote period of the
world's history to the present dukedom, and the royal letters that had
accompanied them. It was something he never would have dreamed of doing
for a stranger of his own country, or of any state in Europe, but the
English humor Americans that please them much as they would engaging
children; and Isabel's eyes sparkled with so lively an intelligence that
the duke fancied she had literary intentions and might one day find
such information useful. He even showed her his complicated
coat-of-arms, which included a bend sinister, for he had royal blood in
his veins; and this slanting rod interested Isabel as deeply as the moat
under the window. She was even more interested in the duke's attitude;
it was evident that he felt no more vanity in his royal descent than
deprecation of its irregular cause and enduring emblem. It was, and that
was the end of it; but he had quite enough imagination to appreciate the
effect of so picturesque an incident in family history upon the mind of
the young republican.

"The best we can do is to descend irrelevantly from Washington,
Hamilton, or Jefferson," said Isabel. "Only we have not yet reached the
stage where we dare to acknowledge it on our coat-of-arms. The illusions
of the American youth must be preserved. Even the fact that one of our
Presidents was a son of Aaron Burr is still to be read only in the great
volume of unwritten history. My father was a sort of walking edition of
that work."

"That is new to me!" The duke was quite famous as a student of history,
and took a personal interest in America, having been over twice in
search of big game. He asked her many questions; but his interest in the
general subject was as nothing to the enthusiasm she aroused by a chance
allusion to the chicken-ranch. The duke was agricultural above all
things; he had a model estate bristling with scientific improvement. He
was enchanted at Isabel's picture of her wire-enclosed "runs" and yards
containing industrious chickens of all ages, engaged, however
innocently, in the pursuit of wealth. Isabel, when she chose, could
invest any subject with glamour, and her account, delivered in tones
notably accelerated, of the snow-white, red-crowned flocks, their
aristocratic little white mansions, the luxurious nurseries for the
"chicks," and the astonishing and costly banquets with which they were
daily regaled, was so lively that the duke vowed he would raise Leghorns
forthwith. He asked her so many practical questions, taking copious
notes, and inevitably embracing California ranch life in its entirety,
in his thirst for knowledge, that Isabel had no more dancing that night;
but she made an enduring impression upon the eminently practical mind of
her host.

It was quite two hours after supper, and Isabel was beginning to reflect
with some humor upon the brevity of all illusions, when Hexam and Miss
Thangue appeared simultaneously and announced that the Capheaton guests
were leaving. Hexam looked sulky and suspicious. Flora was smiling.

"For the first time--" she murmured.

Isabel and the duke laughed outright, and then shook hands warmly.

"When I go home we can correspond," she said to him, "and I will tell
you all the new kinks. We are always improving."

"The duke looked positively rejuvenated," said Hexam, spitefully, as
they walked down the corridor. "Have you discovered the elixir of life
in California, and promised him the prescription."

"No," said Isabel, demurely. "I have merely been initiating him into the
mysteries of raising Leghorns."

Hexam looked stupefied, but Miss Thangue burst into a merry peal of
laughter.

"Isabel!" she exclaimed. "I begin to suspect you are a minx!"

And Isabel laughed, too, in sheer excess of animal spirits and gratified
vanity. She had excellent cause to remember the ebullition, for it was
some time before she laughed again.

The duchess, with her light sweet smile, her old-fashioned
Book-of-Beauty style, a certain affectation of shabbiness in her
black-and-silver gown, looked a more indispensable part of the picture
than any of her guests, as she stood in the middle of the great
drawing-room with a group of her more intimate friends. Among them was
Lady Victoria, more normal of mood this evening, sufficiently gracious,
superbly indifferent, although she had held her court as usual.

She tapped Isabel lightly on the cheek with her fan. "You were quite the
rage," she said. "I never should have forgiven you if you had not been."
And Isabel had not the slightest doubt of her sincerity.

The duchess, in the immensity of her castle, did not pretend to keep an
eye on any one, and would have been the last to suspect that Miss Otis
had inspired her husband with a sudden passion for chickens. She shook
hands approvingly with the young American and asked her to come over
informally to luncheon on the morrow.

"Is your head turning?" asked Miss Thangue, as they drove home. "You
must reap the results of your success; it would be a pity not to. After
a few weeks here with Vicky you must go on a round of visits and then
have a season in London."

"It would be glorious!" exclaimed Isabel, in whom problems were
moribund. "I certainly believe I shall."

She was in the second of the carriages to reach Capheaton, and Gwynne,
who was still standing on the steps, helped her down, and asked her
pleasantly if she had enjoyed herself.

"I had such a good time I know I sha'n't sleep a wink for twenty-four
hours. I believe I'll go to the library and get a book of yours I began
on Sunday--only--" She hesitated. A talk with this enigmatical cousin
would be a proper climax to the triumphs of the night. She raised her
eyes, full of flattering appeal. "There are one or two points I did not
quite understand--I have hesitated to go on--"

He too was wakeful, and rose to the bait promptly. "Suppose you give me
an hour by the empty hearth. Will you? Well, go on ahead and I'll follow
in a moment--after I see that the men have all they want in the
smoking-room."

In the depths of the most independent woman's soul is a lingering taint
of servility to the lordly male, and in Isabel it warmed into subtle
life under the flattering response of this illustrious specimen. She
fairly sailed towards the library, wondering if any of the famous
old-time California belles, Concha Argüello, Chonita Iturbe y Moncada,
with their caballeros flinging gold and silver at their feet, Nina
Randolph and Chonita Hathaway and Helena Belmont, with their pugnacious
"courts," had ever felt as exultant as she. That last moment, as she
stepped lightly over the threshold of the library, was a sort of climax
to the intoxication of youth.

And then she stopped short, stifling a cry of terror. The library,
except for the wandering moonshine, was unlit, but a ray fell directly
across a shadowy figure in the depths of a chair, half-way down the
room. It was a relaxed figure, the head fallen on the chest; the arms
were hanging limply over the sides of the chair, the hands ghastly in
the moonlight. At the rustle of skirts the figure slowly raised its
head, and the eyes of a man, haunted rather than haunting, looked out of
a drawn and livid face. But the movement was not followed by speech, and
Isabel stood, stiff with horror, convinced that she was in the presence
of the Capheaton ghost. Of course, like all old manor-houses, it had
one, and she was too imaginative not to accept with her nerves if not
with her intelligence this ugly proof of a restless domain beyond the
grave. But her petrifaction was mercifully brief. There was a quick step
behind her, and then an exclamation of horror as Gwynne shot past and
caught the lugubrious visitant by the shoulder.

"Good God, Zeal!" he cried, and his voice shook. "What is it, old man?
You look--you look--"

The man in the chair rose slowly and drew a long breath, which seemed to
infuse him with life again.

"I probably look much as I feel," he said, grimly. "I'm about to go on a
journey, and if you can give me a few minutes--"

He paused and looked with cold politeness at Isabel. She waited for no
further formalities, but shaken with the sure foreboding of calamity,
turned and fled the room.




XIV


That night had also been one of triumph for Elton Gwynne. He had dined
at the castle, and--his Julia having flitted to another
country-house--spent the greater part of the evening in the smoking-room
with half a score of the most eminent men in political England; and
others whose recognition was not to be despised.

As there were many guests at the castle the dinner took place in the
banquet-hall, but at six or eight round tables, and Gwynne had found
himself distinguished above all the other young men present by being
seated at that of the duchess. The prime-minister, the chancellor of the
exchequer, two other members of the cabinet, and an ambassador were his
companions. All the women were of exalted station, but for this fact
Gwynne cared nothing, being entirely free of that snobbery which so
often agitates even the best-born of the world; indeed, would have been
resentful of the ripe age of the ladies--accumulated with their
political values--had it not been for the tremendous compliment paid to
his personal achievement.

He could not sit beside her grace in that nest of titles, but at the
suggestion of the duke he had been placed as nearly opposite her as the
round table permitted, and he soon forgot the broken circle of
immemorial bosoms in the manifest disapproval of the Conservative
premier towards himself, and in the attitude of the other men, which,
whether hostile or friendly, evinced a recognition of the rising star
and a tolerance of his ideas.

There is always a glamour about a very young man who has given
cumulative evidence of genius and compelled the attention of the world,
always distrustful of youth. His enemies had long since--and he was but
thirty--admitted his gift for letters, fiercely as they might scoff at
his conclusions; and his rewards for bravery in the field had aroused no
adverse comment. But while his most persistent critics had never
discovered him truthless and corruptible, his political sincerity had
been called into question even by his colleagues, and almost unanimously
by the opposition. His principles were by no means so rigidly outlined
as those of the great Whig families, nor of the men who belonged to the
Liberal party as a natural result of their more modest station and
protesting spirit. He was strong on the fundamental principles of the
party, and far more energetic in his advocacy of the rights and needs of
the working-man than any Liberal of his own class, but he rarely, if
ever, alluded to the question of Home Rule; a question somnolent but by
no means dead; and the omission savored of Unionism, in spite of his
avowed scorn of all compromises.

These facts, taken in connection with the pride and arrogance of the
young scion of the house of Strathland and Zeal, generated the suspicion
that he had allied himself with the Liberal party for two reasons only:
its weakness in first-class men, and his passion for self-advertising.
No one disputed his pre-eminence in this branch of industrial art, for
although he never descended to commonplace methods, and the interviewer,
far from being sought, rather dreaded him than otherwise, there was no
man in England who was such a mine for "copy," nor of a perennially
greener growth in the select front lawn of "news." When he attacked the
government he was eminently quotable, and this endeared him to both
reporters and editors. When he was interviewed, fearsome in manner as he
was, he sent the worm away packed with ideas and phrases. But although
he was almost continuously on the tongue, and the object of more
acrimonious discussion than any young man in England, distrust of him
had grown to such proportions that he had been dropped after one brief
sojourn in the House; and to regain his seat had taken two years of the
hardest and most brilliant fighting Great Britain had seen since the
Conservative majority of 1874 permitted Disraeli to rest on his prickly
laurels. But this memorable battle of one young man against a mighty
phalanx of enemies and doubting friends had battered down the prejudices
of his own party, and won a meed of applause from even those of stout
old Tory principles. The humbler class, upon whom the election largely
depended, were captivated by his eloquence, his insidious manipulation
of the best in their natures, filling them with a judicious mixture of
ideals and self-approval; while the phenomenon he invariably presented
on the platform of the gradual awakening into life of a warm-blooded
generous magnetic and earnest inner man, so effectually concealed at
other times within a repellent exterior, never failed to induce in them
the belief that something responsive in their own personalities awakened
that rare spirit from its stifled sleep. That the glamour of his birth
and condescension to their plane had aught to do with the dazzling
quality of his charm, they might have admitted had their minds been
driven by the enemy into the regions of self-analysis, but in any case
he was the theme of two-thirds of the "pubs" and reading-rooms in
England. He had achieved a sweeping victory that loomed portentously as
a forerunner of greater triumphs in the future; for the personal
popularity he had achieved, the gift for leadership he had demonstrated,
the self-control he showed at all times, and the fatally adhesive
quality of his biting wit, had strengthened the Liberal party and caused
the Conservative to wish that he had never been born.

And flushed with self-love and the conquest of the woman of his desire,
he had never talked better than on that night at Arcot; nor less
offensively, for his arrogance and assertiveness were tempered by the
warm high tide of his emotions. It was a magnificent room, the
banquet-hall at Arcot, as large as that of many royal palaces, hung with
old Gobelins and frescoed by a pupil of Giotto. It was a fit setting for
the triumphant hour of the "most remarkable young man since the younger
Pitt," a phrase which, if not notably suave, at least possessed an
astonishing vigor, and was almost as familiar in American and
continental newspapers as in his own proud nation; a nation always so
keen to possess the first in all departments of excellence--creating
them out of second-class material when the first is lacking--that the
wonder was she had been so long accepting Elton Gwynne. Nothing,
perhaps, but a noble desire for a really great man restrained her.

Opposite Gwynne, the duchess, sweet and tactful, if little more than an
ornamental husk in which the juices of her race possibly recuperated to
invigorate the future generations, was as fair and stately as her castle
demanded; and if her gown was shabby her jewels were not. On either
side of her table, which occupied the central position in the great
room, were some of the most beautiful women in England, the smartest,
the most politically important; all, without exception, of an inherited
status that brought them once a year as a matter of course within the
sternly guarded portals of Arcot. Gwynne did not know that Mrs. Kaye had
knocked at these sacred portals in vain; for such gossip, if by chance
he heard it, made no impression upon him whatever. But he was by no
means insensible to the salient fact that he was one among the chosen of
Earth to-night, and that it was good to be the hero of such an assembly.

For that he was the hero there was no manner of doubt, and when the
dinner was over he spent but half an hour in the drawing-room,
preferring the conversation of the heads of state, who so seldom
gratified the vanity of a man of his years, but whom he had the power to
interest whether they approved of him or not. He had many friends among
women, some conquered by the magic of notoriety, others, like Flora
Thangue, sensible of his finer side, or tolerant of him through
life-long intimacy; and there were times when he was as alive to the
pleasures of their society as any young sprig about town; but to-night
their admiration was too illogical to administer to the self-love which
in the last few days had palpitated with so exquisite a sense of
fruition. Moreover, it gave him the keenest satisfaction to read in the
manner of these older and long-tried men the grudging belief in his own
sincerity.

In reality his motives for joining a party at war with every tradition
of his house had been, primarily, as mixed as are all motives that bring
about great voluntary changes in a man's life. It was quite true that
he was inordinately ambitious, that he had a distinct preference for the
sensational method, as productive of speedier results; for he had no
intention of waiting until middle-age for the activities and honors he
craved in his insatiable youth; and it was also true that he was even
more of an aristocrat than many of his class, with whom a simpler
attitude had become the fashion, even if it were not marrow-deep. But
the ruling motive had been his passionate love of battle, a trait
inherited perhaps from his pioneer ancestors, whose roots were in the
soil. This desire to prove his mettle and fill his life with the only
excitement worthy of his gifts, would alone have made him turn from the
broad ancestral paths, but, like a lawyer fascinated by his brief, he
had long since been heart and soul with the party he had chosen, and,
with the exercise of his faculties, become possessed of a mounting
desire not only to be of genuine use to his country, but to lift the
family name from the comparative obscurity where it had rested during
the half of a century.

The present head of the family had been an invalid in his early life,
and Italy had withered whatever ambitions may have pricked him in his
youth. When he finally found himself able to live the year round in
England he saw no fault in a nation so superior to any of his exile, and
he had settled down to the life of a country squire, devoted to sport,
and supremely satisfied with himself. His eldest son, an estimable young
man, who had worked at Christ Church as if he had been qualifying for a
statesman or a don, died of typhoid-fever before the birth of his boy.
The present heir, brilliant, weak, cynical, absolutely selfish, had
rioted to such an extent that he had fatally injured his health and
incurred the detestation of his grandfather; Lord Strathland was not
only a virtuous old gentleman but was also inclined to be miserly. The
subjects upon which they did not quarrel bitterly every time they met
were those relating to Elton Gwynne, whom both loved, in so far as they
loved any one but themselves. Deeply as they disapproved of his
politics, they respected his independence and were inordinately proud of
him. Zeal's daughters, who bored him inexpressibly, were parcelled out
among relatives, and he led a roving life in search of beneficent air
for his weary lungs. All women had become hateful to him since he had
been forced to sit in the ashes of repentance, but he had consented to
enter upon a second marriage through the most disinterested sentiment of
his life, his love of his cousin, whose haunting fear of being shelved
in his youth had been poured into his ears many times. That he also
enraged his grandfather, who wanted nothing so much as the assurance
that his favorite should inherit the territorial honors of his house,
may have given zest to his act of renunciation. Not that he had the
least intention of giving his cousin a solid basis for despair for many
years to come, for no mother ever nursed her babe more tenderly than he
his weak but by no means exhausted chest. During his last interview with
Elton in London he had assured his anxious relative that he was taking
the best of care of himself, and that, in spite of blood-shot eyes and
haggard cheeks, his disease was quiescent; although he had decided to
start for Davos or some other popular climate before the advent of harsh
weather. Davos is a word of hideous portent in English ears, but Gwynne
had expelled it with all other cares from his mind, and on this night
when he returned from Arcot feeling a far greater man than any of his
house had ever dreamed of being, and with a song in his heart, the
awful face of his cousin, whom in the shock of the moment he thought
stricken with death, gave him the first stab of terror and doubt that he
had experienced in his triumphant life.




XV


"Come up-stairs," said Zeal. "We are liable to interruption here."

"Have they put you up decently?" asked Gwynne, with his mind's surface.
"The house is rather full."

"I shall leave by the seven-o'clock train, and it must be three now. I
have no intention of going to bed."

"Is that wise? You look pretty seedy, old man. You haven't had a
hemorrhage?" He almost choked as he brought the word out, and yet he was
not in the least surprised when Zeal replied, tonelessly, "I had
forgotten I ever had a chest;" for his mind was vibrating with a
telepathic message which his wits attacked fiercely and without avail.

As they entered his room he pushed his cousin into an easy-chair and
turned up the lamp on the writing-table. Then he planted his feet on the
hearth-rug with a blind instinct to die standing.

"Fire away, for God's sake," he said. "Something has happened. You know
you can count on me, whatever it is."

Zeal, who was sitting stiffly forward, his hands gripping the arms of
his chair, laughed dryly. "You will be the chief sufferer. The others
don't count."

"Has my grandfather speculated once too often? Are we gone completely
smash?" Gwynne was rapidly assuring himself that he was now prepared for
the worst, that nothing should knock the props from under him again,
that it was the sight of Zeal's face that had upset him; he was not one
to collapse before the stiff blows of life.

"It is likely. Anyhow, if he lives long enough he'll make a mess of what
is left." He raised his head slowly, and once more Gwynne, as he met
those terrible haunted eyes, felt as Adam may have felt when he was
being bundled towards the exit of Eden. He braced himself unconsciously,
and after Zeal's next words did not relax his body, although his lips
turned white and stiff.

"I am going to kill myself some time to-day," said Zeal, in a voice so
emotionless that Gwynne wondered idly if all his capacity for expression
had gone to his eyes. "I should have done it several hours earlier, but
I felt that I owed you an explanation. You can pass it on to my
grandfather when the time comes."

He paused a moment, and then he too seemed to brace himself.

"I killed Brathland," he said.

Gwynne moistened his lips. "Poor old Zeal," he muttered. "It must be a
horrid sensation--"

"To be a murderer? I can assure you it is."

Gwynne's mind seemed to darken until only one luminous point confronted
it, the visible tormented soul of his kinsman. He walked over to the
table and mixed two tumblers of whiskey-and-soda, wondering why he had
not thought of it before. They drank without haste, and then Gwynne took
the chair opposite Zeal's.

"Tell me all about it," he said.

"Brathland and I had not been friends for some years. He was a bounder,
and an ass in the bargain. I never, even when we were on speaking
terms, made any particular effort to hide what I thought of him--it
wasn't worth while. Of course, with every mother firing her girls at his
head, and the flatterers and toadies from whom a prospective duke cannot
escape if he would, he had an opinion of himself that would have made me
the object of his particular rancor, even if I hadn't cut him out with
three different women that couldn't marry either of us. When I got the
verdict that I must pull up or go under, he chose that particular moment
to take up with Stella Starr, the only woman I ever cared a pin for.
Somehow, he got wind of my condition, and knowing that I would prefer to
retire as gracefully as possible, it struck him as the refinement of
vengeance to make a laughing-stock of me when I was no longer in a
condition to play the game out; to advertise me as a worn-out rake for
whom the world of Stella Starrs had no further use. We never spoke again
until Friday night."

He paused, then mixed and drank another whiskey-and-soda, lit a
cigarette, and resumed.

"I had objected to his being let into the mine, which Vanneck's agent
and private letters had persuaded the rest of us would make our
fortunes; but I was helpless, for he was not only Vanneck's cousin, but
his brother is out in Africa and also interested in the mine. I
therefore consented to attend the dinner at which the whole business was
to be discussed, fully intending to treat him as I should any stranger
to whom I had just been introduced.

"At first all went well enough. We had the private dining-room and
smoking-room on the second floor at the Club, the dinner was excellent,
and Brathland, although nearly opposite me, behaved as decently as he
always did when sober. It was champagne that let loose the bounder in
him, and that was one reason I always so thoroughly despised him: the
man that is not a gentleman when he is drunk has no right to be alive at
all.

"We were not long discussing the mine threadbare, for we did not know
enough about it to enlarge into any picturesque details, and the agent,
who had seen each of us separately, was not present. Raglin read a
personal letter from Vanneck, and Brathland another from Dick. Then, the
subject being exhausted long before we reached the end of dinner, we
drifted off to other topics; and went into the smoking-room with the
coffee.

"It was at least six years since I had tasted anything stronger than
whiskey-and-water, and what devil entered into me that night to drink a
quart of champagne, and liqueurs, and pour port and brandy on top, the
devil himself only knows. Perhaps the old familiar sight of a lot of
good fellows; most likely the vanity of forcing Brathland to believe
that he beheld a rival as vigorous and dangerous as of old--I had gained
ten pounds and was looking and feeling particularly fit. At all events
the mess affected me as alcohol never had done in even my salet days,
and although my thoughts seemed to be moving in a crystal procession, I
became slowly obsessed with the desire to kill Brathland; whose face,
chalky white, as it always was when he was drunk--and he always got
drunk on less than any one else--filled me with a fury of disgust and
hatred. My mind kept assuring this thing that straddled it that I had
not the least intention of making an ass of myself; and that procession
of thought, in order to support its confidence, entered into an argument
with my conscience, which was in a corner and looked like a codfish
standing on its tail and grinning impotently. A jig of words escaped
from the mouth of the codfish: copy-book maxims, Bible admonitions, the
commandments, legal statutes; all in one hideous mess that annoyed me so
I slipped out, went up to my room, and pocketed a pistol. That logical
procession of thought in my mind assured me that this unusual move at a
friendly business dinner was merely in the way of self-protection, for
Brathland had once been heard to say that he wished we were both
cow-boys on an American ranch so that he could put a bullet into me
without taking the consequences--he never had a brain above shilling
shockers. My thoughts, as they visibly combined and recombined in the
crystal vault of my skull, asserted confidently that he had been reading
such stuff lately, and that, ten to one, he had a pistol in his pocket.

"When I returned Brathland was standing by the hearth, supporting
himself by the chimney-piece. The rest were lying about in long chairs,
smoking, and drinking whiskey-and-sodas. They were all sober enough, and
Brathland looked the more of a beast by contrast.

"I took a chair opposite him and ordered my thoughts to arrange
themselves in phrases that should pierce his mental hide and wither the
very roots of his self-esteem--his vanity was the one big thing about
him. But he took his doom into his own hands and built it up like a
house of cards.

"'How does it feel to be drunk once more?' he asked, with his damnable
sneer. 'It makes you look less of a hypochondriac, anyhow. "Granny
Zeal"--that's what the girls call you.'

"'If they do I've no doubt you taught them,' I replied, in tones as low
as his own. Several men were seated not far off, but neither of us hung
out a storm signal.

"'I did,' he said. 'Not but that I had had revenge enough. I had made
you ridiculous--you with your damned superior airs--like that infant
phenomenon cousin of yours who is making the family ass of himself over
Julia Kaye--'

"Those were his last words. I pulled the pistol and fired straight into
his abdomen--knew I couldn't miss him there.

"God! what a commotion there was. He doubled up with a yell--just like
him. The men fairly bounded out of their chairs. There were two waiters
in the room--just come in with Apollinaris. Raglin slammed the doors to,
and, while Ormond and Hethrington laid Brathland out on a sofa, asked
the servants if they would hold their tongues until it was known whether
he would die or not. They assented readily enough, knowing how damned
well worth their while it was. Then he went off for a surgeon--didn't
dare telephone--went straight for a young fellow named Ballast he
happened to know, and asked him if he would probe for a bullet and call
it appendicitis, for a thousand pounds. Apparently there was no time
wasted in argument, for he returned in half an hour with his man. The
surgeon probed for the bullet, but without success. Then he bandaged
Brathland, had him carried up to Raglin's room, and sent for a nurse
that he could trust.

"We all regathered in the smoking-room, shut the waiters in the
dining-room, and talked the matter over. By this time I was more
hideously sober than I ever had been in my life. What they thought of me
I neither knew nor cared, and it is doubtful if they knew themselves;
their one thought was to keep the matter from getting out and dragging
the Club into a scandal; and of course Raglin was equally keen on
sheltering the family, whether Brathland lived or died. Anyhow, I fancy
they would have stood by me, for if we have no other virtue we do stand
by each other.

"Practically the only question was the amount to be paid in blackmail,
for every trace of the affair had been removed; even the smell of
antiseptics and ether had gone. We finally called the waiters in and
offered them four hundred each for their silence, or in the case of
Brathland's death--the surgeon held out hopes--a thousand. They coolly
replied they would take a thousand apiece before noon on the following
day, and ten thousand each in case of death. We--or rather Raglin and
one or two others--jawed for an hour; but the wretches never yielded an
inch. They had us on the hip and were not likely to be put off by any
amount of eloquence. Of course we caved in and God knows what amount of
future blackmail the Club is in for. Then there was the thousand for the
surgeon, and the nurse would expect a thousand more. Of course I made
myself responsible for the entire amount. Raglin insisted for a time
upon going halves--blood may be blood, but he had despised Bratty as
much as I ever did--but of course I would not hear of it.

"The next afternoon the surgeon probed again, and Brathland died under
the ether. The wound after probing looked sufficiently like an ordinary
incision to deceive any one. Raglin and Harold Lorcutt--who, of course,
was told the truth--naturally had the body sealed up in lead before
taking it north. The old duke and the women of the family are in a fair
way to know nothing."

He paused abruptly and lifted his eyes once more to Gwynne's, bursting
into a laugh that sounded like the crackling of fire under dry leaves.

"Lovely story, ain't it?"

But Gwynne made no reply. His mind, released, was working abnormally,
and his face was as livid as his cousin's had been.

Zeal rose. The narrative had excited him out of his apathy and physical
exhaustion, the confession shaken the rigidity from his mind. He planted
himself on the hearth-rug with an air that approached nonchalance. His
thin clever face had a burning spot on either cheek, his sunken eyes
were no longer haunted, but brilliant and staring; his thin high nose
and fine hands twitched slightly, as if his nerves were enjoying a too
sudden release.

"Heavenly sensation--to be a murderer. What beastly names things have
and how we are obsessed by them! The word rings in my brain night and
day--I haven't slept three hours since it happened, and I never had the
remotest hope that he would live. It's the second time in my life I've
been up against a cold ugly fact that stands by itself in a region where
rhetoric doesn't enter. I believe I could tolerate the situation if I'd
done it in cold blood, if I'd thought it out, determined to gratify my
hatred of the man; if, in short, the deed had been the offspring of my
intelligence, for which I have always had a considerable respect. But to
have been under the control of a Thing, like any navvy, to be a criminal
without the consent of my will--

"I don't know that that fact alone would make life insupportable. But
there are other and sufficient reasons. I shall never get the hideous
sight of Brathland as he doubled up, and his horrid gurgling shriek, out
of my mind this side of the grave. And I am practically cleaned out. You
know how much I have left of my mother's property! It barely covers
what I paid out to-day. There isn't a penny for the girls. They will be
dependent on Strathland--as I should be if I lived; a position for which
I have as little relish as for that of a murderer on the loose. And
should I ever be really safe? If this stinking quartet takes it into its
head to levy annual blackmail, where is the money coming from? I won't
have the others let in while I'm alive. If it did come to that--and of
course it would--I'd get out anyhow, so I may as well go now and save
myself further horrors. Besides, with all our precautions, we may have
overlooked some significant detail, there may have been an eavesdropper,
the undertakers may have had their suspicions--for all I know I may be
arrested to-morrow--well, Jack, what would you do in my place?"

Gwynne shook himself and stood up. "I don't know. I have been feeling as
if I had killed Bratty myself. But I cannot imagine myself committing
suicide--talk about ugly words! In the first place I don't think that
one crime is any reason for committing another, and in the second--"

"It is cowardly! You don't suppose that old standby slipped my mind, do
you? Well, I am a coward. There you have my dispassionate opinion of
myself. I don't see myself in the prisoner's dock, in the graceful act
of dangling from the end of a rope; or, if the judge was inclined to
have pity on the family, of dying in a prison hospital. Even if I
trumped up the necessary fortitude I should be a blacker villain than I
am to bring disgrace upon my five poor girls and the woman that has
promised to marry me, to say nothing of Vicky and yourself. Nor, on the
other hand, do I see myself skulking in some hole abroad with the hue
and cry after me. I have just as little appetite for the rôle of the
haunted man in comparative security. Well, what would you do yourself?"

Gwynne shuddered. His own eyes were hunted. "How, in God's name, can any
man tell what he would do until he is in the same hole? I should like to
think that I would speak out and take the consequences. There is little
danger of your swinging, and as for imprisonment--one way or another
you've got to answer for your crime, and it seems to me that the honest
thing is to accept the penalty of the law you live under."

"Well, it doesn't to me," said Zeal, coolly, and lighting another
cigarette. "I asked the question merely out of curiosity, as the
workings of your mind always interest me. But I have quite made up my
own mind. The only reason I hesitated a moment--to be exact, it was half
a day--was on your account. Of course I know what my death will mean to
you."

"It was for that reason I was almost coward enough not to remonstrate."
Gwynne scratched a match several times before he succeeded in getting a
light. "Nevertheless, I meant it."

"Don't doubt it. And I am sorry--it is about the only regret I shall
take with me, that and some remorse on account of the girls. I suppose
Strathland will throw them a bone each--"

"I will look out for them. But you are not bent on this horror!" he
burst out. Wild plans of drugging his cousin, of locking him up, chased
through his mind, and at the same time he was sick with the certainty of
his own impotence. He knew his cousin, and he had the sensation that an
illuminated scroll of fate dangled before his eyes.

Zeal nodded. His excitement, his fears, had left him. He felt something
of the swagger in calm peculiar to the condemned in their final hour,
that last great rally of the nerves to feed the fires of courage. He
finished his cigarette and flung himself on the sofa.

"Wake me at twenty to seven, will you?" he asked. "I have ordered the
trap."




XVI


The young Marquess of Strathland and Zeal sat alone in the smoking-room
at Capheaton--the guests, with the exception of Flora Thangue and Isabel
Otis had departed six days ago--sunk in a melancholy so profound that
his brain was mercifully inactive: if the history of the past week was
dully insistent the future was not.

He had witnessed the descent of his grandfather and cousin into the
vault of the chapel at Strathland Abbey two days before, and after the
necessary interviews with stewards and family solicitors had returned
this afternoon to Capheaton with his mother. Lady Victoria, even her
dauntless soul sick with grief and horrors, had gone to bed at once, and
after a funereal dinner, where he had made no response whatever to the
feeble efforts of the girls to illuminate the darkness in which he
moved, had gone to the smoking-room alone, wishing to think and plan,
yet grateful that he could not.

He had known nothing of the weakness of his grandfather's heart, and the
old gentleman, as ruddy and debonair as ever, had just come in from the
coverts when he arrived at the Abbey a few hours after Zeal's departure
from Capheaton. Always vain of his health and appearance since his
complete recovery, now many years ago, Lord Strathland had turned a
haughty back upon the one physician that had dared to warn him; not even
his valet was permitted to suspect that he had been forced to pay to
Time any debt beyond bleaching hair and an occasional twinge of gout.
The care he had taken of himself in his delicate youth had given him a
finer constitution than he would have been likely to enjoy had he been
able to go the wild way of many of his family; and it was his familiar
boast that he intended to live until ninety.

Elton's visit roused no curiosity in his complacent breast, for the
favorite seldom announced his coming, and it was quite in order that he
should run down for congratulations, and delight his affectionate if
disapproving relative with personal details of the great fight. He had
come with the intention of being the one to break the news of his
cousin's death to his grandfather, should it be necessary; but he
permitted himself to hope that Zeal would rise above his type. He had
driven him to the station himself, dispensing with the groom as well,
and pleaded with him to wait at least a month; to consider the matter
more coolly and carefully than had hitherto been possible; begged him to
return to Capheaton; offered to travel with him if he preferred to leave
England. Whatever might threaten in the future there could be no
immediate danger of arrest, for if the shot had carried beyond the
private rooms of the Club there would have been evidence of the fact at
once, and if the undertakers had suspected the truth and delayed giving
information, their purpose was blackmail and could be dealt with.

And while he argued and pleaded he wondered, as he had during the hours
he watched beside his cousin sleeping, if, in spite of certain
principles which he had believed to be immutable, he could have found
any other solution himself. Honor has many arbitrary inflections, and
Zeal's act, being wholly abominable, there must seem, in his code, to be
no place for him among men. To walk among them unscathed, punished only
by a conscience that time would inevitably dull, and the loss of a small
fortune that his promised wife would more than replace, while some
passionate creature without powerful friends or money for blackmail went
to the noose, was an outrage abroad in the secret regions of the spirit
even if it made no assault upon public standards. He deserved
extinction, one way or another, and it would be almost as great an
outrage were he to cover his family with his own disgrace. Certain men
might, after such a lesson, live on to devote their lives to repentance
and beneficent works, but not Zeal; and Gwynne had no great respect for
a character made over after some terrifying explosion among its baser
parts. And the question would always remain if the highest honor would
not have commanded confession.

He made a deliberate effort to put himself in Zeal's place, and after
several failures accomplished the feat. He was willing to believe that
his first impulse would have been to destroy himself, not so much
through fear as through a blind sense of atonement, for when he
endeavored to argue that the crime belonged to the law and the public,
he swore at himself for a prig. Either way was suicide, and if the more
deliberate might damn a man's soul, no doubt he deserved nothing less,
and at least he had done his duty by his family and his class. Gwynne
had in the base of his character a puritanical stratum by no means mined
as yet, but with too many outcroppings to have been overlooked. But the
very strength it gave him served to confuse the simplicity of the
religious instinct; and duty, like the code of honor, endures many
interpretations in complex minds. He was quite sure that ultimately he
would have decided with his cold intelligence; and he was equally sure
that if he had doggedly determined to conquer life and be conquered by
nothing, that the best part of his mental existence would have gone into
the grave with his ideals.

Although there was still some confusion in his mind, he kept it out of
his words, and as he drove home from the station he was sanguine enough
to hope that he had at least dissuaded Zeal from precipitancy; for his
cousin, flippant, cynical, appeared to be quite his usual self, and as
he nodded from the window of the train bore little resemblance to the
demoralized wretch of the night.

Nevertheless, he hastened to his grandfather, for he knew how little the
mood of the moment may presage that of an hour hence; although he was
reasonably sure that if Zeal lived until the following morning it would
be some time before he brought himself to the sticking-point again. He
announced to his mother and his guests that it was his duty to spend
twenty-four hours with his grandfather, promising to return in time for
two hours' shooting on the morrow.

He took for granted that Zeal had gone to London. What then was his
foreboding horror when Lord Strathland, as they sat alone at
luncheon--the unmarried aunts were visiting--remarked with acerbity:

"Zeal arrived on the train before yours--went straight to his room,
giving orders he was not to be called until dinner--has not honored me
with so much as an intimation that he was in the house--Where are you
going?"

Gwynne had half risen. He sat down hastily.

"I was afraid he might be ill," he replied, coolly. "But doubtless he
merely had a bad night and wants sleep."

In a flash he had understood. It was like Zeal's cynicism to die as
close to the family vault as possible.

No meal had ever seemed as long as that last luncheon with his
grandfather, who promptly dismissed the subject of his detested heir and
asked a hundred questions about the campaign. A fierce sense of
protecting the two men he loved best enabled Gwynne to answer as
collectedly as if he had not been possessed with the sickening idea that
the very bones had gone out of him. When luncheon was over he
accompanied his grandfather to the library, then after smoking a third
of a cigar, left him to his nap, frankly stating that he thought he had
better look up Zeal, who had been rather seedy of late; he would risk
being unwelcome.

He walked slowly up the stair and along the corridor to his cousin's
suite; he was in no hurry to reach it, but neither could he wait for the
possible discovery of the servants at the dinner-hour.

He knocked at the door of the sitting-room. There was no answer. He
turned the handle. The door was locked. Then he pounded and called. He
was about to fling himself against the door when he heard a quick step
in the corridor, and before he could retreat Lord Strathland was beside
him. There was no defect in the old gentleman's eyesight nor in his
perceptions. Zeal's abrupt arrival without servant or luggage, and his
more than usual rudeness, had charged him with vague suspicions as well
as annoyance. When Gwynne, in spite of his self-control, had turned
livid upon hearing that Zeal was in the Abbey, and had risen as if to
fly to his rescue, a dark if undefined foreboding had entered his
grandfather's mind. But Lord Strathland respected the reserve of his
guests, no matter how nearly related, and, dismissing the subject, had
forgotten his apprehension until Gwynne revived it by his untimely
pilgrimage. Then Lord Strathland thought the time had come to hear the
truth.

"Well?" he demanded, sharply. "What is it? What's up? Why doesn't Zeal
open? I saw him in Piccadilly on Saturday and he stared at me as if he
had never seen me before. I thought at the moment it was some of his
damned impertinence, but concluded that he had something on his mind. He
looked more dead than alive."

Gwynne's back was to the light, and he controlled his voice, although
his heart was thumping. "Well, he has been, poor chap--awfully seedy--I
am really worried. He may have anticipated a final hemorrhage, and
crawled home to die." He cherished the hope that Zeal had been at pains
to procure an untraceable drug.

"Ah! Well--I hope that is it if the poor fellow is dead. He looked as if
he had more than ill-health on his mind. I thought he had pulled up, but
no doubt he went to pieces over some wretched woman again. Come, let us
get in. I don't want the servants to know anything of this at present."

They threw themselves against the door. The old gentleman was heavy and
Gwynne sound and wiry in spite of his delicate appearance. The door was
stout but its hinges were old, and after several attempts they drove it
in. Lord Strathland's face was pale and he was panting, but he led the
way rapidly through the sitting-room into the bedroom.

Zeal had undressed, extended himself on the bed, and covered his body
with an eider-down quilt. Lord Strathland jerked it off, and both saw
what they had expected to see, for a faint odor of burnt powder lingered
in the rooms.

Lord Strathland's face was ghastly, almost blue. He had anticipated
death, not with the imagination of the young, but dully, through the
atrophied faculties of his age, and the shock could hardly have been
greater had he found his grandson without warning.

"What does this mean?" he demanded, thickly. "You know and I will know."

Gwynne took him firmly by the arm and turned him about. "Not here," he
said. "Come to the library. I will tell you, but I am no more fit to
talk just now than you are to listen."

His grandfather submitted, and Gwynne dropped his arm and rearranged the
quilt over his cousin's body. At the same moment Lord Strathland's eyes
lit on a sealed letter addressed to himself. Before Gwynne could
interfere he had broken the seal. It ran:

     MY LORD,--I murdered Brathland. In cold blood--saving the fact
     that I was drunk. My entire private fortune has gone for purposes
     of blackmail. Even that might not have saved me eventually from the
     hangman, we have grown so damned democratic. All things considered,
     I am sure you will agree that it is quite proper I should make the
     exit of a gentleman while there is yet time. Jack will give you
     further particulars, should you care to listen to them. ZEAL."

He too had known nothing of the condition of his grandfather's heart,
and it had amused him to plan a last shock to the perennial optimism
and complacency of the person he disliked most on earth. The smile was
still on his frozen lips that expressed the amused anticipation of his
brain. Death, to do him justice, he had met with none of the cowardice
he had vaunted, and consistently with his arid cynical soul.

"Don't read it! Don't!" Gwynne had exclaimed, in agony, and forgetting
the awful figure on the bed in his alarm at the sight of his
grandfather's face. "If you must know the truth let me tell it in my own
way."

But Lord Strathland read, and fell at his feet like a bundle of old
clothes.




XVII


Gwynne wondered if he should ever shake off the pall-like memories of
the past week: the testimony before the coroner, in which every word had
to be weighed as carefully as if life instead of the honor of the
worthless dead were at stake, the reporters from the less dignified of
the British newspapers, and the American correspondents, two of whom
dodged the vigilance of the servants, entered the Abbey by a window, and
took snap shots of the lower rooms and of the coffins in the
death-chamber; the painful scenes with the women of the family, who had
descended in a body; the wearisome interview with the family solicitor,
in the course of which he had learned that he was heir to little more
than the entailed properties; which must be let in order to insure an
income for his three unmarried aunts, Zeal's five girls, and himself;
the hideous reiteration of "your lordship" by the obsequious servants,
that reproduced in his mind the slow deep notes of the passing bell,
tolled in the village for his grandfather and cousin.

A letter from Julia Kaye had fluttered in like a dove of promise, but he
had never been able to recall anything in the six pages of graceful
sympathy but her allusions to the dead as "the marquess" and "the earl."
He told himself angrily that his brain must have weakened to notice a
solecism at such a time, but it is in moments of abnormal mental strain
that trifles have their innings; and during the beautiful service in the
chapel he caught himself wondering if any woman of his own class could
have made such a slip. Always deaf to gossip, he had no suspicion that
his Julia had been laughed at more than once for her inability to grasp
all the unwritten laws of a world which she had entered too late. With
an ear in which a title lingered like a full voluptuous note of music,
she was blunt to certain of the democratic canons of modern society.
Although it gave her the keenest pleasure to address the highest
bulwarks of the peerage off-handedly as "duke" and "duchess," there had
been moments of confusion when she had lapsed naturally into "your
grace." And it would have seemed like a lost opportunity to have alluded
to a titled foreigner without his "von" or "de," even where there was a
more positive title to use as often as she pleased. It was the one weak
spot in a singularly acute and accomplished mind.

But of all this Gwynne knew nothing, and he was dully wondering if a
great love could be affected by trifles, and if his brain and character
were of less immutable material than he had believed, his mental vision
still straying through the insupportable gloom of the past week, when he
heard a light foot-fall beyond the door. He sprang to his feet, cursing
his nerves, and was by no means reassured upon seeing the long figure of
a woman, dressed entirely in white, a candle in her hand, approaching
him down the dark corridor. He had never given a moment's thought in his
