she goes on wrapping needless chains round and round him, just as a
spider would. For she trusts no one, believes in no one’s honesty,
judges every one by herself. Although we have seen that she has absolute
and irresponsible command over her spectral Boards and over every
official and servant of her Church, at home and abroad, over every
minute detail of her Church’s government, present and future, and can
purge her membership of guilty or suspected persons by various plausible
formalities and whenever she will, she is still not content, but must
set her queer mind to work and invent a way by which she can take a
member--any member--by neck and crop and fling him out without anything
resembling a formality at all.
She is sole accuser and sole witness, and her testimony is final and
carries uncompromising and irremediable doom with it.
The Sole-Witness Court! It should make the Council of Ten and the
Council of Three turn in their graves for shame, to see how little they
knew about satanic concentrations of irresponsible power. Here we have
one Accuser, one Witness, one Judge, one Headsman--and all four bunched
together in Mrs. Eddy, the Inspired of God, His Latest Thought to His
People, New Member of the Holy Family, the Equal of Jesus.
When a Member is not satisfactory to Mrs. Eddy, and yet is blameless in
his life and faultless in his membership and in his Christian Science
walk and conversation, shall he hold up his head and tilt his hat over
one ear and imagine himself safe because of these perfections? Why,
in that very moment Mrs. Eddy will cast that spiritual X-ray of hers
through his dungarees and say:
“I see his hypnotism working, among his insides--remove him to the
block!”
What shall it profit him to know it isn’t so? Nothing. His testimony is
of no value. No one wants it, no one will ask for it. He is not present
to offer it (he does not know he has been accused), and if he were there
to offer it, it would not be listened to.
It was out of powers approaching Mrs. Eddy’s--though not equalling
them--that the Inquisition and the devastations of the Interdict grew.
She will transmit hers. The man born two centuries from now will think
he has arrived in hell; and all in good time he will think he knows it.
Vast concentrations of irresponsible power have never in any age been
used mercifully, and there is nothing to suggest that the Christian
Science Papacy is going to spend money on novelties.
Several Christian Scientists have asked me to refrain from prophecy.
There is no prophecy in our day but history. But history is a
trustworthy prophet. History is always repeating itself, because
conditions are always repeating themselves. Out of duplicated conditions
history always gets a duplicate product.
READING LETTERS AT MEETINGS
I wonder if there is anything a Member can do that will not raise Mrs.
Eddy’s jealousy? The By-laws seem to hunt him from pillar to post all
the time, and turn all his thoughts and acts and words into sins against
the meek and lowly new deity of his worship. Apparently her jealousy
never sleeps. Apparently any trifle can offend it, and but one penalty
appease it--excommunication. The By-laws might properly and reasonably
be entitled Laws for the Coddling and Comforting of Our Mother’s Petty
Jealousies. The By-law named at the head of this paragraph reads its
transgressor out of the Church if he shall carry a letter from Mrs. Eddy
to the congregation and forget to read it or fail to read the whole of
it.
HONESTY REQUISITE
Dishonest members are to be admonished; if they continue in dishonest
practices, excommunication follows. Considering who it is that draughted
this law, there is a certain amount of humor in it.
FURTHER APPLICATIONS OF THE AXE
Here follow the titles of some more By-laws whose infringement is
punishable by excommunication:
Silence Enjoined. Misteaching. Departure from Tenets. Violation of
Christian Fellowship. Moral Offences. Illegal Adoption. Broken By-laws.
Violation of By-laws. (What is the difference?) Formulas Forbidden.
Official Advice. (Forbids Tom, Dick, and Harry’s clack.) Unworthy of
Membership. Final Excommunication. Organizing Churches.
This looks as if Mrs. Eddy had devoted a large share of her time and
talent to inventing ways to get rid of her Church members. Yet in
another place she seems to invite membership. Not in any urgent way,
it is true, still she throws out a bait to such as like notice and
distinction (in other words, the Human Race). Page 82:
“It is important that these seemingly strict conditions be complied
with, as the names of the Members of the Mother-Church will be recorded
in the history of the Church and become a part thereof.”
We all want to be historical.
MORE SELF-PROTECTIONS
The Hymnal. There is a Christian Science Hymnal. Entrance to it was
closed in 1898. Christian Science students who make hymns nowadays may
possibly get them sung in the Mother-Church, “but not unless approved by
the Pastor Emeritus.” Art. XXVII, Sec. 2.
Solo Singers. Mrs. Eddy has contributed the words of three of the hymns
in the Hymnal. Two of them appear in it six times altogether, each of
them being set to three original forms of musical anguish. Mrs. Eddy,
always thoughtful, has promulgated a By-law requiring the singing of one
of her three hymns in the Mother Church “as often as once each month.”
 It is a good idea. A congregation could get tired of even Mrs. Eddy’s
muse in the course of time, without the cordializing incentive of
compulsion. We all know how wearisome the sweetest and touchingest
things can become, through rep-rep-repetition, and still
rep-rep-repetition, and more rep-rep-repetition-like “the sweet
by-and-by, in the sweet by-and-by,” for instance, and “Tah-rah-rah
boom-de-aye”; and surely it is not likely that Mrs. Eddy’s machine has
turned out goods that could outwear those great heart-stirrers, without
the assistance of the lash. “O’er Waiting Harpstrings of the Mind” is
pretty good, quite fair to middling--the whole seven of the stanzas--but
repetition would be certain to take the excitement out of it in the
course of time, even if there were fourteen, and then it would sound
like the multiplication table, and would cease to save. The congregation
would be perfectly sure to get tired; in fact, did get tired--hence the
compulsory By-law. It is a measure born of experience, not foresight.
The By-laws say that “if a solo singer shall neglect or refuse to sing
alone” one of those three hymns as often as once a month, and oftener if
so directed by the Board of Directors--which is Mrs. Eddy--the singer’s
salary shall be stopped. It is circumstantial evidence that some
soloists neglected this sacrament and others refused it. At least that
is the charitable view to take of it. There is only one other view to
take: that Mrs. Eddy did really foresee that there would be singers
who would some day get tired of doing her hymns and proclaiming the
authorship, unless persuaded by a Bylaw, with a penalty attached. The
idea could of course occur to her wise head, for she would know that a
seven-stanza break might well be a calamitous strain upon a soloist, and
that he might therefore avoid it if unwatched. He could not curtail it,
for the whole of anything that Mrs. Eddy does is sacred, and cannot be
cut.
BOARD OF EDUCATION
It consists of four members, one of whom is President of it. Its members
are elected annually. Subject to Mrs. Eddy’s approval. Art. XXX., Sec.
2.
She owns the Board--is the Board.
Mrs. Eddy is President of the Metaphysical College. If at any time she
shall vacate that office, the Directors of the College (that is to say,
Mrs. Eddy) “shall” elect to the vacancy the President of the Board of
Education (which is merely re-electing herself).
It is another case of “Pastor Emeritus.” She gives up the shadow of
authority, but keeps a good firm hold on the substance.
PUBLIC TEACHERS
Applicants for admission to this industry must pass a thorough three
days’ examination before the Board of Education “in Science and Health,
chapter on ‘Recapitulation’; the Platform of Christian Science; page 403
of Christian Science Practice, from line second to the second paragraph
of page 405; and page 488, second and third paragraphs.”
BOARD OF LECTURESHIP
The lecturers are exceedingly important servants of Mrs. Eddy, and she
chooses them with great care. Each of them has an appointed territory
in which to perform his duties--in the North, the South, the East, the
West, in Canada, in Great Britain, and so on--and each must stick to
his own territory and not forage beyond its boundaries. I think it goes
without saying--from what we have seen of Mrs. Eddy--that no lecture is
delivered until she has examined and approved it, and that the lecturer
is not allowed to change it afterwards.
The members of the Board of Lectureship are elected annually--
“Subject to the approval of Rev. Mary Baker G. Eddy.”
MISSIONARIES
There are but four. They are elected--like the rest of the
domestics--annually. So far as I can discover, not a single servant of
the Sacred Household has a steady job except Mrs. Eddy. It is plain that
she trusts no human being but herself.
THE BY-LAWS
The branch Churches are strictly forbidden to use them.
So far as I can see, they could not do it if they wanted to. The By-laws
are merely the voice of the master issuing commands to the servants.
There is nothing and nobody for the servants to re-utter them to.
That useless edict is repeated in the little book, a few pages farther
on. There are several other repetitions of prohibitions in the book that
could be spared-they only take up room for nothing.
THE CREED It is copyrighted. I do not know why, but I suppose it is to
keep adventurers from some day claiming that they invented it, and
not Mrs. Eddy and that “strange Providence” that has suggested so many
clever things to her.
No Change. It is forbidden to change the Creed. That is important, at
any rate.
COPYRIGHT
I can understand why Mrs. Eddy copyrighted the early editions
and revisions of Science and Health, and why she had a mania for
copyrighting every scrap of every sort that came from her pen in those
jejune days when to be in print probably seemed a wonderful distinction
to her in her provincial obscurity, but why she should continue this
delirium in these days of her godship and her far-spread fame, I cannot
explain to myself. And particularly as regards Science and Health. She
knows, now, that that Annex is going to live for many centuries; and so,
what good is a fleeting forty-two-year copyright going to do it?
Now a perpetual copyright would be quite another matter. I would like to
give her a hint. Let her strike for a perpetual copyright on that book.
There is precedent for it. There is one book in the world which bears
the charmed life of perpetual copyright (a fact not known to twenty
people in the world). By a hardy perversion of privilege on the part of
the lawmaking power the Bible has perpetual copyright in Great Britain.
There is no justification for it in fairness, and no explanation of it
except that the Church is strong enough there to have its way, right
or wrong. The recent Revised Version enjoys perpetual copyright, too--a
stronger precedent, even, than the other one.
Now, then, what is the Annex but a Revised Version itself? Which of
course it is--Lord’s Prayer and all. With that pair of formidable
British precedents to proceed upon, what Congress of ours--
But how short-sighted I am. Mrs. Eddy has thought of it long ago. She
thinks of everything. She knows she has only to keep her copyright of
1902 alive through its first stage of twenty-eight years, and perpetuity
is assured. A Christian Science Congress will reign in the Capitol then.
She probably attaches small value to the first edition (1875). Although
it was a Revelation from on high, it was slim, lank, incomplete, padded
with bales of refuse rags, and puffs from lassoed celebrities to fill
it out, an uncreditable book, a book easily sparable, a book not to
be mentioned in the same year with the sleek, fat, concise, compact,
compressed, and competent Annex of to-day, in its dainty flexible
covers, gilt--edges, rounded corners, twin screw, spiral twist,
compensation balance, Testament-counterfeit, and all that; a book just
born to curl up on the hymn-book-shelf in church and look just too sweet
and holy for anything. Yes, I see now what she was copyrighting that
child for.
CHRISTIAN SCIENCE PUBLISHING ASSOCIATION
It is true in matters of business Mrs. Eddy thinks of everything. She
thought of an organ, to disseminate the Truth as it was in Mrs. Eddy.
Straightway she started one--the Christian Science Journal.
It is true--in matters of business Mrs. Eddy thinks of everything. As
soon as she had got the Christian Science Journal sufficiently in debt
to make its presence on the premises disagreeable to her, it occurred
to her to make somebody a present of it. Which she did, along with
its debts. It was in the summer of 1889. The victim selected was
her Church--called, in those days, The National Christian Scientist
Association.
She delivered this sorrow to those lambs as a “gift” in consideration of
their “loyalty to our great cause.”
Also--still thinking of everything--she told them to retain Mr. Bailey
in the editorship and make Mr. Nixon publisher. We do not know what it
was she had against those men; neither do we know whether she scored on
Bailey or not, we only know that God protected Nixon, and for that I am
sincerely glad, although I do not know Nixon and have never even seen
him.
Nixon took the Journal and the rest of the Publishing Society’s
liabilities, and demonstrated over them during three years, then brought
in his report:
“On assuming my duties as publisher, there was not a dollar in the
treasury; but on the contrary the Society owed unpaid printing and
paper bills to the amount of several hundred dollars, not to mention
a contingent liability of many more hundreds”--represented by
advance--subscriptions paid for the Journal and the “Series,” the which
goods Mrs. Eddy had not delivered. And couldn’t, very well, perhaps, on
a Metaphysical College income of but a few thousand dollars a day, or a
week, or whatever it was in those magnificently flourishing times. The
struggling Journal had swallowed up those advance-payments, but its
“claim” was a severe one and they had failed to cure it. But Nixon cured
it in his diligent three years, and joyously reported the news that he
had cleared off all the debts and now had a fat six thousand dollars in
the bank.
It made Mrs. Eddy’s mouth water.
At the time that Mrs. Eddy had unloaded that dismal gift on to her
National Association, she had followed her inveterate custom: she had
tied a string to its hind leg, and kept one end of it hitched to her
belt. We have seen her do that in the case of the Boston Mosque. When
she deeds property, she puts in that string-clause. It provides that
under certain conditions she can pull the string and land the property
in the cherished home of its happy youth. In the present case she
believed that she had made provision that if at any time the National
Christian Science Association should dissolve itself by a formal vote,
she could pull.
A year after Nixon’s handsome report, she writes the Association that
she has a “unique request to lay before it.” It has dissolved, and she
is not quite sure that the Christian Science Journal has “already fallen
into her hands” by that act, though it “seems” to her to have met with
that accident; so she would like to have the matter decided by a formal
vote. But whether there is a doubt or not, “I see the wisdom,” she says,
“of again owning this Christian Science waif.”
I think that that is unassailable evidence that the waif was making
money, hands down.
She pulled her gift in. A few years later she donated the Publishing
Society, along with its real estate, its buildings, its plant, its
publications, and its money--the whole worth twenty--two thousand
dollars, and free of debt--to--Well, to the Mother-Church!
That is to say, to herself. There is an account of it in the Christian
Science Journal, and of how she had already made some other handsome
gifts--to her Church--and others to--to her Cause besides “an almost
countless number of private charities” of cloudy amount and otherwise
indefinite. This landslide of generosities overwhelmed one of her
literary domestics. While he was in that condition he tried to express
what he felt:
“Let us endeavor to lift up our hearts in thankfulness to... our Mother
in Israel for these evidences of generosity and self-sacrifice that
appeal to our deepest sense of gratitude, even while surpassing our
comprehension.”
A year or two later, Mrs. Eddy promulgated some By-laws of a
self-sacrificing sort which assuaged him, perhaps, and perhaps enabled
his surpassed comprehension to make a sprint and catch up. These are to
be found in Art. XII., entitled.
THE CHRISTIAN SCIENCE PUBLISHING SOCIETY
This Article puts the whole publishing business into the hands of a
publishing Board--special. Mrs. Eddy appoints to its vacancies.
The profits go semi-annually to the Treasurer of the Mother-Church. Mrs.
Eddy owns the Treasurer.
Editors and publishers of the Christian Science Journal cannot be
elected or removed without Mrs. Eddy’s knowledge and consent.
Every candidate for employment in a high capacity or a low one, on the
other periodicals or in the publishing house, must first be “accepted
by Mrs. Eddy as suitable.” And “by the Board of Directors”--which is
surplusage, since Mrs. Eddy owns the Board.
If at any time a weekly shall be started, “it shall be owned by The
First Church of Christ, Scientist”--which is Mrs. Eddy.
CHAPTER VIII
I think that any one who will carefully examine the By-laws (I have
placed all of the important ones before the reader), will arrive at the
conclusion that of late years the master-passion in Mrs. Eddy’s heart is
a hunger for power and glory; and that while her hunger for money still
remains, she wants it now for the expansion and extension it can furnish
to that power and glory, rather than what it can do for her towards
satisfying minor and meaner ambitions.
I wish to enlarge a little upon this matter. I think it is quite clear
that the reason why Mrs. Eddy has concentrated in herself all powers,
all distinctions, all revenues that are within the command of the
Christian Science Church Universal is that she desires and intends
to devote them to the purpose just suggested--the upbuilding of her
personal glory--hers, and no one else’s; that, and the continuing of her
name’s glory after she shall have passed away. If she has overlooked a
single power, howsoever minute, I cannot discover it. If she has found
one, large or small, which she has not seized and made her own, there is
no record of it, no trace of it. In her foragings and depredations she
usually puts forward the Mother-Church--a lay figure--and hides behind
it. Whereas, she is in manifest reality the Mother-Church herself. It
has an impressive array of officials, and committees, and Boards of
Direction, of Education, of Lectureship, and so on--geldings, every one,
shadows, spectres, apparitions, wax-figures: she is supreme over them
all, she can abolish them when she will; blow them out as she would a
candle. She is herself the Mother-Church. Now there is one By-law which
says that the Mother-Church:
“shall be officially controlled by no other church.”
That does not surprise us--we know by the rest of the By-laws that that
is a quite irrelevant remark. Yet we do vaguely and hazily wonder why
she takes the trouble to say it; why she wastes the words; what her
object can be--seeing that that emergency has been in so many, many
ways, and so effectively and drastically barred off and made impossible.
Then presently the object begins to dawn upon us. That is, it does after
we have read the rest of the By-law three or four times, wondering
and admiring to see Mrs. Eddy--Mrs. Eddy--Mrs. Eddy, of all
persons--throwing away power!--making a fair exchange--doing a fair
thing for once more, an almost generous thing! Then we look it through
yet once more unsatisfied, a little suspicious--and find that it is
nothing but a sly, thin make-believe, and that even the very title of it
is a sarcasm and embodies a falsehood--“self” government:
“Local Self-Government. The First Church of Christ, Scientist, in
Boston, Massachusetts, shall assume no official control of other
churches of this denomination. It shall be officially controlled by no
other church.”
It has a most pious and deceptive give-and-take air of perfect fairness,
unselfishness, magnanimity--almost godliness, indeed. But it is all art.
In the By-laws, Mrs. Eddy, speaking by the mouth of her other self, the
Mother-Church, proclaims that she will assume no official control of
other churches-branch churches. We examine the other By-laws, and they
answer some important questions for us:
1. What is a branch Church? It is a body of Christian Scientists,
organized in the one and only permissible way--by a member, in good
standing, of the Mother-Church, and who is also a pupil of one of Mrs.
Eddy’s accredited students. That is to say, one of her properties. No
other can do it. There are other indispensable requisites; what are
they?
2. The new Church cannot enter upon its functions until its members have
individually signed, and pledged allegiance to, a Creed furnished by
Mrs. Eddy.
3. They are obliged to study her books, and order their lives by them.
And they must read no outside religious works.
4. They must sing the hymns and pray the prayers provided by her, and
use no others in the services, except by her permission.
5. They cannot have preachers and pastors. Her law.
6. In their Church they must have two Readers--a man and a woman.
7. They must read the services framed and appointed by her.
8. She--not the branch Church--appoints those Readers.
9. She--not the branch Church--dismisses them and fills the vacancies.
10. She can do this without consulting the branch Church, and without
explaining.
11. The branch Church can have a religious lecture from time to time. By
applying to Mrs. Eddy. There is no other way.
12. But the branch Church cannot select the lecturer. Mrs. Eddy does it.
13. The branch Church pays his fee.
14. The harnessing of all Christian Science wedding-teams, members
of the branch Church, must be done by duly authorized and consecrated
Christian Science functionaries. Her factory is the only one that makes
and licenses them.
[15. Nothing is said about christenings. It is inferable from this that
a Christian Science child is born a Christian Scientist and requires no
tinkering.]
[16. Nothing is said about funerals. It is inferable, then, that a
branch Church is privileged to do in that matter as it may choose.]
To sum up. Are any important Church-functions absent from the list? I
cannot call any to mind. Are there any lacking ones whose exercise
could make the branch in any noticeable way independent of the Mother.
Church?--even in any trifling degree? I think of none. If the named
functions were abolished would there still be a Church left? Would there
be even a shadow of a Church left? Would there be anything at all left?
even the bare name?
Manifestly not. There isn’t a single vital and essential Church-function
of any kind, that is not named in the list. And over every one of them
the Mother-Church has permanent and unchallengeable control, upon
every one of them Mrs. Eddy has set her irremovable grip. She holds,
in perpetuity, autocratic and indisputable sovereignty and control over
every branch Church in the earth; and yet says, in that sugary, naive,
angel-beguiling way of hers, that the Mother-Church:
“shall assume no official control of other churches of this
denomination.”
Whereas in truth the unmeddled-with liberties of a branch Christian
Science Church are but very, very few in number, and are these:
1. It can appoint its own furnace-stoker, winters. 2. It can appoint
its own fan-distributors, summers. 3. It can, in accordance with its own
choice in the matter, burn, bury, or preserve members who are pretending
to be dead--whereas there is no such thing as death. 4. It can take up a
collection.
The branch Churches have no important liberties, none that give them an
important voice in their own affairs. Those are all locked up, and Mrs.
Eddy has the key. “Local Self-Government” is a large name and sounds
well; but the branch Churches have no more of it than have the privates
in the King of Dahomey’s army.
“MOTHER-CHURCH UNIQUE”
Mrs. Eddy, with an envious and admiring eye upon the solitary and
rivalless and world-shadowing majesty of St. Peter’s, reveals in her
By-laws her purpose to set the Mother-Church apart by itself in a
stately seclusion and make it duplicate that lone sublimity under the
Western sky. The By-law headed “Mother-Church Unique” says--
“In its relation to other Christian Science churches, the Mother-Church
stands alone.
“It occupies a position that no other Church can fill.
“Then for a branch Church to assume such position would be disastrous to
Christian Science,
“Therefore--”
Therefore no branch Church is allowed to have branches. There shall
be no Christian Science St. Peter’s in the earth but just one--the
Mother-Church in Boston.
“NO FIRST MEMBERS”
But for the thoughtful By-law thus entitled, every Science branch in the
earth would imitate the Mother-Church and set up an aristocracy. Every
little group of ground-floor Smiths and Furgusons and Shadwells and
Simpsons that organized a branch would assume that great title, of
“First Members,” along with its vast privileges of “discussing” the
weather and casting blank ballots, and soon there would be such a
locust-plague of them burdening the globe that the title would lose its
value and have to be abolished.
But where business and glory are concerned, Mrs. Eddy thinks of
everything, and so she did not fail to take care of her Aborigines,
her stately and exclusive One Hundred, her college of functionless
cardinals, her Sanhedrin of Privileged Talkers (Limited). After taking
away all the liberties of the branch Churches, and in the same breath
disclaiming all official control over their affairs, she smites them on
the mouth with this--the very mouth that was watering for those nobby
ground-floor honors--
“No First Members. Branch Churches shall not organize with First
Members, that special method of organization being adapted to the
Mother-Church alone.”
And so, first members being prohibited, we pierce through the cloud
of Mrs. Eddy’s English and perceive that they must then necessarily
organize with Subsequent Members. There is no other way. It will occur
to them by-and-by to found an aristocracy of Early Subsequent Members.
There is no By-law against it.
“THE”
I uncover to that imperial word. And to the mind, too, that conceived
the idea of seizing and monopolizing it as a title. I believe it is Mrs.
Eddy’s dazzlingest invention. For show, and style, and grandeur, and
thunder and lightning and fireworks it outclasses all the previous
inventions of man, and raises the limit on the Pope. He can never put
his avid hand on that word of words--it is pre-empted. And copyrighted,
of course. It lifts the Mother-Church away up in the sky, and
fellowships it with the rare and select and exclusive little company of
the THE’s of deathless glory--persons and things whereof history and
the ages could furnish only single examples, not two: the Saviour, the
Virgin, the Milky Way, the Bible, the Earth, the Equator, the Devil,
the Missing Link--and now The First Church, Scientist. And by clamor of
edict and By-law Mrs. Eddy gives personal notice to all branch Scientist
Churches on this planet to leave that THE alone.
She has demonstrated over it and made it sacred to the Mother-Church:
“The article ‘The’ must not be used before the titles of branch
Churches--
“Nor written on applications for membership in naming such churches.”
Those are the terms. There can and will be a million First Churches
of Christ, Scientist, scattered over the world, in a million towns and
villages and hamlets and cities, and each may call itself (suppressing
the article), “First Church of Christ. Scientist”--it is permissible,
and no harm; but there is only one The Church of Christ, Scientist, and
there will never be another. And whether that great word fall in the
middle of a sentence or at the beginning of it, it must always have its
capital T.
I do not suppose that a juvenile passion for fussy little worldly shows
and vanities can furnish a match to this, anywhere in the history of
the nursery. Mrs. Eddy does seem to be a shade fonder of little special
distinctions and pomps than is usual with human beings.
She instituted that immodest “The” with her own hand; she did not wait
for somebody else to think of it.
A LIFE-TERM MONOPOLY
There is but one human Pastor in the whole Christian Science world; she
reserves that exalted place to herself.
A PERPETUAL ONE
There is but one other object in the whole Christian Science world
honored with that title and holding that office: it is her book, the
Annex--permanent Pastor of The First Church, and of all branch Churches.
With her own hand she draughted the By-laws which make her the only
really absolute sovereign that lives to-day in Christendom.
She does not allow any objectionable pictures to be exhibited in the
room where her book is sold, nor any indulgence in idle gossip there;
and from the general look of that By-law I judge that a lightsome and
improper person can be as uncomfortable in that place as he could be in
heaven.
THE SANCTUM SANCTORUM AND SACRED CHAIR
In a room in The First Church of Christ, Scientist, there is a museum
of objects which have attained to holiness through contact with Mrs.
Eddy--among them an electrically lighted oil-picture of a chair which
she used to sit in--and disciples from all about the world go softly
in there, in restricted groups, under proper guard, and reverently gaze
upon those relics. It is worship. Mrs. Eddy could stop it if she was not
fond of it, for her sovereignty over that temple is supreme.
The fitting-up of that place as a shrine is not an accident, nor a
casual, unweighed idea; it is imitated from age--old religious custom.
In Treves the pilgrim reverently gazes upon the Seamless Robe, and
humbly worships; and does the same in that other continental church
where they keep a duplicate; and does likewise in the Church of the
Holy Sepulchre, in Jerusalem, where memorials of the Crucifixion are
preserved; and now, by good fortune we have our Holy Chair and things,
and a market for our adorations nearer home.
But is there not a detail that is new, fresh, original? Yes, whatever
old thing Mrs. Eddy touches gets something new by the contact--something
not thought of before by any one--something original, all her own, and
copyrightable. The new feature is self worship--exhibited in permitting
this shrine to be installed during her lifetime, and winking her sacred
eye at it.
A prominent Christian Scientist has assured me that the Scientists do
not worship Mrs. Eddy, and I think it likely that there may be five or
six of the cult in the world who do not worship her, but she herself
is certainly not of that company. Any healthy-minded person who will
examine Mrs. Eddy’s little Autobiography and the Manual of By-laws
written by her will be convinced that she worships herself; and that she
brings to this service a fervor of devotion surpassing even that which
she formerly laid at the feet of the Dollar, and equalling any which
rises to the Throne of Grace from any quarter.
I think this is as good a place as any to salve a hurt which I was the
means of inflicting upon a Christian Scientist lately. The first third
of this book was written in 1899 in Vienna. Until last summer I had
supposed that that third had been printed in a book which I published
about a year later--a hap which had not happened. I then sent the
chapters composing it to the North American Review, but failed in one
instance, to date them. And so, in an undated chapter I said a lady told
me “last night” so and so. There was nothing to indicate to the reader
that that “last night” was several years old, therefore the phrase
seemed to refer to a night of very recent date. What the lady had told
me was, that in a part of the Mother-Church in Boston she had seen
Scientists worshipping a portrait of Mrs. Eddy before which a light was
kept constantly burning.
A Scientist came to me and wished me to retract that “untruth.” He said
there was no such portrait, and that if I wanted to be sure of it I
could go to Boston and see for myself. I explained that my “last night”
 meant a good while ago; that I did not doubt his assertion that there
was no such portrait there now, but that I should continue to believe it
had been there at the time of the lady’s visit until she should retract
her statement herself. I was at no time vouching for the truth of the
remark, nevertheless I considered it worth par.
And yet I am sorry the lady told me, since a wound which brings me no
happiness has resulted. I am most willing to apply such salve as I can.
The best way to set the matter right and make everything pleasant and
agreeable all around will be to print in this place a description of the
shrine as it appeared to a recent visitor, Mr. Frederick W. Peabody, of
Boston. I will copy his newspaper account, and the reader will see that
Mrs. Eddy’s portrait is not there now:
“We lately stood on the threshold of the Holy of Holies of the
Mother-Church, and with a crowd of worshippers patiently waited for
admittance to the hallowed precincts of the ‘Mother’s Room.’ Over the
doorway was a sign informing us that but four persons at a time would be
admitted; that they would be permitted to remain but five minutes only,
and would please retire from the ‘Mother’s Room’ at the ringing of the
bell. Entering with three of the faithful, we looked with profane
eyes upon the consecrated furnishings. A show-woman in attendance
monotonously announced the character of the different appointments.
Set in a recess of the wall and illumined with electric light was an
oil-painting the show-woman seriously declared to be a lifelike and
realistic picture of the Chair in which the Mother sat when she composed
her ‘inspired’ work. It was a picture of an old-fashioned? country, hair
cloth rocking-chair, and an exceedingly commonplace-looking table with a
pile of manuscript, an ink-bottle, and pen conspicuously upon it. On
the floor were sheets of manuscript. ‘The mantel-piece is of pure onyx,’
continued the show-woman, ‘and the beehive upon the window-sill is made
from one solid block of onyx; the rug is made of a hundred breasts of
eider-down ducks, and the toilet-room you see in the corner is of the
latest design, with gold-plated drain-pipes; the painted windows are
from the Mother’s poem, “Christ and Christmas,” and that case contains
complete copies of all the Mother’s books.’ The chairs upon which the
sacred person of the Mother had reposed were protected from sacrilegious
touch by a broad band of satin ribbon. My companions expressed their
admiration in subdued and reverent tones, and at the tinkling of the
bell we reverently tiptoed out of the room to admit another delegation
of the patient waiters at the door.”
Now, then, I hope the wound is healed. I am willing to relinquish the
portrait, and compromise on the Chair. At the same time, if I were going
to worship either, I should not choose the Chair.
As a picturesquely and persistently interesting personage, there is no
mate to Mrs. Eddy, the accepted Equal of the Saviour. But some of her
tastes are so different from His! I find it quite impossible to imagine
Him, in life, standing sponsor for that museum there, and taking
pleasure in its sumptuous shows. I believe He would put that Chair in
the fire, and the bell along with it; and I think He would make the
show-woman go away. I think He would break those electric bulbs, and the
“mantel-piece of pure onyx,” and say reproachful things about the golden
drain-pipes of the lavatory, and give the costly rug of duck-breasts to
the poor, and sever the satin ribbon and invite the weary to rest and
ease their aches in the consecrated chairs. What He would do with the
painted windows we can better conjecture when we come presently to
examine their peculiarities.
THE CHRISTIAN SCIENCE PASTOR-UNIVERSAL
When Mrs. Eddy turned the pastors out of all the Christian Science
churches and abolished the office for all time as far as human occupancy
is concerned--she appointed the Holy Ghost to fill their place. If this
language be blasphemous, I did not invent the blasphemy, I am merely
stating a fact. I will quote from page 227 of Science and Health
(edition 1899), as a first step towards an explanation of this startling
matter--a passage which sets forth and classifies the Christian Science
Trinity:
“Life, Truth, and Love constitute the triune God, or triply divine
Principle. They represent a trinity in unity, three in one--the same in
essence, though multiform in office: God the Father; Christ the type of
Sonship; Divine Science, or the Holy Comforter....
“The Holy Ghost, or Spirit, reveals this triune Principle, and (the Holy
Ghost) is expressed in Divine Science, which is the Comforter,
leading into all Truth, and revealing the divine Principle of the
universe--universal and perpetual harmony.”
I will cite another passage. Speaking of Jesus--
“His students then received the Holy Ghost. By this is meant, that by
all they had witnessed and suffered they were roused to an enlarged
understanding of Divine Science, even to the spiritual interpretation..
... of His teachings,” etc.
Also, page 579, in the chapter called the Glossary:
“HOLY GHOST. Divine Science; the developments of Life, Truth, and Love.”
The Holy Ghost reveals the massed spirit of the fused trinity; this
massed spirit is expressed in Divine Science, and is the Comforter;
Divine Science conveys to men the “spiritual interpretation” of
the Saviour’s teachings. That seems to be the meaning of the quoted
passages.
Divine Science is Christian Science; the book “Science and Health” is a
“revelation” of the whole spirit of the Trinity, and is therefore “The
Holy Ghost”; it conveys to men the “spiritual interpretation” of the
Bible’s teachings and therefore is “the Comforter.”
I do not find this analyzing work easy, I would rather saw wood; and a
person can never tell whether he has added up a Science and Health sum
right or not, anyway, after all his trouble. Neither can he easily find
out whether the texts are still on the market or have been discarded
from the Book; for two hundred and fifty-eight editions of it have been
issued, and no two editions seem to be alike. The annual changes--in
technical terminology; in matter and wording; in transpositions of
chapters and verses; in leaving out old chapters and verses and putting
in new ones--seem to be next to innumerable, and as there is no index,
there is no way to find a thing one wants without reading the book
through. If ever I inspire a Bible-Annex I will not rush at it in a
half-digested, helter-skelter way and have to put in thirty-eight years
trying to get some of it the way I want it, I will sit down and think it
out and know what it is I want to say before I begin. An inspirer cannot
inspire for Mrs. Eddy and keep his reputation. I have never seen such
slipshod work, bar the ten that interpreted for the home market the
“sell all thou hast.” I have quoted one “spiritual” rendering of the
Lord’s Prayer, I have seen one other one, and am told there are
five more. Yet the inspirer of Mrs. Eddy the new Infallible casts a
complacent critical stone at the other Infallible for being unable to
make up its mind about such things. Science and Health, edition 1899,
page 33:
“The decisions, by vote of Church Councils, as to what should and
should not be considered Holy Writ, the manifest mistakes in the ancient
versions: the thirty thousand different readings in the Old Testament
and the three hundred thousand in the New--these facts show how a mortal
and material sense stole into the divine record, darkening, to some
extent, the inspired pages with its own hue.”
To some extent, yes--speaking cautiously. But it is nothing, really
nothing; Mrs. Eddy is only a little way behind, and if her inspirer
lives to get her Annex to suit him that Catholic record will have to “go
‘way back and set down,” as the ballad says. Listen to the boastful song
of Mrs. Eddy’s organ, the Christian Science Journal for March, 1902,
about that year’s revamping and half-soling of Science and Health,
whose official name is the Holy Ghost, the Comforter, and who is now
the Official Pastor and Infallible and Unerring Guide of every Christian
Science church in the two hemispheres, hear Simple Simon that met the
pieman brag of the Infallible’s fallibility:
“Throughout the entire book the verbal changes are so numerous as to
indicate the vast amount of time and labor Mrs. Eddy has devoted to this
revision. The time and labor thus bestowed is relatively as great as
that of--the committee who revised the Bible.... Thus we have additional
evidence of the herculean efforts our beloved Leader has made and is
constantly making for the promulgation of Truth and the furtherance of
her divinely bestowed mission,” etc.
It is a steady job. I could help inspire if desired; I am not doing
much now, and would work for half-price, and should not object to the
country.
PRICE OF THE PASTOR-UNIVERSAL
The price of the Pastor-Universal, Science and Health, called in Science
literature the Comforter--and by that other sacred Name--is three
dollars in cloth, as heretofore, six when it is finely bound, and shaped
to imitate the Testament, and is broken into verses. Margin of profit
above cost of manufacture, from five hundred to seven hundred per
cent., as already noted In the profane subscription-trade, it costs
the publisher heavily to canvass a three-dollar book; he must pay the
general agent sixty per cent. commission--that is to say, one dollar and
eighty-cents. Mrs. Eddy escapes this blistering tax, because she owns
the Christian Science canvasser, and can compel him to work for nothing.
Read the following command--not request--fulminated by Mrs. Eddy, over
her signature, in the Christian Science Journal for March, 1897, and
quoted by Mr. Peabody in his book. The book referred to is Science and
Health:
“It shall be the duty of all Christian Scientists to circulate and to
sell as many of these books as they can.”
That is flung at all the elect, everywhere that the sun shines, but no
penalty is shaken over their heads to scare them. The same command was
issued to the members (numbering to-day twenty-five thousand) of The
Mother-Church, also, but with it went a threat, of the infliction, in
case of disobedience, of the most dreaded punishment that has a place
in the Church’s list of penalties for transgressions of Mrs. Eddy’s
edicts--excommunication:
“If a member of The First Church of Christ, Scientist, shall fail to
obey this injunction, it will render him liable to lose his membership
in this Church. MARY BAKER EDDY.”
It is the spirit of the Spanish Inquisition.
None but accepted and well established gods can venture an affront like
that and do it with confidence. But the human race will take anything
from that class. Mrs. Eddy knows the human race; knows it better than
any mere human being has known it in a thousand centuries. My confidence
in her human-beingship is getting shaken, my confidence in her godship
is stiffening.
SEVEN HUNDRED PER CENT.
A Scientist out West has visited a bookseller--with intent to find fault
with me--and has brought away the information that the price at which
Mrs. Eddy sells Science and Health is not an unusually high one for the
size and make of the book. That is true. But in the book-trade--that
profit-devourer unknown to Mrs. Eddy’s book--a three-dollar book that
is made for thirty-five or forty cents in large editions is put at
three dollars because the publisher has to pay author, middleman, and
advertising, and if the price were much below three the profit accruing
would not pay him fairly for his time and labor. At the same time, if
he could get ten dollars for the book he would take it, and his morals
would not fall under criticism.
But if he were an inspired person commissioned by the Deity to receive
and print and spread broadcast among sorrowing and suffering and poor
men a precious message of healing and cheer and salvation, he would have
to do as Bible Societies do--sell the book at a pinched margin above
cost to such as could pay, and give it free to all that couldn’t; and
his name would be praised. But if he sold it at seven hundred per cent.
profit and put the money in his pocket, his name would be mocked and
derided. Just as Mrs. Eddy’s is. And most justifiably, as it seems to
me.
The complete Bible contains one million words. The New Testament by
itself contains two hundred and forty thousand words.
My ‘84 edition of Science and Health contains one hundred and twenty
thousand words--just half as many as the New Testament.
Science and Health has since been so inflated by later inspirations that
the 1902 edition contains one hundred and eighty thousand words--not
counting the thirty thousand at the back, devoted by Mrs. Eddy to
advertising the book’s healing abilities--and the inspiring continues
right along.
If you have a book whose market is so sure and so great that you
can give a printer an everlasting order for thirty or forty or fifty
thousand copies a year he will furnish them at a cheap rate, because
whenever there is a slack time in his press-room and bindery he can
fill the idle intervals on your book and be making something instead
of losing. That is the kind of contract that can be let on Science and
Health every year. I am obliged to doubt that the three-dollar Science
and Health costs Mrs. Eddy above fifteen cents, or that the six dollar
copy costs her above eighty cents. I feel quite sure that the average
profit to her on these books, above cost of manufacture, is all of seven
hundred per cent.
Every proper Christian Scientist has to buy and own (and canvass for)
Science and Health (one hundred and eighty thousand words), and he must
also own a Bible (one million words). He can buy the one for from three
to six dollars, and the other for fifteen cents. Or, if three dollars is
all the money he has, he can get his Bible for nothing. When the Supreme
Being disseminates a saving Message through uninspired agents--the New
Testament, for instance--it can be done for five cents a copy, but when
He sends one containing only two-thirds as many words through the shop
of a Divine Personage, it costs sixty times as much. I think that
in matters of such importance it is bad economy to employ a wild-cat
agency.
Here are some figures which are perfectly authentic, and which seem to
justify my opinion.
“These [Bible] societies, inspired only by a sense of religious duty,
are issuing the Bible at a price so small that they have made it the
cheapest book printed. For example, the American Bible Society offers an
edition of the whole Bible as low as fifteen cents and the New Testament
at five cents, and the British Society at sixpence and one penny,
respectively. These low prices, made possible by their policy of selling
the books at cost or below cost,” etc.--New York Sun, February 25, 1903.
CHAPTER IX
We may now make a final footing-up of Mrs. Eddy, and see what she is, in
the fulness of her powers. She is:
The Massachusetts Metaphysical College Pastor Emeritus; President; Board
of Directors; Board of Education; Board of Lectureships; Future Board of
Trustees, Proprietor of the Publishing-House and Periodicals; Treasurer;
Clerk; Proprietor of the Teachers; Proprietor of the Lecturers;
Proprietor of the Missionaries; Proprietor of the Readers; Dictator of
the Services; sole Voice of the Pulpit; Proprietor of the Sanhedrin;
Sole Proprietor of the Creed. (Copyrighted.); Indisputable Autocrat
of the Branch Churches, with their life and death in her hands; Sole
Thinker for The First Church (and the others); Sole and Infallible
Expounder of Doctrine, in life and in death; Sole permissible
Discoverer, Denouncer, Judge, and Executioner of Ostensible Hypnotists;
Fifty-handed God of Excommunication--with a thunderbolt in every hand;
Appointer and Installer of the Pastor of all the Churches--the Perpetual
Pastor-Universal, Science and Health, “the Comforter.”
CHAPTER X
There she stands-painted by herself. No witness but herself has been
allowed to testify. She stands there painted by her acts, and decorated
by her words. When she talks, she has only a decorative value as
a witness, either for or against herself, for she deals mainly in
unsupported assertion; and in the rare cases where she puts forward a
verifiable fact she gets out of it a meaning which it refuses to furnish
to anybody else. Also, when she talks, she is unstable, she wanders,
she is incurably inconsistent; what she says to-day she contradicts
tomorrow.
But her acts are consistent. They are always faithful to her, they never
misinterpret her, they are a mirror which always reflects her exactly,
precisely, minutely, unerringly, and always the same, to date, with only
those progressive little natural changes in stature, dress, complexion,
mood, and carriage that mark--exteriorly--the march of the years and
record the accumulations of experience, while--interiorly--through all
this steady drift of evolution the one essential detail, the commanding
detail, the master detail of the make-up remains as it was in the
beginning, suffers no change and can suffer none; the basis of the
character; the temperament, the disposition, that indestructible iron
framework upon which the character is built, and whose shape it must
take, and keep, throughout life. We call it a person’s nature.
The man who is born stingy can be taught to give liberally--with his
hands; but not with his heart. The man born kind and compassionate
can have that disposition crushed down out of sight by embittering
experience; but if it were an organ the post-mortem would find it still
in his corpse. The man born ambitious of power and glory may live long
without finding it out, but when the opportunity comes he will know,
will strike for the largest thing within the limit of his chances at the
time-constable, perhaps--and will be glad and proud when he gets it,
and will write home about it. But he will not stop with that start; his
appetite will come again; and by-and-by again, and yet again; and when
he has climbed to police commissioner it will at last begin to dawn upon
him that what his Napoleon soul wants and was born for is something away
higher up--he does not quite know what, but Circumstance and Opportunity
will indicate the direction and he will cut a road through and find out.
I think Mrs. Eddy was born with a far-seeing business-eye, but did not
know it; and with a great organizing and executive talent, and did not
know it; and with a large appetite for power and distinction, and did
not know it. I think the reason that her make did not show up until
middle life was that she had General Grant’s luck--Circumstance and
Opportunity did not come her way when she was younger. The qualities
that were born in her had to wait for circumstance and opportunity--but
they were there: they were there to stay, whether they ever got a chance
to fructify or not. If they had come early, they would have found her
ready and competent. And they--not she--would have determined what they
would set her at and what they would make of her. If they had elected to
commission her as second-assistant cook in a bankrupt boarding-house,
I know the rest of it--I know what would have happened. She would have
owned the boarding-house within six months; she would have had the late
proprietor on salary and humping himself, as the worldly say; she would
have had that boarding-house spewing money like a mint; she would have
worked the servants and the late landlord up to the limit; she would
have squeezed the boarders till they wailed, and by some mysterious
quality born in her she would have kept the affections of certain of the
lot whose love and esteem she valued, and flung the others down the back
area; in two years she would own all the boarding-houses in the town, in
five all the boarding-houses in the State, in twenty all the hotels in
America, in forty all the hotels on the planet, and would sit at home
with her finger on a button and govern the whole combination as easily
as a bench-manager governs a dog-show.
It would be a grand thing to see, and I feel a kind of
disappointment--but never mind, a religion is better and larger; and
there is more to it. And I have not been steeping myself in Christian
Science all these weeks without finding out that the one sensible thing
to do with a disappointment is to put it out of your mind and think of
something cheerfuler.
We outsiders cannot conceive of Mrs. Eddy’s Christian Science Religion
as being a sudden and miraculous birth, but only as a growth from a seed
planted by circumstances, and developed stage by stage by command and
compulsion of the same force. What the stages were we cannot know, but
are privileged to guess. She may have gotten the mental-healing idea
from Quimby--it had been experimented with for ages, and was no one’s
special property. [For the present, for convenience’ sake, let us
proceed upon the hypothesis that that was all she got of him, and that
she put up the rest of the assets herself. This will strain us, but
let us try it.] In each and all its forms and under all its many names,
mental healing had had limits, always, and they were rather narrow
ones--Mrs. Eddy, let us imagine, removed the fence, abolished the
frontiers. Not by expanding mental-healing, but by absorbing its small
bulk into the vaster bulk of Christian Science--Divine Science, The Holy
Ghost, the Comforter--which was a quite different and sublimer force,
and one which had long lain dormant and unemployed.
The Christian Scientist believes that the Spirit of God (life and love)
pervades the universe like an atmosphere; that whoso will study Science
and Health can get from it the secret of how to inhale that transforming
air; that to breathe it is to be made new; that from the new man all
sorrow, all care, all miseries of the mind vanish away, for that only
peace, contentment and measureless joy can live in that divine fluid;
that it purifies the body from disease, which is a vicious creation of
the gross human mind, and cannot continue to exist in the presence of
the Immortal Mind, the renewing Spirit of God.
The Scientist finds this reasonable, natural, and not harder to believe
than that the disease germ, a creature of darkness, perishes when
exposed to the light of the great sun--a new revelation of profane
science which no one doubts. He reminds us that the actinic ray, shining
upon lupus, cures it--a horrible disease which was incurable fifteen
years ago, and had been incurable for ten million years before; that
this wonder, unbelievable by the physicians at first, is believed by
them now; and so he is tranquilly confident that the time is coming when
the world will be educated up to a point where it will comprehend and
grant that the light of the Spirit of God, shining unobstructed upon the
soul, is an actinic ray which can purge both mind and body from disease
and set them free and make them whole.
It is apparent, then, that in Christian Science it is not one man’s mind
acting upon another man’s mind that heals; that it is solely the Spirit
of God that heals; that the healer’s mind performs no office but to
convey that force to the patient; that it is merely the wire which
carries the electric fluid, so to speak, and delivers the message.
Therefore, if these things be true, mental-healing and Science-healing
are separate and distinct processes, and no kinship exists between them.
To heal the body of its ills and pains is a mighty benefaction, but in
our day our physicians and surgeons work a thousand miracles--prodigies
which would have ranked as miracles fifty years ago--and they have so
greatly extended their domination over disease that we feel so well
protected that we are able to look with a good deal of composure and
absence of hysterics upon the claims of new competitors in that field.
But there is a mightier benefaction than the healing of the body, and
that is the healing of the spirit--which is Christian Science’s other
claim. So far as I know, so far as I can find out, it makes it good.
Personally I have not known a Scientist who did not seem serene,
contented, unharassed. I have not found an outsider whose observation
of Scientists furnished him a view that differed from my own. Buoyant
spirits, comfort of mind, freedom from care these happinesses we all
have, at intervals; but in the spaces between, dear me, the black hours!
They have put a curse upon the life of every human being I have ever
known, young or old. I concede not a single exception. Unless it might
be those Scientists just referred to. They may have been playing a part
with me; I hope they were not, and I believe they were not.
Time will test the Science’s claim. If time shall make it good; if time
shall prove that the Science can heal the persecuted spirit of man and
banish its troubles and keep it serene and sunny and content--why, then
Mrs. Eddy will have a monument that will reach above the clouds. For if
she did not hit upon that imperial idea and evolve it and deliver it,
its discoverer can never be identified with certainty, now, I think.
It is the giant feature, it is the sun that rides in the zenith of
Christian Science, the auxiliary features are of minor consequence [Let
us still leave the large “if” aside, for the present, and proceed as if
it had no existence.]
It is not supposable that Mrs. Eddy realized, at first, the size of her
plunder. (No, find--that is the word; she did not realize the size of
her find, at first.) It had to grow upon her, by degrees, in accordance
with the inalterable custom of Circumstance, which works by stages, and
by stages only, and never furnishes any mind with all the materials for
a large idea at one time.
In the beginning, Mrs. Eddy was probably interested merely in the
mental-healing detail, and perhaps mainly interested in it pecuniary,
for she was poor.
She would succeed in anything she undertook. She would attract pupils,
and her commerce would grow. She would inspire in patient and pupil
confidence in her earnestness, her history is evidence that she would
not fail of that.
There probably came a time, in due course, when her students began to
think there was something deeper in her teachings than they had
been suspecting--a mystery beyond mental-healing, and higher. It is
conceivable that by consequence their manner towards her changed little
by little, and from respectful became reverent. It is conceivable that
this would have an influence upon her; that it would incline her to
wonder if their secret thought--that she was inspired--might not be a
well-grounded guess. It is conceivable that as time went on the
thought in their minds and its reflection in hers might solidify into
conviction.
She would remember, then, that as a child she had been called, more
than once, by a mysterious voice--just as had happened to little Samuel.
(Mentioned in her Autobiography.) She would be impressed by that ancient
reminiscence, now, and it could have a prophetic meaning for her.
It is conceivable that the persuasive influences around her and within
her would give a new and powerful impulse to her philosophizings, and
that from this, in time, would result that great birth, the healing of
body and mind by the inpouring of the Spirit of God--the central and
dominant idea of Christian Science--and that when this idea came she
would not doubt that it was an inspiration direct from Heaven.
CHAPTER XI
[I must rest a little, now. To sit here and painstakingly spin out a
scheme which imagines Mrs. Eddy, of all people, working her mind on
a plane above commercialism; imagines her thinking, philosophizing,
discovering majestic things; and even imagines her dealing in
sincerities--to be frank, I find it a large contract But I have begun
it, and I will go through with it.]
CHAPTER XII
It is evident that she made disciples fast, and that their belief in her
and in the authenticity of her heavenly ambassadorship was not of the
lukewarm and half-way sort, but was profoundly earnest and sincere.
Her book was issued from the press in 1875, it began its work of
convert-making, and within six years she had successfully launched a new
Religion and a new system of healing, and was teaching them to crowds of
eager students in a College of her own, at prices so extraordinary
that we are almost compelled to accept her statement (no, her guarded
intimation) that the rates were arranged on high, since a mere human
being unacquainted with commerce and accustomed to think in pennies
could hardly put up such a hand as that without supernatural help.
From this stage onward--Mrs. Eddy being what she was--the rest of the
development--stages would follow naturally and inevitably.
But if she had been anybody else, there would have been a different
arrangement of them, with different results. Being the extraordinary
person she was, she realized her position and its possibilities;
realized the possibilities, and had the daring to use them for all they
were worth.
We have seen what her methods were after she passed the stage where her
divine ambassadorship was granted its executer in the hearts and minds
of her followers; we have seen how steady and fearless and calculated
and orderly was her march thenceforth from conquest to conquest; we have
seen her strike dead, without hesitancy, any hostile or questionable
force that rose in her path: first, the horde of pretenders that sprang
up and tried to take her Science and its market away from her--she
crushed them, she obliterated them; when her own National Christian
Science Association became great in numbers and influence, and loosely
and dangerously garrulous, and began to expound the doctrines according
to its own uninspired notions, she took up her sponge without a tremor
of fear and wiped that Association out; when she perceived that
the preachers in her pulpits were becoming afflicted with
doctrine-tinkering, she recognized the danger of it, and did not
hesitate nor temporize, but promptly dismissed the whole of them in a
day, and abolished their office permanently; we have seen that, as fast
as her power grew, she was competent to take the measure of it, and that
as fast as its expansion suggested to her gradually awakening native
ambition a higher step she took it; and so, by this evolutionary
process, we have seen the gross money-lust relegated to second place,
and the lust of empire and glory rise above it. A splendid dream; and by
force of the qualities born in her she is making it come true.
