
"Yes; he came ashore with the Fanes."

Selwyn flushed a little but went on cutting the pages of the magazine.
When he had finished he flattened the pages between both covers, and
said, without raising his eyes:

"I'm sorry that crowd is to be in evidence."

"They always are and always will be," smiled his sister.

He looked up at her: "Do you mean that anybody else is a guest at
Brookminster?"

"Yes, Phil."

"Alixe?"

"Yes."

He looked down at the book on his knees and began to furrow the pages
absently.

"Phil," she said, "have you heard anything this summer--lately--about
the Ruthvens?"

"No."

"Nothing at all?"

"Not a word."

"You knew they were at Newport as usual."

"I took it for granted."

"And you have heard no rumours?--no gossip concerning them? Nothing
about a yacht?"

"Where was I to hear it? What gossip? What yacht?"

His sister said very seriously: "Alixe has been very careless."

"Everybody is. What of it?"

"It is understood that she and Jack Ruthven have separated."

He looked up quickly: "Who told you that?"

"A woman wrote me from Newport. . . . And Alixe is here and Jack Ruthven
is in New York. Several people have--I have heard about it from several
sources. I'm afraid it's true, Phil."

They looked into each other's troubled eyes; and he said: "If she has
done this it is the worse of two evils she has chosen. To live with him
was bad enough, but this is the limit."

"I know it. She cannot afford to do such a thing again. . . . Phil, what
is the matter with her? She simply cannot be sane and do such a
thing--can she?"

"I don't know," he said.

"Well, I do. She is not sane. She has made herself horridly conspicuous
among conspicuous people; she has been indiscreet to the outer edge of
effrontery. Even that set won't stand it always--especially as their men
folk are quite crazy about her, and she leads a train of them about
wherever she goes--the little fool!

"And now, if it's true, that there's to be a separation--what on earth
will become of her? I ask you, Phil, for I don't know. But men know what
becomes eventually of women who slap the world across the face with
over-ringed fingers.

"If--if there's any talk about it--if there's newspaper talk--if
there's a divorce--who will ask her to their houses? Who will condone
this thing? Who will tolerate it, or her? Men--and men only--the odious
sort that fawn on her now and follow her about half-sneeringly. They'll
tolerate it; but their wives won't; and the kind of women who will
receive and tolerate her are not included in my personal experience.
What a fool she has been!--good heavens, what a fool!"

A trifle paler than usual, he said: "There is no real harm in her. I
know there is not."

"You are very generous, Phil--"

"No, I am trying to be truthful. And I say there is no harm in her. I
have made up my mind on that score." He leaned nearer his sister and
laid one hand on hers where it lay across the hammock's edge:

"Nina; no woman could have done what she has done, and continue to do
what she does, and be mentally sound. This, at last, is my conclusion."

"It has long been my conclusion," she said under her breath.

He stared at the floor out of gray eyes grown dull and hopeless.

"Phil," whispered his sister, "suppose--suppose--what happened to her
father--"

"I know."

She said again: "It was slow at first, a brilliant eccentricity--that
gradually became--something else less pleasant. Oh, Phil! Phil!"

"It was softening of the brain," he said, "was it not?"

"Yes--he entertained a delusion of conspiracy against him--also a
complacent conviction of the mental instability of others. Yet, at
intervals he remained clever and witty and charming."

"And then?"

"Phil--he became violent at times."

"Yes. And the end?" he asked quietly.

"A little child again--quite happy and content--playing with toys--very
gentle, very pitiable--" The hot tears filled her eyes. "Oh, Phil!" she
sobbed and hid her face on his shoulder.

Over the soft, faintly fragrant hair he stared stupidly, lips apart,
chin loose.

A little later, Nina sat up in the hammock, daintily effacing the traces
of tears. Selwyn was saying: "If this is so, that Ruthven man has got to
stand by her. Where could she go--if such trouble is to come upon her?
To whom can she turn if not to him? He is responsible for her--doubly
so, if her condition is to be--that! By every law of manhood he is
bound to stand by her now; by every law of decency and humanity he
cannot desert her now. If she does these--these indiscreet things--and
if he knows she is not altogether mentally responsible--he cannot fail
to stand by her! How can he, in God's name!"

"Phil," she said, "you speak like a man, but she has no man to stand
loyally by her in the direst need a human soul may know. He is only a
thing--no man at all--only a loathsome accident of animated decadence."

He looked up quickly, amazed at her sudden bitterness; and she looked
back at him almost fiercely.

"I may as well tell you what I've heard," she said; "I was not going to,
at first; but it will be all around town sooner or later. Rosamund told
me. She learned--as she manages to learn everything a little before
anybody else hears of it--that Jack Ruthven found out that Alixe was
behaving very carelessly with some man--some silly, callow, and
probably harmless youth. But there was a disgraceful scene on Mr.
Neergard's yacht, the Niobrara. I don't know who the people were, but
Ruthven acted abominably. . . . The Niobrara anchored in Widgeon Bay
yesterday; and Alixe is aboard, and her husband is in New York, and
Rosamund says he means to divorce her in one way or another! Ugh! the
horrible little man with his rings and bangles!"

She shuddered: "Why, the mere bringing of such a suit means her social
ruin no matter what verdict is brought in! Her only salvation has
been in remaining inconspicuous; and a sane girl would have realised
it. But"--and she made a gesture of despair--"you see what she has
done. . . . And Phil--you know what she has done to you--what a mad risk
she took in going to your rooms that night--"

"Who said she had ever been in my rooms?" he demanded, flushing darkly
in his surprise.

"Did you suppose I didn't know it?" she asked quietly. "Oh, but I did;
and it kept me awake nights, worrying. Yet I knew it must have been all
right--knowing you as I do. But do you suppose other people would hold
you as innocent as I do? Even Eileen--the sweetest, whitest, most loyal
little soul in the world--was troubled when Rosamund hinted at some
scandal touching you and Alixe. She told me--but she did not tell me
what Rosamund had said--the mischief maker!"

His face had become quite colourless; he raised an unsteady hand to his
mouth, touching his moustache; and his gray eyes narrowed menacingly.

"Rosamund--spoke of scandal to--Eileen?" he repeated. "Is that
possible?"

"How long do you suppose a girl can live and not hear scandal of some
sort?" said Nina. "It's bound to rain some time or other, but I prepared
my little duck's back to shed some things."

"You say," insisted Selwyn, "that Rosamund spoke of me--in that way--to
Eileen?"

"Yes. It only made the child angry, Phil; so don't worry."

"No; I won't worry. No, I--I won't. You are quite right, Nina. But the
pity of it; that tight, hard-shelled woman of the world--to do such a
thing--to a young girl."

"Rosamund is Rosamund," said Nina with a shrug; "the antidote to her
species is obvious."

"Right, thank God!" said Selwyn between his teeth; "Mens sana in
corpore sano! bless her little heart! I'm glad you told me this, Nina."

He rose and laughed a little--a curious sort of laugh; and Nina watched
him, perplexed.

"Where are you going, Phil?" she asked.

"I don't know. I--where is Eileen?"

"She's lying down--a headache; probably too much sun and salt water.
Shall I send for her?"

"No; I'll go up and inquire how she is. Susanne is there, isn't she?"

And he entered the house and ascended the stairs.

The little Alsatian maid was seated in a corner of the upper hall,
sewing; and she informed Selwyn that mademoiselle "had bad in ze h'ead."

But at the sound of conversation in the corridor Eileen's gay voice came
to them from her room, asking who it was; and she evidently knew, for
there was a hint of laughter in her tone.

"It is I. Are you better?" said Selwyn.

"Yes. D-did you wish to see me?"

"I always do."

"Thank you. . . . I mean, do you wish to see me now? Because I'm very
much occupied in trying to go to sleep."

"Yes, I wish to see you at once."

"Particularly?"

"Very particularly."

"Oh, if it's as serious as that, you alarm me. I'm afraid to come."

"I'm afraid to have you. But please come."

He heard her laugh to herself; then her clear, amused voice: "What are
you going to say to me if I come out?"

"Something dreadful! Hurry!"

"Oh, if that's the case I'll hurry," she returned, and a moment later
the door opened and she emerged in a breezy flutter of silvery ribbons
and loosened ruddy hair.

She was dressed in some sort of delicate misty stuff that alternately
clung and floated, outlining or clouding her glorious young figure as
she moved with leisurely free-limbed grace across the hall to meet him.

The pretty greeting she always reserved for him, even if their
separation had been for a few minutes only, she now offered, hand
extended; a cool, fragrant hand which lay for a second in his, closed,
and withdrew, leaving her eyes very friendly.

"Come out on the west veranda," she said; "I know what you wish to say
to me. Besides, I have something to confide to you, too. And I'm very
impatient to do it."

He followed her to the veranda; she seated herself in the broad swing,
and moved so that her invitation to him was unmistakable. Then when he
had taken the place beside her she turned toward him very frankly, and
he looked up to encounter her beautiful direct gaze.

"What is disturbing our friendship?" she asked. "Do you know? I don't. I
went to my room after luncheon and lay down on my bed and quietly
deliberated. And do you know what conclusion I have reached?"

"What?" he asked.

"That there is nothing at all to disturb our friendship. And that what I
said to you on the beach was foolish. I don't know why I said it; I'm
not the sort of girl who says such stupid things--though I was
apparently, for that one moment. And what I said about Gladys was
childish; I am not jealous of her, Captain Selwyn. Don't think me silly
or perverse or sentimental, will you?"

"No, I won't."

She smiled at him with a trifle less courage--a trifle more
self-consciousness: "And--and as for what I called you--"

"You mean when you called me by my first name, and I teased you?"

"Y-es. I was silly to do it; sillier to be ashamed of doing it. There's
a great deal of the callow schoolgirl in me yet, you see. The wise,
amused smile of a man can sometimes stampede my self-possession and
leave me blushing like any ninny in dire confusion. . . . It was very,
very mean of you--for the blood across your face did shock me. . . .
And, by myself, and in my very private thoughts, I do sometimes call
you--by your first name. . . . And that explains it. . . . Now, what
have you to say to me?"

"I wish to ask you something."

"With pleasure," she said; "go ahead." And she settled back, fearlessly
expectant.

"Very well, then," he said, striving to speak coolly. "It is this: Will
you marry me, Eileen?"

She turned perfectly white and stared at him, stunned. And he repeated
his question, speaking slowly, but unsteadily.

"N-no," she said; "I cannot. Why--why, you know that, don't you?"

"Will you tell me why, Eileen?"

"I--I don't know why. I think--I suppose that it is because I do not
love you--that way."

"Yes," he said, "that, of course, is the reason. I wonder--do you
suppose that--in time--perhaps--you might care for me--that way?"

"I don't know." She glanced up at him fearfully, fascinated, yet
repelled. "I don't know," she repeated pitifully. "Is it--can't you help
thinking of me in that way? Can't you be as you were?"

"No, I can no longer help it. I don't want to help it, Eileen."

"But--I wish you to," she said in a low voice. "It is that which is
coming between us. Oh, don't you see it is? Don't you feel it--feel what
it is doing to us? Don't you understand how it is driving me back into
myself? Whom am I to go to if not to you? What am I to do if your
affection turns into this--this different attitude toward me? You were
so perfectly sweet and reasonable--so good, so patient; and now--and now
I am losing confidence in you--in myself--in our friendship.
I'm no longer frank with you; I'm afraid at times--afraid and
self-conscious--conscious of you, too--afraid of what seemed once the
most natural of intimacies. I--I loved you so dearly--so fearlessly--"

Tears blinded her; she bent her head, and they fell on the soft delicate
stuff of her gown, flashing downward in the sunlight.

"Dear," he said gently, "nothing is altered between us. I love you in
that way, too."

"D-do you--really?" she stammered, shrinking away from him.

"Truly. Nothing is altered; nothing of the bond between us is weakened.
On the contrary, it is strengthened. You cannot understand that now. But
what you are to believe and always understand is that our friendship
must endure. Will you believe it?"

"Y-yes--" She buried her face in her handkerchief and sat very still for
a long time. He had risen and walked to the farther end of the veranda;
and for a minute he stood there, his narrowed eyes following the sky
flight of the white gulls off Wonder Head.

When at length he returned to her she was sitting low in the swing, both
arms extended along the back of the seat. Evidently she had been waiting
for him; and her face was very grave and sorrowful.

"I want to ask you something," she said--"merely to prove that you are a
little bit illogical. May I?"

He nodded, smiling.

"Could you and I care for each other more than we now do, if we were
married?"

"I think so," he said.

"Why?" she demanded, astonished. Evidently she had expected another
answer.

He made no reply; and she lay back among the cushions considering what
he had said, the flush of surprise still lingering in her cheeks.

"How can I marry you," she asked, "when I would--would not care to
endure a--a caress from any man--even from you? It--such things--would
spoil it all. I don't love you--that way. . . . Oh! Don't look at me
that way! Have I hurt you?--dear Captain Selwyn? . . . I did not mean
to. . . . Oh, what has become of our happiness! What has become of it!"
And she turned, full length in the swing, and hid her face in the silken
pillows.

For a long while she lay there, the western sun turning her crown of
hair to fire above the white nape of her slender neck; and he saw her
hands clasping, unclasping, or crushing the tiny handkerchief deep into
one palm.

There was a chair near; he drew it toward her, and sat down, steadying
the swing with one hand on the chain.

"Dearest," he said under his breath, "I am very selfish to have done
this; but I--I thought--perhaps--you might have cared enough to--to
venture--"

"I do care; you are very cruel to me." The voice was childishly broken
and muffled. He looked down at her, slowly realising that it was a child
he still was dealing with--a child with a child's innocence, repelled by
the graver phase of love, unresponsive to the deeper emotions,
bewildered by the glimpse of the mature rôle his attitude had compelled
her to accept. That she already had reached that mile-stone and, for a
moment, had turned involuntarily to look back and find her childhood
already behind her, frightened her.

Thinking, perhaps, of his own years, and of what lay behind him, he
sighed and looked out over the waste of moorland where the Atlantic was
battering the sands of Surf Point. Then his patient gaze shifted to the
east, and he saw the surface of Sky Pond, blue as the eyes of the girl
who lay crouching in the cushioned corner of the swinging seat, small
hands clinched over the handkerchief--a limp bit of stuff damp with her
tears.

"There is one thing," he said, "that we mustn't do--cry about it--must
we, Eileen?"

"No-o."

"Certainly not. Because there is nothing to make either of us unhappy;
is there?"

"Oh-h, no."

"Exactly. So we're not going to be unhappy; not one bit. First because
we love each other, anyway; don't we?"

"Y-yes."

"Of course we do. And now, just because I happen to love you in that way
and also in a different sort of way, in addition to that way, why, it's
nothing for anybody to cry about it; is it, Eileen?"

"No. . . . No, it is not. . . . But I c-can't help it."

"Oh, but you're going to help it, aren't you?"

"I--I hope so."

He was silent; and presently she said: "I--the reason of it--my
crying--is b-b-because I don't wish you to be unhappy."

"But, dear, dear little girl, I am not!"

"Really?"

"No, indeed! Why should I be? You do love me; don't you?"

"You know I do."

"But not in that way."

"N-no; not in that way. . . . I w-wish I did."

A thrill passed through him; after a moment he relaxed and leaned
forward, his chin resting on his clinched hands: "Then let us go back to
the old footing, Eileen."

"Can we?"

"Yes, we can; and we will--back to the old footing--when nothing of
deeper sentiment disturbed us. . . . It was my fault, little girl. Some
day you will understand that it was not a wholly selfish fault--because
I believed--perhaps only dreamed--that I could make you happier by
loving you in--both ways. That is all; it is your happiness--our
happiness that we must consider; and if it is to last and endure, we
must be very, very careful that nothing really disturbs it again. And
that means that the love, which is sometimes called friendship, must be
recognised as sufficient. . . . You know how it is; a man who is locked
up in Paradise is never satisfied until he can climb the wall and look
over! Now I have climbed and looked; and now I climb back into the
garden of your dear friendship, very glad to be there again with
you--very, very thankful, dear. . . . Will you welcome me back?"

She lay quite still a minute, then sat up straight, stretching out both
hands to him, her beautiful, fearless eyes brilliant as rain-washed
stars.

"Don't go away," she said--"don't ever go away from our garden again."

"No, Eileen."

"Is it a promise . . . Philip?"

Her voice fell exquisitely low.

"Yes, a promise. Do you take me back, Eileen?"

"Yes; I take you. . . . Take me back, too, Philip." Her hands tightened
in his; she looked up at him, faltered, waited; then in a fainter voice:
"And--and be of g-good courage. . . . I--I am not very old yet."

She withdrew her hands and bent her head, sitting there, still as a
white-browed novice, listlessly considering the lengthening shadows at
her feet. But, as he rose and looked out across the waste with enchanted
eyes that saw nothing, his heart suddenly leaped up quivering, as though
his very soul had been drenched in immortal sunshine.

An hour later, when Nina discovered them there together, Eileen, curled
up among the cushions in the swinging seat, was reading aloud "Evidences
of Asiatic Influence on the Symbolism of Ancient Yucatan"; and Selwyn,
astride a chair, chin on his folded arms, was listening with evident
rapture.

"Heavens!" exclaimed Nina, "the blue-stocking and the fogy!--and yours
are pale blue, Eileen!--you're about as self-conscious as
Drina--slumping there with your hair tumbling à la Mérode! Oh, it's
very picturesque, of course, but a straight spine and good grooming is
better. Get up, little blue-stockings and we'll have our hair done--if
you expect to appear at Hitherwood House with me!"

Eileen laughed, calmly smoothing out her skirt over her slim ankles;
then she closed the book, sat up, and looked happily at Selwyn.

"Fogy and Bas-bleu," she repeated. "But it is fascinating, isn't
it?--even if my hair is across my ears and you sit that chair like a
polo player! Nina, dearest, what is your mature opinion concerning the
tomoya and the Buddhist cross?"

"I know more about a tomboy-a than a tomoya, my saucy friend," observed
Nina, surveying her with disapproval--"and I can be as cross about it as
any Buddhist, too. You are, to express it as pleasantly as possible, a
sight! Child, what on earth have you been doing? There are two smears
on your cheeks!"

"I've been crying," said the girl, with an amused sidelong flutter of
her lids toward Selwyn.

"Crying!" repeated Nina incredulously. Then, disarmed by the serene
frankness of the girl, she added: "A blue-stocking is bad enough, but a
grimy one is impossible. Allons! Vite!" she insisted, driving Eileen
before her; "the country is demoralising you. Philip, we're dining
early, so please make your arrangements to conform. Come, Eileen; have
you never before seen Philip Selwyn?"

"I am not sure that I ever have," she replied, with a curious little
smile at Selwyn. Nina had her by the hand, but she dragged back like a
mischievously reluctant child hustled bedward:

"Good-bye," she said, stretching out her hand to Selwyn--"good-bye, my
unfortunate fellow fogy! I go, slumpy, besmudged, but happy; I return,
superficially immaculate--but my stockings will still be blue! . . .
Nina, dear, if you don't stop dragging me I'll pick you up in my
arms!--indeed I will--"

There was a laugh, a smothered cry of protest; and Selwyn was the amused
spectator of his sister suddenly seized and lifted into a pair of
vigorous young arms, and carried into the house by this tall, laughing
girl who, an hour before, had lain there among the cushions, frightened,
unconvinced, clinging instinctively to the last gay rags and tatters of
the childhood which she feared were to be stripped from her for ever.

It was clear starlight when they were ready to depart. Austin had
arrived unexpectedly, and he, Nina, Eileen, and Selwyn were to drive to
Hitherwood House, Lansing and Gerald going in the motor-boat.

There was a brief scene between Drina and Boots--the former fiercely
pointing out the impropriety of a boy like Gerald being invited where
she, Drina, was ignored. But there was no use in Boots offering to
remain and comfort her as Drina had to go to bed, anyway; so she kissed
him good-bye very tearfully, and generously forgave Gerald; and
comforted herself before she retired by putting on one of her mother's
gowns and pinning up her hair and parading before a pier-glass until her
nurse announced that her bath was waiting.

       

The drive to Hitherwood House was a dream of loveliness; under the stars
the Bay of Shoals sparkled in the blue darkness set with the gemmed ruby
and sapphire and emerald of ships' lanterns glowing from unseen yachts
at anchor.

The great flash-light on Wonder Head broke out in brilliancy, faded,
died to a cinder, grew perceptible again, and again blazed blindingly in
its endless monotonous routine; far lights twinkled on the Sound, and
farther away still, at sea. Then the majestic velvety shadow of the
Hither Woods fell over them; and they passed in among the trees, the
lamps of the depot wagon shining golden in the forest gloom.

Selwyn turned instinctively to the young girl beside him. Her face was
in shadow, but she responded with the slightest movement toward him:

"This dusk is satisfying--like sleep--this wide, quiet shadow over the
world. Once--and not so very long ago--I thought it a pity that the sun
should ever set. . . . I wonder if I am growing old--because I feel the
least bit tired to-night. For the first time that I can remember a day
has been a little too long for me."

She evidently did not ascribe her slight sense of fatigue to the scene
on the veranda; perhaps she was too innocent to surmise that any
physical effect could follow that temporary stress of emotion. A quiet
sense of relief in relaxation from effort came over her as she leaned
back, conscious that there was happiness in rest and silence and the
soft envelopment of darkness.

"If it would only last," she murmured lazily.

"What, Eileen?"

"This heavenly darkness--and our drive, together. . . . You are quite
right not to talk to me; I won't, either. . . . Only I'll drone on and
on from time to time--so that you won't forget that I am here beside
you."

She lay so still for a while that at last Nina leaned forward to look at
her; then laughed.

"She's asleep," she said to Austin.

"No, I'm not," murmured the girl, unclosing her eyes; "Captain Selwyn
knows; don't you? . . . What is that sparkling--a fire-fly?"

But it was the first paper lantern glimmering through the Hitherwood
trees from the distant lawn.

"Oh, dear," sighed Eileen, sitting up with an effort, and looking
sleepily at Selwyn. "J'ai sommeil--besoin--dormir--"

But a few minutes later they were in the great hall of Hitherwood House,
opened from end to end to the soft sea wind, and crowded with the
gayest, noisiest throng that had gathered there in a twelvemonth.

Everywhere the younger set were in evidence; slim, fresh, girlish
figures passed and gathered and crowded the stairs and galleries with a
flirt and flutter of winnowing skirts, delicate and light as
powder-puffs.

Mrs. Sanxon Orchil, a hard, highly coloured, tight-lipped little woman
with electric-blue eyes, was receiving with her slim brunette daughter,
Gladys.

"A tight little craft," was Austin's invariable comment on the matron;
and she looked it, always trim and trig and smooth of surface like a
converted yacht cleared for action.

Near her wandered her husband, orientally bland, invariably affable, and
from time to time squinting sideways, as usual, in the ever-renewed
expectation that he might catch a glimpse of his stiff, retroussé
moustache.

The Lawns were there, the Minsters, the Craigs from Wyossett, the Grays
of Shadow Lake, the Draymores, Fanes, Mottlys, Cardwells--in fact, it
seemed as though all Long Island had been drained from Cedarhurst to
Islip and from Oyster Bay to Wyossett, to pour a stream of garrulous and
animated youth and beauty into the halls and over the verandas and
terraces and lawns of Hitherwood House.

It was to be a lantern frolic and a lantern dance and supper, all most
formally and impressively sans façon. And it began with a candle-race
for a big silver gilt cup--won by Sandon Craig and his partner, Evelyn
Cardwell, who triumphantly bore their lighted taper safely among the
throngs of hostile contestants, through the wilderness of flitting
lights, and across the lawn to the goal where they planted it,
unextinguished, in the big red paper lantern.

Selwyn and Eileen came up breathless and laughing with the others, she
holding aloft their candle, which somebody had succeeded in blowing out;
and everybody cheered the winners, significantly, for it was expected
that Miss Cardwell's engagement to young Craig would be announced before
very long.

Then rockets began to rush aloft, starring the black void with
iridescent fire; and everybody went to the lawn's edge where, below on
the bay, a dozen motor-boats, dressed fore and aft with necklaces of
electric lights, crossed the line at the crack of a cannon in a race for
another trophy.

Bets flew as the excitement grew, Eileen confining hers to gloves and
bonbons, and Selwyn loyally taking any offers of any kind as he
uncompromisingly backed Gerald and Boots in the new motor-boat--the
Blue Streak--Austin's contribution to the Silverside navy.

And sure enough, at last a blue rocket soared aloft, bursting into azure
magnificence in the zenith; and Gerald and Boots came climbing up to the
lawn to receive prize and compliments, and hasten away to change their
oilskins for attire more suitable.

Eileen, turning to Selwyn, held up her booking list in laughing dismay:
"I've won about a ton of bonbons," she said, "and too many pairs of
gloves to feel quite comfortable."

"You needn't wear them all at once, you know," he assured her.

"Nonsense! I mean that I don't care to win things. Oh!"--and she laid
her hand impulsively on his arm as a huge sheaf of rockets roared
skyward, apparently from the water.

Then, suddenly, Neergard's yacht sprang into view, outlined in
electricity from stem to stern, every spar and funnel and contour of
hull and superstructure twinkling in jewelled brilliancy.

On a great improvised open pavilion set up in the Hither Woods,
garlanded and hung thick with multi-coloured paper lanterns, dancing had
already begun; but Selwyn and Eileen lingered on the lawn for a while,
fascinated by the beauty of the fireworks pouring skyward from the
Niobrara.

"They seem to be very gay aboard her," murmured the girl. "Once you said
that you did not like Mr. Neergard. Do you remember saying it?"

He replied simply, "I don't like him; and I remember saying so."

"It is strange," she said, "that Gerald does."

Selwyn looked at the illuminated yacht. . . . "I wonder whether any of
Neergard's crowd is expected ashore here. Do you happen to know?"

She did not know. A moment later, to his annoyance, Edgerton Lawn came
up and asked her to dance; and she went with a smile and a whispered:
"Wait for me--if you don't mind. I'll come back to you."

It was all very well to wait for her--and even to dance with her after
that; but there appeared to be no peace for him in prospect, for Scott
Innis came and took her away, and Gladys Orchil offered herself to him
very prettily, and took him away; and after that, to his perplexity and
consternation, a perfect furor for him seemed to set in and grow among
the younger set, and the Minster twins had him, and Hilda Innis
appropriated him, and Evelyn Cardwell, and even Mrs. Delmour-Carnes took
a hand in the badgering.

At intervals he caught glimpses of Eileen through the gay crush around
him; he danced with Nina, and suggested to her it was time to leave, but
that young matron had tasted just enough to want more; and Eileen, too,
was evidently having a most delightful time. So he settled into the
harness of pleasure and was good to the pink-and-white ones; and they
told each other what a "dear" he was, and adored him more inconveniently
than ever.

Truly enough, as he had often said, these younger ones were the
charmingly wholesome and refreshing antidote to the occasional
misbehaviour of the mature. They were, as he also asserted, the hope and
promise of the social fabric of a nation--this younger set--always a
little better, a little higher-minded than their predecessors as the
wheel of the years slowly turned them out in gay, eager, fearless
throngs to teach a cynical generation the rudiments of that wisdom which
blossoms most perfectly in the hearts of the unawakened.

Yes, he had frequently told himself all this; told it to others, too.
But, now, the younger set, en masse and in detail, had become a little
bit cramponné--a trifle too all-pervading. And it was because his
regard for them, in the abstract, had become centred in a single
concrete example that he began to find the younger set a nuisance. But
others, it seemed, were quite as mad about Eileen Erroll as he was; and
there seemed to be small chance for him to possess himself of her,
unless he were prepared to make the matter of possession a pointed
episode. This he knew he had no right to do; she had conferred no such
privilege upon him; and he was obliged to be careful of what he did and
said lest half a thousand bright unwinking eyes wink too knowingly--lest
frivolous tongues go clip-clap, and idle brains infer that which, alas!
did not exist except in his vision of desire.

The Hither Woods had been hung with myriads of lanterns. From every
branch they swung in clusters or stretched away into perspective,
turning the wooded aisles to brilliant vistas. Under them the more
romantic and the dance-worn strolled in animated groups or quieter twos;
an army of servants flitted hither and thither, serving the acre or so
of small tables over each of which an electric cluster shed yellow
light.

Supper, and then the Woodland cotillon was the programme; and almost all
the tables were filled before Selwyn had an opportunity to collect Nina
and Austin and capture Eileen from a very rosy-cheeked and indignant boy
who had quite lost his head and heart and appeared to be on the verge of
a headlong declaration.

"It's only Percy Draymore's kid brother," she explained, passing her arm
through his with a little sigh of satisfaction. "Where have you been all
the while?--and with whom have you danced, please?--and who is the
pretty girl you paid court to during that last dance? What? Didn't pay
court to her? Do you expect me to believe that? . . . Oh, here comes
Nina and Austin. . . . How pretty the tables look, all lighted up among
the trees! And such an uproar!"--as they came into the jolly tumult and
passed in among a labyrinth of tables, greeted laughingly from every
side.

Under a vigorous young oak-tree thickly festooned with lanterns Austin
found an unoccupied table. There was a great deal of racket and laughter
from the groups surrounding them, but this seemed to be the only
available spot; besides, Austin was hungry, and he said so.

Nina, with Selwyn on her left, looked around for Gerald and Lansing.
When the latter came sauntering up, Austin questioned him, but he
replied carelessly that Gerald had gone to join some people whom he,
Lansing, did not know very well.

"Why, there he is now!" exclaimed Eileen, catching sight of her brother
seated among a very noisy group on the outer edge of the illuminated
zone. "Who are those people, Nina? Oh! Rosamund Fane is there, too;
and--and--"

She ceased speaking so abruptly that Selwyn turned around; and Nina bit
her lip in vexation and glanced at her husband. For, among the
overanimated and almost boisterous group which was attracting the
attention of everybody in the vicinity sat Mrs. Jack Ruthven. And Selwyn
saw her.

For a moment he looked at her--looked at Gerald beside her, and Neergard
on the other side, and Rosamund opposite; and at the others, whom he had
never before seen. Then quietly, but with heightened colour, he turned
his attention to the glass which the servant had just filled for him,
and, resting his hand on the stem, stared at the bubbles crowding upward
through it to the foamy brim.

Nina and Boots had begun, ostentatiously, an exceedingly animated
conversation; and they became almost aggressive, appealing to Austin,
who sat back with a frown on his heavy face--and to Eileen, who was
sipping her mineral water and staring thoughtfully at a big, round,
orange-tinted lantern which hung like the harvest moon behind Gerald,
throwing his curly head into silhouette.



What conversation there was to carry, Boots and Nina carried. Austin
silently satisfied his hunger, eating and drinking with a sullen
determination to make no pretence of ignoring a situation that plainly
angered him deeply. And from minute to minute he raised his head to
glare across at Gerald, who evidently was unconscious of the presence of
his own party.

When Nina spoke to Eileen, the girl answered briefly but with perfect
composure. Selwyn, too, added a quiet word at intervals, speaking in a
voice that sounded a little tired and strained.

It was that note of fatigue in his voice which aroused Eileen to
effort--the instinctive move to protect--to sustain him. Conscious of
Austin's suppressed but increasing anger at her brother, amazed and
distressed at what Gerald had done--for the boy's very presence there
was an affront to them all--she was still more sensitive to Selwyn's
voice; and in her heart she responded passionately.

Nina looked up, surprised at the sudden transformation in the girl, who
had turned on Boots with a sudden flow of spirits and the gayest of
challenges; and their laughter and badinage became so genuine and so
persistent that, combining with Nina, they fairly swept Austin from his
surly abstraction into their toils; and Selwyn's subdued laugh, if
forced, sounded pleasantly, now, and his drawn face seemed to relax a
little for the time being.

Once she turned, under cover of the general conversation which she had
set going, and looked straight into Selwyn's eyes, flashing to him a
message of purest loyalty; and his silent gaze in response sent the
colour flying to her cheeks.

It was all very well for a while--a brave, sweet effort; but ears could
not remain deaf to the increasing noise and laughter--to familiar
voices, half-caught phrases, indiscreet even in the fragments
understood. Besides, Gerald had seen them, and the boy's face had become
almost ghastly.

Alixe, unusually flushed, was conducting herself without restraint;
Neergard's snickering laugh grew more significant and persistent; even
Rosamund spoke too loudly at moments; and once she looked around at Nina
and Selwyn while her pretty, accentless laughter, rippling with its
undertone of malice, became more frequent in the increasing tumult.

There was no use in making a pretence of further gaiety. Austin had
begun to scowl again; Nina, with one shocked glance at Alixe, leaned
over toward her brother:

"It is incredible!" she murmured; "she must be perfectly mad to make
such an exhibition of herself. Can't anybody stop her? Can't anybody
send her home?"

Austin said sullenly but distinctly: "The thing for us to do is to get
out. . . . Nina--if you are ready--"

"But--but what about Gerald?" faltered Eileen, turning piteously to
Selwyn. "We can't leave him--there!"

The man straightened up and turned his drawn face toward her:

"Do you wish me to get him?"

"Y-you can't do that--can you?"

"Yes, I can; if you wish it. Do you think there is anything in the world
I can't do, if you wish it?"

As he rose she laid her hand on his arm:

"I--I don't ask it--" she began.

"You do not have to ask it," he said with a smile almost genuine.
"Austin, I'm going to get Gerald--and Nina will explain to you that
he's to be left to me if any sermon is required. I'll go back with him
in the motor-boat. Boots, you'll drive home in my place."

As he turned, still smiling and self-possessed, Eileen whispered
rapidly: "Don't go. I care for you too much to ask it."

He said under his breath: "Dearest, you cannot understand."

"Yes--I do! Don't go. Philip--don't go near--her--"

"I must."

"If you do--if you go--h-how can you c-care for me as you say you
do?--when I ask you not to--when I cannot endure--to--"

She turned swiftly and stared across at Alixe; and Alixe, unsteady in
the flushed brilliancy of her youthful beauty, half rose in her seat and
stared back.

Instinctively the young girl's hand tightened on Selwyn's arm: "She--she
is beautiful!" she faltered; but he turned and led her from the table,
following Austin, his sister, and Lansing; and she clung to him almost
convulsively when he halted on the edge of the lawn.

"I must go back," he whispered--"dearest--dearest--I must."

"T-to Gerald? Or--her?"

But he only muttered: "They don't know what they're doing. Let me go,
Eileen"--gently detaching her fingers, which left her hands lying in
both of his.

She said, looking up at him: "If you go--if you go--whatever time you
return--no matter what hour--knock at my door. Do you promise? I shall
be awake. Do you promise?"

"Yes," he said with a trace of impatience--the only hint of his anger at
the prospect of the duty before him.

So she went away with Nina and Austin and Boots; and Selwyn turned back,
sauntering quietly toward the table where already the occupants had
apparently forgotten him and the episode in the riotous gaiety
increasing with the accession of half a dozen more men.

When Selwyn approached, Neergard saw him first, stared at him, and
snickered; but he greeted everybody with smiling composure, nodding to
those he knew--a trifle more formally to Mrs. Ruthven--and, coolly
pulling up a chair, seated himself beside Gerald.

"Boots has driven home with the others," he said in a low voice; "I'm
going back in the motor-boat with you. Don't worry about Austin. Are you
ready?"

The boy had evidently let the wine alone, or else fright had sobered
him, for he looked terribly white and tired: "Yes," he said, "I'll go
when you wish. I suppose they'll never forgive me for this. Come on."

"One moment, then," nodded Selwyn; "I want to speak to Mrs. Ruthven."
And, quietly turning to Alixe, and dropping his voice to a tone too low
for Neergard to hear--for he was plainly attempting to listen:

"You are making a mistake; do you understand? Whoever is your
hostess--wherever you are staying--find her and go there before it is
too late."

She inclined her pretty head thoughtfully, eyes on the wine-glass which
she was turning round and round between her slender fingers. "What do
you mean by 'too late'?" she asked. "Don't you know that everything is
too late for me now?"

"What do you mean, Alixe?" he returned, watching her intently.

"What I say. I have not seen Jack Ruthven for two months. Do you know
what that means? I have not heard from him for two months. Do you know
what that means? No? Well, I'll tell you, Philip; it means that when I
do hear from him it will be through his attorneys."

He turned slightly paler: "Why"?"

"Divorce," she said with a reckless little laugh--"and the end of things
for me."

"On what grounds?" he demanded doggedly. "Does he threaten you?"

She made no movement or reply, reclining there, one hand on her
wine-glass, the smile still curving her lips. And he repeated his
question in a low, distinct voice--too low for Neergard to hear; and he
was still listening.

"Grounds? Oh, he thinks I've misbehaved with--never mind who. It is not
true--but he cares nothing about that, either. You see"--and she bent
nearer, confidentially, with a mysterious little nod of her pretty
head--"you see, Jack Ruthven is a little insane. . . . You are
surprised? Pooh! I've suspected it for months."

He stared at her; then: "Where are you stopping?"

"Aboard the Niobrara."

"Is Mrs. Fane a guest there, too?"

He spoke loud enough for Rosamund to hear; and she answered for herself
with a smile at him, brimful of malice:

"Delighted to have you come aboard, Captain Selwyn. Is that what you are
asking permission to do?"

"Thanks," he returned dryly; and to Alixe: "If you are ready, Gerald and
I will take you over to the Niobrara in the motor-boat--"

"Oh, no, you won't!" broke in Neergard with a sneer--"you'll mind your
own business, my intrusive friend, and I'll take care of my guests
without your assistance."

Selwyn appeared not to hear him: "Come on, Gerald," he said pleasantly;
"Mrs. Ruthven is going over to the Niobrara--"

"For God's sake," whispered Gerald, white as a sheet, "don't force me
into trouble with Neergard."

Selwyn turned on him an astonished gaze: "Are you afraid of that
whelp?"

"Yes," muttered the boy--"I--I'll explain later. But don't force things
