Then, checking his amusement, he added, "Good evening, sir."

"Good evening," said Montague.

He was trembling slightly, and Duval noticed it; he smiled genially.
"This is the sort of material out of which scenes are made," said he.
"But I beg you not to be embarrassed--we won't have any scenes."

Montague could think of nothing to say to that.

"I owe Evelyn an apology," the other continued. "It was entirely an
accident--this clipping, you see. I do not intrude, as a rule. You may
make yourself at home in future."

Montague flushed scarlet at the words.

"Mr. Duval," he said, "I have to assure you that you are mistaken--"

The other stared at him. "Oh, come, come!" he said, laughing. "Let us
talk as men of the world."

"I say that you are mistaken," said Montague again.

The other shrugged his shoulders. "Very well," he said genially. "As
you please. I simply wish to make matters clear to you, that's all. I
wish you joy with Evelyn. I say nothing about her--you love her.
Suffice it that I've had her, and I'm tired of her; the field is yours.
But keep her out of mischief, and don't let her make a fool of herself
in public, if you can help it. And don't let her spend too much
money--she costs me a million a year already.--Good evening, Mr.
Montague."

And he went out. Montague, who stood like a statue, could hear him
chuckling all the way down the hall.

At last Montague himself started to leave. But he heard Mrs. Winnie
coming back, and he waited for her. She came in and shut the door, and
turned toward him.

"What did he say?" she asked.

"He--was very pleasant," said Montague.

And she smiled grimly. "I went out on purpose," she said. "I wanted you
to see him--to see what sort of a man he is, and how much 'duty' I owe
him! You saw, I guess."

"Yes, I saw," said he.

Then again he started to go. But she took him by the arm. "Come and
talk to me," she said. "Please!"

And she led him back to the fire. "Listen," she said. "He will not come
here again. He is going away to-night--I thought he had gone already.
And he does not return for a month or two. There will be no one to
disturb us again."

She came close to him and gazed up into his face. She had wiped her
tears away, and her happy look had come back to her; she was lovelier
than ever.

"I took you by surprise," she said, smiling. "You didn't know what to
make of it. And I was ashamed--I thought you would hate me. But I'm not
going to be unhappy any more--I don't care at all. I'm glad that I
spoke!"

And Mrs. Winnie put up her hands and took him by the lapels of his
coat. "I know that you love me," she said; "I saw it in your eyes just
now, before he came in: It is simply that you won't let yourself go.
You have so many doubts and so many fears. But you will see that I am
right; you will learn to love me. You won't be able to help it--I shall
be so kind and good! Only don't go away--"

Mrs. Winnie was so close to him that her breath touched his cheek.
"Promise me, dear," she whispered--"promise me that you won't stop
seeing me--that you will learn to love me. I can't do without you!"

Montague was trembling in every nerve; he felt like a man caught in a
net. Mrs. Winnie had had everything she ever wanted in her life; and
now she wanted him! It was impossible for her to face any other thought.

"Listen," he began gently.

But she saw the look of resistance in his eyes, and she cried "No
no--don't! I cannot do without you! Think! I love you! What more can I
say to you? I cannot believe that you don't care for me--you HAVE been
fond of me--I have seen it in your face. Yet you're afraid of me--why?
Look at me--am I not beautiful to look at! And is a woman's love such a
little thing--can you fling it away and trample upon it so easily? Why
do you wish to go? Don't you understand--no one knows we are here--no
one cares! You can come here whenever you wish--this is my place--mine!
And no one will think anything about it. They all do it. There is
nothing to be afraid of!"

She put her arms about him, and clung to him so that he could feel the
beating of her heart upon his bosom. "Oh, don't leave me here alone
to-night!" she cried.

To Montague it was like the ringing of an alarm-bell deep within his
soul. "I must go," he said.

She flung back her head and stared at him, and he saw the terror and
anguish in her eyes. "No, no!" she cried, "don't say that to me! I
can't bear it--oh, see what I have done! Look at me! Have mercy on me!"

"Mrs. Winnie," he said, "you must have mercy on ME!"

But he only felt her clasp him more tightly. He took her by the wrists,
and with quiet force he broke her hold upon him; her hands fell to her
sides, and she stared at him, aghast.

"I must go," he said, again.

And he started toward the door. She followed him dumbly with her eyes.

"Good-bye," he said. He knew that there was no use of any more words;
his sympathy had been like oil upon flames. He saw her move, and as he
opened the door, she flung herself down in a chair and burst into
frantic weeping. He shut the door softly and went away.

He found his way down the stairs, and got his hat and coat, and went
out, unseen by anyone. He walked down the Avenue-and there suddenly was
the giant bulk of St. Cecilia's lifting itself into the sky. He stopped
and looked at it--it seemed a great tumultuous surge of emotion. And
for the first time in his life it seemed to him that he understood why
men had put together that towering heap of stone!

Then he went on home.

He found Alice dressing for a ball, and Oliver waiting for her. He went
to his room, and took off his coat; and Oliver came up to him, and with
a sudden gesture reached over to his shoulder, and held up a trophy.

He drew it out carefully, and measured the length of it, smiling
mischievously in the meanwhile. Then he held it up to the light, to see
the colour of it.

"A black one!" he cried. "Coal black!" And he looked at his brother,
with a merry twinkle in his eyes. "Oh, Allan!" he chuckled.

Montague said nothing.




CHAPTER XX


It was about a week from the beginning of Lent, when there would be a
lull in the city's gaieties, and Society would shift the scene of its
activities to the country clubs, and to California and Hot Springs and
Palm Beach. Mrs. Caroline Smythe invited Alice to join her in an
expedition to the last-named place; but Montague interposed, because he
saw that Alice had been made pale and nervous by three months of
night-and-day festivities. Also, a trip to Florida would necessitate
ten or fifteen thousand dollars' worth of new clothes; and these would
not do for the summer, it appeared--they would be faded and passe by
that time.

So Alice settled back to rest; but she was too popular to be let
alone--a few days later came another invitation, this time from General
Prentice and his family. They were planning a railroad trip--to be gone
for a month; they would have a private train, and twenty five people in
the party, and would take in California and Mexico--"swinging round the
circle," as it was called. Alice was wild to go, and Montague gave his
consent. Afterward he learned to his dismay that Charlie Carter was one
of those invited, and he would have liked to have Alice withdraw; but
she did not wish to, and he could not make up his mind to insist.

These train trips were the very latest diversion of the well-to-do; a
year ago no one had heard of them, and now fifty parties were leaving
New York every month. You might see a dozen of such hotel-trains at
once at Palm Beach; there were some people who lived on board all the
time, having special tracks built for them in pleasant locations
wherever they stopped. One man had built a huge automobile railroad
car, shaped like a ram, and having accommodation for sixty people. The
Prentice train had four cars, one of them a "library car," finished in
St. Iago mahogany, and provided with a pipe-organ. Also there were
bath-rooms and a barber-shop, and a baggage car with two autos on board
for exploring purposes.

Since the episode of Mrs. Winnie, Oliver had apparently concluded that
his brother was one of the initiated. Not long afterward he permitted
him to a glimpse into that side of his life which had been hinted at in
the songs at the bachelors' dinner.

Oliver had planned to take Betty Wyman to the theatre; but Betty's
grandfather had come home from the West unexpectedly, and so Oliver
came round and took his brother instead.

"I was going to play a joke on her," he said. "We'll go to see one of
my old flames."

It was a translation of a French farce, in which the marital
infidelities of two young couples were the occasion of many mishaps.
One of the characters was a waiting-maid, who was in love with a
handsome young soldier, and was pursued by the husband of one of the
couples. It was a minor part, but the young Jewish girl who played it
had so many pretty graces and such a merry laugh that she made it quite
conspicuous. When the act was over, Oliver asked him whose acting he
liked best, and he named her.

"Come and be introduced to her," Oliver said.

He opened a door near their box. "How do you do, Mr. Wilson," he said,
nodding to a man in evening dress, who stood near by. Then he turned
toward the dressing-rooms, and went down a corridor, and knocked upon
one of the doors. A voice called, "Come in," and he opened the door;
and there was a tiny room, with odds and ends of clothing scattered
about, and the girl, clad in corsets and underskirt, sitting before a
mirror. "Hello, Rosalie," said he.

And she dropped her powder-puff, and sprang up with a cry--"Ollie!" 'In
a moment more she had her arms about his neck.

"Oh, you wretched man," she cried. "Why don't you come to see me any
more? Didn't you get my letters?"

"I got some," said he. "But I've been busy. This is my brother, Mr.
Allan Montague."

The other nodded to Montague, and said, "How do you do?"--but without
letting go of Oliver. "Why don't you come to see me?" she exclaimed.

"There, there, now!" said Oliver, laughing good-naturedly. "I brought
my brother along so that you'd have to behave yourself."

"I don't care about your brother!" exclaimed the girl, without even
giving him another glance. Then she held Oliver at arm's length, and
gazed into his face. "How can you be so cruel to me?" she asked.

"I told you I was busy," said he, cheerfully. "And I gave you fair
warning, didn't I? How's Toodles?"

"Oh, Toodles is in raptures," said Rosalie. "She's got a new fellow."
And then, her manner changing to one of merriment, she added: "Oh,
Ollie! He gave her a diamond brooch! And she looks like a
countess--she's hoping for a chance to wear it in a part!"

"You've seen Toodles," said Oliver, to his brother "She's in 'The
Kaliph of Kamskatka.'".

"They're going on the road next week," said Rosalie. "And then I'll be
all alone." She added, in a pleading voice: "Do, Ollie, be a good boy
and take us out to-night. Think how long it's been since I've seen you!
Why, I've been so good I don't know myself in the looking-glass.
Please, Ollie!"

"All right," said he, "maybe I will."

"I'm not going to let you get away from me," she cried. "I'll come
right over the footlights after you!"

"You'd better get dressed," said Oliver. "You'll be late."

He pushed aside a tray with some glasses on it, and seated himself upon
a trunk; and Montague stood in a corner and watched Rosalie, while she
powdered and painted herself, and put on an airy summer dress, and
poured out a flood of gossip about "Toodles" and "Flossie" and "Grace"
and some others. A few minutes later came a stentorian voice in the
hallway: "Second act!" There were more embraces, and then Ollie brushed
the powder from his coat, and went away laughing.

Montague stood for a few moments in the wings, watching the
scene-shifters putting the final touches to the new set, and the
various characters taking their positions. Then they went out to their
seats. "Isn't she a jewel?" asked Oliver.

"She's very pretty," the other admitted.

"She came right out of the slums," said Oliver--"over on Rivington
Street. That don't happen very often."

"How did you come to know her?" asked his brother.

"Oh, I picked her out. She was in a chorus, then. I got her first
speaking part."

"Did you?" said the other, in surprise. "How did you do that?"

"Oh, a little money," was the reply. "Money will do most anything. And
I was in love with her--that's how I got her."

Montague said nothing, but sat in thought.

"We'll take her out to supper and make her happy," added Oliver, as the
curtain started up. "She's lonesome, I guess. You see, I promised Betty
I'd reform."

All through that scene and the next one Rosalie acted for them; she was
so full of verve and merriment that there was quite a stir in the
audience, and she got several rounds of applause. Then, when the play
was over, she extricated herself from the arms of the handsome young
soldier, and fled to her dressing-room, and when Oliver and Montague
arrived, she was half ready for the street.

They went up Broadway, and from a group of people coming out of another
stage-entrance a young girl came to join them--an airy little creature
with the face of a doll-baby, and a big hat with a purple feather on
top. This was "Toodles"--otherwise known as Helen Gwynne; and she took
Montague's arm, and they fell in behind Oliver and his companion.

Montague wondered what one said to a chorus-girl on the way to supper.
Afterward his brother told him that Toodles had been the wife of a
real-estate agent in a little town in Oklahoma, and had run away from
respectability and boredom with a travelling theatrical company. Now
she was tripping her part in the musical comedy which Montague had seen
at Mrs. Lane's; and incidentally swearing devotion to a handsome young
"wine-agent." She confided to Montague that she hoped the latter might
see her that evening--he needed to be made jealous.

"The Great White Way" was the name which people had given to this part
of Broadway; and at the head of it stood a huge hotel with flaming
lights, and gorgeous marble and bronze, and famous paintings upon the
walls and ceilings inside. At this hour every one of its many
dining-rooms was thronged with supper-parties, and the place rang with
laughter and the rattle of dishes, and the strains of several
orchestras which toiled heroically in the midst of the uproar. Here
they found a table, and while Oliver was ordering frozen poached eggs
and quails in aspic, Montague sat and gazed about him at the revelry,
and listened to the prattle of the little ex-sempstress from Rivington
Street.

His brother had "got her," he said, by buying a speaking part in a play
for her; and Montague recalled the orgies of which he had heard at the
bachelors' dinner, and divined that here he was at the source of the
stream from which they were fed. At the table next to them was a young
Hebrew, whom Toodles pointed out as the son and heir of a great
clothing manufacturer. He was "keeping" several girls, said she; and
the queenly creature who was his vis-a-vis was one of the chorus in
"The Maids of Mandalay." And a little way farther down the room was a
boy with the face of an angel and the air of a prince of the blood--he
had inherited a million and run away from school, and was making a name
for himself in the Tenderloin. The pretty little girl all in green who
was with him was Violet Pane, who was the artist's model in a new play
that had made a hit. She had had a full-page picture of herself in the
Sunday supplement of the "sporting paper" which was read here--so
Rosalie remarked.

"Why don't you ever do that for me?" she added, to Oliver.

"Perhaps I will," said he, with a laugh. "What does it cost?"

And when he learned that the honour could be purchased for only fifteen
hundred dollars, he said, "I'll do it, if you'll be good." And from
that time on the last trace of worriment vanished from the face and the
conversation of Rosalie.

As the champagne cocktails disappeared, she and Oliver became
confidential. Then Montague turned to Toodles, to learn more about how
the "second generation" was preying upon the women of the stage.

"A chorus-girl got from ten to twenty dollars a week," said Toodles;
and that was hardly enough to pay for her clothes. Her work was very
uncertain--she would spend weeks at rehearsal, and then if the play
failed, she would get nothing. It was a dog's life; and the keys of
freedom and opportunity were in the keeping of rich men, who haunted
the theatres and laid siege to the girls. They would send in notes to
them, or fling bouquets to them, with cards, or perhaps money, hidden
in them. There were millionaire artists and bohemians who kept a
standing order for seats in the front rows at opening performances;
they had accounts with florists and liverymen and confectioners, and
gave carte blanche to scores of girls who lent themselves to their
purposes. Sometimes they were in league with the managers, and a girl
who held back would find her chances imperilled; sometimes these men
would even finance shows to give a chance to some favourite.

Afterward Toodles turned to listen to Oliver and his companion; and
Montague sat back and gazed about the room. Next to him was a long
table with a dozen, people at it; and he watched the buckets of
champagne and the endless succession of fantastic-looking dishes of
food, and the revellers, with their flushed faces and feverish eyes and
loud laughter. Above all the tumult was the voice of the orchestra,
calling, calling, like the storm wind upon the mountains; the music was
wild and chaotic, and produced an indescribable sense of pain and
confusion. When one realized that this same thing was going on in
thousands of places in this district it seemed that here was a flood of
dissipation that out-rivalled even that of Society.

It was said that the hotels of New York, placed end to end, would reach
all the way to London; and they took care of a couple of hundred
thousand people a day--a horde which had come from all over the world
in search of pleasure and excitement. There were sight-seers and
"country customers" from forty-five states; ranchers from Texas, and
lumber kings from Maine, and mining men from Nevada. At home they had
reputations, and perhaps families to consider; but once plunged into
the whirlpool of the Tenderloin, they were hidden from all the world.
They came with their pockets full of money; and hotels and restaurants,
gambling-places and pool-rooms and brothels--all were lying in wait for
them! So eager had the competition become that there was a tailoring
establishment and a bank that were never closed the year round, except
on Sunday.

Everywhere about one's feet the nets of vice were spread. The head
waiter in one's hotel was a "steerer" for a "dive," and the house
detective was "touting" for a gambling-place. The handsome woman who
smiled at one in "Peacock Alley" was a "madame"; the pleasant-faced
young man who spoke to one at the bar was on the look-out for customers
for a brokerage-house next door. Three times in a single day in another
of these great caravanserais Montague was offered "short change"; and
so his eyes were opened to a new kind of plundering. He was struck by
the number of attendants in livery who swarmed about him, and to whom
he gave tips for their services. He did not notice that the boys in the
wash-rooms and coat-rooms could not speak a word of English; he could
not know that they were searched every night, and had everything taken
from them, and that the Greek who hired them had paid fifteen thousand
dollars a year to the hotel for the privilege.

So far had the specialization in evil proceeded that there were places
of prostitution which did a telephone-business exclusively, and would
send a woman in a cab to any address; and there were high-class
assignation-houses, which furnished exquisite apartments and the
services of maids and valets. And in this world of vice the modern
doctrine of the equality of the sexes was fully recognized; there were
gambling-houses and pool-rooms and opium-joints for women, and
drinking-places which catered especially for them. In the "orange room"
of one of the big hotels, you might see rich women of every rank and
type, fingering the dainty leather-bound and gold-embossed wine cards.
In this room alone were sold over ten thousand drinks every day; and
the hotel paid a rental of a million a year to the Devon estate. Not
far away the Devons also owned negro-dives, where, in the early hours
of the morning, you might see richly-gowned white women drinking.

In this seething caldron of graft there were many strange ways of
making money, and many strange and incredible types of human beings to
be met. Once, in "Society," Montague had pointed out to him a woman who
had been a "tattooed lady" in a circus; there was another who had been
a confederate of gamblers upon the ocean steamships, and another who
had washed dishes in a mining-camp. There was one of these great hotels
whose proprietor had been a successful burglar; and a department-store
whose owner had begun life as a "fence." In any crowd of these
revellers you might have such strange creatures pointed out to you; a
multimillionaire who sold rotten jam to the people; another who had
invented opium soothing-syrup for babies; a convivial old gentleman who
disbursed the "yellow dog fund" of several railroads; a handsome
chauffeur who had run away with an heiress. 'Once a great scientist had
invented a new kind of underwear, and had endeavoured to make it a gift
to humanity; and here was a man who had seized upon it and made
millions out of it! Here was a "trance medium," who had got a fortune
out of an imbecile old manufacturer; here was a great newspaper
proprietor, who published advertisements of assignations at a dollar a
line; here was a cigar manufacturer, whose smug face was upon every
billboard--he had begun as a tin manufacturer, and to avoid the duty,
he had had his raw material cast in the form of statues, and brought
them in as works of art!

And terrible and vile as were the sources from which the fortunes had
been derived, they were no viler nor more terrible than the purposes
for which they had been spent. Mrs. Vivie Patton had hinted to Montague
of a "Decameron Club," whose members gathered in each others' homes and
vied in the telling of obscene stories; Strathcona had told him about
another set of exquisite ladies and gentlemen who gave elaborate
entertainments, in which they dressed in the costumes of bygone
periods, and imitated famous characters in history, and the vices and
orgies of courts and camps. One heard of "Cleopatra nights" on board of
yachts at Newport. There was a certain Wall Street "plunger," who had
begun life as a mining man in the West; and when his customers came in
town, he would hire a trolley-car, and take a load of champagne and
half a dozen prostitutes, and spend the night careering about the
country. This man was now quartered in one of the great hotels in New
York; and in his apartments he would have prize fights and chicken
fights; and bloodthirsty exhibitions called "purring matches," in which
men tried to bark each other's shins; or perhaps a "battle royal," with
a diamond scarf-pin dangling from the ceiling, and half a dozen negroes
in a free-for-all fight for the prize.

No picture of the ways of the Metropolis would be complete which did
not force upon the reluctant reader some realization of the extent to
which new and hideous incitements to vice were spreading. To say that
among the leisured classes such practices were raging like a pestilence
would be no exaggeration. Ten years ago they were regarded with
aversion by even the professionally vicious; but now the commonest
prostitute accepted them as part of her fate. And there was no height
to which they had not reached--ministers of state were enslaved by
them; great fortunes and public events were controlled by them. In
Washington there had been an ambassador whose natural daughter taught
them in the houses of the great, until the scandal forced the
minister's recall. Some of these practices were terrible in their
effects, completely wrecking the victim in a short time; and physicians
who studied their symptoms would be horrified to see them appearing in
the homes of their friends.

And from New York, the centre of the wealth and culture of the country,
these vices spread to every corner of it. Theatrical companies and
travelling salesmen carried them; visiting merchants and sightseers
acquired them. Pack-pedlers sold vile pictures and books--the
manufacturing or importing of which was now quite an industry; one
might read catalogues printed abroad in English, the contents of which
would make one's flesh creep. There were cheap weeklies, costing ten
cents a year, which were thrust into area-windows for servant-girls;
there were yellow-covered French novels of unbelievable depravity for
the mistress of the house. It was a curious commentary upon the morals
of Society that upon the trains running to a certain suburban community
frequented by the ultra-fashionable, the newsboys did a thriving
business in such literature; and when the pastor of the fashionable
church eloped with a Society girl, the bishop publicly laid the blame
to the morals of his parishioners!

The theory was that there were two worlds, and that they were kept
rigidly separate. There were two sets of women; one to be toyed with
and flung aside, and the other to be protected and esteemed. Such
things as prostitutes and kept women might exist, but people of
refinement did not talk about them, and were not concerned with them.
But Montague was familiar with the saying, that if you follow the chain
of the slave, you will find the other end about the wrist of the
master; and he discovered that the Tenderloin was wreaking its
vengeance upon Fifth Avenue. It was not merely that the men of wealth
were carrying to their wives and children the diseases of vice; they
were carrying also the manners and the ideals.

Montague had been amazed by the things he had found in New York
Society; the smoking and drinking and gambling of women, their hard and
cynical views of life, their continual telling of coarse stories. And
here, in this under-world, he had come upon the fountain head of the
corruption. It was something which came to him in a sudden flash of
intuition;--the barriers between the two worlds were breaking down!

He could picture the process in a hundred different forms. There was
Betty Wyman. His brother had meant to take her to the theatre, to let
her see Rosalie, by way of a joke! So, of course, Betty knew of his
escapades, and of those of his set; she and her girl friends were
whispering and jesting about them. Here sat Oliver, smiling and
cynical, toying with Rosalie as a cat might toy with a mouse; and
to-morrow he would be with Betty--and could anyone doubt any longer
whence Betty had derived her attitude towards life? And the habits of
mind that Oliver had taught her as a girl she would not forget as a
wife; he might be anxious to keep her to himself, but there would be
others whose interest was different.

And Montague recalled other things that he had seen or heard in
Society, that he could put his finger upon, as having come out of this
under-world. The more he thought of the explanation, the more it seemed
to explain. This "Society," which had perplexed him--now he could
describe it: its manners and ideals of life were those which he would
have expected to find in the "fast" side of stage life.

It was, of course, the women who made Society, and gave it its tone;
and the women of Society were actresses. They were actresses in their
love of notoriety and display; in their taste in clothes and jewels,
their fondness for cigarettes and champagne. They made up like
actresses; they talked and thought like actresses. The only obvious
difference was that the women of the stage were carefully
selected--were at least up to a certain standard of physical
excellence; whereas the women of Society were not selected at all, and
some were lean, and some were stout, and some were painfully homely.

Montague recalled cases where the two sets had met as at some of the
private entertainments. It was getting to be the fashion to hobnob with
the stage people on such occasions; and he recalled how naturally the
younger people took to this. Only the older women held aloof; looking
down upon the women of the stage from an ineffable height, as belonging
to a lower caste--because they were obliged to work for their livings.
But it seemed to Montague, as he sat and talked with this poor
chorus-girl, who had sold herself for a little pleasure, that it was
easier to pardon her than the woman who had been born to luxury, and
scorned those who produced her wealth.

But most of all, one's sympathies went out to a person who was not to
be met in either of these sets; to the girl who had not sold herself,
but was struggling for a living in the midst of this ravening
corruption. There were thousands of self-respecting women, even on the
stage; Toodles herself had been among them, she told Montague. "I kept
straight for a long time," she said, laughing cheerfully--"and on ten
dollars a week! I used to go out on the road, and then they paid me
sixteen; and think of trying to live on one-night stands--to board
yourself and stop at hotels and dress for the theatre--on sixteen a
week, and no job half the year! And all that time--do you know Cyril
Chambers, the famous church painter?"

"I've heard of him," said Montague.

"Well, I was with a show here on Broadway the next winter; and every
night for six months he sent me a bunch of orchids that couldn't have
cost less than seventy-five dollars! And he told me he'd open accounts
for me in all the stores I chose, if I'd spend the next summer in
Europe with him. He said I could take my mother or my sister with
me--and I was so green in those days, I thought that must mean he
didn't intend anything wrong!"

Toodles smiled at the memory. "Did you go?" asked the man.

"No," she answered. "I stayed here with a roof-garden show that failed.
And I went to my old manager for a job, and he said to me, 'I can only
pay you ten a week. But why are you so foolish?' 'How do you mean?' I
asked; and he answered, 'Why don't you get a rich sweetheart? Then I
could pay you sixty.' That's what a girl hears on the stage!"

"I don't understand," said Montague, perplexed. "Did he mean he could
get money out of the man?"

"Not directly," said Toodles; "but tickets--and advertising. Why, men
will hire front-row seats for a whole season, if they're interested in
a girl in the show. And they'll take all their friends to see her, and
she'll be talked about--she'll be somebody, instead of just nobody, as
I was."

"Then it actually helps her on the stage!" said Montague.

"Helps her!" exclaimed Toodles. "My God! I've known a girl who'd been
abroad with a tip-top swell--and had the gowns and the jewels to prove
it--to come home and get into the front row of a chorus at a hundred
dollars a week."

Toodles was cheerful and all unaware; and that only made the tragedy of
it all one shade more black to Montague. He sat lost in sombre reverie,
forgetting his companions, and the blare and glare of the place.

In the centre of this dining-room was a great cone-shaped stand,
containing a display of food; and as they strolled out, Montague
stopped to look at it. There were platters garnished with flowers and
herbs, and containing roast turkeys and baked hams, jellied meats and
game in aspic, puddings and tarts and frosted cakes--every kind of
food-fantasticality imaginable. One might have spent an hour in
studying it, and from top to bottom he would have found nothing simple,
nothing natural. The turkeys had paper curls and rosettes stuck over
them; the hams were covered with a white gelatine, the devilled crabs
with a yellow mayonnaise-and all painted over in pink and green and
black with landscapes and marine views--with "ships and shoes and
sealing-wax and cabbages and kings." The jellied meats and the puddings
were in the shape of fruits and flowers; and there were elaborate works
of art in pink and white confectionery--a barn-yard, for instance, with
horses and cows, and a pump, and a dairymaid--and one or two alligators.

And all this was changed every day! Each morning you might see a
procession of a score of waiters bearing aloft a new supply. Montague
remembered Betty Wyman's remark at their first interview, apropos of
the whipped cream made into little curleques; how his brother had said,
"If Allan were here, he'd be thinking about the man who fixed that
cream, and how long it took him, and how he might have been reading
'The Simple Life'!"

He thought of that now; he stood here and gazed, and wondered about all
the slaves of the lamp who served in this huge temple of luxury. He
looked at the waiters--pale, hollow-chested, harried-looking men: he
imagined the hordes of servants of yet lower kinds, who never emerged
into the light of day; the men who washed the dishes, the men who
carried the garbage, the men who shovelled the coal into the furnaces,
and made the heat and light and power. Pent up in dim cellars, many
stories under ground, and bound for ever to the service of
sensuality--how terrible must be their fate, how unimaginable their
corruption! And they were foreigners; they had come here seeking
liberty. And the masters of the new country had seized them and pent
them here!

From this as a starting-point his thought went on, to the hordes of
toilers in every part of the world, whose fate it was to create the
things which these blind revellers destroyed; the women and children in
countless mills and sweatshops, who spun the cloth, and cut and sewed
it; the girls who made the artificial flowers, who rolled the
cigarettes, who gathered the grapes from the vines; the miners who dug
the coal and the precious metals out of the earth; the men who watched
in ten thousand signal-towers and engines, who fought the elements from
the decks of ten thousand ships--to bring all these things here to be
destroyed. Step by step, as the flood of extravagance rose, and the
energies of the men were turned to the creation of futility and
corruption--so, step by step, increased the misery and degradation of
all these slaves of Mammon. And who could imagine what they would think
about it--if ever they came to think?

And then, in a sudden flash, there came back to Montague that speech
he had heard upon the street-corner, the first evening he had been in
New York! He could hear again the pounding of the elevated trains, and
the shrill voice of the orator; he could see his haggard and hungry
face, and the dense crowd gazing up at him. And there came to him the
words of Major Thorne:

"It means another civil war!"




CHAPTER XXI


Alice had been gone for a couple of weeks, and the day was drawing near
when the Hasbrook case came up for trial. The Saturday before that
being the date of the Mi-carême dance of the Long Island Hunt Club,
Siegfried Harvey was to have a house-party for the week-end, and
Montague accepted his invitation. He had been working hard, putting the
finishing touches to his brief, and he thought that a rest would be
good for him.

He and his brother went down upon Friday afternoon, and the first
person he met was Betty Wyman, whom he had not seen for quite a while.
Betty had much to say, and said it. As Montague had not been seen with
Mrs. Winnie since the episode in her house, people had begun to notice
the break, and there was no end of gossip; and Mistress Betty wanted to
know all about it, and how things stood between them.

But he would not tell her, and so she saucily refused to tell him what
she had heard. All the while they talked she was eyeing him
quizzically, and it was evident that she took the worst for granted;
also that he had become a much more interesting person to her because
of it. Montague had the strangest sensations when he was talking with
Betty Wyman; she was delicious and appealing, almost irresistible; and
yet her views of life were so old! "I told you you wouldn't do for a
tame cat!" she said to him.

Then she went on to talk to him about his case, and to tease him about
the disturbance he had made.

"You know," she said, "Ollie and I were in terror--we thought that
grandfather would be furious, and that we'd be ruined. But somehow, it
didn't work out that way. Don't you say anything about it, but I've had
a sort of a fancy that he must be on your side of the fence."

"I'd be glad to know it," said Montague, with a laugh--"I've been
trying for a long time to find out who is on my side of the fence."

"He was talking about it the other day," said Betty, "and I heard him
tell a man that he'd read your argument, and thought it was good."

"I'm glad to hear that," said Montague.

"So was I," replied she. "And I said to him afterward, 'I suppose you
don't know that Allan Montague is my Ollie's brother.' And he did you
the honour to say that he hadn't supposed any member of Ollie's family
could have as much sense!"

Betty was staying with an aunt near by, and she went back before
dinner. In the automobile which came for her was old Wyman himself, on
his way home from the city; and as a snowstorm had begun, he came in
and stood by the fire while his car was exchanged for a closed one from
Harvey's stables. Montague did not meet him, but stood and watched him
from the shadows-a mite of a man, with a keen and eager face, full of
wrinkles. It was hard to realize that this little body held one of the
great driving minds of the country. He was an intensely nervous and
irritable man, bitter and implacable--by all odds the most hated and
feared man in Wall Street. He was swift, imperious, savage as a hornet.
"Directors at meetings that I attend vote first and discuss afterward,"
was one of his sayings that Montague had heard quoted. Watching him
here by the fireside, rubbing his hands and chatting pleasantly,
Montague had a sudden sense of being behind the scenes, of being
admitted to a privilege denied to ordinary mortals--the beholding of
royalty in everyday attire!

After dinner that evening Montague had a chat in the smoking-room with
his host; and he brought up the subject of the Hasbrook case, and told
about his trip to Washington, and his interview with Judge Ellis.

Harvey also had something to communicate. "I had a talk with Freddie
Vandam about it," said he.

"What did he say?" asked Montague.

"Well," replied the other, with a laugh, "he's indignant, needless to
say. You know, Freddie was brought up by his father to regard the
Fidelity as his property, in a way. He always refers to it as 'my
company.' And he's very high and mighty about it--it's a personal
affront if anyone attacks it. But it was evident to me that he doesn't
know who's behind this case."

"Did he know about Ellis?" asked Montague.

"Yes," said the other, "he had found out that much. It was he who told
me that originally. He says that Ellis has been sponging off the
company for years--he has a big salary that he never earns, and has
borrowed something like a quarter of a million dollars on worthless
securities."

Montague gave a gasp.

"Yes," laughed Harvey. "But after all, that's a little matter. The
trouble with Freddie Vandam is that that sort of thing is all he sees;
and so he'll never be able to make out the mystery. He knows that this
clique or that in the company is plotting to get some advantage, or to
use him for their purposes--but he never realizes how the big men are
pulling the wires behind the scenes. Some day they'll throw him
overboard altogether, and then he'll realize how they've played with
him. That's what this Hasbrook case means, you know--they simply want
to frighten him with a threat of getting the company's affairs into the
courts and the newspapers."

Montague sat for a while in deep thought.

"What would you think would be Wyman's relation to the matter?" he
asked, at last.

"I wouldn't know," said Harvey. "He's supposed to be Freddie's
backer--but what can you tell in such a tangle?"

"It is certainly a mess," said Montague.

"There's no bottom to it," said the other. "Absolutely--it would take
your breath away! Just listen to what Vandam told me to-day!"

And then Harvey named one of the directors of the Fidelity who was well
known as a philanthropist. Having heard that the wife of one of his
junior partners had met with an accident in childbirth, and that the
doctor had told her husband that if she ever had another child, she
would die, this man had asked, "Why don't you have her life insured?"
The other replied that he had tried, and the companies had refused her.
"I'll fix it for you," said he; and so they put in another application,
and the director came to Freddie Vandam and had the policy put through
"by executive order." Seven months later the woman died, and the
Fidelity had paid her husband in full--a hundred thousand or two!

"That's what's going on in the insurance world!" said Siegfried Harvey.

And that was the story which Montague took with him to add to his
enjoyment of the festivities at the country club. It was a very
gorgeous affair; but perhaps the sombreness of his thoughts was to
blame; the flowers and music and beautiful gowns failed entirely in
their appeal, and he saw only the gluttony and drunkenness--more of it
than ever before, it seemed to him.

Then, too, he had an unpleasant experience. He met Laura Hegan; and
presuming upon her cordial reception of his visit, he went up and spoke
to her pleasantly. And she greeted him with frigid politeness; she was
so brief in her remarks and turned away so abruptly as almost to snub
him. He went away quite bewildered. But later on he recalled the gossip
about himself and Mrs. Winnie, and he guessed that that was the
explanation of Miss Hegar's action.

The episode threw a shadow over his whole visit. On Sunday he went out
into the country and tramped through a snowstorm by himself, filled
with a sense of disgust for all the past, and of foreboding for the
future. He hated this money-world, in which all that was worst in human
beings was brought to the surface; he hated it, and wished that he had
never set foot within its bounds. It was only by tramping until he was
too tired to feel anything that he was able to master himself.

And then, toward dark, he came back, and found a telegram which had
been forwarded from New York.

"Meet me at the Penna depot, Jersey City, at nine to-night. Alice."

This message, of course, drove all other thoughts from his mind. He had
no time even to tell Oliver about it--he had to jump into an automobile
and rush to catch the next train for the city. And all through the
long, cold ride in ferry-boats and cabs he pondered this mystery.
Alice's party had not been expected for two weeks yet; and only two
days before there had come a letter from Los Angeles, saying that they
would probably be a week over time. And here she was home again!

He found there was an express from the West due at the hour named;
apparently, therefore, Alice had not come in the Prentice's train at
all. The express was half an hour late, and so he paced up and down the
platform, controlling his impatience as best he could. And finally the
long train pulled in, and he saw Alice coming down the platform. She
was alone!

"What does it mean?" were the first words he said to her.

"It's a long story," she answered. "I wanted to come home.";

"You mean you've come all the way from the coast by yourself!" he
gasped.

"Yes," she said, "all the way."

"What in the world--" he began.

"I can't tell you here, Allan," she said. "Wait till we get to some
quiet place."

"But," he persisted. "The Prentice? They let you come home alone?"

"They didn't know it," she said. "I ran away."

He was more bewildered than ever. But as he started to ask more
questions, she laid a hand upon his arm. "Please wait, Allan," she
said. "It upsets me to talk about it. It was Charlie Carter."

And so the light broke. He caught his breath and gasped, "Oh!"

He said not another word until they had crossed the ferry and settled
themselves in a cab, and started. "Now," he said, "tell me."

Alice began. "I was very much upset," she said. "But you must
understand, Allan, that I've had nearly a week to think it over, and I
don't mind it now. So I want you please not to get excited about it; it
wasn't poor Charlie's fault--he can't help himself. It was my mistake.
I ought to have taken your advice and had nothing to do with him."

"Go on," said he; and Alice told her story.

The party had gone sight-seeing, and she had had a headache and had
stayed in the car. And Charlie Carter had come and begun making love to
her. "He had asked me to marry him already--that was at the beginning
of the trip," she said. "And I told him no. After that he would never
let me alone. And this time he went on in a terrible way--he flung
himself down on his knees, and wept, and said he couldn't live without
me. And nothing I could say did any good. At last he--he caught hold of
me--and he wouldn't let me go. I was furious with him, and frightened.
I had to threaten to call for help before he would stop. And so--you
see how it was."

"I see," said Montague, gravely. "Go on."

"Well, after that I made up my mind that I couldn't stay anywhere where
I had to see him. And I knew he would never go away without a scene. If
I had asked Mrs. Prentice to send him away, there would have been a
scandal, and it would have spoiled everybody's trip. So I went out, and
found there was a train for the East in a little while, and I packed up
my things, and left a note for Mrs. Prentice. I told her a story--I
said I'd had a telegram that your mother was ill, and that I didn't
want to spoil their good time, and had gone by myself. That was the
best thing I could think of. I wasn't afraid to travel, so long as I
was sure that Charlie couldn't catch up with me."

Montague said nothing; he sat with his hands gripped tightly.

"It seemed like a desperate thing to do," said Alice, nervously. "But
you see, I was upset and unhappy. I didn't seem to like the party any
more--I wanted to be home. Do you understand?"

"Yes," said Montague, "I understand. And I'm glad you are here."

They reached home, and Montague called up Harvey's and told his brother
what had happened. He could hear Oliver gasp with astonishment. "That's
a pretty how-do-you-do!" he said, when he had got his breath back; and
then he added, with a laugh, "I suppose that settles poor Charlie's
chances."

"I'm glad you've come to that conclusion," said the other, as he hung
up the receiver.

This episode gave Montague quite a shock. But he had little time to
think about it--the next morning at eleven o'clock his case was to come
up for trial, and so all his thoughts were called away. This case had
been the one real interest of his life for the last three months; it
was his purpose, the thing for the sake of which he endured everything
else that repelled him. And he had trained himself as an athlete for a
great race; he was in form, and ready for the effort of his life. He
went down town that morning with every fibre of him, body and mind,
alert and eager; and he went into his office, and in his mail was a
letter from Mr. Hasbrook. He opened it hastily and read a message,
brief and direct and decisive as a sword-thrust:

"I beg to inform you that I have received a satisfactory proposition
from the Fidelity Company. I have settled with them, and wish to
withdraw the suit. Thanking you for your services, I remain, sincerely."

To Montague the thing came like a thunderbolt. He sat utterly
dumbfounded--his hands went limp, and the letter fell upon the desk in
front of him.

And at last, when he did move, he picked up the telephone, and told his
secretary to call up Mr. Hasbrook. Then he sat waiting; and when the
bell rang, picked up the receiver, expecting to hear Mr. Hasbrook's
voice, and to demand an explanation. But he heard, instead, the voice
of his own secretary: "Central says the number's been discontinued,
sir."

And he hung up the receiver, and sat motionless again. The dummy had
disappeared!

To Montague this incident meant a change in the prospect of his whole
life. It was the collapse of all his hopes. He had nothing more to work
for, nothing more to think about; the bottom had fallen out of his
career!

He was burning with a sense of outrage. He had been tricked and made a
fool of; he had been used and flung aside. And now there was nothing he
could do--he was utterly helpless. What affected him most was his sense
of the overwhelming magnitude of the powers which had made him their
puppet; of the utter futility of the efforts that he or any other man
could make against them. They were like elemental, cosmic forces; they
held all the world in their grip, and a common man was as much at their
mercy as a bit of chaff in a tempest.

All day long he sat in his office, brooding and nursing his wrath. He
had moods when he wished to drop everything, to shake the dust of the
city from his feet, and go back home and recollect what it was to be a
gentleman. And then again he had fighting moods, when he wished to
devote all his life to punishing the men who had made use of him. He
would get hold of some other policy-holder in the Fidelity, one whom he
could trust; he would take the case without pay, and carry it through
to the end! He would force the newspapers to talk about it--he would
force the people to heed what he said!

And then, toward evening, he went home, bitter and sore. And there was
his brother sitting in his study, waiting for him.

"Hello," he said, and took off his coat, preparing his mind for one
more ignominy--the telling of his misfortune to Oliver, and listening
to his inevitable, "I told you so."

But Oliver himself had something to communicate something that would
not bear keeping. He broke out at once--"Tell me, Allan! What in the
world has happened between you and Mrs. Winnie?"

"What do you mean?" asked Montague, sharply.

"Why," said Oliver, "everybody is talking about some kind of a quarrel."

"There has been no quarrel," said Montague.

"Well, what is it, then?"

"It's nothing."

"It must be something!" exclaimed Oliver. "What do all the stories
mean?"

"What stories?"

"About you two. I met Mrs. Vivie Patton just now, and she swore me to
secrecy, and told me that Mrs. Winnie had told some one that you had
