Even in the time which was then coming and which 
now is, when successful authors are almost as many as 
millionaires, Verrian's book brought him a pretty celeb- 
rity ; and this celebrity was in a way specific. It related 
to the quality of his work, which was quietly artistic 
and psychological, whatever liveliness of incident it ut- 
tered on the surface. He belonged to the good school 
which is of no fashion and of every time, far both from 
actuality and unreality ; and his recognition came from 
people whose recognition was worth having. With this 
came the wider notice which was not worth having, 
like the notice of Mrs. Westangle, since so well known 
to society reporters as a society woman, which could not 
be called recognition of him, because it did not involve 
any knowledge of his book, not even its title. She did 
not read any sort of books, and she assimilated him by 
a sort of atmospheric sense. She was sure of nothing 
but the attention paid him in a certain very goodish 
house, by people whom she heard talking in unintel- 
ligible but unmistakable praise, when she said, casually, 
with a liquid glitter of her sweet, small eyes, " I wish 
you would come down to my place, Mr. Verrian. I'm 
asking a few young people for Christmas week. Will 
you?" 
" Why, thank you — thank you very much," Verrian 
said, waiting to hear more in explanation of the hos- 
pitality launched at him. He had never seen Mrs. 
Westangle till then, or heard of her, and he had not the 
 
least notion where she lived. But she seemed to have 
social authority, though Verrian, in looking round at his 
hostess and her daughter, who stood near, letting peo- 
ple take leave, learned nothing from their common 
smile. Mrs. Westangle had glided close to him, in the 
way she had of getting very near without apparently 
having advanced hy steps, and she stood gleaming and 
twittering up at him. 
" I shall send you a little note ; I won't let you for- 
get," she said. Then she suddenly shook hands with the 
ladies of the house and was flashingly gone. 
Verrian thought he might ask the daughter of the 
house, " And if I don't forget, am I engaged to spend 
Christmas week with her ?" 
The girl laughed. " If she doesn't forget, you are. 
But you'll have a good time. She'll know how to 
manage that." Other guests kept coming up to take 
leave, and Verrian, who did not want to go just yet, 
was retired to the background, where the girl's voice, 
thrown over her shoulder at him, reached him in the 
words, as gay as if they were the best of the joke, " It's 
on the Sound." 
The inference was that Mrs. Westangle's place was 
on the Sound ; and that was all Verrian knew about it 
till he got her little note. Mrs. Westangle knew how 
to write in a formless hand, but she did not know how 
to spell, and she had thought it best to have a secretary 
who could write well and spell correctly. Though, as 
far as literacy was concerned, she was such an almost 
incomparably ignorant woman, she had all the knowl- 
edge the best society wants, or, if she found herself out 
of any, she went and bought some ; she was able to buy 
almost anything. 
Verrian thanked the secretary for remembering him, 
in the belief that he was directly thanking Mrs. West- 
 
angle, whose widespread consciousness his happiness in 
accepting did not immediately reach ; and in the very 
large house party, which he duly joined under her roof, 
he was aware of losing distinctiveness almost to the 
point of losing identity. This did not quite happen 
on the way to Belford, for, when he went to take his 
seat in the drawing-room car, a girl in the chair front- 
ing him put out her hand with the laugh of Miss 
Macroyd. 
" She did remember you !" she cried out. " How 
delightful ! I don't see how she ever got onto you " 
— she made the slang her own — " in the first place, and 
she must have worked hard to be sure of you since." 
Verrian hung up his coat and put his suit-case be- 
hind his chair, the porter having put it where he could 
not wheel himself vis-a-vis with the girl. " She took 
all the time there was," he answered. " I got my in- 
vitation only the day before yesterday, and if I had 
been in more demand, or had a worse conscience — " 
" Oh, do say worse conscience ! It's so much more 
interesting," the girl broke in. 
" — I shouldn't have the pleasure of going to Seasands 
with you now," he concluded, and she gave her laugh. 
" Do I understand that simply my growing fame 
wouldn't have prevailed with her ?" 
Anything seemed to make Miss Macroyd laugh. 
" She couldn't have cared about that, and she wouldn't 
have known. You may be sure that it was a social 
question with her after the personal question was set- 
tled. She must have liked your looks!" Again Miss 
Macroyd laughed. 
" On that side I'm invulnerable. It's only a literary 
vanity to be soothed or to be wounded that I have," 
Verrian said. 
" Oh, there wouldn't be anything personal in her 
 
liking your looks. It would be merely deciding that 
personally you would do," Miss Macroyd laughed, as 
always, and Verrian put on a mock seriousness in ask- 
ing: 
" Then I needn't be serious if there should happen to 
be anything so Westangular as a Mr. Westangle ?" 
" Not the least in the world." 
" But there is something ?" 
" Oh, I believe so. But not probably at Seasands." 
" Is that her house ?" 
" Yes. Every other name had been used, and she 
couldn't say Soundsands." 
" Then where would the Mr. Westangular part more 
probably be found?" 
" Oh, in Montana or Mesopotamia, or any of those 
places. Don't you know about him? How ignorant 
literary people can be ! Why, he was the Amalgamated 
Clothespin. You haven't heard of that ?" 
She went on to tell him, with gay digressions, about 
the invention which enabled Westangle to buy up the 
other clothespins and merge them in his own — to become 
a commercial octopus, clutching the throats of other 
clothespin inventors in the tentacles of the Westangle 
pin. " But he isn't in clothespins now. He's in mines, 
and banks, and steamboats, and railroads, and I don't 
know what all ; and Mrs. Westangle, the second of her 
name, never was in clothespins." 
Miss Macroyd laughed all through her talk, and she 
was in a final burst of laughing when the train slowed 
into Stamford. There a girl came into the car trailing 
her skirts with a sort of vivid debility and overturn- 
ing some minor pieces of hand -baggage which her 
draperies swept out of their shelter beside the chairs. 
She had to take one of the seats which back against the 
wall of the state-room, where she must face the whole 
 
length of the car. She sat weakly fallen back in the 
chair and motionless, as if almost unconscious; but 
after the train had begun to stir she started up, and with 
a quick flinging of her veil aside turned to look out of 
the Avindow. In the flying instant Verrian saw a color- 
less face with pinched and sunken eyes under a worn- 
looking forehead, and a withered mouth whose lips 
parted feebly. 
On her part, Miss Macroyd had doubtless already 
noted that the girl was, with no show of expensiveness, 
authoritatively well gowned and personally hatted. She 
stared at her, and said, " What a very hunted and es- 
caping effect." 
" She does look rather — fugitive," Verrian agreed, 
staring too. 
" One might almost fancy — an asylum." 
" Yes, or a hospital." 
They continued both to stare at her, helpless for what- 
ever different reasons to take their eyes away, and they 
were still interested in her when they heard her asking 
the conductor, " Must I change and take another train 
before we get to Belf ord ? My friends thought — " 
" No, this train stops at Southfield," the conductor 
answered, absently biting several holes into her draw- 
ing-room ticket. 
" Can she be one of us ?" Miss Macroyd demanded, in 
a dramatic whisper. 
" She might be anything," Verrian returned, try- 
ing instantly, with a whir of his inventive machinery, to 
phrase her. He made a sort of luxurious failure of it, 
and rested content with her face, which showed itself 
now in profile and now fronted him in full, and now 
was restless and now subsided in a look of delicate 
exhaustion. He would have said, if he would have said 
anything absolute, that she was a person who had some- 
 
thing on her mind; at instants she had that hunted 
air, passing at other instants into that air of escape. 
He discussed these appearances with Miss Macroyd, but 
found her too frankly disputatious; and she laughed 
too much and too loud. 
VIII 
At Southfield, where they all descended, Miss Mac- 
royd promptly possessed herself of a groom, who came 
forward tentatively, touching his hat. " Miss Mac- 
royd ?" she suggested. 
" Yes, miss," the man said, and led the way round 
the station to the victoria which, when Miss Macroyd's 
maid had mounted to the place beside her, had no room' 
for any one else. 
Verrian accounted for her activity upon the theory 
of her quite justifiable wish not to arrive at Seasands 
with a young man whom she might then have the effect 
of having voluntarily come all the way with ; and after 
one or two circuits of the station it was apparent to him 
that he was not to have been sent for from Mrs. West- 
angle's, but to have been left to the chances of the 
local drivers and their vehicles. These were reduced 
to a single carryall and a frowsy horse whose rough 
winter coat recalled the aspect of his species in the 
period following the glacial epoch. The mud, as of a 
world-thaw, encrusted the wheels and curtains of the 
carryall. 
Verrian seized upon it and then went into the wait- 
ing-room, where he had left his suit-case. He found 
the stranger there in parley with the young woman in 
the ticket-office about a conveyance to Mrs. Westangle's. 
It proved that he had secured not only the only thing 
of the sort, but the only present hope of any other, and 
in the hard case he could not hesitate with distress so 
 
interesting. It would have been brutal to drive off and 
leave that girl there, and it would have been a vulgar 
flourish to put the entire vehicle at her service. Be- 
sides, and perhaps above all, Verrian had no idea of 
depriving himself of such a chance as heaven seemed to 
offer him. 
He advanced with the delicacy of the highest-bred 
hero he could imagine, and said, " I am going to Mrs. 
Westangle's, and I'm afraid I've got the only con- 
veyance — such as it is. If you would let me offer you 
half of it? Mr. Verrian," he added, at the light of 
acceptance instantly kindling in her face, which flushed 
thinly, as with an afterglow of invalidism. 
" Why, thank you ; I'm afraid I must, Mr. Merriam," 
and Verrian was aware of being vexed at her failure 
to catch his name; the name of Verrian ought to have 
been unmistakable. " The young lady in the office says 
there won't be another, and I'm expected promptly." 
She added, with a little tremor of the lip, " I don't 
understand why Mrs. Westangle — " But then she 
stopped. 
Verrian interpreted for her : " The sea-horses must 
have given out at Seasands. Or probably there's some 
mistake," and he reflected bitterly upon the selfishness 
of Miss Macroyd in grabbing that victoria for herself 
and her maid, not considering that she could not know, 
and has no business to ask, whether this girl was going 
to Mrs. Westangle's, too. " Have you a check ?" he 
asked. " I think our driver could find room for some- 
thing besides my valise. Or I could have it come — " 
" Not at all," the girl said. " I sent my trunk ahead 
by express." 
A frowsy man, to match the frowsy horse, looked in 
impatiently. " Any other baggage ?" 
" No," Verrian answered, and he led the way out 
 
after the vanishing driver. " Our chariot is back here 
in hiding, Miss — " 
" Shirley," she said, and trailed before him through 
the door he opened. 
He felt that he did not do it as a man of the world 
would have done it, and in putting her into the ram- 
shackle carryall he knew that he had not the grace of 
the sort of man who does nothing else. But Miss 
Shirley seemed to have grace enough, of a feeble and 
broken sort, for both, and he resolved to supply his 
own lack with sincerity. He therefore set his jaw 
firmly and made its upper angles jut sharply through 
his clean-shaven cheeks. It was well that Miss Shirley 
had some beauty to spare, too, for Verrian had scarcely 
enough for himself. Such distinction as he had was 
from a sort of intellectual tenseness which showed 
rather in the gaunt forms of his face than in the gray 
eyes, heavily lashed above and below, and looking seri- 
ous but dull with their rank, black brows. He was 
chewing a cud of bitterness in the accusal he made him- 
self of having forced Miss Shirley to give her name; 
but with that interesting personality at his side, under 
the same tattered and ill-scented Japanese goat-skin, 
he could not refuse to be glad, with all his self -blame. 
" I'm afraid it's rather a long drive — for you, Miss 
Shirley," he ventured, with a glance at her face, which 
looked very little under her hat. " The driver says it's 
five miles round through the marshes." 
" Oh, I shall not mind," she said, courageously, if 
not cheerfully, and he did not feel authorized further to 
recognize the fact that she was an invalid, or at best a 
convalescent. 
" These wintry tree-forms are fine, though," he found 
himself obliged to conclude his apology, rather irrele- 
vantly, as the wheels of the rattling and tilting carry- 
all crunched the surface of the road in the succession of 
jerks responding to the alternate walk and gallop of 
the horse. 
" Yes, they are," Miss Shirley answered, looking 
around with a certain surprise, as if seeing them now 
for the first time. " So much variety of color ; and that 
burnished look that some of them have." The trees, 
far and near, were giving their tones and lustres in the 
low December sun. 
" Yes," he said, " it's decidedly more refined than the 
autumnal coloring we brag of." 
" It is," she approved, as with novel conviction. 
" The landscape is really beautiful. So nice and flat," 
she added. 
He took her intention, and he said, as he craned his 
neck out of the carryall to include the nearer road- 
side stretches, with their low bushes lifting into remoter 
trees, " It's restful in a way that neither the mountains 
nor the sea, quite manage." 
" Oh yes," she sighed, with a kind of weariness which 
explained itself in what she added : " It's the kind of 
thing you'd like to have keep on and on." She seemed 
to say that more to herself than to him, and his eyes 
questioned her. She smiled slightly in explaining : " I 
suppose I find it all the more beautiful because this is 
my first real look into the world after six months in- 
doors." 
" Oh !" he said, and there was no doubt a prompting 
in his tone. 
She smiled still. " Sick people are terribly egotisti- 
cal, and I suppose it's my conceit of having been the 
centre of the universe so lately that makes me mention 
it." And here she laughed a little at herself, showing 
a charming little peculiarity in the catch of her upper 
lip on her teeth. " But this is divine — this air and this 
 
sight." She put her head out of her side of the carry- 
all, and drank them in with her lungs and eyes. 
When she leaned back again on the seat she said, 
" I can't get enough of it." 
"But isn't this old rattletrap rather too rough for 
you?" he asked. 
" Oh no," she said, visiting him with a furtive 
turn of her eyes. " It's quite ideally what invalids in 
easy circumstances are advised to take — carriage ex- 
ercise." 
" Yes, it's certainly carriage exercise," Verrian ad- 
mitted in the same spirit, if it was a drolling spirit. 
He could not help being amused by the situation in 
which they had been brought together, through the 
vigorous promptitude of Miss Macroyd in making the 
victoria her own, and the easy indifference of Mrs. 
Westangle as to how they should get to her house. If 
he had been alone he might have felt the indifference 
as a slight, but as it was he felt it rather a favor. If 
Miss Shirley was feeling it a slight, she was too secret 
or too sweet to let it be known, and he thought that was 
nice of her. Still, he believed he might recognize the 
fact without deepening a possible hurt of hers, and he 
added, with no apparent relevance, " If Mrs. Westangle 
was not looking for us on this train, she will find that 
it is the unexpected which happens." 
" We are certainly going to happen," the girl said, 
with an acceptance of the plural which deepened the 
intimacy of the situation, and which was not displeasing 
to Verrian when she added, " If our friend's vehicle 
holds out." Then she turned her face full upon him, 
with what affected him as austere resolution, in con- 
tinuing, " But I can't let you suppose that you're con- 
veying a society person, or something of that sort, to 
Mrs. Westangle's." His own face expressed his mystifi- 
 
cation, and she concluded, " I'm simply going there to 
begin my work." 
He smiled provisionally in temporizing with the rid- 
dle. " You women are wonderful, nowadays, for the 
work you do." 
" Oh, but," she protested, nervously, anxiously, " it 
isn't good work that I'm going to do — I understand 
what you mean — it's work for a living. I've no busi- 
ness to be arriving with an invited guest, but it seemed 
to be a question of arriving or not at the time when I 
was due." 
IX 
Verbian stared at her now from a visage that was an 
entire blank, though behind it conjecture was busy, and 
he was asking himself whether his companion was some 
new kind of hair - dresser, or uncommonly cultivated 
manicure, or a nursery governess obeying a hurry call to 
take a place in Mrs. Westangle's household, or some sort 
of amateur housekeeper arriving to supplant a profes- 
sional. But he said nothing. 
Miss Shirley said, with a distress which was genuine, 
though he perceived a trace of amusement in it, too, 
" I see that I will have to go on." 
" Oh, do !" he made out to utter. 
" I am going to Mrs. Westangle's as a sort of mistress 
of the revels. The business is so new that it hasn't 
got its name yet, but if I fail it won't need any. I 
invented it on a hint I got from a girl who undertakes 
the floral decorations for parties. I didn't see why 
some one shouldn't furnish suggestions for amusements, 
as well as flowers. I was always rather lucky at that 
in my own f am — at my father's — " She pulled herself 
sharply up, as if danger lay that way. " I got an 
introduction to Mrs. Westangle, and she's to let me try. 
I am going to her simply as part of the catering, and 
I'm not to have any recognition in the hospitalities. So 
it wasn't necessary for her to send for me at the station, 
except as a means of having me on the ground in good 
season. I have to thank you for that, and — I thank 
you." She ended in a sigh. 
 
" It's very interesting," Verrian said, and he hoped 
he was not saying it in any ignoble way. 
He was very presently to learn. Bound a turn of the 
road there came a lively clacking of horses' shoes on 
the hard track, with the muted rumble of rubber-tired 
wheels, and Mrs. Westangle's victoria dashed into view. 
The coachman had made a signal to Verrian's driver, 
and the vehicles stopped side by side. The footman 
instantly came to the door of the carryall, touching his 
hat to Verrian. 
" Going to Mrs. Westangle's, sir ?" 
" Yes." 
" Mrs. Westangle's carriage. Going to the station 
for you, sir." 
" Miss Shirley," Verrian said, " will you change ?" 
" Oh no," she answered, quickly, " it's better for me 
to go on as I am. But the carriage was sent for you. 
You must — " 
Verrian interrupted to ask the footman, " How far 
is it yet to Mrs. Westangle's ?" 
" About a mile, sir." 
" I think I won't change for such a short distance. 
I'll keep on as I am," Verrian said, and he let the goat- 
skin, which he had half lifted to free Miss Shirley for 
dismounting, fall back again. " Go ahead, driver." 
She had been making several gasping efforts at 
speech, accompanied with entreating and protesting 
glances at Verrian in the course of his brief colloquy 
with the footman. Now, as the carryall lurched for- 
ward again, and the victoria wheeled and passed them 
on its way back, she caught her handkerchief to her 
face, and to Verrian's dismay sobbed into it. He let 
her cry, as he must, in the distressful silence which he 
could not be the first to break. Besides, he did not 
know how she was taking it all till she suddenly with- 
 
drew her handkerchief and pulled down her veil. Then 
she spoke three heart-broken words, " How could you !" 
and he divined that he must have done wrong. 
" What ought I to have done ?" he asked, with sullen 
humility. 
" You ought to have taken the victoria." 
"How could I?" 
" You ought to have done it." 
" I think you ought to have done it yourself, Miss 
Shirley," Verrian said, feeling like the worm that 
turns. He added, less resentfully, " We ought both to 
have taken it." 
" No, Mrs. Westangle might have felt, very properly, 
that it was presumptuous in me, whether I came alone 
in it or with you. Now we shall arrive together in 
this thing, and she will be mortified for you and vexed 
with me. She will blame me for it, and she will be 
right, for it would have been very well for me to 
drive up in a shabby station carryall; but an invited 
guest — " 
" No, indeed, she shall not blame you, Miss Shirley. 
I will make a point of taking the whole responsibility. 
I will tell her—" 
" Mr. Merriam !" she cried, in anguish. " Will you 
please do nothing of the kind ? Do you want to make 
bad worse? Leave the explaining altogether to me, 
please. Will you promise that V 
" I will promise that — or anything — if you insist," 
Verrian sulked. 
She instantly relented a little. " You mustn't think 
me unreasonable. But I was determined to carry my 
undertaking through on business principles, and you 
have spoiled my chance — I know you meant it kindly — 
or, if not spoiled, made it more difficult. Don't think 
me ungrateful. Mr. Merriam — " 
" My name isn't Merriam," lie resented, at last, a 
misnomer which had annoyed him from the first. 
" Oh, I am so glad ! Don't tell me what it is !" she 
said, giving a laugh which had to go on a little before 
he recognized the hysterical quality in it. When she 
could check it she explained : " Now we are not even 
acquainted, and I can thank a stranger for the kindness 
you have shown me. I am truly grateful. Will you do 
me another favor ?" 
"Yes," Verrian assented; hut he thought he had a 
right to ask, as though he had not promised, " What is 
it?" 
" Not to speak of me to Mrs. Westangle unless she 
speaks of me first." 
" That's simple. I don't know that I should have any 
right to speak of you." 
" Oh yes, you would. She will expect you, perhaps, 
to laugh about the little adventure, and I would rather 
she began the laughing; — you have been so good." 
" All right. But wouldn't my silence make it rather 
more awkward V 
" I will take care of the awkwardness, thank you. 
And you promise ?" 
" Yes, I promise." 
" That is very good of you." She put her hand im- 
pulsively across the goat-skin, and gave his, with which 
he took it in some surprise, a quick clasp. Then they 
were both silent, and they got out of the carryall un- 
der Mrs. Westangle's porte-cochere without having ex- 
changed another word. Miss Shirley did not bow to 
him or look at him in parting. 
Vebbian kept seeing before his inner eyes the thin 
face of the girl, dimmed rather than lighted with her 
sick eyes. When she should he stronger, there might 
be a pale flush in it, like sunset on snow, but Verrian 
had to imagine that. He did not find it difficult to im- 
agine many things about the girl, whom, in another 
mood, a more judicial mood, he might have accused of 
provoking him to imagine them. As it was, he could 
not help noting to that second self which we all have 
about us, that her confidences, such as they were, had 
perhaps been too voluntary ; certainly they had not been 
quite obligatory, and they could not be quite accounted 
for, except upon the theory of nerves not yet perfectly 
under her control. To be sure, girls said all sorts of 
things to one, ignorantly and innocently; but she did 
not seem the kind of girl who, in different circum- 
stances, would have said anything that she did not 
choose or that she did not mean to say. She had been 
surprisingly frank, and yet, at heart, Verrian would 
have thought she was a very reticent person or a secret 
person — that is, mentally frank and sentimentally se- 
cret ; possibly she was like most women in that. What 
he was sure of was that the visual impression of her 
which he had received must have been very vivid to 
last so long in his consciousness ; all through his prepa- 
rations for going down to afternoon tea her face re- 
mained subjectively before him, and when he went 
down and found himself part of a laughing and chat- 
 
tering company in the library he still found it, in his 
inner sense, here, there, and yonder. 
He was aware of suffering a little disappointment in 
Mrs. Westangle's entire failure to mention Miss Shir- 
ley, though he was aware that his disappointment was 
altogether unreasonable, and he more reasonably de- 
cided that if she knew anything of his arrival, or the 
form of it, she had too much of the making of a 
grande dame to be recognizant of it. He did not 
know from her whether she had meant to send for 
him at the station or not, or whether she had sent her 
carriage back for him when he did not arrive in it at 
first. Nothing was left in her manner of such slight 
specialization as she had thrown into it when, at the 
Macroyds', she asked him down to her house party ; she 
seemed, if there were any difference, to have acquired 
an additional ignorance of who and what he was, though 
she twittered and flittered up close to his elbow, after 
his impersonal welcome, and asked him if she might 
introduce him to the young lady who was pouring tea 
for her, and who, after the brief drama necessary for 
possessing him of a cup of it, appeared to have no more 
use for him than Mrs. Westangle herself had. There 
were more young men than young women in the room, 
but he imagined the usual superabundance of girlhood 
temporarily absent for repair of the fatigues of the jour- 
ney. Every girl in the room had at least one man talk- 
ing to her, and the girl who was pouring tea had one on 
each side of her and was trying to fix them both with an 
eye lifted towards each, while she struggled to keep her 
united gaze watchfully upon the tea-urn and those who 
came up with cups to be filled or refilled. 
Verrian thought his fellow-guests were all amiable 
enough looking, though he made his reflection that they 
did not look, any of them, as if they would set the Sound 
 
on fire; and again he missed the companion of his ar- 
rival. 
After he had got his cup of tea, he stood sipping it 
with a homeless air which he tried to conceal, and cast 
a furtive eye round the room till it rested upon the 
laughing face of Miss Macroyd. A young man was 
taking away her teacup, and Verrian at once went up 
and seized his place. 
" How did you get here ?" she asked, rather shame- 
lessly, since she had kept him from coming in the vic- 
toria, but amusingly, since she seemed to see it as a 
joke, if she saw it at all. 
" I walked," he answered. 
"Truly?" 
" No, not truly." 
" But, truly, how did you ? Because I sent the car- 
riage back for you." 
" That was very thoughtful of you. But I found a 
delightful public vehicle behind the station, and I 
came in that. I'm so glad to know that it wasn't Mrs. 
Westangle who had the trouble of sending the carriage 
back for me." 
Miss Macroyd laughed and laughed at his resent- 
ment. " But surely you met it on the way ? I gave 
the man a description of you. Didn't he stop for 
you?" 
" Oh yes, but I was too proud to change by that time. 
Or perhaps I hated the trouble." 
Miss Macroyd laughed the more; then she purpose- 
ly darkened her countenance so as to suit it to her 
lugubrious whisper, " How did she get here ?" 
"What she?" 
" The mysterious fugitive. Wasn't she coming here, 
after all?" 
" After all your trouble in supposing so ?" Verrian 
 
reflected a moment, and then he said, deliberately, " I 
don't know." 
Miss Macroyd was not going to let him off like that. 
" You don't know how she came, or you don't know 
whether she was coming ?" 
" I didn't say." 
Her laugh resounded again. " Now you are trying 
to be wicked, and that is very wrong for a novelist." 
" But what object could I have in concealing the fact 
from you, Miss Macroyd?" he entreated, with mock 
earnestness. 
" That is what I want to find out." 
" What are you two laughing so about ?" the voice 
of Mrs. Westangle twittered at Verrian's elbow, and, 
looking down, he found her almost touching it. She 
had a very long, narrow neck, and, since it was long and 
narrow, she had the good sense not to palliate the fact 
or try to dress the effect of it out of sight. She took 
her neck in both hands, as it were, and put it more on 
show, so that you had really to like it. Now it lifted 
her face, though she was not a tall person, well towards 
the level of his ; to be sure, he was himself only of the 
middle height of men, though an aquiline profile helped 
him up. 
He stirred the tea which he had ceased to drink, and 
said, " I wasn't ' laughing so about,' Mrs. Westangle. 
It was Miss Macroyd." 
" And I was laughing so about a mysterious stranger 
that came up on the train with us and got out at your 
station." 
" And I was trying to make out what was so funny 
in a mysterious stranger, or even in her getting out at 
your station." 
Mrs. Westangle was not interested in the case, or 
else she failed to seize the joke. At any rate, she turned 
 
from them without further question and went away to 
another part of the room, where she semi-attached her- 
self in like manner to another couple, and again left it 
for still another. This was possibly her idea of look- 
ing after her guests; but when she had looked after 
them a little longer in that way she left the room and 
let them look after themselves till dinner. 
" Come, Mr. Verrian," Miss Macroyd resumed, 
" what is the secret ? I'll never tell if you tell me." 
" You won't if I don't." 
" Now you are becoming merely trivial. You are 
ceasing even to be provoking." Miss Macroyd, in token 
of her displeasure, laughed no longer. 
" Am I ?" he qiiestioned, thoughtfully. " Well, then, 
I am tempted to act upon impulse." 
" Oh, do act upon impulse for once," she urged. I'm 
sure you'll enjoy it." 
" Do you mean that I'm never impulsive ?" 
" I don't think you look it." 
" If you had seen me an hour ago you would have 
said I was very impulsive. I think I may have ex- 
hausted myself in that direction, however. I feel the 
impulse failing me now." 
XI 
His impulse really had failed him. It had been to 
tell Miss Macroyd about his adventure and frankly 
trust her with it. He had liked her at several former 
meetings rather increasingly, because she had seemed 
open and honest beyond the most of women, but her pig- 
gish behavior at the station had been rather too open and 
honest, and the sense of this now opportunely inter- 
vened between him and the folly he was about to com- 
mit. Besides, he had no right to give Miss Shirley's 
part in his adventure away, and, since the affair was 
more vitally hers than his, to take it at all out of her 
hands. The early - falling dusk had favored an un- 
noticed advent for them, and there were other chances 
that had helped keep unknown their arrival together at 
Mrs. Westangle's in that squalid carryall, such as 
Miss Shirley's having managed instantly to slip in-doors 
before the man came out for Verrian's suit-case, and of 
her having got to her own appointed place long before 
there was any descent of the company to the after- 
noon tea. 
It was not for him now to undo all that and begin 
the laughing at the affair, which she had pathetically 
intimated that she would rather some one else should 
begin. He recoiled from his imprudence with a shock, 
but he had the pleasure of having mystified Miss 
Macroyd. He felt dismissal in the roving eye which 
she cast from him round the room, and he willingly 
let another young man replace him at her side. 
 
Yet he was not altogether satisfied. A certain meaner 
self that there was in him was not pleased with his 
relegation even merely in his own consciousness to the 
championship of a girl who was going to make her 
living in a sort of menial way. It had better be owned 
for him that, in his visions of literary glory, he had 
figured in social triumphs which, though vague, were 
resplendent with the glitter of smart circles. He had 
been so ignorant of such circles as to suppose they would 
have some use for him as a brilliant young author; 
and though he was outwearing this illusion, he still 
would not have liked a girl like Julia Macroyd, whose 
family, if not smart, was at least chic, to know that he 
had come to the house with a professional mistress of 
the revels, until Miss Shirley should have approved 
herself chic, too. The notion of such an employment as 
hers was in itself chic, but the girl was merely a paid 
part of the entertainment, as yet, and had not risen 
above the hireling status. If she had sunk to that level 
from a higher rank it would be all right, but there was 
no evidence that she had ever been smart. Verrian 
would, therefore, rather not be mixed up with her — at 
any rate, in the imagination of a girl like Julia Mac- 
royd; and as he left her side he drew a long breath of 
relief and went and put down his teacup where he had 
got it. 
By this time the girl who was " pouring " had ex- 
hausted one of the two original guards on whom she had 
been dividing her vision, and Verrian made a pre- 
tence, which she favored, that he had come up to push 
the man away. The man gracefully submitted to be 
dislodged, and Verrian remained in the enjoyment 
of one of the girl's distorted eyes till, yet another man 
coming up, she abruptly got rid of Verrian by pre- 
senting him to yet another girl. In such manoeuvres 
 
the hour of afternoon tea will pass ; and the time really 
wore on till it was time to dress for dinner. 
By the time that the guests came down to dinner they 
were all able to participate in the exchange of the 
discovery which each had made, that it was snowing out- 
doors, and they kept this going till one girl had the 
good-luck to say, " I don't see anything so astonishing 
in that at this time of year. Now, if it was snowing in- 
doors, it would be different." 
This relieved the tension in a general laugh, and a 
young man tried to contribute further to the gayety 
by declaring that it would not be surprising to have it 
snow in-doors. He had once seen the thing done in 
a crowded hall, one night, when somebody put up a 
window, and the freezing current of air congealed the 
respiration of the crowd, which came down in a light 
fall of snow-flakes. He owned that it was in Boston. 
" Oh, that excuses it, then," Miss Macroyd said. But 
she lost the laugh which was her due in the rush which 
some of the others made to open a window and see 
whether it could be made to snow in-doors there. 
" Oh, it isn't crowded enough here," the young man 
explained who had alleged the scientific marvel. 
" And it isn't Boston," Miss Macroyd tried again on 
the same string, and this time she got her laugh. 
The girl who had first spoken remained, at the risk 
of pneumonia, with her arm prettily lifted against the 
open sash, for a moment peering out, and then reported, 
in dashing it down with a shiver, " It seems to be a 
very soft snow." 
" Then it will be rain by morning," another pre- 
dicted, and the girl tried hard to think of something 
to say in support of the hit she had made already. But 
she could not, and was silent almost through the whole 
first course at dinner. 
In spite of its being a soft snow, it continued to fall 
as snow and not as rain. It lent the charm of stormy 
cold without to the brightness and warmth within. 
Much later, when between waltzes some of the dancers 
went out on the verandas for a breath of air, they came 
back reporting that the wind was rising and the snow 
was drifting. 
Upon the whole, the snow was a great success, and her 
guests congratulated Mrs. Westangle on having thought 
to have it. The felicitations included recognition of the 
originality of her whole scheme. She had downed the 
hoary superstition that people had too much of a good 
time on Christmas to want any good time at all in the 
week following ; and in acting upon the well-known fact 
that you never wanted a holiday so much as the day 
after you had one, she had made a movement of the 
highest social importance. These were the ideas which 
Verrian and the young man of the in-doors snow-storm 
urged upon her; his name was Bushwick, and he and 
Verrian found that they were very good-fellows after 
they had rather supposed the contrary. 
Mrs. Westangle received their ideas with the twit- 
tering reticence that deceived so many people when they 
supposed she knew what they were talking about. 
XII 
At breakfast, where the guests were reasonably 
punctual, they were all able to observe, in the rapid 
succession in which they descended from their rooms, 
that it had stopped snowing and the sun was shining 
brilliantly. 
" There isn't enough for sleighing," Mrs. Westangle 
proclaimed from the head of the table in her high twit- 
ter, " and there isn't any coasting here in this flat coun- 
try for miles." 
" Then what are we going to do with it ?" one of the 
young ladies humorously pouted. 
" That's what I was going to suggest," Mrs. West- 
angle replied. She pronounced it sujjest, but no one 
felt that it mattered. " And, of course," she con- 
tinued, " you needn't any of you do it if you don't 
like." 
" We'll all do it, Mrs. Westangle," Bushwick said. 
" We are unanimous in that." 
" Perhaps you'll think it rather funny — odd," she 
said. 
" The odder the better, I think," Verrian ventured, 
and another man declared that nothing Mrs. Westangle 
would do was odd, though everything was original. 
" Well, there is such a thing as being too original," 
she returned. Then she turned her head aside and 
looked down at something beside her plate and said, 
without lifting her eyes, " You know that in the Middle 
Ages there used to be flower-fights among the young 
 
nobility in Italy. The women held a tower, and the 
men attacked it with roses and flowers generally." 
" Why, is this a speech ?" Miss Macroyd interrupted. 
" A speech from the throne, yes," Bushwick solemnly 
corrected her. " And she's got it written down, like a 
queen — haven't you, Mrs. Westangle ?" 
" Yes, I thought it would be more respectful." 
" She coming out," Bushwick said to Verrian across 
the table. 
" And if I got mixed up I could go back and straight- 
en it," the hostess declared, with a good - humored 
candor that took the general fancy, " and you could 
understand without so much explaining. We haven't 
got flowers enough at this season," she went on, looking 
down again at the paper beside her plate, " but we hap- 
pen to have plenty of snowballs, and the notion is to 
have the women occupy a snow tower and the men at- 
tack them with snowballs." 
" Why," Bushwick said, " this is the snow-fort busi- 
ness of our boyhood! Let's go out and fortify the 
ladies at once." He appealed to Verrian and made a 
feint of pushing his chair back. " May we use water- 
soaked snowballs, or must they all be soft and harm- 
less?" he asked of Mrs. Westangle, who was now the 
centre of a storm of applause and question from the 
whole table. 
She kept her head and referred again to her paper. 
" The missiles of the assailants are to be very soft 
snowballs, hardly more than mere clots, so that nobody 
can be hurt in the assault, but the defenders may repel 
the assailants with harder snowballs." 
" Oh," Miss Macroyd protested, " this is consulting 
the weakness of our sex." 
" In the fury of the onset we'll forget it," Verrian 
reassured her. 
" Do you think you really will, Mr. Yerrian ?" she 
asked. " What is all our athletic training to go for if 
you do V 
Mrs. Westangle read on : 
" The terms of capitulation can he arranged on the 
ground, whether the castle is carried or the assailing 
party are made prisoners by its defenders." 
" Hopeless captivity in either case !" Bushwick la- 
mented. 
" Isn't it rather academic ?" Miss Macroyd asked of 
Verrian, in a low voice. 
" I'm afraid, rather," he owned. 
" But why are you so serious ?" she pursued. 
" Am I serious ?" he retorted, with a trace of exas- 
peration ; and she laughed. 
Their parley was quite lost in the clamor which raged 
up and down the table till Mrs. Westangle ended it 
by saying, " There's no obligation on any one to take 
part in the hostilities. There won't be any conscrip- 
tion ; it's a free fight that will be open to everybody." 
She folded the paper she had been reading from and 
put it in her lap, in default of a pocket. She went on 
impromptu : 
" You needn't trouble about building the fort, Mr. 
Bushwick. I've had the farmer and his men working 
at the castle since daybreak, and the ladies will find 
it all ready for them, when they're ready to defend 
it, down in the meadow beyond the edge of the birch- 
lot. The battle won't begin till eleven o'clock." 
She rose, and the clamor rose again with her, and her 
guests crushed about her, demanding to be allowed at 
least to go and look at the castle immediately. 
One of the men's voices asked, " May I be one of the 
defenders, Mrs. Westangle ? I want to be on the win- 
ning side, sure." 
 
" Oh, is this going to be a circus chariot-race ?" an- 
other lamented. 
" No, indeed," a girl cried, " it's to be the real thing." 
It fell to Verrian, in the assortment of couples in 
which Mrs. Westangle's guests sallied out to view the 
proposed scene of action, to find himself, not too willing- 
ly, at Miss Macroyd's side. In his heart and in his 
mind he was defending the amusement which he instant- 
ly divined as no invention of Mrs. Westangle's, and 
both his heart and his mind misgave him about this 
first essay of Miss Shirley in her new enterprise. It 
was, as Miss Macroyd had suggested, academic, and 
at the same time it had a danger in it of being tom- 
boyish. Golf, tennis, riding, boating, swimming — all 
the vigorous sports in which women now excel — were 
boldly athletic, and yet you could not feel quite that 
they were tomboyish. Was it because the bent of 
Miss Shirley was so academic that she was perilling 
upon tomboyishness without knowing it in this primal 
inspiration of hers ? Inwardly he resented the word 
academic, although outwardly he had assented to it 
when Miss Macroyd proposed it. To be academic would 
be even more fatal to Miss Shirley's ambition than to 
be tomboyish, and he thought with pathos of that touch 
about the Italian nobility in the Middle Ages, and how 
little it could have moved the tough fancies of that 
crowd of well-groomed young people at the breakfast- 
table when Mrs. Westangle brought it out with her 
ignorant acceptance of it as a social force. After all, 
Miss Macroyd was about the only one who could have 
felt it in the way it was meant, and she had chosen to 
smile at it. He wondered if possibly she could feel the 
secondary pathos of it as he did. But to make talk 
with her he merely asked : 
" Do you intend to take part in the fray ?" 
 
" Not unless I can be one of the reserve corps that 
won't need to be brought up till it's all over. I've no 
idea of getting my hair down." 
" Ah," he sighed, " you think it's going to be 
rude." 
" That is one of the chances. But you seem to be 
suffering about it, Mr. Verrian!" she said, and, of 
course, she laughed. 
" Who ? I ?" he returned, in the temptation to deny 
it. But he resisted. " I always suffer when there's any- 
thing silly happening, as if I were doing it myself. 
Don't you?" 
" No, thank you, I believe not. But perhaps you 
are doing this? One can't suppose Mrs. Westangle 
imagined it." 
" No, I can't plead guilty. But why isn't it predi- 
cable of Mrs. Westangle?" 
" You mustn't ask too much of me, Mr. Verrian. 
Somehow, I won't say how, it's been imagined for her. 
She's heard of its being done somewhere. It can't be 
supposed she's read of it, anywhere." 
" No, I dare say not." 
Miss Macroyd came out with her laugh. " I should 
like to know what she makes of you, Mr. Verrian, when 
she is alone with herself. She must have looked you 
up and authenticated you in her own way, but it would 
be as far from your way as — well, say — the Milky 
Way." 
" You don't think she asked me because she met me 
at your house ?" 
" No, that wouldn't be enough, from her point of 
view. She means to go much further than we've ever 
got." 
" Then a year from now she wouldn't ask me ?" , 
" It depends upon who asks you in the mean time. 
 
You might get to be a fad, and then she would feel 
that she would have to have you." 
" You're not flattering me ?" 
" Do you find it flattering ?" 
" It isn't exactly my idea of the reward I've been 
working for. What shall I do to be a fad ?" 
" Well, rather degrading stunts, if you mean in the 
smart set. Jump about on all fours and pick up a 
woman's umbrella with your teeth, and bark. Anything 
else would be easier for you among chic people, where 
your brilliancy would count." 
"Brilliancy? Oh, thank you! Goon." 
" Now, a girl — if you were a girl — " 
" Oh yes, if I were a girl ! That will be so much 
more interesting." 
" A girl," Miss Macroyd continued, " might do it by 
posing effectively for amateur photography. Or do- 
ing something original in dramatics or pantomimics or 
recitation — but very original, because chic people are 
critical. Or if she had a gift for getting up things 
that would show other girls off; or suggesting amuse- 
ments; but that would be rather in the line of swell 
people, who are not good at getting up things and are 
glad of help." 
" I see, I see !" Verrian said, eagerly. But he walked 
along looking down at the snow, and not meeting the 
laughing glance that Miss Macroyd cast at his face. 
"Well?" 
" I believe that's all," she said, sharply. She added, 
less sharply : " She couldn't afford to fail, though, at 
any point. The fad that fails is extinguished forever. 
Will these simple facts do for fiction? Or is it for 
somebody in real life you're asking, Mr. Verrian ?" 
" Oh, for fiction. And thank you very much. Oh, 
that's rather pretty !" 
 
XIII 
They had come into the meadow where the snow 
battle was to be, and on its slope, against the dark weft 
of the young birch-trees, there was a mimic castle out- 
lined in the masonry of white blocks quarried from the 
drifts and built up in courses like rough blocks of 
marble. A decoration of green from the pines that 
mixed with the birches had been suggested rather than 
executed, and was perhaps the more effective for its 
sketchiness. 
" Yes, it's really beautiful," Miss Macroyd owned, 
and though she did not join her cries to those of the 
