you behind when I return to England. Now, I must run off and copy
this. Remember, you dine with us to-night."




CHAPTER XII


Lord Hunsdon had already bought an album in Charlestown, and after
copying the sonnet several times to practise his chirography, he
inscribed it upon the first page--a pink one--signing it "Your most
obedient Hunsdon," with an austere flourish. Then he carefully wrapped
the album in tissue paper and sent it to Anne's room, with strict
orders to his man not to leave it unless she were quite alone. The
best of men have their vanities; the idea that the superior Mary
Denbigh or the satirical Miss Bargarny might witness the offering's
arrival was insupportable.

Anne was alone and unfolded the large square package with much
curiosity. It was one of those albums that the young ladies of her day
loved to possess; indeed, so far, she had been the only girl in Bath
House without one, and had read the flattering verses in several with
some envy. This tribute was sumptuously bound in brown calf embossed
with gold, and all the leaves were delicately tinted. She turned over
the pale greens and pinks, blues and canaries, with that subtle
indefinable pleasure that colour gives to certain temperaments. She
had not glanced at the servant, and fancied the album a present from
Lady Constance. When she saw the signature on the first page she
stared, for Lord Hunsdon was the last person she would have suspected
of cultivating the muse. She began the sonnet with a ripple of
laughter, but paled before she finished. Trifling as it was she
recognised it as the work of Byam Warner. She could never be mistaken
there. It resembled nothing of his that she knew, but the grace of the
verse, the fine instinctive choice of words, the glitter and sweep of
phrase, belonged to him and none other. Her heart leaped as she
wondered if it were not the first bit of verse he had ever written
while sober. And she had inspired it! The thought brought another in
its train and she went suddenly to her window and stared through the
jalousies at the dazzling sunlight on the palms, for the first time
seeing nothing of the beauty of Nevis.

The poem had been written from himself to her. A phrase or two not
intended for Hunsdon's unsuspecting eye assured her of that. It was
not an old sonnet furbished up to fit the purpose of a friend. And
fragile as the thing was, still it was poetry--and he had written it
when sober--and to her----

She repeated this discovery many times before she could give shape to
the greater thought building in her brain. It was a beginning, a
milestone. Might it not be within her compass to influence him so
indelibly that his muse would continue to wake at her call, at the
mere thought of her, with no aid from that foul hag of drink, which
of late had almost made her hate his poetry as the work of a base
alliance? She believed that if he did not love her he was yet so deep
in admiration that she could inspire him with a profound attachment if
she chose. And the result? If only she were a seer, as certain of her
Scotch kin claimed to be. A hopeless love might inspire him to the
greater work the world expected of him; she had read of the flowering
of genius in the strong soil of misery. But he had suffered enough
already, poor devil! The result of loving for the last time, with no
hope of possession, might fling him from Parnassus into the Inferno,
where he would roast in unproductive torment for the rest of his
mortal span. Even that might not be for long. He looked frail enough
beside these fresh young English sportsmen, or even the high-coloured
planters, burnt without and within.

It was a terrible question for any woman to be forced to ask,
particularly were she honest enough to confess that no woman should
ask it. What right had she to put her finger into any man's destiny
unless she were willing to take the consequences and share that
destiny if invited? But that no woman could be expected to do. Why
could he not have realised her mental picture of him: that glorified
being with whom she had dwelt so long? She sighed as she recalled her
many disillusionments of the past few weeks. Bath House was the world
in little. It seemed years since she had left Warkworth Manor. She
found that world a somewhat mean and sordid place. She still loved the
gaiety and sumptuousness of her new life, for it appealed to inherited
instincts. But she had not found a responsive spirit. The young
married women were absorbed in their children or their flirtations.
The girls were superficially read, "accomplished," conceited,
insincere, with not an aspiration above getting a husband of fortune.
Lady Mary, alarmed at last, was become cool and spiteful. Lady Hunsdon
was almost an enemy. Lady Constance seemed to have more heart than
most of her ilk in spite of her caustic tongue, but she hardly made a
sympathetic companion for a romantic young girl brought up in the
country. It was true that she had recently made an interesting
acquaintance in Miss Medora Ogilvy, the clever daughter of one of the
planters, who vowed she loved her and swore undying friendship; but
Anne needed more time to reciprocate feelings so ardent, particularly
in her present state of mind.

On the whole she liked the young men better, as they were less
spiteful and petty, but they had read little and the only subject of
which, barring sport and society, they had any real knowledge, was
politics, and this they vowed too fatiguing for the tropics. They
preferred the language of compliment, they loved to dawdle, to hold a
skein of worsted, to read a novel aloud, or "The Yellowplush Papers"
or selections from "Boz"; when tired of female society, or when it
was too hot to hunt or fish, they retired to the gaming tables. Anne
had never dreamed that the genus man could be so little stirring, and
although she was flattered by their attentions, particularly by those
of Mr. Abergenny, and her natural coquetry was often responsive, for
mere youth must have its way, she was appalled by her general sense of
disappointment and wondered what her future was to be. She had no
desire to return to her manor, and for a season in London she cared as
little. She would have been glad to remain on Nevis, but to this she
knew that Mrs. Nunn would not hearken. London was inevitable; and
possibly she would meet some intelligent and interesting man who would
help her to bury romance and fulfil the proper destiny of woman.

She wondered to-day as she had wondered once or twice before, could
she have loved Byam Warner in spite of his unlikeness to her
exaggerated ideal had she found him a normal member of society, as
fine in appearance as his years and his original endowment deserved.
It was a question to which she could find no answer, but certainly his
conversation, could she but permit herself to enjoy it, must be far
superior to that of anyone else on Nevis. And a flirtation with the
poet of the day would have been exciting, something to remember, a
feather in her cap. She had her share of feminine vanity--it grew
daily, she fancied--and it was by no means unfed by the manifest
admiration, possibly love, of this great poet in his ruin. Whatever
his tribute might be worth, it was offered to none but herself, and if
the man were beneath consideration the poet was of a radiance
undimmed.

Suddenly it occurred to her that did he tread his present straight and
hygienic path for a full year he might indeed be his old self when
next she came to Nevis. The island was healthy at all seasons, those
who lived on it were immune from fever. Nature would remake what
Warner had unmade too early to have destroyed root and sap. Many a man
had sown his wild oats and lived to a hale old age. Would that mean
that next winter Byam Warner would be handsome, attractive, confident?
She often heard the good looks of his youth referred to, and there
certainly were the remains of beauty in that wrecked countenance. His
eyes were sunken, but they were still of a deep black gray, and they
daily gained in brightness. His hair was almost black, and abundant.
The shape of his head and brow and profile were above reproach, for
dissipation had never grossened him. But his face, although improving,
was still haggard and lined and stamped with satiety; his mouth
betrayed the wild passions that had wrecked him, and was often drawn
in lines of bitterness and disgust. There was nothing commanding in
his carriage, such as women love, and his manners were too reserved,
too shy, to fascinate her sex apart from the halo of his fame. A
return to health and vigour might improve him vastly, but nothing
could ever make him a dashing romantic figure; and although sometimes
a light came into his face that revealed the poet, commonly he
betrayed not an inkling of his gifts. But even so he might be more
worth while than any man she had met so far, whatever the great world
might have in store; and she wished that his reformation had been
accomplished the winter before and she were now in enjoyment of the
result. Then she found distaste in the thought that she might have
had no hand in his reclamation, and was glad to recall his hint that
but for her he would never have crossed the threshold of Bath House.
And then she was overwhelmed with the sense of her responsibility. It
was not for the first time, but not until to-day had she faced the
question of how far she ought to go. And even to-day she did not feel
up to reasoning it out. She knew too little of the world, of men;
there was no one to whom she could go for advice. She re-read the
sonnet, determined to be guided by events, registered a vow that in no
case would she shirk what she might believe to be her duty; and then
wrote a prim little note of acknowledgment to Lord Hunsdon.




CHAPTER XIII


Lady Hunsdon, having in vain besought the poet to read aloud to a
select audience, acted upon the hint he had unwittingly dropped to
Anne Percy and organised a charity performance for the benefit of an
island recently devastated by earthquake. Warner was visibly out of
countenance when gaily reminded by Anne of his careless words, but he
could do no less than comply, for the wretched victims were in want of
bread. Lady Mary, Miss Bargarny, and several others offered their
services. All aristocratic Nevis were invited to contribute their
presence and the price of a ticket, and the performance would end with
a dance that should outlast the night.

Nevis was in a great flutter of excitement, partly because of the
promised ball, for which the military band of St. Kitts was engaged,
partly because but a favoured few, and years ago, had heard Byam
Warner read. Indeed, his low voice was never heard three yards away,
in a drawing-room, although it had frequently made Charlestown ring.
He was now on his old footing at the Great Houses. The nobler felt
many a pang of conscience that they had permitted a stranger at Bath
House to accomplish a work so manifestly their own, while others dared
not be stigmatised as provincial, prejudiced, middle-class. If London
could afford a superb indifference to the mere social offences of a
great poet, well, so could Nevis. They forgot that London had arisen
as one man and flung him out, neck and crop. Lady Hunsdon had eclipsed
London; rather, for the nonce did she epitomise it. Her gowns came not
even from Bond Street. They were confected in Paris. Hers was the most
distinguished Tory salon in London. Her son was the golden fish for
which all maidens fortunate enough to be within reach of the sacred
pond angled. It was whispered that Warner would accompany Hunsdon to
London, be a guest in his several stately homes, possibly be returned
from one of his numerous boroughs. The poet approached his zenith for
the second time.

Curricles, phaetons, gigs, britzskas, barouches, family chaises
brought the elect of Nevis, and their guests, from St. Kitts to Bath
House a little before nine o'clock; the lowly of Charlestown to
the terrace before the ever open windows of the saloon where the
performance was to be held. In the friendly bedrooms of the hotel
there was a great shaking down of skirts, rearranging of tresses. Miss
Medora Ogilvy went straight to Anne's room, by invitation, and finding
it empty, proceeded to beautify herself. Byron had been much in vogue
at the time of her birth--was yet, for that matter--and she had been
named romantically. But there was little romance in the shrewd brain
of Miss Ogilvy. She was well educated and accomplished--like many of
her kind she had gone to school in England; she could cook and manage
even West Indian servants--her mother was an invalid; and she wished
for nothing under heaven but to marry a man of "elegant fortune" and
turn her back upon Nevis for ever. She really liked Anne and thought
her quite the most admirable girl she had ever met, but she was not of
those that deceive themselves, and frankly admitted that the chief
attraction of her new friend was her almost constant proximity to Lord
Hunsdon.

Miss Ogilvy was petite, with excellent features and slanting black
eyes that gave her countenance a slightly Oriental cast. She wore her
black hair in smooth bands over her ears, à la Victoria, and her
complexion was as transparently white as only a West Indian's can be.
To-night she pirouetted before the pier glass with much complacency.
She wore a full flowing skirt of pink satin, with little flounces of
lace and rosettes on the front, puffed tight sleeves, and a corsage of
white illusion, pink bands, flowers, and rosettes. As she settled a
wreath of pink rosebuds on her head and wriggled her shoulders still
higher above her bodice, she felt disposed to hum a tune. She was but
nineteen and Lady Mary was twenty-nine if she was a day.

Anne, who had been assisting Mrs. Nunn's maid to adjust lavender satin
folds and the best point lace shawl, entered at the moment and was
greeted with rapture.

"Dearest Miss Percy! What a vision! A Nereid! A Lorelei! You will
extinguish us all. Poor Lord Hunsdon. Poor Mr. Warner--ah, ma belle,
I have eyes in my head. But what a joy to see you in colour. How does
it happen?"

"My aunt insisted while we were in London that I buy one or two
coloured gowns. My father has been dead more than a year. I put this
on to-night to please her, although I have two white evening gowns."

She wore green taffeta flowing open in front over a white embroidered
muslin slip, and trimmed with white fringe. A sash whose fringed ends
hung down in front, girt her small waist. Her arms and neck were bare,
but slipping from the shoulders, carelessly held in the fashion of the
day, was a white crêpe scarf fringed with green. She wore her hair in
the usual bunch of curls on either side of her face, but in a higher
knot than usual, and had bound her head with the golden fillet Mrs.
Nunn had pressed upon her in London. Depending from it and resting on
her forehead, was an oblong emerald; Anne had a few family jewels
although she wore no others to-night.

"I vow!" continued Miss Ogilvy, tripping about her, "quite classic!
And at the same time such style! Such ton! Madame Lucille made that
gown. Am I not right?"

Anne confessed that Madame Celeste had made it.

"Celeste, I meant. How could I be so stupid? But it is two long years
since I laid eyes on Bond Street. A humbler person, plain Mrs.
Barclay, sends out my gowns. What do you think, dear Miss Percy, shall
I look provincial, second-rate, amongst all these lucky people of
fashion?"

"You are lovely and your gown is quite perfect," said Anne warmly,
and then the two girls went down-stairs arm in arm, vowing eternal
friendship. Miss Ogilvy professed a deep interest in the poet,
declared that she had begged her obdurate papa time and again to call
upon and reclaim him; and Anne, who now detested Lady Mary, was
resolved to further her new friend's interests with Lord Hunsdon. He
joined them at the foot of the staircase and escorted them to a little
inner balcony above the saloon. There was no danger of interference
from Lady Mary, who was to perform, or from Lady Hunsdon, who occupied
the chair of state in the front row.

They were late and looked down upon a brilliant scene. Not even a
dowager wore black, and the young women, married and single, were in
every hue, primary and intermediate. Almost as many wore their hair
à la Victoria as in the more becoming curls, for loyalty, so long
dead and forgotten, was become the rage since the young Queen had
raised the corpse. But they softened the severity of the coiffure with
wreaths, and feathers, and fillets, and even coquettish little lace
laps, filled with flowers. The men were equally fine in modish coats
and satin waistcoats; narrow and severe or deep and ruffled neckties
but one degree removed from the stock, or in flowing collars à la
Byron. Their hair was parted in the middle and puffed out at the
side; not a few wore a flat band of whisker that looked like the strap
of the condemned. Both Hunsdon and Warner shaved, or Anne would have
tolerated neither.

There was a platform at the end of the saloon, with curtains at the
back separating it from a small withdrawing-room, and it had been
tastefully embellished with rugs, jars of gorgeous flowers, a reading
stand, a harp and a piano.

"Who will sway over the harp?" asked Miss Ogilvy humorously.

"Lady Mary. Ah! They are about to begin."

A fine applause greeted Miss Bargarny, who executed the overture to
Semiramide quite as well as it deserved. After the clapping was over
and she had obligingly given an encore, she remained at the piano, and
Mr. Stewart, a young man with red hair and complexion, in kilts and
pink knees, emerged from the curtains, and sang in a thundering voice
several of Burns's tenderest songs. After their final retirement the
curtains were drawn apart with much dignity, and Lady Mary stepped
forth; a vision, as her severest critics were forced to admit. She was
in diaphanous white, with frosted flowers amidst her golden ringlets,
a little crown of stars above her brow, and a scarf of silver tissue.

"All she needs is wings!" exclaimed Miss Ogilvy, and added to herself,
"may she soon get them!"

Lady Mary, acknowledging the rapturous greeting with a seraphic
expression and the grand air, literally floated to the harp,
where nothing could have displayed to a greater advantage her long
willowy figure, her long white thin arms, the drooping gold of her
ringlets. As the golden music tinkled from the tips of her taper
fingers--formed for the harp, which may have had somewhat to do with
her choice of instrument--her ethereal loveliness swayed in unison,
and, one might fancy--if not a rival--emitted a music of its own.

"She doesn't look a day over twenty!" exclaimed Miss Ogilvy. "Who
would dream that she was thirty? But those fragile creatures break all
at once. When she does fade she will be even more passée than most."

"But women know so many arts nowadays," said Anne drily. "And she
would be the last to ignore them."

"Ah! no doubt she will hang on till she gets a husband. I never knew
anyone to want one so badly."

"Lady Mary?" asked Hunsdon wonderingly. "I had long since grown to
look upon her as a confirmed old maid."

"La! La! my lord!" Miss Ogilvy suddenly resolved upon a bold stroke.
"She's trying with all her might and main to marry your own most
intimate friend."

"My most intimate friend? He is in England. Nottingdale. Do you know
him? Or do you perchance mean Warner?"

"Never heard of the first and it certainly is not the last. Oh, my
lord!" And then she laughed so archly that poor Lord Hunsdon could not
fail to read her meaning. His fresh coloured face, warm with ascending
heat, turned a deep brick red. He felt offended with both Miss Ogilvy
and Lady Mary, and edged closer to Anne as if for protection.

This conversation took place while Lady Mary was bowing in response
to the plaudits her performance evoked. She tinkled out another
selection, and then, with a gently dissenting gesture, the dreaming
eyes almost somnambulistic, floated through the curtains.

There was a brief interval for rapturous vocatives and then the
curtains were flung apart and Spring burst through, crying,

     "I come! I come! Ye have called me long.
     I come o'er the mountains with light and song!
     Ye may trace my step o'er the wakening earth
     By the winds that tell of the violet's birth."

The young lady, attired in white and hung with garlands, looked not
unlike the engraving of "Spring" in the illustrated editions of the
poems of the gentle Felicia. For a moment Anne, who had long outgrown
Mrs. Hemans, was disposed to laugh, but as the sweet ecstatic voice
trilled on a wave of sadness swept over her, a familiar scene of her
childhood rose and effaced the one beneath. She saw the favourite room
of her mother in the tower overhanging the sea, her brothers sprawled
on the hearthrug, herself in her own little chair, her mother in her
deep invalid sofa holding her youngest child in her arms, while she
softly recited the "Evening Prayer at a Girl's School," "The
Coronation of Inez del Castro," "Juana," or, to please the more robust
taste of the boys, "Bernardo del Carpio," and "Casabianca," the last
two in sweet inadequate tones. Lines, long forgotten swept back to
Anne out of the past:

     The night wind shook the tapestry round an ancient palace
       room,
     And torches, as it rose and fell, waved through the
       gorgeous gloom.

     There was music on the midnight--
     From a royal fane it rolled.

     The warrior bowed his crested head, and tamed his heart of
       fire,
     And sued the haughty king to free his long imprisoned sire.

Mrs. Percy had been a gentle, sentimental, romantic creature with
golden ringlets and floating sylph-like form, not unlike Lady Mary's.
She received little attention from her scientific husband and devoted
her short life to her children and to poetry, writing graceful vacant
verses herself. Mrs. Hemans was her favourite poet, although her eyes
could kindle when she read "The Corsair," or "The Bride of Arbydos,"
particularly as she had once met Byron and remembered him as the
handsomest of mortals. But she would have thought it indecorous even
to mention his name before her young children. Mrs. Hemans was as much
a part of the evening hour in winter as the dusk and the blazing logs,
and the children loved her almost as well as the gentle being who
renewed her girlhood in those romantic effusions. A malignant fever
raging up the coast, had burnt out that scene for ever, leaving Anne
alone and aghast, for her father, the first horror and remorse over,
subsided once more into his laboratory. Then had come a succession of
governesses; finally the library was discovered; she ceased to miss
her old companions. But she never forgot them, and no doubt the
sweetness and melancholy of the memory did as much as the imaginary
Byam Warner to save her from the fate of her dry dehumanised father.

Anne came to herself as a charade progressed, and Miss Ogilvy
gaily commented upon the interpretation of the middle syllable of
Caterpillar, as A, in the architecture of which one of the handsomest
girls and her swain made a striking silhouette. Then she remembered
that the next name on the programme was Warner's; he was to read for
half an hour from his own work; after which all would hie themselves
to the music room and dance.

There was a longer interval than usual. Anne's hands and feet became
nerveless bits of ice. Had his courage given out? Had he run away?
Worse still, was he nerving himself to an ordeal to which he would
prove unequal? A humiliating breakdown! Anne's blood pounded through
her body as he finally emerged from the curtains, and she broke her
fan, much to the amusement of Miss Ogilvy.

The company, although it had once or twice permitted its applause to
go beyond the bounds prescribed by elegant civility, had reserved its
real enthusiasm for the poet whose halo of present fashion electrified
their springs of Christianity. As he entered, correctly attired,
although more soberly than most of his audience, and walked slowly to
the reading stand, they not only clapped but stamped and cried his
name until the walls resounded; and so excited the coloured people
(with whom his popularity had never waned) that a stentorian chorus
burst through the windows and drowned the more polite if no less
ardent greeting of the elect.

Warner blushed faintly and bent his head in acknowledgment, but
otherwise gave no sign of the astonishment he must feel, and stood
quite still until the noise had died away down to its final echo in
the neighbourhood of the palm avenue. When he finally lifted his book
a sudden breathless silence fell upon the company. Anne leaned over
the railing in almost uncontrollable excitement, her face white, her
breath short. Lord Hunsdon was too agitated himself to observe her,
but the unaffected Miss Ogilvy took note and matured plans.

Warner began to read in his low, toneless, but distinct voice. In a
few moments the excitement subsided; he was pronounced insufferably
monotonous. Fans rustled, hoops scraped the hard floors. Lady
Constance gave a loud admonitory cough. Warner paid no heed. Still he
read on in low monotone. A few moments more and its spell had enmeshed
the company. The silence was so deep that the low murmur of the sea
could be heard beyond (or within) his own voice. The most impatient,
the most vehement, raised significant eyebrows and shot out optical
affirmations that nothing could be more effective than the verbal
method the poet had adopted--although doubtless it was quite his own,
so in keeping was it with his reserved, retiring, non-committal
personality. Be that as it may, the dramatic scenes, the impassioned
phrases, the virile original vocabulary that flowed from his set lips
could never be delivered so potently by tones that matched their
tenor. The contrast flung them into undreamed of relief. Those most
familiar with his work wondered that they had never understood it
before.

Anne felt more than all this. She closed her eyes and enjoyed a
delusion. It was the soul of the poet reading. The body there was but
a fallacy of vision, non-existent, really dead, perhaps; subservient
for a while longer to that imperious immortal part that had not yet
fulfilled its earthly mission. She had allowed herself to believe that
she had caught fleeting glimpses of this man's soul, so different from
his battered clay; to-night she heard it, and heard as she never did
by the North Sea when all her world was one vast delusion. It murmured
like the sea itself, the gray cold sea of some strange dark planet
beyond the stars, whence came, who knew? all genius; a sea whose tides
would rise high and higher until they exhausted the clay they beat
upon while they had yet a message to deliver to Earth. That clay! If
it could but be preserved a few years longer! Great as was his
accomplished work he must do greater yet. No student of his more
ambitious poems, half lyric, half dramatic, believed his powers were
yet developed.

Anne came to herself amidst a new thunder of applause. She told
herself with a sigh and an angry blush that she was a romantic idiot
and the sooner she married and had a little family to think of the
better. Heaven knew what folly she might be capable of did she give
rein to dreams. She became aware that Warner, compelled to silence,
was looking straight at her, and she automatically beat her hands
together. He smiled slightly and gave his head an almost imperceptible
shake. Then some one in the audience called for the popular poem in
which he had so vigorously denounced Macaulay's unjust estimate of
Byron a few years since, holding up to scorn the brain of the mere man
of letters who dared to criticise or even to attempt to understand the
abnormal brain and temperament of a great poet. He recited it from
memory and then retired followed by a tumult of approval that he well
knew he never should evoke again.




CHAPTER XIV


When Anne descended the company was streaming toward the music
room, whence issued the rich summons of a full military band. She
manoeuvred so well that Lord Hunsdon led out Miss Ogilvy for the
first dance, and sat down beside Mrs. Nunn, hoping that Warner would
summon courage to take the empty chair beside her. Her pulses beat
high with excitement and delight in his triumph, and she longed to
show him recklessly for once the admiration and the faith she had
taken care to conceal under a correctly flattering manner. But Warner
stood talking with a group of men, and even could he have ignored a
sudden imperious beckoning of Lady Hunsdon's fan he would have been
too late. With one of those concerted impulses to which men no less
than women are subject, the young bloods of Bath House, the moment
they saw Anne Percy radiant in colour, with an even deeper blush and
brighter eyes than usual, determined that she and she alone should be
the belle of the evening. She had hardly seated herself when she was
surrounded, she was besieged for dances; and in spite of her protests
that she had never danced save with her governesses, she found herself
whirling about the room in the arm of Mr. Abergenny, and followed by
many an angry eye. Abergenny might be untitled and less of a "catch"
than Lord Hunsdon, but he had far more dash, manner, and address; he
possessed a fine property, if somewhat impaired by high living, and
was a man of note and fashion in London. His word alone had stamped
more than one ambitious beauty for good or ill, and this was not the
first time that he had intimated his entire approval of Miss Percy.
Anne guessed that his intentions were never serious, but he had amused
her more than the others, and since she must know the world, doubtless
she should be grateful for tutelage so able.

Although trembling and suffused with terrified blushes, all her old
shyness in possession, Mr. Abergenny was so admirable a partner, he
gave her so many courteous hints, he kept her so persistently in the
thick of the dancing, where critical eyes could hardly follow her,
that her confidence not only returned, but before she had completed
the circuit of the room three times she was vastly enjoying herself.
She danced round and square dances with her various admirers for the
next hour, and when the country dance was at its height she found
herself tripping alone between the long files with no return of
bashfulness and no less grace than Lady Mary herself; forgetting that
there could be no better preparation for grace in the ball-room than
years of free exercise out of doors.

She abandoned herself to the new and unanticipated pleasure, and not
only of dancing but of being the acknowledged belle of the night.
Beyond the intoxication of the moment nothing existed. Once indeed,
she met Warner's eyes, and they flashed with surprise and rage, but
she forgot him and danced until even her strong frame could stand no
more, and she went to bed with the dawn and slept till afternoon.




CHAPTER XV


Depressed with reaction and heavy with unwonted sleeping by daylight,
she was glad to go from her dressing-table to the carriage waiting to
take herself and her aunt for the customary drive. It was but a moment
before her mind was startled into its accustomed activity.

"Mr. Warner has disappeared again." Mrs. Nunn tilted her lace parasol
against the slanting sun. "Poor Maria!"

"Disappeared?"

"That is the general interpretation. Maria, with whom he was to dine
to-night, received a note from him this morning asking to be excused
as he was going away for some time; and when Hunsdon rushed down to
Hamilton House--unshaved and without his plunge--he was told that the
poet was gone; none of the servants could say where nor when he would
return. So that is probably the last of the reformed poet. I suppose
last night's excitement proved too much for him."

Anne's feeling was almost insupportable, but she forced her tone into
the register which Miss Bargarny and her kind would employ to express
lively detached regret. "That would be quite dreadful, and most
ungrateful. But I do not believe--anything of the sort. No doubt all
that reading of his own work stirred his muse and he has shut himself
up to write."

"Well, as he always shuts himself up with a quart of brandy at the
same time, that is equally the end of him as far as we are concerned.
For my part I have never been able to make out what all of you find in
him to admire. He would be quite ordinary to look at if it were not
for a few good lines, and I never heard him utter a remark worth
listening to. And as for fashion! Compare him last night with Lord
Hunsdon or Mr. Abergenny!"

"I think myself he made a mistake not to appear in a rolling collar
and a Turkish coat and turban! I don't fancy that he emulates Lord
Hunsdon or Mr. Abergenny in anything."

"At least not in devotion to you, so you will not miss him. And you
have nothing to regret, if he was the fashion--thanks to Maria--for
awhile; a young girl should never suffer detrimentals to hang about
her. Which of your beaux do you fancy most?" she demanded in a tone
elaborately playful.

"Which? Oh, Lord Hunsdon is the better man, and Mr. Abergenny the
better beau."

"I don't fancy that Mr. Abergenny's attentions are ever very serious,"
said Mrs. Nunn musingly. "He certainly could make any young lady the
fashion, but he is fickle and must marry fortune. But Hunsdon--he is
quite independent, and as steady as"--she glanced about in search of a
simile, remembered West Indian earthquakes, and added lamely--"as the
Prince Consort himself." Then she felt that the inspiration had been a
happy one, and continued with more animation than was her wont: "You
know they are really friendly."

"Who?"

"The Prince Consort and Hunsdon. It is almost an intimacy."

"Why not? I suppose a prince must have friends like other people, and
there are not many of his rank in England. I do not see how the Prince
Consort could do better than Hunsdon. The Queen certainly must
approve."

"I am glad you so warmly commend Hunsdon. I have the highest respect
for him myself--the very greatest."

"If you mean that you wish me to marry him, Aunt Emily--have you ever
reflected that it might cool your friendship with Lady Hunsdon? She
does not like me and I am sure would oppose the match. I may add,
however, that Lord Hunsdon has so far made no attempt to address me."

"I don't fancy you are more blind than everybody else in Bath House. I
am gratified, indeed, to see that you are not. You are mistaken in
thinking that your marriage with Hunsdon would affect my friendship
with Maria. It is true that she has conceived the notion that you have
an independent spirit, and is in favour of Mary Denbigh at present;
but she is too much a woman of the world not to accept the inevitable.
And we have been friends for five-and-forty years. She could not get
along without me. I have not been idle in this matter. I sing your
praises to her, assure her that you have never crossed my will in
anything. Last night I told her how sweetly you had submitted to
buying that coloured gown, and to wear that fillet--it becomes you
marvellously well. I have also told her what a tractable daughter you
were."

"I couldn't help myself. I had not a penny of my own----"

"One of the unwritten laws of the world you now live in is to
tell the least of all you know. The fact remains. You were
tractable--submissive. You never made a scene for poor Harold
in your life."

"He wouldn't have known if I had."

"Well, well, I am sure you are submissive, and always will be when
your interest demands it. I admire a certain amount of spirit, and
your difference from all these other girls, whatever it is, makes you
very attractive to the young men. Abergenny says that you are an
out-of-door goddess, which I think very pretty; but on the whole I
prefer Hunsdon's protest: that you are the most womanly woman he ever
set eyes on."

"It has more sense. I never read in any mythology of indoor goddesses.
Opinion seems to differ, however. Lady Mary said to me yesterday: 'You
are so masculine, dear Miss Percy. You make us all look the merest
females!'"

"Mary Denbigh is a cat. You know she is a cat. She would give Maria
many a scratch if she caught Hunsdon. But she will not. It is all in
your own hands, my dear."

Anne did not make the hoped for response. She did not even blush, and
Mrs. Nunn continued, anxiety creeping into her voice: "You need never
be much thrown with Maria. She would settle herself in the dower house
which is almost as fine as Hunsdon Towers. In town she has her own
house in Grosvenor Square. Hunsdon House in Piccadilly--one of the
greatest mansions in London--would be all your own."

But she could not command the attention of her niece again, and
permitting herself to conclude that the maiden was lost in a pleasing
reverie, she subsided into silence, closed her eyes to the beauty of
land and sea, and also declined into reverie, drowsy reverie in which
pictures of herself in all the glory of near kinship to a beautiful
and wealthy young peeress, were mixed with speculations upon her
possible luck at cards that night. She had lost heavily of late and it
was time she retrieved her fortunes.

At dinner and in the saloon later the talk was all of the poet's
disappearance. Some held out for the known eccentricities of genius,
others avowed themselves in favour of the theory that respectable
society had risen to its surfeit the night before. The natural
reaction had set in and he was enjoying himself once more in his own
way and wondering that he had submitted to be bored so long. Anne went
to bed her mind a chaos of doubt and terror.




CHAPTER XVI


She would have overslept again had it not been for the faithful maid
with her coffee. She sprang out of bed at once, a trifle disburdened
by the thought of a long ramble alone in the early morning, and,
postponing her swim in the tanks below until her return, dressed so
hurriedly that had hats been in vogue hers no doubt would have gone
on back foremost. She was feverishly afraid of being intercepted,
although such a thing had never occurred, the other women being far
too elegant to rise so early, and a proper sense of decorum forbidding
the young men to offer their escort.

The sea had never been a stiller, hotter blue, the mountain more
golden, the sky more like an opening rose. But she strode on seeing
nothing. Sleep had given her no rest and she was in a torment of
spirit that was a new experience in her uneventful life. She recalled
the angry astonished eyes of Warner as she danced with all the abandon
of a girl at her first ball. No doubt he had thought her vain and
frivolous, the average young lady at whose approach he fled when he
could. No doubt he thought her in love with Abergenny, whose habit of
turning female heads was well known to him, and upon whom she had
certainly beamed good will. No doubt he had expected her to manage to
pass him, knowing his diffidence, and offer her congratulations;
whereas she had taken no notice of him whatever. No doubt--oh, no
doubt--he had rushed off in a fury of disappointment and disgust, and
all the good work of the past weeks had been undone, all her plans of
meeting him a year hence as handsome and fine a man as he had every
right to be, were frustrated. She had for some time past detected
signs that apathy was gradually relieving a naturally fine spirit of
its heavy burden, that his weary indifference was giving place to a
watchful alertness, which in spite of the old mask he continued to
wear, occasionally manifested itself in a flash of the eye or a quiver
of the nostril. Anne could not doubt that he loved her, inexperienced
in such matters as she might be. However she may have kept him at a
distance her thoughts had seldom left him, and he had betrayed
himself in a hundred ways.

Had she been half interested in Hunsdon or Abergenny and they had been
so unreasonable as to rush off and disappear merely because she had
enjoyed her first ball-room triumphs as any girl must, she would have
been both derisive and angry at the liberty; but Warner inspired no
such feminine ebullition. He was a great and sacred responsibility,
one, moreover, that she had assumed voluntarily. That he had
unexpectedly fallen in love with her but deepened this responsibility,
and she had betrayed her trust, she had betrayed her trust!

She left the road suddenly and struck upward into one of the sheltered
gorges, sat down in the shadow of the jungle and wept with the brief
violence of a tropical storm in summer. Relief was inevitable. When
the paroxism was over she found a shaded seat under a cocoanut tree
and determined not to return to the hotel for breakfast, nor indeed
until she felt herself able to endure the sight of mere people; and
endeavoured to expel all thought of Warner from her still tormented
mind. In the distance she could see Monserrat and Antigua, gray blurs
on the blue water, she could hear the singing of negroes in the cane
fields far away, but near her no living thing moved save the monkeys
in the tree tops, the blue butterflies, the jewelled humming-birds. On
three sides of her was a dense growth of banana, cocoanut and palm
trees, cactus, and a fragrant shrub covered with pink flowers. Almost
overhanging her was the collar of forest about the cone, and the
ever-faithful snow-white cloud that only left the brow of Nevis to
creep down and embrace her by night. She took off her bonnet and
wished as she had rarely done before that she might never leave this
warm fragrant poetic land. It was made for such as she, whose whole
nature was tuned to poetry and romance, even if denied the gift of
expression--or of consummation! Why should she not remain here? She
had some money, quite enough to rent or even build a little house in
one of these high solitudes, where she could always look from her
window and see the sapphire sea, that so marvellously changed to
chrysoprase near the silver palm-fringed shore, inhale these delicious
scents, and dream and dream in this caressing air. She hated the
thought of London. The world had no real call for her. She wondered
at her submission to the will of a woman who had not the least
comprehension of her nature. On Nevis would she stay, live her own
life, find happiness in beauty and solitude, since the highest
happiness was not for her; and at this point she heard a step in the
jungle.

She sprang to her feet startled, but even before the heavy leaves
parted she knew that it was Warner. When he stood before her he lifted
his hat politely and dropped it on the ground, and although he did not
smile he certainly was sober.

The relief, the reaction, was so great that the blood rushed to Anne's
brow, the tears to her eyes. She made no attempt to speak at once and
he looked at her in silence. Perhaps it was the mountain solitude that
gave his spirit greater freedom; perhaps it was merely the effect of
the beneficial régime of the past two months; there might be another
reason less easy of analysis; but she had never seen him so assured,
so well, so much a man of his own world. His shoulders were quite
straight, his carriage was quite erect, there was colour in his face
and his eyes were bright. Nor did the haunted, tormented expression
she had so often seen look out at her. These were the eyes of a man
who had returned to his place among men. He looked young, buoyant.

She spoke finally. "I--we all thought--you disappeared so
abruptly--what am I saying?"

"You believed that I had returned to the pit out of which you--you
alone, mind you--had dragged me. You might have known me better."

"You should not put such a burden on me. You have character
enough----"

"Oh yes, I had character enough, but doubtless you noticed when you
first met me that I had ceased to exercise it. I went to the dogs
quite deliberately, and, with my enfeebled will and frame, I should
have stayed there, had not you magnetised me into your presence, where
I was forced to behave if I would remain. Later, for reasons both
prosaic and sentimental, I remained without effort. I have never had
any real love of spirits, although I loved their effect well enough."

"You must have loved that oth--that woman very much."

"She made a fool of me. There is always a time in a man's life when he
can be made a complete ass of if the woman with the will to make an
ass of him happens along coincidently. I fancied myself sated with
fame, tired of life, a remote and tragic figure among men--the trail
of Byron is over us all. That was the moment for the great and fatal
passion, and the woman was all that a malignant fate could devise;
not only to inspire the passion, but to transform a frame of mind
arbitrarily imagined into a sickening reality. From a romantic
solitary being I became a prosaic outcast. Nor could I recall anything
in the world I had left worth the sacrifice of the magician that gave
me brief spells of happiness and oblivion. Nobody pretended that it
injured my work, and I remained in the pit."

"And your self-respect? You were satisfied? Oh surely--you
looked--when I first saw you----"

"I loathed myself, of course. My brain was unaffected, was it not? I
abhorred my body, and would willingly have slashed it off could I have
gone on writing without it. Either I compelled my soul to stand aside,
or I was made on that plan--I cannot tell; but my inner life was
never polluted by my visible madness. I have been vile but I have
never had a vile thought. I fancy you understand this. And when I am
writing my ego does not exist at all--my worst enemies have never
accused me of the egoism common to poets. I have lived in another
realm, where I have remembered nothing of this. Had it been otherwise
no doubt I should have put it all at an end long ago."

Anne had averted her eyes, caught in one of those inner crises where
the faculties are almost suspended. She faltered out: "And after--when
I come back next year, shall I find you like this?"

He paused so long before replying that she moved with uncontrollable
excitement, and as she did so his eyes caught hers and held them.

The intensity of his gaze did not waver but he said, unsteadily, until
his own excitement mastered him, "I have assured myself again and
again that I never should dare to tell you that I loved you; that I
was not fit to approach you; that I must let you go, and try to live
with the memory of you. But now I remember nothing but that I love
you. I can speak of what I have been, but I cannot recall it. I feel
nothing but that I am a man in the restored vigour of youth in the
presence of the woman I want. If love is egoistical then I am rampant
this moment with egoism. If I could have the bliss of marrying you I
never should return to the past even in thought. I am a poet no
longer. I am nothing but a lover. I remember nothing, want nothing,
but the perfection of human happiness I should find with you."

The words poured from his lips before he finished, and the trained
monotony of his voice had gone to the winds. His face was violently
flushed, his eyes flashing. "I dare!" he cried exultingly. "I dare! It
would be heaven of a sort to have broken through those awful barriers
even if you told me to go and never enter your presence again."

"I cannot do that! I cannot!" And then she flung her arms out from her
deep womanly figure with a gesture expressive as much of maternal
yearning as of youthful and irresistible passion. "I will stay with
you forever," she said.




CHAPTER XVII


Several hours later Miss Ogilvy, who was riding slowly along the road
after a call at Bath House, suddenly drew rein and stared at an
approaching picture. She had a pretty taste in art, had Miss Medora,
and had painted all her island friends. Never had she longed more than
at this moment for palette and brush. A tall supple figure was coming
down the white road between the palms and the cane fields, clad in
white, the bonnet hanging on the arm, the sun making a golden web on
the chestnut hair. Never had the Caribbean Sea looked as blue as this
girl's eyes. Even her cheeks were as pink as the flowers in her belt.
She seemed to float rather than walk, and about her head was a cloud
of blue butterflies. Miss Ogilvy had seen Anne striding many a
morning, and it was the ethereal gait that challenged her attention
as much as the beauty of the picture.

They were abreast in a moment, and although Miss Ogilvy prided herself
upon the correctness of her deportment, she cried out impulsively,
and with no formal greeting: "What, in heaven's name, dear Anne, has
happened? I never saw any one look so beautiful--so--happy!"

"I am going to marry Byam Warner," said Anne.

Miss Ogilvy turned pale. She had intended to scheme for this very
result, but confronted with the fact, her better nature prevailed, and
she faltered out,

"Oh--oh--it is too great a risk! No woman should go as far as
that. We are all willing to help him, but that you should be
sacrificed--you--you of all----"

"I am not sacrificing myself. Do you fancy I am so great a fool as
that? No--no--that is not the reason I shall marry him!"

"He certainly is a great poet and has improved vastly in appearance.
I never should have believed it to be possible." The inevitable was
working in Miss Ogilvy. "But Mrs. Nunn? All her friends? There will be
dreadful scenes. Oh Anne, dear, they will rush you off. They will
never permit it."

"My aunt controls nothing but my property, and not the interest of
that. If she refuses her consent I shall simply walk up to Fig Tree
Church and marry Mr. Warner."

Miss Ogilvy recovered herself completely. "You will do nothing of the
sort," she cried, warm with friendship and the prospect of figuring in
the most sensational episode Nevis had known this many a year. "Come
to me. Be my guest until the banns have been properly published, and
marry from Ogilvy Grange. Everything must be de rigueur, or I should
never forgive myself. And it would give me the greatest happiness,
dear Anne. Mama and papa do everything I wish, and papa is one of Mr.
Warner's father's oldest friends. Mrs. Nunn will not consent. So
promise that you will come to me."

"I am very grateful. I had not thought much about Aunt Emily's
opposition, but no doubt she will turn me out of Bath House. You may
see me at the Grange to-night."

"Send one of the grooms with a note as soon as you have had the
inevitable scene. I only hope the result will be that I send the coach
for you to-day. I do hope you'll be happy. Why shouldn't you? Byam
Warner would not be the first man to settle down in matrimony. But
can you stand living your life on Nevis."

"I should have wished to live here had I never met Byam Warner."

"Oh--well--you are not to be pitied. I shall paint you while you are
at the Grange, all in white--only in a smarter gown--in this setting,
and with those blue butterflies circling about your head. You cannot
imagine what a picture you made. What a pity I frightened them away.
Now, mind you write me at once."

She kissed her radiant friend with a sigh, doubting that even conquest
of Lord Hunsdon would make herself look like a goddess, and rode on.

Anne went her way, even more slowly than before. She was in no haste
to face Mrs. Nunn, and she would re-live the morning hours before
other mere mortals scattered those precious images in her mind. Warner
had taken her up to his hut concealed in a hollow of the mountain and
surrounded on all sides by the jungle, then, while she sat on the one
chair the establishment boasted, he had cooked their breakfast, a
palatable mess of rice and plantains, and the best of coffee. They
had consumed it with great merriment under a banana tree, then washed
the dishes in a brook. Afterward he had shaken down several young
cocoanuts and they had pledged themselves in the green wine. Then they
had returned to the shade and talked--what had they not talked about?
Anne opened the sealed book of the past five years of which he had
been the hero. He read it with amazement and delight, but contrite
that he had received no message from that turbulent young brain by the
North Sea. But he atoned by confessing that he had recognised her as
his own the moment he laid eyes on her, that she was all and more than
he had once modelled in the mists of his brain. He demanded every
detail of that long union, so imaginative and so real, and told Anne
that never before had a poet had the fortune to meet a woman who was a
locked fountain of poetry, yet who revealed the sparkling flood by a
method of her own with which no words could compete.

"And will you write my poems?" Anne had asked eagerly. But he had
drawn down a broad leaf between his face and hers. "I told you that I
was a poet no longer--merely a lover. To know absolute happiness in
two forms in this world you must take them in turn. I shall write no
more."

"Were you perfectly happy when you wrote?" asked Anne, a little
jealously.

"Perfectly."

"I can almost understand it."

"I can no more express it than I have ever been able to tell in verse
the half of what I blindly conceived."

"I should think that might have clouded your happiness."

"Yes--when a poem was revolving and seething in my distracted head.
Never tempt me to write, for while the thing is gestating I am a
brute, moody, irritable, unhappy. The whole poem seems to work itself
out remorselessly before I can put pen to paper, and at the same time
is enveloped in a mist. I catch glimpses like will-o'-the-wisps in a
fog bank, sudden visions of perfect form that seem to turn to grinning
masks. It is maddening! But when the great moment arrives and I am at
my desk I am the happiest man on earth."

By tacit consent the subject of the stimulants under which he had
always written was ignored, as well as the terrible chapter of his
