but after a time they ceased to bear me company. The reason of this, I
think, is because--at least to foreign eyes--the sum of Italian misery
is, on the whole, less than the sum of the Italian knowledge of life.
That people should thank you, with a smile of striking sweetness, for
the gift of twopence, is a proof, certainly, of extreme and constant
destitution; but (keeping in mind the sweetness) it also attests an
enviable ability not to be depressed by circumstances. I know that this
may possibly be great nonsense; that half the time we are acclaiming
the fine quality of the Italian smile the creature so constituted for
physiognomic radiance may be in a sullen frenzy of impatience and pain.
Our observation in any foreign land is extremely superficial, and our
remarks are happily not addressed to the inhabitants themselves, who
would be sure to exclaim upon the impudence of the fancy-picture.

The other day I visited a very picturesque old city upon a mountain-top,
where, in the course of my wanderings, I arrived at an old disused gate
in the ancient town-wall. The gate hadn’t been absolutely forfeited;
but the recent completion of a modern road down the mountain led most
vehicles away to another egress. The grass-grown pavement, which wound
into the plain by a hundred graceful twists and plunges, was now given
up to ragged contadini and their donkeys, and to such wayfarers as were
not alarmed at the disrepair into which it had fallen. I stood in the
shadow of the tall old gateway admiring the scene, looking to right and
left at the wonderful walls of the little town, perched on the edge of
a shaggy precipice; at the circling mountains over against them; at the
road dipping downward among the chestnuts and olives. There was no one
within sight but a young man who slowly trudged upward with his coat
slung over his shoulder and his hat upon his ear in the manner of a
cavalier in an opera. Like an operatic performer too he sang as he came;
the spectacle, generally, was operatic, and as his vocal flourishes
reached my ear I said to myself that in Italy accident was always
romantic and that such a figure had been exactly what was wanted to set
off the landscape. It suggested in a high degree that knowledge of life
for which I just now commended the Italians. I was turning back under
the old gateway when the young man overtook me and, suspending his song,
asked me if I could favour him with a match to light the hoarded remnant
of a cigar. This request led, as I took my way again to the inn, to my
falling into talk with him. He was a native of the ancient city, and
answered freely all my inquiries as to its manners and customs and
its note of public opinion. But the point of my anecdote is that he
presently acknowledged himself a brooding young radical and communist,
filled with hatred of the present Italian government, raging with
discontent and crude political passion, professing a ridiculous hope
that Italy would soon have, as France had had, her “‘89,” and declaring
that he for his part would willingly lend a hand to chop off the
heads of the king and the royal family. He was an unhappy, underfed,
unemployed young man, who took a hard, grim view of everything and was
operatic only quite in spite of himself. This made it very absurd of me
to have looked at him simply as a graceful ornament to the prospect,
an harmonious little figure in the middle distance. “Damn the prospect,
damn the middle distance!” would have been all his philosophy. Yet but
for the accident of my having gossipped with him I should have made him
do service, in memory, as an example of sensuous optimism!

I am bound to say however that I believe a great deal of the sensuous
optimism observable in the Genoese alleys and beneath the low, crowded
arcades along the port was very real. Here every one was magnificently
sunburnt, and there were plenty of those queer types, mahogany-coloured,
bare-chested mariners with earrings and crimson girdles, that seem to
people a southern seaport with the chorus of “Masaniello.” But it is not
fair to speak as if at Genoa there were nothing but low-life to be seen,
for the place is the residence of some of the grandest people in the
world. Nor are all the palaces ranged upon dusky alleys; the handsomest
and most impressive form a splendid series on each side of a couple
of very proper streets, in which there is plenty of room for a
coach-and-four to approach the big doorways. Many of these doorways
are open, revealing great marble staircases with couchant lions for
balustrades and ceremonious courts surrounded by walls of sun-softened
yellow. One of the great piles in the array is coloured a goodly red and
contains in particular the grand people I just now spoke of. They
live indeed on the third floor; but here they have suites of wonderful
painted and gilded chambers, in which foreshortened frescoes also cover
the vaulted ceilings and florid mouldings emboss the ample walls. These
distinguished tenants bear the name of Vandyck, though they are members
of the noble family of Brignole-Sale, one of whose children--the Duchess
of Galliera--has lately given proof of nobleness in presenting the
gallery of the red palace to the city of Genoa.


III

On leaving Genoa I repaired to Spezia, chiefly with a view of
accomplishing a sentimental pilgrimage, which I in fact achieved in the
most agreeable conditions. The Gulf of Spezia is now the headquarters
of the Italian fleet, and there were several big iron-plated frigates
riding at anchor in front of the town. The streets were filled with lads
in blue flannel, who were receiving instruction at a schoolship in the
harbour, and in the evening--there was a brilliant moon--the little
breakwater which stretched out into the Mediterranean offered a scene of
recreation to innumerable such persons. But this fact is from the point
of view of the cherisher of quaintness of little account, for since it
has become prosperous Spezia has grown ugly. The place is filled with
long, dull stretches of dead wall and great raw expanses of artificial
land. It wears that look of monstrous, of more than far-western newness
which distinguishes all the creations of the young Italian State. Nor
did I find any great compensation in an immense inn of recent birth,
an establishment seated on the edge of the sea in anticipation of a
passeggiata which is to come that way some five years hence, the
region being in the meantime of the most primitive formation. The inn
was filled with grave English people who looked respectable and
bored, and there was of course a Church of England service in the
gaudily-frescoed parlour. Neither was it the drive to Porto Venere that
chiefly pleased me--a drive among vines and olives, over the hills
and beside the Mediterranean, to a queer little crumbling village on a
headland, as sweetly desolate and superannuated as the name it bears.
There is a ruined church near the village, which occupies the site
(according to tradition) of an ancient temple of Venus; and if Venus ever
revisits her desecrated shrines she must sometimes pause a moment in
that sunny stillness and listen to the murmur of the tideless sea at
the base of the narrow promontory. If Venus sometimes comes there Apollo
surely does as much; for close to the temple is a gateway surmounted by
an inscription in Italian and English, which admits you to a curious,
and it must be confessed rather cockneyfied, cave among the rocks. It
was here, says the inscription, that the great Byron, swimmer and poet,
“defied the waves of the Ligurian sea.” The fact is interesting, though
not supremely so; for Byron was always defying something, and if a slab
had been put up wherever this performance came off these commemorative
tablets would be in many parts of Europe as thick as milestones.

No; the great merit of Spezia, to my eye, is that I engaged a boat there
of a lovely October afternoon and had myself rowed across the gulf--it
took about an hour and a half--to the little bay of Lerici, which opens
out of it. This bay of Lerici is charming; the bosky grey-green hills
close it in, and on either side of the entrance, perched on a bold
headland, a wonderful old crumbling castle keeps ineffectual guard. The
place is classic to all English travellers, for in the middle of the
curving shore is the now desolate little villa in which Shelley spent
the last months of his short life. He was living at Lerici when he
started on that short southern cruise from which he never returned. The
house he occupied is strangely shabby and as sad as you may choose to
find it. It stands directly upon the beach, with scarred and battered
walls and a loggia of several arches opening to a little terrace with
a rugged parapet, which, when the wind blows, must be drenched with
the salt spray. The place is very lonely--all overwearied with sun and
breeze and brine--very close to nature, as it was Shelley’s passion
to be. I can fancy a great lyric poet sitting on the terrace of a warm
evening and feeling very far from England in the early years of the
century. In that place, and with his genius, he would as a matter of
course have heard in the voice of nature a sweetness which only the
lyric movement could translate. It is a place where an English-speaking
pilgrim himself may very honestly think thoughts and feel moved to lyric
utterance. But I must content myself with saying in halting prose that
I remember few episodes of Italian travel more sympathetic, as they have
it here, than that perfect autumn afternoon; the half-hour’s station on
the little battered terrace of the villa; the climb to the singularly
felicitous old castle that hangs above Lerici; the meditative lounge, in
the fading light, on the vine-decked platform that looked out toward the
sunset and the darkening mountains and, far below, upon the quiet sea,
beyond which the pale-faced tragic villa stared up at the brightening
moon.


IV

I had never known Florence more herself, or in other words more
attaching, than I found her for a week in that brilliant October.
She sat in the sunshine beside her yellow river like the little
treasure-city she has always seemed, without commerce, without other
industry than the manufacture of mosaic paper-weights and alabaster
Cupids, without actuality or energy or earnestness or any of those
rugged virtues which in most cases are deemed indispensable for civic
cohesion; with nothing but the little unaugmented stock of her mediaeval
memories, her tender-coloured mountains, her churches and palaces,
pictures and statues. There were very few strangers; one’s detested
fellow-pilgrim was infrequent; the native population itself seemed
scanty; the sound of wheels in the streets was but occasional; by eight
o’clock at night, apparently, every one had gone to bed, and the
musing wanderer, still wandering and still musing, had the place to
himself--had the thick shadow-masses of the great palaces, and the
shafts of moonlight striking the polygonal paving-stones, and the empty
bridges, and the silvered yellow of the Arno, and the stillness broken
only by a homeward step, a step accompanied by a snatch of song from a
warm Italian voice. My room at the inn looked out on the river and was
flooded all day with sunshine. There was an absurd orange-coloured
paper on the walls; the Arno, of a hue not altogether different, flowed
beneath; and on the other side of it rose a line of sallow houses, of
extreme antiquity, crumbling and mouldering, bulging and protruding over
the stream. (I seem to speak of their fronts; but what I saw was their
shabby backs, which were exposed to the cheerful flicker of the river,
while the fronts stood for ever in the deep damp shadow of a narrow
mediaeval street.) All this brightness and yellowness was a perpetual
delight; it was a part of that indefinably charming colour which
Florence always seems to wear as you look up and down at it from
the river, and from the bridges and quays. This is a kind of grave
radiance--a harmony of high tints--which I scarce know how to describe.
There are yellow walls and green blinds and red roofs, there are
intervals of brilliant brown and natural-looking blue; but the picture
is not spotty nor gaudy, thanks to the distribution of the colours in
large and comfortable masses, and to the washing-over of the scene by
some happy softness of sunshine. The river-front of Florence is in short
a delightful composition. Part of its charm comes of course from the
generous aspect of those high-based Tuscan palaces which a renewal of
acquaintance with them has again commended to me as the most dignified
dwellings in the world. Nothing can be finer than that look of giving
up the whole immense ground-floor to simple purposes of vestibule and
staircase, of court and high-arched entrance; as if this were all but
a massive pedestal for the real habitation and people weren’t properly
housed unless, to begin with, they should be lifted fifty feet above
the pavement. The great blocks of the basement; the great intervals,
horizontally and vertically, from window to window (telling of the
height and breadth of the rooms within); the armorial shield hung
forward at one of the angles; the wide-brimmed roof, overshadowing
the narrow street; the rich old browns and yellows of the walls: these
definite elements put themselves together with admirable art.

{Illustration: ROMAN GATEWAY, RIMINI.}

Take a Tuscan pile of this type out of its oblique situation in the
town; call it no longer a palace, but a villa; set it down by a terrace
on one of the hills that encircle Florence, place a row of high-waisted
cypresses beside it, give it a grassy court-yard and a view of the
Florentine towers and the valley of the Arno, and you will think it
perhaps even more worthy of your esteem. It was a Sunday noon, and
brilliantly warm, when I again arrived; and after I had looked from my
windows a while at that quietly-basking river-front I have spoken of
I took my way across one of the bridges and then out of one of the
gates--that immensely tall Roman Gate in which the space from the top of
the arch to the cornice (except that there is scarcely a cornice, it is
all a plain massive piece of wall) is as great, or seems to be, as that
from the ground to the former point. Then I climbed a steep and winding
way--much of it a little dull if one likes, being bounded by mottled,
mossy garden-walls--to a villa on a hill-top, where I found various
things that touched me with almost too fine a point. Seeing them again,
often, for a week, both by sunlight and moonshine, I never quite learned
not to covet them; not to feel that not being a part of them was somehow
to miss an exquisite chance. What a tranquil, contented life it seemed,
with romantic beauty as a part of its daily texture!--the sunny terrace,
with its tangled podere beneath it; the bright grey olives against
the bright blue sky; the long, serene, horizontal lines of other villas,
flanked by their upward cypresses, disposed upon the neighbouring hills;
the richest little city in the world in a softly-scooped hollow at one’s
feet, and beyond it the most appealing of views, the most majestic,
yet the most familiar. Within the villa was a great love of art and
a painting-room full of felicitous work, so that if human life there
confessed to quietness, the quietness was mostly but that of the intent
act. A beautiful occupation in that beautiful position, what could
possibly be better? That is what I spoke just now of envying--a way
of life that doesn’t wince at such refinements of peace and ease. When
labour self-charmed presents itself in a dull or an ugly place we esteem
it, we admire it, but we scarce feel it to be the ideal of good fortune.
When, however, its votaries move as figures in an ancient, noble
landscape, and their walks and contemplations are like a turning of the
leaves of history, we seem to have before us an admirable case of virtue
made easy; meaning here by virtue contentment and concentration, a real
appreciation of the rare, the exquisite though composite, medium of
life. You needn’t want a rush or a crush when the scene itself, the mere
scene, shares with you such a wealth of consciousness.

It is true indeed that I might after a certain time grow weary of a
regular afternoon stroll among the Florentine lanes; of sitting on low
parapets, in intervals of flower-topped wall, and looking across at
Fiesole or down the rich-hued valley of the Arno; of pausing at the open
gates of villas and wondering at the height of cypresses and the depth
of loggias; of walking home in the fading light and noting on a dozen
westward-looking surfaces the glow of the opposite sunset. But for a
week or so all this was delightful. The villas are innumerable, and if
you’re an aching alien half the talk is about villas. This one has a
story; that one has another; they all look as if they had stories--none
in truth predominantly gay. Most of them are offered to rent (many of
them for sale) at prices unnaturally low; you may have a tower and a
garden, a chapel and an expanse of thirty windows, for five hundred
dollars a year. In imagination you hire three or four; you take
possession and settle and stay. Your sense of the fineness of the finest
is of something very grave and stately; your sense of the bravery of two
or three of the best something quite tragic and sinister. From what does
this latter impression come? You gather it as you stand there in the
early dusk, with your eyes on the long, pale-brown facade, the enormous
windows, the iron cages fastened to the lower ones. Part of the brooding
expression of these great houses comes, even when they have not fallen
into decay, from their look of having outlived their original use. Their
extraordinary largeness and massiveness are a satire on their present
fate. They weren’t built with such a thickness of wall and depth of
embrasure, such a solidity of staircase and superfluity of stone,
simply to afford an economical winter residence to English and American
families. I don’t know whether it was the appearance of these stony old
villas, which seemed so dumbly conscious of a change of manners, that
threw a tinge of melancholy over the general prospect; certain it is
that, having always found this note as of a myriad old sadnesses in
solution in the view of Florence, it seemed to me now particularly
strong. “Lovely, lovely, but it makes me ‘blue,’” the sensitive stranger
couldn’t but murmur to himself as, in the late afternoon, he looked
at the landscape from over one of the low parapets, and then, with his
hands in his pockets, turned away indoors to candles and dinner.


V

Below, in the city, through all frequentation of streets and churches
and museums, it was impossible not to have a good deal of the same
feeling; but here the impression was more easy to analyse. It came from
a sense of the perfect separateness of all the great productions of
the Renaissance from the present and the future of the place, from the
actual life and manners, the native ideal. I have already spoken of
the way in which the vast aggregation of beautiful works of art in the
Italian cities strikes the visitor nowadays--so far as present Italy
is concerned--as the mere stock-in-trade of an impecunious but thrifty
people. It is this spiritual solitude, this conscious disconnection of
the great works of architecture and sculpture that deposits a certain
weight upon the heart; when we see a great tradition broken we feel
something of the pain with which we hear a stifled cry. But regret
is one thing and resentment is another. Seeing one morning, in a
shop-window, the series of Mornings in Florence published a few years
since by Mr. Ruskin, I made haste to enter and purchase these amusing
little books, some passages of which I remembered formerly to have
read. I couldn’t turn over many pages without observing that the
“separateness” of the new and old which I just mentioned had produced
in their author the liveliest irritation. With the more acute phases of
this condition it was difficult to sympathise, for the simple reason, it
seems to me, that it savours of arrogance to demand of any people, as
a right of one’s own, that they shall be artistic. “Be artistic
yourselves!” is the very natural reply that young Italy has at hand for
English critics and censors. When a people produces beautiful statues
and pictures it gives us something more than is set down in the bond,
and we must thank it for its generosity; and when it stops producing
them or caring for them we may cease thanking, but we hardly have a
right to begin and rail. The wreck of Florence, says Mr. Ruskin, “is now
too ghastly and heart-breaking to any human soul that remembers the days
of old”; and these desperate words are an allusion to the fact that the
little square in front of the cathedral, at the foot of Giotto’s Tower,
with the grand Baptistery on the other side, is now the resort of
a number of hackney-coaches and omnibuses. This fact is doubtless
lamentable, and it would be a hundred times more agreeable to see among
people who have been made the heirs of so priceless a work of art as the
sublime campanile some such feeling about it as would keep it free even
from the danger of defilement. A cab-stand is a very ugly and dirty
thing, and Giotto’s Tower should have nothing in common with such
conveniences. But there is more than one way of taking such things, and
the sensitive stranger who has been walking about for a week with his
mind full of the sweetness and suggestiveness of a hundred Florentine
places may feel at last in looking into Mr. Ruskin’s little tracts that,
discord for discord, there isn’t much to choose between the importunity
of the author’s personal ill-humour and the incongruity of horse-pails
and bundles of hay. And one may say this without being at all a partisan
of the doctrine of the inevitableness of new desecrations. For my own
part, I believe there are few things in this line that the new Italian
spirit isn’t capable of, and not many indeed that we aren’t destined to
see. Pictures and buildings won’t be completely destroyed, because in
that case the forestieri, scatterers of cash, would cease to arrive
and the turn-stiles at the doors of the old palaces and convents, with
the little patented slit for absorbing your half-franc, would grow quite
rusty, would stiffen with disuse. But it’s safe to say that the
new Italy growing into an old Italy again will continue to take her
elbow-room wherever she may find it.

{Illustration: SANTA MARIA NOVELLA, FLORENCE}

I am almost ashamed to say what I did with Mr. Ruskin’s little books. I
put them into my pocket and betook myself to Santa Maria Novella. There
I sat down and, after I had looked about for a while at the beautiful
church, drew them forth one by one and read the greater part of them.
Occupying one’s self with light literature in a great religious edifice
is perhaps as bad a piece of profanation as any of those rude dealings
which Mr. Ruskin justly deplores; but a traveller has to make the most
of odd moments, and I was waiting for a friend in whose company I was
to go and look at Giotto’s beautiful frescoes in the cloister of the
church. My friend was a long time coming, so that I had an hour with Mr.
Ruskin, whom I called just now a light littérateur because in these
little Mornings in Florence he is for ever making his readers laugh.
I remembered of course where I was, and in spite of my latent hilarity
felt I had rarely got such a snubbing. I had really been enjoying the
good old city of Florence, but I now learned from Mr. Ruskin that this
was a scandalous waste of charity. I should have gone about with an
imprecation on my lips, I should have worn a face three yards long. I
had taken great pleasure in certain frescoes by Ghirlandaio in the choir
of that very church; but it appeared from one of the little books that
these frescoes were as naught. I had much admired Santa Croce and had
thought the Duomo a very noble affair; but I had now the most positive
assurance I knew nothing about them. After a while, if it was only
ill-humour that was needed for doing honour to the city of the Medici,
I felt that I had risen to a proper level; only now it was Mr. Ruskin
himself I had lost patience with, not the stupid Brunelleschi, not the
vulgar Ghirlandaio. Indeed I lost patience altogether, and asked myself
by what right this informal votary of form pretended to run riot through
a poor charmed flaneur’s quiet contemplations, his attachment to the
noblest of pleasures, his enjoyment of the loveliest of cities. The
little books seemed invidious and insane, and it was only when I
remembered that I had been under no obligation to buy them that I
checked myself in repenting of having done so.

Then at last my friend arrived and we passed together out of the church,
and, through the first cloister beside it, into a smaller enclosure
where we stood a while to look at the tomb of the Marchesa
Strozzi-Ridolfi, upon which the great Giotto has painted four superb
little pictures. It was easy to see the pictures were superb; but I drew
forth one of my little books again, for I had observed that Mr. Ruskin
spoke of them. Hereupon I recovered my tolerance; for what could be
better in this case, I asked myself, than Mr. Ruskin’s remarks? They
are in fact excellent and charming--full of appreciation of the deep
and simple beauty of the great painter’s work. I read them aloud to my
companion; but my companion was rather, as the phrase is, “put off”
 by them. One of the frescoes--it is a picture of the birth of the
Virgin--contains a figure coming through a door. “Of ornament,” I quote,
“there is only the entirely simple outline of the vase which the servant
carries; of colour two or three masses of sober red and pure white,
with brown and grey. That is all,” Mr. Ruskin continues. “And if you are
pleased with this you can see Florence. But if not, by all means amuse
yourself there, if you find it amusing, as long as you like; you
can never see it.” You can never see it. This seemed to my friend
insufferable, and I had to shuffle away the book again, so that we might
look at the fresco with the unruffled geniality it deserves. We agreed
afterwards, when in a more convenient place I read aloud a good many
more passages from the precious tracts, that there are a great many
ways of seeing Florence, as there are of seeing most beautiful and
interesting things, and that it is very dry and pedantic to say that
the happy vision depends upon our squaring our toes with a certain
particular chalk-mark. We see Florence wherever and whenever we enjoy
it, and for enjoying it we find a great many more pretexts than Mr.
Ruskin seems inclined to allow. My friend and I convinced ourselves
also, however, that the little books were an excellent purchase, on
account of the great charm and felicity of much of their incidental
criticism; to say nothing, as I hinted just now, of their being
extremely amusing. Nothing in fact is more comical than the familiar
asperity of the author’s style and the pedagogic fashion in which he
pushes and pulls his unhappy pupils about, jerking their heads toward
this, rapping their knuckles for that, sending them to stand in
corners and giving them Scripture texts to copy. But it is neither the
felicities nor the aberrations of detail, in Mr. Ruskin’s writings, that
are the main affair for most readers; it is the general tone that, as
I have said, puts them off or draws them on. For many persons he will
never bear the test of being read in this rich old Italy, where art, so
long as it really lived at all, was spontaneous, joyous, irresponsible.
If the reader is in daily contact with those beautiful Florentine
works which do still, in away, force themselves into notice through the
vulgarity and cruelty of modern profanation, it will seem to him that
this commentator’s comment is pitched in the strangest falsetto key.
“One may read a hundred pages of this sort of thing,” said my friend,
“without ever dreaming that he is talking about art. You can say
nothing worse about him than that.” Which is perfectly true. Art is the
one corner of human life in which we may take our ease. To justify our
presence there the only thing demanded of us is that we shall have felt
the representational impulse. In other connections our impulses are
conditioned and embarrassed; we are allowed to have only so many as
are consistent with those of our neighbours; with their convenience
and well-being, with their convictions and prejudices, their rules and
regulations. Art means an escape from all this. Wherever her shining
standard floats the need for apology and compromise is over; there it
is enough simply that we please or are pleased. There the tree is judged
only by its fruits. If these are sweet the tree is justified--and not
less so the consumer.

One may read a great many pages of Mr. Ruskin without getting a hint of
this delightful truth; a hint of the not unimportant fact that art after
all is made for us and not we for art. This idea that the value of
a work is in the amount of illusion it yields is conspicuous by its
absence. And as for Mr. Ruskin’s world’s being a place--his world of
art--where we may take life easily, woe to the luckless mortal who
enters it with any such disposition. Instead of a garden of delight, he
finds a sort of assize court in perpetual session. Instead of a place
in which human responsibilities are lightened and suspended, he finds a
region governed by a kind of Draconic legislation. His responsibilities
indeed are tenfold increased; the gulf between truth and error is for
ever yawning at his feet; the pains and penalties of this same error are
advertised, in apocalyptic terminology, upon a thousand sign-posts; and
the rash intruder soon begins to look back with infinite longing to the
lost paradise of the artless. There can be no greater want of tact in
dealing with those things with which men attempt to ornament life than
to be perpetually talking about “error.” A truce to all rigidities is
the law of the place; the only thing absolute there is that some force
and some charm have worked. The grim old bearer of the scales excuses
herself; she feels this not to be her province. Differences here are not
iniquity and righteousness; they are simply variations of temperament,
kinds of curiosity. We are not under theological government.


VI

It was very charming, in the bright, warm days, to wander from one
corner of Florence to another, paying one’s respects again to remembered
masterpieces. It was pleasant also to find that memory had played no
tricks and that the rarest things of an earlier year were as rare as
ever. To enumerate these felicities would take a great deal of space;
for I never had been more struck with the mere quantity of brilliant
Florentine work. Even giving up the Duomo and Santa Croce to Mr. Ruskin
as very ill-arranged edifices, the list of the Florentine treasures is
almost inexhaustible. Those long outer galleries of the Uffizi had
never beguiled me more; sometimes there were not more than two or
three figures standing there, Baedeker in hand, to break the charming
perspective. One side of this upstairs portico, it will be remembered,
is entirely composed of glass; a continuity of old-fashioned windows,
draped with white curtains of rather primitive fashion, which hang there
till they acquire a perceptible tone. The light, passing through
them, is softly filtered and diffused; it rests mildly upon the
old marbles--chiefly antique Roman busts--which stand in the narrow
intervals of the casements. It is projected upon the numerous pictures
that cover the opposite wall and that are not by any means, as a general
thing, the gems of the great collection; it imparts a faded brightness
to the old ornamental arabesques upon the painted wooden ceiling, and it
makes a great soft shining upon the marble floor, in which, as you look
up and down, you see the strolling tourists and the motionless copyists
almost reflected. I don’t know why I should find all this very pleasant,
but in fact, I have seldom gone into the Uffizi without walking the
length of this third-story cloister, between the (for the most part)
third-rate canvases and panels and the faded cotton curtains. Why is
it that in Italy we see a charm in things in regard to which in other
countries we always take vulgarity for granted? If in the city of
New York a great museum of the arts were to be provided, by way of
decoration, with a species of verandah enclosed on one side by a series
of small-paned windows draped in dirty linen, and furnished on the other
with an array of pictorial feebleness, the place being surmounted by
a thinly-painted wooden roof, strongly suggestive of summer heat,
of winter cold, of frequent leakage, those amateurs who had had the
advantage of foreign travel would be at small pains to conceal their
contempt. Contemptible or respectable, to the judicial mind, this quaint
old loggia of the Uffizi admitted me into twenty chambers where I found
as great a number of ancient favourites. I don’t know that I had a
warmer greeting for any old friend than for Andrea del Sarto, that most
touching of painters who is not one of the first. But it was on the
other side of the Arno that I found him in force, in those dusky
drawing-rooms of the Pitti Palace to which you take your way along
the tortuous tunnel that wanders through the houses of Florence and is
supported by the little goldsmiths’ booths on the Ponte Vecchio. In the
rich insufficient light of these beautiful rooms, where, to look at the
pictures, you sit in damask chairs and rest your elbows on tables of
malachite, the elegant Andrea becomes deeply effective. Before long he
has drawn you close. But the great pleasure, after all, was to revisit
the earlier masters, in those specimens of them chiefly that bloom
so unfadingly on the big plain walls of the Academy. Fra Angelico and
Filippo Lippi, Botticelli and Lorenzo di Credi are the clearest,
the sweetest and best of all painters; as I sat for an hour in
their company, in the cold great hall of the institution I have
mentioned--there are shabby rafters above and an immense expanse of
brick tiles below, and many bad pictures as well as good--it seemed
to me more than ever that if one really had to choose one couldn’t do
better than choose here. You may rest at your ease at the Academy, in
this big first room--at the upper end especially, on the left--because
more than many other places it savours of old Florence. More for
instance, in reality, than the Bargello, though the Bargello makes great
pretensions. Beautiful and masterful though the Bargello is, it smells
too strongly of restoration, and, much of old Italy as still lurks in
its furbished and renovated chambers, it speaks even more distinctly
of the ill-mannered young kingdom that has--as “unavoidably” as you
please--lifted down a hundred delicate works of sculpture from the
convent-walls where their pious authors placed them. If the early Tuscan
painters are exquisite I can think of no praise pure enough for the
sculptors of the same period, Donatello and Luca della Robbia, Matteo
Civitale and Mina da Fiesole, who, as I refreshed my memory of them,
seemed to me to leave absolutely nothing to be desired in the way of
straightness of inspiration and grace of invention. The Bargello is full
of early Tuscan sculpture, most of the pieces of which have come from
suppressed religious houses; and even if the visitor be an ardent
liberal he is uncomfortably conscious of the rather brutal process by
which it has been collected. One can hardly envy young Italy the number
of odious things she has had to do.

The railway journey from Florence to Rome has been altered both for the
better and for the worse; for the better in that it has been shortened
by a couple of hours; for the worse inasmuch as when about half the
distance has been traversed the train deflects to the west and leaves
the beautiful old cities of Assisi, Perugia, Terni, Narni, unvisited.
Of old it was possible to call at these places, in a manner, from the
window of the train; even if you didn’t stop, as you probably couldn’t,
every time you passed, the immensely interesting way in which, like a
loosened belt on an aged and shrunken person, their ample walls held
them easily together was something well worth noting. Now, however,
for compensation, the express train to Rome stops at Orvieto, and in
consequence... In consequence what? What is the result of the stop of
an express train at Orvieto? As I glibly wrote that sentence I suddenly
paused, aware of the queer stuff I was uttering. That an express train
would graze the base of the horrid purple mountain from the apex of
which this dark old Catholic city uplifts the glittering front of
its cathedral--that might have been foretold by a keen observer of
contemporary manners. But that it would really have the grossness to
hang about is a fact over which, as he records it, an inveterate, a
perverse cherisher of the sense of the past order, the order still
largely prevailing at the time of his first visit to Italy, may well
make what is vulgarly called an ado. The train does stop at Orvieto,
not very long, it is true, but long enough to let you out. The same
phenomenon takes place on the following day, when, having visited the
city, you get in again. I availed myself without scruple of both of
these occasions, having formerly neglected to drive to the place in a
post-chaise. But frankly, the railway-station being in the plain and the
town on the summit of an extraordinary hill, you have time to forget
the puffing indiscretion while you wind upwards to the city-gate. The
position of Orvieto is superb--worthy of the “middle distance” of an
eighteenth-century landscape. But, as every one knows, the splendid
Cathedral is the proper attraction of the spot, which, indeed, save
for this fine monument and for its craggy and crumbling ramparts, is a
meanly arranged and, as Italian cities go, not particularly impressive
little town. I spent a beautiful Sunday there and took in the charming
church. I gave it my best attention, though on the whole I fear I found
it inferior to its fame. A high concert of colour, however, is the
densely carved front, richly covered with radiant mosaics. The old white
marble of the sculptured portions is as softly yellow as ancient ivory;
the large exceedingly bright pictures above them flashed and twinkled
in the glorious weather. Very striking and interesting the theological
frescoes of Luca Signorelli, though I have seen compositions of this
general order that appealed to me more. Characteristically fresh,
finally, the clear-faced saints and seraphs, in robes of pink and azure,
whom Fra Angelico has painted upon the ceiling of the great chapel,
along with a noble sitting figure--more expressive of movement than most
of the creations of this pictorial peace-maker--of Christ in judgment.
Yet the interest of the cathedral of Orvieto is mainly not the visible
result, but the historical process that lies behind it; those three
hundred years of the applied devotion of a people of which an American
scholar has written an admirable account.{1}

1877.

{1} Charles Eliot Norton, Notes of Travel and Study in Italy.





A ROMAN HOLIDAY


It is certainly sweet to be merry at the right moment; but the right
moment hardly seems to me the ten days of the Roman Carnival. It was
my rather cynical suspicion perhaps that they wouldn’t keep to my
imagination the brilliant promise of legend; but I have been justified
by the event and have been decidedly less conscious of the festal
influences of the season than of the inalienable gravity of the place.
There was a time when the Carnival was a serious matter--that is a
heartily joyous one; but, thanks to the seven-league boots the kingdom
of Italy has lately donned for the march of progress in quite other
directions, the fashion of public revelry has fallen woefully out of
step. The state of mind and manners under which the Carnival was kept in
generous good faith I doubt if an American can exactly conceive: he can
only say to himself that for a month in the year there must have been
things--things considerably of humiliation--it was comfortable to
forget. But now that Italy is made the Carnival is unmade; and we are
not especially tempted to envy the attitude of a population who have
lost their relish for play and not yet acquired to any striking extent
an enthusiasm for work. The spectacle on the Corso has seemed to me, on
the whole, an illustration of that great breach with the past of which
Catholic Christendom felt the somewhat muffled shock in September, 1870.
A traveller acquainted with the fully papal Rome, coming back any time
during the past winter, must have immediately noticed that something
momentous had happened--something hostile to the elements of picture
and colour and “style.” My first warning was that ten minutes after
my arrival I found myself face to face with a newspaper stand. The
impossibility in the other days of having anything in the journalistic
line but the Osservatore Romano and the Voce della Verità used to
seem to me much connected with the extraordinary leisure of thought and
stillness of mind to which the place admitted you. But now the slender
piping of the Voice of Truth is stifled by the raucous note of eventide
vendors of the Capitale, the Libertà and the Fanfulla; and Rome
reading unexpurgated news is another Rome indeed. For every subscriber
to the Libertà there may well be an antique masker and reveller less.
As striking a sign of the new régime is the extraordinary increase of
population. The Corso was always a well-filled street, but now it’s
a perpetual crush. I never cease to wonder where the new-comers are
lodged, and how such spotless flowers of fashion as the gentlemen who
stare at the carriages can bloom in the atmosphere of those camere
mobiliate of which I have had glimpses. This, however, is their own
question, and bravely enough they meet it. They proclaimed somehow, to
the first freshness of my wonder, as I say, that by force of numbers
Rome had been secularised. An Italian dandy is a figure visually
to reckon with, but these goodly throngs of them scarce offered
compensation for the absent monsignori, treading the streets in their
purple stockings and followed by the solemn servants who returned on
their behalf the bows of the meaner sort; for the mourning gear of the
cardinals’ coaches that formerly glittered with scarlet and swung with
the weight of the footmen clinging behind; for the certainty that you’ll
not, by the best of traveller’s luck, meet the Pope sitting deep in the
shadow of his great chariot with uplifted fingers like some inaccessible
idol in his shrine. You may meet the King indeed, who is as ugly, as
imposingly ugly, as some idols, though not so inaccessible. The other
day as I passed the Quirinal he drove up in a low carriage with a single
attendant; and a group of men and women who had been waiting near
the gate rushed at him with a number of folded papers. The carriage
slackened pace and he pocketed their offerings with a business-like
air--hat of a good-natured man accepting handbills at a street-corner.
Here was a monarch at his palace gate receiving petitions from his
subjects--being adjured to right their wrongs. The scene ought to have
thrilled me, but somehow it had no more intensity than a woodcut in an
illustrated newspaper. Homely I should call it at most; admirably so,
certainly, for there were lately few sovereigns standing, I believe,
with whom their people enjoyed these filial hand-to-hand relations. The
King this year, however, has had as little to do with the Carnival as
the Pope, and the innkeepers and Americans have marked it for their own.

It was advertised to begin at half-past two o’clock of a certain
Saturday, and punctually at the stroke of the hour, from my room across
a wide court, I heard a sudden multiplication of sounds and confusion
of tongues in the Corso. I was writing to a friend for whom I cared
more than for any mere romp; but as the minutes elapsed and the hubbub
deepened curiosity got the better of affection, and I remembered that I
was really within eye-shot of an affair the fame of which had ministered
to the daydreams of my infancy. I used to have a scrap-book with a
coloured print of the starting of the bedizened wild horses, and the use
of a library rich in keepsakes and annuals with a frontispiece commonly
of a masked lady in a balcony, the heroine of a delightful tale further
on. Agitated by these tender memories I descended into the street; but
I confess I looked in vain for a masked lady who might serve as a
frontispiece, in vain for any object whatever that might adorn a tale.
Masked and muffled ladies there were in abundance; but their masks were
of ugly wire, perfectly resembling the little covers placed upon strong
cheese in German hotels, and their drapery was a shabby water-proof
with the hood pulled over their chignons. They were armed with great tin
scoops or funnels, with which they solemnly shovelled lime and flour
out of bushel-baskets and down on the heads of the people in the street.
They were packed into balconies all the way along the straight vista of
the Corso, in which their calcareous shower maintained a dense, gritty,
unpalatable fog. The crowd was compact in the street, and the Americans
in it were tossing back confetti out of great satchels hung round their
necks. It was quite the “you’re another” sort of repartee, and less
seasoned than I had hoped with the airy mockery tradition hangs about
this festival. The scene was striking, in a word; but somehow not as
I had dreamed of its being. I stood regardful, I suppose, but with a
peculiarly tempting blankness of visage, for in a moment I received
half a bushel of flour on my too-philosophic head. Decidedly it was an
ignoble form of humour. I shook my ears like an emergent diver, and had
a sudden vision of how still and sunny and solemn, how peculiarly and
undisturbedly themselves, how secure from any intrusion less sympathetic
than one’s own, certain outlying parts of Rome must just then be. The
Carnival had received its deathblow in my imagination; and it has been
ever since but a thin and dusky ghost of pleasure that has flitted at
intervals in and out of my consciousness.

I turned my back accordingly on the Corso and wandered away to the
grass-grown quarters delightfully free even from the possibility of
a fellow-countryman. And so having set myself an example I have been
keeping Carnival by strolling perversely along the silent circumference
of Rome. I have doubtless lost a great deal. The Princess Margaret has
occupied a balcony opposite the open space which leads into Via Condotti
and, I believe, like the discreet princess she is, has dealt in no
missiles but bonbons, bouquets and white doves. I would have waited
half an hour any day to see the Princess Margaret hold a dove on her
forefinger; but I never chanced to notice any preparation for that
effect. And yet do what you will you can’t really elude the Carnival. As
the days elapse it filters down into the manners of the common people,
and before the week is over the very beggars at the church-doors seem to
have gone to the expense of a domino. When you meet these specimens of
dingy drollery capering about in dusky back-streets at all hours of
the day and night, meet them flitting out of black doorways between the
greasy groups that cluster about Roman thresholds, you feel that a love
of “pranks,” the more vivid the better, must from far back have
been implanted in the Roman temperament with a strong hand. An
unsophisticated American is wonderstruck at the number of persons, of
every age and various conditions, whom it costs nothing in the nature of
an ingenuous blush to walk up and down the streets in the costume of a
theatrical supernumerary. Fathers of families do it at the head of an
admiring progeniture; aunts and uncles and grandmothers do it; all
the family does it, with varying splendour but with the same good
conscience. “A pack of babies!” the doubtless too self-conscious alien
pronounces it for its pains, and tries to imagine himself strutting
along Broadway in a battered tin helmet and a pair of yellow tights. Our
vices are certainly different; it takes those of the innocent sort to be
so ridiculous. A self-consciousness lapsing so easily, in fine, strikes
me as so near a relation to amenity, urbanity and general gracefulness
that, for myself, I should be sorry to lay a tax on it, lest these other
commodities should also cease to come to market.

I was rewarded, when I had turned away with my ears full of flour, by
a glimpse of an intenser life than the dingy foolery of the Corso.
I walked down by the back streets to the steps mounting to the
Capitol--that long inclined plane, rather, broken at every two paces,
which is the unfailing disappointment, I believe, of tourists primed for
retrospective raptures. Certainly the Capitol seen from this side isn’t
commanding. The hill is so low, the ascent so narrow, Michael Angelo’s
architecture in the quadrangle at the top so meagre, the whole place
somehow so much more of a mole-hill than a mountain, that for the first
ten minutes of your standing there Roman history seems suddenly to have
sunk through a trap-door. It emerges however on the other side, in the
Forum; and here meanwhile, if you get no sense of the sublime, you get
gradually a sense of exquisite composition. Nowhere in Rome is more
colour, more charm, more sport for the eye. The mild incline, during
the winter months, is always covered with lounging sun-seekers, and
especially with those more constantly obvious members of the Roman
population--beggars, soldiers, monks and tourists. The beggars and
peasants lie kicking their heels along that grandest of loafing-places
the great steps of the Ara Coeli. The dwarfish look of the Capitol is
intensified, I think, by the neighbourhood of this huge blank staircase,
mouldering away in disuse, the weeds thick in its crevices, and climbing
to the rudely solemn facade of the church. The sunshine glares on this
great unfinished wall only to light up its featureless despair, its
expression of conscious, irremediable incompleteness. Sometimes, massing
its rusty screen against the deep blue sky, with the little cross and
the sculptured porch casting a clear-cut shadow on the bricks, it seems
to have even more than a Roman desolation, it confusedly suggests Spain
and Africa--lands with no latent risorgimenti, with absolutely
nothing but a fatal past. The legendary wolf of Rome has lately been
accommodated with a little artificial grotto, among the cacti and the
palms, in the fantastic triangular garden squeezed between the steps of
the church and the ascent to the Capitol, where she holds a perpetual
levee and “draws” apparently as powerfully as the Pope himself. Above,
in the piazzetta before the stuccoed palace which rises so jauntily on a
basement of thrice its magnitude, are more loungers and knitters in the
sun, seated round the massively inscribed base of the statue of Marcus
Aurelius. Hawthorne has perfectly expressed the attitude of this
admirable figure in saying that it extends its arm with “a command which
is in itself a benediction.” I doubt if any statue of king or captain
in the public places of the world has more to commend it to the general
heart. Irrecoverable simplicity--residing so in irrecoverable Style--has
no sturdier representative. Here is an impression that the sculptors of
the last three hundred years have been laboriously trying to reproduce;
but contrasted with this mild old monarch their prancing horsemen
suggest a succession of riding-masters taking out young ladies’
schools. The admirably human character of the figure survives the rusty
decomposition of the bronze and the slight “debasement” of the art; and
one may call it singular that in the capital of Christendom the portrait
most suggestive of a Christian conscience is that of a pagan emperor.

You recover in some degree your stifled hopes of sublimity as you
pass beyond the palace and take your choice of either curving slope to
descend into the Forum. Then you see that the little stuccoed edifice
is but a modern excrescence on the mighty cliff of a primitive
construction, whose great squares of porous tufa, as they underlie each
other, seem to resolve themselves back into the colossal cohesion of
unhewn rock. There are prodigious strangenesses in the union of
this airy and comparatively fresh-faced superstructure and these
deep-plunging, hoary foundations; and few things in Rome are more
entertaining to the eye than to measure the long plumb-line which drops
from the inhabited windows of the palace, with their little over-peeping
balconies, their muslin curtains and their bird-cages, down to the
rugged constructional work of the Republic. In the Forum proper the
sublime is eclipsed again, though the late extension of the excavations
gives a chance for it.

Nothing in Rome helps your fancy to a more vigorous backward flight than
to lounge on a sunny day over the railing which guards the great central
researches. It “says” more things to you than you can repeat to see the
past, the ancient world, as you stand there, bodily turned up with the
spade and transformed from an immaterial, inaccessible fact of time into
a matter of soils and surfaces. The pleasure is the same--in kind--as
what you enjoy of Pompeii, and the pain the same. It wasn’t here,
however, that I found my compensation for forfeiting the spectacle on
the Corso, but in a little church at the end of the narrow byway which
diverges up the Palatine from just beside the Arch of Titus. This byway
leads you between high walls, then takes a bend and introduces you to a
long row of rusty, dusty little pictures of the stations of the cross.
Beyond these stands a small church with a front so modest that you
hardly recognise it till you see the leather curtain. I never see a
leather curtain without lifting it; it is sure to cover a constituted
scene of some sort--good, bad or indifferent. The scene this time was
meagre--whitewash and tarnished candlesticks and mouldy muslin flowers
being its principal features. I shouldn’t have remained if I hadn’t
been struck with the attitude of the single worshipper--a young priest
kneeling before one of the sidealtars, who, as I entered, lifted his
head and gave me a sidelong look so charged with the languor of devotion
that he immediately became an object of interest. He was visiting each
of the altars in turn and kissing the balustrade beneath them. He was
alone in the church, and indeed in the whole region. There were no
beggars even at the door; they were plying their trade on the skirts
of the Carnival. In the entirely deserted place he alone knelt for
religion, and as I sat respectfully by it seemed to me I could hear in
the perfect silence the far-away uproar of the maskers. It was my
late impression of these frivolous people, I suppose, joined with the
extraordinary gravity of the young priest’s face--his pious fatigue,
his droning prayer and his isolation--that gave me just then and there a
supreme vision of the religious passion, its privations and resignations
and exhaustions and its terribly small share of amusement. He was
young and strong and evidently of not too refined a fibre to enjoy the
Carnival; but, planted there with his face pale with fasting and his
knees stiff with praying, he seemed so stern a satire on it and on
the crazy thousands who were preferring it to his way, that I half
expected to see some heavenly portent out of a monastic legend come down
and confirm his choice. Yet I confess that though I wasn’t enamoured of
the Carnival myself, his seemed a grim preference and this forswearing
of the world a terrible game--a gaining one only if your zeal never
falters; a hard fight when it does. In such an hour, to a stout young
fellow like the hero of my anecdote, the smell of incense must seem
horribly stale and the muslin flowers and gilt candlesticks to figure no
great bribe. And it wouldn’t have helped him much to think that not so
very far away, just beyond the Forum, in the Corso, there was sport for
the million, and for nothing. I doubt on the other hand whether my young
priest had thought of this. He had made himself a temple out of the very
elements of his innocence, and his prayers followed each other too
fast for the tempter to slip in a whisper. And so, as I say, I found a
solider fact of human nature than the love of coriandoli.

One of course never passes the Colosseum without paying it one’s
respects--without going in under one of the hundred portals and crossing
the long oval and sitting down a while, generally at the foot of the
cross in the centre. I always feel, as I do so, as if I were seated in
the depths of some Alpine valley. The upper portions of the side toward
the Esquiline look as remote and lonely as an Alpine ridge, and you
raise your eyes to their rugged sky-line, drinking in the sun and
silvered by the blue air, with much the same feeling with which you
would take in a grey cliff on which an eagle might lodge. This roughly
mountainous quality of the great ruin is its chief interest; beauty
of detail has pretty well vanished, especially since the high-growing
wild-flowers have been plucked away by the new government, whose
functionaries, surely, at certain points of their task, must have felt
as if they shared the dreadful trade of those who gather samphire.
Even if you are on your way to the Lateran you won’t grudge the twenty
minutes it will take you, on leaving the Colosseum, to turn away under
the Arch of Constantine, whose noble battered bas-reliefs, with the
chain of tragic statues--fettered, drooping barbarians--round its
summit, I assume you to have profoundly admired, toward the piazzetta of
the church of San Giovanni e Paolo, on the slope of Caelian. No spot in
Rome can show a cluster of more charming accidents. The ancient brick
apse of the church peeps down into the trees of the little wooded walk
before the neighbouring church of San Gregorio, intensely venerable
beneath its excessive modernisation; and a series of heavy brick
buttresses, flying across to an opposite wall, overarches the short,
steep, paved passage which leads into the small square. This is flanked
on one side by the long mediaeval portico of the church of the two
saints, sustained by eight time-blackened columns of granite and marble.
On another rise the great scarce-windowed walls of a Passionist convent,
and on the third the portals of a grand villa, whose tall porter,
with his cockade and silver-topped staff, standing sublime behind his
grating, seems a kind of mundane St. Peter, I suppose, to the beggars
who sit at the church door or lie in the sun along the farther slope
which leads to the gate of the convent. The place always seems to me the
perfection of an out-of-the-way corner--a place you would think twice
before telling people about, lest you should find them there the next
time you were to go. It is such a group of objects, singly and in their
happy combination, as one must come to Rome to find at one’s house
door; but what makes it peculiarly a picture is the beautiful dark
red campanile of the church, which stands embedded in the mass of
the convent. It begins, as so many things in Rome begin, with a stout
foundation of antique travertine, and rises high, in delicately quaint
mediaeval brickwork--little tiers and apertures sustained on miniature
columns and adorned with small cracked slabs of green and yellow marble,
inserted almost at random. When there are three or four brown-breasted
contadini sleeping in the sun before the convent doors, and a departing
monk leading his shadow down over them, I think you will not find
anything in Rome more sketchable.

If you stop, however, to observe everything worthy of your water-colours
you will never reach St. John Lateran. My business was much less with
the interior of that vast and empty, that cold clean temple, which I
have never found peculiarly interesting, than with certain charming
features of its surrounding precinct--the crooked old court beside it,
which admits you to the Baptistery and to a delightful rear-view of
the queer architectural odds and ends that may in Rome compose a florid
ecclesiastical façade. There are more of these, a stranger jumble
of chance detail, of lurking recesses and wanton projections and
inexplicable windows, than I have memory or phrase for; but the gem
of the collection is the oddly perched peaked turret, with its yellow
travertine welded upon the rusty brickwork, which was not meant to be
suspected, and the brickwork retreating beneath and leaving it in the
odd position of a tower under which you may see the sky. As to the
great front of the church overlooking the Porta San Giovanni, you are
not admitted behind the scenes; the term is quite in keeping, for the
architecture has a vastly theatrical air. It is extremely imposing--that
of St. Peter’s alone is more so; and when from far off on the Campagna
you see the colossal images of the mitred saints along the top standing
distinct against the sky, you forget their coarse construction and their
inflated draperies. The view from the great space which stretches from
the church steps to the city wall is the very prince of views. Just
beside you, beyond the great alcove of mosaic, is the Scala Santa, the
marble staircase which (says the legend) Christ descended under the
weight of Pilate’s judgment, and which all Christians must for ever
ascend on their knees; before you is the city gate which opens upon the
Via Appia Nuova, the long gaunt file of arches of the Claudian aqueduct,
their jagged ridge stretching away like the vertebral column of some
monstrous mouldering skeleton, and upon the blooming brown and purple
flats and dells of the Campagna and the glowing blue of the Alban
Mountains, spotted with their white, high-nestling towns; while to your
left is the great grassy space, lined with dwarfish mulberry-trees,
which stretches across to the damp little sister-basilica of Santa Croce
in Gerusalemme. During a former visit to Rome I lost my heart to this
idle tract,{1}

{1} Utterly overbuilt and gone--1909.

and wasted much time in sitting on the steps of the church and watching
certain white-cowled friars who were sure to be passing there for the
delight of my eyes. There are fewer friars now, and there are a great
many of the king’s recruits, who inhabit the ex-conventual barracks
adjoining Santa Croce and are led forward to practise their goose-step
on the sunny turf. Here too the poor old cardinals who are no longer
to be seen on the Pincio descend from their mourning-coaches and
relax their venerable knees. These members alone still testify to the
traditional splendour of the princes of the Church; for as they advance
the lifted black petticoat reveals a flash of scarlet stockings and
makes you groan at the victory of civilisation over colour.

{Illustration: THE FAÇADE OF ST. JOHN LATERAN, ROME.}

If St. John Lateran disappoints you internally, you have an easy
compensation in pacing the long lane which connects it with Santa
Maria Maggiore and entering the singularly perfect nave of that most
delightful of churches. The first day of my stay in Rome under the
old dispensation I spent in wandering at random through the city,
with accident for my valet-de-place. It served me to perfection and
introduced me to the best things; among others to an immediate happy
relation with Santa Maria Maggiore. First impressions, memorable
impressions, are generally irrecoverable; they often leave one the
wiser, but they rarely return in the same form. I remember, of my coming
uninformed and unprepared into the place of worship and of curiosity
that I have named, only that I sat for half an hour on the edge of the
base of one of the marble columns of the beautiful nave and enjoyed a
perfect revel of--what shall I call it?--taste, intelligence, fancy,
perceptive emotion? The place proved so endlessly suggestive that
perception became a throbbing confusion of images, and I departed with
a sense of knowing a good deal that is not set down in Murray. I have
seated myself more than once again at the base of the same column;
but you live your life only once, the parts as well as the whole. The
obvious charm of the church is the elegant grandeur of the nave--its
perfect shapeliness and its rich simplicity, its long double row of
white marble columns and its high flat roof, embossed with intricate
gildings and mouldings. It opens into a choir of an extraordinary
splendour of effect, which I recommend you to look out for of a fine
afternoon. At such a time the glowing western light, entering the high
windows of the tribune, kindles the scattered masses of colour into
sombre bright-ness, scintillates on the great solemn mosaic of the
vault, touches the porphyry columns of the superb baldachino with ruby
lights, and buries its shining shafts in the deep-toned shadows that
hang about frescoes and sculptures and mouldings. The deeper charm even
than in such things, however, is the social or historic note or tone or
atmosphere of the church--I fumble, you see, for my right expression;
the sense it gives you, in common with most of the Roman churches, and
more than any of them, of having been prayed in for several centuries by
an endlessly curious and complex society. It takes no great attention to
let it come to you that the authority of Italian Catholicism has lapsed
