"He has done tolerably well up to the present," observed Carmichael,
welcoming this change. "Jugendheit is prosperous; it has a splendid
army. The prince regent is a fine type of man, they say, rugged,
patient, frugal and sensible."
"There is an instance where he made a cruel blunder."
"No man is infallible," said he, wondering what this blunder was.
"I suppose not. Look! The artillery is firing."
Boom-boom! They saw the smoke leap from the muzzles of the cannon, and
it seemed minutes before the sound reached them.
"I have a fine country, too," she said, with pride; "prosperous, and an
army not inferior to that of Jugendheit."
"I was not making comparisons, your Highness."
"I know that, my friend. I was simply speaking from the heart. But I
doubt if the prince regent is a better man than our Herbeck."
"I prefer Herbeck, never having met the prince regent. But I have some
news for your highness."
"News for me?"
"Yes. I am about to ask for my recall," he said, the idea having come
into his mind at that precise moment.
"Your recall?"
Had he been looking at her he would have noticed that the color on her
fair cheeks had gone a shade lighter.
"Yes."
"Is not this sudden? it is not very complimentary to Ehrenstein."
"The happiest days in my life have been spent here."
"Then why seek to be recalled?"
"I am essentially a man of action, your Highness. I am growing dull and
stupid amid these charming pleasures. Action; I have always been mixed
up in some trouble or other. Here it is a round of pleasure from day to
day. I long for buffets. I am wicked enough to wish for war."
"Cherchez la femme!" she cried. "There is a woman?"
"Oh, yes!" recklessly.
"Then go to her, my friend, go to her." And she waved her crop over his
head as in benediction. "Some day, before you go, I shall ask you all
about her." Ah, as if she did not know! But half the charm in life is
playing with hidden dangers.
He did not speak, but caught up the reins firmly. She touched her mare
on the flank, and the four began trotting, a pace which they maintained
as far as the military field. Here they paused, for the scene was
animated and full of color. Squadrons of cavalry raced across the
field; infantry closed in or deployed; artillery rumbled, wheeled,
stopped, unlimbered. Bang-bang! The earth shivered and rocked. Guerdons
were flying, bugles were blowing, and sabers were flashing.
"It is beautiful," she cried, "this mimic war."
"May your highness never see aught else!" he replied fervently.
"Yes, yes; you have seen it divested of all its pomp. You have seen it
in all its cruelty and horror."
"I have known even the terror of it."
"You were afraid?"
"Many times."
She laughed. It is only the coward who denies fear.
He would certainly ask for his recall or transfer. He was eating his
heart out here in Dreiberg.
They began the incline. She did most of the talking, brightly and gaily;
but his ears were dull, for the undercurrent passed by him. He was, for
the first time, impressed with the fact that the young ladies of the
court never accompanied her on her morning rides. There were frequent
afternoon excursions, when several ladies and gentlemen rode with her
highness, but in the mornings, never.
"Will you return to America?" she queried.
"I shall idle in Paris for a while. I have an idea that there will be
war one of these days."
"And which side will you take?"
"I should be a traitor if I fought for France; I should be an ingrate if
I fought against her. I should be a spectator, a neutral."
"That would expose you to danger without the right to strike a blow in
defense."
"If I were hurt it would be but an accident. War correspondents would
run a hundred more risks than I. Oh, I should be careful; I know war too
well not to be."
"All this is strange talk for a man who is a confessed lover."
"Pardon me!" his eyes rather empty.
"Why, you tell me there is a woman; and all your talk is about war and
danger. These are opposites; please explain."
"There is a woman, but she will not hinder me in any way. She will, in
fact, know nothing about it."
"You are a strange lover. I never read anything like you in
story-books. Forgive me! I am thoughtless. The subject may be painful to
you."
The horses began to pull. Under normal circumstances Carmichael would
not have dismounted, but his horse had carried him many miles that
morning, and he was a merciful rider. In the war days often had his life
depended upon the care of his horse.
"You have been riding hard?"
"No, only far."
"I do not believe that there is a finer horseman in all Ehrenstein than
yourself."
"Your highness is very good to say that." Why had he not gone on instead
of waiting at the fork?
Within a few hundred yards of the gates he mounted again. And then he
saw a lonely figure sitting on the parapet. He would have recognized
that square form anywhere. And he welcomed the sight of it.
"Your Highness, do you see that man yonder, on the parapet? We fought in
the same cavalry. He is covered with scars. Not one man in a thousand
would have gone through what he did and lived."
"Is he an American?"
"By adoption. And may I ask a favor of your highness?"
"Two!" merrily.
"May I present him? It will be the joy of his life."
"Certainly. All brave men interest me."
Grumbach rose up, uncovered, thinking that the riders were going to pass
him. But to his surprise his friend Carmichael stopped his horse and
beckoned to him.
"Herr Grumbach," said Carmichael, "her serene highness desires me to
present you."
Hans was stricken dumb. He knew of no greater honor.
"Mr. Carmichael," she said in English, "tells me that you fought with
him in the American war?"
"Yes, Highness."
She plied him with a number of questions; how many battles they had
fought in, how many times they had been wounded, how they lived in camp,
and so forth; and which was the more powerful engine of war, the
infantry or the cavalry.
"The cavalry, Highness," said Hans, without hesitation.
She laughed. "If you had been a foot-soldier, you would have said the
infantry; of the artillery, you would have sworn by the cannon."
"That is true, Highness. The three arms are necessary, but there is ever
the individual pride in the arm one serves in."
"And that is right. You speak good English," she remarked.
"I have lived more than sixteen years in America, Highness."
"Do you like it there?"
"It is a great country, full of great ideas and great men, Highness."
"And you will go back?"
"Soon, Highness."
The mare, knowing that this was the way home, grew restive and began
prancing and pawing the road. She reined in quickly. As she did so,
something yellow flashed downward and tinkled as it struck the ground.
Grumbach hastened forward.
"My locket," said her highness anxiously.
"It is not broken, Highness," said Grumbach; "only the chain has come
apart." Then he handed it to her gravely.
"Thank you!" Her highness put both chain and locket into a small purse
which she carried in her belt, touched the mare, and sped up the road,
Carmichael following.
Grumbach returned to the parapet. He followed them till they passed out
of sight beyond the gates.
"Gott!" he murmured.
His face was as livid as the scar on his head.
CHAPTER XV
THE WRONG MAN
Herbeck dropped his quill, and there was a dream in his eyes. His desk
was littered with papers, well covered with ink; flowing sentences, and
innumerable figures. He was the watch-dog of the duchy. Never a bill
from the Reichstag that did not pass under his cold eye before it went
to the duke for his signature, his approval, or veto. Not a copper was
needlessly wasted, and never was one held back unnecessarily. Herbeck
was just both in great and little things. The commoners could neither
fool nor browbeat him.
The dream in his eyes grew; it was tender and kindly. The bar of
sunlight lengthened across his desk, and finally passed on. Still he sat
there, motionless, rapt. And thus the duke found him. But there was no
dream in his eyes; they were cold with implacable anger. He held a
letter in his hand and tossed it to Herbeck.
"I shall throw ten thousand men across the frontier to-night, let the
consequences be what they may."
"Ten thousand men?" The dream was shattered. War again?
"Read that. It is the second anonymous communication I have received
within a week. As the first was truthful, there is no reason to believe
this one to be false."
Herbeck read, and he was genuinely startled.
"What do you say to that?" triumphantly.
"This," with that rapid decision which made him the really great
tactician he was. "Let them go quietly back to Jugendheit."
"No!" blazed the duke.
"Are we rich enough for war?"
"Always questions, questions! What the devil is my army for if not to
uphold my dignity? Herbeck, you shall not argue me out of this."
"Rather let me reason. This is some prank, which I am sure does not
concern Ehrenstein in the least. They would never dare enter Dreiberg
for aught else. There must be a flaw in our secret service."
"Doubtless."
"I have seen this writing before," said Herbeck. "I shall make it my
business to inquire who it is that takes this kindly interest in the
affairs of state."
The duke struck the bell violently.
"Summon the chief of the police," he said to the secretary.
"Yes, yes, your Highness, let it be a police affair. This letter does
not state the why and wherefore of their presence here."
"It holds enough for me."
"Will your highness leave the matter in my hands?"
"Herbeck, in some things you are weak."
"And in others I am strong," smiled the chancellor. "I am weak when
there is talk of war; I am strong when peace is in the balance."
"Is it possible, Herbeck, that you do not appreciate the magnitude of
the situation?"
"It is precisely because I do that I wish to move slowly. Wait. Let the
police find out why they are here. There will be time enough then to
declare war. They have never seen her highness. Who knows?"
"Ah! But they have violated the treaty."
"That depends upon whether their presence here is or is not a menace to
the state. If they are here on private concerns which in no wise touch
Ehrenstein, it would be foolhardy to declare war. Your highness is
always letting your personal wounds blur your eyesight. Some day you
will find that Jugendheit is innocent."
"God hasten the day and hour!"
"Yes, let us hope that the mystery of it all will be cleared up. You are
just and patient in everything but this." Herbeck idled with his quill.
The little finger of his right hand was badly scarred, the mutilation of
a fencing-bout in his student days.
"What do you advise?" wearily. It seemed to the duke that Herbeck of
late never agreed with him.
"My advice is to wait. In a day or so arrest them under the pretext that
you believe them to be spies. If they remain mute, then the case is
serious, and you will have them on the hip. If, on the other hand, this
invasion is harmless and they declare themselves, the matter can be
adjusted in this wise: ignore their declaration and confine them a day
or two in the city prison, then publish the news broadcast. Having
themselves broken the letter if not the spirit of the treaty, they will
not dare declare war. Every court in Europe will laugh."
The duke struck his hands together. "You are always right, Herbeck. This
plan could not have been devised better or more to my satisfaction." The
duke laughed. "You are right. Ah, here is the chief."
Herbeck read the letter in part to the chief, who jotted down the words,
repeating aloud in a kind of mutter: "A mountaineer, a vintner, a
carter, a butcher, and a baker. You will give me their descriptions,
your Excellency?"
Herbeck read the postscript.
"But you don't tell him who--"
"Why should he know?" said Herbeck, glancing shrewdly at the duke. "His
ignorance will be all the better for the plot."
"Then this is big game, your Highness?" asked the chief.
"Big game."
"One is as big and powerful as a Carpathian bear. Look out," warned
Herbeck.
"And he is?"
"The mountaineer."
"And the vintner?"
"Oh, he is a little fellow, and hasn't grown his bite yet," said Herbeck
dryly.
The duke laughed again. It would be as good as a play.
"I thank you, Herbeck. You have neatly arranged a fine comedy. I do not
think so clearly as I used to. When the arrest is made, give it as much
publicity as possible. Take a squad of soldiers; it will give it a
military look. Will you be on the field this afternoon?"
"No, your highness," touching the papers which strewed his desk; "this
will keep me busy well into evening."
The duke waved his hand cheerfully and left the cabinet.
"Your excellency, then, really leaves me to work in the dark?" asked the
chief uneasily.
"Yes," tearing up the note. "But you will not be in the dark long after
you have arrested these persons. Begin with the mountaineer and the
vintner; the others do not matter so much." Then Herbeck laughed. The
chief raised his head. He had not heard his excellency laugh like that
in many moons. "Report to me your progress. Unfortunately my informant
does not state just where these fellows are to be found."
"That is my business, your Excellency."
"Good luck to you!" responded Herbeck, with a gesture of dismissal.
When her highness came in from her morning's ride she found the duke
waiting in her apartments.
"Why, father," kissing him, "what brings you here?"
"A little idea I have in mind." He drew her down to the arm of the
chair. "We all have our little day-dreams."
"Who does not, father?" She slid her arm round his neck. She was full of
affection for this kindly parent.
"But there are those of us who must not accept day-dreams as realities;
for then there will be heartaches and futile longings."
"You are warning me. About what, father?" There was a little stab in her
heart.
"Herr Carmichael is a fine fellow, brave, witty, shrewd. If all
Americans are like him, America will soon become a force in the world.
I have taken a fancy to him; and you know what they say of your
father--no formality with those whom he likes. Humanly, I am right; but
in the virtue of everyday events in court life, I am wrong."
She moved uneasily.
He went on: "Herbeck has spoken of it, the older women speak of it; and
they all say--"
"Say!" she cried hotly, leaping to her feet. "What do I care what they
say? Are you not the grand duke, and am I not your daughter?"
In his turn the duke felt the stab.
"You must ride no more with Herr Carmichael. It is neither wise nor
safe."
"Father!"
He was up, with his arms folding round her. "Child, it is only for your
sake. Listen to me. I married your mother because I loved her and she
loved me. The case is isolated, rare, out of the beaten path in the
affairs of rulers. But you, you must be a princess. You must steel your
heart against the invasion of love, unless it comes from a state equal
or superior to your own. It is harsh and cruel, but it is a law that
will neither bend nor break. Do you understand me?"
The girl stared blindly at the wall. "Yes, father."
"It is all my fault," said the duke, deeply agitated, for the girl
trembled under his touch.
"I shall not ride with him any more."
"There's a good girl," patting her shoulder.
"I have been a princess such a little while."
He kissed the wheaten-colored hair. "Be a brave heart, and I shall
engage to find a king for you."
"I don't want any playthings, father," with the old light touch; and
then she looked him full in the eyes. "I promise to do nothing more to
create comment if, on the other hand, you will promise to give me two
years more of freedom."
The duke readily assented, and shortly returned to his own suite, rather
pleased that there had been no scene; not that he had expected any.
Now that she was alone, she slipped into the chair, beat a light tattoo
with her riding-whip against her teeth, and looked fixedly at the wall
again, as if to gaze beyond it, into the dim future. But she saw nothing
save that she was young and that the days in Dresden, for all their
penury, were far pleasanter than these.
Meantime the chief of police called his subaltern and placed in his
hands the peculiar descriptions. The word vintner caused him to give
vent to an ejaculation of surprise.
"He was in here last night. I have had him followed all day. He lives
over the American consulate. Among his things was found the uniform of a
colonel in the Prussian Uhlans."
"Ha! Arrest him to-morrow, or the day after at the latest. But the
mountaineer is the big game. Do not arrest the vintner till you have
him. Where one is the other is likely to be. But on the moment of arrest
you must have a squad of soldiers at your back."
"Soldiers?" doubtfully.
"Express orders of his highness."
"It shall be done."
Considerable activity was manifest in the police bureau the rest of that
day.
To return to Carmichael. He had never before concerned himself with
resignations. Up to this hour he had never resigned anything he had set
his heart upon. So it was not an easy matter for him to compose a
letter to the secretary of state, resigning the post at Dreiberg. True,
he added that he desired to be transferred to a seaport town, France or
Italy preferred. The high altitude in Dreiberg had affected his heart.
However, in case there was no other available post, they would kindly
appoint his successor at once. Carmichael never faltered where his
courage was concerned, and it needed a fine quality of moral courage to
write this letter and enclose it in the diplomatic pouch which went into
the mails that night. It took courage indeed to face the matter squarely
and resolutely, when there was the urging desire to linger on and on,
indefinitely. That she was not going to marry the king of Jugendheit did
not alter his affairs in the least. It was all hopeless, absurd, and
impossible. He must go.
Some one was knocking on the door.
"Come in."
"A letter for your excellency," said the concierge.
"Wait till I read it. There may be an answer."
"If Herr Carmichael would learn the secret of number forty Krumerweg,
let him attire himself as a vintner and be in the Krumerweg at eight
o'clock to-night."
This note was as welcome to the recipient as the flowers in the spring.
An adventure? He was ready, now and always. Anything to take his mind
off his own dismal affairs. Then he recalled the woman in black; the
letter could apply to none but her. More than this, he might light upon
the puzzle regarding the vintner. He had met the fellow before. But
where?
"What sort of clothes does a vintner wear?" he asked.
"A vintner, your Excellency?"
"Yes. I shall need the costume of a vintner this evening."
"Oh, that will be easy," affirmed the concierge, "if your excellency
does not mind wearing clothes that have already been worn."
"My excellency will not care a hang. Procure them as soon as you can."
So it came about that Carmichael, dressed as a vintner, his hat over his
eyes, stole into the misty night and took the way to the Krumerweg. He
knew exactly where he wished to go: number forty. It was gray-black in
the small streets; and but for the occasional light in a window the dark
would have had no modification. Sometimes he would lose the point of the
compass and blunder against a wall or find himself feeling for the curb,
hesitant of foot. The wayside shrine was a rift in the gloom, and he
knew that he had only a few more steps to take. After all, who was the
lady in black and why should he bother himself about her? She probably
came from the back stairs of the palace. And yet, the chancellor himself
had been in this place. What should he do? Should he wait across the
street? Should he knock at the door and ask to be admitted? No; he must
skulk in the dark, on the opposite side. He picked his way over the
street and stood for a moment in the denser black.
A step? He trained his ear. But even as he did so his arms were grasped
firmly and twisted behind his back, and at the same time a cloth was
wrapped round the lower part of his face, leaving only his eyes and nose
visible. It was all so sudden and unexpected that he was passive the
first few seconds; after that there was some scuffling, strenuous, too.
He was fighting against three. Desperately he surged this way and that.
Even in the heat of battle he wondered a little why no one struck him;
they simply clung to him, and at length he could not move. His hands
were tied, not roughly, but surely. In all this commotion, not a
whisper, not a voice; only heavy breathing.
Then one of the three whistled. A minute or two after a closed carriage
came into the Krumerweg, and Carmichael was literally bundled inside.
His feet were now bound. Two of his captors sat on the forward seat,
while the third joined the driver. Carmichael could distinguish nothing
but outlines and shadows. He choked, for he was furious. To be trussed
like this, without any explanation whatever! What the devil was going
on? Unanswered.
The carriage began to move slowly. It had to; swift driving in the
Krumerweg was hardly possible and at no time safe. Carmichael set
himself to note the turns of the street. One turn after another he
counted, fixing as well as he could the topography of the town through
which they were passing. At last he realized that they were leaving
Dreiberg behind and were going down the mountain on the north side,
toward Jugendheit. Once the level road was reached, a fast pace was set
and maintained for miles. At the Ehrenstein barrier no question was
asked, and Carmichael's one hope was shattered. At the Jugendheit
barrier the carriage stopped. There were voices. Carmichael saw the
flicker of a lantern. His captors got out. Presently there appeared at
the door an old man dressed as a mountaineer. In his hand was the
lantern.
"Pardon me, dear nephew--Fools!" he broke off, swinging round. "He has
tricked you all. This is not he!"
Three astonished faces peered over the old man's shoulder. Carmichael
eyed them evilly. He now saw that one was a carter, another a butcher,
and the third a baker. He had seen them before, in the Black Eagle. But
this signified nothing.
"Untie him and take off that rag. It may be Scharfenstein." The old man
possessed authority.
Carmichael, freed, stretched himself.
"Well?" he said, with a dangerous quiet.
"Herr Carmichael, the American consul!" The old man nearly dropped the
lantern. "Oh, you infernal blockheads!"
"Explanations are in order," suggested Carmichael.
"You are offered a thousand apologies for a stupid mistake. Now, may I
ask how you came to be dressed in these clothes on this particular
night?"
Carmichael's anger dissolved, and he laughed. All the mystery was gone
with the abruptness of a mist under the first glare of the sun. He saw
how neatly he had been duped. He still carried the note. This he gave to
the leader of this midnight expedition.
"Humph!" said the old man in a growl. "I thought as much." He whispered
to his companions. "Herr Carmichael, I shall have the honor of escorting
you back to Dreiberg."
"But will it be as easy to go in as it was to come out?"
"Trust you for that. The American consul's word will be sufficient for
our needs."
"And if I refuse to give that word?"
"In that case, you will have to use your legs," curtly.
"I prefer to ride."
"Thanks. I shall sit with the driver."
"That also will please me."
"And you ask no further questions?"
"Why should I? I know all I wish to know, which is more than you would
care to have me."
The mountaineer swore.
"If we talk any longer I shall be late for breakfast."
"Forward, then!"
On the way, it all came back to Carmichael with the vividness of a
forgotten photograph, come upon suddenly: Bonn, the Rhine, swift and
turbulent, a tow-headed young fellow who could not swim well, his own
plunge, his fingers in the flaxen hair, and the hard fight to the
landing; all this was a tale twice told.
Vintner? Not much!
CHAPTER XVI
HER FAN
It was dawn when they began to pull up the road to Dreiberg. The return
had been leisurely despite Carmichael's impatience. In the military
field the troops were breaking camp for their departure to the various
posts throughout the duchy. Only the officers, who were to attend the
court ball that evening, and the resident troops would remain. The
maneuvers were over; the pomp of miniature war was done. Carmichael
peered through the window. What a play yonder scene was to what he had
been through! To break camp before dawn, before breakfast, rain and hail
and snow smothering one; when the frost-bound iron of the musket caught
one's fingers and tore the skin; the shriek of shot overhead, the boom
of cannon and the gulp of impact; cold, hungry, footsore, sleepy; here
and there a comrade crumpling up strangely and lying still and white;
the muddy ruts in the road; the whole world a dead gray like the face of
death! What did those yonder know of war?
The carriage stopped.
"I shall not intrude, I trust?" said the old man, opening the door and
getting in.
"Not now," replied Carmichael. "What is all this about?"
"A trifle; I might say a damn-fool trifle. But what did you mean when
you said you knew all you wanted to know?" The mountaineer showed some
anxiety.
"Exactly what I said. The only thing that confuses me is the motive."
The old man thought for a while. "Suppose you had a son who was making a
fool of himself?"
"Or a nephew?"
"Well, or a nephew?"
"Making a fool of himself over what?"
"A woman."
"Nothing unusual in that. But what kind of a woman?"
"A good woman, honest, too good by far for any man."
"Oh!"
"Suppose she was vastly his inferior in station, that marriage to him
was merely a political contract? What would you do?"
"I believe I begin to understand."
"I am grateful for that."
"But the risks you run!"
"I believed them all over last night."
"But you would dare handle him in this way?"
"When the devil drives, my friend!" The other smiled. "I was born in the
heart of a war. I have taken so many risks that the sense of danger no
longer has a keen edge. But now that you understand, I am sure a soldier
like yourself will pardon the blunder of last night."
"Your nephew is an ungrateful wretch."
"What?" coldly.
"He knew all along who I was. I dragged him out of the Rhine upon a
certain day, and he plays this trick!"
"You? Carmichael, Carmichael; of course; I should have remembered the
name, as he wrote me at the time. Thank you! And you knew him all the
while?"
"No; I recalled his face, but the time and place were in the dark till
this early morning. Here we are at the gates. What's this? Guards? I
never saw them at these gates before."
"You will make yourself known to them?"
"Yes. But if they question me?"
"Wink. Every soldier knows what that means."
"When a fellow turns in early in the morning?" Carmichael laughed
hilariously.
"I ask you frankly not to let them question me. When I left the city
last night I never expected to return."
"I'll do what I can."
Carmichael bared his head and leaned out of the window. He recognized
one of the guards. A policeman in military uniform!
"Good morning!" said Carmichael.
"Herr Carmichael?" surprised. "Your excellency?"
"Yes. I've been having a little junket, I and my friend here." And
Carmichael winked.
"Ah!"
"But what--"
"Sh! Very important affair," said the disguised officer. "Go on."
But after the carriage had passed it occurred to him that Carmichael
wore a dress like a vintner's and that his friend was a mountaineer! Du
lieber Himmel! What kind of a mix-up was this? The chancellor never
could have meant Carmichael!
"Thanks!" whispered the old man.
"Did you see the soldier?"
"Yes."
"He is one of the police in disguise. Be on your guard. If you don't
mind I'll use this carriage to the hotel."
"You are a thousand times welcome. I will leave you here. And take the
advice of an old man who has seen the four sides of humanity: leave
falling in love to poets and to fools!"
The mountaineer got out quickly, closed the door, spoke a word to the
driver, and slipped into an alleyway.
Carmichael arrived at the Grand Hotel in time to see her serene
highness, accompanied by two of her ladies and an escort of four
soldiers, start out for her morning ride. The zest of his own strange
adventure died. He waited till they had passed, then slunk into the
hotel. The concierge gazed at him in amazement. Carmichael winked. The
concierge smiled. He understood. Americaner or Ehrensteiner, the
young fellows were all the same.
"Police at the gates," mused Carmichael, as he soaked his head and face
in cold water. "By George, it looks as if my friend the vintner was in
for some excitement! Far be it that I should warn him. He had his little
joke; I can wait for mine."
Gretchen! Carmichael stopped, his collar but half-way around his throat.
Gretchen, brave, kindly, beautiful Gretchen! Now, by the Lord, that
should not be! He would wring the vintner's neck. He snapped the collar
viciously. He was not in an amiable mood this fair September morning.
And when some one hammered on the door he called sharply.
Grumbach entered.
"You are angry about something," he said.
"So I am, but you are always welcome."
"You have overslept?"
"No; on the contrary."
"Poker?"
"After a fashion," said Carmichael, the grumble gone from his voice. "I
was beaten by three of a kind."
"So?"
"But I found a good hand later."
"Kings."
"Four?"
"Oh, no; only one. I haven't drawn yet."
"You are not telling me all."
"No. You are going to the ball to-night?"
"I would not miss it for five thousand crowns," sadly.
"You look as if you were going to a funeral instead of the greatest
event of the year in Dreiberg."
"I didn't sleep well either."
"Out?"
"No; one does not have to go out in order not to sleep."
"I'd like to know what's going on in that bullet-head of yours."
"Nothing is going on; everything has stopped."
"Can't you make a confidant of me, Hans?"
"Not yet, Captain."
"When you are ready it may be too late. I leave Dreiberg for good in a
few weeks."
"No!" For the first time Grumbach showed interest.
"I have resigned the consulship."
"And for what reason?"
Carmichael silently drew on his coat.
"Ach! So you have one, too?"
"One what?"
"One secret."
"Yes. But it's the kind we can't talk about."
"I understand. Have you had breakfast?"
"Neither have I. Let us go together. It may be we need each other's
company this morning. You and I won't have to bother about talking."
"You make a good comrade, Hans."
       *       *       *       *       *
There was a large crowd outside the palace that night, which was clear
and starry. A troop of cavalry patrolled the fence. Carriage after
carriage rolled in through the gates, coming directly from the opera. It
was eleven o'clock. All the great in the duchy were on hand that night.
Often a cheer rose from the ranks of the outsiders as some popular
general or some famous beauty passed. It was an orderly crowd, jostling
and good-natured, held only by curiosity. Every window in the palace
presented a glowing square of light; and beams crisscrossed the emerald
lawns and died in the arms of the lurking shadows. The gardens were
illuminated besides. It was fairy-land, paid for by those who were not
entitled to enter. Few, however, thought of this inconsistency. A duchy
is a duchy; nothing more need be said.
Carmichael was naturally democratic. To ride a block in a carriage was
to him a waste of time. And he rather liked to shoulder into a press.
With the aid of his cane and a frequent push of the elbow he worked his
way to the gates. And close by the sentry-box he saw Gretchen and her
vintner. Carmichael could not resist stopping a moment. He raised his
hat to Gretchen, to the wonder of those nearest. The vintner would have
gladly disappeared, but the human wall behind made this impossible. But
he was needlessly alarmed. Carmichael only smiled ironically.
"Do you know where the American consulate is?" he asked low, so that
none but Gretchen and the vintner heard.
"Yes," said the vintner, blushing with shame.
"I live above the agency."
"Good! I shall expect to see you in the morning."
But the vintner was determined that he shouldn't. He would be at work in
the royal vineyards on the morrow.
"To-morrow?" repeated Gretchen, to whom this by-play was a blank. "Why
should he wish to see you?"
"Who knows? Let us be going. They are pressing us too close to the
gates."
"Very well," acquiesced Gretchen, somewhat disappointed. She wanted to
see all there was to be seen.
"It is half-after ten," he added, as if to put forward some logical
excuse for leaving at this moment.
A man followed them all the way to the Krumerweg.
Carmichael threw himself eagerly into the gaiety of the dance. Never had
he seen the ball-room so brilliant with color. Among all those there
his was the one somber dress. The white cambric stock and the frill in
his shirt were the only gay touches. It was not his fault: the rules of
the service compelled him thus to dress. But he needed no brass or cloth
of gold. There was not a male head among all the others to compare with
his.
He was an accomplished waltzer, after the manner of that day, when one
went round and round like some mechanical toy wound up. Strauss and
Waldteufel tingled his feet; and he whirled ambassadors' wives till they
were breathless and ambassadors' daughters till they no longer knew or
cared where they were. He was full of subtle deviltry this night, with
an undercurrent of malice toward every one and himself in particular.
This would be the last affair of the kind for him, and he wanted a full
memory of it. Between times he exchanged a jest or two with the
chancellor or talked battles with old Ducwitz; twice he caught the grand
duke's eye, but there was only a friendly nod from that august
personage, no invitation to talk. Thrice, while on the floor, her
highness passed him; but there was never a smile, never a glance. He
became careless and reckless. He would seek her and talk to her and
smile at her even if the duke threw a regiment in between. The Irish
blood in him burned to-night, capable of any folly. He no longer danced.
He waited and watched; and it was during one of these waits that he saw
Grumbach in the gallery.
"Now, what the devil is the Dutchman doing with a pair of
opera-glasses!"
It required some time and patience to discover the object of this
singular attention on the part of Grumbach. Carmichael was finally
convinced that this object was no less a person than her serene
highness!
Later her highness stood before one of the long windows in the
conservatory, listlessly watching the people in the square. And these
poor fools envied her! To envy her, who was a prisoner, a chattel to be
exchanged for war's immunity, who was a princess in name but a cipher in
fact! All was wrong with the world. She had stolen out of the ball-room;
the craving to be alone had been too strong. Little she cared whether
they missed her or not. She left the window and sat on one of the
divans, idly opening and shutting her fan. Was that some one coming for
her? She turned.
It was Carmichael.
What an opportunity for scandal! She laughed inwardly. The barons and
their wives, the ambassadors' wives and their daughters, would miss them
both. And the spirit of deviltry lay also upon her heart. She smiled at
the man and with her fan bade him be seated at her side. The divinity
that hedges in a king did not bother either of them just then.
"You have not asked me to dance to-night," she declared.
"I know it."
"Why?"
"I am neither a prince nor an ambassador."
"But you have danced with me."
"Yes; I have been to Heaven now and then."
"And do you eject yourself thus easily?"
"By turning myself out my self-esteem remains unruffled."
"Then you expected to be turned out?"
"Sooner or later."
"Why?"
Again that word! To him it was the most tantalizing word in the
language. It crucified him.
"Why?" she repeated, her eyes soft and dreamy.
"As I have said, I am not a prince. I am only a consul, not even a
diplomat, simply a business arm of my government. My diplomacy never
ascends above the quality of hops and wines imported. I am supposed to
take in any wandering sailor, feed him, and ship him home. I am also the
official guide of all American tourists."
"That is no reason."
"Your father--" He should have said the grand duke.
"Ah, yes; my father, the chancellor, the ambassadors, and their wives
and daughters! I begin to believe that you have grown afraid of them."
"I confess that I have. I had an adventure last night. Would you like to
hear about it?"
How beautiful she was in that simple gown of white, unadorned by any
jewels save the little crown of sparkling white stones in her hair!
"Tell me."
He was a good story-teller. It was a crisp narrative he made.
"A veiled lady," she mused. "What would you say if I told you that your
mystery is no mystery at all? I am the veiled lady. And the person I
went to see was my old nurse, my foster-mother, with whom I spent the
happiest, freest days of my life, in the garret at Dresden. Pouf! All
mysteries may be dispelled if we go to the right person. So you are to
be recalled?"
"I have asked for my recall, your Highness."
"And so Dreiberg no longer appeals to you? You once told inc that you
loved it."
"I am cursed with wanderlust, your Highness." He regretted that he had
not remained in the ball-room. He was in great danger.
"You promised to tell me what she is like." Suddenly all his fear went
away, all his trepidation; the spirit of recklessness which had vised
him a little while ago again empowered him. He was afraid of nothing.
His face flushed and there were bright points of fire in his eyes. She
saw what she had roused, and grew afraid herself. She pretended to
become interested in the Watteau cupids on her fan.
"How shall I describe her?" he said. "I have seen only paintings and
marbles, and these are inanimate. I have never seen angels, so I can not
draw a comparison there. Have you ever seen ripe wheat in a rain-storm?
That is the color of her hair. There is jade and lapis-lazuli in her
eyes. And Ole Bull could not imitate the music of her voice." He leaned
toward her. "And I love her better than life, better than hope; and
between us there is the distance of a thousand worlds. So I must give up
the dream and go away, as an honorable man should."
Neither of them heard the chancellor's approach.
"And because I love her."
The fan in her hand slipped unheeded to the floor.
"Your Highness," broke in the cold even tones of Herbeck, "your father
is making inquiries about you."
Carmichael rose instantly, white as the frill in his shirt.
Hildegarde, however, was a princess. She gained her feet leisurely, with
half a smile on her lips.
"Count, Herr Carmichael tells me that he is soon to leave Dreiberg."
"Ah!" There was satisfaction in Herbeck's ejaculation, satisfaction of a
frank order. But there was a glint of admiration in his eyes as he
recognized the challenge in Carmichael's. He saw that he must step
carefully in regard to this hot-headed young Irishman. "We shall miss
Herr Carmichael."
Her highness moved serenely toward the door. Carmichael waited till she
was gone from sight, then he stooped and picked up the fan. Herbeck at
once held out his hand.
"Give it to me, Herr Captain," he said, with a melancholy gentleness. "I
will return it to her highness."
Carmichael deliberately thrust the fan into a pocket and shook his head.
"Your Excellency, I do not know how long you stood behind us, but you
were there long enough to learn that I have surrendered my dream.
Nothing but force will cause me to surrender this fan."
"Keep it, then, my son," replied the chancellor, with good
understanding.
CHAPTER XVII
AFTER THE VINTAGE
The ducal vineyards covered some forty acres of rich hillside. All day
long the sun beat squarely upon the clustering fruit. A low rambling
building of stone covered the presses and bottling departments, and was
within comparatively easy distance of the city. During the vintage
several hundred men and women found employment. The grand duke derived a
comfortable private revenue from these wines, the Tokay being scarcely
inferior to that made in Hungary. There was a large brewery besides,
which supplied all the near-by cities and towns. The German noble, be he
king, duke, or baron, has always been more or less a merchant; and it
did not embarrass the grand duke of Ehrenstein in the least to see his
coat of arms burnt into oaken wine-casks.
A former steward had full charge of the business, personally hiring and
paying the help and supervising the various branches. He was a gruff old
fellow, just and honest; and once you entered his employ he was as much
a martinet as any captain at sea. The low cunning of the peasant never
eluded his watchful eye. He knew to the last pound of grapes how much
wine there should be, how much beer to the last measure of hops.
The entrance to the vineyards was made through a small lodge where the
ducal vintner lived, and kept his books and moneys till such time as he
should be required to place them before the proper official.
Upon this brave morning, the one following the ball at the palace, the
vintner was reclining against the outside wall of the gates, smoking his
china-pipe and generally at peace with the world. The bloom was early
upon the grape, work was begun, and the vintage promised to be
exceptionally fine. Through a drifting cloud of smoke he discerned a
solitary figure approaching from the direction of Dreiberg, a youthful
figure, buoyant of step, and confident. Herr Hoffman was rather
interested. Ordinarily the peasant who came to this gate had his hat in
his hand and his feet were laggard. Not so this youth. He paused at the
gate and inspected the old man highly.
"Herr Hoffman?"
"Yes."
"I want work."
"So? What can you do?" He was a clean youngster, this, but there was
something in his eyes that vaguely disturbed the head vintner. It was
like mockery more than anything else. The youth recounted his abilities,
and Hoffman was gracious enough to admit that he seemed to know what he
was talking about.
"I have a letter to you also."
"Ach! We shall be properly introduced now," said Hoffman, growling.
"Let me see it."
He saw it, but with starting eyes. There was, then, something new under
the sun? A picker of grapes, recommended by a princess! He turned the
letter inside out, but found no illumination.
"Du lieber Gott! You are Leopold Dietrich?"
"Yes, Herr."
"How did you come by this letter?"
"Her serene highness is patron to Gretchen, the goose-girl, at whose
request the recommendation was given me."
This altered matters. "Follow me," said Hoffman.
The two entered the office.
"Can you write?"
"A little, Herr."
"Then write your name on this piece of paper and that. Each night you
will present yours with the number of pounds, which will be credited to
you. You must bring it back each morning. If you lose it you will be
paid nothing for your labor."
Dietrich wrote his name twice. It was rather hard work, for he screwed
up his mouth and cramped his fingers. Still, Hoffman was not wholly
satisfied with his eyes.
"Gottlieb," he said to one of the men, "take him to terrace
ninety-eight. That hasn't been touched yet. We'll see what sort of
workman he is." He spoke to Dietrich again. "What is Gretchen to you?"
For Hoffman knew Gretchen; many a time she had filled her basket and
drawn her crowns.
"She is my sweetheart, Herr." And there was no mockery in the youth's
eyes as he said this.
"Take him along, Gottlieb. You will have no further use for this letter
from her highness, so I'll keep it and frame it and hang it in the
office." Which showed that Hoffman himself had had lessons in the gentle
art of mockery.
Terrace ninety-eight was given over to small grapes; thus, many bunches
had to be picked to fill the basket. But Dietrich went to work with a
will. His fingers were deft and his knife was sharp; and by midsun he
had turned his sixth basket, which was fair work, considering.
As Hoffman did not feed his employees, Dietrich was obliged to beg from
his co-workers. Very willingly they shared with him their coarse bread
and onions. He ate the bread and stuffed the onions in his pocket. There
was no idling. As soon as the frugal meal was over, the peasants trooped
away to their respective terraces. Once more the youth was alone. He set
down his basket and laughed. Was there ever such a fine world? Had there
ever been a more likable adventure? The very danger of it was the spice
which gave it flavor. He stretched out his arms as if to embrace this
world which appeared so rosal, so joyous to his imagination.
"Thanks, thanks! You have given me youth, and I accept it," he said
aloud, perhaps addressing that mutable goddess who presides over all
follies. "Regret it in my old age? Not I! I shall have lived for one
short month. Youth was given to us to enjoy, and I propose to press the
grape to the final drop. And when I grow old this adventure shall be the
tonic to wipe out many wrinkles of care. A mad fling, a brimming cup,
one short merry month--and then, the reckoning! How I hate the thought!"
He sobered; the laughter went out of his eyes and face. Changeful
twenty, where so many paths reach out into the great world, paths
straight and narrow, of devious turnings which end at precipices, of
blind alleys which lead nowhere and close in behind!
"I love her, I love her!" His face grew bright again, and the wooing
blood ran tingling in his veins. "Am I a thief, a scoundrelly thief,
because I have that right common to all men, to love one woman? Some day
I shall suffer for this; some day my heart shall ache; so be it!"
The sun began the downward circle; the shadows crept eastward and
imperceptibly grew longer; a gray tone settled under the stones at his
feet. Sometimes he sang, sometimes he stood dreaming. His fingers were
growing sore and sticky and there was a twinge in his back as he
shouldered his eighth basket and scrambled down to the man who weighed
the pick. He was beginning his ninth when he saw Gretchen coming along
the purple aisle. She waved a hand in welcome, and he sheathed his
knife. No more work this day for him. He waited.
"What a beautiful day!" said Gretchen, with a happy laugh.
"Aye, what a day for love!"
"And work!"
"Kiss me!"
"When you fill that basket."
"Not before?"
"Not even a little one," mischief in her glance. Out came the knife and
the vintner plied himself furiously. Gretchen had a knife of her own,
and she joined him. They laughed gaily. Snip, snip; bunch by bunch the
contents of the basket grew.
"There!" he said at last. "That's what I call work; but it is worth it.
Now!"
Gretchen saw that it would be futile to hold him off longer; what she
would not give he would of a surety take. So she put her hands behind
her back, closed her eyes, and raised her chin. He kissed not only the
lovely mouth, but the eyes and cheeks and hair.
"Gretchen, you are as good and beautiful as an angel."
"What are angels like?"
"An angel is the most beautiful woman a poet can describe or imagine."
"Then there are no men angels?"
"Only Gabriel; at least I never heard of any other."
"Then I do not want to be an angel. I had rather be what I am. Besides,
angels do not have tempers; they do not long for things they should not
have; they have no sweethearts." She caught him roughly by the arms.
"Ah, if anything should happen to you, I should die! It seems as though
I had a hundred hearts and that they had all melted into one for love of
you. Do men love as women love? Is it everything and all things, or
only an incident? I would give up my soul to you if you asked for it."
"I ask only for your love, Gretchen; only that." And he pressed her
hands. "All men are rogues, more or less. There are so many currents and
eddies entering into a man's life. It is made up of a thousand variant
interests. No, man's love is never like a woman's. But remember this,
Gretchen, I loved you the best I knew how, as a man loves but once,
honorably as it was possible, purely and dearly."
The shade of trouble crossed her face. "Why are you always talking like
that? Do I not know that you love me? Have I not my dowry, and are we
not to be married after the vintage?"
"But your singing?"
"Singing? Why, my voice belongs to you; for your sake I wish to be
great, for no other reason."
He ripped a bunch of grapes from the vine, a thing no careful vintner
should do, and held it toward her.
"Have you ever heard of the kissing cherries?" he asked.
She shook her head. He explained.
"This bunch will do very well."
He took one grape at the bottom in his teeth. Gingerly Gretchen did the
same. Their lips met in a smothered laughter. Then they tried it again.
And this Watteau picture met the gaze of two persons on the terrace
below. The empurpling face of one threatened an explosion, but the
smiling face of the other restrained this vocal thunder. The old head
vintner kicked a stone savagely, and at this rattling noise Gretchen and
her lover turned. They beheld the steward, and peering over his shoulder
the amused countenance of the Princess Hildegarde.
"You--" began the steward, no longer able to contain himself.
"Patience, Hoffman!" warned her highness. Then she laughed blithely. It
was such a charming picture, and never had she seen a handsomer pair of
bucolic lovers. A sudden pang drove the merriment from her face. Ah, but
she envied Gretchen! For the peasant there was freedom, there was the
chosen mate; but for the princess--
"Your hat, scoundrel!" cried Hoffman.
The vintner snatched off his hat apologetically and swung it round on
the tips of his fingers.
"Is this the way you work?"
"I have picked nine baskets."
"You should have picked twelve."
It interested her highness to note that this handsome young fellow was
not afraid of the head vintner. So this was Gretchen's lover? He was
really handsome; there was nothing coarse about his features or figure.
And presently she realized that he was returning her scrutiny with
interest. He had never seen her highness at close range before, and he
now saw that Gretchen was more beautiful only because he saw her through
the eyes of a lover.
The pause was broken by Gretchen.
"Pardon, Highness!"
"For what, Gretchen?"
"For not having seen your approach."
"That was my fault, not yours. When is the wedding?"
"After the vintage, Highness."
Her highness then spoke to the bridegroom-elect. "You will be good to
her?"
"Who could help it, your Highness?"
The pronoun struck her oddly, for peasants as a usual thing never used
it in addressing the nobility.
"Well, on the day of the wedding I will stand sponsor to you both. And
good luck go with you. Come, Hoffman; my horse will be restive and my
men impatient."
She passed down the aisle, and the head vintner followed, wagging his
head. He was not at all satisfied with that tableau. He employed men to
work; he wanted no love-affairs inside his vineyards. As for her
highness, she had come for the sole purpose of seeing Gretchen's lover;
and it occurred to her that the really desirable men were generally
unencumbered by titles.
"He will discharge me," said the young vintner gloomily.
"He will not dare," returned Gretchen. "We have done nothing wrong. Her
highness will stand by us. It must be five o'clock," looking at the sun.
"In that case, no more work for the day."
He swung the basket to his shoulder, and the sun, flashing upon its
contents, turned the bloomy globes into dull rubies. He presented his
card at the office and was duly credited with three crowns, which,
according to Gretchen, was a fine day's work. Hoffman said nothing about
dismissal.
"Come day after to-morrow; to-morrow is a feast-day. You are always
having feast-days when work begins. All summer long you loaf about, but
the minute you start to work you must find excuses to lay off. Clear
out, both of you!"
"Work at last," said Dietrich, as he and Gretchen started for the city.
"If I can get a position in the brewery for the winter I shall be rich."
"Oh, the beautiful world!"
"Do you recall the first day I met you?" he asked.
"Yes. A little more and that dog would have killed the big gander. What
little things bring about big ones! When I walked into the city that
day, had any one told me that I should fall in love, I should have
laughed."
"And I!"
Arm in arm they went on. Sometimes Gretchen sang; often he put her hand
to his lips. By and by they came abreast of an old Gipsy. He wore a
coat of Joseph's, and his face was as lined as a frost-bitten apple. But
his eyes were keen and undimmed, and he walked confidently and erect,
like a man who has always lived in the open.
"Will you tell me how to find the Adlergasse?" he asked in broken
German. His accent was that of a Magyar. He had a smattering of a dozen
tongues at his command, for in his time he had crossed and recrossed the
Danube, the Rhine, and the Rhone.
They carelessly gave him specific directions and passed on. He followed
grimly, like fate, whose agent he was, though long delayed. When he
reached the Adlergasse he looked for a sign. He came to a stop in front
of the dingy shop of the clock-mender. He went inside, and the ancient
clock-mender looked up from his work, for he was always working.
He rose wearily and asked what he could do for his customer. His eyes
were bothering him, so the fact that the man was a Gipsy did not at
first impress him.
The Gipsy smiled mysteriously and laid a hand on his heart.
"Who are you?" sharply demanded the clock-mender.
"Who I am does not matter. I am he whom you seek."
"God in Heaven!" The bony hands of the clock-mender shot out and
clutched the other's coat in a grip which shook, so intense was it. The
Gipsy released himself slowly. "But first show me your pretty crowns and
the paper which will give me immunity from the police. I know something
about you. You never break your word. That is why I came. Your crowns,
as you offered, and immunity; then I speak."
"Man, I can give you the crowns, but God knows I have no longer the
power to give you immunity."
"So?"
The Gipsy shouldered his bundle.
"For God's sake, wait!" begged the clock-mender.
But the Gipsy walked out, unheeding.
CHAPTER XVIII
A WHITE SCAR
Two days later, in the afternoon.
"Grumbach," said Carmichael, "what the deuce were you looking at the
other night, with those opera-glasses?"
"At the ball?" Grumbach pressed down the ash in his pipe and brushed his
thumb on his sleeve. "I was looking into the past."
"With a pair of opera-glasses?"
"Yes." Grumbach was perfectly serious.
"Oh, pshaw! You were following her highness with them. I want to know
