
"The deuce!" cried Cantire, sliding from 
the horse. "A duel! And you not even 
pinked!" 

He laughed. The idea of it pleased him. 
His grandfather was a duke, a real one, a 
stately old man with a head empty but 
noble. Whether on that account or for 
other reasons is immaterial, but he had 
always thought Malakoff a mucker. It was 
not on his account he had gone to Deauville. 
It was for Sally. 

"But!" exclaimed de Dol, his mouth 
agape. A little panorama was unfolding 





before him Welden and Sally surprised 
in amorous conversation by Sally's husband. 
"And Malakoff ?" 

"He will be all right shortly." 

As Welden spoke, de Dol bowed slowly to 
an advancing understanding of it all. Malakoff's seconds, aware of the conversation 
and foreseeing that for at least one of the 
principals the duel would be damaging had, 
for that reason, asked that the race be post 
poned. 

"All the same," he affably rejoined, "It 
was most amiable of you to come. When it 
rains one's friends are doubly welcome." 

Welden turned to Cantire. "Are you 
afraid of a wetting?" 

"Good Lord, no, why?" 

"Our horses are here, if we don't race now 
we won't race at all. I will back myself 
against you. I will back myself against 
Ferrers too, if he will. M. de Dol can give 
him a mount." 



 

"Done," said Cantire. "Let's make it a 
fiver." 

Lord Ferrers dropped his monocle. "Not 
for me, thanks, but I ll hold the stakes." 

"You were saying?" asked de Dol, who 
had caught his name but who otherwise was 
again in the dark and that too despite the 
fact that a flash of intense vividness lit the 
room, one which a great crash followed in 
stantly. 

"It will be clearing shortly," said Ferrers, 
rising from the divan and peering through a 
window. "I say," he called, "I believe it is." 

De Dol meanwhile, to whom Welden had 
translated the gist of it and who thought 
him and Cantire crazy, was giving the necessary orders. 

Welden got from his chair and joined the 
others at the window. The rain had ceased. 
In the west was the glow of renaissant day. 
From a tree near by water was falling in 
little drops, soft and multiple. Overhead 





in the still neutral sky, long ribbons of 
ravens formed themselves into black wreaths 
and sombre garlands. Welden, to whom 
the visible existed, considered the signs 
which it is perhaps their mysterious duty to 
convey. 

But now a footman appeared with rain 
coats and a lad from the stables, touching 
his forehead, just showed his nose. 

"The horses are here," said de Dol. "Will 
you have a coat, monsieur?" he asked of 
Ferrers. 

The latter displayed an umbrella that 
was thin as a walking-stick. 

"Thanks, no. This will do me." 

De Dol however had himself helped into 
a great-coat, took a fat umbrella besides, 
swung a field glass about him and, accompanied by the others, went out to the perron 
before which stablemen swarmed and the 
hunters stood. 

The course began the throw of a stone beyond. While Welden and Cantire exam 
ined the girths, verified the stirrups, looked 
to the bits and bridles, Ferrers and de Dol 
passed on. Before they reached the stand, 
Cantire and Welden were in the saddle. 

"I say, Ferrers," Cantire eaUed. "You 
give the signal, will you?" 

"Very good," the Englishman answered. 
"Now, then, steady." 

He pulled a rope. Before the flag could 
fall, Welden's horse, over zealously, had 
bolted. 

Welden got him in hand, turned him, 
brought him back, flattering him with pats 
on the shoulder. 

"Vive 1 Angleterre!" shouted de Dol. 
"Vive 1 Amerique!" 

"And vive la France!" Welden and Cantire, almost in unison, responded. 

De Dol laughed with satisfaction. He 
still thought them mad and said as much to 
Ferrers. 





The latter inserted his monocle. "The 
going does not seem so bad and the obstacles 
are not tremendous." 

He spoke in French, very correctly, but 
with so marked a British accent, that he 
might as well have replied in English. 
De Dol thought he was agreeing with him 
and laughed again. 

"Steady!" Ferrers called and for the second time pulled the flag-rope. 

This time they were off, taking the sticks 
as though there were nothing there, clearing 
them, in spite of the rain, easily, without 
effort. 

De Dol followed them through his glass, 
Ferrers through his monocle. 

Beyond, the country stretched, inert and dolent. In the west the glow had height 
ened. Overhead, the darker sky was veined 
with flashes thin and sudden. The ravens, 
assembled now in screaming flight, shot 
southward. 



 

Quickly but quietly Ferrers swore. Can- 
tire was down. 

"I awaited it!" cried de Dol. But at once 
he could see that the boy was up and in a 
moment that he .was on and off again. 

Welden now was leading. Blazes tore 
on. The splendid brute, with his impudent 
eye and shoulders like the top of a hay 
stack, had covered the course; he was nearing the stand when, just as he was about to 
take the final fence, there came a flash 
vivider than any, a bolt so neighbourly and 
dazzling that it looked raspberry, and 
whether it unnerved the horse or the man 
or both, in any event Welden bent heavily 
forward and together, turning a somersault, 
they tumbled. 

For a second, without sense of injury or 
sensation of pain, Welden lingered. Then 
his two selves, the conscious and the sub 
conscious, scattered, evaporated, ceased to 
know. -Again on that day it was night. 





"God of gods!" cried de Dol. "I said 
they were mad!" 

Ferrers, extracting his monocle, vaulted 
to the ground, where, as from the ground 
itself, stablemen came swarming, while, over 
all, indifferently, from disrupted clouds, the 
sun looked out. 




A surgeon obtained, it was found that 
Welden had a fracture of the ankle, a frac 
ture of the collarbone and a fracture of the 
skull. 

The surgeon, Dr. Binet-Valmer, thought 
the first fracture trite; the second, stupid. 
Had there been but these he would have 
abandoned Welden to other hands. But the 
third fracture had the high merit of interest 
ing this man whose country-seat was near 
by and who was one of the lights of French 
science. 

"He won't die to-day," he absently an 
nounced. 

As for the rest, a phrase which, for the 
benefit of the ignoramuses about him, he 
employed to designate the cerebral cortex 




that marvellous pulp behind the forehead 
through which the objective changes of the 
external world are, by some undiscovered 
witchery, converted into the subjective 
changes of consciousness concerning that 
magical mystery and the fate of it, he had 
an opinion which he kept to himself. 

The examination concluded, he addressed 
the Comte de Dol precisely as though the 
poor man were a lackey. He did not regard 
him as such, he considered him an insect. 
The Earl of Ferrers and the Honourable 
Mull Cantire were to him two insects 
more. Welden was not an insect or even 
an entity, he was a Case. 

"An ambulance," he ordered. 

But de Dol shook his head. The fractures had occurred on his grounds, to a 
guest of his bidding, and, with that decent 
sentiment of what decency is which the 
Arabs discovered, he had Welden tended in 
his house. 



 

Through the enigmatic laws of life any 
kindness is repaid in pain. De Dol never 
actively regretted the charity, though certainly had he wished he might have, for 
when the report of it all had gone abroad, a 
woman, very modishly attired, emerged 
from a cab at the perron and demanded 
to be taken instantly to where Welden 
was. 

Obviously the lady appertained to that 
class which the French describe as the top 
of the basket. But de Dol's footman knew 
his business. 

"Perfectly, madame," he replied. "Will 
madame give herself the trouble to pass this 
way?" 

Whereupon he showed her into the room 
hung with pictures of sporting scenes and 
horses. 

From the threshold he added: "Will 
madame say whom I am to announce?" 

"The Duchess of Malakoff." 





The man bowed and vanished. Presently 
he returned, ushering de DoL 

"But! But!" exclaimed the latter, shuf 
fling in, affecting to seem pleased yet succeeding so meagrely that, to cover his em 
barrassment, he raised and bent over the 
gloved hand which Sally put out, wondering 
all the time what the devil he could do with 
her. 

Sally told him. In her sweetest voice she 
said: "Take me to him, please." 

De Dol, sparring for wind, protested, 
"Duchess, he is unconscious." 

Sally motioned at the door. "I know. I 
have brought a trained nurse. We will take 
care of him together." 

De Dol, sparring still, again protested. 
"Duchess, I pray you, consider your posi 
tion." 

Sally lifted her little chin. "He consid 
ered that. He fought for me. What I con 
sider is his condition." 



 

But now de Dol had got his wind. For 
a moment, thoughtfully, with kind, honest 
eyes he looked in hers. Then he went at 
her. 

"Duchess, believe me, never intentionally 
have I refused a lady anything. It is regrettable to be obliged to refuse you. But 
your husband is my friend. He has been 
gravely injured by this gentleman. If you 
will not consider your position, I pray you 
consider mine. Can you not see that it 
would be intolerable were I to do as you 
ask?" 

Sally, floored but not defeated, leaned 
from the chair in which she sat, flung her 
arms on the table beside her, sank her head 
there, and audibly began to cry. 

Men who face death unflinchingly, quail 
at a woman's tears. What is worse women 
know it. Sally used hers much as though 
they constituted a stick and de Dol, bruised 
and belaboured, cursed himself that he had 





not, at the start, invented some ukase of the 
surgeon to which she must unquestionably 
bow. Yet, after all, he reflected, the surgeon certainly would pronunciamento, and 
that edict he could hold in reserve should 
other tactics which then occurred to him, 
fail. 

Timorously he approached and gingerly, 
with one finger, touched her. 

At the attention, Sally's slight frame 
shook. 

"Duchess, calm yourself. Calm yourself, 
I pray you. If you will but calm yourself, 
there is a little idea that has come to me 
which may result in what you wish. Will 
you let me tell you? Will you?" 

But Sally felt now too securely in 
trenched to yield to what, perhaps, were 
mere treacherous cajolements. She continued to weep or appeared to, yet, apparently also in a fashion more broken, leaving invitingly between the sobs increasing intervals during which he could speak and which, 
if what he said were not agreeable, she, with 
renewed activity, could curtail. 

Warily but boldly he utilised one such 
pause. 

"Duchess, let us see. Be reasonable 
enough to listen. From the moment when 
this gentleman was carried from that divan to where he now is, I have not seen him, 
no one has, save the surgeon, the aids and 
imfirmieres, nor, until he is conscious do I 
believe that the surgeon will permit anyone 
to see him, no one, not even the man's own 
mother were she here. If, therefore, I can 
not do as you would wish me, it is not merely 
for your sake and my sake, it is for his. But 
when he is better, when such danger as there 
is has been passed, enfin! in a little while, I, 
I who speak to you, will not be here. Then 
who comes and who goes, I do not know. I 
do not inquire. It is my intendant who has 
charge of such things. Do you appreciate, 





Duchess? My intendant has not the honour 
of your acquaintance; he is not a friend of 
the duke. Let us suppose then that of a 
morning a lady arrives and says: I have 
come to sit with this gentleman. I am his 
sister, his promised, his chere amie, his what 
ever you like. My intendant says: But 
what then? But certainly! And pat at is, 
patatas. And behold the lady who then creates the rain and the fine weather. Does 
that say nothing to you, Duchess? Does it 
not seem well machined? Later, I return. 
My intendant says: The sister, the promised, the chere amie, the whatever you like 
of the sick gentleman has been here. And 
I say: That does not regard me. I wash 
my hands. 

Long since the intervals between the sobs 
had so elongated that the sobs themselves 
had ceased. Sally's bowed head was lifted. 
For a lady who had wept so profusely her 
eyes were phenomenally bright. 



 

"Yes," de Dol resumed. "That is what 
I say to him. I say: I wash my hands. 

"You promise I may come?" 

"But no, Duchess. But no. I do not 
promise. It is not for me to promise any 
thing. I have nothing to promise about. I 
play that I am dead. It is when I am gone 
for the lady of whom I speak to do as she 
may wish. Of my departure she can in 
form herself. It is easy as Good-day." 

Sally stood up. She held out her hand 
and looking at him through her oblique, 
half -closed and entirely tearless eyes said 
sweetly: "You're a dear." 

De Dol took the hand. Bending over it 
he sighed, deeply, with relief. 

"A cup of tea, Duchess? A glass of 
wine?" 

Sally, shaking her head at the offer, 
sighed too. 

"Forgive me, if I have seemed to in 
sist." 





"Duchess, I pray of you, it is for me to 
ask your pardon." 

Sally moved on. A moment or two later 
when de Dol after accompanying her to the 
cab, saw to it that she really got in, really 
drove off, he sighed afresh and muttered: 

"Let the devil catch me again if he can!" 




To those about Welden it was as though 
he were dead, drowned rather, sunk into 
depths where nothing can follow, into those 
deepest depths where life is without form, 
without colour, without sensation of any 
kind. But presently either because of their 
efforts, or because of influences not higher; 
but the reverse, because he had not suffered 
enough, death, loosening its hold, retreated ; 
life beckoned, calling him from where he 
swooned, and imperceptibly, little by little, 
after infinite hesitations, relapses, retrievals, 
drifting upward from those depths, he 
awoke. 

Where he was he did not know. What 
had happened, he could not tell. He did not 


try. He did not care. He had but one wish, 
to sink back again and sleep. But again life 
caught and called him, wrapped him, rocked 
him, accustoming him gradually to its subtleties, reconciling him to it and to himself

It was at this juncture that Sally declared herself a miserable woman. In the 
opinion of the world she deserved to be. 
The opinion of the world is very valuable. 
The fried mixture of falsities on which it 
daily breakfasts would induce apoplexy in 
any entity less robust. In its distinguished 
opinion Sally's husband had fought because 
of her with a man who was engaged to one 
of her intimate friends and whom she had 
inveigled from her. 

Even in the way we live now such behaviour is not regarded as nice. Yet any 
woman might have done as much, and more 
and worse, and been smiled at, provided only 
she and her husband continued, outwardly 
at least, on good terms. But on the open 



scandal of scandalous ruptures the world, 



which if credulous is also discreet, turns 
always its ponderous back. 

It turned it on Sally. Though young, 
rich, good-looking and a duchess, the attitude of the world justified her declaration 
and the knowledge that it did gave Sally's 
mother an attack of indignation morbus of 
which the nausea lasted through twelve pages 
of pen and ink. 

For final hiccough there was this: "You 
have disgraced me. No decent person will 
ever receive you unless you return to your 
husband at once." 

Mrs. Kandy was then at Aix. The par 
oxysm dispatched, she felt better. Sally 
was then at Chantilly. The eructation received, she felt no worse. Lodged at the 
time at the Sign of the Swan, she had with 
her Harris and Perkins. She had also her 
thoughts. These, if not many, were pleasant. 




Among them was the fact that Mr. Ridge- 
way, who had conducted the delicate arrangements of her marriage, was occupied 
with the still more delicate details of her divorce. Before going to Deauville she had 
consulted him. On her return she had consulted him again. She had done better. She 
had retained him. He had assured her that 
she could be free. 

He was as good as his word. Evidence 
of the conversation that had occurred on the 
night of July the Fourth sufficed. But with 
that regard for the honour of families and 
the repute of women which Anglo-Saxon 
tribunals lack, during the punctilious and 
brief debates, the court, in withholding any 
mention of the co-respondent's name, ob 
scured the lady from the public. 

That is but gentlemanly. None the less 
the obscurity was one in which the world saw 
many things, the obviousness of the fact, for 
instance, that Sally had but stolen a march 



 

on Malakoff who, gallantly, had desisted 
from counter charges. 

Sally did not attempt to undeceive the 
world which would not have believed her had 
she tried. She did not try, however. It 
would not have suited her book to do so. She 
had another and a more agreeable task. 

De Dol meanwhile had gone, summer was 
going and Welden, issuing from the greaticed bath of death, remounted to life's sur 
face. Among other lesions, there had been 
an injury to the occipital cortex which resulted in impairment of vision. For a time 
he could not distinguish objects. When he 
succeeded, the first thing he saw was Sally. 

He resented her presence. He regarded 
it as an intrusion. Moreover, the reason of 
it was beyond him. Then from being a phe 
nomenon objectionable and occult, it became 
a phase of his condition, one that primarily 
he accepted from sheer inability to avoid 
and finally from the familiarising effects of 





habit. It is related that men who entered 
the Bastille as though it were their grave, 
had to be afterward ejected by force. They 
had got used to it and what human beings 
get used to they get to like. That was the 
case with Welden. In accounting for Sally's visits he forgot her former ambuscades 
and attributed present attentions to the ef 
fort he had made to rid the world of Malakoff. Anyway, what did it matter? Sally 
made his prison endurable. She was blithe 
as a humming bird. On the end of her fin 
gers was every kind of pretty gesture. 
They were alert too, very divinatory. They 
knew what he wanted as soon as he did. 
They omitted to be in the way. They grew 
discreet. Recognising their usefulness, 
they ceased to flutter. They took themselves away, and away remained, until their 
return was solicited. 

When that occurred Sally, even to the 
world, could no longer affect to be a miserable woman. She radiated smiles, she exhaled good humour. Dr. Binet-Valmer, 
who thoroughly approved of the presence of 
young gentlewomen in the bedrooms of convalescents, encouraged her visits. He knew 
she was only an insect but he realised that 
she was a pretty one. Without any faith in 
drugs whatever, with hardly any faith in 
anything, he yet had confidence in the tonic 
of prettiness, smiles and good humour. The 
infirmieres had too. The intendant had 
also. To them, to the trainers and stable 
men, Sally was the right sort. There was 
no end to her presents and pourboires. 

Such were her occupations. In addition 
she had another. She, too, was having a run. 

The post was a good bit off. Between her 
and it were wide ditches and tall fences. At 
any moment a tremendous crumpler might 
occur. But behind her were other obstacles, 
bigger and wider still, timber which she 
thought she could not take and which she 





had cleared without effort. Moreover, now 
she was nearing the home stretch. Provided 
she kept her seat, kept, too, a hand light, 
yet steady, luck might land her a winner, 
and at it she went, full tilt, straight ahead, 
at a pace so clinking that it accounted per 
haps for her smiles and good humour. 

It was not because of these radiations, 
hut because of others, because it was his 
destiny to do so, that Welden no longer resented her presence. He accepted it, but 
with that curious lassitude which Death, in 
revenge it may be, puts on those for whom 
it has come and not got. 

Apathetic and indifferent, he rejected 
the news of the day, ignored the cataclysms 
in Wall street, refused to see Cantire, Le 
Hillel, Lord Ferrers and the string of visitors that called. But apart from the apathy, 
apart, too, from the debility incident to his 
condition, health had returned. Long since 
his collar-bone had been mended and his 



 

ankle, treated after the setting to massage 
instead of plaster, was now but a little stiff. 

Presently, Sally prompting, these things 
he recognised and recognising also that further delay would constitute a breach of hos 
pitality, he wrote de Dol his thanks, asked 
him as an additional obligation to accept 
his hunter and, after distributing princely 
presents to the service, had himself transported to the Sign of the Swan. 

"What you need," Sally said to him that 
evening, "is a good, long sea trip. Dr. 
Binet-Valmer told me so. Don't you agree 
with him?" 

They were at table in her sitting room at 
the Hotel du Cygne where, served by Harris, they had dined. The cloth had not yet 
been removed but Harris had gone. Sally 
wore a gown in the corsage of which ochre 
and lilac were blended. Welden's evening 
coat fell about him loosely. He was smoking. 





"Don't you?" Sally repeated. 

"Yes," he answered. "But hardly alone 
and for the moment I know no one whom I 
could ask to go with me." 

Sally smiled, displaying her teeth, bits of 
mother of pearl, glistening and pointed. 

"You could ask me." 

At this prelude to the Invitation a la 
valse, Welden shrugged his shoulders. 
Men generally thought Sally very fetching. 
Her mauve eyes, oblique and half -closed, 
might have tempted saints, demons even, 
with whom she was perhaps akin. But she 
failed to represent to Welden that which 
makes some men constant not necessarily to 
one particular woman but to one particular 
feminine type. 

"Nonsense," he told her. 

"It is not nonsense at all," Sally, shaking 
her head and cocking an eye at him, retorted. 
"Why do you say so?" 

Welden considered the prelude closer. 



 

After all there was a certain worldly justice in it. Maud having taken up with Malakoff, it was perhaps nonsense for him to 
balk at taking up with Malakoff's wife. 
Jointly and severally they could combine 
for the payment of old scores. At the same 
time, between public and private payment, 
there was a margin. 

"Why do you?" Sally repeated. 

Welden lighted a fresh cigar. "I should 
be compromising you irretrievably." 

Sally sighed. "You have already," she 
promptly answered. 

From over the cigar Welden looked at 
her. About her throat was a string of 
pearls. One hand that lay invitingly on the 
table was covered with gems. But from it 
the pretty gestures had gone, from her face 
the smiles had passed. She looked virginal 
and sad, a sort of melancholy angel, only 
much better dressed than angels usually are. 
Through her half -closed eyes she watched 




him. There had been her visits to de Dol's, 
he was thinking, but that was her affair. 

"In what way?" he asked. 

"Well, you see, don't you know, every 
body says the duel was on my ac 
count." 

That alsoWelden considered. It seemed 
logical enough. On a certain night Sally 
had abandoned her husband. Within thirty- 
six hours he and that husband had fought. 
Their reasons for fighting no one, save them 
selves, Sally and Maud could possibly know. 
Clearly it was logical enough and yet insufficient to warrant the full measure of the 
Invitation. 

"Mrs. Cawtree wrote to me," Sally resumed, "and Fanny Solferino and my 
mother. My mother was very violent. My 
mother said that I had disgraced her. She 
declared that no decent person would ever 
receive me, unless 

Sally paused. Like the lady whom she 



 

was quoting, she sometimes embroidered 
the truth. 

"Unless " she presently continued, and 
paused again. 

But, as Welden manifested no interest in 
the proviso, she prodded him. 

"I don't like to tell you." 

Then, seeing that Welden had no inten 
tion of urging her, she took her courage in 
her jewelled hand. 

"Unless you marry me." 

Welden had been occupied with the logic 
of her previous statement, but the unobtrusive modesty of this announcement surprised 
him from it. 

He removed his cigar. "I had an idea 
that you were married already." 

Into the melancholy of Sally's face there 
crept a smile. "I was," she answered. "I 
am no longer." 

"Ah," said Welden. "Is Malakoff dead?" 

But now the smile in Sally's face deepened. It burrowed under the melancholy 
and tossed it aside. She laughed. 

"No, divorced. It was so amusing too. 
Shall I ten you about it? Shall I? Well, 
after I put in the petition, the judge had us 
both see him in private. Ridgeway told me 
he would. It appears that in divorce cases 
here the judge takes a sort of fatherly attitude and tries to get the parties to make 
up and, if you will believe me, he did try. 
He was so nice about it, too, that you would 
have thought he was my aunt and Malakoff 
was so rude you would have thought he was 
my mother. But the judge was really very 
nice. And so civil! Dear me, his mouth 
was just full of madame la duchesse and 
monsieur de due. Later on, in the decree, he fined his monsieur le due a hundred francs. 
Don't you think it was amusing?" 

Welden shrugged his shoulders. After 
the duel it had been grievous to him that he 
had not killed the man. Now he did not 



 

care. During the race he had tried to kill 
himself. There too he had failed. But that 
also was a matter of indifference. Before 
either race or duel he had been obsessed by 
the vision of a pillowed head. It had gone. 
Though he had failed with Malakoff and 
failed with himself, he had thoroughly assassinated that. 

"Don't you think it was amusing?" Sally 
repeated. 

"You certainly have not been idle," Weiden replied. "What were the grounds?" 

Sally made a gesture. Though there are 
things that men do, there are women who do 
not mention them. 

Welden nodded. "Who was the co?" 

"Who?" cried Sally. "Have you forgotten already? Don't you remember the night 
of the Fourth of July?" 

Welden nodded again and knocked the 
ashes from his cigar. "You are no longer, 
then, madame la duchesse." 





Smilingly Sally stood up. She moved 
from the table, dropped him a curtsy and 
sweetly, yet simply, replied: 

"I am Sally Kandy again, and yours if 
you will have me." 

"Thank you," said Welden, quite as 
though he had been offered another cup of 
coffee. "Thank you. But did not this Ridge- 
way tell you about the Court of Cassation? 
Malakoff has six months in which to appeal. 
Of course he will do nothing of the kind. 
None the less, in the interim, any marriage 
of yours would be bigamous." 

At that last word Sally flushed and sat 
down. It is possible that she had misconstrued its meaning. 

"What a dreadful expression," she ex 
claimed. "I am sure I never should think 
of anything so horrid. But, in the interim, 
as you call it, what is there to prevent us 
from going to South Africa or, better still, 
to the East?" 



 

At the door came a rap. Harris entered, 
busying himself with the cloth. Welden got 
up and limped to the window. 

In the park without, leaves were falling, 
falling from branch to branch; falling slow 
ly, as with regret; falling undecidedly with 
precaution. In their faint rustle was a 
sound such as the steps of fate may make 
when approaching furtively, a-tiptoe. 

The hesitancy of it filtered into Welden's 
thoughts. Usually, he knew what he had to 
do and did it. But illness plays strange 
tricks and destiny plays others. After all, 
he told himself, eventually there would be 
someone else. Perhaps as well then Sally 
as another. At least she would serve to show 
to Maud how indifferent he was to her. Even 
otherwise, how should it matter? How should 
anything matter any more? 

He turned. Harris had gone. Sally 
through her half -closed eyes, was watching 
him. 





"Very good," he said. "We will go to the 
Orient since you wish it." 

With a feline twist of the tongue SalJy 
moistened her lips. She had the sensation 
of being lifted lightly in the air. It was the 
last fence. She had reached the post a winner. 

Alone in his room that night Welden still 
heard the leaves. They fell slowly, solemnly, burying the past beneath their slender 
weight, raising between him and it a veil, 
tenuous and aerial. Higher it rose, higher 
still, ever higher until, sinking again, it en 
veloped memory in it. 

A fortnight later Welden and Sally, at- 
tended by their servants, embarked from 
Southampton on a voyage that took them 
first to India, where they loitered, then to 
Hong Kong, where they were married and 
finally to White Peacocks. 

There the journey ended. There, for one 
of them, eternity began. 




"Well, William, how are you? Is Miss 
Barhyte at home?" 

"Yes, sir, Miss Barhyte has just come in. 
I hope I see you very well, sir. It's a long 
time, sir " 

Taking Welden's hat and stick, the servant showed him into the library, which apparently, was unaltered. The cushions on 
the sofa were as colourful as before. Oppo 
site, the piano stood, and from the walls powdered heads looked down. But, from the 
table, the Sicilians had gone. In place of 
Greek poetry there was now a book of 





French verse. Otherwise the room was quite 
as it had been the year previous and, apart 
from a black band on the sleeve of his grey 
coat, Welden himself was unchanged. There 
was the same smile in his eyes, the same glint 
in his hair, the same appearance of suppleness and strength. 

He had opened the book and was loitering 
in its languors when William reappeared. 

