chicken cold. His fellow-lunchers will be, as he may 
like well enough to fancy, of somewhat lower degree 
than himself, but they will all seem very respectable, 
and when they come out together, they will all be 
equalized in the sudden excitement which has pos- 
sessed itself of the street, and lined the curbstones 
up and down with spectators, their bodies bent for- 
ward, and their faces turned in the direction of the 
station. 
The excitement is caused by the coming of the King ; 
and I wish that I could present that event in just its 
sincere unimpressiveness. I have assisted at several 
such events on the Continent, where, especially in 
Germany, they are heralded as they are in the theatre, 
with a blare of trumpets, and a sensation in the popu- 
lace and the attendant military little short of an ague 
fit. There, as soon as the majesties mount into their 
carriages from the station, they drive off as swiftly as 
their horses can trot, and their subjects, who have been 
waiting for hours to see them, make what they can of 
a meagre half -minute's glimpse of them. But how dif- 
ferent was the behavior of that easy-going Majesty of 
England! As soon as I heard that he was coming, I 
perceived how anxious I had been in the half-year of 
my English sojourn to see him, and how bitterly I 
should have been disappointed to leave his realms with- 
out it. All kings are bad, I knew that well enough; 
but I also knew that some kings are not so bad as 
others, and I had been willing to accept at their face 
the golden opinions of this King, which, almost with- 
out exception, his lieges seemed to hold. Of course 
it is not hard to think well of a king if you are under 
him, just as it is not hard to think ill of him if you 
are not under him ; but there is no use being bigotedly 
republican when there is nothing to be got by it, and 
I own the fact that his subjects like him willingly. 
Probably no man in his kingdom understands better 
than Edward VII. that he is largely a form, and that 
the more a form he is the more conformable he is to 
the English ideal of a monarch. But no Englishman 
apparently knows hetter than he when to leave off be- 
ing a form and become a man, and he has endeared 
himself to his people from time to time by such inspira- 
tions. He is reputed on all hands to be a man of great 
good sense ; if he is ever fooled it is not by himself, but 
by the system which he is no more a part of than the 
least of his subjects. If he will let a weary old man 
or a delicate woman stand indefinitely before him, he 
is no more to blame for that than for speaking English 
with a trace of German in his ih sounds; he did not 
invent his origins or his traditions. Personally, hav- 
ing had it out with life, he is as amiable and as un- 
ceremonious as a king may be. He shares, as far as 
he can, the great and little interests of his people. He 
has not, so far as noted, the gifts of some of his sisters, 
but he has much of his mother's steadfast wisdom, and 
his father's instinct for the right side in considerable 
questions; and he has his father's prescience of the 
psychological moment for not bothering. Of course, 
he is a fetish ; no Englishman can deny that the king- 
ship is an idolatry; but he is a fetish with an uncom- 
mon share of the common man's divinity. The system 
which provides him for the people provides them the 
best administration in the world, always naturally in 
the hands of their superiors, social and political; but 
we could be several times rottener than we adminis- 
tratively are, and still be incalculably reasonabler, as 
republicans, than those well-governed monarchists. 
Some of us are apt to forget the immense advan- 
tage which we have of the monarchical peoples in hav- 
ing cast away the very name of King, for with the name 
goes the nature of royalty and all that is under and 
around it. But because we are largely a fond and sillv 
 
folk, with a false conceit of ourselves and others, we 
like to make up romances about the favor in which 
thrones, municipalities, and powers hold us. Once it 
was the Tsar of Russia who held us dear, and would 
do almost anything for Americans ; now it is the King 
of England who is supposed rather to prefer us to his 
own people, and to delight to honor us. We attribute 
to him a feeling which a little thought would teach us 
was wholly our own-, and which would be out of nature 
if not out of reason with him. He is a man of sense, 
and not of sentiment, and except as a wise politician 
he could have no affection for a nation whose existence 
denies him. He is very civil to Americans ; it is part 
of a constitutional king's business to be civil to every 
one; but he is probably not sentimental about us; and 
we need not be sentimental about him. 
He looked like a man of sense, and not like a man 
of sentiment, that day as he drove through the Don- 
caster street on his way to the sport he loves beyond 
any other sport. He sat with* three other gentlemen on 
the sidewise seats of the trap, preceded by outriders, 
which formed the simple turnout of the greatest prince 
in the world. He was at the end on the right, and he 
showed fully as stout as he was, in the gray suit he 
wore, while he lifted his gray top-hat now and* then, 
bowing casually, almost absently, to the spectators 
fringing, not too deeply, the sidewalks. He was very, 
very stout, even after many seasons of Marienbad, and 
after the sufferings he had lately undergone, and he 
was quite like the pictures and effigies of him, down 
to those on the postage-stamps. He has a handsome 
face, still bearded in the midst of a mostly clean- 
shaving nation, and with the white hairs prevalent 
on the cheeks and temples; his head is bald atop, 
though hardly from the uneasiness of wearing a crown. 
It was difficult to realize him for what he was, and, 
in the unmilitary keeping of a few policemen, he was 
not of the high histrionic presence that those German 
majesties were. The good-natured crowd did not strain 
itself in cheering, though it seemed to cheer cordially ; 
and it did not stay long after the trap tooled com- 
fortably away. I then addressed myself to a little 
knot of railway servants who lingered talking, and 
asked them what some carriages were still waiting for 
at the door of the station, and one of them answered 
with a lightness you do not expect in England, " Oh, 
Lord This, and Lady That, and the Hon. Mr. I-don't- 
know-what's-his-name." The others laughed at this 
ribald satire of the upper classes, and I thought it 
safer to follow the King to the races lest I should 
hear worse things of them. 
The races were some miles away, and when we got 
to the tracks we did not find their keeping very dif- 
ferent from that of the Saratoga tracks, though the 
crowd was both smarter and shabbier, and it had got 
to the place through a town of tents and sheds, and a 
population of hucksters and peddlers, giving an effect 
of permanency to the festivity such as a solemnity of 
ours seldom has. When we bought our tickets we 
found, in the familiarity with the event expected of 
us, that there was no one to show us to our places; 
but by dint of asking we got to the Grand Stand, and 
mounted to our seats, which, when we stood up from 
them, commanded a wholly satisfactory prospect of the 
whole field. 
I do not know the dimensions of the Doncaster track, 
 
or how far they exceed those of the Saratoga track. 
Possibly one does not do its extent justice because 
there is no track at Doncaster: there is nothing but 
a green turf, with a certain course railed off on it. I 
hope the reader will be as much surprised as I was 
to realize that the sport of horse-racing in England 
gets its name of Turf from the fact that the races are 
run on the grass, and not on the bare ground, as with 
us. We call the sport the Turf, too, but that is be- 
cause in this, as in so many other things, we lack in- 
centive and invention, and are fondly colonial and im- 
itative ; we ought to call it the Dirt, for that is what it 
is with us. As a spectacle, the racing lacks the defini- 
tion in England which our course gives, and when it 
began, I missed the relief into which our track throws 
the bird-like sweep of the horses as they skim the naked 
earth in the distance. 
I missed also the superfluity of jockeying which de- 
lays and enhances the thrill of the start with us, and 
I thought the English were not so scrupulous about an 
even start as we are. But, above all, I missed the 
shining faces and the gleaming eyes of the black 
jockeys, who lend so much gayety to our scene, where 
they seem born to it, if not of it. The crowd thick- 
ened in English bloom and bulk, which is always fine 
to see, and bubbled over with the babble of multitudi- 
nous voices, crossed with the shouts of the book-makers. 
Having failed to enter any bets with the book-makers 
of The Pavement in York, I did not care to make them 
here. With all my passion for racing, I never know 
or care which horse wins ; but I tried to enter into the 
joy of a diffident young fellow near me at the Grand 
Stand rail, who was so proud of having guessed as 
winner the horse next to the winner at the first race; 
it was coming pretty close. By the end of the third 
 
race he had softened into something like confidence 
toward me ; certainly into conversability ; such was the 
effect of my being a dead-game sport, or looking it. 
But how account for the trustfulness of the young 
woman on my other hand who wore her gold watch 
outside her dress, and who turned to the elderly stranger 
for sympathy in a certain supreme moment? This 
was when the crowd below crumpled suddenly together 
like the crushing of paper and the sense of something 
tragically mysterious in the distance clarified itself as 
the death of one of the horses. It had dropped from 
heart-break in its tracks, as if shot, and presently a 
string of young men and boys came dragging to some 
spoliarium the long, slender body of the pretty creature 
over the turf which its hoofs had beaten a moment be- 
fore. Then it was that the girl, with the watch on her 
breast, turned and asked, " Isn't it sad ?" 
IV 
She was probably not the daughter of a hundred 
earls, but there must have been some such far-descended 
fair among the ladies who showed themselves from time 
to time in the royal paddock across a little space from 
our Grand Stand. The enclosure has no doubt a more 
technical name, which I would call it by if I knew it, 
for I do not wish to be irreverent ; but paddock is very 
sporty, and it must serve my occasion. The King never 
showed himself there at all, though much craned round 
for and eagerly expected. But ladies and gentlemen 
moved about in the close, and stood and talked together ; 
very tall people, very easily straight and well set up, 
very handsome, and very amiable-looking; they may 
have been really kind and good, or they may have 
 
looked so to please the King and keep his spirits up. 
I did not then, but I do now, realize that these were 
courtiers, such as one has always read of, and were of 
very historical quality in their attendance on the mon- 
arch. I trust it will not take from the dignity of the 
fact if I note that several of the courtiers wore derby 
hats, and one was in a sack coat and a topper. I am 
not sure what the fairer reader will think if I tell that 
one of the ladies had on a dress with a white body and 
crimson skirt and sleeves, and a vast black picture-hat, 
and wore it with a charming air of authority. 
The weather, in the excitement of the races, had not 
known whether it was raining or not, but we feared its 
absent-mindedness, and at the end of the third race we 
went away. It is not well to trust an English day too 
far; this had begun with brilliant sunshine, but it 
dimmed as it wore on, and we could not know that 
it was keeping for us the surprise of a very refined 
sunset. My memory does not serve as to just how 
we had got out to the race-ground; I think, from our 
being set down at the very gate, that it was by hansom 
or by fly ; but now we promised ourselves to walk back 
to town. We did not actually do so; we went back 
most of the way by tram ; but we were the firmer about 
walking at the outset, because we presently found our- 
selves in a lane of gypsy tents, where there was an 
alluring sight and smell of frying fish and potatoes. 
In the midst of the refection, you could have your 
fortune told, very favorably, for a very little money. 
All up and down this happy avenue there went girls 
of several dozen sizes and ages, crying a particular 
kind of taffy, proper to the day and place, and never 
to be had on any other day in any other place. 
We had an hour before train-time, and we thought 
we would go and see the Parish Church of Doncaster, 
which we had read was worth seeing. Our belief was 
confirmed by a group of disappointed ladies in the 
churchyard, who said it was a most beautiful church 
inside, but that they had not seen it because it was 
shut. We proved the fact by trying the door, and then 
we came away consoling ourselves with the scoff that 
it was probably closed for the races. At the book- 
seller's, where we stopped to buy some photographs of 
the interior of the church we had not seen, we lamented 
our disappointment, and the salesman said, " Perhaps 
it was closed for the races." So our joke seemed to 
turn earnest, and on reflection it did not surprise us 
in that England of close-knit unities where people and 
prince are of one texture in their pleasures and de- 
votions, and the Church is hardly more national than 
the Turf. 
At Durham, which was my next excursion from 
York, I cannot claim, therefore, that my mission 
was more serious because it almost solely concerned 
the Church, or that it was more frivolous at Don- 
caster, where it almost solely concerned the Turf. My 
train started in a fine mist that turned to sun, but not 
before it had shown me with the local color, which a 
gray light lends everything, a pack of hounds cross- 
ing a field near the track with two huntsmen at their 
heels. They were not chasing, but running leisurely, 
and with their flower-like, loose spread over the green, 
and the pink - coated hunters on their brown mounts, 
they afforded a picture as vivid and of as perfect sem- 
blance to all my visions of fox-hunting as I could have 
asked. I had been hoping that I might see something 
of the famous sport, almost as English as the Church 
 
or the Turf, and there, suddenly and all unexpectedly, 
the sight fully and satisfyingly was. Now, indeed, 
I felt that my impression of English society was com- 
plete, and that I might go home and write novels of 
English high life, and do something to redeem myself 
a little from the disgrace I had fallen into with my 
fellow-plebeians by always writing of common Amer- 
icans, like themselves, and never grandes dames or 
ideal persons, or people in the best society. 
But I did not want to go home at once, or turn back 
from going to Durham through that pleasant landscape, 
where the mist hung between the trees which seemed 
themselves only heavier bulks of mist. The wheat in 
some of the fields was still uncut, and in others, where 
it had been gathered into sheaves, the rooks by hun- 
dreds were noisily gleaning in the track of the reapers. 
From this conventionally English keeping, I passed 
suddenly to the sight of the gaunt, dry, gravelly bed 
of a wide river, such as I had known in Central Italy, 
or the Middle West at home ; and I realized once again 
that England is no island of one simple complexion, 
but is a condensed continent, with all continental va- 
rieties of feature in it. You must cover thousands and 
thousands of miles in our tedious lengths and breadths 
for the beauties and sublimities of scenery which you 
shall gather from fewer hundreds in England; I have 
no doubt they have even volcanoes there, but I did not 
see any, probably because the English are so reticent, 
and hate to make a display of any sort. 
VI 
It is because they are so, or possibly because of my 
ignorance, that I did not know or at all imagine how 
magnificent the Cathedral of Durham, is, or what a 
matchless seat it has on the bluffs of the river, with 
depths of woods below its front, tossing in the rich 
chill of the September wind. As it takes flight for 
the heavens, to which its business is to invite the 
thought, it seems to carry the earth with it, for if 
you climb those noble heights, you find your feet still 
on the ground, in a most stately space of open level 
between the cathedral and its neighbor castle, which 
alone could be worthy of its high company. 
The castle is Tudor, but the cathedral is beyond all 
other English cathedrals, I believe, Norman, though to 
the naked eye it looks so Gothic, and probably is. Here 
I will leave the reader with any pictures or memories 
of it which he happens to have, for I have always held 
it a sin to try describing architecture, or if not a sin, 
a bore. What chiefly remains to me of my impression 
of Durham Cathedral is, strangely enough, an objec- 
tion: I did not like those decorated pillars, alternating 
with the clustered columns of the interior, and I do 
not suppose I ever shall: the spiral furrows, the zig- 
zag and lozenge figures chiselled in their surfaces, weak- 
ened them to the eye and seemed to trifle with their 
proud bulk. 
But to the castle of Durham I have no objection 
whatever. I should like to live in it, as I should in all 
other Tudor houses, great or small, that I saw, where, 
as I am constantly saying, a high ideal of comfort is 
realized. It is almost as nobly placed as the cathedral, 
and it is approached by a very stately court-yard, of 
like spacious effect with the cathedral piazza. Inside 
it there is a kitchen of the sixteenth century, with a 
company of neat serving-maids, too comely and young 
to be, perhaps, of the same period, that gives the tourist 
a high sense of the luxury in which the Bishop of Dur- 
ham and the Judges of the Assize Courts live when 
they are residents in the castle. One sees their apart- 
ments, dim and rich, and darkly furnished, but not 
gloomily, both where they sleep and where they eat, 
and flatteringly envies them in a willingness for the 
moment to be a judge or a bishop for the sake of such 
a fit setting. There is also a fine crypt, with a fine 
dining-hall and a black staircase of ancient oak, and a 
gallery with classic busts, and other pictures worthy 
of wonder, let alone a history from the time of Will- 
iam the Conqueror, who first fancied a castle where it 
stands, down to the present day. The memory of such 
successive guests as the Empress Matilda and Henry 
II. her son, King John, Henry III., Edwards I., II., 
and III., Queen Philippa, Henry VI., and James I., 
and Charles I., and Edward VII., abides in the guide- 
book, and may be summoned from its page to the cham- 
bers of the beautiful old place by any traveller intend- 
ing impressions for literary use from a mediaeval en- 
vironment in perfect repair. 
VII 
One must be hard to satisfy if one is not satisfied 
with Durham Castle, and its interior contented me as 
fully as the exterior of the Cathedral. I went a walk, 
after leaving the castle, for a further feast of the 
Cathedral from the paths along the shelving banks of 
the beautiful Weare. There, at a certain point, I 
met a studious - looking gentleman who I am sure 
must have been a professor of Durham University 
hard by; and I asked him, with due entreaty for 
pardon, " What river was that." He quelled the sur- 
prise he must have felt at my ignorance and an- 
swered gently, " The Weare." " Ah, to be sure ! The 
Weare," I said, and thanked him, and longed for more 
talk with him, but felt myself so unworthy that I had 
not the face to prompt him further. He passed, and 
then I met a man much more of my own kind, if not 
probably so little informed. That rich, chill gale was 
still tossing and buffeting the tree tops, and he made 
occasion of this to say, " This is a cold wynd a-blowin', 
Mister." " It is, rather," I assented. " I was think- 
in'," he observed from an apparent generalization, 
" that I wished I was at home." Then he sudden- 
ly added, " Help a poor man !" I was not wholly sur- 
prised at the climax, and I offered him, provisionally, 
a penny. " Will that do ?" He hesitated perceptibly ; 
then he allowed, with a subtle reluctance, " Yes, that 
'll do," and so passed on to satisfy, I hope, the wish 
he thought he had. 
I pursued my own course, as far as the bridge which 
spans the Weare near a most picturesque mill, and then 
T stopped a kindly - looking workman and asked him 
whether he thought I could find a fly or cab anywhere 
near that would take me into the town. He answered, 
briefly but consistently with his looks, " Ah doot," and 
as he owned If hat it w r as a long way to town, I let his 
doubt decide me to go back to the station. 
I felt that I ought to have driven from there into 
the town, and seen it, and taken to York a later train 
than the one I had in mind. In the depravity in- 
duced by my neglect of this plain duty, I went, with 
my third - class return ticket conscious in my pocket, 
into the first-class refreshment-room, and had tea there, 
as if I had been gentry at the very least, and possibly 
nobility. Then, having a good deal of time still on my 
hands, I loitered over the book-stall of the station, and 
stole a passage of conversation with a kindly clergy- 
 
man whom I found looking at the pretty shilling edi- 
tions filling the cases. I said, How nice it was to have 
Hazlitt in that green cloth; and he said, Yes, but he 
held for Gibbon in leather; and just then his train 
came in and he ran off to it, and left me to my guilt 
in not having gone to see Durham. It was now twi- 
light, and too late; but there the charming old town 
still is, and will long remain, I hope, with its many 
memories of war and peace, for whoever will visit it. 
Certainly there had been no lack of adventures in my 
ample hour. It was as charming to weave my con- 
jectures, about the two gentlemen with whom I had so 
barely spoken, as to have carried my acquaintance with 
them further, and I cannot see how it would have 
profited me to know more even of that fellow - man 
who, in the cold wynd a-blowing, had just been think- 
ing he wished he was at home. 
IT was fit that on our way to Boston we should pause 
in passing through Cambridge. That was quite as we 
should have done at home, and I can only wish now 
that we had paused longer, though every moment that 
kept us from Boston, if it had been anywhere but in. 
England, would have been a loss. There, it was all 
gain, and all joy, the gay September 24th that we went 
this divine journey. My companion was that com- 
panionable archaeologist who had guided my steps in 
search of the American origins in London, and who 
was now to help me follow the Pilgrim Fathers over 
the ground where they sojourned when they were only 
the Pilgrim Sons. At divers places on the way, after 
we left London, he pointed out some scene associated 
with American saints or heroes. We traversed the re- 
gion that George William Curtis' people came from, 
hard by Roxburgh, and Eliot's, the Apostle to the In- 
dians; again we skirted the Ralph Waldo Emerson 
country, with its big market town of Bishop's Stort- 
ford ; and beyond Ely, where we stopped for the Cathe- 
dral and a luncheon, not unworthy of it, at the station, 
he startled me from a pleasant drowse I had fallen into 
in our railway carriage, with the cry : " There ! That 
is where Captain John Smith was born." " Where ? 
Where?" I implored too late, looking round the com- 
 
partment everywhere. " Back where those chickens 
were." 
That was the nearest I came to seeing one of the 
most famous Virginian origins. But you cannot see 
everything in England ; there are too many things ; and 
if the truth must be known I cared more for the nat- 
ural features than the historical facts of the landscape. 
The country was flat, and a raw green, as it should be 
in that raw air, under that dun sky, with sheep hardily 
biting the short tough pasturage under the imbrowning 
oaks and elms, and the olive-graying willows, beside 
the full, still streams scarce wetter than the ground 
they dreamed through. 
We did not reach Boston until six o'clock, when the 
day was already waning, and the Stump of St. Bo- 
tolph's Church stood dim against the sky. It was a 
long drive through the suburban streets from the sta- 
tion to the hotel, which we found full, and which with 
its crazy floors touched the fancy as full of something 
besides guests. But it was well for us so, because across 
the market-place, which forms the chief public square 
of Boston, was a far better hotel, where we were wel- 
comed to the old - fashioned ideal of the English inn, 
such as I did not so nearly realize anywhere else. The 
ideal was a little impaired by the electric light in our 
bedrooms, but it was not a very brilliant electric light, 
and there was a damp cold in the corridors which al- 
lowed no doubt of its genuineness. In the dining-room, 
which was also the reading - room, there was an ad- 
mirable image of a fire in the grate, and a prevail- 
ing warmth and brightness which cheered the heart of 
exile. When we presently had dinner, specialized for 
us by certain differences from that of two other trav- 
ellers, there seemed nothing more to ask, except the 
conversation of our companions, and this we duly had, 
quite as if we were four wayfarers met there in a book. 
One of these gentlemen proved a solicitor from Bath, 
and that made me feel more at home, knowing and 
loving Bath as I did. It did not matter that in try- 
ing for some mutual acquaintance there we failed ; our 
good-will was everything; and the solicitor was intel- 
ligent and agreeable. The other gentleman, tall, dark, 
of urbane stateliness, was something more, in the touch 
of Oriental suavity which, more than his nose, betrayed 
him; and it appeared, in delightful suggestion of the 
old-time commercial intimacy of the Dutch and Eng- 
lish coasts, that he was from Holland, and next morn- 
ing at breakfast he developed a large valise, which I 
now think held samples. If he was a Dutch Jew, he 
was probably a Spanish Jew by descent, and what will 
the difficult reader have more, in the materials for his 
romance ? Did we gather about the grate after we had 
done dinner, and each tell the story of his life, or at 
least the most remarkable thing that had ever hap- 
pened to him ? 
I cannot say, but I remember that my friend and I, 
in my instant hunger for Boston, which was greater 
than my hunger for dinner, set forth while the meal 
was preparing, and visited the Church of St. Botolph. 
To reach it we had to pass through the greater length 
of the market - place, one of the most picturesque in 
England, and the worthy ancestress of Faneuil Hall 
and Quincy market-places, which are the most pictu- 
resque in America. At one side of its triangle is the 
birthplace and dwelling of Jean Ingelow, and at the 
point nearest the church is the statue of Herbert In- 
gram, the less famous but more locally recognized Bos- 
 
Ionian, who founded the Illustrated London News with 
the money he made by the invention and sale of Old 
Parr's Pills. He was thrice sent to Parliament from 
his native town, and he related it to America, after 
two centuries, by drowning in Lake Michigan. " E. 
N." the otherwise anonymous author of a very intelli- 
gent and agreeable Handbook of Boston, relates that 
in his first canvass for Parliament Ingram was op- 
posed by a gentleman who, when he asked the voices 
of the voters, after the old English fashion, was told 
by four of them in succession that they were promised 
" to their cousin Ingram," and who thereupon declared 
that if he had known Ingram " was cousin to the whole 
town " he would never have stood against him. Like 
the Bostonians of Massachusetts, the Bostonians of Lin- 
colnshire were in fact closely knit together by ties of 
kinship, owing, " R. "N." believes, to the isolation of 
Boston before the draining of its fens, and not to their 
conviction that there were no outsiders worthy to mate 
with them. 
The house where the martyrologist John Fox first 
saw the light was replaced long ago by a famous old 
inn, pulled down in its turn; but the many and many 
Americans who visit Boston may still visit the house 
where Jean Ingelow was born. Whether they may see 
more than the outside of it I do not know from experi- 
ment or even inquiry. " E. 1ST." will say nothing of 
her but that she was born, and that her father was a 
banker; perhaps he thinks that she has spoken suf- 
ficiently for herself. 
The air of the market-place, as we crossed to the 
church, was of a pleasant bleakness, and the Witham 
 
was coldly washing under the wall which keeps St. 
Botolph from it. In the dimness we could have only 
a conjecture of the church's outward beauty, and of 
the grandeur of the tower climbing into the evening, 
where it has hailed so many myriads of moving skips!, 
and beckoned them to safety. But within, where it 
was already night, the church was cheerfully luminous 
with Welsbaeh lights, which showed it all wreathed 
and garlanded for a harvest festival, begun the day be- 
fore, and to be concluded now with some fit religious 
observance. The blossoms and leaves were a little wilt- 
ed and withered, but the fruits and vegetables were 
there in sturdy endurance, and together they swathed 
the pulpit from which John Cotton used to preach, and 
all but kid its structure from view, like flowers of 
rhetoric softening some hard doctrine. 
Apparently, however, Cotton's doctrine was not any- 
wise too hard, or even hard enough, for such " a fac- 
tious people, who were imbued with the Puritan spirit," 
as he found in Boston, when he was first elected vicar 
of St. Botolph's ; and it was not till Archbishop Laud's 
ecclesiastical tyrannies began that he came to see " the 
Sin of Conformity " and to preach resistance. His 
conflict with the authorities went so far that exile to 
another Boston in another hemisphere became his only 
hope. Or, as Lord Dorset intimated, " if he had been 
guilty of drunkenness, uncleanness, or any lesser fault, 
he could have obtained his pardon, but as he was guilty 
of Puritanism, and !N"on-conformity, the crime was non- 
pardonable; and therefore he advised him to flee for 
his safety." 
The Cotton Chapel, so called, was restored mainly 
with moneys received from Cotton's posterity, lineal 
or lateral, in his city of refuge overseas, and " the cor- 
bels that support the timbered ceiling are carved with 
 
the arms of certain of the early colonists of New Eng- 
land." Edward Everett, one of Cotton's descendants, 
wrote the dedicatory inscription in Latin, which " R. 
NT." has Englished in verse, and I am the more scrupu- 
lous to quote it, because, as I must own with my usual 
reluctant honesty, I quite missed seeing the Cotton 
Chapel. 
That here John Cotton's memory may survive 
Where for so long he labored when alive, 
In James' reign and Charles', ere it ceased 
A grave, skilled, learned, earnest parish-priest; 
Till from the strife that tossed the Church of God 
He in a new world sought a new abode, 
To a new England, a new Boston came, 
(That took, to honor him, that reverend name) 
Fed the first flock of Christ that gathered there 
Till death deprived it of its shepherd's care 
There well resolved all doubts of mind perplext, 
Whether with cares of this world or the next; 
Two centuries five lustra from the year 
That saw the exile leave his labors here, 
His family, his townsmen, with delight 
(Whom to the task their English kin invite) 
To the fair fane he served so well of yore, 
His name, in two worlds honored, thus restore, 
This chapel renovate, this tablet place, 
In this, the year of man's recovered Grace, 
1855. 
I missed most of the other memorable things in the 
church that night, but I saw fleetingly some of the 
beautiful tombs for which it is famous; the effigies of 
the dead lay in their niches, quietly, as if already 
tucked away for the night, in the secular sleep of the 
dust beneath. The tombs were more famous than they, 
 
and more beautiful, if the faces of some were true like- 
nesses, but after so many centuries one ought not to 
require even women to be pretty. 
We had not begun to have enough of Boston yet, and 
after dinner we went a long walk up the Witham, away 
from the parapet before the church, under which its 
deep tides are always washing to and fro. In the dim- 
ness, after we had got a little to the outskirts of the 
town, there seemed shipyards along the river's course, 
but at one place there was a large building brilliantly 
lighted, which from certain effects at the windows we 
decided to be a printing-office on the scale of those in 
and near our own Boston. What was our shame and 
grief the next morning to find it was a cigar factory, 
and to learn that cigar and cigarette making was al- 
most the chief industry of the mother Boston. There 
are really two large tobacco factories there running 
overtime, and always advertising for more women and 
girls to do their work; and in our Boston, not so long 
ago, smoking in the street was forbidden! Such are 
the ironies of life. 
What the shipyards had turned into by daylight, I 
do not now remember. The Witham had turned into 
a long, deep gash, cut down into the clay twenty feet 
from the level of the flood tides. We crossed on a 
penny ferry which the current pushed over in the man- 
ner of the earliest ferries, near the tobacco factory, and 
came back into the heart of the town through streets of 
low stone houses, with few buildings of note to dignify 
their course. Small craft lay along the steep muddy 
shores, and at one place a little excursion steamer was 
waiting for the tide to come in and float it for the ful- 
filment of its promise of sailing at ten o'clock. We 
idly longed to make its voyage with it, and if the 
chance were offering now, I certainly should not for@- 
 
go it as I did tlien. But when you are in a foreign 
place, no matter how much you have travelled and how 
well you know that it will not offer soon again, you re- 
ject the most smiling chance because you think you can 
take it any time. 
The morning was soft and warm, with a sun shin- 
ing amiably on the rather commonplace old town. I 
had risen betimes that I might go and get a Spanish 
melon for my breakfast, but at eight o'clock I found 
the fruiterer's locked and barred against me. I lin- 
gered and hungered for the melons which I saw in his 
window, and then I tried other fruiterers, but none of 
them was stirring yet. I reflected how different it 
would have been in our own Boston; and if it had 
not been for the market people coming into the square 
and beginning to dress their stalls with vegetables, and 
fish, and native fruits, such as hard pears and knotty 
apples, I do not know how ill I might have come away 
thinking of that idle mother Boston. In other squares 
there were cattle for sale later, and fish, but I cannot 
in even my present leniency claim that the markets 
were open at the hour which the genteeler commerce of 
the place found so indiscreet. They were irregular 
spaces of a form in keeping with the general shambling 
and shapeless character of the town, which, once for 
all, I must own was not an impressive place. 
The best thing in it, and the thing you are always 
coming back to, is the beautiful church, to which we 
paid a second visit early in the forenoon. We found 
it where we left it the night before, lifting its tower 
from the brink of the Witham, and looking far out over 
the flat land to a sea no flatter. The land seems in- 
deed, like so much English coast, merely the sea come 
ashore, and turned into fens for the greater convenience 
of the fishermen, wliom, with the deeper sea sailors, 
 
we saw about the town, lounging through the crooked 
streets, and hanging bare-armed upon the parapets of 
the bridges. Now we found the church had about its 
foot a population of Bostonians for whom, under their 
flat gravestones, it had been chiming the quarters from 
its mellow-throated bells, while the Bostonians on our 
side had been hustling for liberty, and money, and 
culture, and all the good things of this world, and 
getting them in a measure that would astonish their 
namesakes. Within the church we saw again the beau- 
tiful tombs of the night before, and others like them, 
and again we saw the pulpit of John Cotton, which 
we could make out a little better than at first, because 
its garlands were a little more withered and shrunken 
away. But better than either we realized the perfec- 
tion of the church interior as a whole, so ample, so 
simple, such a comfortable and just sufficient eyeful. 
IV 
From other interests in St. Botolph's you somehow 
keep always, or finally, coming to the Stump, as the 
tower is called somewhat in the humor of our Boston. 
It is not so fair within as without; that could not be 
in the nature of things; and yet the interior of the 
tower has a claim upon the spectator's wonder, if not 
his admiration, which, so far as I know, the interior 
of no other tower has. It is all treated as a loftier 
room of the church, and its ceiling, a hundred and fifty 
feet from the ground, is elaborately and allegorically 
groined. The work was done when the whole church 
was restored about half a century ago, and has not the 
claim of mediaeval whim upon the fancy. Not so much 
pleasure as he might wish mingles with the marvel of 
 
the beholder, who carries a crick in the neck away from 
the sight, and yet once, but not more, in a way, it is 
worth while to have had the sight. Certainly this treat- 
ment of the tower is unique; there is nothing to com- 
pare with it in Boston, Massachusetts, and cannot be 
even when the interior of the Old South is groined. 
When we came out of the church, we found the 
weather amusing itself as usual in England, raining 
with wind, then blowing without rain, and presently, 
but by no means decisively, sunning without either 
wind or rain. The conditions were favorable to a fur- 
ther exploration of the town, which seemed to have a 
passion for old cannon, and for sticking them about in 
all sorts of odd nooks and corners. We found one 
smaller piece over a gateway, which we were forbidden 
by a sign-board to enter on pain of prosecution for 
trespassing. There was nothing else to prevent our en- 
tering, and we went in, to find ourselves in an alley 
with nothing but a Gypsy van in it. Nothing but a 
Gypsy van ! As if that were not the potentiality of all 
manner of wild romance ! Whether the alley belonged 
to Gypsies, or the Gypsies had trespassed by leaving 
their van in it, I shall now probably never know, but 
I commend the inquiry to any reader of mine whom 
these pages shall inspire to repeat our pilgrimage. 
There was no great token of genteel life in Boston, 
so far as we saw it, but perhaps w r e did not look in the 
right places. There were good shops, but not fine or 
large ones, and I am able to report of the intellectual 
status that there are three weekly newspapers, but no 
dailies, which could not be the case in any American 
town of fourteen thousand people. Concerning society, 
I can only say that in our wanderings we came at one 
point on a vast, high-walled, iron-gated garden, which 
looked as if it might have society beyond it, but not 
 
being positively forbidden we did not penetrate it. We 
did indeed visit the ancient grammar - school, one of 
those foundations which in England were meant 
originally for the poor deserving of scholarship, but 
which have nearly all lapsed to the more deserving 
rich, careful of the contamination of the lower classes. 
Being out of term the school was closed to its pupils, 
but we found a contractor there removing the old stoves 
and putting in a system of hot-water heating, which he 
said was better fitted to resist the cold of the Boston 
winters. He was not a very conversable man, but so 
much we screwed out of him, with the added fact that 
the tuition of that school was no longer free. It came 
to some five guineas a year, no great sum, but perhaps 
sufficient to keep the school, with the other influences, 
select enough for the patronage to which it had fallen. 
It was a pleasant place, with a playground before it, 
which in the course of generations there must have been 
a good deal of schoolboy fun got out of. 
There remained for us now only the Guildhall to 
visit, and we had left that to the last because it was 
the thing that had mostly brought us to Boston. It 
was the scene of the trial and imprisonment of those 
poor people of the region roundabout who were trying 
to escape from their " dread lord' James the First, 
and were arrested for this crime, and brought to an- 
swer for it before the magistrates of the town. Their 
dread lord had then lately met some ministers of their 
faith at Hampton Court, and there browbeaten, if not 
beaten, them in argument, so that he was in no humor 
to let these people, who afterward became the Pilgrim 
Fathers, get away to Holland, where there was no dread 
lord, or at least none of King James' thinking. 
But no words can be so good to tell of all this as 
the words of Governor Bradford in his Historie of 
Plymouth Plantation, where he says that " ther was 
a large companie of them purposed to get passage at 
Boston in Lincoln-shire, and for that end had hired a 
shipe wholy to them selves, & made agreement with 
the maister to be ready at a certaine day, and take them 
and their goods in, at a conveniente place, wher they 
accordingly would all attende in readiness. So after 
long waiting, & large expences, though he kepte not 
day with them, yet he came at length & tooke them in, 
in the night. But when he had them & their goods 
abord, he betrayed them, haveing before hand corn- 
plotted with the serchers & other officers so to doe; 
who tooke them, and put them into open boats, & ther 
rifled and ransaked them, searching them to their shirts 
for money, yea even the women furder then became 
rnodestie; and then caried them back into the towne, 
made them a spectakle & wonder to the multitude, 
which came flocking on all sides to behould them. Be- 
ing thus first, by the catchpoule officer, rifled, & stripte 
of their money, books, and much other goods, they were 
presented to the magistrates, and messengers sente to 
informe the lords of the Counsell of them ; and so they 
were comited to ward. Indeed the magistrats used 
them courteously, and shewed them what favour they 
could ; but could not deliver them till order came from 
the Counsell - table. But the issue was that after a 
months imprisonmente, the greatest parte were dis- 
miste, & sent to the places from whence they came; 
but of the principall were still kept in prison, and 
bound over to the Assises." 
My excellent " R. N." of the Handbook of Bos- 
 
ton is anxious to have his reader, as I in turn am 
anxious to have mine, distinguish between these future 
Pilgrim Fathers and the gentlemen and scholars who 
later founded Boston in Massachusetts Bay, and called 
its name after that of the town they had dwelt in or 
often visited before they left the handsome keeping of 
the gentler life of Lincolnshire. Such were Richard 
Bellingham, Edmund Quincy, Thomas Leverett, John 
Cotton, Samuel Whiting, and others, known to our 
colonial and national history. Not even Bradford or 
Brew r ster, afterward dignified figures in Plymouth col- 
ony, were of the humble band, men, women, and chil- 
dren, that the officers of Boston took from their vessel. 
" Pathetic but splendid figures," my brave " E. X." 
calls them, and he tells how, after a month's jail, they 
were " sent home broken men, to endure the scoffs of 
their neighbors and the rigors of ecclesiastical dis- 
cipline." 
VI 
The dungeons which remain to witness of their hard- 
ships in Boston are of thick-walled, iron-grated stone, 
and the captives were fed on bread and water within 
smell of the roasting and broiling of the Guildhall 
kitchens immediately beside them. I will not con- 
jecture with " K. S." that they were put there " by 
a refinement of cruelty," so that they might suffer 
the more in that vicinage. " The magistrates " who 
had " used them courteously and shewed them what fa- 
vour they could," would not have willed that; but per- 
haps " the Counsell-table " did ; and it was certainly a 
hardship that the dungeons and the kitchens were so 
close together, as any man may see at this day. Neither 
the dungeons nor the kitchens are any longer used ; the 
spits and grates are rusted where the fires blazed, and 
 
the cells where the Pilgrims suffered are now full of 
large earthen jars. For no other or better reason, the 
large open spaces of the basement outside of them were 
scattered about with agricultural implements, ploughs, 
harrows, and the like. It was the belief of my com- 
panion, founded on I know not what fact, that the hall 
in which the Pilgrims were tried was a large upper 
chamber which we found occupied by a boys' school. 
The door stood partly ajar, and we could see the master 
within walking up and down before some twenty boys, 
as if waiting for one of them to answer some question 
he had put them. Perhaps it was a question of local 
history, for none of them seemed able to answer it; 
presently when a boy came out on some errand, and 
we stopped him, and asked him where it was the Pil- 
grims had been tried, he did not know, and apparently 
he had never heard of the Pilgrims. He was a very 
nice-looking boy, and otherwise not unintelligent; cer- 
tainly he was well-mannered, as nice-looking English 
boys are apt to be with their elders; perhaps he had 
heard too much of the Pilgrims, and had purposely for- 
gotten them. This might very well have happened in a 
place like Boston where such hordes of Americans are 
coming every year, and asking so many hard ques- 
tions concerning an incident of local history not 
wholly creditable to the place. He could justly have 
said that the same or worse might have happened to 
the Pilgrims anywhere else in England, under the dread 
lord there then was, and in fact something of the same 
hardship did befall them afterward at the place a lit- 
tle northeast of Boston, which we were now to visit for 
their piteous sake. 
" The nexte spring after," as Bradford continues the 
narrative of their sorrows, " ther was another attempte 
made by some of these & others, to get over at an other 
 
place. And so it fell out, that they light of a Dutch- 
man at Hull, having a ship of his owne belonging to 
Zealand; they made agreemente with him, and ac- 
quainted him with their condition, hoping to find 
more faithfullnes in him, then in the former of their 
owne nation. He bad them not fear, for he would 
doe well enough. He was by appointment to take 
them in betweene Grimsbe & Hull, where was a large 
comone a good way distante from any towne. Now 
against the prefixed time, the women & children, with 
the goods, were sent to the place in a small barke, which 
they had hired for that end ; and the men were to meete 
them by land. But it so fell out, that they were ther 
a day before the shipe came, and the sea being rough, 
and the women very sicke, prevailed with the seamen 
to put into a creeke hardby, wher they lay on ground 
at lowwater. The nexte morning the shipe came, but 
they were fast, & could not stir till about noone. In 
the mean time, the shipe maister, perceiveing how the 
matter was, sente his boate to be getting the men abord 
whom he saw ready, walking aboute the shore. But 
after the first boat full was gott abord, & she was 
ready to goe for more, the Mr. espied a greate company, 
both horse & foote, with bills, & gunes, & other weapons ; 
for the countrie was raised to take them. The Dutch- 
man seeing this swore his countries oath, c sacremente 
and having the wind faire, waiged his Ancor, hoysed 
sayles, & away. But the poore men which were gott 
abord, were in great distress for their wives and chil- 
dren, which they saw thus to be taken, and were left 
destitute of their helps; and them selves also, not hav- 
ing a cloath to shifte them with, more then they had 
on their baks, & some scarce a peney aboute them, all 
they had being abord the barke. It drew tears from 
their eyes, and any thing they had they would have 
 
given to have been a shore againe; but all in vaine, 
ther was no remedy, they must thus sadly part. The 
rest of the men there were in greatest clanger, made 
shift to escape away before the troope could surprise 
them: those only staying that best might, to be assist- 
ante unto the women. But pitifull it was to see the 
heavie case of these poore women in this distress : what 
weeping & crying on every side, some for their hus- 
bands, that were carried away in the ship as is before 
related; others not knowing what should become of 
them, their little ones ; others again melted in teares, 
seeing their poore little ones hanging aboute them, cry- 
ing for feare, and quaking with could. Being thus 
aprehanded, they hurried from one place to another, 
and from one justice to another, till in the ende they 
knew not what to doe with them; for to imprison so 
many women & innocent children for no other cause 
(many of them) but that they must goe with their 
husbands, seemed to be unreasonable and all would 
crie out of them; and to send them home againe was 
as difficult, for they aleged, as the trueth was, they 
had no homes to goe to, for they had either sould, or 
otherwise disposed of their houses livings. To be 
shorte, after they had been thus turmoyled a good while, 
and conveyed from one constable to another, they were 
glad to be ridd of them in the end upon any termes : for 
all were wearied & tired with them. Though in the 
mean time they (poore sonles) indured miserie enough ; 
and thus in the end necessitie forste a way for them." 
vir 
If there is any more touching incident in the his- 
tory of man's inhumanity to man, I do not know it, 
or cannot now recall it ; and it was to visit the scene of 
 
it near " Grimsbe," or Great Grimsby, as it is now 
called, that we set out, after viewing their prison in 
Boston, over wide plains, with flights of windmills 
alighted on them everywhere. Here and there one 
seemed to have had its wings clipped, and we were 
told by a brighter young fellow than we often had 
for a travelling companion that this was because steam 
had been put into it as a motive power more constant 
than wind, even on that wind-swept coast. There seems 
to have been nothing else, so far as my note-book wit- 
nesses, to take up our thoughts in the short run to Great 
Grimsby, and for all I know now I may have drowsed 
by many chicken-yards marking the birthplace of our 
discoverers and founders. We got to Great Grimsby in 
time for a very lamentable lunch in a hostelry near the 
station, kept, I think, for such " poore people " as the 
Pilgrims were, with stomachs not easily turned by 
smeary marble table - tops with a smeary maid hav- 
ing to take their orders, and her ineffective napkin 
in her hand. The honesty as well as the poverty of 
the place was attested, when, returning to recover a 
forgotten umbrella, we were met at the door by this 
good girl, who had left her bar to fetch it in anticipa- 
