On February 4, 1869, my little Myrtle opened her beautiful eyes upon
the world in which she was to have an abiding-place for so short a
time that the fast, bright months of her sojourn are as a dream to
me at this distance from that spring and summer. She was a splendid
baby, finely developed, perfect in feature, as in form, and grew so
rapidly in size and strength that my fashionable friends pointed to
her as a lively refutation of my theory that “bottle babies” were
never so strong as those who had their natural nourishment. A tedious
spell of intermittent fever that laid hold of me, when she was but two
months old, deprived her of her rightful nutriment. When she was four
months old, we removed for the summer to Sunnybank, and set aside one
cow expressly for her use. She throve gloriously until, in September,
dentition sapped her vitality, and, as I had dreaded might ensue upon
the system of artificial feeding, none of the various substitutes
for nature’s own provision for the young of the human race, were
assimilated by the digestive organs. On the last day of the month she
passed into safer hands than ours.

      

I have told the story of our Alice’s wonderful life in My Little
Love. Now that my mind and nerves have regained a more healthful tone
than they could claim during the months when I found a sad solace in
the portraiture of our lost darling, I cannot trust myself to dwell
at length upon the rich endowments of mind and heart that made the
ten-year-old girl the idol of her home, and a favorite with playmates
and acquaintances. Although thirty-five years have set that beautiful
life among the things of a former generation, I still meet those who
recollect and speak of her as one might of a round and perfect star.

We, her parents, knew her for what she was, while she was spared to
glorify our home. Once and again, we congratulated ourselves that we
comprehended the value of our treasure while we held it—did not wait
for the brightening of the fleeting blessing. When He who bestowed the
good and perfect gift recalled her to Himself, we thanked Him, from the
sincere depths of broken hearts, that He had deemed us worthy to keep
it for Him for almost eleven years.

She went from us January 1, 1874.

By the time the spring opened, repeated hemorrhages from lungs I had
been vain enough to believe were exceptionally strong, had reduced me
to a pitiable state of weakness.

If I have not spoken, at every stage of the narrative of these late
years, of the unutterable goodness of Newark friends and parishioners,
it is not that this had abated in degree, or weakened in quality.
In all our afflictions they bore the part of comforters to whom our
losses were theirs. Strong arms and hearts in our hours of weakness
were ever at our call. When it became apparent that my health was
seriously impaired, the “people,” with one voice, insisted that Doctor
Terhune should take a vacation of uncertain length, and go with me to
the Adirondacks for as long a time as might be needed to restore me to
health and vigor.

I had worked hard for the past five or six years. Besides my literary
engagements, which were many, including the arrangement of material
for, and publication of, Common Sense in the Household, I was deep
in church and charitable work, and had a large visiting-list. Little
account was made, at that date, of nervous prostration. I should have
laughed that little to scorn had it been intimated by physician or
friend that I was a victim to the disorder. I know now, to a certainty,
that I was so near the “verge” that a touch would have toppled me over.
My very ignorance of the peril may have saved me from the fall.

We were four months in the Adirondacks. Except that the sore lungs
drew in the resinous airs more freely than they had taken in the
fog-laden salt air of the lowlands, and that I slept better, I could
not discern any improvement in my condition when the shortening and
cooling days called us southward.

In July, a telegram from Richmond had informed me of my mother’s death.
So battered and worn was I that the full import of the tidings did
not reach my mind and heart, until my brother Herbert sought in the
balsam forests relief from the cares of home and parish, and we talked
together of our common loss in the quiet woods fringing the lake. I
shall never forget the strange chill that froze my heart during one
of these talks, when I bethought myself that I now belonged to the
“passing generation.” My mother’s going had struck down a barrier which
kept off the cold blast from the boundless Sea of Eternity. I could
not shake off the fancy for many weeks. It recurred to me in wakeful
midnights, and in the enforced rest succeeding toilful days, until it
threatened to become an obsession. Instead of accepting this and other,
to me, novel and distressing sensations, as features of confirmed
invalidism, I fought them with all the might of a will that was not
used to submission.

The next winter was one of ceaseless conflict. I grew insanely
sensitive on the subject of my failing health. When, after walking
quickly up the stairs, or climbing the hill from the lower town to our
home, a fit of coughing brought the blood to my lips, I stanched it
with my handkerchief and kept the incident to myself. I went into a
shop, or turned a corner, to avoid meeting any one who would be likely
to question me as to my health, or remark upon my pallor. At home, the
routine of work knew no break; I attended and presided at charitable
and parish meetings, as if nervous prostration were a figment of the
hypochondriacal imagination.

So well did I play the part to the members of my own household, that
my husband himself believed me to be on the low, if not the high, road
to recovery. He was as busy in his line as I pretended to be in mine,
and certain projects affecting the future welfare of his parish were
on foot, enlisting his lively interest. How far the pious deception
may have gone, was not to be tested. The active intervention of one
plain-spoken woman was the pivotal point of our two lives.

I mentioned, some chapters back, the call of one of my best friends
and the best neighbor I ever had, on the day of Mr. Lincoln’s death.
Although we had removed, by medical advice, to the higher part of
the city, and a full mile away from her home, she never relaxed her
neighborly kindness. I had not been aware of her close surveillance of
myself; still less did I suspect at what conclusion she had arrived.
She had reasons, cogent and sad, for surveillance and conclusions.
Several members of her own family had died of consumption, and she
was familiar with the indications of the Great White Plague. When she
came, day after day, to take me to drive at noon, when, as she phrased
it, “the world was properly aired,” and, when she could not come, sent
carriage and coachman with the request that I would use the conveyance
at pleasure—I was touched and a little amused at what was, I conceived,
exaggerated solicitude for me, whose indisposition was only temporary.
Meanwhile, her quick eyes and keen wits were busy. Not a change of
color, not a flutter of the breath escaped her, and in the fulness of
time she opened her mouth and spoke.

My husband had a habit, of many years’ standing, of winding up a busy,
harassing day by dropping into the home of our whilom neighbors, and
having a tranquillizing cigar with the husband. I never expected
him home before midnight when he did this, and on one particular
evening, knowing that he was at the B.’s, and feeling more than usually
fatigued, I went to bed at ten. Awakened, by-and-by, by the glare of a
gas-burner full in my face, I unclosed my eyes upon a visage so full of
anxiety, so haggard with emotion, that I started up in alarm.

“Don’t be frightened!” he said, soothingly. “Nothing has happened. But,
is it true that you are so ill as Mrs. B. would have me believe? And
have I been blind?”

The energetic little lady had, as she confessed to me when I charged
her with it, freed her burdened mind without reserve or fear:

“It was time somebody opened his eyes, and I felt myself called to do
it.”

Within twenty-four hours a consultation of physicians was held.

They, too, made no secret of their verdict. The apex of the right lung
was gone, and it was doubtful whether anything could prevent the rapid
waste of both. When Doctor Terhune, ever a stanch believer in the
efficacy of change of air and place, declared his determination to take
me abroad, without the delay of a month, two of the Galens affirmed
that it would be of no use. I “had not three months of life left to me,
under the most favorable circumstances.”

The ghastly truth was withheld from me at the time. I was told that
I must not spend another winter in Newark, and that we would, if
possible, go to the south of Europe for the winter. “To go abroad” had
been the dream of my life. Yet, under the anticipation of the labor and
bustle of closing the house, perhaps breaking up our home for good,
and going forth into a new world, my strength failed utterly. Now
that my husband knew the worst, there was no more need of keeping up
appearances. I became aware that I had, all along, been holding on to
life with will-power that had no physical underpinning. Each day found
me weaker and more spiritless. The idea that I was clinging to a shred
of existence by a thinning thread, seized upon me like a nightmare. And
I was tired! tired! TIRED!

There came a day when I resolved to let go and drift out.

That was the way I put it to my husband when he approached my bed, from
which I never arose until nine or ten o’clock, and inquired how I felt.

“I am worn out, holding on!” I informed him. “I shall not get up
to-day. All that is needed to end the useless fight is to let go and
drift out. I shall drift!”

He sat down on the side of the bed and looked at me. Not gloomily, but
thoughtfully. There was not a suspicion of sentimentality in the gaze,
or in the tone in which he remarked, reflectively:

“I appreciate fully what you mean, and how hard it is for you to keep
on living. And I say nothing of the inconvenience it would cause your
girls and myself were you to die. It is asking a great deal of you—”
(bringing out the words slowly and with seeming reluctance). “But if
you could bring yourself to live until Bert is through college, it
would be a great kindness all around. The boy will go to the devil
without his mother. Think of it—won’t you? Just hold on until your boy
is safely launched in life.”

With that he left me to “think of it.”

My boy! My baby! Just four years old, on my last birthday! The
man-child, of whom I was wont to say proudly that he was the handsomest
birthday gift I ever had, and that no young man could ever pay his
mother a more delicate and gracious compliment than he had paid me
in timing his advent upon December 21st. The baby that had Alice’s
eyes and brunette coloring! I lay still, staring up at the ceiling,
and doing the fastest thinking I had ever accomplished. I saw the
motherless boy, sensitive and high-spirited, affectionate and clever,
the butt of rude lads, and misinterpreted by brutish teachers; exposed
to fiery temptations at school and in college, and yielding to them for
the lack of a mother’s training and the ægis of a mother’s love.

“The boy will go to the devil without his mother!”

Hard words those, and curtly uttered, but they struck home as coaxings
and arguments and pettings could not have done.

In half an hour my husband looked in upon me again. I intercepted
remark or query by saying:

“Will you ring the bell for Rose to help me dress? I have made up my
mind to hold on for a while longer.”

The tactful ruse had given me a new lease of life.

One more circumstance connected with our first foreign trip may be
worth mentioning here.

During the summer of 1855, which I spent in Boston and the vicinity,
I consulted Ossian Ashley with regard to a project that had engaged
my mind for some months—viz., indulging my long-cherished desire to
visit Europe, and to spend a year there. There was no reason, that I
could see, why I should wait longer to put the plan into execution.
My parents were living, and were in the prime of healthy maturity;
I had plenty of money of my own, and, if I had not, my father would
cheerfully defray the expenses of the trip. We discussed the scheme at
length, and with growing zest. Then he made the proposition that his
wife should accompany me, taking her boy and girl along (she had but
two children then), and that he would join us in time to journey with
us for a few months, and bring us home.

With this well-digested scheme in my mind, I returned to Richmond.
There I met with strenuous opposition from an unexpected quarter:

“If you will stay at home and marry me, I guarantee to take you abroad
within seven years,” was one of the few promises the speaker ever broke
to me.

Just twenty-one years from the day in which Ossian Ashley and I
blocked out the route his wife and I would take on the other side, I
looked into his New York office to say that we had engaged passage for
Liverpool for October 15th, and that we expected to be absent for two
years at the least.

His look was something to be remembered. His son was in a Berlin
University, and Mrs. Ashley and her two young daughters would sail on
September 15th for Liverpool, intending to go thence to Germany. They
would remain there for two years.

On the morrow, we had a letter from him, notifying us that they had
exchanged the date of sailing for October 15th, and the boat for the
City of Berlin, in which we were to sail.

“A trifling delay of twenty-one years!” observed my husband,
philosophically. “If all human projects came as near prompt fulfilment
as that, there would be fewer grumblers.”

We took with us our three children and my maid, who had been the boy’s
nurse. In Loiterings in Pleasant Paths, written in part while we
sojourned abroad, she figures as “The Invaluable.” Never was title
more justly earned. In that book the events of the next two years are
recorded at greater length than they could be set down here.

I made no note there of the pain that seemed to pluck out our
heartstrings, consequent upon our parting with our Newark parish and
fellow-citizens. We had grown with the place, which was a mere village,
eighteen years ago, by comparison with the large city we left. Her
interests were ours. Doctor Terhune was identified with her public and
private enterprises, and known by sight and by reputation throughout
the town and its environs. His church stubbornly refused to consider
his resignation as final. He might have an indefinite leave of
absence—two, four, six years—provided he would engage to come to them
when he could bring me back well. He wisely refused to listen to the
proposal. The business quarter of the thriving city was encroaching
upon the neighborhood of the church. It was likely to be abandoned
as “a residential locality” within a few years. In which event, the
removal of building and congregation would be a necessity. The history
of such changes in the character of sections of fast-enlarging cities
is familiar to all urbanites. It was essential, in the opinion of
the retiring incumbent, that the church should select another pastor
speedily, if it would retain its integrity and identity.

The love and loyalty that had enveloped us, like a vitalizing
atmosphere, for almost a score of winters and summers, wrapped
us warmly to the last. There were public receptions and private
house-parties, by the dozen, and

                  “Partings such as press
    The life from out the heart,”—

and a gathering on the steamer on sailing-day that made us homesick in
anticipation of the actual rending of ties that were living flesh and
blood—and we were afloat.

As one of the leading men in the church shook my husband’s hand, in
leaving the deck, he pressed into it an envelope. We were well down the
bay when it was opened. It contained a supplementary letter of credit
of three thousand dollars—the farewell gift of a few men whose names
accompanied the token.

“Faithful to the end!” murmured the recipient, reading the short list
through mists that thickened between his eyes and the paper. “Had ever
another man such a parish?”

I answered “No!” then, emphatically.

My response would be the same to-day.




XLIV

TWO YEARS OVERSEAS—LIFE IN ROME AND GENEVA


THE main events of the two years spent abroad by our small family,
including “The Invaluable,” as we soon came to call Rose O’Neill, are
set down in Loiterings in Pleasant Paths, a chatty volume of travel
and sojourn, published soon after our return to America. The private
record of those two dozen months would far surpass the book in bulk. It
will never be written except as it is stamped upon “the fleshly tables
of the hearts” of those who lived and loved, studied, and revelled with
us.

We had meant to pass the first winter in Paris, but the most beautiful
city of the world was unfriendly to my sore and aching lung. After an
experiment of six weeks, we broke camp and sped southward. Ten days in
the fair Florence I was to learn in after years to love as a second
home, repeated the doleful tale of fog, rain, and chill that pierced
our bones.

An old Richmond friend, with whom I had had many a jolly frolic in my
early girlhood, was now Reverend Doctor Taylor, a resident of Rome.
After the exchange of several letters, we adopted his friendly advice
that we should give the Eternal City a trial as the refuge we sought—so
much less hopefully than at first, that I entreated my husband, on the
rainy evening of our arrival in Rome, not to push inquiries further,
but to let me go home, and die in comfort there.

Doctor Taylor had ordered rooms for us in a family hotel well spoken
of by Americans, and was at the station to conduct us to our quarters.

I was deposited upon a sofa, when my wraps were removed, and lay there,
fairly wearied out by the railway journey. The room was fireless and
carpetless. I could feel the chill of the stone flooring and the bare
walls through the blankets in which I was swathed by distressful Rose,
who “guessed these Eyetalians hadn’t the first notion of what American
comfort is!” Three long French casements afforded a full view of
leaden, low-stooping skies and straight sheets of rain. When a fire
of sticks, besmeared with resin, was coaxed into a spiteful flare,
the smoke puffed as spitefully into the room, and drifted up to the
ceiling twenty feet overhead. Invited by my ever-hospitable husband
to seat himself near an apology for a cheery hearthstone—less pitiful
to him after his ten years’ residence in Italy than to us, the new
arrivals—our friend fell into social chat of ways and means. The carpet
would be down to-morrow; the sun would shine to-morrow; I would be
rested to-morrow.

He broke off with a genial laugh there, to impart a bit of information
we were to prove true to the utmost during the next year:

“Everything is ‘domano’ with Italians. I think the babies are born
with it in their mouths. One falls into the habit with mortifying ease.”

I am afraid I dozed for a few minutes, lulled by the patter of rain
and the low-toned talk going on at the far (literally) side of the
apartment. A lively visitor used to wonder if we “could see across it
on cloudy days without an opera-glass.”

This was the next sentence that reached me:

“Thus far, we have met with discouragement. March is the most trying
month to weak lungs in America. And ever since we landed in Liverpool
we have had nothing but March weather. I think now we shall push on
to Algiers”—glancing ruefully at the murky windows. “Upon one thing
I am determined—to find a land where there is no March, as we know
the month. For one year I want to secure that for my wife’s breathing
apparatus.”

“I know of but one such region.” The answer was in the slight drawl
natural to the George Taylor I used to know; the speaker stared
sombrely into the peevish fire.

“And that?” interrogated the other, eagerly.

The drawl had now a nasal touch befitting the question:

    “‘No chilling winds, no poisonous breath
       Can reach that healthful shore!’”

“Heavens and earth, man! That is just where I don’t want her to go
yet! Nor for many a long year!”

The laugh I could not suppress helped to warm and brighten us all. Do
any of us suspect how much we owe to the funny side of life?

Thus began my Roman winter. With “domano” came the sunshine and the
carpet, and the first of the hundred drives in and about the storied
city, that were to bring healing and vigor, such as even my optimistic
husband had scarcely dared to anticipate. That I am alive upon this
wonderful, beautiful earth at this good hour, I owe, under God, to
those divine four months among the Seven Hills. Doctor Terhune had
received the appointment to the Chaplaincy of the American Chapel in
Rome before we left Paris. He decided to accept it within a week after
our arrival in the Eternal City. It was a cosey corner for pastor
and flock—that little church in Piazza Poli, belonging to an Italian
Protestant corporation, and occupied by them for half of each Sunday,
by American tourists and transient residents of Rome for the other
half. All my memories of the wonderful and bewitching winter are happy.
None have a gentler charm than those which renew the scenes of quiet
Sunday forenoons when visitors from the dear home-land, who had never
before looked upon the faces of their fellow-worshippers, gathered by
common consent in the place “where prayer was wont to be made” in their
own tongue. There were no strangers in the assembly that lingered in
the tiny vestibule and blocked the aisle when the service was over. The
spirit of mutual helpfulness spoke in eye and speech. It should not
have been considered singular that those thus convened were, almost
without exception, refined and educated, and so unlike the commonly
accepted type of travelling American, that we often commented upon the
fact in conferences with familiar friends. We felicitated ourselves
that we caught the cream of the flow of tourists, that season.

“It is a breath of the dear old home-life!” said more than one
attendant upon the simple services, where the congregation was
kaleidoscopic in outward seeming, the same in spirit.

I cannot pass over this period of our foreign life without a tribute to
one whose friendship and able co-operation in the work laid to Doctor
Terhune’s hand, did more than any other one influence to make for him a
home in Rome. Dr. Leroy M. Vernon, who subsequently became Dean of the
University of Syracuse, in New York State, was the rarest combination
of strength and gentleness I have ever seen. He had been for some years
resident in Rome; was an enthusiastic archæologist and art-student,
speaking Italian with fluency and grace, and thoroughly au fait
to the best literature of that tongue. From the beginning of their
acquaintanceship, the two men fraternized heartily. In the ripening of
liking into intimacy, they walked, rode, talked, and studied together.
What the association was to the younger of the two, may be imagined
by one who has had the privilege of close communion with a beloved
comrade who held the key to the treasure-house one has longed all his
life to enter.

“The winter in Italy with Vernon was worth more to me than a course
in the Academy of Fine Arts, combined with ten years of archæological
lectures from experts,” was the testimony of the survivor, twenty years
later, when the news of the dean’s death was brought to us.

They loved each other tenderly to the end of mortal companionship.

Who can doubt that it has been renewed in the City where eager minds
are never checked by physical weakness, and aspiration is identical
with fulfilment?

In mid-May, when the Pincio put on its beautiful garments in the purple
flowering of the Judas-trees, and the tawny Tiber rolled between hills
of living green, we turned our backs upon what those marvellous months
had wrought into our own familiar dwelling-place, and took our sad,
reluctant way to Florence. Five weeks there were varied by excursions
to Fiesole, Bologna, and Venice. Our next move was to Lucerne. Leaving
the children in care of “The Invaluable,” we ran up to Heidelberg,
joining there our kinspeople, the Ashleys, and travelling with them
leisurely over mountain and through pass, until we brought up in Geneva.

We were hardly settled, as we supposed for the season, in the bright
little town of Calvin and Voltaire, when a summons came from the
American Chapel in Paris for Doctor Terhune’s services, pending the
absence of the regular incumbent in America, whither he had been
summoned by the illness of his mother. We had no thought that the
separation of the head from our transplanted family would be a matter
of even a few weeks, whereas it lasted for four months. There was
visiting back and fro; a reunion at Christmas under the massive crowns
of mistletoe, such as grow nowhere else—not even in the Britain of
the Druids—and a memorable New-Year’s dinner at the Hôtel Metropole,
arranged under American auspices, the chief pride of the feast being
mince-pies, concocted by Yankee housewives, and misspelled among the
French dishes on the gorgeously illuminated menus. In February, my
eldest daughter and myself went to Paris for a fortnight—a tentative
trip which proved beyond a question that the air of the city on the
Seine was rank poison to the healing lungs. We hurried back to jolly,
friendly Geneva, where I could walk five miles per diem in air that
was the very elixir of life to my system, physical, mental, and moral.
Even the lusty winds from Mont Blanc, and the rough gales that lashed
Lake Leman into yeasty ridges for a week at a time, wrought strength,
instead of harm. That bodily strength grew apace was but one element
in the fulness of content in which we basked throughout the eight
months we spent in the lakeside city, behind which the Alps stood in
sublime calmness that was in itself tonic and inspiration. We had a
pleasant appartement in the Pension Magnenat, directly upon the
quay. From our drawing-room windows we looked across the lake upon the
Juras, capped with snow, and made beautiful exceedingly all day long,
by changeful lights and shadows, reflected in the waters in opaline,
prismatic hues we had never seen surpassed, even in Italy.

The American colony in Geneva has a stable reputation for intelligence
and good-breeding. One expects to find these in university towns
abroad, as at home. It may not have been unusually delightful that
winter. Perhaps climate and health combined with our peaceful domestic
life, to incline us to be more than satisfied with our social
environment. Certain it is that the circle of congenial associates,
that had widened to take us in, as a part of a harmonious corporate
whole, was, to our apprehension, ideally charming. Everybody had some
specific work or pursuit to explain his, or her residence in Geneva.
The younger men were in the university, or in preparation for it,
with “coaches”; the girls were studying French, German, and Italian,
or painting from nature under such instructors as Madame Vouga, whose
renown as a painter of wild flowers was international. We matrons had
a reading-class, enlivened by the membership of our daughters, that
met weekly at the house of some one of the party. To it we brought our
easels, boards, and paint-boxes, our embroidery, or other fancy-work.
One of the girls read aloud for two hours—history, biography, or
essay—and at five o’clock what had been read was discussed freely
over afternoon tea. A club of young people of both sexes read German,
alternately with Italian and French plays, on Wednesday night, in my
salon, I playing chaperon at my embroidery-frame at a side-table, and
admitted to the merry chat that went around with coffee and cake, when
the reading was concluded. Some of the members of that informal “Club”
have made their mark in the large outer world since that care-free,
all-satisfying sojourn in what we forgot to call an alien land, so
happily did we blend with the classic influences, lapping us about so
softly that we were never conscious of the acclimating process.

The tall youth, who submitted meekly (or gallantly) to correction
of lingual lapses in his rendering of Molière or Wallenstein or
Ariosto, from the girl at his elbow—revenging himself by a brisk
fire of badinage in honest English after the books were closed—is an
eminent metropolitan lawyer, whose income runs up well into the tens
of thousands; another, a Berlin graduate, is the dignified dean of a
law school attached to an American university; another is a college
professor; another, a Genevan graduate, is rising in fame and fortune
in an English city; one, beloved by all, completed a brilliant course
at Harvard, and when hope and life were in their prime, laid his noble
head down for his last sleep in Mount Auburn. The gay girls are staid
matrons and mothers now, with sons and daughters of their own, as old
as themselves were in that far-off, care-free time.

I have written “care-free” twice upon one page, and because I can
conjure up no other phrase that so aptly describes what that veritable
arbor on the Hill Difficulty we call “Life,” was to me. Household cares
were an unknown quantity in the well-conducted pension. Our breakfast
of French rolls, coffee, tea, boiled eggs, honey, and, for the younger
children, creamy milk, was brought to our salon every morning. A
substantial luncheon (the déjeuner à la fourchette) was served in the
pension salle à manger at one, and a dinner of six or seven courses,
at seven. Our fellow-guests were, for the most part, unobjectionable;
a fair proportion were agreeable and desirable acquaintances. About
one-third were Americans; another third were English; the rest were
Italians, Germans, Russians, and French. A table at one end of the
room was assigned to English-speaking boarders, and we soon made up a
pleasant clique that did not, however, exclude several foreigners. Thus
we persisted in calling them to ourselves. There were excursions every
few days to places of interest within easy reach. Coppet, the home
and burial-place of Madame de Staël; the Villa Diodati, where Byron
and Shelley lived and wrote; Ferney the château from which Voltaire
wrote letters to the magnates of the world, and within the walls of
which he entertained all the famous wits and many of the beauties of
his stirring times; Chillon, immortalized by Bonnivard and the poem
founded upon his captivity—were some of the memorable haunts with which
frequent visits made us familiar.

Exercise was a luxury in the ozone-fraught air, fresh every morning,
and work was the natural result of the abounding vitality thus
engendered. In no other quarter of the globe have I found such
sustained vigor of mental and physical forces as during our residence
in Switzerland. I record the fact gratefully, and as a possible helpful
suggestion to other sufferers from the overstimulating climate and
prevalent energy of American life. Rome was a gracious rest; Geneva was
upbuilding.

It was a positive wrench to the heartstrings to leave her in May, and
take our course leisurely northward.

The summer was given, and happily, to England, our headquarters being,
successively, the Isle of Wight, Leamington, and Brighton.

Late in September, we sailed for New York.




XLV

SUNNYBANK—A NEW ENGLAND PARISH—“MY BOYS”—TWO “STARRED” NAMES


WITH no more idea as to our permanent abiding-place than had the Father
of the Faithful, when he turned his back upon Ur of the Chaldees, and
his face toward a land he knew not of, “still journeying toward the
south,” in obedience to daily marching orders—we sought, upon reaching
our native shores, the one pied-à-terre left to us on the continent.

Sunnybank had been left in charge of the gardener, who, with his comely
English wife and four children, had now occupied the lodge at the gate
of our domain for ten years. He was Pompton-born and bred, and so
unromantic in sentiment and undemonstrative in demeanor, that we were
not prepared to behold a triumphal wreath on the gate when we drove
into the grounds. No human creature was visible until, winding through
the grove that hides the house from the highway, we saw the whole
family collected about the door. All were in holiday garb; wreaths of
goldenrod hung in the windows, and above the porch was tacked a scroll
with the word “WELCOME” wrought upon it in the same flowers. Yet more
amazed were we when, as Doctor Terhune stepped from the carriage,
Conrad knelt suddenly and embraced the knees of his employer, with an
inarticulate shout of joy, tears raining down his tanned cheeks.

“Just like a scene in an English play!” commented Christine,
afterward. “But not a bit like what one would expect in Pompton, New
Jersey, U. S. A.”

The unexpectedness of it all, especially the involuntary outbreak in a
man who had never seen a play in his life, and despised “foolishness”
of whatsoever description, moved us to answering softness, and brought
the first rush of home-gladness we had felt since landing. For, to be
honest, I confess that none of us were as yet reconciled to exchanging
the life we had luxuriated in for the past two years—full, rich, and
varied—for a toilful routine of parish duties, we knew not where.
Without confiding the weakness to the others, each of us, as we owned
subsequently with a twinge of shame, had been wofully dashed in spirit
by the circumstances attending our arrival. Clarence Ashley had met us
upon the wharf, his mother and sisters being at their country-place;
the day was unseasonably warm for late September, and New York was
in its least attractive out-of-season dress and mood. The docks were
dirty, and littered with trunks, crates, and boxes; the custom-house
officers were slow, and most of them sulky. We parted on the wharf
with a dear friend from Virginia, who had travelled with us for nearly
a year, and had taken return passage in the same ship. She had a home
to which to go. We felt like pilgrims and strangers in a foreign land.
As the carriage into which we had packed ourselves threaded its way
through the grimy purlieus of the lower city, I found myself saying
over mentally the unpatriotic doggerel I used to declare was unworthy
of any true American:

    “The streets are narrow and the buildings mean—
     Did I, or fancy, leave them broad and clean?”

Then, the fields and roads past which the train (yclept “an
accommodation”) bumped and swung, were ragged and dusty; the hedge-rows
were unkempt, the trees untrimmed. Fresh as we were from the verdure
of English parks, the shaven lawns, and blossoming hedges that make a
garden-spot of the tight little island we proudly recognized as our Old
Home, the effect of that sultry afternoon was distinctly depressing.
Our lakeside cottage, the one nook in all the broad land we could call
“Home,” on this side of the water, was another disappointment. Mrs.
Haycock and her girls had wrought zealously to make it comfortable, and
even festive. The wee rooms (as they looked to us) were shining clean;
flowers were set here and there, white curtains, white bedspreads,
and bright brasses betokened loving solicitude for our welfare and
contentment, and the good woman had ready a hot supper, enriched with
such Pompton dainties as she knew we loved. “The Invaluable” bustled
over luggage, and added finishing touches to bedrooms and nursery. I am
sure she was the only one of the returned exiles who was really happy
that night.

I am thus frank in relating our experiences, because I believe them
to be identical with those of a majority of tourists, upon resuming
home-habits in their native country. After excitement and novelty comes
the ebb-tide of reaction for the bravest and the most loving. Home is
home, but readjustment precedes real enjoyment of the old scenes and
ways.

We were hardly settled in the nest before we paid a promised visit to
Richmond. There were resident there, now, three families of the clan.
My brother Horace and the noble wife with whom my intimacy continued
unshadowed by a cloud of distrust until her death in 1894; my sister
Myrtle, more my daughter than sister, her husband, and the boy who was
my husband’s namesake; and Percy, the youngling of the brood, with a
dainty little spouse and their first-born son—made up the group that
welcomed us to dear old Richmond in early December.

To this was added, a week or so later, our eldest sister, who
journeyed all the way from her Missouri home to join in the greetings
to the whilom wanderers. We had one more Christmas-week together—the
last that was to collect the unbroken band under one roof-tree. Then
Mea went westward, and we took our way toward the north, leaving
Christine to make her début in society under the auspices of her uncles
and aunts, and where her mother had first tasted the pleasures of
young-ladyhood.

It was, as I wrote to her, history repeating itself, and that I felt as
if I had taken root again in my native soil, and was budding anew into
a second springtime.

In May I wrote to the girl whose first winter “out” had, thanks to the
affectionate adoption of uncles and aunts, fulfilled her rosiest dreams:

    “Do you recollect that I quoted to you at our parting in
    January, what a quaint old lady said to me in my girlhood:
    ‘My dear, you may be an angel some day! You will never be
    young again. Therefore, make the most of youth.’

    “I paraphrase her counsel now, and to you: Make the most of
    your present freedom, for you are going to be a pastor’s
    daughter again. As you know, your father has been preaching
    hither and yon all winter, and has had four calls to as many
    different churches: two in New Jersey, one in New Haven,
    and, lastly, in Springfield, Massachusetts. For reasons
    that seem good and sufficient to him, he has accepted the
    last-named invitation, and he will enter upon the duties
    connected therewith, this month.

    “The ‘Old First’ is the most ancient church in Springfield,
    if not the oldest in the Connecticut Valley. It has had
    an honorable history, in more than two hundred years of
    existence. If you have read Doctor Holland’s Bay Path, you
    will recollect Mr. Moxon, the then pastor of this church.
    Perhaps because I have read the book, and maybe because my
    old Massachusetts grandmother (a Puritan of the Puritans,
    and preciously uncomfortable to live with, she was!) talked
    to me of the straitlaced notions, works, and ways of the
    ‘orthodox’ New-Englander, which she thought ‘blazed’ the
    only road to heaven—I have an idea that we will find the
    atmosphere of Springfield very different from any other in
    which we have lived. If I am right, it will be a change even
    from Presbyterian Richmond. However this may be, I counsel
    you to enjoy the remaining weeks of your stay there to the
    utmost.”

If I were called upon to describe what was the real “atmosphere” of
the loveliest of New England towns, in which we lived for five busy
years, I should say that it was “stratified,” and that in a fashion
that puzzled us grievously up to the latest day of our sojourn. Public
spirit of the best and most enlightened sort; refinement and taste in
art and literature; social manners and usages that were metropolitan,
and neighborliness which made the stranger and sojourner welcome and
at ease—all this was “shot,” if I may so express it, with strata of
bigotry; with stubborn convictions that the holders thereof were right,
and the insignificant residue of the world utterly wrong, and with
primitive modes of daily life and speech, that never ceased to surprise
and baffle us. Yet we flattered ourselves that we knew something of the
world and the inhabitants thereof!

In the process of acclimation we had occasion, if we had never had it
before, to be thankful for the unfailing and robust sense of humor
that had stood our friend in many straits which would else have been
annoyances. Before long, we recognized that certain contradictory
phases of conduct and language, hard to comprehend and hard to endure,
had their keynote in what one of the best of my new friends once aptly
defined to me as “an agony of incommunicableness,” inherent in the
New-Englander’s composition. He may have drawn the strain through
nearly three centuries from his early English ancestry. I have seen the
same paradox in the Briton of this generation. Of one such man I said,
later in life, when I was alone with my sick son, thousands of miles
from home: “The ice was slow in breaking up; but it gave way all at
once, and there was warm water under it.”

“Agony of incommunicableness!” Over and over, during those five years,
I blessed the man who put that key into my hand.

I cannot better illustrate what I am trying to explain than by relating
what is, to me, one of the most precious and altogether satisfactory
memories connected with our Springfield experiences.

Four months after our removal to the beautiful city, I received a
formal request (everything up to that time had a smack of formality to
my apprehension) that I would take charge of a young men’s Bible-class,
the teacher of which had left the town. The application was startling,
for not one of the young fellows had ever called on me, or evinced
other consciousness of the insignificant fact of my existence than was
implied in a grave salutation at the church-door and on the street.
After consultation with my husband I accepted the position, and on
the next Sabbath was duly inducted into office by the superintendent.
That is, he took me to the door of the class-room and announced: “Mrs.
Terhune, young gentlemen, who will conduct your class in the place of
Mr. L., resigned.”

I walked up the room to face eight bearded men, the youngest twenty-two
years of age, drawn up in line of battle at the far end. I bowed
and said “Good-afternoon,” in taking the seat and table set for me
in front of the line. They bowed in silence. I began the attack by
disclaiming the idea of “teaching” them, concealing as best I could my
consternation at finding men where I had looked for lads. I asked “the
privilege of studying with them,” and thanked them for the compliment
of the invitation to do this. Then I opened the Bible and delivered a
familiar running lecture upon the lesson for the day. Not a question
was asked by one of the dumb eight, and not a comment was made at the
close of the “exercises” upon what had been said. I went through the
miserable form of shaking hands with them all as we separated, and
carried home a thoroughly discouraged spirit. By the following Sunday
I hit upon the idea of calling upon each student to read a reference
text, as it occurred in the course of the lecture, and I took care
there should be plenty of them. That was the first crack in the ice.
Encouraged by the sound of their own voices, the young fellows put a
query or two, and I used these as nails upon which to hang observations
not indicated in the “lesson-papers.” Next week there were sixteen in
line. Before the first year was out there were forty, and they gave a
dramatic entertainment in a neighboring hall, which netted a sum large
enough to enlarge the class-room to double the original size. They
decorated it with their own hands, and I was with them every evening
thus employed.

Still, there was never a syllable to indicate that this was anything
but a business venture. I love boys with my whole heart, and I had said
this and more in their hearing, eliciting no response.

At the end of the second year, when there were fifty members in the
class, one of the eldest of the number removed from Springfield to a
distant city. One of the greatest surprises of my life was in the form
of a letter I had the week after he had bidden me good-bye as coolly as
if he had expected to see me next Sunday as usual.

He began by telling me how often he had wished he could express what
those Sunday afternoons had been in his life. He “feared that I might
have thought him unresponsive and ungrateful.”

“If indeed you ever troubled yourself to bestow more than a passing
thought upon this one of the many to whom you have ministered,” he
went on, “I don’t believe you ever noticed that I let nobody else take
the seat next to you on the left? I used to go very early to make sure
of it. I shall unite with the church here next Sunday. You have a right
to know of a purpose, formed weeks ago, in that class-room—the most
sacred spot to me on earth.”

He wrote to me of his marriage two years later, then of the coming of
his first-born son. About once a year I heard from him, and that he was
prospering in business and happy in his home. Ten years ago I had a
paper containing a marked obituary-notice bearing his name.

The same story, with variations that do not affect the general purport
of the class-history, might be repeated here. I hear of “my boys” from
all parts of the world. All are gray-haired now who have not preceded
their grateful leader to the Changeless Home.

There were sixty-six of them when I told them, one Sunday afternoon,
five years after our first meeting, that Doctor Terhune had accepted
a pressing call to a Brooklyn church, and that I must leave them. The
news was absolutely unexpected, and a dead silence ensued. Then one
fellow, who had been received into the church with ten others of our
class, at the preceding communion season, arose in his place:

“Is there anything we could do to keep him—and you?” he asked,
huskily. “Has anybody done anything to make your residence here
unpleasant? If so”—stammering now, and a defiant scowl gathering upon
his handsome face—“Say! can’t we fellows just clean them out, and
keep you and the Doctor?”

It was impossible not to laugh. It was as impossible to hold back the
tears at the odd demonstration of the “boys’” claim to membership in
the Church Militant. He may have forgotten the upgushing of the warm
water under the ice. I shall never lose the memory.

Nor yet of the farewell reception to which the boys rallied in force,
excluding all other guests from the pleasant class-room we had built,
and in which I spent some of the happiest hours vouchsafed to me in the
city I had called “a cold-storage vault,” before I got under the ice of
English reserve and Puritanical self-consciousness—engendered, as I am
fain to believe, by the rigid self-examination enjoined by the founders
of State and Church. In those rude and strenuous days, self-examination
took the place, with tortured, naked souls, of the penances prescribed
in the communion they had left to find

    “Freedom to worship God,”

and

    “A church without a bishop,
     A state without a king.”

The class-room was wreathed with flowers; there was music by the boys,
and social chat; a collation of their own devising: then the eldest of
the band, a married man for years, goodly of form and feature, and with
a nature as lovely as his face, arose to make a farewell “presentation
address.” He never finished it, although it began bravely enough. The
handsome set of brasses he passed over to me were labelled, as he
showed me, “FROM YOUR BOYS.”

“You will have another class in your new home,” the speaker broke into
the carefully prepared peroration to say, “but please let us always
call ourselves, ‘Your Boys!’”

They are that still, and they will be evermore! A finer, more loyal
body of young men it would be hard to find in New England, or
elsewhere. It has happened so often that I have come to look for it,
that, on steamer or train, on the street or in hotel, I am accosted by
a middle-aged man—invariably highly respectable in appearance—with—

“I beg your pardon. Let me recall myself to your memory. I belonged to
your Bible-class in Springfield.”

If, as usually happens, he adds to his name, “One of your boys”—the
ashes are blown away from the embers of long-past acquaintanceship. The
talk that ensues invariably emphasizes the pleasing fact that, if there
were a black sheep in our fold, he has, up to date, escaped detection.

God bless each and every one of them!

I cannot close the chapter that has to do with our Springfield days,
without paying a brief tribute to two who played important parts in the
drama of our family life. Both have passed from mortal vision, and I
may, therefore, name them freely.

The house built for us by a parishioner in the pleasantest part of
the city, was in the immediate neighborhood of the homestead of the
late Samuel Bowles, the well-known proprietor of the Springfield
Republican. The house was now occupied by his widow and family. To
the warm friendship that grew up between Mrs. Bowles and myself I
owe more than I can trust my pen to express here. From our earliest
meeting, the “middle wall of partition” of strangerhood ceased to
be to either of us. Hers, as I often reminded her, was the one and
only house in the place into which I could drop, between the lights,
unannounced, when the humor seized me, and without putting on hat or
coat. The ascent of the half-block of space dividing our doors is ever
associated in my mind with the gloaming and moonlight, and slipping
away from duties to relax thought and tongue, for one calming and
sweetening half-hour, in the society of one “who knew.” It was not
alone that, as one who had been born, and had lived out her girlhood in
the Middle States, her range of ideas and sympathies was not limited
by the circle of hills binding Springfield into a close corporation.
Her great, warm heart took in the homesick stranger that I was, for
many a month after transplantation, and gave me a corner of my very
own. She was a safe, as well as an appreciative listener, and gave
me many a hint respecting my new environment that wrought out good to
me. Her fine sense of humor was another bond that drew us together.
The snug sitting-room, looking upon the quiet street, up which the
shadows gathered slowly on summer evenings, and where the sleigh-bells
jingled shrilly in the early winter twilight, echoed to bursts of
laughter better befitting a pair of school-girls than two matrons who
were both on the shady side of fifty. I was in the earthly Jerusalem,
with my son, when the gates of the Celestial City opened to receive
her faithful, loving spirit. I am sure that, as Bunyan affirmed when
another travel-worn pilgrim entered into rest, “All the bells of the
city rang for joy.”

In April, 1884, our eldest daughter became the wife of James Frederick
Herrick, one of the Republican’s editorial staff. We left her in
Springfield when, in the same year, we returned to the Middle States
to take up our abode for the next twelve years in Brooklyn. We could
not have left her in safer, tenderer keeping. A brother-editor said of
him once that he “had a heart of fire in a case of ice.” The simile did
not do justice to the gentle courtesy and dignity that lent a touch
of old-school courtliness to manner and address. In all the intimate
association of the next ten years, I never saw in him an act, or heard
a word that approximated unkindness or incivility. I wrote him down
then, as I do now, as in all respects, the thorough gentleman in what
makes the much-abused word a badge of honor. His ideals were high and
pure; his life, private and professional, above reproach.

“The stuff martyrs and heroes are made of,” said one who knew him well
and long.

He would have died for the truth; he would have laid down his life with
a smile for his wife and children. Such harmonious blending of strength
and sweetness as were found in the life of this man—modest to a fault,
and resolute to a proverb—I have never seen in another.

“I have fought the good fight” is the wording of his epitaph. I could
have wished to add, “Of whom the world was not worthy.”

In 1886 he received an appointment that brought him to New York. There
he yielded up a blameless life in 1893. If his last illness were not
the direct result of steady, unremitting work, it is yet true that he
wrought gallantly after the fatal fever fastened upon him, standing
patiently in his lot until prostrated by delirium.

I shall part with reason and memory before I forget that his last
thought was of the young wife kneeling at his pillow, and that the
dying eyes, in losing their hold upon earth, committed her to me.




XLVI

RETURN TO MIDDLE STATES—THE HOLY LAND—MY FRIENDS THE MISSIONARIES—TWO
CONSULS IN JERUSALEM


IN the sketch of my husband’s life-work, written by a faithful
co-laborer in the vineyard which is the world, and appended to this
story, his reasons for returning to the Middle States are briefly
given. As I near the latter chapters of my record, I am hampered by the
necessity of treating cautiously of persons and incidents too near the
present day to be spoken of with the freedom time made justifiable in
earlier reminiscences. Those twelve years in the City of Churches were
crowded with events of more or less moment. They were busy, and not
unhappy years. Our home-group, reduced to four by the marriage of our
eldest daughter, was made still smaller by the marriage of her sister
on March 5, 1889, to Frederic Van de Water, of Brooklyn. The choice was
wise, and the union has been one of rare blessedness.

“In-laws” have no terrors in our circle. No sinister significance
attaches to the term “mother-in-law.” The adopted sons were loyal and
loving to the parents of their wives. Not a cloud darkens the memory of
our intercourse. The only obstacle to Belle’s marriage was thus stated
in whimsical vexation by her father:

“It is hard that, when there are said to be fifteen hundred proper
names in the English language, my girls must select men who have the
same. It leads to no end of confusion!”

Our boy, now grown into an athletic six-footer, was graduated from
Columbia University in 1893. We three had lived in great peace and
contentment during his college course. We talk often, and wistfully,
of those four years of church-work, social duties, literary tasks, and
academic studies, which filled hands and heads. We spent our winters in
town. Sunnybank grew to be more and more a home in the summer months.
It was like a return to the time when our own babies filled house and
verandas with merry prattle, and our hearts made music; for there were,
at the date I name, four boys to repeat the history for the proud
grandparents. But for the great sorrow that had broken up Christine’s
happy home in February, and brought her back to us with her two boys,
