is a thing to be ashamed of, to be regretted 
later on, if the boy has any manliness in him. 
I wish the perpetrators of this ferreted out.” 
“ You may rest assured I shall do my best,” 
said Mr. Underwood rather sharply. 
Mrs. Underwood had seated herself beside 
Mrs. Stirling. “ I do not believe I should 
have opened the door,” she said. 
“ But Jane would have opened it in the 
morning and the log would have fallen in, per- 
haps knocked her down, as she would not have 
been so cautious. And it did look dreadful in 
the dim light, with those patches of red as if 
some one had been murdered.” 
Mrs. Stirling shuddered even now. 
“ I can’t think who would have done it to 
you,” was the indignant comment. 
“ The boys have never molested me before. 
 
Now I have two young women and I fancy the 
trick was for them. But they had annoyed 
no one, nor made themselves obnoxious. ” 
Had it been meant for Miss Grant? The 
two men had a rather warm discussion, sup- 
plemented by a certain straightforwardness in 
Mrs. Kent, who kept strictly to right and 
wrong. 
“ We are tiring out Mrs. Stirling,’ Mrs. 
Underwood said at length. “ No words can 
adequately express our regret that you and 
Jane should have been such sufferers. And I 
am sure the whole town will be eager to 
punish the perpetrators.” 
Helen was quite certain she could guess at 
two of them, for one could not have done it 
alone. But she made no special reply to 
Lilian’s wondering. 
Monday morning the larger boys and those 
who had taken part in the procession were 
called into Mr. Underwood’s office, when he 
dwelt upon the heinousness of the trick that 
might have done very serious injury. 
“ The procession and the real fun we can 
excuse, but it ought to be confined to you boys. 
You have no right to injure and deface the 
property of grown people, and I give warning 
now that any boy guilty of the crime of a 
tramp will be handed over to the law to be 
dealt with. As for the other I cannot think 
any boy in this school could be so lost to honor, 
and a sense of what is due to every human 
being, as to willfully do so despicable an act. 
The authorities will use their utmost endeavors 
to ferret out the perpetrators, and if any are 
found in this school they will be ignominiously 
expelled. Now you may go to your classes.” 
Helen stood so that she could face the boys 
as they came in. All of them had rather 
flushed countenances. Dinsmore and East- 
man evaded her glance. She wondered if she 
were quite right in concealing her suspicions. 
But the punishment would be very severe and 
the stigma remain for years. 
Mr. Underwood tried to draw some sug- 
gestive remark from her, but she was on her 
guard. If she meant to keep the secret she 
must beware even of herself. 
All that week the big boys seemed to have a 
dispensation of grace. Their recitations were 
wonderful, they propounded no foolish ques- 
tions, they were uniformly polite to her. But 
with her keen sense she felt there was a cer- 
tain knowledge between her and Eastman. 
He flushed at any sudden glance instead of 
boldly staring. 
There was a great stir about discovering the 
culprits. They had covered their tracks 
securely. They found that the coat belonged 
to a colored man who lived by himself and did 
odd jobs about. It had been given to him the 
winter before by the Methodist minister, and 
stolen early in the week. No possible sus- 
picion could attach to him. So the matter re- 
mained a mystery. 
“ I should think it a drunken prank,” said 
Judge Ford, “ only I can’t see any reason for 
playing it on a quiet, inoffensive woman.” 
Helen wondered about Thanksgiving. Shir- 
ley and Willard insisted she should come to 
them. There would be three visiting days, 
and she might make it four by an early return 
on Monday morning. And if Juliet would 
come down on Friday! She was hungry for 
a sight of the dear faces of the past life. 
Mr. Hildreth always gave a Thanksgiving 
dinner to some of his neighbors who had no' 
close family ties to claim them on that day. 
“ Oh, must you go? ” he said to Helen with 
a wistful inflection. “ I had quite counted on 
you. You see I am a selfish old fellow, liking 
my own pleasure. But you have been so long 
away from your friends. Will Miss Craven 
meet you? I should like to see her again.” 
“ She will come down on Friday. We plan 
to go to some nice entertainment — she will 
have the tickets. But I am to visit my charm- 
ing little protegee, Mrs. Bell.” 
“ You might invite me to make their ac- 
quaintance and it would enlarge our repertory 
of mutual friends; then we could talk them 
over. And we might find something for 
Saturday.” 
“ Oh ! Would you like it? ” Her face was 
eager, smiling. “ And Miss Craven would be 
delighted to see you. Then I should like you 
to meet the Bells, though you know so many 
grand people, and they are kind of everyday 
folk, — well, not that exactly, either. They are 
charming.” 
“ I can believe that easily,” smiling in his 
turn. 
“ And I would like to come to your dinner, 
too. O dear! How many times I’ve wished 
I were two people ! Isn’t it queer that at 
times you would like to have a dual body? 
Would they both enjoy, I wonder?” 
“ The other parties would, I am quite sure,” 
he returned gravely. 
“ About the visit, now,” he began after a 
pause. “ If I should come down on Friday 
where can I find you in the evening? You 
and Miss Craven,” he added. 
She gave him Mr. Bell's address. 
“ And about the school? ” That was a safe 
subject of conversation, and he did enjoy see- 
ing her talk as well as listening. “ Does every- 
thing go on well ? ” 
“ Oh, the boys are so angelic and studious 
that I am afraid something will happen. Now 
it is the girls that give me a queer feeling. 
There are five or six of them banded together 
for some mysterious purpose. They are the 
oldest, perhaps the richest. They snub the 
others. They are quite condescending to me, 
think of that ! ” and she laughed with charm- 
ing gayety. “ The other matter has never been 
cleared up,’ she ventured. 
“ No, really to my chagrin. I think Mr. 
Underwod suspected, but for valid reasons held 
his peace. Judge Ford was quite sure it was 
some of the river toughs. I wish the gang 
could be cleared out. But it seemed unlikely 
to me that they would torment a person they 
knew nothing about.” 
She was silent, and tried to keep her face 
from betraying color. 
There were so many invitations for her that 
she said there were more than enough dinners 
to last the old year out. Some of the younger 
girls hung about her on Wednesday and made 
her promise over and over again that she would 
be sure to come back. 
“ Why, I have bargained to stay a whole 
year. That will take until June.” 
“ And then next year, and the next — oh, 
until I am grown up and married.” 
“ You must finish the course in four years.” 
“ My cousin came home from boarding 
school and was married almost right away ! ” 
“ You must learn a good deal before that 
time,” insisted Helen. 
It amused her to see these children playing 
at sweethearts, “ best girl,” and “ my beau,” 
exchanging little gifts and having petty dis- 
putes, and sometimes getting each other’s ad- 
mirers away and not speaking for days. 
The fernery was flourishing finely. They 
were studying up on plant life and finding 
many curiously interesting facts. 
“ After the Christmas vacation we will plant 
some flower seeds and see what we can do. 
And we might raise some geraniums slips.” 
“ Oh, that will be just splendid! ” exclaimed 
half a dozen voices. “ Miss Grant, you make 
things so interesting.” 
That was what she desired to do. Whv 
was she not as successful with the older 
ones ? 
But she drew a long, relieved breath on 
Wednesday when school was dismissed. She 
had sent her suit-case down to the station in 
the morning; she had only to change her dress, 
and the walk was not long. Her heart was 
light and joyous. She felt as if she was not 
more than sixteen. Miss Firth said, “ Good- 
by. How I shall miss you,” in a melancholy 
manner. 
Willard and Shirley were at the station to 
meet her, both rosy and happy. 
“We have done nothing much but talk about 
you for the last three days. And it doesn’t 
rain, and nothing has happened to you, and 
oh, Fm so glad.” 
Shirley almost danced with delight. How 
sort of gay and mysterious she was, with her 
tender, luminous eyes. 
“ And you do not look a bit worn out. Are 
the girls and boys nice? ” 
“ The girls and boys are truly engaging. 
The older ones, aping young ladies and gentle- 
men, going to parties and having poor recita- 
tions the next morning, are not so admirable. 
I wish some of them could be in the freshman 
class just to get the grown-up airs knocked 
out of them, but oh ! I’m afraid they will never 
reach there, though they are not planning to 
go. The Westfield mothers are not anxious 
on that score.” 
“ I’ve had such a lovely letter from Leslie. 
 
And Lorraine has a lover. We all go the 
same way,” with her rippling laugh. “ And 
of course you know Miss Craven is coming, 
but she has promised to be Mrs. Osborne’s 
guest. And now we know the Travis family 
quite well. Beatrice is charming. And Jack! 
He declares he was in love with you long 
ago, and you never told us a word about 
it!” 
Jack! Oh, that was the old summer at the 
seaside, and it brought up Gordon Dan forth. 
What was he doing — studying? Somehow 
she felt hungry to hear from him. 
“ Oh, Jack was only a big boy.” 
“ He’s quite a nice young fellow; gone in a 
bank,” said Willard. 
“ And he has a girl. I’m afraid you have 
lost your chance,” declared Shirley mischie- 
vously. 
“ Then I must bear it heroically,” in a tone 
of high resolve. 
“ And we want to hear about the Westfield 
lovers.” 
“ There are none. The principal has a wife, 
I think I told you. Most of the men are married.
The rest are young, very young,” laugh- 
ing with a grimace. “ I have met two bach- 
elors. One is devoted to his mother and an 
aunt. It is said he has promised his mother 
not to marry while she lives, and she isn’t 
sixty yet. So you see there would be no use 
of setting any young affections on him, though 
he is nice, and has the editorship of the Even- 
ing Gazette ; is quite intelligent and thinks a 
good deal of his attainments.” 
“ And the other ? ” 
“ Oh, that Mr. Hildreth. He has a fine 
home, and is a really superior man. It is said 
that he declined to be a candidate for mayor. 
But he is a very public-spirited citizen, and 
I’ve inveigled him into coming to see you and 
Willard, though I suspect the real attraction 
is Miss Craven.” 
“ Oh, why didn’t you attract him yourself? ” 
cried Shirley. 
“ Well, he might be my father.” She 
blushed as she said it. 
“ Oh, as old as that ! ” disappointedly. 
“ But he doesn’t seem old,” conscience-smitten 
that she should have suggested it. 
“ But you don’t want to marry any old fel- 
low,” protested Willard. “ I’ll look up a nice 
lover for you.” 
“ I’m engaged for a year — to the school. 
And I want to make a success of it. So no 
lovers until then.” 
They reached the house. Helen had not seen 
the real home. It was an apartment, two 
stories up, but there was an elevator. A very 
pleasantly arranged suite of rooms, pretty, but 
not too ornate. Mrs. Bell was delighted to 
see her. 
“ You will find some familiar faces,” Willard 
began, “ if furniture can be said to have faces. 
Any way, it appeals to your affection. This 
in my den. Here is father’s desk and his old- 
fashioned bookcase, his easy-chair, and some 
of the pictures he cherished. It brings him 
back so tenderly. Somehow as time goes on 
you think more of those in the unseen. You 
can almost bring them back. And Daisy — we 
shall always wish she hadn’t married as she 
did — but she and father are together. You 
see we haven’t furnished very grandly. Shir- 
ley’s mother wrote that she could have some 
of their fine old things, but I’m afraid they 
won’t do for a flat.” 
“ I wouldn’t let him be extravagant,” 
laughed Shirley. “ Mother thinks it best to 
begin moderately. When he gets to be a great 
lawyer and has thirty or forty thousand dol- 
lar fees, we may be grand.” 
She bent over and kissed Mrs. Bell fondly. 
How happy they were. Yes, it was an ideal 
marriage. 
Late that evening Shirley remarked, “ We 
have stolen a march on you, Helen. We are 
going up to Marjorie’s to-morrow. She gives 
the Thanksgiving dinner, Mrs. Towne the 
Christmas feast, and the family will all be to- 
gether.” 
“Oh! why didn’t you let me wait?” cried 
Helen. 
“ Why, you are one of us,” replied Willard, 
catching her hand and pressing it warmly. 
“ You came in Daisy’s place, you know. We 
could not do without you.” 
“ No, my dear, it would make too big a 
break,” said the mother. 
It was a pleasant day and they had a de- 
I 
light ful time at the Rectory. The Townes 
had a new baby; three for grandmother to love 
and pet, and Marjorie’s little girl was very 
sweet. Helen told them about Miss Craven’s 
lovely protegee. 
“ She is to adopt it legally as a niece and 
give it her own name, and it will have 
the best of training,” said Helen. “ It really 
was too beautiful to run the risk of an insti- 
tution.” 
“ A splendid work,” rejoined Mr. Hollis, 
“ worthy of every Christian admiration. One 
of these little ones saved from destruction and 
eternal death maybe. And when I see a 
woman in an elegant carriage with a dog sitting 
beside her, I wonder how she will answer to 
God for some perishing child she might have 
saved. For that is the true work we are set 
to do in this world. Will you thank her for 
me that she has seen her way clear to do it? ” 
“ Indeed I will, gladly,” returned the girl. 
She wished Juliet could see this home, and 
this man, so courteous, yet so admirably in 
earnest, so imbued with high spiritual life, yet 
with no austerity. Would Leslie ever have 
such a home? She thought she could answer 
for the husband. 
It was a very happy reunion, and they re- 
turned with a true Thanksgiving uplift. 
The next day, just before luncheon, Juliet 
joined them. Mr. Osborne had obtained their 
tickets for a Wagner opera, and there were 
three. 
“ Oh, how lovely of you! ” declared Shirley. 
“ It is a shame to leave you alone, mother, and 
go off on such a splendid time ! ” 
“ Oh, dear, my young days are over. You 
must listen for me,” returned Mrs. Bell. 
The three were delighted. Helen had not 
heard this opera and reveled in the music, one 
thing she had missed sorely at Westfield. She 
had thought of hiring a piano, but so far she 
had found no leisure time. 
Juliet had expected to return to her friends, 
but she was surprised by Helen’s arrangements. 
Of course she could only consent. 
Mr. Hildreth met with a cordial welcome 
and found Helen had not over-praised her 
friend Shirley. They talked of school mat- 
ters and he admitted that it had been rather 
hard for Helen, but that there was considerable 
improvement. Willard took a man’s interest 
in the town, and Mr. Hildreth’s very earnest 
plans for it as well as the characteristic people 
one found in such places. 
“ I don’t know that I should have chosen 
it above all others to settle in but it came to 
me, and the old Hildreths had been among the 
early settlers. I had roamed about a good 
deal and the restfulness was very gratifying 
to me. It had certain points of beauty and 
now is quite enterprising. And I felt I must 
take a share in the real work of life, so why 
not here? When I get tired and a longing 
comes for outside pleasures, I hie me to some 
city and take my fill of delights, musical and 
intellectual. But truly, I did not consider how 
dull it might be for a young girl fresh from 
the real enjoyments of life.” 
“ But it hasn’t been dull,” protested Helen. 
“ I have been interested in my work and have 
found some new types of humanity. And I 
have had a few struggles with boys, who were 
rather an unknown quantity to me before.” 
“ And she has succeeded admirably,” dedared 
Mr. Hildreth with an appreciative 
smile. 
“ Oh, do not make me vain ! ” she pleaded 
mirthfully. “ The worst may be yet to come. 
We had better wait until the close of the school 
year. I may be set aside as incapable.” 
“ Hardly,  ’ said the gentleman. 
“ And about the queer people ? ” suggested 
Shirley. “ I came from Virginia, an old- 
time settlement. Except being rather lonely 
I didn’t see much to complain of. But after 
the delightful college life — and I was an 
awfully stupid student, it took me two years 
to get through the freshman class, and I was 
a pretty good Latin scholar when I entered. 
I know I should have been dropped but for 
Miss Grant’s kindly assistance. And when I 
went home with my new experience and wider 
outlook people seemed so queer, quite be- 
nighted.” 
“ We are not altogether benighted, are we, 
Miss Grant ? Speak a good word for us,” and 
there was a mirthful twinkle in his eye. 
“ Westfield isn’t benighted at all. The clergy 
are of a high grade. We really have a nice li- 
brary and quite a fine Athletic Club, I believe. 
I did not go to the match football that was 
played. But I have been out to tea and found 
some nice people. Will it be scandal if I talk 
about the Goulds? ” and she raised her eyes to 
Mr. Hildreth with a merry light shining in 
them. 
“ I do not believe you could talk scandal.” 
“ I wonder some one does not interview 
them and put them in a book. Think of three 
elderly women belonging to different persua- 
sions, keeping house separately, having differ- 
ent ideas as to diet, yet never disputing. In- 
telligent, well-bred, as I suppose people were 
thirty or forty, oh, fifty years ago.” 
“ Why, I never heard of such a thing! ” and 
Mrs. Bell leaned over, all interest. 
“ It is all true. They are fine women. I 
wish there were more like them,” declared Mr. 
Hildreth. 
“ They came to call on me. They are very 
punctilious. Then they invited Mrs. Stirling 
and myself to tea. And it was just lovely. It’s 
a great spacious house, full of all manner of 
queer things, some beautiful, some ugly. We 
were in the real dining-room. One sister was 
at either end of the table, one in the middle; 
that was Hetty, the youngest, who was just 
seventy. We were opposite her, and she 
poured our tea. She believes in all the good 
things of life. Miss Mary had her bread, some 
apples chopped fine for a salad, some potatoes 
treated the same way but cold, and sliced toma- 
toes — they have a mysterious way of keeping 
them up to Christmas; Miss Eliza had some 
sliced smoked salmon garnished with boiled 
egg, she never eats meat either; Miss Hetty 
had some delicious cold chicken, canned fruit, 
pot cheese that was a dream, it was so rich and 
toothsome; and cake galore. Miss Mary gave 
us some of her apple salad that had a bit of 
nutmeg that flavored it in a lovely fashion. 
And I tasted Miss Eliza’s fish. No one com- 
mented on the other’s taste, they simply said, 
‘ I do so or so,’ with the utmost sweetness, and 
the perfect right which is very attractive. Miss 
Mary uses her great grandmother’s china, Miss 
Eliza her grandmother’s, and Miss Hetty her 
mother’s. There doesn’t seem to be any fric- 
tion.” 
 
“ There is not,” interposed Mr. Hildreth 
earnestly. “ And I have known them for 
years. Then did Miss Mary play for you? ” 
“ Oh, yes. One of the others said Mary, 
you go and play for Miss Grant and we will 
wash up the dishes.’ It is a thin-legged old- 
fashioned piano, but she made it yield a tender 
sweetness. Such beautiful hymns as she sang, 
many of them I had never heard before, but 
it seemed as if ‘ Praise the Lord ’ was in all of 
them. It was like the song of the three chil- 
dren in the fiery furnace. Why, I felt as if 
I had been at a camp meeting, though really I 
don’t know anything about that.” 
Helen’s face was glowing with the remem- 
bered enjoyment. Mrs. Bell came over and 
took her hand. 
“ My dear, you have given me some heart- 
felt enjoyment. I am glad to know there is 
some of the leaven of the Lord’s love still in 
the different places and I do trust that it will 
leaven the world. Why can’t we all be gra- 
cious and lovely with our own, and our daily 
life?” 
“ Then they are so unaffected with their 
goodness. It is their daily life, not mere Sun- 
day religion.” 
“ I can’t see why any one should laugh about 
them,” exclaimed Helen indignantly. 
“ Can any one be cruel enough to do that? ” 
“ They have peculiarities, of course; we all 
do. The newer people term them characteris- 
tics, and that makes them seem the proper 
touch,” and Helen laughed brightly. 
“ I really would make a pilgrimage to see 
your ladies and feel well repaid. Can’t you in- 
vite me when summer comes again?” asked 
Mrs. Bell. 
“ We shall all be glad to welcome any friend 
of Miss Grant’s, and Westfield is lovely in the 
summer. And now I must thank you for a 
great deal of pleasure,” and Mr. Hildreth 
turned eager, smiling eyes to Shirley. “ We are 
off on a holiday, and I have to-morrow to de- 
vote to these ladies. I have seats for the 
‘ Huguenots ’ — there is a wonderful new tenor 
singing in it. And can I propose the Histori- 
cal Society Rooms in the morning for your im- 
provement, Miss Grant? ” glancing at her in an 
amused but persuasive fashion. “ You see I do 
 
not wish you to forget your college lore while 
you are shaping these youthful minds to receive 
it.” 
Shirley excused herself, though she under- 
stood that she was graciously included. The 
two girls assented with pleasure. 
“What a delightful man!” exclaimed the 
elder Mrs. Bell. “ Why, Westfield must be 
rather extraordinary, or do you look at people 
through rose-colored glasses, Helen? I think 
we could not all have had them on to-night. I 
could wish he were twenty years younger.” 
“Why?” asked Willard curiously, though 
he thought of a reason himself. 
“ Because he would have that much longer 
to serve the world and enjoy it,” she answered 
with sweet gravity. 
CHAPTER IX 
DUTIES AND PLEASURES 
“ Shirley,” Willard said, “ don’t tease 
Helen about Mr. Hildreth. One can see that he 
admires her very much. But she is different 
from most girls and it would spoil a nice 
friendship for her.” 
“Oh, you saw that?” There was a saucy 
piquancy in the young wife’s face. 
“ I don’t know how he could help it. You 
see they are brought together a good deal and 
I think she feels rather indebted to him for 
several things. But you know it may not be 
real love on his part. He must have seen num- 
bers of charming women by this time. And 
Helen has a curious sensitiveness about such 
matters. She is the youngest and the wisest 
girl I even knew, so truthful and straightfor- 
ward, yet never making it unpleasant for any 
one. You see she is so interested in all things 
outside of herself that she is never thinking 
 
 
what that or this thing means. She never stud- 
ies over the compliments men pay her, or the 
preferences they show her, to see what she can 
extract out of them that is purely personal. She 
makes them general, the coin of society that is 
dealt out to every one.” 
“ He would be worlds too old, anyhow,” said 
Shirley reflectively. 
“ She likes him because there isn’t any dan- 
ger, but if another person suggested it, she 
would draw in the attractive frankness that is 
such a charm. I remember how father took 
to her, and you see how sincere and friendly 
she was with Mr. Morse, and how delighted 
she was with her friend’s engagement. She is 
so purely truthful and honorable with herself 
that she really compels others to be the same. 
She isn’t thinking a bit about marriage.” 
“ But I want her to be married,” protested 
the young wife. 
“ I want her to have the man she can love 
with her whole heart, and it will be a love 
worth untold treasures. But so far I haven’t 
seen any one splendid enough.” 
“ I should be jealous if you were not entirely 
splendid enough for me,” she returned ten- 
derly. “ But I think we must confess our secret 
to Miss Craven. You see she will be buying 
Christmas gifts soon, and examining the 
pretty things in the stores, and she might write 
to her ” 
“ You wise little woman! I don’t believe we 
can wait until Christmas. It might get noised 
about.” 
They both laughed, but a shining moisture 
was in her lovely eyes. 
Mr. Hildreth came for the ladies the next 
morning and they had a most enjoyable as well 
as instructive time over the treasures from all 
lands. It seemed to Helen that she could hardly 
get her fill. Suppose sometime she should turn 
into such a student as Miss Coultas at the col- 
lege, or her father ! She was beginning to un- 
derstand the fascination and thought more ten- 
derly of him. 
The opera was fine and the tenor marvelous 
in sweetness and pathos. 
“ I don’t know how to thank you,” she said 
with her good-by to Mr. Hildreth, who was 
to take the train for home. 
 
“ You deserved a bright holiday after the 
three hard months,” he returned. “ I am sorry 
it could not have been made easier.” 
“ I don’t want to get spoiled in the begin- 
ning,” and she glanced up with a sweet, merry 
archness. 
“ Mr. Underwood doesn’t stand for much 
spoiling. I hope you will have a pleasant 
Sunday. I think I shall take tea with the 
Goulds. I am a privileged visitor.” 
“ I am glad you are going there,” she said 
unaffectedly. 
Their Sunday was happy as well. Mrs. 
Travis had insisted upon their spending it with 
her, and they had a heart-cheering talk about 
the old summer at the seaside. Jack had de- 
veloped into quite a manly fellow, still thinking 
a good deal of himself and his opinions. Bea- 
trice was a really pretty young girl, and the 
two little boys were big now, one fitting for 
Columbia. 
It was rather hard to get up so early in the 
morning. The skies were gray and lowering 
and the east wind blew up quite sharp. Wil- 
lard would see her safely on the train, and then 
the towns and villages flew by quickly until 
Westfield was announced. 
She had not time to go home, but she was 
glad to be not a moment late. She shrank a 
little from the day’s work, but there were 
cordial greetings from the children. And Mr. 
Underwood said : 
“ Well, did you find anything to be specially 
thankful for ? ” There was something in the 
tone that jarred upon her, his mood savored of 
sarcasm. 
“ Oh, so much ! I believe I shall appoint a 
special thanksgiving for myself. Two mag- 
nificent operas, a morning at that splendid 
Museum, and the loveliest of all visiting 
times,” in a kind of jubilant tone. 
“ Well, you were in luck!” 
The children were difficult to manage. Reci- 
tations were poor, and the problems were 
enough to make one scream, she thought. A 
teacher’s task was not an easy one. She won- 
dered if a specialty would not have been more 
satisfactory. 
But that afternoon, and now it had settled 
into a fine, sullen rain, came two nice boxes 
with handles to lift them about, and a paper 
package of something round and hard, ex- 
plained by a note from Mr. Hildreth. There 
were crocuses, hyacinths, and tulips. “ It might 
be entertaining for the children to plant them 
and watch their growth. In six weeks some of 
them would bloom in the warmth of the atmos- 
phere.” 
A few of the larger girls did not care. It 
was such messy work and soiled your hands. 
But there were enough to take an eager interest 
and make it pleasant. Several of the boys 
joined, and it was quite dark when they were 
through. Now it was raining hard. 
“ It’s been really lonesome without you,” 
said Mrs. Stirling. “ I hope you have brought 
a budget of news from New York. Sometimes 
I think we are quite benighted. Mr. Hil- 
dreth had a number of the school folks and 
their wives to dinner, and I do suppose 
lots of turkeys suffered. We didn’t go any- 
where.” 
Helen told them about the two beautiful 
operas, describing the singers and following 
the stories. 
“ Why, it is next to going yourself!” de- 
clared Mrs. Stirling. “ Miss Grant, you do 
make everything so interesting. Do you know, 
sometimes I wish I were a little girl going to 
school to you.” 
“ But when it came to Latin and those awful 
problems, and analysis, you would be glad you 
were grown up,” said the big girl. 
Helen had been used to cliques in college, 
some of them not at all admirable, but they 
seemed quite ridiculous here, with the few in 
number. She had tried earnestly to make them 
fraternize, but the older ones considered them- 
selves young ladies, and quite tabooed the next 
in age. As for the real children she found 
them the most tractable, the most eager to 
learn, ready for any experimental knowledge. 
Some of the boys kept their standing with the 
grammar school ball club. She had tried to 
rouse some enthusiasm among the older ones, 
but it had been severely discouraged and 
laughed at by Eastman, Lang, and Benson. The 
gymnasium training had not been a success 
either except among the younger ones. The 
young ladies complained that the Indian clubs 
 
were too heavy, that the bars roughened one’s 
hands, that the vaulting was unladylike. About 
every other “ gym ” day two or three excuses 
would be brought from the easily persuaded 
mothers. 
“ We are not going to train for athletics,” 
said Georgia Winters. “ I am not booked for 
college, but father thinks I ought to graduate 
here. I’d like to go to some school in New 
York where they train girls for real society 
ladies, and have dancing and afternoon teas 
and all that. I met a girl last summer who was 
at one, and every fortnight they had regular 
parties and could ask in their men friends. 
They don’t say, gentlemen, any more.” 
“ And that’s queer, too. Mr. Conover said 
the other day that Mr. Hildreth was a perfect 
gentleman. I like the term.” 
“ Well, it isn’t fashionable now.” 
“ I think Miss Grant ought to have some 
stylish society ways. I don’t see that college 
training has done much for her, except to make 
her run through the geometry problems like a 
race horse. They might as well be in San- 
scrit.” 
“ What is Sanscrit? ” asked another. 
“ Oh, one of those old dead languages that 
no one ever converses in. Why, we ought to 
be studying French. There’s some fine French 
poetry and — plays.” 
“ Girls ! ” exclaimed Katherine Ford, “ I 
have a splendid idea! Let us form a club. 
They have them in college and they are such 
fun ! ” 
“ Don’t for pity’s sake ask us to read or study 
anything more,” sighed Hattie Dinsmore. 
“ I’m worn out now, and just sick and tired of 
Shakespeare. Could you make anything out 
of ‘ The Tempest ’ ? Mother thought it wasn’t 
the things for girls to read, Miranda falling in 
love as soon as she had seen Ferdinand, with- 
out knowing whether he was respectable or 
not.” 
“ I don’t mean that kind of a club. I’ve read 
in stories where college girls went to each 
other’s rooms at night and made fudge and 
coffee and had lots of goodies. They had a 
chafing dish. I can cook oysters splendidly on 
our chafing dish.” 
“ But we couldn’t come here in the evening. 
 
And cooking doesn’t look very inviting to me. 
Candy-making is better when you ask in the 
boys. Why not have a regular party ? ” 
“ I don’t mean that,” returned Miss Ford 
with dignity. “ It is stylish now to have a club 
where you vote the girls in, and if you don’t 
like any girl you can blackball her and she 
must stay out. I should want it very select. 
And we’d have a password ” 
“ But what would you do ? ” was the query. 
“ Oh, we’d sit around and discuss our likes 
and dislikes, and, well, I don’t just know. 
Men talk politics, but we don’t care about that. 
We might take up the fashions, or read a novel 
and talk about it. Oh, we'd find things to do. 
Let’s hunt up some of the college stories and 
learn what the girls did. There are two or 
three capital ones in the library, but I've for- 
gotten them now.” 
“ Girls, there’s just six minutes to the lan- 
guage lesson, and it’s an awful grind. All 
those words above and under the lines, and re- 
lations and everything, confuse me so that I 
can’t tell whether I’m first cousin to anything 
under the sun or not.” 
“ And to-morrow is composition day and I 
haven’t an idea ” 
“ So hush, and let’s study.” 
The six minutes were up. It was a wretched 
recitation. 
“You will take the same lesson again 
and lose the marks for this,” said Miss Grant 
quietly. 
“ At all events I’ll be primed for to-morrow. 
My composition is done. And you will be so 
surprised ! ” exclaimed Miss Winters. 
It had been very cold since Thanksgiving. 
The two or three flurries of snow had not 
amounted to much, but it was announced that 
Jones’s pond was frozen over hard, and that 
there was splendid skating up the river. 
“ Miss Grant, do you skate? ” asked Lilian, 
as they were walking home. 
“ Indeed I do. It used to be one of our great 
pastimes,” and she experienced a sudden ex- 
hilaration. 
“ Will you go to-morrow? ” 
“ With pleasure.” Helen felt her blood tingle 
at the thought. This might stir up the chil- 
dren. There had been nothing much since the 
day of the fern-gathering. Of course she was 
asked out to tea, but some of the best people 
rather held aloof. They didn’t want to ask 
Miss Parker, or Miss Jaynes, whose father 
was a journeyman carpenter and had worked 
about their houses. They didn’t quite know 
whether they ought to make an exception, and 
Mrs. Eastman’s verdict settled it. But then, 
Helen didn’t particularly like the teas except 
at Mrs. Dean’s and Mrs. Millard’s. She had 
been asked to join an evening whist club, but 
declined. 
It was clear and cold on Saturday, but the 
sun shone with a certain jolly aspect as if he 
was quivering with fun at the blue noses and 
red cheeks he evoked. Jones’s pond was in a 
rather low place between two rises of ground. 
Autumn rains filled it up. Not being very deep, 
it was safe for the children. 
Helen put on her short skirt, her jacket 
trimmed with fur, and her fur cap that had a 
red wing for trimming. 
“ Oh, how handsome you look!” ejaculated 
Lilian. “ I wish I could have a color like that 
and a clear complexion.” 
“ I’m afraid you wouldn't take the trouble,” 
laughed Helen. “ Few good things come with- 
out an effort.” 
“ Why, I'd — what would I have to do?” 
“ There’s the morning bath and a good rub.” 
“ But I wouldn’t have time, truly.” 
“ Oh, yes, you would if you were in real ear- 
nest. And at least one good brisk walk 
through the day. You remember I’ve told you 
you lag too much. You want vim and spirit.” 
“ But you see when things haven’t gone 
right with you, and you don’t just know what 
is best — and — and I never thought study so 
hard. I can get along with the plain 
things ” 
“ Let us walk up now. Throw your shoul- 
ders back and draw long even breaths without 
any effort.” 
“ But it tires me,” rather fretfully. 
“ You would soon get used to it. And I 
wish you would practice with the Indian clubs 
or the dumbbells.” 
Lilian gave a long sigh. 
“ Oh, hear the children!” 
They crossed a stubble field and came in sight 
of the pond. It was half covered with a merry 
throng laughing and shouting. Then some one 
cried, “ Oh, there’s Miss Grant ! ” 
Allen Millard came over to her. “ I’m try- 
ing to teach Ruth to skate,” he said. “ Oh, I’d 
like to see you. May I put on your skates? ” 
“ Why, I’ve been used to waiting on myself. 
In a girls’ college you do not have any beaux,” 
smiling brightly. 
“ But I’d like to,” wistfully. 
“ Very well. I’ll be obliged. You skate? ” 
“ Oh, yes, some. I thought at first I never 
would be able to, and I had to try hard. I 
didn’t like to give up everything: I have only 
one skate on because I can manage better with 
Ruth.” 
“ Thank you ever so much.” She stood up. 
He swung his cap. “ Make way for Miss 
Grant,” he cried joyously. 
“ Come, Lilian.” 
The children fell back a little. Some of them 
flew like birds in a child’s fearless fashion. 
Helen took rather long slow strides at first, 
smiling to the right and left and waving her 
hand, Allen watched her with delight. The 
children paused to look at her. Then she 
caught one little girl by the hand and they 
spun round to the great delight of the others. 
“ Oh me, Miss Grant ! Me next ! ” and some 
eager hands were thrust out. She took one and 
another. 
Lilian skated very well, she saw, and she 
nodded approvingly to her. The pond rang 
with shouts and laughter. Now and then some 
one had a tumble, but the inexperienced ones 
kept near the edge. Presently she glided in and 
sat down on a large stone. She had unfastened 
her jacket but now she closed it again. 
“ Oh, Miss Grant, that was splendid ! Only 
the reaches were not long enough,” Allen ex- 
claimed delightedly. “ I wish you’d go up on 
the river with me. It’s safe enough, for the 
channel is not very deep and it freezes pretty 
hard. If there’s any danger, Mr. Hildreth sends 
his man out to mark it. I can’t skate like that, 
I don’t know that I shall ever be able to, but it 
is so exhilarating. And it’s something you do 
your own self.” 
The boy had a really pretty face with large, 
soft, wistful eyes. 
“ And how does Ruth make out?” 
“ This is the first of her trying, except a little 
bit near the house. She is afraid. Ruth ” 
Ruth came shyly. She was fair-haired with 
round wondering blue eyes. 
“ I want to learn so much,” she said in a 
pleading manner. 
“ And you will in a little while. You are in 
the kindergarten?” 
“ But I’m going in the primary soon. I al- 
most got in last summer, but not quite. And I 
want to get in the high school. Allen thinks it 
so nice.” 
Allen smiled with a little confusion. 
“Oh, Miss Grant, skate again, won’t you? 
You went so splendidly!” cried half a dozen 
voices. 
“ This place is for you little folks. I’m 
afraid I shall run over you.” 
“ Oh no. We will keep off a little. Go just 
as fast as you can. It is like a bird flying.” 
“ A great big bird among a lot of little 
wrens,” she replied laughingly 
But she consented and did her best. The 
children laughed, shouted, and clapped in wild 
Imy^BrocAs. 
Then she caught one little girl by the hand and they 
spun around.
delight. Then she sat down again and they 
gathered around, asking eager questions and 
telling bits about themselves and what they 
were doing. They patted her cap and brushed 
the fur on her coat, and one little tot said : 
“ Oh, I wish you were my teacher, you are 
so pretty ! ” 
Then she began to take off her skates. “ Do 
you think you could go on the river ? ” Allen 
asked pleadingly. “ It's moonlight now, and it 
will be just splendid Monday night if it is 
clear. It’s a long walk.” 
“ Oh, I don’t mind walking. Yes, if it is 
clear. If not, let us say Tuesday.” 
“ Oh, I’m so glad ! ” and the boy’s face 
shone with gladness. “ I think we will go 
home now. Come, Ruth.” 
He picked up her skates and swung them 
over his shoulder. “ Let me carry yours, Miss 
Grant.” 
“ Oh, no,” in a softened tone. 
“ I’d rather,” pleadingly. 
So she allowed him, but she said: 
“ I’m glad you thought of your little sister 
first. That is the mark of a gentleman.” 
 
He blushed with delight. 
Lilian Firth looked the better for her outing. 
She went again with her aunt in the after- 
noon to make some calls, a thing she did not 
like very much. Helen wrote letters in her 
room until Jane said: 
“ Mr. Hildreth is downstairs, Miss Grant, 
and would like to see you.” 
She went down bright and smiling to meet 
him. 
“ I hear you were out on a frolic this morn- 
ing,” he exclaimed, holding her hand. “ I 
have a great mind to ask how old you are just 
now.” 
“ Sixteen!” she replied, with a ripple of 
laughter. “ The little ones were charming. If 
I could only imbue the older ones with as 
much enthusiasm! Is there safe skating on the 
river? ” 
“ Oh, yes, now; will be, if this weather con- 
tinues. There’s plenty of space. From the 
flagpole up it is all right, but I don’t like the 
children to trust it down below, though the 
large boys do. It changes up above the second 
bridge and runs off wild, spreading over the 
country, as you learned the day of the fern 
hunt.” 
“ I had a lovely cavalier this morning and 
he invited me to go skating Monday evening. 
It is the first time a young man has invited me 
