winds, and to watch the sunsets and the moon rising 
over the lake. And then they went down into the 
glen, where the mountain streamlet tumbled. Here 
had been wood-sorrel, and a carpet of the white trillium ; 
and now there was adder's tongue, quaint and saucy, 
and columbine, and the pale dusty corydalis. There 
was soft new moss underfoot, and one walked as if in 
a temple. 

Thyrsis pointed out a seat beside a deep bubbling 
pool. "Here's where I sit and write," he said. 

"And how comes the book?" asked Corydon. 

"Oh, I'm hammering at it that's the best I can say." 

"What is it?" 

"Why it's a story. I suppose it'll be called a 
romance, though I don't like the word." 



 

Corydon pondered for a moment. "I wouldn't expect 
you to be writing anything romantic," she said. 

Thyrsis, occupied with his own thoughts, observed, 
"I might call it a revolutionary romance." 

"What is it about?" 

He hesitated. "It happens in the middle ages," he 
said. "There's a minstrel and a princess." 

"That sounds interesting," said Corydon. 

Now in the period of pregnancy the artist's mood is 
one of secretiveness. But afterwards there comes a 
time for promulgation and rejoicing; and already there 
had been hints of this in the mind of Thyrsis. The 
great secret that he was cherishing what would be the 
world's reception of it? And now suddenly a wild idea 
came to him. He had heard somewhere that it is the 
women who read fiction. And was not Corydon a per- 
fect specimen of the average middle-class young lady, 
and therefore of that mysterious potentiality, "the 
public", to which he must appeal? Why not see what 
she would think of it? 

He took the plunge. "Would you like me to read it 
to you?" he asked. 

m* 

"Why, certainly," she replied, and then added, 
gently, "If it wouldn't be a desecration." 

"Oh, no," said Thyrsis. "You see, when it's been 
printed, all sorts of people will read it." 

So he went back to the house and brought the 
precious manuscript; and he placed Corydon in the 
seat of inspiration, and sat beside her and read. 

In many ways this was a revolutionary romance. 
Thyrsis had not spent any of his time delving into 
other people's books for "local color" ; he was not re- 
lying for his effects upon gabardines and hauberks, 
and a sprinkling of "Yea, sires," and "prithees." His 



 

castle was but the vaguely outlined background of a 
stage upon which living hearts wrought out their pas- 
sions. One saw the banquet-hall, with its tapestries and 
splendor, and the master of it, the man of force ; there 
were swift scenes that gave one a glimpse of the age- 
long state of things 



Right forever on the scaffold, 
Wrong forever on the throne." 



There was a quarrel, and a cruel sentence about to be 
executed; and then the minstrel came. His fame had 
come before him, and so the despot, in half-drunken 
playfulness, left the deciding of the quarrel to him. 
He was brought to the head of the table, and 
the princess was led in ; and so these two met face to 
face. 

Here Thyrsis paused, and asked, "Are you inter- 
ested?" 

"Go on, go on," said Corydon. 

So he read about his princess, who was the embodi- 
ment of all the virtues of the unknown goddess of his 
fancy. She was proud yet humble, aloof yet compas- 
sionate, and above all ineffably beautiful. And as for 
the minstrel 

"The minstrel was fair and young. 
His heart was of love and fire." 

He took his harp, and first he pacified the quarrel, 
and then he sang to the lady. He sang of love, and 
the poet's vision of beauty ; but most of all he sang of 
the free life of the open. He sang of the dreams and 
the spirit-companions of the minstrel, and of the 
Wondrous magic that he wields 



 

"Secrets of all future ages 

Hover in mine ecstasy ; 
Treasures never known to mortals 
Hath my fancy hid for thee !" 

He sang the spells that he would weave for her, the far 
journeys she should take 

"For thy soul a river flowing 

Swiftly, over golden sands, 
With the singing of the steersman 
Stealing into wonderlands!" 



2. THIS song was as far as Thyrsis had written, 
and he paused. Corydon was sitting with her hands 
clasped, and a look of enthrallment upon her face. "Oh, 
beautiful! beautiful!" she cried. 

A thrill of pleasure went through the poet. "You 
like it, then?" he said. 

"Oh, I like it !" she answered. And then she gazed 
at him, with wide-open eyes of amazement. "But you! 
You !" she exclaimed. 

"Why not I?" he asked. 

"How in the world did you do it? Where did you 
get it from?" 

"It is mine," said Thyrsis, quickly. 

"But I can't imagine it! I had no idea you were 
interested in such things!" 

"But how could you know what I am interested in?" 

"I see how you live apart from everybody. And 
you spend all your time in books!" 

Thyrsis suddenly recollected something which had 
amused him very much. Corydon had been reading 



 

"Middlemarch," and had told him that Dr. Casaubon 
reminded her of him. "And so I'm still just a book- 
worm to you!" he laughed. 

"But isn't your interest in things always intellect- 
ual?" she asked. 

"Then you suppose I'm doing this just as an exer- 
cise in technique?" he countered. 

"It's taken me quite by surprise," said Corydon. 

"We have three faculties in us," Thyrsis propounded 
"intellect, feeling, and will ; and to be a complete 
human being, we have to develop all of them." 

"But you spend so much time piling up learning!" 

"I need to know a great many things," he said. "I'm 
not conscious of studying anything I don't need for 
my purpose." 

"What is the purpose?" she asked. 

He touched the precious manuscript. "This," he 
said. 

There was a pause. 

"But you lose so much when you cut yourself off 
from the world," said Corydon. "And there are other 
people, whom you might help." 

"People don't need my help ; or at least, they don't 
want it." 

"But how can you know that if you never go among 
them?" 

"I can judge by the lives they live." 

"Ah !" exclaimed Corydon, quickly, "but people aren't 
to blame for the lives they live !" 

"Why not?" he asked. 

"Because they can't help them. They are bound 
fast." 

"They should break loose." 



 

"That is easy for you to say," said Corydon. "You 
have no ties." 

"I did have them I might have them still. But I 
broke them." 

"Ah, but you are a man !" 

"What difference does that make?" 

"It makes all the difference in the world. You can 
earn money, you can go away by yourself. But sup- 
pose you were a girl shut up in a home, and told that 
that was your 'sphere'?" 

"I'd fight," said Thyrsis "I'd break my way out 
somehow, never fear. If one doesn't break out, it 
simply means that his desire is not strong enough." 

Thyrsis had been surprised at the depth of Corydon's 
interest in his manuscript ; he had not supposed that 
she would be so susceptible to anything of the imagi- 
nation. And now he was surprised to see that her 
hands were clenched tightly, and that she sat staring 
ahead of her intently. 

"Are you dissatisfied with your life?" he asked. 

"Is there anything in it that I could be satisfied 
with?" she cried. 

"I had no idea of that," he said. 

"No," she replied; "that only shows how stupid you 
can be!" 

"But you never showed any signs " 

"Didn't you know that I was trying to prepare for 
college last year?" 

"Yes ; but you gave it up." 

"What could I do? I had no help no encourage- 
ment. I was groping like a blind person. And I told 
you about it." 

"But I told you what to study," objected Thyrsis. 

"Yes," said the girl; "but how could I do it? You 



 

know how to study you've been taught. But I don't 
know anything, and I don't know how to find anything 
out. I began on the Latin, but I didn't even know how 
the words should be pronounced." 

"Nobody else knows that," observed Thyrsis, some- 
what inconsequently. 

"It was all so dulUand dreary," she went on "every- 
thing they would' have had me learn. I wanted things 
that had life in them, things that were beautiful and 
worth while like this book of yours, for instance." 

"I am really delighted that you like it," said Thyrsis, 
touched by that. 

"Tell me the rest of it," she said. 

3. THYRSIS told his story at some length ; in the 
ardor of her sympathy his imagination took fire, and 
he told it eloquently, he discovered new beauties in it 
that he had not seen before. And Corydon listened with 
growing delight and amazement. 

"So that is the way you spend your time!" she ex- 
claimed. 

"That is the way," he said. 

"And that is why you live like a hermit!" 

"Yes, that is why." 

"And you think that you would lose your vision if 
you went among people?" 

"I know that I should." 

"But how do you know?" 

"I know because I have tried. You don't realize 
how hard I have to work over a thing like this. I have 
carried it in my mind for a year ; I have lived for noth- 
ing else I have literally had no other interest in the 
world. Every sentence I have read to you has been 
the product of work added to work of one impulse 



 

piled upon another of thinking and criticizing and 
revising. Just the little bit I have done has taken me 
a whole month, and I have hardly stopped to eat ; it's 
been my first thought in the morning and my last at 
night. And when the mood of it comes to me, then I 
work in a kind of frenzy that lasts for hours and even 
days ; and if I give up in the middle and fall back, then 
I have to do it all over again. It's like toiling up a 
mountain-side." 

"I see," whispered Corydon. "And then, do you ex- 
pect to have no human relationships as long as you 
live?" 

Thyrsis pondered for a moment. "Did you ever read 
Mrs. Browning's poem, 'A Musical Instrument'?" he 
asked. 

"No," she answered. 

"It's a most beautiful poem," he said; "and it's 
hardly ever quoted or read, that I can find. It tells how 
the great god Pan came down by the river-bank, and 
cut one of the reeds to make himself a pipe. He sat 
there and played his music upon it 

'Sweet, sweet, sweet, O Pan ! 

Piercing sweet by the river ! 
Blinding sweet, O great god Pan ! 
The sun on the hill forgot to die, 
And the lilies reviv'd, and the dragon-fly 
Came back to dream on the river. 

'Yet half a beast is the great god Pan, 

To laugh as he sits by the river, 
Making a poet out of a man. 
The true gods sigh for the cost and pain, 
For the reed which grows nevermore again 
As a reed with the reeds in the river.' " 



 

Thyrsis paused. "Do you see what it means?" he 
asked. 

"Yes," said Corydon, "I see." 

" 'Making a poet out of a man !' That is one of 
the finest lines I know. And that's the way I feel about 
it I have given up all other duties in the world. If I 
can write one book, or even one poem, that will be an 
inspiration to men in the future why, then I have 
done far more than I could do by a lifetime given to 
helping people around me." 

"I never understood before," said Corydon. 

"That is the idea the minstrel tries to voice to the 
princess. At first he pours out his soul to her ; but 
then, when he finds that she loves him, he is afraid, and 
tries to persuade her not to come with him. He tells 
her how lonely and stern his life is ; and she has been 
born to a gentle life she has her station and her duty 
in the world. But the more he pleads the hardness 
of his life, the more she sees she must go with him. 
Even if the end be death to her, still she will be an 
inspiration to him, and give wings to his music. 'Be 
silent,' she tells him 'let me fling myself away for a 
song! To do one deed that the world remembers, to 
utter one word that lives forever that is worth all the 
failure and the agony that can come to one woman in 
her lifetime !' " 

Corydon sat with her hands clasped. "Yes," she 
said, "that is the way she would feel !" 

"I'm glad to hear you say that, " remarked the other. 
"I must make it real; and I've been afraid about it. 
Would she really go with him?" 

"She would go if she loved him," said Corydon. 
"If she loved him. But she must love his art still 



more.' 




"She must love him' said Corydon. 

Thyrsis shook his head. "It would not do for her 
to go with him for that," he said. 

"Why not? Doesn't he love her?" 

"Yes ; but he is afraid to tell her so. They dare not 
let that sway them." 

"I don't understand. Why not?" 

"Because personal love is a limited thing, and com- 
paratively an ignoble thing." 

"I don't see how there can be anything more noble 
than true love between a man and a woman," declared 
Corydon. 

"It depends on what you mean by 'true' love," re- 
plied Thyrsis. "If two people love each other for their 
own sakes, and go together, they soon come to know 
each other, and then they are satisfied and their 



growth is at an end. What I conceive is that two 
people must lose themselves, and all thought of them- 
selves, in their common love for something higher 
for some great ideal, some purpose, some vision of 
perfection. And they seek this together, and they re- 
joice in finding it, each for the other; and so they have 
always progress and growth they stand for something 
new to each other every day of their lives. To such 
love there is no end, and no chance of weariness or 
satiety." 

"I had never thought of it just so," said the girl. 
"But surely there must be a personal love in the be- 
ginning." 

"I don't know," he responded. "I hadn't thought 
about that. I'm afraid I'm impersonal by nature." 

"Yes," she said, "that's what has puzzled me. Don't 
you love human beings?" 

"Not as a rule," he confessed. 



 

"But then what is it you are interested in? Your- 
self?" 

"People tell me that's the case. And there's a sense 
in which it's true I'm wrapped up in the thought of 
myself as an art-work. I've a certain vision of the 
possibilities of my own being, and I'm trying to realize 
it. And if I do, then I can write books and communi- 
cate it to other people, so that they can judge it, and 
see if it's any better than the vision they have. It is 
a higher kind of unselfishness, I think." 

"I see," said Corydon. "It's not easy to under- 
stand." 

"No one understands it," he replied. "People are 
taught that they must sacrifice themselves for others; 
and they do it, blindly and stupidly, and never ask if 
the other person is worthy of the sacrifice and still 
less if they themselves have anything worth sacrificing." 

Corydon had clenched her hands suddenly. "How 
I hate* the religion of self-saerifice !" she cried. 

"Mine is a religion of self-development," said 
Thyrsis. "I am sacrificing myself for what other 
people ought to be." 

4. THEY came back after a time, to the subject 
of love; and to the ideal of it which Thyrsis meant to 
set forth in the book. It was the duty of every soul 
to seek the highest potentiality of which it had vision ; 
and as one did that for himself, so he did it for the 
person he loved. There could be no higher love than 
this to treat the thing beloved as one's self, to be 
perpetually dissatisfied with it, to scourge it to new 
endeavor, to hold it in immortal discontent. 

This was a point about which they argued with eager 
excitement. To Thyrsis, love itself was a prize to be 



 

held before the loved one ; whereas Corydon argued that 
love must exist before such a union could be thought 
of. Her cheeks flushed and her eyes shone as she main- 
tained the thesis that the princess could not go with the 
minstrel unless his love was given to her irrevocably. 

"If you mean by love a sense of oneness in the pur- 
suit of an ideal, then I agree with you," said Thyrsis. 
"But if you mean what love generally means a mutual 
admiration, the worshipping of another personality 
then I don't." 

"And are lovers not even to be interesting to each 
other?" cried Corydon. 

But the poet did not shrink even from that. "I 
don't think a woman could be interesting to me ex- 
cept in so far as she was growing. And she must 
always know that if she stopped growing, she would 
cease to be interesting. That is not a matter of any- 
body's will, it seems to me it is a fact of soul-chem- 
istry." 

"I don't think you will find many women to love you 
on that basis," said Corydon. 

"I never expected to find but one," was Thyrsis' re- 
ply; "and I may not find even one." 

She sat watching him for a moment. "I had never 
realized the sublimity of your egotism," she said. "It 
would never occur to you to judge anyone else by your 
own standards, would it?" 

"That is very well put," laughed Thyrsis. "As a 
matter of fact, I have a maxim that I count all things 
lost in the world but my own soul." 

"Why is that?" 

"Because I can depend on my own soul ; and I have 
not yet met anything else in life of which I can say 
that." 



 

Again there was a pause. "You are as hard as 
iron !" exclaimed the girl. 

"I am harder than anything you can find for your 
simile," he answered. "I know simply that there is no 
force existing that can turn me from my task." 

"You might meet some woman who would fascinate 
you." 

"Perhaps," he replied. "I have done things I'm 
ashamed of, and I've a wholesome fear of doing more 
of them. But I know that that woman, whoever she 
might be, would wake up some morning and find me 
missing." 

Then for a while he sat staring at the eddies in the 
pool below. "I have a vision of another kind of woman," 
he said "a woman to whom my ideal would be the 
same compelling force that it is to me a living 
thing that would drive her, that she was both master 
of, and slave to, as I am. So that she would feel no 
fears, and ask no favors ! So that she would not want 
mercy, nor ask pledges but just give herself, as 
give myself, and take the chances of the game. Don't 
you think there may be just one such woman in the 
.world?" 

"Perhaps," was the reply. "But then mightn't a 
woman be sure of your ideal, but not of you?' 

"As to that," said Thyrsis, "she would have to know 



me." 



"As to that," said Corydon, "she would have to love 
you." 

And Thyrsis smiled. "As in most arguments," he 
said, "it's mainly a matter of definitions." 

5. AT this point there came a call from the dis- 



 

tance, and Corydon started. "There is mother," she 
exclaimed. "How the afternoon has flown !" 

"And must you go home now?" he asked. 

"I'm afraid so," she replied. "We have a long row." 

"I'm sorry," he said. "I wanted to advise you about 
books to read. You must let me help you to find what 
you are seeking." 

"Ah," said Corydon, "if you only will !" 

"I will do anything I can," he said. "I am ashamed 
of not having helped you before." 

They had risen and started towards the house. 
"Can't you come to-morrow, and we can talk it over," 
he said. 

"But I thought you were going to work," she ob- 
jected. 

"I can spare another day," he replied. "A rest 
won't hurt me, I know. And it's been a real pleasure 
to talk to you this afternoon." 

So they settled it; and Thyrsis saw them off in the 
boat, and then he went back to the little cabin. 

On the steps he stood still. "Corydon !" he muttered. 
"Little Corydon!" 

That was always the way he thought of her ; not only 
because he had known her when she was a child, but be- 
cause this expressed his conception of her she was so 
gentle and peaceable and meek. She was now eighteen, 
and he was only twenty, but he felt towards her as a 
grandfather might. But now had come this new revela- 
tion, that astonished him. She had been deeply stirred 
by his work she had loved it; and this was no affec- 
tation, it was out of her inmost heart. And she was 
not really contented at all she had quite a hunger 
for life in her ! 

It had been like an explosion ; the barriers had been 



 

destroyed between them, and he saw her as she really 
was. And he could hardly believe it all through the 
adventures that followed he would find himself stand- 
ing in the same kind of daze, whispering to himself 
"Corydon! Little Corydon!" 

He did not try to do any work that evening. He 
thought about her, and the problem of her life. She 
had stirred him strangely ; he saw her beautiful with 
a new kind of beauty. He resolved that he would put 
her upon the way to some of the joy she sought. 

She came early the next morning, and they sat by the 
lake-shore and talked. They talked about the things 
she needed to study, and how she should study them; 
about the books she had read and the books she was to 
read next. And from this they went on to a hundred 
questions of literature and philosophy and life. They 
became eager and excited ; their thoughts took wings, 
and they lost all sense of time and place. There were 
so many things to be discussed! 

Corydon, in spite of all her anti-clericalism, believed 
in immortality ; she laid claim to intuitions and illumina- 
tions concerning it. And to Thyrsis, on the other 
hand, the idea of immortality was the consummation of 
all unfaith. To him life was a bubble upon the stream 
of time, a shadow of clouds upon the mountains ; there 
was nothing about it that could be or should be im- 
mortal. 

"The act of faith," he cried, "is to give ourselves 
into the arms of life, to take it as it comes, to re- 
joice in its infinite unfoldment, the 'plastic dance of 
circumstance' ; to behold the budding flower and the 
new-born suns as equal expressions of the joy of be- 
coming. But people are weak, they love themselves, 
and they set themselves up as the centre of existence !" 



 

But Corydon was personal, and loved life; and she 
stood out that death was unthinkable that she had 
the sense of infinity within her. Thyrsis strove to make 
her see that one was to wreak one's hunger for infinity 
at each moment, and not put it off to any future age ; 
that life was a thing for itself, and needed no sequel 
to justify it. "It is a free gift, and we have no claim 
upon it ; we must take it on the terms of the giver." 

From that they came to religion. Thyrsis loved the 
forms of the old faiths, because of the poetry there was 
in them ; and so he wrestled with Corydon's paganism. 
He tried to show her how one could read "Paradise 
Lost" and the English prayer-book, precisely as one 
read Virgil and Homer ; to which Corydon answered 
that she had been to Sunday-school. 

"But you once believed in Santa Glaus !" he retorted. 
"And does that make you quarrel with him now? Every 
time you read a novel, don't you pretend to believe in 
people who never existed?" 

He went on to show her how much she lost of the 
sublime and inspiring things of the past. He took the 
story of Jesus. It mattered not in the least if it was 
fiction or fact it was there, as an achievement of the 
human spirit. He showed her the man of the gospels 
not the stained-glass god with royal robes and shin- 
ing crown, but the humble workingman, with his dream 
of a heaven nearby, and a father who loved his chil- 
dren without distinction. He went about among the 
poor and humble, the world's first revolutionist; teach- 
ing the supremacy of the soul a doctrine which was to 
be as dynamite beneath the pillars of all established in- 
stitutions. He lived as a tramp and an outcast, and he 
died the death of a criminal; and now those who had 
murdered him were using his doctrines to enslave the 



 

world ! All this was a new idea to Corydon, and she 
resolved forthwith that she would begin her readings 
with the New Testament. 

6. So it went, until Thyrsis looked up with a start, 
and saw that the shadows were falling. It was five 
o'clock, and they had not stopped to eat! Even so, 
they had no time to cook, but made a cold meal and 
talked all the time they were eating. 

Then Corydon said, "I must start for home." 

"You won't want any supper," said Thyrsis. "Let's 
see the sunset first." 

"But mother will be expecting me," she objected. 

"She'll know you're all right," he replied. 

So they climbed the hill, and sat and watched the 
sunset and the rising full moon. The air was clear, 
and the sky like opal, and the pale, pearly tints of the 
clouds were ravishing to behold. To Thyrsis it seemed 
that these colors were an image of the soul that w T as 
disclosed to him. He would have been at a loss for 
words to describe the extraordinary sense of purity that 
Corydon gave to him ; it was not simply her maiden- 
hood it was something far more rare than that. Here 
was an utterly perfect human soul ; a soul without speck 
or blemish without a base idea, with no trace of a 
vanity, unaware what a pretense might be. The joy 
and wonder of life welled spontaneously in her, she 
moved to a noble impulse as a cloud moves before the 
wind. She was like a creature from the skies they 
were watching. 

And here, in the silver moonlight, a memorable hour 
came to them. Thyrsis told her of his consecration, and 
why he lived his hermit-life. He had known for years 
that he was not as other men ; and now every hour it 



 

was becoming clearer to him. He shrunk from the 
word, because it had been desecrated by the world ; but 
it was Genius. More and more frequently there was 
coming to him this strange ecstasy, the source of which 
he could not guess ; it was like the giving way of flood- 
gates within him the pouring in of a tide of wonder 
and joy. It made him tremble like a leaf, it made him 
cry aloud and fall down upon the ground exhausted. 
And yet, whatever the strain might be, he never lost 
his grip upon himself; rather, all the powers of his 
mind seemed to be multiplied it seemed as if all exist- 
ence became one with his soul. 

Never before had he uttered a word of this to any- 
one. No one could understand the burden it had laid 
upon him. For this was the thing that all the world 
was seeking, for the lack of which the world was dying ; 
and it was his to give or to withhold, to lose or to save. 
He had to forge it and shape it, he had to embody it, to 
set it forth in images and symbols. And that meant 
a terrific labor, a feat of mental and emotional endur- 
ance quite indescribable. He must hold it, though it 
burned like fire ; he must clutch it to his bosom, though 
it tore at his heart-strings. 

"Sometimes," he said, "I fail and have to give up ; 
and then I have nothing but a memory without words 
or perhaps a few broken phrases that seem mere 
nonsense. Then I am like a man who has seen some 
loved one drowned or burned to death before his eyes. 
It is a thing so ineffable, so precious ; and some power 
seeks to tear it away from me, to bear it into oblivion 
forever. I can't know, of course it might come to 
some one else or it might never come again. The 
feeling I have is like that of a mother for an unborn 
child ; if I do not give it life, no one ever will. Ami 



 

don't you see compared with that, what does an} T thing 
else count? I would lie down and be crushed to pieces, 
if that would help ; truly, I would suffer less than I 
suffer in what I try to do. And so, the things that 
other men care for they simply don't exist for me. I 
must have a little money, because I have to have some- 
thing to eat, and a place to work in. But I don't want 
position or fame I don't shrink from any ridicule or 
humiliation. It seems like a mad thing to say, but I 
have nothing to do either with men's evil or with their 
good. I am not bound by any of their duties ; I can't 
have any country or any home, I can't have wife or 
children I can hardly even have any friends. Don't 
you see?" 

"Yes," whispered Corydon, deeply moved, "I see." 
"Look," he went on "see all the vice and misery 
in the world the cruelty and greed and hate. And 
see all the stupid and petty things, the narrow motives, 
the vanities and the jealousies! And all that is be- 
cause people haven't this thing that has come to me; 
they don't know the possibilities of life, they lack the 
sense of its preciousncss and sacredness. And they 
seek and seek and go astray ! Take drunkenness, for 
instance; that brings them joy, but it's a false scent, 
it leads them over a precipice, I've been down at the 
bottom of it you know why I have to go there, and 
what I've seen. And that is where the best of men's 
faculties go yes, it's literally true ! The men who are 
dull and plodding, they are contented ; it's the men who 
are adventurous and aspiring who come to that preci- 
pice. I walk down an avenue and see the lines of 
saloons with their gleaming lights, and that thought is 
like a scream of anguish in my soul ; there came a 
phrase to me once, that I wanted to cry out to people 



 

'the graveyards of your genius! the graveyards oi 
your genius !' 

Corydon was gazing at his uplifted face. She said, 
"That is how Jesus must have felt, when he wept o\er 
Jerusalem." 

"Yes," said Thyrsis. "It is a new religion trying 
to be born. Only nowadays they don't persecute you, 
they just ignore you. They don't hang you up on 
a cross and make you conspicuous and picturesque 
they ridicule you and let you starve. And that is what 
I face, you see. I've saved a hundred dollars just 
barely enough to buy me food until I've written the 
book !" 

"And other people have so much!" cried Corydon. 

"So much and no idea what to do with it. They 
just fling it away, in a drunken frenzy. And down 
below are the poor, who slave to make civilization pos- 
sible. Such lives as they have to live I can't ever get 
the thought out of my mind, not in any happiest mo- 
ment ! I feel as if I were a man who had escaped from 
a beleaguered city, and it all depended upon me to carry 
the tidings and bring relief. I'm their one hope, and 
if I fail them I'm a traitor, an accursed being! They 
are ignorant and helpless, and their cry comes to me 
like some great storm-wind of grief and despair. Oh, 
some day I mean to utter words that will reach them 
I can't fail ! I can't fail !" 

"No !" whispered Corydon. "You must not fail !" 

They sat in silence for a while. 

"How I wish that I could help you!" she said. 

"Who can tell?" he answered. "Perhaps you may. 
A true friend is a rare thing to find." 

"I would do anything in the world to share in such 
a work." 



 

"You really mean that? As hard as it is?" 

"I would bear anything," she said. "I would go to 
the ends of the earth for it. I would fling away the 
whole world just as you have done." 

"Ah, but are you strong enough? Could you stand 
it?" 

"I don't know that I'm only a child. But I wouldn't 
mind dying." 

And so it came. It came as the dawn comes, un- 
heralded, unheeded spreading wider, till the day is 
there. Months afterwards they talked about it, and 
Thyrsis asked, "When did I propose to you?" 

"I don't think you ever proposed to me," she an- 
swered. "It just came. It had to come there was 
no other way." 

"But when did I first kiss you?" he asked. 

"I don't know even that," she said, and pondered. 

"Did I kiss you that night when we sat on the hill?" 
he asked. 

"I wouldn't have known it if you had," said Corydon. 
"It was as natural for you to kiss me as it was for me 
to draw my breath." 



7. THE moon was high when they went down the 
hill, and he rowed her home. They were silent with the 
awe that was upon them. They found the people at 
home in a panic, but they scarcely knew this and they 
scarcely troubled to explain. 

Then Thyrsis went home, and spent half the night 
roaming about in excitement. And early in the morn- 
ing he was sitting on the edge of his canvas-cot, whis- 
pering to himself again, "Corydon ! Little Corydon !" 

He could not think of work that day, but set out to 
walk to the village by the lonely mountain-road; and 



THE SNARE 

half-way there he met the girl, coming in the other 
direction. There was a light of wonder in her eyes ; 
and also there was perplexity. For all that morning 
she had been whispering to herself, "Thyrsis ! Thyrsis !" 

They sat by the roadside to talk it over. 

"Corydon," he began, "I've been thinking about what 
we said last night, and it frightens me horribly. And 
I want to ask you please not to think about it any 
more. I could not take anyone else into my life before 
God, I couldn't be so cruel. I have been shuddering at 
