
He looked her squarely, menacingly, in the eyes.

"I suppose," he said, "that all this is a grim parody on the past when
women did the waiting until it was men's pleasure to make the next move.
I suppose that my recent appraisement parallels the social inspection of
a debutante--that my present hunger is paying for the wistful
intellectual starvation to which men once doomed your sex; that my
isolation represents the isolation from all that was vital in the times
when women's opportunities were few and restricted; that my probation
among you symbolises the toleration of my sex for whatever specimen of
your sex they captured and set their mark on as belonging to them, and on
view to the world during good behaviour."

He stared at her flushed face, thoughtfully.

"The allegory is all right," he said, "but you've cast the wrong man for
the goat. I'm going."

"Y-you can't go," she stammered, colouring painfully, "unless I give you
a pass."

"I see; it resembles divorce. My sex had to give yours a cause for
escape, or you couldn't escape. And in here you must give me a pass to
freedom, or I remain here and starve. Is that it?"

She crimsoned to her hair, but said nothing.

"Give me that pass," he said.

"If I do every girl here will gossip----"

"I don't care what they say. I'm going."

She sat very still in the hammock, eyes vacant, chin on hand,
considering. It was not turning out as she had planned. She had starved
him too long.

"Mr. Langdon," she said in a low voice, "if it is only because you are
hungry----"

"I'm not; I'm past mere hunger. You disciplined me because I took a human
and natural interest in the pretty inhabitants of this new world. And I
told you that I never would have entered it except for you. But you
made me pay for a perfectly harmless and happy curiosity. Well, I've
starved and paid. Now I want to go. . . . Either I go or there'll be
something doing--because I won't remain here and go hungry much longer."

"S-something--doing?" she faltered.

"Exactly. With the first----"

"You can go if you wish," she said, flushing scarlet and springing out of
the hammock.

He waited, jaws set, while she seated herself at a table and wrote out
the pass.

"Thank you," he said, in such a rage that he could scarcely control his
voice.

She may not have heard him; she sat rigid at the table, looking very hard
into space--sat motionless as he took a curt leave of her, never turning
her head--listened to his tread as he strode off through the ferns, then
laid her brow between snowy hands which matched the face that trembled in
them.

As for him, he swung away along the path by which he had come, unstrung
by turns, by turns violently desiring her unhappiness, and again
anticipating approaching freedom with reckless satisfaction.

Then a strange buoyancy came over him as he arrived in sight of the
gate, where the red-haired girl sat on a camp stool, yawning and knitting
a silk necktie--for eventualities, perhaps; perhaps for herself, Lord
knows. She lifted her grey eyes as he came swinging up--deep, clear, grey
eyes that met his and presently seemed ready to answer his. So his eyes
asked; and, after a long interval, came the reply, as though she had
unconsciously been waiting a long, long while for the question.

"I suppose you will wish to keep this," he said in a low voice, offering
her the pass. "You will probably desire to preserve it under lock and
key."

She rose to her slender height, took it in her childish hands, hesitated,
then, looking up at him, slowly tore the pass to fragments and loosed
them from her palm into the current of the south wind blowing.

"That does not matter," she said, "if you are going to love me."

There was a moment's silence, then she held out her left hand. He took
it; with her right hand, standing on tiptoe, she reached up and unbarred
the gates. And they passed out together into the infernal splendour of
the sunset forest.

[Illustration]




X


THE riots in London culminated in an episode so cataclysmic that it
sobered the civilised world. Young Lord Marque, replying to a question in
the House of Lords, said: "As long as the British peerage can summon
muscular vigour sufficient to keep a monocle in its eye and extract
satisfaction from a cigarette, no human woman in the British Empire shall
ever cast a bally ballot for any bally purpose whatever. What!"

And the House of Lords rose to its wavering legs and cheered him with an
enthusiasm almost loud enough to be heard above ordinary conversation.

But that unwise and youthful and masculine defiance was the young man's
swan-song. A male suffragette rushed with the news to Miss Pondora
Bottomly; Lord Marque was followed as he left the house; and that very
afternoon he was observed fleeing in a series of startled and graceful
bounds through Regent Park, closely pursued by several ladies of birth,
maturity, and fashion carrying solid silver hair-brushes.

The Queen, chronicling the somewhat intimate and exclusive affair a
week later, mentioned that: "Among those present was the lovely Lady
Diana Guernsey wearing tweeds, leather spats, and waving a Directoire
Banner embroidered with the popular device, 'Votes for Women,' in bright
yellow and bottle green on an old rose ground;" and that she had far
outdistanced the aged Marchioness of Dingledell, Lady Spatterdash, the
Hon. Miss Mousely, the Duchess of Rolinstone, Baroness Mosscroppe, and
others; and that, when last seen, she and the Earl of Marque were headed
westward. A week later no news of either pursuer or pursued having been
received, considerable uneasiness was manifested in court and suffragette
circles, and it was freely rumoured that Lady Guernsey had made a rather
rash but thoroughly characteristic vow that she would never relinquish
the trail until she had forced Lord Marque to eat his own words, written
in frosting upon a plum cake of her own manufacture.

Marque may have heard of this vow, and perhaps entertained lively doubts
concerning Lady Diana's abilities as a pastry cook. At any rate, he kept
straight on westward in a series of kangaroo-like leaps until darkness
mercifully blotted out the picture.

Remaining in hiding under a hedge long enough to realise that London was
extremely unsafe for him, he decided to continue west as far as the
United States, consoling himself with the certainty that his creditors
would have forced his emigration anyway before very long, and that he
might as well take the present opportunity to pick out his dollar
princess while in exile.

But circumstances altered his views; the great popular feminine upheaval
in America was now in full swing; the eugenic principle had been
declared; all human infirmity and degenerate imperfections were to be
abolished through marriages based no longer upon sentiment and personal
inclination, but upon the scientific selection of mates for the purpose
of establishing the ideally flawless human race.

This was a pretty bad business for Lord Marque. The day after his arrival
he was a witness of the suffragette riots when the Mayor, the Governor,
and every symmetrical city, county, and State official was captured and
led blushing to the marriage license bureau. He had seen the terrible
panic in Long Acre, where thousands of handsome young men were being
chased in every direction by beautiful and swift-footed suffragettes.
From his window in the Hotel Astor he had gazed with horror upon this
bachelors' St. Bartholomew, and, distracted, had retired under his bed
for the balance of the evening, almost losing consciousness when a
bell-hop knocked at his door with a supply of towels.

Only one thought comforted him; the ocean rolled majestically between the
Lady Diana, her pastry, and the last of the house of Marque.

Never should that terrible and athletic young woman discover his
whereabouts if he had to remain away from London forever; never, never
would he eat that pastry!

As he lay under his bed, stroking his short moustache and occasionally
sneezing, he remembered with a shudder his flight from those solid silver
hair-brushes through Regent's Park; he recalled how, behind him, long
after the heavier feminine aristocracy had given up the chase, one
youthful, fleet, supple, and fearsome girl had hung to his trail--a tall,
lithe, incarnation of her goddess namesake.

She had been too far away for him to distinguish her features; only in
Liverpool, where one dark night he ventured out to buy a copy of the
Queen and eagerly read the details of the function, did he learn the
name of his closest pursuer.

Later, furtively haunting the smoking room on the Caramania, he learned
from the gossip there of Lady Diana's vow that she would never rest until
Lord Marque had eaten her plum cake with its frosted inscription--this
inscription consisting of the flippant words of his own rash speech
delivered in the upper house of Parliament.

Now, lying on his back under the bed, while outside in Long Acre the
dreadful work was going on, he lighted a cigarette and pondered the
situation. He didn't believe that Lady Diana would attempt to trail him
to America. That was one comfort. But, in view of the suffragette
disturbances going on outside his windows, he saw little prospect of a
dollar princess for the present. Meanwhile, how was he to exist?

The vague and British convictions concerning the rapid accumulation of
wealth on a "ranch" of any kind comforted Marque. He also believed them.

And three months later he had managed to survive a personal acquaintance
with the following episodes:

First, one large revolver bullet through hat with request to answer
affably when addressed by white men.

Second, one infuriated cow.

Third, one indigestion incubated by cumulative series of pie and
complicated by attentions from one large centipede.

Fourth, one contusion from a Montana boot with suggestion concerning
monocle.

Fifth, one 45-70 Winchester projectile severing string of monocle,
accompanied by laughter and Navajo blanket.

Sixth, comprehensive corporal casualties incident upon international
altercation concerning relative importance of Guy Fawkes and July 4th.

Seventh, physical debility due to excessive local popularity following
personal encounter with one rustler.

Eighth, complete prostration in consequence of frequent attempts to
render thanks for toasts offered him at banquet in celebration of his
impending departure for the East.

Ninth, general collapse following bump of coal and forcible ejection from
freight train near Albany, New York.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




XI


THE duties of young Lord Marque, the new man on the Willett estate at
Caranay, left him at leisure only after six o'clock, his day being almost
entirely occupied in driving a large lawn mower.

Life, for John Marque--as he now called himself--had become exquisitely
simple; eating, sleeping, driving a lawn mower--these three manly sports
so entirely occupied the twenty-four hours that he had scarcely time to
do much weeding--and no time at all to sympathise with himself because he
was too busy by day and too sleepy at night.

Sundays he might have taken off for the purpose of condoling with
himself, had it not been for the new telephone operator.

She was a recent incumbent at the railroad station--a tall,
clear-skinned, yellow-haired girl of twenty-five who sat at her
desk all day saying in a low, prettily modulated voice,
"hello--hello--hello--hello" to unseen creatures of whom John Marque
wotted not.

Three things concerning her he had noticed: She wore pink gingham; she
never seemed to see him when he came down to the little sunburnt platform
and seated himself on the edge, feet dangling over the rails; he had
never seen her except when she was seated at the pine table which was
ornamented by her instrument and switchboard. She had a bed-room and
kitchen in the rear. But he never saw her go into them or emerge; never
saw her except seated at her switchboard, either reading or sewing, or,
with the silvery and Greek-like band encircling her hair and supporting
the receiver close to her small ears, repeating in her low, modulated
voice: hello--hello--hello--hello.

He wondered how tall she might be. He had never seen her standing or
walking. He wondered what her direct gaze might be like. Only her
profile had he yet beheld--a sweet, youthful, profile nobly outlined
under the gold of her hair; but under the partly lowered lashes as she
sat sewing or reading or summoning centrals from the vast expanses of
North America, he divined eyes of a soft lilac-blue. And he chewed his
pipe-stem and kicked his feet and thought about them.

Few trains stopped at Caranay except for water; the station, an old-time
farm house of small dimensions, overlooking the track and Willow Brook,
contained ticket office, telephone, and telegraph in one--all presided
over by the telephone operator. Sometimes as many as two people in a week
bought railroad tickets; sometimes a month would pass without anybody
either sending or receiving a telegram. Telephone calls were a little
more frequent.

So the girl had little to do there at her sunny open window, where
mignonette and heliotrope and nasturtiums bloomed in pots, and the big
bumble bees came buzzing and plundering the little window garden. And,
except on Sundays, Marque had little leisure to observe her, although in
the long late June evenings it was still light at eight o'clock, and he
had, without understanding how or why, formed the habit of coming down to
the deserted station platform to smoke his pipe and sometimes to fish in
the shallow waters of Willow Brook, and watch the ripples turn from gold
to purple, and listen to a certain bird that sat singing every day at
sunset on the tip of a fir-balsam across the stream--a black and white
bird with a rosy pink chest.

So lovely the evening song of this bird that Marque, often watching the
girl askance, wondered that the surprising beauty of the melody never
caused her to lift her head from book or sewing, or even rise from the
table and come out to the doorway to listen.

But she never did; and whether or not the bird's singing appealed to her,
he could not determine.

Nobody in the little gossiping hamlet of Caranay seemed to know
more than her name; he himself knew only a few people--men who,
like himself, worked on the Willett place with hoe and rake and
spraying cart and barrow--comrades of roller and mower and weed-fork and
mole-trap--dull-witted cullers of dandelion and rose-beetle. And mostly
their names were Hiram.

These had their own kind in the female line to "go with"--Caranay being
far from the metropolis, and as yet untroubled by the spreading feminine
revolution. Only stray echoes of the doings had as yet penetrated to
Caranay daisy fields; no untoward consequences had as yet ensued except
that old Si Dinglebat's wife, after reading the remains of a New York
paper found on the railroad track, had suddenly, and apparently in a fit
of mental aberration, attacked Si with a mop, accompanying the onslaught
with the reiterated inquiry: "Air wimmen to hev their rights?"

That was the only manifestation of the welt-weh in Caranay--that and the
other welt on Si's dome-like and knobby forehead.

He encountered Marque that evening after supper as that young man, in
clean blue jeans, carrying a fish-pole and smoking his pipe, was
wandering in circles preparatory to a drift in the general direction of
the railroad station.

"Evenin', neighbour!" he said.

"Good evening," said the young man.

"Goin' sparkin'?" inquired Si, overflowing with natural curiosity and
tobacco.

"What?"

"Be you goin' a-sparkin'?"

"Nonsense!" said Marque, reddening. "I don't know any girls in Caranay."

"Waal, I cal'late you know that gal down to the depot, don't ye?"

"No, I don't."

"Hey? I'm a leetle deef."

"No!" shouted Marque, "I don't."

"Don't what?"

"Don't know her, dammit!"

"Aw, quit yer cussin'," said Si, with a gummy wink. "Folks has been
talkin' ever since the fustest time you set onto that there platform and
that Eden gal fooled ye with her lookin' glass."

"What are you talking about?" said Marque impatiently.

"Issy Eden and her pretendin' not to see nobody--an' her a lookin' into
the leetle glass behind her table and a seein' of ye all the time! I know
she kin see because she ketched Hi Orville's boy a-hookin' apples outen
the bar'l that--"

"You mean she is able to see anybody on the platform," said Marque,
confused and astounded.

"You bet she kin. I know because I peeked in the winder an' I seen her
a-lookin' at you when you was fishin'----"

But the young fellow had recovered himself: "All right," he interrupted;
"that isn't your business or mine. Who gave you that crack on the lid?"

"By gum," he said, "Hetty done it. I was that took! Forty year, and she
ain't never throwed s'much as a dish pan at me. I wa'n't lookin' for no
sech thing at my time o' life, young man. So when I come in to wash up
for supper, I sez to my woman, 'Hello, Het,' sez I, an' she up an'
screeched an' fetched me a clip.

"'Lord a'mighty!' sez I. 'Look out what ye doin',' sez I. 'Air wimmen to
hev their rights?' sez she, makin' for me some more. 'Is wimmen to be
free?' she sez.

"'Yew bet,' sez I, grabbin' onto her. 'I'll make free with ye,' sez I.
An' I up an' tuk an' spanked Hetty--the first time in forty year, young
man! An' it done her good, I guess, for she ain't never cooked like she
cooked supper to-night. God a'mighty, what biscuits them was!"

Marque listened indifferently, scarcely following the details of the
domestic episode because his mind was full of the girl at the station and
the amazing discovery that all these days she could have seen him
perfectly well at any moment if she had chosen to take the trouble,
without moving more than her dark, silky lashes. Had she ever taken that
trouble? He did not know, of course. He would like to have known.

He nodded absently to the hero of the welt-weh clash, and, pipe in one
hand, pole in the other, walked slowly down the road, crossed the track,
and seated himself on the platform's edge.

She was at her desk, reading. And the young man felt himself turning red
as he realised that, if she had chosen, she could have seen him sitting
here every evening with his eyes fixed--yes, sentimentally fixed upon the
back of her head and her pretty white neck and the lovely contour of her
delicately curved cheek.

All by himself he sat there and blushed, head lowered, apparently fussing
with his line and hook and trying to keep his eyes off her, without much
success.

His angling methods were simple; he crossed the grass-grown track, set
his pole in position, and returned to seat himself on the platform's
edge, where he could see his floating cork and--her. Then, as usual, he
relapsed into meditation.

If only just once she had ever betrayed the slightest knowledge of his
presence in her vicinity he might, little by little, cautiously, and by
degrees, have ventured to speak to her.

But she never had evinced the slightest shadow of interest in anything as
far as he had noticed.

Now, as he sat there, the burnt out pipe between his teeth, watching
alternately his rod and his divinity, the rose-breasted grosbeak began to
sing in the pink light of sunset. Clear, pure, sweet, the song rang
joyously from the tip of the balsam's silver-green spire. He rested his
head on one hand and listened.

The song of this bird, the odour of heliotrope, the ruddy sunlight
netting the ripples--these, for him, must forever suggest her.

He had curious fancies about her and himself. He knew that, if she ever
did turn and look at him out of those lilac-tinted eyes, he must fall in
love with her, irrevocably. He admitted to himself that already he was in
love with all he could see of her--the white neck and dull gold hair, the
fair cheek's curve, the glimpse of her hand as she deliberately turned a
page in the book she was reading.

But that evening passed as had the others; night came; she lowered her
curtain; a faint tracery of lamplight glimmered around the edges; and, as
always, he lighted his pipe and took his fish, and shouldered his pole
and went home to die the little death we call sleep until the sun of toil
should glitter above the eastern hills once more.

A few days later he decided to make an ass of himself, having been sent
with a wagon to Moss Centre, a neighbouring metropolis.

First he sent a telegram to himself at Caranay, signing it William Smith.
Then he went to the drug store telephone, and called up Caranay.

"Hello! What number, please?" came a far, sweet voice; and Marque
trembled: "No number. I want to speak to Mr. Marque--Mr. John Marque."

"He isn't here."

"Are you sure?"

"Perfectly. I saw him driving one of Mr. Willett's wagons across the
track this morning."

"Oh, that's too bad. Could I--might I--ask a little information of you?"

"Certainly."

"What sort of a fellow is this John Marque? He doesn't amount to much I
understand."

"What do you mean?"

"Well, I might want to employ him, but I don't believe he is the sort of
man to trust----"

"You are mistaken!" she said crisply.

"You mean he is all right?"

"Absolutely."

"Honest?"

"Of course."

"Capable?"

"Certainly."

"Sober?"

"Perfectly."

"M-moral?"

"Unquestionably!" she said indignantly.

"Are you sure?"

"I am."

"How do you know?"

"I have means of information which I am not at liberty to disclose. Who
is this speaking?"

"William Smith of Minnow Hollow."

"Are you going to take Mr. Marque to Minnow Hollow?"

"I may."

"You can't. Mr. Willett employs him."

"Suppose I offer him better wages----"

"He is perfectly satisfied here."

"But I----"

"No! Mr. Marque does not care to leave Caranay."

"But----"

"I am sorry. It is useless to even suggest it to him. Good-bye!"

With cheeks flushed and a slightly worried expression she resumed her
sewing through the golden stillness of the afternoon. Now and then the
clank of wagon wheels crossing the metals caused her to glance swiftly
into her mirror to see what was going on behind her. And at last she saw
Marque drive up, cross the track, then, giving the reins to the boy who
sat beside him, turn and walk directly toward the station. And her heart
gave a bound.

For the first time he came directly to her window; she saw and heard him,
knew he was waiting behind the mignonette and heliotrope, and went on
serenely sewing.

"Miss Eden?"

She waited another moment--time enough to place her sewing leisurely on
the table. Then, very slowly she turned in her chair and looked at him
out of her dark lilac-hued eyes.

He heard himself saying, as in a dream:

"Is there a telegram for me?"

And, as her delicate lifted brows questioned him:

"I am John Marque," he said.

She picked up the telegram which lay on her table and handed it to him.

"Thank you," he said. After he had gone she realised that she had not
spoken.

[Illustration]




XII


WHENEVER he went to Moss Centre with the wagon he telephoned and
telegraphed to himself, and about a month after he had begun this idiot
performance he ventured to speak to her.

It occurred late in July, just before sunset. He had placed his rod,
lighted his pipe, and seated himself on the platform's edge, when, all of
a sudden, and without any apparent reason, a dizzy sort of recklessness
seized him, and he got up and walked over to her window.

"Good evening," he said.

She looked around leisurely.

"Good evening," she said in a low voice.

"I was wondering," he went on, scared almost to death, "whether you would
mind if I spoke to you?"

After a few seconds she said:

"Well? Have you decided?"

Badly frightened, he managed to find voice enough to express his
continued uncertainty.

"Why did you care to speak to me?" she asked.

"I--we--you----" and he stuck fast.

"Had you anything to say to me?" she asked in a lower--and he thought a
gentler--voice.

"I've a lot to say to you," he said, finding his voice again.

"Really? What about?"

He looked at her so appealingly, so miserably, that the faintest possible
smile touched her lips.

"Can I do anything for you, Mr. Marque?"

"If--if you'd only let me speak to you----"

"But I am letting you."

"I mean--to-morrow, too----"

"To-morrow? To-morrow is a very, very long way off. It is somewhere
beyond those eastern hills--but a very, very long way off!--as far as
the East is from the West. No; I know nothing about to-morrow, so how can
I promise anything to anybody?"

"Will your promise cover to-day?"

"Yes. . . . The sun has nearly set, Mr. Marque."

"Then perhaps when to-morrow is to-day you will be able to promise----"

"Perhaps. Have you caught any fish?"

After a moment he said: "How did you know I was fishing? You didn't turn
to look."

She said coolly: "How did you know I didn't?"

"You never do."

She said nothing.

At her window, elbows on the sill, the blossoms in her window-box
brushing his sunburnt face, he stood, legs crossed, pipe in hand, the
sunset wind stirring the curly hair at his temples.

"Did you hear the bird this evening?" he asked.

"Yes. Isn't he a perfect darling!"

Her sudden unbending was so gracious, so sweet that, bewildered, he
remained silent for a while, recovering his breath. And finally:

"I never knew whether or not you noticed his singing," he said.

"How could you suppose any woman indifferent to such music?" she asked
indignantly. She was beginning to realise how her silence had starved her
all these months, and the sheer happiness of speech was exciting her.
Into her face came a faint glow like a reflection from the pink clouds
above the West.

"That little bird," she said, "sings me awake every morning. I can hear
his happy, delicious song above the rushing chorus of dawn from every
thicket. He dominates the cheery confusion by the clear, crystalline
purity of his voice."

It scarcely surprised him to find himself conversing with a cultivated
woman--scarcely found it unexpected that, in her, speech matched beauty,
making for him a charming and slightly bewildering harmony.

Her slim hands lay in her lap sometimes; sometimes, restless, they
touched her bright hair or caressed the polished instruments on the table
before her. But, happy miracle! her face and body remained turned toward
him where he stood leaning on her window-sill.

"There is a fish nibbling your hook, I think," she said.

He regarded his bobbing cork vaguely, then went across the track and
secured the plump perch. At intervals during their conversation he caught
three more.

"Now," she said, "I think I had better say good-night."

"Would you let me give you my fish?"

She replied, hesitating: "I will let you give me two if you really wish
to."

"Will you bring a pan?"

"No," she said hastily; "just leave them under my window when you go."

Neither spoke again for a few moments, until he said with an effort:

"I have wanted to talk to you ever since I first saw you. Do you mind my
saying so?"

She shook her head uncertainly.

He lingered a moment longer, then took his leave. Far away into the dusk
she watched him until the trees across the bridge hid him. Then the
faint smile died on her lips and in her eyes; her mouth drooped a little;
she rested one hand on the table, rose with a slight effort, and lowered
the shade. Listening intently, and hearing no sound, she bent over and
groped on the floor for something. Then she straightened herself to her
full height and, leaning on her rubber-tipped cane, walked to the door.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




XIII


HE came every day; and every day, at sundown, she sat sewing by the
window behind her heliotrope and mignonette waiting.

Sometimes he caught perch and dace and chub, and she accepted half, never
more. Sometimes he caught nothing; and then her clear, humorous eyes
bantered him, and sometimes she even rallied him. For it had come to pass
in these sunset moments that she was learning to permit herself a
friendliness and a confidence for him which was very pleasant to her
while it lasted, but, after he had gone, left her with soft lips drooping
and gaze remote.

Because matters with her, with them both, she feared, were not tending
in the right direction. It was not well for her to see him every
day--well enough for him, perhaps, but not for her.

Some day--some sunset evening, with the West flecked gold and the zenith
stained with pink, and the pink-throated bird singing of Paradise, and
the brook talking in golden tones to its pebbles--some such moment at the
end of day she would end all of their days for them both--all of their
days for all time.

But not just yet; she had been silent so long, waiting, hoping, trusting,
biding her time, that to her his voice and her own at eventide was a
happiness yet too new to destroy.

That evening, as he stood at her window, the barrier of mignonette
fragrant between them, he said rather abruptly:

"Are you ill?"

"No," she said startled.

"Oh, I am relieved."

"Why did you ask?"

"Because every Tuesday I have seen the doctor from Moss Centre come in
here."

In flushed silence she turned to her table and, folding her hands, gazed
steadily at nothing.

Marque looked at her, then looked away. The big, handsome young physician
from Moss Centre had been worrying him for a long while now, but he
repeated, half to himself: "I am very much relieved. I was becoming a
little anxious--he came so regularly."

"He is a friend," she said, not looking at him.

He forced a smile. "Well, then, there is no reason for me to worry about
you."

"There never was any reason--was there?"

"No, no reason."

"You don't say it cheerfully, Mr. Marque. You speak as though it might
have been a pleasure for you to worry over my general health and
welfare."

"I think of little else," he said.

There was a silence. Between them, along the barrier of heliotrope and
mignonette, the little dusk moths came hovering on misty wings; the sun
had set, but the zenith was bright crimson. Perhaps it was the reflection
from that high radiance that seemed to tint her face with a softer
carmine.

She looked out into the West across the stream, thinking now that for
them both the end of things was drawing very near. And, to meet fate half
way with serenity--nay, to greet destiny while still far off, with a
smile, she unconsciously straightened in her chair and lifted her proud
little head.

"Lord Marque," she said quietly, "why do you not go back to England?"

For a moment what she had said held no meaning for him. Then
comprehension smote him like lightning; and, thunderstruck, he remained
as he was without moving a muscle, still resting against her window-sill,
his lean, sun-browned face illuminated under the zenith's fiery glory.

"Who are you?" he said, under his breath.

"Only an English girl who happened to have seen you in London."

"When?"

She turned deliberately and, resting one arm across the back of her
chair, looked him steadily in the eyes.

"I am twenty-five. Since I was twenty your face has been familiar to
me."

They exchanged a long and intent gaze.

"I never before saw you," he said.

"Perhaps."

"Have I?"

"Who can know what a fashionable young man really looks at--through a
monocle."

"I don't wear it any more. I lost it out West," he said, reddening.

"You lost your top hat once, too," she said.

He grew red as fire.

"So you've heard of that, too?"

"I saw it."

"You! Saw me attacked?" he demanded angrily, while the shame burnt hotter
on his cheeks.

"Yes. You ran like the devil."

For a moment he remained mute and furious; then shrugged: "What was I to
do?"

"Run," she admitted. "It was the only way."

He managed to smile. "And you were a witness to that?"

She nodded, eyes remote, her teeth nipping at the velvet of her underlip.
He, too, remained lost in gloomy retrospection for a while, but finally
looked up with a more genuine smile.

"I wonder whatever became of that fleet-footed girl who hung to my heels
long after the more solidly constructed aristocracy gave up?"

"Lady Diana Guernsey?"

"That's the one. What became of her?"

"Why do you ask?"

"Because she gave me the run of my life. She was a good sport, that girl.
I couldn't shake her off; I took to a taxi and she after me in another;
my taxi broke down in the suburbs and I started across country, she after
me. And the last I saw of her was just after I leaped a hedge and she was
coming over it after me--a wonderful athletic young figure in midair
silhouetted against the sky line. . . . That was the last I saw of her. I
fancy she must have pulled up dead beat--or perhaps she came a cropper."

"She did," said the girl in a low voice.

"Is that so?" he said, interested. "Hope it didn't damage her."

"She broke her thigh."

"Oh, that's too bad!" he exclaimed. "If I'd guessed any such thing I'd
have come back. . . . The poor little thing! I mean that, though she was
nearly six feet, I seem to think of her as little--and, of course, I'm
six--two and a half. . . . Good little sport, that Diana girl! She got
over it all right, I hope."

"It lamed her for life, Lord Marque."

Shocked, for a moment he could find no words to characterise his
feelings. Then:

"Oh, dammitall! I say, it's a rotten shame, isn't it? And all on account
of me--that superb young thing taking hedges like a hunter! Oh, come now,
you know I--it hurts me all the way through. I wish I'd let her catch me!
What would she have done to me? I wouldn't mind being pulled about a
bit--or anything--if it would have prevented her injury. By gad, you
know, I'd even have eaten her plum cake, frosting and all, to have saved
her such a fate."

The girl's eyes searched his. "That was not the most tragic part of it,
Lord Marque."

"God bless us! Was there anything more?"

"Yes. . . . She was in love with you."

"With--with me?" he repeated, bewildered.

"Yes. As a young, romantic girl she fell in love with you. She was a
curious child--like all the Guernseys, a strange mixture of impulse and
constancy, of romance and determination. If she had fallen in love with
Satan she would have remained constant. But she only fell in love with
young Marque. . . . And she loves him to this day."

"That--that's utterly impossible!" he stammered. "Didn't she become a
suffragette and carry a banner and chase me and vow to make me eat my own
words frosted on a terrible plum cake?"

"Yes. And all the while she went on loving you."

"How do you know?" he demanded, incredulously.

"She confided in me."

"In you!"

"I knew her well, Lord Marque. . . . Not as well as I thought I did,
perhaps; yet, perhaps better than--many--perhaps better than anybody. . .
. We were brought up together."

"You were her governess?"

"I--attempted to act in a similar capacity. . . . She was difficult to
teach--very, very difficult to govern. . . . I am afraid I did not do my
best with her."

"Why did you leave her to come here?" he asked.

She made no reply.

"Where is she now?"

She looked out into the cinders of the West, making no answer.

He gazed at her in silence for a long time; then:

"Is she really lame?"

"Yes."

"Very?"

"It is hip disease."

"But--but that can be cured!" he exclaimed. "It is now perfectly curable.
Why doesn't she go to Vienna or to New York----"

"She is going."

"She ought to lose no time!"

"She is going. She only learned the nature of her trouble very recently."

"You mean she has been lame all this time and didn't know what threatened
her?"

"She was--too busy to ask. Finally, because she did not get well, she
called in a physician. But she is a very determined girl; she refused to
believe what the physician told her--until--very recently----"

"See here," he said, "are you in constant communication with her?"

"Constant."

"Then tell her you know me. Tell her how terribly sorry I am. Tell--tell
her that I'll do anything to--to--tell her," he burst out excitedly,
"that I'll eat her plum cake if that will do her any good--or amuse
her--or anything! Tell her to bake it and frost it and fill it full of
glue, for all I care--and express it to you; and I'll eat every crumb of
that silly speech I made----"

"Wait!" she exclaimed. "Do you realise what you're saying? Do you realise
what you're offering to do for a girl--a lame girl--who is already in
love with you?"

His youthful face fell.

"By gad," he said, "do you think I ought to marry her? How on earth can I
when I'm--I'm dead in love with--somebody myself?"

"You--in love?" she said faintly.

He gazed across the brook at the darkening foliage.

"Oh, yes," he said with a pleasant sort of hopelessness, "but I fancy she
cares for another man."

"W-why do you think so?"

"He comes to see her."

"Is that a reason?"

"She won't talk about him."

"When a woman won't talk about a man is it always because she cares for
him in that way?"

"Isn't it?"

"No."

They had lifted their heads now, facing each other in the violet dusk.
Between them the scent of heliotrope grew sweeter. He said:

"I've been all kinds of a fool. For all I know women have as many rights
on earth as men have. All I wish is that the plucky girl who took that
hedge, banner in hand, were well and happy and married to a really decent
fellow."

"But--she loves you."
