The outlook for his future loomed as dark as the stair well.  He sat
down on the top step, lighted a cigarette, and gazed up at the sham
stained glass in the skylight above.  And now for the first time he
began to realize something of the hideousness of his present position,
his helplessness, unfitted as he was to cope with financial adversity or
make an honest living at anything.
If people had only let him alone when he first emerged from college as
mentally naked as anything newly fledged, his more sensible instincts
probably would have led him to remain in the ancient firm of his
forefathers, Edgerton, Tennant & Co., dealers in iron.
But fate and his friends had done the business for him, finally
persuading him to go abroad.  He happened, unfortunately, to possess a
light, graceful, but not at all unusual, talent for several of the arts;
he could tinkle catchy improvisations on a piano, sketch in oil and
water colors, model in clay, and write the sort of amateur verse popular
in college periodicals.  Women often evinced an inclination to paw him
and tell him their troubles; fool friends spoke vaguely of genius and
"achieving something distinctly worth while"—which finally spoiled a
perfectly good business man, especially after a third-rate periodical
had printed one of his drawings, and a fourth-rate one had published a
short story by him; and the orchestra at the Colonnade had played one of
his waltzes, and Bernstein of the Frivolity Theater had offered to read
any libretto he might send.
So he had been ass enough to take a vacation and offer himself two
years’ study abroad; and he had been away almost a year when the firm
went to the wall, carrying with it everything he owned on earth except
this apartment and its entailed contents, which he could neither cast
into the melting pot for his creditors nor even sell for his own
benefit. However, the creditors were paid dollar for dollar, and those
finer and entirely obsolete points of the Edgerton honor remained silver
bright; and the last of the Edgertons was back once more in New York
with his apartment, his carvings, tapestries and pictures, which the
will forbade him to sell, and two dollars change in his pockets.
Presently he cast his cigarette from him, picked up his suit cases, and
started upward, jaw set.  It was a good thing for him that he had a jaw
like that.  It was his only asset now.  So far in life, however, he had
never used it.
Except the echo of his tread on the uncarpeted staircase, not another
sound stirred in the house.  Every landing was deserted, every apartment
appeared to be empty and locked up for the summer.  Dust lay gray on
banister and landing; the heated atmosphere reeked with the odor of moth
balls and tar paper seeping from locked doors.
On the top floor a gas jet flickered as usual in the corridor which led
to his apartment. By its uncertain flame he selected a key from the
bunch he carried, and let himself into his own rooms; and the instant he
set foot across the threshold he knew that something was wrong.
Whether it had been a slight sound which he fancied he heard in the
private passage-way, or whether he imagined some stealthy movement in
the golden dusk beyond, he could not determine; but a swift instinct
halted and challenged him, and left him listening.
As he stood there, checked, slowly the idea began to possess him that
there was somebody else in the apartment.  When the slight but sudden
chill had left him, and his hair no longer tingled on the verge of
rising, he moved forward a step, then again halted.  For a moment, still
grasping both suit cases, he stood as though at bay, listening, glancing
from alcove to corridor, from one dim spot of light to another where a
door ajar here and there revealed corners of empty rooms.
Whether or not there was at that moment another living being except
himself in the place he did not know, but he did know that otherwise
matters were not as he had left them a year ago in his apartment.
For one thing, here, under his feet, was spread his beautiful, antique
Daghestan runner, soft as deep velvet, which he had left carefully
rolled up, sewed securely in burlap, and stuffed full of camphor balls.
For another thing, his ear had caught a low, rhythmical sound from the
mantel in his bedroom. It was his frivolous Sèvres clock ticking as
indiscreetly as it had ever ticked in the boudoir of its gayly patched
and powdered mistress a hundred and fifty years ago—which was disturbing
to Edgerton, as he had been away for a year, and had left his apartment
locked up with orders to Kenna, the janitor, to keep out until otherwise
instructed by letter or cable.
Listening, eyes searching the dusk, he heard somewhere the rustle of a
curtain blowing at an open window; and, stepping softly to his
dining-room door, he turned the knob cautiously and peered in.
No window seemed to be open there; the place was dark, the furniture
still in its linen coverings.
As he moved silently to the butler’s pantry, where through loosely
closed blinds the sunshine glimmered, making an amber-tinted mystery of
the silence, it seemed for a moment to him as though he could still hear
somewhere the stir of the curtain; and he turned and retraced his steps
through the library.
In the twilight of the place, half revealed as he passed, he began now
to catch glimpses of a state of things that puzzled him.
Coming presently to his dressing room, he opened the door, and, sure
enough, there was a window open, and beside it a curtain fluttered
gayly.  But what completely monopolized his attention was a number of
fashionable trunks—wardrobe trunks, steamer trunks, hat trunks, shoe
trunks—some open, and the expensive-looking contents partly visible;
some closed and covered.  And on every piece of this undoubtedly
feminine luggage were the letters D.T. or S.T.
And on top of the largest trunk sat a live cat.
                              *CHAPTER II*
                            *CORPUS DELICTI*
The cat was pure white and plumy, and Persian.  Out of its wonderful
sky-blue eyes it looked serenely at Edgerton; and the young man gazed
back, astonished.  Then, suddenly, he caught a glimpse of the bedroom
beyond, and froze to a statue.
The object that appeared to petrify him lay flung across his bed—a
trailing garment of cobweb lace touched here and there with rose-tinted
ribbons.
For a moment he stared at it hypnotized; then his eyes shifted wildly to
his dresser, which seemed to be covered with somebody else’s toilet
silver and crystal, and—what was that row of cunning little commercial
curls!—that chair heaped with fluffy stuffs, lacy, intimate things,
faintly fragrant!
[Illustration: "A dainty, unreal shape, exquisite as a tinted phantom
stealing through a fairy tale of Old Japan."]
With a violent shiver he turned his startled eyes toward the parted
tapestry gently stirring in the unfelt summer wind.
From where he stood he could see into the great studio beyond.  A small,
flowered silk slipper lay near the threshold, high of heel, impertinent,
fascinating; beyond, on the corner of a table stood a bowl full of
peonies, ivory, pink, and salmon-tinted; and their perfume filled the
place.
Somebody had rolled up the studio shades. Sunshine turned the great
square window to a sheet of dazzling glory, and against it, picked out
in delicate silhouette, a magic shadow was moving—a dainty, unreal
shape, exquisite as a tinted phantom stealing through a fairy tale of
Old Japan.
Suddenly the figure turned its head and saw him, and stood motionless
against the flare of light—a young girl, very slim in her shimmering
vestments of blossom-sprayed silk.
The next moment he walked straight into the studio.
Neither spoke.  She examined him out of wide and prettily shaped eyes;
he inspected her with amazed intentness.  Everything about her seemed so
unreal, so subtly fragrant—the pink peonies like fluffy powder-puffs
above each little close-set ear, the rose-tinted silhouette of her, the
flushed cheeks, soft bare arms, the silk-sheathed feet shod in tiny
straw sandals tied with vermilion cords.
"Who are you?" she asked; and her voice seemed to him as charmingly
unreal as the rest of the Japanese fairy tale that held him enthralled.
"Will you please go out again at once!" she said, and he woke up partly.
"This—this is perfectly incredible," he said slowly.
"It is, indeed," she said, placing a snowy finger upon an electric
button and retaining it there.
He regarded her without comprehension, muttering:
"I—I simply cannot realize it—that cat—those g-garments—you——"
"There is another thing you don’t realize," she said with heightened
color, "that I am steadily ringing the janitor’s bell—and the janitor is
large and violent and Irish, and he is probably halfway upstairs by this
time——"
"Do you take me for a malefactor?" he asked, astounded.
"I am not afraid of you in the least," she retorted, still keeping her
finger on the bell.
"Afraid of me?  Of course you are not."
"I am not!  Although your two suit cases are probably packed with the
silver from my dressing stand."
"What!"
"Then—then—what have you put into your suit cases?  What are you doing
in this apartment?  And will you please leave your suit cases and escape
immediately?"
Her voice betrayed a little unsteadiness now, and Edgerton said:
"Please don’t be frightened if I seem to remain——"
"You are remaining!"
"Of course, I am."  He forced an embarrassed smile.  "I’ve got to; I
haven’t any other place to go.  There are all kinds of complications
here, and I think you had better listen to me and stop ringing.  The
janitor is out anyway."
"He is not!" she retorted, now really frightened; "I can hear him
coming up the stairway—probably with a p-pistol——"
Edgerton turned red.  "When I next set eyes on that janitor," he said,
"I’ll probably knock his head off....  Don’t be frightened! I only
meant it humorously.  Really, you must listen to me, because you and I
have some rather important matters to settle within the next few
minutes."
In his growing perplexity and earnestness he placed his suit cases on
the rug and advanced a step toward her, and she shrank away, her hands
flat against the wall behind her, the beautiful, frightened eyes fixed
on his—and he halted.
"I haven’t the slightest notion who you are," he said, bewildered; "but
I’m pretty sure that I’m James Edgerton, and that this is my apartment.
But how you happen to be inhabiting it I can’t guess, unless that
rascally janitor sublet it to you supposing that I’d be away for another
year and never know it."
"You!—James Edgerton!" she exclaimed.
"My steamer docked yesterday."
"You are James Edgerton?—of Edgerton, Tennant & Co.?"
He began to laugh.
"I was James Edgerton, of Edgerton, Tennant & Co.; I am now only a
silent partner in Fate, Destiny & Co....  If you don’t mind—if you
please—who are you?"
"Why, I’m Diana Tennant!"
"Who?"
"Diana Tennant!  Haven’t you ever heard of my sister and me?"
"You mean you’re those two San Francisco nieces?" he asked, astonished.
"I’m one of them.  Silvette is sitting on the roof."
"On—the roof!"
"Yes; we have a roof garden—some geraniums and things, and a hammock.
It’s just a makeshift until we secure employment.... Is it possible that
you are really James Edgerton?  And didn’t you know that we had rented
your apartment by the month?"
He passed an uncertain hand over his eyes.
"Will you let me sit down a moment and talk to you?" he said.
"Please—of course.  I do beg your pardon, Mr. Edgerton....  You must
understand how startling it was to look up and see a man standing there
with two suit cases."
He began to laugh; and after a moment she ventured to smile in an
uncertain, bewildered way, and seated herself in a big velvet chair
against the light.
They sat looking at each other, lost in thought: he evidently absorbed
in the problem before him; she, unquiet, waiting, the reflex of unhappy
little perplexities setting her sensitive lips aquiver at moments.
"You did rent this apartment from the janitor?" he said at length.
"My sister and I—yes.  Didn’t he have your permission?"
"No....  But don’t worry....  I’ll fix it up somehow; we’ll arrange——"
"It is perfectly horrid!" she exclaimed. "What in the world can you
think of us? ... But we were quite innocent—it was merely chance.  Isn’t
it strange, Mr. Edgerton!—Silvette and I had walked and walked and
walked, looking for some furnished apartment within our means which we
might take by the month; and in Fifty-sixth Street we saw the sign,
’Apartment and Studio to let for the summer,’ and we inquired, and he
let us have it for almost nothing.... And we never even knew that it
belonged to you!"
"To whom did you draw your checks for the rent?"
"We were to pay the janitor."
"Have you done so?" he asked sharply.
"N-no.  We arranged—not to pay—until we could afford it——"
"I’m glad of that!  Don’t you pay that scoundrel one penny.  As for me,
of course I couldn’t think of accepting——"
"Oh, dear! oh, dear!" she said in pretty despair; "I’ve got to tell you
everything now! Several humiliating things—circumstances—very tragic,
Mr. Edgerton."
"No; you need not tell me a single thing that is likely to distress
you."
"But I’ve got to!  You don’t understand. That wretched janitor has put
us in a position from which there is absolutely no escape. Because I—we
ought to go away instantly—b-but we—can’t!"
"Not at all, Miss Tennant.  I ought to leave you in possession, and
I—I’m trying to think out how to—to do it."
"How can we ask you to do such a——"
"You don’t ask; I’ve got to find some means—ways—expedients——"
"But we can’t turn you out of your own place!"
"No; but I’ve got to turn myself out.  If you’ll just let me think——"
"I will—oh, I will, Mr. Edgerton; but please, please let me explain
the dreadful and humiliating conditions first, so that you won’t
consider me absolutely shameless."
"I don’t!"
"You will unless I tell you—unless I find courage to tell you how it is
with my sister and me."
"I’d like to know, but you must not feel obliged to tell me."
"I do feel obliged!  I must!  We’re poor. We’ve spent all our money,
and we can’t go anywhere else very well!"
Edgerton glanced at the luxury in the next room, astonished; then his
gaze reverted to the silk-clad figure before him.
"You don’t understand, of course," she said, flushing.  "How could you
suppose us to be almost penniless living here in such a beautiful place
with all those new trunks and gowns and pretty things!  But that is
exactly why we are doing it!"
She leaned forward in her chair, the tint of excitement in her cheeks.
"After the failure, Silvette and I hadn’t anything very much!—you know
how everything of uncle’s went—"  She stopped abruptly.  "Why—why,
probably everything of yours went, too!  Did it?"
He laughed: "Pretty nearly everything."
"Oh! oh!" she cried; "what a perfectly atrocious complication!
Perhaps—perhaps you haven’t money enough to—to go somewhere else for a
while.  Have you?"
"Well, I’ll fix it somehow."
"Mr. Edgerton!" she said excitedly, "Silvette and I have got to go!"
"No," he said laughing, "you’ve only got to go on with your story, Miss
Tennant.  I am a very interested and sympathetic listener."
"Yes," she said desperately, "I must go on with that, too.  Listen, Mr.
Edgerton; we thought a long while and discussed everything, and we
concluded to stake everything on an idea that came to Silvette.  So we
drew out all the money we had and we paid all our just debts, and we
parted with our chaperone—who was a perfect d-darling—I’ll tell you
about her sometime—and we took Argent, our cat, and came straight to New
York, and we hunted and hunted for an apartment until we found this!
And then—do you know what we did?" she demanded excitedly.
"I couldn’t guess!" said Edgerton, smiling.
"We bought clothes—beautiful clothes! And everything luxurious that we
didn’t have we bought—almost frightened to death while we were doing
it—and then we advertised!"
"Advertised!"
"From here!  Can you ever forgive us?"
"Of course," he said, mystified; "but what did you advertise?"
"Ourselves!"
"What!"
"Certainly; and we’ve had replies, but we haven’t liked the people so
far.  Indeed, we advertised in the most respectable daily, weekly and
monthly papers—"  She sprang to her feet, trotted over to the sofa,
picked up an illustrated periodical devoted to country life, and
searching hastily through the advertising pages, found and read aloud to
him, still standing there, the following advertisement:
"Two ladies of gentle birth and breeding, cultivated linguists,
musicians, thoroughly conversant with contemporary events, efficient at
auction bridge, competent to arrange dinners and superintend
decorations, desire employment in helping to entertain house parties,
week-ends, or unwelcome but financially important relatives and other
visitations, at country houses, camps, bungalows, or shooting boxes.
"For terms write to or call at Apartment Five——"
She turned her flushed face toward him.
"Your address in full follows," she said. "Can you ever bring yourself
to forgive us?"
His astonished gaze met hers.  "That doesn’t worry me," he said.
"It is generous and—splendid of you to say so," she faltered.  "You
understand now, don’t you?  We had to spend all our money on clothes;
and we thought ourselves so fortunate in this beautiful apartment
because it was certain to impress people, and nobody could possibly
suspect us of poverty with that great picture by Goya over the mantel
and priceless tapestries and rugs and porcelains in every direction—and
our cat to make it look as though we really belonged here."  Her voice
trembled a moment on the verge of breaking and her eyes grew brilliant
as freshly washed stars, but she lifted her resolute little head and
caught the tremulous lower lip in her teeth.  Then, the crisis over, she
dropped the illustrated paper, came slowly back to her chair and sank
down, extending her arms along the velvet upholstery in silence.
Between them, on the floor, a sapphire rug stretched its ancient Persian
folds.  He looked at it gravely, thinking that its hue matched her eyes.
Then he considered more important matters, plunging blindly into
profound abstraction; and found nothing in the depths except that he had
no money to go anywhere, but that he must go nevertheless.
He looked up after a moment.
"Would you and your sister think it inhospitable of me if I ask when
you—I mean—if I——"
"I know what you mean, Mr. Edgerton. Silvette and I are going at once.
"You can’t.  Do you think I’d permit it? Please remember, too, that
you’ve advertised from here, and you’ve simply got to remain here.  All
I meant to ask was whether you think it might be for a week or two yet,
but, of course, you can’t tell—and forgive me for asking—but I was
merely trying to adjust several matters in my mind to conditions——"
"Mr. Edgerton, we cannot remain.  There is not in my mind the slightest
doubt concerning your financial condition.  If you could let us stay
until we secured employment, I’d ask it of you—because you are James
Edgerton; but you can’t"—she rose with decision—"and I’m going up to the
roof to tell Silvette."
"If you stir I’ll take those suit cases and depart for good."
"You are very generous—the Edgertons always were, I have heard, but we
cannot accept——"
He interrupted, smiling: "I think the Tennants never needed instruction
concerning the finer points of obligation." ... He stood a moment
thoughtfully, turning over and over the two dollars in his pocket; then
with a laugh he walked across the studio and picked up his suit cases.
"Don’t do that!" she said in a grave voice.
"There is nothing else to do, Miss Tennant."
"There’s another bedroom."
They stood, not regarding one another, considering there in the
sunshine.
"Will you wait until I return?" she asked, looking up.  "I want to talk
to Silvette.... I’d like to have Silvette see you.  Will you wait?
Because I’ve come to one of my quick conclusions—I’m celebrated for
them, Mr. Edgerton.  Will you wait?"
"Yes," he said, smiling.
So she trotted away in her little straw sandals and flowery vestments
and butterfly sash; and he began to pace the studio, hands clasped
behind him, trying to think out matters and ways and means—trying to see
a way clear which offered an exit from this complication without forcing
him to do that one thing of which he had a steadfast horror—borrow money
from a friend.
Mingled, too, with his worried cogitations was the thought of Henry
Tennant’s nieces—these young California girls of whom he had vaguely
heard without any particular interest. New Yorkers are never interested
in relatives they never saw; seldom in any relatives at all. And, long
ago, there had been marriage between Tennant and Edgerton—in colonial
days, if he remembered correctly; and, to his own slight surprise, he
felt it now as an added obligation.  It was not enough that he efface
himself until they found employment; more than that was due them from an
Edgerton. And, as he had nothing to do it with, he wondered how he was
to do anything at all for these distant cousins.
Standing there in the sunshine he cast an ironical glance around him at
the Beauvais tapestries, the old masters, the carved furniture of
Charles II’s time, rugs dyed with the ancient splendor of the East, made
during the great epoch when carpets of Ispahan, Damascus—and those
matchless hues woven with gold and silver which are called
Polish—decorated the palaces of Emperor and Sultan.
Not one thing could he sell under the will of Peter Edgerton to save his
body from starvation or his soul from anything else; and he jingled the
two dollars in his pocket and thought of his talents, and wondered what
market there might be for any of them in a city where bricklayers were
paid higher wages than school teachers, and where the wealthy employed
others to furnish their new and gorgeous houses with everything from
pictures and books to the ancient plate from which they ate.
And, thinking of these things, his ears caught a slight rustle of silk;
and he lifted his head as Diana Tennant and her sister Silvette came
toward him through the farther room.
                             *CHAPTER III*
                              *SUB JUDICE*
"Isn’t this a mess!" said Silvette in a clear, unembarrassed voice,
giving him her hand.  "Imagine my excitement up on the roof, Mr.
Edgerton, when Diana appeared and told me what a perfectly delightful
man had come to evict us!"
"I didn’t say it that way," observed Diana, her ears as pink as the
powder-puff peonies above them.  "My sister," she explained, "is one of
those girls whose apparent frankness is usually nonsense.  I’m merely
warning you, Mr. Edgerton."
Silvette—a tall, free-limbed, healthy, and plumper edition of her
sister—laughed.  "In the first place," she said, "suppose we have
luncheon.  There is a fruit salad which I prepared after breakfast.  Our
maid is out, but we know how to do such things, having been made to when
schoolgirls."
"You’ll stay, won’t you?" asked Diana.
"Poor Mr. Edgerton—where else is he to go?" said Silvette calmly.
"Diana, if you’ll set places for three at that very beautiful and
expensive antique table, I’ll bring some agreeable things from the
refrigerator."
"Could I be of any use?" inquired Edgerton, smiling.
"Indeed, you can be.  Talk to Diana and explain to her how respectable
we are and you are, and how everything is certain to be properly
arranged to everybody’s satisfaction. Diana has a very wonderful idea,
and she’s come to one of her celebrated snap-shot conclusions—a
conclusion, Mr. Edgerton, most flattering to you.  Ask her."  And she
went away toward the kitchenette not at all embarrassed by her pretty
morning attire nor by the thick braid of golden hair which hung to her
girdle.
Diana cast a swift glance at Edgerton, and, seeing him smile, smiled,
too, and set about laying places for three with snowy linen, crystal,
silver, and the lovely old Spode porcelain which had not its match in
all the city.
"It’s like a play or a novel," she said; "the hazard of our coming here
the way we did, and of you coming back to America; but, of course, the
same cause operated in both cases, so perhaps it isn’t so remarkable
after all! And"—she repressed a laugh—"to think that I should mistake
you for a malefactor!  Did it seem to you that I behaved in a silly
manner?"
"On the contrary, you exhibited great dignity and courage and
self-restraint."
"Do you really mean it?  I was nearly scared blue, and I was perfectly
certain you’d stuffed your suit cases full of our toilet silver.
Wasn’t it funny, Mr. Edgerton!  And what did you think when you
looked into your studio and saw a woman?"
"I was—somewhat prepared."
"Of course—after a glimpse into our bedroom! But that must have
astonished you, didn’t it?"
"Slightly.  The first thing I saw was a white cat staring at me from the
top of a trunk."
She laughed, arranging the covers with deft touch.
"And what next did you see?"
"Garments," he explained briefly.
"Oh!  Yes, of course."
"Also a silk-flowered slipper with a very high heel on the threshold."
"Mine," she said.  "You see, in the days of our affluence, I used to
have a maid.  I forget, and throw things about sometimes."
"You’ve a maid now, haven’t you?"
"Oh, just a combination cook and waitress until we can find employment.
She’s horridly expensive, too, but it can’t be helped, because it would
create an unfavorable impression if Silvie or I answered the door bell."
"You’re quite right," he said; "people have a curious aversion to
employing those who really need it.  Prosperity never lacks employment.
It’s odd, isn’t it?"
"It’s rather cruel," she said under her breath.
Silvette came in bringing a chilled fruit salad, bread and butter, cold
chicken, and tea. "We’ll have to put it all on at once.  You don’t mind,
do you, Mr. Edgerton?"
He said smilingly but distinctly: "One’s own family can do no wrong.
That is my creed."
Diana looked up at him.
"I wondered whether you knew we were relations," she said, flushing
deliriously.
"You see," added Silvette, "it was not for us to remind you."
"Of our kinship?  Why not?"
"Because you might have considered it an added obligation toward us,"
said Diana, blushing.
"I do—a delightful one; and it is very gracious of you to acknowledge
it."
"But we don’t mean to presume on it," interrupted Silvette hastily.
"Some day we really do mean to regulate our financial obligations toward
you."
"There are no such obligations.  Please remember what roof covers you——"
"Mr. Edgerton!"
"And whose salt——"
"It’s our salt, anyway," said Diana; "I bought it myself!"
They seated themselves, laughing; then suddenly Edgerton remembered, and
he went away with a hasty excuse, only to return again with a brace of
decanters.
"My uncle’s port and sherry," he said.
Silvette jumped up and found half-a-dozen old-time glasses; and the
luncheon continued.
"Isn’t it ridiculous!" observed the young fellow, glancing around the
studio; "here am I surrounded by a fortune in idiotic antiquities,
lunching from a table that the Metropolitan Museum inherits after my
death, sipping a sherry which came from the cellars of a British
monarch—with two dollars and several cents in my pockets, and not the
slightest idea where to get more.  Isn’t it funny!"
Silvette forced a smile, then glanced significantly at her sister.
Diana said, gravely:
"We have several hundred dollars.  Would you be kind enough to let us
offer you what you require for immediate use until——"
"Why, you blessed child!" he said, laughing, "that isn’t what worries me
now!"
"Then—what is it?" inquired Silvette.
"You and your sister."
"What do you mean, Mr. Edgerton?"
"I mean that I’m worried over your prospects!"
"Why, they are perfectly bright!" exclaimed Diana; "In a few days
somebody will employ us to help entertain a number of stupid and wealthy
people.  We’ll make a great deal of money, I expect; don’t you, Silvie?"
"Certainly; but I’m wondering what Mr. Edgerton is going to do with two
dollars in his pocket and us in his apartment."
"So am I," said Diana.
"It’s perfectly charming of you to care."
"What an odd thing to say to us!  Is it not very natural to care?
Besides your being related, you have also been so considerate and so
nice to us that we’d care anyway, I think. Don’t you, Silvie?"
Silvette nodded her golden-crowned head.
"The thing to do for the present," she said, "is for you to take that
farther room.  It was Diane’s idea, and I entirely agree with her—after
seeing you."
"That was the sudden conclusion of which I spoke to you," explained
Diana.  "Such things come to me instinctively.  I thought to myself, ’If
he mentions the kinship between us, then we’ll ask him to remain.’  And
you did.  And we do ask you; don’t we, Silvie?"
"Certainly.  If two old maids wish to entertain their masculine cousin
for a week or two, whose affair is it?  Let Mrs. Grundy shriek; I don’t
care.  Do you, Diane?"
"No, I don’t.  Besides," she added naïvely, "she’s out of town."
They all laughed.  The germ of a delightful understanding was beginning
to take shape; it had already become nascent and was developing in every
frank smile, every candid glance, every unembarrassed question and
reply.
"We have no parents," said Diana gravely. "You have none, have you?"
"No," he said.
"Then it seems natural to me, our being here together; but"—and Diana
glanced sideways at him—"in the East, I believe, people consider
relationship of little or no importance."
He sipped his sherry, reflecting.
"As a rule," he said; "but"—and he laughed—"if any Easterner even
suspected he had two such California cousins, he’d start for the Pacific
coast without his breakfast!"
"Did you ever hear anything half as amiable?" asked Silvette, laughing.
"I never did," replied Diana; "especially as we’re probably his
twenty-second cousins."
"That distance may lend an enchantment to the obligations of kinship!"
he said gayly.
Diana looked up, grave as a youthful Japanese goddess.
"You don’t mean that, do you?"
"No, I don’t," he said, reddening.  "If I did, the janitor ought to
throw me out."
Silvette nodded seriously.
"We know you said it in joke; but the only straw to float Diane’s idea
is our kinship, Mr. Edgerton.  And we grasped at it—for your sake."
"Please cling to it for your own sakes," too, he said, also very serious
now; "it may become a plank to float us all....  I realize the point you
are straining out of kindness to me.  If I accept shelter here for a day
or two, I shall know very well what it costs you to offer it."
"It doesn’t cost us anything," interrupted Diana hastily.  "Silvette
meant only that you should understand why our consciences and common
sense sanction your remaining if we remain."
"You must remain anyway!" he said.
"So must you, cousin," said Silvette, laughing.  "Anyway, you’ve
probably sent your trunks here—haven’t you?"
"By jinks!  I forgot that!" he exclaimed. "I believe that racket on the
stairs means that my trunks are arriving!"
It did mean exactly that.  And when Edgerton went out to the landing he
encountered two expressmen staggering under the luggage, and, behind
them, the terrified janitor who had returned, and who, on the advent of
the baggage, had hurried upstairs to summarily evict the illegal lodgers
before Edgerton’s arrival.
Now, at sight of Edgerton himself, the Irishman turned white with horror
and clung to the banisters for support; but Edgerton only said
pleasantly: "Hello, Mike!  I hope you’ve made my cousins comfortable.
I’ll be here for a day or two.  Bring up any mail there may be for me,
and see that the landing is properly dusted after this."
He came back to the studio intensely amused.
"I thought that guilty Irishman would faint on the stairs when he saw
me," he said. "I merely said that I hoped he’d looked out for my
cousins’ comfort....  You know," he added laughingly, "I’m anything
except angry at him."
Silvette rose from the table and strolled over toward him.
"Are you really glad to know us?" she asked curiously.  "We’ve heard
that New Yorkers are not celebrated for their enthusiasm over poor
relatives from the outer darkness."
"New Yorkers," he said, "are not different from any other creatures
segregated in a self-imposed and comfortable captivity.  People who have
too much of anything are spoiled to that extent—ignorant to that
degree—selfish and prejudiced according to the term of their
imprisonment.  All over the world it is the same; the placidity of
self-approval and self-absorption is the result of local isolation.
We’re not stupid; we merely have so much to look at that we don’t care
what may take place outside our front gate.  But if anybody opens our
gate and comes in, he’ll have no trouble, because he’ll be as much of a
New Yorker as anybody really is."
Silvette laid her head on one side and, drawing the heavy burnished
braid of hair over her left shoulder, rebraided the end absently.
"Is it," she inquired, "because we are merely attractive that you
mentioned the relationship?"
[Illustration: "’Is it because we are merely attractive that you
mentioned the relationship?’"]
"I’m afraid it’s—partly that," he admitted, reddening and glancing
askance at Diana.
"Stop tormenting him!" said Diana.  "He’s candid, anyhow.  It’s very
fortunate all around, anyway," she added naïvely; though exactly why she
considered it fortunate to meet a man with two dollars in his pocket and
the legal right to evict her, she did not explain to herself.
Silvette, caressing her braid with deft fingers, mused aloud: "It’s very
noble of him to claim relationship with two poverty-stricken old maids
from the Pacific coast.  Don’t you think so, Diane?"  And she glanced up
with a bewitching smile that had in it a glint of malice.
"Stop tormenting him!" repeated Diana. "We’re pretty and young, and he
knows it and we know it.  What’s the use in speculating about what he
might have done if we were not attractive?  He’s perfectly satisfied
with his western cousins—aren’t you?" glancing up.
"Perfectly," he said.
Diana nodded emphatically.
"Do you hear, Silvie?  He says he is perfectly satisfied with us, and he
is a typical New Yorker.  Therefore, we need not be at all disturbed
about our capacity for entertaining anybody, if somebody will only offer
us employment."
Silvette looked around at him.  "I’d like to have you see us in our
afternoon gowns; I believe you’d really be rather proud of the
relationship."
"Good Lord!" he exclaimed, half laughing, half annoyed; "I’m proud of it
anyway. What on earth do you think a New Yorker is?"
"We’ve seen some," said Diana meaningly. "Several came here in answer
to our advertisement.  But we knew, of course, that your type existed,
too."
"Have you been—annoyed?"
Silvette laughed.  "One man, of very red complexion, inquired if Diana
would act as his housekeeper.  He had several country places, he said."
"There was a woman came; we didn’t care for her," added Diana
thoughtfully.  Then, lifting her head, she looked at Edgerton with a
gaze so pure and sweet, so exquisitely candid, that he felt his heart
stop for a moment. Then the blood mounted to his face—to the roots of
his hair.
"Take me into your partnership," he said impulsively; "will you?"
"What!"
"Can you?  Is it all right?"
"I don’t know what you mean!" said Diana.
"Why couldn’t I help entertain week-ends with you?"
The proposition seemed to astound them all, even the young fellow who
had made it.
For a moment they all stood silent; then, pursuing his own impulsive
idea toward a plausible conclusion, he said: "Why not, after all?  It
would make a better combination than two young girls alone.  I’ve
clothes—two trunks in there, two more at the customs—London made and
duty paid! Why not?  It’s a good combination.  The more I think of it
the better I like it!"
He began to pace to and fro nervously.
"I know a lot of people—the right kind. I’m not ashamed to ask them to
employ me. There is no reason why a Tennant or an Edgerton should not be
in their houses——"
"But," said Silvette quietly, "the right sort of people, as you call
them, have no need of asking anybody to aid them in entertaining. It is
very generous of you, Mr. Edgerton, but don’t you see that services of
our kind will be accepted only by—by newcomers, newly wealthy
people—those whose circle is small and not very select."
"Yes, that is so," he said so forlornly that Diana watched him
curiously, and a delicate color came into her cheeks as he looked up
again, eager, radiant.
"That’s true," he repeated; "but if I can’t do anything in that way for
us among the right sort, at least the other kind will have a man to
reckon with"—he glanced at Diana grimly now—"when they inquire about
housekeepers, and when women whom you do not care for reply to your
advertisements."
"That is rather a nice thing to say," observed Silvette, looking at him
out of her dark eyes.  "But we know—a number of things.  We are not a
bit afraid, and—you would not care to—endure the kind of people likely
to employ us."
"I can endure what you can.  I’d like to do it....  Would you rather not
have me?"
"Why, I—it would be delightful—charming—but we had not even dreamed of
such a thing."
He turned to Diana.  "Will you let me try?"
She said, confused: "I hadn’t thought of such a thing....  Could it be
done?"
"Why not?" asked Silvette, immensely interested.  "When people come, we
can say, ’We and our cousin, Mr. Edgerton, are associated as social
entertainers.’"
"Oh, if you put it that way they’ll think he does Punch and Judy and we
dance queer dances!" exclaimed Diana in consternation.
Edgerton threw back his head and laughed, utterly unable to control his
merriment, and Silvette caught the infection, and her clear, delicious
laughter filled the sunny studio.  She showed her white teeth when she
laughed.
"Oh, it is perfectly horrid of me to think of such a thing, but I can’t
help thinking of three trained acrobats," said Silvette, breathless.
"Does it seem funny for three of us to be associated in entertaining
guests?  Does it, Mr. Edgerton?  Or am I only frivolous?"
After their laughter had ceased, and their breath had returned, he said:
"Wherever we go—whoever employs us—the other guests will suppose us to
be guests, too.  Only the guilty millionaire from outer darkness with a
new house on Fifth Avenue and a newer one in the country will know."
Silvette said: "Do you realize that it is perfectly dear of you to
propose such a thing?"
Diana said nothing.
Silvette went on: "I know perfectly well and you know, too—that your
name would be worth almost anything to the wealthy snob who employs us."
Diana said nothing.
"To have an Edgerton as a guest would elevate our prospective employer
to the seventh heaven of snobbery," said Silvette.  "Diane and I would
shine serenely in the reflected relationship——"
"Don’t make fun of me," he said.
"Why, I’m not.  I really mean it.  My instincts have been so warped and
materialized and commercialized that here I am seriously proposing to
make family capital out of the name of one branch of the family.  I
really do mean it, Mr. Edgerton."
"No," said Diana quietly.
He turned toward her.
"Do you vote against me?"
"Yes."
"Don’t, please," he said, looking at her.
She met his eye calmly for a moment, then looked at her sister.
"Do you think it a decent thing to do?" she asked; "our making plans to
live on Mr. Edgerton?"
"Good heavens!" he said impatiently, "my being part of a family
combination isn’t going to alter your success in any way."
"Your name makes it sure."
"Your youth and beauty and good breeding make it sure.  My name has
nothing to do with it."
"Then why do you propose it?"
He laughed.  "Because I’ve got to make a living, too."
"There are less humiliating ways of making a living—for you," said Diana
steadily.
He looked first at Silvette, then at her, deliberately, and his face
altered.
"I want to look out for you," he said, "and that’s the plain truth."
"That," observed Silvette, "is the nicest thing he’s said yet, Diane."
She walked up to him and stood serenely inspecting him.
"I vote for you.  Diane, let’s admit him. We’re a poverty-stricken
family, and we ought to combine.  Besides, I like him to feel the way he
does about us—not that it’s necessary, of course—but it’s—pleasant."
"I haven’t any cash," said Edgerton, "but I’ve this apartment, which
nobody can take away even if I starve; and I’ve some very fine
clothes....  Won’t you vote for me, Diana?" he added so naturally that
neither seemed to notice his use of her first name.
Silvette waited a moment, watching her sister; then she said briskly:
"Let’s dress.  We’ll inspect your beautiful British clothing, cousin,
and you shall see our prettiest afternoon gowns.  Then we can tell
better how such a combination would look.  Shall we?"
Edgerton said to Diana: "Don’t you want me?"
She replied slowly: "I—don’t—know," looked up at him, straight at him,
thoughtfully.
"People may come at any time after two o’clock," said Silvette.  "If
they find you in flowered silk and a butterfly sash and me in a pigtail,
they will certainly expect dances from us and probably Punch and Judy
from our cousin."
She laughed, and extended her hand to Edgerton.
"I like you, cousin; Diane does, too.  When you’re dressed in your best,
come back to the studio and we’ll arrive at some kind of a conclusion."
Diana nodded to him as she passed with her sister.  The questioning
gravity of her expression reminded him of a child who has not yet made
up its mind to like you.  She wore the bluest eyes he had ever seen, and
the most enchanting mouth—the unspoiled mouth of childhood.
When they entered their room he went out by the hallway to his.
Standing there, fumbling with tie and collar, his absent gaze followed
the checkered sun spots moving on the wall as the curtain moved; and,
gradually, there in the half light, the blue eyes seemed to take winsome
shape and hue, and he said aloud to himself:
"Anyway, somebody ought to look after her....  She can’t go roaming
about like this."
                              *CHAPTER IV*
                           *IN LOCO PARENTIS*
Shaved, bathed, and his person adorned with his most fashionable
lounging suit for a summer afternoon, Edgerton sauntered out of his room
and met the maid in the hallway.  She had returned in time to answer the
door; evidently also she had already been enlightened as to his
identity, so he passed her with a nod and a smile, and entered the
studio just as the door bell rang.
Neither Silvette nor Diana had yet appeared, nor had he been instructed
what to say to those who might call in answer to the advertisement.  He
looked up doubtfully as the maid announced a Mr. Rivett and a Colonel
Curmew, and he stepped forward as these two gentlemen were ushered in.
"How d’you do?" he said pleasantly. "My cousins will be in directly.  I
am James Edgerton 3d."
Colonel Curmew, a jaunty gentleman of less than middle height and age,
looked at him out of a pair of eyes slightly inclined to pop.  He
appeared to be rather a good-looking man at first glance, with a
perceptible military cut which, however, seemed to threaten something
akin to a strut.  He didn’t exactly strut when he stepped, but he held
himself very erect—the more so perhaps because he seemed to lack
something else—perhaps height.
He knew Edgerton perfectly well by sight and reputation; and when he sat
down he was still looking at him out of his full, pale eyes.
Mr. Rivett also seated himself—a little man with a walrus mustache who
somehow looked as though, under his loosely cut clothes, his slight
physique was steel framed.
He put on his glasses and looked at Edgerton out of two little unwinking
eyes which reminded the young fellow of holes burned in a blanket.
"I came," he said cautiously, "in answer to a somewhat unusual
advertisement."
"Yes," said Edgerton pleasantly, "we advertised."
"If I recollect," continued Mr. Rivett, "you did not figure in the
advertisement."
"No," replied Edgerton, smiling; "my cousins possess the family talents;
I’m supernumerary—merely thrown in.  My services are not worth very
much; I ride and shoot, of course, and all that, but I don’t talk very
well and my dancing is the limit."
"I see."
Edgerton nodded serenely.
Colonel Curmew passed a carefully gloved hand over his trimly curled
military mustache. Edgerton glanced at him and wondered just what was
the matter with his face, which ought to have been good-looking.
Perhaps the short, closely cropped side whiskers extending to the lobes
of the ears slightly cheapened the mustache, and vulgarized the man a
little.
Colonel Curmew said:
"I have never had the honor of knowing you, Mr. Edgerton, but your name
and face are very familiar to me on Fifth Avenue."
"My people have lived on Fifth Avenue for—some time," replied the young
fellow, smiling; and caught Mr. Rivett’s burnt-brown gaze fixed steadily
upon him.
"Everybody," said Colonel Curmew, sitting very erect, but not exactly
swaggering, "everybody in town regretted to hear of your family’s
financial misfortune, Mr. Edgerton."
"It’s very good of them to regret it.  Naturally, also, that unexpected
catastrophe explains my cousins’ desire for employment as well as my
own."
"I see," said Mr. Rivett, never taking his eyes off Edgerton.
There was a pause; Colonel Curmew stroked his mustache and stared around
at the tapestries and pictures.  He evidently realized what they might
bring at auction.
"You are a lover of the antique, sir," he observed.
"Oh, I don’t exactly love it.  These things belonged to my uncle.  The
museum gets them ultimately."
"Ah! a case of the dead hand?"
"Mort main," nodded the young man indifferently.
"I see," said Mr. Rivett; and suddenly it occurred to Edgerton that this
explanation was, perhaps, one of the unuttered questions with which Mr.
Rivett’s bony countenance seemed crowded.  But the little man had not
yet asked a single one; and it may have been in response to the steady,
silent interrogation of those gimlet eyes that Edgerton was moved to
further explanation.
"My cousins are Californians; I am a New Yorker, as you know.  We have
combined forces from economical and family motives. It is necessary that
we find employment, so—" and he smiled at Mr. Rivett—"we have asked for
it."
Mr. Rivett sat impassive behind his big, round spectacles.  His walrus
mustache prevented anybody from seeing his mouth; his eyes now resembled
two little charred holes. It was utterly impossible to divine what he
might be thinking about, or even whether he was doing anything at all
except waiting. Somehow, it occurred to Edgerton that Mr. Rivett had
done a great deal of waiting in his career.
Colonel Curmew had now risen, and was strolling about examining the
antiquities when the folding doors slid back and Silvette and Diana came
into the studio.
Edgerton rose and presented Mr. Rivett and the colonel; the young girls
spoke to them with quiet self-possession, and presently everybody was
again seated.  Except for the colonel, the attitude of everybody
suggested a business gathering of people pleasantly receptive to any
business proposition, but that jaunty warrior’s pale eyes popped and his
smile was of the sort termed "killing"; and he curled his mustache
continually with caressing fingers, and presently shot his cuffs.
Mr. Rivett broke the silence somewhat abruptly:
"As far as I am concerned, the matter is settled."
There was another silence; then Silvette ventured: "I beg your pardon.
I don’t think we understood."
"I say, as far as I am concerned, the matter is settled," repeated Mr.
Rivett.  "I ask no further information regarding these young ladies
"—turning slightly toward Edgerton—"nor about you, sir.  I am satisfied,
and Mrs. Rivett will be."
Diana and Silvette seemed surprised; Edgerton wore a preoccupied
expression, his eyes narrowing on the big eyeglasses of Mr. Rivett which
reflected the studio window on their convex surface.
"About myself," continued Mr. Rivett with more abruptness, "I have a
house in New York, which is closed, and one or two others; one in
particular where my family is living—my wife, son, and daughter.  It’s
called Adriutha Lodge; I don’t know why—my wife named it.  It’s
comfortable and big enough to entertain in."
He looked at Silvette without a particle of expression in his face.
"I would like you—both of you young ladies—and your cousin, Mr.
Edgerton, to help us entertain.  If we knew how to entertain
successfully we wouldn’t ask anybody to show us how.  It is better to be
plain about it.  We are plain folk from a small town in the West. We
know very few people; we mean to know more.  I’ve come to this city to
remain; I want to make as few mistakes as possible socially.  What I
wish you to do is to help me out.  Will you?"
After a moment Diana asked: "Where is Adriutha Lodge?"
"In the Berkshires.  Will you come?"
She glanced at the colonel, but he was staring so fixedly at her that
she looked away.
"We might consider it," said Silvette, turning toward Edgerton.
"Couldn’t you consider it at once?" asked Mr. Rivett.  Evidently this
little man with his glasses and his protuberant mustache had his own
methods of accelerating business.
"You have mentioned no terms," said Edgerton.
"Oh!  Am I to mention them?  I expected you had your own ideas on that
subject.  Very well, then."  And the offer he made left them silent and
a little shy.  It seemed too much.
Edgerton said laughingly to Diana:
"Suppose we consult in your room—if Mr. Rivett doesn’t mind our
withdrawing for a moment."
"Go ahead," nodded Rivett energetically; "that’s exactly what I
want—quick action.  I like quick results."
So Silvette and Diana and Edgerton rose and entered the room in single
file, closing behind them the folding doors.
"Well!" breathed Diana, sitting down on the edge of the bed, "did you
ever before see a man of that kind?"
Silvette turned to Edgerton.  "What do you think of him, cousin?"
"Why, I rather like that dried-up little chip," he said.  "He’s about
the grade of citizen we expected."
"We?" repeated Diana meaningly; "do you expect to go with us?"
"Are you going to force me out of this perfectly good combination,
Diana?"
The girl sat silent on the bed’s edge regarding him, but not answering.
"There’s one thing which ought to be settled now," observed Silvette;
"if our cousin, Mr. Edgerton, is to remain in this firm, we’ve got to
call him Jim, if only for appearance’ sake.  Otherwise people would
chatter."
"Jim?" repeated Diana; "very well, it doesn’t embarrass me to call him
Jim—or Tom or Bill, for that matter," she added indifferently.
"It doesn’t worry me, either," said Edgerton; "call me anything but
early."
"Such a poor joke!" said Silvette; "if we ever call you, cousin, it will
be a very late affair—and with nothing under a full house."
"Poker!—and you!  What an incredible combination!" he said.
Diana interrupted coolly: "If you please, Mr. Edgerton, what is your
valuable and masculine opinion concerning this munificent offer for the
summer?"  And she let her glance rest slowly and sideways on her sister.
"Take it," he said; "it’s a good offer."
"Is that your vote?" inquired Silvette.
"Have I a vote?" he asked of Diana; but she merely said: "I say we try
the Rivetts of Adriutha.  That is my vote."
"Then—so do I say so," nodded Silvette. "Is it settled?"
Diana looked up at Edgerton.
"Are you really expecting to come with us?"
"If you will let me."
She remained a moment in thought, then sprang lightly to her feet.
"Who is going to be our spokesman?" she asked; "you, sister?"
"Jim," said Silvette, tranquilly leading the way.  "It looks better, I
think."
So Edgerton politely informed Mr. Rivett of their unanimous decision,
and that little man got briskly to his feet.
"I’m satisfied," he said.  "Come to Adriutha as soon as you are ready.
Bring all the luggage you want to bring; there’s plenty of room.
Don’t bring any servants; there are more than enough there now.  My
wife and I receive you as guests; my son and daughter are about your
ages; nobody can prophesy what you’ll think of them or they of you....
Colonel—if you are ready....  Good-by, ma’am," to Silvette, offering a
dry little hand; and he took his leave of Diana and of Edgerton, and
pulled the colonel unceremoniously out of a most elegant attitude,
ruining a jaunty bow which he had not intended to finish so abruptly.
"Well," exclaimed Silvette with a sigh and a laugh as the door closed,
"it’s settled!  Let’s forget it....  What do you think of our gowns,
cousin James?"
"Corking," he replied; "but my cousin Diana was very fetching in her
Japanese dress this morning."
"That’s like a man!" observed Diana.  "I was a mess, Silvie—with two
ragged peonies over my ears and those old straw sandals of yours——"
"You were a vision of Japanese fairyland," he insisted.  "I may be
weak-minded, but I simply cannot get that vision of you out of my head."
"Try some tea," as the maid brought it; "weak tea and feeble intellects
agree."
"Oh, I’ll try tea or anything else, but if you think I’m likely to
forget the first moment I ever saw you—a slender, Japanese shadow shape
against the sun!—ethereal, vaguely tinted, exquisite——"
"You are a poet, Jim," said Silvette admiringly.  "I read one of your
rhymes in Life once, and didn’t think so."
"Diana made me a poet.  If you’d seen her as she came stealing across
the window, which was all glittering like a Japanese sunburst, you’d
have become a poet, too!"  He began to laugh.  "I even created a name
for you, Diana; it came to me—was already on my lips——"
"What name?" she asked, looking composedly at him.
"Japonette! ... I never before heard such a name.  I don’t believe
there ever was such a name before it suddenly twitched at my lips for
utterance!  Japonette!"
"Why didn’t you utter it if you were so enchanted with your discovery?"
"Because you seemed to be sufficiently scared as it was."
She shrugged, and handed him his tea. "Japonette," she repeated
reflectively; "I don’t know whether or not I care for it.  It sounds
frivolous."
"Which you are not!"
She lifted her blue eyes to his.
"You think I am," she said.
"No, I don’t."
"You know I am," she said, and presented herself with a small tea
cake.  Into it she bit once; then raised her eyes, watching her sister
manipulating the alcohol lamp.
"Do you suppose," she said, "that we’ll ever have the slightest personal
interest in these Rivett people?"
"Probably not," said her sister.  "What of it?  I wonder whether that
colonel is likely to figure as a guest."
Diana shrugged again.  "Figure!  He seems to be all figure.  I thought
him rather odious."
"Did you?  He seemed anxious to be agreeable. Who is he, cousin Jim?"
"I don’t know....  Perhaps I may have heard of him—a militia colonel of
some kind, I don’t remember.  He’s probably a decent sort; I rather like
him."
"I wonder," said Diana reflectively, "whether you are anything of a
snob?"
Edgerton reddened, then sat still looking at her.
"I was going to resent that," he said after a moment, "but I can’t;
because what you just said set me thinking."
"Are you unaccustomed to thinking?" she asked too innocently; and he
reddened again.
"Stop tormenting him," said Silvette, pouring herself more tea.  "You’re
a tease, Diane."
"You both seem a little in that way," he suggested; "you jeer at me and
then look pained, and tell each other to stop."
"We’re too intelligent," said Silvette calmly; "that’s the trouble with
us; and when, by degrees, we add a little more experience to our
intelligence we’ll be either exceedingly unpopular or—successfully
married."
"Why those terrible alternatives?" he asked, laughing.
"Because the man who is able to endure us will probably be worth the
bother of marrying—when we’ve finished dissecting him. We don’t know
just how to dissect men yet, but we’re rapidly learning.  It’s only a
matter of practice and experience."
He laughed again, and so did Silvette, but Diana scarcely smiled, lying
back in her velvet armchair and watching Edgerton and her sister
alternately with grave, incurious eyes.
"How old are you, anyway?" he said, looking straight at her.
"Twenty-seven," she answered calmly. "Don’t jump, please."
"What!" he exclaimed incredulously.
"I look about nineteen, don’t I?"
"Certainly you do—about eighteen!"
"Well, I am twenty-seven; Silvette is twenty-five.  Don’t bother with
compliments."
"Good Lord!  Are you the elder?"
"Tread lightly there," cautioned Silvette, amused, "or you’ll presently
involve yourself with two indignant spinsters.  You’ve behaved very
cleverly.  Let well enough alone."
"If you hadn’t told me," he began, astonished, "I’d have taken Silvette
for nineteen and you for eighteen.  I—well, I simply can’t realize it."
