“A service to you? He’ll be very obliging,” his lordship smiled.

“Well, I’ve obliged him!” Hugh readily retorted.

“The obligation will be to we”--Lord Theign spoke more formally.

“Well, the satisfaction,” said Hugh, “will be to all of us. The things
Pappendick has seen he intensely, ineffaceably keeps in mind, to every
detail; so that he’ll tell me--as no one else really can--if the Verona
man is your man.”

“But then,” asked Mr. Bender, “we’ve got to believe anyway what he
says?”

“The market,” said Lord John with emphasis, “would have to believe
it--that’s the point.”

“Oh,” Hugh returned lightly, “the market will have nothing to do with
it, I hope; but I think you’ll feel when he has spoken that you really
know where you are.”

Mr. Bender couldn’t doubt of that. “Oh, if he gives us a bigger thing we
won’t complain. Only, how long will it take him to get there? I want him
to start right away.”

“Well, as I’m sure he’ll be deeply interested----”

“We may”--Mr. Bender took it straight up--“get news next week?”

Hugh addressed his reply to Lord Theign; it was already a little too
much as if he and the American between them were snatching the case from
that possessor’s hands. “The day I hear from Pappendick you shall have a
full report. And,” he conscientiously added, “if I’m proved to have been
unfortunately wrong----!”

His lordship easily pointed the moral. “You’ll have caused me some
inconvenience.”

“Of course I shall,” the young man unreservedly agreed--“like a wanton
meddling ass!” His candour, his freedom had decidedly a note of their
own. “But my conviction, after those moments with your picture, was too
strong for me not to speak--and, since you allow it, I face the danger
and risk the test.”

“I allow it of course in the form of business.” This produced in Hugh a
certain blankness. “‘Business’?” “If I consent to the inquiry I pay for
the inquiry.” Hugh demurred. “Even if I turn out mistaken?” “You make me
in any event your proper charge.” The young man thought again, and then
as for vague accommodation: “Oh, my charge won’t be high!”

“Ah,” Mr. Bender protested, “it ought to be handsome if the thing’s
marked up!” After which he looked at his watch. “But I guess I’ve got
to go, Lord Theign, though your lovely old Duchess--for it’s to her
I’ve lost my heart--does cry out for me again.”

“You’ll find her then still there,” Lord John observed with emphasis,
but with his eyes for the time on Lord Theign; “and if you want another
look at her I’ll presently come and take one too.”

“I’ll order your car to the garden-front,” Lord Theign added to this;
“you’ll reach it from the saloon, but I’ll see you again first.”

Mr. Bender glared as with the round full force of his pair of motor
lamps. “Well, if you’re ready to talk about anything, I am. Good-bye,
Mr. Crimble.”

“Good-bye, Mr. Bender.” But Hugh, addressing their host while his
fellow-guest returned to the saloon, broke into the familiarity of
confidence. “As if you could be ready to ‘talk’!”

This produced on the part of the others present a mute exchange that
could only have denoted surprise at all the irrepressible young outsider
thus projected upon them took for granted. “I’ve an idea,” said Lord
John to his friend, “that you’re quite ready to talk with me.”

Hugh then, with his appetite so richly quickened, could but rejoice.
“Lady Grace spoke to me of things in the library.”

“You’ll find it that way”--Lord Theign gave the indication.

“Thanks,” said Hugh elatedly, and hastened away.

Lord John, when he had gone, found relief in a quick comment. “Very
sharp, no doubt--but he wants taking down.”

The master of Dedborough wouldn’t have put it so crudely, but the young
expert did bring certain things home. “The people my daughters, in the
exercise of a wild freedom, do pick up----!”

“Well, don’t you see that all you’ve got to do--on the question we’re
dealing with--is to claim your very own wild freedom? Surely I’m right
in feeling you,” Lord John further remarked, “to have jumped at once
to my idea that Bender is heaven-sent--and at what they call the
psychologic moment, don’t they?--to point that moral. Why look anywhere
else for a sum of money that--smaller or greater--you can find with
perfect ease in that extraordinarily bulging pocket?”

Lord Theign, slowly pacing the hall again, threw up his hands. “Ah, with
‘perfect ease’ can scarcely be said!”

“Why not?--when he absolutely thrusts his dirty dollars down your
throat.”

“Oh, I’m not talking of ease to him,” Lord Theign returned--“I’m
talking of ease to myself. I shall have to make a sacrifice.”

“Why not then--for so great a convenience--gallantly make it?”

“Ah, my dear chap, if you want me to sell my Sir Joshua----!”

But the horror in the words said enough, and Lord John felt its chill.
“I don’t make a point of that--God forbid! But there are other things to
which the objection wouldn’t apply.”

“You see how it applies--in the case of the Moret-to--for him. A mere
Moretto,” said Lord Theign, “is too cheap--for a Yankee ‘on the spend.’”

“Then the Mantovano wouldn’t be.”

“It remains to be proved that it is a Mantovano.”

“Well,” said Lord John, “go into it.”

“Hanged if I won’t!” his friend broke out after a moment. “It would
suit me. I mean”--the explanation came after a brief intensity of
thought--“the possible size of his cheque would.”

“Oh,” said Lord John gaily, “I guess there’s no limit to the possible
size of his cheque!”

“Yes, it would suit me, it would suit me!” the elder man, standing
there, audibly mused. But his air changed and a lighter question came
up to him as he saw his daughter reappear at the door from the terrace.
“Well, the infant horde?” he immediately put to her.

Lady Grace came in, dutifully accounting for them. “They’ve marched
off--in a huge procession.”

“Thank goodness! And our friends?”

“All playing tennis,” she said--“save those who are sitting it out.” To
which she added, as to explain her return: “Mr. Crimble has gone?”

Lord John took upon him to say. “He’s in the library, to which you
addressed him--making discoveries.”

“Not then, I hope,” she smiled, “to our disadvantage!”

“To your very great honour and glory.” Lord John clearly valued the
effect he might produce.

“Your Moretto of Brescia--do you know what it really and spendidly
is?” And then as the girl, in her surprise, but wondered: “A Mantovano,
neither more nor less. Ever so much more swagger.”

“A Mantovano?” Lady Grace echoed. “Why, how tremendously jolly!”

Her father was struck. “Do you know the artist--of whom I had never
heard?”

“Yes, something of the little that is known.” And she rejoiced as her
knowledge came to her. “He’s a tremendous swell, because, great as he
was, there are but seven proved examples----”

“With this of yours,” Lord John broke in, “there are eight.”

“Then why haven’t I known about him?” Lord Theign put it as if so many
other people were guilty for this.

His daughter was the first to plead for the vague body. “Why, I suppose
in order that you should have exactly this pleasure, father.”

“Oh, pleasures not desired are like acquaintances not sought--they
rather bore one!” Lord Theign sighed. With which he moved away from her.

Her eyes followed him an instant--then she smiled at their guest. “Is he
bored at having the higher prize--if you’re sure it is the higher?”

“Mr. Crimble is sure--because if he isn’t,” Lord John added, “he’s a
wretch.”

“Well,” she returned, “as he’s certainly not a wretch it must be true.
And fancy,” she exclaimed further, though as more particularly for
herself, “our having suddenly incurred this immense debt to him!”

“Oh, I shall pay Mr. Crimble!” said her father, who had turned round.

The whole question appeared to have provoked in Lord John a rise of
spirits and a flush of humour. “Don’t you let him stick it on.”

His host, however, bethinking himself, checked him. “Go you to Mr.
Bender straight!”

Lord John saw the point. “Yes--till he leaves. But I shall find you
here, shan’t I?” he asked with all earnestness of Lady Grace.

She had an hesitation, but after a look at her father she assented.
“I’ll wait for you.”

“Then à tantôt!” It made him show for happy as, waving his hand at
her, he proceeded to seek Mr. Bender in presence of the object that most
excited that gentleman’s appetite--to say nothing of the effect involved
on Lord John’s own.




IX

Lord Theign, when he had gone, revolved--it might have been
nervously--about the place a little, but soon broke ground. “He’ll have
told you, I understand, that I’ve promised to speak to you for him. But
I understand also that he has found something to say for himself.”

“Yes, we talked--a while since,” the girl said. “At least he did.”

“Then if you listened I hope you listened with a good grace.”

“Oh, he speaks very well--and I’ve never disliked him.”

It pulled her father up. “Is that all--when I think so much of him?”

She seemed to say that she had, to her own mind, been liberal and gone
far; but she waited a little. “Do you think very, very much?”

“Surely I’ve made my good opinion clear to you!”

Again she had a pause. “Oh yes, I’ve seen you like him and believe in
him--and I’ve found him pleasant and clever.”

“He has never had,” Lord Theign more or less ingeniously explained,
“what I call a real show.” But the character under discussion could
after all be summed up without searching analysis. “I consider
nevertheless that there’s plenty in him.”

It was a moderate claim, to which Lady Grace might assent. “He strikes
me as naturally quick and--well, nice. But I agree with you than he
hasn’t had a chance.”

“Then if you can see your way by sympathy and confidence to help him to
one I dare say you’ll find your reward.”

For a third time she considered, as if a certain curtness in her
companion’s manner rather hindered, in such a question, than helped.
Didn’t he simplify too much, you would have felt her ask, and wasn’t
his visible wish for brevity of debate a sign of his uncomfortable and
indeed rather irritated sense of his not making a figure in it? “Do you
desire it very particularly?” was, however, all she at last brought out.

“I should like it exceedingly--if you act from conviction. Then of
course only; but of one thing I’m myself convinced--of what he thinks of
yourself and feels for you.”

“Then would you mind my waiting a little?” she asked. “I mean to be
absolutely sure of myself.” After which, on his delaying to agree, she
added frankly, as to help her case: “Upon my word, father, I should like
to do what would please you.”

But it determined in him a sharper impatience. “Ah, what would please
me! Don’t put it off on ‘me’! Judge absolutely for yourself”--he
slightly took himself up--“in the light of my having consented to do for
him what I always hate to do: deviate from my normal practice of never
intermeddling. If I’ve deviated now you can judge. But to do so all
round, of course, take--in reason!--your time.”

“May I ask then,” she said, “for still a little more?”

He looked for this, verily, as if it was not in reason. “You know,” he
then returned, “what he’ll feel that a sign of.”

“Well, I’ll tell him what I mean.”

“Then I’ll send him to you.”

He glanced at his watch and was going, but after a “Thanks, father,” she
had stopped him. “There’s one thing more.” An embarrassment showed in
her manner, but at the cost of some effect of earnest abruptness she
surmounted it. “What does your American--Mr. Bender--want?”

Lord Theign plainly felt the challenge. “‘My’ American? He’s none of
mine!”

“Well then Lord John’s.”

“He’s none of his either--more, I mean, than any one else’s. He’s every
one’s American, literally--to all appearance; and I’ve not to tell
you, surely, with the freedom of your own visitors, how people stalk
in and out here.”

“No, father--certainly,” she said. “You’re splendidly generous.”

His eyes seemed rather sharply to ask her then how he could improve on
that; but he added as if it were enough: “What the man must by this time
want more than anything else is his car.”

“Not then anything of ours?” she still insisted.

“Of ‘ours’?” he echoed with a frown. “Are you afraid he has an eye to
something of yours?”

“Why, if we’ve a new treasure--which we certainly have if we possess
a Mantovano--haven’t we all, even I, an immense interest in it?” And
before he could answer, “Is that exposed?” she asked.

Lord Theign, a little unready, cast about at his storied halls; any
illusion to the “exposure” of the objects they so solidly sheltered was
obviously unpleasant to him. But then it was as if he found at a
stroke both his own reassurance and his daughter’s. “How can there be a
question of it when he only wants Sir Joshuas?”

“He wants ours?” the girl gasped.

“At absolutely any price.”

“But you’re not,” she cried, “discussing it?”

He hesitated as between chiding and contenting her--then he handsomely
chose. “My dear child, for what do you take me?” With which he
impatiently started, through the long and stately perspective, for the
saloon.

She sank into a chair when he had gone; she sat there some moments in a
visible tension of thought, her hands clasped in her lap and her dropped
eyes fixed and unperceiving; but she sprang up as Hugh Crimble, in
search of her, again stood before her. He presented himself as with
winged sandals.

“What luck to find you! I must take my spin back.”

“You’ve seen everything as you wished?”

“Oh,” he smiled, “I’ve seen wonders.”

She showed her pleasure. “Yes, we’ve got some things.”

“So Mr. Bender says!” he laughed. “You’ve got five or six--”

“Only five or six?” she cried in bright alarm.

“‘Only’?” he continued to laugh. “Why, that’s enormous, five or six
things of the first importance! But I think I ought to mention to you,”
 he added, “a most barefaced ‘Rubens’ there in the library.”

“It isn’t a Rubens?”

“No more than I’m a Ruskin.”

“Then you’ll brand us--expose us for it?”

“No, I’ll let you off--I’ll be quiet if you’re good, if you go straight.
I’ll only hold it in terrorem. One can’t be sure in these dreadful
days--that’s always to remember; so that if you’re not good I’ll come
down on you with it. But to balance against that threat,” he went on,
“I’ve made the very grandest find. At least I believe I have!”

She was all there for this news. “Of the Manto-vano--hidden in the other
thing?”

Hugh wondered--almost as if she had been before him. “You don’t mean to
say you’ve had the idea of that?”

“No, but my father has told me.”

“And is your father,” he eagerly asked, “really gratified?”

With her conscious eyes on him--her eyes could clearly be very conscious
about her father--she considered a moment. “He always prefers old
associations and appearances to new; but I’m sure he’ll resign himself
if you see your way to a certainty.”

“Well, it will be a question of the weight of expert opinion that I
shall invoke. But I’m not afraid,” he resolutely said, “and I shall
make the thing, from its splendid rarity, the crown and flower of your
glory.”

Her serious face shone at him with a charmed gratitude. “It’s awfully
beautiful then your having come to us so. It’s awfully beautiful your
having brought us this way, in a flash--as dropping out of a chariot
of fire--more light and what you apparently feel with myself as more
honour.”

“Ah, the beauty’s in your having yourself done it!” he returned. He
gave way to the positive joy of it. “If I’ve brought the ‘light’ and the
rest--that’s to say the very useful information--who in the world was it
brought me?”

She had a gesture of protest “You’d have come in some other way.”

“I’m not so sure! I’m beastly shy--little as I may seem to show it: save
in great causes, when I’m horridly bold and hideously offensive. Now
at any rate I only know what has been.” She turned off for it, moving
away from him as with a sense of mingled things that made for unrest;
and he had the next moment grown graver under the impression. “But does
anything in it all,” he asked, “trouble you?”

She faced about across the wider space, and there was a different note
in what she brought out. “I don’t know what forces me so to tell you
things.”

“‘Tell’ me?” he stared. “Why, you’ve told me nothing more monstrous than
that I’ve been welcome!”

“Well, however that may be, what did you mean just now by the chance of
our not ‘going straight’? When you said you’d expose our bad--or is it
our false?--Rubens in the event of a certain danger.”

“Oh, in the event of your ever being bribed”--he laughed again as with
relief. And then as her face seemed to challenge the word: “Why, to let
anything--of your best!--ever leave Dedborough. By which I mean really
of course leave the country.” She turned again on this, and something
in her air made him wonder. “I hope you don’t feel there is such a
danger? I understood from you half an hour ago that it was unthinkable.”

“Well, it was, to me, half an hour ago,” she said as she came nearer.
“But if it has since come up?”

“‘If’ it has! But has it? In the form of that monster? What Mr. Bender
wants is the great Duchess,” he recalled.

“And my father won’t sell her? No, he won’t sell the great
Duchess--there I feel safe. But he greatly needs a certain sum of
money--or he thinks he does--and I’ve just had a talk with him.”

“In which he has told you that?”

“He has told me nothing,” Lady Grace said--“or else told me quite other
things. But the more I think of them the more it comes to me that he
feels urged or tempted--”

“To despoil and denude these walls?” Hugh broke in, looking about in his
sharper apprehension.

“Yes, to satisfy, to save my sister. Now do you think our state so
ideal?” she asked--but without elation for her hint of triumph.

He had no answer for this save “Ah, but you terribly interest me. May I
ask what’s the matter with your sister?”

Oh, she wanted to go on straight now! “The matter is--in the first
place--that she’s too dazzlingly, dreadfully beautiful.”

“More beautiful than you?” his sincerity easily risked.

“Millions of times.” Sad, almost sombre, she hadn’t a shade of coquetry.
“Kitty has debts--great heaped-up gaming debts.”

“But to such amounts?”

“Incredible amounts it appears. And mountains of others too. She throws
herself all on our father.”

“And he has to pay them? There’s no one else?” Hugh asked.

She waited as if he might answer himself, and then as he apparently
didn’t, “He’s only afraid there may be some else--that’s how she makes
him do it,” she said. And “Now do you think,” she pursued, “that I don’t
tell you things?”

He turned them over in his young perception and pity, the things she
told him. “Oh, oh, oh!” And then, in the great place, while as, just
spent by the effort of her disclosure, she moved from him again, he
took them all in. “That’s the situation that, as you say, may force his
hand.”

“It absolutely, I feel, does force it.” And the renewal of her appeal
brought her round. “Isn’t it too lovely?”

His frank disgust answered. “It’s too damnable!”

“And it’s you,” she quite terribly smiled, “who--by the ‘irony of
fate’!--have given him help.”

He smote his head in the light of it. “By the Mantovano?”

“By the possible Mantovano--as a substitute for the impossible Sir
Joshua. You’ve made him aware of a value.”

“Ah, but the value’s to be fixed!”

“Then Mr. Bender will fix it!”

“Oh, but--as he himself would say--I’ll fix Mr. Bender!” Hugh declared.
“And he won’t buy a pig in a poke.”

This cleared the air while they looked at each other; yet she had
already asked: “What in the world can you do, and how in the world can
you do it?”

Well, he was too excited for decision. “I don’t quite see now, but give
me time.” And he took out his watch as already to measure it. “Oughtn’t
I before I go to say a word to Lord Theign?”

“Is it your idea to become a lion in his path?”

“Well, say a cub--as that’s what I’m afraid he’ll call me! But I think I
should speak to him.”

She drew a conclusion momentarily dark. “He’ll have to learn in that
case that I’ve told you of my fear.”

“And is there any good reason why he shouldn’t?”

She kept her eyes on him and the darkness seemed to clear. “No!” she at
last replied, and, having gone to touch an electric bell, was with him
again. “But I think I’m rather sorry for you.”

“Does that represent a reason why I should be so for you?”

For a little she said nothing; but after that: “None whatever!”

“Then is the sister of whom you speak Lady Imber?”

Lady Grace, at this, raised her hand in caution: the butler had arrived,
with due gravity, in answer to her ring; to whom she made known her
desire. “Please say to his lordship--in the saloon or wherever--that
Mr. Crimble must go.” When Banks had departed, however, accepting the
responsibility of this mission, she answered her friend’s question. “The
sister of whom I speak is Lady Imber.”

“She loses then so heavily at bridge?”

“She loses more than she wins.”

Hugh gazed as with interest at these oddities of the great. “And yet she
still plays?”

“What else, in her set, should she do?”

This he was quite unable to say; but he could after a moment’s
exhibition of the extent to which he was out of it put a question
instead. “So you’re not in her set?”

“I’m not in her set.”

“Then decidedly,” he said, “I don’t want to save her. I only want--”

He was going on, but she broke in: “I know what you want!”

He kept his eyes on her till he had made sure--and this deep exchange
between them had a beauty. “So you’re now with me?”

“I’m now with you!”

“Then,” said Hugh, “shake hands on it”

He offered her his hand, she took it, and their grasp became, as you
would have seen in their fine young faces, a pledge in which they stood
a minute locked. Lord Theign came upon them from the saloon in the midst
of the process; on which they separated as with an air of its having
consisted but of Hugh’s leave-taking. With some such form of mere
civility, at any rate, he appeared, by the manner in which he addressed
himself to Hugh, to have supposed them occupied.

“I’m sorry my daughter can’t keep you; but I must at least thank you for
your interesting view of my picture.”

Hugh indulged in a brief and mute, though very grave, acknowledgment of
this expression; presently speaking, however, as on a resolve taken with
a sense of possibly awkward consequences: “May I--before you’re sure of
your indebtedness--put you rather a straight question, Lord Theign?” It
sounded doubtless, and of a sudden, a little portentous--as was in fact
testified to by his lordship’s quick stiff stare, full of wonder at
so free a note. But Hugh had the courage of his undertaking. “If I
contribute in ny modest degree to establishing the true authorship of
the work you speak of, may I have from you an assurance that my success
isn’t to serve as a basis for any peril--or possibility--of its leaving
the country?”

Lord Theign was visibly astonished, but had also, independently of this,
turned a shade pale. “You ask of me an ‘assurance’?”

Hugh had now, with his firmness and his strained smile, quite the look
of having counted the cost of his step. “I’m afraid I must, you see.”

It pressed at once in his host the spring of a very grand manner. “And
pray by what right here do you do anything of the sort?”

“By the right of a person from whom you, on your side, are accepting a
service.”

Hugh had clearly determined in his opponent a rise of what is called
spirit. “A service that you half an hour ago thrust on me, sir--and
with which you may take it from me that I’m already quite prepared to
dispense.”

“I’m sorry to appear indiscreet,” our young man returned; “I’m sorry to
have upset you in any way. But I can’t overcome my anxiety--”

Lord Theign took the words from his lips. “And you therefore invite
me--at the end of half an hour in this house!--to account to you for my
personal intentions and my private affairs and make over my freedom to
your hands?”

Hugh stood there with his eyes on the black and white pavement that
stretched about him--the great loz-enged marble floor that might have
figured that ground of his own vision which he had made up his mind to
“stand.” “I can only see the matter as I see it, and I should be ashamed
not to have seized any chance to appeal to you.” Whatever difficulty he
had had shyly to face didn’t exist for him now. “I entreat you to think
again, to think well, before you deprive us of such a source of just
envy.”

“And you regard your entreaty as helped,” Lord Theign asked, “by the
beautiful threat you are so good as to attach to it?” Then as his
monitor, arrested, exchanged a searching look with Lady Grace, who,
showing in her face all the pain of the business, stood off at the
distance to which a woman instinctively retreats when a scene turns to
violence as precipitately as this one appeared to strike her as having
turned: “I ask you that not less than I should like to know whom you
speak of as ‘deprived’ of property that happens--for reasons that I
don’t suppose you also quarrel with!--to be mine.”

“Well, I know nothing about threats, Lord Theign,” Hugh said, “but I
speak of all of us--of all the people of England; who would deeply
deplore such an act of alienation, and whom, for the interest they bear
you, I beseech you mercifully to consider.”

“The interest they bear me?”--the master of Dedborough fairly bristled
with wonder. “Pray how the devil do they show it?”

“I think they show it in all sorts of ways”--and Hugh’s critical smile,
at almost any moment hovering, played over the question in a manner
seeming to convey that he meant many things.

“Understand then, please,” said Lord Theign with every inch of his
authority, “that they’ll show it best by minding their own business
while I very particularly mind mine.”

“You simply do, in other words,” Hugh explicitly concluded, “what
happens to be convenient to you.”

“In very distinct preference to what happens to be convenient to you!
So that I need no longer detain you,” Lord Theign added with the last
dryness and as if to wind up their brief and thankless connection.

The young man took his dismissal, being able to do no less, while,
unsatisfied and unhappy, he looked about mechanically for the
cycling-cap he had laid down somewhere in the hall on his arrival.
“I apologise, my lord, if I seem to you to have ill repaid your
hospitality. But,” he went on with his uncommended cheer, “my interest
in your picture remains.”

Lady Grace, who had stopped and strayed and stopped again as a mere
watchful witness, drew nearer hereupon, breaking her silence for the
first time. “And please let me say, father, that mine also grows and
grows.”

It was obvious that this parent, surprised and disconcerted by her tone,
judged her contribution superfluous. “I’m happy to hear it, Grace--but
yours is another affair.”

“I think on the contrary that it’s quite the same one,” she
returned--“since it’s on my hint to him that Mr. Crimble has said to
you what he has.” The resolution she had gathered while she awaited her
chance sat in her charming eyes, which met, as she spoke, the straighter
paternal glare. “I let him know that I supposed you to think of
profiting by the importance of Mr. Bender’s visit.”

“Then you might have spared, my dear, your--I suppose and hope
well-meant--interpretation of my mind.” Lord Theign showed himself at
this point master of the beautiful art of righting himself as without
having been in the wrong. “Mr. Bender’s visit will terminate--as soon
as he has released Lord John--without my having profited in the smallest
particular.”

Hugh meanwhile evidently but wanted to speak for his friend. “It was
Lady Grace’s anxious inference, she will doubtless let me say for her,
that my idea about the Moretto would add to your power--well,” he pushed
on not without awkwardness, “of ‘realising’ advantageously on such a
prospective rise.”

Lord Theign glanced at him as for positively the last time, but spoke to
Lady Grace. “Understand then, please, that, as I detach myself from any
association with this gentleman’s ideas--whether about the Moretto or
about anything else--his further application of them ceases from this
moment to concern us.”

The girl’s rejoinder was to address herself directly to Hugh, across
their companion. “Will you make your inquiry for me then?”

The light again kindled in him. “With all the pleasure in life!” He
had found his cap and, taking them together, bowed to the two, for
departure, with high emphasis of form. Then he marched off in the
direction from which he had entered.

Lord Theign scarce waited for his disappearance to turn in wrath to
Lady Grace. “I denounce the indecency, wretched child, of your public
defiance of me!”

They were separated by a wide interval now, and though at her distance
she met his reproof so unshrinkingly as perhaps to justify the terms
into which it had broken, she became aware of a reason for his not
following it up. She pronounced in quick warning “Lord John!”--for
their friend, released from among the pictures, was rejoining them, was
already there.

He spoke straight to his host on coming into sight. “Bender’s at last
off, but”--he indicated the direction of the garden front--“you may
still find him, out yonder, prolonging the agony with Lady Sand-gate.”

Lord Theign remained a moment, and the heat of his resentment remained.
He looked with a divided discretion, the pain of his indecision, from
his daughter’s suitor and his approved candidate to that contumacious
young woman and back again; then choosing his course in silence he had
a gesture of almost desperate indifference and passed quickly out by the
door to the terrace.

It had left Lord John gaping. “What on earth’s the matter with your
father?”

“What on earth indeed?” Lady Grace unaidingly asked. “Is he discussing
with that awful man?”

“Old Bender? Do you think him so awful?” Lord John showed
surprise--which might indeed have passed for harmless amusement; but he
shook everything off in view of a nearer interest. He quite waved old
Bender away. “My dear girl, what do we care--?”

“I care immensely, I assure you,” she interrupted, “and I ask of you,
please, to tell me!”

Her perversity, coming straight and which he had so little expected,
threw him back so that he looked at her with sombre eyes. “Ah, it’s not
for such a matter I’m here, Lady Grace--I’m here with that fond question
of my own.” And then as she turned away, leaving him with a vehement
motion of protest: “I’ve come for your kind answer--the answer your
father instructed me to count on.”

“I’ve no kind answer to give you!”--she raised forbidding hands. “I
entreat you to leave me alone.”

There was so high a spirit and so strong a force in it that he stared as
if stricken by violence. “In God’s name then what has happened--when you
almost gave me your word?”

“What has happened is that I’ve found it impossible to listen to you.”
 And she moved as if fleeing she scarce knew whither before him.

He had already hastened around another way, however, as to meet her in
her quick circuit of the hall. “That’s all you’ve got to say to me after
what has passed between us?”

He had stopped her thus, but she had also stopped him, and her
passionate denial set him a limit. “I’ve got to say--sorry as I am--that
if you must have an answer it’s this: that never, Lord John, never,
can there be anything more between us.” And her gesture cleared her
path, permitting her to achieve her flight. “Never, no, never,” she
repeated as she went--“never, never, never!” She got off by the door at
which she had been aiming to some retreat of her own, while aghast and
defeated, left to make the best of it, he sank after a moment into a
chair and remained quite pitiably staring before him, appealing to the
great blank splendour.




BOOK SECOND




I

LADY SANDGATE, on a morning late in May, entered her drawing-room by
the door that opened at the right of that charming retreat as a person
coming in faced Bruton Street; and she met there at this moment Mr.
Gotch, her butler, who had just appeared in the much wider doorway
forming opposite the Bruton Street windows an apartment not less ample,
lighted from the back of the house and having its independent connection
with the upper floors and the lower. She showed surprise at not
immediately finding the visitor to whom she had been called.

“But Mr. Crimble------?”

“Here he is, my lady.” And he made way for that gentleman, who
emerged from the back room; Gotch observing the propriety of a prompt
withdrawal.

“I went in for a minute, with your servant’s permission,” Hugh
explained, “to see your famous Lawrence--which is splendid; he was so
good as to arrange the light.” The young man’s dress was of a form less
relaxed than on the occasion of his visit to Dedborough; yet the soft
felt hat that he rather restlessly crumpled as he talked marked the
limit of his sacrifice to vain appearances.

Lady Sandgate was at once interested in the punctuality of his reported
act. “Gotch thinks as much of my grandmother as I do--and even seems to
have ended by taking her for his very own.”

“One sees, unmistakably, from her beauty, that you at any rate are of
her line,” Hugh allowed himself, not without confidence, the amusement
of replying; “and I must make sure of another look at her when I’ve a
good deal more time.”

His hostess heard him as with a lapse of hope. “You hadn’t then come
for the poor dear?” And then as he obviously hadn’t, but for something
quite else: “I thought, from so prompt an interest, that she might be
coveted--!” It dropped with a yearning sigh.

“You imagined me sent by some prowling collector?” Hugh asked. “Ah, I
shall never do their work--unless to betray them: that I shouldn’t in
the least mind!--and I’m here, frankly, at this early hour, to ask your
consent to my seeing Lady Grace a moment on a particular business, if
she can kindly give me time.”

“You’ve known then of her being with me?”

“I’ve known of her coming to you straight on leaving Dedborough,”
 he explained; “of her wishing not to go to her sister’s, and of Lord
Theign’s having proceeded, as they say, or being on the point of
proceeding, to some foreign part.”

“And you’ve learnt it from having seen her--these three or four weeks?”

“I’ve met her--but just barely--two or three times: at a ‘private view’
at the opera, in the lobby, and that sort of thing. But she hasn’t told
you?”

Lady Sandgate neither affirmed nor denied; she only turned on him her
thick lustre. “I wanted to see how much you’d tell.” She waited even
as for more, but this not coming she helped herself. “Once again at
dinner?”

“Yes, but alas not near her!”

“Once then at a private view?--when, with the squash they usually are,
you might have been very near her indeed!”

The young man, his hilarity quickened, took but a moment for the truth.
“Yes--it was a squash!”

“And once,” his hostess pursued, “in the lobby of the opera?”

“After ‘Tristan’--yes; but with some awful grand people I didn’t know.”

She recognised; she estimated the grandeur. “Oh, the Pennimans are
nobody! But now,” she asked, “you’ve come, you say, on ‘business’?”

“Very important, please--which accounts for the hour I’ve ventured and
the appearance I present.”

“I don’t ask you too much to ‘account,’” Lady Sandgate kindly said; “but
I can’t not wonder if she hasn’t told you what things have happened.”

He cast about. “She has had no chance to tell me anything--beyond the
fact of her being here.”

“Without the reason?”

“‘The reason’?” he echoed.

She gave it up, going straighter. “She’s with me then as an old firm
friend. Under my care and protection.”

“I see”--he took it, with more penetration than enthusiasm, as a hint in
respect to himself. “She puts you on your guard.”

Lady Sandgate expressed it more graciously. “She puts me on my
honour--or at least her father does.”

“As to her seeing me”

“As to my seeing at least--what may happen to her.”

“Because--you say--things have happened?”

His companion fairly sounded him. “You’ve only talked--when you’ve
met--of ‘art’?”

“Well,” he smiled, “‘art is long’!”

“Then I hope it may see you through! But you should know first that Lord
Theign is presently due--”

“Here, back already from abroad?”--he was all alert.

“He has not yet gone--he comes up this morning to start.”

“And stops here on his way?”

“To take the train de luxe this afternoon to his annual Salsomaggiore.
But with so little time to spare,” she went on reassuringly, “that,
to simplify--as he wired me an hour ago from Dedborough--he has given
rendezvous here to Mr. Bender, who is particularly to wait for him.”

“And who may therefore arrive at any moment?”

She looked at her bracelet watch. “Scarcely before noon. So you’ll just
have your chance--”

“Thank the powers then!”--Hugh grasped at it. “I shall have it best if
you’ll be so good as to tell me first--well,” he faltered, “what it is
that, to my great disquiet, you’ve further alluded to; what it is that
has occurred.”

Lady Sandgate took her time, but her good-nature and other sentiments
pronounced. “Haven’t you at least guessed that she has fallen under her
father’s extreme reprobation?”

“Yes, so much as that--that she must have greatly annoyed him--I have
been supposing. But isn’t it by her having asked me to act for her? I
mean about the Mantovano--which I have done.”

Lady Sandgate wondered. “You’ve ‘acted’?”

“It’s what I’ve come to tell her at last--and I’m all impatience.”

“I see, I see”--she had caught a clue. “He hated that--yes; but you
haven’t really made out,” she put to him, “the other effect of your
hour at Dedborough?” She recognised, however, while she spoke, that
his divination had failed, and she didn’t trouble him to confess it.
“Directly you had gone she ‘turned down’ Lord John. Declined, I mean,
the offer of his hand in marriage.”

Hugh was clearly as much mystified as anything else. “He proposed
there--?”

“He had spoken, that day, before--before your talk with Lord Theign,
who had every confidence in her accepting him. But you came, Mr.
Crimble, you went; and when her suitor reappeared, just after you had
gone, for his answer--”

“She wouldn’t have him?” Hugh asked with a precipitation of interest.

But Lady Sandgate could humour almost any curiosity. “She wouldn’t look
at him.”

He bethought himself. “But had she said she would?”

“So her father indignantly considers.”

“That’s the ground of his indignation?”

“He had his reasons for counting on her, and it has determined a painful
crisis.”

Hugh Crimble turned this over--feeling apparently for something he
didn’t find. “I’m sorry to hear such things, but where’s the connection
with me?”

“Ah, you know best yourself, and if you don’t see any---!” In that case,
Lady Sandgate’s motion implied, she washed her hands of it.

Hugh had for a moment the air of a young man treated to the sweet chance
to guess a conundrum--which he gave up. “I really don’t see any, Lady
Sandgate. But,” he a little inconsistently said, “I’m greatly obliged to
you for telling me.”

“Don’t mention it!--though I think it is good of me,” she smiled, “on
so short an acquaintance.” To which she added more gravely: “I leave you
the situation--but I’m willing to let you know that I’m all on Grace’s
side.”

“So am I, rather!--please let me frankly say.”

He clearly refreshed, he even almost charmed her. “It’s the very least
you can say!--though I’m not sure whether you say it as the simplest
or as the very subtlest of men. But in case you don’t know as I do how
little the particular candidate I’ve named----”

“Had a right or a claim to succeed with her?” he broke in--all quick
intelligence here at least. “No, I don’t perhaps know as well as you
do--but I think I know as well as I just yet require.”

“There you are then! And if you did prevent,” his hostess maturely
pursued, “what wouldn’t have been--well, good or nice, I’m quite on your
side too.”

Our young man seemed to feel the shade of ambiguity, but he reached at
a meaning. “You’re with me in my plea for our defending at any cost of
effort or ingenuity--”

“The precious picture Lord Theign exposes?”--she took his presumed sense
faster than he had taken hers. But she hung fire a moment with her reply
to it. “Well, will you keep the secret of everything I’ve said or say?”

“To the death, to the stake, Lady Sandgate!”

“Then,” she momentously returned, “I only want, too, to make Bender
impossible. If you ask me,” she pursued, “how I arrange that with my
deep loyalty to Lord Theign----”

“I don’t ask you anything of the sort,” he interrupted--“I wouldn’t ask
you for the world; and my own bright plan for achieving the coup you
mention------”

“You’ll have time, at the most,” she said, consulting afresh her
bracelet watch, “to explain to Lady Grace.” She reached an electric
bell, which she touched--facing then her visitor again with an abrupt
and slightly embarrassed change of tone. “You do think my great
portrait splendid?”

He had strayed far from it and all too languidly came back. “Your
Lawrence there? As I said, magnificent.”

But the butler had come in, interrupting, straight from the lobby; of
whom she made her request. “Let her ladyship know--Mr. Crimble.”

Gotch looked hard at Hugh and the crumpled hat--almost as if having an
option. But he resigned himself to repeating, with a distinctness that
