’licious. And the real cake for supper. Mother 
can’t afford icing, she only makes cookies and 
gingerbread, and they don’t need it. There are 
so many of us to feed.” 
“ I’m glad you liked everything,” and Mrs. 
Alden smiled down into the flushing face. Mari- 
gold felt that she had acquitted herself finely. 
“ And you must come again.” 
So the two girls were helped in. 
I'm not going home,” announced Tip. I'm 
going to stay all night with Chan.” 
Tip ! ” exclaimed the elders in a breath of wild 
surprise. 
‘‘Yes. Mayn’t I?” catching Mr. Mann’s hand 
in an appealing grasp. 
“Oh, Tip! What would mother say?” 
“ Dan can tell her. Why, she’ll be glad to have 
me stay with Chan in a strange place.” 
“ Why, I'm not afraid,” remonstrated Chan. 
Tip stood up very straight, stretching every point 
to add dignity to his protestation. 
“ I'm going to stay. You’ll let me?” to Mr. 
Mann, who was much amused at the little fellow’s 
persistency. 
“ Tip, come this minute,” commanded Primrose. 
Instead the child took a step back, still hanging 
to his host. 
“ Oh, let him stay,” said Mr. Mann. “ Dan 
will take him home in the morning.” 
“ There ! ” triumphantly. 
“ Tip, you’ll be homesick and cry before bed- 
time,” said Chandler. 
“ No, I won’t, either.” 
“ Make believe to go,” said Marigold to Dan, 
who started Bonnie. 
 
Tip turned with superb dignity, and seated him- 
self on the step. Pilot came and gave him an 
approval. 
“ Good-by, good-by, we’re on our way, 
We’ll be glad to come another day,” 
sang out Primrose. 
Mr. Mann laughed. Chan looked rather cross, 
if so sweet a face could put on such an expression. 
The host sat down between the boys. Tip caught 
his hand again, and smiled. He placed his other 
arm around Chandler and drew him nearer. 
I don’t know what mother’ll say ” 
“ Oh, I’ll make it all right with your mother,” 
said Mr. Mann. 
“ You think because you’re bigger’n me you’re 
the biggest toad in the puddle, but you ain’t. 
Linn’s bigger’n you. And I’m goin’ to school this 
winter,” Tip said resentfully. 
“ You won’t like it a bit. You’ll have to study 
awful lessons, and you’ll get demerits.” 
Well, they don’t lick the boys any more. Linn 
said so.” 
“ Oh,” and Chan gave a sudden cry of delight. 
Hear that beautiful bird! Why, it’s ’most like 
the fine notes on the piano,” and he forgot to 
quarrel in his rapture. 
That’s a thrush — wood-robin, some people call 
 
it. They have some nests over there in the 
woods.’’ 
“ I wish I knew all the names of birds. There’s 
the blue jay and the martin and the swallow, you 
can always tell him by the beautiful way he flies, 
and the robins are as tame as anything. They 
come and eat up the chickens’ feed. And there’s 
a fire-bird that’s just gorgeous.” 
“ I must get you a nice book of birds with 
colored plates.” 
Mr. Mann,” with a little tremor in his voice, 
mother’s afraid you’ll do too much for us. 
’Tisn’t as if you were our uncle, or some relation, — 
we haven’t any uncles.” 
“ And I have no nephews or any relations that 
I know of. I’d like to have some. About two 
little boys and two girls. That would be just 
nice. So I think I’ll have to be your uncle.” 
Pilot had been coaxing Tip for a race by all 
the arts he knew, and when the boy jumped up he 
was wild in a minute. Down the path he 
went, even out in the street, as there were no 
fences. 
Mr. and Mrs. Chedister sat on their porch. 
Didn’t we understand,” she began rather 
sharply, that that next-door person was to have 
no children ” 
 
That he had none,” corrected her husband. 
“ But he might marry again.” 
“ And there has been the wildest crew there 
to-day ! They have run and raced and shouted and 
made bedlam so you could hear it plainly over 
here. They were poorly dressed, too, part of the 
time had on aprons. Oh, I do hope they don’t 
belong to him ! It’s a fad now to bring children 
out of the slums of the city, and I think it very 
reprehensible. They may scatter disease and bad 
language, and Heaven only knows what all. This 
has been such a select neighborhood. And the 
Gedney children were packed off to boarding-school 
and to the seaside in vacation, so they really were 
not a great annoyance.” 
“ I’ll find out by Dan,” replied Mr. Chedister. 
Gladys lived by rule. She had gone to bed 
now, but she lay there wide awake thinking of 
the merry time the children had, and wishing there 
were some real children to play with her. She 
did get so tired sitting still or just walking up and 
down or playing with Helen Augusta, who was 
quite a cultivated doll who could say “ mama ” 
and walk when you wound her up, after the 
fashion of moving wax figures. But after one 
had had Helen Augusta for a year, and played 
tea with her and dressed and undressed her, she 
 
began to pall. Sometimes when she was down in 
the field and Joanna was reading, she actually 
took a little run. But to run with a real live 
girl, and scream if you wanted to! 
“ Yes, you’ll have to call me uncle,” Mr. Mann 
was saying after some consideration. I don’t 
think I have a very pretty name to call,” and he 
gave his little chuckle. 
What! All of us? The whole eight?” 
Then he laughed merrily. That would be 
funny. You and Tip might begin.” 
“ Well — if mother was willing. Yes, I’d like 
it.” How good and strong the arm about him 
felt. But if I couldn’t get well, would you like 
a lame little boy? ” 
“ I ought to care more for him. But you’re 
going to get well. We’ll see to-morrow.” 
Will it hurt much ? ” 
It won’t hurt at all. They have a curious 
light they call an x-ray and that looks at you, 
looks through you and sees just what is the mat- 
ter. They don’t have to cut into anybody, but 
if they did the doctor would give him ether, and 
that’s just like going to sleep, and when he wakes 
he is all mended up right and all he has to do is to 
get well.” 
** That seems very easy,” returned Chan. But 
 
Granny Keen said once I might have to lose 
my leg. Oh, I couldn’t do that ! ” with a pathetic 
little cry. There’s old Mr. Downs by the store 
who has a sort of wooden leg and goes stumping 
round, and Alf Gardiner goes on crutches cause 
his leg is all twisted up with rheumatism. And 
Polly Stead has one such short leg because her 
hip was hurt.” 
Never you mind what the old grannies say, 
my little lad. We’ll have this all right as you 
will see, and you must not be afraid of anything 
bad happening. God takes care of little boys.” 
Did He always? Mr. Mann thought of the 
maimed little creatures he had seen in the city. 
Tip came back warm and tired, and crawled 
up close to the sheltering arm, but presently laid 
his little face down on the soft knee, and shut 
his eyes. 
Tell me about your other brother — Linn,” 
Mr. Mann said. I don’t seem to know much 
about him.” 
Oh, Linn’s splendid and strong, and can run 
like a wild horse. He’s going to school again 
this winter ’cause mother has so much work now 
she can spare him, and then farmers don’t have 
so much for boys in the winter, though Mrs. Briggs 
would keep him all the time, he’s so handy to have 
about, but he’s so fond of books and study, and 
is going to do something to make a good deal 
of money. Then we’re all going away. Mother 
thinks the old house will fall down by that time,” 
laughing a little. Some of the chimney blew 
off last spring.” 
And Amaryllis ” 
“ She can’t go to school, you see. She’s got 
to stay home and be mother while real mother is 
out working. And Rilla knows lots of things, and 
she’s so good and sweet when any of us has earache 
or toothache or a bad pain. Oh, we just couldn’t 
get along without her.” 
He was so interested in hearing about their 
straits and economies. He had been there himself. 
CHAPTER IX 
IN A HOSPITAL WARD 
Mr. Mann, don’t you think it is time those 
children went to bed ? ” said the low, motherly 
voice of Mrs. Alden. 
“ O my ! Why, I forgot about bedtime ! It 
is so delightful out here, and my little lad has 
been so entertaining. He’s going to be my boy 
for good and all, ain’t you, Chan? And Tip’s 
sound asleep.” 
“ Now you’ll have a time,” exclaimed Chan 
fearfully, “if he begins to cry for mother! He 
often lies around and goes to sleep, and she picks 
him up and undresses him without a word.” 
“ Maybe I could. I’ve done it to little boys 
before now. If you could carry him upstairs ” 
Mr. Mann took him in his arms very gently. 
Pilot gave a little whine, but he was hushed at 
once. Tip was laid on the bed, and Mrs. Alden 
took his clothes off one side, then the other, and 
the shoes and stockings. He gave a little grunt 
or two, and she laid him on one side of the bed, 
looking up smilingly. 
 
” You’re just like a mother,” said Chan. 
“ I had two little boys once.” 
Where are they now ? ” 
“ Oh, they’re grown-up men. Can I do any- 
thing for you? ” 
“ Thank you,” returned Chan. I’m used to 
waiting upon myself.” 
“ Here is a glass of water on the window- 
sill.” 
He gave a grateful nod. 
Oh, what a lovely big room it was, with a 
pretty paper, roses and daisies and long grass 
stems, and white window draperies, and a white 
spread on the bed, and a soft carpet that looked 
like brown moss with green leaves scattered about ; 
a bureau with a great glass, a stand with a bowl 
and ewer, and towels with red borders across the 
ends. And the bed was what Prim would have 
called supersplacious.” 
Mr. Mann went to his room and sat down by 
the window. The moon was crawling up in the 
heavens, but the stars seemed to defy her. Oh, 
how fragrant the air was with the falling dew! 
And what a day it had been! How Chan had 
crept into his heart! He could still feel the clasp 
of the little fingers, hear the sweet voice that was 
full of music in singing. Yes, he would take 
 
the child, and he should be like his very own. 
He never would know the difference, for Chan 
was so little when his father died, how could he 
remember? And he could do so much more for 
him than his own father. 
And Tip? Well, the other must be a girl. 
Should it be Prim or Marigold? Prim was so 
bright and droll. Marigold would be very pretty 
with her curling hair, her eyes full of laughing 
lights, then gravely sweet like a shaded lake, and 
her mouth was so merry and daring and sweet and 
perplexing. He couldn’t very well, have Amaryl- 
lis, her mother would need her, and the twins 
were too small. Yes, it must be Marigold. 
He actually fell asleep there in the reclining 
chair, not for the first time either. He did so 
enjoy this liberty with no one to keep nagging at 
him. 
Sometimes there was a cry or a shriek. The 
old owl in the sycamore was uttering his wail, 
and he turned over, surprised to find himself not 
in bed. Oh, the children! What had happened? 
This had happened. 
Unluckily Tip had wakened. In the narrow 
bed at home he could always feel Linn. He 
stretched out his hand — there was nothing. He 
sat up — the moon was shining in the window. 
There was something on the floor, he saw it 
move. Then he uttered a shriek. 
“Tip! Tip!” Chan had hold of him. “Hush 
up, I'm here. You’re ” he placed his hand 
over Tip’s mouth, but it was jerked away. 
“ I want my muver ! I want my muver ! 
There’s a big black bear on the floor, and oh, 
just hear it ! ” 
“ You silly ’ramus! That’s an owl, and there’s 
no bear. Hush up or Fll stick you under the 
bed. I said you oughtn’t stay. And you are 
making such a racket you’ll wake everybody in 
the house, and it’s Mr. Mann’s.” 
“ I want muver ! ” sobbingly. 
“ You can’t have her unless you get up and 
run home through the dark. I won’t go with you. 
Some one is coming.” 
- It was Mrs. Alden with a light. “ What is the 
matter ? ” she asked in a reassuring tone. 
Tip hid under the coverlet. “ It’s Tip,” said 
Chan, “ he woke up and was frightened by the 
owl ” 
He emerged then. “ ’Tain’t like our owl, and 
there’s a bear on the floor ” 
Mrs. Alden had thrown a small footspread over 
a chair, and it had slipped down. She picked 
it up with a light laugh. 
 
''You ninny, there’s your bear! And there 
are different kinds of owls. Ours is a little hoot- 
owl.” 
" And this is a big screech-owl. He’s been 
driven away several times, but he comes back, 
but he can’t hurt any one.” 
Mr. Mann came and sat down on the side of 
the bed. Tip leaned on his breast and sobbed, 
"If you’d woked up in the night and there wasn’t 
any muver to say, 'What is it. Tip, dear?’ and 
get you a drink and come and kiss you — and a 
horrid owl screeched, and that on the floor looked 
like a bear, and — and ” 
" Tip, when I was a little boy and woke in 
the night, and sometimes had a cruel pain or a 
toothache I didn’t have any mother ever to com- 
fort me, nor any Mrs. Alden to bring a light and 
get me a drink, nor any brother to stay with me. 
And now you are not going to be afraid any 
more, and to-morrow morning you are going home 
to the dearest mother any little boy ever had.” 
Tip raised his head and took a drink. 
" It’s too bad,” began Chan on a half cry of 
mortification. " I didn’t want Tip to stay. He 
often wakes up in the night and makes a rumpus. 
I’m awful sorry.” 
" Chan, my little lad, don’t worry a bit. And 
 
Tip’s going to be a brave boy now and go back 
to sleep again.” 
'' Yes,” said Tip. '' You see, if I had known 
it wasn’t a bear, and if the owl hadn’t screamed, 
and it was all so strange 
Yes,” and Mr. Mann nodded. “ Perhaps you 
had better leave a light here, Mrs. Alden.” 
I’ll crawl up by Chan. Linn always lets me 
when I’m frightened in the night. And I won’t 
be ’fraid any more.” 
That’s a nice boy. Chan, are you all right ? ” 
Yes, thank you.” 
Good-night then,” in a kindly tone. 
Tip went to sleep pretty soon and then Chan un- 
clasped the little arms and moved softly over to his 
own side. It was annoying, and yet it was funny. 
Of course he ought not have stayed. Things often 
happened to him in the night. And now the owl 
went to sleep and all was quiet. 
Mr. Mann laughed a little, too. He saw the 
children on the doorstep crying because their 
mother had gone away and left them all alone, 
and as he was dropping off to sleep the refrain 
floated through his mind — The beautifullest 
mother ” 
Tip was all right the next morning and quite 
merry, though Chan teased him a little about the 
 
bear. Dan had the surrey up to take his master 
down to the station. Then he would come back 
and drive Tip home. The boy agreed to this 
willingly. 
“ It’s a nice bed,” he said to Mrs. Alden, and 
the room’s a hundred times nicer than ours, and 
you have such a beautiful house, and the dogs and 
all, but my mother is over there, and I never was 
away before. But you were next best. If I 
hadn’t any mother like Mr. Mann when he was a 
little boy, I should want you. You know just 
how to be good to little boys.” 
Mrs. Alden bent down and kissed him. 
Chan looked very nice in the clean blouse with 
its big collar that he had brought along. And 
what a wonderful thing it was to be in a steam- 
car and fly along past the little towns to stop 
here and there and at last reach the great station 
where he was quite sure there was a million of 
people. Then the factory, with the noise of the 
machinery, the men at work, the offlce, and Mr. 
Ross going out to a restaurant to dinner, and 
then to see the doctor at two o’clock. It almost 
seemed to Chan as if he had lived a year. 
The hospital, for it really was that, was like 
a palace with all its beautiful appointments. The 
doctor’s office was not in any wise formidable, 
 
and Dr. Richards had a kindly face and a voice 
that could have persuaded one into anything. 
Chan was a little shy at first, but the doctor coaxed 
out the story of how he had been hurt, and 
what had been done for him, and pressed around 
the hip to find the place of injury, and made him 
walk up and down, nodding now and then. 
He’s beginning to twist his knee a little. It’s 
a great pity the thing couldn’t have been done at 
once, but of course country practitioners are sel- 
dom expert surgeons, especially the older ones. 
Now, my little lad, come here and hold up your 
hand.” 
Chan shrunk a little from the curious machine. 
“ Now look at the dark little bones in your 
hand.” 
It was so wonderful that Chan really forgot 
to breathe. There in every finger was a little 
streak joined together by a sort of knob that was 
larger, and they went down the back of the hand 
and there were ever so many more little knobs 
at the wrist and one big one at the side. Was 
it really his hand, and all safe and sound ! 
That’s the way I’m going to look at your 
hip, so now you won’t mind a bit.” 
No, Chan didn’t mind, not even when the doctor 
gave him a pinch that hurt, for he kept looking 
 
at his hand and thinking how curious it was that 
you could see through anybody like that. 
“ Well, it’s not so bad, and will be what we 
call a bloodless operation. If it could have been 
done before it would have been only a simple re- 
location. There must be ether and a plaster jacket, 
but I think six weeks will make you over as good 
as new. There won’t be any hurt, only the bother 
of getting well, and there’ll be children and 
nurses to amuse you.” 
And I’ll walk just as well as before? ” Chan’s 
voice trembled with excitement. 
Oh, you’ll run and play ball and skate and 
grow into a fine lad, and have grand good times.” 
The rest of the talk was between the doctor 
and Mr. Mann. Then Dr. Richards summoned 
a nurse, a pretty young woman with a little 
white cape over her shoulders and a big white 
apron, and asked her to take these guests to the 
sun-room. 
They went up in an elevator. There was a 
room with a glass roof and windows here and 
there, with soft, blue curtains to temper the glare. 
There were children playing about, riding in mini- 
ature autos, two or three who walked with 
crutches, but they all looked happy and merry 
and were chatting and laughing or playing games. 
 
and they were all so lovely and clean. The floor 
was covered with some soft, light stuff, and the 
girls had simple white dresses such as the twins 
wore for Sunday best. The nurses in odd little 
white caps and white aprons looked so cheerful 
and smiling, and in one nook, a small sort of ante- 
room, sat a lady reading to a group. 
Do you think of coming here, or are you 
only a visitor ? ’’ asked a nurse in a tone that 
somehow sounded like his mother’s. 
“ Oh, I’m coming here. I’ve got to be mended 
a little, and you are all so nice, and it’s so beauti- 
ful that I won’t get lonesome, for, you see, there’s 
eight of us at home and mother besides.” 
She patted him on the shoulder. What tender 
eyes he had, and how much love shone in his 
face ! 
'' Eight? And any girls? ” 
'' Oh, yes. There are only three boys and 
there’s twins.” 
And what is your name ? ” 
He told her. “ And Linn is named for a man 
who knew all about trees and plants, and Tip for 
General Harrison, and all the girls are flowers.” 
“ Flowers ? ” with a questioning intonation. 
“ It’s this way. There’s Amaryllis — she’s the 
oldest of us all,— then Marigold and Primrose and 
 
Rhoda — but mother wouldn’t have the rest of her 
name — and Laurel, they’re the twins.” 
“ Well, I declare ! ” she laughed softly. When 
you are here I hope some of them will come. I 
should like to see them all. Why, you’ve a gar- 
den I ” 
Mr. Mann beckoned him, and he went across 
the room where a rosy boy stood. 
“ Oh,” he exclaimed, “ he ain’t bad lame. I 
just couldn’t walk without a crutch, and look at 
me now ! ” He took a few proud steps. “ I’m 
going home next week. I’m all father has, and 
we haven’t any mother. And then we are going 
way off to London. Do you know where that 
is?” 
“ Oh, yes, it’s in England. And that’s on the 
other Continent.” 
The little boy stared, then he added, “ I’d like 
to stay here, only they don’t keep well children, 
and father wants me. You must be sure to 
come.” 
Chan said a pretty, gracious good-by to them 
all, and down they went again in the queer ele- 
vator. 
“ I don’t feel a bit afraid,” and he squeezed Mr. 
Mann’s hand. “ But wasn’t it all lovely, the 
sunshine and the nurses and the children? But 
 
there was a little boy, not as big as me, who had 
only one leg. He’ll always have to walk with a 
crutch, won’t he? Oh, suppose I’d broken mine 
clear off ! ” 
“ He was probably run over. So many of them 
are. There are such crowds in the city.” 
Then it’s best not to live in the city. Oh, 
why can’t they send all the little children into 
the country until they get grown up ? ” 
That might be a good scheme,” smiling. 
They went back to the office, where Mr. Mann 
wrote some letters, picked up a few papers, and 
slipped an elastic around them. 
Now we’ll start for home. Have you had a 
nice day ? ” 
“ It’s been grand ! When will I have to come ? ” 
“ Next week.” 
“ It’s such a beautiful place,” with a sigh of 
satisfaction. “ And to think there’s a light that 
can see straight through you ! ” 
Mr. Mann knew Mrs. Firth would be doubly 
anxious to see her boy, so they drove over to the 
old red house at once. How queer and small and 
dingy it looked to Chan, but there was mother. 
And he felt sorry for the little boy going to Lon- 
don without any mother. After all he guessed 
mothers were best. 
 
Mr. Mann made the few necessary explana- 
tions. 
You’ve been so wonderfully good about it. I 
don’t know how you’ll ever get paid. I suppose 
I ought to advise a little with the minister and 
his wife. ’Twould seem queer-like to settle it 
all by myself. They’ve been good, too. Why, I 
can’t seem to make it real.” 
He thought a moment. “ No,” he returned, 
don’t say anything about it until after Sunday. 
You’ll have the neighbors in advising, telling you 
different things that will upset you; and you’ll 
feel all at sea, maybe. There’s nothing to be done, 
you don’t even have to get any clothes ready, only 
keep the little lad cheery. He’s had a nice time 
and will have ever so much to tell you. I’ll be 
over on Sunday again. After eight or ten days 
you can go down and see him.” 
She laughed with her eyes full of tears, and 
her face flushed. How pretty she looked ! ‘‘ The 
beauti fullest mother.” And she had almost a 
child’s innocence with all her good sense. 
Oh, what an evening it was! Chan laid his 
head on his mother’s lap, sitting beside her on a 
bench, and the younger children were around on 
the floor, they couldn’t get close enough. 
‘‘ Why, it’s like some of the things in the old 
fairy book about palaces and such, and people 
waiting on you and everything,” declared Prim en- 
thusiastically. 
Fd almost have my own leg broken,” said 
Linn, to go to such a place as that. But what 
gets me is that thing that lets a body see through 
you. Did you truly see the bones in your hand? 
You didn’t imagine it?” 
“ Oh, truly, truly,” in a most positive tone. 
“ And he could see your hip? What did he 
say it was ? ” 
He didn’t say, only that it could be easily 
mended and that I wouldn’t feel the hurt. I 
sha’n’t mind a little hurt.” And then he told 
them how nice the little boy walked who was 
going to London, and about the other little boy 
who would never have but one real leg, a little 
girl who was just getting over some dreadful 
burns, and a dozen others, to say nothing of the 
nice nurses. “ And they are all so merry and 
happy. But there are others in the wards that 
can’t sit up. We didn’t see them. And mother’s 
coming down when I am well enough to see com- 
pany. Oh, I wish you could all come.” 
Didn’t they wish it as well ? What ohs and ahs 
and sighs of regret there were. Certainly Chan 
was a hero. 
 
“ But what an awful sight of money it must 
cost,” said Marigold. 
That thought kept them silent for at least a 
minute. Then Chan announced in a solemn tone, 
“ When I get to be a man I'm going to pay Mr. 
Mann back. Then he may be old and need the 
money.” 
“ I hope you will,” rejoined his mother. 
“ But sometimes people go to hospitals and don’t 
pay anything,” said Linn. 
There were three busy days getting ready for 
school. Marigold rummaged, picked out some 
things that could be made over, and she and Rilla 
sewed. Sunday noon Chan and his mother went 
to the parsonage and told the event to Mr. and 
Mrs. Burnham. 
That is really wonderful,” exclaimed the min- 
ister. “ I'm glad the Lord put it in some one’s 
heart to do this. But are you sure the man is 
reliable and that in the end the bills will not come 
back to you ? ” 
I expect to pay it some time, but I couldn’t 
just now, and it ought to be done at once,” was 
the mother’s reply. 
Oh, Chan, I hope it won’t be dreadful. Doc- 
tors do love to cut and slash so. Is it a free 
place? I wouldn’t trust them.” 
 
There won’t be anything bad, only just to 
push something back in place and no cutting,” 
said Chan with tremendous decision. 
Well, I hope you’ll come out of it all right. 
Have you known this man long? ” 
That was Mr. Burnham’s question. Back- 
country folks swing between too much suspicion 
and too much credulity. 
Not very long. He took the children up to 
the Falls on a picnic, and gave them a splendid 
time. Dan Wilson lives there.” 
Yes, I think I’ve heard of him. The people 
over there at Grafton are rather of the high and 
mighty order. What family has he ? ” 
None at all but a housekeeper.” 
Well, I shall pray for the utmost success.” 
“ You see, he’s taken a great fancy to Chan,” 
Mrs. Firth explained, as if she felt she must apol- 
ogize for the unusual happening. 
“ I hope he will prove a good and true friend 
to you. Chandler. The Lord be with you and 
preserve you from all ill.” 
The minister and his wife looked at each other 
when the guests were gone. 
“ It’s rather queer,” said she, '' and I wish there 
was a little more time to inquire. I suppose it is 
all right. He bought the Gedney place, and seems 
to be a man of means. And of course there’s 
nothing like a love affair in it, the girls are too 
young, and no one would think of her with eight 
children. Oh, I’ll venture a guess that he means 
to adopt one, and Chan is a delicate little chap 
and likely won’t be able to help along much. I 
think that’s it, and she didn’t want to suggest it 
lest it might fall through.” 
Well, that is ,an excellent solution, and I 
hope it may prove true,” returned the minister. 
Monday was washday in Denby, rain or shine, so 
everybody was busy. Mr. Mann had arranged to 
come over for Chan in the afternoon and take him 
down on Tuesday to get a little used to the place. 
After all, it was a sad parting, only Mr. Mann 
would look on the bright side, and inside of two 
weeks Chan’s mother would go down to see him, 
and then one of the children, perhaps several of 
them. When Chan was well they would have a 
picnic down in the city. 
So Chan stepped into the phaeton and waved 
his hand, keeping the tears back until they were 
well on the road, but the others went into the 
house and had a good cry. Not to see him for 
six weeks, maybe longer! They spent a doleful 
evening, and went to bed early. 
CHAPTER X 
HOW LAUREL SET OUT TO FIND CHAN 
Everything looks so different on a bright, 
sunny morning. The children had to hurry off 
to school, for it was a long walk. Tip didn’t want 
to go very much, but Rilla said, “If you stay 
home you must pick and stem grapes for me all 
day. I’m going to make jam.” 
So he thought he would go, for Prim always 
made things funny. Rilla did only occasionally. 
She was such a busy little housekeeper. Rhoda 
helped pick and tried to train Laurel in ways of 
usefulness; but Rilla was afraid she would eat 
too many, and kept an eye on her. Mrs. Firth 
was to be two days at the Briggs’s sewing, and 
they were very much interested in the matter of 
Chandler. 
“ I’d just let him do all he wanted to,” said Mrs. 
Briggs energetically. “If he wants to send him 
away to school for an education, I’d let him. Chan 
would make a nice minister, he’s kind of delicate 
looking, and if he should grow up tall — his father 
was tall, I remember — he’d look fine in a pulpit. 
I think ministers ought to look according. A little 
stumpy man, or cross-eyed, or with a poor de- 
livery, ought never study for a minister. Linn’s 
smart to learn, though he declares he’ll never be 
a farmer. Maybe this Mr. Mann will give him 
a lift by and by. There’s no chance round here 
for boys unless their fathers have big farms, and 
you just take whatever good comes along. I’m 
sure you deserve it. I don’t see how you’ve kept 
them all together and looking so nice. It was 
such a pity about the twins.” 
Mrs. Firth colored a little. She was always 
hearing that. 
She sewed away, and kept following Chan in 
her mind. To-morrow would be the crucial day. 
She didn’t have to live that just now. He and 
Mr. Mann would have a nice lunch together, and 
there would be some little things to laugh at. 
Aunt Patty still harped on the fact that the 
farm at Tory Corners had not been sold and the 
money divided. There was no justice in one heir’s 
taking everything. And who knew that was really 
her grand-aunt’s will? Lawyers were very ready 
to feather their own nest. 
Bessy Firth almost wished she was home, but 
there was the dollar to earn, and that gave her 
courage. 
Rilla picked out some of the nicest bunches of 
grapes, for Mrs. Elsden had offered them four 
cents a pound, and grapes were heavy. Then she 
stemmed and washed and put on the big kettle 
and let them boil while she was getting the dinner 
for the children. Afterward she mashed and 
strained and stewed them down again. They 
made such nice jam to eat on the supper mush, or 
with pancakes in the morning. It saved a sight 
of butter. 
Some one stepped inside the door. It was 
Granny Keen, and Rilla had no heart for such a 
guest, and no time, either. 
Granny Keen had a life-right in one room in 
the house of her stepson, and all her garden truck, 
so she considered herself quite an independent 
woman. She was very fond of neighborly affairs. 
“ I declare Tm real tuckered out,” and she 
dropped into the big rocking-chair. “ I do be- 
lieve I ain’t as young as I was ten year ago,” with 
a little cackle. “ But I did want to know the 
rights of the story, so I could set folks straight. 
People do get things so mixed up. Was there 
some one who took your Chan down to New 
York to have an operation, and is he going to 
lose his leg?” 
Oh, no,” returned Rilla impatiently. 
“ Well, I said I knew you’d never be willin’. 
He might better be a little lame than to have only 
one leg. An’ who’s this man that took him down, 
any relation ? ” 
It’s a gentleman who lives at Grafton. He 
took a great fancy to Chan, and wanted to see 
if something couldn’t be done for him. Dr. Breen 
advised it in the spring, but mother didn’t see her 
way clear.” 
I heard she got some money from that old 
lady after all, and a great bundle of truck.” 
Yes,” said Rilla briefly. 
“ ’Nough to pay all expenses?” 
We don’t know what they will be, and mother 
will pay as she can,” evasively. Mr. Mann is 
to take charge.” 
‘‘ Now can you be sure he’s honest? Men do 
cheat so nowadays; and as for the truth they 
don’t tell it half the time, nor t’other half either. 
Don’t you think it’s a great risk ? Did your 
mother go down and see the place an’ the doctors ? 
Don’t you know ’bout Mirny Fisk, who went down 
to see about her eye? Oh, no, ’twas afore your 
time. I don’t believe you were born then. She 
was husband’s niece, and she went down to the 
city and paid away fifty good dollars, an’ it didn’t 
do a mite of good. When she come home she 
couldn’t see a mite out of that eye, not even with 
specs. I don’t put much faith in doctors. Do 
you really think his leg will have to come off? 
An’ he so young, too! ’Pears to me I’d about 
as leave he’d die. We’ve all got to die some 
time.” 
Rilla wiped away a tear. There is no likeli- 
hood of his losing his leg, I believe,” she said 
firmly. 
Well, you can’t ’most always tell. Queer 
things happen in most unexpected places. I 
wouldn’t be too confident. Is his board going to 
be paid, or is it one of them charity places?” 
No, he is a paid patient, in a beautiful 
place.” 
Then you mark my words. When their board 
is paid they go on keeping ’em, and when it 
isn’t, they shove ’em out mighty quick. You can’t 
depend upon any one in this deceitful world and 
vale of sorrows. Any of the children had measles 
or whooping-cough ? ” 
“ They’ve all had the whooping-cough.” 
Well, I declare to man! How did your 
mother stand it? I should o’ thought she’d gone 
crazy. An’ it’s a wonder she didn’t take it. Peo- 
ple can have it twice I’ve heerd. Now, in old 
times you had it once for all and was done with 
 
it. But times change so much you never know 
just where you stand. Got plenty of grapes, 
Rilla?’' 
Yes. Will you have some? ” thinking to dis- 
miss her guest. 
I don’t mind if I do. Dave’s wife cut so 
many off for green grape jell that we ain’t hardly 
any ripe ones. Yes, I’ll take some.” Amaryllis 
did them up in a paper bag and handed them to 
her. 
Now, when’ll you be likely to hear about 
Chan? I’ll feel reel anxious. For you know 
there’s that blood poisonin’ that sets in with so 
many things, and lockjaw from just a little scratch 
with a rusty nail. It’s strange how many things 
there are to take people out of the world, an’ after 
all we don’t know much about the next one.” 
” We are not certain when we’ll hear.” 
Well, I’ll stop in again. I always feel sym- 
pathy for them in trouble, the Bible commands you 
to. Much obleeged for the grapes. Oh, Rilla, has 
your mother made any risin’ lately? Dave’s wife 
alwers gets it sour, and her bread is enough to 
turn one blue-mouldy. Your mother’s is alwers so 
good.” 
Sometimes Rilla gave the poor old woman a 
loaf, but now she went to the closet and merely 
broke off a piece of the “ risin’.” Granny stood 
uncertain. 
You’ll likely hear the last of the week? ” 
“ Yes — perhaps,” indifferently. 
“ I sh’d want to hear every day by that telegraft 
or the other thing. Strange now, ain’t it, that you 
can hear talking through that sort of funnel-like 
thing? Mr. Beers has one in the store. But 
’t would be a good ways to go. Well, well, I hope 
Chan won’t lose his leg or his life.” 
Rilla laughed and cried both when she was gone. 
Then she stopped to ask herself whether she fixed 
her gelatin to make the jam stiffen a little bit 
without cooking it away so much. She concluded 
she hadn’t. And where were the twins ? She 
called up the stairway, as she heard some stirring 
round. 
“ Why didn’t you bring Laurel down ? ” she 
asked of Rhoda. 
“ Laurel hasn’t been there. I’ve been straight- 
enin’ things. That garret looks like a hurrah’s 
nest.” 
What a hurrah’s nest ” was Rilla had never 
been able to learn. It was a Denby provincialism 
for unlimited disorder. 
“ Go and look for her, then.” 
Meanwhile Rilla set off her jam to cool a little. 
 
“ rd better take the chicken bones and make a 
pot-pie,” she ruminated. “ The children will be 
as hungry as bears when they come home. School 
does make them so hungry. They can’t eat apples 
and pears in between. It takes an awful lot to 
fill up children, and potatoes and dumplings with 
plenty of gravy go tip-top. There isn’t much 
chicken,” viewing it ruefully, “ but it will have • 
to do.” 
I can’t find Laurel,” announced Rhoda. 
“Twins is an awful bother, ain’t they, Rilla? 
You see, you can find one, but you never do know 
where ’tother one is.” 
“ Go look in that little grapevine corner. I 
dare say she’s been stuffing herself with grapes 
and there’ll be pains and aches all night, and poor 
mother’ll have to be up coddlin’ her.” 
“ Laurel hasn’t much sense,” said this superior 
infant. “ Do you think she’ll be real smart, 
Rilla? She’s just as old as I am and she don’t 
know half as much.” 
“ Well, you use your knowledge in finding her,” 
returned the elder. 
“ And I’ll hit her a good slap,” Rhoda said 
under her breath. “ There’s trouble enough in 
this house about poor Chan, and so many young 
uns going to school. There shouldn’t be twins. 
that there just shouldn’t.” She looked up and 
down the road. 
I’ll bet she’s started for the Briggs’s and 
mommy. O dear, I can’t go ’way down there. 
She shall have two real hard slaps when I do 
catch her.” 
With all her wisdom Rhoda had taken the wrong 
tack. 
Laurel had sat on the doorstep a while with 
Dolly in her arms, talking to herself as to what 
she should do for entertainment, though she didn’t 
use so long a word. Then a bright thought 
flashed across the infantile brain that her com- 
panion must share. 
Tell you what ’e’ll do, Dolly. We’ll do to 
man’s house an’ det Chan. Man didn’t oughter 
take Chan ’way off to det leg mended.” 
She rose with Dolly clasped close, and looked 
about wistfully. 
'' Man does dis way. Dan does, too. Yes, dis 
yight way. We’ll do an’ say, ‘ Man, det your 
carwidge and bing Chan home yight away, ’cause 
mommy cried when he was tookened away. 
Naughty, bad man.’ ” 
Sometimes she ran, sometimes she trotted. She 
was shorter and fatter than Rhoda. Then all 
out of breath she sat down under a tree. 
 
“ Dreffel hot, Dolly ! Tears run out all over 
my face, and ain’t dot no hank’snuf.” She took 
her dress-skirt and wiped them off, then per- 
formed the same office for Dolly, which did not 
seem to improve her complexion. Dolly had 
bright blue eyes made with ink, and rather strag- 
gling black eyelashes, but Laurel had wanted them, 
the eyes, made big so ’tould see,” and thought 
them bu’ful.” 
‘‘ All wested now,” and she rose presently. 
“ Long way, Dolly, but we’ll fin’ man an’ say, 
‘ Naughty man. We ’ant Chan an’ we won’t have 
his leg cut off. Dest do an’ det Chan.’ An’ he’ll 
be so ’faid cause we’ll be vewy andry, real mad 
that means, an’ he’ll do an’ bing Chan wight away, 
an’ pomise to be good all the while,” in solemn 
tones. 
Dolly hugged her up closer. Dolly always did 
her part of the responsiveness. 
Then they went on and on. They chased a 
squirrel running in and out of the fence, they tried 
to get a gorgeous blue butterfly, and laughed when 
a robin looked down at them from a fence post. 
She told Dolly a very much jumbled up story that 
she was honest enough to say was Prim’s, but 
Prim wouldn’t have recognized it. Then they 
grew warm and tired again and sat down on a big 
flat stone that was the coping of the post and 
rail fence. The post had the split side out, and 
it made a back to the seat, and it was very com- 
fortable. The soft winds blew about her, the 
birds sang to her, the laden bees hummed, the 
grasshopper whirred, and the band sent the little 
girl fast asleep. 
Amaryllis fixed her dinner and put the potatoes 
in, the dumplings would not need to cook so long. 
She missed Chan’s willing feet and hands already. 
Then she looked with satisfaction on her jars of 
jam and set them out of harm’s way, cleared up 
her kitchen a little, looked up and down the road, 
and then sat down in the old rocker a few mo- 
ments. There was a noisy eruption which might 
have been the whole eight instead of half of them. 
Oh, did you see the twins ? ” 
“ Where have they gone — to school ? ” 
“ Why, Laurel strayed off and I sent Rhoda to 
look for her. I’m just tired out. I’ve picked 
grapes and made jam, and there’s a great bag full 
of nice ones for Mrs. Elsden, and Granny Keen 
was here dolefuller than the day of doom. Linn, 
won’t you go out and feed the chickens and then 
chop up some wood ? Rhoda thought Laurel 
might have gone out to find mother. Sure you 
didn’t see anything of them?” 
“ Oh, we came ’cross lots. It’s just as sure a 
way home as if you took the longest way round. 
What funny things those old adages are,” laughed 
Marigold. 
And I have a bran’-new word,” almost shouted 
Prim. I had to stay in at recess and write 
* Coliseum ’ over twenty times. Then I looked at 
some pictures in the dictionary. Rill, do you 
really believe the Lord made all these queer ani- 
mals or that they just grew?” 
'' What’s your word ? ” asked Linn, stopping 
at the back door. 
It’s just good, and I thought of a story to 
it — real funny.” 
I don’t see anything funny about ‘ Good.’ ” 
‘‘ ’Twasn’t ‘good,' silly; it was ‘Megatherium,’ 
and there was a picture of him made out of the 
bones they found.” 
“ Well, I can make a gyascutus out of a potato, 
four matches, and some chicken feathers and a bit 
of red flannel. What do they do with your meg 
thing? I don’t believe he is half as good as the 
kron — and all that lingo.” 
“ I think I’ll put a few more syllables to him, 
and I’ll spring him on Miss Norton. When she 
doesn’t know, she gets as mad as a hen in a fence. 
 
But you’ve got to spring it sudden on her and act 
as if you were dying for the knowledge.” 
‘‘What were you doing to be kept in?” asked 
the eldest sister. 
“ A good deed of course. Evil is only good 
misplaced; somewhere else it would be the right 
thing ” 
“ Hush your nonsense. See if there are any 
eggs — I haven’t had a minute this livelong day,” 
said Rilla wearily. 
“Are livelong days longer than any other?” 
asked Marigold seriously. 
“ Well, it’s what you have to put in them. 
And Granny Keen ’most set me wild about 
Chan.” 
“ Everybody’s wild about him,” said Prim. “ I 
’most began to think he’d have to be taken all 
apart and put together like a dissecting puzzle. 
And I couldn’t convince them that he only had to 
be pushed into place and all would be right again. 
