Then he rose and went to the French window. 
The main house ended with this big porch, while 
the other side went on to kitchen and wash- 
room. 
“ You see, we could have this inclosed, roofed 
over, glassed in with sashes, and there would be 
the southern exposure. We might have it shelved 
and make a sort of winter garden, and on this 
side a row of closets, where each child should put 
his playthings. And some shelves for books. 
Isn’t it a good idea? ” 
The house is too small already,” she returned 
mirthfully. ‘‘ You should have considered.” 
I am considering now, and shall set about it 
at once. You see, this makes such a nice evening- 
room for ourselves, and you will want to keep 
an eye on them lest Rhoda reduces her twin to ab- 
ject thraldom.” 
“ It’s odd that Laurel should be smaller and 
seem younger. But Rhoda does know a great deal 
more, and she has taken charge of Laurel.” 
She is a baby, a darling. I am glad wisdom 
has not sought her out. But won’t that be fine? 
You see how wife and children expand one’s ideas, 
enlarge one’s vision.” 
“ You do too much.” She crossed over and laid 
her head on his shoulder. 
I am just learning the boundlessness of true 
happiness — the more one gives, the more one gets. 
Men are selfish creatures, my dear, wanting all 
they can get.” 
You are not.” He felt the protest in her beat- 
ing heart. 
You are all making me very happy. I thought 
awhile ago if I could have had such a boyhood, and 
some sisters! You may find me doing some silly 
things — it will be second childhood.” 
He talked the plan over again in the evening, 
and the older children were delighted. There 
could be one large window beside the door at the 
end, where they could run in and out without dis- 
turbing any one. The closets Chan thought a 
grand scheme. A bookcase with an open front 
could stand by the library partition, and each child 
have a shelf for the ordinary books. 
“ We must bring a lot over from the old house,” 
declared Marigold, '' though some of them are 
pretty well worn out. Oh, Chan, aren’t you glad 
to have such a splendid ‘ 'sop’s Fables ’ ? ” 
“ You just believe I am.” But he never could 
bring that downstairs for the others to handle. 
Somehow they were all tired and sleepy, and 
no one demurred about going to bed. But Ama- 
ryllis lay awake a long time thinking how things 
had changed with them, and wondering if she 
could ever get into the nice, pretty ways Mrs. Al- 
den had, and use such refined words, and pro- 
nounce them clear to the end. Already she was 
ambitious to be a little lady. She had never dared 
to copy Mrs. Burnham; it didn’t seem quite right. 
The school-children thought one stuck up,” and 
full of airs,” when she was well-mannered. 
Oh, she was glad not to live at Denby ! 
CHAPTER III 
AMONG OLD FRIENDS 
I SUPPOSE we can all go to Sunday-school ! ” 
exclaimed Chan, as they rose from the luncheon- 
table. I'd like to get the carols. They gath- 
ered them up last Sunday, but to-day they give 
them to you for good and all.” 
“ Oh, yes,” rejoined Marigold. “ I — we ” 
Then she paused and colored. 
How many of you?” There was consent in 
Mr. Mann’s tone. 
All, I guess,” answered Linn. 
I don’t care,” said Tip. I like this book of 
birds. And it’s cold. I’d rather stay by the 
fire.” 
It was a fine, sunny day, if the air was sharp. 
“ Then there are five of you, and Dan. Can you 
pack into two seats? ” asked their father. 
'' It will be all the warmer.” 
Then go and ask Dan to take out both horses.” 
Linn started with alacrity. It did give the boy’s 
heart a thrill. How could he help feeling a certain 
delight in the new position! But he tried not to 
feel unduly proud. 
Mrs. Mann made them ready, and they started 
off with bright faces. 
It is too bad Rilla’s new clothes did not come 
yesterday,” Mrs. Mann said regretfully. She 
would have enjoyed them so. That beautiful 
wine-color made her look so pretty. Oh, why 
didn’t we think to let her wear it home and have 
the other sent ! ” 
No, it is better this way. I shouldn’t like peo- 
ple to begin to talk. And the others would have 
nothing new.” 
He smiled. “ Never mind about the talking. 
That’s pretty sure to come anyway. Amaryllis is 
such a modest little body. I want her to have as 
good a time as the others, and really come out 
in the open, as people say. I want them to enjoy 
the money, too. They will get enough of the hard 
rubs later on, out in the big world. And think 
what the remembrance of a joyous childhood will 
be to them ! If they do get a little set up,” laugh- 
ing, they’ll get level-headed farther on. They 
all have sense enough for that. But I wonder — 
have you any tender associations with the Denby 
church ? ” 
Her eyes drooped and her face flushed. 
“ Oh, you see I couldn’t go to church much, but 
I tried to have the older ones go to Sunday-school. 
Mr. and Mrs. Burnham were very kind, and under- 
stood how it was.” 
“ There is a nice chapel down at the end of the 
street, St. Mark’s. Nearly all the people go there, 
though the trolley to Ridgewood comes up to that 
point. But the children are likely to grow up 
here, and it is best that they should have their 
rightful standing. I have not done much in the 
way of making friends, though I’ve passed a cor- 
dial greeting with the men. I like the clergyman 
at the chapel. He seems a nice sensible person, 
with some real religion, not run into a mold that 
he cannot change. I have not been to church 
much, but I think we ought to begin.” 
“ Yes,” she returned. She did not raise her 
eyes, for she knew they were on the verge of 
tears. 
I think I will ask this Mr. Evans to dinner 
some night, and have him interview the whole 
eight,” and she felt the smile in his voice. “ Then 
we can settle the matter in a friendly fashion.” 
So they talked over some plans for the children 
and the future. 
And the children ! When they drew up before 
the shabby-looking church where the lecture and 
Sunday-school room was in the basement, the 
church proper having a high stoop (nearly every- 
thing looked shabby in the old village), the pretty 
team shook their silvery bells and arched their 
necks as if to say, “ Look at us,” and in an instant 
there was a small crowd to look. 
I question if Marigold Firth ever had a prouder 
moment in her life than when Dan threw back the 
white wolf robe and handed out the girls with an 
air that would have amused Mr. Mann. Ama- 
ryllis did wish she had on her new suit, but Mari- 
gold, in the plaid frock, made out of old Aunt 
Kitty’s fifty-year-agone cloak, and her dark-blue 
coat with the collar of fur, was satisfied with the 
turnout and the driver, to say nothing of the new 
home at Grafton. 
“Oh, Goldie! Oh, Prim! We didn’t know 
whether you would come over here or not. And 
we wanted to see you so ! Oh, isn’t it just wonder- 
ful ! Mrs. Burnham told us about it on Christmas 
Day, and what a beautiful wedding your mother 
had, and all of you in white! Do you like your 
new stepfather, and isn’t he very rich? And to 
live at Grafton in such a fine house! Oh, how 
grand you will be ! ” 
It seemed as if the crowd talked all at once. 
“ I don’t know about the ‘ very rich,’ ” with an 
air of indifference that amazed her hearers. But 
the house is large, with barns and carriages, and 
dinners every day, just like a party.” 
“ But to take in all you children ! Are you 
really going to stay? ” 
Why not ? Mother wouldn’t have gone with- 
out us. He wanted us children. We were there 
one day last summer, and he wanted to adopt Chan, 
but Chan didn’t like to go alone. And he has such 
a beautiful room. Some one else sent him a 
splendid lot of books and a gold watch that be- 
longed to the little boy that died in the hos- 
pital.” 
And I s’pose you had lots of Christmas 
things ? ” in a tone of envy. 
“ Oh, yes. And a locket and chain ; it’s ’way 
under my coat. Oh, I don’t remember all we had,” 
in a sweet tone of indifference, as if presents were 
everyday matters. 
And Mrs. Burnham said a piano and a house- 
keeper, and a servant.” 
And Dan and two splendid horses,” laugh- 
ingly. '' We can go out every day.” 
“ I s’pose you won’t come over here to school 
any more ? ” 
I don’t know what we shall do. It’s only been 
such a little while.” 
It’s queer he should want to marry your 
mother and take all you children.” 
“ Why, he liked us,” was the decided reply. 
And do you like him?” asked another. 
Like him!” with emphasis. ‘‘He’s just the 
sweetest and dearest father any one can have. But, 
then, he’s done so many nice things. And you 
know he sent Chan to the hospital. And he took 
us on a picnic. That’s where we went at Thanks- 
giving.” 
“ Won’t it be queer to call him ‘ Father ’? ” 
“ He said right away that we must.” 
Then the bell rang and the children straggled 
into their places. The teachers had been holding 
an animated discussion on the all-absorbing topic. 
Miss Sophronia Beers came over from Miss 
Weed’s class, where the latter had been listening 
to the fact that “ Mrs. Firth had come down and 
told Pop that Linn must come home on Tuesday 
night, as she was to be married Wednesday, and 
Pop said you could have knocked him down with a 
feather. She wasn’t sure Linn could come back 
at all, it would be as Mr. Mann said. Pop thinks 
Linn is such a smart, honest little fellow he hates 
to give him up.” 
“ When the honeymoon is over she may be glad 
to send him back, and put Rilla out somewhere. 
Eight children are a big undertaking, and step- 
father-love seldom holds out very long. ’Twas 
funny, though, that man came down to the station 
for her when she came back from that funeral. 
Seems as though she must have known him before. 
And if he’s so wonderful he could have had his 
choice and picked out some one suitable without a 
raft of young ones ! I’d felt rather skittish about 
marrying a man who was making a great splurge, 
and that you didn’t know anything about.” 
Miss Weed felt that the marriageable women 
of Denby had really suffered an affront. 
Presently the children were settled in their 
classes. The hymn was given out, then the prayer, 
and the reading of the chapter. But the Firth chil- 
dren distracted attention from more serious mat- 
ters. Even Miss Beers, who had the three girls in 
her class, felt she ought to recognize the happen- 
ing in some way. 
I s’pose it is quite the thing to congratulate 
you girls on your Christmas gift, if we may call it 
that. And I wish you may be happy with your 
new home and your new father. Of course, it is a 
great change, and you must be thankful for the 
good gifts of Providence and use them wisely, and 
not be lifted up with vanity, remembering that 
pride goeth before a fall, and that the Lord can 
take away as well as give. Now we will find the 
lesson.” 
They answered at random, perhaps they gen- 
erally did, but they seldom had such a good ex- 
cuse. And yet they were just the same, and 
wore the same clothes they did the Sunday 
before. 
The carols were sung with much youthful fer- 
vor. The contribution basket was passed, and 
the other girls envied the quiet indifference with 
which the Firths dropped in a nickel instead of 
the usual penny. 
The mother had said, Oh, children, don’t be 
silly enough to put on airs or show off, but act 
just as if you had come from the little old house. 
For, after all, we are just the same.” 
Quite a crowd stopped them by the doorway 
with very personal questions. What did they get 
for Christmas? Mrs. Burnham said the house 
was elegant, and they were all dressed in white, 
like bridesmaids. Wasn’t it queer to have their 
mother married to a rich man, and go to such a 
grand house when they were so poor? 
We weren’t so very poor,” Marigold replied 
spiritedly. Mother owned the house and 
garden, and had her pension, and we were always 
well when other children were ill. And we always 
had plenty to eat and enough to keep us warm. I 
don’t call that being very poor ! ” 
But to keep a servant and a hired man, and 
ride out in a sleigh or carriage! I call that be; 
ing rich. And for your little sister to have a doll 
that can walk and say ‘ mamma,’ must have cost a 
sight of money. Why, I never heard of such a 
thing ! And will you live at Grafton all the 
time ? ” 
To be sure,” laughed Prim. We children 
couldn’t live alone.” 
Linn and Chan stood down on the sidewalk 
with a group of boys, who studied the new city- 
made overcoat. ‘‘ No, I don’t think I shall go 
back to Mr. Beers’s store,” Linn was saying. 
“ Well, we’re sorry to miss you out of school. 
There isn’t another as good batter as you were. 
But if you were in the store we’d have lost you 
all the same. Can’t you come over some time ? ” 
“ I’d like to first-rate.” Linn wondered to him- 
self if it would be the right thing to ask the boys 
to visit him. He would see what his mother said. 
Dan drove up with the sleigh, and the girls were 
helped in and tucked about with blankets. The 
boys were on the front seat with him. Then 
came a great waving of hands and many good-bys. 
They would have cheered if it had not been Sun- 
day. The horses threw up their heads and 
were off. 
Well, I declare! ” ejaculated Miss Weed. I 
suppose they were sent over just for a show ! They 
were not dressed up a bit, except Linn.” 
“ But Mrs. Burnham said they had lovely white 
frocks at the wedding.” 
“ Oh, of course,” Miss Weed sniffed. She was 
seven years younger than Mrs. Firth, and one of 
those who had some money. “ But he must have 
bought all the things. I'd like to see a man buy 
my wedding-clothes. If I couldn’t afford ’em I 
wouldn’t get married, that’s all !” 
The sleigh skimmed along merrily. They 
were too young to suspect the heart-burnings they 
had left behind. 
“ I hope it will snow pretty soon again,” said 
Dan. Now that we have begun, we may as well 
go on.” 
“ It’s the most splendid thing in the world ! ” 
declared Goldie enthusiastically. “ And the bells 
are the danciest of music.” 
They don’t seem to keep Sunday very strictly,” 
said Chan. 
But Sunday ought to be a happy sort of day. 
Does it help you to look solemn and feel cross ? ” 
“ Why, no. And you don’t have to work much, 
so you can stop and think of beautiful things. 
And weren’t the carols lovely! I know some of 
the tunes.” 
“ Fve brought my paper home. There were 
only two given to our class, and they said I should 
have one for keeps. I thought it real good of 
them.” 
Dan smiled now and then, but it was not at their 
chatter. He had taken the horses to Mr. Beers’s, 
where there was a partly inclosed shed. After 
blanketing them, he accepted the pressing invita- 
tion to walk in. Mrs. Beers was reading the 
Bible, her Sunday afternoon occupation after she 
had taken her nap. She was a thrifty, industrious 
woman, and found little leisure, as her two 
daughters did shop work ” in common with most 
of the younger women, it being sent every week 
from a large clothing factory. Both of the elders 
were ready for a bit of gossip. 
“ Everybody was clear beat about that there 
weddin’,” Mrs. Beers began. “ Good land I if he’s 
that rich he could have married any one I Why, 
he must be a little lackin’? Eight children! 
When them twins was born everybody thought it 
dreadful. And then on the top of it their father 
died. Bessy Firth got along somehow; I never 
heard she complained.” 
Linn’s as nice and smart a boy as you’d find 
in a day’s walk,” said Mr. Beers. He’s a good 
head for business, and I think his mother had 
better kept him at it. Eight children’s a mighty 
big lot to saddle on a man all to wunst. I don’t 
see how your Mr. Mann could think of under- 
taking it.” 
If she, Mrs. Firth, as she was then, could do 
it, I don’t see why a man with plenty of money 
couldn’t,” Dan responded with a short laugh. 
Last summer he was going round to orphan 
asylums hunting up some. He’s awful fond of 
children.” 
Folks thought the Gedneys had plenty of 
money, and they came out at the little end of the 
horn. Of course, Linn and Rilla’ll soon be big 
enough to help along if they have the right bring- 
ing up. But there’s six right behind, five of ’em 
girls. Good land! It’ll be years before he gets 
’em off his hands.” 
I guess the money won’t run short,” returned 
Dan dryly. They’re a nice bright lot.” 
Well, I’d ruther ’twould be him than me. 
Land sakes alive. Mother; s’pose we had 
eight? ” 
'' I should have been dead long ago ! ” said Mrs. 
Beers. “ An’ no doubt my children would have 
had a stepmother. I dunno how you’d ever ’a’ 
fed ’em all without goin’ bankrupt.” 
“ That makes me think, Dan. What’s Bessy 
Firth goin’ to do about her house ? The Creamery 
folks want to buy it, but Granny tied it up to the 
children. It’s gettin’ old. There was a powerful 
sight of nice fruit on the place, but that’s runnin’ 
out. I guess I know some one who would like 
to hire it. And she’d get' her rent, too, and he’d 
take good care of it. That Dutch tailor.” 
He’s a nice sort of man, I believe,” returned 
Dan. 
Pays his bills as he goes along, and is in- 
dustrious. You see, the Graus’ father and mother 
and grandfather are coming over from Germany, 
so the Bachmans will have to light out. They 
were looking round in the fall. He was in here 
Sat’day, asking if we knew of any place to rent. 
It wouldn’t be any great resk. He’d take good 
care of things. Beats all how these Dutch do get 
along.” 
I’ll be glad to mention it,” said Dan. ‘‘ A 
house is better off, tenanted.” 
Pity she couldn’t sell it,” began Mrs. Beers. 
But there ! she may have to go back to it some 
time. The man may get tired of so many young 
ones. Stepfathers are like the tins peddlers bring 
round ; seconds they call him. They’re good 
enough first off, but they don’t wear, an’ you’re 
glad to throw ’em away.” 
There’s no fear but he will wear all right,” re- 
turned Dan rather testily. He’ll be a good 
father to them, and a good husband as well.” 
“ Some folks do have the luck ! Now I’d said 
she was the most onlikely woman to be asked in 
marriage. Why, there’s ever so many round suf- 
ferin’ for husbands, with money, too, who’d 
’a’ jumped at the chance.” 
Dan laughed. “ Maybe they had no children, 
you see.” 
“ Why, no ; single women don’t.” 
Dan consulted his watch. I guess I’ll go and 
look after the horses. School ’ll soon be out.” 
“ Now, if things shouldn’t go smooth, and Bessy 
Mann should think it best, you just say I’d be 
proper glad to have Linn back, an’ I’ll give him 
half a dollar more a week. I’d just about got 
him trained, and he has such a nice way of fixing 
up things. Well, I’m sure I wish her good 
luck.” 
Dan nodded, and drove away considerably 
amused. Did they all envy Bessy Firth her good 
fortune? He found the children in a huddle 
about the porch, and the teachers talking in a little 
group, not that it was such a gratification to see 
Bessy Firth’s crowd drive off in state. 
The sun dropped down as they reached home, 
and the wind blew cold. But they were rosy and 
eager. 
Oh, Mother, we just had a lovely time,” de- 
clared Prim, kissing her rapturously. “ Every- 
body was glad to see us. The whole class was 
there, and some of the other teachers spoke to us. 
And the girls wanted to know about Christmas, 
and had never heard of a doll that could walk and 
speak. And the carols were just lovely. Maybe 
Mrs. Alden can play them.” 
“ Well, go upstairs and take off your wraps.” 
Chan was talking to Mrs. Alden. Yes, she 
knew ‘‘ Hark, the Herald Angels Sing,” and 
“ When from the East the Wise Men Came.” She 
could play some hymn tunes. 
So after dinner they tried them. In some 
places the tune went a little astray, but it seemed 
delightful to the man who heretofore had only 
imagined home delights. 
I can think of beautiful tunes,” said Chan, 
and I picked out some yesterday. Oh, don’t you 
suppose I could learn to play?” 
The sweet eager eyes were full of inspiration 
and longing. 
“ We will have a regular music teacher. Tm 
fond of it myself, but I like singing best, unless it 
is a real concert band, but that isn’t home music. 
Don’t you know some other things to sing?” 
asked their father. 
What an evening it was ! Half the women in 
Denby were envying Bessy Firth and wondering 
how such good fortune could come to her. But 
wouldn’t the man repent his bargain some day? 
CHAPTER IV 
ENLARGING THEIR BORDERS 
What is going to happen to-day?’' asked 
Goldie at the breakfast-table. ‘‘We might build 
a snow house. Oh, Mother, can’t we bring over a 
lot of Aunt Hitty’s woolen stockings? They’d 
be splendid to play in the snow with.” 
“ Anything like seven-league boots ? ” inquired 
Mr. Mann. 
Marigold said Aunt Hitty had left fifty pairs 
of stockings, and she thought at least half of 
them had come in their fortune. “ After all, I 
do think we had the worth of our money,” she 
added reflectively. 
“ If it hadn’t been for the fortune, I might never 
have known you,” said Mr. Mann laughingly. 
“ It’s like the house that Jack built,” said Prim. 
“This is the parcel all forlorn 
That came to us on Saturday morn 
From a poor old lady dead and gone. 
This is the friend who paused and sighed, 
As over our sorrows we loudly cried. 
This is the palace all fine and gay, 
Where we came to spend our Christmas Day.” 
And have stayed ever since. You will ob- 
serve the machinery is out of gear and wants oil- 
ing up.” 
Mr. Mann laughed heartily and gave Prim a 
regular bear hug that made her squeal. 
“ You girls must help with the dishes. Lide is 
busy with the washing. Mr. Breen brought her 
over.” 
And Pm going to Ridgewood to find a man 
who did some repairs for me in the summer. 
Then,” looking at his wife, I think we may as 
well hunt up the German who wants a house.” 
“ But why undertake the playroom just now?” 
in a rather objecting tone. 
“ Because it is needed. I shall be run over by 
Tip’s train some day, or demolish a grand castle, 
or tip over a tea-table.” 
“ Yes,” subjoined Tip gravely. I haven’t half 
room enough, there are so many chairs and peo- 
ple, and mother won’t let me make a run in the 
parlor.” 
“ No, indeed. You might go upstairs in one of 
the vacant rooms.” 
“ But I don’t want to be alone.” 
“ Oh, I thought you objected to the people,” 
said his mother. 
Yes, the playroom is an absolute necessity; 
I was not going to the city to-day. I’ll just take 
the trolley over. Linn, don’t you want to go 
along? ” 
Oh, I’ll be glad to.” 
Tip, please don’t cry after me.” 
Why — we all have mother left.” 
Be sure you don’t eat her up while I am 
gone,” with a teasing laugh that brought a twinkle 
in Prim’s eyes. 
Amaryllis went upstairs to spread the beds and 
dust. The two girls helped with the dishes, and 
by the time Dan had his work done they were out 
inspecting the snow man and taking a turn at 
snowballing. 
Mr. Mann and Linn walked briskly down to 
the pretty park with its blanket of snow. There 
was the chapel, and a little farther on the sta- 
tion shed. The car was about to start, but Mr. 
Mann whistled and they ran. Five or six boys 
going in to school sat on one side; on the other, 
the clergyman, Mr. Evans. Mr. Mann bowed and 
took a seat beside him, receiving a cordial greeting. 
‘‘ I wonder if it is too late to congratulate you? ” 
the clergyman asked tentatively. 
Oh, I hope it will never be too late all my life 
long, since time will bring new pleasures. And I 
am glad to meet you. I was thinking yesterday 
that when a man is the head of a family he ought 
to have some church relations.” 
We shall be glad to welcome you. Do not 
take it amiss if I make it a personal matter. I am 
thankful for every new addition. And there are 
some children ? ” inquiringly. 
Six of Sunday-school age. This is the eldest 
boy,” and he introduced Linn. “ It is too far to 
send them over to Denby, and, as they will grow 
up here, it is best to give them a status at once.” 
We have not a very large Sunday-school. In- 
deed, a suburban place like this is a rather diffi- 
cult field. I came here because I was worn out 
by some exhausting mission work, and could not 
afford a European tour,” smiling vaguely. It is 
a beautiful place with some cultivated people in it, 
but many of the houses are merely summer homes. 
And there seems a dearth of children, so I shall 
welcome yours.” 
Denby did not rank very high in the social 
scale, he remembered. He had exchanged a few 
calls with Mr. Burnham. But this was a bright, 
attractive lad, and if he were a sample, he might 
be glad of the others. 
'' Ridgewood is so near, several of the families 
are loath to give up their affiliations. It offers a 
fine library, an entertainment hall, some excellent 
schools, and two men’s clubs that interest me. I 
would like to broaden out the work, so I give a 
hearty welcome to a newcomer.” 
Then I suppose there will be no difficulty in 
finding seats for us — nine in all, with Mrs. Mann, 
whom you already know.” 
“ Oh, no, indeed. To tell the truth, Mr. Mann, 
I have quite coveted you. I hope we shall be truly 
friends.” 
Yes. Oh, see here,” with a cordial smile, 
what is to hinder you from coming in to dine 
to-night ? One always reaches a social point 
sooner at a meal. Then you would see all the 
children, and I assure you they are quite worth 
seeing.” 
Why, I should be glad to if ” and the 
clergyman looked a little uncertain. 
Yes, let it be to-day. The next two days I 
am due in New York, and get home rather late. 
Oh, you may be sure of a welcome. We dine at 
six. I want you to meet Mrs. Mann.” 
** Thank you. I shall be glad to come.” 
‘‘ We shall look for you. We do not belong to 
the formal kind of people. I must stop off here. 
I am glad of this little encounter,” and the three 
shook hands in a friendly manner. 
Mr. Evans looked after him. He had a fine 
physique and a brisk business air, a trusty face, and 
the cordiality in his tone went to the clergyman’s 
heart. He had heard some invidious remarks 
about him, and yesterday his marriage had been 
commented upon, and a fear expressed that the 
children might be detrimental. Yes, he should 
like to see them at home. 
Mr. Mann considered himself fortunate in find- 
ing the builder, a Mr. Jones, at his shop, employ- 
ing his leisure time in fashioning a cabinet of 
rather intricate design. But he was all attention 
to the visitor, who unfolded his plan and showed 
him the sketch with the dimensions plainly marked. 
How soon could he undertake it ? 
I have nothing special on hand for the next 
two weeks ; after that for a month I shall be quite 
busy. Could I come over this afternoon and make 
an estimate ? ” 
“ Suppose you return with me — I shall be away 
early in the afternoon. The sooner it is com- 
pleted the better I shall be pleased.” 
Very well, I have only to shut up shop and put 
on my overcoat.” But he paused to answer some 
of Linn’s questions. 
They were not long in reaching Linden Avenue. 
The children had snowballed their man a little, and 
found him good and solid. Dan said he would 
drench him every night with the hose. Then they 
gathered up the eggs and paid a visit to General 
Peacock, as Prim called him, who grumbled out a 
few unsocial protests. Then they found the two 
men in earnest consultation. 
You were not funning a bit,” said Prim, as she 
caught Mr. Mann’s hand. “ The playroom will be 
a true fact, as the children say at school.” 
“ I rather think it will be. If it wasn’t for the 
dimple I suppose you would take me more seri- 
ously,” in a teasing tone. 
Why, I feel as if I were in an enchanted land, 
and that the things might fade away, they are so 
wonderful,” she returned. 
Linn had been listening with evident delight. 
There would be but two sides to inclose. The 
south would be nearly all sashes; toward the west, 
a door and a small stoop; a door would open 
from the kitchen, and on either side would be a 
capacious closet; on the side opening from the 
library, a set of shelves for books. 
Mr. Jones would be over the next morning with 
a load of lumber, and he knew where he could get 
some sashes cheap if Mr. Mann would not mind 
small panes of glass. So all the plans were 
settled. 
Marigold ran upstairs to smooth her tousled 
head, and stopped at Chan’s door, finding him in 
an easy-chair, reading. 
It’s going to be just magnif’,” she declared, 
with shelves for flowers. Think of that, Chan ! 
We can begin our greenhouse! Maybe we can 
have some flowers this winter, for Mr. Jones 
thinks it will be done in a fortnight.” 
“Oh, that will be just royal!” He closed his 
book and went down to imagine how it would 
look. 
They discussed it eagerly through luncheon- 
time in spite of their mother’s efforts to temper 
their enthusiasm. Since their new father was do- 
ing it for them, of course it was theirs. 
How delightful it was to announce the visit of 
Mr. Evans and make no commotion! Had he 
ever before been master of his own house? 
“ There needn’t be anything extra,” he said. 
“ Mr. Evans would be uncomfortable if he thought 
he put us out. He will begin on the sociable side.” 
Tide would stay until they came back from 
Denby, and Dan could take her home. 
“ Don’t let the children run over you, Mrs. 
Alden,” Bessy counseled. “ They grow wilder 
every hour. And, Rilla, you see that they are in 
order before five o’clock. I wouldn’t play out 
in the snow any more.” 
“ But we must do something,” returned Prim- 
rose. 
“ Study the dictionary and make up some new 
verses,” laughed Mr. Mann. 
Yes, that will be good and improving,” said 
the girl demurely. 
He drove down by the new road, as it was 
called, which was more direct. They paused at 
the Grau cottage, which had a tidy, cleared-up 
look. Mrs. Grau was Mr. Bachman’s sister, and 
they had been in America a dozen years or more, 
putting their money into a bit of land where liv- 
ing was cheap. The Bachmans had two rooms 
in a sort of ell, and a corner of the garret. They 
had belonged to German Poland. 
The living-room was clean and neat, and Mrs. 
Bachman had a tidy, cheerful aspect. There was 
a rather clumsy, home-made lounge, and an old 
bureau, besides the chairs and table. The adjoin- 
ing room had two beds and a kind of counter, 
where work was piled up. There were two chil- 
dren, a boy of ten and a girl of eight. 
Yes, Mrs. Beers had spoken about the house. 
They were too much crowded here, but they had 
been poor on their arrival, and it was most kind 
of the Graus to take them in. It was hard to find 
a place, and they would like a bit of ground. 
They were not able to buy, but they hoped to some 
day. They had been used to a garden at home, 
and chickens and geese. She had made her own 
beds and the spreads, but they could not bring 
their furniture; it cost so much. But they were 
on their feet now, and work was good, so they 
could afford to have a real home some time, and a 
garden. It seemed as if the good God sent this 
to them, and they would be so thankful. 
Then Mrs. Bachman colored rosily and said 
with some hesitation : 
“ And we heard you had such a nice man and 
beautiful home and a good father for your chil- 
dren. We wish you a great deal of joy, and hope 
you will have long life and happiness.” 
“ Thank you,” responded Mr. Mann, with a 
cordial smile. 
“ And we are very glad to find such a good ten- 
ant,” said Bessy. We were very happy in the 
little old house, and Mr. Firth knew all about rais- 
ing nice fruit and poultry. I did not understand 
the management, and had my hands full caring for 
the children.” 
Yes, yes. To think of eight, with no father! 
But in the old country the women do so much out- 
door work. The men have to serve their time for 
soldiers. Oh, we shall be glad to have your house. 
You see, we have to go anyhow; we are too 
crowded here.” 
Then they talked over terms. Mr. Mann took 
the lead here. 
“ All my things are there,” said Mrs. Mann. 
“ I will go over to-morrow and pack up what I 
want. And if you could come? There are some 
old things that might be useful to you. Could you 
come in the morning?” 
Oh, yes, we would,” replied Mr. Bachman. 
They belong to the nice thrifty class of for- 
eigners,” said Mr. Mann, when he had packed his 
wife into the sleigh. “ They make good citizens 
for us. All they need is a helping hand. If these 
people had had no real friends to advise them, he 
might be doing sweatshop work, and the family 
living in a crowded tenement. I wonder charitable 
societies do not take out colonies of them; there 
is so much waste land all around. Think what a 
thrifty town this might be made! The farmers 
might raise a great deal more with better cultiva- 
tion. And poultry and a pig or two would help 
along in the living and fertilize the garden. Shall 
I turn farmer? ” laughing. 
“ Mr. Firth used to talk that way. And his 
fruit always brought high prices. He used to 
graft for the farmers, but, after all, they seemed 
not to care. He wondered that farmers were not 
wiser. Denby has scarcely changed since I was a 
little girl, only we have a nice new school-building, 
and once the church was repaired and cleaned up.’’ 
“ I wonder Mr. Burnham is not discouraged. 
Would it be out of order to call at the parson- 
age?” studying his wife’s face. 
Why, no. I should like to ; they were al- 
ways so good and friendly to us.” 
The minister was at home with the remnant of 
yesterday’s headache from an overheated room. 
Katy had a dreadful cold again; her eyes were red 
and swollen. 
I can’t understand how you manage to keep 
your crowd so well,” Mrs. Burnham said rather 
complainingly. “ Martha declared they looked so 
bright and rosy yesterday they were like a garden 
of flowers.” 
“Are we going to lose them, Mr. Mann?” in- 
quired the minister. “ I’m afraid Mr. Evans will 
want to gather them in.” 
“ Yes, he has spoken for them. You see, it is 
only a short walk to the chapel, and it might not 
always be convenient to send them over here.” 
“ Well, I’m sorry enough, though they will 
keep in the right way. And we shall miss them in 
the singing.” 
‘‘We shall miss you in many ways/’ said Mrs. 
Burnham to her guest in a heartsome tone. “ But 
we cannot grudge your good fortune. You were 
always so ready and helpful, and had so many 
ideas. I suppose it came largely from teaching.” 
Bessy wondered how much had come from the 
desire to make the best of everything. 
“ Martha returned home with a bit of business 
even if it was Sunday,” interposed Mr. Burnham. 
“ John Dale from the creamery wanted to know 
if he couldn’t rent the cottage. He’s a steady 
man, and has only four children. There are so 
few places to rent.” 
“ We have just given the Bachmans the refusal 
of it,” said Mr. Mann. 
“ Oh, I’m sorry. The Dales are nice American 
people, and the Bachmans are foreigners, and 
when they once get a foothold they are always 
sending for their relatives.” 
“ They seem nice, industrious people. Mr. 
Beers speaks well of them. Why don’t the cream- 
ery folks build some cottages ? ” 
“ Oh, I don’t suppose it would really pay, 
though the Dawson place over there houses three 
families.” 
“ It would improve the town.” 
They talked a little about the chapel, and parted 
with cordial hopes of seeing each other soon 
again. 
But you have the best of us. You can go 
driving around any time,” said Mrs. Burnham. 
She watched them off, and, turning to her husband, 
continued: ‘‘Bessy Firth is worthy of her good 
fortune, but it is one of the mysterious happenings, 
and it has set half the village wild with envy. I 
only hope the good fortune will last.” 
“ He seems to be a solid sort of man, but it must 
have taken some courage to begin with eight chil- 
dren,” and the minister smiled. 
Bessy wondered if they might stop a few mo- 
ments at Mrs. Briggs’s. “ It would delight her so. 
But there is Mr. Evans ” 
“ No, he isn’t there, and if he comes before we 
get back the whole eight can entertain him. Then 
there are two women to get the dinner,” and he 
laughed merrily. 
They met with the heartiest welcome. Mrs. 
Briggs took Bessy in her arms and kissed her. 
“ I haven’t gotten over my surprise yet,” de- 
clared Mrs. Briggs, as she smiled over to Mr. 
Mann. “ We thought we fairly owned Bessy 
Firth. And it was so sudden ” 
“ Yes,” he interposed to shield Bessy. “ I’d 
planned to adopt some of the children, but they 
wouldn’t leave their mother, and I don’t wonder 
at it. So, as I had plenty of room, I thought I 
might as well take them all in. I’ve always 
wanted a family of children.” 
Well, I guess you have a nice lot. Chan’s the 
sweetest little fellow, and Linn is about as good as 
they make ’em, and Rilla’s been a second mother 
this last year. We were talking about keeping 
Linn this winter, he’s so ready and handy, and we 
should have let him go to school. I do love to 
have a small boy around when he’s nice, but Mr. 
Beers seized on him. And I must say, Bessy, you 
deserved the good fortune. There’s not many 
mothers who would have shouldered the burden 
so cheerfully. And, Mr. Mann, you’ve won a 
prize.” 
He was delighted with the commendation. 
“ Come and sit here and tell me about your new 
house,” said Aunt Patty. “ You won’t mind, 
Mr. Mann? We’ve always been so interested in 
Bessy Firth.” 
And you have always been so kind,” returned 
Bessy. It is on a fine street and is so large I 
hardly know myself in it. Mr. Mann insisted that 
we should all come and keep Christmas with him. 
It was so sudden there wasn’t much time to talk 
it over, and I was so surprised.” 
Bessy blushed like a girl, and just then Mr. 
Briggs entered. 
Hello, in his familiar, hearty fashion. “ I 
thought there must be some quality! That’s a 
nice turnout of yours, Mr. Mann. You surely 
stole a march on us, and you’ve got about the best 
wife Denby can turn out. I don’t know so much 
about your husband, Mrs. Mann, but I s’pose it’s 
safe to congratulate you both. Let’s have a lit- 
tle wine. Mother.” 
Thank you in my wife’s name. She may re- 
port a year or two hence,” smiling. 
While she was getting out her currant wine 
and pound-cake, Lidie, the poor rheumatic 
daughter, came over to join Mrs. Mann. 
“ Mrs. Burnham told us about the wedding, but 
I’d like to hear it first hand,” said she. And the 
little girls dressed in white — how pretty they must 
have looked, and Mrs. Burnham said you looked 
like a girl yourself. And how is Tip? We miss 
Linn so much. Why, it seems as if you had been 
gone a month.” 
The men had a cordial chat. Mr. Briggs was 
glad they had such a good tenant for the house. 
We heard Dale wanted it and, though he’s a nice 
man, he has two of the worst boys, so I’m glad to 
have them a mile away. That Linn is a nice little
chap. Smart, too. We’ve kind of coveted 
him.” 
And when they get crowded, Mr. Mann, send 
some of them over here,” said Mrs. Briggs. 
“ Dear, how we shall miss them ! Our grandchil- 
dren are only babies as yet.” 
Bessy said they must go, as they were to have a 
guest at dinner. 
“ Doesn’t it almost seem as if you had set up a 
hotel, Mr. Mann ? ” asked grandma. 
‘‘A very delightful one. You must come over 
and see us before you forget how the children 
looked. I am sincerely glad to know Bessy’s 
friends.” 
Lidie and I will have to wait until pleasant 
weather, but we’ll surely come,” replied grandma. 
We won’t be so long about it,” remarked Mr. 
Briggs. “ I’m often over to Grafton and Ridge- 
wood, and we shall hope to see you, for we can’t 
quite give up Bessy Firth.” 
That was a very enjoyable call,” said Mr. 
Mann, when they were settled in the sleigh. I 
do suppose Denby people were astonished at my 
high-handed procedure ! And you took it so 
meekly,” with a merry kind of laugh. 
Oh, I couldn’t have explained, I was so sur- 
prised myself,” and she smiled at the mirth in his 
eyes. “ I think it was best the way you planned it. 
Even Mr. Beers advised me in a kindly way to be 
very careful about forming any new connection 
and leaving those who had shown themselves my 
friends. No one seems to think you could care for 
so many children, and I am not young.” 
You are just what I want. I shall love you 
more as time goes on and I get accustomed to 
your many virtues,” in a tender tone. 
“ Oh, you flatterer ! ” But her eyes had the 
softness of tears. 
They drove up by the old house. 
I must gather up a few things,” she said, 
“ though the furniture is mostly worn out. I 
used to wonder what we would do by and by, and 
how I could place the children satisfactorily.” 
And now you need have no care about that. 
Yes, come over and pick up what you want, and 
we will send Dan after them. The half-worn 
things you might give to the Bachmans. They do 
not look overstocked.” 
Yes,” she answered, for they certainly were 
not worth an auction. “ There is an old cedar 
chest that was great-grandmother’s, that has no 
end of brass trimmings — Rilla used to scour them 
once or twice a year — and one that was grand- 
mother’s. I packed up some articles in them, 
pretty china and some silver we rarely used. There 
will not be much.” 
“ There may be heirlooms that the children will 
treasure later on. Families are beginning to value 
these things.” 
He remembered with a little sigh that there had 
been nothing he had cared to keep when his house 
was dismantled. Even the few ornaments had 
been of the cheapest sort. Every penny had gone 
to the bank account, nothing for pleasure or hap- 
piness. 
Yes, the little old house did look lonely enough. 
She would be glad to have some one in it. And 
now the sun had dropped down, and the short 
winter day was ending. Mr. Mann started up the 
horses, which seemed nothing loath to hurry 
along. 
“ I do hope the children haven’t turned the 
house upside down. It seems as if we had been 
gone a long while,” said Bessy. 
'' Does it? Why, it seems brief to me, though 
we have accomplished considerable. Don’t worry 
about the children. We may go off and stay a 
week. They will come out all right,” giving a 
half-teasing laugh. 
Oh, how comforting it was to have him think 
them no trouble, and to be so eager for their wel- 
fare and happiness! Would it last? It was un- 
grateful to question, to doubt. Was it not a 
good gift from God as well? 
CHAPTER V 
THE clergyman’s VISIT 
The children had been very well entertained. 
At first Linn and Tip had gone out to the barn 
when they were summoned by a delivery-wagon. 
The girls ran to see what had come. 
'' Oh, it’s my things,” exclaimed Amaryllis. 
Why, it’s everything!'' 
“ As if you were just moving in ! Why, you’ve 
kept it a secret ! ” and Marigold’s tone was one of 
complaint. 
“ Well, they promised the suit and the hat on 
Saturday. They couldn’t say when the rest would 
come.” 
Yes, there was the suit in a large box, and the 
