all lace and ribbons. And I 
danced with the Prince and had such a lovely 
time!’’ 
Then the eyelids fell and she lapsed into 
unconsciousness. 
Miss Armitage glanced inquiringly. 
'It was along of a dream that she had once; 
it was a dream for such things don’t happen 
now-a-days, more’s the pity. But she always 
believes it real and true, the dear, that she 
was Cinderella, and had been there. She’s 
the best little thing I ever saw, and she never 
told you a lie or took a bit of cake without 
asking. In the begining she must have be- 
longed to some nice folks; and just look at her 
pretty hands and feet, light and small enough 
to dance at any king’s ball. But it’s hard on 
the nice ones that have to go to Homes and 
be put out for little drudges. Though they’re 
nice people, the Bordens, as you may guess by 
my stayin’ with ’em goin’ on five year.” 
"And she wasn’t over- worked,” ventured 
Miss Armitage. "She is so thin.” 
"She’s been falling away dreadful the last 
month. Well, she wasn’t and she was. There 
was an old lady living up on the third floor, 
an aunt or something and she was afraid of 
bad spells, she did have some, and she’d 
ring her bell for Marilla an’ it would be up- 
stairs an’ down, sometimes way down to my 
kitchen, and lugging those two fat babies 
up and down the street ” 
"Did she have to carry them any?” 
"Oh, no. The mistress didn’t want her to 
lift them. She was afraid of a fall and their 
backs would get broken. So when they were 
big enough they sat on the floor and she talked 
to them and told them funny things and 
acted ’em off and laughed, and they’d laugh 
too. It was like a play to see ’em. And they’d 
jabber back and she’d make b’lieve she un- 
derstood it all. She was a wonderful child’s 
nurse an’ there’ll be trouble enough without 
her. But the babies went to bed early an’ then 
she’d come down an’ wipe the dishes for me 
an’ they made no call on her. But Jack was 
a holy terror, he was that bad, but he went 
to school in the spring. If he was mine I’d 
skin him alive. But it was hard dragging them 
fat, heavy things around. Will you tell me 
just how you come to find her? They’ve 
missed her so. They screech enough to raise 
the dead, an’ I know it’s for her.” 
Miss Armitage told the incident over. 
"The saints bless and protect you ma’am 
for not lettin’ her be sent to a hospital! But 
do you think she can get well? And if that 
other maid suits, couldn’t you keep her here 
all summer and let her get good and strong? 
I’m going out to my cousin at Fairfield to 
stay until next Monday. The boss will be 
down with his folks until then, and all the 
vallerbles have been sent out of the house so 
we can leave it alone. And when I come back 
we may have a plan for the poor dear that 
isn’t baby tendin’. O the little darlin’I Don’t 
let her die, ma’am, she’s so nice and sweet!” 
She caught the little hand and kissed it, 
and winked away the tears that glistened in 
her eyes. 
'I'll do my best, you may be sure. And when 
you come back, I shall be glad to have a call 
from you. And by that time she may know 
us all. Thank you for your sympathy.” 
Bridget nodded and turned away. Miss 
Armitage studied the little girl with a new 
interest. She had seen beautiful children 
among the very poor, in the slums, with 
no ancestry back of them. There was some- 
thing about this child — not beauty either, that 
set one to thinking. She must learn some- 
thing about her. 
And then she smiled over the fancy of 
being Cinderella and dancing with the Prince 
at the ball. What a happy dream it must 
have been for the child! She was glad to hear 
that she had not been badly treated or ill 
fed. She could trust the kindly Bridget for 
that. 
When the doctor came in Sunday morning 
a smile lighted up his face. 
real improvement," he exclaimed. "No 
fever and a normal temperature. Pulse 
stronger. Now, with nourishing diet and some 
salt in the baths we shall have her about 
again, though I 've had several patients lie 
weeks in this state in the hot weather.” 
Marilla glanced up and smiled back. 
' Why, I feel all well,’ she began. "Couldn’t 
I get up.” 
"Yes,” said Miss Armitage. "Jane will you 
bring that small pink kimona and put it on.” 
She took the doctor over in the bay window. 
"The Borden’s cook came in to see the 
child. She seemed very fond of her and said 
she was the sweetest little thing. And that 
she was wonderful with the babies. I was glad 
she had not been 'put upon’ as they say 
over to the house. And that she always 
had enough to eat. And she wasn’t allowed 
to lift the babies ” 
"But dragged them about in the carriage. 
Such children are not strong enough for nurse- 
maids. She was pretty well used up, and she’ll 
be sometime getting over it.” 
‘I’ve taken a curious fancy to the child. 
Jane thinks she must have belonged to what 
we call nice people.’ She flattered me by 
asking, the first coherent words she uttered if 
I was not a fairy godmother?’ Think of 
that!” smiling. 
'Well, I think you have been that many a 
time. I wonder you haven’t filled the house 
with children. 
'I’m always full of pity for them. But 
when they are cured and put in some place 
where they can do their best, and have a 
little love and care, I go on to the next. I 
do not believe I am a real missionary, and I 
have a theory — it may not be a very noble 
one,' and a soft color suffused her fine face, 
"that people who bring children into the world 
ought to be made to feel the responsibility 
of them and not shift them on society at large, 
trusting Providence to take care of them.'' 
"That is what ought to be taught — the 
responsibility of children. Women as well as 
men sin in this respect. The woman who for- 
gives the drunken husband and takes him 
back until tired of working he goes off again 
leaving another child to add to the poorly- 
fed throng she can hardly take care of. I 
think the man who goes off the second time, 
or who does not take care of the children he 
has, should be put in some institution and 
made to earn their support. And the girls 
ought to be educated up to better ideas of 
marriage. It doesn't near always conduce to 
morality. I preach sermons to you — don’t I?” 
and he gave a short laugh. "And we can never 
set the world straight. But these Homes and 
Republics are doing a good work in training 
children to self reliance.” 
Jane wrapped the little girl in the kimona and 
lifted her up in the reclining chair. 
"Oh, that's so nice. How good you are! 
And everything is so lovely. Oh, I'll soon be 
well." 
Then the little face clouded over. Oh, she 
truly would not mind being ill if she could 
stay in this beautiful house where everything 
was so quiet. Jane went in and out, and pres- 
ently she brought a cup of broth. How good 
it tasted! 
'Would you mind if I went back to bed? 
I'm so sleepy." 
"Oh, no," returned Jane, and she put her 
gently back on the cot where she soon fell 
asleep. 
There was slight rise of fever and restless- 
ness about noon. She talked in broken 
snatches imploring Jack not to do this or that 
and not to pinch the babies. Then she was 
so tired, so tired! But about midafternoon, 
she seemed to rouse and come to herself and 
said she was hungry. There was broth and 
hot milk and some stewed fruit, and Jane 
brushed her hair that fell in a bed of rings 
and asked if she didn't want to sit up. She 
brought her over by the window so she could 
look out, but the back yard was very pretty 
for it was gay with blooming flowers. 
Miss Armitage had been to church, and at 
two she had a class of young girls who were 
clerks in stores. Half of them were going away 
on Monday to the Rest House for a week, and 
they were full of that. Two of them had never 
been before. Was it like Coney Island? 
'It is not far from the shore, the broad Sound 
that leads out to the ocean. But there are 
not side shows. Just rowing and bathing, and 
a ride every day in a big omnibus. And plenty 
of girls. Oh, you won't be lonseome;’ and 
Miss Armitage smiled. 
"Another girl and I went away last sum- 
mer to a house that wasn’t country but a 
beautiful street with lawns in front. There 
were three ladies, and oh, they were so par- 
ticular. They did not have any story papers 
and the books were all dull and religious and 
if you took up one you must put it back in 
the same place. They didn’t like us to talk 
store’ nor sing any street songs and one lady 
only played hymns on the piano. Oh, we were 
so homesick.” 
The Rest House has a big farm and chick- 
ens and two cows, and a tennis court and cro- 
quet. And there are lovely walks. And 
hammocks and swings. 
"That's the ticket!’ said one of the girls. 
‘You want some fun.’ 
Miss Armitage did not check her. She 
thought of the amusements and pleasures of 
her youth. Then she came home to her 
little girl whose face lighted up with gladness, 
and who put out her thin hand. 
"You look lovely," Marilla said. "And 
I'm getting almost well." 
"That is good news,'’ and the lady smiled. 
"Only it seems so queer when I try to think. 
It is such a long while. I seem to have been 
lost and couldn't find my way out. Do you 
know where the babies are?" 
"They all went down to Long Island. I 
sent them a new girl. And Bridget was here 
to inquire about you." 
"Oh, she was so good to me. I was a little 
afraid of her at first, especially when she said 
she'd skin me alive.' Don't you think it 
would hurt dreadfully? She used to threaten 
Jack, but she never did it. And she said that 
about the fairy, godmother and the King's 
ball was a dream. What is it that goes to 
strange places when you are asleep? And 
how can you enjoy and remember all, and 
hear the music for days afterward? If there 
are two lives, one for day and one for night, 
why doesn't the night one go straight on?” 
‘You'll have to ask the doctor these 
curious puzzles. They are beyond me.” 
'Is Bridget at the house?” she inquired 
after a moment's thought. 
"She was going away to some cousin to 
stay a week as Mr. Borden will be down to — 
Bayside, I think it is, all the week.” 
"When I get well I suppose I shall have to go 
back to the babies. You know I am a bound 
out girl — until I am eighteen. But they’ll 
be growing bigger all the time. I wish they 
were as pretty as Jack. Don’t you think all 
babies ought to be pretty? And have curly 
hair?” 
“I think the curly hair quite an addition.” 
"There’s another puzzle. Why should 
some hair curl and some hair keep straight?” 
don’t know. But your’s is curly,” 
smiling. 
"Yes, I like it. At the Home there were 
two other girls with curly hair. And the 
nurse said it made us vain, so she cut it close 
to the skin and she said it wouldn't curl 
any more. That was last summer. But it 
did when it grew out, and I was glad. I tried 
to make the babies curl, and Mrs. Borden 
said she'd give me a silver dollar if I could. 
But it was so straight and there wasn't much 
of it. Do you remember the fat little girl of 
the Campbell’s Soups? The babies look a 
good deal like her. They have high fore- 
heads and round eyes full of wonder, and 
such chubby cheeks. But Aunt Florence 
said Mr. Borden was just such a baby and 
he isn’t at all chubby now and has dark 
eyes. Jack’s are dark. Maybe they’ll grow 
prettier. But they’re good and — funny. 
They laugh over everything, and they seem 
to understand everything I say or read to 
them. I wonder if they will like the new 
girl.” 
"She is very pleased and, I think, patient — 
four years older than you.” 
'Oh, suppose they didn’t want me back?” 
and the child drew a long breath of half 
fear. 
'There will be something else,' in an as- 
suring tone. 
Marilla leaned her head back on the pillow. 
She had talked herself tired. How queer 
that was, too, when she had talked for hours 
to the babies. 
Would you like me to read to you?" 
inquired Miss Armitage. 
"Oh, yes, if it's verses. There's a curious 
music in verses that goes all through you, 
keeping time to something in your brain. I 
just love them.’’ 
The lady found "Songs of Seven” with its 
musical lilt and the child listened wide-eyed 
as if it made pictures to her. Then the doctor 
came in and was very much pleased over her 
improvement. 
But the next day she was quite languid 
again. She took a few steps when suddenly 
everything swam before her eyes and she 
would have fallen but for Jane’s strong arm.'
"Oh, you don’t suppose I can never walk 
any more?” she cried in affright. Tor 
there was a nurse at the Home who fell down 
that way and she had been very well, too. 
But something happened to her hips. I can’t 
think what they called it, and she never could 
walk again. They had to send her to the 
hospital and she could get about just a little 
on crutches. Oh, dear'' and Marilla began to 
cry. 
"There don't think of such a thing. It was 
only weakness,'' comforted Miss Armitage. 
"Once when I was ill I fainted a great many 
times for just nothing at all. You have 
not had a chance to get strong yet.'’ 
Marilla recalled seeing the nurse brought 
down stairs on a stretcher, they called it. And 
the doctor said she could never walk again. 
Oh, how dreadful that would be. She turned 
her face over on the pillow and let the tears 
drop silently, and she could not swallow any 
supper, something lay so heavy on her breast. 
Miss Armitage kissed her, and Marilla twined 
her arms around the soft white neck hardly 
hidden by the lace. There had never been 
any one to love during the later years. And 
her mother had been busy and away in a store. 
"Don't worry, dear," said the soothing voice. 
"God takes care of us all." 
The sun was shining the next morning and 
the next door canary hanging out on the back 
porch was singing with all his might and 
main. Such long sweet warbles, such a merry 
staccato with little pauses, as if he asked — 
"Now, what do you think of that?" and the 
child laughed with a sense of glee. Oh, how 
nice it would be to be a bird. But she wouldnH 
want to live in a cage all the time. 
Jane came and gave her a bath, rubbed her 
softly but thoroughly across the hips and up 
and down the spine, holding her up with one 
strong arm. Marilla took a frightened step, 
then another and laughingly flung her arms 
around Janets neck, crying — 
"Oh, I can walk! I can walk!’’ 
"Why did you think you could never walk 
again?” Jane laughed wholesomely. 
felt so queer — and I thought of the woman 
at the Home.” 
"But she must have been quite an old 
body. They do get paralyzed; children don’t. 
Oh, you must not think of dreadful things. 
Come, see how you can walk.” 
Jane’s arm was around her and she led her 
back to the room and dressed her. Miss 
Armitage came up just then and greeted her 
with a happy smile. But Manila felt shaken
and was very glad to sit down on the couch. 
"Now I shall bring you up some breakfast,' 
said Jane. 
"Don't you suppose I could go down and 
have some real breakfast at the table — not 
today, but sometime." 
Then Marilla flushed. She was a bound- 
out girl and had always taken her meals with 
Bridget. 
"Yes, I think so. We will see what the' 
doctor says this morning. I shall have to 
go out presently and see twenty girls get 
started for a vacation. They are in stores 
and factories, and have two weeks in the sum- 
mer, and the Rest House doesn't charge any 
board — they earn so little. When you are 
well enough to travel about, I must take you 
out to the House." 
Maybe she wouldn't have to go back to the 
babies right away! 
The breakfast tasted good, though it was 
only a poached egg and some toast. But 
she didn't seem very hungry, and though she 
felt sort of joyously well at heart her body 
was tired and she lay on the couch to rest. The 
doctor found her quiet and there was a 
whimiscal light playing over his face and 
settling in his eyes. 
"So you haven’t run away yet?” he began. 
don’t believe I could run very far. Yet 
I seem quite well — and it’s queer, too.” 
Jane said you fainted yesterday. 
"Well it was — something, and then I was 
frightened — ” 
"Stand up a moment.” He helped her to 
her feet, then he passed his hand down her 
spine and over her hips. "Does it hurt any?” 
he asked. 
“No, not a real hurt.” 
“You fell off of the stoop over there, a boy 
said.” 
“The baby dropped something and I went 
to pick it up, I guess I stumbled. And when 
I turned round everything was upside down 
and black and I don’t remember any more 
until I was over here. Miss Armitage was so 
good, is so good.” 
“Yes; well it might have been worse. But 
I think now you are on the high road to health 
again.” 
''I've never been real sick unless this is it," 
and she gave a vague smile. 
"I think it is," nodding humorously. "The 
babies have been rather too much for you 
this hot weather. Were you very fond of 
them?" 
"Well, they were not bad and very funny. 
You can't love bad people." 
"Oh, can't you?" 
"No, you can't," with an emphasis. "You 
may like them and think they're pretty and 
sweet sometimes, but you don't truly love 
them I mean you wouldn't choose them if 
you had you choice." 
"Which you don't often have in this world. 
Now what would be your choice?" 
"Oh, I'd like to stay here. I don’t know 
what I'd do if I was Miss Armitage's bound- 
out girl. Jane does eveything and — cook 
does the meals. She might let me wipe the 
dishes. But — maybe you don’t know I'm 
bound-out to Mrs. Borden until I'm eighteen, 
so I shall have to go back. And the babies 
need me. I'm teaching them to talk. I'm 
almost Cinderella, not the kitchen kind, 
though I wouldn't mind that with Bridget." 
“I heard you went to the King's ball with 
a fairy godmother. Would you mind telling 
me?’
Marilla colored. Yes, she would be quite 
pretty if she wasn’t so thin. 
‘Why it was just a dream. And I was 
asleep by the kitchen stove. I hadn’t any 
belief in her at first. Oh, do you know any- 
thing about that curious part of your brain 
that dreams?” 
"No, I do not. I think no one really does. 
I suppose you had been reading about Cin- 
derella.” 
used to read it over to the babies, or tell 
them. But there was Red Riding Hood and 
Jack and the Beanstalk and Hop o’ My 
Thumb. Jack had them all, but I never 
dreamed of them. And the babies seemed to 
understand them all. They laughed at the 
funny places and they looked so shocked at 
the dreadful things, and were so pleased when 
the old woK fell down the chimney, dead. 
Why it was just delightful to me, only some- 
times I did get tired talking so much and had 
to wait for my breath.” 
“Are you tired now?” and he listened a 
moment to her heart. 
"Oh, no. I feel all good and rested, and 
Jane said I ate a nice breakfast. I’m almost 
well, though I wouldn’t mind being ill a long, 
long while if I could stay here. There was a 
little girl once who died and went to heaven. 
Miss Florence had the book. That wasn’t any 
fairy story, and I think this must be a good 
deal like heaven. It’s so quiet with no one 
troubling you, and when Miss Armitage 
plays ” 
Her soft eyes were like wind-blown lakes and 
the far-away sight moved him inexpressibly. 
"Suppose you tell me about the dream?” 
"Oh, you'll only laugh at me.” 
"No, I won’t laugh. I never knew a Cin- 
derella who went to the palace and danced 
with the King’s son.” 
He drew her up a little in the bed and placed 
the pillows around her. Then he seated him- 
self on the couch at her feet and smiled so 
persuasively that she really couldn’t resist. 
She pictured the kitchen and how comfortably 
she had settled herself and — she really couldn’t 
have been asleep she saw everything so plainly 
and, at first, she did not believe the fairy 
godmother. 
Dr. Richards was really charmed as she 
went on. It was all so vivid, so beautiful. 
She appeared to have a better command of 
language than most children of her years
and the whole picture was exquisite. Why, 
it seemed very real to him. And her face 
was a study. Surely the child must be a 
genius, she made the things so real and not 
overdrawn. A veritable fairy palace. 
Then she drew a long breath and a lovely 
smile irradiated her eyes. 
'I’m so glad I went,'' she said in a satis- 
fied tone, freighted with a certain joyousness 
that appealed to his heart. She really was 
transfigured at that moment. What possi- 
bilities were lying in her soul unawakened. 
The little bound-out girl would never, coiild 
never realize them alone in her fight with life. 
For he had known: 
'Too many a flower is born to blush un- 
seen 
And waste its sweetness on the desert air." 
When a helping hand would have trans- 
planted it into a garden of appreciation. 
A sudden fatherhood stirred within him. 
He had thought more than once of the woman 
he would like for his wife; now he wanted this 
little girl to grow up by his side and bloom 
with the sacred joy within her. 
"I’m glad, too,'' he said in a strange, full 
voice that trembled with emotion. 
DOCTOR RICHARDS 
Doctor Richards went slowly down stairs, 
Miss Armitage let herself in with her latch 
key. 
"How is my little patient today she 
asked. 
"Stronger in some respects. But I don’t 
quite like the heart action. And I’m afraid 
I haven’t improved it any.” 
'Oh, you did not scold her — ?” in a haK 
upbraiding tone. 
"No, no. But I coaxed that dream story 
out of her and several other things. In a year 
or two more those Borden babies will have her 
all worn out. So many of the little Cinder- 
ellas don’t get half a chance with life, the 
stolid ones do better. But she could hold an 
audience with that story, if she was not 
afraid of the audience,” smiling a little, "and 
the lovely expressions that flit over her face! 
She is not the usual child.” 
'I’ve been a little afraid to think that. So 
many of the child prodigies flatten out and 
make ordinary people.” 
"And some of them never get the true 
opportunity. I 've a boy under my observa- 
tion who is going to make a first-class sur- 
geon, and I'm persuading a man to educate 
him. His father is going to put him in a 
foundry. Think of hands fitted for the nicest 
surgery being coarsened by contact with rough 
iron and hard tools. He would lose the fine 
touch by hard manual labor if he worked for 
his education. No one knows all the children 
sacrificed to Moloch. But the little girl! 
Of course she thinks of going back. She isn't 
even tugging at the chain. But I, for one, 
don't believe God puts people in just the place 
He wants them to stay, when He must see 
that they can't work out. Well — did you 
get the girls off?” 
'Yes, and they were a delighted lot. Three 
only are to have their wages paid. Yet an 
employer told me about a week ago he had 
subscribed twenty-five dollars to one of these 
girls’ summer homes. That at four dollars 
a week would have paid six girl’s a week’s 
wages. His name goes down on the generous 
list of course. Oh, I don’t wonder people 
like to do the things that show! The things 
that only God can know do not come up for 
credit. But it is ideal justly’ first of all.” 
'T’d like to stay and talk — but there is a 
serious matter before me. Take good care 
of our little girl — but I needn’t charge you. 
I’ll be in again tomorrow.” 
Miss Armitage went slowly up-stairs, paused 
a few moments at her desk to jot down some 
items. When she went through to the next 
room, Marilla was asleep.' The little face was 
framed in with rings of shining hair, the lips 
were palely pink and parted with a hah smile, 
the skin still showed blue veins. With a 
little care, such as rich people gave their 
children, she might grow up pretty, she would 
always be sweet. And the pudgy babies with 
their wondering eyes loved her! 
Marilla improved slowly but surely. She 
walked from room to room, and one day she 
went down stairs to luncheon. Just the small 
round table in the recess by the side window 
set out with all manner of pretty dishes and 
a pretty glass basket of flowers in the center. 
And there was Jane to wait upon them, and 
she seemed so pleased to have Marilla down 
stairs though the little girl had held tight to 
the bannister, lest she should lose her balance 
and fall. Everything looked so cool and 
sweet. The pictures were of woods and lakes, 
or a bit of sedgy river. There were fine 
sheer draperies at the windows, a tall vase 
of flowers on the beautiful centerpiece that 
adorned the real dining table. 
Oh, how good the delicate asparagus soup 
tasted. And the cold chicken, the rice and 
the dainty potato cake. Marilla was all 
smiles inside, she could feel the quiver. She 
had not been waited on this way since the 
night in fairy land. Bridget had a way of 
shoving things toward you or asking you to 
get up and help yourself. But then, Bridget 
had done the cooking and was tired, and 
Marilla was glad to wait on her. 
After the dessert, they went through to the 
drawing room and that looked lovely to the 
little girl. There was a portfolio of engrav- 
ings on a sort of stand, and you could sit 
there and turn them over without any effort. 
There were so many pretty children among 
them, and some of royal families that were 
to be kings and queens. 
The postman came and Jane brought in a 
handful of letters. Miss Armitage looked 
them over casually. Here was one from 
Bayside and she opened it. 
"My dear Miss Armitage/’ it began, 
don’t know how we can thank you for 
taking Marilla in as you did, and by this time 
I hope she is about well. Mr. Borden comes 
up on Saturday moring to see a client and 
will call for Marilla at about two. We 
simply can’t do without her. We’ve had the 
most awful time! Two babies getting four 
teeth apiece are enough to drive one crazy. 
There was no trouble about the other teeth, 
but I think it would not have been so bad if 
we’d had Marilla. They have missed her 
and cried after her and no one could get them 
asleep until they were fairly worn out and 
then they sobbed in the most heartbreaking 
way. We’ve had no rest day or night. Ellen 
is very good and patient, but the babies 
simply won’t let her touch them. Marilla 
always knew just what to do. She was so 
entertaining. She certainly was born for a 
nurse girl, though I thought she was most too 
young when I took her, I’ve never let 
her lift them, for they're like a lump of lead. 
They have grown thinner and I do hope it 
will keep on, unless Marilla makes them laugh 
so much they fat up again. They have each 
cut two teeth and they had to be lanced. 
Sister and I have had an awful time. We 
shall be so glad to get Marilla back. I think 
Ellen will not be a success as a child’s nurse. 
And I can get her a first-class place as a par- 
lor maid where she can ha\e eighteen dollars 
a month, which I couldn’t afford to pay. 
There is a cook and a laundress kept, so she 
won’t lose by coming down. She is very nice, 
pleasant and tidy, and we had to have some 
one in the emergency. And poor little Ma- 
rilla must have gone to a hospital but for your 
kindness. We are all so obliged and if Air. 
Borden can be of service to you, sometime, 
he will be very glad. These are the favors 
money cannot repay. 
"So if you will have Marilla ready about two 
o’clock on Saturday, Mr. Borden will call for 
her. If she needs a dress will you kindly 
purchase it and tell him. We have all her 
clothes down here. There is a beautiful big 
lawn with hammocks and everything, and 
if she is not very strong yet she can have sea 
bathing which is splendid, and fine diet. 
And we certainly are your deeply grateful 
friends. 'Alrs. Mary Borden.’’ 
Miss Armitage read the letter over twice 
and watched the pale little girl enjoying the 
pictures. It was not quite a heartless letter 
but, it had no special sympathy for the poor 
little Cinderella, if she did not have to sit 
in the ashes. Then she laid it by and went 
at the others. 
Please Miss Armitage, may I go upstairs? 
I am so tired. What do you suppose makes 
me feel tired so easily?” 
"You are not strong yet. Yes, we will go 
upstairs and you must lie down.” 
She placed her arm around the slender body. 
Marilla kissed the white hand. 
The doctor came in the next morning, and 
Miss Armitage handed him the letter. 
"Has the average woman any soul!” he 
exclaimed angrily. 
"Mrs. Borden has had no means of knowing 
how severe the case really was ” 
''See here, she might have written on — say 
Tuesday and inquired. Why Marilla might 
have died with just a little more. She doesn’t 
go. She won’t be strong enough to bother 
with teething babies in some time yet, if at 
all.” 
"Oh, you don’t think ” 
"She has a weak heart. It may have come 
from the shock and there is time enough for 
her to outgrow it, with care. Are you going 
to tire of her?” 
She saw there was no doubt in his face and 
smiled. 
"Marilla’s no more trouble than a kitten. 
Jane is positively in love with her. I’m not 
sure but I shall ask to have her transferred 
to me.” 
"Hilda Armitage you ought to be the mother 
of girls. I don’t know about the boys,” with 
a doubtful laugh. 
"I’ve had two disappointments.” 
"I told you that Conklin girl was not worth 
the trouble. She’s singing in a vaudeville 
show and it does suit her. You couldn’t get 
any refined ambition in that vain and silly 
brain. It is casting pearls before swine. Save 
the pearls for some one worthy. She doesn’t 
go back to the Borden’s this summer. When 
you get tired of her — 
‘Shall we quarrel about her?’’ She glanced 
up with an odd, humorous smile. 
'Perhaps we shall in the end, but that is a 
good way off. When that man comes today, 
just let him see Marilla.” 
Mr. Borden came punctually at two and 
was quite profuse in his thanks for Miss 
Armitage’s kindness. 
regret to say that Marilla has progressed 
very slowly. She had quite an exhausting 
fever at first. She was not able to come down- 
stairs until yesterday, and lies down several 
times through the day.” 
"Is it possible! Why we thought — and we 
need her so much! Did you — ” he flushed 
a little, ‘have a good physician?” 
"An excellent one whose practice is mostly 
among children. He thought her quite worn 
out, but it was being overcome with the heat 
and she fell off the steps. It was near con- 
gestion of the brain I believe.” 
'I'm awfully sorry. We were so busy just 
then, and my wife was worried to death. 
The babies had always been so good, but I 
can’t imagine anything being so — so dreadful 
as they’ve been for a week. I’ve scarcely 
slept an hour at a time and Mrs. Borden is 
clear worn out. She thinks just the sight 
of Marilla would comfort them. We might 
go on keeping that Ellen, though the babies 
won't take to her. I think Marilla charmed 
them; but theyVe always been good until 
now. And there's four more teeth to come 
through,' in a despairing sort of tone. 
Miss Armitage had large sympathy and she 
felt really sorry for him. Yet how provi- 
dential that Marilla had missed the care! 
"You have had a very bad time, certainly, 
and it is fortunate that Marilla didn't give 
out on your hands. Would you like to see 
her, though I think she is asleep.'' 
"Yes — oh yes. If we kept Ellen, don't 
you think she might come down next week. 
The sea-bathing would no doubt strengthen 
her.'’ 
"She has some heart weakness. I'm afraid 
she couldn't stand the bathing." 
Then she rose and led the way up stairs. 
Marilla was asleep. Mr. Borden studied 
her in surprise. 
"Why, she's grown dreadfully thin. Yes, 
she must have been very ill, but like the babies. 
she'd always been well. I'm awful sorry. I 
don’t know what we shall do. Mrs. Borden 
had counted so on her coming. And she said 
over half a dozen times that I must not for- 
get to thank you for all this kindness. You 
must send me the doctor’s bill. She’s such a 
nice child, Miss Armitage.” 
Marilla stirred and opened her eyes, closed 
them sighed and opened them again, then 
half murmured — "Oh, doctor,” and started. 
"Marilla, child, don’t you remember Mr- 
Borden?” 
had not told her about your coming. 
We keep her as tranquil as possible.” 
"Oh, Mr. Borden!” Marilla sat up. "And 
the babies?” 
"The babies are in a very poor way, Ma- 
rilla. They certainly are homesick for you. 
We try to keep them comforted with the 
promise of you. Oh, I hoped you would be 
well enough to go down with me this after- 
noon. Their mother will be telling them you 
will surely come. Poor little girl, but you 
are going to get well, aren’t you? And Jack 
thinks there’s no fun without you, and no 
one to read to him or tell him stories.” 
The child gave a vague smile. She was 
very glad to be away from Jack; indeed, sick 
babies did not appear attractive to her just 
now, but she said — 
"Oh, I'm very sorry. The doctor said it 
was the heat and 
'It was awfully hot that week. That made 
the babies worse. Oh, if I could take you 
down just to amuse them. You made them 
laugh so, Marilla. You know just how to do 
it. Well — it can't be helped, but you must 
try to get well and have some good of the 
pretty country place. Is there anything I 
can do for you?’’ 
"Miss Armitage is so good. And Jane and 
the doctor. And the yard is full of flowers. 
I’m very happy.” 
suppose so. Maybe you won’t want to 
come back. But you belong to us, you know 
and we can’t give you up.” 
Then he turned to go. 
"Will you kiss the babies for me and tell 
them how sorry I am, and ask Jack not to 
tease them, and — and — ” she swallowed over 
a great lump in her throat — shall come back 
when I get well.” 
'That’s a good girl. Good-bye. I shall 
be in town next week and will come in and 
see you.” 
He gave the little hand a clasp. Miss 
Armitage went down with him. Marilla 
turned her face over on the pillow and cried 
as if her heart would break. Could she go 
back to the babies and Jack? And Bridget 
wasn’t as sweet as Jane, and there was sharp 
Aunt Hetty 
"My dear! My dear!” said the soft voice 
with its infinite pity, and the sweet lips kissed 
hers. 
"Oh, Miss Armitage, won’t God take you to 
heaven if you pray very hard? I should hate 
to leave you and the dear, nice doctor, but 
I’m afraid I don’t want to go back to the babies 
and Jack. I’m tired of them, and I feel as 
if it was foolish to be funny when there are 
so many sweet things to think of and books 
to read and your beautiful music. But I 
must go away from all that, and somehow 
heaven looks nicer. And when you die 
doesn’t an angel come and take you in his 
arms and just carry you up and up to the 
other side of the sky where everything is 
peace and loveliness, and no one will tor- 
ment you 
my child, perhaps God wants you to 
live here a little longer and do some work for 
him. The doctor would be very sorry not 
to have you get well. Some one might say — 
'He let that little girl die when he might have 
saved her, but they wouldn't know it was 
because she kept brooding over it all the time 
and would make no effort to get well. God 
knows what is best for us.’ 
didn't mind about going back. But to- 
day it seemed to be — dreadful, with a con- 
vulsive sob. 
'Then we have spoiled you. Oh, I am 
sorry for that.'' 
"Oh, dear Miss Armitage, don't be sorry 
when you have been so good. But I don't 
quite understand how anyone can bind you 
out and make you stay years if you didn’t 
want to.” 
"But children do not know what is best for 
them. Some go wandering round the streets 
without any home and are picked up and put 
in a place almost like a prison where they have 
to work whether they like it or not. And some 
even have cruel fathers and mothers. You 
said the Bordens were good to you. Would 
you rather be there or at the Home?’’ 
"Oh, I’d rather be there than at the Home, 
but ” and she swallowed hard over a sob. 
they worked you beyond reason or hah 
starved you a complaint could be made but 
they all seem to love you ” 
Miss Armitage smiled with a soft kind of 
sadness, as if she wished the truth were not 
quite so true, and the things that looked 
so delightful were not so often the thing it 
was best to give up for honor’s sake. 
"Yes, they do love me, babies and all, and 
of course I must go back when I am well 
enough.” 
Then she turned her face away and tried to 
keep back the tears. Jane entered at that 
moment and the tension was broken. 
Miss Armitage read verses to her after she 
was in bed that evening, and kissed her good 
night with motherly tenderness. Then she 
sat for some time and thought. 
Why should she have taken a fancy to this 
little girl? She had seen prettier children who 
were homeless and helped provide for them. 
The Bordens were not rough or heartless. 
Bridget had spoken well of them. The child 
had a comfortable home, and she was bound 
in honor. It would be mean to entice her 
to break the bargain, to make her dissatisfied. 
No, she must not do that. 
Miss Armitage's life lines had run along 
smoothly through girlhood. Her mother 
was a widow and they had a comfortable 
income. Hilda had a good voice and sang 
in church, gave some music lessons. There 
had been a lover and a dear friend and the 
old tradegy had occurred, that might have 
been more heartbreaking if her mother had 
not been taken ill. For days her recovery was 
doubtful. Then an uncle at Los Angeles 
besought her to come out to that genial clime 
and spend her remaining days with him, for 
now he was quite alone. 
Hilda made all preparations. Such of the 
furniture as had intrinsic value was to be 
stored with a friend, the rest sold. And then 
Mrs. Armitage had an unlooked for relapse 
and Hilda went out alone. 
Her uncle was a kindly man past middle 
life and he took an instant fancy to Hilda. 
The house and its surroundings were loveli- 
ness itself. Life here would be really en- 
chanting. It was such a beautiful world. 
‘But you have not seen half of it yet. 
Hilda, what would you say to going abroad? 
I 've wanted to haK my life. But my wife, 
as you have heard, was an invalid and not 
inclined to travel. We lost our two children. 
I'm not too old to start out now and view 
some things with the eyes of an enthusiastic 
young girl.” 
So abroad they went. She had seven years 
of the richness of the old world, learning 
languages, listening to music that stirred 
every pulse of her soul, haunting art gal- 
leries with loving companionship that some- 
how saw the best and most beautiful in every- 
thing if it was not always high art. 
And then she returned alone. It seemed 
more of a loss than the death of her mother. 
She remained awhile in California settling 
up some business and then the longing seized 
her to return to the home of her youth, to have 
a real home where she could make the center 
she was still dreaming of, surround herself 
with friends and do something worth while 
with her money. 
Newton had changed as well, enlarged its 
boundaries and made itself beautiful at the 
northern end. The shops and factories were 
kept down by the railroad center where 
two important lines crossed, and the river 
was navigable. Then Main Street was de- 
voted to really fine stores, Brandon to offices 
and men’s businesses, the Postoffice being 
there. A handsome library building adorned 
Broadway, there were Orphan Homes, an 
Old Ladies’ Home, a Social Settlement. 
Miss Armitage liked the aspect of it. 
Boarding at a hotel for awhile she looked 
about and decided on Loraine place. The 
houses stood in a row, but they had a pretty 
court yard in front, and a real stretch of 
ground at the back for grass and flowers and 
two fine fruit trees. 
Of course old friends sought her out. Per- 
haps the fortune helped. The young girls 
of her time were matrons with growing children. 
How odd it seemed! She thought some- 
times that she felt reprehensibly young, as 
if she was having girlhood over again in her 
heart, but it was a richer, wiser and more 
fervent girlhood, with the added experiences 
of the woman. 
There were many things for her to take 
an interest in but they finally settled around 
the babies and little children's hospital, and 
the Settlement House. In a way, she was 
fond of the sweet, helpless babies who seemed 
so very dependent on human kindness. If 
there was one of her own flesh and blood it 
would take possession of her very soul, all 
her thoughts, all her affection. But it should 
have been hers earlier in life. Now she wanted 
