provoke the Erie so that he might stir and expose some portion of his
limbs or body.

The Night-Hawk, who carried strapped to his back the quiver of an
Oneida adolescent containing a boy's short bow and a dozen game arrows,
consulted with the Grey-Feather in a low voice.

Presently he wriggled off to where some sun-dried birch-bark fluttered
in the river breeze, returned with it, shredded it with care, strung
his bow, tipped an arrow with the bark, and held it out to me.

I struck flint to steel, lighted my tinder, and set the shred of bark
afire.

Then the Night-Hawk knelt, bent his bow, and the blazing arrow soared
whistling with flame, and fell behind the rock on the shelf.

Arrow after arrow followed, whizzing upward and dropping accurately;
but the wet mosses of the cliff extinguished the flashes.

As the last arrow fell, flared a moment, then merely smoked, an
insulting laugh came from aloft, and my Indians uttered fierce
exclamations and cuddled their rifle-stocks close to their cheeks,
fairly trembling for a shot.

"Dogs of Oneidas!" called the Erie. "Go howl for your dead pig of a
Stockbridge slave."

"The Mole wears his scalp with Tharon!" retorted the Grey-Feather,
choking with fury. "But Tahoontowhee's hatchet is still sticking in the
Senecas' heads!"

"For which the Night-Hawk shall burn at the Seneca stake, sobbing his
death-song!" shouted the Erie, so fiercely that for a moment we lay
silent, hoping that by some ungovernable movement he might expose
himself.

"Taunt him!" I whispered; and the Mohican said with a derisive laugh:

"Four scalp-tufts from the mangy Cats of Amochol trim my
hatchet-sheath. When the young men ask me what this sparse and sickly
fur may be, I shall strip it off and cast it at their feet, saying it
is but Erie filth to spit upon."

"Liar of a conquered nation!" roared the Erie, "for every priest of
Amochol who fell by Otsego under your cowardly butcher's knife, a
Siwanois Sagamore shall burn three days, and yet live to die the
fourth! The day that August dies, so shall the Sagamore die at the
Festival of Dreams in Catharines-town!"

"I shall remember," said I in a low voice to the Sagamore, "that the
Onon-hou-aroria is to be celebrated in Catharines-town on the last day
of August."

He nodded, then:

"A Mohican Sagamore insults a dirty priest of Amochol! I do you honour
by offering you battle, with knife, with hatchet, with rifle, with
naked hands! Choose, spawn of Atensi--still-born kitten of Iuskeha,
choose! Not one soul except myself will raise hand against you. By
Tharon, I swear it! Choose! And the victor passes freely and whither he
wills!"

The Erie mocked him from his high perch:

"Squirrels talk! Long since has your Tharon been hurled headlong into
Biskoonah by Atensi and her flaming grandson!"

At this awful blasphemy, the Mohican fairly blanched so that under his
paint his skin grew ashy for a moment.

The Grey-Feather shouted:

"Lying and degraded priest! Mowawak Cannibal of a Sinako Cat! It is
Atensi herself who burns with Iuskeha in Biskoonah; and the
sacrilegious fires lick your altars!"

The Erie laughed horribly:

"Where is your fool of a stripling called Loskiel? Is he there with
you? Or did my hatchet fetch him such a clip that he died of fright and
a bullet in his belly?"

"He is unharmed," replied the Mohican, tauntingly. "A squaw shoots
better than a Cat!"

"A lie! I saw my rifle blow a hole in his body!"

"Hatchet and rifle failed. The Ensign, Loskiel, laughed, asking what
forest-flies were buzzing at his ear. Loskiel spits on Cats, and
brushes their flying hatchets from his ears as others brush mosquitos!"

"Let him speak, then, to prove it!" shouted the Erie, incredulously.

But I remained silent.

Then the Erie's ferocious laugh rang out from the cliff.

"Now, you Mohican slave and you Oneida dogs, you shall know the power
of Amochol. For what was done to Loskiel and to the Praying Mole, will
be done to you all on the last day of this month, when the Dream Feast
is held at Catharines-town! You shall die. And others shall die--not as
you, but on the red altar of the Great Sachem Amochol! Strangled,
disemboweled, sacrificed to clothe Atensi!"

The Grey-Feather, unable any longer to retain his self-control, was
getting to his feet, staring wildly up at the cliff; but the Mohican
drew him back into his form and held him there with powerful grip.

"Listen," he hissed, "to what this warlock blabbs."

The Erie laughed, evidently awaiting a retort. None came, and he
laughed again triumphantly.

"Amochol's arm is long, O you Oneida dogs who howl outside the Long
House gates! Amochol's eyes are like the white-crested eagle's eyes,
seeing everything, and his ears are like the red buck's ears, so that
nothing stirs unheard by him.

"Phantoms arise and walk at night; Amochol sees. Under earth and water,
demons are breathing; Amochol hears. Then we Eries listen, too, and
make the altar fires burn hotter. For the ghosts of the night and the
demons that stir must be fed."

He waited again, doubtless expecting some exclamation of protest
against his monstrous profession. After a moment he went on:

"Spectres and demons must be fed--but not on the foul flesh of dogs
like you! We cut your throats to feed the Flying Heads."

He paused; and as no reply was forthcoming, the sorcerer laughed
scornfully.

"Your blood becomes water! You cringe at the power of Amochol. But the
red altar is not for you. Listen, dogs! Had I not found it necessary to
slay your stripling, Loskiel, he had been burned and strangled an that
altar!... And there is another at Otsego who shall die strangled on the
altar of Amochol--the maiden called Lois! Long have we followed her.
Long is the arm of the Red Priest--when his White Sorceress dreams for
him!

"And now you know, you Mohican mongrel, why Amochol was at Otsego. His
arm reaches even into the barracks of Clinton! Because to Atensi the
sacrifice of these two would be grateful--the maiden Lois and your
Loskiel. Only the pure and guarded pleasure her. And these two are
Hidden Children. One has died. The other shall not escape us. She shall
die strangled by Amochol upon his own altar!"

I sat up, sick with horror and surprise, and stared at the Mohican for
an explanation. He and the Oneidas were now looking at me very gravely
and in silence. And after a moment my head dropped.

I knew well enough what the brutal Erie meant by "Hidden Children." But
that I was one I never dreamed, nor had it occurred to me that Lois was
one, in spite of her strange history. For among the Iroquois and their
adopted captives there are both girls and boys who are spoken of as
"Hidden Persons" or "Hidden Children." They are called
Ta-neh-u-weh-too, which means, "hidden in the husks," like ears of corn.

And the reason is this: a mother, for one cause or another, or perhaps
for none at all, decides to make of her unborn baby a Hidden Child. And
so, when born, the child is instantly given to distant foster-parents,
and by them hidden; and remains so concealed until adolescence. And,
being considered from birth pure and unpolluted, a girl and a boy thus
hidden are expected to marry, return to their people when informed by
their foster-parents of the truth, and bring a fresh, innocent, and
uncontaminated strain into their clan and tribe.

What the Erie said seemed to stun me. What did this foul creature know
of me? What knowledge had this murdering beast of Lois? And
Amochol--what in God's name did the Red Sorcerer know of us, or of our
history?

Even the horrid threat against Lois seemed so fantastic, so unreal, so
meaningless, that at the moment, it did not impress me even with its
unspeakable wickedness.

The Sagamore touched my arm as though with awe and pity, and I lifted
my head.

"Is this true, brother?" he asked gently.

"I do not know if it is," I said, dazed.

"Then--it is the truth."

"Why do you say that, Mayaro?"

"I know it, now. I suspected it when your eyes first fell on the
Ghost-bear rearing on my breast. I thought I knew you, there at Major
Lockwood's house in Poundridge. It was your name, Loskiel, and your
knowledge of your red brothers, that stirred my suspicions. And when I
learned that Guy Johnson had sheltered you, then I was surer still."

"Who, then, am I?" I asked, bewildered.

The three Indians were staring at me as though that murderer aloft on
his eyrie did not exist. I, too, had forgotten him for the moment; and
it was only the loud explosion of his smooth-bore that shocked us to
the instant necessity of the situation.

The bullet screamed through the leaves above us; we clapped our rifles
to our cheeks, striving to glimpse him. Nothing moved on the rocky
shelf.

"He fired to signal his friends," whispered the Mohican. "He must
believe them to be within hearing distance."

I set my teeth and stared savagely at the cliff.

"If that is so," said I, "we must leave him here and pull foot."

There was a tense silence, then, as we rose, an infuriated yell burst
from the Oneidas, and in their impotence they fired blindly at the
cliff, awaking a very hell of echo.

Through the clattering confusion of the double discharge, the demoniac
laughter of the Erie rang, and my Oneidas, retreating, hurled back
insult and anathema, promising to return and annihilate every living
sorcerer in the Dark Empire, including Amochol himself.

"Ha-e!" he shouted after us, giving the evil spirits' cry. "Ha-e!
Ha-ee!" From his shelf he cast a painted stick after us, which came
hurtling down and landed in the water. And he screamed as he heard us
threshing over the shallows: "Koue! Askennon eskatoniot!"

The thing he had cast after us was floating, slowly turning round and
round in the water; and it seemed to be a stick something thicker than
an arrow and as long, and painted in concentric rings of black,
vermillion, and yellow.

Then, as we gave it wide berth, to our astonishment it suddenly
crinkled up and was alive, and lifted a tiny, evil head from the water,
running out at us a snake's tongue that flickered.

That this was magic my Indians never doubted. They gave the thing one
horrified glance, turned, and fairly leaped through the water till the
shallow flood roared as though a herd of deer were passing over.

As for me, I ran, too, and felt curiously weak and shaken; though I
suspected that this wriggling thing now swimming back to shore was the
poison snake of the Ksaurora, and no Antouhonoran witchcraft at all, as
I had seen skins of the brilliant and oddly marked little serpent at
Guy Park, whither some wandering Southern Tuscaroras had brought them.

But the bestial creature of the cliff had now so inspired us all with
loathing that it was as though our very breath was poisoned; and in
swift and silent file we pushed forward, as if the very region--land,
water, the air itself--had become impure, and we must rid ourselves of
the place itself to breathe.

No war-party burning to distinguish itself ever travelled more swiftly.
Sooner than I expected, we crossed the small creek which joins the
river from the east, opposite the Old England District, and saw the
ruins of Unadilla across the water.

Here was a known ford; and we crossed to Old Unadilla, where that
pretty river and the Butternut run south into the broadening
Susquehanna.

At this place we halted to eat; and I was of two minds whether to go by
the West Branch of the Delaware, by Owaga and Ingaren across the
Stanwix Treaty Line to Wyalusing, and from thence up the river to the
Chemung and Tioga Point; or to risk the Chenango country and travel
southwest by Owego, and so cutting off that great southern loop that
the Susquehanna makes through the country of the Esaurora.

But when I asked the opinion of my Indians, they were of one mind
against my two, saying that to follow the river was the easiest,
swiftest, and safest course to Tioga Point.

They knew better than did I. This side of Tioga the Oneidas knew the
ground as well as the Siwanois; but beyond, toward Catharines-town,
only my Siwanois knew. Indeed, if my Oneidas remained with me at all
beyond Tioga I might deem myself lucky, in such dread and detestation
did they hold that gloomy region where the Wyoming Witch brooded her
deadly crew, and where the Toad Woman, her horrible sister, fed the
secret and midnight fires of hell with the Red Priest, Amochol.

A grey hawk was circling above us mewing. Truly, our nerves had been
somewhat shattered, for as we rose and resumed pack and sack, a distant
partridge drumming on his log startled us all; and it was as though we
had thought to hear the witch-drums rolling at the Onon-hou-aroria, and
the hawk mewing seemed like the Sorcerers calling "Hiou! Hiou! Hiou!"
And the Unadilla made a clatter over its stones like the False-Faces
rattling their wooden masks.

"Eheu!" sighed the pines above us as we sped on; and ever I thought of
Okwencha and the Dead Hunter. And the upward roar of a partridge covey
bursting in thunder through the river willows was like the flight of
the hideous Flying Heads.

On we went, every sound and movement of the forest seeming to spur us
forward and add flight-feathers to our speeding feet. For in my
Indians, ascendant now, was the dull horror of the supernatural; and as
for me my hatred of the Sorcerers was tightening every nerve to the
point of breaking.

As I travelled that trail through the strange, eternal twilight of the
great trees, I vowed to myself that Amochol should die; that the
Sagamore and I would guide a thousand rifles to his pagan altar and lay
this foul priesthood prone upon it as the last sacrifice.

Then I recalled the Black-Snake's threat against Lois; and shuddered;
then the astounding reason he had given for the Red Priest's design
upon us both set me dully wondering again.

Fear that his emissaries might penetrate our lines stirred me; and I
remembered the moccasins she had received, and the messages sewed
within them. If a red messenger had found her every year and had left
at her door, unseen, a pair of moccasins, why might not an invisible
assassin find her, too? Already, within our very encampment, she had
received another pair of moccasins and a message entirely different
from the customary one.

Whoever had brought it had come and gone unseen.

Distressed, perplexed, half sick with fear for her, I plodded on behind
the Mohican, striving to drive from me the sombre thoughts assailing
me, trying to reassure myself with the knowledge that she was safe at
Otsego with her new friends, and that very shortly now she would be
still safer in Albany, and under the shrewd and kindly eye of Mr. Hake.

The sun had set; the pallid daylight lingering along the forest edges
by the river grew sickly and died. And after a little the Mohican
halted on a hillock, and we cast our packs from us and peered around.

The forms of rocks took dim shape all about us, huge slabs and benches
of stone, from which great bushes of laurel and rhododendron spread,
forming beyond us an entangled and impenetrable jungle.

And under these we crawled and lay, listening for snakes. But there
seemed to be none there, though our rocky fastness was a very likely
place. And after we had eaten and emptied our canteens, the two Oneidas
went out on guard to the eastern limit of the rocks; and the Sagamore
and I lay on our sides, facing each other in the dark. And for a while
we lay there, neither of us speaking. Finally I said under my breath:

"Then I am one of the Hidden People."

"Yes, brother," he replied very gently.

"Tell me why you believe this to be true. Tell me all you know."

For a little while the Mohican lay there very silent, and I did not
stir. And presently he said:

"It was in '57, Loskiel, when I first laid eyes on you."

"What!"

"I am more than twice your age. You were then three years old."

In my astonishment it occurred to me that instead of twenty-two I was
now twenty-five years of age, if what the Mohican said were true.

"Listen, Loskiel, blood-brother of mine, for you shall hear the truth
now--the truth which Guy Johnson never told you.

"It was in '57; Munro lay at Fort William Henry; Webb at Fort Edward;
and Montcalm came down from the lakes with his white-coats and Hurons
and shook his sword at Munro and spat upon Webb.

"Then came Sir William Johnson to Webb with half a thousand Iroquois.
And because Sir William was the only white man we Delawares trusted,
and in spite of his Iroquois, three Mohicans offered their
services--the Great Serpent, young Uncas, and I, Mayaro, Sagamore of
the Siwanois."

He paused, then with infinite contempt:

"Webb was a coward. Nor could Sir William kick him forward. He lay
shivering behind the guns at Edward; and Fort William Henry fell. And
the white-coats could do nothing with their Hurons; the prisoners fell
under their knives and hatchets--soldiers, women, little children.

"When Montcalm had gone, Webb let us loose. And, following the trail of
murder, in a thicket among the rocks we came upon a young woman with a
child, very weak from privation. Guy Johnson and I discovered them--he
a mere youth at that time.

"And the young woman told him how it had been with her--that her
husband and herself had been taken by the St. Regis three years
before--that they had slain her husband but had offered her no
violence; that her child had been born a few weeks later and that the
St. Regis chief who took her had permitted her to make of it a Hidden
Person.

"For three years the fierce St. Regis chief wooed her, offering her the
first place in his lodge. For three years she refused him, living in a
bush-hut alone with her child, outside the St. Regis village, fed by
them, and her solitude respected. Then Munro came and his soldiers
scattered the St. Regis and took her and her baby to the fort. And the
St. Regis chief sent word that he would kill her if she ever married."

So painfully intent was I on his every low-spoken word that I scarce
dared breathe as the story of my mother slowly unfolded.

"Guy Johnson and I took the young woman and her child to Edward," he
said. "Her name was Marie Loskiel, and she told us that she was the
widow of a Scotch fur trader, one Ian Loskiel, of Saint Sacrament."

There was another silence, as though he were not willing to continue.
Then in a quiet voice I bade him speak; and he spoke, very gravely:

"Your mother's religion and Guy Johnson's were different. If that were
the reason she would not marry him I do not know. Only that when he
went away, leaving her at Edward, they both wept. I was standing by his
stirrup; I saw him--and her.

"And--he rode away, Loskiel.... Why she tried to follow him the next
spring, I do not know.... Perhaps she found that love was stronger than
religion.... And after all the only difference seemed to be that she
prayed to the mother of the God he prayed to.... We spoke of it
together, the Great Serpent, young Uncas, and I. And Uncas told us
this. But the Serpent and I could make nothing of it.

"And while Guy Johnson was at Edward, only he and I and your mother
ever saw or touched you.... And ever you were tracing with your baby
fingers the great Ghost Bear rearing on my breast----"

"Ah!" I exclaimed sharply. "That is what I have struggled to remember!"

He drew a deep, unsteady breath:

"Do you better understand our blood-brotherhood now, Loskiel?"

"I understand--profoundly."

"That is well. That is as it should be, O my blood-brother, pure from
birth, and at adolescence undefiled. Of such Hidden Ones were the
White-Plumed Sagamores. Of such was Tamanund, the Silver-Plumed; and
the great Uncas, with his snowy-winged and feathered head--Hidden
People, Loskiel--without stain, without reproach.

"And as it was to be recorded on the eternal wampum, you were found at
Guy Johnson's landing place asleep beside a stranded St. Regis canoe;
and your dead mother lay beside you with a half ounce ball through her
heart. The St. Regis chief had spoken."

"Why do you think he slew her?" I whispered.

"Strike flint. It is safe here."

I drew myself to my elbow, struck fire and blew the tinder to a glow.

"This is yours," he said. And laid in my hand a tiny, lacquered folder
striped with the pattern of a Scotch tartan.

Wondering, I opened it. Within was a bit of wool in which still
remained three rusted needles. And across the inside cover was written
in faded ink:

"Marie Loskiel."

"How came you by this?" I stammered, the quick tears blinding me.

"I took it from the St. Regis hunter whom Tahoontowhee slew."

"Was he my mother's murderer!"

"Who knows?" said the Sagamore softly. "Yet, this needle-book is a poor
thing for an Indian to treasure--and carry in a pouch around his neck
for twenty years."

The glow-worm spark in my tinder grew dull and went out. For a long
while I lay there, thinking, awed by the ways of God--so certain, so
inscrutable. And understood how at the last all things must be
revealed--even the momentary and lightest impulse, and every deepest
and most secret thought.

Lying there, I asked of the Master of Life His compassion on us all,
and said my tremulous and silent thanks to Him for the dear, sad secret
that His mercy had revealed.

And, my lips resting on my mother's needle-book, I thought of Lois, and
how like mine in a measure was her strange history, not yet fully
revealed.

"Sagamore, my elder brother?" I said at last.

"Mayaro listens."

"How is it then with Lois de Contrecoeur that you already knew she was
of the Hidden Children?"

"I knew it when I first laid eyes on her, Loskiel."

"By what sign?"

"The moccasins. She lay under a cow-shed asleep in her red cloak, her
head on her arms. Beside her the kerchief tied around her bundle lay
unknotted, revealing the moccasins that lay within. I saw, and knew.
And for that reason have I been her friend."

"You told her this?"

"Why should I tell her?"

There was no answer to this. An Indian is an Indian.

I said after a moment:

"What mark is there on the moccasins that you knew them?"

"The wings, worked in white wampum. A mother makes a pair with wings
each year for her Hidden One, so that they will bring her little child
to her one day, swiftly and surely as the swallow that returns with
spring."

"Has she told you of these moccasins--how every year a pair of them is
left for her, no matter where she may be lodged?"

"She has told me. She has shown me the letter on bark which was found
with her; the relics of her father; this last pair of moccasins, and
the new message written within. And she asked me to guide her to
Catharines-town. And I have refused.

"No, Loskiel, I have never doubted that she was of the Hidden People.
And for that reason have I been patient and kind when she has beset me
with her pleading that I show to her the trail to Catharines-town.

"But I will not. For although in rifle dress she might go with us--nay,
nor do I even doubt that she might endure the war-path as well as any
stripling eager for honour and his first scalp taken--I will not have
her blood upon my hands.

"For if she stir thither--if she venture within the Great Shadow--the
ghouls of Amochol will know it. And they will take her and slay her on
their altar, spite of us all--spite of you and me and your generals and
colonels, and all your troops and riflemen--spite of your whole army
and its mighty armament, I say it--I, a Siwanois Mohican of the
Enchanted Clan. A Sagamore has spoken."

Chill after chill crept over me so that I shook as I lay there in the
darkness "Who is this maiden, Lois?" I asked.

"Do you not guess, Loskiel?"

"Vaguely."

"Then listen, brother. Her grandfather was the great Jean Coeur who
married the white daughter of the Chevalier de Clauzun. Her mother was
Mlle. Jeanne Coeur; her father the young Vicomte de Contrecoeur, of the
Regiment de la Reine--not that stupid Captain Contrecoeur of the
regiment of Languedoc, who, had it depended on him, would never have
ventured to attack Braddock at all.

"This is true, because I knew them both--both of these Contrecoeur
captains. And the picture she showed to me was that of the officer in
the Regiment de la Reine.

"I saw that regiment die almost to a man. I saw Dieskau fall; I saw
that gay young officer, de Contrecoeur, who had nicknamed himself Jean
Coeur, laugh at our Iroquois as he stood almost alone--almost the last
man living, among his fallen white-coats.

"And I saw him dead, Loskiel--the smile still on his dead lips, and his
eyes still open and clear and seeming to laugh up at the white clouds
sailing, which he could not see.

"That was the man she showed me painted on polished bone."

"And--her mother?" I asked.

"I can only guess, Loskiel, for I never saw her. But I believe she must
have been with the army. Somehow, Sir William's Senecas got hold of her
and took her to Catharines-town. And if the little Lois was born there
or at Yndaia, or perhaps among the Lakes before the mother was made
prisoner, I do not know. Only this I gather, that when the Cats of
Amochol heard there was a child, they demanded it for a sacrifice. And
there must have been some Seneca there--doubtless some adopted Seneca
of a birth more civilized--who told the mother, and who was persuaded
by her to make of it a Hidden One.

"How long it lay concealed, and in whose care, how can I know? But it
is certain that Amochol learned that it had been hidden, and sent his
Cat-People out to prowl and watch. Then, doubtless did the mother send
it from her by the faithful one whose bark letter was found by the new
foster-parents when they found the little Lois.

"And this is how it has happened, brother. And that the Cat-People now
know she is alive, and who she is, does not amaze me. For they are
sorcerers, and if one of them did not steal after the messenger when he
left Yndaia with the poor mother's yearly gift of moccasins, then it
was discovered by witchcraft."

"For Amochol never forgets. And whom the Red Priest chooses for his
altar sooner or later will surely die there, unless the Sorcerer dies
first and his Cat-People are slain and skinned, and the vile altar is
destroyed among the ashes of its accursed fire!"

"Then, with the help of an outraged God, these righteous things shall
come to pass!" I said between clenched teeth.

The Sagamore sat with his crested head bowed. And if he were in ghostly
communication with the Mighty Dead I do not know, for I heard him
breathe the name of Tamanund, and then remain silent as though
listening for an answer.

I had been asleep but a few moments, it seemed to me, when the
Grey-Feather awoke me for my turn at guard duty; and the Mohican and I
rose from our blankets, reprimed our rifles, crept out from under the
laurel and across the shadowy rock-strewn knoll to our posts.

The rocky slope below us was almost clear to the river, save for a bush
or two.

Nothing stirred, no animals, not a leaf. And after a while the profound
stillness began to affect me, partly because the day had been one to
try my nerves, partly because the silence was uncanny, even to me. And
I knew how dread of the supernatural had already tampered with the
steadiness of my red comrades--men who were otherwise utterly fearless;
and I dreaded the effect on the Mohican, whose mind now was surcharged
with hideous and goblin superstitions.

In the night silence of a forest, always there are faint sounds to be
heard which, if emphasizing the stillness, somehow soften it too.
Leaves fall, unseen, whispering downward from high trees, and settling
among their dead fellows with a faintly comfortable rustle. Small
animals move in the dark, passing and repassing warily; one hears the
high feathered ruffling and the plaint of sleepy birds; breezes play
with the young leaves; water murmurs.

But here there was no single sound to mitigate the stillness; and, had
I dared in my mossy nest behind the rocks, I would have contrived same
slight stirring sound, merely to make the silence more endurable.

I could see the river, but could not hear it. From where I lay, close
to the ground, the trees stood out in shadowy clusters against the
vague and hazy mist that spread low over the water.

And, as I lay watching it, without the slightest warning, a head was
lifted from behind a bush. It was the head of a wolf in silhouette
against the water.

Curiously I watched it; and as I looked, from another bush another head
was lifted--the round, flattened head and tasselled ears of the great
grey lynx. And before I could realize the strangeness of their
proximity to each other, these two heads were joined by a third--the
snarling features of a wolverine.

Then a startling and incredible thing happened; the head of the big
timber-wolf rose still higher, little by little, slowly, stealthily,
above the bush. And I saw to my horror that it had the body of a man.
And, already overstrained as I was, it was a mercy that I did not faint
where I lay behind my rock, so ghastly did this monstrous vision seem
to me.



CHAPTER XIV

NAI TIOGA!

How my proper senses resisted the swoon that threatened them I do not
know; but when the lynx, too, lifted a menacing and flattened head on
human shoulders; and when the wolverine also stood out in human-like
shadow against the foggy water, I knew that these ghostly things that
stirred my hair were no hobgoblins at all, but living men. And the
clogged current of my blood flowed free again, and the sweat on my skin
cooled.

The furry ears of the wolf-man, pricked up against the vaguely lustrous
background of the river, fascinated me. For all the world those pointed
ears seemed to be listening. But I knew they were dead and dried; that
a man's eyes were gazing through the sightless sockets of the beast.

From somewhere in the darkness the Mohican came gliding on his belly
over the velvet carpet of the moss.

"Andastes," he whispered scornfully; "they wear the heads of the beasts
whose courage they lack. Fling a stone among them and they will
scatter."

As I felt around me in the darkness for a fragment of loose rock, the
Mohican arrested my arm.

"Wait, Loskiel. The Andastes hang on the heels of fiercer prowlers,
smelling about dead bones like foxes after a battle. Real men can not
be far away."

We lay watching the strange and grotesque creatures in the starlight;
and truly they seemed to smell their way as beasts smell; and they were
as light-footed and as noiseless, slinking from bush to bush, lurking
motionless in shadows, nosing, listening, prowling on velvet pads to
the very edges of our rock escarpment.

"They have the noses of wild things," whispered the Mohican uneasily.
"Somewhere they have found something that belongs to one of us, and,
having once smelled it, have followed."

I thought for a moment.

"Do you believe they found the charred fragments of my pouch-flap?
Could they scent my scorched thrums from where I now lie? Only a hound
could do that! It is not given to men to scent a trail as beasts scent
it running perdu."

The Mohican said softly:

"Men of the settlement detect no odour where those of the open perceive
a multitude of pungent smells."

"That is true," I said.

"It is true, Loskiel. As a dog scents water in a wilderness and comes
to it from afar, so can I also. Like a dog, too, can I wind the hidden
partridge brood--though never the nesting hen--nor can a mink do that
much either. But keen as the perfume of a bee-tree, and certain as the
rank smell of a dog-fox in March--which even a white man can
detect--are the odours of the wilderness to him whose only home it is.
And even as a lad, and for the sport of it, have I followed and found
by its scent alone the great night-butterfly, marked brown and crimson,
and larger than a little bat, whose head bears tiny ferns, and whose
wings are painted with the four quarters of the moon. Like crushed
sumac is the odour of it, and in winter it hides in a bag of silk."

I nodded, my eyes following the cautious movements of the Andastes
below; and again and again I saw their heads thrown buck, noses to the
stars, as though sniffing and endeavouring to wind us. And to me it was
horrid and unhuman.

For an hour they were around the river edge and the foot of the
hillock, trotting silently and uneasily hither and thither, always
seemingly at fault. Then, apparently made bold by finding no trace of
what they hunted, they ranged this way and that at a sort of gallop,
and we could even hear their fierce and whining speech as they huddled
a moment to take counsel.

Suddenly their movements ceased, and I clutched the Mohican's arm, as a
swift file of shadows passed in silhouette along the river's brink, one
after another moving west--fifteen ghostly figures dimly seem but
unmistakable.

"Senecas," breathed the Mohican.

The war party defiled at a trot, disappearing against the fringing
gloom. And after them loped the Andastes pack, scurrying, hurrying,
running into thickets and out again, but ever hastening along the
flanks of their silent and murderous masters, who seemed to notice them
not at all.

When they had gone, the Mohican aroused the Oneidas, and all night long
we lay there behind the rocks, rifles in rest, watching the river.

What we awaited came with the dawn, and, in the first grey pallour of
the breaking day, we saw their advanced guard; Cayugas and Senecas of
the fierce war-chief Hiokatoo, every Indian stripped, oiled, head
shaved, and body painted for war; first a single Cayuga, scouting
swiftly; then three furtive Senecas, then six, then a dozen, followed
by their main body.

Doubtless they had depended on the Andastes and advanced guard of
Senecas for flankers, for the main body passed without even a glance up
at the hilly ground where we lay watching them.

Then there was a break in the line, an interval of many minutes before
their pack horses appeared, escorted by green-coated soldiers.

And in the ghostly light of dawn, I saw Sir John Johnson riding at the
head of his men, his pale hair unpowdered, his heavy, colourless face
sunk on his breast. After him, in double file, marched his regiment of
Greens; then came more Indians--Owagas, I think--then that shameless
villain, McDonald, in bonnet and tartan, and the heavy claymore a-swing
on his saddle-bow, and his blue-eyed Indians swarming in the rear.

Lord, what a crew! And as though that were not enough to affront the
rising sun, comes riding young Walter Butler, in his funereal cloak,
white as a corpse under the black disorder of his hair, and staring at
nothing like a damned man. On his horse's heels his ruffianly Rangers
marched in careless disorder but with powerful, swinging strides that
set their slanting muskets gleaming like ripples glinting athwart a
windy pond, and their canteens all a-bobbing.

Then, hunched on his horse, rode old John Butler--squat, swarthy,
weather-roughened, balancing on his saddle with the grace of a chopping
block; and after him more Rangers crowding close behind.

Behind these, quite alone, stalked an Indian swathed in a scarlet
blanket edged with gold, on which a silver gorget glittered. He seemed
scarce darker than I in colour; and if he wore paint I saw none. There
was only a scarlet band of cloth around his temples, and the
flight-feather of the white-crested eagle set there low above the left
ear and slanting backward.

"Brant!" I whispered to the Sagamore; and I saw him stiffen to very
stone beside me; and heard his teeth grate in his jaws.

Then, last of all, came the Keepers of the Eastern Gate, the flower of
the warriors of the Long House--the Mohawks.

They passed in the barbaric magnificence of paint and feather and
shining steel, a hundred lithe, light-stepping warriors, rifles
swinging a-trail, and gorgeous beaded sporrans tossing at every stride.

An interval, then the first wary figure of the lurking rear-guard,
another, half a dozen, smooth-bore rifles at a ready, scanning river
and thicket. Every one of them looked up at our craggy knoll as they
glided along its base; two hesitated, ran half way up over the rock
escarpment, loitered for a few moments, then slunk off, hastening to
join their fellows.

After a long while a single Seneca came speeding, and disappeared in
the wake of the others.

The motley Army of the West had passed.


And it was a terrible and an infamous sight to me, who had known these
men under other circumstances to see the remnant of the landed gentry
of Tryon County now riding the wilderness like very vagabonds, squired
by a grotesque horde of bloody renegades.

To what a doleful pass had these gentlemen come, who lately had so
lorded it among us--these proud and testy autocrats of County Tryon,
with their vast estates, their baronial halls, their servants,
henchmen, tenantry, armed retainers, slaves?

Where were all these people now? Where were their ladies in their
London silks and powder? Where were their mistresses, their
distinguished guests? Where was my Lord Dunmore now--the great Murray,
Earl of Dunmore and Brent Meester to unhappy Norfolk! And, alas, where
was the great and good Sir William--and where was Sir William's friend,
Lady Grant, and the fearless Duchess of Gordon, and the dark and lovely
Lady Johnson, and the pretty ladies of Guy Johnson, of Colonel Butler,
of Colonel Claus? Where was Sir John's pitifully youthful and
unfortunate lady, and her handsome brother, crippled at Oriskany, and
the gentle, dark-eyed sister of Walter Butler, and his haughty mother?
All either dead or prisoners, or homeless refugees, or exiles living on
the scant bounty of the Government they had suffered for so loyally.

The merciless Committee of Sequestration had seized Johnson Hall, Fort
Johnson, Guy Park, Butlersbury; Fish House was burned; Summer House
Point lay in ashes, and the charming town built by Sir William was now
a rebel garrison, and the jail he erected was their citadel, flying a
flag that he had never heard of when he died.

All was gone--gone the kilted Highlanders from the guard house at the
Hall; gone the Royal Americans with all their bugle-horns and clarions
and scarlet pageantry; gone the many feathered chieftains who had
gathered so often at Guy Park, or the Fort, or the Hall. Mansions,
lands, families, servants, all were scattered and vanished; and of all
that Tryon County glory only these harassed and haggard horsemen
remained, haunting the forest purlieus of their former kingdoms with
hatred in their hearts, and their hands red with murder. Truly, the Red
Beast we hunted these three years through was a most poisonous thing,
that it should belch forth such pests as Lord George Germaine, and
Loring, and Cunningham, and turn the baronets and gentry of County
Tryon into murdering and misshapen ghouls!


When the sun rose we slung pack and pulled foot. And all that day we
travelled without mischance; and the next day it was the same,
encountering nothing more menacing than peeled and painted trees, where
some scouting war-party of the enemy had written threats and boasts,
warning the "Boston people" away from the grizzly fastnesses of the
dread Long House, and promising a horrid vengeance for every mile of
the Dark Empire we profaned.

And so, toward sundown, the first picket of General Sullivan's army
challenged us; and my Indians shouted: "Nai Tioga!" And presently we
heard the evening gun very near.

Signs of their occupation became more frequent every minute now; there
were batteaux and rafts being unloaded at landing places, heavily
guarded by Continental soldiery; canoes at carrying places, brush huts
erected along the trail, felled trees, bushes cut and lying in piles,
roads being widened and cleared, and men everywhere going cheerily
about their various affairs.

We encountered the cattle-guard near to a natural meadow along a tiny
binikill, and they gave us an account of how Brant had fallen upon
Minisink and had slain more than a hundred of our people along the
Delaware and Neversink. And I saw my Indians listening with grim
countenances while their eyes glowed like coals. As soon as we forded
the river, we passed a part of Colonel Proctor's artillery, parleyed in
a clearing, where a fine block-fort was being erected; and there were
many regimental wagons and officers' horses and batt-horses and cattle
to be seen there, and great piles of stores in barrels, sacks, skins,
and willow baskets.

As we passed the tents of a foot regiment, the 3rd New Hampshire Line,
one of their six Ensigns, Bradbury Richards, recognized me and came
across the road to shake my hand, and to inform me that a small scout
was to go out to reconnoitre the Indian town of Chemung; and that we
would doubtless march thither on the morrow.

With Richards came also my old friend Ezra Buell, lately lieutenant in
my own regiment, but now a captain in the 3rd New York Continentals,
and a nephew of that Ezra Buell who ran the Stanwix survey in '69 and
married a pretty Esaurora girl while marking the Treaty Line.

"Well!" says Ezra, shaking my hand, and: "How are you lazy people up
the river, and what are you doing there?"

"Damming the lake," said I, "whilst you damn us for making you wait."

Bradbury Richards laughed, saying that they themselves had but just
come up, admitting, however, that there had been some little cursing
concerning our delay.

"It has been that way with us, too," said I, "but it is the rebel
'Grants' we curse, and the Ethan Allens and John Starks, and
treacherous Green Mountain Boy's, who would shoot us in the backs or
make a dicker with Sir Henry sooner than lift a finger to obey the laws
of the State they are betraying."

"So hot and yet so young!" said Buell, laughing, "and after a long
trail, too--" glancing at my Indians, "and another in view already! But
you were ever an uncompromising youngster, Loskiel."

"Your regiment has marched for Canajoharie," I said. "When do you go
a-tagging after it?"

"This evening with the headquarter's guide, Heoikim, and the express
rider, James Cooke. Lord, what a dreary business!"

"Better learn the news we have concerning your back trail before you
start. Ask Captain Franklin to mention it to the General."

"Certainly," said Buell. "I would to God my regiment were ordered here
with the rest of them, I'm that sick of the three forts and the
scalping-party fighting on the Schoharie."

"It's what you are likely to get for a long while yet," said I. "And
now will you or Richards guide me and my party to headquarters?"

"Will you mess with us?" said Richards. "I'll speak to Colonel
Dearborn."

I said I would with pleasure, if free to do so, and we walked on
through the glorious sunset light, past camp after camp, very smoky
with green fires. And I saw three more block-houses being builded, and
armed with cannon.

The music of Colonel Proctor's Artillery Regiment was playing "Yankee
Doodle" near headquarters as we sighted the General's marquee, and the
martial sounds enthralled me.

One of the General's aides-de-camp, a certain Captain Dayton, met us
most politely, detained my Indians with tobacco and pipes, and
conducted me straight to the General, who, he assured me, happened to
be alone. Having seen our General on various occasions, I recognized
him at once, although he was in his banyan, having, I judged, been
bathing himself in a small, wooden bowl full of warm water, which stood
on the puncheon flooring near, very sloppy.

He received me most civilly and listened to my report with interest and
politeness, whilst I gave him what news I had of Clinton and how it was
with us at the Lake, and all that had happened to my scout of six--the
death of the St. Regis and the two Iroquois, the treachery of the Erie
and his escape, the murder of the Stockbridge--and how we witnessed the
defile of Indian Butler's motley but sinister array headed northwest on
the Great Warrior Trail. Also, I gave him as true and just an account
as I could give of the number of soldiers, renegades, Indians, and
batt-horses in that fantastic and infamous command.

"Where are your Indians?" he asked bluntly.

I informed him, and he sent his aide to fetch them.

General Sullivan understood Indians; and I am not at all sure that my
services as interpreter were necessary; but as he said nothing to the
contrary, I played my part, presenting to him the stately Sagamore,
then the Grey-Feather, then the young warrior, Tahoontowhee, who fairly
quivered with pride as I mentioned the scalps he had taken on his first
war-path.

With each of my Indians the General shook hands, and on each was
pleased to bestow a word of praise and a promise of reward. For a
while, through medium of me, he conversed with them, and particularly
with the Sagamore, concerning the trail to Catharines-town; and,
seeming convinced and satisfied, dismissed us very graciously, telling
an aide to place two bush-huts at our disposal, and otherwise see that
we lacked nothing that could be obtained for our comfort and good cheer.

As I saluted, he said in a low voice that he preferred I should remain
with the Mohican and Oneidas until the evening meal was over. Which I
took to indicate that any rum served to my Indians must be measured out
by me.

So that night I supped with my red comrades in front of our bush-huts,
instead of joining Colonel Dearborn's mess. And I was glad I did so;
and I allowed them only a gill of rum. After penning my report by the
light of a very vile torch, and filing it at headquarters, I was so
tired that I could scarce muster courage to write in my diary. But I
did, setting down the day's events without shirking, though I yawned
like a volcano at every pen-stroke.

Captains Franklin and Buell, in high spirits, came just as I finished,
desiring to learn what I had to say of the road to Otsego; but when I
informed them they went away looking far more serious than when they
arrived.

A few minutes later I saw the scout march out, bound for Chemung--a
small detachment of the 2nd Jersey, one Stockbridge Indian, and a
Coureur-de-Bois in very elegant deerskin shirt and gorgeous leggins.
Captain Cummins led them.

