ble? '' he asked. 

The doctor cried: ''Yes, yes, yes — a 
thousand times yes! There is a phrase 
which I repeat on every occasion, and which 
I would wish to post upon the walls. It 
is that syphilis is an imperious mistress, 
who only demands that one should recognize 
her power. She is terrible for those who 
think her insignificant, and gentle with 
those who know how dangerous she is. 
You know that kind of mistress — 'who is 
only vexed when she is neglected. You 
may tell this to your daughter — 'you will 
restore her to the arms of her husband, 
from whom she has no longer anything to 
fear, and I will guarantee that you will 
be a happy grandfather two years from 
now.'' 

Monsieur Loches at last showed that he 
was weakened in his resolution. 

"Doctor,'' he said, ''I do not know that 
I can ever go so far as forgiveness, but I 
promise you that I will do no irreparable 
act, and that I will not oppose a reconcilia- 



 

tion if after the lapse of some time — I 
cannot venture to say how long — 'my poor 
child should make up her mind to a recon- 
ciliation.' 

"Very good.' said the other. "But 
let me add this: If you have another 
daughter, take care to avoid the fault 
which you committed when you married 
off the first." 

"But.' said the old man, "I did not 
know." 

"Ah, surely!" cried the other. "You 
did not know! You are a father, and you 
did not know! You are a deputy, you have 
assumed the responsibility and the honor 
of making our laws — and you did not know! 
You are ignorant about syphilis, just as 
you probably are ignorant about alcohohsm 
and tuberculosis." 

"No," exclaimed the other, quickly. 

"Very well," said the doctor, "I will 
leave you out, if you wish. I am talking 
of the others, the five hundred, and I 
don't know how many more, who are there 
in the Chamber of Deputies, and who call 
themselves representatives of the people. 



 

They are not able to find a single hour to 
discuss these three cruel gods, to which 
egotism and indifference make every day 
such frightful human sacrifices. They have 
not sufficient leisure to combat this fero- 
cious trinity, which destroys every day 
thousands of lives. Alcoholism! It would 
be necessary to forbid the manufacture of 
poisons, and to restrict the number of 
hcenses; but as one has fear of the great 
distillers, who are rich and powerful, and 
of the little dealers, who are the masters 
of universal suffrage, one puts one's con- 
science to sleep by lamenting the immorality 
of the working-class, and publishing httle 
pamphlets and sermons. Imbeciles! . . . 
Tuberculosis! Everybody Imows the true 
remedy, which would be the paying of 
sufficient wages, and the tearing down of the 
filthy tenements into which the laborers 
are packed — those who are the most useful 
and the most unfortunate among our popu- 
lation ! But needless to say, no one wants 
that remedy, so we go round begging the 
workingmen not to spit on the sidewalks. 
Wonderful! But syphiHs — why do you 



 

not occupy yourself with that? Why, 
since you have ministers whose duty it 
is to attend to all sorts of things, do you 
not have a minister to attend to the public 
health? '' 

''My dear Doctor.' responded Monsieur 
Loches, ''you fall into the French habit of 
considering the government as the cause 
of all evils. Show us the way, you learned 
gentlemen! Since that is a matter about 
which you are informed, and we are igno- 
rant, begin by telling us what measures you 
believe to be necessary." 

'' Ah, ah ! " exclaimed the other. '' That's 
fine, indeed! It was about eighteen years 
ago that a project of that nature, worked 
out by the Academy of Medicine, and 
approved by it unanimously, was sent to 
the proper minister. We have not yet heard 
his reply." 

''You really believe," inquired Monsieur 
Loches, in some bewilderment, ''you beheve 
that there are some measures " 

"Sir," broke in the doctor, "before we 
get through, you are going to suggest some 
measures yourself. Let me tell you what 

 



 



happened today. When I received your 
card I did not know that you were the 
father-in-law of George Dupont. I saw 
that you were a deputy, and I thought that 
you wanted to get some information about 
these matters. There was a woman patient 
waiting to see me, and I kept her in my 
waiting-room — saying to myseh, ''This 
is just the sort of person that our deputies 
ought to talk to.'' 

The doctor paused for a moment, then 
continued, with a smile: ''Be reassured, 
I will take care of your nerves. This 
patient has no trouble that is apparent 
to the eye. She is simply an illustration 
of the argument I have been advancing — 
that our worst enemy is ignorance. Igno- 
rance — 'you understand me? Since I have 
got you here, sir, I am going to hold 
you until I have managed to cure a 
httle of your ignorance! For I tell you, 
sir, it is a thing which drives me to distrac- 
tion — 'we must do something about these 
conditions! Take this case, for example. 
Here is a woman who is very seriously 
infected. I told her— well, wait; you 
shall see for yourself." 



 

The doctor went to the door and sum- 
moned into the room a woman whom Mon- 
sieur Loches had noticed waiting there. She 
was verging on old age, small, frail, and 
ill-nourished in appearance, poorly dressed, 
and yet with a suggestion of refinement 
about her. She stood near the door, twist- 
ing her hands together nervously, and 
shrinking from the gaze of the strange 
gentleman. The doctor began in an angry 
voice. ''Did I not tell you to come and 
see me once every eight days? Is that not 
true?" 

The woman answered, in a faint voice, 
''Yes, sir.'' 

''Well," he exclaimed, ''and how long 
has it been since you were here? " 

"Three months, sir." 

"Three months! And you believe that 
I can take care of you under such con- 
ditions! I give you up! Do you under- 
stand? You discourage me, you discourage 
me." There was a pause. Then, seeing 
the woman's suffering, he began, in a 
gentler tone, "Come now, what is the rea- 
son that you have not' come? Didn't you 



 



know that you have a serious disease — 
most serious?'' 

''Oh, yes, sir," replied the woman, ''I 
know that very well — since my husband 
died of it." 

The doctor's voice bore once again its 
note of pity. "Your husband died of it?" 

''Yes, sir." 

"He took no care of himself?" 

"No, sir." 

"And was not that a warning to you?" 

"Doctor," the woman replied, "I would 
ask nothing better than to come as often 
as you told me, but the cost is too great." 

"How — 'what cost? You were coming 
to my free clinic." 

' "Yes, sir," replied the woman, "but that's 
during working hours, and then it is a long 
way from home. There are so many sick 
people, and I have to wait my turn. It is 
in the morning — sometimes I lose a whole 
day — and then my employer is annoyed, 
and he threatens to turn me off. It is 
things Like that that keep people from 
coming, until they dare not put it off any 
longer. Then, too, sir — " the woman 
stopped, hesitating. , 



 

"Well.' demanded the doctor. 
"Oh, nothing, sir,'' she stammered. 
"You have been too good to me already." 
"Go on," commanded the other. "Tell 



me." 



"Well," murmured the woman, "I know 
I ought not to put on airs, but you see I 
have not always been so poor. Before my 
husband's misfortune, we were well fixed. 
So you see, I have a little pride. I have 
always managed to take care of myseK. 
I am not a woman of the streets, and to 
stand around like that, with everybody 
else, to be obliged to tell all one's miseries 
out loud before the world! I am wrong, 
I know it perfectly well; I argue with my- 
seK — 'but all the same, it's hard, sir; I 
assure you, it is truly hard." 

"Poor woman!" said the doctor; and 
for a while there was a silence. Then he 
asked : "It was your husband who brought 
you the disease?" 

"Yes, sir," was the reply. "Every- 
thing which happened to us came from 
him. We were living in the country when 
he got the disease. He went half crazy. 



 

He no longer knew how to manage his 
affairs. He gave orders here and there 
for considerable sums. We were not able 
to find the money." 

''Why did he not undergo treatment?" 

''He didn't know then. We were sold 
out, and we came to Paris. But we hadn't 
a penny. He decided to go to the hospital 
for treatment. 

"And then?" 

"Why, they looked him over, but they 
refused him any medicine." 

"Hov was that?" 

"Because we had been in Paris only 
three months. If one hasn't been a resi- 
dent six months, one has no right to free 
medicine." 

"Is that true?" broke in Monsieur 
Loches quickly. 

"Yes," said the doctor, "that's the rule." 

"So you see," said the woman, "it was 
not our fault." 

"You never had children?" inquired the 
doctor. 

"I was never able to bring one to birth,'' 
was the answer. "My husband was taken 



 

just at the beginning of our marriage — 
it was while he was serving in the army. 
You know, sir — there are women about the 
garrisons — '' She stopped, and there was 
a long silence. 

''Come," said the doctor' that's all 
right. I will arrange it with you. You can 
come here to my office, and you can come 
on Sunday mornings." And as the poor 
creature started to express her gratitude, 
he sHpped a coin into her hand. ''Come, 
come; take it," he said, gruffly. "You 
are not going to play proud with me. 
No, no, I have no time to listen to you. 
Hush!" And he pushed her out of the 
door. 

Then he turned to the deputy. "You 
heard her story, sir," he said. "Her 
husband was serving his time in the army; 
it Vv'as you law-makers who compelled him 
to do that. And there are women about 
the garrisons — you heard how her voice 
trembled as she said that? Take my advice, 
sir, and look up the statistics as to the 
prevalence of this disease among our sol- 
diers. Come to some of my clinics, and let 



 

me introduce you to other social types. 
You don't care very much about soldiers, 
perhaps — 'they belong to the lower classes, 
and you think of them as rough men. But 
let me show you what is going on among 
our college students — among the men our 
daughters are some day to marry. Let me 
show you the women who prey upon them! 
Perhaps, who knows — I can show you the 
very woman who was the cause of all the 
misery in your own family!" 

And as Monsieur Loches rose from his 
chair, the doctor came to him and took him 
by the hand. ''Promise me, sir," he said, 
earnestly, ''that you will come back and let 
me teach you more about these matters. 
It is a chance that I must not let go — 
the first time in my life that I ever got 
hold of a real five deputy! Come and 
make a study of this subject, and let us try 
to work out some sensible plan, and get 
seriously to work to remedy these frightful 
evils!" 



CHAPTER VI 

GEORGE lived with his mother after 
Henriette had left his home. He 
was wretchedly unhappy and lonely. 
He could find no interest in any of the things 
which had pleased him before. He was 
ashamed to meet any of his friends, because 
he imagined that everyone must have heard 
the dreadful story — or because he was not 
equal to making up explanations for his 
mournful state. He no longer cared much 
about his work. What was the use of 
making a reputation or earning large fees 
when one had nothing to spend them for? 
All his thoughts were fixed upon the wife 
and child he had lost. He was reminded 
of Henriette in a thousand ways, and each 
way brought him a separate pang of grief. 
He had never reahzed how much he loved 
her, how much he had come to depend 
upon her in every little thing — until now, 





 

when her companionship was withdrawn 
from him, and everything seemed to be a 
blank. He would come home at night, and 
opposite to him at the dinner-table would 
be his mother, silent and spectral. How 
different from the days when Henriette 
was there, radiant and merry, eager to be 
told everything that had happened to him 
through the day! 

There was also his worry about little 
Gervaise. He might no longer hear how 
she was doing, for he could not get up 
courage to ask his mother the news. Thus 
poor George was paying for his sins. He 
could make no complaints against the 
price, however high — only sometimes he 
wondered whether he would be able to 
pay it. There were times of such dis- 
couragement that he thought of different 
ways of killing himself. 

A curious adventure befell him during 
this period. He was walking one day in 
the park, when he saw approaching a 
girl whose face struck him as familiar. At 
first he could not recollect where he had 
seen her. It was only when she was nearly 



 

opposite to him that he realized — it was 
the girl who had been the cause of all his 
misery! 

He tried to look away, but he was too late. 
Her eyes had caught his, and she nodded 
and then stopped, exclaiming, ''Why, how 
do you do?'' 

George had to face her. ''How do you 
do?" he responded, weakly. 

She held out her hand and he had to take 
it, but there was not much welcome in his 
clasp. ''Where have you been keeping 
yourself?" she asked. Then, as he hesi- 
tated, she laughed good-naturedly, "What's 
the matter? You don't seem glad to see 
me." 

The girl — 'TherSse was her name — 'had a 
Httle package under her arm, as if she had 
been shopping. She was not well dressed, 
as when George had met her before, and 
doubtless she thought that was the reason 
for his lack of cordiahty. This made him 
rather ashamed, and so, only half reahzing 
what he was doing, he began to stroll along 
with her. 

"Why did you never come to see me 
again?" she asked. 



 

George hesitated. ''I — 'I — " he stam- 
mered — ''I've been married since then." 

She laughed. "Oh! So that's it!" 
And then, as they came to a bench under 
some trees, "Won't you sit down a while?" 
There was allurement in her glance, but it 
made George shudder. It was incredible 
to him that he had ever been attracted 
by this crude girl. The spell was now 
broken completely. 

She quickly saw that something was 
wrong. "You don't seem very cheerful," 
she said. "What's the matter?" 

And the man, staring at her, suddenly 
blurted out, "Don't you know what you 
did to me?" 

"What I did to you?" Ther'se repeated 
wonderingly. 

"You must know!" he insisted. 

And then she tried to meet his gaze and 
could not. "Why — " she stammered. 

There was silence between them. When 
George spoke again his voice was low and 
trembling. "You ruined my whole life," 
he said — "not only mine, but my family's. 
How could you do it?" 



 

She strove to laugh it off. ''A cheerful 
topic for an afternoon stroll!" 

For a long while George did not answer. 
Then, almost in a whisper, he repeated, 
''How could you do it?" 

''Some one did it to me first," was the 
response. "A man!" 

"Yes," said George, "but he didn't 
know." 

"How can you tell whether he knew or 
not?" 

"You knew?" he inquired, wonderingly. 

Th'rese hesitated. "Yes, I knew," she 
said at last, defiantly. "I have known for 
years." 

"And I'm not the only man." 

She laughed. "I guess not!" 

There followed a long pause. At last 
he resumed, "I don't want to blame you; 
there's nothing to be gained by that; it's 
done, and can't be undone. But sometimes 
I wonder about it. I should like to under- 
stand — 'why did you do it?" 

"Why? That's easy enough. I did it 
because I have to live." 

"You five that way?" he exclaimed. 



 

''Why of course. What did you think?" 

''I thought you were a — a. — " He 
hesitated. 

''You thought I was respectable' laughed 
Therese. "Well, that's just a little game 
I was playing on you." 

"But I didn't give you any money!" 
he argued. 

"Not that time," she said, "but I thought 
you would come back." 

He sat gazing at her. "And you earn 
your living that way still?" he asked. 
"When you know what's the matter with 
you! When you know — " 

"What can I do? I have to Hve, don't 
I?" 

"But don't you even take care of your- 
self? Surely there must be some way, 
some place — " 

"The reformatory, perhaps," she sneered. 
"No, thanks! I'll go there when the police 
catch me, not before. I know some girls 
that have tried that." 

"But aren't you afraid?" cried the man. 
''And the things that will happen to you! 
Have you ever talked to a doctor — or 
read a book?" 



 

''I know," she said. ''IVe seen it all. 
If it comes to me, I'll go over the side of 
one of the bridges some dark night." 

George sat lost in thought. A strange 
adventure it seemed to him — to meet this 
girl under such different circumstances! 
It was as if he were watching a play from 
behind the scenes instead of in front. If 
only he had had this new view in time — 'how 
different would have been his life! And 
how terrible it was to think of the others 
who didn't know — 'the audience who were 
still sitting out jn front, watching the 
spectacle, interested in it! 

His thoughts came back to Therese. He 
was curious about her and the life she lived. 
''Tell me a little about it," he said. ''How 
you came to be doing this." And he 
added, '' Don't think I want to preach; 
I'd really like to understand." 

''Oh, it's a common story," she said — 
'' nothing especially romantic. I came to 
Paris when I was a girl. My parents had 
died, and I had no friends, and I didn't 
know what to do. I got a place as a nurse- 
maid. I was seventeen years old then. 



 

and I didn't know anything. I believed 
what I was told, and I believed my 
employer. His wife was ill in a hospital, 
and he said he wanted to marry me when she 
died. Well, I liked him, and I was sorry 
for him — and then the first thing I knew I 
had a baby. And then the wife came back, 
and I was turned off. I had been a fool, 
of course. If I had been in her place I 
should have done just what she did.'' 

The girl was speaking in a cold, matter-of- 
fact voice, as of things about which she was 
no longer able to suffer. '' So there I was — 
on the street," she went on. "You have 
always had money, a comfortable home, 
education, friends to help you — all that. 
You can't imagine how it is to be in the 
world without any of these things. I lived 
on my savings as long as I could; then I 
had to leave my baby in a foundling's 
home, and I went out to do my five hours 
on the boulevards. You know the game, 
I've no doubt." 

Yes, George knew the game. Somehow 
or other he no longer felt bitter towards 
this poor creature. She was part of the 



 

system of which he was a victim also. 
There was nothing to be gained by hating 
each other. Just as the doctor said, what 
was needed was enlightenment. " Listen' 
he said, ''why don't you try to get cured?" 

''I haven't got the price," was the 
answer. 

''Well," he said, hesitatingly, ''I know 
a doctor — one of the really good men. He 
has a free clinic, and I've no doubt he 
would take you in if I asked him to." 

'' You ask him?" echoed the other, looking 
at George in surprise. 

The young man felt somewhat uncom- 
fortable. He was not used to playing the 
role of the good Samaritan. ''I — I need 
not tell him about us," he stammered. 
''I could just say that I met you. I have 
had such a wretched time myseK, I feel 
sorry for anybody that's in the same plight. 
I should Hke to help you if I could." 

The girl sat staring before her, lost in 
thought. ''I have treated you badly, I 
guess," she said. '' I'm sorry. I'm ashamed 
of myself." 

George took a pencil and paper from his 

 



 

pocket and wrote the doctor's address. 
''Here it is' he said, in a business-Hke 
way, because he felt that otherwise he could 
become sentimental. He was half tempted 
to tell the woman what had happened to 
him, and all about Henriette and the sick 
child; but he realized that that would not 
do. So he rose and shook hands with her 
and left. 

The next time he saw the doctor he 
told him about this girl. He decided to 
tell him the truth — Shaving already made 
so many mistakes trying to conceal things. 
The doctor agreed to treat the woman, 
making the condition that George promise 
not to see her again. 

The young man was rather shocked at 
this. "Doctor," he exclaimed, ''I assure 
you you are mistaken. The thing you have 
in mind would be utterly impossible.'' 

"I know," said the other, "you think so. 
But I think, young man, that I know more 
about life than you do. When a man and a 
woman have once committed such a sin, 
it is easy for them to slip back. The less 
time they spend talking about their mis- 



 

fortunes, and being generous and for- 
bearing to each other, the better for them 
both." 

''But, Doctor," cried George. ''I love 
Henriette! I could not possibly love any- 
one else. It would be horrible to me!" 

"Yes," said the doctor. "But you are 
not living with Henriette. You are wander- 
ing round, not knowing what to do with 
yourseK next." 

There was no need for anybody to tell 
George that. "What do you think?" he 
asked abruptly. "Is there any hope for 
me?" 

"I think there is," said the other, who, 
in spite of his resolution, had become a 
sort of ambassador for the unhappy hus- 
band. He had to go to the Loches house 
to attend the child, and so he could not 
help seeing Henriette, and talking to her 
about the child's health and her own 
future. He considered that George had 
had his lesson, and urged upon the young 
wife that he would be wiser in future, and 
safe to trust. 

George had indeed learned much. He 



 

got new lessons every time he went to call 
at the physician's office — 'he could read 
them in the faces of the people he saw there. 
One day when he was alone in the waiting- 
room, the doctor came out of his inner 
office, talking to an elderly gentleman, 
whom George recognized as the father of 
one of his classmates at college. The 
father was a little shopkeeper, and the 
young man remembered how pathetically 
proud he had been of his son. Could it be, 
thought George, that this old man was a 
victim of syphilis? 

But it was the son, and not the father, 
who was the subject of the consultation. 
The old man was speaking in a deeply 
moved voice, and he stood so that George 
could not help hearing what he said. 
'Terhaps you can't understand,'' he said, 
''just what it means to us — the hopes we 
had of that boy! Such a fine fellow he was, 
and a good fellow, too, sir! We were so 
proud of him; we had bled our veins to 
keep him in college — and now just see!" 

'' Don't despair, sir," said the doctor, 
"we'll try to cure him." And he added, 



 

with that same note of sorrow in his voice 
which George had heard, ''Why did you 
wait so long before you brought the boy 
to me?'' 

''How was I to know what he had?'' 
cried the other. ''He didn't dare tell me, 
sir — 'he was afraid of my scolding him. 
And in the meantime the disease was 
running its course. WTien he realized that 
he had it, he went secretly to one of the 
quacks, who robbed him, and didn't cure 
him. You know how it is, sir." 

''Yes, I know," said the doctor. 

"Such things ought not to be permitted," 
cried the old man. "What is our govern- 
ment about that it allows such things to go 
on? Take the conditions there at the college 
where my poor boy was ruined. At the 
very gates of the building these women are 
watching for the lads! Ought they to be 
permitted to debauch young boys only 
fifteen years old? Haven't we got pohce 
enough to prevent a thing like that? Tell 
me, sir!" 

"One would think so," said the doctor, 
patiently. 



 

''But is it that the poHce don't want 
to?'' 

"No doubt they have the same excuse 
as all the rest — 'they don't know. Take 
courage, sir; we have cured worse cases 
than your son's. And some day, perhaps, 
we shall be able to change these conditions." 

So he went on with the man, leaving 
George with something to think about. 
How much he could have told them about 
what had happened to that young fellow 
when only fifteen years old! It had not 
been altogether the fault of the women who 
were lurking outside of the college gates; 
it was a fact that the boy's classmates 
had teased him and ridiculed him, had 
literally made his Hfe a torment, until he 
had yielded to temptation. 

It was the old, old story of ignorant and 
unguided schoolboys all over the world! 
They thought that to be chaste was to be 
weak and foolish; that a fellow was not a 
man unless he led a life of debauchery hke 
the rest. And what did they know about 
these dreadful diseases? They had the 
most horrible superstitions — 'ideas of cures 



 

so loathsome that they could not be set 
down in print; ideas as ignorant and de- 
structive as those of savages in the heart 
of Africa. And you might hear them 
laughing and jesting about one another's 
condition. They might be afflicted with 
diseases which would have the most terrible 
after-effects upon their whole lives and 
upon their families — diseases which cause 
tens of thousands of surgical operations 
upon women, and a large percentage of 
blindness and idiocy in children — and you 
might hear them confidently express the 
opinion that these diseases were no worse 
than a bad cold! 

And all this mass of misery and ignorance 
covered over and clamped down by a 
taboo of silence, imposed by the horrible 
superstition of sex-prudery! George went 
out from the doctor's office trembluig with 
excitement over this situation. Oh, why 
had not some one warned him in time? 
Why didn't the doctors and the teachers 
lift up their voices and tell young men 
about these frightful dangers? He wanted 
to go out in the highways and preach it 



 



himself — except that he dared not, because 
he could not explain to the world his own 
sudden interest in this forbidden topic. 

There was only one person he dared to 
talk to: that was his mother — to whom he 
ought to have talked many, many years 
before. He was moved to mention to her 
the interview he had overheard in the 
doctor's office. In a sudden burst of grief 
he told her of his struggles and temptations; 
he pleaded with her to go to Henriette once 
more — 'to tell her these things, and try to 
make her realize that he alone was not to 
blame for them, that they were a condition 
which prevailed everywhere, that the only 
difference between her husband and other 
men was that he had had the misfortune 
to be caught. 

There was pressure being applied to 
Henriette from several sides. After all, 
what could she do? She was comfortable 
in her father's home, so far as the physical 
side of things went; but she knew that all 
her friends were gossiping and speculating 
about her separation from her husband, 
and sooner or later she would have to make 



 

up her mind, either to separate permanently 
from George or to return to him. There 
was not much happiness for her in the 
thought of getting a divorce from a man 
whom deep in her heart she loved. She 
would be practically a widow the rest of 
her life, and the home in which poor little 
Gervaise would be brought up would not 
be a cheerful one. 

George was ready to offer any terms, if 
only she would come back to his home. 
They might live separate lives for as long 
as Henriette wished. They would have no 
more children until the doctor declared 
it was quite safe; and in the meantime he 
would be humble and patient, and would 
try his best to atone for the wrong that he 
had done her. 

To these arguments Madame Dupont 
added others of her own. She told the girl 
some things which through bitter experience 
she had learned about the nature and habits 
of men; things that should be told to every 
girl before marriage, but which almost all 
of them are left to find out afterwards, 
with terrible suffering and disillusionment. 



 

Whatever George's sins may have been, 
he was a man who had been chastened by 
suffering, and would know how to value 
a woman's love for the rest of his life. Not 
all men knew that — not even those who 
had been fortunate in escaping from the 
so-called '' shameful disease.' 

Henriette was also hearing arguments 
from her father, who by this time had had 
time to think matters over, and had come 
to the conclusion that the doctor was right. 
