England," was the dry rejoinder.
"Oh, let's let her alone. She'll make her way with that high head of
hers. Perhaps she will be President of some college yet."
Then they went back to fun. At nine Miss Arran came in and dismissed
them.
Zay was thinking how solitary the girl must be. Oh, if her mother were
not the general mender! Even if she were a sort of charity scholar! And
she was going to have such a splendid Christmas. Her dear, beloved
mother able to get about by herself, and all the rest of their lives to
be such friends, to go abroad together, to visit picture galleries,
points of interest and compare notes. For Mrs. Crawford had been finely
educated and even the prospect of being an invalid for life had not made
her relax her hold on intellectuality. She had been a delightful friend
to her boys and they were proud enough of her, but Zay would always be
her supreme darling.
                 *       *       *       *       *
Some of the last exercises and conditions were marked off the next day.
Madame Eustice and two of the girls went home. A box came for Miss
Nevins and the girls thronged around at her invitation while Nat drew
out the nails that had fastened it securely, and lifted out a lighter
box.
"That's from Madame I know, and I have frocks enough here for winter.
Oh, that's a splendid fruit cake, and nuts and that's candied orange and
a box of fruit, and this is some sort of jewelry."
She tore off the wrapping eagerly. A long lapis lazuli chain with a
beautiful pendant and links of exquisite color, and a pair of bracelets
to match.
"It's elegant," pronounced Phillipa. "I never go crazy over it myself
and it seems too old for a girl; the sort of thing for a dowager to wear
on state occasions. Now, let us see the frock."
A beautiful, fine albatross cloth in itself appropriate, but betrimmed
with pipings of satin and lace.
"Why it looks like a wedding gown. You'll have to save it for there will
be no occasion to wear it here. Not even graduation and the lawn fete,
for then we all wear simple white muslin. That is Mrs. Barrington's
law."
"Oh, dear, and it is so beautiful!" on a half cry. "You see, mamma
thought being a high-up school there would be parties and all that. Last
winter in New York I went to three and oh, you should have seen the
dresses! I had one of blue gauze over thin satin and it was just lovely,
and the dancing was simply great, and here you never go any where."
"We come here to improve our minds," said some one sententiously
"I'd like some real fun and gayety, and think that I must stay all alone
here."
"There will be five girls to keep you company."
"But there's no fun or parties or anything. Oh, let's cut the cake. I
shan't enjoy it when I am alone."
It was a real treat, and the nuts and sweets were a feast. They had not
much appetite for luncheon.
"But did you ever see anything so idiotic as that lovely frock for such
a girl and a place like this where you do not go to high-up parties,"
said one of the girls in a group, afterward. "And what it must have
cost! It really ought to be returned as very unsuitable."
"What can the mother be like, and isn't the father a politician or a
contractor?" with a laugh.
"No," returned Phillipa. "I asked father to find out about them. Mr.
Nevins is a reputable banker, a very good judge of loans and is rated
quite highly in London. Then he buys curios and pictures, so he must
have some taste. Think what that silly girl will have, enough to make
any three girls of us fancy ourselves heroines of the Arabian Nights;
but the mother can't have any sense."
"I think the modistes are largely to blame. No doubt the mother ordered
a handsome evening dress, and the woman made it handsome and expensive
and quite useless. You don't see Zay Crawford with any such things!"
"Zay is beauty unadorned."
"And Miss Nevins is ugliness intensified. I am really sorry for her,
though she has improved a very little. But when you think of the place
she might take in society--"
"And the journeys!"
"Still, I wouldn't want such a mother."
Phillipa went to her room to finish her Latin verses.
"Though why you should be compelled to write Latin verses when you can't
make decent English rhymes I don't see," she grumbled.
She was almost through when the door flew open and shut again with a
bang and Louie Howe threw herself on the floor clasping Phillipa's
knees, her eyes distraught with terror.
"Oh, isn't it horrible!" she almost shrieked. "Those boys had malignant
scarlet fever! That one was dying the girl held up, he was choking
awfully, and at nine o'clock the other one died. It's all in the
morning's paper. I think they hid it away. Miss Vincent picked it up in
the library. Oh, what can we do?"
"You can stop screaming and get up." Phillipa fairly dragged her up and
shook her violently. "Hush! hush!" she commanded. "You'll have the whole
faculty in here, and we'll be bundled out bag and baggage. Have a little
regard for Zay and me if you have none for yourself."
Phillipa drew up the willow rocker and pushed Louie in it. "Don't have
hysterics if that is what you're aiming at or I'll douse you with cold
water until you're half drowned."
Louie was sobbing now. "I can't help it, and think of the dreadful risk
we ran! That woman ought to be sent to prison."
"That woman was going on with her business, earning her living. We were
the fools! How did they know it was scarlet fever?"
"Well, she thought it was measles and was doctoring them, but one of
them grew so much worse she sent for Dr. Lewis and he was so busy he
didn't get there until five, just as the boy died, and the other one
hadn't seemed so bad, but he died at nine, and the youngest girl has the
fever. Dr. Lewis sent for the undertaker right away and they put
something on the bodies and sealed up the coffin and they were to be
buried this morning and the clothes to be burned and the house
fumigated. Oh, isn't it horrible! The woman ought to go to prison."
"After losing her two children?"
"Well, to give us all scarlet fever, malignant scarlet fever?" with
emphasis.
Phillipa was quivering in every nerve. But she must control Louie.
"Well, we shouldn't have gone there. I think she ought not have let us
in but just said she couldn't admit customers. Now, what are you going
to do?"
"I--I--what can I do? I s'pose I'll have scarlet fever--"
"You can give the thing away and be sent home in disgrace. You'll lose
your watch and perhaps not get in another school. You can spoil Zay
Crawford's life for the present, just when it has reached the loveliest
point of all--"
"And you?"
Louie stopped sobbing and studied her companion in wonder.
"I'm not going to have scarlet fever. Those children haven't been sick a
week. Scarlet fever is taken from the little flakes that peel off when
the skin begins to dry up. We surely didn't get any of those. We went
right out in the fresh air and I breathed in a big supply, the room had
been so close. Two of mother's children had scarlet fever and she took
care of them. None of the others had it. It's half fright; just pull
yourself together and don't be an idiot and you'll come through all
right."
"Oh, Phil! I wish I had your courage."
"You have courage enough only you won't use it. Just feel certain
nothing is going to happen and you'll come out all right. We're going
home so soon that for our sakes you might summon a little courage. If
you go on this way Louie you'll be--what is it they call hysterical
people? Neurasthenics, I believe. I mean to have a jolly good time with
plenty of lovers and dances and fun and get married. I'm not going to
be a sighing, whimsical old maid, borrowing trouble."
"Oh, dear!" and she fell to sobbing again.
"Now, Louie, let me give you some ammonia and you lie here on my bed
while I finish this exercise. Get asleep if you can."
"Oh, how good you are in real trouble, Phil."
"Humph! You don't know what real trouble is. To be smashed up in a
railroad accident or run over by a trolley or bitten by a mad dog, such
things might make your hair turn white. There now, don't let me hear
another word out of you."
She settled Louie on her bed and covered her over with a shawl,
listening every few moments. The sighing breath became more regular,
there were two or three gentle snores. Phillipa rose presently, went
cautiously to the door and placed the key on the outside, then locked it
softly. Louie might sleep half an hour.
Just as she turned Zay ran into her arms. "Oh Phil--we've just had word.
The steamer will be in this evening. Aunt Kate has sent over and I am to
be dismissed. We go to New York tomorrow morning. Oh, it seems too
blessed to be true, but mother hasn't lost any ground. What a lovely
Christmas we shall have!"
"And I'm glad enough for your sake, Zay. I've teased you about looking
like that Boyd girl, and I dragged you off into danger, but if anything
should happen to you I never could forgive myself."
"I don't believe we were in any great danger. I hunted up father's big
medico-something and read about scarlet fever. You don't take it very
easily, but oh, wasn't it dreadful for the poor woman! Only I think she
oughtn't have let us in. The town authorities are going to send them
away as soon as they can. Oh, good-by--but I'll see you when we come
back."
"I'll keep tab on Louie. We must just hold together. It won't do for the
thing to leak out. I was a ninny to propose such a thing." They kissed
each other and walked down stairs together. Most of the girls were in
the school room discussing the newspaper account. The town was clean and
in excellent shape, there were no fears of an epidemic and even now Dr.
Lewis was not quite sure but it's origin was measles, since the little
girl had a decided case. The strictest watch would be kept. The clothes
and some rubbish had been burned. The clairvoyant's knowledge of the
future was held up to withering ridicule.
Louie Howe had a long, refreshing nap and woke up in much better heart.
The short day ended by a little gymnasium practice but all the girls
were rather nervous over the affair.
"Why, I had the scarlet fever once," announced Miss Nevins, "and mamma
would have three doctors!"
"And you lived through all that?" laughed some one. "Then scarlet fever
can't be dangerous."
"I don't remember being very sick, and then father sent us to Bermuda.
It was when the lilies were in bloom. It's such a lovely place!"
"Young ladies," began Mrs. Barrington as they rose from the table, "as
our work is about done I have decided to dismiss school. Some of your
parents may see this sensational account, and everything does get so
exaggerated. There is not the slightest fear of an epidemic, but you
will all be glad of a little longer holiday. I hope you will all return
in good health and the resolve to do your best towards finishing your
year in the best possible manner."
"You believe there isn't real danger?" asked Miss Kingsland.
"There have been no cases about the town to indicate an epidemic. The
little girl's case seems to be not very serious as her fever is abating.
Oh, I think we at least need not feel the slightest alarm. We have no
slums to foster contagion."
Still, the two sudden deaths had created a frightened sort of
impression. The girls kept discussing them until Phillipa protested.
"Who is going home tomorrow?" she asked. "After all it is only a day
sooner, and who has their Christmas gifts done up? Must we save our
jolliness until we get home? We are all coming back in a fortnight, and
spring comes so soon after the holidays, and there's pegging away at
everything and finally graduation."
Some began to hunt up trains, others went to packing. Phillipa kept
Louie near her and made funny unsentimental speeches until the old
feeling seemed quite restored. Some gifts were exchanged, some guesses
as to what home presents would be and they said good-night in the best
of spirits.
"Now, Louie," began Phil, escorting her to her door, "if you get a
granny fit in the night and see horrible things, you just come to my
room and hop into bed with me, and think what a gay time you'll be
having tomorrow night this time, much gayer than Miss Nevins with all
her money and her three party frocks with no place to display them."
Louie laughed. "Oh, Phil, you're such a comfort," she said with an
extravagant hug, "but aren't you going home tomorrow?"
"No, not until Friday. I want to see Zay before I go, and I'm not afraid
of unlucky Friday either," laughing.
Louie slept soundly and was in very good spirits. The girls were all
eager for the morning paper. The scare was pretty well over. The boys
had been buried, the little girl was no worse and if fever did not
develop it would simply be a case of measles.
Then most of the girls said good-by, wishing each other a merry
Christmas. The others huddled together and bewailed their hard lot,
missing Miss Boyd very much. Her mother was quite poorly, which was
given as her excuse. Mrs. Dane insisted upon a rigorous exclusion until
all danger of contagion was over.
Quite late in the afternoon Phillipa walked over to Crawford House and
sent up her card to Zaidee with a penciled message. The girl came flying
through the hall, more beautiful than ever Phil thought, in her soft
red cashmere with white lace garnishings.
"Oh, Phil dear, I'm so glad to see you! I was afraid you would go home
before I had a glimpse of you. We've been so busy and so full of joy!
Oh, you can't think what it is to see mother walking around with no
crutches and the wheel chair set aside, and she's in such splendid
spirits. Vincent will be allowed to come home as a special favor to
papa, getting here early Monday morning and returning that night. We're
just going to have a family dinner with a very few dear friends, but New
Year's night I am to have a party. Oh, can't you come back a little
sooner. I'd like so to have you."
"I don't believe I can, and you know there are the lovers and the
diamond ring"--laughing.
"Oh, dear! Can you believe any of it? And the surprise that I'm not
going to be pleased with. It isn't that Willard has fallen in love, he
is going to have his three years' cruise first. Oh, were you much
frightened, Phil? It was dreadful, and no one can tell where the boys
took the disease. I can't help feeling sorry for the poor mother if she
is a humbug, it is such a sad Christmas for her, and was Louie much
frightened?"
"Oh, she almost went into hysterics and I was afraid she'd give us all
away, but I did manage to get her off safely, and bound her by the most
solemn promises not to mention the escapade at home. It wasn't the right
thing for us to do of course, but mischief always looks so tempting to
you and if we keep silence no harm will be done. It wasn't as bad as
they thought."
A shudder went over Zay's slight figure.
"And I am so glad you didn't worry yourself ill," Phillipa rejoined with
real feeling.
"Phil, can't you stay to dinner and see mother? She's lying down
now--there have been so many calls. Father brought home the German
nurse, who measures off her time in a very funny manner, and he escorts
mother down stairs and up again as if he was a young lover."
"No, dear, thank you. When I come back the rush will be over and we will
have a good time. I've twenty things to do and start at nine tomorrow.
Good-by and have just the most splendid time, as I shall have. So good
luck for a fortnight," and they kissed each other warmly.
CHAPTER VIII
A STRANGE CONFESSION
The girl who had been wrongfully accused was not so light hearted. Mrs.
Dane still preserved her suspicious aspect, and of course the whole
school was eager for every bit of news. Lilian said nothing to her
mother about the talk, she seemed rather fretful and uneasy, as if she
was annoyed by the girl's presence.
So on Thursday afternoon she went out for a walk. Just beyond the gate
she saw Edith Trenham coming toward her.
"Oh, were you going out? Let us walk together, then. I have so much to
say to you? Did you think it queer?"
"I know now," said Lilian. "It was dreadful!"
"I had to go home for some important school papers, and just slipped in
and out again when you saw me. Of course I did not want it spoken of.
Mother has been very careful keeping the windows on that side of the
house closed. Claire has never had any of the infantile diseases. The
woman thought it measles at first, but they are so particular in the
schools, now. We closed today. Mother is going to shut up the house for
awhile and board at Mrs. Lane's while they fumigate and burn up. The
authorities have ordered the old house torn down. I think not a great
many people visited her, though they did at first. I only hope the
little girl will not die. Mother spoke to the oldest one that morning
and she said her brothers were very ill and that her mother thought she
would have a doctor, but it was too late when he came. Oh, I hope there
will not be any more cases."
"It would be terrible if they died like that. Our classes are dismissed
as well, I believe there was a great fright among the girls, and just at
Christmas time, too."
"Will you go down with me tomorrow and have a look at the stores? This
has upset our plans. I wanted you and your mother to come and take
Christmas dinner with us."
"Mother doesn't seem at all well. I doubt if she could go out, and I
couldn't leave her for pleasure."
"Well, some other time; and how are you getting along? I suppose you
have vacation as well?"
"Oh yes. Madame thinks I shall acquire French easily. She reads French
verses so splendidly, and I am doing well in Latin, but oh, there are
such stores of reading! It is a hardship to tear myself away, and poetry
just enchants me--well, when it is high and fine. I have begun 'The
Idylls of the King.' Oh it must be just glorious to write such poetry!"
"It is a rare gift, and it is something to be able to read and
appreciate."
"I sometimes envy the girls who have so much leisure, yet they seem not
to improve it. But then--oh, you don't know how lovely it is here, how
much there is to interest and satisfy. Of course I'm not quite
satisfied at present," and Lilian gave a light laugh, "but the town is
so truly beautiful and the house--I wonder if it is silly but I walk
about at times and do enjoy the soft rugs, the handsome furniture, the
pictures, the beautiful bits of art scattered around, and oh, the books!
There never was anything like it in my life before, and if I go back to
comparative poverty, which I suppose I shall some day, for I never can
earn any thing like this, it will linger in my mind as a journey to some
enchanting place. There is so much to learn all the time. Not merely out
of books but the sweet and gracious things one can do; Mrs. Barrington
is so lovely. Am I tiring you with these visionary things?"
"No, my dear girl, I am glad you can enjoy them and treasure them up
without a feeling of envy. We cannot all of us abound in this world's
goods, but we can be glad someone has them and is willing to share them
with us, at least, allow us to look on."
"I'm going to study every day and get on as fast as possible. I'm
longing for the time when I can earn money and have a little home of our
own. I wish"--then she paused and recovering herself after a moment,
resumed--"I wish to make some nice friends in my own walk in life, among
those who really love to work and bring about results."
"And I am sure you will do it. And loving whatever is fine and true and
gracious shapes one's character. God has given us the sense of enjoyment
and he means us to make the best use of it that we can. Oh, we must turn
about. See how far we have walked, and there is a baby crescent moon."
The dun white of the sky was thinning into blue and here and there a
star pricked through. It was clear and crisp yet the air had a fragrance
of the cedars and spruces. They hurried along, and Lilian promised to
meet her friend tomorrow for another walk. She had never been an
effusive girl, but she could talk so easily to Edith and in the
interchange she could throw off the things that annoyed or depressed
her.
So they said good-night and she entered the pretty vestibule where she
had first seen Mrs. Barrington. Her heart gave a quick bound as she
thought of that lady's confidence in her truth. Mrs. Dane must sometime
be convinced of her injustice.
She ran lightly up the stairs, wondering a little that her mother's room
should be in darkness. Crossing over to the match safe she stumbled over
something on the floor and struck a light in half terror.
"Oh mother! mother!" she cried to the prostrate figure. Then in sudden
fear she called in the hall--"Oh, will some one come! I cannot tell what
has happened to mother."
Miss Arran answered. The face was deadly white and cold, the eyes half
open, staring.
"Oh, she is dead! I went out to walk and staid too long." Lilian's voice
was full of remorseful pathos.
"No," said Miss Arran. "I think she has only fainted. Her heart beats a
little; Let us lay her on the bed and I'll get some restoratives. Is she
accustomed to fainting?"
"Not like this. Oh poor mother!"
They laid her on the bed, chafed her hands and bathed her face, using
the lavender salts. After a little there was a faint respiration. Then
she opened her eyes and murmured something.
"Mother, dear, what happened? And I was away." "It will be better
when--when I'm gone." The vague glance seemed to study the girl with
poignant anguish. "Oh, yes!--better--"
"You must not say that. You must live to let me repay you for all you
have done for me, and we will be happy--"
She moved her head from side to side in dissent. "Oh, you do not know,
but I did it for love's sake. I could not live without my child."
"Suppose we get her undressed, she will feel more comfortable. She has
not looked well for the last week or two. Mrs. Barrington was speaking
about it, but she is such a quiet body."
Lilian opened the bed. She was girlishly glad her mother's night dress
was neat and lace trimmed, fit to go to her new home. So they soon had
her easier and restful.
"I should like a cup of tea," she said, weakly.
"I'll get it," and Miss Arran left the room.
"Dear mother," and Lilian patted the hands that were thin and cold.
"Oh, love me a little to the end, I've loved you so much. Whatever comes
you will know I did it for love's sake, and you must forgive."
"There can be nothing to forgive. You have worked for me early and late.
You must live and let me repay you, make you happy. If I have failed in
the past I will try with all my soul and strength in the future. Think,
every year brings us nearer the home I shall make for you. Oh, do not
talk of dying!"
"You don't know. I did not think of the wrong then. You were a
motherless babe, then, and I was a childless mother. For you must know,
you must have felt in your inmost soul that I was not your true mother."
Lilian raised her head in the wildest dismay, and though she stared at
Miss Arran she did not seem to see her. Many a time like a lightning
flash the thought had swept over her, but it seemed awful to have it put
in words, to have the certainty pierce through her like a sharp sword.
"Oh, mother, you do not know what you are saying. It is some wretched,
horrid dream! You have been too much alone. You have brooded over this
thought of our differences. Children and parents are often unlike. At
all events I have never known any other mother. You must live and let me
prove a true daughter."
"I did not think there could be any wrong then. If you were cast on the
world friendless, why should I not fill my aching heart with baby love.
Yes, you did love me then, you clung to me. I never thought of there
being someone else--a father, perhaps--oh, heaven help us both!"
She had raised herself soon after she began to talk; now she fell back
on the pillow fainting. Lilian was sobbing. Miss Arran came to her
relief.
"I think we must have a physician. I will see Mrs. Barrington."
The faint was of short duration. Miss Arran was strangely mystified. Was
Mrs. Boyd's talk an hallucination or some secret kept for years that
must needs make its way out at last? Had she any right to repeat it on
mere suspicion?
Mrs. Barrington sent for Dr. Kendricks at once. Then she went to Mrs.
Boyd's room. How very frail she looked.
"My poor child," the lady said, "this is very hard for you, and I think
you did not come in to dinner. Suppose you go down stairs for awhile?"
"Oh, no, I must stay here. Poor mother--"
"Lilian," murmured the feeble voice and the thin hand wandered out as if
for a clasp.
She took it, pressed it to her lips, her firm, warm cheek. Should she
pray for life? Would not God send what was best? Oh, that she might have
strength to accept it. She raised her eyes to Mrs. Barrington in
entreaty. Oh, who was she so like at that moment?
The doctor was announced. Miss Arran sat by the bedside. There was a
lamp on the table and he asked that it might be lighted, making a close
survey of the patient.
"Was there any shock? Her vitality is at a very low ebb. When was the
first unconscious spell?"
"I was out," began Lilian, tremulously. "She insisted that I should go
and seemed to want to be alone. I staid longer than I meant, and found
her fallen to the floor--"
Mrs. Boyd raised to a partly sitting posture and looked up with feverish
eagerness.
"I went to put something in the chiffonier--you will find it, Lilian, in
a box and the key is--oh, what did I do with it?"
"Never mind, dear," in a soft tone.
"But you must mind, and then I turned--it was my leg. It is heavy and
I can't raise it, but the ache is all gone."
Dr. Kendricks turned down the blanket and examined the limb, nodding as
if convinced.
"Oh," she cried, "is it paralysis? Then it will not be long. My mother
had two strokes a week apart, her mother never rallied from the first.
I'm tired--worn out, and Lilian will be better off without me. She may
find--I have written it all out--it's there in the drawer--"
"Oh mother!" Lilian kissed her and put her back on the pillow where she
gave a gasping sigh.
Dr. Kendricks beckoned Mrs. Barrington out of the room.
"She is in a very low condition and I doubt if she survives more than a
few days. What about the girl--is it her daughter?"
"Why, yes--though they are very dissimilar; but she is a devoted
daughter. The mother is caretaker, the daughter a student."
"She seems to have exhausted nature. The fainting spells may be a method
of rest. Let her sleep all she can. Very little can be done for her. I
will leave some drops to be given if she is very restless and will look
in in the morning. It is rather unfortunate this should happen to you,
just now."
"Oh, school has closed and there is plenty of help. I want everything
done for her."
Then Mrs. Barrington returned to the room. Miss Arran sat by the foot of
the bed, Lilian was bathing her mother's face.
"My child," Mrs. Barrington said, "you had better lie down and get a
little rest. We will watch--"
"No, I want Lilian," entreated the mother. "You will not leave me? When
I am a little rested I want to tell you how it came--"
"Yes, yes, but not now. I would rather stay here. It is my place, and
now there are no other duties."
So the hours wore on. Mrs. Boyd seemed to fall into a tranquil sleep.
Lilian laid down on her own bed, and slept in a disturbed sort of
fashion. Then morning came, and the house was astir.
"Oh, Miss Arran have you watched all night? How good you are!"
"I had several naps. Your mother was very quiet. She seems better. Mrs.
Dane is coming in and you must get some breakfast. Then if we need a
nurse--"
"Oh, no, do not have one. My place is here. Oh, Miss Arran," and Lilian
turned deadly pale, "you heard what she said last evening. It can't be
true. Would any one ever work and make sacrifices for a child not her
own? She is my mother."
Miss Arran nodded. "Unless she is much worse I do not think we will need
a nurse. There will be so little to do in the house that I shall be
quite at liberty."
"Yes, Mrs. Boyd was much stronger," the doctor admitted, though the case
was not much more hopeful. A second stroke might end it all. "But she
seems to have something on her mind. Is it anxiety about her daughter?"
"I have assured her that Lilian will be my charge. She has the making of
an unusually fine scholar, and she is a high minded, honorable girl,
sincere and ambitious."
"The daughter has taken from somewhere a much stronger physical and
mental equipment. What of the father?"
"Oh, he died when she was a mere infant."
The embargo had been removed from Lilian and Mrs. Dane treated her with
a sort of tolerant sympathy. She roamed about the deserted library and
chose some books, a few girls waylaid her in the school room. Miss
Nevins made an importunate appeal, quite forgetting her past disdain.
"Oh, why can't you stay down here?" she cried. "It's awful dull, and
there's no fun going on. Miss Graniss is going to take us down town when
the stores are lighted up, but it's so long to wait until evening."
"Mother is ill and I want to stay with her," Lilian returned coldly,
provoked at the selfishness. She read awhile, then took up some
embroidery. Miss Trenham came in with the gift of a beautiful volume of
poems. Claire sent a little reminder in a most exquisite book mark. She
was quite delighted in the change to another home, where there were two
girls. "Could Edith do anything for them?"
"They are all so good here, and mother doesn't need much, she seems to
sleep a good deal."
The sick girl at the Clairvoyant's was improving. Not even a case of
measles had been reported in town.
So the winter day drew to a close. Lilian watched the little procession
starting out under the convoy of Miss Graniss. Yes, she had run out that
way at Laconia--how long ago it seemed. Oh, she ought to have sent a few
gifts to old girl friends. She had really no heart for gladness.
Lilian sat over by the gas burner reading that most beautiful Christmas
part of "In Memoriam." She almost heard the "happy bells ring across the
snow," so rapt was she in the poets charm. Then something stirred. Her
mother was trying to raise herself.
"Oh mother--"
"Put the pillows around me, so, I want to sit up. I want to talk. I have
been living it over. And I am surely going to that other country. I
shall have my own two babies in my arms, and their father will come to
meet me. I want to tell you how it was. It has come back so distinctly,
much plainer than when I wrote it."
Miss Arran had started to come in but paused at the door. Lilian's back
was towards her. Mrs. Dane going through the hall paused as Miss Arran
held up her finger.
"Oh, mother, not tonight."
"Yes, now. I feel so strong. After husband died my brother sent for me
and wanted me to take up some land adjoining his. Mr. Holland, who was
holding the life insurance--all I had, was not willing until I had seen
what the place was like and he thought that kind of life very hard on
women, but my brother was the only relative I had, though I had not seen
him for years. After I had started I was frightened about the journey
and the strange people. There was one woman with a baby, a bright,
beautiful child with rosy cheeks and brilliant eyes. I supposed her the
mother, for I saw her nurse the infant, and there was with them such a
beautiful woman. She came to me in the night, and when I looked at her
the last time she was dead," and she sighed.
"We were most of us asleep when there was an awful crash. Then horrible
shrieks and cries and being thrown about--"
"Oh, mother, don't, don't!" Lilian implored. "Your mind is wandering--"
"No, it is true, horribly true. It was one of the awful accidents of
that time, more than fifteen years ago, but I suppose I became
unconscious. My babe flew out of my arms; my little baby," in a
lingering tone as if the words were sweet to say.
"When I came to myself it was in a room where several were lying around
on cots, and two women sat close together trying to hush the crying
child."
"Give me my baby, I almost shrieked. Bring me my baby."
"They brought it and I hugged it to my breast, gave it nourishment,
cuddled it in my arms and I fell asleep full of joy. We both slept a
long while. When I woke the woman brought me a cup of tea and some
bread. I was ravenously hungry. Then I asked what had happened. It had
been twenty-four hours."
"It was a horrible accident at a place where tracks crossed. All day
they had been clearing away the wreck and sending bodies into the
nearest towns for this place was small. A number had been killed
outright. Will you give me some of that tea in the tumbler?"
"Oh, mother, do not tell any more," the girl pleaded, shuddering.
"Yes, I must, I must! When morning came the woman helped me up and I had
some breakfast. I had been stunned and bruised, but no bones were
broken."
"We are so glad the baby was yours," one of the women said. "The other
poor baby and its mother was killed."
"I went to the bed presently and turned down the blanket. There lay the
lovely child warm and rosy, the picture of health. I devoured it with
kisses. Yes, it was mine. God had saved it and sent it to me. It had no
mother, so it was mine. I called it by my baby's name, and I couldn't
have cared more for my own flesh and blood. You were so beautiful and
bright--so fond and loving. On the other side of the room lay the lovely
woman who had interested me so much. They thought her dying, she looked
as if she were dead, I never saw anything more perfect. She was like
sculptured marble. They were trying to get every one away and the next
day an official questioned me and offered to make good any loss. I had
my ticket pinned to the lining of my dress, and what money I had taken
with me sewed up in a little bag. There had been a fire as well, and
much of the baggage was burned. I had lost my trunk but they paid me its
full value and more, and sent me on my journey."
"I have told you what a dismal place my brother had in Wisconsin. There
were five big, rough children. I was not fitted for farm work. I missed
my old friends and so I went back to Laconia, but my whole life was
wrapped up in you."
"And many a time I must have seemed ungrateful. Oh, mother, when you did
so much for me!" sobbed Lilian.
"Oh, dear, I have thought it all out. You were not of my kind. It
fretted me at first. You were always a little lady, doing things in a
nicer way than most girls, and you were forever reading and studying. If
we could have kept the boarding house," in tones of regret, "but there
was my long illness and the house was sold torn down for a great
factory. Then I took up the sewing. It was easier in some ways. I liked
Sally Marks and her mother so much. The gay jolliness and the merry
chat. They were like two girls together. But your heart was set on the
High School. Oh, Lilian, do believe I would have kept you there if I
could. Then I began to wonder what your own mother and father had been
like, and if your father was alive. Perhaps he could have done much
better for you. The thought wore on me, and I was not well; I knew that.
You see I should have had a girl who did not mind working in a shop and
enjoying good times with other girls, going to parties and picnics and
having lovers and marrying as I did, and having babies. I loved babies
so. To be a grandmother to a little flock seemed very heaven to me."
"Oh, mother, don't! You will break my heart," sobbed Lilian.
"No, child, you were not to blame. God gave you all these high thoughts
and ambitions; I never had any of them, and after we came here I
understood it still better. You belonged to these kind of people, your
ways were theirs, your ambition was right, and I was very thankful that
such a refuge opened for us. You have been a good, devoted child.
Tomorrow we will talk it over again. Now will you send for some toast
and eat. Oh, Lilian, child, don't cry. God will bring you out right and
forgive me for what I did out of longing love."
Lilian turned, Miss Arran took a step forward. "I will bring it to you,"
she said, and she motioned to Mrs. Dane who stood like a statue.
"Let us go to Mrs. Barrington. She must know this," she whispered.
Lilian bathed her face and readjusted her mother's pillows. The whole
world seemed in a daze about her. Yet she was not so much surprised
either, but stunned, incapable now of judging whether there had been any
right or wrong. If no one belonging to her had been found--and her own
mother was among the killed, she might have been turned over to some
foundling asylum.
"I feel much better," exclaimed Mrs. Boyd. "But, oh, Lilian, don't pray
for me to live, for I should be a helpless burden on you, and I'll have
my two own babies in heaven. I meant to do it for the best when I
claimed you, and I think God will understand. It's been a poor, broken
sort of life but I've tried to do up to the lights I had, and yours will
be better, higher. Mrs. Barrington appreciated you and will help you.
God surely opened this way for us."
Was it truly of God's providence? She had longed so ardently for the
refinements of life, the possibilities of education. Some times it
seemed as if He answered petitions in the suppliant's way and freighted
them with another burden.
But if this should be laid upon her she would pray for strength to do
her whole duty. It was hardly likely she would ever find any one
belonging to her, that was too wild a thought. She would keep this
generous foster mother as long as she needed love and care.
CHAPTER IX
WHOSE CHILD AM I?
Miss Arran tapped lightly at the half-open door and Mrs. Barrington bade
both ladies enter.
"How is Mrs. Boyd?"
"Why she seems curiously better. She has been talking awhile to her
daughter and her voice has a latent strength that surprises one, and we
have been unwitting listeners to a most remarkable story. Did you ever
suspect that she might not be the own mother of Miss Boyd?"
"The thought has crossed my mind. They are so dissimilar."
"I have never really liked Mrs. Boyd or the girl either," began Mrs.
Dane. "There seemed something to conceal, some secret between them. I
had a fancy Lilian was on the watch all the time lest her mother should
betray it."
"Oh, did you think that? It appeared to me the anxiety of a girl of good
breeding lest her mother should fall into habits of a different kind
that were rather annoying. Yet they had always been together--"
"It seemed to me aping a style really above what she had been used, a
certain pretentiousness, that did not appear suitable to her position,
but she has proved a devoted nurse and daughter, and I will confess my
prejudice has received a great shock, and I admit frankly that I may
have been mistaken when I accused her of being at the Clairvoyant's.
Miss Arran will you tell the story--it seems a deathbed confession."
Miss Arran began. She had started to go in Mrs. Boyd's room to see if
anything was needed when the words arrested her, and she detailed the
journey Mrs. Boyd had undertaken with her infant child, the dreadful
midnight disaster, the unconsciousness of the poor woman until the next
day, her hearing the child cry and claiming it unwittingly, and then
learning the child's mother had been killed as well as her own baby and
her resolve to keep it; her taking it on her farther journey, and caring
for it as her own, her latent remorse lest she should have defrauded the
girl out of a better birthright--
Mrs. Barrington rose suddenly and paced the room in strange agitation.
"Somewhere I have heard a story that might be the other side of this. It
is very strange," clasping her hands. "One would not want to make a
mistake."
"I wish you might hear the story, and one point of importance is
whether it would be wisdom to help the girl in any search for her
parentage. Sometimes unfortunate facts come to light. You, perhaps, can
tell what will be the best course to pursue."
"Yes, I am glad you came to me. I had resolved to keep Miss Boyd here
after her mother was gone. I must give the matter some thought. We will
not be hasty. Yes, I should like to hear the confession and ask her some
questions. Lilian must not stay alone tonight."
"I will gladly offer my services if they would be acceptable," said Mrs.
Dane.
"I think I will take the first part of the night, and then you may be
watcher. I thank you very much for your kindness."
Mrs. Barrington went to the quiet apartment. Lilian had fallen asleep
with her head on her mother's pillow. She had exhausted herself with a
soft, pitiful crying. With the quick unreason of youth she upbraided
herself for the many times she had been secretly mortified at her
mother's lack of the qualities she liked best. She had spent hours in
dreaming of a phantom mother sweet, graceful and refined, who loved all
delightful things, who was stirred by music and poetry, who could
receive guests with a gracious hospitality in the pretty home which
should be simple as befitted moderate means. The sympathy between them
would be perfect. They would linger over well-loved poets, they would
discuss their brave heroes and favorite heroines. How many times she had
fallen asleep with this dear mother's hand clasped in hers!
But here had been the hard working mother instead. Yes, she had tried to
help. Nearly all the summer vacation she had sewed steadily, but she had
never given the real love. It was as if neither truly understood the
other's language.
"All the rest of her life I will try," was her last conscious thought.
Mrs. Barrington found them both asleep. She studied the girl's face, the
finely cut features, the wide eyelids with their bronze fringe, the
beautifully curved lips. It was an aristocratic face. She hardly dared
think there was a resemblance, and yet it explained what had puzzled
her at times. "Lilian," she said softly. "Lilian, child, it is time you
were in bed."
The girl roused suddenly with a startled look. Then she caught the hand
and pressed a fervent kiss upon it.
"You are all so kind," she murmured. "I can never repay you
sufficiently."
"Do not think of that, I am going to sit here awhile with your mother
and you must try and get some sleep."
"Mother is better I think," hesitatingly. "She is stronger, and now she
is sleeping peacefully."
She slept on with only a rather heavy breathing. At one Mrs. Dane came
to relieve her. Lilian was on the alert quite early and her mother asked
for some breakfast.
At ten the doctor came. "I feel so much stronger," the invalid said,
"but I can't move my limbs. There doesn't seem any life in them."
"It was quite a severe stroke."
"And if I should have another?"
"We won't think of that just now. You must eat what you can of
nourishing food."
Mrs. Boyd glanced up at the doctor with beseeching eyes--
"It is best that I shouldn't live--"
"For your daughter's sake." Dr. Kendricks felt almost ashamed of the
platitude. A helpless burden on a young girl, a poor, weak woman.
"It is for her sake. She has found a good friend in Mrs. Barrington,
and I can do no more. I did what I thought best then, but I did it for
the sake of my aching, lonely heart. But for the child I believe I must
have died then. Doesn't God forgive when you do what seems best?"
There was anguish in every line of the wasted face.
"God knows the motive of every deed, and if it is done in single
mindedness, in love and charity he will accept."
"It was done in love. You see, her mother was dead. There was no one to
claim her. Oh, what am I saying! Go away, you can do nothing for me,"
and she turned her face over to the wall.
He stood some seconds by her. She was crying softly, and again motioned
him away with her hand.
He went out of the room and looked around. Yes, there was Mrs.
Barrington.
"What is the matter between that mother and daughter?" he inquired
brusquely. "She seems--well is the girl her own child? Has she
done--something--"
"Oh, doctor can you spare a little time? I am troubled and puzzled. She
made a strange confession last night and it seemed almost as if I knew
the connecting link. Let me call Mrs. Dane and Miss Arran."
They came and at Mrs. Barrington's invitation were seated. The doctor
studied them a moment with drawn brows.
"Doctor, I want you to relate your experience of more than fifteen years
ago when you went out to the scene of that frightful accident from which
Mrs. Crawford has suffered so long and when her twin daughter was lost."
"What has that to do with it?"
"You will see. I believe Major Crawford left his wife and daughter in
your charge when he was ordered to the west with his regiment."
"Yes." He seemed to study a few moments. "Then came the word of the
skirmish with the Indians when he was wounded in the leg which proved so
much worse than he first thought and she decided to go out to him and
take one of the babies. He had gone fairly wild over the birth of the
little girls; they had so longed for a daughter. Marguerite, if you
remember, was a strong, robust baby, laughing if you so much as smiled
at her. A beautiful baby, I thought, looking much like her mother.
Zaidee was smaller and more delicate, though never ill that I can
recall. She decided to take Marguerite and the wet nurse who was very
proud of her charge and fond of Mrs. Crawford. When we heard of the
frightful disaster you may remember that I went out at once. It was a
most dreary place, just a sort of freight station where the tracks
crossed the through road. It could not be called a town, though now it
is a thriving city and the freighting road runs miles below. When I
reached the place most of the wreckage had been cleared away, the dead
buried, the wounded sent to friends or hospitals at a distance. I found
about half a dozen remaining, four of them almost well enough to resume
their journey. Two were thought hopeless, one of them being Mrs.
Crawford. Fifteen years ago there were not so many conveniences as there
are now, and as the fire broke out afterward the baggage was mostly lost
and it was quite difficult to find the names of the passengers at first.
The nurse and the baby had been killed outright. There was one other
baby on the train and that had been taken farther West with its mother."
Miss Arran and the housekeeper exchanged glances.
"Mrs. Crawford had sustained some injury to the brain and for the first
few days they had thought her dead half a dozen times. The people where
she had been taken were very kind. She was in a comatose state most of
the time, and when she roused seemed quite ignorant of what had
happened. There was some injury to the back that rendered her limbs
useless. As soon as I could make arrangements I had her removed to
Indianapolis to a fine hospital where we found, on an exhaustive
examination, the spine had been injured, the ligatures strained and
muscles actually torn apart. When the Major was well enough to
travel--and he came very near losing his leg, it seemed, he joined us,
and we journeyed on to New York. Meanwhile the Major's brother had died,
a queer, penurious old fellow who had never given up his rights in the
estate and now it all came to the Major, besides a large amount of
money. He resigned from the army and they came home. Mrs. Crawford had
kept her mind through all this and had been most brave, recovering very
slowly as you know and when she could manage to get about on crutches it
appeared as if the last stage of recovery had been attained; but now it
seems nothing short of a miracle. And there was the beautiful little
golden haired fairy to gladden their hearts--"
"But the nurse and the child?" interrupted Miss Arran.
"The child was crushed beyond recognition. They placed it in the coffin
with the nurse and buried it temporarily. The Major meant to have it
brought home, but it was so long before they could get about it, and it
seemed like living the heart-breaking episode over, so he concluded to
have it permanently interred in a burying ground a few miles distant,
which is now a really beautiful spot. Mrs. Crawford was ill so long that
it seems like a dream to her."
"And did no one ever hear of the other child?"
"What was there to hear? The mother claimed it."
"The woman dying in yonder room claimed the child first, ignorantly,
then believing the mother dead, took it in the place of her poor
murdered child."
"No!" The doctor sprang up and began to pace the floor. "Why, then, that
young girl--"
"Miss Arran will you tell the other side of the story. Why it seems to
me there can be no mistake," said Mrs. Barrington.
"Well--this is most marvelous. Does the girl know--"
"Oh, she protests. I think she has no idea. But the mother fancies we
may find some relative, a father perhaps, for she truly believes the
mother dead."
"But this confession--would she repeat it again?"
"I think she spoke of having it written out somewhere."
"It must be well authenticated, you know. And--what steps have you
considered?"
"None. Tomorrow will be Sunday--they will all go to church to give
thanks; then on Christmas day they are to have a small family dinner.
You and Mrs. Kendricks and myself, two or three dear old friends, and it
would be hardly wise to mar the sacredness of the occasion. We may see
our way more clearly, I would not like to have Miss Boyd disturbed on
uncertainties."
"I will take a further look at her," said the doctor. "I have known
cases like hers to last weeks, even when strength seemed to be almost
gone."
He wanted also to see Miss Boyd again. He had not noticed her
critically. Mrs. Barrington had spoken of the likeness that had puzzled
her in the beginning, the elusive resemblance to Mrs. Crawford in her
girlhood, as for two years she had been at school. He paused at the
door. She was standing by the window her profile distinctly outlined. It
was classic, from the broad, shapely forehead, the down-dropped eyelids
with their dark fringe, the straight nose with the fine, flexible
nostrils, the rounded chin, the lips that seemed to shut in sadness and
longing, but it was the poise of the head, the arching neck, the
shoulders proud enough for a statue. It needed more real youthfulness
for sixteen, but one could trace resemblances.
Did she feel the scrutiny? She turned. The front view was more girlish.
"Oh," she exclaimed, "mother is sleeping. Is it a bad sign for her to
sleep so much?"
"It gives her rest and saves the wear on her nerves. You are a watchful
nurse. Where did you learn so much?"
"I think it comes to you when one has done so much for you," she
answered quietly.
"Did you always live in that western country town?" he asked, just to
make talk.
Lilian colored and hesitated. "When I was a baby mother went out to
Wisconsin to her brother's, I don't remember anything of that. Yes,
afterward we lived in Laconia until we came here; but, do you think she
can--mend?" and she approached the bed.
Dr. Kendricks made a slow movement in the negative. "She has very little
strength. Was she ill before she came here?"
"Long ago she had a fever, but I think now she has been weakly for a
year or more. I was so anxious to keep in school. Oh, I ought to have
helped more," and the tears stood in her eyes. "For we were poor."
She uttered the fact with a kind of prideful dignity. "She did
everything for me and I had planned when I began to earn money that we
would have a home--"
"Yes, you have been a good daughter," and all this while she might have
been living in a delightful manner in her father's house, loving and
beloved, the comfort of her mother! For she would have been a devoted
daughter in that beautiful home. He hardened his heart against the dying
woman, and walked quietly out of the room.
"The story must be true," he admitted to Mrs. Barrington. "But I cannot
tell what step to take first. Would you mind if I saw Mr. Ledwith? He
has been the Crawford lawyer and was the brother's executor. I am quite
mystified and perhaps not capable of judging."
"Why, I think that would be an excellent plan. Yes. He can tell better
what steps to take. But Lilian will not leave the poor woman. I am not
sure she believes the story. She does not count on any change but is
glad to stay here with me and fit herself for earning a living. She has
a very loyal nature."
Mrs. Boyd roused and ate her dinner, then Lilian read her to sleep
again. She begged not to be sent out to walk and Mrs. Barrington
yielded.
At five Mr. Ledwith called, full of interest in the strange story and
begged to see Mrs. Boyd, wondering if she would repeat it. Lilian was
summoned.
"Oh, it would seem cruel to disturb her," she cried with passionate
tenderness, "and she suffered so in telling it the other evening. It
cannot make much difference to me, since my own mother was killed, and
my father may have been dead before that. I shall always hold her in my
memory as my mother."
"But the woman who was killed may not have been your mother."
Lilian started in surprise.
"There seems to be a reason why we should be certain in this. Trust me,
I will not torment her needlessly."
"My dear child it is best;" said Mrs. Barrington. "Can you not trust
me?"
Lilian was not convinced but she led the way.
"Oh, where have you been so long?" cried the invalid. "You said you
would stay--has some one come to take you away? Oh, you will not go. You
promised. It will be only a little while."
She fell into a pitiable terror. Lilian soothed. Mr. Ledwith tried to
explain that they might possibly find the young girl's father who was
now a prosperous man.
But Mrs. Boyd would not be persuaded. She began to talk incoherently,
and suddenly raising her head and leaning on one elbow said--"send them
away. It is all true as I told you. You are not my own child, but I have
loved you all these years, oh, you will stay with me! I can feel that
it will not be for long. It is there in the drawer--I wrote it out. It
took so long and I was so tired, so tired! Give it to them and send
them away. Oh, Lilian, he is not your father. Promise me you will not go
with him."
Lilian opened the drawer. There lay quite a big packet, with the
superscription,--"For my daughter Lilian when I am dead."
She simply handed it to Mr. Ledwith. He and Mrs. Barrington left the
room. Mrs. Boyd gave way to a wild fit of weeping and Lilian had much
ado to comfort her, but presently she soothed her to slumber.
"Who heard this story or confession?" he asked as they entered the
library.
"Mrs. Dane and Miss Arran."
"Will they come and listen? They can tell whether the two will agree and
point out any discrepancy."
It was written in a shaky hand and evidently at intervals, many words
misspelled and phrases repeated, but with a passionate sincerity and an
overwhelming love for the child whose mother she thought dead, and she
fancied the baby might be thrown on the charity of the world, but she
knew even then it was not her baby but the longing for the child was
pitiful. Mrs. Barrington was reading it and now and then her voice
faltered.
"Oh," said Miss Arran, "they are alike except that this seems more
pathetic. There is no doubt of the truth in my mind. Of course she saw
the difference as Miss Lilian grew older and she was afraid she might
have defrauded her of some better fortune. Oh, I pity the poor woman
profoundly. She had a hard life. Mrs. Barrington, this must have seemed
a haven of rest to her. Providence must have guided you."
"It is certainly remarkable," subjoined Mr. Ledwith. "I will see Dr.
Kendricks this evening, but I think we had better wait until after
Christmas so as not to mar the happy reunion of that day. Then we must
see how the Major will take it. It is one of the things he almost never
refers to, and he was afraid of intensifying the loss by having the body
brought here for burial. Truly there are many strange happenings in this
world. I am requested to look up another child that was given out for
adoption, and now has a fortune coming to it after twenty years."
CHAPTER X
UNRAVELING TANGLED THREADS
Sunday morning was glorious. There had been a light fall of snow and
every tree and shrub was in feathery whiteness, while the sky was as
blue as June. The sun came up through the long levels of yellow light
more golden than ever until every branch and twig shimmered in
iridescent hues.
Lilian bathed and dressed herself, now and then leaning over her mother
who seemed to breathe regularly, but the face was thin and pallid, and
the soft hair seemed to have whitened in these few days. She bent over
and kissed the cool forehead.
Miss Arran looked in.
"Oh, is it all right? I left you at two; there really was no need of
watches as I was just across the hall, but I think you confine yourself
too closely. Now you must go down and take a walk on the porch. The
morning air has a positive balminess in it. It really should be
Christmas morning with the angels singing for very joy."
Lilian looked undecided. Yet the very thought of sunshine and fresh air
was reviving.
"I will call you the moment she wakes," said Miss Arran, and the girl
went.
Oh, how delightful it was! She drew in long breaths and gave a great,
fervent thanksgiving. Yes, it was good to live, to be able to work, to
have a purpose in life and see the way to attain it.
She went in presently. Her mother had just wakened. She bathed her face
and hands with fragrant water, brushed her hair and put on a pretty
dressing sacque of her own. Then she had some breakfast which she
appeared to enjoy.
"I feel so drowsy," she said. "I am so comfortable and at ease."
That was much to be thankful for.
"Lilian will you do me a favor this morning," began Mrs. Barrington in
her most persuasive voice. "I want you to go to church with me. The
Crawford family will be there to give thanks. And we have learned that
your mother was in the same fearful accident and her escape was a
marvel. All these years Mrs. Crawford has been an invalid but she has
borne her suffering with exemplary patience. Dr. Kendricks went out at
once but there was scarcely any hope of her living then. Your mother
spoke of a beautiful woman they thought dying or dead--do you
remember?"
"Oh, yes. A woman with such lovely golden hair. Miss Zaidee's is
exquisite, too. Yes, I will go. I should like to see her. How strange it
all is! And my own mother, it seems, was among the killed."
"It was terrible. Of course your mother going away so soon did not hear
all of it. Yes, I want you to go with me."
Dr. Kendricks made his visit and saw there was little change. Several of
the girls were going and they started early. Mrs. Barrington kept two
pews on one side of the church, which was all in Christmas attire with
wreaths of holly here and there, and clusters of golden flowers dried in
their natural colors. The altar was fragrant with real blossoms and to
Lilian there came a deeper emotion than reverence; something she had
never experienced before. She who had no joy of her very own must
rejoice in that of others and search out the blessings of the spirit,
find a way into the other kingdom, where the things one hungers and
longs for are laid up against the time one is fitted for the pure and
high enjoyment of them. The strength of the steadfast waiting, the lives
that touched with near or remote sympathy and held God's promise for
today, for all time. There was something kept for those who wearied
not, that was bestowed when the soul had come to understand the true
source of beneficent living.
She had been listening to the beautiful music and now there was a sudden
hush while several of the congregation entered. There were Major and
Mrs. Crawford, and certainly curious eyes might be pardoned as she
walked up the aisle with a graceful step. Oh, yes, she was a lovely
woman, as in sweet humility and reverence she bowed her head.
Then followed Zay and the fine looking midshipman who showed his pride
in every line. What it must be to have a brother like that! Yet there
was no envy in Lilian's soul, since all these joys and privileges were
far beyond her. But she had a quick, responsive nature when anything
really touched her, and she joyed sincerely in this other's joy.
The service was gracious and comforting even to her. Hundreds of years
ago ignorant shepherds sat watching their flocks all the long starlight
night, and then the song of the angels, the great promise, the new era,
the blessedness for the whole world that each might take his share.
And the reverent prayer of this, Thy servant, delivered from her bodily
illness who desired to return thanks in the presence of all Thy people
touched her heart to tears, and she joined in it fervently.
The class did not stay for the whole service. Lilian hurried home, glad
