
be her same lovely self in a cottage — as I shall 
prove to you before I finish with the story of 
her life. 

I was in love. At that time I was teaching 
myself German, and I sat one day puzzling out 
two lines of Goethe — 

"Odin and Thor, these two thou knowest, 
Freya, the heavenly, knowest thou not." 

And I remember how I cried aloud, in sudden 
delight, "I know her!" For a long time that 
was one of my pet names — "Freya die Himm- 
lische!" I only heard of one other that I pre- 
ferred — when in course of time she told me about 
Frank Shirley, and how she had loved him, and 
how their hopes had been wrecked. He had 
called her "Lady Simshine"; he had been wont 
to call it over and over in his happiness; and 
as Sylvia repeated it to me — "Lady Sunshine! 
Lady Sunshine!" I could imagine that I caught 
an echo of the very tones of Frank Shirley's 
voice. 



 



 

FoK several days I waited upon the postman; 
and when the summons came I dodged a commit- 
tee-meeting, and ascended the marble stairs with 
trepidation, and imderwent the doubting scrutiny 
of an English lackey, sufficiently grave in deport- 
ment and habiliments to have waited upoh a 
bishop in his own land. I have a vague memory 
of an entrance-hall with paneled paintings, and 
a double-staircase with a snow-white carpet, 
about which I had read in the newspapers that it 
was woven in one piece and had cost some incredi- 
ble sum. One did not have to profane it with his 
feet, as there was an elevator provided. 

I was shown to Sylvia's morning-room, which 
had been "done" in pink and white and gold 
by some decorator who had known her colors. 
It was large enough to have held half a dozen 
of my own quarters, and the sun was allowed to 
flood it. Through a door at one side came Sylvia, 
holding out her hands to me. 

She was really glad to see me! She began to 
apologize at once for the time she had taken to 
write. It was because she had so much to do. 
She had married into a world that took itself 
seriously: the "idle rich", who worked like slaves. 
"You know," she said, while we sat on a pink 
satin couch, and a footman brought us coffee, 
"you read that Mrs. So-and-so is a 'social queen'- 



 

and you thiok it's a newspaper phrase, but it 
isn't; she really feels that she's a queen, and other 
people feel it, and she goes through her ceremonies 
as solemnly as the Lord's anointed." 

She went on to tell me some of her adventxires. 
She had a keen sense of fun, and was evidently 
suffering for an outlet for it. She saw through 
the follies and pretences of people in a flash; 
but they were all such august and important 
people that out of regard for her husband she 
dared not let them suspect her clairvoyant 
power. 

She referred to her experiences abroad. She 
had not liked Em-ope — being quite frankly a 
provincial person. To Castleman County a 
foreigner was a strange, dark person who mixed 
up his consonants, and was under suspicion of 
being a fiddler or an opera-singer. The people 
she had met xmder her husband's charge had 
been socially indubitable; but still they were 
foreigners, and Sylvia could never really be sure 
what they meant. 

There was, for instance, the yoimg son of a 
German steel-king, a person of amazing samir 
faire, who had made bold to write books and 
exhibit pictm-es, and had traveled so widely 
that he had even heard of Castleman County. 
He had taken Sylvia to show her the sights of 
Berlin, and had rolled her down the "Sieges 
AIe," making outrageous fim of his Kaiser's 
taste in art, and coming at last to a great marble 
column, with a female figure representing Victory 



 

upon the top. "You will observe," said the cul- 
tured young plutocrat, "that the Grecian lady 
stands a hundred meters in the air, and has no 
stairway. There is a popular saying about her 
which is charming — that she is the only chaste 
woman in Berlin!" 

I had been through the culture-seeking stage, 
and knew my Henry James; so I could read be- 
tween the lines of Sylvia's experiences. I figured 
her as a person walking on volcanic ground, not 
knowing her peril, but vaguely disquieted by a 
smell of sulphur in the air. And once in a while 
a crack would open in the ground! There was the 
Duke of Something in Rome, for example — a 
melancholy young man, with whom she had 
coquetted, as she did, in her merry fashion, with 
every man she met. Being married, she had taken 
it for granted that she might be as winsome as she 
chose; but the young Italian had misimderstood 
the game, and had whispered words of serious 
import, which had so horrified Sylvia that she 
flew to her husband and told him the story — 
begging him incidentally not to horsewhip the 
fellow. In reply it had to be explained to her 
that she had laid herseK hable to the misadventm-e. 
The ladies of the Itahan aristocracy were severe 
and formal, and Sylvia had no right to expect 
an ardent young duke to understand her native 
wildiiess. 



 



 

Something of that sort was always happening — 
something in each country to bewilder her afresh, 
and to make it necessary for her husband to 
remind her of the proprieties. In France a 
cousin of van Tuiver's had married a marquis, 
and they had visited the chateau. The family 
was Catholic, of the very oldest and strictest, 
and the brother-in-law, a prelate of high degree, 
had invited the guests to be shown through his 
cathedral. "Imagine my bewilderment!" said 
Sylvia. "I thought I was going to meet a church 
dignitary, grave and reverent; but here was a 
wit, a man of the world. Such speeches you never 
heard! I was ravished by the grandeur of the 
building, and I said, 'If I had seen this, I would 
have come to you to be married.' ' Madame is an 
American,' he replied. 'Come the next time!' 
When I objected that I was not a Catholic, he said, 
'Your beauty is its own religion!' When I pro- 
tested that he would be doing me too great an 
honor, 'Madame,' said he, 'the honneur would 
be all to the Church ! ' And because I was shocked 
at all this, I was considered to be a provincial 
person!" 

Then they had come to London; a dismal, 
damp city where "you never saw the sun, and 
when you did see it, it looked like a poached 
egg;" where you had to learn to eat fish with the 



 

help of a knife, and where you might speak of 
bitches, but must never on any account speak of 
your stomach. They went for a week-end to 
"Hazelhurst", the home of the Dowager Duchess 
of Danbury, whose son van Tuiver had enter- 
tained in America, and who, in the son's absence, 
claimed the right to repay the debt. The old 
lady sat at table with two fat poodle-dogs in 
infants' chairs, one on each side of her, feeding 
out of golden trays. There was a visiting curate, 
a frightened httle man at the other side of one 
poodle; in an effort; to be at ease he offered the 
wheezing creature a bit of bread. "Don't feed 
my dogs!" snapped the old lady. "I don't 
allow anybody to feed my dogs!" 

And tlien there was the Honorable Reginald 
Annersley, the youngest son of the family, home 
from Eton on vacation. The Honorable Ra- 
nald was twelve years of age, imdersized and ill- 
nourished. (" They feed them badly," his mother 
had explained, "an' the teachin's no good either, 
but it's a school for gentlemen.") "Honestly," 
said Sylvia, "he was the queerest little manikin — 
like the tiny waiter's assistants you see in hotels 
on the Continent. He wore his Eton suit, you 
understand — grown-up evening clothes minus the 
coat-tails, and a top hat. He sat at tea and 
chatted, with the mincing graces of a cotillion 
leader. You expected to find some of his hair 
gone when he took off his hat! He spoke of his 
brother, the duke, who had gone off shooting 
seals somewhere. 'The jolly rotter has nothing 



 

to do but spend his money; but we younger sons 
have to work like dogs when we grow up!' I 
asked what he'd do, and he said, 'I suppose there's 
nothin' but the Church. It's a beastly bore, but 
you do get a liviu' out of it.' 

"That was too much for me," said Sylvia. 
"I proceeded to tell the poor, blasted infant about 
my childhood: how my sister Celeste and I had 
caught half-tamed horses and galloped about the 
pasture on them, when we were so small that our 
little fat legs stuck out horizontally; how we had 
given ourselves convulsions in the green apple 
orchard, and had to be spanked every day before 
we had our hair combed. I told how we heard a 
war-story about a 'train of gunpowder,' and 
proceeded to lay such a train about the attic of 
Castleman Hall, and set fire to it. I might have 
spent the afternoon teaching the future church- 
man how to be a boy, if I hadn't suddenly caught 
a glimpse of my husband's face!" 



 



 

I DID not hear these stories all at once; I have 
put them together here because they make a 
httle picture of her honeymoon, and also because 
they show how, without meaning it, she was 
giving me an account of her husband. 

There had been even fewer adventures in the 
life of young Douglas van Tuiver than in the life 
of the Honorable Regiuald Annersley. When 
one heard the details of the upbringing of this 
"millionaire baby", one was able to forgive him 
for being self-centered. He had grown into a 
yoimg man who lived to fulfill his social duties; 
and he had taken to wife a girl who was reckless, 
high-spirited, with a streak of almost savage pride 
in her. 

Sylvia's was the true aristocratic attitude 
towards the rest of the world. It could never 
have occiured to her to imagine that anywhere 
upon the whole earth there were people superior 
to the Castlemans of Castleman County. If you 
had been ignorant enough to suggest such an 
idea, you would have seen her eyes flash and her 
nostrils quiver; you would have been enveloped 
in a net of bewilderment, and transfixed with a 
trident of mockery and scorn. That was what 
she had done in her husband-hunt. The trouble 
was that van Tuiver was not clever enough to 
realize this, and to trust her prowess against 
other beasts in the social jungle. 



 

Strange to me were such inside glimpses into 
the life of these two favorites of the gods! I 
never grew weary of speculating about them, and 
the mystery of their alliance. How had Sylvia 
come to make this marriage? She was not 
happy with him; keen psychologist that she was, 
she must have foreseen that she would not be 
happy with him. Had she dehberately sacrificed 
herself, because of the good she imagined she could 
do to her family? 

I was beginning to believe this. Irritated as 
she was by the solemn snobberies of van Tuiver's 
world, it was none the less true that she believed 
in money; she beheved in it with a faith which 
appalled me as I came to realize it. Everybody 
had to have money; the social graces, the 
aristocatic virtues, were impossible without it. 
The rich needed it — even the poor needed it. 
Could it be that the proud Castlemans of Castle- 
man Coimty had needed it also? 

If that guess at her inmost soul was correct, 
then what a drama was her meeting with me! 
A person who despised money, who had proven 
it by grim deeds — and this a person of her own 
money-worshipping sex! What was the mean- 
ing of this phenomenon — this new religion that 
was challenging the priesthood of Mammon? 
So some Roman consul's daughter might have 
sat in her father's palace, and questioned in won- 
der a Christian slave-woman, destined ere long to 
face the lions in the arena. 

The exactness of this simile was not altered by 



 

the fact that in this case the slave-woman was 
an "agnostic", while the patrician girl had been 
brought up in the creed of Christ. Sylvia had 
long since begun to question the formulas of a 
chiurch whose very pews were rented, and whose 
existence, she declared, had to be justified by 
charity to the poor. As we sat and talked, she 
knew this one thing quite definitely — that I had 
a relion, and she had none. That was the 
reason for the excitement which possessed her. 

Nor was that fact ever out of my own mind for 
a moment. As she sat there in her sxm-flooded 
morning-room, clad in an exquisite embroidered 
robe of pink Japanese silk, she was such a lovely 
thing that I was ready to cry out for the joy of 
her; and yet there was something within me, grim 
and relentless, that sat on guard, warning me that 
she was of a different faith from mine, and that 
between those two faiths there could be no com- 
promise. Some day she must find out what I 
thought of her husband's wealth, and the work 
it was doing in the world! Some day she must 
hear my real opinion of the religion of motor-cars 
and hand-woven carpets! 



 



 

Nor was the day so very far off. She sat 
opposite me, leaning forward in her eagerness, 
declaring, "You must help to educate me! I 
shall never rest until I'm of some real use in the 
world." 

"What have you thought of doing?" I inquired. 

"I don't know yet. My husband has an aunt 
who's interested in a day-nm-sery for the children 
of working-women. I thought I might help this, 
but my husband says it does no good whatever — 
it only makes paupers of the poor. Do you think 
so?" 

"I think more than that," I replied. "It sets 
women free to compete with men, and beat down 
men's wages." 

"Oh, what a puzzle!" she exclaimed; and then, 
"Is there any way of helping the poor that 
wouldn't be open to the same objection?" 

That brought us once more to the subject I had 
put aside at our last meeting. She had not for- 
gotten it, and asked again for an explanation. 
What did I mean by the competitive wage sys- 
tem? 

My pmpose in this writing is to tell the story 
of Sylvia Castleman's life, to show, not merely 
what she was, but what she became. I have to 
make real to you a process of growth in her soul; 
and at this moment the important event is her 



 

discovery of the class-struggle, and her reaction 
to it. You may say, perhaps, that you are not 
interested in the class-struggle; but you cannot 
alter the fact that you hve in an age when millions 
of people are having the coiu'se of their lives 
changed by the discovery of it. Here, for 
instance, is a girl who has been taught to keep 
her promises, and has promised to love, hoqor 
and obey a man; she is to find the task more 
difficult, because she comes to understand the 
competitive wage-system, while he does not 
imderstand it, and does not wish to. If that 
seems to you strange material out of which to 
make a domestic drama, I can only tell you that 
you have missed some of the vital facts of your 
own time. 

I gave her a little lesson in elementary eco- 
nomics. I showed her how, when a capitalist 
needed labor, he bought it in the open market, 
like any other commodity. He did not think 
about the human side of it; he paid the market- 
price, which came to be what the laborer had to 
have in order to live. No laborer could get more, 
because others would take less. 

"If that be true," I continued, "one of the 
things that follows is the futility of charity. 
"Whatever you do for the wage-worker on a gen- 
eral scale comes sooner or later out of his wages. 
If you take care of his children all day or part of 
the day, he can work for less; if he doesn't dis- 
cover that, some one else does, and imderbids 
him and takes his place. If you feed his children 



 

at school, if you bury hm free, if you insure his 
hfe, or even give him a dinner on Christmas-day, 
you simply enable his landlord to charge him 
more, or his employer to pay him less." 

Sylvia sat for a while in thought, and then 
asked, "What can be done about such a fact?" 

"The first thing to be done is to make sure that, 
you understand it. Nine-tenths of the people 
who concern themselves with social questions 
don't, and so they waste their time in futihties 
For instance, I read the other day an article by 
a benevolent old gentleman who believed that 
the social problem could be solved by teaching 
the poor to chew their food better, so that they 
would eat less. You may laugh at that — but it's 
not a bit more absurd than the idea of our men of 
affairs, that the thing to do is to increase the 
efficiency of the workers, and so produce more 
goods." 

"You mean the working-man doesn't get more, 
even when he produces more?" 

"Take the case of the glass-factories. Men 
used to get eight dollars a day there, but some 
one invented a machine that did the work of a 
dozen men, and that machine is run by a boy for 
fifty cents a day." 

A little pucker of thought came between her 
eyes. "Might there not be a law forbidding the 
employer to reduce wages?" 

"A minimum-wage law? But that would raise 
the cost of the product, and drive the trade to 
another state." 



 

She suggested a national law; and when I 
pwinted out that the trade would go to other 
countries, she fell back on the tariff. I felt like 
an embryologist — watching the individual repeat- 
ing the history of the race! 

"Protection and prosperity!" I said, with a 
smile. "Don't you see the increase in the cost of 
living? The working-man gets more money in 
his pay-envelope, but he can't buy more with it, 
because prices go up. And even supposing you 
could pass a minimum-wage law, and stop compe- 
tition in wages, you'd only change it to competi- 
tion in efficiency — you'd throw the old and the 
feeble and the untrained into pauperism." 

"You make the world seem a hard place to 
live in," protested Sylvia. 

"I'm simply telling you the elementary facts 
of business. You can forbid the employer to 
pay less than a standard wage, but you can't 
compel him to employ people who aren't able 
to earn that wage. The business-man doesn't 
■employ for fun — he does it for the profit there is 
in it." 

"If that is true," said Sylvia, quickly, "then 
the way of employing people is cruel." 

"But what other way could you have?" 

She considered. "They could be employed 
so that no one would make a profit. Then surely 
they could be paid enough to live decently!" 

"But whose interest would it be to employ 
them without profit?" 

"The State should do it, if no one else will." 



 

I had been playing a game with Sylvia — as 
no doubt you have perceived. "Surely," I 
said, "you wouldn't approve anything like that!" 

"But why not?" 

"Because, it would be Socialism." 

She looked at me, startled. "Is that 
Socialism?" 

"Of covirse it is. It's the essence of Socialism." 

"But then — what's the harm in it?" 

I laughed. "I thought you said that Social- 
ism was a menace, like divorce!" 

I had my moment of triumph; but then I 
discovered how fond was the person who imagined 
that he could play with Sylvia. "I suspect 
you are something of a SociaKst yoiuelf," she 
remarked. 

She told me a long time afterwards what had 
been her emotions during these early talks. It 
was the first time in her life that she had ever 
listened to ideas that were hostile to her order, 
and she did so with tremblings and hesitations, 
combating at every step an impulse to flee to 
the shelter of conventionality. She was more 
shocked by my last revelation than she let me 
suspect. It counted for little that I had suc- 
ceeded in trapping her into proposing for her- 
self the economic program of Sociahsm; for what 
terrifies her class is not our economic program, it 
is our threat of a slave-rebellion. I had been 
brought up in a part of the world where democ- 
racy is a tradition, a word to conjure with; and 
I supposed that this would be the case with 



 

any American — that I would only have to prove 
that Socialism was democracy apphed to industry. 
How could I have imaged the kind of "democ- 
racy" which had been taught to Sylvia by her 
Uncle Mandeville, the politician of the family — 
who beheved that America was soon to have a 
king, to keep the "foreign riff-raff" in its place! 



 



 



At this time I was living in a three-room 
apartment in one of the new "model tenements" 
on the East Side. I had a saying about the 
place, that it was "built for the proletariat and 
occupied by cranks." What an example for 
Sylvia of the futillty of charity — the effort on 
the part of benevolent capitalists to civilize the 
poor by putting bath-tubs in their homes, and 
the discovery that the graceless creatures were 
using them for the storage of coal! 

Having heard these strange stories, Sylvia 
was anxious to visit me, and I was of course 
glad to invite her. I purchased a fancy brand 
of tea, and some implements for the serving of 
it; and she came, and went into raptures over 
my three rooms and bath, no one of which would 
have made more than a closet in her own apart- 
ments. I suspected that this was her Southern 
noblesse oblige; but I knew also that in my living- 
room there were some rows of books, which 
would have meant more to Sylvia van Tuiver 
just then than the contents of several clothes- 
closets. 

I was pleased to discover that my efforts had 
not been wasted. She had been thinking, and 
she had even found time, in the midst of her 
distractions, to read part of a book. In the 
course of our talks I had mentioned Veblen; 




and she had been reading snatches of his work 
on the Leisure Class. I was surprised and not 
a little amused to observe her reaction to it. 

When I talked about wages and hours of labor, 
I was dealing with things that were remote from 
her, and difl&cult to make real; but Veblen's 
theme, the idle rich, and the arts and graces 
whereby they demonstrate their power, was the 
stuff of which her life was made. The subtleties 
of social ostentation, the minute distinctions 
between the newly-rich and the anciently rich, 
the solemn certainties of the latter and the 
quivering anxieties of the former — all these were 
things which Sylvia knew as a bird knows the 
way of the wind. To see the details of them 
analyzed in learned, scientific fashion, explained 
with great mouthfuls of words which one had 
to look up in the dictionary — that was surely 
a new discovery ia the book-world! "Con- 
spicuous leisure!" "Vicarious consumption of 
goods!" "Oh, de-ah me, how que-ah!" exclaimed 
Sylvia. 

And what a flood of anecdotes it let loose; 
A flood that bore us straight back to Castleman 
Hall, and to all the scenes of her young ladyhood! 
If only Lady Dee could have revised this book 
of Veblen's — how many points she could have 
given to him! No details had been too minute 
for the technique of Sylvia's great-aimt — the 
difference between the swish of the right kind 
of silk petticoats and the wrong kind; and yet 
her technique had been broad enough to take 



 

in a landscape. "Every girl should have a 
background," had been one of her maxims; so 
Sylvia had had to have a special phaeton to drive, 
a special horse to ride, special roses which no 
one else was allowed to wear. 

"Conspicuous expenditure of time," wrote 
Veblen. It was curious, said Sylvia, but nobody 
was free from this kind of vanity. There was 
dear old Uncle Basil; a more godly bishop never 
hved — and yet he had a foible for carving! In 
his opinion the one certain test of a gentleman 
was the ease with which he foimd the joints 
of all kinds of meat; and he was in arms against 
the modern tendency to turn such accomplish- 
ments over to butlers. He would hold forth 
on the subject, illustrating his theories with an 
elegant knife; and Sylvia remembered how her 
father and the Chilton boys had wired up the 
joints of a duck for the bishop to work on. In 
the struggle the bishop had preserved his dignity, 
but lost the duck; and the bishop's wife, being 
also high-bom, and with a long line of traditions 
behind her, had calmly continued the conversa- 
tion while the butler removed the smoking duck 
from her lap! 

Such was the way of things at Castleman Hall! 
The wild, care-free people — like half-grown chil- 
dren, romping their way through life! There 
was really nothing too crazy for them to do, 
if the whim struck them. Once a visiting cousin 
had ventured the remark that she saw no reason 
why people should not eat rats; a barn-rat was 



 

clean in its person, and far choicer in its food 
than a pig. Thereupon "Miss Margaret" had 
secretly ordered the yard-man to secure a barn- 
rat; she had had it broiled, and served in a dish 
of squirrels, and had sat by and watched the 
young lady enjoy it! And this, mind you, was 
Mrs. Castleman of Castleman Hall — mother of 
five children, and as stately a dame as ever led 
the grand march at the Governor's inaugural 
ball! "Major Castleman," she would say to 
her husband, "you may take me into my bed- 
room, and when you have locked the door 
securely, you may spit upon me, if you wish; 
but don't you dare even to imagine anything 
undignified about me in public!" 



 



 

In course of time Sylvia and I became very 
good friends. Proud as she was, she was lonely, 
and in need of some one to open her eager mind 
to. Who was there safer to trust than this plain 
Western woman, who lived so far, both in reality 
and in ideas, from the great world of fashion? 

Before we parted she considered it necessary 
to mention my relationship to this world. She 
had a most acute social conscience. She knew 
exactly what formalities she owed to everyone, 
just when she ought to call, and how long she 
ought to stay, and what she ought to ask the 
other person to do in retiun; she assumed that 
the other knew it all exactly as well, and would 
suffer if she failed in the shghtest degree. 

So now she had to throw herself upon my 
mercy. "You see," she explained, "my husband 
wouldn't understand. I may be able to change 
hiTn gradually, but if I shock him all at once " 

"My dear Mrs. van Tuiver " I smiled. 

"You can't really imagine!" she persisted. 
"You see, he takes his social position so seriously! 
And when you are conspicuous — when every- 
body's talking about what you do — when every- 
thing that's the least bit unusual is magni- 
fied " 

"My dear girl!" I broke in again. "Stop a 
moment and let me talk!" 



 

"But I'd hate to have you think- 



" Don't worry about my thoughts! They are 
most happy ones. You must understand that a 
Socialist caimot feel about such things as you 
do; we work out our economic interpretation of 
them, and after that they are simply so much 
data to us. I might meet one of your great 
friends, and she might snub me; but I would 
never think she had snubbed me — it would be 
my Western accent, and my forty-cent hat, and 
things like that which had put me in a class in 
her mind. My real self nobody can snub — cer- 
tainly not imtil they've got at it." 

"Ah!" said Sylvia, with shining eyes. "You 
have your own kind of aristocracy, I see!" 

"What I want," I said, "is you. I'm an old 
hen whose chickens have grown up and left her, 
and I want something to mother. Your wonder- 
ful social world is just a bother to me, because it 
keeps me from gathering you into my arms as 
I'd like to. So what you do is to think of some 
role for me to play, so that I can come to see 
you; let me be advising you about yoiu" pro- 
posed day-nxuBery, .or let me be a tutor of some- 
thing, or a nice, respectable sewing-woman who 
dams the toes of your silk stockings!" 

She laughed. "If you suppose that I'm 
allowed to wear my stockings imtil they have 
holes in theni, you don't understand the per- 
quisites of maids." She thought a moment, and 
tiien added, "You might come to trim hats far 
me." 



 

By that I knew that we were really friends. 
If it does not seem to you a bold thing for Sylvia 
to have made a joke about my hat, it is only 
because you do not yet know her. I have 
referred to her money-consciousness and her 
social-consciousness; I would be idealizing her 
if I did not refer to another aspect of her which 
appalled me when I came to realize it — her 
clothes-consciousness. She knew every variety 
of fabric and every shade of color and every style 
of design that ever had been delivered of the 
frenzied sartorial unagrnation. She had been 
trained in all the infinite minutiae which dis- 
tinguish the right from the almost right; she 
would sweep a human being at one glance, and 
stick him in a pigeon-hole of her mind forever — 
because of his clothes. When later on she had 
come to be conscious of this clothes-consciousness, 
she told me that ninety-nine times out of a him- 
dred she had found this method of appraisal 
adequate for the purposes of society life. What a 
curious comment upon our civilization — that all 
that people have to ask of one another, all they 
have to give to one another, should be expressible 
in terms of clothes! 



 



 

I HAD set out to educate Mrs. Douglas van 
Tuiver in the things I thought she needed to 
know. A part of my program was to find 
some people of modern sympathies whom she 
might meet without offense to her old prejudices. 
The first person I thought of was Mrs. Jessie 
Frothingham, who was the head of a fashionable 
girls' school just around the comer from Miss 
Abercrombie's, where Sylvia herself had received 
the finishing touch. Mrs. Frothingham's was as 
exclusive and expensive a school as the most 
proper person could demand; and great was 
Sylvia's consternation when I told her that its 
principal was a member of the Socialist party, 
and made no bones about speaking in pubhc for 
us. 

How in the world did she manage it? For one 
thing, I answered, she ran a good school — nobody 
had ever been heard to deny that. For another, 
she was an irresistibly serene and healthy person, 
who would look one of her millionaire "Papas" 
in the eye and tell him what was what with so 
much decision — it would suddenly occur to the 
great man that if his daughter could be made 
into so capable a woman, he would not care what 
ticket she might vote. 

Then, too, it was testimony to the headway we 
are making; that we are ceasing to be dangerous, 



 

and getting to be picturesque. In these days of 
strenuous social competition, when Manunas are 
almost at their wits' end for some new device, 
when it costs incredible svuns to make no impres- 
sion at all — here was offered a new and inex- 
pensive way of being unique. There could be no 
question that men were getting to like serious 
women; the most amazing subjects were coming 
up at dinner-parties, and you might hear the 
best people speak disrespectfully of their own 
money. Which means that the new Revolution 
will have — not merely its "Egalite Orleans", but 
also some of the ladies of his family! 

I telephoned from Sylvia's house to Mrs. 
Frothingham, who answered, "Wouldn't you like 
Mrs. van Tuiver to hear a speech? I am to 
speak next week at the noon-day Wall Street 
meeting." I passed the question on, and Sylvia 
answered with an exclamation of delight. Would 
a small boy like to attend a circus! 

It was arranged that Sylvia was to take us in 
her car. You may picture me with my grand 
friends — an old speckled hen in the company of 
two golden pheasants. I kept very quiet and let 
them get acquainted — knowing that my cause was 
safe in the hands of one so perfectly tailored as 
Mrs. Frothingham. 

Sylvia expressed her delight at the idea of hear- 
ing a Socialist speech, and her amazement that 
the head of Mrs. Frothingham's should be so 
courageous; and meantime we threaded our way 
through the tangle of trucks and surface-cars on 



 

Broadway, and came to the comer of Wall Street. 
Here Mrs. Frothingham said she would get out 
and walk; it was quite likely that some one might 
recognize Mrs, Douglas van Tuiver, and she ought 
not to be seen arriving with the speaker. Sylvia, 
who would not willingly have committed a breach 
of etiquette towards a bomb-throwing Anarchist, 
protested at this; but Mrs. Frothingham laughed 
good-naturedly, saying that it would be time 
enough for Mrs. van Tuiver to commit herself 
when she knew what she believed. 

The speaking was to be from the steps of the 
Sub-treasury. We made a ditour, and came up 
Broad Street, stopping a little way from the cor- 
ner. These meetings had been held all through 
the summer and fall, so that people had learned 
to expect them; although it lacked some minutes 
of noon, there was already a crowd gathered. A 
group of men stood upon the broad steps, one 
with a red banner, and several others with arm- 
fuls of pamphlets and books. With them was our 
friend, who looked at us and smiled, but gave 
no other sign of recognition. 

Sylvia pushed back the collar of her sable coat, 
and sat erect in her shining blue velvet, her eyes 
and her golden hair shining beneath the small 
brim of a soft velvet hat. As she gazed eagerly 
at the busy throngs of men hurrying about 
this busy comer, she whispered to me, "I haven't 
been so excited since my ddbili party!" 

The crowd increased, imtil it was difficult to 
get through Wall Street. The bell of Old Trinity 



 

was tolling the hour of noon, and the meeting was 
about to begin — when suddenly I heard an excla- 
mation from Sylvia, and turning, saw a well-dressed 
man pushing his way from the office of Morgan 
& Company towards us. Sylvia clutched my hand 
where it lay on the seat of the car, and half gasped, 
"My husband!" 



 



 

Of course I had been anxious to see Douglas 
van Tuiver. I had heard Claire Lepage's account 
of him, and Sylvia's; also I had seen pictures of 
him in the newspapers, and had studied them with 
some care, trying to imagine what sort of person- 
age he might be. I knew that he was twenty- 
four; but the man who came towards us I woiild 
have taken to be forty. His face was sombre, 
with large features and strongly marked lines 
about the mouth; he was tall and thin, and 
moved with decision, betraying no emotion even 
in this moment of surprise. "What are you doing 
here?" were his first words. 

For my part, I was badly "rattled" ; I knew by 
the clutch of Sylvia's hand that she was too. 
But here I got a lesson in the nature of "social 
training". Some of the bright color had faded 
from her face, but she spoke with the utmost 
coolness, the words coming naturally and simply: 
"We can't get through the crowd." And at the 
same time she looked about her, as much as to 
say: "You can see for yom-self." (One of the 
maxims of Lady Dee bad set forth that a lady 
never told a he if she could avoid it.) 

Sylvia's husband looked about, saying, "Why 
don't you call an officer?" He started to follow 
his own suggestion, and I thought then that 
