woman who had mastered the lion in the railway train.  Rage supplanted
the passion in his heart.  Since she would not bend, she should break.
As her arm sank he sprang forward like a cat and seized her wrist.  He
was not gentle.  The dagger tinkled as it struck the marble floor.  He
stooped for it.

"Since you will not bend, break!" he said, and left the chamber, cold
with fury.

Kathlyn sank weakly upon her pillows as Pundita ran to her side.

"What shall I do, Pundita?"

"God knows, Mem-sahib!"

"Are you a Christian?"

"Yes."

And so they comforted each other.



There was a garden in the palace grounds, lovely indeed.  A fountain
tinkled and fat carp swam about in the fluted marble basin.  There were
trellises of flowers, too.  Persian roses, despite the fact that it was
still winter.  It was called the garden of brides.

Kathlyn, attended by Pundita, awaited there the coming of Umballa and
the council.  Her heart ached with bitterness and she could not think
clearly.  The impression that all this was some dreadful nightmare
recurred to her vividly.  What terrors awaited her she knew not nor
could conceive.  Marry that smiling demon?--for something occult told
her that he was a demon.  No; she was ready to die . . .  And but a
little while ago she had been working happily in the outdoor studio;
the pet leopard sprawled at her feet; from the bungalow she heard the
nightingale voice of Winnie, soaring in some aria of Verdi's; her
father was dozing on the veranda.  Out of that, into this!  It was
incredible.  From time to time she brushed her forehead, bewildered.

In this mood, bordering on the hysterical (which is sometimes but a
step to supreme courage), Durga Ram, so-called Umballa, and the council
found her.  The face of the former was cold, his eyes steady and
expressionless.

"Has your majesty decided?" asked the eldest of the council.

"Yes," quietly.

"And your decision is?"

"No, absolutely and finally.  There is no reason why I should obey any
of your laws; but there is a good reason why all of you shall some day
be punished for this outrage."

"Outrage!  To be made queen of Allaha?"  The spokesman for the council
stamped his foot in wrath.

"Think!" said Umballa.

"I have thought.  Let us have no more of this cat-and-mouse play.  I
refuse to marry you.  I'd much prefer any beggar in the street.  There
is nothing more to be said."

"There are worse things than marriage."

"What manner of indignities have you arranged for me?"  Her voice was
firm, but the veins in her throat beat so hardily that they stifled her.

Said the spokesman of the council: "We have found a precedent.  We find
that one hundred and ninety years ago a like case confused the council
of that day.  They finally agreed that she must submit to two ordeals
with wild beasts of the jungle.  If she survived she was to be
permitted to rule without hindrance.  It would be a matter for the gods
to decide."

"Are you really human beings?" asked Kathlyn, her lips dry.  "Can you
possibly commit such a dreadful crime against one who has never harmed
you, who asks for nothing but the freedom to leave this country?"

Pundita secretly caught Kathlyn's hand and pressed it.

"Once more!" said Umballa, his compassion touched for the first time.
But he had gone too far; for the safety of his own head he must go on.

"I am ready!"

The four men salaamed gravely.  They turned, the flowing yellow robes
of the council fluttering in the wind, the sun lighting with green and
red fires the hilt of Umballa's sword.  Not one of them but would have
emptied his private coffers to undo what he had done.  It was too late.
Already a priest had announced the ordeals to the swarming populace.
You feed a tiger to pacify him; you give a populace a spectacle.

That night Umballa did not rest particularly well.  But he became
determined upon one thing: no actual harm should befall Kathlyn.  He
would have a marksman hidden near by in both ordeals.  What a woman!
She was a queen, and he knew that he would go through all the hells of
Hind to call her his.  Long ere this he would have looted the treasure
chests and swept her up on his racing elephant had he dared.  Sa'adi's
houri!

A thousand times he heard it through the night:

"I am ready!"




CHAPTER IV

HOW TIME MOVES

Meantime Lal Singh was hurrying on a racing camel toward the railway,
toward Simla, more than a thousand miles away.  He was happy.  Here was
the long delayed opportunity for the hand of the British Raj: a captive
white woman.  What better excuse was needed?  There would be armed Sikhs
and Gurhas and Tommies near Rawal Pindi.  Ai! how time moved, how fate
twisted!  How the finest built castle in schemes came clattering down!
At the very moment when he had secretly worked upon the king to throw
himself into the protecting arms of the British Raj--assassinated!  The
council?  Umballa?  Some outsider, made mad by oppression?  The egg of
Brahma was strangely hatched--this curious old world!

Ahmed remained hidden in the bazaars, to await the ordeals.  Nothing
should harm his mistress; he was ready now and at all times to lay down
his life for her; in this the British Raj came second.  He had sent a
courier to Bruce Sahib's bungalow, but the man had returned to report
that it was still unoccupied.

And while he bit his nails in futile wrath and smoked till his tongue
grew bitter, some miles away there was much confusion in the jungle by
the water.  Tents were being set up, native bearers and coolies were
running to and fro, building fires, carrying water, hobbling the pack
elephants.  Wandering in and out of this animated scene was a young man,
clean shaven, deeply tanned, with blue eyes which were direct, small
pupiled, yet kindly.  Presently he called to one of the head men.

"Ali, you might send three or four men on to the bungalow to clean up
things.  We shall make it tomorrow.  It's but two hours' ride, but
there's no hurry; and besides there's a herd of elephants behind us
somewhere.  They've come up far for this time of year."

"Any news worth while?"

"Yes, Sahib."

Ali made a gesture; it signified a great many things.

"Bruce Sahib will not believe."

"Believe what?" said Bruce, emptying his pipe against his heel.

"There is a white queen in the city."

"What?  What bally nonsense is this?"

"It is only what I've been told, Sahib.  Hare Sahib is dead."

Bruce let his pipe slip through his fingers.  "Hare?  Good lord!"

"Yes, Sahib.  But that is not all.  It seems the king went mad after we
went to Africa.  You remember how Hare Sahib saved him from the leopard?
Well, he made Hare Sahib his heir.  He had that right; the law of the
childless king has always read so in Allaha.  The white queen is Hare
Sahib's daughter."

Bruce leaned against a tent pole.  "Am I dreaming or are you?" he gasped.

"It is what they tell me, Sahib.  I know it not as a fact."

"The king dead, Hare dead, and his daughter on the throne!  How did she
get here?  And what the devil is a chap to do?"  Bruce stooped and
recovered his pipe and swore softly.  "Ali, if this is true, then it's
some devil work; and I'll wager my shooting eye that that sleek scoundrel
Umballa, as they call him, is at the bottom of it.  A white woman, good
old Hare's daughter.  I'll look into this.  It's the nineteenth century,
Ali, and white women are not made rulers over the brown, not of their own
free will.  Find out all you can and report to me," and Bruce dismissed
his servant and fell to pacing before his tent.

The native who had spread this astounding news in Bruce's camp was
already hastening back to the city, some fourteen miles away.  He had
been a bheestee (water carrier) to the house of Ramabai up to the young
banker's incarceration.  To him, then, he carried the news that a white
hunter had arrived outside the city--"Bruce Sahib has returned!"

Ramabai lost no time in taking this news to Kathlyn.

"Ramabai, I have saved your life; save mine.  Go at once to him and tell
him that I am a prisoner but am called a queen; tell him I am Colonel
Hare's daughter, she who traveled with him on the same ship from Hongkong
to Singapore.  Go!  Tell him all, the death of my father and Umballa's
treachery.  Hasten!"

Bruce was eating his simple evening meal when Ramabai arrived.

"Bruce Sahib?"

"Yes.  Your face is familiar."

"You have been twice to my bank.  I am Ramabai."

"I remember.  But what are you doing here?"

"I have come for aid, Sahib, aid for a young woman, white like yourself."

"Then it is true?  Go ahead and let me have all the facts.  She is Hare
Sahib's daughter; Ali told me that.  Precious rigmarole of some sort.
The facts!"

"She is also the young lady who traveled in the same boat from Hongkong
to Singapore."  Ramabai paused to see the effect of this information.

Bruce lowered his fork slowly.  The din about him dwindled away into
nothing.  He was again leaning over the rail, watching the
phosphorescence trail away, a shoulder barely touching his: one of the
few women who had ever stirred him after the first glance.  In God's
name, why hadn't she said something?  Why hadn't she told him she was
Colonel Hare's daughter?  How was he to know?  (For Hare, queerly enough,
had never shown his young friend the photographs of his daughters.)
Perhaps he had been at fault; he, too, had scarcely stirred from his
shell.  And where was that scoundrel Rao?

"I shall enter the city as soon as I can settle my bungalow.  This rather
knocks me out."

"No, Sahib; don't wait: come back with me!"  Quickly he outlined the
desperate straits in which Kathlyn stood.  "To-morrow may be too late."

"Ali!" called Bruce, rising.

"Yes, Sahib."

"The Pasha.  No questions.  Give him water.  Use the hunting howdah.
Both guns and plenty of cartridges.  That's all."  The young man ran into
his sleeping tent and presently came forth with a pair of ugly looking
Colts; for this was before the days of the convenient automatics.  "All
aboard, Ramabai!"  Bruce laughed; the sound was as hard and metallic as
the click of the cartridge belt as he slung it round his waist; but it
was music to Ramabai's ears.  "Trust me.  There shan't be any ordeals;
not so you would notice it. . . .  Great God!  A white woman, one of my
kind! . . .  All right, Ali; quick work.  Thanks!"

"There will be many pitfalls, Sahib," said Ramabai.

"Indeed!"

"I have some influence with the populace, but Umballa has the army, paid
for.  The priests and the council are back of him.  And, after all, the
priests are most to be feared.  They can always sway the people through
fear."

Bruce laughed again.  "Either Kathlyn Hare will be free to-morrow or
Umballa and the council meat for the jackals . . . or I shall be," he
added, in afterthought.  "Now, do not speak till I speak.  I wish to
think, for I've got to act quickly; I can't make any mistakes when I get
there."

Far away a brown figure in clout and drab turban watched the young man.
When he saw the elephant with the hunting howdah he knew that he had the
information for which his master had detailed him to follow, night and
day, the young banker Ramabai.  The white hunter was coming hot-foot to
the city.  He turned and ran.  Running was his business; he was as
tireless as a camel and could run twenty and thirty miles at a stretch.
The soles of his feet were as tough as elephant's hide.  Thus he reached
the city an hour before Bruce and Ramabai.

When Bruce and the native banker arrived at the gate coolies stood about
with torches.  Suddenly beyond the gate half a regiment drew up.  The
officer in charge raised his hand warningly.

"The white hunter is Bruce Sahib?"

"Yes."  Bruce spoke the dialects with passable fluency.

"Good.  The Sahib will be pleased to dismount."

"I am on my way to the palace."

"That is impossible, Sahib."  At a sign from the officer the troopers
extended their guns at half aim.  It was a necessary precaution.  These
white sahibs were generally a mad people and were quick to shoot.
"Please dismount, Sahib.  It is the orders."

Bruce's mahout, who was a Rajput Mohammedan, turned his head to learn
what his master had to say.  Bruce, pale under his tan, nodded.  The
mahout reached down with his silver tipped goad and touched the elephant
on the knee.  The big brute slowly and ponderously kneeled.  Bruce
stepped out of the howdah, followed by Ramabai, who saw that in some
unaccountable manner they had been betrayed.  He was sick at heart.

Two troopers stepped forward and took possession of the rifles which were
slung on each side of the howdah.  Bruce accepted the situation
philosophically; argument or protest was futile.  Next they took away his
cartridge belt.  He trembled for a moment with apprehension, but the
troopers did not search him further; and he thanked God for the wisdom
which had made him strap his revolvers under his armpits.

"What now?" he demanded.

"The Sahib will be given his guns and ammunition the hour he starts back
to camp."

"And in the meantime?"

"The Sahib is free to come and go about the city so long as he does not
approach the palace.  If he is found in the vicinity of the zenana he
will be arrested and imprisoned."

"This is all very high-handed."

"Sahib, there is no British Raj here.  The orders of the regent and the
council are final.  Submit."

"Very well."

"Ramabai!"

Ramabai stepped forward.  By a kind of clairvoyance he saw what was
coming.

"Ramabai, the orders are that you shall retire to your house and remain
there till further orders."

"I am the queen's body-guard."

"Ai!  Well said!  But I do not take my orders from the queen--yet.  Obey.
The Sahib may accompany you if he wishes; there are no orders against
that.  The Sahib's elephant will be lodged in the royal stables; the
mahout will see that he is fed and watered."

"We have been betrayed," said Ramabai.  "I know not how."

"You were followed.  A moment," said Bruce, turning to the officer.  "I
have a servant by the name of Rao.  I believe he acted as bearer to the
young lady at the palace.  What has become of him?"

The officer smiled and shook his head.

"Rao is a prisoner, then," thought the young man.  "That black scoundrel
Umballa is at least thorough."  Aloud he said: "We shall go at once to
your house, Ramabai."

And all through the night they planned and planned, but not knowing where
the first ordeal was to take place, nor the hour, they found themselves
going round in a circle, getting nowhere.  To a man of action like Bruce
it was maddening.  He walked out of the house into the garden and back
again at least a dozen times, always to find Ramabai with his head held
despairingly in his hands.  Another time Bruce opened the door to the
street; two troopers squatted on each side of the threshold.  Umballa was
in earnest.  The rear gate was also guarded.  How to get Ramabai out,
that was the problem.

He slept a little before dawn, and was aroused by voices below.  He
listened.

"I am Jawahir Lal, the water carrier.  Each day at dawn I water the
garden of Ramabai to pay a debt."

Bruce looked toward Ramabai, who slept the sleep of the profoundly
wearied.  A bheestee, perhaps a messenger.

"Go around to the rear gate, which can be opened," said the trooper.

Bruce went to the window overlooking the garden.  He saw the water
carrier enter through the bamboo gate, heard the water slosh about
jerkily as the bheestee emptied his goatskin.  He watched the man
curiously; saw him drop the skin and tiptoe toward the house, glance to
right and left alertly.  Then he disappeared.  Presently at the head of
the stairs Bruce heard a whisper--"Ramabai!"

"Who is it?" Bruce whispered in the dialect.

"Ahmed."

Ahmed.  Who was Ahmed?

Bruce shook Ramabai.  "Ahmed is here.  Who is he?" he asked softly.

"Ahmed?" drowsily.  Then, wide awake enough: "Ahmed?  He was Hare Sahib's
head animal man.  Where is he?"

"Hush!  Not so loud.  Come up, Ahmed; I am Bruce.  Let us speak in
English."

"Good!"  Ahmed came into the chamber.  "To see Bruce Sahib is good.
To-morrow my master's daughter is to be carried into the jungle.  The
Mem-sahib is to be tied inside a tiger trap, bait for the cat.  That is
the first ordeal."

"Shaitan!" murmured Ramabai.

"Go on, Ahmed."

"The cage will be set near the old peepul tree, not far from the south
gate.  Now, you, Sahib, and you, Ramabai, must hide somewhere near.  It
is the law that if she escapes the ordeal from unexpected sources she is
free, at least till the second ordeal.  I know not what that is at
present or when it is to take place.  The troops will be there, and the
populace, the council, the priest and Umballa.  I shall have two swift
camels near the clump of bamboo.  I may not be there, but some one will.
She must be hurried off before the confusion dies away.  Must, Sahib.
There must be no second ordeal."

"But how am I to get out of here?" asked Ramabai.  "Guards all about, and
doubtless bidden to shoot if I stir!"

"Tch!  Tch!" clicked Ahmed.  He unwound his dirty turban and slipped out
of the ragged shirtlike frock.  "These and the water skin below.  A
bheestee entered, a bheestee goes out.  What is simpler than that?  It is
not light enough for the soldiers to notice.  There is food and water
here.  Trust me to elude those bhang-guzzlers outside.  Am I a ryot, a
farmer, to twist naught but bullocks' tails?"

"Ahmed," said Bruce, holding out his hand, "you're a man."

"Thanks, Sahib," dryly.  "But hasten!  At dawn to-morrow, or late
to-night, Ramabai returns with a full water skin.  The Mem-sahib must at
least stand the ordeal of terror, for she is guarded too well.  Yet, if
they were not going to bind her, I should not worry.  She has animal
magic in her eye, in her voice.  I have seen wild beasts grow still when
she spoke.  Who knows?  Now, I sleep."

Bruce and Ramabai had no difficulty in passing the guards.  The white
hunter was free to come and go, and the sleepy soldiers saw the water
skin which Ramabai threw carelessly over his head.  They sat down against
the wall again and replenished the dung fire.  Bruce and Ramabai wisely
made a wide detour to the peepul tree, which they climbed, disturbing the
apes and the parrakeets.

Somewhere near eight o'clock they heard the creaking of wheels and a
murmur of voices.  Shortly into their range of vision drew a pair of
bullocks, pulling a tiger trap toward the clearing.  This cage was of
stout wood with iron bars.  The rear of the cage was solid; the front had
a falling door.  The whole structure rested upon low wheels, and there
was a drop platform which rested upon the ground.  An iron ring was
attached to the rear wall, and to this was generally tied a kid, the
bleating of which lured the tiger for which the trap was laid.  The
moment the brute touched the bait the falling door slid down, imprisoning
the prowler.

When Bruce saw this damnable thing he understood, and he shook with
horror and voiceless rage.  He caught Ramabai by the arm so savagely that
a low cry came from the brown man's lips.

"Patience, Sahib!" he warned.  "Without you what will the Mem-sahib do?
They will tie her in that and liberate a tiger.  The rest lies with you,
Sahib."

"Ramabai, as God hears me, some one shall pay for this! . . .  The
nineteenth century, and I am wide awake!  I may not be able to kill the
brute with these revolvers, but I'll stop him, even if I have to use my
bare hands. . . .  Kathlyn Hare!"

"Hush!" again warned Ramabai, hugging his perch.

Later by half an hour Bruce witnessed a spectacle such as few white men,
happily for their reason, are permitted to see.  Kathlyn, in her royal
robes (for ordeals of this character were ceremonials), a necklace of
wonderful emeralds about her throat, stepped from her palanquin and stood
waiting.  From other vehicles and conveyances stepped Umballa, the
council and the yellow robed priests.  Troops also appeared, and behind
them the eager expectant populace.  They were to be amused.  There were
many of them, however, who hoped that a miracle would happen.

"Ramabai," whispered Bruce, "she is as beautiful as a dream.  If I had
only known!  Well, there's going to be a miracle.  See how straight she
stands; not a sign of fear in her face.  There's a woman . . . a woman
for me!" he added under his breath.

He saw the bejeweled turban of Umballa bend toward the girl, and it was
hard to resist taking a pot at the man.  Kathlyn shook her head.
Thereupon she was led to the trap, her hands bound and the rope round her
waist attached securely to the ring.

Ah, they talked about it that night in the surging bazaars, in the
palace, wherever two persons came together: how the white hunter had
appeared from nowhere, rushed toward the trap as the tiger approached,
entered and dropped the door, blazed away at the beast, who turned tail
and limped off into the jungle.  Ai!  It was a sight for eyes.  They
could laugh behind Umballa's back, the gutter born, the iron heeled
upstart; they could riddle (confidentially) the council with rude jests.
The law was the law; and none, not even the priests in their shaven polls
and yellow robes, might slip beyond the law as it read.  The first ordeal
was over.  Nor, as the law read, could they lay hands upon this brave
young man.  Ai! it was good.  Umballa must look elsewhere for his chief
wife; the Mem-sahib would not adorn his zenana.  It was more than good,
for now there would be a second ordeal; more amusement, perhaps another
miracle.  True, they had taken away the pistols of the white Sahib, but
he had his hands.

"Thank you," Kathlyn had said.  "Somehow I knew you would come."  And
what she had seen in his eyes had made her tremble visibly for the first
time that day.

She was conducted back to the palace.  The populace howled and cheered
about her palanquin to the very gates.  Not in many a big rain had they
had such excitement.

The fury in Umballa's heart might have disquieted Bruce had he known of
its existence.

Kathlyn, arriving in her chamber, flung herself down upon her cushions
and lay there like one dead, nor would she be comforted by the worshiping
Pundita.  Bruce had saved her this time, but it was not possible that he
could repeat the feat.

Having convinced Umballa and the council that she would not marry her
persecutor, the council announced to the populace that on the next fete
day the queen would confront the lions in the elephant arena.  What could
one man do against such odds?  Lions brought from the far Nubian deserts,
fierce, untamable.

That night there was  a conference between Bruce, Ahmed and Ramabai.

"They have taken my guns away, and God knows I can't do the impossible.
Where the devil were your camels, Ahmed?"

"Umballa has his spies, Ramabai," said Ahmed, smiling, as he got into his
bheestee rags, which Ramabai had surrendered willingly enough: "Ramabai,
thou conspirator, what about the powder mines you and your friends hid
when the late king signified that he was inclined toward British
protectorate?  Eh?  What about the republic thou hadst dreams of?  Poor
fool!  It is in our blood to be ruled by kings, oppressed; we should not
know what to do with absolute freedom.  There!  Fear not.  Why should I
betray thee?  The mines.  The arena is of wood."

"But there will be many of my friends there," said the bewildered
Ramabai.  Who was this strange man who seemed to know everything?

"Put the mines in the center of the arena.  What we want is merely terror
and confusion.  Pouf!  Bang!  There's your miracle.  And a little one
under the royal pavilion.  And Umballa and the council sleep in Shaitan's
arms.  Welcome, my lambs!"  And Ahmed laughed noiselessly.

"By the lord!" gasped Bruce.  "But the fuses?  No, no, Ahmed; it can not
be done."

"In the house of my friend Lal Singh there is a cellar full of strange
magic--magic with copper wires that spit blue fires.  Eh, Sahib?  You and
I know; we have traveled."

"Batteries, here, in this wilderness?"

"Even so.  To you, Ramabai, the powder; to me, the spitting wires; to
you, Bruce Sahib, patience.  Umballa shall yet wear raw the soles of his
feet in the treadmill.  He shall grind the poor man's corn.  I know what
I know.  Now I must be off.  I shall return to-morrow night and you,
Ramabai, shall gather together your fellow conspirators (who would blow
up the palace!) and bring the mines to the arena."

And while Kathlyn gazed through the marble lattice at the bright stars
another gazed at the sunny heavens in a far country, a sprite of a girl
with dark tearful eyes.  Father gone, sister gone; silence.

But a few yards away from Kathlyn a man plucked at his chains, praying to
God that he might not lose his reason.  With the finished cruelty of the
East, Umballa had not visited Colonel Hare again.  There is nothing like
suspense to squeeze hope and courage from the heart of man.

      *      *      *      *      *      *

On the night before the ordeal men moved cautiously about the elephant
arena.  It was only after much persuasion and argument could Bruce hold
the men.  At the testing of Lal Singh's wires and batteries they had
started to fly.  This was devil's fire.

At the end of the arena, in a box which Bruce was to occupy, by order of
the council (where they proposed to keep an eye upon Umballa and to wring
his heart), the key to the wires was laid.  This box was directly over a
wooden canopy where the mahouts loafed between fights.  Back of this
canopy was a door which led outside.  Through this Bruce proposed to lead
Kathlyn during the confusion created by the explosion.  They had carried
off the keeper (who was also guardian of the arena), and the key to this
door reposed in Bruce's pocket.

On the day of the ordeal only the bedridden remained at home.  The
temples, the palaces, the bazaars, all were deserted as thoroughly as if
the black wings of the plague had swept through the city.  Even the crows
and the kites were there, the one chattering; the other soaring high
above.

Ramabai was forced to sit with the council, much to his terror.  After
much pleading the council was prevailed upon to permit him to sit with
Bruce.  A cordon of soldiers was accordingly detailed to surround Bruce's
box at the rear.

When Kathlyn arrived she was placed under the canopy: another bit of
kindly attention on the part of Umballa to twist the white man's heart.
But nothing could have happened more to the satisfaction of Bruce.

"Kathlyn Hare," he called out softly in Spanish, "do you hear and
understand me?"

"Yes," she replied in the same tongue.  "Do nothing desperate.  Don't
throw away your life.  I have a sister in America.  Will you tell her?"

"Listen.  Under no circumstances leave the canopy.  The lions come from
the other side.  We are not only going to rescue but save you.  Attend me
carefully.  Behind you is a door.  There will be an explosion in the
center of the arena.  There was to be another under our friend Umballa,
but the battery was old.  Press over toward that door.  I have the key."

"Ah, Mr. Bruce!"

"Kathlyn, my name is John."

"The lions, the lions!" howled the populace.

It seemed to Bruce that he had been suddenly flung back into antiquity
and that Nero sat yonder, squinting through his polished emerald.  The
great, tawny African brutes blinked and turned their shaggy heads this
way and that, uneasily.  Kathlyn stood very still.  How, how could they
save her?  At length the lions espied her, attracted by the white of her
robe.  One bounded forward, growling.  The others immediately started in
pursuit.

Suddenly the center of the arena opened and a tremendous roar followed.
A low wail of terror ran round the arena.  Surely this Mem-sahib had all
the gods with her.  A great crevice had opened up between Kathlyn and the
lions, one of which lay dead.  Then came the rush toward the exits, a mad
frantic rush.  Not even Umballa, who knew that not the gods, but man had
contrived this havoc, not even Umballa waited, but fled, beating down all
those who blocked his path.

Bruce and Ramabai dropped over the railing to Kathlyn's side.  But the
key upon which their escape depended would not unlock the door.




CHAPTER V

THE COURT OF THE LION

When Bruce dropped down into the arena to Kathlyn's side he had never
given a thought to the possibility of the key not being the right one.
Trapped!--and Ahmed but a few yards away with a zenana gharry, ready to
convey them to the camp, freedom!  It took the heart out of him for a
moment.  The confusion all about, the pall of dust, the roaring of the
frightened lions which had escaped destruction, the shrill cries of the
panic-stricken populace, who now looked upon the white Mem-sahib as the
daughter of Shaitan, these dulled his inventive faculties for the
nonce.  Here was the confusion, properly planned, and he could not make
use of it.  Possibly, when no further explosion shook the air, the mob
and the soldiers would return out of curiosity.  And then, good-by!

But the sight of a lion emerging from the murk, the wrong side of the
crevice, roused him thoroughly.

"Save yourself!" said Kathlyn in despair: "there is no possible way of
saving me.  I have never in all my life injured any one, and yet God
makes me go through all this. . . .  I am mad, you are, the whole world
is! . . .  Run!"

Bruce laughed; it was that kind of laughter with which men enter
battle.  He drew Lal Singh's revolvers and thrust one into her hand.

"Shoot at the keyhole.  Leave the lion to me.  With the pandemonium no
one will note the shots, or if they do, will think that more explosions
are on the way.  I'll get you out of this nightmare; that's what I was
born for."

"Nightmare!"

"There, now!"--as Kathlyn leaned dizzily against one of the supports.

"I've gone through a good deal," she said.  Without more ado she
pressed the muzzle of the revolver into the keyhole and fired.  She
heard a shot behind her, another and another; but she kept on firing
into and about the keyhole till the revolver was empty.

A firm hand drew her aside.

"The lion?"

"Gone to sleep.  Let me have a whack at that door."

"Where's Ramabai?"

"Went back over the wall.  Probably to warn Ahmed; maybe gone directly
off toward camp.  Anyhow, he has faith in me."

"And, oh! so have I, so have I!"

Bruce bore his weight savagely against the door, once, twice, thrice;
and pitched forward on his knees, outside.  He was up instantly.  He
caught Kathlyn by the hand and hurried her along; and all she could
think of was Winnie romping toward the canopied studio, her father half
asleep on the veranda and the leopard cat sprawled on the divan!

"Sahib!  Huzoor!" a voice called.  "This way!"

"Ahmed!  Ahmed!" cried Kathlyn.

"Yes, heaven born; but hurry, hurry!  Umballa will return to search as
soon as he can get the better of his legs.  Siva take that battery that
was worn out!  Heaven born, you are now a queen in fact. . . ."

"I want to go home, Ahmed, home!"

"Here's the gharry.  Here, Sahib!"  He held out a handful of cartridges
toward Bruce.  "These fit Lal Singh's pistols.  Hurry, hurry!"

Bruce helped Kathlyn into the vehicle and jumped in beside her, and
Ahmed struck the horse.  The gharry was a rickety old contrivance,
every hinge creaking like some lost soul; but Ahmed had reasoned that
the more dilapidated the vehicle, the less conspicuous it would be.  He
urged the horse.  He wanted the flying mob to think that he was flying,
too, which, indeed, he was.  The gharry rolled and careened like a dory
in a squall.  A dozen times Bruce and Kathlyn were flung together, and
quite unconsciously she caught hold of his lean, strong brown hand.  It
would not be true to say that he was unconscious of the act.

Presently they entered the paved streets of the bazaars, and the going
improved.  Kathlyn leaned back.

"I am Kathlyn Hare, and this is the year . . ."

"Come now, Miss Kathlyn, no thinking; leave the whole business to me,
the worry and the planning.  If we can reach my elephants, all right;
we'll be in Delhi within seven days.  The rest of the going will be as
simple as falling off a log."

That Yankee phrase did more to rehabilitate her than all his assurances.

From time to time Bruce stole a glance through the curtained window.
Stragglers were hastening along close to the walls, and there were
soldiers who had forgot to bring their guns from the elephant arena.
Once he heard the clatter of hoofs.  A horseman ran alongside the
gharry, slowed up, peered down and shrugged.  Kathlyn shrank toward
Bruce.  The rider proceeded on his way.  Ahmed recognized him as the
ambassador from the neighboring principality, ruled by a Kumor, who was
in turn ruled by the British Raj.  Kathlyn could not shut out the leer
on his face.

By midafternoon the gharry reached Bruce's camp.  Ramabai and Pundita
greeted Kathlyn with delight.  All their troubles were over.  They had
but to mount the elephants and ride away.

"Ahmed," urged Kathlyn, "leave the gharry and come with us."

"No, Mem-sahib,"--Ahmed gazed at her strangely--"I have work to do,
much work.  Allah guard you!"  He struck the horse with his bamboo
stick and careened away.

"Let us be off!" cried Bruce.  "We have sixty miles to put between us
and freedom in fact.  We can not make the railway.  Ali, pack!  Go to
the bungalow and remain there.  You will be questioned.  Tell the
truth.  There is not an elephant in the royal stables that can beat
Rajah.  All aboard!  No stops!"--smiling as he helped Kathlyn into the
howdah.  "We shall be forced to ride all night."

The elephants started forward, that ridden by Bruce and Kathlyn in the
lead, Ramabai and Pundita following a few yards in the rear.

"Mr. Bruce, I am sure Ahmed has some information regarding father.  I
don't know what.  Who knows?  They may have lied to me.  He may be
alive, alive!"

"I'll return and find out, once I've got you safe.  I don't blame you
for thinking all this a nightmare.  God knows it is nightmarish.  Do
you know, I've been thinking it over.  It appears to me that the king
latterly took a dislike to his protege, Umballa, and turned this little
trick to make him unhappy.  I dare say he thought your father wise
enough to remain away.  Umballa hangs between wind and water; he can go
neither forward nor backward.  But poor Ramabai back there will lose
his gold for this."

"Ramabai has always been very kindly to the poor, and the poor man
generally defends his benefactor when the night-time comes.  To Umballa
I was only a means to the end.  If he declared himself king, that would
open up the volcano upon which he stands; but as my prince consort,
that would leave him fairly secure."

"Only a means," mused Bruce inwardly, stealing a glance at her sad yet
lovely profile.  Umballa was a man, for all his color; he was human;
and to see this girl it was only human to want her.  "Your father was
one of the best friends I had.  But, oddly enough, I never saw a
photograph of you.  He might have been afraid we young chaps . . ."  He
paused embarrassedly.  "If only you had taken me into your confidence
on board the Yorck!"

"Ah, but did you offer me the chance?" she returned.

"I never realized till now that a chap might be too close lipped
sometimes.  Well, here we are, in flight together!"

That night for the first time in many hours Kathlyn closed her eyes
with a sense of security.  True, it was not the most comfortable place
to sleep in, the howdah; there were ceaseless rollings from side to
side, intermingled with spine racking bumps forward, as the elephant
occasionally hastened his stride.  Kathlyn succeeded in stealing from
the god of sleep only cat naps.  Often the cold would awaken her, and
she would find that Bruce had been bracing her by extending his arm
across the howdah and gripping the rail.

"You mustn't do that," she protested feebly.  "You will be dead in the
morning."

"You might fall out."

"Then I shan't go to sleep again till the journey ends.  You have been
so good and kind to me!"

"Nonsense!"

They came out into the scrub jungle, and the moonlight lay magically
over all things.  Sometimes a shadow crossed the whitened sands;
scurried, rather; and quietly Bruce would tell her what the animals
were--jackals, with an occasional prowling red wolf.  They were not
disturbed by any of the cat family.  But there was one interval of
suspense.  Bruce spied in the distance a small herd of wild elephants.
So did Rajah, who raised his trunk and trumpeted into the night.  The
mahout, fully awake to the danger, beat the old rascal mightily with
his goad.  Yet that would have failed to hold Rajah.  Bruce averted the
danger by shooting his revolvers into the air.  The wild elephants
stampeded, and Rajah, disgruntled, was brought to the compass.

"Strange thing about a gunshot," said Bruce.  "They may never have
heard one before; but instinct tells them quickly of the menace.  Years
ago at home, when I used to fish for bass, during the closed season I'd
see thousands of duck and geese and deer.  Yet a single gunshot when
the season opened and you never could get within a mile of them."

"That is true.  I have fished and hunted with father."

"Surely!  I keep forgetting that it's ten to one you know more about
game than I do."

Silence fell upon them again.  On, on, without pausing.  Bruce was
getting sleepy himself, so he began munching biscuits.  Lighter and
lighter grew the east; the moon dimmed, and by and by everything grew
gray and the chill in the air seemed sharpest yet.

They were both awake.

Sunup they stopped by a stream.  Bruce dismounted without having the
elephant kneel and went to the water to fill his canteen.  The hunter
in him became interested in the tracks along the banks.  A tiger, a
leopard, some apes, and a herd of antelopes had been down to drink
during the night.  Even as he looked a huge gray ape came bounding out,
head-on toward Rajah, who despised these foolish beasts.  Perhaps the
old elephant missed Ali, perhaps he was still somewhat upset by his
failure to join his wild brothers the night before; at any rate,
without warning, he set off with that shuffling gait which sometimes
carried him as swiftly as a horse.  An elephant never trots nor really
runs according to our conception of the terms; he shuffles, scarcely
lifting his feet off the ground.

The mahout yelled and belabored the elephant on the skull.  Rajah did
not mind this beating at all.  Whatever his idea was, he evidently
proposed to see it fulfilled.

Cunningly he dashed under some branches, sweeping the mahout off his
neck.  The branches, with a crash as of musketry, struck the howdah,
but it held, thanks to the stoutness of the belly bands and the care
with which they had been adjusted round the huge barrel.

Bruce stood up, appalled.  For a time he was incapable of movement.
Short as the time was, it was enough to give Rajah such headway as he
needed.  He disappeared from sight.  Bruce saw the futility of shooting
at the beast.  The only thing he could do was to mount up beside
Ramabai and Pundita and give chase; and this he did in short order,
dragging up the bruised and shaken mahout with him.  The pursuing
elephant, with this extra handicap, never brought Rajah into sight.
But the trail was clear, and they followed.

Surely that poor girl was marked for misfortune.  In all the six years
Bruce had possessed Rajah he had never exhibited anything but docility.
The elephant was not running amuck, though he might eventually work
himself into that blind ungovernable rage.  Off like that, without the
slightest warning!  If Kathlyn could only keep him clear of the trees,
for the old rogue would do his best to scrape off the irksome howdah.

Kathlyn heard the shouts from behind, but she could not understand
whether these were warnings or advice.  Could they overtake her before
she was flung off?  She tried to recall the "elephant talk" Ahmed had
taught her in the old days at the farm, but just now she was too dazed.
At the end of an hour all sounds from the rear ceased; no more pistol
shots to encourage her with the knowledge that friends were near.
Rajah must have outstripped them two or three miles.

At length she came into a small clearing amid the tall jungle grass, a
dead and brittle last year's growth.  She saw two natives in the act of
kicking out a dung fire.  Rajah headed directly toward them, the fire
evidently being in the line of path he had chosen.  This rare and
unexpected freedom, this opportunity to go whither he listed, was as
the giant fern he used to eat in the days when he was free and wild in
Ceylon.

Kathlyn called out to the men, but they turned and fled in terror.  To
them Rajah was amuck.  The elephant passed the fire so closely that the
wind of his passing stirred the fire into life again; and this time it
crept toward the highly inflammable grass.  A few hundred yards beyond
Kathlyn turned to see the flames leaping along the grass.  Rajah,
getting a whiff of the acrid smoke, quickened his stride.  The fire
followed with amazing rapidity and stopped only when it reached the bed
of a trickling stream, no doubt a torrent during the big rains.  A
great pall of smoke blotted out everything in the rear; blotted out
hope, for Bruce could never pick up the trail now.

Kathlyn's eyes were feverishly dry and bright.  It was only a matter of
time when the howdah would slip down the brute's side.  She prayed that
she might die instantly.  Strange fancies flitted through her mind,
disordered by all these days of suspense and terror. . . .

And suddenly the jungle came to an end, and a long plowed field opened
into view.  Beyond this field rose a ruined wall, broken by a crumbling
gate, and lounging in the gateway were soldiers.  Near by were two
elephants employed in piling logs.

Rajah, perforce, slackened his gait.  The soldiers became animated.
Immediately the two mahouts charged their brutes toward Rajah, who
stopped.  He had had his sport.  He swayed to and fro.  One of the
mahouts reached forward and clouted Rajah on the knee.  He slowly
kneeled.  The soldiers ran forward to help Kathlyn out of the howdah.
At the sight of her skin their astonishment was great.

She was very weak and faint, and the increasing babel of tongues was
like little triphammers beating upon her aching head.  One of the
soldiers gave her a drink of water.  He held his canteen high, so that
the water trickled into her mouth; no lips but his own must touch the
nozzle, otherwise, being a Brahmin, he would be denied.  Natives
instantly flocked about, jabbering in wonder.  Some of the bolder
touched her bare arms.  The soldiers drove them back angrily.  Through
the press a horseman pushed forward.  The rider stared at the strange
captive, started and uttered an astonished cry.

"The white queen of Allaha, whom mine own eyes saw crowned at the
durbar there!" he murmured.  "By the shroud of the prophet what can
this mean?  Stop!" he called to the soldiers.  Kathlyn looked up dully.
"Convey her to his highness the Kumor!"  The prince should decide what
should be done with her.

The Kumor was big and lazy and sensual.  He gazed upon Kathlyn with
eyes which sparkled evilly, like a cat's.

"Who is this woman?" he demanded.

"Highness, she is the white queen of Allaha, but who may say that she
is here?" with a smile as evil as his master's.

"But how came she here?"

The horseman briefly recounted the events as he had seen them in the
capital of Allaha.

"Who are you, maiden?" the Kumor asked in English, for, like all
potentates, little or great, in India, he spoke English.  It presented
the delectable pastime of conspiring in two languages; for, from Bombay
to Calcutta, from Peshawar to Madras, India seethes, conspires and
takes an occasional pot shot at some poor devil of a commissioner whose
only desire is to have them combine religion and sanitation.

"I am an American.  Please take me to the English commissioner."
Somehow instinct told her that she might not expect succor from this
man with the pearls about his gross neck.

"I regret that his excellency the commissioner has gone to Bombay.
Besides, I do not know that you tell the truth.  Still, I can offer you
what pearls and emeralds you may find to your liking."

"Your Highness, there are those whose coming shortly will cause you
much annoyance if you refuse to give me proper aid.  There is no
possible way for you to cover up my appearance here.  Send me to the
commissioner's bungalow, where I may await the coming of my friends."

"Indeed!"  The Kumor saw here a conflict not altogether to his liking.
He was lazy, and there was the damnable, unrelenting hand of the
British Raj looming in the distance.  He shrugged.  "Achmet, call the
captain of the guard and have him convey this runaway queen to Allaha.
Surely, I may not meddle with the affairs of a friendly state."  With a
wave of his fat bejeweled hand he appeared to dismiss the matter from
his mind.

Kathlyn was led away.  The human mind can stand only so many shocks.

Outside the palace courtyard stood Rajah, the howdah securely attached
once more, Kathlyn was bidden to mount.  A water bottle and some cakes
were placed in the howdah beside her.  Then a drunken mahout mounted
behind Rajah's ears.  The elephant did not like the feel of the man's
legs, and he began to sway ominously.  Nevertheless, he permitted the
mahout to direct him to one of the city gates, the soldiers trooping
alongside.

It appeared that there was a much shorter route to Allaha.  Time being
essential, Bruce had had to make for the frontier blindly, as it were.
The regular highway was a moderately decent road which led along the
banks of one of those streams which eventually join the sacred Jumna.
This, of course, was also sacred.  Many Hindus were bathing in the
ghats.  They passed by these and presently came upon a funeral pyre.

Sometimes one sleeps with one's eyes open, and thus it was with
Kathlyn.  Out of that funeral pyre her feverish thoughts builded a
frightful dream.

      *      *      *      *      *      *

