The last misty shred of wild fowl floated sea 
ward and was lost against the clouds. 

"Is there a path to the Etang?" he asked 
quietly. 

"Yes. I will go with you " 

"No." 

"Why?" 

"No. Show me the path." 

His shotgun stood by the door; he took 
it with him as he left the house beside her. 
In the moat, close by the bridge, and point 
ing toward the house, L Ombre lay motionless. 
They saw it as they passed, but did not speak of 
it to each other. At the forest's edge he 
halted: "Is this the path!" 

"Yes. . . . May; I not go?" 

"No please." 

"Is there danger!" 

"No. ... I don't know if there is any danger." 









"Will you be cautious, then!" 

He turned and looked at her in the dim 
light. Standing so for a little while they 
remained silent. Then he drew a deep, quiet 
breath. She held out one hand, slowly; half 
way he bent and touched her fingers with 
his lips; released them. Her arm fell list 
lessly at her side. 

After he had been gone a long while, she 
turned away, moving with head lowered. At 
the bridge she waited for him. 

A red moon rose low in the east. It be 
came golden above the trees, paler higher, 
and deathly white in mid-heaven. 

It was long after midnight when she went 
into the house to light fresh candles. In the 
intense darkness before dawn she lighted two 
more and set them in an upper window on 
the chance that they might guide him back. 

At five in the morning every clock struck 
five. 

She was not asleep; she was lying on a 
lounge beside the burning candles, listening, 
when the door below burst open and there 









came the trampling rush of feet, the sound 
of blows, a fall 

A loud voice cried : "Because you are armed 
and not in uniform! you British swine!" 

And the pistol shots crashed through the 
house. 

On the stairs she swayed for an instant, 
grasped blindly at the rail. Through the floating smoke below the dead man lay there by 
the latticed window where they had sat to 
gether he and she 

Spectres were flitting to and fro grey 
shapes without faces things with eyes. A 
loud voice dinned in her ears, beat savagely 
upon her shrinking brain: 

"You there on the stairs! do you hear? 
What are those candles? Signals?" 

She looked down at the dead man. 

"Yes," she said. 

Through the crackling racket of the fusillade, down, down into roaring darkness she 
fell. 

After a few moments her slim hand moved, 
closed over the dead man s. And moved no 
more. 









In the moat L Ombre still remained, unstirring; old Anne lay in the kitchen dying; 
and the Wood of Aulnes was swarming with 
ghastly shapes which had no faces, only 
eyes. 



CHAPTER XI 



It was Dr. Vail whose identification secured 
burial for Neeland, not in the American cemetery, but in Aulnes Wood. 

When the raid into Finistere ended, and 
the unclean birds took flight, Vail, at Quimper, 
ordered north with his unit, heard of the 
tragedy, and went to Aulnes. And so Neeland 
was properly buried beside the youthful chatelaine. Which was, no doubt, what his severed 
soul desired. And perhaps hers desired it, too. 

Vail continued on to Paris, to Flanders, 
got gassed, and came back to New York. 

He had aged ten years in as many months. 

Gray, the younger surgeon, kept glancing 
from time to time at Vail's pallid face, and 
the latter understood the professional interest of the younger man. 









"You think I look ill?" he asked, finally. 

"You don't look very fit, Doctor." 

"No. . . . I'm going West." 

"You mean it?" 

"Yes." 

"Why do you think that you are going 
Westl" 

"There's a thing over there, born of gas. 
It's a living thing, animal or vegetable. I don't 
know which. It's only recently been recognized. We call it the Seed of Death. " 

Gray gazed at the haggard face of the older 
man in silence. 

Vail went on, slowly: "It's properly named. 
It is always fatal. A man may live for a 
few months. But, once gassed, even in the 
slightest degree, if that germ is inhaled, death 
is certain." 

After a silence Gray began: "Do you have 
any apprehension " And did not finish the 
sentence. 

Vail shrugged. "It's interesting, isn't it?" 
he said with pleasant impersonality. 

After a silence Gray said: "Are you doing 
anything about it?" 







"Oh, yes. It's working in the dark, of course. 
I'm feeling rottener every day." 

He rested his handsome head on one thin 
hand: 

"I don't want to die, Gray, but I don't know 
how to keep alive. It's odd, isn't it? I don't 
wish to die. It's an interesting world. I want 
to see how the local elections turn out in New 
York." 

"What!" 

"Certainly. That is what worries me more 
than anything. We Allies are sure to win. 
I'm not worrying about that. But I'd like to 
live to see Tammany a dead cock in the pit!" 

Gray forced a laugh; Vail laughed unfeignedly, and then, solemn again, said: 

"I'd like to live to see this country aspire 
to something really noble." 

"After all," said Gray, "there is really nothing to stifle aspiration." 

It was not only because Vail had been gazing upon death in every phase, every degree- 
on brutal destruction wholesale and in detail; 
but also he had been standing on the outer 
escarpment of Civilization and had watched 









the mounting sea of barbarism battering, thundering, undermining, gradually engulfing the 
world itself and all its ancient liberties. 

He and the young surgeon, Gray, who was to 
ail to France next day were alone together 
on the loggia of the club; dusk mitigated the 
infernal heat of a summer day in town. 

On the avenue below motor cars moved 
north and south, hansoms crept slowly along 
the curb, and on the hot sidewalks people 
passed listlessly under the electric lights the 
nine and seventy sweating tribes. 

For, on such summer nights, under the red 
moon, an exodus from the East Side peoples 
the noble avenue with dingy spectres who shuffle along the gilded grilles and still facades of 
stone, up and down, to and fro, in quest of 
God knows what of air perhaps, perhaps of 
happiness, or of something even valuer. But 
whatever it may be that starts them into painful motion, one thing seems certain: aspiration is a part of their unrest. 

"There is liberty here," replied Dr. Vail 
"also her inevitable shadow, tyranny." 

"We need more light; that's all," said Gray. 






"When light streams in from every angle no 
shadow is possible." 

"The millennium? I get you. ... In this 
country the main thing is that there is some 
light. A single ray, however feeble, and even 
coming from one fixed angle only, means aspiration, life. . . ." 

He lighted a cigar. 

"As you know," he remarked, "there is a 
flower called Aconitum. It is also known by 
the ominous names of Monks-Hood and Helmet-Flower. Direct sunlight kills it. It flour 
ishes only in shadow. Like the Kaiser-Flower 
it also is blue; and," he added, "it is deadly 
poison. ... As you say, the necessary thing 
in this world is light from every angle." 

His cigar glimmered dully through the silence. Presently he went on; "Speaking of 
tyranny, I think it may be classed as a recognized and tolerated business carried on suc 
cessfully by those born with a genius for it. 
It flourishes in the shade like the Helmet- 
Flower. . . . But the sun in this Western 
Hemisphere of ours is devilish hot. It's gradually killing off our local tyrants slowly, al- 








most imperceptiby but inexorably, killing em 
off. ... Of course, there are plenty still alive 
tyrants of every degree born to the business 
of tyranny and making a success at it." 

He smoked tranquilly for a while, then: 

"There are our tyrants of industry," he said ; 
"tyrants of politics, tyrants of religion great 
and small we still harbor plenty of tyrants, 
all scheming to keep their roots from shriveling under this fierce western sun of ours 

He laughed without mirth, turning his worn 
and saddened eyes on Gray: 

"Tyranny is a business," he repeated; "also 
it is a state of mind a delusion, a ruling 
passion strong even in death. . . . The odd 
part of it is that a tyrant never knows he's 
one. . . . He invariably mistakes himself for 
a local Moses. I can tell you a sort of story 
if you care to listen. . . . Or, we can go to 
some cheerful show or roof-garden " 

"Go on with your story," said Gray. 



CHAPTER XII 



Vail began: 

Tyranny was purely a matter of business 
with this little moral shrimp about whom I'm 
going to tell you. I was standing between 
a communication trench and a crater left by 
a mine which was being "consolidated," as they 
have it in these days. . . . All around me soldiers of the third line swarmed and clambered 
over the debris, digging, hammering, shift 
ing planks and sandbags from south to north, 
lugging new timbers, reels of barbed wire, lad 
ders, cases of ammunition, machine guns, trench 
mortars. 

The din of the guns was terrific; overhead 
our own shells passed with a deafening, clattering roar; the Huns continued to shell the 
town in front of us where our first and second 









lines were still fighting in the streets and 
houses while the third line were reconstructing a few yards of trenches and a few craters 
won. 

Stretchers and bearers from my section had 
not yet returned from the emergency dress 
ing station; the crater was now cleared up 
except of enemy dead, whose partly buried 
arms and legs still stuck out here and there. 
A company of the Third Foreign Legion had 
just come into the crater and had taken station at the loopholes under the parapet of 
sandbags. 

As soon as the telephone wires were 
stretched as far as our crater a message came 
for me to remain where I was until further 
orders. I had just received this message and 
was walking along, slowly, behind the rank of 
soldiers, who stood leaning against the parapet with their rifles thrust through the loops, 
when somebody said in English in East Side 
New York English I mean "Ah, there, Doc !" 

A soldier had turned toward me, both hands 
still grasping his resting rifle. In the "horizon 
blue" uniform and ugly, iron, shrapnel-proof 









helmet strapped to his bullet head I failed 
to recognize him. 

"It's me, Duck Werner," he said, as I 
stood hesitating. . . . You know who he is, political leader in the 50th Ward, here. I was as 
tounded. 

"What do you know about it?" he added. 
"Me in a tin derby potting Fritzies ! And 
there's Heinie, too, and Pick-em-up Joe the 
whole bunch sewed up in this here trench, oh 
my God!" 

I went over to him and stood leaning against 
the parapet beside him. 

"Duck," I said, amazed, "how did you come 
to enlist in the Foreign Legion?" 

"Aw," he replied with infinite disgust, "I got 
drunk." 

"Where?" 

"Me and Heinie and Joe was follerin the 
races down to Boolong when this here war 
come and put everything on the blink. Aw, 
hell, sez I, come on back to Parus an look 
em over before we skiddoo home rneanin 
the dames an all like that. Say, we done 
what I said; we come back to Parus, an we 









got in wrong! Listen, Doc; them dames had 
went crazy over this here war graft. Veeve 
France, sez they. An by God ! we veeved. 

"An one of em at Maxeems got me soused, 
and others they fixed up Heinie an Joe, an 
we was all wavin little American flags and 
yellin To hell with the Hun! Then there 
was a interval for which I can't account to 
nobody. 

"All I seem to remember is my marchin 
in the boolyvard along with a guy in baggy 
red pants, and my chewin the rag in a big, 
hot room full o soldiers; an Heinie an Joe 
they was shoutin , Wow! Lemme at em. 
Veeve la France! Wha'd ye know about me? 
Ain't I the mark from home?" 

"You didn't realize that you were enlisting?" 

"Aw, does it make any difference to these 
here guys what you reelize, or what you don t? 
I ask you, Doc?" 

He spat disgustedly upon the sand, rolled 
his quid into the other cheek, wiped his thin 
lips with the back of his right hand, then his 
fingers mechanically sought the trigger guard 









again and he cast a perfunctory squint up at 
the parapet. 

"Believe me," he said, "a guy can veeve him 
self into any kind of trouble if he yells loud 
enough. I'm getting mine." 

"Well, Duck," I said, "it's a good game " 

"Aw," he retorted angrily, "it ain't my graft 
an* you know it. What do I care who veeve's 
over here? An the 50th Ward goin to hell 
an all!" 

I strove to readjust my mind to understand 
what he had said. I was, you know, that year, 
the Citizen's Anti-Graft leader in the 50th 
Ward. ... I am, still, if I live; and if I 
ever can get anything into my head except the 
stupendous din of this war and the cataclysmic 
problems depending upon its outcome. . . . 
Well, it was odd to remember that petty political conflict as I stood there in the trenches 
under the gigantic shadow of world-wide disaster to find myself there, talking with this 
sallow, wiry, shifty ward leader this corrupt 
little local tyrant whom I had opposed in the 
50th Ward this ex-lightweight bruiser, ex- 
gunman this dirty little political procurer who 









had been and was everything brutal, stealthy, 
and corrupt. 

I looked at him curiously; turned and glanced 
along the line where, presently, I recognized 
his two familiars, Heinie Bauni and Pick-em- 
up Joe Brady with whom he had started off to 
"Parus" on a month's summer junket, and with 
whom he had stumbled so ludicrously into the 
riff-raff ranks of the 3rd Foreign Legion. 
Doubtless the 1st and 2nd Legions couldn't 
stand him and his two friends, although in one 
company there were many Americans serving. 

Thinking of these things, the thunder of the 
cannonade shaking sand from the parapet, I became conscious that the rat eyes of Duck Wer 
ner were furtively watching me. 

"You can do me dirt, now, can't you, Doc?" 
he said with a leer. 

"How do you mean?" 

"Aw, as if I had to tell you. I got some sense 
left." 

Suddenly his sallow visage under the iron 
helmet became distorted with helpless fury; he 
fairly snarled ; his thin lips writhed as he spat 
out the suspicion which had seized him: 









"By God, Doc, if you do that! if you leave 
me here caged up an go home an raise hell 
in the 50th with me an Joe here 

After a breathless pause: "Well," said I, 
"what will you do about it?" for he was look 
ing murder at me. 

Neither of us spoke again for a few mo 
ments; an officer, smoking a cigarette, came up 
between Heinie and Pick-em-up Joe, adjusted 
a periscope and set his eye to it. Through 
the sky above us the shells raced as though 
hundreds of shaky express trains were rushing overhead on rickety aerial tracks, deafening the world with their outrageous clatter. 

"Listen, Doc " 

I looked up into his altered face a sallow, 
earnest face, fiercely intent. Every atom of 
the man's intelligence was alert, concentrated 
on me, on my expression, on my slightest 
movement. 

"Doc," he said, "let's talk business. We're men, we are, you an me. I've fought you 
plenty times. I know. An I guess you are 
on to me, too. I ain't no squealer; you know 
that anyway. Perhaps I'm everything else 









you claim I am when you make parlor speeches 
to Gussie an Reggie an when you stand on 
a bar l in Avenoo A an say: my friends to 
Billy an Izzy an Pete the Wop. 

"All right. Go to it! I'm it. I got mine. 
That's what I'm there for. But when I get 
mine, the guys that back me get theirs, too. 
My God, Doc, let's talk business! What's a 
little graft between friends?" 

"Duck," I said, "you own the 50th Ward. 
You are no fool. Why is it not possible for 
you to understand that some men don't graft?" 

"Aw, can it!" he retorted fiercely. "What 
else is there to chase except graft? What 
else is there, I ask you? Graft! Ain't there 
graft into everything God ever made? An 
don't the smart guy get it an take his an
divide the rest same as you an me?" 

"You can't comprehend that I don't graft, 
can you, Duck?" 

"What do you call it what you get, then? 
The wages of Beeform? And what do you 
hand out to your lootenants an your friends ?" 

"Service." 









"Hey? Well, all right. But what's in it for 
you? Where do you get yours, Doc?" 

"There's nothing in it for me except to give 
honest service to the people who trust me." 

"Listen," he persisted with a sort of fero 
cious patience; "you ain't on no bar l now; an 
you ain't calling no Ginneys and no Kikes 
your friends. You're just talkin to me like 
there wasn't nobody else onto this damn 
planet excep us two guys. Get that?" 

"I do." 

"And I'm tellin you that I get mine same 
as any one who ain't a loonatic. Get that?" 

"Certainly." 

"All right. Now I know you ain't no nut. 
Which means that you get yours, whatever 
you call it. And now will you talk business?" 

"What business do you want to talk, Duck?" 
I added; "I should say that you already have 
your hands rather full of business and Lebel 
rifles " 

"Aw Gawd; this? This ain't business. I was 
a damn fool and I'm doin time like any souse 
what the bulls pinch. Only I get more than 
thirty days, I do. That's what's killing me, 









Doc! Duck Werner in a tin lid, suckin soup 
an shootin Fritzies when I oughter be in 
Noo York with me fren's lookin after business. Can you beat it?" he ended fiercely. 

He chewed hard on his quid for a few moments, staring blankly into space with the de 
tached ferocity of a caged tiger. 

"What are they a-doin over there in the 
50th?" he demanded. "How do I know whose 
knifin me with the boys? I don't mean your 
party. You're here same as I am. I mean 
Mike the Kike, and the regular Reepublican 
nomination, I do. . . . And, how do I know 
when you are going back?" 

I was silent. 

"Are you?" 

"Perhaps." 

"Doc, will you talk business, man to man?" 

"Duck, to tell you the truth, the hell that is 
in full blast over here this gigantic, world 
wide battle of nations leaves me, for the 
time, uninterested in ward politics." 

"Stop your kiddin ." 

"Can't you comprehend it?" 

"Aw, what do you care about what Kink wins? 







If we was Kinks, you an me, all right. But 
we ain't Doc. We're little fellows. Our graft 
ain't big like the Dutch Emperor s, but maybe 
it comes just as regular on pay day. Ich ka 
bibble." 

"Duck," I said, "you explain your presence 
here by telling me that you enlisted while 
drunk. How do you explain my being here?" 

"You're a Doc. I guess there must be big 
money into it," he returned with a wink. 

"I draw no pay." 

"I believe you," he remarked, leering. "Say, 
don't you do that to me, Doc. I may be un- 
fortunit; I'm a poor damn fool an I know it. 
But don't tell me you're here for your health." 

"I won't repeat it, Duck," I said, smiling. 

"Much obliged. Now for God's sake let's 
talk business. You think you've got me cinched. 
You think you can go home an raise hell in the 
50th while I'm doin time into these here 
trenches. You sez to yourself, there ain't 
nothin to it! An then you tickles yourself 
under the ribs, Doc. You better make a deal 
with me, do you hear? Gimme mine, and you 
can have yours, too; and between us, if we 





work together, we can hand one to Mike the 
Kike that'll start every ambulance in the city 
after him. Get me?" 

"There's no use discussing such things 

"All right. I won't ask you to make it 
fifty-fifty. Gimme half what I oughter have. 
You can fix it with Curley Tim Brady 

"Duck, this is no time 

"Hell! It's all the time I've got! What 
do you expec out here, a caffy dansong? I 
don't see no corner gin-mills around neither. 
Listen, Doc, quit up-stagin ! You an me kick 
the block off n this here Kike-Wop if we get 
together. All I ask of you is to talk business 

I moved aside, and backward a little way, 
disgusted with the ratty soul of the man, and 
stood looking at the soldiers who w r ere digging out bombproof burrows all along the 
trench and shoring up the holes with heavy, 
green planks. 

Everybody was methodically busy in one way 
or another behind the long rank of Legion 
aries who stood at the loops, the butts of the 
Lebel rifles against their shoulders. 









Some sawed planks to shore up dugouts; 
some were constructing short ladders out of 
the trunks of slender green saplings; some 
filled sacks with earth to fill the gaps on the 
parapet above; others sharpened pegs and 
drove them into the dirt facade of the trench, 
one above the other, as footholds for the men 
when a charge was ordered. 

Behind me, above my head, wild flowers and 
long wild grasses drooped over the raw edge 
of the parados, and a few stalks of ripening 
wheat trailed there or stood out against the 
sky an opaque, uncertain sky which had been 
so calmly blue, but which was now sickening 
with that whitish pallor which presages a 
storm. 

Once or twice there came the smashing tinkle 
of glass as a periscope was struck and a vexed 
officer, still holding it, passed it to a rifleman 
to be laid aside. 

Only one man was hit. He had been fit 
ting a shutter to the tiny embrasure between 
sandbags where a machine gun was to be 
mounted; and the bullet came through and 









entered liis head in the center of the triangle 
between nose and eyebrows. 

A little later when I was returning from 
that job, walking slowly along the trench, 
Pick-em-up Joe hailed me cheerfully, and I 
glanced up to where he and Heinie stood 
with their rifles thrust between the sandbags 
and their grimy fists clutching barrel and 
butt. 

"Hello, Heinie!" I said pleasantly. "How 
are you, Joe?" 

"Commong c.a va?" inquired Heinie, evidently mortified at his situation and condi 
tion, but putting on the careless front of a 
gunman in a strange ward. 

Pick-em-up Joe added jauntily: "Well, Doc, 
what's the good word?" 

"France," I replied, smiling; "Do you know 
a better word?" 

"Yes," he said, "Noo York. Say, what's 
your little graft over here, Doc?" 

"You and I reverse roles, Pick-em-up; you 
stop bullets; pick em up after you're 
through with em." 

"The hell you say!" he retorted, grinning. 









"Well, grab it from me, if it wasn't for the 
Jack Johnsons and the gas, a gun fight in 
the old 50th would make this war look like 
Luna Park! It listens like it, too, only this 
here show is all fi-nally, with Bingle's Band 
playin circus tunes an the supes hollerin like 
they seen real money." 

He was a merry ruffian, and he controlled 
the "coke" graft in the 50th while Heinie was 
perpetual bondsman for local Magdalenes. 

"Well, ain't we in Dutch us three guys!" 
he remarked with forced carelessness. "We 
sure done it that time." 

"Did you do business with Duck?" inquired 
Pick-em-up, curiously. 

"Not so he noticed it. Joe, can't you and 
Heinie rise to your opportunities? This is 
the first time in your lives you've ever been 
decent, ever done a respectable thing. Can't 
you start in and live straight think straight? 
You're wearing the uniform of God's own 
soldiers; you're standing shoulder to shoulder 
with men who are fighting God's own battle. The fate of every woman, every child, 
every unborn baby in Europe and in Amer- 




ica, too depends on your bravery. If you 
don't win out, it will be our turn next If 
you don't stop the Huns if you don't come 
back at them and wipe them out, the world 
will not be worth inhabiting." 

I stepped nearer: "Heinie," I said, "you 
know what your trade has been, and what it is 
called. Here's your chance to clean yourself. 
Joe you've dealt out misery, insanity, death, 
to women and children. You're called the 
Coke King of the East Side. Joe, we'll get 
you sooner or later. Don't take the trouble 
to doubt it. Why not order a new pack and 
a fresh deal? Why not resolve to live straight 
from this moment here where you have taken 
your place in the ranks among real men here 
where this army stands for liberty, for the 
right to live! You've got your chance to 
become a real man; so has Heinie. And 
when you come back, we'll stand by you 

"An gimme a job choppin tickets in the 
subway !" snarled Heinie. "Expect me to squeal 
like that? Eeeform, hey? Show me a livin in 
it an I carry a banner. But there ain't 









nothing into it. How's a guy to live if there 
ain't no graft into nothin ?" 

Joe touched his gas-mask with a sneer: 
"He's pushin the yellow stuff at us, Heinie," 
he said; and to me: "You get yours all right. 
I don't know what it is, but you get it, same 
as me an Heinie an* Duck. I don't know 
what it is," he repeated impatiently; "maybe 
it's dough; maybe it's them suffragettes with 
their silk feet an white gloves what clap 
their hands at you. I ain't saying nothin 
to you, am I? Then lemme alone an go an 
talk business with Duck over there : 

Officers passed rapidly between the speaker 
and me and continued east and west along 
the ranks of riflemen, repeating in calm, steady 
voices : 

"Fix bayonets, mes en f ants; make as little 
noise as possible. Everybody ready in ten 
minutes. Ladders will be distributed. Take 
them with you. The bomb-throwers will leave 
the trench first. Put on goggles and respirators. Fix bayonets and set one foot on the 
pegs and ladders ... all ready in seven min 
utes. Three mines will be exploded. Take 









and hold the craters. . . . Five minutes! . . . 
When the mines explode that is your signal. 
Bombers lead. Give them a leg up and follow. . . . Three minutes. . . ." 

From a communication trench a long file of 
masked bomb-throwers appeared, loaded sacks 
slung under their left arms, bombs clutched 
in their right hands; and took stations at 
every ladder and row of freshly driven pegs. 

"One minute!" repeated the officers, selecting their own ladders and drawing their long 
knives and automatics. 

As I finished adjusting my respirator and 
goggles a muffled voice at my elbow began: 
"Be a sport, Doc! Gimme a chanst! Make 
it fifty-fifty " 

"Allez!" shouted an officer through his respirator. 

Against the sky all along the parapet's edge 
hundreds of bayonets wavered for a second; 
then dark figures leaped up, scrambled, 
crawled forward, rose, ran out into the Bunless, pallid light. 

Like surf bursting along a coast a curtain 
of exploding shells stretched straight across the 









debris of what had been a meadow a long 
line of livid obscurity split with flame and 
storms of driving sand and gravel. Shrapnel 
leisurely unfolded its cottony coils overhead 
and the iron helmets rang under the hail. 

Men fell forward, backward, sideways, remaining motionless, or rolling about, or rising 
