"She'll find it a great blessing," Mrs. Forsyth said. "I wish we had
ours listed. I suppose you remember it all very vividly. It must have
been a great occasion for you seeing the things stored at that age."

The young man beamed upon her. "Not so great as now, I'm afraid. The
fact is, I don't remember anything about it. But I've been told that I
embarrassed with my personal riches a little girl who was looking over
her doll's things."

"Oh, indeed!" Mrs. Forsyth said, stiffly, and she turned rather
snubbingly from him and said, coldly, to Charlotte: "I think they are
in that green trunk. Have you the key?" and, stooping as her daughter
stooped, she whispered, "Really!" in condemnation and contempt.

Charlotte showed no signs of sharing either, and Mrs. Forsyth could
not very well manage them alone. So when Charlotte said, "No, I
haven't the key, mother," and the young man burst in with, "Oh, do let
me try my master-key; it will unlock anything that isn't a Yale," Mrs.
Forsyth sank back enthroned and the trunk was thrown open.

She then forgot what she had wanted it opened for. Charlotte said,
"They're not here, mother," and her mother said, "No, I didn't suppose
they were," and began to ask the young man about his mother. It
appeared that his father had died twelve years before, and since then
his mother and he had been nearly everywhere except at home, though
mostly in England; now they had come home to see where they should go
next or whether they should stay.

"That would never suit my daughter," Mrs. Forsyth lugged in, partly
because the talk had gone on away from her family as long as she could
endure, and partly because Charlotte's indecision always amused her.
"She can't bear to choose."

"Really?" the young man said. "I don't know whether I like it or not,
but I have had to do a lot of it. You mustn't think, though, that I
chose this magnificent furniture. My father bought an Italian palace
once, and as we couldn't live in it or move it we brought the
furniture here."

"It is magnificent," Mrs. Forsyth said, looking down the long
stretches of it and eying and fingering her specific throne. "I wish
my husband could see it--I don't believe he remembers it from fourteen
years ago. It looks--excuse me!--very studio."

"Is he a painter? Not Mr. Forsyth the painter?"

"Yes," Mrs. Forsyth eagerly admitted, but wondering how he should know
her name, without reflecting that a score of trunk-tags proclaimed it
and that she had acquired his by like means.

"I like his things so much," he said. "I thought his three portraits
were the best things in the Salon last year."

"Oh, you saw them?" Mrs. Forsyth laughed with pleasure and pride.
"Then," as if it necessarily followed, "you must come to us some
Sunday afternoon. You'll find a number of his new portraits and some
of the subjects; they like to see themselves framed." She tried for a
card in her hand-bag, but she had none, and she said, "Have you one
of my cards, my dear?" Charlotte had, and rendered it up with a
severity lost upon her for the moment. She held it toward him. "It's
Mr. Peter Bream?" she smiled upon him, and he beamed back.

"Did you remember it from our first meeting?"

In their cab Mrs. Forsyth said, "I don't know whether he's what you
call rather fresh or not, Charlotte, and I'm not sure that I've been
very wise. But he is so nice, and he looked so glad to be asked."

Charlotte did not reply at once, and her silent severity came to the
surface of her mother's consciousness so painfully that it was rather
a relief to have her explode, "Mother, I will thank you not to discuss
my temperament with people."

She gave Mrs. Forsyth her chance, and her mother was so happy in being
able to say, "I won't--your temper, my dear," that she could add
with sincere apology: "I'm sorry I vexed you, and I won't do it
again."


                                  IV

The next day was Sunday; Peter Bream took it for some Sunday, and came
to the tea on Mrs. Forsyth's generalized invitation. She pulled her
mouth down and her eyebrows up when his card was brought in, but as
he followed hard she made a lightning change to a smile and gave him a
hand of cordial welcome. Charlotte had no choice but to welcome him,
too, and so the matter was simple for her. She was pouring, as usual,
for her mother, who liked to eliminate herself from set duties and
walk round among the actual portraits in fact and in frame and talk
about them to the potential portraits. Peter, qualified by long
sojourn in England, at once pressed himself into the service of
handing about the curate's assistant; Mrs. Forsyth electrically
explained that it was one of the first brought to New York, and that
she had got it at the Stores in London fifteen years before, and it
had often been in the old ancestral room, and was there on top of the
trunks that first day. She did not recur to the famous instance of
Charlotte's infant indecision, and Peter was safe from a snub when he
sat down by the girl's side and began to make her laugh. At the end,
when her mother asked Charlotte what they had been laughing about, she
could not tell; she said she did not know they were laughing.

The next morning Mrs. Forsyth was paying for her Sunday tea with a
Monday headache, and more things must be got out for the country.
Charlotte had again no choice but to go alone to the storage, and yet
again no choice but to be pleasant to Peter when she found him next
door listing the contents of his mother's trunks and tagging them as
before. He dropped his work and wanted to help her. Suddenly they
seemed strangely well acquainted, and he pretended to be asked which
pieces she should put aside as goods selected, and chose them for her.
She hinted that he was shirking his own work; he said it was an
all-summer's job, but he knew her mother was in a hurry. He found the
little old trunk of her playthings, and got it down and opened it and
took out some toys as goods selected. She made him put them back, but
first he catalogued everything in it and synopsized the list on a tag
and tagged the trunk. He begged for a broken doll which he had not
listed, and Charlotte had so much of her original childish difficulty
in parting with that instead of something else that she refused it.

It came lunch-time, and he invited her to go out to lunch with him;
and when she declined with dignity he argued that if they went to the
Woman's Exchange she would be properly chaperoned by the genius of the
place; besides, it was the only place in town where you got real
strawberry shortcake. She was ashamed of liking it all; he besought
her to let him carry her hand-bag for her, and, as he already had it,
she could not prevent him; she did not know, really, how far she
might successfully forbid him in anything. At the street door of the
apartment-house they found her mother getting out of a cab, and she
asked Peter in to lunch; so that Charlotte might as well have lunched
with him at the Woman's Exchange.

At all storage warehouses there is a season in autumn when the
corridors are heaped with the incoming furniture of people who have
decided that they cannot pass another winter in New York and are
breaking up housekeeping to go abroad indefinitely. But in the spring,
when the Constitutional Safe-Deposit offered ample space for
thoughtful research, the meetings of Charlotte and Peter could recur
without more consciousness of the advance they were making toward the
fated issue than in so many encounters at tea or luncheon or dinner.
Mrs. Forsyth was insisting on rather a drastic overhauling of her
storage that year. Some of the things, by her command, were shifted to
and fro between the more modern rooms and the old ancestral room, and
Charlotte had to verify the removals. In deciding upon goods selected
for the country she had the help of Peter, and she helped him by
interposing some useful hesitations in the case of things he had put
aside from his mother's possessions to be sold for her by the
warehouse people.

One day he came late and told Charlotte that his mother had suddenly
taken her passage for England, and they were sailing the next morning.
He said, as if it logically followed, that he had been in love with
her from that earliest time when she would not give him the least of
her possessions, and now he asked her if she would not promise him the
greatest. She did not like what she felt "rehearsed" in his proposal;
it was not her idea of a proposal, which ought to be spontaneous and
unpremeditated in terms; at the same time, she resented his
precipitation, which she could not deny was inevitable.

She perceived that they were sitting side by side on two of those
white-and-gold thrones, and she summoned an indignation with the
absurdity in refusing him. She rose and said that she must go; that
she must be going; that it was quite time for her to go; and she would
not let him follow her to the elevator, as he made some offer of
doing, but left him standing among his palatial furniture like a
prince in exile.

By the time she reached home she had been able to decide that she must
tell her mother at once. Her mother received the fact of Peter's
proposal with such transport that she did not realize the fact of
Charlotte's refusal. When this was connoted to her she could scarcely
keep her temper within the bounds of maternal tenderness. She said
she would have nothing more to do with such a girl; that there was but
one such pearl as Peter in the universe, and for Charlotte to throw
him away like that! Was it because she could not decide? Well, it
appeared that she could decide wrong quickly enough when it came to
the point. Would she leave it now to her mother?

That Charlotte would not do, but what she did do was to write a letter
to Peter taking him back as much as rested with her; but delaying so
long in posting it, when it was written, that it reached him among the
letters sent on board and supplementarily delivered by his room
steward after all the others when the ship had sailed. The best Peter
could do in response was a jubilant Marconigram of unequaled cost and
comprehensiveness.

His mother had meant to return in the fall, after her custom, to find
out whether she wished to spend the winter in New York or not. Before
the date for her sailing she fell sick, and Peter came sadly home
alone in the spring. Mrs. Bream's death brought Mrs. Forsyth a vain
regret; she was sorry now that she had seen so little of Mrs. Bream;
Peter's affection for her was beautiful and spoke worlds for both of
them; and they, the Forsyths, must do what they could to comfort him.

Charlotte felt the pathos of his case peculiarly when she went to make
provision for goods selected for the summer from the old ancestral
room, and found him forlorn among his white-and-gold furniture next
door. He complained that he had no association with it except the
touching fact of his mother's helplessness with it, which he had now
inherited. The contents of the trunks were even less intimately of his
experience; he had performed a filial duty in listing their contents,
which long antedated him, and consisted mostly of palatial bric-à-brac
and the varied spoils of travel.

He cheered up, however, in proposing to her that they should buy a
Castle in Spain and put them into it. The fancy pleased her, but
visibly she shrank from a step which it involved, so that he was, as
it were, forced to say, half jokingly, half ruefully, "I can imagine
your not caring for this rubbish or what became of it, Charlotte, but
what about the owner?"

"The owner?" she asked, as it were somnambulantly.

"Yes. Marrying him, say, sometime soon."

"Oh, Peter, I couldn't."

"Couldn't? You know that's not playing the game exactly."

"Yes; but not--not right away?"

"Well, I don't know much about it in my own case, but isn't it usual
to fix some approximate date? When should you think?"

"Oh, Peter, I can't think."

"Will you let me fix it? I must go West and sell out and pull up, you
know, preparatory to never going again. We can fix the day now or we
can fix it when I come back."

"Oh, when you come back," she entreated so eagerly that Peter said:

"Charlotte, let me ask you one thing. Were you ever sorry you wrote me
that taking-back letter?"

"Why, Peter, you know how I am. When I have decided something I have
undecided it. That's all."

From gay he turned to grave. "I ought to have thought. I haven't been
fair; I haven't played the game. I ought to have given you another
chance; and I haven't, have I?"

"Why, I suppose a girl can always change," Charlotte said,
suggestively.

"Yes, but you won't always be a girl. I've never asked you if you
wanted to change. I ask you now. Do you?"

"How can I tell? Hadn't we better let it go as it is? Only not hurry
about--about--marrying?"

"Certainly not hurry about marrying. I've wondered that a girl could
make up her mind to marry any given man. Haven't you ever wished that
you had not made up your mind about me?"

"Hundreds of times. But I don't know that I meant anything by it."

He took her hand from where it lay in her lap as again she sat on one
of the white-and-gold thrones beside him and gently pressed it. "Well,
then, let's play we have never been engaged. I'm going West to-night
to settle things up for good, and I won't be back for three or four
months, and when I come back we'll start new. I'll ask you, and you
shall say yes or no just as if you had never said either before."

"Peter, when you talk like that!" She saw his brown, round face dimly
through her wet eyes, and she wanted to hug him for pity of him and
pride in him, but she could not decide to do it. They went out to
lunch at the Woman's Exchange, and the only regret Peter had was that
it was so long past the season of strawberry shortcake, and that
Charlotte seemed neither to talk nor to listen; she ought to have done
one or the other.

They had left the Vaneckens busy with their summer trunks at the far
end of the northward corridor, where their wireless station had been
re-established for Charlotte's advantage, though she had not thought
of it the whole short morning long. When she came back from lunch the
Vaneckens were just brushing away the crumbs of theirs, which the son
and brother seemed to have brought in for them in a paper box; at any
rate, he was now there, making believe to help them.

Mrs. Forsyth had promised to come, but she came so late in the
afternoon that she owned she had been grudgingly admitted at the
office, and she was rather indignant about it. By this time, without
having been West for three months, Peter had asked a question which
had apparently never been asked before, and Charlotte had as newly
answered it. "And now, mother," she said, while Mrs. Forsyth passed
from indignant to exultant, "I want to be married right away, before
Peter changes his mind about taking me West with him. Let us go home
at once. You always said I should have a home wedding."

"What a ridiculous idea!" Mrs. Forsyth said, more to gain time than
anything else. She added, "Everything is at sixes and sevens in the
flat. There wouldn't be standing-room." A sudden thought flashed upon
her, which, because it was sudden and in keeping with her character,
she put into tentative words. "You're more at home here than
anywhere else. You were almost born here. You've played about here
ever since you were a child. You first met Peter here. He proposed to
you here, and you rejected him here. He's proposed here again, and
you've accepted him, you say--"

"Mother!" Charlotte broke in terribly upon her. "Are you suggesting
that I should be married in a storage warehouse? Well, I haven't
fallen quite so low as that yet. If I can't have a home wedding, I
will have a church wedding, and I will wait till doomsday for it if
necessary."

"I don't know about doomsday," Mrs. Forsyth said, "but as far as
to-day is concerned, it's too late for a church wedding. Peter, isn't
there something about canonical hours? And isn't it past them?"

"That's in the Episcopal Church," Peter said, and then he asked, very
politely, "Will you excuse me for a moment?" and walked away as if he
had an idea. It was apparently to join the Vaneckens, who stood in a
group at the end of their corridor, watching the restoration of the
trunks which they had been working over the whole day. He came back
with Mr. Vanecken and Mr. Vanecken's mother. He was smiling radiantly,
and they amusedly.

"It's all right," he explained. "Mr. Vanecken is a Presbyterian
minister, and he will marry us now."

"But not here!" Charlotte cried, feeling herself weaken.

"No, certainly not," the dominie reassured her. "I know a church in
the next block that I can borrow for the occasion. But what about the
license?"

It was in the day before the parties must both make application in
person, and Peter took a paper from his breast pocket. "I thought it
might be needed, sometime, and I got it on the way up, this morning."

"Oh, how thoughtful of you, Peter!" Mrs. Forsyth moaned in admiration
otherwise inexpressible, and the rest laughed, even Charlotte, who
laughed hysterically. At the end of the corridor they met the Misses
Vanecken waiting for them, unobtrusively expectant, and they all went
down in the elevator together. Just as they were leaving the building,
which had the air of hurrying them out, Mrs. Forsyth had an
inspiration. "Good heavens!" she exclaimed, and then, in deference to
Mr. Vanecken, said, "Good gracious, I mean. My husband! Peter, go
right into the office and telephone Mr. Forsyth."

"Perhaps," Mr. Vanecken said, "I had better go and see about having my
friend's church opened, in the meanwhile, and--"

"By all means!" Mrs. Forsyth said from her mood of universal
approbation.

But Mr. Vanecken came back looking rather queer and crestfallen. "I
find my friend has gone into the country for a few days; and I don't
quite like to get the sexton to open the church without his authority,
and-- But New York is full of churches, and we can easily find another,
with a little delay, if--"

He looked at Peter, who looked at Charlotte, who burst out with
unprecedented determination. "No, we can't wait. I shall never marry
Peter if we do. Mother, you are right. But must it be in the old
ancestral five-dollar room?"

They all laughed except Charlotte, who was more like crying.

"Certainly not," Mr. Vanecken said. "I've no doubt the manager--"

He never seemed to end his sentences, and he now left this one broken
off while he penetrated the railing which fenced in the manager alone
among a group of vacated desks, frowning impatient. At some murmured
words from the dominie, he shouted, "What!" and then came out
radiantly smiling, and saying, "Why, certainly." He knew all the group
as old storers in the Constitutional, and called them each by name as
he shook them each by the hand. "Everything else has happened here,
and I don't see why this shouldn't. Come right into the
reception-room."

With some paintings of biblical subjects, unclaimed from the storage,
on the walls, the place had a religious effect, and the manager
significantly looked out of it a lingering stenographer, who was
standing before a glass with two hatpins crossed in her mouth
preparatory to thrusting them through the straw. She withdrew, visibly
curious and reluctant, and then the manager offered to withdraw
himself.

"No," Charlotte said, surprisingly initiative in these junctures, "I
don't know how it is in Mr. Vanecken's church, but, if father doesn't
come, perhaps you'll have to give me away. At any rate, you're an old
friend of the family, and I should be hurt if you didn't stay."

She laid her hand on the manager's arm, and just as he had
protestingly and politely consented, her father arrived in a taxicab,
rather grumbling from having been obliged to cut short a sitting. When
it was all over, and the Vaneckens were eliminated, when, in fact, the
Breams had joined the Forsyths at a wedding dinner which the bride's
father had given them at Delmonico's and had precipitated themselves
into a train for Niagara ("So banal," Mrs. Forsyth said, "but I
suppose they had to go somewhere, and we went to Niagara, come to
think of it, and it's on their way West"), the bride's mother remained
up late talking it all over. She took credit to herself for the whole
affair, and gave herself a great deal of just praise. But when she
said, "I do believe, if it hadn't been for me, at the last, Charlotte
would never have made up her mind," Forsyth demurred.

"I should say Peter had a good deal to do with making up her mind for
her."

"Yes, you might say that."

"And for once in her life Charlotte seems to have had her mind ready
for making up."

"Yes, you might say that, too. I believe she is going to turn out a
decided character, after all. I never saw anybody so determined not
to be married in a storage warehouse."




                                  II

                            A PRESENTIMENT


Over our coffee in the Turkish room Minver was usually a censor of our
several foibles rather than a sharer in our philosophic speculations
and metaphysical conjectures. He liked to disable me as one
professionally vowed to the fabulous, and he had unfailing fun with
the romantic sentimentality of Rulledge, which was in fact so little
in keeping with the gross super-abundance of his person, his habitual
gluttony, and his ridiculous indolence. Minver knew very well that
Rulledge was a good fellow withal, and would willingly do any kind
action that did not seriously interfere with his comfort, or make too
heavy a draft upon his pocket. His self-indulgence, which was quite
blameless, unless surfeit is a fault, was the basis of an interest in
occult themes, which was the means of even higher diversion to Minver.
He liked to have Rulledge approach Wanhope from this side, in the
invincible persuasion that the psychologist would be interested in
these themes by the law of his science, though he had been assured
again and again that in spite of its misleading name psychology did
not deal with the soul as Rulledge supposed the soul; and Minver's
eyes lighted up with a prescience of uncommon pleasure when, late one
night, after we had vainly tried to hit it off in talk, now of this,
now of that, Rulledge asked Wanhope, abruptly as if it followed from
something before:

"Wasn't there a great deal more said about presentiments forty or
fifty years ago than there is now?"

Wanhope had been lapsing deeper and deeper into the hollow of his
chair; but he now pulled himself up, and turned quickly toward
Rulledge. "What made you think of that?" he asked.

"I don't know. Why?"

"Because I was thinking of it myself." He glanced at me, and I shook
my head.

"Well," Minver said, "if it will leave Acton out in the cold, I'll own
that I was thinking of it, too. I was going back in my mind, for no
reason that I know of, to my childhood, when I first heard of such a
thing as a presentiment, and when I was afraid of having one. I had
the notion that presentiments ran in the family."

"Why had you that notion?" Rulledge demanded.

"I don't know that I proposed telling," the painter said, giving
himself to his pipe.

"Perhaps you didn't have it," Rulledge retaliated.

"Perhaps," Minver assented.

Wanhope turned from the personal aspect of the matter. "It's rather
curious that we should all three have had the same thing in mind just
now; or, rather, it is not very curious. Such coincidences are really
very common. Something must have been said at dinner which suggested
it to all of us."

"All but Acton," Minver demurred.

"I mightn't have heard what was said," I explained. "I suppose the
passing of all that sort of sub-beliefs must date from the general
lapse of faith in personal immortality."

"Yes, no doubt," Wanhope assented. "It is very striking how sudden the
lapse was. Everyone who experienced it in himself could date it to a
year, if not to a day. The agnosticism of scientific men was of course
all the time undermining the fabric of faith, and then it fell in
abruptly, reaching one believer after another as fast as the ground
was taken wholly or partly from under his feet. I can remember how
people once disputed whether there were such beings as guardian
spirits or not. That minor question was disposed of when it was
decided that there were no spirits at all."

"Naturally," Minver said. "And the decay of the presentiment must have
been hastened by the failure of so many presentiments to make good."

"The great majority of them have failed to make good, from the
beginning of time," Wanhope replied.

"There are two kinds of presentiments," Rulledge suggested, with a
philosophic air. "The true and the untrue."

"Like mushrooms," Minver said. "Only, the true presentiment kills, and
the true mushroom nourishes. Talking of mushrooms, they have a way in
Switzerland of preserving them in walnut oil, and they fill you with
the darkest forebodings, after you've filled yourself with the
mushrooms. There's some occult relation between the two. Think it out,
Rulledge!"

Rulledge ignored him in turning to Wanhope. "The trouble is how to
distinguish the true from the untrue presentiment."

"It would be interesting," Wanhope began, but Minver broke in upon him
maliciously.

"To know how much the dyspepsia of our predecessors had to with the
prevalence of presentimentalism? I agree with you, that a better diet
has a good deal to do with the decline of the dark foreboding among
us. What I can't understand is, how a gross and reckless feeder, like
Rulledge here, doesn't go about like ancestral voices prophesying all
sorts of dreadful things."

"That's rather cheap talk, even for you, Minver," Rulledge said. "Why
did you think presentiments ran in your family?"

"Well, there you have me, Rulledge. That's where my theory fails. I
can remember," Minver continued soberly, "the talk there used to be
about them among my people. They were serious people in an unreligious
way, or rather an unecclesiastical way. They were never spiritualists,
but I don't think there was one of them who doubted that he should
live hereafter; he might doubt that he was living here, but there was
no question of the other thing. I must say it gave a dignity to their
conversation which, when they met, as they were apt to do at one
another's houses on Sunday nights, was not of common things. One of my
uncles was a merchant, another a doctor; my father was a
portrait-painter by profession, and a sign-painter by practice. I
suppose that's where I got my knack, such as it is. The merchant was
an invalid, rather, though he kept about his business, and our people
merely recognized him as being out of health. He was what we could
call, for that day and region--the Middle West of the early fifties--a
man of unusual refinement. I suppose this was temperamental with him
largely; but he had cultivated tastes, too. I remember him as a
peculiarly gentle person, with a pensive cast of face, and the
melancholy accomplishment of playing the flute."

"I wonder why nobody plays the flute nowadays," I mused aloud.

"Yes, it's quite obsolete," Minver said. "They only play the flute in
the orchestras now. I always look at the man who plays it and think of
my uncle. He used to be very nice to me as a child; and he was very
fond of my father, in a sort of filial way; my father was so much
older. I can remember my young aunt; and how pretty she was as she sat
at the piano, and sang and played to his fluting. When she looked
forward at the music, her curls fell into her neck; they wore curls
then, grown-up women; and though I don't think curls are beautiful, my
aunt's beauty would have been less without them; in fact, I can't
think of her without them.

"She was delicate, too; they were really a pair of invalids; but she
had none of his melancholy. They had had several children, who died,
one after another, and there was only one left at the time I am
speaking of. I rather wonder, now, that the thought of those poor
little ghost-cousins didn't make me uncomfortable. I was a very
superstitious boy, but I seem not to have thought of them. I played
with the little girl who was left, and I liked going to my uncle's
better than anywhere else. I preferred going in the daytime and in the
summer-time. Then my cousin and I sat in a nook of the garden and
fought violets, as we called it; hooked the wry necks of the flowers
together and twitched to see which blossom would come off first. She
was a sunny little thing, like her mother, and she had curls, like
her. I can't express the feeling I had for my aunt; she seemed the
embodiment of a world that was at once very proud and very good. I
suppose she dressed fashionably, as things went then and there; and
her style as well as her beauty fascinated me. I would have done
anything to please her, far more than to please my cousin. With her I
used to squabble, and sometimes sent her crying to her mother. Then I
always ran off home, but when I sneaked back, or was sent for to come
and play with my cousin, I was not scolded for my wickedness.

"My uncle was more prosperous than his brothers; he lived in a much
better house than ours, and I used to be quite awe-struck by its
magnificence. He went East, as we said, twice a year to buy goods,
and he had things sent back for his house such as we never saw
elsewhere; those cask-shaped seats of blue china for the verandas, and
bamboo chairs. There were cane-bottom chairs in the sitting-room, such
as we had in our best room; in the parlor the large pieces were of
mahogany veneer, upholstered in black hair-cloth; they held me in awe.
The piano filled half the place; the windows came down to the ground,
and had Venetian blinds and lace curtains.

"We all went in there after the Sunday night supper, and then the
fathers and mothers were apt to begin talking of those occult things
that gave me the creeps. It was after the Rochester Knockings, as they
were called, had been exposed, and so had spread like an infection
everywhere. It was as if people were waiting to have the fraud shown
up in order to believe in it."

"That sort of thing happens," Wanhope agreed. "It's as if the seeds of
the ventilated imposture were carried atmospherically into the human
mind broadcast and a universal crop of self-delusion sprang up."

"At any rate," Minver resumed, "instead of the gift being confined to
a few persons--a small sisterhood with detonating knee-joints--there
were rappings in every well-regulated household; all the tables
tipped; people went to sleep to the soft patter of raps on the
headboards of their beds; and girls who could not spell were occupied
in delivering messages from Socrates, Ben Franklin and Shakespeare.
Besides the physical demonstrations, there were all sorts of psychical
intimations from the world which we've now abolished."

"Not permanently, perhaps," I suggested.

"Well, that remains to be seen," Minver said. "It was this sort of
thing which my people valued above the other. Perhaps they were
exclusive in their tastes, and did not care for an occultism which the
crowd could share with them; though this is a conjecture too long
after the fact to have much value. As far as I can now remember, they
used to talk of the double presence of living persons, like their
being where they greatly wished to be as well as where they really
were; of clairvoyance; of what we call mind-transference, now; of
weird coincidences of all kinds; of strange experiences of their own
and of others; of the participation of animals in these experiences,
like the testimony of cats and dogs to the presence of invisible
spirits; of dreams that came true, or came near coming true; and,
above everything, of forebodings and presentiments.

"I dare say they didn't always talk of such things, and I'm giving
possibly a general impression from a single instance; everything
remembered of childhood is as if from large and repeated occurrence.
But it must have happened more than once, for I recall that when it
came to presentiments my aunt broke it up, perhaps once only. My
cousin used to get very sleepy on the rug before the fire, and her
mother would carry her off to bed, very cross and impatient of being
kissed good night, while I was left to the brunt of the occult alone.
I could not go with my aunt and cousin, and I folded myself in my
mother's skirt, where I sat at her feet, and listened in an anguish of
drowsy terror. The talk would pass into my dreams, and the dreams
would return into the talk; and I would suffer a sort of double
nightmare, waking and sleeping."

"Poor little devil!" Rulledge broke out. "It's astonishing how people
will go on before children, and never think of the misery they're
making for them."

"I believe my mother thought of it," Minver returned, "but when that
sort of talk began, the witchery of it was probably too strong for
her. 'It held her like a two years' child'; I was eight that winter. I
don't know how long my suffering had gone on, when my aunt came back
and seemed to break up the talk. It had got to presentiments, and,
whether they knew that this was forbidden ground with her, or whether
she now actually said something about it, they turned to talk of other
things. I'm not telling you all this from my own memory, which deals
with only a point or two. My father and mother used to recur to it
when I was older, and I am piecing out my story from their memories.

"My uncle, with all his temperamental pensiveness, was my aunt's stay
and cheer in the fits of depression which she paid with for her usual
gaiety. But these fits always began with some uncommon depression of
his--some effect of the forebodings he was subject to. Her opposition
to that kind of thing was purely unselfish, but certainly she dreaded
it for him as well as herself. I suppose there was a sort of conscious
silence in the others which betrayed them to her. 'Well,' she said,
laughing, 'have you been at it again? That poor child looks frightened
out of his wits.'

"They all laughed then, and my father said, hypocritically, 'I was
just going to ask Felix whether he expected to start East this week or
next.'

"My uncle tried to make light of what was always a heavy matter with
him. 'Well, yesterday,' he answered, 'I should have said next week;
but it's this week, now. I'm going on Wednesday.'

"'By stage or packet?' my father asked.

"'Oh, I shall take the canal to the lake, and get the boat for Buffalo
there,' my uncle said.

"They went on to speak of the trip to New York, and how much easier it
was then than it used to be when you had to go by stage over the
mountains to Philadelphia and on by stage again. Now, it seemed, you
got the Erie Canal packet at Buffalo and the Hudson River steamboat at
Albany, and reached New York in four or five days, in great comfort
without the least fatigue. They had all risen and my aunt had gone out
with her sisters-in-law to help them get their wraps. When they
returned, it seemed that they had been talking of the journey, too,
for she said to my mother, laughing again, 'Well, Richard may think
it's easy; but somehow Felix never expects to get home alive.'

"I don't think I ever heard my uncle laugh, but I can remember how he
smiled at my aunt's laughing, as he put his hand on her shoulder; I
thought it was somehow a very sad smile. On Wednesday I was allowed to
go with my aunt and cousin to see him off on the packet, which came up
from Cincinnati early in the morning; I had lain awake most of the
night, and then nearly overslept myself, and then was at the canal in
time. We made a gay parting for him, but when the boat started, and I
was gloating on the three horses making up the tow-path at a spanking
trot, under the snaky spirals of the driver's smacking whip-lash, I
caught sight of my uncle standing on the deck and smiling that sad
smile of his. My aunt was waving her handkerchief, but when she turned
away she put it to her eyes.

"The rest of the story, such as it is, I know, almost to the very end,
from what I heard my father and mother say from my uncle's report
afterward. He told them that, when the boat started, the stress to
stay was so strong upon him that if he had not been ashamed he would
have jumped ashore and followed us home. He said that he could not
analyze his feelings; it was not yet any definite foreboding, but
simply a depression that seemed to crush him so that all his movements
were leaden, when he turned at last, and went down to breakfast in the
cabin below. The stress did not lighten with the little changes and
chances of the voyage to the lake. He was never much given to making
acquaintance with people, but now he found himself so absent-minded
that he was aware of being sometimes spoken to by friendly strangers
without replying until it was too late even to apologize. He was not
only steeped in this gloom, but he had the constant distress of the
effort he involuntarily made to trace it back to some cause or follow
it forward to some consequence. He kept trying at this, with a mind so
tensely bent to the mere horror that he could not for a moment strain
away from it. He would very willingly have occupied himself with other
things, but the anguish which the double action of his mind gave him
was such that he could not bear the effort; all he could do was to
abandon himself to his obsession. This would ease him only for a
while, though, and then he would suffer the misery of trying in vain
to escape from it.

"He thought he must be going mad, but insanity implied some definite
delusion or hallucination, and, so far as he could make out, he had
none. He was simply crushed by a nameless foreboding. Something
dreadful was to happen, but this was all he felt; knowledge had no
part in his condition. He could not say whether he slept during the
two nights that passed before he reached Toledo, where he was to take
the lake steamer for Buffalo. He wished to turn back again, but the
relentless pressure which had kept him from turning back at the start
was as strong as ever with him. He tried to give his presentiment
direction by talking with the other passengers about a recent accident
to a lake steamer, in which several hundred lives were lost; there
had been a collision in rough weather, and one of the boats had gone
down in a few minutes. There was a sort of relief in that, but the
double action of the mind brought the same intolerable anguish again,
and he settled back for refuge under the shadow of his impenetrable
doom. This did not lift till he was well on his way from Albany to New
York by the Hudson River. The canal-boat voyage from Buffalo to Albany
had been as eventless as that to Toledo, and his lake steamer had
reached Buffalo in safety, for which it had seemed as if those lost in
the recent disaster had paid.

"He tried to pierce his heavy cloud by argument from the security in
which he had traveled so far, but the very security had its
hopelessness. If something had happened--some slight accident--to
interrupt it, his reason, or his unreason, might have taken it for a
sign that the obscure doom, whatever it was, had been averted.

"Up to this time he had not been able to connect his foreboding with
anything definite, and he was not afraid for himself. He was simply
without the formless hope that helps us on at every step, through good
and bad, and it was a mortal peril, which he came through safely while
scores of others were lost, that gave his presentiment direction. He
had taken the day boat from Albany, and about the middle of the
afternoon the boat, making way under a head-wind, took fire. The pilot
immediately ran her ashore, and her passengers, those that had the
courage for it, ran aft, and began jumping from the stern, but a great
many women and children were burned. My uncle was one of the first of
those who jumped, and he stood in the water, trying to save those who
came after from drowning; it was not very deep. Some of the women lost
courage for the leap, and some turned back into the flames,
remembering children they had left behind. One poor creature stood
hesitating wildly, and he called up to her to jump. At last she did
so, almost into his arms, and then she clung about him as he helped
her ashore. 'Oh,' she cried out between her sobs, 'if you have a wife
and children at home, God will take you safe back to them; you have
saved my life for my husband and little ones.' 'No,' he was conscious
of saying, 'I shall never see my wife again,' and now his foreboding
had the direction that it had wanted before.

"From that on he simply knew that he should not get home alive, and he
waited resignedly for the time and form of his disaster. He had a sort
of peace in that. He went about his business intelligently, and from
habit carefully, but it was with a mechanical action of the mind,
something, he imagined, like the mechanical action of his body in
those organs which do their part without bidding from the will. He was
only a few days in New York, but in the course of them he got several
letters from his wife telling him that all was going well with her and
their daughter. It was before the times when you can ask and answer
questions by telegraph, and he started back, necessarily without
having heard the latest news from home.

"He made the return trip in a sort of daze, talking, reading, eating,
and sleeping in the calm certainty of doom, and only wondering how it
would be fulfilled, and what hour of the night or day. But it is no
use my eking this out; I heard it, as I say, when I was a child, and I
am afraid that if I should try to give it with the full detail I
should take to inventing particulars." Minver paused a moment, and
then he said: "But there was one thing that impressed itself indelibly
on my memory. My uncle got back perfectly safe and well."

"Oh!" Rulledge snorted in rude dissatisfaction.

"What was it impressed itself on your memory?" Wanhope asked, with
scientific detachment from the story as a story.

Minver continued to address Wanhope, without regarding Rulledge. "My
uncle told my father that some sort of psychical change, which he
could not describe, but which he was as conscious of as if it were
physical, took place within him as he came in sight of his house--"

"Yes," Wanhope prompted.

"He had driven down from the canal-packet in the old omnibus which
used to meet passengers and distribute them at their destinations in
town. All the way to his house he was still under the doom as regarded
himself, but bewildered that he should be getting home safe and well,
and he was refusing his escape, as it were, and then suddenly, at the
sight of the familiar house, the change within him happened. He looked
out of the omnibus window and saw a group of neighbors at his gate. As
he got out of the omnibus, my father took him by the hand, as if to
hold him back a moment. Then he said to my father, very quietly, 'You
needn't tell me: my wife is dead.'"

There was an appreciable pause, in which we were all silent, and then
Rulledge demanded, greedily, "And was she?"

"Really, Rulledge!" I could not help protesting.

Minver asked him, almost compassionately and with unwonted gentleness,
as from the mood in which his reminiscence had left him: "You
suspected a hoax? She had died suddenly the night before while she and
my cousin were getting things ready to welcome my uncle home in the
morning. I'm sorry you're disappointed," he added, getting back to his
irony.

"Whatever," Rulledge pursued, "became of the little girl?"

"She died rather young; a great many years ago; and my uncle soon
after her."

Rulledge went away without saying anything, but presently returned
with the sandwich which he had apparently gone for, while Wanhope was
remarking: "That want of definition in the presentiment at first, and
then its determination in the new direction by, as it were,
propinquity--it is all very curious. Possibly we shall some day
discover a law in such matters."

Rulledge said: "How was it your boyhood was passed in the Middle West,
Minver? I always thought you were a Bostonian."

"I was an adoptive Bostonian for a good while, until I decided to
become a native New-Yorker, so that I could always be near to you,
Rulledge. You can never know what a delicate satisfaction you are."

Minver laughed, and we were severally restored to the wonted relations
which his story had interrupted.




                                 III

                     CAPTAIN DUNLEVY'S LAST TRIP


  It was against the law, in such case made and provided,
  Of the United States, but by the good will of the pilots
  That we would some of us climb to the pilot-house after our breakfast
  For a morning smoke, and find ourselves seats on the benching
  Under the windows, or in the worn-smooth arm-chairs. The pilot,
  Which one it was did not matter, would tilt his head round and say,
          "All right!"
  When he had seen who we were, and begin, or go on as from stopping
  In the midst of talk that was leading up to a story,
  Just before we came in, and the story, begun or beginning,
  Always began or ended with some one, or something or other,
  Having to do with the river. If one left the wheel to the other,
  Going off watch, he would say to his partner standing behind him
  With his hands stretched out for the spokes that were not given up yet,
  "Captain, you can tell them the thing I was going to tell them
  Better than I could, I reckon," and then the other would answer,
  "Well, I don't know as I feel so sure of that, captain," and having
  Recognized each other so by that courtesy title of captain
  Never officially failed of without offense among pilots,
  One would subside into Jim and into Jerry the other.

  It was on these terms, at least, Captain Dunn relieved Captain Davis
  When we had settled ourselves one day to listen in comfort,
  After some psychological subtleties we had indulged in at breakfast
  Touching that weird experience every one knows when the senses
  Juggle the points of the compass out of true orientation,
  Changing the North to the South, and the East to the West. "Why, Jerry,
          what was it
  You was going to tell them?" "Oh, never you mind what it was, Jim.
  You tell them something else," and so Captain Davis submitted,
  While Captain Dunn, with a laugh, got away beyond reach of his protest.
  Then Captain Davis, with fitting, deprecatory preamble,
  Launched himself on a story that promised to be all a story
  Could be expected to be, when one of those women--you know them--
  Who interrupt on any occasion or none, interrupted,
  Pointed her hand, and asked, "Oh, what is that island there, captain?"
  "That one, ma'am?" He gave her the name, and then the woman persisted,
  "Don't say you know them all by sight!" "Yes, by sight or by feeling."
  "What do you mean by feeling?" "Why, just that by daylight we see them,
  And in the dark it's like as if somehow we felt them, I reckon.
  Every foot of the channel and change in it, wash-out and cave-in,
  Every bend and turn of it, every sand-bar and landmark,
  Every island, of course, we have got to see them, or feel them."
  "But if you don't?" "But we've got to." "But aren't you ever mistaken?"
  "Never the second time." "Now, what do you mean, Captain Davis?
  Never the second time." "Well, let me tell you a story.
  It's not the one I begun, but that island you asked about yonder
  Puts me in mind of it, happens to be the place where it happened,
  Three years ago. I suppose no man ever knew the Ohio
  Better than Captain Dunlevy, if any one else knew it like him.
  Man and boy he had been pretty much his whole life on the river:
  Cabin-boy first on a keelboat before the day of the steamboats,
  Back in the pioneer times; and watchman then on a steamboat;
  Then second mate, and then mate, and then pilot and captain and owner--
  But he was proudest, I reckon, of being about the best pilot
  On the Ohio. He knew it as well as he knew his own Bible,
  And I don't hardly believe that ever Captain Dunlevy
  Let a single day go by without reading a chapter."

  While the pilot went on with his talk, and in regular, rhythmical motion
  Swayed from one side to the other before his wheel, and we listened,
  Certain typical facts of the picturesque life of the river
  Won their way to our consciousness as without help of our senses.
  It was along about the beginning of March, but already
  In the sleepy sunshine the budding maples and willows,
  Where they waded out in the shallow wash of the freshet,
  Showed the dull red and the yellow green of their blossoms and catkins,
  And in their tops the foremost flocks of blackbirds debated
  As to which they should colonize first. The indolent house-boats
  Loafing along the shore, sent up in silvery spirals
  Out of their kitchen pipes the smoke of their casual breakfasts.
  Once a wide tow of coal-barges, loaded clear down to the gunwales,
  Gave us the slack of the current, with proper formalities shouted
  By the hoarse-throated stern-wheeler that pushed the black barges
          before her,
  And as she passed us poured a foamy cascade from her paddles.
  Then, as a raft of logs, which the spread of the barges had hidden,
  River-wide, weltered in sight, with a sudden jump forward the pilot
  Dropped his whole weight on the spokes of the wheel just in time to
          escape it.

  "Always give those fellows," he joked, "all the leeway they ask for;
  Worst kind of thing on the river you want your boat to run into.
  Where had I got about Captain Dunlevy? Oh yes, I remember.
  Well, when the railroads began to run away from the steamboats,
  Taking the carrying trade in the very edge of the water,
  It was all up with the old flush times, and Captain Dunlevy
  Had to climb down with the rest of us pilots till he was only
  Captain the same as any and every pilot is captain,
  Glad enough, too, to be getting his hundred and twenty-five dollars
  Through the months of the spring and fall while navigation was open.
  Never lowered himself, though, a bit from captain and owner,
  Knew his rights and yours, and never would thought of allowing
  Any such thing as a liberty from you or taking one with you.
  I had been his cub, and all that I knew of the river
  Captain Dunlevy had learnt me; and if you know what the feeling
  Is of a cub for the pilot that learns him the river, you'll trust me
  When I tell you I felt it the highest kind of an honor
  Having him for my partner; and when I came up to relieve him,
  One day, here at the wheel, and actu'lly thought that I found him
  Taking that island there on the left, I thought I was crazy.
  No, I couldn't believe my senses, and yet I couldn't endure it.
  Seeing him climb the spokes of the wheel to warp the Kanawha,
  With the biggest trip of passengers ever she carried,
  Round on the bar at the left that fairly stuck out of the water.
  Well, as I said, he learnt me all that I knew of the river,
  And was I to learn him now which side to take of an island
  When I knew he knew it like his right hand from his left hand?
  My, but I hated to speak! It certainly seemed like my tongue clove,
  Like the Bible says, to the roof of my mouth! But I had to.
  'Captain,' I says, and it seemed like another person was talking,
  'Do you usu'lly take that island there on the eastward?'
  'Yes,' he says, and he laughed, 'and I thought I had learnt you to do it,
  When you was going up.' 'But not going down, did you, captain?'
  'Down?' And he whirled at me, and, without ever stopping his laughing,
  Turned as white as a sheet, and his eyes fairly bulged from their
          sockets.
  Then he whirled back again, and looked up and down on the river,
  Like he was hunting out the shape of the shore and the landmarks.
  Well, I suppose the thing has happened to every one sometime,
  When you find the points of the compass have swapped with each other,
  And at the instant you're looking, the North and the South have changed
          places.
  I knew what was in his mind as well as Dunlevy himself did.
  Neither one of us spoke a word for nearly a minute.
  Then in a kind of whisper he says, 'Take the wheel, Captain Davis!'
  Let the spokes fly, and while I made a jump forwards to catch them,
  Staggered into that chair--well, the very one you are in, ma'am.
  Set there breathing quick, and, when he could speak, all he said was,
  'This is the end of it for me on the river, Jim Davis,'
  Reached up over his head for his coat where it hung by that window,
  Trembled onto his feet, and stopped in the door there a second,
  Stared in hard like as if for good-by to the things he was used to,
  Shut the door behind him, and never come back again through it."
  While we were silent, not liking to prompt the pilot with questions,
  "Well," he said, at last, "it was no use to argue. We tried it,
  In the half-hearted way that people do that don't mean it.
  Every one was his friend here on the Kanawha, and we knew
  It was the first time he ever had lost his bearings, but he knew,
  In such a thing as that, that the first and the last are the same time.
  When we had got through trying our worst to persuade him, he only
  Shook his head and says, 'I am done for, boys, and you know it,'
  Left the boat at Wheeling, and left his life on the river--
  Left his life on the earth, you may say, for I don't call it living,
