from heaven, but this is what I call luck.  Florence Hargreave, out of
nowhere, into my arms!  The god of luck has cast another horseshoe and
it's mine."
He had a flask in his pocket, and he forced some of the biting spirits
down the girl's throat.  She opened her eyes.
"Well, my beauty?"
Florence eyed him wildly, not quite understanding where he had come
from.
"I don't know how you got here," he said, "and I don't care.  But here
we are together at last.  Where is your father?"
"I--I don't know," dazedly.
"Better think quickly," he warned; "I want lucid answers to my
questions or back you go into the water.  I'm about at the end of my
rope.  I've been beaten too many times, my girl, to have any particular
love for you.  Now, where is your father?"
"I don't know; I have never seen him."
Braine laughed.
And Jim's boat ran afoul some rocks and into the water he went.  He had
not attracted Braine's attention, fortunately.  He began to swim toward
the drifting launch.
"Where have they hidden that money?"
"I don't know."
"Well, well; I've given you your chance.  You'll have to try your luck
with the water again."
Florence, weak as she was, set her lips.
"You don't ask for mercy?" he said banteringly.
"I should be wasting my breath to ask for mercy from such a monster as
you are," she answered quickly.
"That damned Hargreave nerve!" he snarled.
He rolled up his sleeves and stepped toward her.  She braced herself
but did not turn her eyes from his.  Suddenly, from nowhere at all,
came a pair of hands.  One clutched the gunwale and the other laid hold
of Braine.  A quick pull followed, and Braine began to topple.  But
even as he fell he managed to fling himself atop his assailant; and it
was only when the struggle began in the water that he recognized the
reporter.  All the devil in him came to the surface and he fought with
the fierceness of a tiger to kill, kill, kill.  In nearly every
instance this meddling reporter had checkmated him.  This time one or
the other of them should stay in the water.
Norton recognized that he had a large order before him to disable
Braine.  The recognition between them was now frank and absolute; there
could never again be any diplomatic sidestepping.
"You're a dead man, Norton!" panted Braine, as he reached for the
reporter's throat.
Norton said nothing, but struck the hand aside.  For a moment they both
went under.  They came up sputtering, each trying for a hold.  It was a
terribly enervating struggle.
Florence could do nothing.  The boat in which she sat continued to
drift away from the fighting men.  Once she tried to reach Braine with
the pole he had been using, but failed.
From the shore came another boat.  For a while she could not tell
whether it contained friends or enemies.  It was terrible to be forced
to wait, absolutely helpless.  When she heard the newcomers call
encouragingly to Braine she knew then that the brave fight of her
sweetheart was going to come to naught.  She knew a little about
motors.  She threw on the power and headed straight toward the rowboat.
The men shouted at her, but she did not alter her course.  The rowboat
had its sides crushed in and the men went piling into the water.
"Jim," she cried.
Norton suddenly flung off Braine and began to swim madly for the motor
boat, which Florence had brought about.  Even then it was only by the
barest luck in the world that Norton managed to catch the gunwale.  The
rest of it was simple.  When they finally reached a haven, Florence,
oddly enough, thought of the horse she had left tethered nine miles
from the stables.  She laughed hysterically.
"I guess he won't die.  We can send some one out for him.  Now, for
heaven's sake, how did you get into this?  Where were you?  What have
you been up to?" with tender bruskness.
"I wanted to do a little detective work of my own," she faltered.
"It looks as if you had done it.  You infant!  Will you never learn to
keep outside this muddle?  It's a man's work."
Florence, thoroughly weakened by her long immersion in the water, began
to weep silently.
"You poor child.  I'm a brute!"  And he comforted her.
Later that day, at home, she remembered the blank paper.
"I stole this from one of the men in the cave.  He said this blank
paper would probably save father."'
Jim took it.  "H'm!  Invisible ink, and it's had a fine washing."
"But maybe it is waterproof."
"Maybe it is.  Anyhow, Miss Sherlock, we'll show it to Jones and see
what he says."
CHAPTER XX
"What I want now," said Braine, as he paced the living-room of the
apartment of the countess, "is revenge.  I've been checkmated enough,
Olga; they're playing with us."
"That is nothing new," she replied, shrugging.  "At the beginning I
warned you.  I never liked this affair after the first two or three
failures.  But you would have your way.  You wanted revenge at that
early date; but I can not see that you've gone forward.  Has it ever
occurred to you that the organization may be getting tired, too?  They
depend solely upon your invention, and each time your invention has
resulted in touching nothing but zero."
"Thanks!"
"Oh, I'm not chiding you.  I've failed, too."
"Are you turning against me?" he demanded bitterly.
"Do my actions point that way?" she countered.  "No.  But the more I
view what has passed, the more disheartened I grow.  It has been a
series of blind alleys, and all we have succeeded in doing is knocking
our heads.  I can see now that all our failures are due to one mistake."
"And what the devil is that?" he asked irritably.
"We were in too much of a hurry at the beginning.  Hargreave prepared
himself for quick action on your part."
"And if I had not acted quickly he would have started successfully on
one of his world tours again, and that would have been the last of him,
and we should never have learned of the girl's existence.  So there's
your argument."
"Perhaps you are right.  But for all that we have not played the game
with any degree of finesse."
"Bah!"  Braine lit a cigarette and smoked nervously.  "I can't even get
rid of that meddling reporter.  He has been as much to blame for our
failures as either Jones or Hargreave.  I admit that in his case I
judged hastily.  I believed him to be just an ordinary newspaper man,
and he was clever enough to lull my suspicions.  But I'm going to get
him, Olga, even if I have to resort to ordinary gunman tricks.  If
there's any final reckoning, by the Lord Harry, he shan't get a chance
in the witness stand."
"And I begin to think that that little chit of a girl has been
hoodwinking me all along.  By the way, did you find out what that
letter said?" she asked after a pause.
"Letter?  What letter?"
She sprang from her chair.  "Do you mean to say that they have not told
you about that?" Olga became greatly excited.
"Explain," he said.
"Why, I was at the garden day before yesterday, and a man approached
and asked if I was Miss Hargreave.  Becoming at once suspicious that
something very important was about to happen I signified that I was
Miss Hargreave.  The man slipped a paper into my hand and hurried off.
I took a quick glance at it and was dumfounded to find it utterly blank
of writing.  At first I thought some joke had been played on me, then I
chanced to remember the invisible ink letters you always wrote me.
Understanding that you were to visit the cave in the morning, I had one
man at the garden take the note.  And you never got it!"
"Some one shall certainly pay for this carelessness.  I'll call up
Vroon and Jackson at once.  Wait just a moment."
He went to the telephone.  A low muttering conversation took place.
Olga could hear little or none of it.  When Braine put the receiver
back on the hook his face was not pleasant to see.
"That girl!"
"What now?"
"It seems she had been out horseback riding that morning.  She had seen
one of the boys cross the field and suddenly disappear; and she was
curious to learn what had become of him.  With her usual luck she
stumbled on the method of opening the door of the cave and went in.
She must have been nosing about.  She didn't have much time, though, as
the boys came up to await me.  Evidently she crawled into that old
chest and in some inexplicable manner purloined the letter from
Jackson's pocket.  They left to reconnoiter; and it was then that
Jackson discovered his loss.  When Florence heard them returning she
jumped into the well.  And lived through that tunnel!  The devil is in
it!"
"Or out of it, since we consider him our friend."
"And I had her in my hands, note and all!"
"But with all that water there will not be any writing left on the
letter."
"Invisible ink is generally indelible and impervious to the action of
water; at least the kind I use is.  I'd give a thousand for a sight of
that letter."
"And it might be worth a million," Olga suggested.
"Not the least doubt of it in my mind.  Olga, old girl, it does look as
if my star was growing dim.  We'll never get our hands on that million.
I feel it in my bones.  So let's settle down to a campaign of revenge,
without any furbelows.  I want to twist Hargreave's heart before the
game winds up."
"You wish really to injure her?"
"I do not wish to injure her.  Far from it," he replied, smiling evilly.
"You want her ... dead?" whispered Olga, paling.
"Exactly.  I want her dead.  And so if all my efforts here come to
nothing, so shall Hargreave's.  His millions will become waste paper to
him.  That's revenge.  The Persian peach method."
"Poison?  You shall not!  You shall not kill her!" vehemently.
"Tender-hearted?"
"No.  If I must in the end go to prison, so be it; but I refuse to die
in the chair."
"Very well, then.  We shan't kill her, but we'll make her wish she was
dead.  I was only trying to see how far you would go.  The basket of
peaches is in the hallway.  Every peach is poisoned.  No man in the
country knows more about subtle poisons than I do.  Have I not written
books on that subject?" ironically.
"And they will trace it back to you in a straight line," she warned.
"I will not have it!"
"I can go elsewhere," he replied coldly.
"You would leave me?"
"The moment you cross my will," emphatically.
It became her turn to pace.  Torn between her love of the man and the
danger which stared her in the face, she was for the time being
distracted.  All the time he watched her with malevolent curiosity,
knowing that in the end she would concur with his evil plans.
"Very well," she said finally.  "But listen; we shall be found out.
Never doubt that.  Your revenge will cost us both our lives.  I feel
it."
"Bah!  The law will have no hand in my end.  I always carry a pellet;
and that ring of yours would suffice a regiment.  She will not die.
She will merely become a kind of paralytic; the kind that can move a
little but not enough; always wheeled about in a chair.  I'll bring in
the peaches; rosy and downy.  One bite, after a given time, will do the
trick.  If they suspect and throw them out we have lost nothing but the
peaches.  A trusted messenger will carry them to the Hargreave house.
And then we'll sit down and wait."
Meantime, in the library of the Hargreave house, Florence and Jim were
puzzling over the blank sheet of paper.
"I'll wager," said Jim, "the water washed all the writing away.  The
fire does not seem to do any good.  We'll turn it over to Jones.
Jones'll find a way to solve it.  Trust him."
"What are you two chattering about?" asked Susan, who was arranging
some flowers on the table.
"Secrets," said Jim, smiling.
"Humph!"
Susan puttered about for a few minutes longer, then crossed to the
reception room, intending to go up-stairs.  At that moment the maid was
admitting a messenger with a basket of fruit.
"For Miss Hargreave," said he.  He gave the basket to the maid, touched
his cap awkwardly, and swung on his heel, closing the door behind him.
He was in a hurry to deliver another message.
"Oh, what lovely fruit!" cried Susan, pausing.  "I'm going to steal
one," she laughed.  She selected a peach and began eating it on the way
up to her room.
The maid passed on into the library.
"What's this?" inquired Florence, as the maid held out the basket.  She
selected a peach and was about to set her white teeth into it when Jim
interposed.
"Wait a moment, dear."  Florence lowered the peach.  Jim turned to the
maid.  "Who sent it?"
"I don't know, sir.  A messenger brought it, saying it was for Miss
Hargreave."
"Let me see if there is a card."  But Jim searched in vain for the card
of the donor.  All at once his suspicions arose.  "Don't touch them.
Better let the maid throw them out.  Fruit from unknown persons might
not be the healthiest thing in the world."
"What do you think?"
"That in all probability they are poisoned.  But there's no need trying
to prove my theory right or wrong.  Ask Jones.  He'll tell you to throw
them away."
"Horrible!" Florence shuddered.  "But they do not want to poison me.
I'm too valuable.  They want me alive."
"Who can say?" returned Jim gloomily.  "They may have learned that they
can not beat us, no matter what card they turn up.  I may be wrong, but
take my advice and throw them away....  Good lord, what's that?"
startled.
"Some one cried!"
"Oh, Miss Florence!" exclaimed the maid, terror-stricken as she
recalled Susan's act.  "Miss Susan took a peach from the basket and was
eating it on the way to her room!"
"Good heavens!" gasped Jim.  "I was right.  The fruit was poisoned."
Jim had heard enough to send for a specialist he knew.  The specialist
arrived about twenty minutes after Susan's first cry.  To his keen eye
it looked like a certain poison which had for its basis the venom of
the cobra.
"Will she live?"
"Oh, yes.  But she'll be a wreck for some months.  Send her to the
hospital where I can visit her frequently.  And I'll take that peach
along for analysis.  No police affair?"
"No.  We dare not call them in," said Jim.
"That's your affair.  I'll send down the ambulance.  Keep her quiet.
She'll have a species of paralysis; but that'll work off under
treatment.  A strange business."
"So it is," agreed Jim grimly.
Florence knelt beside her friend's bed and cried softly.
"You called me just in time.  An hour later, nothing would have saved
her.  She would have been paralyzed for life."
Jim accompanied the doctor to the door and went in search of Jones.  He
found the taciturn butler eying the fruit basket, his face gray and
drawn, though his eyes blazed with fury.
"Poison!"
"A pretty bad poison, too," said Jim.  "We can't do anything.  We've
just got to sit still.  But in the end we'll get them.  That she
devil...."
"No, my friend; that he devil.  The woman is mad over him and would
commit any crime at his bidding.  But this is his work.  We want him.
He wasn't without courage to send this fruit, knowing that I would
instantly suspect the sender.  Yet, I have no definite proof.  I could
not hold him in court in law.  He will have bought the fruit piece by
piece, the basket in a basket shop.  He will have injected the poison
himself when alone.  Poor Susan!  That messenger was without doubt some
one over whom he holds the threat of the death chair.  That's the way
he works."
Jim tramped the room while Jones carried the fruit to the kitchen.  The
butler returned after a while.
"What about that blank sheet of paper?"
"It has to be dipped into a solution; after that you can read it by
heating.  I have already dipped it into the solution.  The moment the
heat leaves the sheet the writing disappears again.  The ink is
waterproof.  I'll show you."
Jones got a candle from the mantel, lit it, and held the sheet of paper
very close to the flame.  Gradually, almost imperceptibly, letters
began to form on the blank sheet.  At length the message was complete.
"Dear Hargreave--The Russian minister of police is at the Blank Hotel
under the name of Henri Servan.  He is investigating the work of the
Black Hundred in this country and can free you from their vengeance if
you supply the evidence needed."
"Now, what evidence can he want?" asked Jim.
"Such as will prove Braine an undesirable citizen."
"And then?"
"Quietly pack him off to Russia, where he is badly wanted."
"Who sent this message?"
"One of our mysterious friends.  We have a few, as you already know.
But I'll go and make this man Servan a visit.  I have seen the real
minister, and if this man is the same one, something of importance may
turn up.  I shall want you somewhere about.  Here, I'll let you have
this letter.  Remember, heat brings it out and cold air makes it
vanish.  Now I'll go up for a moment to see how that poor girl is
getting along.  We are lucky; there's no gainsaying that."
"You're a clever man, Jones," said Jim.
Jones turned upon him, his face grave.  The two men looked steadily
into each other's eyes.  Jones was first to turn aside his glance, as
he had something to conceal and Jim had nothing.
When the ambulance took the tortured Susan away, Jones addressed
Florence gravely.
"I am going out, and so is Mr. Norton.  Do not leave the house; not
even if you have a telephone call from me or Norton.  Both of us will
return; so don't let anything bother or confuse you."
"I promise," said Florence, struggling with a sob.
Jones went down-stairs again, paused by a window as if cogitating, and
suddenly threw it up and looked abroad.  A rustle among the lilacs
caused a smile to flit across his face.  So they had sent some one to
learn the effect of the poison?  Or to follow him should he leave the
house?  He retired to the kitchen and gave some explicit orders to the
chef, orders which did not in any way refer to cooking.  Then Jones and
the reporter left the house, each quite aware that they were being
followed.  Near the Blank Hotel they separated in order to confuse the
stalker.  He might dodder and follow the wrong man.  But it was evident
that this time he had been directed to follow Jones; for he entered the
hotel a minute after Jones.
Meantime a second spy, whom Jones had not seen, had observed the
transfer of the invisible writing and had immediately informed Braine,
who was not far away.  That his poisoned fruit had stricken down an
outsider troubled him none at all.  But that mysterious message he
meant to have; it might be a life and death affair, it might be a clue
to the treasure, or the whereabouts of Hargreave.
Thus, while only one man followed Jones, several kept a far eye on Jim.
Jones scribbled his name on a blank card and had it taken to the
Russian's room.  The page eyed that card curiously.  It was different
from anything he had ever seen before.  In one corner were written
three or four words which resembled a cross between Hebrew and Greek.
"Humph!" muttered the boy.  "Whadda y' know about that?  Chicken
scratches; but I guess the bell rings Roosian.  On your way, Hortense,"
he cried to the hall maid, who wanted a look at the card.  "Up t' th'
room, sir.  He'll see yuh!"  The boy kept the silver salver extended
expectantly, but Jones went past without apparently noticing the hint.
The Russian was standing by a window when Jones knocked and was bidden
to enter.
"You are not Hargreave."
"Neither are you the Russian minister of police," urbanely.
"Who are you?"
"I am Hargreave's confidential man, sir."
The two men eyed each other cautiously.
"You speak Russian?"
"No.  I am able to scribble a few words; that is all."
The Russian lit a cigarette and smoked leisurely.  He was in no hurry.
"No, I am not the minister; but I am his accredited agent.  I am
empowered to bring back to Russia a man who is known here by the name
of Braine, another by the name of Vroon, and a woman who calls herself
a countess and unfortunately is one.  All I desire is some damaging
proof against them that they are outlaws in this country.  The rest
will be simple."
"They have all three taken out naturalization papers."
The Russian waved his hand airily.  "Once they are in Russia those
documents will never come to light.  This man Braine, it has been
learned, has long been in the pay of Prussia, and has given the general
staff of that country many plans of our frontier fortifications.  I do
not know what any one of the three looks like.  That is why I sought
Hargreave."
"I will gladly point them out to you," said Jones, rubbing his hands
together, a sign that he was greatly pleased.
"That will be very good of you, I'm sure," in a rumbling but perfectly
intelligible English.
"And suddenly they all three will disappear."
"Suddenly; and you may believe me that from that time on they'll be
heard of never more."
"All this sounds extremely agreeable to me.  Mr. Hargreave will be
happy to hear that his long enforced hiding will soon come to an end."
"All you have to do, sir, is to point them out to me."
"It may take a week or ten days."
"My government has waited for ten years to gather in this delectable
trio.  A month, if you like."
"The sooner the better.  I shall call this evening after dinner.  We
shall begin with Mr. Braine; and generally where he is is the woman.
Vroon will be the most difficult."
"After dinner, then, since you know some of his haunts.  There is a
reward."
Jones laughed shortly.  "Keep it yourself, sir.  Mr. Hargreave would
willingly double whatever this reward is to eliminate these despicable
creatures from his affairs."
"Thanks."
While this conversation was taking place Norton idled about; and
feeling the cravings for a cigarette, prepared to roll one, only to
find that he hadn't the "makings."  So fate urged him to step into the
nearest tobacconist's.  He asked for his favorite brand and passed over
the silver.
Braine and his companions saw Norton enter the shop.  It agreed with
their plans perfectly.  The tobacconist happened to be affiliated with
the order.  So they hurried into the shop.  Jim instantly realized that
he was in a trap.
"How can I get out of here?" he whispered to the tobacconist.
The latter smiled.  "I have to obey these gentlemen.  I don't know what
they want you for; but if I made a move to help you I should find my
own throat cut without saving yours."
"The devil!"
Jim made a dash for the rear door, to find it locked.  Even as he
fumbled with the key Braine and his companions flung themselves upon
the reporter and overpowered him.
"Ah, my friend Braine!" he said.
"My friend Norton!" jeered the victor.
"And what do you want; some peaches?"
"A paper, my friend, a little secret of paper with invisible writing on
it.  We promise to give you something in exchange for it."
"What?" asked Jim with as much nonchalance as he could assume.
"Life."
"Search," said Jim.  "You won't object to my smoking?"  He began to
roll a cigarette while they passed over him.  He struck a match; the
pleasant aroma of tobacco floated about his head.
"He's got it on him somewhere.  I saw him take it.  He's got his nerve
with him."
The cigarette glowed.  Jim smoked hurriedly.
Through every pocket they went.  The contents of his wallet lay
scattered at his feet; his watch dangled from the chain.  The cigarette
grew shorter and shorter.  Suddenly one of the men stretched out a hand
and whisked the cigarette from Jim's lips.  He threw it to the floor
and stamped out the coal.
"I thought so!" he exclaimed, holding out the scrap of burnt paper
toward Braine.
The words "Dear Hargreave" were all that remained of the message.  With
a snarl of rage Braine whipped out his revolver.
"I will give you one minute to tell me what that paper contained."
"And after that minute is up?"
"A bullet in your stomach."
Quick as a flash Jim's hand shot out, caught the loosely held revolver,
gave it a wrench, and brought it down savagely upon Braine's head.
Then he reversed it and backed toward the front entrance.
"Au revoir, till we meet again, gentlemen!"
CHAPTER XXI
Jim said nothing at first about his adventure to Jones, whom he met
half an hour later.
"Was it necessary to keep that invisible letter?" he asked.
"No," said Jones.
"Would it have given our affairs a serious turn if it had fallen into
alien hands?"
"Decidedly," answered Jones.  "It would mean flight for the Black
Hundred or a long time under cover, if our friend Braine learned that
Russia was now taking an active interest in the doings of the Black
Hundred.  And eventually all our work would have to be done over again."
"Ah!"
"You look a bit mussed up.  Anything happened?" asked the keen-eyed
butler.
"Nothing much.  I made a cigarette out of the letter and smoked it."
Jones chuckled.  "I see that you have had an adventure of some sort;
but it can wait."
"It can."
"Because I want you to pack off to Washington."
"Washington?"
"Yes.  I want you to interview those officials who are most familiar
with the extradition laws."
"A new kink?"
"What I wish to learn is this: Can a man, formerly undesirable, take
out naturalization papers and hold to the protection of the United
States government?  That is to say, a poisoner, menaced by Siberia,
becomes an American citizen.  He is abducted and carried back to
Russia.  Could he look to this government for protection?  That is what
I want you to find out?"
"That will be easy.  When shall I start?"
"As soon as you can pack your grip."
"That's always packed," replied the reporter.  "You see, I'm eternally
shunted hither and yon, at a moment's notice, so I always have an extra
grip packed for quick travel."
"The Russian agent wants Braine, Vroon, and the countess; and to-night
I'm going to try to point them out to him.  It would satisfy me more
than anything I know to eliminate this precious trio in Russian
fashion.  It's thorough; and once accomplished, good day to the Black
Hundred in America.  The organization in Russia has still some
political significance, but on this side of the water it is merely an
aggregation of merciless thugs."
"I'll take the first train out.  But you will tell Florence?"
"Surely."
"And take care of your own heels.  You were watched at the hotel."
"I know it; but the watcher could learn nothing.  Henri Servan as a
name will suggest nothing to the fool who followed me.  Besides we both
knew that he was trying to peek through the keyhole.  That hotel, you
know, still retains the old-fashioned keyholes."
"To keep the maids in good humor, I suppose," laughed Jim.  "Well, I
must be on my way to make that flyer."
The two shook hands and Jim hurried off.  The butler watched him till
he disappeared down the subway.
"He's a good lad," he murmured, "and a brave lad; and money is only an
incident in human affairs after all.  I'll be a good angel and let the
two be happy, since they love each other and have proved it in a
thousand ways."
Meanwhile the Russian agent settled down before his writing portfolio;
and once or twice as he wrote he thought he heard a sound outside the
door.  No doubt this butler of Hargreave's had been watched and
followed.  By and by he rose, drew his revolver, and tiptoed to the
door obliquely so that the watcher outside might not become aware of
his approach.  Swiftly he swung back the door and the member of the
Black Hundred stumbled into the room.  Almost instantly the Russian
caught him by the collar and held him up.
"What were you doing outside my door?"
The man, trying to collect his thoughts, did not answer.
"A spy of some sort, eh?"
"I'm a detective," said the man finally, thinking he saw his way clear.
"And what did you expect to learn by looking through the keyhole of my
door?"
Servan laughed.  "Show me your badge of authority."
The man fumbled in his upper pocket, hoping against hope that the
muzzle of the revolver would waver.
"You're an ordinary thief," declared the Russian; "and as such I shall
instantly hand you over to the hotel authorities unless you tell me
exactly who and what you are."
The man remained dumb.  He hung between the devil and the deep sea.  If
he told the truth the organization would soon learn the truth; if he
kept still he would be lodged in jail, perhaps indefinitely, for he
hadn't a savory police record.  Presently his nerve gave way in face of
the steady eye and hand, and he confessed the why and wherefore he had
sought the keyhole of Servan's room.
"We are after this butler.  Wherever he goes we follow."
"Well, you've wasted your time, my man.  All I am here for is to take
over some property Mr. Hargreave left in France for sale.  I know
nothing about your private feuds.  Now, get out.  But keep out of my
way; I am not a peaceful man."
The spy tumbled out as he had tumbled in, by an act of gravity; and
Servan was alone.  He spent two days in comparative idleness.  Then
things began to wake up.
For a long time the leather box across which was inscribed "Stanley
Hargreave" lay in peace undisturbed.  A busy spider had woven a trap
across the handle to the quaint lock.  The box was still badly stained
from its immersion in the salt water.  At a certain time it was quietly
withdrawn from its hiding place.  It was stealthily opened.  A hand
reached in and when it withdrew a packet of papers was also withdrawn.
The box was again locked and lowered; and presently the spider returned
to find that his cunning trap had been totally destroyed.  With the
infinite patience of his kind he began the weaving of another trap.
Perhaps this would be more successful than its predecessor.
Later Henri Servan received a telephone call.  He was informed that his
purpose in America would be realized by his presence at such and such a
box that night at the opera.  Further information could not be given
over the telephone.  Servan seemed well satisfied.  He dressed
carefully that evening, called up the office clerk and inquired if his
box tickets for the opera had arrived.  He was informed that they had.
Instantly the spy, who had dared to linger about the hotel, overhearing
this conversation, determined to notify Braine at once.  And at the
same time, Norton, in disguise, determined not to lose sight of this
man whom he had set himself to watch.
The spy left by one entrance and Jim by another.  Jim had learned what
he desired; that the Russian agent would be followed to the opera and
that it was going to be difficult to hand the documents to him.  The
spy entered a drug store and telephoned.  Jim waited outside.  When the
man came out he strolled up the street and entered the nearest saloon.
Jim's work was done.
It was Braine's lieutenant, however, who took the news to Braine.
"We have succeeded."
"Good!" said Braine.
"He will go to the opera.  He will have a box.  Doubtless they have
arranged to deliver the papers there."
"And the next thing is to get the number of his box."  This Braine had
no difficulty in doing.  "So that's all fixed.  He calls himself Servan
and registers from Paris.  I'll show the fool that he has no moujik to
deal with this time."
"And what are these documents?" asked Olga.
"Ah, that's what we are so anxious to find out.  Some papers are going
to be exchanged between this Russian spy and Jones or his agents.  That
these papers concern us vitally I am certain.  That is why I am going
to get them if there has to be a murder at the opera to-night.  Norton
has been to Washington.  He was seen coming out of the Russian embassy,
from the secretaries of state and war and a dozen other offices.  I've
got to find out just what all this means."
"It means that the time has come for us to fly," said Olga.  "We have
failed.  I have warned you.  We have still plenty of money left.  It is
time we folded our tents and stole away quietly.  I tell you I feel it
in my bones that there is a pit before us somewhere! and if you force
issues we shall all fall into it."
"The white feather, my dear."
"There is altogether some difference between the white feather and
common-sense caution."
"I shall never give up.  You are free to pack up and go if you wish.
As for me, I'm going to fight this out to the bitter end."
"And take my word for it, the end will be bitter."
"Well?"
"Oh, I shall stay.  You know that my future is bound up in yours.  In
the old days my advice generally appealed to you as sound; and when you
followed it you were successful.  From the first I advised you not to
pursue Hargreave.  See what has happened!"
"Enough of this chatter.  I've got to die some time; it will be with my
face toward this man I hate with all my soul.  You trust to me; I'll
pull out of this all right.  You just fix yourself up stunningly for
the opera to-night and leave the rest to me."
Olga shrugged.  She was something of a fatalist.  This man of hers had
suddenly gone mad; and one did not reason with mad people.
"What shall I wear?" she asked calmly.
"Emeralds; they're your good luck stones.  You will go to the box
before I do.  I've got to spend some time at the curb to be sure that
this Servan chap arrives.  And it is quite possible that our friend
Jones will come later.  If not Jones, then Norton.  I was a fool not to
shoot him when I had the chance.  We could have covered it up without
the least difficulty.  But I needed the information about that paper.
With Norton going to Washington and Jones conferring with this Servan,
I've got to strike quick.  It concerns us, that I'm certain.  Perk up;
we've lots of cards in our sleeves yet.  Be at the opera at
eight-thirty.  Pay no attention to any one; wait for me.  Remember, I
shan't write or send any phone messages.  Be wary of any trap like that
to get you outside.  Now, I'm off."
Jones approached Florence immediately after dinner.
"I have important business in the city to-night.  Under no
circumstances leave the house.  I shall probably be followed.  And our
enemies will have need of you far more to-night than at any previous
time.  I shall not send you phone or written message.  You have your
revolver.  Shoot any strange man who enters.  We'll make inquiries
after."
"We are near the end?" whispered Florence.
"Very near the end."
"And I shall see my father?"
Jones bent his head.  "If we succeed."
"There is danger?" thinking of her lover.
"There is always danger when I leave this house.  So be good," the
butler added with a smile.
"And Jim?"
"He has proved that he can take care of himself."
"Tell him to be very careful."
"I'll do so, but it will not be necessary;" and with this Jones set
forth upon what he considered the culminating adventure.
The usual brilliant crowd began to pour into the opera.  Braine took
his stand by the entrance.  He waited a long time, but his patience was
rewarded.  A limousine drove up and out of the door came his man, who
looked about with casual interest.  He dismissed the limousine, which
wheeled slowly around the corner where it could be conveniently parked.
Then Servan entered the opera.
Braine hurried around to the limousine.  The lights, save those
demanded by traffic regulations, were out.  The chauffeur was huddled
in his seat.
"My man," said Braine, "would you like to make some money?"
"How much?" listlessly.  The voice was muffled.
"Twenty."
"Good night, sir."
"Fifty."
"Good night and good morning!"
"A hundred!"
"Now you've got me interested.  What kind of a joy ride do you want?"
"No joy ride.  Listen."
Briefly the conspirator outlined his needs, and finally the chauffeur
nodded.  Five twenties were pressed into his hand and he curled up in
his seat again.
Servan entered his box.  In the box next to his sat a handsomely gowned
young woman.  He threw her an idle glance, which was repaid in kind.
Later, Braine came in and sat down beside Olga.
"Everything looks like plain sailing," he whispered.
Olga shrugged slightly.
During the intermission between the first and second acts, Servan took
the rear chair of his box, near the curtains.  Braine, watching with
the eyes of a lynx, suddenly observed the curtains stirring.  A hand
was thrust through.  In that hand was a packet of papers.  With seeming
indifference Servan reached back and took the papers, stowing them away
in a pocket.
Braine rose at the beginning of the second act.
"Where are you going?" asked Olga nervously.
"To see Otto."
A bold attempt was made to rob Servan while in the box, but the timely
arrival of Jim frustrated this plan.  So Braine was forced to rely on
the chauffeur of the limousine.
As Farrar's last thrilling note died away Braine and Olga rose.
"Be careful.  And come to the apartments just as soon as you can."
"I'll be careful," Braine declared easily.  "You can watch the play if
you wish."
When Servan entered the limousine he was quietly but forcibly seized by
two men who had been lying in wait for him, due to the apparent
treachery of the chauffeur.  Servan fought valiantly, for all that he
knew what the end of this exploit was going to be.  One of the men
succeeded in getting the documents from Servan's pocket.
"Done, my boy!" cried the victor.  "Give him a crack on the coco and
we'll beat it."
"Just a minute, gentlemen!" said a voice from the seat at the side of
the chauffeur.  "I'll take those papers!"  And the owner of the voice,
backed by a cold, sinister-looking automatic, reached in and
confiscated the spoils of war.  "And I shouldn't make any attempt to
slip out by the side door."
"Thanks, my friend," said Servan, shaking himself free from his captors.
"Don't mention it," said Norton amiably.  "We thought something like
this would happen.  Keep perfectly quiet, you chaps.  Drive on,
chauffeur; drive on!"
"Yes, my lord!  To what particular police station shall I head this
omnibus?"
"The nearest, Jones; the very nearest you can think of!  Some day, when
I'm rich, I'll hire you for my chauffeur.  But for the present I shall
expect at least a box of Partagas out of that hundred."
Jones chuckled.  "I'll buy you a box out of my own pocket.  That
hundred goes to charity."
"Here we are!  Out with you," said Jim to his prisoners.  He shouldered
them into the police station, to the captain's desk.
"What's this?" demanded the captain.
"Holdup men," said Jim.  "Entered this man's car and tried to rob him."
"Uh-huh!  An' who're you?"
Jim showed his badge and card.
"Oho!  Hey, there; I mean you!" said the captain, leveling a finger at
Otto.  "Lift up that hat; lift it up.  Sure, it's Fountain Pen Otto!
Well, well; an' we've been lookin' for you for ten months on the last
forgery case.  Mr. Norton, my thanks.  Take 'em below, sergeant.
You'll be here to make the complaint in th' mornin', sir," he added to
Servan.
"If it is necessary."
"It may be against Otto's pal.  I don't know him."
"Very well."
And Jones and Norton and Servan trooped out of the station.
At last Jones and the reporter entered a cheap restaurant and ordered
coffee and toast.
"You're a wonderful man, Jones, even if you are an Englishman," said
Jim as he called for the check.
"English?  What makes you think I am English?" asked Jones with a
curious glitter in his eyes.
"I'll tell you on the night we put the rollers under Braine and
company."
Jones stared long and intently at his young partner.  What did he
really know?
CHAPTER XXII
The federal government agreed to say nothing, to put no obstacles in
the way of the Russian agent, provided he could abduct his trio without
seriously clashing with the New York police authorities.  It was a
recognized fact that the local police force wanted the newspaper glory
which would attend the crushing of the Black Hundred.  It would be an
exploit.  But their glory was nil; nor did Servan take his trio back
with him to Russia.
Many strange things happened that night, the night of the final
adventure.
Florence sat in her room reading.  The book was Oliver Twist, not the
pleasantest sort of book to read under the existing circumstances.
Several times--she had reached the place where Fagin overheard Nancy's
confession--she fancied she heard doors closing softly, but credited it
to her imagination.  Poor Nancy, who wanted to be good but did not find
time to be!  Florence possessed a habit familiar to most of us; the
need of apples or candy when we are reading.  So she rang the bell for
her maid, intending to ask her to bring up some apples.  She turned to
her reading, presently to break off and strike the bell again.  Where
was that maid?  She waited perhaps five minutes, then laid down the
book and began to investigate.
There was not a servant to be found in the entire house!  What in the
world could that mean?  Used as she was to heartrending suspense, she
was none the less terrified.  Something had taken the servants from the
house.  From whence was the danger to come this time?  Where was Jones?
Why did he not return as he had promised?  It was long past the hour
when he said he would be back.
She went into the library and picked up the telephone.  She was told
that Mr. Norton was out on an assignment, but that he would be notified
the moment he returned.  She opened the drawer in the desk.  She
touched the automatic, but did not take it up.  She left the drawer
open, however.
Earlier, at the newspaper office that night, Jim went into the managing
editor's office and laid a bulky manuscript on that gentleman's desk.
"Is this it?"
"It is," said Jim.
"You have captured them?"
"No; but there is a net about them from which not one shall escape.
There's the story of my adventures, of the adventures of Miss Hargreave
and the butler, Jones.  You'll find it exciting enough.  You might just
as well send it up to the composing room.  At midnight I'll telephone
the introduction.  It's a scoop.  Don't worry about that."
The editor riffled the pages.
"A hundred and twelve pages, three hundred words to the page; man, it's
a novel!"
"It'll read like one."
"Sit down for a moment and let me skim through the first story."
At the end of ten minutes the editor laid down the copy.  He opened a
drawer and took out two envelopes.  The blue one he tore up and dropped
into the waste basket.  Norton understood and smiled.  They had meant
to discharge him if he fell down.  The other envelope was a fat one.
"Open it," said the editor, smiling a little to himself.
This envelope contained a check for two thousand five hundred dollars,
two round-trip first-class tickets to Liverpool, together with
innumerable continental tickets such as are issued to tourists.
"Why two?" asked Jim innocently.
"Forget it, my boy, forget it.  You ought to know that in this office
we don't employ blind men.  The whole staff is on.  There you are, a
fat check and three months' vacation.  Go and get married; and if you
return before the three months are up I'll fire you myself on general
principles."
Jim laughed happily and the two men shook hands.  Then Jim went forth
to complete the big assignment.  Five minutes later Florence called him
up to learn that he had gone.
What should she do?  Jones had told her to stay in the house and not to
leave it.  But where was he?  Why did he not come?  What was the
meaning of this desertion by the servants?  She wandered about
aimlessly, looking out of windows, imagining forms in the shadows.  Her
imagination had not deceived her; she had heard doors close softly.
"Susan, Susan!" she murmured, but Susan was in the hospital.
Oliver Twist!  What had possessed her to start reading that old tale
again?  She should have read something of a light and joyous character.
After half an hour's wandering about the lonely house she returned to
the library, feeling that she would be safer where both telephone and
revolver were.
And while she sat waiting for she knew not what, her swiftly beating
heart sending the blood into her throat so that it almost suffocated
her, a man turned into the street and walked noiselessly toward the
Hargreave place.  He passed a man leaning against a lamp-post, but he
never turned to look at him.
This man, however, threw away his cigar and hot-footed it to the
nearest pay station.  He knew in his soul that he had just seen the man
for whom they had been hunting all these weary but strenuous
weeks--Stanley Hargreave in the flesh!  Half an hour after his
telephone message the chief of the Black Hundred and many lesser lights
were on their way to the house of mystery.  Had they but known!
Now, the man who had created this tremendous agitation went serenely
on.  He proceeded directly and fearlessly to the front door, produced a
latchkey and entered.  He passed through the hall and reception room to
the library and paused on the threshold dramatically.  Florence stepped
back with a sharp cry of alarm.  She had heard the hall door open and
close and had taken it for granted that Jones had entered.
There was a tableau of short duration.
"Don't you know me?" asked the stranger in a singularly pleasant voice.
Florence had been imposed upon too many times.  She shook her head
defiantly, though her knees shook so that she was certain that the
least touch would send her over.
"I am your father, child!"
Florence slipped unsteadily behind the desk and seized the revolver
which lay in the drawer.  The man by the curtains smiled sadly.  It was
a smile that caused Florence to waver a bit.  Still she extended her
arm.
"You do not believe me?" said the man, advancing slowly.
"No.  I have been deceived too many times, sir.  Stay where you are.
You will wait here till my butler returns.  Oh, if I were only sure!"
she burst out suddenly and passionately.  "What proof have you that you
are what you say?"
He came toward her, holding out his hands.  "This, that you can not
shoot me.  Ah, the damnable wretches!  What have they done to you, my
child, to make you suspicious of every one?  How I have watched over
you in the street!  I will tell you what only Jones and the reporter
know, that the aviator died, that I alone was rescued, that I gave
Norton the five thousand; that I watched the windows of the Russian
woman, and overheard nearly every plot that was hatched in the council
chamber of the Black Hundred; that I was shot in the arm while crossing
the lawn one night.  And now we have the scoundrels just where we want
them.  They will be in this house for me within half an hour, and not
one of them will leave it in freedom.  I am your father, Florence.  I
am the lonely father who has spent the best years of his life away from
you in order to secure your safety.  Can't you feel the truth of all
this?"
"No, no!  Please do not approach any nearer; stay where you are!"
At that moment the telephone rang.  With the revolver still leveled she
picked up the receiver.
"Hello, hello!  Who is it? ... Oh, Jim, Jim, come at once!  I am
holding at bay a man who says he is my father.  Hold him where he is,
you say?  All right, I will.  Come quick!"
"Jim!" murmured the man, still advancing.  He must have that revolver.
The poor child might spoil the whole affair.  "So what Jones tells me
is true; that you are going to marry this reporter chap?"
She did not answer.
"With or without my consent?"
If only he would drop that fearless smile! she thought.  "With or
without anybody's consent," she said.
"What in the world can I say to you to convince you?" he cried.  "The
trap is set; but if Braine and his men come and find us like this, good
heaven, child, we are both lost!  Come, come!"
"Stay where you are!"
At that moment she heard a sound at the door.  Her gaze roved; and it
was enough for the man.  He reached out and caught her arm.  She tried
to tear herself loose.
"My child, in God's name, listen to reason!  They are entering the hall
and they will have us both."
Suddenly Florence knew.  She could not have told you why; but there was
an appeal in the man's voice that went to her heart.
"You are my father!"
"Yes, yes!  But you've found it out just a trifle too late, my dear.
Quick; this side of the desk!"
Braine and his men dashed into the library.  Olga entered leisurely.
"Both of them!" yelled Braine exultantly.  "Both of them together; what
luck!"
There was a sharp, fierce struggle; and when it came to an end
Hargreave was trussed to a chair.
"Ah, so we meet again, Hargreave!" said Braine.
Hargreave shrugged.  What he wanted was time.
"A million!  We have you.  Where is it, or I'll twist your heart before
your eyes."
"Father, forgive me!"
"I understand, my child."
"Where is it?"  Braine seized Florence by the wrist and swung her
toward him.
"Don't tell him, father; don't mind me," said the girl bravely.
Braine, smiling his old evil smile, drew the girl close.  It was the
last time he ever touched her.
"Look!" screamed Olga.
Every one turned, to see Jones' face peering between the curtains.
There was an ironic smile on the butler's lips.  The face vanished.
"After him!" cried Braine, releasing Florence.
"After him!" mimicked a voice from the hall.
The curtains were thrown back suddenly.  Jones appeared, and Jim and
the Russian agent and a dozen policemen.  Tableau!
Braine sprang at Florence savagely, and Norton tore him back, and they
went tumbling through the library and the living room.  It was a death
struggle; make no mistake about that.  The others dared not shoot for
fear of hitting Norton.  But the Countess Olga, in the hallway, dared
the risk.  As Norton's back came into view she fired.  Almost at the
same instant Norton had swung Braine about.  A shudder ran through the
arch-scoundrel, his hands slipped off Norton's shoulders, a surprised
expression swept over his face, then he sank inertly to the floor, dead.
Olga ran up-stairs wildly, followed by a determined policeman.  She
dashed into Florence's room and locked the door.  Instantly she crossed
over to the window, and paused.
Down-stairs the police were marching off the leaders of the Black
Hundred.
"Well," said Norton, "I guess it's all over.  And, my word for it, Mr.
Jedson, you've played your end consummately."
"Jedson!" exclaimed Jones, starting back.
"Yes, Jedson, formerly of Scotland Yard," went on the reporter.  "I
recognized him long ago."
"It is true," said Hargreave, taking Jones' hand in his own.  "Fifteen
years ago I employed him to watch my affairs, and very well has he done
so."
Presently, Hargreave, Jones, Florence and Jim were alone.  That smile
which had revealed to Florence her father's identity stole over his
face again.  He put his hand on Jim's shoulder and beckoned to Florence.
"Are you really anxious to marry this young man?"
Florence nodded.
"Well, then, do so.  And go to Europe with him on your honeymoon; and
as a wedding present to you both, for every dollar that he has I will
add a hundred; and when you get tired of travel you will both come hack
here to live.  The Black Hundred has ceased to exist."
"And now," said Jones, shaking his shoulders.
"Well?" said Hargreave.
"My business is done.  Still--"  Jones paused.
"Go on," said Hargreave soberly.
"Well, the truth is, sir, I've grown used to you.  And if you'll let me
play the butler till the end I shall be most happy."
"I was going to suggest it."
Norton took Florence by the hand and drew her away.
"Where are you taking me?" she asked.
"I'm going to take this pretty hand of yours and put it flat upon one
million dollars.  And if you don't believe it, follow me."
She followed.
CHAPTER XXIII
It will be remembered that the Countess Olga had darted up the stairs
during the struggle between Braine and his captors.  The police who had
followed her were recalled to pursue one of the lesser rogues.  This
left Olga free for a moment.  She stole out and down as far as the
landing.
Servan, the Russian agent, stood waiting for the taxi-cab to roll up to
the porte-cochre for himself, Braine and Vroon.  Norton had taken
Florence by the hand, ostensibly to conduct her to the million.
Suddenly Braine made a dash for liberty.  Norton rushed after him.
Just as he reached Braine, a shot rang out.  Braine whirled upon his
heels and crashed to the floor.
Olga, intent upon giving injury to Norton, who she regarded equally
with Hargreave as having brought about the downfall, had hit her lover
instead.  With a cry of despair she dashed back into Florence's room,
quite ready to end it all.  She raised the revolver to her temple,
shuddered, and lowered the weapon: so tenaciously do we cling to life!
Below, they were all quite stunned by the suddenness of the shot.
Instantly they sought the fallen man's side, and a hasty examination
gave them the opinion that the man was dead.  Happily a doctor was on
the way, Servan having given the call, as one of the Black Hundred had
been wounded badly.
But what to do with that mad woman up-stairs?  Hargreave advised them
to wait.  The house was surrounded; she could not possibly escape save
by one method, and perhaps that would be the best for her.  Hargreave
looked gravely at Norton as he offered this suggestion.  The reporter
understood: the millionaire was willing to give the woman a chance.
"And you are my father?" said Florence, still bewildered by the amazing
events.  "But I don't understand yet!" her gaze roving from the real
Jones to her father.
"I don't doubt it, child," said Hargreave.  "I'll explain.  When I
hired Jones here, who is really Jedson of the Scotland Yard, I did so
because we looked alike when shaven.  It was Jedson here who escaped by
the balloon; it was Jedson who returned the five thousand to Norton,
who watched the countess' apartment; it was Jedson who was wounded in
the arm.  I myself guarded you, my child.  Last night, unbeknown to
you, I left and the real Jones--for it is easier to call him
that!--took my place."
"And I never saw the difference!" exclaimed Florence.
"That is natural," smiled her father.  "You were thinking of Norton
here instead of me.  Eh?"
Florence blushed.
"Well, why not?  Here, Norton!"  The millionaire took Florence's hand
and placed it in the reporter's.  "It seems that I've got to lose her
after all.  Kiss her, man; in heaven's name, kiss her!"
And Norton threw his arms around the girl and kissed her soundly,
careless of the fact that he was observed by both enemies and friends.
Suddenly the policeman who had been standing by the side of Braine ran
into the living-room.
"He's alive!  Braine's alive; he just stirred."
"What?" exclaimed Norton and Hargreave in a single breath.
"Yes, sir!  I saw his hands move.  It's a good thing we sent for a
doctor.  He ought to be along about now."
Even as he spoke the bell rang: and they all surged out into the hall,
forgetting for the moment all about the million.  Olga hadn't killed
the man, then?  The doctor knelt beside the stricken man and examined
him.  He shrugged.
"Will he live?"
"Certainly.  A scalp wound, that laid him out for a few moments.  He'll
be all right in a few days.  He was lucky.  A quarter of an inch lower,
and he'd have passed in his checks."
"Good!" murmured Servan.  "So our friend will accompany me back to good
Russia?  Oh, we'll be kind to him during the journey.  Have him taken
to the hospital ward at the Tombs.  Now, for the little lady up-stairs."
A moment later Braine opened his eyes, and the policeman assisted him
to his feet.  Servan, with a nod, ordered the police to help the
wounded man to the taxicab which had just arrived.  Braine, now wholly
conscious, flung back one look of supreme hatred toward Hargreave; and
that was the last either Florence or her father ever saw of Braine of
the Black Hundred--a fine specimen of a man gone wrong through greed
and an inordinate lust for revenge.
The policeman returned to Hargreave.
"It's pretty quiet up-stairs," he suggested.  "Don't you think, sir,
that I'd better try that bedroom door again?"
"Well, if you must," assented Hargreave reluctantly.  "But don't be
rough with her if you can help it."
For Braine he had no sympathy.  When he recalled all the misery that
devil's emissary had caused him, the years of hiding and pursuit, the
loss of the happiness that had rightfully been his, his heart became
adamant.  For eighteen years to have ridden and driven and sailed up
