friend of all of us."
"He is my friend, also," said the Hussar warmly. "He has told me about
Saïs and how, masquerading as a quarry workman one evening, he
discovered gun platforms along the Récollette and among the quarries.
You understand they were very cunning, those Germans, and the cement
works and quarries of Herr Heinrich von Esser are all ready to turn
those hills yonder into a fortress.  Which," he added, laughing, "we may
find very convenient."
Sister Eila, standing beside the horse’s head, stroked it, looking up at
the officer out of grave eyes.
"Is Captain Halkett well?" she asked calmly.
"I think so, Sister.  I saw him yesterday."
"If you see him again, would you say to him that Captain Gray is at the
Château des Oiseaux recovering from an accident?"
"Yes, I will tell him, Sister; but he must be around here somewhere——"
"Here!" exclaimed Warner.
"Why, yes.  Our aëroplanes have just passed through.  A British Bristol
biplane is among them in charge of a flight-lieutenant—Ferris, I think
his name is.  Captain Halkett ought to be somewhere about. Possibly he
may be superintending the disembarkment and the erection of the sheds."
He pointed northwest, adding that he understood the sheds were to be
erected on the level stretch of fields beyond the school.
"However, I shall give him your message, Sister, if I meet him," he
said, saluted them ceremoniously in turn, cast another puzzled and
slightly suspicious glance at Asticot, and rode away.
"I should like to find Halkett," said Warner.  "I certainly should like
to see him again.  We had become friends, you see.  Shall we walk back
that way across the fields, Sister Eila?"
Sister Eila turned to Sister Félicité.  Her color was high, but she
spoke very calmly:
"Had I not better remain with you and help you close the school?"
Sister Félicité shook her head vigorously:
"I can attend to that if it becomes necessary.  I shall not budge unless
I am called to field duty."
"But the children?  Had I not better take some of them home?"
"There’s time enough.  If there is going to be any danger to them, I can
arrange all that."
Sister Eila hesitated, her lovely head lowered.
"If we could find Halkett on our way back," said Warner, "I think he
would be very glad to hear from us that Gray is alive."
Sister Eila nodded in silence; Warner made his adieux; the Sisters of
Charity consulted together a moment, then the American and Sister Eila
went out through the rear door and through the little garden. And at
their heels shuffled Asticot, furtively chewing a purloined apple.
                             *CHAPTER XXXI*
As they reached the plateau above the school and halted for a few
moments to look back across the valley of the Récollette, Warner began
to understand.
The cannonading in the north had ceased.  On every road, in whichever
direction he looked, troops, artillery, and wagons were moving eastward.
This was no mere cavalry reconnoissance; it was a serious offensive
movement in force toward the east.  Eastward and south lay the Vosges;
beyond, the lost provinces stretched away in green valleys toward the
Rhine.
There lay the objective of this movement which was based on the great
Barrier Forts from Verdun to Toul, from Toul to Nancy and Luneville,
southward to Epinal, to the great, grim citadel of Belfort.
This was no raid, no feint, no diversion made by a flying corps along
the frontier.  A great screen of cavalry was brushing back every hostile
scout toward the mountains; the contact at the cement works was a mere
detail.  Nor was this movement directed toward the north, where the
Grand Duchy was crawling alive with Prussians already battering at the
"Iron Gate of France."
No, the guns of Longwy were not calling these French horsemen north,
whatever was happening at Verdun or along the Moselle.  Their helmets
were moving toward the east, toward the passes of the Vosges where
Alsace lay, and Lorraine.  Metz, Strassburg, Colmar, Mülhausen, beckoned
from every tall tower, every gable, every spire.  It was invasion!
Armed France was riding toward the rising sun.
Sister Eila’s pale, intelligent face was lifted to the distant horizon;
her clear, exalted gaze made it plain to him that she, also, had begun
to understand.
As for Asticot, he was finishing the core of his apple and watching
details in the vast panorama out of his tiny mouse-eyes; and whether he
understood or cared to understand no man might say.  For the minds of
little animals must remain inscrutable.
Near them, on the grassy plateau, soldiers were unloading portable sheds
in sections and erecting them; others were leveling hedges, felling
small, isolated trees, uprooting bushes, and clearing away a line of
wire pasture fencing.
Evidently this plateau was to be a base for some of the airmen operating
along the Vosges or possibly, also, north and east from Verdun.
As they moved forward he looked about for a British uniform, but saw
none.  A soldier informed them that there were no British troops
attached to the army of General Pau as far as he knew; two or three
cavalry officers politely confirmed the statement, taking Warner to be
an Englishman.
It was not until, following the deeply trodden sheep-walk, they passed
the silver birch woods that they had any news of Halkett.
A squadron of hussars was already bivouacked there; their wagons were
coming across the fields from the Dreslin road; officers, men, and
horses had taken advantage of the woods to escape observation from
air-scouts; and three batteries of artillery were parked in the Forêt de
Saïs, where the cannoniers had already begun to cover everything with
green branches.
As they passed through the Forêt de Saïs, out of which a shepherd with
his shaggy dogs was driving his flock, they overtook an officer of
hussars on foot, sauntering along the same path, a lighted cigarette
between his white-gloved fingers.
He stepped aside into the bracken, courteously, in deference to Sister
Eila, and lifted his hand to his shako in salute.  But when he caught
sight of Warner he stepped forward with a quick, boyish smile and held
out his hand.
"Do you remember me?—D’Aurès?  This is Monsieur Warner, is it not?"
They exchanged a handclasp; Warner presented him to Sister Eila.
"This is exceedingly nice," said the American cordially.  "We—Sister
Eila and I—are returning to the Château.  I hope you will come with us."
"If I may venture to pay my respects——"
"You will be welcome, I know."  He added, laughing: "Also, the ladies
will be most interested in the fate of their horses and their
automobiles."
The Vicomte d’Aurès reddened, but laughed:
"The Countess was most gracious, most patriotic," he said.  "But one
could expect nothing less from a De Moidrey.  Nevertheless, I felt like
a bandit that evening.  I left them only a basket wagon and a donkey."
"Which have been greatly appreciated, Monsieur," said Sister Eila,
smiling.  And she told him about the removal of Captain Gray from the
school to the Château.
"Oh, by the way," exclaimed D’Aurès, "we have a British aviator with
us—a friend of yours, Sister Eila, and of Mr. Warner."
"Halkett!"
"Yes, indeed.  It appears that Captain Halkett has specialized in this
region, so he has been assigned to us.  I have the honor of a personal
acquaintance with him."
"Where is he?" asked Warner.
"He is near here somewhere.  His machine, a Bristol, is to be parked
with ours on the plateau yonder.  I think they are erecting the hangars
now."
They entered the wicket of the lodge gate and advanced along the drive
toward the house.
Warner said:
"All this movement means the invasion of Alsace-Lorraine, I take it."
D’Aurès nodded.
"Could you give me an idea of the situation as it stands, Captain?"
"I can only guess.  Briefly, we are moving on Strassburg from the Donon
peaks to Château-Salins.  As I understand it, our armies now stretch
from the Sambre to the Seine, from the Meuse to the Oise.
"I can tell you only what is gossiped about among cavalry officers.  We
believe that we are leading a great counter-offensive movement; that it
is our General Joffre’s strategy to drive the Germans out of upper
Alsace, block Metz and Strassburg, and, holding them there in our steel
pincers, let loose our army on their flank and rear."
"And Longwy?  And this drive just north of us at Ausone?"
D’Aurès smiled.
"Can you still hear the cannonade?"
They halted to listen; there was no longer that deadly rumor from the
north.
"Verdun and Toul are taking care of that raid, I think," said D’Aurès
pleasantly.  "It comes from Metz, of course.  Verdun must look out for
the country between it and Longwy, too.  That is not our route. Ours
lies by Nancy toward Vic and Moyenvic, and through Altkirch to
Mülhausen, and then—" he laughed—"it does not become a Frenchman to
prophesy or boast.  There were too many dreamers in 1870.
"I am telling merely the gossip of our camps.  It is human to gossip
when the day’s work is over.  But for the rest—route step and plod
ahead!—That is what counts, not bragging or splendid dreams."
When they reached the terrace Warner fell back to speak to Asticot.
"I’ve arranged for you at the Golden Peach.  Madame Arlon knows."  He
handed Asticot a key.  "There’s plenty to do in my studio down there.
Get some wood and make cases for my canvases.  Cover the chassis with
toile and prime them with white lead.  Use an ivory palette knife and
let them have the sun when there is any and when there is no wind and
dust.  That will keep you busy until I send for you.  Do you
comprehend?"
"Yes, M’sieu’....  May I not walk behind M’sieu’ when he takes the air?"
Warner scowled at him, but he looked so exactly like a shiftless,
disreputable and mongrel dog who timidly desires to linger, yet is
fearful of a kick, that the American laughed.
"A fine bargain I have in you!" he said.  "You prefer rambling to work,
it appears!"
"I prefer the vicinity of M’sieu’," said Asticot naïvely.
"Go back to the inn and see if you can do an honest hour’s work!"
retorted Warner; and he turned and rejoined Sister Eila, who had taken
D’Aurès up the steps of the terrace.
It appeared that the ladies were on the north terrace. On the way
through the hall, Sister Eila excused herself and mounted the stairs for
a look-in on Gray. At the same moment, Peggy Brooks came out of the
billiard room, saw D’Aurès, recognized him.
"Oh," she said, extending her hand, "I am so glad you have come back!
How is my Minerva runabout?"
"I’m sorry I don’t know," he replied, blushing; "I didn’t steal it for
myself, you see."
"You didn’t steal it!  It’s a gift.  It’s mine to give. I give it to
you!  My sister took all the credit of giving away the horses and
cars.  But I insist on your having my Minerva runabout.  It’s a charming
car.  You’ll fall in love with it if they let you drive it.  Come out to
the terrace and speak to my sister and to my dearest friend, Philippa
Wildresse."
Warner, much amused to observe the capture of this young man, followed
them out to the south terrace.
He certainly was an ornamental young man of enchanting manners, and his
popularity was immediate.
To Warner Philippa came presently:
"Where have you been?" she asked.  "And couldn’t you have taken me?"
"Dear child, I was out before sunrise prowling about the hills with that
vagabond at my heels—Asticot."
"What did you see?"
"Uhlans on Vineyard Hill, across the Récollette. Wildresse was with
them."
"He!"
"Yes, the miserable spy!  If he’s not gone clear away some of D’Aurès’
men had better try to round him up and get rid of him....  After that,
Sister Eila and I went to the school.  More Uhlans came sniffing around,
but they cleared out in a hurry when our cavalry appeared.  Our
artillery shelled the Germans out of the Esser quarries—you must have
heard the firing?"
"Yes.  We all thought that the Germans had arrived.  Poor Mr. Gray
looked so disgusted!"
"Philippa, Halkett is here somewhere."
"Oh!" she exclaimed happily.
"He’s here with his machine—an aëroplane of sorts—Bristol, I believe.
No doubt he’ll come up to the house when he has a chance.  I suppose
Sister Eila has gone up to tell Gray."
They had strolled around to the eastern parapet and now stood looking
out over the tree tops.
"What has happened at Ausone?" she asked.  "The cannon have stopped
firing."
"I saw Ausone burning from Vineyard Hill.  It’s all knocked to pieces,
Philippa.  What I think has happened is this: troops from Verdun and
Toul—perhaps from Chalons—have entered Ausone in time to save the fort.
I suppose our infantry are intrenched along the Récollette and that
there is going to be more fighting in Ausone Forest, which must be full
of Germans."
"You don’t think they’ll come here?"
"I don’t know.  The army which you see below us everywhere in the valley
is probably on its way to invade Alsace.  D’Aurès thinks so.  I suppose
this line will be defended.  We shall hear more cannonading, I fancy.
Anyway, they are digging trenches to fall back on."
"Where?"
"Along the Récollette."
From where they were leaning on the stone balustrade, they could see
pontoons spanning the river. Across them troops and wagons were passing;
through every ford cavalry were splashing; the quarry bridge and road
were packed with motor trucks escorted by cavalry; and on the Saïs
highway artillery was still passing toward Ausone.
Her cheeks framed by her hands, elbows on the parapet, Philippa gazed at
the moving host below.  She wore a thin white gown; a scarf fell from
her shoulders; her thick, beautiful hair was full of ruddy gleams,
accenting the snowy neck and throat.
"If I set up my easel will you let me have a try at you?" he asked.
"Yes, but you’ve had no luncheon.  I’ll bring you something, and you can
arrange your canvas while I’m gone."
But they found Sister Eila had arranged for him to lunch with Gray, so
he sat with that battered and patient Englishman, chatting, watching the
troops in the valley from the open window, and lunching comfortably.
Sister Eila glanced in, smiled, then went lightly away toward the
eastern wing of the house, where fresh consignments of bandages were to
be sterilized and stored in Red Cross boxes—gauze rolls, plugs for
bullet wounds, body bandages, fracture bandages, arm slings, rolls of
unbleached muslin, of cotton, of gauze.
As she passed the open door of the chapel, she halted, faced the altar
and made her reverence.  Then, crossing herself, she rose erect, turned
to continue her way, and encountered Halkett face to face.
A bright flush leaped to her cheeks; his own face reddened to his hair
under the bronze coat of tan.
"I am so glad to see you," she said steadily, offering her hand.  "We
heard you were in Saïs with your aëroplane.  How did you happen to come
into the east wing?  It must have been closed when you were here
before?"
"I have never before been in this house.  I saw you cross the court as I
mounted the terrace steps."  He tried to ease the constraint in his
voice.  "I wanted to speak to you—first of anybody—in Saïs....  Are you
well?"
"Perfectly.  And you, Captain Halkett?"
"You seem thinner.  You do not spare yourself."
"We scarcely have time to think of ourselves," she said, smiling.  "I am
trying to fit up a little hospital here; Madame de Moidrey offers the
house."
"I understand that my friend, Captain Gray, is here?"
"Poor boy!  I must not detain you any longer. You will desire to pay
your respects to Madame de Moidrey and her sister and to the beautiful
Miss Wildresse——"
"Philippa!  Here?"
"You know her?  Is she not lovely?  I find her charming.  And—so should
all young men," she added with a little laugh.  "Therefore—I shall no
longer detain you, Captain Halkett——"
"May I—hope to see you again?"
"I hope so, indeed," she replied cheerfully.  "Do you remain for a while
in Saïs?"
"For a while, I think."
There fell a silence, which became a little strained. Sister Eila looked
up at him from lowered eyes; then her face went white and she laid her
hand flat against the chapel wall beside her, as though for support.
"Then—if I may hope to see you again—inspect your hospital, perhaps——"
She nodded, still leaning on the chapel wall.
So he went away swiftly, very straight in his field uniform, and she saw
him cross the court, head erect, looking directly before him as though
he saw nothing.
An immense fatigue seemed to weight her; still supporting herself
against the wall, she turned and looked at the chapel door.  Even on
that grey day the light within was golden from the old glass.
Into that mellow stillness crept Sister Eila, her young head drooping,
the metal crucifix swinging at her girdle from its rosary of wooden
beads.
The painted saints stared at her; the painted angels all stood watching
her; the Mother of God looked out from the manger, brooding,
preoccupied, wonder-eyed; but the Child at her breast was smiling.
Then down on her knees fell Sister Eila; her slim hands clasped, clung,
tightened, parted, and covered her face convulsively.
Very far away in the valley a trumpet spoke.
                            *CHAPTER XXXII*
Warner began the full-length portrait—which has now become famous under
the title "Philippa Passes"—in the main hall of the Château.
A clear light fell through the northern and eastern windows; from the
golden gloom above generations of De Moidreys looked down upon the fair
girl who stood in their great hall as tranquil and unconscious as though
born within the carved gray walls which they had built or added to in
years long dead.
He had chosen for the pose a moment when, as she was in the act of
passing in front of him, a word from him had checked her and caused her
to turn her head.
There he held her as she had paused, poised on the very edge of motion,
her enchanting head turned and the grey eyes meeting his.
Already on his canvas he had caught her; an odd sensation of cold,
clear-minded exaltation seemed to possess him as he worked—a calm,
strange certainty of himself and of the work in hand.
There was no hesitation, no doubt within him, only a sustained
excitement under unerring control.  He knew what he wanted; he knew that
he was doing methodically what he wanted to do with every unhurried
brush stroke.
There was no halting, no searching, no checks; his mind had never been
so absolutely in control of his hand; his hand never so automatically
obedient, his intelligence never before so clear, so logical, so steady
under the incessant lightning of inspiration.
Conscious of the tremendous tension, he knew he was equal to it—knew
that no weakness of impulse or of sentiment could swerve him, unsteady
him, meddle with his brain or his nerves or his hand.
Nothing could stop him from doing what he had to do, nothing could
tamper with this newborn confidence which had suddenly possessed him
with its unlooked for magic.
He was painting Philippa as he had known her from the beginning; as he
had prophesied; as she had been revealed—a young girl with grey eyes and
chestnut hair, fine of limb, with the shadow of a smile on her wistful
lips, and "her soul as clean as a flame."
So certain was he of what he was about that to Philippa he seemed to
work very leisurely, wiping brush after brush with unhurried
deliberation, laying on stroke after stroke with that quiet decision
which accumulates and coördinates component parts into a result so
swiftly that an ensemble is born as though by magic.
A few great pictures are painted that way; myriads of bad ones.  If he
thought of this it did not trouble him.  Already, on his canvas, the
soul of a young girl was looking at him through those grey eyes; on the
fresh lips, scarce parted, hovered the shadow of a smile, virginal and
vague.
He felt the splendid tension; experienced the consciousness of
achievement, steeled every nerve, wiped his brushes with deliberation,
drew them across the edges of the colors needed, scarcely glancing at
his palette, laid on the brush stroke with the precision of finality.
From where he had slung his tall canvas between two ancient, high-backed
chairs as an improvised easel, he could see the northern terrace and the
people gathered there—Madame de Moidrey in animated conversation with
Halkett; Peggy knitting fitfully and looking over her clicking needles
at the youthful Vicomte d’Aurès, who had pushed aside the tea table in
order to obtain an unobstructed view of this American girl who was
making his boyish head spin.
Beyond them, on a steamer chair, lay Gray.  Sister Eila sat beside him
sewing.  There was conversation between them and Madame de Moidrey and
Halkett—across and across, cat-cradle fashion—but it passed through
Peggy and D’Aurès unheeded, as wireless in the upper air currents; and
the Countess glanced occasionally at her sister or let her eyes rest on
D’Aurès now and then with a pleasant, preoccupied air, as though
considering other things than those which were passing under her pretty
nose.
From time to time Philippa came around to where Warner stood before his
canvas, and remained beside him in silence while he studied what he had
done.
Once he looked up questioningly; the girl took possession of his right
arm with both of hers and rested her cheek lightly against his shoulder.
No words could have praised or reassured him as eloquently.  And he
understood that what he had done was, to her, worthy of all she believed
him to be—matchless, wonderful, and hers.
The light had failed a little in the early August sky, but the clouds
had cleared and the sun glittered in the west.  There was light to work
by, yet.
He clothed his canvas in a mystery of cobweb shadow: behind her there
was a dull gleam of duller tapestry; delicate half-lights made the
picture vague, so that the "clean flame" of her seemed the source of all
light, its origin, making exquisite the clear, young eyes.
He knew that what he had painted was already a fit companion to be
placed among the matchless company looking down on them from the walls
through a delicate bloom of dust.
What he had done belonged here, as she herself belonged here between
these old-time walls and the ancient roof above.  And every corridor,
every room, every terrace, would be the sweeter, the fresher, for her
lingering before she passed on her life’s journey through an old and
worn-out world.
"Philippa passes," he said, thinking aloud.
She looked up, smiled.
"Only where you lead her, shall Philippa pass," she murmured.
"It is to be the title of your portrait....  Would you care to look at
it now?  There is not so much more to do to it, I think...."
She came around and stood silently beside him.
"Is it you?" he asked.
"My other self....  I had not supposed you knew her—so deeply—so
intimately—more intimately than I myself seem to know her."
He laughed gently.
"Heart of a child," he said, half to himself.
"Heart of a man," she answered.  "What have I done to deserve you?  How
can you be so patient with me? ... You, a man already grown,
distinguished, ripe with wisdom....  I don’t know why you should annoy
yourself with me....  It is too wonderful—why you should be my friend—my
friend——"
"There is something far more wonderful, Philippa—that you should be my
friend.  Didn’t you know it?"
She laughed.
"I wonder if you know what I would do for you? There is nothing you
could ask of me that I would not do——"
She ceased, her voice threatening unsteadiness, but her eyes were clear
and she was smiling.
"Words are idle things," she added calmly, "and not necessary, I think,
between you and me....  Only, sometimes I feel—a need of telling you—of
my devotion....  There have been lonely years—friendless—and a heart
sickens under eternal silence—needing an opportunity for
self-expression——"
"I know, dear."
"I know you do....  You are very kind to me."
"Philippa, I care more for you than I do for any living person!"
The lovely surprise in her face flushed her to her hair.  She looked at
him out of confused, incredulous eyes, strove to smile, caught her
trembling lip between her teeth.
"Didn’t you know it?" he said in a low voice.
She tried to answer, turned sharply and faced the windows with blurred
eyes that saw only a glimmering sheet of light there.
He stood motionless, looking at her, intent upon the sudden confusion in
his own brain, realizing it, trying to explain it, analyze it coolly,
calmly account for it.
If it were any emotion resembling love which was so utterly possessing
him, he chose to know it, to inform himself as to the real significance
of this loss of logical equilibrium, this mental inadequacy which began
to resemble a sort of chaos.
Was he in love with this girl?  Was it love?  Was this what it all had
meant—all, from the very beginning, through all its coincidences,
accidents, successive steps and stages?
And suddenly a terrible timidity seized him. Suppose she knew what he
was thinking about!  What would she think?  What would she do?  Where
would her confidence go?  What would become of her trust in him?  What
would happen to her implicit faith in him?
Of one thing he was suddenly and absolutely certain; love had never
entered her mind, never lodged in her heart, never troubled that candid
gaze, never altered her fearless smile.  With all her devotion to him,
all her passionate attachment of a child, never had anything as
deep—never had any emotion as profound as love disturbed the mystery of
depths where dwelt in virginal immaturity the soul of her, "clean as a
flame—"
As for himself—where he now stood—whither he was being led by something
which was not reason, not intention, he did not seem able to understand.
The light in the room had become too uncertain to paint by; he released
his canvas and carried it away behind a tapestry, setting it slanting,
face to the stone wall.
The brushes, mediums, palette, he left on the palette table and pushed
it into a corner behind a sofa, where nobody was likely to fall over it
before he gave brushes and palette to Asticot to clean.
All the while Philippa stood looking out of the window over the tree
tops, her young heart and brain on fire with happiness and throbbing
with the wonder of her first innocent passion.
With it, for the first time, had come something she never before had
known with Warner—something indefinite, new, inexplicable—a vague sense
of shyness almost painful at instants—a consciousness of herself that
she had never known—a subtle, instinctive realization of her own
maturity which left a faintly delicious sensation in her breast.
Now, for the first time since she had known him, her instinct was not to
go to him, not to face him.  She did not understand why—did not question
herself. From the window she looked out over the forest; she heard him
moving quietly about behind her; listened with an odd content in his
proximity, but with no desire to turn and join him—no wish to move or
stir from the spell which held her there in the enchanted silence of a
happiness so wonderful that sky and earth seemed to understand and share
it with her.
"Philippa?"
She turned slowly as in a dream.
It was perhaps as well that he had a record on canvas of what she had
been—of the young girl he had been painting in all her lovely
immaturity.  Perhaps the girl who faced him now from the window was even
lovelier, but she was not the Philippa of "Philippa Passes."
Truly that Philippa had passed, vanished silently even as she had stood
there with her eyes on the window; faded, dissolved into thin shadow,
leaving, where she had stood, this slender, silent, deep-eyed girl
looking at him out of the new and subtle mystery which enveloped her.
He thought that it was he himself who saw her differently and with new
eyes; but she herself had changed.  And, for the first time, as they
passed slowly toward the terrace together, he was conscious of a
freshness that seemed to cling to her like a fragrance—and of the beauty
of her as she moved beside him, not touching him, keeping clear of
contact, her head a trifle bent.
                            *CHAPTER XXXIII*
Warner, dressing for dinner, stood looking down from his window at the
Saïs road.  Halkett, in his smart but sober field uniform, sat sideways
on the window sill, chatting with his friend and surveying the lively
panorama below, where, through the fading light, endless columns of
motor lorries rolled ponderously eastward.
In every direction bicycle and motor cycle messengers were speeding,
north and south on the Saïs road, west toward Dreslin by the mill,
eastward over cow-paths and sheepwalks, and across the pontoons, or by
the school highway and quarry bridge, southeast toward a road crowded
with motor lorries, and through that gap in the foothills which narrows
into the Pass of the Falcons.
Warner, leisurely buttoning his waistcoat, stood looking out of the
window at the scenes passing under the plateau, and listening with the
greatest interest to Halkett’s comments on these preliminaries for a
campaign about to open.
"Then, in your opinion, it is invasion?" he said.
Halkett nodded:
"I can make nothing else of this movement, Warner. Our General, Pau, is
at Nancy.  What you see down there is part of a perfectly complete and
coherent army, and it is certainly moving on the Vosges passes.
"Metz, Strassburg, Colmar, lie beyond; our alpinists are swarming around
the Donon.  Under it lie the lowlands of Alsace and Lorraine.
"Already we have seized the pass of Saales; Thann and Danemarie are
menaced; the valley of the Bruche lies before us, Saarburg and the
railroad to Metz invite us.
"Does it not all seem very logical, Warner?"
"It sounds so."
"It is good strategy.  The logic is sound logic.  If we carry it
through, it will be applauded as brilliant strategy.
"The Germans want a decisive battle on French soil in the vicinity of
Rheims.  If they beat us there, they pivot on Verdun, half-circle on the
Oise, and Paris lies before them.  They have today a million men within
striking distance of the French frontier."
"Are we fully mobilized?"
"Our concentration is slower; we are massing between Bar-le-Duc and
Epinal.  We have, so far, only seven corps d’armée concentrated, and
twenty-one more on the march.  But do you know what we have done
already?
"Listen; this isn’t generally known yet, but we have taken the passes of
Bonhomme and Sainte Marie; we have taken Mülhausen——"
"What!"
"Yes, it’s ours.  More than that, we have entered Dinant.  At
Mangiennes, Moncel, Lagarde, we drove the Germans.  Our line of battle
stretches two hundred miles from a point opposite Tongres to Nancy.  We
smashed the Germans at Altkirch and left them minus thirty thousand men!
"And this great counter-offensive which our General is planning is
already exercising such a pressure on their advance toward Brussels that
they have begun to detach entire army corps and send them post haste
into Alsace.  What do you think of that, Warner?"
"Fine!" exclaimed the American.  "It’s simply splendid, Halkett.  You
see, we here in the valley couldn’t know anything about it.  All we had
to go by was that the German guns were booming nearer and nearer, that
Ausone is in ruins, that Uhlans were riding the country as impudently as
though they were patrolling their own fatherland.  I tell you, old chap,
it’s a wonderful relief to me to hear from you what is really going on."
He turned to his mirror, lighted a cigarette, and began to fuss with his
tie.
Halkett said, grimly amused:
"Oh, yes, we all ought to feel immensely relieved by capturing a
mountain and a couple of unfortified German towns, even if there are
today in Europe seventeen million men under arms and seventeen million
more in reserve, all preparing to blow each other’s heads off."
Warner came back slowly to the windows:
"It is a ghastly situation, Halkett.  The magnitude of the cataclysm
means nothing to us, so far.  Nobody yet has comprehended it.  I don’t
think anybody ever really can—even when it’s over and the whole
continent is underplowcd and fertilized with dead men from the Channel
to the Carpathians—no single mind of the twentieth century is ever going
to be able to grasp this universal horror in all its details.  In a
hundred years, perhaps——"  He shrugged, threw away his cigarette, and
picked up his evening coat to inspect it before decorating his person
with it.
Halkett said:
The scale of the whole business is paralyzing. Here’s a single detail,
for example: Germany is in process of launching six huge armies into
France.  The Crown Prince, the Grand Duke of Württemberg, Generals von
Kluck, von Bülow, von Hausen, and von Heeringen command them.
"Three of them have not yet moved; three are on their juggernaut way
already—the Army of the Meuse, based at Cologne, is marching through
Belgium on a front thirty miles wide, its right flank brushing the Dutch
border at Visé, its left on Stavelot, its center enveloping the Liége
railroad.
"The Moselle army, based on Coblenz, has made a highway of the Grand
Duchy and is in Belgium.  The Rhine army has its bases at Strassburg and
Mayence, and started very gayly to raise the devil on its own account,
but we’ve stung it in the flank already and it’s squirming in
uncertainty.
"And that is the situation so far, old chap, as well as I can understand
it.  And I understand it fairly well because of my position with this
French army. You don’t quite understand how I happen to be here and what
I am doing, do you?"
"Not exactly.  I know you have a Bristol aëroplane here and that you are
attached to the British Flying Corps."
"Oh, yes.  In our service I am squadron commander, and Gray is wing
commander.  But I have a flight-lieutenant yonder at the sheds and a
mechanic.
"As a matter of fact, Warner, I am the British Official Observer with
General Pau’s army, and Gray, when he can get about, is to act with me.
That is what I am doing."
"You make no flights?"
"Oh, yes, we shall fly, Gray and I—not doing any range finding for the
artillery and not making ordinary raids with bombs.  Observation is to
be our rôle.  It’s interesting, isn’t it?"
"It’s fascinating," said Warner, linking his arm in Halkett’s as they
left the room.
"As a matter of fact," he added, "in spite of the horrors in Belgium,
the slaughter there and in Alsace, this war has not really begun."
Halkett turned a drawn and very grave face to him:
"Warner," he said, "this war will not really begin until next spring.
And there will be a million dead men under ground by that time."
Dinner that evening at the Château des Oiseaux was a most cheerful
function.  The passing of an army for miles and miles through the
country around them was a relief and a reassurance which brought with it
a reaction of gayety slightly feverish at moments.
The Countess de Moidrey gave her arm to Gray, tall, slim, yellow-haired,
and most romantically pale: Captain the Vicomte d’Aurès took out Peggy
Brooks—they turned to each other with the same impulse, as naturally as
two children coming together—and the words designating them to other
partners remained unspoken on Ethra’s lips.
Philippa, in an enchanting gown of turquoise, looked up at the Countess,
flushed and expectant, but the elder woman, much amused, designated
Halkett, and the girl took the arm he offered with a faint smile at
Warner, as though to reassure him concerning matters temporarily beyond
her own control.
The Countess saw it, stood watching Warner, who had drawn Sister Eila’s
arm through his own, and was taking her out—saw Halkett and Philippa
halt and draw aside to let them pass; saw the expression in Sister
Eila’s face as her glance met Halkett’s, wavered, and passed elsewhere.
Before she and Gray had moved to close the double file, the Curé of
Dreslin was unexpectedly announced, and she turned to receive him,
asking him to support Gray on the other side.  Always Father Chalus was
a welcome guest at the Château; every house, humble or great, from
Dreslin to Saïs, was honored when this dim-eyed old priest set foot
across the threshold.
The dinner was lively, gay at times, and always cheerful with the
excitement lent by the arrival of the army—an arrival verging closely on
the dramatic, with the echoes of the cannonade still heavy among the
northern forests, the evening sky still ruddy above Ausone, and the
August air tainted with the odor of burning.
Through the soft candlelight servants moved silently; the Countess, with
the old Curé on her right, devoted herself to him and to Gray.
As though utterly alone in the center of some vast solitude peopled only
by themselves, young D’Aurès and Peggy Brooks remained conspicuously
absorbed in each other and equally oblivious to everything and everybody
else on earth.
"How is Ariadne?" inquired Halkett of Philippa,
"Poor dear!  I have not seen her since she soiled a whisker in Jim’s
ultramarine!"
Sister Eila’s lowered eyes were lifted; she tried to smile at Halkett.
"I saw Ariadne the other day," she said.  "The cat is quite comfortable
in the garden of the Golden Peach."
Halkett said lightly:
"Ariadne introduced me to Sister Eila.  Do you remember, Sister?"
But Sister Eila had already turned to Warner, and perhaps she did not
hear.
Later Warner bent toward Philippa:
"You are enchanting in that filmy turquoise blue affair."
"Isn’t it a darling?  Peggy would make me wear it.  It’s hers, of
course....  Do I please you?"
"Did you ever do anything else, Philippa?"
She colored, looked up at him confused, and laughed:
"Oh, yes," she said, "I have annoyed you too, sometimes.  Do you
remember when I ran away from Ausone and told you about it in the meadow
by the river? Oh, you were very much annoyed!  You need not deny it.  I
realize now how much annoyed you must have been——"
"Thank God you did what you did," he said under his breath.
"What else could I do?"
"Nothing....  I must have been blind, there in Ausone, not to understand
you from the first moment. And I must have been crazy to have gone away
and left you there....  When I think of it, it makes me actually ill——"
"Jim!  You didn’t know."
"I should have known.  Any blockhead ought to have understood.  That was
the time I should have heard the knocking of opportunity!  I was deaf.
That was the time I should have caught a glimpse of that clean flame
burning.  I seemed to know it was there—words are cheap!—but my eyes
were too dull to perceive a glimmer from it!"
"Jim!  You saw a girl with painted lips and cheeks insulting the
sunlight.  How could you divine——"
"I couldn’t; I didn’t.  I was not keen enough, not fine enough.  Yet,
that was the opportunity.  That was the moment when I should have
comprehended you—when I should have stood by you—taken you, held you
against everybody, everything——  Good God!  I went away, smug as any
Pharisee, and with a self-satisfied smile left you on the edge of
hell—smiling back at me out of those grey, undaunted eyes——"
"Please!  You were wonderful every minute from the beginning—every
minute—all through it, Jim——"
"You were!  I know what I was.  Halkett knows, too.  I was not up to
the opportunity; I did not measure up to the chance that was offered me;
I was not broad enough, fine enough——"
"What are you saying!—When you know how I feel—how I regard you——"
"How can you regard me the way you say you do?"
"How can I help it?"  She looked down at her glass, touched the slender
stem absently.
"Out of all the world," she said under her breath, "you alone held out a
comrade’s hand.  Does anything else matter? ... Think!  You are
forgetting. Remember!  Picture me where I was—as I was—only yesterday!
Look at me now—here, beside you.—here under this roof, among these
people—and the taste of their salt still keen in my mouth!  Now, do you
understand what you have done for me—you alone? Now, do you understand
what I—feel—for you?—For you who mean not only life to me, but who have
made possible for me that life which follows death?"
Her cheeks flushed; she turned breathlessly toward him.
"I tell you," she whispered, "you have offered me Christ, as surely as
He has ever been offered at any communion since the Last Supper! ...
That is what you have done for me!"
                            *CHAPTER XXXIV*
Dinner was ended.
Gray had retired to his room, persuaded by Madame de Moidrey, who bribed
him by promising to read to him when he was tired of talking shop to
Captain Halkett.
Sister Eila had returned to the east wing, which was convenient to her
business as well as to her devotions.
Also, she had need of Father Chalus, who had come all the way from
Dreslin on foot.  For it was included in the duty of the parish priest
to confess both Sister Eila and Sister Félicité; only the sudden perils
and exigencies of home duties in Dreslin had detained him since the war
broke out.
He was old, lean, deeply worn in the service of the poor—a white-haired
man who looked out on the world through kindly blue eyes dimmed by
threescore years of smoky candlelight and the fine print of breviaries—a
priest devotedly loved in Dreslin, and by the household of the Château,
and by every inhabitant of the scattered farms composing the little
hamlet called Saïs.
It appeared that Sister Eila had great need of Father Chalus, for they
had gone away together, into the eastern wing of the house.  And the
Countess, noticing their departure, smiled to herself; for, like
everybody else, she was skeptical regarding the reality of any sins that
Sister Eila might have to confess.
The young Vicomte d’Aurès had taken his leave with all the unspoiled,
unembarrassed, and boyish cordiality characteristic of his race; also he
departed in a state of mind so perfectly transparent to anybody who
cared to notice it that Madame de Moidrey retired to the billiard room
after his departure, looking very serious.  She became more serious
still when Peggy did not appear from the southern terrace, whither she
had returned to mention something to Monsieur D’Aurès which she had
apparently forgotten to say to him in the prolonged ceremony of
leavetaking.
When fifteen minutes elapsed and no Peggy appeared, Madame de Moidrey
rose from her chair, flushed and unsmiling.  But before she had taken a
dozen steps toward the southern terrace her younger sister reappeared,
walking rapidly.  When she caught sight of the Countess advancing, she
halted and gazed at her sister rather blankly.
"Well, Peggy?"
"Well?"
"I am not criticising you or that boy, but perhaps a little more
reticence—repose of manner—reserve——"
"Ethra," she said in an awed voice, "I am in love with D’Aurès."
"What!"
"I am.  It came."
"Good heavens, Peggy——"
"I know!  I said ’good heavens,’ too—I mean I thought it.  I don’t know
what I’ve been saying this evening——"
"When?  Where?"
"Everywhere.  Just now, on the terrace——"
"Peggy!"
"What?"
"You didn’t say anything that could be——"
"Yes, I did.  I think he knows I’m in love with him. I meant him to
know!"
"Peggy!"
"Oh, Ethra, I don’t remember what I said.... And I think he cares for
me—I think we’re in love with each other——"
The girl dropped into a chair and stared at her sister.
"I’m bewitched, I think.  Ever since I saw him that first time it’s been
so.  I’ve thought of him all the time....  He says that it was so with
him, also——"’
"Oh, heavens, Peggy!  Are you mad?  Is he? You’re acting like a pair of
crazy children——"
"We are children.  He’s only a boy.  But I know he’s growing into the
only man who could ever mean anything to me....  He’s writing to his
father now. I expect his father will write to you.  Isn’t it wonderful!"
Ethra de Moidrey gazed at her sister dizzily.  The girl sat with her
face between her hands looking steadily at the carpet.  After a moment
she glanced up.
"It’s the way you fell in love," she said under her breath.
Madame de Moidrey rose abruptly, as though a sudden shaft of pain had
pierced her.  Then, walking over to her sister, she dropped one hand on
her dark head; stroked the thick, lustrous hair gently, absently; stood
very silent, gazing into space.
When Peggy stood up the Countess encircled her waist with one arm.  They
walked together slowly toward the southern terrace.
A million stars had come out in the sky; there was a scent of lilies
lingering above the gardens.  Sounds from distant bivouacs came to their
ears; no camp fires were visible, but the Récollette glittered like snow
in the white glare of searchlights.
"That boy," said Peggy, "—wherever he is riding out there in the
night—out there under the stars—that boy carries my heart with him....
I always thought that if it ever came it would come like this.... I
thought it would never come....  But it has."
Halkett, returning from a conference with Warner and Gray, came out on
the terrace to take his leave. They asked him to return when he could;
promised to visit the sheds and see the Bristol biplane.
Part way down the steps he turned and came back, asked permission to
leave his adieux with them for Sister Eila from whom he had not had an
opportunity to take his leave, turned again and went away into the
night, using his flashlight along the unfamiliar drive.
Ethra de Moidrey went into the house to keep her promise to Gray, and
found him tired but none the worse for his participation at dinner.
Philippa and Warner had come in to visit him; the Countess found the
book from which she had been reading to him since his arrival.  He
turned on his pillow and looked at her, and she seated herself beside
the bed and opened the book on her knees.
"Do you remember where we left off?" she asked, smiling.
"I think it was where he was beginning to fall in love with her."
The Countess de Moidrey bent over the book. There was a slight color in
her cheeks.
"I had not noticed that he was falling in love," she observed, turning
the pages to find her place.
Philippa said to Warner:
"Could we walk down and see the searchlights? They are so wonderful on
the water."
"Probably the sentinels won’t permit us outside our own gates," he
replied.  "I know one thing; if you and I were not considered as part of
the family of the Château, the military police would make us clear out.
It’s lucky I left the inn to come up here."
The Countess had begun reading in a low, soft voice, bending over her
book beside the little lamp at the bedside, where Gray lay watching her
under a hand that shaded his pallid face.
Something in her attitude and his, perhaps—or in her quiet voice—seemed
subtly, to Philippa, to exclude her and the man with her from a silent
entente too delicate, perhaps, to term an intimacy.
She touched Warner’s arm, warily, not taking it into her possession as
had been her unembarrassed custom only yesterday—even that very day.
Together they went out into the corridor, down the stairway, and
presently discovered Peggy on the southern terrace gazing very earnestly
at the stars.
That the young girl was wrapped, enmeshed, in the magic of the great web
which Fate has been spinning since time began, they did not know.
Still stargazing, they left her and walked down the dark drive to the
lodge where, through the iron grille, they saw hussars en vedette
sitting their horses in the uncertain luster of the planets.
Overhead the dark foliage had begun to stir and sigh in the night
breeze; now and again a yellowing leaf fell, rustling slightly; and they
thought they could hear the Récollette among its rushes—the faintest
murmur—but were not sure.
He remembered her song, there in the river meadow:
    Hussar en vedette
    What do you see?—
And thought of the white shape on the bank—a true folk song, unfinished
in its eerie suggestion which the imagination of the listeners must
always finish.
Yet he said:
"Was he killed—that vedette on the Récollette, Philippa?"
She knew what he meant, smiled faintly:
"Does anybody see Death and live to say so?"
"Of course I knew," he said.
They turned back, walking slowly.  He had drawn her arm through his, but
it rested there very lightly, scarcely in contact at all.
"What a fine fellow Halkett is!" he said.
"Your friends should be fine, Jim.  Our friends ought to reflect our own
qualities and mirror our aspirations....  That was written in one of my
school-books," she added with that delicate honesty which characterized
her.
"You reflect my aspirations," he said, unsmiling.
"Oh, Jim!  I?  Do you imagine I believe that?"
"You might as well.  It’s true enough.  You have just mirrored for me my
hopeless aspiration toward that perfect and transparent honesty which I
haven’t attained, but which seems always to have been a part of you."
Sister Eila passed them in the starlight, her young head bent over the
rosary in her hands, moving slowly across the lawn.
Their passing on the drive did not seem to arouse her from her
meditation; she seated herself on a stone bench under a clump of yews;
and they moved on in silence.
As they reached the terrace a shot sounded down by the river; another
echoed it; the rattle of rifle fire ran along the valley from, north to
south; a rocket rose, flooding the hill beyond the quarry road with a
ghastly light.
Peggy Brooks, white as death, came over to Philippa and took her hands
into both of hers.
She had begun to learn what love meant, with the first blind shot in the
dark, and all the passion and fear within her was concentrated in
wondering where those leaden messengers of death had found their
billets.
She said in a ghost of a voice:
"Is there going to be a battle here?"
"Not now," replied Warner.  "Probably it’s nothing at all—some nervous
sentry waking up his equally nervous comrades....  What a horrible light
that rocket shed!"
The shots had died away; there was no more firing.
Vignier had come around; he was an old soldier, and Warner spoke to him.
"Perhaps a cow," he said with a shrug, "—the wind in the bushes—a
hedgehog rustling.  Young soldiers are like that in the beginning.  And
still, perhaps they have caught a prowler out there—an Uhlan, maybe, or
a spy.  One never knows what to expect at night."
"Do you think that our valley will see any fighting, Vignier?"
"Does that not depend, Monsieur, on what is to happen beyond the Vosges?
They have dug line after line of trenches across the valley and the
plateau as far as Dreslin.  Those are positions being prepared in
advance, to fall back upon in case of disaster in the east."
"I thought that was what this trench digging meant."
"That is what it means, Monsieur Warner.  They tell me that our soldiers
are going to operate the cement works day and night to turn out material
for platforms and emplacements.  I know that they have gone into our
western woods with loads of cement and crushed stone.  The forest is
full of fantassins and chasseurs-à-pied.  It is certain that some
general will make our Château his headquarters en passant."
He had scarcely spoken when, far away in the darkness, a noise arose.
It came from the direction of the lodge gate, grew nearer, approaching
by the drive.
The Countess, reading to Gray, heard it, laid down her book to listen.
Gray listened too, raising himself on his pillows.
"Cavalry have entered the grounds," he said quietly.
"I shall have to go down," she said.  At the door she paused: "Will you
remember where we left off, Captain Gray?"
"I shall remember.  It is where he has completely fallen in love with
her."
The Countess de Moidrey met his calm gaze, sustained it for a moment,
then with a smile and a nod of adieu she turned and went out into the
corridor. As she descended the stairs she placed both hands against her
cheeks, which burned slightly.
The hall below was already crowded with officers of somebody’s staff;
the pale blue tunics of chasseurs and hussars were conspicuous against
the darker dress of dragoons.  The silver corselet of a colonel of
cuirassiers glittered in the lamplight; twisted gold arabesques
glimmered on crimson caps and sleeves; the ring of spur and hilt and the
clash of accouterments filled the house.
As the Countess set foot in the hall, a general officer wearing the
cross of the Legion came forward, his red cap, heavy with gold, in his
gloved hand.
"Countess," he said, bending over the hand which she smilingly extended,
"a thousand excuses could not begin to make amends for our intrusion——"
"General, you honor my roof.  Surely you must understand the happiness
that I experience in reminding you that the house of De Moidrey belongs
to France and to the humblest and highest of her defenders."
The General, whose clipped mustache and imperial were snow-white, and
whose firm, bronzed features denied his years, bent again over the
pretty hand that rested on his own.
Then, asking permission to name himself, in turn he presented the
members of his military family.
Included was a thin blond man of middle height, with a golden mustache
twisted up, cinder-blond hair, and conspicuous ears.  He wore a monocle,
and was clothed in a green uniform.  General of Division Delisle
presented him as Major-General Count Cassilis, the Russian Military
Observer attached to division headquarters.
For a few moments there was much bending of tight-waisted tunics in the
yellow lamplight, much jingling of spurs and sabers, compliments spoken
and implied with a gay smile and bow—all the graceful, easy formality to
be expected in such an extemporized gathering.
Peggy and Philippa appeared, followed by Warner; presentations were
effected; servants arranged chairs and brought trays set with bottles of
light wine and biscuits, preliminary to an improvised supper which was
now being prepared in the kitchen.
General Raoul Delisle had known Colonel de Moidrey; he and the Countess
formed the center of the brilliant little assembly where half a dozen
officers surrounded Peggy and Warner.
But the effect of Philippa on the Russian Military Observer, General
Count Cassilis, was curious to watch.
From the instant he laid eyes on her, he had continued to look at her;
and his inspection would have had all the insolence of a stare had he
not always averted his gaze when hers moved in his direction.
When he had been named to her, he had bowed suavely, and with
characteristic Russian ceremony and empressement; but the instant her
name was pronounced the Russian Observer had straightened himself like a
steel rod released from a hidden spring, and his fishy blue eyes widened
so that his monocle had fallen from its place to swing dangling across
the jeweled decorations on his breast.
And now he had managed to approach Philippa and slightly separate her
from the company, detaining her in conversation, more suave, more
amiably correct than ever.
Already in her inexperience with a world where such men are to be
expected, the girl found herself vaguely embarrassed, subtly on the
defensive—a defensive against something occult which somehow or other
seemed to menace her privacy and seemed to be meddling with the natural
reticence with which, instinctively, she protected herself from any
explanation of her past life.
Not that Count Cassilis had presumed to ask any direct question; she was
not even aware of any hint or innuendo; yet she was constantly finding
herself confronted with a slight difficulty in responding to his gay,
polite, and apparently impersonal remarks. Somehow, everything he said
seemed to involve some reference on her part to a past which now
concerned nobody excepting herself and the loyal friends who
comprehended it.
And, from the beginning, from the first moment when this man was
presented to her, and she had looked up with a smile to acknowledge the
introduction, she experienced an indefinite sensation of meeting
somebody whom she had seen somewhere years before—years and years ago.
As he conversed with her, standing there by the table with the lighted
lamp partly concealed by his gold-slashed shoulder, the vague impression
of something familiar but long forgotten came at moments, faded,
returned, only to disappear again.
And once, a far, pale flicker of memory played an odd trick on her, for
suddenly she seemed to remember a pair of thin, conspicuous ears like
his, and lamplight—or perhaps sunlight—shining behind them and turning
them a translucent red.  It came and vanished like the faint memory of a
dream dreamed years and years ago.  As she looked at Count Cassilis, the
smile died out in her eyes and on her lips, and the slightest feeling of
discomfort invaded her.
Toasts were offered, acknowledged, compliments said, glasses emptied.
The General of Division Delisle spoke diffidently of quarters for
himself and his military family, and was cordially reassured by the
Countess.
There was plenty of room for all.  It was evident, too, that they had
ridden far and must be hungry. Servants were summoned, rooms in the east
wing thrown open to the air; the kitchen stirred up to increased
activity for the emergency; the officers piloted to the rooms assigned
them.
Down on the drive a shadowy escort of hussars waited until an orderly
appeared, shining, with his breast torch, the path to the stables.
Then three sky-guns jolted up out of the darkness and halted; a company
of infantry tramped by toward the garage; the horses of the staff were
led away by mounted gendarmes; and three big military touring cars,
their hoods and glass windows grey with dust, began to purr and pant and
crawl slowly after the infantry.
Everywhere sentries were being set, taking post on every terrace, every
path and road, and before the doorways of the great house.
A single candle burned in the chapel.  Beside it sat Sister Eila, intent
on her breviary, her lips moving silently as she bent above it.
The fifth part of the breviary, Matins, Lauds, and the Little Office of
the Blessed Virgin, absorbed her.
The whole of the breviary services, the duty of publicly joining or of
privately reading aloud so as to utter with the lips every word, is
generally incumbent upon all members of religious orders.
But Sisters of Charity, forming as they do an active religious order,
are excepted.
Nevertheless, they are always bound to some shorter substitute, such as
