sulkily called the name of Miss Frieda Appel.
There was no question of poor Frieda's making a good personal impression
upon spectators or jury, no matter how worthy her motives. She had saved
almost every penny of her wages since coming to America; it had been
her lover's intention to emigrate to Brabant County as soon as his term
of service was over, and her housewifely intention to greet him with a
furnished cottage. Since the war began, she had sent all her savings to
East Prussia lest her people starve.
Dress in any circumstances would never tempt her. Economy was her
religion, and she cherished no illusions about her face and form. To-day
she wore a skirt of an old voluminous cut and a jacket with high
puckered sleeves. The colour had once been brown. Her coarse blonde hair
met her eyebrows in a thick bang, and its high knob was surmounted by a
sailor hat a size too small. Her thick-set body was uncorseted, and her
indeterminate features were lost in the width and flatness of her face.
Only the little eyes beneath the heavy thatch of hair alternately glowed
dully and spat fire.
The Judge sternly suppressed the titter that ran over the court-room as
this caricature mounted the witness-stand, and the district attorney, in
spite of frequent interruptions, elicited a remarkably clear and
coherent statement. The Judge sustained him, for here was a real
witness, and Miss Appel not only had been as thoroughly rehearsed as
Mrs. Figg, but she had a neat precise little mind set with rows of
pigeonholes that ejected their contents in routine when her coach
pressed the cognate button.
She had come home abruptly from the dance-hall as she had an
insupportable toothache--had run all the way, as she had some
toothache-drops in her room. She was in such agony she hardly had
noticed that her friend Conrad Kraus was behind her. When she reached
her room she had applied the drops, and to her horror they made the pain
worse. After walking the floor for perhaps ten minutes--she didn't know
or care whether it was ten or fifteen minutes--she was just starting to
go down-stairs and heat some water for her bag when she heard the
kitchen door open and shut. She held her breath and did not answer when
Mrs. Balfame called, as she feared she was wanted and was determined to
do nothing for anybody while her tooth ached like that.
Mrs. Balfame's voice had sounded quite breathless, as if she had been
running. In a moment Frieda heard her go into the dining-room then back
to the kitchen, and turn on the tap,--not the filter, which made no
noise,--and then she heard one glass clink against another on the pantry
shelf. After that, Mrs. Balfame went upstairs from the front hall and
the witness returned to her room and threw herself on the bed, where she
remained until Mr. Cummack came and asked her to go downstairs and make
coffee. By this time her tooth ached so she didn't care what she did.
Cross-questioned, she admitted that Mrs. Balfame was in the habit of
drinking a glass of filtered water the last thing at night. No, she had
not heard her go out, but only come in. But why, if Mrs. Balfame saw
nothing outside to frighten her, or if she hadn't been out, was she so
short of breath? As may be imagined, mere speculation on Miss Appel's
part was cut short by Mr. Rush, who interrupted her constantly. Yes, she
had heard what she now knew had been a shot but she had paid no
attention. Who would, with a red-hot iron forcing one's tooth down
through one's jaw?
Even the scornful questions of counsel which forced her to admit that
she had lied to the coroner neither perturbed her nor made any
impression on jury, press, or spectators. Every one present had suffered
from toothache, and two farmers in the box showed their tusks in an
appreciative grin when she replied tartly that she didn't know or care
anything that day but tooth, tooth, tooth. It was manifest that she was
far too conservative to have had it out at once, to say nothing of the
cost.
The only question she was not prepared for was the abrupt challenge of
Mr. Rush as to how she could prove that young Kraus had followed her if
she had neither seen nor spoken to him during that short run from Main
Street. But although she was visibly perturbed at being confronted with
a set of words to which no neat little pigeon-hole responded, it was so
evident she was firmly convinced her friend had accompanied her, that
for Rush to make too much of his solitary point would prejudice his
case, and he let her go.
Conrad Jr. followed, and his story was equally straightforward. He also
made a good impression. True, he had a very small closely cropped head,
with eyes too small and ears too large, but he held himself with
arrogance, and he was well dressed in a new grey suit and pink shirt.
Born in the United States, it was manifest that he was proud not only of
being an American citizen but of the country's choicest vintage. He had
been sent to the public school until he was sixteen, had studied
conscientiously, and his grammar was quite as good as that of the
District Attorney, who in emotional moments confused his negatives. But,
even Rush, whose advantages had been as superior as his natural
equipment, became a good nasal American when excited, opened into
vowels, and freely translated you into yer. It is these persistent
characteristics, so racy of the soil, which cheer us when apprehending
that our original Americanism may in time be obliterated by the foreign
influx.
No, said young Kraus, he had no sentimental interest in Frieda. (He
smiled.) And he was engaged to a young lady to whom he had been
attentive for three years. But he felt like a brother to Frieda; she had
come to his father's house direct from Germany, their families having
been friends for generations. It was not only his duty but his pleasure
to dance with her, she being "the best of the bunch down at the hall."
As he was dancing with her when her toothache became unendurable, it was
natural that he should see her home; in fact, he always saw her home
when it was convenient. Of course if he had to catch the last trolley
for Dobton in a hurry, that was another matter.
When she had entered the house, he had waited, thinking she might want
some other drops or possibly a dentist. Once when he had had a
toothache, he had been obliged to go to a dentist's house at night. His
papa had sent him, and naturally he thought of it as a possibility in
Frieda's case.
Then the kitchen door opened and a woman came out.
At this point the interest in the court-room became intense. Even the
blasé young reporters sat forward, their pencils poised. The Judge
wheeled his chair to the right and stared down fixedly at the back of
young Kraus' head. The district attorney balanced himself on his heels,
his thumbs hooked in the sleeves of his vest, and Rush stood with his
back curved as if to spring down the witness' throat with a wild yell
of "Immaterial, irrelevant and incompetent." Only Mrs. Balfame sat like
a statue that had neither eyes to see nor ears to hear.
Yes, Mr. Kraus recognised Mrs. Balfame's figure and walk. She was one in
a thousand for looks, and taller than many men. She had on a long dark
ulster and a black scarf round her head. The kitchen light was behind
her--
Here there was another furious contest between the chief counsel and the
district attorney, but the Judge ordered the young man (who had consumed
a toothpick imperturbably) to proceed with his story. Mrs. Balfame had
slipped round the corner of the house, listened intently, walked for a
minute toward the back of the grounds,--he could just see the moving
shadow in the darkness,--turned abruptly and entered the grove.
Naturally interested, he waited to see what she was up to; and
then--possibly three or four minutes later--he heard Balfame singing
"Tipperary," and a moment or two after that the shot,--one shot, not
two; he took no stock in the theory that there had been two
shots,--followed by loud voices from the other side of the avenue.
Then he "beat it," that being his natural instinct at the moment. His
papa had taught him to be cautious and to keep clear of other people's
fights. He had never been close up against a crime, and he hoped he
never should be. He walked through the adjoining grounds at the back and
then into Balfame Street and took the next trolley home. He didn't feel
like dancing after what he guessed had happened.
No, he had heard no sound of running footsteps, but he stood for a
moment near the back fence of the Lequer place; there were people in the
library until some man ran in calling for the doctor to come at
once--and he did see a car leave the lane behind the Balfame place. He
had thought nothing of it, however, as automobiles were everywhere all
the time. No, he hadn't tried to see whether the car was driven by a man
or woman or how many occupants it had. Not only was the night very dark
(as far as he remembered, the car had no lamps), but his one idea was to
get out of the neighbourhood.
Rush put him through a grilling cross-examination, and although he could
not shake his testimony, he made use of all his practised arts to
exhibit the youth as a sorry coward who ran away when he heard a
revolver-shot instead of rushing with the common instinct of American
manhood to ascertain if it were the woman herself who had been the
victim. How much had he been paid to give this testimony withheld at the
coroner's inquest? Young Kraus' ruddy hues had deepened to purple some
time since, and he shouted back that he had come forward only when that
woman's lying friends were trying to fasten the crime upon his innocent
papa. Here he was sternly admonished by the Judge to confine his answers
to "Yes" and "No" unless he could control his temper. Rush forced him to
reiterate that he had not had a glimpse of Mrs. Balfame's face that
night, that he never had spoken to her at any time; and the lawyer
remarked crushingly that the young man's brain must have been in a
hopelessly confused state if he saw a car leave the lane so soon after
the shooting--a car, moreover, without lights--and failed to connect
this phenomenon with the immediately previous sound of a pistol-shot.
It was evident that his brain moved so slowly that it had taken him
almost a week to put a good story together.
Young Kraus left the stand with his inborn sense of superiority over
mere Americans severely shaken, but although his small angry eyes
encountered more than one sneer, and many of those hostile spectators
looked as if they would laugh outright were it not for their awe of the
Judge, he had injured Mrs. Balfame far more than himself. Few believed
him to be lying or that he had seen a vision, not a real woman, leave
the Balfame house by the kitchen door. He was known to have been as
sober as usual on the night of the dance, and as the evidence against
his father had been regarded as fantastic from the first, there was no
conceivable cause for him to lie.
Mr. Gifning, Mr. Battle and Mr. Carden, who were the first to reach
Balfame, after he fell, were forced by the district attorney to give
damning evidence against Mrs. Balfame. Her room was in the front of the
house; if in it, she could have heard the shot as plainly as they on Mr.
Gifning's veranda. But she did not come downstairs or manifest herself
in any way until they had had time to summon the coroner (who to be sure
lived round the corner) and Dr. Lequeur. It must have been quite six
minutes before she opened her window and demanded the reason for the
disturbance at her gate. At least, it had seemed that long. No, they
never confused a revolver-shot with a bursting tire. They had when cars
first came into use, but they had learned to differentiate long since.
When Mr. Rush asked them sarcastically why one at least of the party had
not searched the grove and attempted to capture the murderer, they
replied they had by no means been sure that the shot had come from the
grove. It might have come from anywhere. It was only after the doctor's
examination that the direction of the bullet had been agreed upon. Later
they did search the grove with a dark-lantern brought from Mrs.
Gifning's house; in fact, they searched every inch of the grounds, and
their only reward was abuse from the police.
These three witnesses, examined after the noon recess, occupied very
little time. It was at ten minutes to four that the district attorney
electrified every one in the courtroom by calling to the stand a man
whose name up to that moment had not been mentioned in the case. The
reporters looked deeply annoyed; even Mrs. Balfame raised her head a
trifle higher as if listening; Rush's pale face was paler, the lines in
it seemed deeper, as he sprang to his feet, alert at once, his nostrils
expanding. The district attorney balanced himself on his heels, his
thumbs in his waistcoat armholes, a grin of triumph on his sharp little
face.
The name called was James Mott, and it was borne by a highly reputable
drummer who had made sales for many years to houses carrying general
merchandise, including that of Balfame & Cummack. Mr. Mott was as well
known in Brabant County as any of its inhabitants; in fact, he was
engaged to an estimable young lady of Elsinore, and hence, so it soon
transpired, had happened to be in town on the fatal night. For once the
acumen of the district attorney had proved more penetrating than that of
the brilliant counsel for the defence.
Mr. Mott took the stand. He was a clean-shaven upstanding American with
the keen eye and grim mouth of the travelling salesman who knows that he
must do or die. He looked as honest as urbane, and for the first time
Mrs. Balfame's heart sank; and her hands, so the women reporters noted
for the benefit of the public, clenched for a full minute.
Although Rush stood with his head stretched forward, he thought it wise
to let the man tell his story in his own way. Interruptions would have
been of little avail; the Judge would sustain the district attorney if
it were patent the witness were telling the truth; and as he was
completely in the dark himself it were better to wait until he got a
promising lead. He knew that no man's brain could work more quickly than
his.
Mr. Mott being solemnly sworn, deposed that on the night of the shooting
he had been taking supper with his friend Miss Lacke, who lived at
Number 3 Dawbarn Street, just round the corner from Elsinore Avenue. He
left her house at a little before eight, as he was obliged to catch the
eight-ten for New York. As he closed the gate behind him, he saw David
Balfame walk unsteadily past, shouting "Tipperary"; and being a friend
of many years' standing, had concluded to follow and see Balfame safely
inside the house. He would lose but a minute or two, and it seemed to
him a decent act, for it was possible the man might fall and hurt
himself before he reached his home. Mott was so close behind him that he
must have just escaped the shot or shots himself, and although he jumped
backward he saw distinctly somebody run out of the grove and toward the
back of the house. Whether it was a man or a woman he had no idea, but
the figure was tall--yes far taller than either young Kraus or Frieda.
Then, he said, he doubled on his tracks and got back into Dawbarn Street
as quickly as he could. He blushed as he admitted this, but added that
he knew from the shouts on Gifning's veranda that men were hastening to
Balfame's aid, and he had to catch the eight-ten or lose his night train
to the West and a big piece of business. Moreover, he didn't like the
idea of giving testimony against anybody; he abhorred the institution of
capital punishment. For the same reason he did not come forward until
the District Attorney ferreted him out, as he was afraid the running
figure might have been Mrs. Balfame and she was the last person he
wished to harm, innocent or guilty.
No one could doubt that he told the truth and hated to tell it. Nor
could any one jump to the conclusion that he was the assassin; he had as
little motive for killing Balfame as any of the other men of Brabant
County with whom he had been for years on the same cordial terms.
All that Rush could do was to make him admit that perhaps he was
naturally confused by the flash, the report almost in his ear, the man
sinking at his feet, and only fancied he saw a running form; the
delusion would be natural in the circumstances, particularly as his
thoughts seemed to have been concentrated upon getting out of the way.
Mr. Mott admitted almost too eagerly that this might be true, but added
that when the district attorney, who was a cousin of Miss Lacke, as well
as an old friend of his own, had squeezed the story out of him bit by
bit (the form of extraction was supplied by Mr. Rush), that had been his
impression; he seemed to have that tall running figure imprinted upon
his retina, as it were. Of course it might be just imagination. He
wished to God he could swear it was. When asked sharply if even one of
his parents was German, he recovered his poise and replied haughtily
that he was straight American and as pro-Allies as the best man in the
country. He had never entered Old Dutch's beer garden; his choice was a
hotel bar, anyhow; he avoided saloons.
Rush had a diabolical power of making a witness look ridiculous, but the
American mind is essentially a just mind, normally unemotional, and a
very magnet for facts. As the Judge adjourned the court until Monday the
sob-sisters trailed out dejectedly, after a vain endeavour to get close
to Mrs. Balfame; the young men sauntered forth with their heads in the
air, and Rush's lips were so closely pressed together that his face
looked pure granite. As a matter of fact, his heart felt like water.
Mrs. Balfame, who had not permitted herself to show a flicker of
interest while Mott was on the stand, rose as the Judge left the room.
She smiled upon each of her friends separately and kissed the prominent
ladies of Elsinore who had sat beside her throughout that trying day.
"Please don't come over to the jail," she said. "I know you are worn
out, and I have a bad headache. I must lie down. But do please come
to-morrow. You are all too good. Thank you so much."
Then with a faint smile and a light step she followed the sheriff
through the long tunnel, a horrible vision dancing before her eyes.
CHAPTER XXXIII
When Rush arrived at the sitting-room of the jail's private suite he
found Mrs. Balfame, not in tears as he had nervously anticipated, but
distraught, pacing the room, her hands in her disordered hair.
"I am done for! done for!" she cried as Rush hastily closed the door.
"It would have been better if I had told the truth in the
beginning--that I had gone out that night. It was not such a bad
excuse,--that I thought I saw a burglar down there,--and it was God's
truth. Or I could have said I was walking about the grounds because I
had a headache--"
"It never would have gone down. If I could have discovered who the other
person in the grove was--found him and his forty-one-calibre revolver,
well and good. Failing that, our line of defence is the best possible. I
will admit, though," he too was pacing the room,--"it looks bad to-day,
pretty bad. There isn't the ghost of a chance to prove Mott was the man.
Gore has the time to the minute he left Susie Lacke's; you must have
gone out some time before--"
"Oh, he didn't do it. I've not thought it for a moment. No such luck. It
was some enemy who went straight to New York--in that car. But
I--I--Auburn--the electric chair--they all believed--Oh, my God! God!"
She had tossed her arms above her head then flung herself down before
the table, her face upon them, rocking her body back and forth. Her
voice was deep with horror and despair, her abandonment far more
complete than on the day of her arrest; and wrought up himself, Rush was
stirred with the echo of all he had felt that day. In the semi-intimacy
of these past ten weeks, when he had talked with her for hours at a
time, she had disillusioned him in many ways, bored him, forced him to
admit that her lovely shell concealed an uninteresting mind, and that
the only depths in her personality that he was permitted to glimpse were
such as to make him shrink, by no means to excite that fascination even
in repulsion peculiar to the faults of a more passionate nature. He
still thought her the most beautiful woman he had ever seen, however,
and if it was beauty which now left him cold, his admiration of her had
been renewed these last three days when her manner and appearance in
court had been beyond all praise. He had excoriated himself for his
fickleness, his contemptible failure as a lover; and the more he hated
himself the more grimly determined he was to behave precisely as if he
still loved and revered her as he had when ready to sacrifice life
itself for her sake. He was in such an impasse that he cared little
what became of himself.
He leaned over the table and pressed his hands hard on her arms.
"Listen!" he said peremptorily. "You never will go to Auburn. You will
leave this jail not later than the middle of next week, a free woman. If
I cannot get you off by my address to the jury,--and it will be the
supreme effort of my life,--I'll take the stand and swear that I
committed the murder myself."
"What?" She lifted her head and stared up at him. His face was set, but
his eyes glowed like blue coals.
"Yes. I can put it over, all right. You remember I went to your house
from the Club that day. Nobody saw me go; no one saw me leave. From the
moment I left you, until the following morning, no one--no one that I
know of--saw me that night, except Dr. Anna. We met out on the road
leading to Houston's farm, and she drove me in. She believes I did it.
So does Cummack, and if necessary he will manage to get an affidavit
from her--"
Mrs. Balfame had sprung to her feet. "Did you do it? Did you?"
"Aha! I can make even you believe it. No, I did not, but I couldn't
prove an alibi if my life depended upon it. I can make the Judge and the
jury believe--"
"And do you think I would permit--"
"They will believe me. And Dr. Anna--who would doubt her testimony that
my appearance and conduct were highly suspicious that night on the marsh
road? And what could you disprove? There was a man in that grove, was
there not?"
"Yes, but not you; I don't know why, but I could swear to that. I
shall--if you do anything so mad--tell the whole truth about myself."
"What good would that do? Balfame was killed with a forty-one revolver.
Yours was a thirty-eight."
"How do you know that?"
"I found it the night I spent in your house--the night of your arrest. I
knew that you never would have gone out to head off a burglar without a
revolver--any more than the jury would have believed it. I found the
pistol. Never mind the long and many details of the search. It is in my
safe. I kept it on the off chance that it might be necessary to produce
it after all."
"But I fired at him. I hardly knew that I was firing, until I felt the
revolver in my hand go off. Perhaps it was a suggestion from that tense
figure so close to me, intent upon murder. Perhaps I merely felt I
must--must--I have never been able to analyse what I did feel in those
terrible seconds. It doesn't matter. I did. And you? You know I fired
with intent to kill. Did you guess at once?"
"Oh, yes. But it doesn't matter. You were not yourself, of course. You
had what is called an inhibition--as maddened people have when fighting
their way out of a burning theatre. I only wish you had told me. I--that
is to say, it is never fair to keep your counsel in the dark."
"You mean you wish I had not lied!" She caught him up with swift
intuition. "Well, to-day I would not, but then--well, I was full of
pettiness, it seems to me now. But although I am far even yet from being
a fine woman,--I know that!--I am not a poor enough creature to let you
die for me. Oh, you are far too good for me. I never dreamed that a man
would go as far as that for a woman in these days. I thought it was only
in books--"
"The veriest trash is inspired by the actual occurrences of life--which
is pretty much the same in books as out. And I guess men haven't changed
much since the world began, so far as making fools of themselves about a
woman is concerned."
As she stood with one hand pressed hard against the table she was far
more deeply moved than a few moments since by fear, although outwardly
calm. She had climbed far out of her old self within these prison walls,
but she saw steeper heights before her, and she welcomed them.
"Then," she said deliberately, "I must cure you. Before I went out, I
had prepared that glass of lemonade and put poison in it. I had planned
for several weeks to kill him when a favourable opportunity arrived. I
had stolen a secret poison from Anna--out of that chimney cupboard
Cassie described. You see that I am a potential murderer,--and a
cold-blooded one,--even if by a curious irony of fate some one else
committed the deed. Now do you think I am worth giving up your life
for--going to the electric chair--"
"Suppose we postpone further argument until the necessity arises--if it
ever does. I fully expect you to be triumphantly acquitted. Tell me"--he
looked at her curiously, for he divined something of her inner
revolutions and hated himself the more that he was interested only as
every good lawyer must be in human nature,--"could you do that in cold
blood again?"
"No--not that way--never. I might let a pistol go off under the same
provocation--that is bad enough."
"Oh, no. Remove the restraints of a lifetime--or perhaps it is merely a
matter of vibration and striking the right key."
"And do you mean that--you still want to marry me?"
"Yes," he answered steadily. "Certainly I do."
"Ah!" Once more she wondered if he still loved her. But she had been too
sure of him and of herself to harbour doubt for more than a passing
moment. She had come to the conclusion that he had merely taken her at
her word, and she knew the specialising instinct of the busy American.
She had, indeed, wondered if it were not the strongest instinct he
possessed. And in spite of her new humility, she had suffered no loss of
confidence in herself as a woman. She vaguely felt that she had lost
something of this man's esteem, but trusted to time and her own charm to
dim the impression. For she had made up her mind to marry him. Not only
would it be the wisest possible move after acquittal,--a decent time
after,--but during sleepless hours she had come to the conclusion that
she loved this brilliant knightly young man as deeply as it was in her
power to love any one. And after this terrible experience and the many
changes it had wrought within her, she wanted to be happy.
He had taken up his hat. She crossed the room swiftly and laid her hand
on his arm. "I could not stand one word of love-making in jail," she
said, smiling up at him graciously, although her eyes were serious. "But
it is only fair to tell you now that if I am acquitted I will marry
you."
And stabbed with a pang of bitter regret that he felt not the least
impulse to scout her authority and seize her in his arms, he bent over
her hand and kissed it with cold lips, but with an air of complete
gallantry.
"Thank you," he said, and went out.
CHAPTER XXXIV
Rush slept until two o'clock the next day, after a night passed at the
Paradise City Hotel in consultation with two of his future partners;
they had spent Saturday in the courtroom at Dobton. He had also
discovered that the jury enjoyed themselves in the winter garden after
dinner, and by no means in close formation. Although nominally under
guard, it would have been a simple matter to pass a note to any one of
them. Two, he further discovered, had been allowed to telephone and to
enter the booth alone. He had been told nothing further of the intention
of Cummack and other friends of his client to "fix" the jury--had,
indeed, discouraged such confidences promptly; but he saw that if the
enemy desired to employ the methods of corruption they need be no more
intricate than those of the men that had so much more to lose if
detected.
The night had been devoted to discussion of the case; he even enjoyed a
friendly hour with the district attorney, who notably relaxed on
Saturdays after five o'clock; and when Rush awoke on the following
afternoon he immediately resolved to dismiss the whole affair from his
own mind until Monday morning. He would go into the woods and think his
own thoughts. They would be dreary thoughts and imbued no doubt with
cynicism, himself the target; and they had passed that problematical
stage in which the mind, no matter how harrowed, sips lingeringly at the
varied banquet of the ego; in fact, Rush's personal problems were almost
invariably settled in his subconsciousness, and rose automatically to
confront the reasoning faculties without an instant's warning. He was
too impatient for self-analysis; and he was the sum of his acts and of
the clear mental processes of his conscious life.
The bright winter sun struck down through the close tree-tops and upon
the brilliant surfaces of a recent fall of snow. The ground was hard and
white; the branches of the trees were heavy laden. Not a sound broke the
winter stillness but his footsteps on the winter snow. He had put on a
heavy white sweater and cap, as he intended to walk for hours, and his
nervous hands were in his pockets. He believed he should have the woods
to himself, for in winter it was the Country Club and the roadhouses
that were patronised on Sundays; and the trolley-car which passed the
wood on the line about a quarter of a mile away had, save for himself,
been empty.
His face remained grim and set until he was deep in the woods, and then
it relaxed to a wave of fury and disgust, finally settled into an
expression of profound despair. He was but thirty-two, and the prizes of
life were for such as he, and a week later he would either be in Sing
Sing or bound without hope to a woman for whom his brief sentimentalised
passion was dust.
It was not execution he feared, for any clever lawyer could persuade a
jury into a certain degree of leniency, but long years in prison for the
sake of a dead ideal. In spite of his hard common sense and severely
practical life he would almost have welcomed the exaltation of soul
which must accompany a great sacrifice impelled by perfect love. But to
turn one's back on life for ever and walk deliberately into a dungeon,
change one's name for a number and become a thing, for the sake of
barren honour, to drag out his years with a dead soul, to despise
himself for a fool, too old and too tired to console himself with a
memory of a duty well done,--he felt such a sudden disgust for life and
for that ill-regulated product, human nature, that he struck a heavy
blow at a tree and brought a shower of snow about his head.
If he could but have continued to love the woman and accept the grim and
bitter fate with joy in his soul! And if only that were the worst! If he
could turn his back on life with no regret save for its lost
opportunities for power and fame.
He paused in his rapid irregular walk and pushed his cap up from his
ear. He half swung on his heel; then, his face settling into its
familiar lines, he walked slowly toward a faint crackling that had
arrested his attention.
He came presently upon the glade Alys Crumley had painted in its summer
mood; the little picture hung facing his bed. The scene was white
to-day; all the lovely shades of green and gold had been rubbed out and
replaced with the bright sparkle of snow, and the brook was frozen. But
although Rush loved the winter woods and responded to their white appeal
as keenly as to their yearly renewal of verdant youth and gorgeous
maturity, they left him quite unmoved at this moment. Alys Crumley, as
he had half expected, stood in the little dell.
Her face was more like old ivory than ever against the dazzling
whiteness of the snow and under her low fur turban. It looked both
pinched and nervous, but she kept her hands in her muff. Nor did Rush
remove his from his pockets, although his determination not to betray
himself was subconscious. At the moment, his mind, conquering a tendency
to race, informed itself merely that even in heavy winter clothes, with
but a deep pink rose in her stole for colour, she managed to look dainty
and alluring. It recalled visions of her on summer nights clad in the
soft transparencies of lawn, with ribbons somewhere that always brought
out the strange olive tints of her eyes and hair....
"I followed you," she said.
"Did you?"
"When I saw you pass in the trolley, I guessed. The Gifnings had invited
me to go out to the Club with them. I asked them to put me down at a
path near here."
He made no reply but continued to stare at her, recalling other
pictures,--in the studio, in the green living-room,--marvelling at her
endless variety, and not only of effect. Yet she was always the same,
surcharged with the magnetism of youth and young womanhood.
"I--that is--I had made up my mind I must have a talk with you about
certain things. You said you might go out to the Club to-day for an hour
or two of hand-ball, and I had hoped to induce you to come home with me
for supper. But Jack Battle told me that you had telephoned off--and
when I saw you in the trolley, and caught a glimpse of your face, I
guessed--"
"Yes?"
"You make it rather hard."
"What does it all matter? You are here, and I am glad that you are."
"Are you? But you intended to avoid me to-day!"
"I never intended to see you alone again if I could help it."
"I guessed that too. I met Polly Cummack this morning, and she told me
she spent last evening at the jail and Mrs. Balfame confided to her that
she had just definitely promised to marry you ... that you had proposed
to her on the day of her arrest, and although you had faithfully obeyed
her orders and not alluded to the subject since, she had thought it only
kind to put you out of suspense yesterday. She naïvely added that the
subject had not interested her when you first brought it up; but that
you had been so wonderful and devoted since.... She means to settle
quietly in New York, instead of travelling, so that she can be quite
near you, and she will marry you as soon as the case has been forgotten
by the public. Of course, Polly could not keep anything so interesting,
and no doubt it is all over town by now."
Alys spoke steadily, with a faint ironic inflection, and she held her
head very high. But her face grew more pinched, and the delicate pink of
her lips faded.
"Yes?" He had turned as white as chalk, but there was neither dismay nor
sarcasm in the hard stare of his eyes. His lips were folded so closely
that the word barely escaped.
"I am going to say everything I have to say, if you never speak to me
again. I feel as if I were standing on the point of a high rock and
every side led sheer down into an abyss. It doesn't matter in the least
down which side I fall. There is a certain satisfaction in that. But you
shall listen."
"There is nothing you cannot say to me."
"And you'll not run away."
"Oh, no, I'll not run away! I shall never see you again if I can help
it, but now that you are here I shall look at you and listen to the
sound of your voice."
"And to what I have to say. You hate Mrs. Balfame. You are bored to
death with her. You are appalled. You have found her out for what she
is. You are going to marry her out of pity and because you are too
honourable to desert a woman who will always be under a cloud, even if
you had it in you to break your word; and because you have a twisted
romantic notion about being true to an old if mistaken ideal--one of a
set that has flourished like hardy old-fashioned annuals under the dry
soil of hustle and ambition and devotion to your profession. You had
fallen in love--or thought you had, which amounts to the same thing for
the moment--after so many years of dry spiritual celibacy, and it had
been a wonderful revelation--and an inner revolution that made you
immensely interested in yourself for the first time. You were exalted;
you lived for several months at a pitch above the normal, automatically
registering other impressions but only half cognisant of them. And
now--you feel that to the love born in delusion and slain by truth you
owe the greatest sacrifice a man can make."
He had stared at the ground during the first part of her speech, and
then raised his eyes sharply, his glance changing to amazement and a
flush mounting to his hair.
"Oh!" he exclaimed. But he would make no other answer, and once more he
dropped his glance to the snow.
"Are you going to marry her?"
"If she is acquitted."
"And if not?" Her voice broke out of its even register.
He made an abrupt movement, and she cried out:
"I know! I know! Polly told me--Sam tells her everything. He suspects
you. He knows that Broderick does. But you don't intend to wait for his
denunciation. Mrs. Balfame told that to Polly too. You intend to say you
did it. She said she wouldn't let you--oh, wouldn't she!--but you had
told her that you would make up a plausible story and stick to it. And I
know that you can't prove an alibi. Tell me,"--she came closer and her
voice was almost threatening,--"do you really intend to take that crime
on your shoulders if she is convicted."
"Yes."
"Oh! Oh! Men will be sentimental fools until--well, so long as they are
born of fools and women. We are made all wrong!" She threw her muff on
the ground and beat her hands together. Her eyes were blazing. There was
a curious red glow in their olive depths. "Well, listen to me: You are
not going to do this thing, although I really believe you'd like to do
it as a sort of penance. She could not prevent such a monstrous
sacrifice if she would, but I can. Just bear that in mind. If you come
forward with any such insane proposition, I will make a fool of you
before all the world. If Mrs. Balfame is acquitted, well and good; but
if she is not, then I'll betray a confidence and run the risk of
killing some one myself--but I'll get the truth. Just remember that, and
keep off the witness-stand."
"What do you mean?"
"I mean that I know where to get the truth."
"You mean that Dr. Anna thinks Mrs. Balfame did it--that Mrs. Balfame
confessed to her and that you can make the poor woman betray her friend
while she is still too weak to resist. Well, you are all wrong. I know
that Mrs. Balfame did not kill Balfame. If you want the reason for my
knowledge,--and I know I can trust you,--Mrs. Balfame was out that
night, and she did take a revolver and fire it. I found it in the house
on the night following her arrest. It was a thirty-eight. There was one
bullet missing. It was found in the tree. Balfame was killed by a
forty-one. She did not go out to shoot Balfame, but because she thought
she saw a burglar in the grove. Her revolver went off accidentally--and
she is the best shot out at the Club. But you will readily understand my
reasons for suppressing these facts."
Alys had turned her profile and was staring at a tree whose limbs
creaked now and again with their weight of snow, sending down a powdery
shower. Her thick short lashes were almost together before a gleaming
line of olive.
"Oh! Who was her confederate?"
"She hasn't the least idea as to the identity of the person beside her.
It was dark, and she was too much excited. Naturally, she would be very
glad to know."
"Well, suppose we dismiss that part of it. We should never get anywhere.
Only--don't take the stand and make a dramatic confession."
"Dramatic?" Once more the red tide rose. His blue eyes snapped.
"Melodramatic would perhaps be the better word. Sarah and I are hot on
the trail of the right word. But tell me honestly--shouldn't you feel
rather a fool? It is such a very theatric--stagey--thing to do."
"Oh!" He wheeled about and kicked a fallen log. "Do you suppose I have
given a thought to that aspect of it?"
"No, more is the pity, but as you have a good sense of humour, I rather
wonder at it. However--these are not the only things I followed you into
the woods to say."
"You had it in your mind, then, to find out if what Mrs. Balfame told
Mrs. Cummack was true--that I purposed to free her one way or another?"
"Yes. I merely waited for the lead. I told you in the beginning that I
did not care what I might confess to, or how angry I made you. What does
it matter?"
"You cannot make me angry, although there are some things I cannot
discuss with you."
"Of course not. Let us ignore Possible Sacrifice Number Two, and assume
that Mrs. Balfame is acquitted,--which no doubt will be the case; few
are worrying; and further assume that you will marry her; that she will
marry you is the way she put it, not being an artist in words. Once more
we will dismiss both subjects. Yes?"
She was stooping to recover her muff, and he noticed that her hands were
shaking and that the dusky pink was in her cheeks for the first time.
"I am only too ready. But--there is little else for us to talk about!"
"Yes, there is! When people are on their deathbeds they can afford to
be truthful, and you have dug your grave and mine."
She was erect once more and she looked at him steadily, although her
breath was short and her cheeks blazing.
"What do you mean by that?" His eyes no longer looked like blue steel.
They were flashing, and a curious wave of mobility passed over his face.
"I mean that you love me now. I think you always loved me--when we spent
so many hours together in perfect companionship--when you found so much
in me that responded to so many of your own needs. But for the time
being this was only a surface impression. It was unable to strike down
to--to your soul, because between your outer and inner vision was the
delusion. You had cherished some sort of ideal since boyhood, and when
for the first time in your busy life you met a woman who seemed to
materialise it--you never once had a half-hour's conversation with
her!--you automatically rose to the opportunity to discharge a youthful
obligation. Isn't that true?"
He would not answer, and she continued:
"You passed me over because you had to be rid of the delusion first, bag
and baggage. There is only one way to get rid of an old delusion like
that, and unconsciously you took it! The pity of it is, in our case,
that you compromised yourself so promptly, instead of waiting--well, for
ten weeks!"
"I had already asked Mrs. Balfame to get a divorce and marry me."
"Oh! That night you walked home with her from Dr. Anna's cottage?"
"You saw us? Yes, that was the time."
"The first time you had ever talked alone with her? I know that you
dined there often, but didn't Dave usually do the talking?"
"Yes."
"And Mrs. Balfame smiled like St. Cecilia and attended to your wants."
"Oh!"
"It was like you to think you couldn't go back on even an Elsinore
Avenue flirtation. But once more--it is a terrible pity that you did not
delay your formal offer for ten weeks. Then you would have buried the
last and the supreme folly of your youth--with a sigh perhaps, but you
would have buried it. Isn't that true?"
"It is true that something incredibly youthful seems to have persisted
in me beyond its proper limits, and then to have died abruptly. God
knows I have no youth in me to-day."
"That may well be, but it need not have been. Youth does not die with
the earlier illusions. If all had gone well, you would have been reborn
into a saner and more conscious youth. Tell me--" Her voice trembled,
but she moved forward resolutely and laid her muff against his chest; he
could feel the working of her hands, and eyes and cheeks betrayed the
excitement that pride still suppressed. "Tell me,--if you had waited, if
you could have decently buried that old illusion and forgotten--and--and
married me,--should you have felt very old?"
"I should have felt immortal."
He caught her hands from her muff and flung them about his neck and
lifted her from the ground and kissed her as if they both stood on the
pinnacle and had but a moment before plunging down to mortal death.
When he released her a trifle, his face was illuminated. It no longer
looked preternaturally strong; neither did it look as young as she had
seen it look in moments of mental relaxation.
"Ah!" she whispered. "This is the fusing, not when that old illusion
died."
The deep flush ebbed out of his face, leaving it grey, but he did not
relax the hard pressure of his arms. "Of what use," he asked bitterly,
"when we have only to-day?"
"It is something to realise all of oneself if only for an hour. And you
have given me my supreme hour. That was my right, for I went down into
such depths as you have no knowledge of; and if I struggled out of them
alone, and always in terror of surrender and demoralisation at the last
moment, I have my claim on your help now, for the future is something I
have never dared to face. I guessed before Polly told me--oh, I guessed!
I knew you so well. In dreams, perhaps,--who knows?--our minds may have
become one. When I came up out of--got past the worst, it seemed to me
that I came into an extraordinary understanding of you. I can bear
anything now. In a way, you will always be mine. The life of the
imagination must have its satisfactions. There are worse things than
living alone."
She drew down his head, but this time she put her lips to his ear.
"Now I am going to tell you a terrible secret," she said.
CHAPTER XXXV
There had been a crowd on the day of Frieda's and young Kraus'
testimony, but on Monday morning there was a mob. The road as well as
the open space before the Courthouse was as solid a mass of automobiles
as the police would permit, and within, even the wide staircase was
packed with people, many from New York City, waving cards and demanding
entrance to the Court-room, or at least the freedom to breathe.
The sheriff and his assistants, soon after the doors were opened,
succeeded in forming a lane, and dragged the women reporters to the
upper landing. They found the young men at their tables, cool,
imperturbable, having entered through the library at the back of the
Court-room. All doors were closed before ten o'clock, and the crowd
without, save only the few that were fortunate enough to have come early
and obtain a vantage point against the glass, gradually dwindled away,
to renew the assault after luncheon. It was not only the brilliant
winter day that had enticed the curious over from New York, but the
rumour that Mrs. Balfame would take the stand.
The morning droned along peacefully. Cummack and several others,
including Mr. Mott, were recalled and questioned further. Rush made no
interruptions whatever. The Judge yawned behind his hand. The women
reporters whispered to one another that Mrs. Balfame looked lovelier
than ever--only different, somehow. Even Mr. Broderick looked at her
uneasily once or twice and confided to Mr. Wagstaff that he believed she
and Rush had something up their sleeves; she no longer looked like a
marble effigy of herself, but like a woman who was sure of getting what
she wanted--much too sure. Her cheeks were almost pink. That was as
close as he could get to the upheavals and revolutions that had taken
place in Mrs. Balfame of Elsinore; and their causes.
Immediately after luncheon, Rush showed the jury Defendant's Exhibit A:
the suitcase that Mrs. Balfame had packed for her husband after his
telephone message from the house of Mr. Cummack. He demonstrated that it
must have been packed by a firm hand guided by a clear head, a head as
far as possible from that cyclonic condition technically known as
"brainstorm." When he read them the explicit directions Mrs. Balfame had
written for the velvet handbag her generous husband had offered to bring
from Albany, the jury craned its neck and puckered its brows. This
suitcase had been examined on the night of the crime by police and
reporters, the cynical men of the press characterising it later as a
grand piece of bluff. But it looked very convincing in a court-room, and
its innocent appeal was thrown into high relief by the indisputable fact
that the murder had been committed at least half an hour later.
On the other hand, there was reason to believe that Mrs. Balfame had
deliberately planned the shooting and in that case it was quite natural
for her to prepare something in the nature of an alibi--that is, if a
woman, and an amateur in crime, could exercise so much foresight. The
jury looked at the defendant out of the corner of its eye. Well, she, at
least, looked cool enough for anything.
Then came the great moment for which the spectators had braved
discomfort, indignities, and even hunger. The counsel for the defence
asked Mrs. Balfame to take the stand.
Everybody in the court-room save the Judge, the jury, and the cool young
reporters half rose as she walked rapidly behind the jury-box, mounted
the stand, took the oath, bowed to the Court and arranged herself, with
her usual dignified aloofness, in the witness-chair. She felt but a
slight quiver of the nerves, no apprehension whatever. She knew her
story too well to be disconcerted even by the sudden wasp-like assaults
of the district attorney, and she was sensible of the moral support of
practically all the women in the room.
Rush asked her to tell her story in her own way to the jury, and for a
time the district attorney permitted her to talk without interruption.
Rush had warned her after the interview with the women reporters against
delivering herself with too tripping a tongue, and his assistant had
spent several hours with her in rehearsal of certain improvements upon a
too perfect style. In consequence, she told a clear coherent story, in
the simplest manner possible, with little dramatic breaks or hesitations
now and again, but with nothing stronger than a quaver in her sweet
shallow voice. When she had reached the episode of the filter and had
explained to the inquisitive district attorney why she had made no
mention at the coroner's inquest of the somewhat complicated episode of
which it was the pivot, so to speak, she gave the same credible
explanation the newspaper women had already offered to the public; and
then, quite unexpectedly, she related the story of Frieda's attempt to
blackmail her, and her indignant refusal to give the creature a dollar.
Mr. Gore shouted in vain. The Judge ordered him to keep quiet and
permitted the defendant to tell the story in her own way.
Mrs. Balfame apologised to the jury for relating this incident out of
order, and then went on with her quiet plausible story. Her reason for
not running out at once was simplicity itself. She must have been in the
kitchen when the shot was fired; she had not made a point of regulating
her movements by the clock as some of the witnesses for the prosecution
appeared to have done, so that she was quite unable to give the jury
positive information upon the subject of the exact number of minutes she
had remained in the kitchen. She had washed and put away the glass, of
course; she was a very methodical woman. Then she had gone upstairs,
leisurely, and it was not until she was in her bedroom that she became
aware of some sort of excitement out in the Avenue. Even that conveyed
nothing to her, for it was Saturday night--she curled her fastidious
lip. But when she heard voices directly under her window, inside the
grounds, she threw it open at once and asked what had happened. Then of
course she ran downstairs and out to her husband. That was all.
Even the district attorney was not able to interject a hint of the
lemonade story, and so, naturally, she ignored it.
"Gemima!" whispered Mr. Broderick to his neighbour, "but she is a
wonder! I never heard it better done, and I've seen some of the boss
liars on the stand. She looks like an angel on toast, a poor, sweet,
patient, martyr angel. But I'll bet five dollars to a nickel that she
was just about three degrees too plausible for that jury. If she didn't
do it, who did? That's what they'll ask. And who else wanted him out of
the way? Have you given any thought to that proposition?" His voice was
almost as steady as his keen grey eyes, and he looked straight into the
wise and weary orbs of a brilliant but too inabstinent member of the
crack reporter regiment who had been missing for several days. The man
raised his sagging shoulders and dropped them listlessly. Then his heavy
eyes were invaded by a sudden gleam.
"Say," he whispered, "that Rush is a good-looking chap--and she--I don't
like those ice-boxes myself, but some men do. It's crossed my mind more
than once to-day that he's got something on his--what's the matter?"
"For God's sake, hush!" Broderick's low voice was savage, his face
white. "They're always likely to say that about a young lawyer when his
client is handsome enough and their imaginations are excited by a
mysterious murder case. He's a friend of mine, and I don't want him to
get into trouble. He might not be able to prove an alibi. But I know he
didn't do it because I happen to know that he is in love with another
woman. I was in the same trolley with them yesterday when they came back
from the woods. There was no mistaking how the land lay."
"Oh! Just so!" The other man's eyes were glittering. He looked like a
hunter glancing down his gun-barrel. "I see he is a friend of yours
and you've got his defence pat--well, I'm not going to bother my poor
head until Mrs. B. is acquitted or convicted. Ta! Ta!" And he slid
gently to the floor, laid his head against the infuriated Broderick's
knee and went to sleep.
"I say," whispered Wagstaff, "she almost involved young Kraus, all
right. He's never been quite so close to the bull's-eye before. The very
fact that she didn't trump up a yarn--or Rush wouldn't let her--that she
saw him when she opened the door, or that he had turned the handle, is
one for her and one on him."
The Judge, who had taken a few moments' rest, re-entered, and
conversation ceased. Conrad and Frieda were called in rebuttal, and
encouraged to fix the time of Mrs. Balfame's departure and return as
accurately as might be. Frieda asserted that Mrs. Balfame, after closing
the outer door, had not remained below-stairs for more than three
minutes, and Conrad declared that her exit must have been made three or
four before Mr. Mott left Miss Lacke's. Of course--with quiet scorn--he
had not looked at his watch. How could he in the dark? As he did not
smoke he had no matches in his pocket.
That closed the day's session. The jury filed out, and no man could read
aught in their weather-beaten faces save the conviction that the
Paradise City Hotel was a haven of delights after a long day in the box,
and they were quite equal to the feat of enjoying the dinner served
there, with minds barren of the grim purpose behind this luxurious week.
CHAPTER XXXVI
It was nearly six o'clock. The court-room with its round white ceiling
looked like a crypt in the soft glow of the artificial light, and the
Judge, in his black silk gown, with his handsome patrician face,
clean-cut but rather soft and flushed with good living, might have been
an abbot seated aloft in judgment upon a recalcitrant nun. Mrs. Balfame
in her crêpe completed the delusion--if the imaginative spectator
glanced no further. The district attorney, who was summing up, looked
more like a wasp than ever as he darted back and forth in front of the
jury-box, shouting and shaking his fists. Occasionally he would hook his
fingers in his waistcoat, balance himself on his heels and with a mere
moderation of his rasping tones, demonstrate a contemptuous faith in the
strength of his case.
It is to be admitted that his arguments and expositions, his
denunciations and satirical refutations, were quite as convincing as
those of the counsel for the defence had been, such being the elasticity
of the law and of the legal mind; but although an able and powerful
speaker, he lacked the personal charm and magnetism, the almost tragical
enthusiasm and conviction, alternating with cold deliberate logic, that
had thrilled all present to the roots of their beings during the long
hours of the morning. Rush, whether he lost or won, had made his
reputation as one of the greatest pleaders ever heard at the bar of New
York State. He had finished at a quarter to one. Immediately after the
opening of the afternoon session Gore had darted into the breach,
speaking with a dramatic rapidity for four hours. He sat down at six
o'clock; and Mrs. Balfame felt as if turning to stone while the Judge,
standing, charged the jury and expounded the law covering the three
degrees of murder: first, second, manslaughter. It was their privilege
to convict the prisoner at the bar of any of these, unless convinced of
her innocence.
He dwelt at length upon the degree called manslaughter, as if the idea
had occurred to him that Mrs. Balfame, justly indignant, had run out
when she heard her husband's voice raised in song, and had fired from
the grove by way of administering a rebuke to an erring and
inconsiderate man. The second bullet had been made much of by Rush, as
indicating that two people, possibly gun-men, had shot at once, but the
district attorney held no such theory and had ignored the bullet found
in the tree. It was apparent, however, that the Judge had given to this
second bullet a certain amount of judicial consideration.
The jury filed out, not to their luxurious quarters in the Paradise City
Hotel, a mile away, but to a stark and ugly room in the Court-house
where they must remain in acute discomfort until they arrived at a
verdict. The Judge had his dinner brought to him in a private room
adjoining theirs, and even the reporters and spectators snatched a hasty
meal at the Dobton hostelry, so sure were they all that the jury would
return within the hour. Mrs. Balfame did not take off her hat with its
heavy veil, but sat in her quarters at the jail with several of her
friends, outwardly calm, but with her mind on the rack and unable to
share the dinner sent over from the Inn by Mr. Cummack for herself and
her guests.
The hours passed, however, and the jury did not return. Once the head of
the foreman emerged, and the sheriff, misunderstanding his surly demand
for a pitcher of ice water, rushed over for Mrs. Balfame, the Judge was
summoned, and the reporters, men and women, raced one another up the
Court-house stairs. Mrs. Balfame, schooled to the awful ordeal of
hearing herself pronounced a murderess in one form or other, but bidden
by her friends to augur an acquittal from a mere three hours'
deliberation, walked in with her usual quiet remoteness and took her
seat. She was sent back at once.
Rush paced the road in front of the Court-house. He had little hope. He
had studied their faces day by day and believed that several, at least,
were persuaded of Mrs. Balfame's guilt. Mrs. Battle, Mrs. Gifning and
Mrs. Cummack sat with Mrs. Balfame, who found the effort to maintain the
high equilibrium demanded by her admiring friends as rasping an ordeal
to her nerves as waiting for that final summons whose menace grew with
every hour the jury wrangled. Finally she took off her hat and suggested
that they knit, and the needles clicked through the desultory
conversation until, after midnight, they all attempted to sleep.
The Judge extended himself on a sofa in the private room devoted to his
use; he dared not leave the Courthouse. He told the district attorney
(who told it to the sheriff, who told it to the reporters) that the jury
quarrelled so persistently and so violently that he found it impossible
to sleep, and that the language they used was appalling.
Midnight came and passed. The sob-sisters, worn out, went home. Miss
Sarah Austin and Miss Alys Crumley had not returned to the Court-house
after dinner. The sheriff appeared at the entrance of the courtroom and
announced that the last trolley would leave for Elsinore and
neighbouring towns within five minutes. Most of the spectators filed
sleepily out. A few of Mrs. Balfame's less intimate but equally devoted
friends remained in their seats near her empty chair, and shortly after
midnight the warden's wife brought them over hot coffee and sandwiches.
The reporters, having long since consumed all the chocolate and peanuts
on sale below, strolled back and forth between the Court-house and the
bar of the Dobton Inn. They were bored and indignant and sought the only
consolation available. They returned periodically to the court-room,
growing, as the hours passed, more formal, polite, silent. One lost his
way in the jury-box and was steered by a court official to the
sympathetic haven of his brothers.
The room itself, its floor littered with tinfoil, peanut-shells, and
newspapers, its tables and chairs out of place, looked like a Coney
Island excursion boat. Finally two reporters laid their heads down on a
table and went to sleep, but the rest continued to address one another
at long intervals, in distant tones, obeying the laws of etiquette, but
with a secret and scornful reluctance.
Broderick, who was reasonably sober, had wandered in and out many times.
Occasionally he walked the road with Rush, and more than once he had
endeavoured to get Miss Crumley on the telephone. He had even
telephoned to the hospital to ascertain if she were there. A week ago
only he had accidentally discovered that Dr. Anna had been summoned by
Mrs. Balfame shortly after the murder and had passed many hours alone
with her; "it being the deuce and all to extract any information from
that closed corporation of Mrs. Balfame's friends." Broderick had
surprised it out of a group at the Elks' Club in the course of
conversation and then had set his phenomenal memory to work, with the
result that he was convinced Alys Crumley held the key to the whole
situation. He had gone to her house and pleaded with her to take him out
to the hospital and obtain a statement from the sick woman before it was
too late, representing in powerful and picturesque language the awful
peril of Rush.
"I've reason to know," he had concluded, "that Cummack and two or three
others have their suspicions, and there isn't a question that if the
jury brings in a verdict of guilty in any degree--and they're a
pigheaded lot--Rush will be arrested at once. These devoted friends of
Mrs. Balfame have accumulated enough evidence to begin on. He may have
gone to Brooklyn that night, but he was seen to get off the train at
Elsinore about a quarter of an hour before the shooting. They've been
doing a lot of quiet sleuthing, but if Mrs. Balfame is acquitted they'll
let him off. They don't want any more scandal, and they like him,
anyhow. But I have a hunch she won't be acquitted; and then, innocent or
guilty, there'd be no saving him. So for heaven's sake, stir yourself."
But Alys had replied: "I have besought my aunt, and she will not permit
Dr. Anna to be disturbed. She says her only chance for life is a
tranquil mind, and that the shock of hearing that Enid Balfame was on
trial for murder would kill her--let alone asking her to do her best to
send her to the chair. I've done my best, but it seems hopeless."
This conversation had taken place on Thursday. To-day was Tuesday. They
were very reticent at the hospital, but he had reason to believe that
Dr. Anna had taken a turn for the worse. Could Alys Crumley be out
there, and could she have taken that minx Sarah Austin with her? It
would be just like a girl to go back on a good pal like himself and hand
a signal triumph over to another girl, who would get out of the game the
minute some fellow with money enough offered to marry her. He ground his
teeth.
He was standing near the doors of the court-room and staring at the
clock whose hands pointed to a quarter to one. Suddenly he heard his
name called from below. He sauntered out and leaned over the balustrade.
A weary page was ascending when he caught sight of the star reporter.
"Brabant Hospital wants you on the 'phone," he announced, with supreme
indifference.
Broderick leaped down the winding stair and into the booth. It seemed to
him that his very ears were quivering as he listened to Alys Crumley's
faint agitated voice. "Come out quickly and bring a stenographer," it
said. "And suppose you ask Mr. Rush to come too. Just tell the
sheriff--to--to postpone things a bit if the jury should be ready to
come in before you return. Hurry, Jim, hurry."
