Larry looked at her and shook his head. She was be- 
yond him. Had she none of the instincts or the trained 
anticipation of her sex? 

« Ellen," said he, " don't you tell him that." 

"Why?" asked Ellen, looking at him with an un* 
troubled brow. 



 

" It'll make him homesick as the devil. You wouldn't 
Hke it, if you were miles and miles away, to have anybody 
talk about Hemlock Ridge and know you couldn't get 
there." 

"Not when he's got so many better things?" said 
Ellen. " What's Hemlock Ridge to be homesick for? " 

" Wait till you've tried it. No, you just tell him what 
you do and what your mother does, and when you've seen 
his mother and me. But don't you talk about Ben and 
make him think Ben's in clover." 

" All right," said Ellen. It evidently mattered neither 
one way nor the other. 

And Larry opened his paper and began to read. The 
gray-green hordes of Germany were marching across Bel- 
gium with their horrible singing, and as he read he shud- 
dered in his inmost soul. Where the last intimate self of 
him lived, he was afraid. The great fear came upon him 
that fell at that time upon all Americans whose hearts 
and eyes were not holden from the compassion and the 
honor of life. He still knew the war would be over in 
three months, but he was aghast at the choice of deliberate 
evil. Perhaps, having no task of his own to do for the 
struggle, he was the calmer to use his perspective in bal- 
ancing the forces of it, and the world suddenly seemed to 
him an evil place. He had believed, like the rest of his 
kind, in what it called civilization; but the gray-green 
hordes marching convinced him that there was no such 
thing — only a word. There could really live and fatten 
and exercise itself, to give itself strength, a monster like 
Prussia, which had planned the evil and rushed singing to 
accomplish it. There must be then, he thought, definitely
and conclusively, hell. We had laughed at the devil. 
We had said sin was only ignorance and wrong choices. 
But all the time evil had been battening in fair places, 



 

and now it was so sure of its colossal power that it could 
sing. Ellen, at her task, was singing a little, low, under 
her breath, not to disturb him, and the sound of it hurt 
his torn nerves, thinking of that other gigantic chorus 
of the willful murdering of life. 

" Don't ! " he said irritably, and she looked at him and, 
at the sight of his face, ran to him and begged him to tell 
her what had happened. 

" The Germans," he told her, " are marching across 
France. They may be in Paris now." 

"Oh!" said Ellen. She did not understand. He 
looked at her absently. She filled his vision as a fig- 
ure dear to him but not significant in this world- 
crisis. For a moment it seemed to him it was idle talk- 
ing to her. Paris was a city on the map. Then a hot 
wave of feeling took him, and he knew she had got to be 
dragged in. Everybody had got to be dragged in. She 
could not be saved from being frightened, like him, by 
the plain fact that the devil had, in the old phrase, broken 
loose. She must not be saved. Nobody must be saved. 
We were all part and parcel of grotesque and colossal ill. 

" Ellen," said he, " sit down here. No, no, — leave 
the dishes. Throw them out of the window, if you can't 
leave them." 

Ellen, with a scared look, wiped her hands and sat down 
by him and waited. She was near enough to the sofa to 
put her hand on Smilie's satin head, and the touch gave 
her a homely comfort. Larry looked at her a moment, 
and the tears came intoJHs eyes. What had he to tell her? 
What did he know except that the devil had broken loose? 
But he had to speak. He had, indeed, to prepare for 
himself a protagonist, an understanding mind to whom 
he could unfold the great terror. 

" Ellen," he said, " Germany has been preparing for 



 

it for years and years. England has known it, but she's 
been stuck in her bog and she wouldn't believe her 
prophets. France knew it. And now it's come, and the 
devils are falling on Paris, and while I sit here and cry 
it's happened maybe — it's over, and they are marching 
through the streets singing their barbarian songs." 

He was making as deep an effect as he could have 
wished. 

" Have they taken Paris? " she asked, in awe. But the 
awe was for tiie bigness of it, as he was showing it to her, 
and not yet any conception of her own. 

" Not so far as we know. But maybe, yes. Maybe 
the news has come since this paper was printed. But 
what's knocked me down and what's got to knock every 
American between the eyes, if he's got a drop of the old 
blood in him, is that the devil's broken loose. It isn't 
that it's a quarrel; it's that the black side has shifted to 
the top — and who's going to put it under? " 

•* Will Hugh come home? " she asked. 

He had not thought of Hugh. 

" God knows," he said. " At least, he won't go into 
Germany. They're organized, every man of them, for 
their big play. They won't be taking little American 
boys in to study fiddling. Can you see his mother? Can 
you give her this letter from him? I oughtn't to have 
delayed it a minute, but this devil of a war's got hold of 
me." 

Yes, Ellen said, she could slip over across the orchard, 
though she never liked to do it when Mr. Neale was 
there. So Larry gave her the letter and she went away, 
her heart full of trouble. And excitement, too. Youth 
is not dizzy when the world is upside down. She 
did get the letter to Mary Neale, after she had seen 
Thomas go by to the lower pasture, and Mary, a great 



 

excited wave creeping over her, snatched it and stood 
there trembling all through her majestic height. Ellen 
had never seen her or any woman look so. It came to 
her, like a fiery baptism, what it is to be so loved. And 
then Mary's face broke divinely into a sweet smiling, and 
she kissed Ellen, all a rapture of gratitude for her bring- 
ing it, Ellen went away trembling with a little bliss of 
her own from the touch of those soft lips. Mary Neale al- 
ways seemed far removed from the intercourse of neigh- 
borly life. Ellen felt she herself was different because 
Mary had bent to her : she must, it seemed then, be differ- 
ent always. Nobody in the neighborhood was like Mary 
Neale, remote and yet so gracious. Everybody felt 
that. 

Mary sat down and read her letter. It was a darling 
letter, a child's letter almost, full of little details of what 
he thought she would want to hear, about the ship, about 
the look of the sea. Mary had been bom near the coast, 
and she felt he was remembering that. She knew, too, 
that all the careful pictures of the strange life he was 
living were exquisite flowering of his thought of her, 
the unspoken acknowledgment of the love he knew she 
had for him, something bloomed out of that last night. 
And at the end there was a little awkward postscript 
for Aunt Tab. He couldn't tell, he said, how much he 
knew he owed to her. Mary took the letter upstairs at 
once and laid it in Aunt Tab's hand. Tabitha was sit- 
ting by the window in her strange negligee, waving a 
palm-leaf fan and looking far away over the maple tops 
to an invisible sea; and she too laid hold of the letter in 
wonder and delight and Mary left it with her. That night 
Tabitha gave it back to her, and neither spoke of it. But 
their faces glowed. 



 

When Ellen went home, she looked at Ardelia, rocking 
by the window and sewing a white seam, with a wonder 
proportioned to her delight over Mary Neale's kiss. She 
had never in her life consciously compared Ardelia with 
other women ; but now as she saw her in the pathetic trap- 
pings of her middle-aged frivolity, her hair waved tightly 
and her face lighted by that smile of fatuous anticipation, 
she had a hurt feeling that was not wholly scorn. She 
longed to cover her with some mantle that should hide 
Ardelia's foolishness, not only from her own offended eyes, 
but most from other people. 

That night she woke in her little bed under the eaves, 
shuddering with the terror of life. Larry had frightened 
her with his nightmare of the vulture evil swooping on 
the dead bones of the world, and Ardelia seemed so far 
from her and so unlike anything you call mother that 
she was in a panic of loneliness. She bore it as long as 
she could, the dark pressing down upon her, and then sat 
up in bed and stared into the murk. Ardelia, sleeping 
soundly because she had that day sewed herself out, as 
she said, woke a minute after this to a step at her bed- 
side, and threw back the clothes to the little shuddering 
form. Ellen crept in, sobbing, and threw her arms about 
her mother, splashing her with tears. 

" There ! there ! " Ardelia kept saying, and hugged her 
close. She had been lonesome, too, not lonesome enough 
to give up Peleg for a naughty Ellen, but quite unable 
to see why young folks would not live and let live. Now 
she was in a mother glow of getting her child back, and 
Ellen threw off all restraint and spoke to her tumultu- 
ously : 

" Promise, mother ! " This was the burden of her wild 
entreaty. " Only promise you won't. I'll do anything. 



I'll work, Boon's I can get a place. I'll buy you things. 
You wanted a summer silk. You said you did. Oh, if 
you don't promise, I shall die." 

Ardelia knew quite well what she was to promise. She 
was to have no more to do with Peleg Simpson. She was 
to settle down and be an old woman and give up living in 
the house with the latticed pillars. And sometime Larry 
Greene would drop off " with them spells he had," and 
then where was she going to earn a cent for either of 
them? And as for Ellen's earning, it was all very well to 
talk about it, though it was in the air as yet. But all 
the time she held Ellen close and said, " There ! there ! " 
and Ellen redoubled the torrent of her persuasion. 

" I could earn lots of money," she was urging passion- 
ately. " Maybe I'm 'most ready for a place now, but 
if I leave this house, he'll come." It was chaotic betrayal 
of her terror over Peleg's imminence. If he was her 
mother's dream, he was Ellen's nightmare. She was per- 
petually anticipating, speculating, fearing. All the sum- 
mer she had been a prisoner to her apprehension. " I 
could go to Boston and get a place in an office, and you 
could come, too, and board and " — here the old coun- 
try phrase came out — " never put your hands into 
water." 

" I dunno's you'd like to live in a city all the time," 
said Ardelia tenderly. " You're terrible fond o' the 
woods, an' you know how you felt about sellin' this house. 
I dunno why you're so set against stayin' round here 
somewheres an' livin' better'n we're livin' now. Mother 
wouldn't listen to a plan, Ellie, that left you out, nor 
she ain't had to." And then Ardelia's evil fate, the fate 
that lies in a clumsy mishandling of the tools of inter- 
course, struck sharply out before her mental vision the 
house with the latticed pillars, and she blundered on: 




" He's got money in the bank, an' it's a real pretty house." 
Ellen's arms relaxed. Her sobs ceased. She, too, saw 
the house with the latticed porch and Feleg joking and 
cackling his welcome from its shadow. She slipped out 
of bed and left Ardelia's clinging arms. And Ardelia 
did suffer, in that instant, as much as she could. She 
called Ellen's name and then, when the bare feet went 
flying up the stairs, turned on her pillow and cried a 
little, in her own fitful and tepid way. She was sorry. 
Ellen must act so. But she thought, at the moment even, 
of Feleg's kindliness. 

But it was only a day or twp after this that Ellen 
found a deliverer. This was Sally Wheeler. The story 
of Sally Wheeler and the war is like innumerable other 
dramas played between the individual and that monstrous 
upheaval, big enough for tragedy's colossal strains. This 
fine old New England spinster, a confusion of contra- 
dictory traits, cool with a touch of acid and hot as 
the scent of roses, a man's grasp and a woman's insight, 
this creature who had governed her inner life so jealously 
that no one knew whether it contented her or drove her 
mad — fought in the war with the ardor and self-aban- 
donment of the consecrated patriot. She went about 
from town to town, unwelcome, unsupported, save by a 
decorous respect for her name and county standing, she 
made speeches even in the streets, and in schools, and, it 
was said, more than once in the saloons. And always 
her cry was that men were deceived and would be in the 
end undone, that they were the prey of the politician and 
the dreamers and that if they did not shortly awaken it 
would be too late. She saw America personified, as in a 
vision, and painted the picture of her manacled by those 
who were sworn to her defense until men grew pale some- 
times and looked serious, and opined it was our war after 



 

all. She organized little groups for " relief '' and started 
classes in the cottage hospital at Beckenham — this also 
her foundation — for First Aid. 

" We don't know what we're going to do with all this," 
she said to the girls she persuaded into it. " But some- 
thing's going to happen, and we've got to be ready and 
get ready now." 

Larry told her the frank cursing she did over the lag- 
gards and time-servers would sink a ship. She didn't an- 
swer. She went about, bright-eyed, untiring, and against 
hope tried to whip mankind into the ranks of moral de- 
cency. 

To-day, on her way home from Beckenham, not with 
Henry this time but the more compliant colt, she over- 
took Ellen at her own gate, just going in. 

" Wait a minute," called Sally Wheeler. " Wait a min- 
ute, my dear. I want to speak to you." 

Ellen came back into the road again and looked up at 
her out of the half-terrified admiration all Sally Wheeler's 
townsmen had for her. At this point in her life and in 
the world's life they never knew what she was going to 
command them to do next. Ellen was sad-eyed to-day, 
but the cold had brought her a flush and Sally Wheeler 
thought, with an appraising glance, how strong she 
looked. 

" My dear," said she, " I've had my eye on you for a 
long time. The fact is, I want you." 

" Yes," said Ellen, coming a little nearer. 

She knew why Sally Wheeler wanted everybody now. 
It was in some way for the war, and she was ready. 
Larry had taught her she'd got to answer when she was 
called. 

"What do you do?" asked Sally Wheeler bluntly. 
" Do you earn anything? " 




Ellen drooped perceptibly. She couldn't explain that 
she was a poor little daughter who ought to be earning 
but hadn't tried because she had to stay at home and watch 
her mother and Peleg Simpson. 

" I can do shorthand," she said primly. " Not very 
fast, but I'm studying every day." 

" Come into my First Aid class," said Sally Wheeler. 
" Come three days in a week, and I'll pay you for 'em. 
You're a good strong girl and I want you." 

Ellen thought she saw a door opening into a place of 
light and herself running through. 

" Could I? " said she. " Could I be of any use? " 

" You can learn to be," said Sally Wheeler. " You can 
take down some letters for me, too. We'll see what we 
can make of you. You know about the war. don't you? 
Larry's talked to you? " 

« Yes," said Ellen. " I know." 

" You know we ought every one of us in this country 
to be mobilized this minute, don't you? You know we're 
dead and damned if we don't go in — there, forgive me, 
my dear. Don't swear — at least till you're over sixty 
and there's another war. Well, you ask your mother and 
come to see me to-morrow at three." 

And Ellen did go to see her and proudly got her orders 
for the war. 



The story of Larry, through a, long following time, re- 
peated the anguish of his response to the war. He had 
said it would not last three months. He had confidence 
in the deterrent opinion of mankind and in the financial 
weapons held by a great country. And gradually, as 
knowledge foreign to our expectation comes, and suddenly 
at last when the sum of it burst upon him, he realized 
that it was not ending, and that the cup of blood and 
tears would overflow. And so predominant in his mind 
was the vision of the evil he had thought buried with 
reptilian monsters in the slime of the past, that he saw 
the earth as polluted and the sky darkened. He had 
curious fancies in these days. When a little epidemic of 
colds swept over Bromley, he saw the earth infested by 
strange germs, the product of opening the doors of life 
again to the festering under-world, and had to recall ym- 
self to sanity by saying over and over again that it was 
only a cold. It had been all a monstrous irony, he 
thought, this progress toward a God who seemed, in the 
puerile eyes of striving mankind, to be more or less pleased 
with us. We had assimied He was pleased. We were 
stamping down the evils we considered hostile to Him 
and finding out His remedies. And then the shock, the 
jolt, that threw the world back into that sector of its 
orbit where the airs were miasma and the creatures bred 
in it ready to swoop with vulture wings. He took to 
going out among the neighbors, to their great surprise 

and not over-ready welcome. He wanted to taste public 

 



 

opinion, and it seemed to him that they, shaken back into 
a former state of mind — the mind of old New England 
when it had to set itself to repelling danger — must have 
laid hold on an old godly sanity. The first day of his pil- 
grimage he actually went to see his brother who had been 
estranged from him for all the years since their early 
quarrel. They had exchanged some sort of greeting when 
they met by chance, the squire a grunt and Larry a satir- 
ical salute of two fingers to his hat ; but that was all. It 
was with no idea of consummating peace because war had 
become so horrible that Larry sought him out. It was 
because he longed incredibly for the communion of the old 
New England spirit in these days of an evil greater than 
a revolting New England ever knew. He had gone to Bos- 
ton, from time to time, and poked about among editorial 
opinion, and come back slightly comforted by universal 
and outspoken rage against the enemy of mankind. But 
he wanted the comfort of his own blood. 

It was a day in early winter and Clara was sitting 
by the window, mending, while the squire, at the fire- 
side, changed his boots. They had put in the fireboard 
and the coal base-burner, and the room was humming 
with heat. Meager as were the squire's ideas of comfort, 
he always yielded to his wife's wish for the highest tem- 
perature. He was a man of languid circulation and 
inclined himself to be cold. Hot tea and a base-burner 
were the conditions of his well-being until the sun rode high. 
Clara, rocking, gave an exclamation, — of alarm, it might 
have been. 

" If there ain't your brother," said she, " comin' up 
the path." 

This was after the savage cold that had attacked the 
neighborhood, and the squire's thrifty fancy flew to that. 

" If he's got sickness comin' on," said he, " an' thinks 



 

he'll settle down on me to be took care of, he'll miss his 
guess." 

Clara was peering over her glasses at the hurrying 
form. She had begun to wear glasses that summer and 
they slipped her along a decade at least, into a plump 
yet unlovely age. 

" No," said she, " he don't walk as if he's sick. Why, 
he ain't been into this house — " 

There she paused, for Larry had opened the outer 
door and stepped in. It was a masterful entrance, yet a 
natural one. He could not conceive of knocking at a 
door that had through all these later years been free 
to his spirit, though actually barred to him. As his eye 
lighted on Clara, he laughed out. He never could get 
over the idea of her as the tragic element in his life. The 
laugh gave his advent something of cheerfulness, and she 
was wholesomely glad. She had thought a great many 
times what good company he used to be and how folksy 
it would seem to have him run in once in a while. Larry, 
with that first glance, noted the grotesqueness of the 
base-burner among the fine old furniture, and that made 
him laugh again. He nearly winked at the furniture, 
to show it he understood, and thought he might whisper 
to it, if he had a chance, that he knew it had fallen on 
evil times and the disgrace of vulgar company. But he 
had his question to put, and he did not propose to sit 
down, unless Abial should answer comformably, with the 
righteousness of old. Then it would show that Brother 
Abial had cracked in places, that his crust was bursting, 
and that the fragrance of the spirit might steal out 
through the hide of habit. 

" Well," said he, " what do you think of the war? " 

Abial sat there, one shoe held in his hand, the stock- 
inged foot ready for it, and looked up at Larry. How 



 

beautiful the line of his profile was, tragic inheritance 
from some ancestor who mysteriously could not transmit 
also the emotions that must at some time have lived be- 
hind that dignified exterior, Larry saw. Yet, Larry told 
himself, Abial had done things to his face since he had 
had the molding of it. He had shut the mouth to a line 
of repression, he had invited a glint of suspicion into the 
eyes. They were always asking questions. " What are 
you trying to get out of me? " they said so habitually that 
they said it now, and Larry saw it. 

" The war? " said he. "I care nothin' about the war. 
What's the war got to do with me? " 

" Do you read the papers ? '' asked Larry softly. He 
knew not what kind of man he had before him. Brother 
Abial was as far from seeing the spirit of evil as if it 
had never threatened. But Larry did not speak softly 
to persuade him to a better frame of mind. He was sub- 
duing himself because he didn't mean to offend until 
Brother Abial had betrayed himself entirely. 
" Yes," said Abial, " 'course I read my paper." 
The argument might have been that he should scarcely 
be such a fool as to pay for a paper and not get his 
money's worth by reading it. Abial continued to look at 
his brother, frowning now as if something perplexing were 
required of him and he might as well answer it. " I 
figure," said he, " it can't hurt us. I don't see's we shall 
feel it much. We raise our crops, an' anyway we shall 
have enough to eat. I s'pose there's a good many'll 
make considerable out of it. Anyways, we ain't got to 
think about it. Them that's at Washington are thinkin' 
for us. It's no concern of ourn. We're goin' to be 
neutral." 

" Yes," said Larry, " I suppose we are — some of us." 
He turned away and laid his hand on the latch, and he 



 

did want a few minutes' unhindered talk with the furniture 
which had still to live with Brother Abial and couldn't run 
out on its four legs and find sanctuary, or at least the 
holocaust of cleansing fires. 

" Don't be in such a hurry," said Clara, with an over- 
flowing cordiality. " I guess you could set a spell if you 
only thought so." 

Larry turned and, to her confusion — though she really 
liked it and thought of it afterward with a perplexed in- 
quiry — made her, hat in hand, a sweeping bow. He was 
thinking of old romance. Love poems flooded his mind in 
a brimming ecstasy of laughter, old lovers were before him 
in the overheated room. This was she to whom he had 
consecrated his youth and the heart of his youth, and she 
was large and soft and she was urging him to " set a spell." 
He did not answer otherwise, but got out of the room with 
a sense of escape and pelted down the drive, laughing. 
Clara heard the sound of it and yet concluded it could not 
be since there was nothing to laugh at, and Squire Abial 
returned to lacing his boot. 

"What do you think? " she began, and the squire gave 
an indeterminate sound, half snarl and half repudiating 
word. 

" I dunno," said he, and then an old bitterness broke 
bounds. " He never was half baked." 

That same day Larry met Gleason in the road, and put 
his question. Gleason was in an unctuous humor, for 
Grissie had earned ten dollars in taking down a sheriff's 
notes, and she had magnificently turned it in to the fam- 
ily exchequer and they were all rotund with sausages. 
Gleason. stopped before Larry and lifted the back of his 
cap while he scratched his head. 

"Why," said he, "I s'pose they know what they're 
fightin' for. Germany's a pretty big country an' I under- 



 

stand she's got to expand." The word pleased him and 
he felt the exhilaration of intellectual life and repeated it. 
" Got to let 'em fight it out. They'll get sick enough of 
ity" he announced smilingly, and with his reminiscent mind 
really on sausage. " Got to let 'em fight it out." 

But Larry, as he walked away, had another of his 
queer obsessions, where the unseen of life shoulders in 
among tangible things, and he thought he saw Gleason, 
moving jauntily along, clouded by something black at his 
side. That, Larry knew, was the shadow of evil, and 
even Gleason would have to walk in it until it had been 
wiped away from the earth. That spurred Larry to his 
toughest encounter yet, and he went on to the little wind 
swept house on a bare hill, to see the minister. It was 
long since the minister had come to see him, because he 
was an old-fashioned man who dwelt in a system of the- 
ology as tight as his skin, and he had concluded Larry 
was a blasphemer. But he received him as a guest, even 
tremulously opening the door to him and drawing him into 
the sitting-room which was study and family meeting- 
place as well. And there sat a woman, small, slight, 
needle-like in the sharpness of her discontents and resist- 
ances, piercing Larry with a glance, as he came in, and 
then bending over her work and saying no more than the 
word of greeting. But she did, he thought, as he ab- 
sently watched her, stab the innocent stocking with a 
truly murderous intent. He thought no stocking de- 
served such an onslaught, even if it had got itself worn 
out unduly. Then he put his question, and the Reverend 
John Peterson, standing by the stove — again a base- 
burner, but thriftily run — practically delivered the whole 
of the peace sermon he had been thinking out when Larry 
came. He was a tall, spare man with eager, bony hands 
and burning eyes, an ascetic face, the yellow skin tight 



 

over it. His sparse black hair he wore rather long, out 
of some inherited belief that it was the more suitable to 
his calling; and Larry, sitting there and watching the 
stabbing needle, thought how strange it was that this 
fanatical temperament should be hotly, even vindictively, 
preaching peace. He concluded the preacher was de- 
lighted to rehearse the incomplete sermon. 

The peace of the Reverend John Peterson was the peace 
of those who have convinced themselves that nothing is 
worth fighting for. They have belied the gospel of their 
Prince of Peace until the word even makes them drunk with 
ecstasy. Gradually Larry found that he was not listen- 
ing. His mind was slipping more and more from the spell 
of the pathetic falsities and the misconceived idealism ; he 
had raised his eyes from the stabbing needle to the face 
of the woman who bent over it. He thought he had never 
seen a face so unmoved and at the same time possessed by 
such a fury of revolt. He dreamed into it the deeds of 
other women who had rebelled, and he could see her with 
the dagger of righteous anger stabbing the new leaders of 
evil and piercing them to the heart. As the Reverend 
John Peterson warmed to his sermon, the oldest boy came 
in, tall, like his father, the fanatical black eyes belied by a 
warm, generous, beautiful mouth. He turned to the win- 
dow and looked out while the sermon went on, and Larry 
imagined into his back the revolt he had seen in the 
mother's face. When the sermon slackened in flow, as if 
the preacher had perhaps not thought it out to the end, 
Larry rose and sidled toward the door. 

"It's not so, Peterson," he said, in his gentlest voice. 
" You're all wrong, you know, wrong from beginning to 
end. If you had your way the whole show'd go to pot 
— your show, I mean, right and wrong and all that. No, 
you've got all mired up." 



 

The preacher turned upon him in a very human re- 
sentment. He resented being called Peterson in that way. 
It was undervaluing the cloth. And though he was not 
used to being listened to, he was also not hardened to being 
withstood. But Larry had slipped out at the front door, 
and saw then that the tall boy had snatched his cap and 
followed him. 

" Hullo,'' said Larry. " Where you bound? " 

They went slipping down the wind swept hill together. 

" I thought I'd tell you," said the boy. He was breath- 
less with his own eagerness. He had great trust in Larry. 
Most of the boys, though they were not allowed to play 
with him, had that admiring confidence, perhaps through 
Hugh who had managed to evade the edict. " I'm going 
to run away. To Canada. To enlist." 

Larry looked at him, the face set eagerly forward, 
flushed richly now by the blood of youth. He was like 
his father indeed, yet how different. The great ideal had 
not got clogged in him by weakness and imaginative lack. 
He was working it out through his own hot desires. 

" How old are you? " asked Larry. 

The boy faced him with a smile on the beautiful lips. 
Larry could not help thinking the lips were something his 
mother had given him. They were not hers, but she had 
dreamed them. 

" I shall be twenty-one," he said, " when I get to 
Canada." 

" Mr. Greene ! " came a breathless voice behind them. 
It was the mother, running to overtake them, and, in her 
light slenderness and the flush on her cheeks, not like 
the woman who had sat at her stabbing work. They 
waited for her, the boy kindly but disconcerted. Larry 
took off his cap and she came up to them, panting. 

" Eddy," said she, " you better go back." 



 

Larry knew why, and perhaps Eddy did, too. Peter- 
son would not have considered such company wholesome 
for the young. Eddy turned sulkily, but without demur. 
His moment was ruined anyway, by mother's coming. 
Perhaps his life was not thereafter the same on that 
account: for Eddy never did go to Canada. Nor did he 
seek out Larry again. It may be there was something in 
the temperament behind the fanatical eyes that told him 
it was God's will for him to yield. But the mother stood 
there panting on the wind swept hill, and drew the apron 
she had caught up the closer about her shoulders. Larry 
looked at her and pitied her for the cold of her inner life 
which was more deadly than all the force of all the winds. 

" I wanted to ask you," said she, " where you think I 
can find out how to knit? Sponges they call 'em, to soak 
up the blood. I could do it minutes when I get time; 
but of course they want 'em to be just right. I saw 
something about it in the paper, but it didn't give the 
rule." 

Larry knew even less of knitting than he did of war, but 
he answered instantly: 

" I'll find out for you, Mrs. Peterson. And I'll buy the 
stuff, if you'll let me. I'll pay for it and you knit it up." 
For he knew the Reverend John had no money to spend 
on knitting cotton. 

She looked relieved and thankful. 

" That's nice," said she. " I thought I could ravel out 
a spread I've got. Mr. Greene ! " Her. face came to a 
point of earnest and even savage determination. It 
was not that color ran into it, but it seemed to tighten all 
over with an extremity of pain. " I know how you feel. 
I want to tell you I feel just as you do. If I was a man, 
I'd do something." 



 

She turned, and went running up the windy hill, putting 
her head down as if she were butting the gale and planting 
her feet like some little sore beset animal that had to run 
its claws into the earth to keep from being dragged up 
from it by an enemy of the air. Larry went thought- 
fully homeward. He decided not to challenge Thomas 
Neale about the war, lest Neale should ask him what he 
knew about his son. 

He found Ellen sitting in his house, the fire burning 
brightly and Smilie by the hearth, twitching in imagined 
raids and only jumping up to give him a dash of welcome 
and pliunping down again to go on with her dream. Ellen 
was finishing his week's mending. ' She usually did it at 
home, but this time something had escaped her. He stood 
a moment in the doorway and looked at her, his heart 
greeting her before his lips: for his lips could never hail 
her as his heart would like. She looked up at him and 
smiled, the quiet housewife smile ready for the returning 
man who is worked for so absorbedly that there has been 
scant time to miss him. Again Larry's besetment came 
upon him. Was he too old to paint the love she had for 
him so bright that it would lead her into the path that 
never ends? Or, since she was a woman now, though so 
young, should he tell Ardelia to come to do his work be- 
cause he found Ellen too glamorously sweet? Bromley 
would never call their intimacy unfitting. He was not 
good company for boys; but otherwise he was an ascetic 
and he was old. 

" I had a letter from Hugh," she said, at once. Hugh 
had begun to write his mother and Ellen now, not en- 
closing under cover to Larry. In the beginning Neale's 
influence had looked pervasive enough to put out a long 
arm and snatch him home again. 



 




I did, too," said Larry. He threw off his coat and 
sat down, suddenly tired. Hugh's letter had made him 
old. 

" Well," said Ellen, " he's done it. He's gone into the 
Foreign Legion. You hoped he would." 

" Didn't you? " asked Larry. 

" Yes." As to the war, Ellen was the echo of his mind. 
He had opened it freely to her. He had told her all he 
knew about the aspectis of it, and together they read the 
papers and studied maps. He had talked to her daily 
about the rebirth of evil and his terror of it, and she had 
gravely listened. " But I suppose he wouldn't have done 
it so soon maybe, if he hadn't met the other young man 
going over and he went in. And you see he says if there 
hadn't been any war he was going to work for the other 
yoimg man — be his chauffeur — think of it! Why do 
you s'pose? " 

" Because," said Larry, in a violence of triumph over 
the way Hugh was coming out, " it was the first time he'd 
run up against the real stuff in a fellow his own age. And 
he saw he'd better drive a car and be honestly paid for 
it — for a while anyway, till he'd got hold of himself — 
than muddle along with this fiddle business — on Tabitha's 
money. Do you want to read my letter? " 

She nodded. 

" I'll leave you mine," she said. " I brought it over." 
So Larry knew that still she had no tenderness for the 
letters, or that Hugh was managing to keep his heart out 
of them. " You read yours to me," said Ellen, with her 
fascinating air of being too busy to pause, " and I'll
finish this." 

Larry got the letter out and read it, one of those au- 
thentic simple testimonies to the beauty of youth, dated 
somewhere in France. Hugh had decided at once to go 






 

in, when he found his friend was going. He had left his 
fiddle in a London lodging house. 

" He never'll see it again/' said Larry. " Because he 
never'll want to." 

" What makes you say that? " asked Ellen, looking up 
at him. 

" I never've told you my theory of Hugh and the fiddle. 
His fiddle is youth. He's a terribly emotional chap, 
poetic kind of chap, too. Life affects him. It's almost 
cruel the way it knocks him, especially while he's so young 
he doesn't know what to make of it. He heard me play 
the fiddle, and it was the best thing he'd had. So he 
thought the relief for all these things that were making 
him burst was the fiddle, every time. But it wasn't the 
fiddle at all." 

"Do you suppose Ben feels that way?" asked Ellen. 
She rested her hand on her knee and looked dreamily out 
of the window. 

"Ben?" said Larry violently. "Ben's got nothing 
inside him. Hugh's a man." 

"Oh!" said Ellen. She looked mildly surprised, but 
that was all. 

Larry went on reading the letter, and again she stayed 
her hand and listened. Hugh had never written to her 
like this. The letter was full of the emotion, unspoken 
indeed, that comes from the recognition of life. He did 
not indulge it, he did not wallow in it; but it quickened 
the pace. The whole thing was throbbing with color. 
The look of the world, the hard service, the necessities of 
the time, were delivered pat as blows. The pictures he 
gave, in a paragraph or two, of the vineyards, the harvest 
fields and hamlets, the blue Pyrenees topped with snow 
and the poplar trees of France — these were marked with 
the rarest distinction of simplicity. 



 

" You see," said Larry, at the end. " That's English. 
His gift is words." 

" Do you mean," said Ellen, again bewildered, " he can 
write?" 

" Yes. He will write. Not now, maybe. But he'll 
have to, in spite of himself." 

" Well," said Ellen, " now you read my letter." 

It was no such matter as the other. It was all a shy 
solicitude over her, but it gave her none of him. Larry 
wondered as he read. Was she, too, like the fiddle, a 
matter of his seething youth, and might his mind's eyes be 
presently filled as bewilderingly with a maid of France? 

'' Yes," he said ineptly, handing the letter back. " And 
now, Ellen, you've got to buy me a cartload of the right 
sort of yarn and copy the receipt for knitting things — 
* relief,' you know. And I'll hand them over to Mrs. Peter- 
son. And I will also chuck a few commas into this letter 
of Hugh's and wipe out the personal tang and send it off 
to a New York paper." 

And though he believed in the beauty and worth of 
Hugh's prose — miraculous, it seemed to him, since the 
boy had had no training — it was a double marvel when 
the big New York daily did accept it, paid for it and asked 
for more. Larry stared at the check as he never had 
at his own in the early days Then print was a wonder to 
him, starting out in fire from the mists of youth. He 
showed it to Ellen, and she was solemnly impressed. She 
saw Hugh in another light, not perhaps through per- 
suasion of the check but because an authoritative journal 
could pay him for the unconsidered marshaling of facts 
he was at liberty to use and his wonder over the tragic 
beauty of the face of France. And Mary Neale! the 
check was shown her before it began, in another form, its 
journey to Hugh, and the printed column and a half of 



 

his letter she presently knew by heart. She read it to 
Neale, timorously prefacing it with the explanation that 
it was written with no idea of print — for she could not 
tell whether mysteriously it might not be an offense. 
Neale listened from his cordon of silence perhaps intently : 
for she fancied his eyes were fixed in somewhat deeper 
scrutiny. 

" Shall I read it again? " she asked, another day. 

But he looked impenetrable and she did not venture : not 
until the next letter came and the next. And all of them, 
with a hardihood she wondered at, she read to him in turn. 

To Aimt Tab the printed words were a debauch of 
happiness. She hardly knew what they signified: only 
that they were print. They connected Hugh, in some 
undefined way with the entire world of books and maga- 
zines, chiefly Godey's. And she was, in consequence, 
happy. It seemed to her the unimagined deed would 
never have been accomplished if she had not sold her lot. 



XX 

It was incredible to Aunt Tab, and to Mary Neale, in 
a lesser degree, that Neale escaped all knowledge that 
the wood lot had been sold. For the first few days after 
Hugh's going, Aunt Tab sat with hands folded in her 
lap, unable to essay even her mild hidden recreations. 
Momently she expected her brother's step on the stair 
and his voice bidding her tell all she knew. But the call 
delayed. There were times when she even began to fold 
her clothes in anticipation of exile ; but Mary Neale, com- 
ing in one day to bring a warm cooky from the baking, 
saw the piles on the bed and knew what they meant. 

" Don't you do that, Tabitha," she said calmly, and 
her upright pose and the resistance that informed her 
made her the more majestic. " You are entitled to your 
home here. Don't you forget that." 

Aunt Tab tittered a little, from pure nervousness. 

" Anyway," said she, " if I was turned out o' the 
