1832.”
Honorius Hatchard had been old Miss Hatchard’s great-uncle; though she
would undoubtedly have reversed the phrase, and put forward, as her
only claim to distinction, the fact that she was his great-niece. For
Honorius Hatchard, in the early years of the nineteenth century, had
enjoyed a modest celebrity. As the marble tablet in the interior of
the library informed its infrequent visitors, he had possessed marked
literary gifts, written a series of papers called “The Recluse of Eagle
Range,” enjoyed the acquaintance of Washington Irving and Fitz-Greene
Halleck, and been cut off in his flower by a fever contracted in Italy.
Such had been the sole link between North Dormer and literature, a
link piously commemorated by the erection of the monument where Charity
Royall, every Tuesday and Thursday afternoon, sat at her desk under a
freckled steel engraving of the deceased author, and wondered if he felt
any deader in his grave than she did in his library.
Entering her prison-house with a listless step she took off her hat,
hung it on a plaster bust of Minerva, opened the shutters, leaned out
to see if there were any eggs in the swallow’s nest above one of the
windows, and finally, seating herself behind the desk, drew out a
roll of cotton lace and a steel crochet hook. She was not an expert
workwoman, and it had taken her many weeks to make the half-yard
of narrow lace which she kept wound about the buckram back of a
disintegrated copy of “The Lamplighter.” But there was no other way of
getting any lace to trim her summer blouse, and since Ally Hawes, the
poorest girl in the village, had shown herself in church with enviable
transparencies about the shoulders, Charity’s hook had travelled faster.
She unrolled the lace, dug the hook into a loop, and bent to the task
with furrowed brows.
Suddenly the door opened, and before she had raised her eyes she knew
that the young man she had seen going in at the Hatchard gate had
entered the library.
Without taking any notice of her he began to move slowly about the
long vault-like room, his hands behind his back, his short-sighted eyes
peering up and down the rows of rusty bindings. At length he reached the
desk and stood before her.
“Have you a card-catalogue?” he asked in a pleasant abrupt voice; and
the oddness of the question caused her to drop her work.
“A WHAT?”
“Why, you know----” He broke off, and she became conscious that he was
looking at her for the first time, having apparently, on his entrance,
included her in his general short-sighted survey as part of the
furniture of the library.
The fact that, in discovering her, he lost the thread of his remark,
did not escape her attention, and she looked down and smiled. He smiled
also.
“No, I don’t suppose you do know,” he corrected himself. “In fact, it
would be almost a pity----”
She thought she detected a slight condescension in his tone, and asked
sharply: “Why?”
“Because it’s so much pleasanter, in a small library like this, to poke
about by one’s self--with the help of the librarian.”
He added the last phrase so respectfully that she was mollified, and
rejoined with a sigh: “I’m afraid I can’t help you much.”
“Why?” he questioned in his turn; and she replied that there weren’t
many books anyhow, and that she’d hardly read any of them. “The worms
are getting at them,” she added gloomily.
“Are they? That’s a pity, for I see there are some good ones.” He seemed
to have lost interest in their conversation, and strolled away again,
apparently forgetting her. His indifference nettled her, and she picked
up her work, resolved not to offer him the least assistance. Apparently
he did not need it, for he spent a long time with his back to her,
lifting down, one after another, the tall cob-webby volumes from a
distant shelf.
“Oh, I say!” he exclaimed; and looking up she saw that he had drawn out
his handkerchief and was carefully wiping the edges of the book in his
hand. The action struck her as an unwarranted criticism on her care of
the books, and she said irritably: “It’s not my fault if they’re dirty.”
He turned around and looked at her with reviving interest. “Ah--then
you’re not the librarian?”
“Of course I am; but I can’t dust all these books. Besides, nobody ever
looks at them, now Miss Hatchard’s too lame to come round.”
“No, I suppose not.” He laid down the book he had been wiping, and stood
considering her in silence. She wondered if Miss Hatchard had sent
him round to pry into the way the library was looked after, and the
suspicion increased her resentment. “I saw you going into her house just
now, didn’t I?” she asked, with the New England avoidance of the proper
name. She was determined to find out why he was poking about among her
books.
“Miss Hatchard’s house? Yes--she’s my cousin and I’m staying there,” the
young man answered; adding, as if to disarm a visible distrust: “My name
is Harney--Lucius Harney. She may have spoken of me.”
“No, she hasn’t,” said Charity, wishing she could have said: “Yes, she
has.”
“Oh, well----” said Miss Hatchard’s cousin with a laugh; and after
another pause, during which it occurred to Charity that her answer
had not been encouraging, he remarked: “You don’t seem strong on
architecture.”
Her bewilderment was complete: the more she wished to appear to
understand him the more unintelligible his remarks became. He reminded
her of the gentleman who had “explained” the pictures at Nettleton, and
the weight of her ignorance settled down on her again like a pall.
“I mean, I can’t see that you have any books on the old houses about
here. I suppose, for that matter, this part of the country hasn’t been
much explored. They all go on doing Plymouth and Salem. So stupid. My
cousin’s house, now, is remarkable. This place must have had a past--it
must have been more of a place once.” He stopped short, with the blush
of a shy man who overhears himself, and fears he has been voluble. “I’m
an architect, you see, and I’m hunting up old houses in these parts.”
She stared. “Old houses? Everything’s old in North Dormer, isn’t it? The
folks are, anyhow.”
He laughed, and wandered away again.
“Haven’t you any kind of a history of the place? I think there was one
written about 1840: a book or pamphlet about its first settlement,” he
presently said from the farther end of the room.
She pressed her crochet hook against her lip and pondered. There was
such a work, she knew: “North Dormer and the Early Townships of Eagle
County.” She had a special grudge against it because it was a limp
weakly book that was always either falling off the shelf or slipping
back and disappearing if one squeezed it in between sustaining volumes.
She remembered, the last time she had picked it up, wondering how anyone
could have taken the trouble to write a book about North Dormer and its
neighbours: Dormer, Hamblin, Creston and Creston River. She knew them
all, mere lost clusters of houses in the folds of the desolate ridges:
Dormer, where North Dormer went for its apples; Creston River, where
there used to be a paper-mill, and its grey walls stood decaying by the
stream; and Hamblin, where the first snow always fell. Such were their
titles to fame.
She got up and began to move about vaguely before the shelves. But she
had no idea where she had last put the book, and something told her that
it was going to play her its usual trick and remain invisible. It was
not one of her lucky days.
“I guess it’s somewhere,” she said, to prove her zeal; but she spoke
without conviction, and felt that her words conveyed none.
“Oh, well----” he said again. She knew he was going, and wished more
than ever to find the book.
“It will be for next time,” he added; and picking up the volume he had
laid on the desk he handed it to her. “By the way, a little air and sun
would do this good; it’s rather valuable.”
He gave her a nod and smile, and passed out.
II
The hours of the Hatchard Memorial librarian were from three to five;
and Charity Royall’s sense of duty usually kept her at her desk until
nearly half-past four.
But she had never perceived that any practical advantage thereby
accrued either to North Dormer or to herself; and she had no scruple
in decreeing, when it suited her, that the library should close an hour
earlier. A few minutes after Mr. Harney’s departure she formed this
decision, put away her lace, fastened the shutters, and turned the key
in the door of the temple of knowledge.
The street upon which she emerged was still empty: and after glancing up
and down it she began to walk toward her house. But instead of entering
she passed on, turned into a field-path and mounted to a pasture on the
hillside. She let down the bars of the gate, followed a trail along the
crumbling wall of the pasture, and walked on till she reached a knoll
where a clump of larches shook out their fresh tassels to the wind.
There she lay down on the slope, tossed off her hat and hid her face in
the grass.
She was blind and insensible to many things, and dimly knew it; but to
all that was light and air, perfume and colour, every drop of blood in
her responded. She loved the roughness of the dry mountain grass under
her palms, the smell of the thyme into which she crushed her face, the
fingering of the wind in her hair and through her cotton blouse, and the
creak of the larches as they swayed to it.
She often climbed up the hill and lay there alone for the mere pleasure
of feeling the wind and of rubbing her cheeks in the grass. Generally
at such times she did not think of anything, but lay immersed in an
inarticulate well-being. Today the sense of well-being was intensified
by her joy at escaping from the library. She liked well enough to have a
friend drop in and talk to her when she was on duty, but she hated to be
bothered about books. How could she remember where they were, when they
were so seldom asked for? Orma Fry occasionally took out a novel, and
her brother Ben was fond of what he called “jography,” and of books
relating to trade and bookkeeping; but no one else asked for anything
except, at intervals, “Uncle Tom’s Cabin,” or “Opening of a Chestnut
Burr,” or Longfellow. She had these under her hand, and could have
found them in the dark; but unexpected demands came so rarely that they
exasperated her like an injustice....
She had liked the young man’s looks, and his short-sighted eyes, and his
odd way of speaking, that was abrupt yet soft, just as his hands were
sun-burnt and sinewy, yet with smooth nails like a woman’s. His hair was
sunburnt-looking too, or rather the colour of bracken after frost; his
eyes grey, with the appealing look of the shortsighted, his smile shy
yet confident, as if he knew lots of things she had never dreamed of,
and yet wouldn’t for the world have had her feel his superiority. But
she did feel it, and liked the feeling; for it was new to her. Poor and
ignorant as she was, and knew herself to be--humblest of the humble
even in North Dormer, where to come from the Mountain was the worst
disgrace--yet in her narrow world she had always ruled. It was partly,
of course, owing to the fact that lawyer Royall was “the biggest man
in North Dormer”; so much too big for it, in fact, that outsiders,
who didn’t know, always wondered how it held him. In spite of
everything--and in spite even of Miss Hatchard--lawyer Royall ruled in
North Dormer; and Charity ruled in lawyer Royall’s house. She had never
put it to herself in those terms; but she knew her power, knew what it
was made of, and hated it. Confusedly, the young man in the library
had made her feel for the first time what might be the sweetness of
dependence.
She sat up, brushed the bits of grass from her hair, and looked down on
the house where she held sway. It stood just below her, cheerless and
untended, its faded red front divided from the road by a “yard” with
a path bordered by gooseberry bushes, a stone well overgrown with
traveller’s joy, and a sickly Crimson Rambler tied to a fan-shaped
support, which Mr. Royall had once brought up from Hepburn to please
her. Behind the house a bit of uneven ground with clothes-lines strung
across it stretched up to a dry wall, and beyond the wall a patch of
corn and a few rows of potatoes strayed vaguely into the adjoining
wilderness of rock and fern.
Charity could not recall her first sight of the house. She had been told
that she was ill of a fever when she was brought down from the Mountain;
and she could only remember waking one day in a cot at the foot of Mrs.
Royall’s bed, and opening her eyes on the cold neatness of the room that
was afterward to be hers.
Mrs. Royall died seven or eight years later; and by that time Charity
had taken the measure of most things about her. She knew that Mrs.
Royall was sad and timid and weak; she knew that lawyer Royall was harsh
and violent, and still weaker. She knew that she had been christened
Charity (in the white church at the other end of the village) to
commemorate Mr. Royall’s disinterestedness in “bringing her down,” and
to keep alive in her a becoming sense of her dependence; she knew that
Mr. Royall was her guardian, but that he had not legally adopted her,
though everybody spoke of her as Charity Royall; and she knew why he had
come back to live at North Dormer, instead of practising at Nettleton,
where he had begun his legal career.
After Mrs. Royall’s death there was some talk of sending her to a
boarding-school. Miss Hatchard suggested it, and had a long conference
with Mr. Royall, who, in pursuance of her plan, departed one day for
Starkfield to visit the institution she recommended. He came back the
next night with a black face; worse, Charity observed, than she had ever
seen him; and by that time she had had some experience.
When she asked him how soon she was to start he answered shortly, “You
ain’t going,” and shut himself up in the room he called his office;
and the next day the lady who kept the school at Starkfield wrote that
“under the circumstances” she was afraid she could not make room just
then for another pupil.
Charity was disappointed; but she understood. It wasn’t the temptations
of Starkfield that had been Mr. Royall’s undoing; it was the thought of
losing her. He was a dreadfully “lonesome” man; she had made that out
because she was so “lonesome” herself. He and she, face to face in that
sad house, had sounded the depths of isolation; and though she felt
no particular affection for him, and not the slightest gratitude, she
pitied him because she was conscious that he was superior to the people
about him, and that she was the only being between him and solitude.
Therefore, when Miss Hatchard sent for her a day or two later, to talk
of a school at Nettleton, and to say that this time a friend of hers
would “make the necessary arrangements,” Charity cut her short with the
announcement that she had decided not to leave North Dormer.
Miss Hatchard reasoned with her kindly, but to no purpose; she simply
repeated: “I guess Mr. Royall’s too lonesome.”
Miss Hatchard blinked perplexedly behind her eye-glasses. Her long frail
face was full of puzzled wrinkles, and she leant forward, resting her
hands on the arms of her mahogany armchair, with the evident desire to
say something that ought to be said.
“The feeling does you credit, my dear.”
She looked about the pale walls of her sitting-room, seeking counsel of
ancestral daguerreotypes and didactic samplers; but they seemed to make
utterance more difficult.
“The fact is, it’s not only--not only because of the advantages. There
are other reasons. You’re too young to understand----”
“Oh, no, I ain’t,” said Charity harshly; and Miss Hatchard blushed to
the roots of her blonde cap. But she must have felt a vague relief at
having her explanation cut short, for she concluded, again invoking the
daguerreotypes: “Of course I shall always do what I can for you; and in
case... in case... you know you can always come to me....”
Lawyer Royall was waiting for Charity in the porch when she returned
from this visit. He had shaved, and brushed his black coat, and looked a
magnificent monument of a man; at such moments she really admired him.
“Well,” he said, “is it settled?”
“Yes, it’s settled. I ain’t going.”
“Not to the Nettleton school?”
“Not anywhere.”
He cleared his throat and asked sternly: “Why?”
“I’d rather not,” she said, swinging past him on her way to her room.
It was the following week that he brought her up the Crimson Rambler and
its fan from Hepburn. He had never given her anything before.
The next outstanding incident of her life had happened two years later,
when she was seventeen. Lawyer Royall, who hated to go to Nettleton,
had been called there in connection with a case. He still exercised
his profession, though litigation languished in North Dormer and its
outlying hamlets; and for once he had had an opportunity that he could
not afford to refuse. He spent three days in Nettleton, won his case,
and came back in high good-humour. It was a rare mood with him, and
manifested itself on this occasion by his talking impressively at the
supper-table of the “rousing welcome” his old friends had given him. He
wound up confidentially: “I was a damn fool ever to leave Nettleton. It
was Mrs. Royall that made me do it.”
Charity immediately perceived that something bitter had happened to him,
and that he was trying to talk down the recollection. She went up to bed
early, leaving him seated in moody thought, his elbows propped on the
worn oilcloth of the supper table. On the way up she had extracted from
his overcoat pocket the key of the cupboard where the bottle of whiskey
was kept.
She was awakened by a rattling at her door and jumped out of bed. She
heard Mr. Royall’s voice, low and peremptory, and opened the door,
fearing an accident. No other thought had occurred to her; but when
she saw him in the doorway, a ray from the autumn moon falling on his
discomposed face, she understood.
For a moment they looked at each other in silence; then, as he put his
foot across the threshold, she stretched out her arm and stopped him.
“You go right back from here,” she said, in a shrill voice that startled
her; “you ain’t going to have that key tonight.”
“Charity, let me in. I don’t want the key. I’m a lonesome man,” he
began, in the deep voice that sometimes moved her.
Her heart gave a startled plunge, but she continued to hold him back
contemptuously. “Well, I guess you made a mistake, then. This ain’t your
wife’s room any longer.”
She was not frightened, she simply felt a deep disgust; and perhaps he
divined it or read it in her face, for after staring at her a moment
he drew back and turned slowly away from the door. With her ear to her
keyhole she heard him feel his way down the dark stairs, and toward
the kitchen; and she listened for the crash of the cupboard panel, but
instead she heard him, after an interval, unlock the door of the house,
and his heavy steps came to her through the silence as he walked down
the path. She crept to the window and saw his bent figure striding up
the road in the moonlight. Then a belated sense of fear came to her
with the consciousness of victory, and she slipped into bed, cold to the
bone.
A day or two later poor Eudora Skeff, who for twenty years had been the
custodian of the Hatchard library, died suddenly of pneumonia; and the
day after the funeral Charity went to see Miss Hatchard, and asked to be
appointed librarian. The request seemed to surprise Miss Hatchard: she
evidently questioned the new candidate’s qualifications.
“Why, I don’t know, my dear. Aren’t you rather too young?” she
hesitated.
“I want to earn some money,” Charity merely answered.
“Doesn’t Mr. Royall give you all you require? No one is rich in North
Dormer.”
“I want to earn money enough to get away.”
“To get away?” Miss Hatchard’s puzzled wrinkles deepened, and there was
a distressful pause. “You want to leave Mr. Royall?”
“Yes: or I want another woman in the house with me,” said Charity
resolutely.
Miss Hatchard clasped her nervous hands about the arms of her chair. Her
eyes invoked the faded countenances on the wall, and after a faint cough
of indecision she brought out: “The... the housework’s too hard for you,
I suppose?”
Charity’s heart grew cold. She understood that Miss Hatchard had no
help to give her and that she would have to fight her way out of her
difficulty alone. A deeper sense of isolation overcame her; she felt
incalculably old. “She’s got to be talked to like a baby,” she thought,
with a feeling of compassion for Miss Hatchard’s long immaturity. “Yes,
that’s it,” she said aloud. “The housework’s too hard for me: I’ve been
coughing a good deal this fall.”
She noted the immediate effect of this suggestion. Miss Hatchard paled
at the memory of poor Eudora’s taking-off, and promised to do what she
could. But of course there were people she must consult: the clergyman,
the selectmen of North Dormer, and a distant Hatchard relative at
Springfield. “If you’d only gone to school!” she sighed. She followed
Charity to the door, and there, in the security of the threshold, said
with a glance of evasive appeal: “I know Mr. Royall is... trying at
times; but his wife bore with him; and you must always remember,
Charity, that it was Mr. Royall who brought you down from the Mountain.”
 Charity went home and opened the door of Mr. Royall’s “office.” He was
sitting there by the stove reading Daniel Webster’s speeches. They had
met at meals during the five days that had elapsed since he had come to
her door, and she had walked at his side at Eudora’s funeral; but they
had not spoken a word to each other.
He glanced up in surprise as she entered, and she noticed that he
was unshaved, and that he looked unusually old; but as she had always
thought of him as an old man the change in his appearance did not move
her. She told him she had been to see Miss Hatchard, and with what
object. She saw that he was astonished; but he made no comment.
“I told her the housework was too hard for me, and I wanted to earn the
money to pay for a hired girl. But I ain’t going to pay for her: you’ve
got to. I want to have some money of my own.”
Mr. Royall’s bushy black eyebrows were drawn together in a frown, and he
sat drumming with ink-stained nails on the edge of his desk.
“What do you want to earn money for?” he asked.
“So’s to get away when I want to.”
“Why do you want to get away?”
Her contempt flashed out. “Do you suppose anybody’d stay at North Dormer
if they could help it? You wouldn’t, folks say!”
With lowered head he asked: “Where’d you go to?”
“Anywhere where I can earn my living. I’ll try here first, and if I
can’t do it here I’ll go somewhere else. I’ll go up the Mountain if I
have to.” She paused on this threat, and saw that it had taken effect.
“I want you should get Miss Hatchard and the selectmen to take me at the
library: and I want a woman here in the house with me,” she repeated.
Mr. Royall had grown exceedingly pale. When she ended he stood up
ponderously, leaning against the desk; and for a second or two they
looked at each other.
“See here,” he said at length as though utterance were difficult,
“there’s something I’ve been wanting to say to you; I’d ought to have
said it before. I want you to marry me.”
The girl still stared at him without moving. “I want you to marry me,”
 he repeated, clearing his throat. “The minister’ll be up here next
Sunday and we can fix it up then. Or I’ll drive you down to Hepburn to
the Justice, and get it done there. I’ll do whatever you say.” His
eyes fell under the merciless stare she continued to fix on him, and
he shifted his weight uneasily from one foot to the other. As he
stood there before her, unwieldy, shabby, disordered, the purple veins
distorting the hands he pressed against the desk, and his long orator’s
jaw trembling with the effort of his avowal, he seemed like a hideous
parody of the fatherly old man she had always known.
“Marry you? Me?” she burst out with a scornful laugh. “Was that what you
came to ask me the other night? What’s come over you, I wonder? How long
is it since you’ve looked at yourself in the glass?” She straightened
herself, insolently conscious of her youth and strength. “I suppose
you think it would be cheaper to marry me than to keep a hired girl.
Everybody knows you’re the closest man in Eagle County; but I guess
you’re not going to get your mending done for you that way twice.”
Mr. Royall did not move while she spoke. His face was ash-coloured and
his black eyebrows quivered as though the blaze of her scorn had blinded
him. When she ceased he held up his hand.
“That’ll do--that’ll about do,” he said. He turned to the door and took
his hat from the hat-peg. On the threshold he paused. “People ain’t been
fair to me--from the first they ain’t been fair to me,” he said. Then he
went out.
A few days later North Dormer learned with surprise that Charity had
been appointed librarian of the Hatchard Memorial at a salary of eight
dollars a month, and that old Verena Marsh, from the Creston Almshouse,
was coming to live at lawyer Royall’s and do the cooking.
III
It was not in the room known at the red house as Mr. Royall’s “office”
 that he received his infrequent clients. Professional dignity and
masculine independence made it necessary that he should have a real
office, under a different roof; and his standing as the only lawyer of
North Dormer required that the roof should be the same as that which
sheltered the Town Hall and the post-office.
It was his habit to walk to this office twice a day, morning and
afternoon. It was on the ground floor of the building, with a separate
entrance, and a weathered name-plate on the door. Before going in
he stepped in to the post-office for his mail--usually an empty
ceremony--said a word or two to the town-clerk, who sat across the
passage in idle state, and then went over to the store on the opposite
corner, where Carrick Fry, the storekeeper, always kept a chair for him,
and where he was sure to find one or two selectmen leaning on the long
counter, in an atmosphere of rope, leather, tar and coffee-beans. Mr.
Royall, though monosyllabic at home, was not averse, in certain moods,
to imparting his views to his fellow-townsmen; perhaps, also, he was
unwilling that his rare clients should surprise him sitting, clerkless
and unoccupied, in his dusty office. At any rate, his hours there were
not much longer or more regular than Charity’s at the library; the rest
of the time he spent either at the store or in driving about the country
on business connected with the insurance companies that he represented,
or in sitting at home reading Bancroft’s History of the United States
and the speeches of Daniel Webster.
Since the day when Charity had told him that she wished to succeed
to Eudora Skeff’s post their relations had undefinably but definitely
changed. Lawyer Royall had kept his word. He had obtained the place for
her at the cost of considerable maneuvering, as she guessed from the
number of rival candidates, and from the acerbity with which two of
them, Orma Fry and the eldest Targatt girl, treated her for nearly a
year afterward. And he had engaged Verena Marsh to come up from
Creston and do the cooking. Verena was a poor old widow, doddering and
shiftless: Charity suspected that she came for her keep. Mr. Royall was
too close a man to give a dollar a day to a smart girl when he could
get a deaf pauper for nothing. But at any rate, Verena was there, in the
attic just over Charity, and the fact that she was deaf did not greatly
trouble the young girl.
Charity knew that what had happened on that hateful night would not
happen again. She understood that, profoundly as she had despised Mr.
Royall ever since, he despised himself still more profoundly. If she had
asked for a woman in the house it was far less for her own defense than
for his humiliation. She needed no one to defend her: his humbled pride
was her surest protection. He had never spoken a word of excuse
or extenuation; the incident was as if it had never been. Yet its
consequences were latent in every word that he and she exchanged, in
every glance they instinctively turned from each other. Nothing now
would ever shake her rule in the red house.
On the night of her meeting with Miss Hatchard’s cousin Charity lay in
bed, her bare arms clasped under her rough head, and continued to think
of him. She supposed that he meant to spend some time in North Dormer.
He had said he was looking up the old houses in the neighbourhood; and
though she was not very clear as to his purpose, or as to why anyone
should look for old houses, when they lay in wait for one on every
roadside, she understood that he needed the help of books, and resolved
to hunt up the next day the volume she had failed to find, and any
others that seemed related to the subject.
Never had her ignorance of life and literature so weighed on her as in
reliving the short scene of her discomfiture. “It’s no use trying to be
anything in this place,” she muttered to her pillow; and she shrivelled
at the vision of vague metropolises, shining super-Nettletons,
where girls in better clothes than Belle Balch’s talked fluently of
architecture to young men with hands like Lucius Harney’s. Then she
remembered his sudden pause when he had come close to the desk and had
his first look at her. The sight had made him forget what he was going
to say; she recalled the change in his face, and jumping up she ran over
the bare boards to her washstand, found the matches, lit a candle, and
lifted it to the square of looking-glass on the white-washed wall. Her
small face, usually so darkly pale, glowed like a rose in the faint orb
of light, and under her rumpled hair her eyes seemed deeper and larger
than by day. Perhaps after all it was a mistake to wish they were blue.
A clumsy band and button fastened her unbleached night-gown about the
throat. She undid it, freed her thin shoulders, and saw herself a bride
in low-necked satin, walking down an aisle with Lucius Harney. He would
kiss her as they left the church.... She put down the candle and covered
her face with her hands as if to imprison the kiss. At that moment she
heard Mr. Royall’s step as he came up the stairs to bed, and a fierce
revulsion of feeling swept over her. Until then she had merely despised
him; now deep hatred of him filled her heart. He became to her a
horrible old man....
The next day, when Mr. Royall came back to dinner, they faced each other
in silence as usual. Verena’s presence at the table was an excuse for
their not talking, though her deafness would have permitted the freest
interchange of confidences. But when the meal was over, and Mr. Royall
rose from the table, he looked back at Charity, who had stayed to help
the old woman clear away the dishes.
“I want to speak to you a minute,” he said; and she followed him across
the passage, wondering.
He seated himself in his black horse-hair armchair, and she leaned
against the window, indifferently. She was impatient to be gone to the
library, to hunt for the book on North Dormer.
“See here,” he said, “why ain’t you at the library the days you’re
supposed to be there?”
The question, breaking in on her mood of blissful abstraction, deprived
her of speech, and she stared at him for a moment without answering.
“Who says I ain’t?”
“There’s been some complaints made, it appears. Miss Hatchard sent for
me this morning----”
Charity’s smouldering resentment broke into a blaze. “I know! Orma Fry,
and that toad of a Targatt girl and Ben Fry, like as not. He’s going
round with her. The low-down sneaks--I always knew they’d try to have me
out! As if anybody ever came to the library, anyhow!”
“Somebody did yesterday, and you weren’t there.”
“Yesterday?” she laughed at her happy recollection. “At what time wasn’t
I there yesterday, I’d like to know?”
“Round about four o’clock.”
Charity was silent. She had been so steeped in the dreamy remembrance of
young Harney’s visit that she had forgotten having deserted her post as
soon as he had left the library.
“Who came at four o’clock?”
“Miss Hatchard did.”
“Miss Hatchard? Why, she ain’t ever been near the place since she’s been
lame. She couldn’t get up the steps if she tried.”
“She can be helped up, I guess. She was yesterday, anyhow, by the
young fellow that’s staying with her. He found you there, I understand,
earlier in the afternoon; and he went back and told Miss Hatchard the
books were in bad shape and needed attending to. She got excited, and
had herself wheeled straight round; and when she got there the place was
locked. So she sent for me, and told me about that, and about the other
complaints. She claims you’ve neglected things, and that she’s going to
get a trained librarian.”
Charity had not moved while he spoke. She stood with her head thrown
back against the window-frame, her arms hanging against her sides, and
her hands so tightly clenched that she felt, without knowing what hurt
her, the sharp edge of her nails against her palms.
Of all Mr. Royall had said she had retained only the phrase: “He told
Miss Hatchard the books were in bad shape.” What did she care for the
other charges against her? Malice or truth, she despised them as she
despised her detractors. But that the stranger to whom she had felt
herself so mysteriously drawn should have betrayed her! That at the
very moment when she had fled up the hillside to think of him more
deliciously he should have been hastening home to denounce her
short-comings! She remembered how, in the darkness of her room, she had
covered her face to press his imagined kiss closer; and her heart raged
against him for the liberty he had not taken.
“Well, I’ll go,” she said suddenly. “I’ll go right off.”
“Go where?” She heard the startled note in Mr. Royall’s voice.
“Why, out of their old library: straight out, and never set foot in
it again. They needn’t think I’m going to wait round and let them say
they’ve discharged me!”
“Charity--Charity Royall, you listen----” he began, getting heavily out
of his chair; but she waved him aside, and walked out of the room.
Upstairs she took the library key from the place where she always hid it
under her pincushion--who said she wasn’t careful?--put on her hat, and
swept down again and out into the street. If Mr. Royall heard her go
he made no motion to detain her: his sudden rages probably made him
understand the uselessness of reasoning with hers.
She reached the brick temple, unlocked the door and entered into the
glacial twilight. “I’m glad I’ll never have to sit in this old vault
again when other folks are out in the sun!” she said aloud as the
familiar chill took her. She looked with abhorrence at the long dingy
rows of books, the sheep-nosed Minerva on her black pedestal, and the
mild-faced young man in a high stock whose effigy pined above her desk.
She meant to take out of the drawer her roll of lace and the library
register, and go straight to Miss Hatchard to announce her resignation.
But suddenly a great desolation overcame her, and she sat down and laid
her face against the desk. Her heart was ravaged by life’s cruelest
discovery: the first creature who had come toward her out of the
wilderness had brought her anguish instead of joy. She did not cry;
tears came hard to her, and the storms of her heart spent themselves
inwardly. But as she sat there in her dumb woe she felt her life to be
too desolate, too ugly and intolerable.
“What have I ever done to it, that it should hurt me so?” she groaned,
and pressed her fists against her lids, which were beginning to swell
with weeping.
“I won’t--I won’t go there looking like a horror!” she muttered,
springing up and pushing back her hair as if it stifled her. She opened
the drawer, dragged out the register, and turned toward the door. As
she did so it opened, and the young man from Miss Hatchard’s came in
whistling.
IV
He stopped and lifted his hat with a shy smile. “I beg your pardon,” he
said. “I thought there was no one here.”
Charity stood before him, barring his way. “You can’t come in. The
library ain’t open to the public Wednesdays.”
“I know it’s not; but my cousin gave me her key.”
“Miss Hatchard’s got no right to give her key to other folks, any more’n
I have. I’m the librarian and I know the by-laws. This is my library.”
The young man looked profoundly surprised.
“Why, I know it is; I’m so sorry if you mind my coming.”
“I suppose you came to see what more you could say to set her against
me? But you needn’t trouble: it’s my library today, but it won’t be
this time tomorrow. I’m on the way now to take her back the key and the
register.”
Young Harney’s face grew grave, but without betraying the consciousness
of guilt she had looked for.
“I don’t understand,” he said. “There must be some mistake. Why should I
say things against you to Miss Hatchard--or to anyone?”
The apparent evasiveness of the reply caused Charity’s indignation to
overflow. “I don’t know why you should. I could understand Orma Fry’s
doing it, because she’s always wanted to get me out of here ever since
the first day. I can’t see why, when she’s got her own home, and her
father to work for her; nor Ida Targatt, neither, when she got a legacy
from her step-brother on’y last year. But anyway we all live in the
same place, and when it’s a place like North Dormer it’s enough to make
people hate each other just to have to walk down the same street every
day. But you don’t live here, and you don’t know anything about any of
us, so what did you have to meddle for? Do you suppose the other girls’d
have kept the books any better’n I did? Why, Orma Fry don’t hardly know
a book from a flat-iron! And what if I don’t always sit round here
doing nothing till it strikes five up at the church? Who cares if the
library’s open or shut? Do you suppose anybody ever comes here for
books? What they’d like to come for is to meet the fellows they’re going
with if I’d let ‘em. But I wouldn’t let Bill Sollas from over the hill
hang round here waiting for the youngest Targatt girl, because I know
him... that’s all... even if I don’t know about books all I ought to....”
She stopped with a choking in her throat. Tremors of rage were running
through her, and she steadied herself against the edge of the desk lest
he should see her weakness.
What he saw seemed to affect him deeply, for he grew red under his
sunburn, and stammered out: “But, Miss Royall, I assure you... I assure
you....”
His distress inflamed her anger, and she regained her voice to fling
back: “If I was you I’d have the nerve to stick to what I said!”
The taunt seemed to restore his presence of mind. “I hope I should if I
knew; but I don’t. Apparently something disagreeable has happened, for
which you think I’m to blame. But I don’t know what it is, because I’ve
been up on Eagle Ridge ever since the early morning.”
“I don’t know where you’ve been this morning, but I know you were here
in this library yesterday; and it was you that went home and told your
cousin the books were in bad shape, and brought her round to see how I’d
neglected them.”
Young Harney looked sincerely concerned. “Was that what you were told?
I don’t wonder you’re angry. The books are in bad shape, and as some are
interesting it’s a pity. I told Miss Hatchard they were suffering from
dampness and lack of air; and I brought her here to show her how easily
the place could be ventilated. I also told her you ought to have some
one to help you do the dusting and airing. If you were given a wrong
version of what I said I’m sorry; but I’m so fond of old books that
I’d rather see them made into a bonfire than left to moulder away like
these.”
Charity felt her sobs rising and tried to stifle them in words. “I don’t
care what you say you told her. All I know is she thinks it’s all my
fault, and I’m going to lose my job, and I wanted it more’n anyone in
the village, because I haven’t got anybody belonging to me, the way
other folks have. All I wanted was to put aside money enough to get away
from here sometime. D’you suppose if it hadn’t been for that I’d have
kept on sitting day after day in this old vault?”
Of this appeal her hearer took up only the last question. “It is an
old vault; but need it be? That’s the point. And it’s my putting the
question to my cousin that seems to have been the cause of the trouble.”
 His glance explored the melancholy penumbra of the long narrow room,
resting on the blotched walls, the discoloured rows of books, and the
stern rosewood desk surmounted by the portrait of the young Honorius.
“Of course it’s a bad job to do anything with a building jammed against
a hill like this ridiculous mausoleum: you couldn’t get a good draught
through it without blowing a hole in the mountain. But it can be
ventilated after a fashion, and the sun can be let in: I’ll show you
how if you like....” The architect’s passion for improvement had
already made him lose sight of her grievance, and he lifted his stick
instructively toward the cornice. But her silence seemed to tell him
that she took no interest in the ventilation of the library, and turning
back to her abruptly he held out both hands. “Look here--you don’t mean
what you said? You don’t really think I’d do anything to hurt you?”
A new note in his voice disarmed her: no one had ever spoken to her in
that tone.
“Oh, what DID you do it for then?” she wailed. He had her hands in
his, and she was feeling the smooth touch that she had imagined the day
before on the hillside.
He pressed her hands lightly and let them go. “Why, to make things
pleasanter for you here; and better for the books. I’m sorry if my
cousin twisted around what I said. She’s excitable, and she lives on
trifles: I ought to have remembered that. Don’t punish me by letting her
think you take her seriously.”
It was wonderful to hear him speak of Miss Hatchard as if she were a
querulous baby: in spite of his shyness he had the air of power that the
experience of cities probably gave. It was the fact of having lived
in Nettleton that made lawyer Royall, in spite of his infirmities, the
strongest man in North Dormer; and Charity was sure that this young man
had lived in bigger places than Nettleton.
She felt that if she kept up her denunciatory tone he would secretly
class her with Miss Hatchard; and the thought made her suddenly simple.
“It don’t matter to Miss Hatchard how I take her. Mr. Royall says she’s
going to get a trained librarian; and I’d sooner resign than have the
village say she sent me away.”
“Naturally you would. But I’m sure she doesn’t mean to send you away.
At any rate, won’t you give me the chance to find out first and let you
know? It will be time enough to resign if I’m mistaken.”
Her pride flamed into her cheeks at the suggestion of his intervening.
“I don’t want anybody should coax her to keep me if I don’t suit.”
He coloured too. “I give you my word I won’t do that. Only wait till
tomorrow, will you?” He looked straight into her eyes with his shy grey
glance. “You can trust me, you know--you really can.”
All the old frozen woes seemed to melt in her, and she murmured
awkwardly, looking away from him: “Oh, I’ll wait.”
V
There had never been such a June in Eagle County. Usually it was a month
of moods, with abrupt alternations of belated frost and mid-summer heat;
this year, day followed day in a sequence of temperate beauty. Every
morning a breeze blew steadily from the hills. Toward noon it built up
great canopies of white cloud that threw a cool shadow over fields and
woods; then before sunset the clouds dissolved again, and the western
light rained its unobstructed brightness on the valley.
On such an afternoon Charity Royall lay on a ridge above a sunlit
hollow, her face pressed to the earth and the warm currents of the grass
running through her. Directly in her line of vision a blackberry branch
laid its frail white flowers and blue-green leaves against the sky. Just
beyond, a tuft of sweet-fern uncurled between the beaded shoots of the
grass, and a small yellow butterfly vibrated over them like a fleck of
sunshine. This was all she saw; but she felt, above her and about her,
the strong growth of the beeches clothing the ridge, the rounding of
pale green cones on countless spruce-branches, the push of myriads of
sweet-fern fronds in the cracks of the stony slope below the wood,
and the crowding shoots of meadowsweet and yellow flags in the pasture
beyond. All this bubbling of sap and slipping of sheaths and bursting of
calyxes was carried to her on mingled currents of fragrance. Every leaf
and bud and blade seemed to contribute its exhalation to the pervading
sweetness in which the pungency of pine-sap prevailed over the spice
of thyme and the subtle perfume of fern, and all were merged in a moist
earth-smell that was like the breath of some huge sun-warmed animal.
Charity had lain there a long time, passive and sun-warmed as the slope
on which she lay, when there came between her eyes and the dancing
butterfly the sight of a man’s foot in a large worn boot covered with
red mud.
“Oh, don’t!” she exclaimed, raising herself on her elbow and stretching
out a warning hand.
“Don’t what?” a hoarse voice asked above her head.
“Don’t stamp on those bramble flowers, you dolt!” she retorted,
springing to her knees. The foot paused and then descended clumsily on
the frail branch, and raising her eyes she saw above her the bewildered
face of a slouching man with a thin sunburnt beard, and white arms
showing through his ragged shirt.
“Don’t you ever SEE anything, Liff Hyatt?” she assailed him, as he stood
before her with the look of a man who has stirred up a wasp’s nest.
He grinned. “I seen you! That’s what I come down for.”
“Down from where?” she questioned, stooping to gather up the petals his
foot had scattered.
He jerked his thumb toward the heights. “Been cutting down trees for Dan
Targatt.”
Charity sank back on her heels and looked at him musingly. She was
not in the least afraid of poor Liff Hyatt, though he “came from the
Mountain,” and some of the girls ran when they saw him. Among the more
reasonable he passed for a harmless creature, a sort of link between the
mountain and civilized folk, who occasionally came down and did a little
wood cutting for a farmer when hands were short. Besides, she knew the
Mountain people would never hurt her: Liff himself had told her so
once when she was a little girl, and had met him one day at the edge
of lawyer Royall’s pasture. “They won’t any of ‘em touch you up there,
f’ever you was to come up.... But I don’t s’pose you will,” he had added
philosophically, looking at her new shoes, and at the red ribbon that
Mrs. Royall had tied in her hair.
Charity had, in truth, never felt any desire to visit her birthplace.
She did not care to have it known that she was of the Mountain, and was
shy of being seen in talk with Liff Hyatt. But today she was not sorry
to have him appear. A great many things had happened to her since the
day when young Lucius Harney had entered the doors of the Hatchard
Memorial, but none, perhaps, so unforeseen as the fact of her suddenly
finding it a convenience to be on good terms with Liff Hyatt. She
continued to look up curiously at his freckled weather-beaten face,
with feverish hollows below the cheekbones and the pale yellow eyes of
a harmless animal. “I wonder if he’s related to me?” she thought, with a
shiver of disdain.
“Is there any folks living in the brown house by the swamp, up under
Porcupine?” she presently asked in an indifferent tone.
Liff Hyatt, for a while, considered her with surprise; then he scratched
his head and shifted his weight from one tattered sole to the other.
“There’s always the same folks in the brown house,” he said with his
vague grin.
“They’re from up your way, ain’t they?”
“Their name’s the same as mine,” he rejoined uncertainly.
Charity still held him with resolute eyes. “See here, I want to go there
some day and take a gentleman with me that’s boarding with us. He’s up
in these parts drawing pictures.”
She did not offer to explain this statement. It was too far beyond Liff
Hyatt’s limitations for the attempt to be worth making. “He wants to see
the brown house, and go all over it,” she pursued.
Liff was still running his fingers perplexedly through his shock of
straw-colored hair. “Is it a fellow from the city?” he asked.
“Yes. He draws pictures of things. He’s down there now drawing the
Bonner house.” She pointed to a chimney just visible over the dip of the
pasture below the wood.
“The Bonner house?” Liff echoed incredulously.
“Yes. You won’t understand--and it don’t matter. All I say is: he’s
going to the Hyatts’ in a day or two.”
Liff looked more and more perplexed. “Bash is ugly sometimes in the
afternoons.”
She threw her head back, her eyes full on Hyatt’s. “I’m coming too: you
tell him.”
“They won’t none of them trouble you, the Hyatts won’t. What d’you want
a take a stranger with you though?”
“I’ve told you, haven’t I? You’ve got to tell Bash Hyatt.”
He looked away at the blue mountains on the horizon; then his gaze
dropped to the chimney-top below the pasture.
“He’s down there now?”
“Yes.”
He shifted his weight again, crossed his arms, and continued to survey
the distant landscape. “Well, so long,” he said at last, inconclusively;
and turning away he shambled up the hillside. From the ledge above
her, he paused to call down: “I wouldn’t go there a Sunday”; then he
clambered on till the trees closed in on him. Presently, from high
overhead, Charity heard the ring of his axe.
She lay on the warm ridge, thinking of many things that the woodsman’s
appearance had stirred up in her. She knew nothing of her early life,
and had never felt any curiosity about it: only a sullen reluctance to
explore the corner of her memory where certain blurred images lingered.
But all that had happened to her within the last few weeks had stirred
her to the sleeping depths. She had become absorbingly interesting to
herself, and everything that had to do with her past was illuminated by
this sudden curiosity.
She hated more than ever the fact of coming from the Mountain; but it
was no longer indifferent to her. Everything that in any way affected
her was alive and vivid: even the hateful things had grown interesting
because they were a part of herself.
“I wonder if Liff Hyatt knows who my mother was?” she mused; and it
filled her with a tremor of surprise to think that some woman who was
once young and slight, with quick motions of the blood like hers, had
carried her in her breast, and watched her sleeping. She had always
thought of her mother as so long dead as to be no more than a nameless
pinch of earth; but now it occurred to her that the once-young woman
might be alive, and wrinkled and elf-locked like the woman she had
sometimes seen in the door of the brown house that Lucius Harney wanted
to draw.
The thought brought him back to the central point in her mind, and
she strayed away from the conjectures roused by Liff Hyatt’s presence.
Speculations concerning the past could not hold her long when the
present was so rich, the future so rosy, and when Lucius Harney,
a stone’s throw away, was bending over his sketch-book, frowning,
calculating, measuring, and then throwing his head back with the sudden
smile that had shed its brightness over everything.
She scrambled to her feet, but as she did so she saw him coming up the
pasture and dropped down on the grass to wait. When he was drawing and
measuring one of “his houses,” as she called them, she often strayed
away by herself into the woods or up the hillside. It was partly from
shyness that she did so: from a sense of inadequacy that came to her
most painfully when her companion, absorbed in his job, forgot her
ignorance and her inability to follow his least allusion, and plunged
into a monologue on art and life. To avoid the awkwardness of listening
with a blank face, and also to escape the surprised stare of the
inhabitants of the houses before which he would abruptly pull up their
horse and open his sketch-book, she slipped away to some spot from
which, without being seen, she could watch him at work, or at least look
down on the house he was drawing. She had not been displeased, at first,
to have it known to North Dormer and the neighborhood that she was
driving Miss Hatchard’s cousin about the country in the buggy he had
hired of lawyer Royall. She had always kept to herself, contemptuously
aloof from village love-making, without exactly knowing whether her
fierce pride was due to the sense of her tainted origin, or whether she
was reserving herself for a more brilliant fate. Sometimes she envied
the other girls their sentimental preoccupations, their long hours of
inarticulate philandering with one of the few youths who still lingered
in the village; but when she pictured herself curling her hair or
putting a new ribbon on her hat for Ben Fry or one of the Sollas boys
the fever dropped and she relapsed into indifference.
Now she knew the meaning of her disdains and reluctances. She had
learned what she was worth when Lucius Harney, looking at her for the
first time, had lost the thread of his speech, and leaned reddening on
the edge of her desk. But another kind of shyness had been born in
her: a terror of exposing to vulgar perils the sacred treasure of her
happiness. She was not sorry to have the neighbors suspect her of “going
with” a young man from the city; but she did not want it known to all
the countryside how many hours of the long June days she spent with him.
What she most feared was that the inevitable comments should reach Mr.
Royall. Charity was instinctively aware that few things concerning her
escaped the eyes of the silent man under whose roof she lived; and in
spite of the latitude which North Dormer accorded to courting couples
she had always felt that, on the day when she showed too open a
preference, Mr. Royall might, as she phrased it, make her “pay for
it.” How, she did not know; and her fear was the greater because it
was undefinable. If she had been accepting the attentions of one of the
village youths she would have been less apprehensive: Mr. Royall could
not prevent her marrying when she chose to. But everybody knew that
“going with a city fellow” was a different and less straightforward
affair: almost every village could show a victim of the perilous
venture. And her dread of Mr. Royall’s intervention gave a sharpened
joy to the hours she spent with young Harney, and made her, at the same
time, shy of being too generally seen with him.
As he approached she rose to her knees, stretching her arms above her
head with the indolent gesture that was her way of expressing a profound
well-being.
“I’m going to take you to that house up under Porcupine,” she announced.
“What house? Oh, yes; that ramshackle place near the swamp, with the
gipsy-looking people hanging about. It’s curious that a house with
traces of real architecture should have been built in such a place. But
the people were a sulky-looking lot--do you suppose they’ll let us in?”
“They’ll do whatever I tell them,” she said with assurance.
He threw himself down beside her. “Will they?” he rejoined with a smile.
“Well, I should like to see what’s left inside the house. And I should
like to have a talk with the people. Who was it who was telling me the
other day that they had come down from the Mountain?”
Charity shot a sideward look at him. It was the first time he had spoken
of the Mountain except as a feature of the landscape. What else did he
know about it, and about her relation to it? Her heart began to beat
with the fierce impulse of resistance which she instinctively opposed to
every imagined slight.
“The Mountain? I ain’t afraid of the Mountain!”
Her tone of defiance seemed to escape him. He lay breast-down on the
grass, breaking off sprigs of thyme and pressing them against his lips.
Far off, above the folds of the nearer hills, the Mountain thrust itself
up menacingly against a yellow sunset.
“I must go up there some day: I want to see it,” he continued.
Her heart-beats slackened and she turned again to examine his profile.
It was innocent of all unfriendly intention.
“What’d you want to go up the Mountain for?”
“Why, it must be rather a curious place. There’s a queer colony up
there, you know: sort of out-laws, a little independent kingdom. Of
course you’ve heard them spoken of; but I’m told they have nothing to
do with the people in the valleys--rather look down on them, in fact.
I suppose they’re rough customers; but they must have a good deal of
character.”
She did not quite know what he meant by having a good deal of character;
but his tone was expressive of admiration, and deepened her dawning
curiosity. It struck her now as strange that she knew so little about
the Mountain. She had never asked, and no one had ever offered to
enlighten her. North Dormer took the Mountain for granted, and implied
its disparagement by an intonation rather than by explicit criticism.
“It’s queer, you know,” he continued, “that, just over there, on top of
that hill, there should be a handful of people who don’t give a damn for
anybody.”
The words thrilled her. They seemed the clue to her own revolts and
defiances, and she longed to have him tell her more.
“I don’t know much about them. Have they always been there?”
“Nobody seems to know exactly how long. Down at Creston they told me
that the first colonists are supposed to have been men who worked on the
railway that was built forty or fifty years ago between Springfield
and Nettleton. Some of them took to drink, or got into trouble with the
police, and went off--disappeared into the woods. A year or two later
there was a report that they were living up on the Mountain. Then I
suppose others joined them--and children were born. Now they say there
are over a hundred people up there. They seem to be quite outside the
jurisdiction of the valleys. No school, no church--and no sheriff ever
goes up to see what they’re about. But don’t people ever talk of them at
North Dormer?”
“I don’t know. They say they’re bad.”
He laughed. “Do they? We’ll go and see, shall we?”
She flushed at the suggestion, and turned her face to his. “You never
heard, I suppose--I come from there. They brought me down when I was
little.”
“You?” He raised himself on his elbow, looking at her with sudden
interest. “You’re from the Mountain? How curious! I suppose that’s why
you’re so different....”
Her happy blood bathed her to the forehead. He was praising her--and
praising her because she came from the Mountain!
“Am I... different?” she triumphed, with affected wonder.
“Oh, awfully!” He picked up her hand and laid a kiss on the sunburnt
knuckles.
“Come,” he said, “let’s be off.” He stood up and shook the grass from
his loose grey clothes. “What a good day! Where are you going to take me
tomorrow?”
VI
That evening after supper Charity sat alone in the kitchen and listened
to Mr. Royall and young Harney talking in the porch.
She had remained indoors after the table had been cleared and old Verena
had hobbled up to bed. The kitchen window was open, and Charity seated
herself near it, her idle hands on her knee. The evening was cool and
still. Beyond the black hills an amber west passed into pale green,
and then to a deep blue in which a great star hung. The soft hoot of a
little owl came through the dusk, and between its calls the men’s voices
rose and fell.
Mr. Royall’s was full of a sonorous satisfaction. It was a long time
since he had had anyone of Lucius Harney’s quality to talk to: Charity
divined that the young man symbolized all his ruined and unforgotten
past. When Miss Hatchard had been called to Springfield by the illness
of a widowed sister, and young Harney, by that time seriously embarked
on his task of drawing and measuring all the old houses between
Nettleton and the New Hampshire border, had suggested the possibility of
boarding at the red house in his cousin’s absence, Charity had trembled
lest Mr. Royall should refuse. There had been no question of lodging
the young man: there was no room for him. But it appeared that he could
still live at Miss Hatchard’s if Mr. Royall would let him take his meals
at the red house; and after a day’s deliberation Mr. Royall consented.
Charity suspected him of being glad of the chance to make a little
money. He had the reputation of being an avaricious man; but she was
beginning to think he was probably poorer than people knew. His practice
had become little more than a vague legend, revived only at lengthening
intervals by a summons to Hepburn or Nettleton; and he appeared to
depend for his living mainly on the scant produce of his farm, and
on the commissions received from the few insurance agencies that he
represented in the neighbourhood. At any rate, he had been prompt in
accepting Harney’s offer to hire the buggy at a dollar and a half a
day; and his satisfaction with the bargain had manifested itself,
unexpectedly enough, at the end of the first week, by his tossing a
ten-dollar bill into Charity’s lap as she sat one day retrimming her old
hat.
“Here--go get yourself a Sunday bonnet that’ll make all the other girls
mad,” he said, looking at her with a sheepish twinkle in his deep-set
eyes; and she immediately guessed that the unwonted present--the only
gift of money she had ever received from him--represented Harney’s first
payment.
But the young man’s coming had brought Mr. Royall other than
pecuniary benefit. It gave him, for the first time in years, a man’s
companionship. Charity had only a dim understanding of her guardian’s
needs; but she knew he felt himself above the people among whom he
lived, and she saw that Lucius Harney thought him so. She was surprised
to find how well he seemed to talk now that he had a listener who
understood him; and she was equally struck by young Harney’s friendly
deference.
Their conversation was mostly about politics, and beyond her range; but
tonight it had a peculiar interest for her, for they had begun to speak
of the Mountain. She drew back a little, lest they should see she was in
hearing.
“The Mountain? The Mountain?” she heard Mr. Royall say. “Why, the
Mountain’s a blot--that’s what it is, sir, a blot. That scum up there
ought to have been run in long ago--and would have, if the people down
here hadn’t been clean scared of them. The Mountain belongs to this
township, and it’s North Dormer’s fault if there’s a gang of thieves
and outlaws living over there, in sight of us, defying the laws of their
country. Why, there ain’t a sheriff or a tax-collector or a coroner’d
durst go up there. When they hear of trouble on the Mountain the
selectmen look the other way, and pass an appropriation to beautify the
