a passion of your own stuck out of you. If I 
thought she didn't admire you," Cissy said, "I 
shouldn't be able to do with her at all — it would 
be too stupid of her; putting aside her not accept- 
ing you, I mean — for a woman can't accept every 
man she admires. I suppose you don't at present 
object," she continued, "to her admiring Mr. 
Graham enough to account for anything; espe- 
cially as it accounts so for her having just acted 
on his behalf with such extraordinary success. 
Doesn't that make it out for him," she asked, 
"that he's admired by twenty millions plus the 





 

amount that her reconciliation of him with his 
uncle just in time to save it, without an hour to 
spare, will represent for his pocket ? We don't 
know what that lucky amount may be " 

"No, but we more or less shall " — Horton took 
her straight up. "Of course, without exaggera- 
tion, that will be interesting — even though it 
will be but a question, I'm quite certain, of com- 
paratively small things. Old Betterman — there 
are people who practically know, and I've talked 
with them — isn't going to foot up to any faint 
likeness of what Gaw does. That, however, has 
nothing to do with it: all that is relevant — since 
I quite allow that, speculation for speculation, 
our association in this sort represents finer fun 
than it has yet succeeded in doing in other sorts 
— all that's relevant is that when you've seen 
Gray you mayn't be in such a hurry to figure him 
as a provoker of insatiable passions. Your in- 
sidious Northover has, as you say, worked you 
up, but wait a little to see if the reality corre- 
sponds." 

"He showed me a photograph, my insidious 
Northover," Cissy promptly recalled; "he was 
naif enough, poor dear, for that. In fact he 
made me a present of several, including one of 
himself; I owe him as well two or three other 
mementos, all of which I've cherished." 

"What was he up to anyway, the old cor- 
rupter of your youth?" — Horton seemed really 





 

to wonder. "Unless it was that you simply re- 
duced him to infatuated babble." 

"Well, there are the photographs and things 
to show," she answered unembarrassed — "though 
I haven't them with me here; they're put away 
in New York. His portrait's extremely good- 
looking." 

"Do you mean Mr. Northover's own?" 

"Oh his is of course quite beautiful. But I 
mean Mr. Fielder's — at his then lovely age. I 
remember it," said Cissy, "as a nice, nice face." 

Haughty on his side indulged in the act of 
memory, concluding after an instant to a head- 
shake. "He isn't at all remarkable for looks; 
but putting his nice face at its best, granting 
that he has a high degree of that advantage, do 
you see Rosanna so carried away by it as to cast 
everything to the winds for him ?" 

Cissy weighed the question. "We've seen 
surely what she has been carried away enough 
to do." 

"She has had other reasons — independent of 
headlong passion. And remember," he further 
argued — "if you impute to her a high degree of 
that sort of sensibility- — how perfectly proof she 
was to my physical attractions, which I declare 
to you without scruple leave the very brightest 
you may discover in Gray completely in the 
shade." 

Again his companion considered. "Of course 




 

you're dazzlingly handsome; but are you, my 
dear, after all — I mean in appearance— so very 
interesting ?" 

The inquiry was so sincere that it could be 
met but in the same spirit. "Didn't you then 
find me so from the first minute you ever looked 
at me ? " 

"We're not talking of me," she returned, "but 
of people who happen to have been subjects less 
predestined and victims less abject. What," she 
then at once went on, "is Gray's appearance 
'anyway' ? Is he black, to begin with, or white, 
or betwixt and between ? Is he little or big or 
neither one thing or t'other? Is he fat or thin 
or of 'medium weight' ? There are always such 
lots to be told about people, and never a creature 
in all the wide world to tell. Even Mr. North- 
over, when I come to think of it, never mentioned 
his size." 

"Well, you wouldn't mention it," Horton 
amiably argued. The appeal, he showed withal, 
stirred him to certain recoveries. "And I should 
call him black — black as to his straight thick 
hair, which I see rather distinctively 'slick' and 
soigne — the hair of a good little boy who never 
played at things that got it tumbled. No, he's 
only very middling tall; in fact so very mid- 
dling," Haughty made out, "that it probably 
comes to his being rather short. But he has 
neither a hump nor a limp, no marked physical 





 

deformity of any sort; has in fact a kind of futile 
fidgetty quickness which suggests the little man, 
and the nervous and the active and the ready; 
the ready, I mean, for anything in the way of 
interest and talk — given that the matter isn't 
too big for him. The 'active,' I say, though 
at the same time," he noted, "I ask myself 
what the deuce the activity will have been 
about." 

The girl took in these impressions to the effect 
of desiring still more of them. "Doesn't he 
happen then to have eyes and things?" 

"Oh yes" — Horton bethought himself — "lots 
and lots of eyes, though not perhaps so many 
of other things. Good eyes, fine eyes, in fact I 
think anything whatever you may require in the 
way of eyes." 

"Then clearly they're not 'black': I never 
require black ones," she said, "in any conceivable 
connection: his eyes — blue-grey, or grey-blue, 
whichever you may call it, and far and away the 
most charming kind when one doesn't happen to 
be looking into your glorious green ones — his 
satisfactory eyes are what will more than any- 
thing else have done the business. They'll have 
done it so," she went on, "that if he isn't red in 
the face, which I defy him to be, his features 
don't particularly matter — though there's not 
the least reason either why he should have mean 
or common ones. In fact he hasn't them in the 





 

photograph, and what are photographs, the 
wretched things, but the very truth of life ?" 

"He's not red in the face," Haughty was able 
to state — "I think of him rather as of a pale, 
very pale, clean brown; and entirely unad- 
dicted," he felt sure, "to flushing or blushing. 
What I do sort of remember in the feature way 
is that his teeth though good, fortunately, as 
they're shown a good deal, are rather too small 
and square; for a man's, that is, so that they make 
his smile a trifle " 

"A trifle irresistible of course," Cissy broke in 
— "through their being, in their charming form, 
of the happy Latin model; extremely like my 
own, be so good as to notice for once in your 
life, and not like the usual Anglo-Saxon fangs. 
You're simply describing, you know," she added, 
"about as gorgeous a being as one could wish 
to see." 

"It's not I who am describing him — it's you, 
love; and ever so delightfully." With which, 
in consistency with that, he himself put a ques- 
tion. "What does it come to, by the way, in 
the sense of a moustache? Does he, or doesn't 
he after all, wear one ? It's odd I shouldn't re- 
member, but what does the photograph say?" 

"It seems odd indeed / shouldn't" — Cissy had 
a moment's brooding. She gave herself out as 
ashamed. "Fancy my not remembering if the 
photograph is moustachue ! " 





 

"It can't be then very" Horton contributed 
— the point was really so interesting. 

"No," Cissy tried to settle, "the photograph 
can't be so very moustachue." 

"His moustaches, I mean, if he wears 'em, 
can't be so very prodigious; or one could scarcely 
have helped noticing, could one?" 

"Certainly no one can ever have failed to 
notice yours — and therefore Gray's, if he has 
any, must indeed be very inferior. And yet he 
can't be shaved like a sneak-thief — or like all 
the world here," she developed; "for I won't 
have him with nothing at all any more than I'll 
have him with anything prodigious, as you say; 
which is worse than nothing. When I say I 
won't have him with nothing," she explained, 
"I mean I won't have him subject to the so uni- 
versally and stupidly applied American law that 
every man's face without exception shall be 
scraped as clean, as glabre, as a fish's — which it 
makes so many of them so much resemble. I 
won't have him so," she said, "because I won't 
have him so idiotically gregarious and without 
that sense of differences in things, and of their 
relations and suitabilities, which such exhibitions 
make one so ache for. If he's gregarious to that 
sort of tune we must renounce our idea — that is 
you must drop yours — of my working myself up 
to snatch him from the arms of Rosanna. I 
must believe in him, for that, I must see him at 





 

least in my own way," she pursued; "believing 
in myself, or even believing in you, is a com- 
parative detail. I won't have him bristle with 
horrid demagogic notes. I shouldn't be able to 
act a scrap on that basis." 

It was as if what she said had for him the in- 
terest at once of the most intimate and the most 
enlarged application; it was in fact as if she 
alone in all the world could touch him in such 
fine ways — could amuse him, could verily in- 
struct him, to anything like such a tune. "It 
seems peculiarly a question of bristles if it all 
depends on his moustache. Our suspense as to 
that, however, needn't so much ravage us," 
Haughty added, "when we remember that Davey, 
who, you tell me, will by this time have seen 
him, can settle the question for us as soon as we 
meet at dinner. It will by the same stroke then 
settle that of the witchcraft which has according 
to your theory so bedevilled poor dear Rosanna's 
sensibility — leading it such a dance, I mean, and 
giving such an empire to certain special items 
of our friend's 'personality,' that the connection 
was practically immediate with his brilliant 
status." 







Ill 



Horton, looking at his watch, had got up as he 
spoke — which Cissy at once also did under this 
recall of the lapse of their precious minutes. 
There was a point, however, left for her to make; 
which she did with the remark that the item they 
had been discussing in particular couldn't have 
been by itself the force that had set their young 
woman originally in motion, inasmuch as Gray 
wouldn't have had a moustache when a small 
boy or whatever, and as since that young con- 
dition, she understood, Rosanna hadn't again 
seen him. A proposition to which Haughty's 
assent was to remain vague, merged as it sud- 
denly became in the cry of "Hello, here he is!" 
and a prompt gay brandish of arms up at their 
host Bradham, arrayed for the evening, white- 
waistcoated and buttonholed, robustly erect on 
an overlooking ledge and explaining his presence, 
from the moment it was thus observed, by calling 
down that Gussy had sent him to see if she wasn't 
to expect them at dinner. It was practically a 
summons to Cissy, as the girl easily recognised, 
to leave herself at least ten minutes to dress de- 
cently — in spite of the importance of which she 
so challenged Davey on another score that, as 
a consequence, the good gorgeous man, who 





 

shone with every effect of the bath and every 
resource of the toilet, had within the pair of 
minutes picked out such easiest patent-leather 
steps as would enable him to convict the com- 
panions of a shameless dawdle. She had had 
time to articulate for Horton's benefit, with no 
more than due distinctness, that he must have 
seen them, and Horton had as quickly found the 
right note and the right wit for the simple re- 
assurance "Oh Davey !" As occupants of 

a place of procrastination that they only were 
not such fools as to leave unhaunted they frankly 
received their visitor, any impulse in whom to 
sprinkle stale banter on their search for solitude 
would have been forestalled, even had it been 
supposable of so perfect a man of the world, by 
the instant action of his younger guest's strategic 
curiosity. 

"Has he, please, just has he or no, got a mous- 
tache ? " — she appealed as if the fate of empires 
depended on it. 

"I've been telling her," Horton explained, 
"whatever I can remember of Gray Fielder, but 
she won't listen to anything if I can't first be 
sure as to that. So as I want her enormously to 
like him, we both hang, you see, on your lips; 
unless you call it, more correctly, on his." 

Davey's evening bloom opened to them a dense 
but perfectly pathless garden of possibilities; out 
of which, while he faced them, he left them to 





 

pluck by their own act any bright flower they 
sufficiently desired to reach. Wonderful during 
the few instants, between these flagrant world- 
lings, the exchange of fine recognitions. It would 
have been hard perhaps to say of them whether 
it was most discernible that Haughty and Cissy 
trusted most his intelligence or his indifference, 
and whether he most applauded or ignored the 
high perfection of their assurance. What was 
testified to all round, at all events — 1 

"Ah then he is as 'odd' as I was sure — in spite 
of Haughty's perverse theory that we shall find 
him the flattest of the flat !" 

It might have been at Haughty's perverse 
theory that Davey was most moved to stare — 
had he not quickly betrayed, instead of this, a 
marked attention to the girl herself. "Oh you 
little wonder and joy !" 

"She is a little wonder and joy," Horton said 
— that at any rate came out clear. 

"What you are, my boy, I'm not pretending 

1 There is a gap here in the MS., with the following note by the 
author: "It is the security of the two others with him that is testi- 
fied to; but I mustn't make any sort of spread about it or about 
anything else here now, and only put Davey on some non-committal 
reply to the question addressed him, such as keeps up the mystery 
or ambiguity or suspense about Gray, his moustache and everything 
else, so as to connect properly with what follows. The real point 
is — that comes back to me, and it is in essence enough — that he 
pleads he doesn't remember, didn't notice, at all; and thereby oddly 
enough can't say. It will come to me right once I get into it. One 
sees that Davey plays with them." 

1



 

to say," Davey returned in answer to this; "for 
I don't accept her account of your vision of Gray 
as throwing any light on it at all." 

"On his judgment of Mr. Fielder, do you 
mean," Cissy earnestly asked, "or on your evi- 
dently awful opinion of his own dark nature?" 

"Haughty knows that I lose myself in his 
dark nature, at my spare moments, and with 
wind enough on to whistle in that dark, very 
much as if I had the fine excitement of the Foret 
de Bondy to deal with. He's well aware that I 
know no greater pleasure of the imagination than 
that sort of interest in him — when I happen also 
to have the time and the nerve. Let these things 
serve me now, however, only to hurry you up," 
Davey went on; "and to say that I of course 
had with our fortunate friend an impressive 
quarter of an hour — which everyone will want 
to know about, so that I must keep it till we sit 
down. But the great thing is after all for your- 
self, Haughty," he added — "and you had better 
know at once that he particularly wants to see 
you. He'll be glad of you at the very first mo- 
ment " 

But Horton had already taken him easily up. 
"Of course I know, my dear man, that he par- 
ticularly wants to see me. He has written me 
nothing else from the moment he arrived." 

"He has written you, you wretch," Cissy at 
once extravagantly echoed — "he has written you 





 

all sorts of things and you haven't so much as 
told me?" 

"He hasn't written me all sorts of things" — 
Horton directed this answer to Davey alone— 
"but has written me in such straight confidence 
and friendship that I've been wondering if I 
mayn't go round to him this evening." 

"Gussy will no doubt excuse you for that pur- 
pose with the utmost joy," Davey rejoined — 
"though I don't think I advise you to ask her 
leave if you don't want her at once to insist on 
going with you. Go to him alone, very quietly 
— and with the happy confidence of doing him 
good." 

It had been on Cissy that, for his part, Davey 
had, in speaking, rested his eyes; and it might 
by the same token have been for the benefit of 
universal nature, suspended to listen over the 
bosom of the deep, that Horton's lips phrased 
his frank reaction upon their entertainer's words. 
"Well then, ye powers, the amount of good that 
I shall undertake ! " 

Davey Bradham and Cissy Foy exchanged on 
the whole ground for a moment a considerable 
smile; his share in which, however, it might 
exactly have been that prompted the young 
woman's further expression of their intelligence, 
"It's too charming that he yearns so for Haughty 
— and too sweet that Haughty can now rush to 
him at once." To which she then appended in 





 

another tone: "One takes for granted of course 
that Rosanna was with him." 

Davey at this but continued to bloom and beam; 
which gave Horton, even with a moment's delay, 
time to assist his better understanding. "She 
doesn't even yet embrace the fact, tremendously 
as I've driven it into her, that if Rosanna had 
been there he couldn't have breathed my name." 

This made Davey, however, but throw up de- 
risive hands; though as with an impatient turn 
now for their regaining the lawn. "My dear 
man, Rosanna breathes your name with all the 
force of her lungs ! " 

Horton, jerking back his head for the bright 
reassurance, laughed out with amusement. "What 
a jolly cue then for my breathing of hers ! I'll 
roar it to all the echoes, and everything will be 
well. But what one's talking about," he said, 
"is the question of Gray's naming me" He 
looked from one of his friends to the other, and 
then, as gathering them into the interest of it: 
"I'll bet you a fiver that he doesn't at any rate 
speak to me of Miss Gaw." 

"Well, what will that prove?" Davey asked,quite 
easy about it and leading the way up the rocks. 

"In the first place how much he thinks of her," 
said Cissy, who followed close behind. "And in 
the second that it's ten to one Haughty will find 
her there." 

"I don't care if I do — not a scrap!" Horton 




 

also took his way. "I don't care for anything 

now but the jolly fun, the jolly fun !" He 

had committed it all again, by the time they 
reached the clifPs edge, to the bland participating 
elements. 

"Oh the treat the poor boy is evidently going 
to stand us all\" — well, was something that 
Davey, rather out of breath as they reached the 
lawn again and came in sight of the villa, had 
just yet no more than those light words for. He 
was more definite in remarking immediately 
after to Cissy that Rosanna would be as little 
at the other house that evening as she had been 
at the moment of his own visit, and that, since 
the nurses and other outsiders appeared to have 
dispersed, there would be no one to interfere 
with Gray's free welcome of his friend. The girl 
was so attentive for this that it made them pause 
again while she brought out in surprise: "There's 
nobody else there, you mean then, to watch with 
the dead ?" 

It made Mr. Bradham for an instant wonder, 
Horton, a little apart from them now and with 
his back turned, seeming at the same moment, 
and whether or no her inquiry reached his ear, 
struck with something that had pulled him up 
as well and that made him stand and look down 
in thought. "Why, I suppose the nephew must 
be himself a sort of watcher," Davey found him- 
self not other than decently vague to suggest. 





 

But it scarce more contented Cissy than if the 
point had really concerned her. She appeared 
indeed to question the more, though her eyes 
were on Haughty's rather brooding back while 
she did so. "Then if he does stay in the room, 
when he comes out of it to see people ?" 

Her very drop seemed to present the state of 
things to which the poor deceased was in that 
case left; for which, however, her good host de- 
clined to be responsible. "I don't suppose he 
comes out for so many." 

"He came out at any rate for you." The sense 
of it all rather remarkably held her, and it might 
have been some communication of this that, 
overtaking Horton at his slight distance, deter- 
mined in him the impulse to leave them, without 
more words, and walk by himself to the house. 
"We don't surround such occasions with any 
form or state of imagination — scarcely with any 
decency, do we?" Cissy adventured while ob- 
serving Haughty's retreat. "I should like to 
think for him of a catafalque and great draped 
hangings — I should like to think for him of tall 
flambeaux in the darkened room, and of relays 
of watchers, sisters of charity or suchlike, sur- 
rounding the grand affair and counting their 
beads." 

Davey's rich patience had a shrug. "The 
grand affair, my dear child, is their affair, over 
there, and not mine; though when you indulge 





 

in such fancies 'for him,' I can't but wonder who 
it is you mean." 

"Who it is ?" She mightn't have under- 
stood his difficulty. 

"Why the dead man or the living!" 

They had gone on again; Horton had, with a 
quickened pace, disappeared; and she had be- 
fore answering cast about over the fair face of 
the great house, paler now in the ebb of day, 
yet with dressing-time glimmers from upper 
windows flushing it here and there like touches 
of pink paint in an elegant evening complexion. 
"Oh I care for the dead man, I'm afraid, only 
because it's the living who appeals. I don't 
want him to like it." 

"To like ?" Davey was again at a loss. 

"What on earth ?" 

"Why all that ugliness and bareness, that 
poverty of form." 

He had nothing but derision for her here. "It 
didn't occur to me at all to associate him with the 
idea of poverty." 

"The place must all the same be hideous," she 
said, " and the conditions mean — for him to prowl 
about in alone. It comes to me," she further 
risked, "that if Rosanna isn't there, as you say, 
she quite ought to be — and that in her place I 
should feel it no more than decent to go over and 
sit with him." 

This appeared to strike Davey in a splendid 




 

number of lights — which, however, though col- 
lectively dazzling, allowed discriminations. "It 
perhaps bears a little on the point that she has 
herself just sustained a grave bereavement — with 
her offices to her own dead to think of first. That 
was present to me in your talk a moment since 
of Haughty's finding her." 

"Very true" — it was Cissy's practice, once 
struck, ever amusedly to play with the missile: 
"it is of course extraordinary that those bloated 
old richards, at one time so associated, should 
have flickered out almost at the same hour. 
What it comes to then," she went on, "is that 
Mr. Gray might be, or perhaps even ought to 
be, condoling over at the other house with her. 
However, it's their own business, and all I really 
care for is that he should be so keen as you say 
about seeing Haughty. I just delight," she said, 
"in his being keen about Haughty." 

"I'm glad it satisfies you then," Davey re- 
turned — "for I was on the point of suggesting 
that with the sense of his desolation you just 
expressed you might judge your own place to 
be at once at his side." 

"That would have been helpful of you — -but 
I'm content, dear Davey," she smiled. "We're 
all devoted to Haughty — but," she added after 
an instant, "there's just this. Did Mr. Graham 
while you were there say by chance a word about 
the likes ofmeV 





 

"Well, really, no — our short talk didn't take 
your direction. That would have been for me, I 
confess," Davey frankly made bold to add, "a 
trifle unexpected." 

"I see" — Cissy did him the justice. "But 
that's a little, I think, because you don't know 

!" It was more, however, than with her 

sigh she could tell him. 

"Don't know by this time, my dear, and after 
all I've been through," he nevertheless supplied, 
"what the American girl always so sublimely 
takes for granted ? " 

She looked at him on this with intensity — but 
that of compassion rather than of the conscious 
wound. "Dear old Davey, il n'y a que vous for 
not knowing, by this time, as you say, that I've 
notoriously nothing in common with the creature 
you mention. I loathe," she said with her purest 
gentleness, "the American girl." 

He faced her an instant more as for a view of 
the whole incongruity; then he fetched, on his 
side, a sigh which might have signified, at her- 
choice, either that he was wrong or that he was 
finally bored. "Well, you do of course brilliantly 
misrepresent her. But we're all" — he hastened 
to patch it up — "unspeakably corrupt." 

"That would be a fine lookout for Mr. Fielder 
if it were true," she judiciously threw off. 

"But as you're a judge you know it isn't?" 
'It's not as a judge I know it, but as a vic- 



«i 



 

tim. I don't say we don't do our best," she add- 
ed; "but we're still of an innocence, an inno- 
cence !" 

"Then perhaps," Davey offered, "Mr. Fielder 
will help us; unless he proves, by your measure, 
worse than ourselves ! " 

"The worse he may be the better; for it's not 
possible, as I see him," she said, "that he doesn't 
know." 

"Know, you mean," Davey blandly wondered, 
"how wrong we are — to be so right ?" 

"Know more on every subject than all of us 
put together!" she called back at him as she 
now hurried off to dress. 







IV 



Horton Vint, on being admitted that evening 
at the late Mr. Betterman's, walked about the 
room to which he had been directed and awaited 
there the friend of his younger time very much 
as we have seen that friend himself wait under 
stress of an extraordinary crisis. Horton's sense 
of a crisis might have been almost equally sharp; 
he was alone for some minutes during which he 
shifted his place and circled, indulged in wide 
vague movements and vacuous stares at incon- 
gruous objects — the place being at once so spacious 
and so thickly provided — quite after the fashion 
in which Gray Fielder's nerves and imagination 
had on the same general scene sought and found 
relief at the hour of the finest suspense up to that 
moment possessing him. Haughty too, it would 
thus have appeared for the furtherance of our 
interest, had imagination and nerves — had in 
his way as much to reflect upon as we have al- 
lowed ourselves to impute to the dying Mr. Bet- 
terman's nephew. No one was dying now, all 
that was ended, or would be after the funeral, 
and the nephew himself was surely to be sup- 
posed alive, in face of great sequels, including 
preparations for those obsequies, with an intensity 
beyond all former experience. This in fact Hor- 





 

ton had all the air of recognising under proof as 
soon as Gray advanced upon him with both 
hands out; he couldn't not have taken in the 
highly quickened state of the young black-clad 
figure so presented, even though soon and un- 
mistakably invited to note that his own yisit 
and his own presence had much to do with the 
quickening. Gray was in complete mourning, 
which had the effect of making his face show, 
pale, as compared with old aspects of it remem- 
bered by his friend-r-who was, it may be men- 
tioned, afterwards to describe him to Cissy Foy 
as looking, in the conditions, these including the 
air of the big bedimmed palace room, for all the 
world like a sort of "happy Hamlet." For so 
happy indeed our young man at once proclaimed 
himself at sight of his visitor, for so much the 
most interesting thing that had befallen or been 
offered him within the week did he take, by his 
immediate testimony, his reunion with this char- 
acter and every element of the latter's aspect 
and tone, that the pitch of his acclamation clearly 
had, with no small delay, to drop a little under 
some unavoidable reminder that they met almost 
in the nearest presence of death. Was the re- 
minder Horton's own, some pull, for decorum, 
of a longer face, some expression of his having 
feared to act in undue haste on the message 
brought him by Davey? — which might have 
been, we may say, in view of the appearance 





 

after a little that it was Horton rather than Gray 
who began to suggest a shyness, momentary, 
without doubt, and determined by the very 
plenitude of his friend's welcome, yet so far in- 
congruous as that it was not his adoption of a 
manner and betrayal of a cheer that ran the risk 
of seeming a trifle gross, but quite these indica- 
tions on the part of the fortunate heir of the old 
person awaiting interment somewhere above. 
He could only have seen with the lapse of the 
moments that Gray was going to be simple — ad- 
mirably, splendidly simple, one would probably 
have pronounced it, in estimating and comparing 
the various possible dangers; but the simplicity 
of subjects tremendously educated, tremendously 
"cultivated" and cosmopolitised, as Horton would 
have called it, especially when such persons were 
naturally rather extra-refined and ultra-percep- 
tive, was a different affair from the crude can- 
dour of the common sort; the consequence of 
which apprehensions and reflections must have 
been, in fine, that he presently recognised in the 
product of "exceptional advantages" now already 
more and more revealed to him such a pliability 
of accent as would easily keep judgment, or at 
least observation, suspended. Gray wasn't going 
to be at a loss for any shade of decency that didn't 
depend, to its inconvenience, on some uncertainty 
about a guest's prejudice; so that once the air 
was cleared of awkwardness by that perception, 





 

exactly, in Horton's ready mind that he and his 
traditions, his susceptibilities, in fact (of all the 
queer things!) his own very simplicities and, 
practically, stupidities were being superfluously 
allowed for and deferred to, and that this, only 
this, was the matter, he should have been able to 
surrender without a reserve to the proposed 
measure of their common rejoicing. Beautiful 
might it have been to him to find his friend so 
considerately glad of him that the spirit of it 
could consort to the last point with any, with 
every, other felt weight in the consciousness so 
attested; in accordance with which we may re- 
mark that continued embarrassment for our 
gallant caller would have implied on his own side, 
or in other words deep within his own spirit, 
some obscure source of confusion. 

What distinguishably happened was thus that 
he first took Graham for exuberant and then for 
repentant, with the reflection accompanying this 
that he mustn't, to increase of subsequent shame, 
have been too open an accomplice in mere jubila- 
tion. Then the simple sense of his restored com- 
rade's holding at his disposal a general confidence 
in which they might absolutely breathe together 
would have superseded everything else hadn't his 
individual self-consciousness been perhaps a trifle 
worried by the very pitch of so much openness. 
Open, not less generously so, was what he could 
himself have but wanted to be — in proof of which 





 

we may conceive him insist to the happy utmost, 
for promotion of his comfort, on those sides of 
their relation the working of which would cast 
no shadow. They had within five minutes got 
over much ground — all of which, however, must 
be said to have represented, and only in part, 
the extent of Gray's requisition of what he called 
just elementary human help. He was in a situa- 
tion at which, as he assured his friend, he had 
found himself able, those several days, but blankly 
and inanely to stare. He didn't suppose it had 
been his uncle's definite design to make an idiot 
of him, but that seemed to threaten as the prac- 
tical effect of the dear man's extraordinary course. 
"You see," he explained, bringing it almost piti- 
fully out, "he appears to have left me a most 
monstrous fortune. I mean"— for under his ap- 
peal Haughty had still waited a little — " a really 
tremendous lot of money." 

The effect of the tone of it was to determine 
in Haughty a peal of laughter quickly repressed 
— or reduced at least to the intention of decent 
cheer. "He 'appears,' my dear man? Do you 
mean there's an ambiguity about his will ? " 

Gray  justified his claim of vagueness by hav- 
ing, with his animated eyes on his visitor's, to 
take an instant or two to grasp so technical an 
expression. "No — not an ambiguity. Mr. Crick 
tells me that he has never in all his experience 
seen such an amount of property disposed of in 





 

terms so few and simple and clear. It would 
seem a kind of masterpiece of a will." 

"Then what's the matter with it?" Horton 
smiled. "Or at least what's the matter with 
you ? — who are so remarkably intelligent and 
clever ? " 

"Oh no, I'm not the least little bit clever!" 
Gray in his earnestness quite excitedly protested. 
"I haven't a single ray of the intelligence that 
among you all here clearly passes for rudimen- 
tary. But the luxury of you, Haughty," he broke 
out on a still higher note, "the luxury, the pure 
luxury of you!" 

Something of beauty in the very tone of which, 
some confounding force in the very clearness, 
might it have been that made Horton himself 
gape for a moment even as Gray had just de- 
scribed his own wit as gaping. They had first 
sat down, for hospitality offered and accepted 
— though with no production of the smokable or 
the drinkable to profane the general reference; 
but the agitation of all that was latent in this 
itself had presently broken through, and by the 
end of a few moments we might perhaps scarce 
have been able to say whether the host had more 
set the guest or the guest more the host in mo- 
tion. Horton Vint had everywhere so the air 
of a prime social element that it took in any case, 
and above all in any case of the spacious provision 
