Le Petit Parisien and son of one of the wealthiest 
men in France. She opened in the first days of the 



 

war an organization which she called "CEuvre du 
Soldat Blesse ou Malade," and from her offices in the 
Hotel de Crillon and her baraque out at the Depot des 
Dons (where we all have warehouses), she supplies 
surgeons at the Front with wheeling-chairs, surgical 
dressings, bed garments, rubber for operating tables, 
instruments, slippers, pillows, blankets, and a hundred 
and one other things that harassed surgeons at the 
Front are always demanding. The ceuvre of the Marquise de Noailles, with which a daughter of Mrs. 
Henry Seligmen, Madame Henri van Heukelom, is 
closely associated, is run on similar lines. 

I have alluded frequently in the course of these 
reminiscences to Madame Dupuy, who was of the 
greatest assistance to me, and more than kind and 
willing. I. wish I could have returned it by collecting 
money for her ceuvre when I returned to New York, 
but I found that Le Bien-fitre du Blesse was all I 
could manage. Moreover, it is impossible to get money 
these days without a powerful committee behind you. 
To go to one wealthy and generous person or another 
as during the first days of the war and ask for a donation for the president of an ceuvre unrepresented in 
this country is out of the question. It is no longer 
done, as the English say. 



XIV 
ONE OF THE MOTHERLESS 

VERSAILLES frames in my memory the most 
tragic of the war-time pictures I collected during my visit to France. That romantic and lovely city 
which has framed in turn the pomp and glory of 
France, the iconic simplicities of Marie Antoinette, the 
odious passions of a French mob, screeching for bread 
and blood, and the creation of a German Empire, will 
for long be associated in my mind with a sad and 
isolated little picture that will find no niche in history, 
but, as a symbol, is as diagnostic as the storming of 
the palace gates in 1789. 

There is a small but powerful ceuvre in Paris, com- 
posed with one exception of Americans devoted to the 
cause of France. It was founded by its treasurer, Mr. 
Frederic Coudert. Mr. August Jaccaci, of New York, 
is President; Mrs. Cooper Hewett, Honorary President; Mrs. Robert Bliss, Vice-President; and the 
Committee consists of the Comtesse de Viel Castel, 
Mrs. Francis G. Shaw, and Mrs. William H. Hill, of 
Boston. It is called "The Franco-American Commit- 
tee for the Protection of the Children of the Frontier." 

This Committee, which in May, 1916, had already 
rescued twelve hundred children, was born of one of 



 

those imperative needs of the moment when the 
French civilians and their American friends, working 
behind the lines, responded to the needs of the unfortunate, with no time for foresight and prospective 
organization. 

In August, 1914, M. Cruppi, a former Minister of 
State, told Mr. Coudert that in the neighborhood of 
Belfort there were about eighty homeless children, 
driven before the first great wind of the war, the battle 
of Metz; separated from their mothers (their fathers 
and big brothers were fighting) they had wandered, 
with other refugees, down below the area of battle 
and were huddled homeless and almost starving in 
and near the distracted town of Belfort. 

Mr. Coudert immediately asked his friends in Paris 
to collect funds, and started with M. Cruppi for Bel- 
fort. There they found not eighty but two hundred 
and five children, shelterless, hungry, some of them 
half imbecile from shock, and all physically disordered. 

To leave any of these wretched waifs behind, when 
Belfort itself might fall at any moment, was out of 
the question, and M. Cruppi and Mr. Coudert crowded 
them all into the military cars allotted by the Govern- 
ment and took them to Paris. Some money had been 
raised. Mr. Coudert cabled to friends in America, 
Mrs. Bliss (wife of the First Secretary of the Amer- 
ican Embassy) and Mrs. Cooper Hewett contributed 
generously, Valentine Thompson gave her help and 
advice for a time, and Madame Pietre, wife of the 



 

sous-prefet of Yvetot, installed the children in an 
old seminary near her home and gave them her personal attention. Later, one hundred were returned to 
their parents and the rest placed in a beautiful chateau 
surrounded by a park. 

Every day of those first terrible weeks of the war 
proved that more and more children must be cared 
for by those whom fortune had so far spared. It was 
then that Mr. Jaccaci renounced all private work and 
interests, and that Mrs. Hill, Mrs. Shaw and the 
Comtesse de Viel Castel volunteered. The organiza- 
tion was formed and christened, Mrs. Bliss provided 
Relief Depots in Paris, and Mr. Coudert returned to 
New York for a brief visit in search of funds. 

During the bombardment of the Belgian and French 
towns these children came into Paris on every train. 
They were tagged like post-office packages, and it was 
as well they were, not only because some were too 
little to know or to pronounce their names correctly, 
but even the older ones were often too dazed to give 
a coherent account of themselves; although the more 
robust quickly recovered. The first thing to do with 
this human flotsam was to wash and disinfect and 
feed it, clip its hair to the skull, and then, having 
burned the rags of arrival, dress it in clean substantial 
clothes. While I was in Paris Mr. Jaccaci and Mrs. 
Hill were meeting these trains ; and, when the smaller 
children arrived frightened and tearful they took 
them in their arms and consoled them all the way to 



 

the Relief Depots. The result was that they needed 
the same treatment as the children. 

It was generally the Cure or the Mayor of the 
bombarded towns that had rounded up each little parentless army and headed it toward Paris. When the 
larger children were themselves again they all told the 
same bitter monotonous stories. Suddenly a rain .of 
shrapnel fell on their village or town. They fled to 
the cellars, perhaps to the one Cave Voutee (a stone 
cellar with vaulted roof) and there herded in inde- 
scribable filth, darkness, fear, hunger for weeks and 
even months at a time. The shelling of a village soon 
stopped, but in the larger towns, strategic points desired of the enemy, the bombarding would be incessant. Mothers, or older children, would venture out 
for food, returning perhaps with enough to keep the 
pale flame of life alive, as often as not falling a 
huddled mass a few feet from the exit of the cellar. 
Mothers died of typhoid, pneumonia, in childbirth; 
others never had reached the cellar with their own 
children in the panic; one way or another these children arrived in Paris in a state of orphanhood, al- 
though later investigations proved them to have been 
hiding close to their mother (and sometimes father; 
for all men are not physically fit for war) by the 
width of a street, in a town where the long roar of 
guns dulled the senses and the affections, and the constant hail of shrapnel precluded all search for anything 
but food. 

Moreover, many families had fled from villages 



 

lying in the path of the advancing hordes to the 
neighboring towns, and there separated, crowding into 
the nearest Caves Voutees. Most of these poor women 
carried a baby and were distraught with fear besides ; 
the older children must cling to the mother's skirts 
or become lost in the melee. 

When one considers that many of these children, in 
Rheims or Verdun, for instance, were in cellars not 
for weeks but for months, without seeing the light 
of day, with their hunger never satisfied, with corpses 
unburied for days until a momentary lull encouraged 
the elders to remove the sand bags at the exit and 
thrust them out, with their refuge rocking constantly 
and their ear-drums splitting with raucous sounds, 
where the stenches were enough to poison what red 
blood they had left and there were no medicines to 
care for the afflicted little bodies, one pities anew those 
mentally afflicted people who assert at automatic 
intervals, "I can't see any difference between the 
cruelty of the British blockade and the German sub- 
marines." The resistant powers of the human body, 
given the bare chance of remaining alive, are little 
short of phenomenal. But then, when Nature com- 
pounded the human frame it was to fling it into a new- 
born world far more difficult to survive than even the 
awful conditions of modern warfare. 

Some of these children were wounded before they 
reached the cellars. In many cases the families remained in their homes until the walls, at first pierced 
by the shrapnel, began to tumble about their ears. 




Then they would run to the homes of friends on 
the other side of. the town, staying there until the 
guns, aided by the air scouts, raked such houses as 
had escaped the first assault. Often there were no 
Caves Voutees in the villages. The mothers cowered 
with their children under the tottering walls or lay 
flat on the ground until the German guns turned elsewhere; then they ran for the nearest town. But during these distracted transfers many received wounds 
whose scars they are likely to carry through life. The 
most seriously wounded were taken to the military 
hospitals, where they either died, or, if merely in need 
of bandages, were quickly turned out to make room 
for some poilu arriving in the everlasting procession 
of stretchers. 

Sometimes, flat on their stomachs, the more curious 
and intelligent of the children watched the shells sailing overhead to drop upon some beautiful villa or 
chateau and transpose it into a heap of stones. Where 
there were English or Americans in these bombarded 
towns, or where the Cures or the Mayors of those 
invaded had not been shot or imprisoned, the children 
were sent as quickly as possible to Paris, the mothers, 
when there were any, only too content to let them go 
and to remain behind and take their chances with the 
shells. 

One little Belgian named Bonduelle, who, with two 
brothers, reached Paris in safety, is very graphic: 
"We are three orphans," he replied in answer to the 
usual questions. "Our uncle and aunt took the place 



 

of our dear parents, so soon taken from us. . . . It 
was towards the evening of Wednesday, 6th Septem- 
ber, 1 9 14, that I was coming back to my uncle's house 
from Ypres, when all at once I heard shrieks and 
yells in the distance. I stopped, for I was like one 
stunned. On hearing behind me, on the highway, German cavalry, I ran into a house where I spent the 
night. I could not close my eyes when I thought of 
the anxiety of my uncle and aunt and of the fate of 
my two small brothers, Michael and Roger. Early 
the following day I rushed to our house. Everybody 
was in the cellar. We shed tears on meeting again. 
I found two of my cousins wounded by a shell which 
had exploded outside our door. Soon another shell 
comes and smashes our house. I was wounded. Dazed 
with fear, my cousin and myself got out through a 
window from the cellar, we ran across fields and 
meadows to another uncle, where the rest of the 
family followed us soon. We remained there the 
whole winter, but what a sad winter! We have not 
taken off our clothes, for at every moment we feared 
to have to run away again. 

"The big guns rumbled very much and the shells 
whistled over our heads. Every one heard : 'So-and- 
so is killed' or 'wounded, by a shell.' 'Such-and-such- 
a-house is ruined by a shell.' 

"After having spent more than seven months in 
incredible fear, my brothers and myself have left the 
village, at the order of the gendarmes, and the Eng- 



 

lish took us to Hazebrouck, from where we went to 
Paris." 

In some cases the parents, or, as was most generally 
the case, the mother, after many terrifying experiences in her village, passed and repassed by the Ger- 
mans, having heard of the relief stations in Paris, sent 
their children, properly tagged, to be cared for in a 
place of comparative safety until the end of the war. 
"Young Bruno Van Wonterghem told his experience in 
characteristically simple words: 

"Towards the evening of September 6th, 1914, the 
Germans arrived at our village with their ammunition. One would have thought the Last Judgment was 
about to begin. All the inhabitants were hiding in 
•their houses. I was hiding in the attic, but, desirous 
to see a German, I was looking through a little window 
:in the roof. Nobody in the house dared to go to bed. 
Jt was already very late when we heard knocks at the 
door of our shop. It was some Germans who wanted 
to buy chocolate. Some paid but the majority did not. 
They left saying, 'Let us kill the French.' The following morning they marched away toward France. 
In the evening one heard already the big guns in the 
distance. 

"Turned out of France the Germans came to St. 
Eloi, where they remained very long. Then they advanced to Ypres. The whole winter I heard the 
rumbling of the big guns, and the whistling of the 
shells. I learned also every day of the sad deaths of 
&he victims of that awful war. I was often very 



 

frightened and I have been very happy to leave for 
France with my companions." 

While I was in Paris the refugee children, of course,, 
were from the invaded districts of France; the Belgian stream had long since ceased. Already twelve 
hundred little victims of the first months of the war, 
both Belgian and French, either had been returned to 
their mothers or relatives by the Franco-American 
Committee, or placed for the educational period of 
their lives in families, convents, or boys' schools. The 
more recent were still in the various colonies established by Mrs. Hill and the other members of the 
Committee, where they received instruction until such 
time as their parents could be found, or some kind 
people were willing to adopt them. 

It was on my first Sunday in Paris that Mr. Jaccaci 
and Mrs. Hill asked me to drive out with them to 
Versailles and visit a sanitorium for the children 
whose primary need was restoration to health. It was 
on the estate of Madame Philip Berard, who had contributed the building, while the entire funds for its 
upkeep, including a trained nurse, were provided by 
Mrs. Bliss. 

Versailles was as green and peaceful as if a few 
miles away the shells were not ripping up a field a 
shot. After lunch in the famous hotel ordinarily one 
of the gayest in France at that time of the year, we 
first visited the rest hospital of Miss Morgan, Miss 
Marbury and Miss de Wolfe, and then drove out into 
the country to Madame Berard's historical estate. 



 

Here, in the courtyard of a good-sized building, we 
were greeted by about forty children in pink-and- 
white gingham aprons, and heads either shaved or 
finished off with tightly braided pigtails. It seemed 
to me then that they were all smiling, and — for they 
had been there some weeks — that most of them looked 
round and healthy. But I soon found that some were 
still too languid to play. One lying in a long chair 
on the terrace at the back of the house and gazing 
vacantly out at the beautiful woods was tubercular, 
the victim of months in a damp cellar. Another, al- 
though so excessively cheerful that I suspect she was 
not "all there" was also confined to a long chair, with 
a hip affection of some sort, but she was much petted, 
and surrounded by all the little luxuries that the victims of her smile had remembered to send her. One 
beautiful child had the rickets, and several suffered 
from intestinal prolapsus and other internal complaints, but were on the road to recovery. 

While their Swedish nurse was putting them 
through their gymnastic exercises I studied their faces. 
At first my impression was one of prevailing homeliness; scrubbed, flat, peasant faces, for the most part, 
without the features or the mental apparatus that provides expression. But soon I singled out two or three 
pretty and engaging children, and rarely one whose 
face was devoid of character. And they stood well 
and went through their exercises with precision and 
vigor. 

It was just before we left that my wandering attention was directed toward the scene to which I alluded 
in my first paragraph. The greater number of the 
children were shouting at play in a neighboring field. 
The preternaturally happy invalid was smiling at the 
lovely woods beyond the terrace, woods where little 
princes had frolicked, and older princes had wooed 
and won. Mr. Jaccaci was still petting the beautiful 
little boy who looked like the bambino on the cele- 
brated fresco of Florence; Mrs. Hill was kissing and 
hugging several little girls who had clung to her skirts. 
It was, in spite of its origin, a happy scene. 

I had been waiting by the door for these ceremonies 
of affection to finish, when I happened to glance at 
the far end of the wide stone terrace. There, by the 
balustrade, in the shadow of the leafy woods, stood 
a girl of perhaps eight or ten. Her arms hung at her 
sides and she was staring straight before her while she 
cried as I never have seen a child cry ; silently, bitterly, 
with her heavy plain face hardly twisted in its tragic 
silent woe. 

I called Mrs. Hill's attention to her, for I, a stranger, 
could not intrude upon a grief like that, and the idol 
of all those children immediately ran over to the desolate figure. She questioned her, she put her arms; 
about her. She might as well have addressed one of 
the broken stone nymphs in the woods. That young 
mind, startled from the present, it may be, by witnessing the endearments lavished upon prettier and smaller 
children, had traveled far. She was in the past, a 
past that anteceded even that past of death and thundering guns and rocking walls and empty stomachs; 
a past when the war, of whose like she had never 
heard, was still in the sleepless brains of the monster 
criminals of history, when she lived in a home in a 
quiet village with the fields beyond; where she had a 
mother, a father, sisters, brothers; where her tears 
liad been over childish disappointments, and her 
another had dried them. Small and homely and insignificant she stood there in her tragic detachment the 
symbol of all the woe of France, and of the depraved 
brutality of a handful of ambitious men who had 
broken the heart of the world. 



XV 
THE MARRAINES 

IT is hardly too much to say that every woman in 
France, from noblesse to peasant, has her filleul 
(godson) in the trenches; in many cases, when she 
still has a considerable income in spite of taxes, 
moratoriums, and all the rest of it, she is a marraine 
on the grand scale and has several hundred. Children have their filleul, correspond with him, send hint 
little presents several times a month and weep bitterly 
when word comes that he is deep in his last trench. 

Servants save their wages so that when the filleuls- 
of their mistresses come home on their six days' leave 
they at least can provide the afternoon wine and entertain them royally in the kitchen. Old maids, still'' 
sewing in their attic for a few sous a day, have found' 
a gleam of brightness for the first time in their somber 
lives in the knowledge that they give a mite of comfort or pleasure to some unknown man, offering his- 
life in the defence of France, and whose letters, sentimental, effusive, playful, almost resign these poor 
stranded women to the crucifixion of their country. 

Busy women like Madame d'Andigne sit up until 
two in the morning writing to their grateful filleuls. 
Girls, who once dreamed only of marrying and living- 




 

the brilliant life of the femme du monde spend hours 
daily not only on cheerful letters, but knitting, sewing, embroidering, purchasing for humble men who 
will mean nothing to their future, beyond the growth 
of spirit they unconsciously induced. Poor women 
far from Paris, where, at least, thousands of these 
permissionnaires linger for a few hours on their way 
home, toil all night over their letters to men for whom 
they conceive a profound sentiment but never can 
hope to see. Shop girls save their wages and lady's 
maids pilfer in a noble cause. 

It was Madame Berard (who was a Miss Dana of 
Bostdn) who organized this magnificent spirit into a 
great ceuvre, so that thousands of men could be made 
happy whom no kindly woman so far had been able 
to discover. 

Madame Berard, who has three sons in the army 
herself, nursed at the Front for several months after 
the war broke out. Even officers told her that they 
used to go off by themselves and cry because they 
never received a letter, or any sort of reminder that 
they were anything but part of a machine defending 
France. These officers, of course, were from the invaded district, and in addition to tl^eir isolation, were 
haunted by fears for their women now in the power 
of men who were as cruel as they were sensual and 
degenerate. 

When she returned to her home she immediately 
entered upon the career of marraine, corresponding 
with several hundred of the men she either had known 



 

or whose names were given to her by their commanding officers. Naturally the work progressed beyond her capacity and she called upon friends to help 
her out. Out of this initial and purely personal devotion grew the great ceuvre, Mon Soldat, which has 
met with such a warm response in this country. 

Madame Berard's headquarters are in a villa in 
the Pare Monceau. Here is conducted all the correspondence with the agents in other cities, here come 
thousands of letters and presents by every mail to be 
forwarded to the Front, and here come the grateful — 
and hopeful — permissionnaires, who never depart 
without a present and sometimes leave one, generally 
an ingenious trinket made in the trenches. 

When I visited the villa last summer the ceuvre had 
eight thousand marraines, and no doubt the number 
has doubled to-day. Fifteen hundred of these were 
American, marshalled by Madame Berard's representative in New York, Mr. R. W. Neeser. Some of 
these fairy godmothers had ten filleuls. Packages 
were dispatched to the Front every week. Women 
that could not afford presents wrote regularly. There 
were at that time over twenty thousand filleuls. 

The letters received from these men of all grades 
must be a source of psychologic as well as sympathetic interest to the more intelligent marraines, for 
when the men live long enough they reveal much of 
their native characteristics between the formalities so 
dear to the French. But too many of them write but 
•one letter, and sometimes they do not finish that. 



XVI 
PROBLEMS FOR THE FUTURE 



WHAT the bereft mothers of France will do after 
this war is over and they no longer have the 
mutilated sons of other mothers to nurse and serve 
and work for, is a problem for themselves ; but what 
the younger women will do is a problem for the men. 

Practically every day of the three months I spent 
in Passy I used one of the three lines of tramcars 
that converge at La Muette (it is almost immoral 
to take a taxi these days) ; and I often amused myself 
watching the women conductors. They are quick, 
keen, and competent, but, whether it was owing to 
the dingy black uniforms and distressingly unbecoming Scotch military cap or not, it never did occur to 
me that there would be any mad scramble for them 
when the men of France once more found the leisure 
for love and marriage. 

Grim as these women looked, however, "on their 
job," I often noticed them laughing and joking when, 
off duty for a few moments, they rested under the 
trees at the terminus. No doubt there is in them that 
ineradicable love of the home so characteristic of 


the French race, and as there is little beauty in their 
class at the best, they may appeal more to the taste of 
men of that class than they did to mine. And it may 
be that those who are already provided with husbands 
will cheerfully renounce work in their favor and return to the hearthstone. Perhaps, however, they will 
not, and wise heads of the sex which has ruled the 
world so long are conferring at odd moments upon 
these and other females who have taken up so many 
of the reins laid down by men and driven the man- 
made teams with a success that could not be more 
complete if they had been bred to it, and with a relish 
that has grown, and shows no sign of retroaction. 

The French women of the people, however, unlovely 
to look upon, toil-worn, absorbed from childhood in 
petty economics, have little to tempt men outside of 
the home in which they reign, so for those that do 
return the problem ends. But it is an altogether different matter with the women of the leisure classes. 
The industrial women who have proved so competent 
in the positions occupied for centuries by men merely 
agitate the economic brain of France, but the future 
of the women of the upper strata of the bourgeoisie 
is shaking the very soul of the social psychologist. 



At the outbreak of the war hundreds of girls be- 
longing to the best families volunteered as nurses. 
Some quickly retired to committee work in disgust, 



 

or because their pampered bodies rebelled under the 
strain. 

Others have never faltered, doing the most repulsive and arduous work day by day, close to the thunder 
of guns, or under the constant menace of the taube 
whose favorite quarry is the hospital full of ill and 
wounded, and of pretty women whose torn bodies even 
in imagination satisfy the perversities of German lust ; 
but if they ever go home to rest it is under the peremptory orders of their medecin major, who has no use 
for shattered nervous systems these days. 

While these girls may have lost their illusions a 
little earlier than they would in matrimony, the result is not as likely to affect the practical French mind 
toward the married state as it might that of the more 
romantic and self-deluding American or English 
woman. There is little doubt that they will marry if 
they can, for to marry and marry early has been for 
too many centuries a sort of religious duty with well- 
born French women to be eradicated by one war; 
and as they will meet in hospital wards many officers who might not otherwise cross their narrow 
paths, their chances, if the war ends soon enough, will 
be reasonably increased. 

Moreover, many a man who was a confirmed bachelor will, after the acute discomfort of years of warfare, look upon the married state as a greater reward 
than the medals on his breast; and on the other hand 
many girls will be glad to marry men old enough to 
be a parent of the young husband they once dreamed 



 

of; for hardly since the Thirty Years' War will men 
when peace comes be so scarce and women so many. 

There has even been talk from time to time of 
bringing the Koranic law across the Mediterranean 
and permitting each able-bodied Frenchman of any 
class to have three registered wives besides the one 
of his choice, the additional expense and responsibility being borne by the State. 

But of all the countries in Europe polygamy is 
most unthinkable in France. The home is as per- 
fected and as sacred an economic institution as the 
State. To reign over one of those important units, 
even if deep in the shadow of the expansive male, 
to maintain it on that high level of excellence which 
in the aggregate does so much to maintain France at 
the very apex of civilization, in spite of another code 
which shocks Anglo-Saxon morality — this, combined 
with the desire to gratify the profoundest instincts 
of woman, is the ambition of every well-conditioned 
French girl. 

She would far rather, did the demand of the State 
for male children become imperative, give it one or 
more outside the law rather than forfeit her chance 
to find one day a real husband and to be a component 
part of that great national institution, The Family. 
She would not feel in the same class for a moment 
with the women who live to please men and refrain 
from justifying themselves by fulfilling at the same 
.time a duty to their depleted State. 



 
 

The women of the noblesse, like the aristocracies 
of any country, and whatever the minor shadings and 
classifications, are divided into two classes : the conservative, respectable, home-loving, no matter what 
the daily toll to rank; and the devotees of dress, 
pleasure, sex, subdivided, orchestrated, and romanticized. As these women move in the most brilliant so- 
ciety in the world and can command the willing attendance of men in all circles; as their husbands are 
so often foraging far afield; and as temptation is 
commonly proportionate to opportunity, little wonder 
that the Parisian femme du monde is the most notable 
disciple of Earth's politer form of hedonism. 

This is true to only a limited extent in the upper 
circles of the bourgeoisie, Some of the women of the 
wealthier class dress magnificently, have their lovers 
and their scandals (in what class do they not?), and 
before the war danced the night away. But the 
great majority rarely wandered far from their domestic kingdom, quite content with an occasional ball, 
dinner, or play. A daughter's marriage was the great- 
est event in their lives, and the endless preparations 
throughout the long engagement, a subdued but delicious period of excitement. Their social circles, what- 
ever their birth, were extremely restricted, and they 
were, above all things, the mates of their husbands. 



 

IV 

But the war has changed all that. France has had 
something like a war a generation from time immemorial, but in modern times, since woman has found 
herself, they have been brief. Feminism, whether 
approved by the great mass of Frenchwomen or not, 
has done its insidious work. And for many years 
now there has been the omnipresent American woman 
with her careless independence; and, still more recently, the desperate fight of the English women for 
liberty. 

It was quite natural when this war swept across 
Europe like a fiery water-spout, for the French woman 
of even the bourgeoisie to come forth from her shell 
(although at first not to the same degree as the 
noblesse) and work with other women for the men 
at the Front and the starving at home. Not only 
did the racing events of those first weeks compel immediate action, but the new ideas they had imbibed, however unwillingly, dictated their course as inevitably as that of the more experienced women across 
the channel. The result was that these women for 
the first time in their narrow intensive lives found 
themselves meeting, daily, women with whom they had 
had the most distant if any acquaintance; sewing, 
knitting, talking more and more intimately over their 
work, running all sorts of ceuvres, founding homes for 
refugees, making up packages for prisoners in Germany (this ceuvre was conceived and developed into 



 

an immense organization by Madame Wallestein), 
serving on six or eight committees, becoming more 
and more interdependent as they worked for a common and unselfish cause; their circle of acquaintances 
and friends as well as their powers of usefulness, their 
independent characteristics which go so far toward 
the making of personality, rising higher and higher 
under the impetus of deprisoned tides until they flowed 
gently over the dam of the centuries; the flood, be it 
noted, taking possession of wide pastures heretofore 
sacred to man. 

Naturally these women spent very little time at 
home; although, such is the incomparable training of 
those practical methodical minds, even with a diminished staff of servants the domestic machinery ran as 
smoothly as when they devoted to it so many superfluous hours. 

And with these new acquaintances, all practically 
of their own class, they talked in time not only of 
the war and their ever augmenting duties, but, bar- 
riers lowered by their active sympathies, found them- 
selves taking a deep interest in other lives, and in 
the things that had interested other women of more 
intelligence or of more diversified interests than their 
own. 

Insensibly life changed, quite apart from the rude 
shocks of war; lines were confused, old ideals were 
analyzed in many instances as hoary conventions, 
which had decayed inside until a succession of sharp 



 

quick contacts caused the shell to cave in upon emptiness. 



A year passed. During that time husbands did not 
return from the front unless ill or maimed (and thousands of husbands are even to-day quite intact). Then 
came Chapter Two of the domestic side of the War, 
which should be called "Les Permissionnaires." Officers and soldiers were allowed a six days' leave of 
absence from the front at stated intervals. 

The wives were all excitement and hope. They 
snatched time to replenish their wardrobes, and once 
more the thousand corridors of the Galeries Lafayette 
swarmed, the dressmakers breathed again. Shop win- 
dows blossomed with all the delicate fripperies with 
which a Frenchwoman can make old garments look 
new. Hotel keepers emerged from their long night 
like hibernates that had overslept, and rubbing their 
hands. The men were coming back. Paris would 
live again. And Paris, the coquette of all the ages, 
forgot her new role of lady of sorrows and smiled 
once more. 

The equally eager husband (to pass over "les 
autres") generally sneaked into his house or apartment by the back stairs and into the bathtub before 
he showed himself to his adoring family; but after 
those first strenuous hours of scrubbing and disinfecting and shaving, and getting into a brand new uniform of becoming horizon blue, there followed hours 



 

of rejoicing unparalleled by anything but a victory 
over "Les Bodies." 

For two days husband and wife talked as incessantly 
as only Gauls can ; but by degrees a puzzled look contracted the officer's brow, gradually deepening into a 
frown. His fluent wife, whose animation over trifles 
had always been a source of infinite refreshment, was 
talking of things which he, after a solid year of monotonous warfare far from home, knew nothing. He 
cared to know less. He wanted the old exchange of 
personalities, the dear domestic gabble. 

The wife meanwhile was heroically endeavoring to 
throw off a feeling of intolerable ennui. How was it 
that never before had she found the hearthstone dull ? 
The conversation of her life partner (now doubly 
honored) induced a shameful longing for the seventh 
day. 

So it was. During that year these two good people 
had grown apart. The wife's new friends bored the 
husband, and the gallant soldier's stories of life at 
the Front soon became homogeneous. Whether he 
will accept his wife's enlarged circle and new interests 
after the war is over is one of the problems, but nothing is less likely than that she will rebuild the dam, 
recall the adventurous waters of her personality, 
empty her new brain cells, no matter how much she 
may continue to love her husband and children. 



 

VI 

Nor to give up her new power. In those divisions 
of the bourgeoisie where the wife is always the husband's partner, following a custom of centuries, and 
who to-day is merely carrying on the business alone, 
there will be no surrender of responsibilities grown 
precious, no sense of apprehension of loss of personal 
power. But in those more leisured circles where, for 
instance, a woman has been for the first time complete 
mistress of all expenditures, domestic or administrative, and of her childrens' destinies; has learned to 
think and act for herself as if she were widowed in 
fact ; and in addition has cultivated her social sense to 
an extreme unprecedented in the entire history of the 
bourgeoisie, she will never return to the old status, 
even though she disdain feminism per se and continue 
to prefer her husband to other men — that is to say, to 
find him more tolerable. 

A young woman of this class, who until the war 
widowed her had been as happy as she was favored 
by fortune: wealthy, well-bred, brilliantly educated, 
and "elle et lui" with her husband, told me that no 
American could understand the peculiarly intensive 
life led by a French couple who found happiness in 
each other and avoided the fast sets. And whereas 
what she told me would have seemed natural enough 
in the life of a petite bourgeoisie, I must confess I 
was amazed to have it from the lips of a clever and 



beautiful young woman whom life had pampered until 
death broke loose in Europe. 

The husband, she told me, did the thinking. Before 
he left home in the morning he asked his wife what 
she intended to order for dinner and altered the menu 
to his liking; also the list of guests, if it had been 
thought well to vary their charming routine with a 
select company. 

Before his wife bought a new gown she submitted 
the style and colors to what seems literally to have 
been her other half, and he solemnly pondered over 
both before pronouncing his august and final opinion. 

If they had children, the interest was naturally extended. His concern in health and in illness, in play 
and in study, was nothing short of meticulous. I 
asked my informant if Frenchwomen would ever again 
submit to a man's making such an infernal nuisance 
of himself, and, sad as she still was at her own- 
great loss, she replied positively that they would not. 
They had tasted independence and liked it too well 
ever to drop back into insignificance. 

"Nor," she added, "will we be content with rflerely 
social and domestic life in the future. We will love 
our home life none the less, but we must always work 
at something now; only those who have lost their 
health, or are natural parasites will ever again be 
content to live without some vital personal interest 
outside the family." 

Words of tremendous import to France, those. 



 

VII 

I caught a glimpse more than once of the complete 
submergence of certain Frenchwomen by husbands 
too old for war, but important in matters of State. 
They bored me so that I only escaped betraying acute 
misery by summoning all my powers of resistance and 
talking against time until I could make a graceful 
exit. They were, these women (who looked quite 
happy), mere echoes of the men to whom their eyes 
wandered in admiration and awe. The last thing I 
had imagined, however, was that the men would concern themselves about details that, in Anglo-Saxon 
countries at least, have for centuries been firmly relegated to the partner of the second part. How many American women drive their husbands to the club by 
their incessant drone about the iniquities of servants 
and the idiosyncrasies of offspring? 

And much as the women of our race may resent 
that their role in matrimony is the one of petty detail, 
while the man enjoys the "broader interests," I think 
few of us would exchange our lot for one of constant niggling interference. It induces a certain pleasure to reflect that so many Frenchwomen have reformed. Frenchmen, with all their conservatism, are 
the quickest of wit, the most supple of intellect in 
the world. No doubt after a few birth-pains they 
will conform, and enjoy life more than ever. Perhaps, also, they will cease to prowl abroad for secret 
entertainment. 



 

VIII 

Nothing, it is safe to say, since the war broke out, 
has so astonished Frenchwomen — those that loved 
their husbands and those that loved their lovers — as 
the discovery that they find life quite full and interesting without men. At the beginning all their faculties were put to so severe a strain that they had no 
time to miss them; as France settled down to a state 
of war, and life was in a sense normal again, it was 
only at first they missed the men — quite aside from 
their natural anxieties. But as time went on and there 
was no man always coming in, husband or lover, no 
man to dress for, scheme for, exercise their imaginations to please, weep for when he failed to come, or 
lapsed from feyer heat to that temperature which suggests exotic fevers, they missed him less and less. 

Unexpected resources were developed. Their work, 
their many works, grew more and more absorbing. 
Gradually they realized that they were looking at life 
from an entirely different point of view. 

Voila! 

Is the reign of the male in the old countries of 
Europe nearing its end, even as Kings and Kaisers 
are reluctantly approaching the vaults of history? An 
American woman married to a Frenchman said to me 
one day : 

"Intelligent Frenchwomen complain to me that they 
never win anything on their merits. They must exert 
finesse, seduction, charm, magnetism. For this reason they are always in a state of apprehension that 
some other woman equally feminine, but more astute 
and captivating, will win their man away. The result 
is the intense and unremitting jealousies in French 
society. They see in this war their opportunity to 
show men not only their powers of individual usefulness, often equal if not superior to that of their husband or lover, but their absolute indispensability. 
They are determined to win respect as individuals, 
rise above the rank of mere females." 



IX 

Moreover, this war is bringing a liberty to the 
French girl which must sometimes give her the impression that she is living in a fantastic dream. Young 
people already had begun to rebel at the old order 
of matrimonial disposition by parental authority, but 
it is doubtful if they will ever condescend to argument again, or even to the old formal restrictions 
during the period of the long engagement. Not only 
will husbands be too scarce to dicker about, but these 
girls, too, are living their own lives, going to and 
coming from hospital work daily (unless at the 
Front), spending long hours by convalescent cots, corresponding with filleuls, attending half a dozen clubs 
for work; above all, entertaining their brothers' 
friend during those oases known as permission, or 
six days' leave. And very often the friends of their 
brothers are young men of a lower rank in life, whose 



 

valor or talents in the field have given them a quick 
promotion. 

The French army is the one perfect democracy in 
the world. Its men, from duke to peasant-farmer, 
have a contemptuous impatience for social pretense 
when about the business of war, and recognition is 
swift and practical. As the young men of the aristocracy and haute bourgeoisie have lost more and more 
of their old friends they have replaced them with men 
they like for good masculine reasons alone, and these 
they have taken to bringing home, when permission
-naires at the same time. Nothing can be more certain 
than that girls, once haughty and exacting, will marry 
these young men and be glad to get them. 

A student of his race said to me one day : "France 
is the most conservative country in Europe. She goes 
on doing the same thing generation after generation 
paying no attention to rebellious mutters, hardly hearing them in fact. She believes herself to have been 
moulded and solidified long since. Then, presto! 
Something sudden and violent happens. Old ideas 
are uprooted. New ones planted. Is there a struggle? 
Not for a moment. They turn an intellectual somersault and are immediately as completely at home with 
the new as the old." 

During the second year of the war a feminist was 
actually invited to address the graduation class of a 
fashionable girls' school. She told them that the 
time had come when girls of all classes should be 
trained to earn their living. This war had demonstrated the uncertainty of human affairs. Not a fam- 
ily in France, not even the haute finance, but would 
have a curtailed income for years to come, and many 
girls of good family could no longer count on a dot 
if the war lasted much longer. Then there was the 
decrease in men. Better go out into the world and 
make any sort of respectable career than be an old 
maid at home. She gave them much practical advice, 
told them that one of the most lucrative employments 
was retouching photographs, and implored them to 
cultivate any talent they might have and market it as 
soon as possible. * 

The girls sat throughout this discourse as stunned 
as if a bomb had dropped on the roof. They were 
still discussing it when I left Paris. No doubt it is 
already beginning to bear fruit. Few of them but 
have that most dismal of all fireside ornaments, a 
