of culture ten or twenty millions of wage-slaves have been hurled 
together and then the Socialist or Anarchist or Syndicalist or 
Industrial Unionist would describe in detail the bloody and 




bestial operations which these ten or twenty millions of men were 
performing. And each day's papers would bring fresh details 
for them to cite famine and pestilence, fire and slaughter, 
poison gas, incendiary bombs, torpedoed passenger-ships. Look 
at these pious hypocrites, the masters, with their refinement, 
their culture, their religion ! These are the people you are asked 
to follow, it is for such as these that you have been chained to 
the machines all these weary, toil-crowded years ! 




On every street corner, in every meeting-room, in every spot 
where the workers gathered at the noon hour, you would hear 
such arguments; and you would find men listening to them 
men who perhaps had never listened to such arguments before. 
They would nod, and their faces would become grim yes, the 
people up on top must be a rotten lot ! Here in America, sup- 
posed to be a land of liberty and all that here they were just 
the same, they were crowding to the trough to drink the blood 
that was poured out in Europe. Of course, they covered their 
greed with a camouflage of sympathy for the Allies; but did 
anybody believe that old man Granitch loved the Russian gov- 
ernment? Certainly nobody in Leesville did; they knew that 
he was "getting his' and their hearts hardened with a grim 
resolve to "get theirs".

At first they thought they were succeeding. Wages went up, 
almost for the asking ; never did the unskilled man have so much 
money in his pocket, while the man who could pretend to any 
skill at all found himself in the plutocratic class. But quickly 
men discovered the worm in this luscious war-fruit ; prices were 
going up almost as fast as wages in some places even faster. 
The sums you had to pay to the landlord surpassed belief; a 
single workingman would be asked two or three dollars a week 
for twelve hours' use of a mattress and blanket, which in the 
old days he might have got for fifty cents. Food was scarce and 
of poor quality; before long you found yourself being asked to 
pay six cents for a hunk of pie or a cup of coffee and then seven 
cents, and then ten. If you kicked, the proprietor would tell 
you a long tale about what he had to pay for rent and labour 
and supplies ; and you could not deny that he was probably right. 
About the only thing that did not go up was a postage-stamp; 



 

and the Socialist would point to this and explain that the Post 
Office was run by Uncle Sam, instead of by Abel Granitch ! 

Every rise in price was a fresh stick of fuel for the Socialist 
machine, and gave new power to their propaganda of "Starve 
the War and Feed America!" The Socialist saw millions of 
tons of goods being loaded onto steamships and sent to Europe 
to be destroyed in war; he saw the workers of Europe becoming 
enslaved by a bonded debt to a class of parasites in America, he 
saw America being drawn closer and closer to the abyss of the 
strife. The Socialist loved no part of this process. He clamoured 
for an embargo not merely on munitions, but on food and 
everything, until the war-lords of Europe came to their senses. 
He urged the workers to strike, and thus force the politicians to 
declare the embargo. 

Especially, of course, he urged this if he were a German or 
an Austrian, a Hungarian or a Bohemian. The latter were sub- 
ject races, but they could not in these early days see beyond the 
fact that their fathers and brothers and cousins were being 
killed by the shells that were made in the Empire Machine 
Shops. With them stood also the Jews, who hated the Russian 
government so bitterly that nothing else mattered; also the 
Irish, whose first idea in life was to pay back John Bull for his 
sins of several centuries, and whose second idea was to take part 
in any sort of shivaree that was going. It was quite bewilder- 
ing to Jimmie Higgins; he had wrestled with Catholics of sev- 
eral nations and got nothing but hard words for his pains, but 
now all of a sudden Tom Callahan of the "Buffeteria" and Pat 
Grogan of the grocery on the corner made the discovery that 
maybe he was not such a fool after all! 



IV 

As a result of this ferment among the workers, the local had 
doubled its membership, and was holding soap-box meetings on 
a corner off Main Street on two evenings every week. The plans 
for the weekly paper, however, still hung fire. Comrade Dr. 
Service had lost his two brothers-in-law one in the battle of 
Mons, and the other in the first frightful gas-attack at Ypres, 
where whole regiments of men were caught unprepared, and died 
in awful torments. Also two of his wife's cousins had paid the 
price one was blind, and the other a prisoner at Ruhleben, the 





worst fate of all. So Dr. Service made one last indignant speech 
in the local, and took his five hundred dollars to start a chapter 
of the Red Cross ! 

But now the Germans and the war-haters in the local were 
asking themselves, was Socialism to languish in the city of the 
Empire Machine Shops, just because one rich man with an Eng- 
lish wife had proved a renegade? Such a question answered 
itself! The work of collecting subscription lists was taken up 
more vigorously than ever; and already more than half the lost 
five hundred had been made up, when one evening John Meissner 
came home with a most amazing story. 

It was his custom to stop at SandkuhPs for one glass of beer 
on his way home in the evening ; and when anybody in the saloon 
got to arguing about the war, he would take his chance to put in 
a little propaganda. This time he had made a regular speech, 
declaring that the workers would soon put an end to the muni- 
tion-business ; and a fellow had got to talking with him, asking 
him all sorts of questions about himself, and about the local. 
How many members did it have? How many of them felt as 
Meissner did? What were they doing about it? Pretty soon 
the man had drawn Meissner to a table in the back part of the 
place, asking about the proposed paper, and what its policy was 
to be ; also about the unions in the city, and their policy, and the 
personalities of the leaders. 

The man had said he was a Socialist, but Meissner did not 
believe him. Meissner thought he must be some kind of union 
organiser. There had been talk of various unions making an 
effort to break into the domain of old man Granitch; and, of 
course, there was always the I. W. W. trying to break in every- 
where with its programme of the "one big union." 

Meissner went on to tell how this mysterious stranger had 
stated to him that it would be possible to get plenty of money to 
back the proposition of a strike in the Empire Shops. The new 
plant was just ready to start up, and fresh swarms of men were 
coming in ; what was wanted was some live fellows to get in with 
them and root for an eight hour day and a minimum wage scale 
of sixty cents an hour. Men who were willing to do that could 
get good money, and plenty of it; if the Leesville "Worker" 
would advocate such a policy, there was no reason why it should 
not start up the very next week, and publish a big edition and 
flood the town. The one essential was that arrangements should 



 

be made secretly. Meissner must trust no one save dyed-in-the- 
wool "reds' who would be willing to hustle, and not say where 
the pay came from. As earnest of his intentions, the stranger 
pulled out a roll of bills, and casually drew off half a dozen and 
slipped them into Meissner's hands. They were for ten dollars 
each more money than a petty boss at the glass-works had ever 
got into his hands at one time in all his life ! 

Meissner exhibited the roll, and Jimmie stared with wide- 
open eyes. Here indeed was a new development of the war 
ten dollar bills for Socialist propaganda to be picked up in the 
back rooms of saloons ! What was this fellow's name ? And 
where did he hang out? Meissner offered to take Jimmie to 
meet him, and so the two bolted their suppers and set out at 
top speed. 



Jerry Coleman had mentioned several saloons where he 
was known, and in one of these they found him, a smooth- 
faced, smooth-spoken young fellow whom Jimmie would have 
taken for a detective or "spotter" having had dealings with 
such in his days "on the road." The man wore good clothes, 
and his finger-nails were cared for, something which, as we 
know, is seldom permitted to workingmen. But he did not put 
on airs, and he bade them call him by his first name. He talked 
to Jimmie a while, enough to make sure of his man, and then 
he peeled off some more bills, and told Jimmie to find more 
fellows who could be trusted. It wouldn't do for any one person 
to have too much money, for that would excite suspicion; but 
if they would go to work and spend that much for dodgers to 
be distributed among the munition-workers, and for street- 
meetings, and for the proposed radical paper well, there was 
plenty more money in the place where this had come from. 

Where was that place? Jimmie asked; and Jerry Coleman 
looked wise and winked. Then, after further consideration, he 
decided it might be well to tell them, provided they would pledge 
themselves not to mention it to others without his permission. 
This pledge they gave, and Jerry stated that he was a national 
organiser for the American Federation of Labour, which had 
resolved to unionise these munition-plants, and to establish the 
eight hour day. But it was of the utmost importance that 





the bosses should not get wind of the matter; it must not be 
revealed to any one save those whom Coleman saw fit to trust. 
He was trusting Jimmie and Meissner, and they might know 
that the great labour organisation was behind them, and would 
see them through, regardless of expense. Of course, it would 
be expected that they would use the money honestly. 

"Gee!" exclaimed Jimmie. "What do you take us for? A 
bunch of crooks?" 

No, said the other, he was not such a poor judge of character. 
And Jimmie remarked grimly that anybody who was looking 
for easy money did not go into the business of Socialist agita- 
tion. If there was anything a Socialist could boast of, it was 
that their workers and elected officials never touched any graft. 
Mr. Coleman that is, Jerry would be handed a receipt for 
every dollar they spent. 

It chanced that that same night there was a meeting of the 
Propaganda Committee of the local, which consisted of half 
a dozen of the most active members. Jimmie and Meissner 
hurried to this place, with their new-found wealth burning a 
hole in their pockets. They informed the committee that they 
had been collecting money for the propaganda fund, and pro- 
duced before the eyes of the astounded comrades the sum of one 
hundred dollars. 

It happened that the chairman of the committee had just 
received from the National Office of the party in Chicago a 
sample of a new leaflet entitled "Feed America First"; this 
leaflet could be had in quantities for a very low price, a dol- 
lar or two per thousand; as a result of Jimmie' s contribution, 
a telegram was sent for ten thousand of the leaflets to be shipped 
by express. And then there was a proposition from the state 
office, for Comrade Seaman, author of a book against war, to 
speak every night for two weeks in Leesville. The local had 
voted to turn down this proposition for lack of funds ; but now, 
with the new contributions, the propaganda committee felt equal 
to the fifty dollars involved. And then there was the idea of 
Comrade Gerrity, the organiser, who was conducting street 
meetings every Wednesday and Saturday nights; if he could 
have an assistant, at fifteen a week, the soap-boxing could go 
on every night. John Meissner here put in he was sure that 
contributions could be got for that purpose, provided the decision 
was made without delay. So the decision was made. 



 



VI 

The meeting was adjourned, and then Meissner and Jimmie 
went into conference with Gerrity, the organiser, and Schneider, 
the brewer, and Comrade Mary Allen, all three of whom hap- 
pened to be on the committee entrusted with the affairs of the 
"Worker." Jimmie explained that they had met a union or- 
ganiser they could not tell about him, but the committee would 
have a chance to meet him who would put up the balance of 
the money needed, provided that the paper would be willing to 
call at once for a strike of the Empire employes. Could that 
promise be made ? And Comrade Mary Allen laughed, indicat- 
ing her scorn for anybody who could cherish a doubt on that 
question ! Comrade Mary was a Quaker ; she loved all mankind 
with religious fervour and it is astonishing how bitter people 
can become in the cause of universal love. Her sharp, pale face 
flushed, and her thin lips set, as she answered that the "Worker" 
would most surely fight the war-profiteers, so long as she was 
on the managing committee! 

It was finally decided that Comrade Mary should call on 
Jerry Coleman in the morning, and satisfy herself that he really 
meant business; if so, she would get the full committee to- 
gether on the following evening. The committee had authority 
to go ahead, as soon as the necessary fund was made up, so if 
Coleman was all right, there was no reason why the first issue 
of the paper should not appear next week. Comrade Jack 
Smith, a reporter on the "Herald," the capitalist paper of Lees- 
ville, was to resign and become editor of the "Worker," and he 
already had his editorials written had been showing them about 
in the local for the past month ! 

Jimmie and Meissner set out for home, happy in the feeling 
that they had accomplished more for Socialism on that one night 
than in all the rest of their lives. But then, as they walked, 
there came suddenly a clamour of bells on the night air ; a fire ! 
They knew the signals, and counted the strokes, and made the 
discovery that it was in the neighbourhood of their own home ! 
An engine went by on the gallop, with sparks streaming out 
behind, and they broke into a run. Before they had gone a 
couple of blocks, they saw a glare in the sky, and their hearts 
were in their throats ; poor Meissner panted that he had neglected 
to pay his last month's insurance ! 





But as they ran, in the ever-growing throng of people, they 
realised that the fire was too near for their own home; also, 
it was a bigger blaze than could have been made by any number 
of shacks. And presently there were shouts in the crowd, "It's 
the Empire ! The Old Shops I" There came a hook and ladder 
truck, rushing by with shrieking siren, and then the fire-chief 
in his automobile with a fiercely clanging bell ; they turned the 
corner, and far down the street before them was the building 
in which for four years Jimmie had tended the bolt-making 
machine. They saw that one whole end of it was a towering, 
leaping, sweeping pillar of flames ! 







TIMMIE HIGGINS regarded with the utmost resentment the 
 determination of the war to come to Leesville, in spite of 
all his labours to keep it out. Take the most preposterous thing 
you could imagine the most idiotic thing on the face of the 
earth take German spies ! When Jimmie heard people talking 
about German spies, he laughed in their faces, he told them 
they were a bunch of boobs, they belonged in the nursery; for 
Jimmie classed German spies with goblins, witches and sea- 
serpents. And here suddenly the bewildered little man found 
himself in the midst of a German spy mania, the like of which 
he could never have dreamed ! 

Everybody seemed to take it for granted that the Empire 
Machine Shops had been burned by German agents; they just 
knew it, and by the time the fire was out they had a hundred 
various stories to support their conviction. The fire had leaped 
from place to place in a series of explosions ; the watchman, who 
had passed through the building only two minutes before, had 
rushed back and seen blazing gasoline, and had almost lost his 
life in the sweep of the flames. And next morning the Lees- 
ville "Herald" was out with letters half a foot high, telling these 
tales and insisting that the plant had been full of German agents, 
disguised as workingmen. 

Before the day was by the police had arrested a dozen per- 
fectly harmless German and Austrian labourers; at least that 
was the way it seemed to Jimmie, because of the fact that two 
of the men were members of the Socialist local. Somebody told 
Mrs. Meissner that all the Germans in Leesville were to be 
arrested, and the poor woman was trembling with terror. She 
wanted her husband to run away, but Jimmie persuaded them 
that this would be the worst possible course; so Meissner stayed 


in the house, and Jimmie kept his mouth shut for three whole 
days an extraordinary feat for him, and a trial more severe 
than being in jail. 

He had lost his job forever, he thought. But in this again 
he misjudged the forces which had taken his life in their grip 
the power of the gold which had come to Leesville by way of 
Eussia. The day after the fire he received word to report for 
work again ; old man Granitch was so anxious to keep his work- 
ers out of the clutches of the Hubbard Engine Company that 
he put them all, skilled and unskilled, at the job of clearing 
away the debris of the fire ! And five days later came the first 
carloads of new material, brought on motor-trucks, and the 
rebuilding of the Empire Shops began. Would you believe it 
some of the machinery which had not been damaged too much 
in the fire was fixed up, and at the end of a couple of weeks 
was starting up again, covered by a temporary canvas shelter, 
and with the walls of the new building rising round it. 

That was the kind of thing which made America the marvel 
of the world. It had made old man Granitch young again, peo- 
ple said ; he worked twenty hours a day in his shirt-sleeves, and 
the increase in his profanity was appalling. Even Lacey 
Granitch, his dashing son, quitted the bright lights of Broad- 
way and came home to help the old man keep his contracts. 
The enthusiasm for these contracts became as it were the re- 
ligion of Leesville ; it spread even to the ranks of labour, so that 
Jimmie found himself like a man in a surf, struggling to keep 
his feet against an undertow. 



II 

The plans for the "Worker" were delayed, for the reason 
that when Comrade Mary Allen, the Quaker, went to look for 
Jerry Coleman the day after the fire, that dispenser of ten dollar 
bills had mysteriously disappeared. It was a week before he 
showed up again; and meantime fresh events had taken place, 
both in the local and outside. To begin with the latter, as 
presumably the more important : an English passenger liner, the 
pride of the Atlantic fleet, loaded to the last cabin with Ameri- 
can millionaires, was torpedoed without warning by a German 
submarine. More than a thousand men, women and children 
went down, and the deed sent a shudder of horror through the 



 

civilised world. At the meeting of Local Leesville, which hap- 
pened to take place the evening afterward, it proved a difficult 
matter to get business started. 

The members stood about and argued. What could you say 
about a government that ordered a crime like that ? What could 
you say about a naval officer who would carry out such an order ? 
Thus Comrade Norwood, the young lawyer; and Schneider, the 
brewer, answered that the German government had done every- 
thing that any reasonable man could ask. It had published a 
notice in the New York papers, to the effect that the vessel was 
subject to attack, and that any one who travelled on her would 
do so at his peril. If women and children would ride on muni- 
tion-ships 

"Munition-ships?" cried Norwood; and then Schneider 
pointed to a news-despatch, to the effect that the Lwitania had 
had on board a shipment of cartridge-cases. 

"A fine lot of munitions I" jeered the lawyer. 
Well, was the reply, what were cartridge-cases for, if not to 
kill Germans? The Germans had been attacked by the whole 
world, and they had to defend themselves. When you looked 
at Comrade Schneider, you saw a man who felt himself attacked 
by the whole world ; his face was red up to the roots of his hair, 
and he was ready to defend himself with any weapon he could 
get hold of. 

Comrade Koeln, a big glass-blower, broke into the discus- 
sion. The German government was authority for the statement 
that the Lusitania had been armed with guns. And when 
Norwood hooted at this, every German in the room was up 
in arms. What did he have to disprove it? The word of the 
British government ! Was not "perfidious Albion" a bye-word I 

"The thing that beats me," declared the young lawyer, "is 
the way you Germans stand up for the Kaiser now, when before 
the war you couldn't find enough bad things to say about him." 

"What beats me," countered Schneider, "is how you Ameri- 
cans stand up for King George. Every newspaper in Wall 
Street howling for America to go into the war yust because 
some millionaires got killed !" 

"You don't seem to realise that the greater number of the 
men who lost their lives on that ship were workingmen !" 

"Ho! Ho!" hooted Comrade Stankewitz. "Vail Street 
loves so the vorkingmen !" 





Comrade Mary Allen, who loved all men, took up the argu- 
ment. If those workingmen had been killed in a mine disaster, 
caused by criminal carelessness and greed for profits; if they 
had died of some industrial disease which might easily have been 
prevented; if they had been burned in a factory without fire- 
escapes nobody in Wall Street would have wanted to go to war. 
And, of course, every Socialist considered this was true; every 
Socialist saw quite clearly that the enormity of the Lusitania 
sinking lay in the fact that it had reached and injured the privi- 
leged people, the people who counted, who got their names in 
the papers and were not supposed to be inconvenienced, even by 
war. So it was possible for Jimmie Higgins, even though 
shocked by what the Germans had done, to be irritated by the 
fuss which the Wall Street newspapers made. 

Young Emil Forster spoke, and they listened to him, as they 
always did. It was a quarrel, he said and as usual in quarrels, 
both sides had their rights and wrongs. You had to balance a 
few English and American babies against the millions of Ger- 
man babies which the British government intended to starve. 
It was British sea-power maintaining itself and of course con- 
trolling most of the channels of publicity. It appealed to what 
it called "law" that is to say, the customs it had found con- 
venient in the past. British cruisers were able to visit and search 
vessels, and to take off their crews; but submarines could not 
do that, so what the British clamour about "law" amounted to 
was an attempt to keep Germany from using her only weapon. 
After all, ask yourself honestly if it was any worse to drown peo- 
ple quickly than to starve them slowly. 

And then came "Wild Bill." This wrangling over German 
and British gave him a pain in the guts. Couldn't they see, 
the big stiffs, that they were playing the masters' game ? Quar- 
relling among themselves, when they ought to be waking up 
the workers, getting ready for the real fight. And wizened-up 
little Stankewitz broke in again that vas vy he hated var, it 
divided the vorkers. There vas nothing you could say for 
var. But "Wild Bill" smiled his crooked smile. There were 
several things you could say. War gave the workers guns, and 
taught them to use them; how would it be if some day they 
turned these guns about and fought their own battles? 



 



Comrade Gerrity now took the chair and made an effort to 
get things started. The minutes of the last meeting were read-, 
new members were voted on, and then Comrade Mary Allen rose 
to report for the "Worker" committee. The fund had been com- 
pleted, the first number of the paper was to appear next week, 
and it was now up to every member of the local to get up on 
his toes and hustle as never in his life before. Comrade Mary, 
with her thin, eager face of a religious zealot, made every one 
share her fervour. 

All save Lawyer Norwood. Since the retirement of Dr. 
Service he was the chief pro-ally trouble-maker, and he now 
made a little speech. He had been agreeably surprised to learn 
that the money had been raised so quickly ; but then certain un- 
comfortable doubts having occurred to him, he had made in- 
quiries and found there was some mystery about the matter. It 
was stated that the new paper was to demand a general strike 
in the Empire ; and of course everybody knew there were power- 
ful and sinister forces now interested in promoting strikes in 
munition-factories. 

"Wild Bill" was on his feet in an instant. Had the com- 
rade any objection to munition-workers demanding the eight 
hour day? 

"No," said Norward, "of course not ; but if we are going into 
a fight with other people, we surely ought to know who they 
are and what their purpose is. I have been informed there 
seems to be a little hesitation in talking about it that a lot of 
money has been put up by one man, and nobody knows who 
that man is." 

"He's an organiser for the A. F. of L. !" The voice was 
Jimmie's. In his excitement the solemn pledge of secrecy was 
entirely forgotten ! 

"Indeed!" said Norward. "What is his name?" 

Nobody answered. 

"Has he shown his credentials ?" Again silence. 

"Of course I don't need to tell men as familiar with union 
affairs as the comrades here that every bona-fide organiser for 
a union carries credentials. If he does not produce them, it is 
at least occasion for writing to the organisation and finding out 
about him. Has anybody done that?" 



Again there was silence. 

"I don't want to make charges," said Norwood 

"Oh, no !" put in "Wild Bill." "You only want to make 
insinuations I" 

"What I want to do is merely to make sure that the local 
knows what it is doing. It is no secret anywhere in Leesville 
that money is being spent to cause trouble in the Empire. No 
doubt this money has passed through a great many hands since 
it left the Kaiser's, but we may be sure that his hands are guid- 
ing it to its final end." 

And then what an uproar ! "Shame ! Shame !" cried some ; 
and others cried, "Bring your proofs!" The "wild" members 
shouted, "Put him out !" They had long wanted to get rid of 
Norwood, and this looked to be their chance. 

But the young lawyer stood his ground and gave them shot 
for shot. They wanted proofs, did they? Suppose they had 
learned of a capitalist conspiracy to wreck the unions in the 
city ; and suppose that the Leesville "Herald" had been clamour- 
ing for "proofs" what would they have thought ? 

"In other words," shouted Schneider, "you know it's true, 
yust because it's Yermany !" 

"I know it's true," said Norwood, "because it would help 
Germany to win the war. One doesn't have to have any other 
evidence if a certain thing will help Germany to win the war, 
one knows that thing is being done. All you Germans know 
that, and what's more, you're proud of it; it's your efficiency, 
that you boast." 

Again there was a cry of "Shame! Shame!" But the cry 
came from Comrade Mary, the Quaker lady, and it was evident 
that she had expected a chorus, and was disconcerted at being 
alone. 

Young Norwood, who knew his Germans, laughed scornfully. 
"Just now your government is selling bonds in America, sup- 
posed to be for the benefit of the families of the dead and 
wounded. Some of those bonds have been taken in this city, 
as I happen to know. Does anybody really believe the money 
will reach the families of the dead and wounded ?" 

This time the Germans answered. "I belief it!" roared 
omrade Koeln. "And I ! And I !" shouted others. 

"That money is staying right here in Leesville !" proclaimed 
the lawyer. "It is preparing a strike in the Empire!" 




A dozen men wanted the floor at once. Schneider, the 
brewer, got it, for the reason that he could outbellow any one 
else. "What does the comrade want?" he demanded. "Is he 
not for the eight hour day?" 

"Has he got any of old man Graniteh's money?" shrilled 
"Wild Bill." "Or maybe he doesn't know that Granitch is 
spending money to get smart young lawyers to help keep his 
munition-slaves at work ?" 



IV 

Norwood, having thrown the fat into the fire, sat down for 
a while and let it blaze. When the Germans taunted him with 
being afraid to say what he really meant that the local should 
oppose the demand for the eight hour day he merely laughed 
at them. He had wanted to make them show themselves up, and 
he had done it. Not merely were they willing to do the work 
of the Kaiser- they were willing to take the Kaiser's pay for 
doing it! 

"Take his pay?" cried "Wild Bill." "I'd take the devil's 
pay to carry on Socialist propaganda !" 

Old Hermann Forster rose and spoke, in his gentle, senti- 
mental voice. If it were true that the Kaiser was paying money 
for such ends, he would surely find he had bought very little. 
There were Socialists in Germany, one must remember 

And then came a shrill laugh. Those tame German Social- 
ists ! It was Comrade Claudel, a Belgian jeweller, who spoke. 
Would any rabbit be afraid of such revolutionists as them ? Eat- 
ing out of the Kaiser's hand having their papers distributed 
in the trenches for government propaganda ! Talk to a Belgian 
about German Socialists! 

So you saw the European national lines splitting Local 
Leesville in two : on the one side the Germans and the Austrians, 
the Eussian Jews, the Irish and the religious pacifists; on the 
other side two English glass-blowers, a French waiter, and sev- 
eral Americans who, because of college-education or other snob- 
bish weakness, were suspected of tenderness for John Bull. Be- 
tween these extreme factions stood the bulk of the membership, 
listening bewildered, trying to grope their way through the 
labyrinth. 

It was no easy job for these plain fellows, the Jimmie Hig- 





genses. When they tried to think the matter out, they were 
almost brought to despair. There were so many sides to the 
question the last fellow you met always had a better argument 
than any one you had heard before! You sympathised with 
Belgium and France, of course; but could you help hating the 
British ruling classes? They were your hereditary enemies 
your school-book enemies, so to speak. And they were the ones 
you knew most about; since every American jack-ass that got 
rich quick and wanted to set himself up above his fellows would 
proceed to get English clothes and English servants and Eng- 
lish bad manners. To the average plain American, the word 
English stood for privilege, for ruling class culture, the things 
established, the things against which he was in rebellion; Ger- 
many was the I. W. W. among the nations the fellow who had 
never got a chance and was now hitting out for it. Moreover, 
the Germans were efficient; they took the trouble to put their 
case before you, they cared what you thought about them; 
whereas the Englishman, damn him, turned up his snobbish 
nose, not caring a whoop what you or anybody might think. 

Moreover, in this controversy the force of inertia was on the 
German side, and inertia is a powerful force in any organisa- 
tion. What the Germans wanted of American Socialists was 
simply that they should go on doing what they had been doing 
all their lives. And the Socialist machine had been set up 
for the purpose of going on, regardless of all the powers on 
earth, in the heavens above the earth, or in hell beneath. Ask 
Jimmie Higgins to stop demanding higher wages and the eight 
hour day ! Wouldn't anybody in his senses know what Jimmie 
would answer to that proposition ? Go chase yourself ! 



But, on the other hand, it must be admitted that Jimmie was 
staggered by the idea that he might be getting into the pay 
of the Kaiser. It was true that the traditions of the Socialist 
movement were German traditions, but they were German anti- 
Government traditions: Jimmie regarded the Kaiser as the 
devil incarnate, and the bare idea of doing anything the Kaiser 
wanted done was enough to make him stop short. He could 
see also what a bad thing it would be for the movement to 
have any person believe that it was taking the Kaiser's money. 




Suppose, for example, that a report of this evening's discussion 
should reach the "Herald"! And with the public inflamed to 
madness over the Lusitania affair ! 

After the discussion had proceeded for an hour or so, Nor- 
wood made a motion to the effect that the "Worker" committee 
should be instructed to investigate thoroughly the sources of 
all funds contributed, and to reject any that did not come from 
Socialists, or those in sympathy with Socialism. The common- 
sense of the meeting asserted itself, and even the Germans voted 
for this motion. Sure, .let them go ahead and investigate ! The 
Socialist movement was clean, it had always been clean, it had 
nothing to conceal from anyone. 

But then came another controversy. Claudel moved that 
Norwood should be made a member of the committee; and 
this, of course, was bitterly opposed by the radicals. It was 
an insult to the integrity of the committee. Then, too, sug- 
gested Baggs, an Englishman, perhaps Norwood might really 
find out something! The Jimmie Higginses voted down the 
motion not because they feared any disclosures, but because 
they felt that a quiet, sensible fellow like Gerrity, their organ- 
iser, might be trusted to protect the good faith of the movement, 
and without antagonising anybody or making a fuss. 

The investigation took place, and the result of it was that 
the money which Jerry Coleman had contributed for the 
"Worker" was quietly returned to him. But the difference was 
at once made up by the Germans in the local, who regarded the 
whole thing as a put-up job, an effort to block the agitation for 
a strike. These comrades took no stock whatever in the talk 
about "German gold"; but on the other hand they were keenly 
on the alert for the influence of Russian gold, which they knew 
was being openly distributed by old Abel Granitch. And so they 
put their hands down into their pockets and dug out their 
scanty wages, so that the demand for social justice might be 
kept alive in Leesville. 

The upshot of the whole episode was that the local rejected 
the Kaiser's pay, but went on doing what the Kaiser wanted 
without pay. This could hardly be considered a satisfactory 
solution, but it was the best that Jimmie Higgins was able 
to work out at this time. 




The first issue of the "Worker" appeared, with Jack Smith's 
editorial spread over the front page, calling upon the workers 
of the Empire to take this occasion to organise and demand 
their rights. "Eight hours for work, eight hours for sleep, 
eight hours for play!" proclaimed Comrade Jack; and the 
"Herald" and the "Courier," stung to a frenzy by the appear- 
ance of a poacher on their journalistic preserves, answered with 
broadsides about "German propaganda." The "Herald" got the 
story of what had happened in the local; also it printed a pic- 
ture of "Wild Bill' and an interview with that terror of the 
West, who declared that he was for war on the capitalist class 
with the aid of any and every ally that came along even to 
the extent of emery powder in ball-bearings and copper nails 
driven into fruit trees. 

The "Herald" charged that the attitude of the Socialists 
toward "tainted wealth" was all a sham. What had happened 
was simply that the German members of the local were getting 
German money, and making it "Socialist money" by the simple 
device of passing it through their consecrated hands. As this 
had been hinted by Norwood in the local, the German comrades 
now charged that Norwood had betrayed the movement to the 
capitalist press. And so came another bitter controversy in 
the local. The young lawyer laughed at the charge. Did they 
really believe they could take German money in Leesville, and 
not have the fact become known ? 

"Then you think we are taking German money?" roared 
Schneider; and he clamoured furiously for an answer. The 
other would not answer directly, but he told them a little parable. 
He saw a tree, sending down its roots into the ground, spreading 
everywhere, each tiny rootlet constructed for the purpose of 
absorbing water. And on the top of the ground was a man with 
a supply of water, which he poured out; he poured and poured 
without stint, and the water seeped down toward the rootlets, 
and every rootlet was reaching for water, pushing toward the 
places where water was likely to be. "And now," said Nor- 
wood, "you ask me do I believe that tree has been getting any 
of that water?" 

And here, of course, was the basis of a bitter quarrel. The 
hot-heads would not listen to subtle distinctions ; they declared 



that Norwood was accusing the movement of corruption, he was 
making out his anti-war opponents to be villains ! He was pro- 
viding the capitalist press with ammunition. For shame! for 
shame! "He's a stool-pigeon!" shrieked "Wild Bill." "Put 
him out, the Judas !" 

The average member of the local, the perfectly sincere fel- 
low like Jimmie Higgins, who was wearing himself out, half 
starving himself, in the effort to bring enlightenment to his 
class, listened to these controversies with bewildered distress. 
He saw them as echoes of the terrible national hatreds which 
were rending Europe, and he resented having these old world 
disputes thrust into American industrial life. Why could he 
not go on with his duty of leading the American workers into 
the co-operative commonwealth? 

Because, answered the Germans, old man Granitch wanted 
to keep the American workers as munition-slaves; and to this 
idea the overwhelming percentage of the membership agreed. 
They were not pacifists, non-resistants ; they were perfectly will- 
ing to fight the battles of the working-class ; what they objected 
to was having to fight the battles of the master-class. They 
wanted to go on, as they had always gone, opposing the master- 
class and paying no heed to talk about German agents. Jimmie 
Higgins believed and in this belief he was perfectly correct 
that even had there been no German agents, the capitalist papers 
of Leesville would have invented them, as a means of discredit- 
ing the agitators in this crisis. Jimmie Higgins had lived all his 
life in a country in which his masters starved and oppressed him, 
and when he tried to help himself, met him with every weapon 
of treachery and slander. So Jimmie had made up his mind 
that one capitalist country was the same as another capitalist 
country, and that he would not be frightened into submission 
by tales about goblins and witches and sea-serpents and German 
spies. 





"CVEEY evening now the party held its "soap-box" meetings 
-- J on a corner just off Main Street. Jimmie, having volun- 
teered as one of the assistants, would bolt his supper in the 
evening and hurry off to the spot. He was not one of the 
speakers, of course he would have been terrified at the idea 
of making a speech; but he was one of those whose labours 
made the speaking possible, and who reaped the harvest for 
the movement. 

The apparatus of the meeting was kept in the shop of a 
friendly carpenter nearby. The carpenter had made a "soap- 
box" that was a wonder a platform mounted upon four slender 
legs, detachable, so that one man could carry the whole business 
and set it up. Thus the speaker was lifted a couple of feet 
above the heads of the crowd, and provided with a hand-rail upon 
which he might lean, and even pound, if He did not pound too 
hard. A kerosene torch burned some distance from his head, 
illuminating his features, and it was Jimmie's business to see that 
this torch was properly cleaned and filled, and to hold it erect on 
a pole part of the time. The rest of the time he peddled litera- 
ture among the crowd copies of the Leesville "Worker," and 
five and ten cent pamphlets supplied by the National Office. 

He would come home at night, worn out from these labours 
after his daily toil ; he would fall asleep at Lizzie's side, and have 
to be routed out by her when the alarm-clock went off next 
morning. She would get him a cup of hot coffee, and after he 
had drunk this, he would be himself again, and would chatter 
about the adventures of the night before. There was always 
something happening, a fellow starting a controversy, a drunken 
man, or perhaps a couple of thugs in the pay of old man Gran- 
itch, trying to break up the meeting. 

Lizzie would do her best to show that sympathy with her 



husband's activities which is expected from a dutiful wife. 
But all the time there was grief in her soul the eternal grief 
of the feminine temperament, which is cautious and conserva- 
tive, in conflict with the masculine, which is adventurous and 
destructive. Here was Jimmie, earning twice what he had ever 
earned before, having a chance to feed his children properly and 
to put by a little margin for the first time in his harassed life; 
but instead of making the most of the opportunity, he was going 
out on the streets every night, doing everything in his power to 
destroy the golden occasion which fate had brought to him! 
Like the fellow who climbs a tree to saw off a limb, and sits on 
the limb and saws between himself and the tree ! 

In spite of her best efforts, Lizzie's broad, kindly face would 
sometimes become hard with disappointment, and a big tear 
would roll down each of her sturdy cheeks. Jimmie would be 
sorry for her, and would patiently try to explain his actions. 
Should a man think only of his own wife and children, and for- 
get entirely all the other wives and children of the working- 
class? That was why the workers had been slaves all through 
the ages, because each thought of himself, and never of his 
fellows. No, you must think of your class I You must act as 
a class on the alert to seize every advantage, to teach solidarity 
and stimulate class-consciousness ! Jimmie would use these 
long words, which he had heard at meetings; but then, seeing 
that Lizzie did not understand them, he would go back and say 
it over again in words of one syllable. They had old man 
Granitch in a hole just now, and they must teach him a lesson, 
and at the same time teach the workers their power. Lizzie 
would sigh, and shake her head; for to her, old man Granitch 
was not a human being, but a natural phenomenon, like winter, 
or hunger. He, or some other like him, had been the master 
of her fathers for generations untold, and to try to break or 
even to limit his power was like commanding the tide or the 
sun. 

II 

Events moved quickly to their culmination, justifying the 
worst of Lizzie's fears. The shops were seething with discon- 
tent, and agitators seemed fairly to spring out of the ground; 
some of them paid by Jerry Coleman, no doubt, others taking 





their pay in the form of gratification of those grudges with 
which the profit-system had filled their hearts. Noon-meetings 
would start up, quite spontaneously, without any prearrange- 
ment ; and presently Jimmie learned that men were going about 
taking the names of all who would agree to strike. 

The matter was brought to a head by the Empire managers, 
who, of course, were kept informed by their spies. They dis- 
charged more than a score of the trouble-makers ; and when this 
news spread at noon-time, the whole place burst into a flame of 
wrath. "Strike ! strike !" was the cry. Jimmie was one of many 
who started a procession through the yards, shouting, singing, 
hurling menaces at the bosses, challenging all who proposed 
to return to work. Less than one-tenth of the working force 
made any attempt to do so, and for that afternoon the plant of 
the Empire Machine Shops, which was supposed to be turning 
out shell-casings for the Russian government, was turning out 
labour-union, Socialist, and I. W. W. oratory. 

Jimmie Higgins was beside himself with excitement. He 
danced about and waved his cap, he shouted himself hoarse, he 
almost yielded to the impulse to jump upon a pile of lumber 
and make a speech himself. Presently came Comrades Gerrity 
and Mary Allen, who had got wind of the trouble, and had 
loaded a whole edition of the "Worker" into a Ford ; so Jimmie 
turned newsboy, selling these papers, hundreds of them, until 
his pockets were bursting with the weight of pennies and 
nickels. And then he was pressed into service running errands 
for those who were arranging to organise the workers; he car- 
ried bundles of membership-cards and application-blanks, fol- 
lowing a man with a bull voice and a megaphone, who shouted 
in several languages the location of union headquarters, and the 
halls where various foreign language meetings would be held 
that evening. Evidently some one had foreseen the breaking of 
this trouble, and had been at pains to plan ahead. 

Late in the afternoon Jimmie was witness of an exciting 
incident. In one of the shops a number of the men had per- 
sisted in returning to work, and an immense throng of strikers 
had gathered to wait for them. They were afraid to come out, 
but stayed in the building after the quitting-whistle, while 
those outside jeered and hooted, and the bosses telephoned fran- 
tically for aid. The greater part of the Leesville police-force 
was on hand, and in addition, the company had its own guards 



 

and private detectives. But they were needed all over the place. 
You saw them at the various entrances, menacing, but not quite 
so sure of themselves as usual; their hands had a tendency to 
slip back to the bulge on their right hips. 

Jimmie and another fellow had got themselves an empty 
box and were standing on it, leaning against the wall of the 
building and shouting "Ya! Ya!" at every "scab" head that 
showed itself. They saw an automobile come in at the gate, its 
horn honking savagely, causing the crowd to leap to one side or 
the other. The automobile was packed with men, sitting on 
one another's knees, or hanging to the running boards outside. 
There came a second car, loaded in the same fashion. They were 
guards, sent all the way from Hubbardtown; for of course the 
Hubbard Engine Company would help out its rivals in an 
emergency such as this. That was the solidarity of capitalism, 
concerning which the Socialists never wearied of preaching. 

The men leaped from the cars, and spread themselves fan- 
wise in front of the door. They had nightsticks in their hands, 
and grim resolution in their faces; they cried, "Stand back! 
Stand back!" The crowd hooted, but gave slightly, and a few 
