absolutely no sex consciousness about her.

"Are you going to let us remain and be your very faithful and diligent
servants?" she asked, mischievously amused at the shock she had
administered.

"Thusis," I said, "it’s going to be rather difficult for me to treat you
as a servant.  And if your friends are of the same quality——"

"It’s perfectly easy," she insisted.  "If we presume, correct us.  If we
are slack, punish us.  Be masculine and exacting; be bad tempered about
your food—"  She laughed delightfully—"Raise the devil with us if we
misbehave."

I didn’t believe I could do that and said so; and she turned on me that
bewildering smile and sat looking at me very intently, with her white
hands clasped in her lap.

"You don’t think we’re a band of robbers conspiring to chloroform you
and Mr. Smith some night and make off with your effects?" she inquired.

We both laughed.

"You’re very much puzzled, aren’t you, Mr. O’Ryan," she continued.

"I am, indeed."

"But you’re so nice—so straight and clean yourself—that you’d give me
the benefit of any doubt, wouldn’t you?"

"Yes."

"That’s because you’re a sportsman.  That’s because you play all games
squarely."  Her face became serious; her gray eyes met mine and seemed
to look far into them.

"Your country is neutral, isn’t it?" she said.

"Yes."

"You are not."

"I have my ideas."

"And ideals," she added.

"Yes, I have them still, Thusis."

"So have I," she said.  "I am trying to live up to them.  If you will
let me."

"I’ll even help you——"

"No!  Just let me alone.  That is all I ask of you."  Her youthful face
grew graver.  "But that is quite enough to ask of you.  Because by
letting me alone you are incurring danger to yourself.

"Why do you tell me?"

"Because I wish to be honest with you.  If you retain me as your servant
and accept me and my friends as such,—even if you live here quietly and
blamelessly, obeying the local and Federal laws and making no inquiries
concerning me or my three friends,—yet, nevertheless, you may find
yourself in very serious trouble before many days."

"Political trouble?"

"All kinds of trouble, Mr. O’Ryan."

There was a silence; she sat there with slender fingers tightly
interlocked as though under some sort of nervous tension, but the faint
hint of a smile in the corners of her mouth—which seemed to be part of
her natural expression—remained.

She said: "And more than that: if you let us remain as your servants, we
shall trust to you and to Mr. Smith that neither one of you by look or
word or gesture would ever convey to anybody the slightest hint that I
and my friends are not exactly what we appear to be—your household
servants."

"Thusis," said I, "what the deuce are you up to?"

"What am I up to?" She laughed outright:—"Let me see!  First—" counting
on her fingers, "I am trying to find a way to live up to my ideals;
second, I am going to try to bring happiness to many, many people;
third, I am prepared to sacrifice myself, my friends, my nearest and
dearest." ... She lifted her clear eyes: "I am quite ready to sacrifice
you, too," she said.

I smiled: "That would cost you very little," I said.

There was another short silence.  The girl looked at me with a curious
intentness as though mentally appraising me—trying to establish in her
mind any value I might represent to her—if any.

"It’s like an innocent bystander being hit by a bullet in a revolution,"
she murmured: "it’s a pity: but it is unavoidable, sometimes."

"I represent this theoretical and innocent bystander?"

"I’m afraid you do, Mr. O’Ryan; the chances are that you’ll get hurt."

A perfectly inexplicable but agreeable tingling sensation began to
invade me, amounting almost to exhilaration.  Was it the Irish in me,
subtly stirred, by the chance of a riot?  Was it a possible opportunity
to heave a brick, impartially and with Milesian enthusiasm?

"Thusis," said I, "there is only one question I must ask you to answer."

"I know what it is."

"What?"

"You are going to remind me that, to-day, the whole world is divided
into two parts; that the greatest war of all times is being waged
between the forces of light and of darkness.  And you are going to ask
me where I stand."

"I am."

The girl rose; so did I.  Then she stepped forward, took my right hand
and rested her other upon it.

"I stand for light, for the world’s freedom, for the liberties of the
weaker, for the self-determination of all peoples.  I stand for their
right to the pursuit of happiness.  I stand for the downfall of all
tyranny—the tyranny of the mob as well as the tyranny of all autocrats.
That is where I stand, Mr. O’Ryan.... Where do you stand?"

"Beside you."

She dropped my hand with an excited little laugh:

"I was certain of that.  In Berne I learned all about you.  I took no
chances in coming here.  I took none in being frank with you."  She
began to laugh again, mischievously: "Perhaps I took chances in being
impertinent to you.  There is a dreadful and common vein of frivolity in
me.  I’m a little reckless, too.  I adore absurd situations, and the
circumstances—when you unwillingly discovered that I was
attractive—appealed to me irresistibly. And I am afraid I was silly
enough—common enough—malicious enough to thoroughly enjoy it.... But,"
she added naïvely, "you gave me rather a good scare when you threatened
to kiss me."

"I’m glad of that," said I with satisfaction.

"Of course," she remarked, "that would have been the climax of
absurdity."

"Would it?"

"Certainly."

"Why?"

"Fancy such a nice young man kissing his cook in the cellar."

"That isn’t what you meant."

"Isn’t it?" she asked airily.

"No."

"What did I mean then, Mr. O’Ryan?"

"I don’t know," said I thoughtfully.

She gave me one of her smiling but searching looks, in which there
seemed a hint of apprehension.  Then, apparently satisfied by her
scrutiny, she favored me with a bewitching smile in which I thought to
detect a slight trace of relief.

"You will keep me, then?" she asked.

"Yes."

"Thank you!"

She stretched out her beautiful hand impulsively: I took it.

"Thanks—and good-by," she said a trifle gravely, Then, with a shadow of
the smile still lingering: "Good-by: because, from now on, it is to be
master and servant.  We must both remember that."

I was silent.

"You will remember, won’t you?" she said—the laughter flashed in her
eyes:—"especially if we ever happen to be in the cellar together?"

I said, forcing a smile and my voice not quite steady: "Suppose we
finish that scene, now, Thusis?"

"Good heavens!" she said:—"and the Admiral watching us!"  She drew her
hand from mine and pointed at the picture over my mantel.

"I’m afraid of that man," she said.  "The cellar is less terrifying——"

"Thusis!"

But she laughed and slipped through the door. "Good-by, Don Michael!"
she called back softly from the stairs.

I walked back slowly to the center of my room and for a long time I
stood there quite motionless, staring fixedly at the Admiral.




                                  *V*

                             *AN ODD SONG*


"There’s one thing certain," thought I; "my household personnel is
altogether too pulchritudinous for a man like Smith, and it begins to
worry me."

Considerably disturbed in my mind I reconnoitered Smith’s rooms, and
found him, as I suspected, loitering there on pretense of re-arranging
the contents of his bureau-drawers.

Now Smith had no legitimate business there; it was Clelia’s hour to do
his rooms.  But, as I say, I already had noticed his artless way of
hanging about at that hour, and several times during the last two weeks
I had encountered him conversing with the girl while she, her blonde
hair bound up in a beguiling dust-cap, and otherwise undeniably
fetching, leaned at ease on her broom and appeared quite willing to be
cornered and conversed with.

My advent always galvanized this situation; Clelia instantly became busy
with her broom and duster, and Smith usually pretended he had been
inquiring of Clelia where I might be found.

He attempted the same dishonesty now, and, with every symptom of
delight, cordially hailed me and inquired where I’d been keeping myself
since breakfast.

"I’ve been out doors," said I coldly, "where I hoped—if I did not really
expect—to find you."

This sarcasm put a slight crimp in his assurance, and he accompanied me
out with docile alacrity, which touched me.

"It’s too good a household to spoil," said I.  "A little innocent
gaiety—a bit of persiflage en passant—that doesn’t interfere with
discipline.  But this loitering about the vicinity of little Clelia’s
too brief skirts is almost becoming a habit with you."

"She’s a nice girl," returned Smith, vaguely.

"Surely.  And you’re a very nice young man; but you know as well as I do
that we can’t arrange our social life to include the circle below
stairs."

"You mean, in the event of travelers arriving, they might misconstrue
such a democracy?"

"Certainly, they’d misjudge it.  We couldn’t explain why our cook was
playing the piano in the living-room or why Clelia laid aside her
dust-pan for a cup of tea with us at five, could we?"

"Or why Thusis and you went trout fishing together," he added
pleasantly.

A violent blush possessed my countenance.  So he was aware of that
incident!  He had gone to Zurich that day.  I hadn’t mentioned it.

"Smith," said I, "these are war times.  To catch fish is to conserve
food.  Under no other circumstances——"

"I understand, of course!  Two can catch more fish than one.  Which
caught it?"

"Thusis," I admitted.  "Thusis happened to know where these Swiss trout
hide and how to catch them.  Naturally I was glad to avail myself of her
knowledge."

"Very interesting.  You need no further instruction, I fancy."

"To become proficient," said I, "another lesson or two—possibly——"  I
paused out near the fountain to stoop over and break off a daisy.  From
which innocent blossom, absent-mindedly, I plucked the snowy petals one
by one as I sauntered along beside Smith.

Presently he began to mutter to himself.  At first I remained sublimely
unconscious of what he was murmuring, then I caught the outrageous
words: "Elle m’aime—un peu—beaucoup—passablement—pas-du-tout——"

"What’s that?" I demanded, glaring at him. "What are you gabbling
about?"

He seemed surprised at my warmth.  I hurled the daisy from me; we turned
and strode back in hostile silence toward the bottling house.

My farmer, Raoul Despres, was inside and the door stood open.  We could
hear the humming of the dynamo.  Evidently, obeying my orders of
yesterday, he had gone in to look over and report upon the condition of
the plant with a view to resuming business where my recent uncle had
left off.

We could see his curly black head, and athletic figure inside the low
building.  As he prowled hither and thither investigating the machinery
he was singing blithely to himself:

    "Crack-brain-cripple-arm
    You have done a heap of harm—
    You and yours and all your friends!
    Now you’ll have to make amends."


Smith and I looked at each other in blank perplexity.

"That’s a remarkable song," I said at last.

"Very," said Smith.  We halted.  The dynamo droned on like a giant bee.

Raoul continued to sing as he moved around in the bottling house, and
the words he sang came to us quite plainly:

    "Crack-brain-cripple-arm
    Sacking city, town and farm!
    You, your children and your friends,
    All will come to rotten ends!"


"Smith," said I, "who on earth do you suppose he means by
’Crack-brain-cripple-arm’?"

"Surely," mused Smith, "he could not be referring to the All-highest of
Hunland....  Could he?"

"Impossible," said I.  We went into the bottling house.  And the song of
Raoul ceased.

It struck me, as he turned and came toward us with his frank, quick
smile and his gay and slightly jaunty bearing, that he had about him
something of that nameless allure of a soldier of France.

"But of course you are Swiss," I said to him with a trace of a grin
twitching at my lips.

"Of course, Monsieur," he replied innocently.

"Certainly....  And, how about that machinery, Raoul?"

"It functions, Monsieur.  A little rust—nothing serious.  The torrent
from the Bec de l’Empereur runs the dynamo; the spring flows full.
Listen!"

We listened.  Through the purring of the dynamo the bubbling melody of
the famous mineral spring was perfectly audible.

"How many bottles have we?" I asked.

"In the unopened cases a hundred thousand.  In odd lots, quart size,
twenty thousand more."

"Corks?  Boxes?"

"Plenty."

"Labels?  Straw?"

"Bales, Monsieur."

"And all the machinery works?"

For answer he picked up a quart bottle and placed it in a porcelain
cylinder.  Then he threw a switch; the bottle was filled automatically,
corked, labeled, sheathed in straw and deposited in a straw-lined box.

"Fine!" I said.  "When you have a few moments to spare from the farm you
can fill a few dozen cases.  And you, too, Smith, when time hangs heavy
on your hands, it might amuse you to drop in and start bottling spring
water for me—instead of rearranging your bureau drawers."

The suggestion did not seem to attract him.  He said he’d enjoy doing it
but that he did not comprehend machinery.

I smiled at him and made up my mind that he’d not spend his spare time
in Clelia’s neighborhood.

"Raoul," said I, "that was an interesting song you were singing when we
came in."

"What song, Monsieur?"

"The one about ’Crack-brain-cripple-arm.’"

He gazed at me so stupidly that I hesitated.

"I thought I heard you humming a song," said I.

"Maybe it was the dynamo, Monsieur."

"Maybe," I said gravely.

Smith and I walked out and across toward the cow-stables.

There was nothing to see there except chickens; the little brown Swiss
cattle being in pasture on the Bec de l’Empereur.

"If time hangs heavy with you, Smith," I ventured, "why not drive the
cows home and milk them in the evenings?"

He told me, profanely, that he had plenty to do to amuse himself.

"What, for example, did he tell you?"

"Write letters," he said,—"for example."

"To friends in dear old Norway, I suppose," said I flippantly.

"To whomever I darn well please," he rejoined drily.

That, of course, precluded further playful inquiry. Baffled, I walked on
beside him.  But I sullenly decided to stick to him until Clelia had
done the chamber-work and had safely retired to regions below stairs.

Several times he remarked he’d forgotten something and ought to go to
his rooms to look for the missing objects.  I pretended not to hear him
and he hadn’t the effrontery to attempt it.

The words of Raoul’s song kept running in my mind.

    "Crack-brain-cripple-arm
    You have done a heap of harm—"


And I found myself humming the catchy air as I strolled over my domain
with my unwilling companion.

"I like that song," I remarked.

"Of course you would," he said.

"Why?"

"Because you’re so bally neutral," he replied ironically.

"I am neutral.  All Chileans are.  I’m neutral because my country is."

"You’re neutral as hell," he retorted with a shrug—"you camouflaged
Yankee."

"If I weren’t neutral," said I, "I’d not be afraid of admitting it to a
New York Viking."

That put him out on first.  I enjoyed his silence for a while, then I
said: "Come on, old top, sing us some more Norse sagas about ’My girl’s
a corker.’"

"Can it!" retorted that typical product of Christiania.

So with quip and retort and persiflage veiled and more or less merry, we
strolled about in the beautiful early summer weather.

"Why the devil don’t you find Thusis and take another lesson in
angling?" he suggested.

"Because, dear friend, Thusis hitched up our horse and went to Zurich
this morning."

"What?  When?"

"Ere the earliest dicky-bird had caroled—ere Aurora had wiped night’s
messy cobwebs from the skies with rosy fingers."

"What did she go for?—that is, what did she say she was going for?"

"To purchase various household necessaries.  Why?"

"She’s a funny girl," he remarked evasively.

"Yes?"

"Rather."

"In what humorous particular do you hand it so generously to Thusis?" I
inquired.

"Oh, you know well enough she’s odd.  You can’t explain her.  She’s no
peasant, and you know it. She’s not Swiss, either.  I don’t know what
she is.  I don’t know quite what she’s doing here.  Sometimes she
reminds me of a runaway school girl: sometimes of the humorless,
pep-less prude who usually figures as heroine in a best seller.  And
sometimes she acts like a vixen! ... I didn’t tell you," he added, "but
I was amiable enough to try to kiss her that first evening.  I don’t
know where you were—but you can take it from me, O’Ryan, I thought I’d
caught hold of the original vestal virgin and that my hour had come for
the lions!"

"You beast," said I, not recollecting my own behavior in the cellar.
"What did she say?"

"She didn’t say anything.  She merely looked it. I’ve been horribly
afraid she’d tell her sister," he added naïvely.

"Smith," I said, laying an earnest hand on his arm, "you mustn’t frivol
with my household.  I won’t stand for it.  I admit that my household is
an unusual one.  Frankly, I have no more idea than you have that Thusis
and Clelia are real servants, or why they choose to take service here
with me. Probably they’re political agents.  I don’t care.  But you and
I mustn’t interfere with them, first, because it disorganizes my ménage;
second, because I believe they’re really nice girls."

"I think so, too," he said.

"Well, then, if they are, we don’t want to forget it.  And also we must
remember that probably they are political agents of some country now
engaged in this war, and it won’t do for us to become involved."

"How involved?"

"Well, suppose I took Thusis more or less seriously?"

"Do you?"

"I didn’t say I did.  I said suppose I do?  Who is she?  With all her
dainty personality and undoubted marks of birth and breeding—with the
irrefutable evidence of manner and speech and presence—with all these
ear-marks by which both she and Clelia seem plainly labeled—who is
Thusis?"

"I don’t know," he said soberly.

"Nor I.  And yet it is apparent that she has taken no pains to play the
part of a peasant or of a servant for our benefit.  Evidently she
doesn’t care—for I venture to believe she’s a good actress in addition
to the rest of her ungodly cleverness.

"But she seems to think it immaterial as to whether or not you and I
wonder who she may be. Mentally, Thusis snaps her fingers at us, Smith.
So does Clelia."

"Clelia is gentler—more girlish and immature," he said, "but she makes
no bones about having been in better circumstances.  She’s sweet but
she’s no weakling.  My curiosity amuses her and she pokes a lot of fun
at me."

"Doesn’t she tell you anything?  Doesn’t she give you any hint?"

"No, she doesn’t.  She’s friendly—willing to stop dusting and exchange a
little innocent banter with me....  Do you know, O’Ryan, I never before
saw such a pretty girl.  She’s only eighteen.  Did you know it?"

"No, I didn’t."

"And Thusis is twenty."

I thought deeply for a while, then:

"We’d better keep away from them except when business requires an
interview," I concluded.

"Why," he pointed out in annoyance, "that leaves me out entirely."

"Of course.  I shall not think of Thusis at all except on terms of
business.  That’s the safe idea, Smith, business,—strictly business.  It
neutralizes everything; it’s a wet blanket on folly; it paralyzes
friskiness; it slays sentiment in its tracks.  Become a business man.
Engage in some useful occupation. Suppose, for example, I pay you a
franc a week to feed my chickens."

"I’ve plenty to do, I tell you."

"Then do it, old top, and steer shy of that little blue-eyed parlor maid
of mine."

He made no answer.  We prowled about until nearly lunch-time.  But the
odd thing was that I had lost my appetite.  It may have happened because
I’d begun to worry a little about Thusis.

What the deuce had that girl been doing in Zurich all this while?  She
was too attractive to go about that seething city alone with market-cart
and horse. Some fresh young officer—

"Smith?"

He looked up, mildly surprised at my vehemence.

"Where the devil do you suppose Thusis is?" I asked.

"In Zurich, isn’t she?"

"Yes, but she’s been gone a long time and she ought to be back."

"Probably," he said, "she’s gallivanting with some handsome young fellow
along the Lake promenade. Possibly she’s lunching at the Baur-au-Lac
with some fascinating lieutenant.  Or maybe they’ve strolled over to the
Café de la Terrasse or to Rupps; or," he went on as though interested in
his irritating speculations, "it may be that Thusis has gone out in a
motor launch with some sprightly cavalier; or she may be at the
Tonhalle, or at Belvoir Park."

"No doubt," said I, exasperated.  "You needn’t speculate further."

"Business over, why shouldn’t Thusis kick up her pretty heels a bit?" he
inquired.

"Because Thusis isn’t that sort."

"How do you know that she isn’t that sort?"

I didn’t, and his question made me the madder.

"Luncheon ought to be ready," he reminded me presently.  I could
actually hear the grin in his voice.

"All right," said I.  "I’m hungry."  Which was a lie.  Then, as we
turned toward the house, Thusis drove into the yard.

Blue ribbons fluttered from her whip, from the fat horse’s head-stall,
from his braided tail.  There were bows of blue ribbon on her peasant’s
apron, too, which danced saucily in the wind.  I went over to aid her
descend from the cart, but she laughed and jumped out with a flash of
white stockings and blue garters.

"I’ve been wondering," said I, "why you were so long."

"Were you worried?"

The demurely malicious glance she flung at me became a laugh.  She
turned to Smith:

"Did he think somebody might kidnap his young and silly housekeeper?"
she inquired.  "Pas de chance!  I am horridly wise!"—she touched her
forehead with the tip of one finger—"and a thousand years old!"—she laid
one hand lightly over her heart.  And turned to me.  "I am a thousand
years of age," she repeated, smiling.  "Such as I are not kidnapped,
Monsieur O’Ryan.  Au contraire.  I myself am far more likely to
kidnap——"

She looked Smith gaily in the eye "—some agreeable young man—some day."
And very slowly her gray eyes included me.

Then she tossed the reins to Raoul who had come up beside the cart:

"A protean moment," she said to me, "and I shall reappear as a very
presentable waitress to wait upon you at luncheon."

And off went this amazing housekeeper of mine dancing lightly away
across the grass with the buckles on her little peasant slippers
twinkling and every blue ribbon a-flutter.

I turned and looked at Raoul.  He returned my gaze with an odd smile.

"Of what," said I, "are you thinking?"

"I was thinking," he replied seriously, "that the world is a very droll
place,—agreeable for the gay, but hell for those born without a sense of
humor."




                                  *VI*

                           *MASTER AND MAID*


I had become tired of following Smith about and of trying to keep an eye
on Clelia.  The little minx was so demure that it seemed difficult to
believe she deliberately offered Smith opportunities for philandering.
Otherwise my household caused me no anxiety; everything went smoothly.
Thusis waited on table and ran the place, Josephine Vannis cooked to
perfection, Raoul had started a garden and the bottling works; and no
tourists had bothered us by interrupting the régime and demanding food
and shelter.

Outwardly ours was a serene and emotionless life, undisturbed by that
bloody frenzy which agitated the greater surface of the globe.

Here in the sunny silence of our little valley ringed by snow peaks, the
soft thunder of some far avalanche or the distant tinkle of cow-bells
were the loudest interruptions that startled us from the peaceful
inertia consequent upon good food and idle hours.

Outwardly as I say, calm brooded all about us. True the Zurich and Berne
newspapers stirred me up, and the weekly packages of New York papers
which Smith and I received caused a tense silence in our rooms whither
we always retired to read them.

Smith once remarked that it was odd I never received any Chilean papers.
To which I replied that it seemed queer no Norwegian newspapers came to
him.

We let it rest there.  As for my household I never saw Josephine Vannis
at all except by accident in the early evening when I sometimes noticed
her in the distance strolling with Raoul.

On Clelia, I kept an unquiet eye as I have said. Thusis I saw only on
strictly business interviews. And Smith thought it strange that there
was so much business to be discussed between us.  But every day I felt
it my duty to go over my household accounts with Thusis, checking up
every item. In these daily conferences there were, of course, all sorts
of matters to consider, such as the farm and dairy reports from Raoul,
the bottling reports, daily sales of eggs, butter, and bottled
spring-water—a cart arriving from Zurich every morning to take away
these surplus items to the Grand Hotel, Baur-au-Lac, with which Thusis
had made a thrifty contract.

This was a very delightful part of the day to me,—the hour devoted to
business with Thusis, while Smith fumed in his room.  Possibly Clelia
fumed with him—I was afraid of that—and it was the only rift in the
lute.

Every morning I tried to prolong that business interview with
Thusis,—she looked so distractingly pretty in her peasant garb.  But
though her gray eyes were ever on duty and her winning smile flashed now
and then across the frontier of laughter, always and almost with malice,
she held me to the matter of business under discussion, discouraging all
diversions I made toward other topics, refusing to accompany me on gay
excursions into personalities, resisting any approach toward that little
spot of unconventional ground upon which we had once stood face to face.

For since that time when, for hours afterward, my hand remained
conscious of her soft, cool hand’s light contact—since that curious
compact between us which had settled her status, and my own, here under
this common roof above us, she had permitted no lighter conversation to
interrupt our business conferences, no other subject to intrude.  Only
now and then I caught a glimpse of tiny devils dancing in her gray eyes;
only at long intervals was the promise of the upcurled corners of her
mouth made good by the swift, sweet laughter always hidden there.

There was no use attempting any less impersonal footing any more; Thusis
simply evaded it, remaining either purposely dull and irresponsive or,
gathering up her accounts, she would rise, curtsey, and back out with a
gravity of features and demeanor that her mocking eyes denied.

Once, as I have said, I discovered a fishing rod in the attic, dug some
worms, and started out upon conservation bent.  And encountering Thusis
digging dandelions for salad behind the garden, explained to her my
attire and implements.  As it was strictly a matter of business she
consented to go with me as far as the brook.  There, by the bridge in
the first pool, she caught the first trout.  And, having showed me how,
retreated, resolutely repelling all suggestions that she take a morning
off, and defying me with a gaiety that made her eyes brilliant with
delighted malice.

"It was my duty to show you how Swiss trout are caught," she called back
to me, always retreating down the leafy path—"but when you propose a
pleasure party to your housekeeper—oh, Don Michael, you betray low
tastes and I am amazed at you and I beg you most earnestly to remember
the Admiral."

Whereupon I was stung into action and foolish enough to suppose I could
overtake her.  Where she vanished I don’t know.  There was not a sound
in the wood.  I was ass enough to call—even to appeal in a voice so
sentimental that I blush to remember it now.

And at last, discomfited and sulky, I went back to my fishing.  But hers
remained the only trout in my basket.  Smith and I ate it, baked with
parsley, for luncheon, between intermittent inquiries from Smith
regarding the fewness of the catch.

And now, it appeared, somebody had already told him that Thusis and I
had gone fishing together that day.  Who the devil had revealed that
fact?  Clelia, no doubt,—having been informed by Thusis.  And no doubt
Thusis had held me up to ridicule.

So now, at the hour when our daily business conference approached,
instead of seating myself as usual at the table in my sitting-room, I
took my fishing-rod, creel, a musty and water-warped leather fly-book,
and went into Smith’s room.

"Suppose we go fishing," I suggested, knowing he’d refuse on the chance
of a tête-à-tête with Clelia the minute I was out of sight.

He began to explain that he had letters to write, and I laughed in
derision and sent my regards to all the folks in dear old Norway.

"Go to the deuce," said I.  "Flirt with my chamber-maid if you want to,
but Thusis will take your head off—"

"Isn’t she going with you?"

"—When she returns," I continued, vexed and red at his impudent
conclusion.  It was perfectly true that I meant to take Thusis fishing,
but it was not Smith’s business to guess my intentions.

"You annoy me," I added, passing him with a scowl.  At which he merely
grinned.

In the hallway I encountered Clelia in cap and apron, very diligent with
her duster.

"Clelia," said I pleasantly, "has Raoul brought the mail?"

"Yes, Monsieur."

"Where is it?"

"There was only a bill from the Grand Hotel for cartage."

"What!" said I in pretense of dismay, "no letter yet from Mr. Smith’s
wife?  And seven of his children down with whooping-cough!"

"W-wife!" stammered Clelia, her blue eyes becoming enormous.  "S-seven
children!"

"Seven in Christiania," I explained sadly, "the other eleven at school
near Bergen.  Poor fellow. His suspense must be dreadful."

I’m no actor; I saw immediately in Clelia’s face that I had overplayed
my part as well as the total of Smith’s progeny, for the color came
swiftly back and she shot at me a glance anything but demure.

"The other eleven," I explained, "were by his first three wives."

Clelia, dusting furiously, looked around at me over her shoulder.

"At least," she said, "he’s done his duty by his country."

"W-what!" I stammered.

"The population of Norway is so very small," she added gaily.  And went
on with her dusting.

"Minx," thought I to myself as I marched down stairs and out toward the
fountain where, from the servants’ wing of the chalet Thusis could not
fail to observe me.  And she did.  She appeared, presently, account
books under one arm.  Out of the subtle corner of my subtlest eye—the
left one—I observed her.  And with surpassing cunning I selected a
yellow fly from the battered book and tied it on my leader.

"Monsieur!"

"Good-morning, Thusis.  We’re going fishing.  So if you’ll ask Josephine
to put up some war lunch for us—"

"Has Monsieur forgotten his daily business interview?" she inquired
smilingly.

"Not at all.  But we’re going to conserve time as well as food, Thusis.
We can fish and consult at the same time."

"But—"

"All waste must cease," I said firmly.  "We mustn’t waste even a minute
in the day.  And if we can do two things at the same time it is our
economic duty to do them."  I smiled at her.  "I shall dig worms," said
I, "for two, while you prepare lunch for two. That is a wonderful way of
economizing time and labor, isn’t it, Thusis?"

She smiled, bit her lip, as though regretting an indiscretion, looked up
at the cloudless sky, let her gray eyes wander from one snowy peak to
the next, glanced almost insolently at me, then smiled with that
delicious impulse characteristic of her.

"You know you have no business to take me fishing," she said.  "Your
cleverness is not Machiavellian; it is Michael-valian.  It doesn’t
deceive me for one moment, Señor Michael!"

I laughed, picked up a stable-fork that stood against the cow-barn:

"Worms for two; luncheon for two," said I.

"I don’t like that juxtaposition!" she protested. "Do you really wish
me to go with you?  Why won’t you sit here on the edge of the pool and
go over these accounts?"

"Conservation of time and energy forbid doing one thing when two things
can be accomplished at the——"

"You are absurd!"

I went over to the barnyard and began to dig.

"Hasten, Thusis," I called to her.  "I’ll be ready in ten minutes."

"I’ve a good mind not to go," she said.

"You’ve a good mind," said I, disinterring a fine fat worm.

"I have a mind, anyway, and it counsels me not to go fishing with you,
Don Michael."

"Argue with it," said I.  "It’s a reasonable mind, Thusis, and is open
to conviction.  Prove to it that you ought to go fishing."

"Don Michael, you are ridiculous."

"Let it be a modest lunch," said I, "nourishing and sufficient.  But not
a feast, Thusis.  Don’t put in any wreaths of roses, or any tambourines.
But you can stick a fry-pan into the basket, with a little lard on the
side, and I’ll show you how we cook trout in the woods at home."

"In Chile?"

"In the Adirondacks," said I, smiling.

I went on digging and accumulating that popular lure for trout not
carried in the fly-books of expert anglers, but known to the neophyte as
the "Barn-yard Hackle."

Once I glanced over my shoulder.  Thusis was not there.  Presently, and
adroitly dissembling my anxiety by a carefully camouflaged series of
sidelong squints I discovered her near the kitchen-wing of the chalet
talking earnestly to Josephine.

And so it happened that, having garnered a sufficiency of Barn-yard
hackles, I went to the fountain pool to wash my hands.

And when, with playful abandon, I stood drying them upon my
knickerbockers, I saw Thusis emerge from the house carrying my
pack-basket.

She came up rather slowly.

"Here is your lunch," she said, looking at me with an inscrutable
expression suggesting amusement and annoyance in an illogical
combination.

"You mean our lunch," said I.

"I mean your lunch."

"Aren’t you coming, Thusis?"

I looked into the pack-basket and discovered her account books in it.

"An oversight," she said, calmly.  "Give them to me."

I started to fish them out and caught sight of the package of lunch.

"Good heavens!" said I, "there is twice too much for one!"

She appeared to be greatly disturbed by the discovery.

"Josephine has made a dreadful mistake," she said. "She has put up lunch
enough for two!"

"It mustn’t be wasted," said I, gravely.  "I’m afraid you’ll have to
come fishing with me after all, Thusis."

There appeared to be no other way out of it.  At least neither of us
suggested any other way.

"Oh, dear," she said, looking up at me, and the very devil was in her
gray eyes.

Which discovery preoccupied me when she went back to the house for her
hat and for another rod which she had, it seemed, discovered in the
laundry, all equipped for business.

The agreeable tingle of subdued excitement permeated me as she returned
with the rod but without any hat.

"I don’t need one," she said, calmly, pulling out several hair pins.

And then I saw a thick mass of molten gold tumble down; and the swift
white fingers of Thusis dividing it into two heavy braids—a thrilling
sight—and once, in the thrall of that enchantment where I stood
motionless to watch her at this lovely office, I became aware of her
lifted eyes—two celestial assassins intent on doing me deep harm.

Then, still busy with her hair, she moved slowly forward across the
grass beside me, silently, almost stealthily—for, in the slow and supple
grace of her I seemed to divine something almost menacing to me.


Her account books and rod were in my pack-basket. She sauntered along
the shadow-flecked path beside me, at first paying me scant attention,
but singing carelessly to herself in a demi-voix snatches of any vagrant
melody that floated through her mind.

I recognized none of them.  One strange little refrain seemed to keep on
recurring to her at intervals:

    —"And Aphrodite’s throat was white
    As lilies opening at night
        In Naxos,
        In Naxos.
    And red were Aphrodite’s lips—
    And blue her eyes and white her hips
    As roses, sky, and surf that clips
      The golden shore of Tenedos.

    O Tenedos, my Tenedos,
    Set in the purple sea!
    O Naxos, my Naxos,
    I hear you calling me!
      The old gods have gone away;
      I follow them with feet astray,
      But in my heart I’ll faithful be
      To Tenedos and Naxos!"


She strolled on, singing to herself, an absent look in her starry eyes,
switching idly at the leaves with some dead stalk she had picked up.
And no matter what other fragments of melody occurred to her she was
ever coming back to her odd little song of Naxos and of Tenedos, where
flowers and sky and sea matched Aphrodite’s charms.

Now and again I was conscious of a leisurely sideways glance from her as
though indifferently marking my continued but quite uninteresting
existence in the landscape.

When we came to the wooden bridge she rested both hands on the rail and
