the old buildings of Westover Court as John Recklow entered the tiled
hallway, took the stairs to the left, and went directly to his
apartment.

He unlocked the door and let himself in and stood a moment in the entry
shaking the snow from his hat and overcoat.

The sitting-room lamp was unlighted but he could see a fire in the
grate, and Tressa Cleves seated near, her eyes fixed on the glowing
coals.

He bade her good evening in a low voice; she turned her charming head
and nodded, and he drew a chair to the fender and stretched out his wet
shoes to the warmth.

"Is Victor still out?" he inquired.

She said that her husband had not yet returned. Her eyes were on the
fire, Recklow's rested on her shadowy face.

"Benton got his man in Chicago," he said. "It was not Togrul Kahn."

"Who was it?"

"Only a Swami fakir who'd been preaching sedition to a little group of
greasy Bengalese from Seattle.... I've heard from Selden, too."

She nodded listlessly and lifted her eyes.

"Neither Sanang nor Togrul have appeared in Boston," he said. "I think
they're here in New York."

The girl said nothing.

After a silence:

"Are you worried about your husband?" he asked abruptly.

"I am always uneasy when he is absent," she said quietly.

"Of course.... But I don't suppose he knows that."

"I suppose not."

Recklow leaned over, took a coal in the tongs and lighted a cigar.
Leaning back in his armchair, he said in a musing voice:

"No, I suppose your husband does not realise that you are so deeply
concerned over his welfare."

The girl remained silent.

"I suppose," said Recklow softly, "he doesn't dream you are in love with
him."

Tressa Cleves did not stir a muscle. After a long silence she said in
her even voice:

"Do you think I am in love with my husband, Mr. Recklow?"

"I think you fell in love with him the first evening you met him."

"I did."

Neither of them spoke again for some minutes. Recklow's cigar went
wrong; he rose and found another and returned to the fire, but did not
light it.

"It's a rotten day, isn't it?" he said with a shiver, and dumped a
scuttle of coal on the fire.

They watched the blue flames playing over the grate.

Tressa said: "I could no more help falling in love with him than I could
stop my heart beating.... But I did not dream that anybody knew."

"Don't you think he ought to know?"

"Why? He is not in love with me."

"Are you sure, Mrs. Cleves?"

"Yes. He is wonderfully sweet and kind. But he could not fall in love
with a girl who has been what I have been."

Recklow smiled. "What have you been, Tressa Norne?"

"You know."

"A temple-girl at Yian?"

"And at the Lake of the Ghosts," she said in a low voice.

"What of it?"

"I can not tell you, Mr. Recklow.... Only that I lost my soul in the
Yezidee Temple----"

"That is untrue!"

"I wish it were untrue.... My husband tells me that nothing can really
harm the soul. I try to believe him.... But Erlik lives. And when my
soul at last shall escape my body, it shall not escape the Slayer of
Souls."

"That is monstrously untrue----"

"No. I tell you that Prince Sanang slew my soul. And my soul's ghost
belongs to Erlik. How can any man fall in love with such a girl?"

"Why do you say that Sanang slew your soul?" asked Recklow, peering at
her averted face through the reddening firelight.

She lay still in her chair for a moment, then turned suddenly on him:

"He did slay it! He came to the Lake of the Ghosts as my lover; he
meant to have done it there; but I would not have him--would not listen,
nor suffer his touch!--I mocked at him and his passion. I laughed at his
Tchortchas. They were afraid of me!--"

She half rose from her chair, grasped the arms, then seated herself
again, her eyes ablaze with the memory of wrongs.

"How dare I show my dear lord that I am in love with him when Sanang's
soul caught my soul out of my body one day--surprised my soul while my
body lay asleep in the Yezidee Temple!--and bore it in his arms to the
very gates of hell!"

"Good God," whispered Recklow, "what do you mean? Such things can't
happen."

"Why not? They do happen. I was caught unawares.... It was one golden
afternoon, and Yulan and Sansa and I were eating oranges by the fountain
in the inner shrine. And I lay down by the pool and made the
effort--you understand?"

"Yes."

"Very well. My soul left my body asleep and I went out over the tops of
the flowers--idly, without aim or intent--as the winds blow in
summer.... It was in the Wood of the White Moth that I saw Sanang's soul
flash downward like a streak of fire and wrap my soul in flame!... And,
in a flash, we were at the gates of hell before I could free myself from
his embrace.... Then, by the Temple pool, among the oranges, I cried out
asleep; and my terrified body sat up sobbing and trembling in Yulun's
arms. But the Slayer of Souls had slain mine in the Wood of the White
Moth--slain it as he caught me in his flaming arms.... And now you know
why such a woman as I dare not bend to kiss the dust from my dear Lord's
feet--Aie-a! Aie-a! I who have lost my girl's soul to him who slew it in
the Wood of the White Moth!"

She sat rocking in her chair in the red firelight, her hands framing her
lovely face, her eyes staring straight ahead as though they saw opening
before them through the sombre shadows of that room all the dread magic
of the East where the dancing flame of Sanang's blazing soul lighted
their path to hell through the enchanted forest.

Recklow had grown pale, but his voice was steady.

"I see no reason," he said, "why your husband should not love you."

"I tell you my girl's soul belonged to Sanang--was part of his, for an
instant."

"It is burned pure of dross."

"It is burned."

Recklow remained silent. Tressa lay deep in her armchair, twisting her
white fingers.

"What makes him so late?" she said.... "I sent my soul out twice to look
for him, and could not find him."

"Send it again," said Recklow, fearfully.

For ten minutes the girl lay as though asleep, then her eyes unclosed
and she said drowsily: "I can not find him."

"Did--did you learn anything while--while you were--away?" asked Recklow
cautiously.

"Nothing. There is a thick darkness out there--I mean a darkness
gathering over the whole land. It is like a black fog. When the damned
pray to Erlik there is a darkness that gathers like a brown mist----"

Her voice ceased; her hands tightened on the arms of her chair.

"That is what Sanang is doing!" she said in a breathless voice.

"What?" demanded Recklow.

"Praying! That is what he is doing! A million perverted minds which he
has seized and obsessed are being concentrated on blasphemous prayers to
Erlik! Sanang is directing them. Do you understand the terrible power of
a million minds all willing, in unison, the destruction of good and
the triumph of evil? A million human minds! More! For that is what he is
doing. That is the thick darkness that is gathering over the entire
Western world. It is the terrific materialisation of evil power from
evil minds, all focussed upon the single thought that evil must triumph
and good die!"

She sat, gripping the arms of her chair, pale, rigid, terribly alert,
dreadfully enlightened, now, concerning the awful and new menace
threatening the sanity of mankind.

She said in her steady, emotionless voice: "When the Yezidee Sorcerers
desire to overwhelm a nomad people--some yort perhaps that has resisted
the Sheiks of the Eight Towers, then the Slayer of Souls rides with his
Black Banners to the Namaz-Ga or Place of Prayer.

"Two marble bridges lead to it. There are fourteen hundred mosques
there. Then come the Eight, each with his shroud, chanting the prayers
for those dead in hell. And there the Yezidees pray blasphemously, all
their minds in ferocious unison.... And I have seen a little yort full
of Broad Faces with their slanting eyes and sparse beards, sicken and
die, and turn black in the sun as though the plague had breathed on
them. And I have seen the Long Noses and bushy beards of walled towns
wither and perish in the blast and blight from the Namaz-Ga where the
Slayer of Souls sat his saddle and prayed to Erlik, and half a million
Yezidees prayed in blasphemous unison."

Recklow's head rested on his left hand. The other, unconsciously, had
crept toward his pistol--the weapon which had become so useless in this
awful struggle between this girl and the loosened forces of hell.

"Is that what you think Sanang is about?" he asked heavily.

"Yes. I know it. He has seized the minds of a million men in America.
Every anarchist is to-day concentrating in one evil and supreme mental
effort, under Sanang's direction, to will the triumph of evil and the
doom of civilisation.... I wish my husband would come home."

"Tressa?"

She turned her pallid face in the firelight: "If Sanang has appointed a
Place of Prayer," she said, "he himself will pray on that spot. That
will be the Namaz-Ga for the last two Yezidee Sorcerers still alive in
the Western World."

"That's what I wished to ask you," said Recklow softly. "Will you try
once more, Tressa?"

"Yes. I will send out my soul again to look for the Namaz-Ga."

She lay back in her armchair and closed her eyes.

"Only," she added, as though to herself, "I wish my dear lord were safe
in this room beside me.... May God's warriors be his escort. And surely
they are well armed, and can prevail over demons. Aie-a! I wish my lord
would come home out of the darkness.... Mr. Recklow?"

"Yes, Tressa."

"I thought I heard him on the stairs."

"Not yet."

"Aie-a!" she sighed and closed her eyes again.

She lay like one dead. There was no sound in the room save the soft purr
of the fire.

Suddenly from the sleeping girl a frightened voice burst: "Yulun! Yulun!
Where is that yellow maid of the Baroulass?... What is she doing? That
sleek young thing belongs to Togrul Kahn? Yulun! I am afraid of her!
Tell Sansa to watch that she does not stir from the Lake of the
Ghosts!... Warn that young Baroulass Sorceress that if she stirs I slay
her. And know how to do it in spite of Sanang and all the prayers from
the Namaz-Ga! Yulun! Sansa! Watch her, follow her, hearts of flame! My
soul be ransom for yours! Tokhta!"

The girl's eyes unclosed. Presently she stirred slightly, passed one
hand across her forehead, turned her head toward Recklow.

"I could not discover the Namaz-Ga," she said wearily. "I wish my
husband would return."




CHAPTER XVI

THE PLACE OF PRAYER


Her husband called her on the telephone a few minutes later:

"Fifty-three, Six-twenty-six speaking! Who is this?"

"V-sixty-nine," replied his young wife happily. "Are you all right?"

"Yes. Is M. H. 2479 there?"

"He is here."

"Very well. An hour ago I saw Togrul Khan in a limousine and chased him
in a taxi. His car got away in the fog but it was possible to make out
the number. An empty Cadillac limousine bearing that number is now
waiting outside the 44th Street entrance to the Hotel Astor. The doorman
will hold it until I finish telephoning. Tell M. H. 2479 to send men to
cover this matter----"

"Victor!"

"Be careful! Yes, what is it?"

"I beg you not to stir in this affair until I can join you----"

"Hurry then. It's just across the street from Westover Court----" His
voice ceased; she heard another voice, faintly, and an exclamation from
her husband; then his hurried voice over the wire: "The doorman just
sent word to hurry. The car number is N. Y. 015 F 0379! I've got to
run! Good-b----"

       *       *       *       *       *

He left the booth at the end of Peacock Alley, ran down the marble steps
to the left and out to the snowy sidewalk, passing on his way a young
girl swathed to the eyes in chinchilla who was hurrying into the hotel.
As he came to where the limousine was standing, he saw that it was still
empty although the door stood open and the engine was running. Around
the chauffeur stood the gold laced doorman, the gorgeously uniformed
carriage porter and a mounted policeman.

"Hey!" said the latter when he saw Cleves,--"what's the matter here?
What are you holding up this car for?"

Cleves beckoned him, whispered, then turned to the doorman.

"Why did you send for me? Was the chauffeur trying to pull out?"

"Yes, sir. A lady come hurrying out an' she jumps in, and the shawfur he
starts her humming----"

"A lady! Where did she go?"

"It was that young lady in chinchilla fur. The one you just met when you
run out. Yessir! Why, as soon as I held up the car and called this here
cop, she opens the door and out she jumps and beats it into the hotel
again----"

"Hold that car, Officer!" interrupted Cleves. "Keep it standing here and
arrest anybody who gets into it! I'll be back again----"

He turned and hurried into the hotel, traversed Peacock Alley scanning
every woman he passed, searching for a slim shape swathed in chinchilla.
There were no chinchilla wraps in Peacock Alley; none in the dining-room
where people already were beginning to gather and the orchestra was now
playing; no young girl in chinchilla in the waiting room, or in the
north dining-room.

Then, suddenly, far across the crowded lobby, he saw a slender,
bare-headed girl in a chinchilla cloak turn hurriedly away from the
room-clerk's desk, holding a key in her white gloved hand.

Before he could take two steps in her direction she had disappeared in
the crowd.

He made his way through the packed lobby as best he could amid throngs
of people dressed for dinner, theatre, or other gaiety awaiting them
somewhere out there in the light-smeared winter fog; but when he arrived
at the room clerk's desk he looked for a chinchilla wrap in vain.

Then he leaned over the desk and said to the clerk in a low voice: "I am
a Federal agent from the Department of Justice. Here are my credentials.
Now, who was that young woman in chinchilla furs to whom you gave her
door key a moment ago?"

The clerk leaned over his counter and, dropping his voice, answered that
the lady in question had arrived only that morning from San Francisco;
had registered as Madame Aoula Baroulass; and had been given a suite on
the fourth floor numbered from 408 to 414.

"Do you mean to arrest her?" added the clerk in a weird whisper.

"I don't know. Possibly. Have you the master-key?"

The clerk handed it to him without a word; and Cleves hurried to the
elevator.

On the fourth floor the matron on duty halted him, but when he murmured
an explanation she nodded and laid a finger on her lips.

"Madame has gone to her apartment," she whispered.

"Has she a servant? Or friends with her?"

"No, sir.... I did see her speak to two foreign looking gentlemen in the
elevator when she arrived this morning."

Cleves nodded; the matron pointed out the direction in silence, and he
went rapidly down the carpeted corridor, until he came to a door
numbered 408.

For a second only he hesitated, then swiftly fitted the master-key and
opened the door.

The room--a bedroom--was brightly lighted; but there was nobody there.
The other rooms--dressing closet, bath-room and parlour, all were
brilliantly lighted by ceiling fixtures and wall brackets; but there was
not a person to be seen in any of the rooms--nor, save for the
illumination, was there any visible sign that anybody inhabited the
apartment.

Swiftly he searched the apartment from end to end. There was no baggage
to be seen, no garments, no toilet articles, no flowers in the vases, no
magazines or books, not one article of feminine apparel or of personal
bric-a-brac visible in the entire place.

Nor had the bed even been turned down--nor any preparation for the
night's comfort been attempted. And, except for the blazing lights, it
was as though the apartment had not been entered by anybody for a month.

All the windows were closed, all shades lowered and curtains drawn. The
air, though apparently pure enough, had that vague flatness which one
associates with an unused guest-chamber when opened for an airing.

Now, deliberately, Cleves began a more thorough search of the apartment,
looking behind curtains, under beds, into clothes presses, behind sofas.

Then he searched the bureau drawers, dressers, desks for any sign or
clew of the girl in the chinchillas. There was no dust anywhere,--the
hotel management evidently was particular--but there was not even a pin
to be found.

Presently he went out into the corridor and looked again at the number
on the door. He had made no mistake.

Then he turned and sped down the long corridor to where the matron was
standing beside her desk preparing to go off duty as soon as the other
matron arrived to relieve her.

To his impatient question she replied positively that she had seen the
girl in chinchillas unlock 408 and enter the apartment less than five
minutes before he had arrived in pursuit.

"And I saw her lights go on as soon as she went in," added the matron,
pointing to the distant illuminated transom.

"Then she went out through into the next apartment," insisted Cleves.

"The fire-tower is on one side of her; the scullery closet on the
other," said the matron. "She could not have left that apartment without
coming out into the corridor. And if she had come out I should have seen
her."

"I tell you she isn't in those rooms!" protested Cleves.

"She must be there, sir. I saw her go in a few seconds before you came
up."

At that moment the other matron arrived. There was no use arguing. He
left the explanation of the situation to the woman who was going off
duty, and, hastening his steps, he returned to apartment 408.

The door, which he had left open, had swung shut. Again he fitted the
master-key, entered, paused on the threshold, looked around nervously,
his nostrils suddenly filled with a puff of perfume.

And there on the table by the bed he saw a glass bowl filled with a mass
of Chinese orchids--great odorous clusters of orange and snow-white
bloom that saturated all the room with their freshening scent.

So astounded was he that he stood stock still, one hand still on the
door-knob; then in a trice he had closed and locked the door from
inside.

Somebody was in that apartment. There could be no doubt about it. He
dropped his right hand into his overcoat pocket and took hold of his
automatic pistol.

For ten minutes he stood so, listening, peering about the room from bed
to curtains, and out into the parlour. There was not a sound in the
place. Nothing stirred.

Now, grasping his pistol but not drawing it, he began another stealthy
tour of the apartment, exploring every nook and cranny. And, at the end,
had discovered nothing new.

When at length he realised that, as far as he could discover, there was
not a living thing in the place excepting himself, a very faint chill
grew along his neck and shoulders, and he caught his breath suddenly,
deeply.

He had come back to the bedroom, now. The perfume of the orchids
saturated the still air.

And, as he stood staring at them, all of a sudden he saw, where their
twisted stalks rested in the transparent bowl of water, something
moving--something brilliant as a live ember gliding out from among the
mass of submerged stems--a living fish glowing in scarlet hues and
winnowing the water with grotesquely trailing fins as delicate as
filaments of scarlet lace.

To and fro swam the fish among the maze of orchid stalks. Even its eyes
were hot and red as molten rubies; and as its crimson gills swelled and
relaxed and swelled, tints of cherry-fire waxed and waned over its fat
and glowing body.

And vaguely, now, in the perfume saturated air, Cleves seemed to sense a
subtle taint of evil,--something sinister in the intense stillness of
the place--in the jewelled fish gliding so silently in and out among the
pallid convolutions of the drowned stems.

As he stood staring at the fish, the drugged odour of the orchids heavy
in his throat and lungs, something stirred very lightly in the room.

Chills crawling over every limb, he looked around across his shoulder.

There was a figure seated cross-legged in the middle of the bed!

Then, in the perfumed silence, the girl laughed.

For a full minute neither of them moved. No sound had echoed her low
laughter save the deadened pulsations of his own heart. But now there
grew a faint ripple of water in the bowl where the scarlet fish,
suddenly restless, was swimming hither and thither as though pursued by
an invisible hand.

With the slight noise of splashing water in his ears, Cleves stood
staring at the figure on the bed. Under her chinchilla the girl seemed
to be all a pale golden tint--hair, skin, eyes. The scant shred of an
evening gown she wore, the jewels at her throat and breast, all were
yellow and amber and saffron-gold.

And now, looking him in the eyes, she leisurely disengaged the robe of
silver fur from her naked shoulders and let it fall around her on the
bed. For a second the lithe, willowy golden thing gathered there as
gracefully as a coiled snake filled him with swift loathing. Then,
almost instantly, the beauty of the lissome creature fascinated him.

She leaned forward and set her elbows on her two knees, and rested her
face between her hands--like a gold rose-bud between two ivory petals,
he thought, dismayed by this young thing's beauty, shaken by the dull
confusion of his own heart battering his breast like the blows of a
rising tide.

"What do you wish?" she inquired in her soft young voice. "Why have you
come secretly into my rooms to search--and clasping in your hand a
loaded pistol deep within your pocket?"

"Why have you hidden yourself until now?" he retorted in a dull and
laboured voice.

"I have been here."

"Where?"

"Here!... Looking at you.... And watching my scarlet fish. His name is
Dzelim. He is nearly a thousand years old and as wise as a magician.
Look upon him, my lord! See how rapidly he darts around his tiny crystal
world!--like a comet through outer star-dust, running the eternal race
with Time.... And--yonder is a chair. Will my lord be seated--at his new
servant's feet?"

A strange, physical weariness seemed to weight his limbs and shoulders.
He seated himself near the bed, never taking his heavy gaze from the
smiling, golden thing which squatted there watching him so intently.

"Whose limousine was that which you entered and then left so abruptly?"
he asked.

"My own."

"What was the Yezidee Togrul Kahn doing in it?"

"Did you see anybody in my car?" she asked, veiling her eyes a little
with their tawny lashes.

"I saw a man with a thick beard dyed red with henna, and the bony face
and slant eyes of Togrul the Yezidee."

"May my soul be ransom for yours, my lord, but you lie!" she said
softly. Her lips parted in a smile; but her half-veiled eyes were
brilliant as two topazes.

"Is that your answer?"

She lifted one hand and with her forefinger made signs from right to
left and then downward as though writing in Turkish and in Chinese
characters.

"It is written," she said in a low voice, "that we belong to God and we
return to him. Look out what you are about, my lord!"

He drew his pistol from his overcoat and, holding it, rested his hand on
his knee.

"Now," he said hoarsely, "while we await the coming of Togrul Kahn, you
shall remain exactly where you are, and you shall tell me exactly who
you are in order that I may decide whether to arrest you as an alien
enemy inciting my countrymen to murder, or to let you go as a foreigner
who is able to prove her honesty and innocence."

The girl laughed:

"Be careful," she said. "My danger lies in your youth and
mine--somewhere between your lips and mine lies my only danger from you,
my lord."

A dull flush mounted to his temples and burned there.

"I am the golden comrade to Heavenly-Azure," she said, still smiling. "I
am the Third Immaum in the necklace Keuke wears where Yulun hangs as a
rose-pearl, and Sansa as a pearl on fire.

"Look upon me, my lord!"

There was a golden light in his eyes which seemed to stiffen the muscles
and confuse his vision. He heard her voice again as though very far
away:

"It is written that we shall love, my lord--thou and I--this night--this
night. Listen attentively. I am thy slave. My lips shall touch thy feet.
Look upon me, my lord!"

There was a dazzling blindness in his eyes and in his brain. He swayed a
little still striving to fix her with his failing gaze. His pistol hand
slipped sideways from his knee, fell limply, and the weapon dropped to
the thick carpet. He could still see the glimmering golden shape of her,
still hear her distant voice:

"It is written that we belong to God.... Tokhta!..."

Over his knees was settling a snow-white sheet; on it, in his lap, lay a
naked knife. There was not a sound in the room save the rushing and
splashing of the scarlet fish in its crystal bowl.

Bending nearer, the girl fixed her yellow eyes on the man who looked
back at her with dying gaze, sitting upright and knee deep in his
shroud.

Then, noiselessly she uncoiled her supple golden body, extending her
right arm toward the knife.

"Throw back thy head, my lord, and stretch thy throat to the knife's
sweet edge," she whispered caressingly. "No!--do not close your eyes.
Look upon me. Look into my eyes. I am Aoula, temple girl of the
Baroulass! I am mistress to the Slayer of Souls! I am a golden plaything
to Sanang Noïane, Prince of the Yezidees. Look upon me attentively, my
lord!"

Her smooth little hand closed on the hilt; the scarlet fish splashed
furiously in the bowl, dislodging a blossom or two which fell to the
carpet and slowly faded into mist.

Now she grasped the knife, and she slipped from the bed to the floor and
stood before the dazed man.

"This is the Namaz-Ga," she said in her silky voice. "Behold, this is
the appointed Place of Prayer. Gaze around you, my lord. These are the
shadows of mighty men who come here to see you die in the Place of
Prayer."

Cleves's head had fallen back, but his eyes were open. The Baroulass
girl took his head in both hands and turned it hither and thither. And
his glazing eyes seemed to sweep a throng of shadowy white-robed men
crowding the room. And he saw the bloodless, symmetrical visage of
Sanang among them, and the great red beard of Togrul; and his stiffening
lips parted in an uttered cry, and sagged open, flaccid and soundless.

The Baroulass sorceress lifted the shroud from his knees and spread it
on the carpet, moving with leisurely grace about her business and softly
intoning the Prayers for the Dead.

Then, having made her arrangements, she took her knife into her right
hand again and came back to the half-conscious man, and stood close in
front of him, bending near and looking curiously into his dimmed eyes.

"Ayah!" she said smilingly. "This is the Place of Prayer. And you shall
add your prayer to ours before I use my knife. So! I give you back your
power of speech. Pronounce the name of Erlik!"

Very slowly his dry lips moved and his dry tongue trembled. The word
they formed was,

"Tressa!"

Instantly the girl's yellow eyes grew incandescent and her lovely mouth
became distorted. With her left hand she caught his chin, forced his
head back, exposing his throat, and using all her strength drew the
knife's edge across it.

But it was only her clenched fingers that swept the taut
throat--clenched and empty fingers in which the knife had vanished.

And when the Baroulass girl saw that her clenched hand was empty, felt
her own pointed nails cutting into the tender flesh of her own palm, she
stared at her blood-stained fingers in sudden terror--stared, spread
them, shrieked where she stood, and writhed there trembling and
screaming as though gripped in an invisible trap.

But she fell silent when the door of the room opened noiselessly behind
her;--and it was as though she dared not turn her head to face the end
of all things which had entered the room and was drawing nearer in utter
silence.

Suddenly she saw its shadow on the wall; and her voice burst from her
lips in a last shuddering scream.

Then the end came slowly, without a sound, and she sank at the knees,
gently, to a kneeling posture, then backward, extending her supple
golden shape across the shroud; and lay there limp as a dead snake.

Tressa went to the bowl of water and drew from it every blossom. The
scarlet fish was now thrashing the water to an iridescent spume; and
Tressa plunged in her hands and seized it and flung it out--squirming
and wheezing crimson foam--on the shroud beside the golden girl of the
Baroulass. Then, very slowly, she drew the shroud over the dying things;
stepped back to the chair where her husband lay unconscious; knelt down
beside him and took his head on her shoulder, gazing, all the while, at
the outline of the dead girl under the snowy shroud.

After a long while Cleves stirred and opened his eyes. Presently he
turned his head sideways on her shoulder.

"Tressa," he whispered.

"Hush," she whispered, "all is well now." But she did not move her eyes
from the shroud, which now outlined the still shapes of two human
figures.

"John Recklow!" she called in a low voice.

Recklow entered noiselessly with drawn pistol. She motioned to him; he
bent and lifted the edge of the shroud, cautiously. A bushy red beard
protruded.

"Togrul!" he exclaimed.... "But who is this young creature lying dead
beside him?"

Then Tressa caught the collar of her tunic in her left hand and flung
back her lovely face looking upward out of eyes like sapphires wet with
rain:

"In the name of the one and only God," she sobbed--"if there be no
resurrection for dead souls, then I have slain this night in vain!

"For what does it profit a girl if her soul be lost to a lover and her
body be saved for her husband?"

She rose from her knees, the tears still falling, and went and looked
down at the outlined shapes beneath the shroud.

Recklow had gone to the telephone to summon his own men and an
ambulance. Now, turning toward Tressa from his chair:

"God knows what we'd do without you, Mrs. Cleves. I believe this
accounts for all the Yezidees except Sanang."

"Excepting Prince Sanang," she said drearily. Then she went slowly to
where her husband lay in his armchair, and sank down on the floor, and
laid her cheek across his feet.




CHAPTER XVII

THE SLAYER OF SOULS


In that great blizzard which, on the 4th of February, struck the eastern
coast of the United States from Georgia to Maine, John Recklow and his
men hunted Sanang, the last of the Yezidees.

And Sanang clung like a demon to the country which he had doomed to
destruction, imbedding each claw again as it was torn loose, battling
for the supremacy of evil with all his dreadful psychic power, striving
still to seize, cripple, and slay the bodies and souls of a hundred
million Americans.

Again he scattered the uncounted myriads of germs of the Black Plague
which he and his Yezidees had brought out of Mongolia a year before; and
once more the plague swept over the country, and thousands on thousands
died.

But now the National, State and City governments were fighting, with
physicians, nurses, and police, this gruesome epidemic which had come
into the world from they knew not where. And National, State and City
governments, aroused at last, were fighting the more terrible plague of
anarchy.

Nation-wide raids were made from the Atlantic to the Pacific, and from
the Gulf to the Lakes. Thousands of terrorists of all shades and stripes
whose minds had been seized and poisoned by the Yezidees were being
arrested. Deportations had begun; government agents were everywhere
swarming to clean out the foulness that had struck deeper into the body
of the Republic than any one had supposed.

And it seemed, at last, as though the Red Plague, too, was about to be
stamped out along with the Black Death called Influenza.

But only a small group of Secret Service men knew that a resurgence of
these horrors was inevitable unless Sanang, the Slayer of Souls, was
destroyed. And they knew, too, that only one person in America could
hope to destroy Sanang, the last of the Yezidees, and that was Tressa
Cleves.

Only by the sudden onset of the plague in various cities of the land had
Recklow any clew concerning the whereabouts of Sanang.

In Boston, then Washington, then Kansas City, and then New York the
epidemic suddenly blazed up. And in these places of death the Secret
Service men always found a clew, and there they hunted Sanang, the
Yezidee, to kill him without mercy where they might find him.

But they never found Sanang Noïane; only the ghastly marks of his
poisoned claws on the body of the sickened nation--only minds diseased
by the Red Plague and bodies dying of the Black Death--civil and social
centres disorganized, disrupted, depraved, dying.

When the blizzard burst upon New York, struggling in the throes of the
plague, and paralysed the metropolis for a week, John Recklow sent out a
special alarm, and New York swarmed with Secret Service men searching
the snow-buried city for a graceful, slender, dark young man whose eyes
slanted a trifle in his amber-tinted face; who dressed fashionably,
lived fastidiously, and spoke English perfectly in a delightfully
modulated voice.

And to New York, thrice stricken by anarchy, by plague, and now by God,
hurried, from all parts of the nation, thousands of secret agents who
had been hunting Sanang in distant cities or who had been raiding the
traitorous and secret gatherings of his mental dupes.

Agent ZB-303, who was volunteer agent James Benton, came from Boston
with his new bride who had just arrived by way of England--a young girl
named Yulun who landed swathed in sables, and stretched out both lovely
little hands to Benton the instant she caught sight of him on the pier.
Whereupon he took the slim figure in furs into his arms, which was
interesting because they had never before met in the flesh.

So,--their honeymoon scarce begun, Benton and Yulun came from Boston in
answer to Recklow's emergency call.

And all the way across from San Francisco came volunteer agent XLY-371,
otherwise Alek Selden, bringing with him a girl named Sansa whom he had
gone to the coast to meet, and whom he had immediately married after she
had landed from the Japanese steamer Nan-yang Maru. Which, also, was
remarkable, because, although they recognised each other instantly, and
their hands and lips clung as they met, neither had ever before beheld
the living body of the other.

The third man who came to New York at Recklow's summons was volunteer
agent 53-6-26, otherwise Victor Cleves.

His young wife, suffering from nervous shock after the deaths of Togrul
Khan and of the Baroulass girl, Aoula, had been convalescing in a
private sanitarium in Westchester.

Until the summons came to her husband from Recklow, she had seen him
only for a few moments every day. But the call to duty seemed to have
effected a miraculous cure in the slender, blue-eyed girl who had lain
all day long, day after day, in her still, sunny room scarcely unclosing
her eyes at all save only when her husband was permitted to enter for
the few minutes allowed them every day.

The physician had just left, after admitting that Mrs. Cleves seemed to
be well enough to travel if she insisted; and she and her maid had
already begun to pack when her husband came into her room.

She looked around over her shoulder, then rose from her knees, flung an
armful of clothing into the trunk before which she had been kneeling,
and came across the room to him. Then she dismissed her maid from the
room. And when the girl had gone:

"I am well, Victor," she said in a low voice. "Why are you troubled?"

"I can't bear to have you drawn into this horrible affair once more."

"Who else is there to discover and overcome Sanang?" she asked calmly.

He remained silent.

So, for a few moments they stood confronting each other there in the
still, sunny chamber--husband and wife who had never even exchanged the
first kiss--two young creatures more vitally and intimately bound
together than any two on earth--yet utterly separated body and soul from
each other--two solitary spirits which had never merged; two bodies
virginal and inviolate.

Tressa spoke first: "I must go. That was our bargain."

The word made him wince as though it had been a sudden blow. Then his
face flushed red.

"Bargain or no bargain," he said, "I don't want you to go because I'm
afraid you can not endure another shock like the last one.... And every
time you have thrown your own mind and body between this Nation and
destruction you have nearly died of it."

"And if I die?" she said in a low voice.

What answer she awaited--perhaps hoped for--was not the one he made. He
said: "If you die in what you believe to be your line of duty, then it
will be I who have killed you."

"That would not be true. It is you who have saved me."

"I have not. I have done nothing except to lead you into danger of death
since I first met you. If you mean spiritually, that also is untrue. You
have saved yourself--if that indeed were necessary. You have redeemed
yourself--if it is true you needed redemption--which I never
believed----"

"Oh," she sighed swiftly, "Sanang surprised my soul when it was free of
my body--followed my soul into the Wood of the White Moth--caught it
there all alone--and--slew it!"

His lips and throat had gone dry as he watched the pallid terror grow in
her face.

Presently he recovered his voice: "You call that Yezidee the Slayer of
Souls," he said, "but I tell you there is no such creature, no such
power!

"I suppose I--I know what you mean--having seen what we call souls
dissociated from their physical bodies--but that this Yezidee could do
you any spiritual damage I do not for one instant believe. The idea is
monstrous, I tell you----"

"I--I fought him--soul battling against soul----" she stammered,
breathing faster and irregularly. "I struggled with Sanang there in the
Wood of the White Moth. I called on God! I called on my two great dogs,
Bars and Alaga! I recited the Fatha with all my strength--fighting
convulsively whenever his soul seized mine; I cried out the name of
Khidr, begging for wisdom! I called on the Ten Imaums, on Ali the Lion,
on the Blessed Companions. Then I tore my spirit out of the grasp of his
soul--but there was no escape!--no escape," she wailed. "For on every
side I saw the cloud-topped rampart of Gog and Magog, and the woods rang
with Erlik's laughter--the dissonant mirth of hell----"

She began to shudder and sway a little, then with an effort she
controlled herself in a measure.

"There never has been," she began again with lips that quivered in spite
of her--"there never has been one moment in our married lives when my
soul dared forget the Wood of the White Moth--dared seek yours.... God
lives. But so does Erlik. There are angels; but there are as many
demons.... My soul is ashamed.... And very lonely ... very lonely ...
but no fit companion--for yours----"

Her hands dropped listlessly beside her and her chin sank.

"So you believe that Yezidee devil caught your soul when it was
wandering somewhere out of your body, and destroyed it," he said.

She did not answer, did not even lift her eyes until he had stepped
close to her--closer than he had ever come. Then she looked up at him,
but closed her eyes as he swept her into his arms and crushed her face
and body against his own.

Now her red lips were on his; now her face and heart and limbs and
breast melted into his--her breath, her pulse, her strength flowed into
his and became part of their single being and single pulse and breath.
And she felt their two souls flame and fuse together, and burn together
in one heavenly blaze--felt the swift conflagration mount, overwhelm,
and sweep her clean of the last lingering taint; felt her soul,
unafraid, clasp her husband's spirit in its white embrace--clung to him,
uplifted out of hell, rising into the blinding light of Paradise.

Far--far away she heard her own voice in singing whispers--heard her
lips pronounce The Name--"Ata--Ata! Allahou----"

Her blue eyes unclosed; through a mist, in which she saw her husband's
face, grew a vast metallic clamour in her ears.

Her husband kissed her, long, silently; then, retaining her hand, he
turned and lifted the receiver from the clamouring telephone.

"Yes! Yes, this is 53-6-26. Yes, V-69 is with me.... When?... To-day?...
Very well.... Yes, we'll come at once.... Yes, we can get a train in a
few minutes.... All right. Good-bye."

He took his wife into his arms again.

"Dearest of all in the world," he said, "Sanang is cornered in a row of
houses near the East River, and Recklow has flung a cordon around the
entire block. Good God! I can't take you there!"

Then Tressa smiled, drew his head down, looked into his face till the
clear blue splendour of her gaze stilled the tumult in his brain.

"I alone know how to deal with Prince Sanang," she said quietly. "And if
John Recklow, or you, or Mr. Benton or Mr. Selden should kill him with
your pistols, it would be only his body you slay, not the evil thing
that would escape you and return to Erlik."

"Must you do this thing, Tressa?"

"Yes, I must do it."

"But--if our pistols cannot kill this sorcerer, how are you going to
deal with him?"

"I know how."

"Have you the strength?"

