"A gunman, eh? All right. Let's see if he'll shoot," said the son, walking
deliberately toward Dodge.
"No, Dodge!" Cleigh called out as the Texan, raised the revolver. "You may
go."
Dodge, a good deal astonished, backed out. Once more father and son stared
at each other.
"Better call it off," advised the son. "You can't hold Miss Norman--and I
can make a serious charge. Bring her at once, or I'll go for her. And the
Lord help the woodwork if I start!"
But even as he uttered the threat Dennison heard a sound behind. He
turned, but not soon enough. In a second he was on the floor, three husky
seamen mauling him. They had their hands full for a while, but in the end
they conquered.
"What next, sir?" asked one of the sailors, breathing hard.
"Tie him up and lock him in Cabin Two."
The first order was executed. After Dennison's arms and ankles were bound
the men stood him up.
"Are you really my father?"
Cleigh returned to his cards and shuffled them for a new deal.
"Don't untie him. He might walk through the partition. He will have the
freedom of the deck when we are out of the delta."
Dennison was thereupon carried to Cabin Two, and deposited upon the
stationary bed. He began to laugh. There was a sardonic note in this
laughter, like that which greets you when you recount some incredible
tale. His old cabin!
The men shook their heads, as if confronted by something so unusual that
it wasn't worth while to speculate upon it. The old man's son! They went
out, locking the door. By this time Dennison's laughter had reached the
level of shouting, but only he knew how near it was to tears--wrathful,
murderous, miserable tears! He fought his bonds terrifically for a moment,
then relaxed.
For seven years he had been hugging the hope that when he and his father
met blood would tell, and that their differences would vanish in a strong
handclasp; and here he lay, trussed hand and foot, in his old cabin, not a
crack in that granite lump his father called a heart!
A childish thought! Some day to take that twenty thousand with accrued
interest, ride up to the door, step inside, dump the silver on that old
red Samarkand, and depart--forever.
Where was she? This side of the passage or the other?
"Miss Norman?" he called.
"Yes?" came almost instantly from the cabin aft.
"This is Captain Dennison. I'm tied up and lying on the bed. Can you hear
me distinctly?"
"Yes. Your father has made a prisoner of you? Of all the inhuman acts! You
came in search of me?"
"Naturally. Have you those infernal beads?"
"No."
Dennison twisted about until he had his shoulders against the brass rail
of the bed head.
"What happened?"
"It was a trick. It was not to talk about you--he wanted the beads, and
that made me furious."
"Were you hurt in the struggle?"
"There wasn't any. I really don't know what possessed me. Perhaps I was a
bit hypnotized. Perhaps I was curious. Perhaps I wanted--some excitement.
On my word, I don't know just what happened. Anyhow, here I am--in a
dinner gown, bound for Hong-Kong, so he says. He offered me ten thousand
for the beads, and my freedom, if I would promise not to report his
high-handedness; and I haven't uttered a sound."
"Heaven on earth, why didn't you accept his offer?"
A moment of silence.
"In the first place, I haven't the beads. In the second place, I want to
make him all the trouble I possibly can. Now that he has me, he doesn't
know what to do with me. Hoist by his own petard. Do you want the truth?
Well, I'm not worried in the least. I feel as if I'd been invited to some
splendiferous picnic."
"That's foolish," he remonstrated.
"Of course it is. But it's the sort of foolishness I've been aching for
all my life. I knew something was going to happen. I broke my hand mirror
night before last. Two times seven years' bad luck. Now he has me, I'll
wager he's half frightened out of his wits. But what made you think of the
yacht?"
"We forced the door of your room, and I found the note. Has he told you
what makes those infernal beads so precious?"
"No. I can't figure that out."
"No more can I. Did he threaten you?"
"Yes. Would I enter the launch peacefully, or would he have to carry me? I
didn't want my gown spoiled--it's the only decent one I have. I'm not
afraid. It isn't as though he were a stranger. Being your father, he would
never stoop to any indignity. But he'll find he has caught a tartar. I
had an idea you'd find me."
"Well, I have. But you won't get to Hong-Kong. The minute he liberates me
I'll sneak into the wireless room and bring the destroyers. I didn't
notify the police from a bit of foolish sentiment. I didn't quite want you
mixed up in the story. I had your things conveyed to the consulate."
"My story--which few men would believe. I've thought of that. Are you
smoking?"
"Smoking, with my hands tied behind my back? Not so you'd notice it."
"I smell tobacco smoke--a good cigar, too."
"Then someone is in the passage listening."
Silence. Anthony Cleigh eyed his perfecto rather ruefully and tiptoed back
to the salon. Hoist by his own petard. He was beginning to wonder. Cleigh
was a man who rarely regretted an act, but in the clear light of day he
was beginning to have his doubts regarding this one. A mere feather on the
wrong side of the scale, and the British destroyers would be atop of him
like a flock of kites. Abduction! Cut down to bedrock, he had laid himself
open to that. He ran his fingers through his cowlicks. But drat the woman!
why had she accepted the situation so docilely? Since midnight not a sound
out of her, not a wail, not a sob. Now he had her, he couldn't let her
go. She was right there.
There was one man in the crew Cleigh had begun to dislike intensely, and
he had been manoeuvring ever since Honolulu to find a legitimate excuse to
give the man his papers. Something about the fellow suggested covert
insolence; he had the air of a beachcomber who had unexpectedly fallen
into a soft berth, and it had gone to his head. He had been standing watch
at the ladder head, and against positive orders he had permitted a visitor
to pass him. To Cleigh this was the handle he had been hunting for. He
summoned the man.
"Get your duffle," said Cleigh.
"What's that, sir?"
"Get your stuff. You're through. You had positive orders, and you let a
man by."
"But his uniform fussed me, sir. I didn't know just how to act."
"Get your stuff! Mr. Cleve will give you your pay. My orders are absolute.
Off with you!"
The sailor sullenly obeyed. He found the first officer alone in the chart
house.
"The boss has sent me for my pay, Mr. Cleve. I'm fired." Flint grinned
amiably.
"Fired? Well, well," said Cleve, "that's certainly tough luck--all this
way from home. I'll have to pay you in Federal Reserve bills. The old man
has the gold."
"Federal Reserve it is. Forty-six dollars in Uncle Samuels."
The first officer solemnly counted out the sum and laid it on the palm of
the discharged man.
"Tough world."
"Oh, I'm not worrying! I'll bet you this forty-six against ten that I've
another job before midnight."
Mr. Cleve grinned.
"Always looking for sure-thing bets! Better hail that bumboat with the
vegetables to row you into town. The old man'll dump you over by hand if
he finds you here between now and sundown."
"I'll try the launch there. Tell the lad his fare ain't goin' back to
Shanghai. Of course it makes it a bit inconvenient, packing and unpacking;
but I guess I can live through it. But what about the woman?"
Cleve plucked at his chin.
"Messes up the show a bit. Pippin, though. I like 'em when they walk
straight and look straight like this one. Notice her hair? You never tame
that sort beyond parlour manners. But I don't like her on board here, or
the young fellow, either. Don't know him, but he's likely to bust the
yacht wide open if he gets loose."
"Well, so long, Mary! Know what my first move'll be?"
"A bottle somewhere. But mind your step! Don't monkey with the stuff
beyond normal. You know what I mean."
"Sure! Only a peg or two, after all this psalm-singing!"
"I know, Flint. But this game is no joke. You know what happened in town?
Morrissy was near croaked."
Flint's face lost some of its gayety.
"Oh, I know how to handle the stuff! See you later."
                   *       *       *       *       *
Cleigh decided to see what the girl's temper was, so he entered the
passage on the full soles of his shoes. He knocked on her door.
"Miss Norman?"
"Well?"
That was a good sign; she was ready to talk.
"I have come to repeat that offer."
"Mr. Cleigh, I have nothing to say so long as the key is on the wrong side
of the door."
Cleigh heard a chuckle from Cabin Two.
"Very well," he said. "Remember, I offered you liberty conditionally. If
you suffer inconveniences after to-night you will have only yourself to
thank."
"Have you calculated that some day you will have to let me go?"
"Yes, I have calculated on that."
"And that I shall go to the nearest authorities and report this action?"
"If you will think a moment," said Cleigh, his tone monotonously level,
"you will dismiss that plan for two reasons: First, that no one will
believe you; second, that no one will want to believe you. That's as near
as I care to put it. Your imagination will grasp it."
"Instantly!" cried the girl, hotly. "I knew you to be cold and hard, but I
did not believe you were a scoundrel--having known your son!"
"I have no son."
"Oh, yes, you have!"
"I disowned him. He is absolutely nothing to me."
"I do not believe that," came back through the cabin door.
"Nevertheless, it is the truth. The queer part is, I've tried to resurrect
the father instinct, and can't. I've tried to go round the wall--over it.
I might just as well try to climb the Upper Himalayas."
In Cabin Two the son stared at the white ceiling. It seemed to him that
all his vitals had been wrenched out of him, leaving him hollow, empty. He
knew his father's voice; it rang with truth.
"I offer you ten thousand."
"The key is still on the outside."
"I'm afraid to trust you."
"We understand each other perfectly," said Jane, ironically.
The son smiled. The sense of emptiness vanished, and there came into his
blood a warmth as sweet as it was strong. Jane Norman, angel of mercy. He
heard his father speaking again:
"Since you will have it so, you will go to Hong-Kong?"
"To Patagonia if you wish! You cannot scare me by threatening me with
travel on a private yacht. I had the beads, it is true; but at this moment
I haven't the slightest idea where they are; and if I had I should not
tell you. I refuse to buy my liberty; you will have to give it to me
without conditions."
"I'm sorry I haven't anything on board in shape of women's clothes, but
I'll send for your stuff if you wish."
"That is the single consideration you have shown me. My belongings are at
the American consulate, and I should be glad to have them."
"You will find paper and ink in the escritoire. Write me an order and I
promise to attend to the matter personally."
"And search through everything at your leisure!"
Cleigh blushed, and he heard his son chuckle again. He had certainly
caught a tartar--possibly two. With a twisted smile he recalled the old
yarn of the hunter who caught the bear by the tail. Willing to let go, and
daring not!
"Still I agree," continued the girl. "I want my own familiar things--if I
must take this forced voyage. But mark me, Mr. Cleigh, you will pay some
day! I'm not the clinging kind, and I shall fight you tooth and nail from
the first hour of my freedom. I'm not without friends."
"Never in this world!" came resonantly from Cabin Two.
Cleigh longed to get away. There was a rumbling and a threatening inside
of him that needed space--Gargantuan laughter. Not the clinging kind, this
girl! And the boy, walking straight at Dodge's villainous revolver! Why,
he would need the whole crew behind him when he liberated these two! But
he knew that the laughter striving for articulation was not the kind heard
in Elysian fields!
CHAPTER IX
"If you will write the order I will execute it at once. The consulate
closes early."
"I'll write it, but how will I get it to you? The door closes below the
sill."
"When you are ready, call, and I will open the door a little."
"It would be better if you opened it full wide. This is China--I
understand that. But we are both Americans, and there's a good sound law
covering an act like this."
"But it does not reach as far as China. Besides, I have an asset back in
the States. It is my word. I have never broken it to any man or woman, and
I expect I never shall. You have, or have had, what I consider my
property. You have hedged the question; you haven't been frank."
The son listened intently.
"I bought that string of glass beads in good faith of a Chinaman--Ling
Foo. I consider them mine--that is, if they are still in my possession.
Between the hour I met you last night and the moment of Captain Dennison's
entrance to my room considerable time had elapsed."
"Sufficient for a rogue like Cunningham to make good use of," supplemented
the prisoner in Cabin Two. "There's a way of finding out the facts."
"Indeed?"
"Yes. You used to carry a planchette that once belonged to the actress
Rachel. Why not give it a whirl? Everybody's doing it."
Cleigh eyed Cabin Four, then Cabin Two, and shook his head slightly,
dubiously. He was not getting on well. To come into contact with a strong
will was always acceptable; and a strong will in a woman was a novelty.
All at once it struck him forcibly that he stood on the edge of boredom;
that the lure which had brought him fully sixteen thousand miles was
losing its bite. Was he growing old, drying up?
"Will you tell me what it is about these beads that makes you offer ten
thousand for them? Glass--anybody could see that. What makes them as
valuable as pearls?"
"They are love beads," answered Cleigh, mockingly. "They are far more
potent than powdered pearls. You have worn them about your throat, Miss
Norman, and the sequence is inevitable."
"Nonsense!" cried Jane.
Dennison added his mite to the confusion:
"I thought that scoundrel Cunningham was lying. He said the string was a
code key belonging to the British Intelligence Office."
"Rot!" Cleigh exploded.
"So I thought."
"But hurry, Miss Norman. The sooner I have that written order on the
consulate the sooner you'll have your belongings."
"Very well."
Five minutes later she announced that the order was completed, and Cleigh
opened the door slightly.
"The key will be given you the moment we weigh anchor."
"I say," called the son, "you might drop into the Palace and get my truck,
too. I'm particular about my toothbrushes." A pause. "I'd like a drink,
too--if you've got the time."
Cleigh did not answer, but he presently entered Cabin Two, filled a glass
with water, raised his son's head to a proper angle, and gave him drink.
"Thanks. This business strikes me as the funniest thing I ever heard of!
You would have done that for a dog."
Cleigh replaced the water carafe in the rack above the wash bowl and went
out, locking the door. In the salon he called for Dodge:
"I am going into town. I'll be back round five. Don't stir from this
cabin."
"Yes, sir."
"You remember that fellow who was here night before last?"
"The good-looking chap that limped?"
"Yes."
"And I'm to crease him if he pokes his noodle down the stairs?"
"Exactly! No talk, no palaver! If he starts talking he'll talk you out of
your boots. Shoot!"
"In the leg? All right."
His employer having gone, Dodge sat in a corner from which he could see
the companionway and all the passages. He lit a long black cigar, laid his
formidable revolver on a knee, and began his vigil. A queer job for an old
cow-punch, for a fact.
To guard an old carpet that didn't have "welcome" on it anywhere--he
couldn't get that, none whatever. But there was a hundred a week, the best
grub pile in the world, and the old man's Havanas as often as he pleased.
Pretty soft!
And he had learned a new trick--shooting target in a rolling sea. He had
wasted a hundred rounds before getting the hang of it. Maybe these sailors
hadn't gone pop-eyed when they saw him pumping lead into the bull's-eye
six times running? Tin cans and raw potatoes in the water, too. Something
to brag about if he ever got back home.
He broke the gun and inspected the cylinder. There wasn't as much grease
on the cartridges as he would have liked.
                   *       *       *       *       *
"Miss Norman?" called Dennison.
"What is it?"
"Are you comfortable?"
"Oh, I'm all right. I'm only furious with rage, that's all. You are still
tied?"
"Yes, ma'am."
"I really don't understand your father."
"I have never understood him. Yet he was very kind to me when I was
little. I don't suppose there is anything in heaven or on earth that he's
afraid of."
"He is afraid of me."
"Do you believe that?"
"I know it. He would give anything to be rid of me. But go on."
"With what?"
"Your past."
"Well, I'm something like him physically. We are both so strong that we
generally burst through rather than take the trouble to go round. I'm
honestly sorry for him. Not a human being to love or be loved by. He never
had a dog. I don't recollect my mother; she died when I was three; and
that death had something to do with the iron in his soul. Our old butler
used to tell me that Father cursed horribly, I mean blasphemously, when
they took the mother out of the house. There are some men like that, who
love terribly, away and beyond the average human ability. After the mother
died he plunged into the money game. He was always making it, piling it up
ruthlessly but honestly. Then that craving petered out, and he took a hand
in the collecting game. What will come next I don't know. As a boy I was
always afraid of him. He was kind to me, but in the abstract. I was like
an extra on the grocer's bill. He put me into the hands of a tutor--a
lovable old dreamer--and paid no more attention to me. He never put his
arms round me and told me fairy stories."
"Poor little boy! No fairy stories!"
"Nary a one until I began to have playmates."
"Do the ropes hurt?"
"They might if I were alone."
"What do you make of the beads?"
"Only that they have some strange value, or father wouldn't be after them.
Love beads! Doesn't sound half so plausible as Cunningham's version."
"That handsome man who limped?"
"Yes."
"A real adventurer--the sort one reads about!"
"And the queer thing about him, he keeps his word, too, for all his
business is a shady one. I don't suppose there is a painting or a jewel or
a book of the priceless sort that he doesn't know about, where it is and
if it can be got at. Some of his deals are aboveboard, but many of them
aren't. I'll wager these beads have a story of loot."
"What he steals doesn't hurt the poor."
"So long as the tigers fight among themselves and leave the goats alone,
it doesn't stir you. Is that it?"
"Possibly."
"And besides, he's a handsome beggar, if there ever was one."
"He has the face of an angel!"
"And the soul of a vandal!"--with a touch of irritability.
"Now you aren't fair. A vandal destroys things; this man only
transfers----"
"For a handsome monetary consideration----"
"Only transfers a picture from one gallery to another."
"Well, we've seen the last of him for a while, anyhow."
"I wonder."
"Will you answer me a question?"
"Perhaps."
"Do you know where those beads are?"
"A little while gone I smelt tobacco smoke," she answered, dryly.
"I see. We'll talk of something else then. Have you ever been in love?"
"Have you?"
"Violently--so I believed."
"But you got over it?"
"Absolutely! And you?"
"Oh, I haven't had the time. I've been too busy earning bread and butter.
What was she like?"
"A beautiful mirage--the lie in the desert, you might say. Has it ever
occurred to you that the mirage is the one lie Nature utters?"
"I hadn't thought. She deceived you?"
"Yes."
A short duration of silence.
"Doesn't hurt to talk about her?"
"Lord, no! Because I wasn't given fairy stories when I was little, I took
them seriously when I was twenty-three."
"Puppy love."
"It went a little deeper than that."
"But you don't hate women?"
"No. I never hated the woman who deceived me. I was terribly sorry for
her."
"For having lost so nice a husband?"--with a bit of malice.
He greeted this with laughter.
"It is written," she observed, "that we must play the fool sometime or
other."
"Have you ever played it?"
"Not yet, but you never can tell."
"Jane, you're a brick!"
"Jane!" she repeated. "Well, I don't suppose there's any harm in your
calling me that, with partitions in between."
"They used to call me Denny."
"And you want me to call you that?"
"Will you?"
"I'll think it over--Denny!"
They laughed. Both recognized the basic fact in this running patter. Each
was trying to buck up the other. Jane was honestly worried. She could not
say what it was that worried her, but there was a strong leaven in her of
old-wives' prescience. It wasn't due to this high-handed adventure of
Cleigh, senior; it was something leaning down darkly from the future that
worried her. That hand mirror!
"Better not talk any more," she advised. "You'll be getting thirsty."
"I'm already that."
"You're a brave man, captain," she said, her tone altering from gayety to
seriousness. "Don't worry about me. I've always been able to take care of
myself, though I've never been confronted with this kind of a situation
before. Frankly, I don't like it. But I suspect that your father will have
more respect for us if we laugh at him. Has he a sense of humour?"
"My word for it, he has! What could be more humorous than tying me up in
this fashion and putting me in the cabin that used to be mine? Ten
thousand for a string of glass beads! I say, Jane!"
"What?"
"When he comes back tell him you might consider twenty thousand, just to
get an idea what the thing is worth."
"I'll promise that."
"All right. Then I'll try to snooze a bit. Getting stuffy lying on my
back."
"The brute! If I could only help you!"
"You have--you are--you will!"
He turned on his side, his face toward the door. His arms and legs began
to sting with the sensation known as sleep. He was glad his father had
overheard the initial conversation. A wave of terror ran over him at the
thought of being set ashore while Jane went on. Still he could have sent a
British water terrier in hot pursuit.
Jane sat down and took inventory. She knew but little about antiques--rugs
and furniture--but she was full of inherent love of the beautiful. The
little secretary upon which she had written the order on the consulate was
an exquisite lowboy of old mahogany of dull finish. On the floor were
camel saddle-bays, Persian in pattern. On the panel over the lowboy was a
small painting, a foot broad and a foot and a half long. It was old--she
could tell that much. It was a portrait, tender and quaint. She would have
gasped had she known that it was worth a cover of solid gold. It was a
Holbein, The Younger, for which Cleigh some years gone had paid Cunningham
sixteen thousand dollars. Where and how Cunningham had acquired it was not
open history.
An hour passed. By and by she rose and tiptoed to the partition. She held
her ear against the panel, and as she heard nothing she concluded that
Denny--why not?--was asleep. Next she gazed out of the port. It was
growing dark outside, overcast. It would rain again probably. A drab sky,
a drab shore. She saw a boat filled with those luscious vegetables which
wrote typhus for any white person who ate them. A barge went by piled high
with paddy bags--rice in the husk--with Chinamen at the forward and stern
sweeps. She wondered if these poor yellow people had ever known what it
was to play?
Suddenly she fell back, shocked beyond measure. From the direction of the
salon--a pistol shot! This was followed by the tramp of hurrying feet.
Voices, now sharp, now rumbling--this grew nearer. A struggle of some
dimensions was going on in the passage. The racket reached her door, but
did not pause there. She sank into the chair, a-tremble.
Dennison struggled to a sitting posture.
"Jane?"
"Yes!"
"Are you all right?"
"Yes, what has happened?"
"A bit of mutiny, I take it; but it seems to be over."
"But the shot!"
"I heard no cry of pain, only a lot of scuffling and some high words.
Don't worry."
"I won't. Can't you break a piece of glass and saw your way out?"
"Lord love you, that's movie stuff! If I had a razor, I couldn't manage it
without hacking off my hands. You are worried!"
"I'm a woman, Denny. I'm not afraid of your father; but if there is
mutiny, with all these treasures on board--and over here----"
"All right. I'll make a real effort."
She could hear him stumbling about. She heard the crash of the water
carafe on the floor. Several minutes dragged by.
"Can't be done!" said Dennison. "Can't make the broken glass stay put.
Can't reach my ankles, either, or I could get my feet free. There's a
double latch on your door. See to it! Lord!"
"What is it?"
"Nothing. Just hunting round for some cuss words. Put the chair up against
the door knob and sit tight for a while."
The hours dragged by in stifling silence.
Meanwhile, Cleigh, having attended to errands, lunched, had gone to the
American consulate and presented the order. His name and reputation
cleared away the official red tape. He explained that all the fuss of the
night before had been without cause. Miss Norman had come aboard the
yacht, and now decided to go to Hong-Kong with the family. This suggested
the presence of other women on board. In the end, Jane's worldly goods
were consigned to Cleigh, who signed the receipt and made off for the
launch.
It was growing dark. On the way down the river Cleigh made no attempt to
search for the beads.
The salon lights snapped up as the launch drew alongside. Once below,
Cleigh dumped Jane's possessions into the nearest chair and turned to
give Dodge an order--only to find the accustomed corner vacant!
"Dodge!" he shouted. He ran to the passage. "Dodge, where the devil are
you?"
"Did you call, sir?"
Cleigh spun about. In the doorway to the dining salon stood Cunningham, on
his amazingly handsome face an expression of anxious solicitude!
CHAPTER X
Cleigh was not only a big and powerful man--he was also courageous, but
the absence of Dodge and the presence of Cunningham offered such sinister
omen that temporarily he was bereft of his natural wit and initiative.
"Where's Dodge?" he asked, stupidly.
"Dodge is resting quietly," answered Cunningham, gravely. "He'll be on his
feet in a day or two."
That seemed to wake up Cleigh a bit. He drew his automatic.
"Face to the wall, or I'll send a bullet into you!"
Cunningham shook his head.
"Did you examine the clip this morning? When you carry weapons like that
for protection never put it in your pocket without a look-see. Dodge
wouldn't have made your mistake. Shoot! Try it on the floor, or up through
the lights--or at me if you'd like that better. The clip is empty."
Mechanically Cleigh took aim and bore against the trigger. There was no
explosion. A depressing sense of unreality rolled over the Wanderer's
owner.
"So you went into town for her luggage? Did you find the beads?"
Cleigh made a negative sign. It was less an answer to Cunningham than an
acknowledgment that he could not understand why the bullet clip should be
empty.
"It was an easy risk," explained Cunningham. "You carried the gun, but I
doubt you ever looked it over. Having loaded it once upon a time, you
believed that was sufficient, eh? Know what I think? The girl has hidden
the beads in her hair. Did you search her?"
Again Cleigh shook his head, as much over the situation as over the
question.
"What, you ran all this risk and hadn't the nerve to search her? Well,
that's rich! Unless you've read her from my book. She would probably have
scratched out your eyes. There's an Amazon locked up in that graceful
body. I'd like to see her head against a bit of clear blue sky--a touch of
Henner blues and reds. What a whale of a joke! Abduct a young woman, risk
prison, and then afraid to lay hands on her! You poor old piker!"
Cunningham laughed.
"Cunningham----"
"All right, I'll be merciful. To make a long story short, it means that
for the present I am in command of this yacht. I warned you. Will you be
sensible, or shall I have to lock you up like your two-gun man from
Texas?"
"Piracy!" cried Cleigh, coming out of his maze.
"Maritime law calls it that, but it isn't really. No pannikins of rum, no
fifteen men on a dead man's chest. Parlour stuff, you might call it. The
whole affair--the parlour side of it--depends upon whether you purpose to
act philosophically under stress or kick up a hullabaloo. In the latter
event you may reasonably expect some rough stuff. Truth is, I'm only
borrowing the yacht as far as latitude ten degrees and longitude one
hundred and ten degrees, off Catwick Island. You carry a boson's whistle
at the end of your watch chain. Blow it!" was the challenge.
"You bid me blow it?"
"Only to convince you how absolutely helpless you are," said Cunningham,
amiably. "Yesterday this day's madness did prepare, as our old friend Omar
used to say. Vedder did great work on that, didn't he? Toot the whistle,
for shortly we shall weigh anchor."
Like a man in a dream, Cleigh got out his whistle. The first blast was
feeble and windy. Cunningham grinned.
"Blow it, man, blow it!"
Cleigh set the whistle between his lips and blew a blast that must have
been heard half a mile away.
"That's something like! Now we'll have results!"
Above, on deck, came the scuffle of hurrying feet, and immediately--as if
they had been prepared against this moment--three fourths of the crew came
tumbling down the companionway.
"Seize this man!" shouted Cleigh, thunderously, as he indicated
Cunningham.
The men, however, fell into line and came to attention. Most of them were
grinning.
"Do you hear me? Brown, Jessup, McCarthy--seize this man!"
No one stirred. Cleigh then lost his head. With a growl he sprang toward
Cunningham. Half the crew jumped instantly into the gap between, and they
were no longer grinning. Cunningham pushed aside the human wall and faced
the Wanderer's owner.
"Do you begin to understand?"
"No! But whatever your game is, it will prove bad business for you in the
end. And you men, too. The world has grown mighty small, and you'll find
it hard to hide--unless you kill me and have done with it!"
"Tut, tut! Wouldn't harm a hair of your head. The world is small, as you
say, but just at this moment infernally busy mopping up. What, bother
about a little dinkum dinkus like this, with Russia mad, Germany ugly,
France grumbling at England, Italy shaking her fist at Greece, and labour
making a monkey of itself? Nay! I'll shift the puzzle so you can read it.
When the yacht was released from auxiliary duties she was without a crew.
The old crew, that of peace times, was gone utterly, with the exception of
four. You had the yacht keelhauled, gave her another daub of war paint and
set about to find a crew. And I had one especially picked for you!
Ordinarily, you've a tolerably keen eye. Didn't it strike you odd to land
a crew who talked more or less grammatically, who were clean bodily, who
weren't boozers?"
Cleigh, fully alive now, coldly ran his inspecting glance over the men. He
had never before given their faces any particular attention. Besides, this
was the first time he had seen so many of them at once. During boat drill
they had been divided into four squads. Young faces, lean and hard some of
them, but reckless rather than bad. All of them at this moment appeared to
be enjoying some huge joke.
"I can only repeat," said Cleigh, "that you are all playing with
dynamite."
"Perhaps. Most of these boys fought in the war; they played the game; but
when they returned nobody had any use for them. I caught them on the
rebound, when they were a bit desperate. We formed a company--but of that
more anon. Will you be my guest, or will you be my prisoner?"
The velvet fell away from Cunningham's voice.
"Have I any choice? I'll accept the condition because I must. But I've
warned you. I suppose I'd better ask at once what the ransom is."
"Ransom? Not a copper cent! You can make Singapore in two days from the
Catwick."
"And for helping me into Singapore I'm to agree not to hand such men as
you leave me over to the British authorities?"
"All wrong! The men who will help you into Singapore or take you to Manila
will be as innocent as newborn babes. Wouldn't believe it, would you, but
I'm one of those efficiency sharks. Nothing left to chance; all cut and
dried; pluperfect. Cleigh, I never break my word. I honestly intended
turning over those beads to you, but Morrissy muddled the play."
"Next door to murder."
"Near enough, but he'll pull out."
"Are you going to take Miss Norman along?"
"What, set her ashore to sic the British Navy on us? I'm sorry. I don't
want her on board; but that was your play, not mine. You tried to
double-cross me. But you need have no alarm. I will kill the man who
touches her. You understand that, boys?"
The crew signified that the order was understood, though one of them--the
returned Flint--smiled cynically. If Cunningham noted the smile he made no
verbal comment upon it.
"Weigh anchor, then! Look alive! The sooner we nose down to the delta the
sooner we'll have the proper sea room."
The crew scurried off, and almost at once came familiar sounds--the rattle
of the anchor chain on the windlass, the creaking of pulley blocks as the
launch came aboard, the thud of feet hither and yon as portables were
stowed or lashed to the deck-house rail. For several minutes Cleigh and
Cunningham remained speechless and motionless.
"You get all the angles?" asked Cunningham, finally.
"Some of them," admitted Cleigh.
"At any rate, enough to make you accept a bad situation with good grace?"
"You're a foolhardy man, Cunningham. Do you expect me to lie down when
this play is over? I solemnly swear to you that I'll spend the rest of my
days hunting you down."
"And I solemnly swear that you shan't catch me. I'm through with the old
game of playing the genie in the bottle for predatory millionaires.
Henceforth I'm on my own. I'm romantic--yes, sir--I'm romantic from heel
to cowlick; and now I'm going to give rein to this stifled longing."
"You will come to a halter round your neck. I have always paid your price
on the nail, Cunningham."
"You had to. Hang it, passions are the very devil, aren't they? Sooner or
later one jumps upon your back and rides you like the Old Man of the
Sea."
Cleigh heard the rumble of steam.
"Objects of art!" went on Cunningham. "It eats into your vitals to hear
that some rival has picked up a Correggio or an ancient Kirman or a bit of
Persian plaque. You talk of halters. Lord lumme, how obliquely you look at
facts! Take that royal Persian there--the second-best animal rug on
earth--is there no murder behind the woof and warp of it? What? Talk
sense, Cleigh, talk sense! You cable me: Get such and such. I get it. What
the devil do you care how it was got, so long as it eventually becomes
yours? It's a case of the devil biting his own tail--pot calling kettle
black."
"How much do you want?"
"No, Cleigh, it's the romantic idea."
"I will give you fifty thousand for the rug."
"I'm sorry. No use now of telling you the plot; you wouldn't believe me,
as the song goes. Dinner at seven. Will you dine in the salon with me, or
will you dine in the solemn grandeur of your own cabin, in company with Da
Vinci, Teniers, and that Carlo Dolci the Italian Government has been
hunting high and low for?"
"I will risk the salon."
"To keep an eye on me as long as possible. That's fair enough. You heard
what I said to those boys. Well, every mother's son of 'em will toe the
mark. There will be no change at all in the routine. Simply we lay a new
course that will carry us outside and round Formosa, down to the South Sea
and across to the Catwick. I'll give you one clear idea. A million and
immunity would not stir me, Cleigh."
"What's the game--if it's beyond ransom?"
Cunningham laughed boyishly.
"It's big, and you'll laugh, too, when I tell you."
"On which side of the mouth?"
"That's up to you."
"Is it the rug?"
"Oh, that, of course! I warned you that I'd come for the rug. It took two
years out of my young life to get that for you, and it has always haunted
me. I just told you about passions, didn't I? Once on your back, they ride
you like the devil--down-hill."
"A crook."
"There you go again--pot calling kettle black! If you want to moralize,
where's the line between the thief and the receiver? Fie on you! Dare you
hang that Da Vinci, that Dolci, that Holbein in your gallery home? No!
Stolen goods. What a passion! You sail across the seas alone, alone
because you can't satisfy your passion and have knowing companions on
board. When the yacht goes out of commission you store the loot, and
tremble when you hear a fire alarm. All right. Dinner at seven. I'll go
and liberate your son and the lady."
"Cunningham, I will kill you out of hand the very first chance."
"Old dear, I'll add a fact for your comfort. There will be guns on board,
but half an hour gone all the ammunition was dumped into the Whangpoo. So
you won't have anything but your boson's whistle. You're a bigger man than
I am physically, and I've a slue-foot, a withered leg; but I've all the
barroom tricks you ever heard of. So don't make any mistakes in that
direction. You are free to come and go as you please; but the moment you
start any rough house, into your cabin you go, and you'll stay there
until we raise the Catwick. You haven't a leg to stand on."
Cunningham lurched out of the salon and into the passage. He opened the
door to Cabin Two and turned on the light. Dennison blinked stupidly.
Cunningham liberated him and stood back.
"Dinner at seven."
"What the devil are you doing on board?" asked Dennison, thickly.
"Well, here's gratitude for you! But in order that there will be no
misunderstanding, I've turned to piracy for a change. Great sport! I've
chartered the yacht for a short cruise." His banter turned into cold,
precise tones. Cunningham went on: "No nonsense, captain! I put this crew
on board away back in New York. Those beads, though having a merit of
their own, were the lure to bring your father to these parts. Your
presence and Miss Norman's are accidents for which I am genuinely sorry.
But frankly, I dare not turn you loose. That's the milk in the cocoanut. I
grant you the same privileges as I grant your father, which he has
philosophically agreed to accept. Your word of honour to take it sensibly,
and the freedom of the yacht is yours. Otherwise, I'll lock you up in a
place not half so comfortable as this."
"Piracy!"
"Yes, sir. These are strangely troubled days. We've slumped morally.
Humanity has been on the big kill, with the result that the tablets of
Moses have been busted up something fierce. And here we are again, all
kotowing to the Golden Calf! All I need is your word--the word of a
Cleigh."
"I give it." Dennison gave his word so that he might be free to protect
the girl in the adjoining cabin. "But conditionally."
"Well?"
"That the young lady shall at all times be treated with the utmost
respect. You will have to kill me otherwise."
"These Cleighs! All right. That happens to be my own order to the crew.
Any man who breaks it will pay heavily."
"What's the game?" asked Dennison, rubbing his wrists tenderly while he
balanced unsteadily upon his aching legs.
"Later! I'll let Miss Norman out. That's so--her things are in the salon.
I'll get them, but I'll unlock her door first."
"What in heaven's name has happened?" asked Jane as she and Dennison stood
alone in the passage.
"The Lord knows!" gloomily. "But that scoundrel Cunningham has planted a
crew of his own on board, and we are all prisoners."
"Cunningham?"
"The chap with the limp."
"With the handsome face? But this is piracy!"
"About the size of it."
"Oh, I knew something was going to happen! But a pirate! Surely it must be
a joke?"
So it was--probably the most colossal joke that ever flowered in the mind
of a man. The devil must have shouted and the gods must have held their
sides, for it took either a devil or a god to understand the joke.
CHAPTER XI
That first dinner would always remain vivid and clear-cut in Jane Norman's
mind. It was fantastic. To begin with, there was that picturesque stone
image at the head of the table--Cleigh--who appeared utterly oblivious of
his surroundings, who ate with apparent relish, and who ignored both men,
his son and his captor. Once or twice Jane caught his glance--a blue eye,
sharp-pupiled, agate-hard. But what was it she saw--a twinkle or a
sparkle? The breadth of his shoulders! He must be very powerful, like the
son. Why, the two of them could have pulverized this pretty fellow
opposite!
Father and son! For seven years they had not met. Their indifference
seemed so inhuman! Still, she fancied that the son dared not make any
approach, however much he may have longed to. A woman! They had quarrelled
over a woman! Something reached down from the invisible and pinched her
heart.
All this while Cunningham had been talking--banter. The blade would flash
toward the father or whirl upon the son, or it would come toward her by
the handle. She could not get away from the initial idea--that his eyes
were like fire opals.
"Miss Norman, you have very beautiful hair."
"You think so?"
"It looks like Judith's. You remember, Cleigh, the one that hangs in the
Pitti Galleria in Florence--Allori's?"
Cleigh reached for a piece of bread, which he broke and buttered.
Cunningham turned to Jane again.
"Will you do me the favour of taking out the hairpins and loosing it?"
"No!" said Dennison.
"Why not?" said Jane, smiling bravely enough, though there ran over her
spine a chill.
It wasn't Cunningham's request--it was Dennison's refusal. That syllable,
though spoken moderately, was the essence of battle, murder, and sudden
death. If they should clash it would mean that Denny--how easy it was to
call him that!--Denny would be locked up and she would be all alone. For
the father seemed as aloof and remote as the pole.
"You shall not do it!" declared Dennison. "Cunningham, if you force her I
will break every bone in your body here and now!"
Cleigh selected an olive and began munching it.
"Nonsense!" cried Jane. "It's all awry anyhow." And she began to extract
the hairpins. Presently she shook her head, and the ruddy mass of hair
fell and rippled across and down her shoulders.
"Well?" she said, looking whimsically into Cunningham's eyes. "It wasn't
there, was it?"
This tickled Cunningham.
"You're a woman in a million! You read my thought perfectly. I like ready
wit in a woman. I had to find out. You see, I had promised those beads to
Cleigh, and when I humanly can I keep my promises. Sit down, captain!" For
Dennison had risen to his feet. "Sit down! Don't start anything you can't
finish." To Jane there was in the tone a quality which made her compare it
with the elder Cleigh's eyes--agate-hard. "You are younger and stronger,
and no doubt you could break me. But the moment my hand is withdrawn from
this business--the moment I am off the board--I could not vouch for the
crew. They are more or less decent chaps, or they were before this damned
war stood humanity on its head. We wear the same clothes, use the same
phrases; but we've been thrust back a thousand years. And Miss Norman is a
woman. You understand?"
Dennison sat down.
"You'd better kill me somewhere along this voyage."
"I may have to. Who knows? There's no real demarcation between comedy and
tragedy; it's the angle of vision. It's rough medicine, this; but your
father has agreed to take it sensibly, because he knows me tolerably well.
Still, it will not do him any good to plan bribery. Buy the crew, Cleigh,
if you believe you can. You'll waste your time. I do not pretend to hold
them by loyalty. I hold them by fear. Act sensibly, all of you, and this
will be a happy family. For after all, it's a joke, a whale of a joke. And
some day you'll smile over it--even you, Cleigh."
Cleigh pressed the steward's button.
"The jam and the cheese, Togo," he said to the Jap.
"Yess, sair!"
A hysterical laugh welled into Jane's throat, but she did not permit it to
escape her lips. She began to build up her hair clumsily, because her
hands trembled.
Adventure! She thrilled! She had read somewhere that after seven thousand
years of tortuous windings human beings had formed about themselves a thin
shell which they called civilization. And always someone was breaking
through and retracing those seven thousand years. Here was an example in
Cunningham. Only a single step was necessary. It took seven thousand years
to build your shell, and only a minute to destroy it. There was something
fascinating in the thought. A reckless spirit pervaded Jane, a longing to
burst through this shell of hers and ride the thunderbolt. Monotony--that
had been her portion, and only her dreams had kept her from withering.
From the house to the hospital and back home again, days, weeks, years.
She had begun to hate white; her soul thirsted for colour, movement,
thrill. The call that had been walled in, suppressed, broke through.
Piracy on high seas, and Jane Norman in the cast!
She was not in the least afraid of the whimsical rogue opposite. He was
more like an uninvited dinner guest. Perhaps this lack of fear had its
origin in the oily smoothness by which the yacht had changed hands. Beyond
the subjugation of Dodge, there had not been a ripple of commotion. It was
too early to touch the undercurrents. All this lulled and deceived her.
Piracy? Where were the cutlasses, the fierce moustaches, the red
bandannas, the rattle of dice, and the drunken songs?--the piracy of
tradition? If she had any fear at all it was for the man at her
left--Denny--who might run amuck on her account and spoil everything. All
her life she would hear the father's voice--"The jam and the cheese,
Togo." What men, all three of them!
Cunningham laid his napkin on the table and stood up.
"Absolute personal liberty, if you will accept the situation sensibly."
Dennison glowered at him, but Jane reached out and touched the soldier's
sleeve.
"Please!"
"For your sake, then. But it's tough medicine for me to swallow."
"To be sure it is," agreed the rogue. "Look upon me as a supercargo for
the next ten days. You'll see me only at lunch and dinner. I've a lot of
work to do in the chart house. By the way, the wireless man is mine,
Cleigh, so don't waste any time on him. Hope you're a good sailor, Miss
Norman, for we are heading into rough weather, and we haven't much beam."
"I love the sea!"
"Hang it, you and I shan't have any trouble! Good-night."
Cunningham limped to the door, where he turned and eyed the elder Cleigh,
who was stirring his coffee thoughtfully. Suddenly the rogue burst into a
gale of laughter, and they could hear recurrent bursts as he wended his
way to the companion.
When this sound died away Cleigh turned his glance levelly upon Jane. The
stone-like mask dissolved into something that was pathetically human.
"Miss Norman," he said, "I don't know what we are heading into, but if we
ever get clear I will make any reparation you may demand."
"Any kind of a reparation?"--an eager note in her voice.
Dennison stared at her, puzzled, but almost instantly he was conscious of
the warmth of shame in his cheeks. This girl wasn't that sort--to ask for
money as a balm for the indignity offered her. What was she after?
"Any kind of reparation," repeated Cleigh.
"I'll remember that--if we get through. And somehow I believe we shall."
"You trust that scoundrel?" asked Cleigh, astonishedly.
"Inexplicably--yes."
"Because he happens to be handsome?"--with frank irony.
"No." But she looked at the son as she spoke. "He said he never broke his
word. No man can be a very great villain who can say that. Did he ever
break his word to you?"
"Except in this instance."
"The beads?"
"I am quite confident he knows where they are."
"Are they so precious? What makes them precious?"
"I have told you--they are love beads."
"That's rank nonsense! I'm no child!"
"Isn't love rank nonsense?" Cleigh countered. He was something of a
banterer himself.
"Have you never loved anybody?" she shot back at him.
A shadow passed over the man's face, clearing the ironic expression.
"Perhaps I loved not wisely but too well."
"Oh, I'm sorry! I didn't mean----"
"You are young; all about you is sunshine; I myself have gone down among
the shadows. Cunningham may keep his word; but there is always the
possibility of his not being able to keep it. He has become an outlaw; he
is in maritime law a pirate. The crew are aware of it; prison stares them
in the face, and that may make them reckless. If you weren't on board I
shouldn't care. But you are young, vital, attractive, of the type that
appeals to strong men. In the dry stores there are many cases of liquor
and wine. The men may break into the stuff before we reach the Catwick.
That will take ten or twelve days if Cunningham lays a course outside
Formosa. What's his game? I don't know. Probably he will maroon us on the
Catwick, an island I know nothing about, except that it is nearer to
Saigon than to Singapore. So then in the daytime stay where I am or where
Captain Dennison is. Good-night."
Dennison balanced his spoon on the rim of the coffee cup--not a
particularly easy job.
"Whatever shall I do with the jade?" Jane asked, irrelevantly.
"What?"
"The jade necklace. That poor Chinaman!"
"Ling Foo? I wish I had broken his infernal yellow neck! But for him
neither of us would be here. But he is right," Dennison added, with a jerk
of his head toward the door. "You must always be with one or the other of
us--preferably me." He smiled.
"Will you promise me one thing?"
"Denny."
"Will you promise me one thing, Denny?"
"And that is not to attempt to mix it with the scoundrel?"
"Yes."
"I promise--so long as he keeps his. But if he touches you--well, God help
him!"
"And me! Oh, I don't mean him. It is you that I am afraid of. You're so
terribly strong--and--and so heady. I can never forget how you went into
that mob of quarrelling troopers. But you were an officer there; your
uniform doesn't count here. If only you and your father stood together!"
"We do so far as you are concerned. Never doubt that. Otherwise, though,
it's hopeless. What are you going to demand of him--supposing we come
through safely?"
"That's my secret. Let's go on deck."
"It's raining hard, and there'll be a good deal of pitching shortly.
Better turn in. You've been through enough to send the average woman into
hysterics."
"It won't be possible to sleep."
"I grant that, but I'd rather you would go at once to your cabin."
"I wonder if you will understand. I'm not really afraid. I know I ought to
be, but I'm not. All my life has been a series of humdrum--and here is
adventure, stupendous adventure!" She rose abruptly, holding out her arms
dramatically toward space. "All my life I have lived in a shell, and
chance has cracked it. If only you knew how wonderfully free I feel at
this moment! I want to go on deck, to feel the wind and the rain in my
face!"
"Go to bed," he said, prosaically.
Though never had she appeared so poignantly desirable. He wanted to seize
her in his arms, smother her with kisses, bury his face in her hair. And
swiftly upon this desire came the thought that if she appealed to him so
strongly, might she not appeal quite as strongly to the rogue? He laid the
spoon on the rim of the cup again and teetered it.
"Go to bed," he repeated.
"An order?"
"An order. I'll go along with you to the cabin. Come!" He got up.
"Can you tell me you're not excited?"
"I am honestly terrified. I'd give ten years of my life if you were safely
out of this. For seven long years I have been knocking about this world,
and among other things I have learned that plans like Cunningham's never
get through per order. I don't know what the game is, but it's bound to
fail. So I'm going to ask you, in God's name, not to let any romantical
ideas get into your head. This is bad business for all of us."
There was something in his voice, aside from the genuine seriousness, that
subdued her.
"I'll go to bed. Shall we have breakfast together?"
"Better that way."
To reach the port passage they had to come out into the main salon. Cleigh
was in his corner reading.
"Good-night," she called. All her bitterness toward him was gone. "And
don't worry about me."
"Good-night," replied Cleigh over the top of the book. "Be sure of your
door. If you hear any untoward sounds in the night call to the captain
whose cabin adjoins yours."
When she and Dennison arrived at the door of her cabin she turned
impulsively and gave him both her hands. He held them lightly, because his
emotions were at full tide, and he did not care to have her sense it in
any pressure. Her confidence in him now was absolute, and he must guard
himself constantly. Poor fool! Why hadn't he told her that last night on
the British transport? What had held him back?
The uncertain future--he had let that rise up between. And now he could
not tell her. If she did not care, if her regard did not go beyond
comradeship, the knowledge would only distress her.
The yacht was beginning to roll now, for they were making the East China
Sea. The yacht rolled suddenly to starboard, and Jane fell against him. He
caught her, instantly turned her right about and gently but firmly forced
her into the cabin.
"Good-night. Remember! Rap on the partition if you hear anything you don't
like."
"I promise."
After she had locked and latched the door she set about the business of
emptying her kit bags. She hung the evening gown she had worn all day in
the locker, laid her toilet articles on the dresser, and set the brass
hand warmer on the lowboy. Then she let down her hair and began to brush
it. She swung a thick strand of it over her shoulder and ran her hand down
under it. The woman in "Phra the Phoenician," Allori's Judith--and she had
always hated the colour of it! She once more applied the brush, balancing
herself nicely to meet the ever-increasing roll.
Nevertheless, she did feel free, freer than she had felt in all her life
before. A stupendous adventure! After the braids were completed she flung
them down her back, turned off the light, and peered out of the
rain-blurred port. She could see nothing except an occasional flash of
angry foam as it raced past. She slipped into bed, but her eyes remained
open for a long time.
Dennison wondered if there would be a slicker in his old locker. He opened
the door. He found an oilskin and a yellow sou'wester on the hooks. He
took them down and put them on and stole out carefully, a hand extended
each side to minimize the roll. He navigated the passage and came out into
the salon.
Cleigh was still immersed in his book. He looked up quickly, but
recognizing the intruder, dropped his gaze instantly. Dennison crossed the
salon to the companionway and staggered up the steps. Had his father ever
really been afraid of anything? He could not remember ever having seen the
old boy in the grip of fear. What a devil of a world it was!
Dennison was an able seaman. He had been brought up on the sea--seven
years on the first Wanderer and five on the second. He had, in company
with his father, ridden the seven seas. But he had no trade; he hadn't the
money instinct; he would have to stumble upon fortune; he knew no way of
making it. And this knowledge stirred his rancor anew--the father hadn't
played fair with the son.
He gripped the deck-house rail to steady himself, for the wind and rain
caught him head-on.
Then he worked his way slowly along to the bridge. Twice a comber broke on
the quarter and dropped a ton of water, which sloshed about the deck,
drenching his feet. He climbed the ladder, rather amused at the recurrence
of an old thought--that climbing ship ladders in dirty weather was a good
