ever. "You'd see your friend Gathbroke, though. That 
would be jolly. Do take the money, Gora, and don't be 
a goose." 
' ' That subject 's closed. Don 't let me keep you. James 
told me that Maria is having a luncheon, and I suppose 
that means you are going out. I'll rest here for awhile 
if you don 't mind. ' ' 
CHAPTER XVI 
MORTIMER went off that night and got drunk. It 
was the first time in his life and possibly his last, 
but he made a thorough job of it. He took the precau- 
tion to telephone to the house that he was going out of 
town, but when he returned two days later he experienced a distinct pleasure in telling Alexina what he had 
 
done. Alexina, who still hoped that she would always 
be able to regard Life as God 's good joke, rather sympathized with him, and assured him that he would have 
nothing to apprehend from Gora in the future ; she had 
no more fervent wish than to keep out of his way. 
He found himself on the whole very comfortable. 
Maria was always most kind, Alexina polite and amiable, 
and Tom ' ' decent. ' ' Joan liked him as well as she liked 
anybody, and when the family spent a quiet evening at 
home he undertook to improve her dancing and she was 
correspondingly grateful; it had been her weak point. 
The fiction was carefully preserved that the Dwights 
were conferring a favor on the Abbotts and that all expenses were equally shared. In time he came to believe 
it, and his hours of deep depression, when he had pondered over his inexplicable roguery, grew rarer and 
finally ceased. After all he had had nothing to lose as 
far as Alexina was concerned; one's sister hardly mattered (Did women matter much, anyhow?) ; and his sense 
of security, which he hugged at this time as the most 
precious thing he had ever possessed, at last made him a 
little arrogant. He had done what he should not, of 
course, but it was over and done with, ancient history; 
and where other men had gone to State's Prison for less, 
he had been protected like an infant from a rude wind. 
He knew that he would never do it again and that his 
position in life was as assured as it ever had been. 
He spent a good many evenings at the elub, and Maria 
found him a willing cavalier when Tom "drew the line" 
at dancing parties. Alexina, who had sold her car to 
Janet and her new gowns to Polly, had announced that 
she was bored with dancing and should devote the winter 
to study. She spent the evenings either in her library 
upstairs or with her friends. Mortimer saw her only at 
the table. 
 
He wondered if Tom Abbott would rent the bouse 
every winter. A pleasant feeling of irresponsibility was 
beginning to possess bis jaded spirit. He made a little 
money occasionally, but be was no longer expected to 
band anything over when the first of the month came 
round — a date that had haunted him like a nightmare for 
four long years. He could spend it on himself, and be 
felt an increasing pleasure in doing so. 
CHAPTER XVII 
RAY naked trees; orchards of prune and peach and 
cherry, mile after mile. Orange trees in small way- 
side gardens heavy-laden with golden fruit. Tall accacias a mass of canary colored bloom. Opulent palms 
shivering against a gray sky. Close mountains green 
and dense with forest trees, their crests filagreed with 
redwoods. Far mountains lifting their bleak ridges 
above bare brown bills thirsting for rain. 
The heavy rains were due. It was late in January. 
Alexina and several of her friends were motoring back 
to the city through the Santa Clara Valley, after 
luncheon with the Price Ruylers at their home on the 
mountain above Los Gatos. As it was Sunday there was 
an even number of men in the party, and Alexina, maneuvered into Jimmie Thome's roadster, was enduring 
with none of the sweet womanly graciousness which was 
hers to summon at will, one of those passionate declarations of love which no beautiful young woman out of love 
with her husband may hope to escape; and not always 
when in. Alexina had grown skillful in eluding the 
reckless verbalisms of love, but when one is packed into 
a small motor car with a determined man, desperately in 
love, one might as weU try to wave aside the whirlwind. 
Jimmie Thorne was a fine specimen of the college-bred 
young American of good family and keen professional 
mind. He has no place in this biography save in so far 
 
as he jarred the inner forces of Alexina's being, and he 
fell at Chateau-Thierry. 
n 
Alexina lifted her delicate profile and gave it as sulky 
an expression as she could assume. She really liked him, 
but was annoyed at being trapped. 
"I don't in the least wish to marry you." 
"Everybody knows you don't care a straw for Dwight. 
You could easily get a divorce " 
"On what grounds? Besides, I don't want to. I'd 
have to be really off my 'head about a man even to thiak 
of such a thing. Our family has kept out of the divorce 
courts. And I don't care two twigs for you, Jimmie 
dear." 
"I don't believe it. That is, I know I could make 
you care. You don't know what love is " 
' ' I suppose you are about to say that you think I think 
I am cold, and that if I labor under this delusion it is 
only because the right man hasn't come along. Well, 
Jimmie dear, you would only be the sixteenth. I suppose men will keep on saying it until I am forty — forty- 
five — what is the limit these days? I know exactly what 
I am and you don't." 
"I'm not going to be put off by words. Remember 
I'm a lawyer of sorts. God ! I wish I'd been here when 
you married that codfish, instead of studying law at 
Columbia. Do you mean to tell me I couldn't have won 
you?" 
' ' No. Almost any man can win a little goose of eighteen if circumstances favor him. Twenty-five is another 
matter. Oh, but V£istly another! Even if I'd never 
married before I 'm not at all sure I should have fallen in 
love with you." 
"Yes, you would. You're frozen over, that's all." 
Alexina sighed, and not with exasperation. He was 
very charming, magnetic, companionable. He was hand- 
some and clever and manly. She could feel the warmth 
of his young virile body through their fur coats, and her 
own trembled a little. ... It suddenly came to her that 
 
she no longer owed Mortimer anything. Their "partnership" had been dissolved by his own act. If she 
could have loved Jimmie Thorne with something beyond 
the agreeable response of the mating-season (any season 
is the mating season in California) . . . that was the 
trouble. He was not individual enough to hold her. 
Life had been too kind to him. Save for this unsatisfied passion he was perfectly content with life. Such 
men do not "live." They may have charm, but not fascination. . . . Perhaps it was as well after all that she 
had married Mortimer. Another man might not have 
been so easily disposed of. 
' ' Jimmie dear, if it were a question of a few months, 
and I made a cult of men as some women do, it would be 
all right. But marry another man that I am not sure — 
that I know I don't want to spend my life with. Oh, 
no." 
He looked somewhat scandalized. Like many Ameri- 
can men he was even more conventional than most 
women are; he was, moreover, a man's man, spending 
most of his leisure in their society, either at the club or 
in out-of-door sports, and he divided women rigidly into 
two classes. Alexina was his first love and his last ; and 
as he went over the top and crumpled up he thought of 
her. 
' ' I wouldn 't have a rotten affair with you. You 're not 
made for that sort of thing " 
"Well, you're not going to have one, so don't bother 
to buckle on your armor." She relented as she looked 
into his miserable eyes, and took his hand impulsively. 
"I'm sorry . . . sorry. ... I wish . . . you are worth 
it . . . but it's not on the map." 
CHAPTER XVIII 
I 
GORA'S novel was published in February. Aileen 
 Lawton, Sibyl Bascom, Alice Thorndyke, Polly 
Roberts, and Janet Maynard organized a campaign to 
 
make it the fashion. They went about with copies under 
their arms, on the street, in the shops, at luncheons, even 
at the matinee, and "could talk of nothing else." Sibyl 
and Janet bought a dozen copies each and sent them to 
friends and acquaintances with the advice to read it at 
once unless they wished to be hopelessly out of date: 
it was "all the rage in New York." 
As a matter of fact, with the exception of Aileen and 
possibly Janet, the book almost terrified them with its 
pounding vigor and grim relentless logic, even its romantic realism, which made its tragedy more poignant 
and sinister by contrast; and, again with the exception 
of Aileen, they were little interested in Gora. But they 
were loyally devoted to Alexina and obeyed, as a matter 
of course, her request to help her make the book a success. They worked with the sterner determination as 
Alexina in her own efforts was obliged to be extremely 
subtle. 
Besides, it was rather thrilling not only to know a real 
author but almost to have her in the family as it were. 
Their industrious sowing bore an abundant harvest and 
Gora's novel became the fashion. Whether people hated 
it or not, and most of them did, they discussed it continually, and when a book meets with that happy fate 
personal opinions matter little. 
Maria thought the book was "awful" and forbade 
Joan to read it. Joan thought (to Alexina) that it was 
simply the most terribly fascinating book she had ever 
read and made her despise society more than ever and 
more determined to light out and see life for herself 
first chance she got. Tom Abbott thought it a remarka- 
ble book for a woman to have written ; a man might have 
written it. Judge Lawton read it twice. Mortimer declined to read it. He had not forgiven Gora ; moreover, 
although his social position was now planetary, it annoyed him excessively to hear his sister alluded to continually as an author. Even the men at the club were 
reading the damned book. 
 
Bohemia stood off for some time. It was only recently 
they had learned that Gora Dwight was a Californian. 
They had read her stories, but as she had been the subject of no publicity whatever they had inferred that, 
like many another, she had dwelt in their midst only long 
enough to acquire material. When they learned the 
truth, and particularly after her inescapable novel appeared, they were indignant that she had not sought her 
muse at Carmel-by-the-Sea, or some other center of mutual admiration ; affiliated herself ; announced herself, at 
the very least. There was a very sincere feeling among 
them that any attempt on the part of a rank outsider to 
achieve literary distinction was impertinent as well as 
unjustifiable. ... It was impossible that he or she 
could be the real thing. 
When they discovered that she was affiliated more or 
less with fashionable society, nurse though she might be, 
and that those frivolous and negligible beings were not 
only buying her book by the ton but giving her luncheons 
and dinners and teas, their disgust knew no bounds and 
they tacitly agreed that she should be tabu in the only 
circles where recognition counted. 
But Gora, who barely knew of their existence, little 
recked that she had been weighed, judged, and condemned. Her old dream had come true. Society, the 
society which should have been her birthright and was 
not, had thrown open its doors to her at last and everybody was outdoing everybody else in flattering and entertaining her. 
Not that she was deceived for a moment as to the 
nature of her success with the majority of the people 
whose names twinkled so brightly in the social heavens. 
She more than suspected the "plot" but cared little for 
the original impulse of the book's phenomenal success in 
San Francisco and its distinguished faubourgs. She was 
square with her pride, her youthful bitterness had its 
 
tardy solace, her family name was rescued fom obscurity. She knew that this belated triumph rang hollow, 
and that she really cared very little about it; but the 
strength and tenacity of her nature alone would have 
forced her to quaff every drop of the cup so long withheld. Even if she had been desperately bored she would 
have accepted these invitations to houses so long indifferent to her existence, and as a matter of fact she welcomed 
the sudden lapse into frivolity after her years of hard 
and almost unremitting work. She had played little in 
her life ; and a year later when she was working eighteen 
hours a day without rest, in conditions that seemed to 
have leapt into life from the blackest pages of history, she 
looked back upon her one brief interval of irresponsibility, gratified vanity, and bodily indolence, as at a 
bright star low on the horizon of a dark and terrible 
night. 
There was one small group of women, Gora soon discovered, that stood for something besides amusement, 
sharply as some of them were identified with all that was 
brilliant in the social life of the city. They read all 
that was best in serious literature and fiction as soon 
after it came out as their treadmill would permit, and 
they gave somewhat more time to it than to poker. It 
was this small group, led by Mrs. Hunter, that in common with several wealthy and clever Jewish women, with 
intellectual members of old families that had long since 
dropped out of a society that gave them too little to be 
worth the drain on their limited means, and with one or 
two presidents of women's clubs, made up the small attendance at the lectures on literary and political subjects, delivered either by some local light, or European 
specialist in the art of charming the higher intelligence 
of American women without subjecting it to undue 
fatigue. 
This small but distinguished band discussed Gora separately and collectively and placed the seal of approval 
upon her. "With them her arrival was genuine and permanent. 
It was hardly a step from their favor to the many 
women's clubs of the city, and she was invited to be the 
luncheon or afternoon guest at one after another until 
all had entertained the rising star and she had learned 
to make the little speeches expected of her without turning to ice. 
VI 
The local inteUigenzia, those that assured one another 
how great were each and all, and whose poems or stories 
found, an occasional hospitality in the eastern magazines, 
who toiled over "precious" paragraphs of criticism or 
whose single achievement had been a play for the mid- 
summer jinks of the Bohemian Club ; these and their 
associates, the artists and sculptors, still held aloof, more 
and more annoyed that Gora Dwight should have had the 
bad taste to be discovered by the Philistines, and should 
be flying across the high heavens in spite of their table. 
Gora had gradually become aware of their existence, 
and their attitude, which both amused and piqued her. 
She knew now that if she had been one of them they 
would have beaten the big drum and proclaimed to the 
world (of California) that she was "great," "a genius," 
the legitimate successor of Ambrose Bierce, whom she remotely resembled, and Bret Harte, whom she did not 
resemble at all. This they would have done if only to 
prove that California no longer "knocked" as in the 
mordant nineties, nor waited for the anile East to set 
the seal of its dry approval before discovering that a new 
volcano was sending forth its fiery swords in their midst. 
But it was extremely doubtful if society and upper 
club circles would have taken any notice of her. Both 
had acquired the habit, however unjustly, of regarding 
their local inteUigenzia (with the exception of the few 
who kept themselves wholly apart from all groups) as 
worshipers of small gods, and preferred to take their 
cues from London or New York. They plumed them- 
selves upon having discovered Gora Dwight and some- 
times wondered how it had happened. 
But Bohemia is hardly a trades union; it is indeed 
anarchistic and knows no boss. Gora might not be invited to Carmel this many a day, nor yet to Berkeley, 
nor to sundry other parnassi, but there was one club in 
San Francisco whose curiosity got the better of it, and 
she was invited to be the guest of the evening at the 
home of the Seven Arts Club on the twentieth of April 
in the fateful year of nineteen-fourteen. 
The Seven Arts Club had been organized by a group of 
painters, architects, authors, sculptors, musicians, actors 
and poets, most of whom had long since found various 
degrees of fame and moved to New York, Europe, or the 
romantic wilderness. 
It still had seventy times seven votaries of the seven 
arts on its list and few had found fame as yet outside 
their hospitable state — where log-rolling is as amiable 
as the climate — but all save the elders were expecting it 
and many made a fair living. They met once a week, 
and a part of the evening pleasure of the literary wing 
was to "place" authors. They were willing to swaUow 
the British authors -niiole (they did in fact "discover" 
one or two of them, as the musical critics had discovered 
such a rara avis as Tetrazzini, or the dramatic critics 
many a now famous player) ; but they were excessively 
critical of all who owed their origin to the United States 
of America, and particularly of those who had loved and 
lost the sovereign state of California. 
Naturally all were more or less radical (except the 
cynical and now somewhat anaemic elders who gave up 
hope for a world that had ceased to hold out hope 
to them). The artists were disturbed by futurism and 
cubism, although as neither paid they were forced to 
devote the greater part of their inspiration to the marketable California scenery. 
But the writers : potential or locally arrived novelists, 
playwrights, poets, essayists, were the real intelligenzia ! 
Theywent about with the radical weeklies of the East 
(or Berkeley) under their arms and discoursed under 
their breath (when foregathered in small and ardent 
groups) upon The Revolution, the day of Judgment for 
 
all but honest Labor, and hissed their hatred of Capital. 
And if they had much in common with those "intellectuals" to be found in every land who caress the chin of 
radicalism with one hand and plunge the other into the 
pocket of capital as far as permitted, who shall blame 
them? One must live and one must have something to 
excite one's intellect when sex, the stand-by, takes its 
well-earned rest. 
Several of these ardent ladies and gentlemen, with the 
sanction of the Club's President, a business man whose 
contributions were the financial mainstay of the Seven 
Arts, and who sincerely envied the gifted members, denying them nothing, invited James Kirkpatrick to be the 
guest of an evening and deliver an address on Socialism 
and the Proletariat. Pie replied that he would come and 
spit on them if they liked but that he had as much use 
for parlor socialists as he had for damned fools and 
posers of any sort. Life was too short. As for Labor 
it knew how to take care of itself and had about as crying a need of their ' ' support " as a healthy human body 
had of lice and other parasites. 
They were not discouraged however, merely pronouncing him a "creature," and were not at all flattered or 
Surprised when Gora Dwight accepted their invitation 
and asked permission to bring her friends, Mrs. Mortimer Dwight and Miss Aileen Lawton. 
CHAPTEB XIX 
THE wildflowers were on the green hills: the flame-colored velvet skinned poppy, the purple and yellow lupins, the pale blue ' ' babyeyes, ' ' buttercups, dandelions and sweetbrier, fields of yellow mustard. The gardens about the Bay and down the Peninsula were almost 
licentious in their vehement indulgence in color. Every 
flower that grows north, south, east, west, on the western 
hemisphere and the eastern, was to be found in some one 
 
of these gardens of Central California; the poinsettia 
cheek by jowl with periwinkle and the hedges of marguerite; heavy-laden trees of magnolia above beds of 
Russian violets. Pomegranate trees and sweet peas, 
bridal wreath and camellia, begonia, fuchsias, heliotrope, 
hydrangea, chrysanthemums, roses, roses, roses. . . . Little orchards of almond trees, their blossoms a pink mist 
against a clear blue sky. . . . The mariposa lily was 
awake in the forests ; infinitesimal yellow pansies made a 
soft carpet for the feet of the deer and the puma. . . In 
the old Spanish towns of the south, the Castilian roses 
were in bloom and as sweet and pink and poignant as 
when Rezanov sailed through the Golden Gate in the 
April of eighteen-six, or Chonita Iturbi y Moncada, the 
doomswoman, danced on the hearts of men in Monterey. 
. . . From end to end of the great Santa Clara Valley 
the fruit trees were in bloom, a hundred thousand acres 
and more of pure white blossoms or delicate pink. Bascom Luning took Alexina over it one day in his air-car, 
as she called it, and from above it looked like a scented 
sea that was all foam. 
But no such riot and glory had come to San Francisco. 
This was the season for winds that seemed to blow from 
the four points of the compass at once and of ghostly 
fogs that stole up and down the streets of the city, abandoning the hills to bank in the valleys, as if seeking 
warmth ; abruptly deserting the lowlands to prowl along 
the heights, always searching, searching, these pure white 
lovely fogs of San Francisco, for somethinff lost and 
never found. 
"I hope they're not too artistic to keep their rooms 
warm, ' ' said Aileen, as they drove from her house where 
Gora and Alexina had dined, down to the Club of the 
Seven Arts. "I have smoked so much, intending to 
prove in public how really virtuous a society girl is, in 
contrast to Bohemia, that I'm nearly frozen." 
"Keep your wrap on," said Alexina. "Who cares? 
I have always been wild to get into real Bohemian circles, meet authors and artists. "We do lead the most 
 
provincial life. All circles should overlap — the best of 
all, anyhow. That is the way I would remold society if 
I were rich and powerful " 
Good heavenSj Alex, you are not idealizing this crowd 
we are going to meet to-night? Thev're just a lot of 
second and third raters " 
' ' What do you kaow about them ? ' ' 
"I keep my feet on the ground and my head out of 
the clouds. I know more or less what it must be. Besides, the last time I was in New York I was taken several times to the restaurants and studios of Greenwich 
Village. I could only convey my opinion of it in many 
Bwear words. This must be a sort of ehromo of it. . . . 
Gora, are you as wildly excited as Alex is ? I know she 
is because her spine is rigid ; and she is probably colder 
than I am." 
"Well, anyhow," said Alexina defiantly, "it will be 
something I never saw before. ' ' 
"It will, darling. Well. Gora, what do you anticipate?" 
Gora laughed. "I wonder? I don't think I've 
thought much about it. The circumstances of my life 
have developed the habit of switching off my imagina- 
tion except when I am at my desk. I 've also formed the 
habit of taking things as they come. I'll manage to extract something from this, one way or another." 
 
The car stopped before a narrow house in the rebuilt 
portion of the city. The door was opened immediately 
and the three guests of honor, apparently very late, as 
a large room beyond the vestibule appeared to be crowded, were marshaled up a narrow stair into a dressing- 
room under the eaves. 
"Looks like the loft of a barn," grumbled Aileen. 
There was no attendant to hear. "Well, I'm not going 
to leave my cloak, for several reasons — only one of which 
is that if this room is a sample my ill-covered bones will 
rattle together downstairs. ' ' 
She wore a gown of black chiffon with a green jade 
 
necklace and a band of green in her fashionably done 
fair hair. Alexina's gown was a soft white satin that 
fitted closely and made her look very tall and slim and 
round, the corsage trimmed with the only color she ever 
wore. Her hair was done in a classic knot and held with 
a comb — a present from Aileen — designed from periwinkles and green leaves and sparkling dew-drops. 
Gora shook out the skirt of her only evening-gown, a 
well-made black satin, very severe, but always relieved 
by a flower of some sort. To-night she wore a poinsettia, whose peculiarly vivid red brought out the warm 
browns of her skin and hair. She had a superb neck 
and shoulders and bust, and the skin of her body was a 
delicate honey color that melted imperceptibly into the 
deeper tones of her throat and face. 
"Alexina," she said, "let us perish but exhibit all our 
points. Your arms and hands were modeled for some 
untraeed Greek ancestress and bom again. Your neck 
is almost as good as mine, if not quite so solid. ..." 
She had a spot of crimson on her high cheek bones 
and admitted to the discerning Aileen that she was the 
least bit excited. After all, the keenest brains of San 
Francisco might be down in that long raftered room 
they had glimpsed, and in any case she was about to be 
judged by a new standard. 
"Oh, don't let that worry you," Aileen began. 
A door at the end of the room opened abruptly and a 
small woman came forward almost panting. ' ' I just ran 
up those stairs, ' ' she cried. ' ' But I was bound to be the 
first. I used to go to school with your mother down on 
Bush Street — dear Minnie Morrison!" 
She was a woman of fifty or sixty, with a nose like an 
inflamed button, eyes that watered freely, and a shabby 
black hat somewhat on one side. 
"But my mother never went to school in San Francisco, ' ' said Gora stiffly, and eyeing this first precipitate 
member of the intellectual world with profound disfavor. 
' ' Oh, yes, she did. "We were the most intimate friends. 
To think that dear Minnie's daughter " 
"Her name was not Minnie Morrison " 
 
'Oh, yes, it was- 
" Don't mind her so much, Gora dear." Aileen did 
not trouble to lower her voice. "She's drunk. Let's go 
down." 
Another woman entered the same door almost as hast- 
ily, but she was a stately and rather handsome woman of 
forty, who gave the intruder such a withering look from 
her serene blue eyes that the unrefined member of the 
Seven Arts slunk out and could be heard stumbling 
down the stairs. 
"I followed as soon as some one told me that Miss 
Skeers had come up here," she said apologetically. "She 
is not always herself, poor thing. Once she was quite 
distinguished as a local magazine writer, but . . . well, 
you know ... all people do not have the good fortune 
to have their genius universally recognized, and the results are sometimes disastrous. We are so proud to welcome you to-night, Miss Dwight, and — and — your charming friends. I am Jane Upton Halsey. ' ' She appeared 
to think no further explanation necessary. 
"Oh, yes," murmured the bewildered Gora. "It was 
you who wrote to me." 
"Exactly. I am chairman of the reception committee." She looked expectant, then piqued, and added 
hastily: "Will you come downstairs? What lovely 
gowns. I should like to paint you all." 
She herself was a symphony in pink ("dago pink," 
whispered Aileen wickedly) , and she wore a small pink 
silk turban, apparently made from the same bolt as the 
gown. 
' ' Perhaps we should have worn hats, ' ' said Gora nervously. "I didn't know — I thought ..." 
"You are just all right. Anything goes here. We 
wear what's becoming, what we can afford, and what is 
our own idea of the right thing. Nobody criticizes anybody else." 
"Now, this is life!" said Alexina to Aileen. "You 
will admit we never found anything like that before." 
"Just you watch and catch them criticizing us. . . . 
Rather effective — what ? ' ' 
They were descending a staircase that led directly into 
 
the crowded room below, and they looked down upon a 
mass of upturned expectant faces. Gora was ahead with 
Miss Halsey, and as she reached the floor the faces 
changed their angle ; it was apparent that they were not 
interested in her satellites. 
"Let's stop here for a moment and watch," said Alexina. "It's too interesting. They look as if they'd eat 
her alive.'' 
The whole company seemed to be seething about Gora, 
and as they were rapidly presented by Miss Halsey and 
passed on they produced the effect, in the inner circles, 
of a maelstrom. On the outer edge the women frankly 
stood on chairs to get a better look at the new lion, or 
pushed forward with frenzied determination to the fixed 
center of the whirlpool, whose gracious smile was becom- 
ing strained. 
' ' Poor Gora ! ' ' said Aileen. " We do it better. A few 
picked souls at a time; or, even when it's a tea, just 
casual introductions at decent intervals, and not too 
many references to the immortal work." 
"It's simply great for Gora, anyhow; for, big or little, 
they're her own sort. And they're not snobs. They 
don't care tuppence for us." 
"You're right there. I went to a big reception of all 
the arts in Paris once and the only people any one kow- 
towed to were two disgustingly rich New York women 
who had never done anything. But no one can be 
blamed for national characteristics. Heavens ! "What an 
oUa podrida!" 
Some of the men were in evening dress, but the greater 
number were not. They were of all ages, shaves, neck- 
ties and haircuts. The women wore every variety of hat, 
from an immense sailor perched above an immense fat 
face, above an immense shirtwaist bust, to minute turbans and waving plumes. They wore tailored suits, high 
"one piece" frocks of any material from chifEon to serge, 
symphonic confections like Miss Halsey 's, and flowing 
robes presumably artistic. None wore full evening dress 
except the guests of honor. All, however, did not wear 
hats, and they arranged their hair as individually as 
Alexina. 
 
IV 
"This may be our chance to see the art exhibit," said 
Aileen. "They'll remember us in time, or Gora will. ..." 
They descended into the room but had waited too 
long. Miss Halsey, turning the guest of honor over to 
the second in command, a woman of portentous seriousness, made her way hastily to the mere butterflies; 
who endeavored vainly to slink away under cover of the 
rotating crowd. 
"You won't think me rude, I hope," she cried, "but 
I had to start things going, and it is awkward for all to 
introduce three people at a time." 
"You were most considerate," said Alexina amiably. 
"But we only came to witness Gora's triumph, and we 
enjoy looking on, anyhow. . . . We were about to look 
at the pictures. ..." 
"You must meet some of our more brilliant mem- 
bers, ' ' said Miss Halsey firmly. ' ' They would never forgive me, and have been almost as excited at meeting two 
such distinguished members of society as at meeting 
Miss Dwight herself. Now, if you ... if you . . . that 
is . . ." . 
"Our names are Jane Boughton and Mamie Featherhurst," supplied Aileen, transfixing the lady with her 
wicked green eyes. 
"Oh, yes, to be sure . . . there has been so much to 
think of . . .but your names are so often in the society 
columns ... it seems to me I recall that one of you is 
the daughter of a famous judge " 
"Boughton. He's under indictment, you know, for 
graft, bribery, and corruption." 
"Oh . . . ah . . . how unfortunate," Miss Halsey 's 
jaw fell. Even she had heard — vaguely in her studio — 
of the scandal of Judge Boughton, and she wondered how 
she had been so absent-minded as to invite a member of 
his family to the club. 
"You see," said Aileen coolly. "I am not fit to as- 
sociate with your members, and as Miss Featherhurst is 
still my loyal friend, we'll just go over and sit in a corner " 
"Indeed you shall do nothing of the kind. You are 
 
our guests, and — please for this evening forget everything else." 
"You nasty little beast," hissed Alexina into Aileen's 
discomforted ear. "She's worth two of you." 
"So she is," said Aileen contritely. "I'll behave 
better." 
Miss Halsey, who had been signaling several members 
and rounding up others, returned. Alexina blazed her 
eyes at Aileen, who murmured hastily to the hostess: 
"I was just joking. I am Judge Lawton's daughter, 
and this is Mrs. Mortimer Dwight, Gora's sister-in-law. 
I'd never have told such a whopper but I'm so nervous 
and shy. I didn't think I could go through the ordeal." 
"Oh, you poor child. Well, you'll find we're not terrible in the least. Now, don't try to remember names. 
They'll remember yours — better than I did!" 
Another small eddying circle formed about the luminaries from a lower sphere. This proved to be much like 
similar performances in any stratum of society. All 
murmured platitudes, or nothing. Nobody tried to be 
origiaal or witty. Alexina and Aileen gradually disengaged themselves and were making their way toward the 
pictures that turned the four walls into a harmonious 
mass of color, when an old man came tottering up. He 
had bright eyes and a pleasant face. 
"Which is Mrs. Dwight?" he asked eagerly. Alexina 
bent her lofty head and smiled down upon him. 
"Of course. Little Alexina. I remember you when 
you were a dear little girl and I used to see you playing 
about the house when I went up to have a good pow- 
wow with that clever grandfather of yours, Alex Groome 
— one of the ablest politicians this town ever had; and 
straight, damn straight." 
"Alexander Groome was my father." 
"Oh, no, he wasn't. He was your grandfather. You 
are the daughter ... let me see . . . there were two or 
three young ladies. ... I remember when they came out 
in the eighties . . . and a boy or two. ..." 
"I am sorry to be rude, but Alexander Groome was my 
father. I came along rather late." 
"Impossible! . . . Well, I suppose you know best 
..." and he drifted off. 
 
' ' This seems to be a home for ineurahles, ' ' said Aileen. 
"I am sure I don't know how I shall get through the 
evening. Gora has a slight sense of humor, you have 
quite a keen one, but mine is positively fiendish. . . . 
Oh, Lord!" 
Miss Halsey was trailing them, her hand resting lightly 
on the arm of another woman. 
"Now this is something like," whispered Aileen. 
"Witch of Endor got up to look like Carmen." 
The oncoming luminary was a singular-looking woman 
who may have been considerably less so in the privacy 
of her dressing-room; she had evidently expended mudi 
thought upon supplementing the niggardliness of Nature. 
Her unwashed-looking black hair was dressed very high 
and stuck with immense pins. Large, circular, highly 
colored, imitation jade rings dangled in tiers from her 
ear-lobes, and at least eight rows of colored beads covered the front of her loose, fringed, embroidered, beaded 
gown. She had a haggard face, deeply lined and badly 
painted, but something, an emanation perhaps, seemed 
to proclaim that she was still young. 
"This, dear Mrs. Dwight and Miss Lawton, is Alma 
De Quincey Smith, with whose work you are of course 
familiar. She had her reception last week but was only 
too glad to come to-night and extend the welcoming hand 
of the east to our new daughter of the west. ' ' 
Miss De Quincey Smith barely gave her time to finish. 
She darted forward and grasped Aileen 's hand. "Oh, 
you must let me tell you how wonderful I think your 
unique green eyes go with that jade. I've been watching you!" She spoke with the eager unthinking impulsiveness of a child, which, oddly, made her look like 
a very old woman. 
"Too nice of you," murmured Aileen, who was de- 
termined to behave. 
"And you!" she cried, turning to Alexina. "Your 
eyes simply blaze. You look like a long white arum lily. 
And dusky hair, not merely black. Oh, I do think you 
are both too wonderful, and I am sure all these splendid 
artists here will want to paint you." 
Alexina and Aileen were not accustomed to such spontaneous and unbridled admiration and they thought Miss 
 
Smith quite fascinating if rather queer. But Miss Smith 
did not number tact among her gifts and rushed on. 
"Grora Dwight is too wonderful looking for words. 
We are all crazy over her. All the artists want to uaiat 
her already. Her coloring and style are unique and she 
suggests tragedy — with those marvelous pale eyes in that 
dark face — those heavy dark brows and heavy masses of 
hair. I have suggested that Folkes — your greatest portrait painter, you know, — paint her as Medea, or as the 
Genius of the Revolution. How proud you must be of 
her!" 
"So we are," murmured Aileen. "We think she is 
the only woman writer in America worth mentioning. 
Why don 't you paint her yourself ? ' ' 
"I? I am not an artist — with the brush! I am an 
author. Alma De Quineey Smith." 
"Oh! . . ." Aileen 's voice trailed off vaguely. 
"What do you write? Plays? Essays?..." 
"I — why, I'm one of the best — my stories appear constantly in the best magazines." Miss Smith, who had 
been deserted some time since by Miss Halsey, looked 
abject, helpless, and infuriated. 
" Oh ! We only read the worst. It must be wonderful to be famous. Come, Alex, we must see the pictures. 
They're going to have music and supper later." 
"Nevertheless," said Alexina, "they are real as far 
as they go, and they really do things, good or bad. They 
work, they aspire ; they dream, and perhaps with reason, 
of a glorious future, when they will be as famous and 
successful as the founders of the club. Even if they 
fail they will have had the wonderful dream. Nothing 
can take that from them. I envy them — envy them ! ' ' 
They were standing in a far corner of the room, after 
having examined three or four admirable and many 
passable paintings. Aileen looked at her in surprise. 
They had both been remarking upon the comic aspects 
of the intellectual life, and Alexina's outburst was unexpected. Aileen had seldom seen her vehement since 
they had outgrown their youthful habit of wrangling. 
 
She was still more astonished when she turned from a 
view of the Latin-seeming roofs of San Francisco from. 
Twin Peaks, to Alexina's face. It looked drawn and 
desperate. 
"Well, most of them will fail," she said lightly. "Look 
at these pictures ! That is what is the matter with California — too much talent. You must be as individual as 
a talking monkey to get your head above the crowd. All 
these poor devils are doomed to the local reputation." 
' ' Even so they have something to live for, mean something, do something. What do I mean to myself or any- 
one? What have I accomplished? The man I married 
is a dummy -husband ; means nothing to me nor I to him. 
I have no children. Even my housekeeping for Maria is 
a farce; James really does it all. I mean nothing to 
society now that I can no longer entertain it. I haven't 
even a decent vice. I don 't smoke and gamble like you, 
nor have lovers like some of the others. I'm simply a 
nonentity — nothing ! ' ' 
"You have personality . . . beauty. ..." Aileen 
was completely at a loss. "I hate being banal like that 
Smith idiot . . . but you are the perfection of a type. 
That is something. Aid you cultivate your mind " 
' ' My mind ! What does it amount to ? Anybody can 
pack a brain. I 'd like one of those that gives out something, however little. But I can 't help that. The point 
is I don't live. I don't care a hang about personality 
that doesn't get anywhere, and I care still less about 
being a finished type — that 's the work of dead and gone 
ancestors, anyhow, not mine. ... I wish I could fall in 
love with James Kirkpatriek. I'd feel more justified in 
my own eyes if I were living with him over in the Mission " 
"His old mother would chase you out with a broom 
and use Biblical language. Of course I know you must 
be bored, Alex dear. Can't you manage to go abroad 
and live for a time?" 
"No, I can't, and I don't see what difference that 
would make. But I'll tell you what I shall do. If Tom 
and Maria want to rent the house next year they can 
have it but I'll not live there. I'll not be ' held up ' any 
longer. I'll stand on my own feet — in other words get 
 
a job. No — I've some loose money. I'll start in business." 
"Good for you. Perhaps dad'll let me go in with you. 
Don't imagine I don't get sick of my racketing life; and 
when I have a spasm of reform I nearly take seriously 
to drink, I'm so bored. Would you have me for part- 
ner?" 
"Wouldn't I? That is if you would be serious about 
it. I am, let me tell you. The whole family can perform suttee for all I care. I'm going to do something 
that will give me a place in the main stream of life." 
"Trust me. I have been considering Bob's fifteenth 
proposal — Mr. Cheever has promised him a full partnership the day he marries, and it wouldn't be so bad. 
Bobby is a good sport, and we'd live the out-door life 
at Burliugame instead of the in — sports . . . tournaments . . . polo . . . cut out dissipation. We've both 
really had enough of it. But I believe business would 
be more interesting. After all that's what you marry 
for unless you want children — which I don't — to be interested. What'll we be ? Decorators ? ' ' 
"I suppose so. But all this has only just come to a 
head, although I know now that it has been slowly gathering force in my deepest deeps. If we do I 'll take Alice 
on. She's sick of the game too and she has simply ripping ideas." 
"Perfect. 'D wight, Thorn ', no, 'Thorndyke, 
Lawton and Dwight. ' I'm too excited — convicts must 
feel like that when they tunnel a hole and get out. It 
will be our leal, our first adventure." 
CHAPTER XX 
I 
OUT two weeks later AHeen told Alexina that although she had cannily waited for what she believed to be the propitious moment and told her father 
 
about the great scheme, she had never seen him so upset. 
She stormed, argued, wept, but he was adamant. He 
would give her neither a cent nor his permission. "When 
she accused him of inconsistency (he had supported 
woman's suffrage) he replied that women forced to work 
needed the franchise and no fair-minded man would 
withhold it ; and if for no other reason he would forbid 
his daughter to go out and compete with women who 
must work whether they wanted to or not. 
But that was only one point. 
What did progress mean if women deliberately 
dropped from a higher plane to a lower? What had 
their ancestors worked for, possibly died for? It was 
their manifest duty to their class, to their family, to go 
up not down. 
Moreover, when women had men to support them and 
insisted upon forcing their way into the business world, 
they made men ridiculous and undermined society. It 
was dangerous, damned dangerous. If he had his way 
not a woman in any class, outside of nursing and domestic service, should work. He 'd tax every male in the 
land, according to his income or wage, to say nothing of 
the rich women, and keep every last one of the unportioned in idleness rather than risk the downfall of male 
supremacy in the world. 
He hated every form of publicity for the women of 
his class. If he had his way their names, much less 
photographs, should never appear in the public press. 
Society should be sacrosanct. Its traditions should be 
handed on, not lowered. . . . Charity boards and settlement work, perhaps, but no further exposure to the vulgar gaze ... he was glad she had never gone in for the 
last. 
Civilization would be meaningless without that small 
class at the top that proved what Earth could accomplish in the way of breeding, the refinements of life, 
the beauty of distinction, in making an art of leisure, of 
pleasure — quite as much an art as writing books or painting pictures. 
If the men in the younger nations had to work, at least 
they were able to prove to the older that the exquisite 
 
creatures they bred and protected were second to none 
on this planet, at least. 
If women had genius that was another question. Let 
them give it to the world, by all means. That was their 
personal gift to civilization. ... He was not bigoted 
like some men, even young men, who thought it a disgrace for a lady publicly to transfer herself to the artistic plane and compete with men for laurels. . . . But 
when it came to stripping off the delicate badges that 
only the higher civilization could confer, and struggling 
tooth and nail with the mob for no reason whatever — it 
was disloyal, ungrateful and monstrous. 
He was no snob. He thought himself better than no 
man. (Different, yes.) But in regard to women, the 
women of his class, the class of his father before him, 
and of his father's father, he had his ideals, his convictions. 
That was all. 
"In short, he's modern but not too modern. My 
twentieth-century arguments were brushed aside as mere 
fads. And yet there's probably not an important case 
tried in any court in either hemisphere that he doesn't 
read — learn something from if he can. He takes in the 
leading newspapers and reviews of America and Europe 
and even reads the best modern novels as carefully as he 
ever read Thackeray and Dickens — says they are the 
real social chronicles. He's a profound student of history, and the history of the present interests him just as 
much — he has those Balkans under a microscope; and 
collects all the data on every important strike here and 
elsewhere. And yet where women are concerned he is a 
fossil. An American fossil — worst sort. Some of the 
young ones are just as bad ... I'll have to give in. 
I can't break his heart. I suppose I'll marry Bobby." 
Alice Thorndyke also shook her head. "I'd like to, 
Alex, but frankly I haven't the courage. Your friends 
 
all stick to you like perfect dears when you step down 
and out and set up shop, and are so kind you feel like a 
street walker in a house of refuge. But secretly they 
hate it and they don't feel toward you in the same way 
at all. They may not know enough to express it, but 
what they really feel is that you have threatened the 
solidity of the order and lowered yourself as well as 
them. One day they may have more sense but not in our 
time, I am afraid." 
Nevertheless, Alexina persisted in her determination. 
One could succeed alone. She would not be the first. 
She was by no means sure, however, what she wanted to 
do, and made up her mind to take no step before the following winter. When the Abbotts returned to Rincona 
in May they took James with them. Alexina closed Ballinger House, although Mortimer slept there and a Filipino came in every morning to make his breakfast and bed; and took a cottage in Ross with Janet Maynard 
whose mother had gone south to visit old lady Bascom, 
and who craved the wild peace of Marin County after 
too much San Francisco and Burlingame. 
Marin, with its magnificent redwood forests on the 
coast, fed by the fogs of the Pacific, its ancient sunlit 
woods of oak and madrono and manzanita, its mountains 
and rocky hills and peaceful fertile valleys, is perhaps 
the most beautiful county in California, and its towns 
and villages are still almost primitive in spite of the 
many fashionable residents whose homes are close to or 
in them. The ocean pounds its western base. Mount 
Tamalpais is its proudest possession, it has a haunted 
looking lake ; and a part of it embraces one of the many 
ramifications of the Bay of San Francisco, and commands 
a superb view of city and island and mountain. But it 
has a heavy brooding peace that seems to relax the social 
conscience. Entertaining is intermittent, and its inhab- 
itants return to their winter in San Francisco deeply 
refreshed. It has its paradoxes like the rest of California. On a stark little peninsula, jutting out from bare 
hills into the Bay, is San Quentin, one of the State's 
Prisons, and along the edges of the marsh are Chinese 
hamlets and shrimp fisheries. 
 
IV 
Alexina and Janet purposed to spend the summer 
reading, idling in the sweet-scented garden, walking in 
the early morning, riding horseback in the late afternoon, taking tea at the club house at San Rafael, or Bel- 
vedere, perhaps, but "cutting out" all social dissipations. Janet was now twenty-six and beginning to feel 
the strain as well as seriously to consider what she 
should do with the rest of her life. She had great 
wealth, she was blasee as a result of doing everything 
she chose to do, in public or in private, and she was 
nearly two generations younger than Judge Lawton. 
Nevertheless, she perceived no allurement in the business world, and the only alternative seemed marriage. 
Not in California, however. No surprises there. She 
might take her fortune to London and become a peeress 
of the realm. When change became imperative better 
go up than down. 
Alexina had never felt the attractions of dissipation 
and was not afflicted with moral ennui; but she was 
tired from much thinking and brooding and intimate 
personal contacts. She wanted the deep refreshment of 
the summer before girding up for the winter — before 
making her plunge into the world of business and toil. 
But she was soon to discover that she had girded up 
her loins, or at all events brightened up her corpuscles 
and reposed her brain cells, for a far different purpose. 
CHAPTER XXI 
I 
IT is possible that only two people in California, barring German spies, leapt instantly to the conclusion 
that the Sarajevo bomb meant a European War. The 
Judge, because he had the historical background and 
knew his modern Europe as he knew his chessboard ; and 
Alexiua because she recalled conversations she had had 
 
in France the summer before with people close to the 
Government, to say nothing of mysterious allusions in 
the letters of Olive de Morsigny ; who may have thought 
it wise not to trust all she knew to the post, or may 
have been too busy with her intensive nursing course to 
enter into particulars. 
Janet shrugged her large statuesque shoulders when 
Alexina communicated her fears. What was war to 
her ? England at least would have sense enough to keep 
out of it. Aileen came over after a convincing talk with 
her father looking as worried as if some nation or other 
were training their guns on the Golden Gate. 
"Dad says it's the world war . . . that we'll be 
dragged in . . . that Germany has had it up her sleeve 
for years . . . believes that bomb was made in Berlin 
. . . nothing under heaven could have averted this impending war but a huge standing army in Great Britain 
. . . hasn't Lord Koberts been crying out for it? . . . 
Dad and I dined at his house one night in London and 
the only picture in the dining-room was an oil painting 
of the Kaiser in a red uniform, done expressly for Lord 
Eoberts . . . funny world . . . and now Britain's got 
a civil war on her hands and mutinous officers who won't 
go over and shoot men of their own class in Ulster. . . . 
Eussia hasn 't built her strategic railways — all the money 
used up in graft. . . . Oh, Lord ! Oh, Lord ! who 'd have 
thought it? . . . Twentieth century and all the rest of 
it." 
"Twentieth century . . . war . . . how utterly ab- 
surd. . . . I don 't wish to be rude . . . but really ..." 
This from every one to whom Alexina and Aileen, or 
even Judge Lawton, communicated their fears. 
One day Alexina and Aileen met in San Francisco by 
appointment and telephoned to James Kirkpatrick, asking him to lunch with them at the California Market. 
He accepted with alacrity, and laughed genially at their 
apprehensions. War? War? Not on your life. 
There'll never be another war. Socialists won't permit 
 
it. The kaiser? To hell with the kaiser. (Excuse me.) 
He, James Kirkpatrick, was in frequent correspondence 
with certain German socialists. They would declare 
themselves in the coming International Congress for the 
general strike if any sovereign — or President — dared to 
try to put over a war on the millions of determiaed socialists, syndicalists, internationalists, and communists in 
Great Britain and Europe; he'd get the surprise of his 
life. Socialism was determined there should never be 
another war — the burden and life-toll of which was always borne by the poor man. He didn't believe any of 
those fool sovereigns, not even the cra2y kaiser, would 
attempt it, knowing what they did; but if they turned 
out to be deaf and blind, well, just watch out for the 
Great Strike. That would be the most portentous, the 
most awe-inspiring event in history. 
And then he dismissed a prospective European war as 
unworthy of further attention and held forth with extreme acrimony on the subject of the Great Colorado 
Strike ; which rose to passionate denunciation of the miserable make-shift called civilization which would permit 
such a horror in the very heart of a great and prosperous 
nation. But with the new system . . . the new system 
. . . there would not be even these abominable little civil 
wars . . . for that was what we had right here in our 
own country ... no need to use up your gray matter 
bothering about European states. . . . 
He was so convincing that Alexina and Aileen thanked 
him warmly and went to their respective destinations 
lulled and comforted. 
Nevertheless, the war made its grand debut on August 
first, and Mr. Kirkpatrick, who had started on one of the 
passenger ships leaving New York for the International 
Socialist Congress, climbed ignominiously over the side 
and returned to the great ironic city on a tug. 
Two letters came from Olive to Alexina and one to 
each of her other old friends, imploring them to come 
over find help. They could nurse. They could run canteens. Oeuvres. She wanted to show France what her 
friends, her countrywomen, could do. 
But the war would be over in three months. . . . Only- 
Judge Lawton believed it would be a long war. Others 
hardly comprehended there was a war at all. . . . Such 
things don't happen in these days. (Who in that won- 
drous smiling land could think upon war anywhere?) 
... It would be too funny if it were not for those 
dreadful pictures of the Belgian refugees. . . . Poor 
things. . . . Maria and other good women immediately 
began knitting for them . . . sat for hours on the verandahs, all in white, knitting, knitting . . . but talking of 
anything of war. ... It simply was a horrid dream and 
soon would be over. . . . Their husbands all said so . . . 
three months. . . . German army irresistible . . . modern implements of war must annihilate whole armies very 
quickly, and the Germans had the most and the best. 
. . . Rotten shame (said Burlingame) and the Germans 
not even good sportsmen. 
James Kirkpatrick, who avoided his former pupils, 
consoled himself with the thought that at least Britain 
would be licked . . . she'd get what was coming to her, 
all right, and Ireland would be free. . . . Anyhow it 
would soon be over. . . . When April nineteen-seventeen came he damned the socialist party for its attitude 
and enlisted: "I was a man and an American first, 
wasn 't I ? " he wrote to Alexina. ' ' I guess your flag . . . 
oh, hell! (Excuse me.') " 
In December, nineteen-fourteen, Alexina and Alice 
Thomdyke (who grasped the entering wedge with both 
ruthless white little hands) went to Prance. Aileen was 
not strong enough to nurse so she bade a passionate 
good-by to her friends and engaged herself to Bob 
Cheever. Jimmie Thorne went to France as an ambulance driver, and Baseom Luning to join the Lafayette 
Eseadrille. Gora sailed six months later to offer her 
services to England. In the case of a nurse there was 
much red tape to unravel. 
 
A fair proportion of the women left behind continued 
to knit. As time went on branches of certain French 
war-relief organizations were formed, and run by such 
capable women as Mrs. Thornton and Mrs. Hunter, who 
had many friends among the American women living in 
Prance ; now toiling day and night at their oeuvres. 
Alexina and Olive de Morsigny, after a year of nursing, when what little flesh they had left could stand no 
more, founded an oeuvre of their own, and Sibyl Baseom 
