lives. This fact that so much of what the "spirits" tell us is of our
own time tends to cast doubt on the idea that the dead survive forever.
How simple it would be to convince us, if the spirit of Sophocles would
come back to earth and tell us where to dig in order to find copies of
his lost tragedies! You would think that the soul of Sophocles, seeing
our great need of beauty and wisdom, would be interested to give us his
works! From genius, operating under the guidance of the conscious mind,
we get sublimity, majesty and power; but what the trance mediums give us
suggests, both in its moral and intellectual quality, the operation of
the subconscious. It is exactly like what we get, for example, from
dissociated personalities.

There are, to be sure, the books of Patience Worth, produced by the
automatic writing of a lady in St. Louis, who tells us in evident good
faith that her conscious personality is entirely innocent of Patience,
and all her thought and doings. Patience writes long novels and dramas
in a quaint kind of old English, and the lady in St. Louis knows nothing
about this language. But does she positively know that when she was a
child, she never happened to be in the room with someone who was reading
old English aloud? Nothing seems more likely than that her subconscious
mind heard some quaint, strange language, and took possession of it, and
built up a personality around it, and even made a new language and a new
literature from that starting point.

That is precisely the kind of thing in which the subconscious revels. It
creates new characters, with an imagination infinite and inexhaustible.
Who has not waked up and been astounded at the variety and reality of a
dream? Who has not told his dreams and laughed over them? The
subconscious will play at games, it will act and rehearse elaborate
rôles; it will put on costumes, and delight in being Cæsar and Napoleon
and Alexander the Great and Pocahontas and Hamlet and Don Quixote and
Siegfried and Achilles. Yes, it will even play at being "spirits"! It
will be mischievous and impish; it will be swallowed up with a sense of
its own importance, taking an insolent delight in convincing the world's
most learned scientists of the fact that its play-acting is reality. It
will call itself "Raymond" to move and thrill a grief-stricken family;
it will call itself "Phinuit" and "Dr. Hodgson," and cause an earnest
professor of "practical morality" to give up a respectable position in
Columbia University and write books to convince the world that the dead
are sending him messages.

Consider, for example, the multiple personality of Miss Beauchamp.
Remember that here we are not dealing with any guess work about
"spirits"; here we have half a dozen different "controls," none of them
the least bit dead, but all of them a part of the consciousness of one
entirely alive young lady. A specialist has spent some six years
investigating the case, day after day, week after week, writing down the
minute details of what happens. And now consider the miscreant known as
"Sally." Sally is just as real as any child whom you ever held in your
arms. Sally has love and hate, fear and hope, pain and delight--and
Sally is a little demon, created entirely out of the subconsciousness of
a highly refined and conscientious young college graduate of Boston.
Sally spends Miss Beauchamp's money on candy, and eats it; Sally pawns
Miss Beauchamp's watch and deliberately loses the ticket; Sally uses
Miss Beauchamp's lips and tongue to tell lies about Miss Beauchamp;
Sally strikes Miss Beauchamp dumb, or makes her hear exactly the
opposite of what is spoken to her. Yes, and Sally pleads and fights
frantically for her life; Sally enters into intrigues with other parts
of Miss Beauchamp, and for years deliberately fools Doctor Prince, who
is her Recording Angel and Heavenly Judge!

And can anybody doubt that Sally could have fooled a grieving mother,
and made that mother think she was talking to the ghost of a long lost
child? Can anybody doubt that Sally could and would play the part of any
person she had ever known, or of any historic character she had ever
read about? And don't overlook the all-important fact that the conscious
Miss Beauchamp was absolutely innocent of all this, and was horrified
when she was told about it. So here you have the following situation, no
matter of guesswork, but definitely established: your dearest friend may
act as a medium, and in all good faith may bring to the surface some
part of his or her subconsciousness, which masquerades before you in a
hundred different rôles, and plays upon you with deliberate malice the
most subtle and elaborate and cruel tricks.

And how much worse the situation becomes when to this there is added the
possibility of conscious fraud! When the medium is a person who is
taking your money, and thrives by making you believe in the "spirits"
she produces! You may go to Lily Dale, in New York state, the home of
the Spiritualists, where they have a convention every summer, and in row
after row of tents you may hear, and even see, every kind of spirit you
ever dreamed of, ringing bells and shaking tambourines and dancing jigs.
And you may see poor farmers' wives, with tears streaming down their
cheeks, listening to the endearments of their dead children, and to
wisdom from the lips of Oliver Wendell Holmes speaking with a Bowery
accent. This kind of thing was exposed many years ago by Will Irwin in a
book called "The Medium Game"; and then--after traveling from one kind
of medium to another, and studying all their frauds, Irwin tells how he
went into a "parlor" on Sixth Avenue, and there by a fat old woman who
had never seen him before, was suddenly told the most intimate secrets
of his life!

It has recently been announced that Thomas A. Edison is at work upon a
device to enable spirits to communicate with the living, if there really
are spirits seeking to do this. It is Edison's idea that spirits may
inhabit some kind of infinitely rarefied astral body, and he proposes to
manufacture an instrument which is sensitive to an impression many
millions of times fainter than anything the human body can feel. This
should make it easier for the spirits, and should constitute a fairer
test, possibly a decisive one. When that machine is perfected and put to
work by scientific men, I wish to suggest a few tests which will
convince me that there really are spirits, and that the results are not
to be explained by telepathy.

First, assuming that the spirits live forever, there are some useful
things which were known to the people of ancient time, and are not known
to anyone living now. For example, let one of the Egyptian craftsmen
come forward and tell us the secret of their glass-staining, which I
understand is now a lost art. And then Sophocles, as I have already
suggested, will tell us where we can find his lost dramas; or if he
doesn't know where any copies are buried, let him find in the spirit
world some scribe or librarian or book-lover who can give us this
priceless information. All over the ancient lands are buried and
forgotten cities, and in those cities are papyrus scrolls and graven
tablets and bricks. Infinite stores of knowledge are thus concealed from
us; and how simple for the ancient ones who possess this information to
make it known to us, and so to convince us of their reality!

Or, again, supposing that spirits are not immortal, but that they slowly
fade from life as do their bodies. Suppose that a Raymond Lodge or other
recently dead soldier wishes to communicate with his father and to
convince his father that it is really an independent being, and not
simply a part of the father's subconscious mind--let him try something
like this. Let the father write six brief notes, and put them in six
envelopes all alike, and shuffle them up and put them in a hat and draw
out one of them. Now, assuming that the experimenter is honest, there is
no living human being who knows the contents of that envelope, and if
the medium is dipping into the subconscious mind of the experimenter,
the chances are one in six of the right note being hit upon. Assuming
that spirits may not be able to get inside an envelope and read a folded
letter, there is no objection to the experimenter, provided he is
honest, and provided there are no mirrors or other tricks, holding the
envelope behind his back, and tearing it open, and spreading it out for
the convenience of the spirit. And now, if the spirit can read that
letter correctly every time, we shall be fairly certain that whatever
force we are dealing with, it is not the subconscious mind of the
experimenter.

Or, let us take another test. Let us have a roulette wheel in a covered
box, or hidden away so that no one but the spirit can see it. We spin
the wheel, and any one of the habitues of Monte Carlo can figure out the
chance of the little ball dropping into any particular number. If now
the spirit can tell us each time where we shall find the ball, we shall
know that we are dealing with knowledge which does not exist either in
the conscious or the subconscious mind of any living human being.

Among the things that "spirits" have been accustomed to do, since the
days when they first made their appearance with the Fox sisters in
America, are the lifting of tables and the ringing of bells and the
assuming of visible forms. These are what is known as
"materializations," and when I was a boy, and used to hear people
talking about these things, there was always one test required: let the
materializations manifest themselves upon recording instruments
scientifically devised; let photographs be taken of them, let them be
weighed and measured, and so on. Well, time has moved forward, and these
tests have been met, and it appears that "materializations" are
facts--although it is still as uncertain as ever what they are
materializations of. An English scientist, Professor Crawford, has
published a book entitled "The Reality of Psychic Phenomena," in which
he tells the results of many years of testing materializations by the
strictest scientific methods. When the medium "levitates" a table--that
is, causes it to go up in the air without physical contact--it appears
that her own weight increases by exactly the weight of the table. When
she exerts any force, which apparently she can do at a distance, the
recording instruments show the exact counter-force in her own body.

The results of these investigations are calculated at first to take your
breath away. It begins to appear that the theosophists may be right, and
that we may have one or more "astral" bodies within or coincident with
the physical body; and that under the trance conditions we mold and make
over this "astral" body in accordance with our imaginations, precisely
as a sculptor molds the clay. At any rate, our subconsciousness has the
power to project from it masses of substance, and to cause these to take
all kinds of forms, for example, human faces, which have been
photographed innumerable times. Or the body can shoot out long rods or
snaky projections, which lift tables, and exert force which has been
recorded upon pressure instruments and weighed by scales.

As I write, a friend lends me a fifteen-dollar volume, a translation
just published of an elaborate work by Baron von Schrenck-Notzing, a
physician of Munich, giving minute details of four years' experiments in
this field. So rigid was this investigator in his efforts to exclude
fraud, that not merely was the medium stripped and sewed up in black
tights, but the "cabinet" in which she sat was a big sack of black
cloth, everywhere sewed tight by machine. Every crevice of the medium's
body was searched before and after the tests, and every inch of the
"cabinet" gone over. The investigators sat within a couple of feet of
the medium, and would draw back the curtains, and while holding her
hands and her feet, would watch great masses of filmy gray and white
stuff exude from the medium's mouth, from her armpits and breasts and
sides. This would happen in red light of a hundred candle power, by
which print could be easily read; and the medium would herself
illuminate the phenomena with a red electric torch. The investigators
would be privileged to examine these "phantom" forms, to touch them
gently, and be touched by them--soft and slimy, like the tongue of an
animal; but sometimes the things would misbehave, and strike them in the
eye, hurting them.

The medium, a young French girl living in the home of the wife of a
well-known French playwright, had begun with spiritualist ideas, but
came to take a matter-of-fact attitude to what happened, and in her
trances would labor to mold these emanations into hands or faces, as
requested by those present. She finally succeeded in allowing them to
separate the soft mucous stuff from her body, and keep it for chemical
and bacteriological examination. All this time she would be surrounded
by a battery of cameras, nine at once, some of them inside the cabinet;
and when the desired emanation was in sight, all these cameras would be
set off by flashlight, and in the book you have over two hundred such
photographs, showing faces and hands from every point of view. There are
even moving-pictures, showing the material coming out of her mouth and
going back!

It is evident that we have here a whole universe of unexplored
phenomena; and it seems that many of the old-time superstitions which
were dumped overboard have now to be dragged back into the boat and
examined in the light of new knowledge. What could smack more of magic
and fraud than crystal-gazing? Yet it appears that the subconsciousness
has power to project an image of its hidden memories into a crystal
ball, where it may be plainly seen. We find so well-recognized an
authority as Dr. Morton Prince using this method to enable one of the
many Miss Beauchamps to recall incidents in her previous life which were
otherwise entirely lost to her. Likewise this exploration of the
disintegration of personality enables us to watch in the making all the
phenomena of trance and ecstasy which have had so much to do with the
making of religions. We know now how Joan of Arc heard the "voices," and
we can make her hear more voices or make her stop hearing voices, as we
prefer. Also we know all about demons and "demoniac possession." We can
cast out demons--and without having to cause them to enter a herd of
swine! We may some day be prepared to investigate the wonder stories
which the Yogis tell us, about their ability to leave their physical
bodies in a trance, and to appear in England at a few moments' notice
for the transaction of their spiritual business!

But we want things proven to us, and we don't want the people with whom
we work to be animated either by religious fanaticism or by money greed.
We are ready to unlimber our minds, and prepare for long journeys into
strange regions, but we want to move cautiously, and choose our route
carefully, and be sure we do not lose our way! We want to deal
rationally with life; we don't want to make wild guesses, or to choose a
complicated and unlikely solution when a simple one will suffice. But,
on the other hand, we must be alive to the danger of settling down on
our little pile of knowledge, and refusing to take the trouble to
investigate any more. That is a habit of learned men, I am sorry to say;
the law of inertia applies to the scientist, as well as to the objects
he studies. The scientists of our time have had to be prodded into
considering each new discovery about the subconscious mind, precisely as
the scientists of Galileo's time had to be prodded to watch him drop
weights from the tower of Pisa. When he told them that the earth moved
round the sun instead of the sun round the earth, they tortured him in a
dungeon to make him take it back, and he did so, but whispered to
himself, "And yet it moves." And it did move, of course, and continued
to move. And in exactly the same way, if it be true that we have these
hidden forces in us, they will continue to manifest themselves, and
masses of people will continue to flock to Lily Dale, and to pay out
their hard-earned money, until such a time as our learned men set to
work to find out the facts and tell us how we can utilize these forces
without the aid of either superstition or charlatanry.




CHAPTER XVI

THE POWERS OF THE MIND

     (Sets forth the fact that knowledge is freedom and ignorance is
     slavery, and what science means to the people.)


We have now completed a brief survey of the mind and its powers.
Whatever we may have proved or failed to prove, this much we may say
with assurance: the reader who has followed our brief sketch attentively
has been disabused of any idea he may have held that he knows it all;
and this is always the first step towards knowledge.

The mind is the instrument whereby our race has lifted itself out of
beasthood. It is the instrument whereby we hold ourselves above the
forces which seek to drag us down, and whereby we shall lift ourselves
higher, if higher we are to go. How shall we protect this precious
instrument? How shall we complete our mastery of it? What are the laws
of the conduct of the mind?

The process of the mind is one of groping outward after new facts, and
digesting and assimilating them, as the body gropes after and digests
and assimilates food. The senses bring us new impressions, and we take
these and analyze them, tear them into the parts which compose them,
compare them with previous sensations, recognize difference in things
which seem to be alike, and resemblances in things which seem to be
different; we classify them, and provide them with names, which are, as
it were, handles for the mind to grasp. Above all, we seek for causes;
those chains of events which make what we know as order in the world of
phenomena. And when the mind has what seems to be a cause, it proceeds
to test it according to methods it has worked out, the rules and
principles of experimental science.

It is a comparatively small number of sensations which the body brings
to the mind of itself; it is a narrow world in which we should live if
our minds adopted a passive attitude toward life. But some minds possess
what we call curiosity; they set out upon their own impulse to explore
life; they discover new laws and make new experiences and new
sensations for themselves. The mind forms an idea, and at first, after
the fashion of the ancient Greek philosophers, it glorifies that idea
and sets it in the seat of divinity. But presently comes the empirical
method, which refuses authority to any idea unless it can stand the test
of experiment, and prove that it corresponds with reality. Nowadays the
thinker amasses his facts, and forms a theory to explain them, and then
proceeds to try out this theory by the most rigid method that he or his
critics can devise. If the theory doesn't "work"--that is, if it doesn't
explain all the facts and stand all the tests--it is thrown away like a
worn-out shoe. So little by little a body of knowledge is built up which
is real knowledge; which will serve us in our daily lives, which we can
use as foundation-stones in the structure of our civilization.

By this method of research man is expanding his universe beyond anything
that could have been conceived in the pre-scientific days. Hour by hour,
while we work and play and sleep, the mind of our race is discovering
new worlds in which our posterity will dwell. For uncounted ages man
walked upon the earth, surrounded by infinite swarms of bacterial life
of whose existence he never dreamed. The invisible rays of the spectrum
beat upon him, and he knew nothing of what they did to him, whether good
or evil. He lifted his head and saw vast universes of suns, in
comparison with which his world was a mere speck of dust; yet to him
these universes were globes or lanterns which some divinity had hung in
the sky.

One of the most fascinating illustrations of how the mind runs ahead of
the senses is the story of the planet Uranus, which, less than two
hundred years ago, had never been beheld by the eye of man. A
mathematician seated in his study, working over the observations of
other planets, their motions in relation to their mass and distance,
discovered that their behavior was not as it should be. At certain times
none of them were in quite the right place, and he decided that this
variation must be due to the existence of an unknown body. He worked out
the problem of what must be the mass and the exact orbit of this body,
in order for it to be responsible for the variations observed; and when
he had completed these calculations, he announced to the astronomical
world, "Turn your telescopes to a certain spot in the heavens at a
certain minute of a certain night, and you will find a new planet of a
certain size." And so for the first time the human senses became aware
of a fact, which by themselves they might not have discovered in all
eternity.

Now, the importance of exact knowledge concerning a new planet may not
be apparent to the ordinary man; but if the thing which is discovered
is, for example, an unknown ray which will move an engine or destroy a
cancer, then we realize the worthwhileness of research, and the masters
of the world's commerce are willing to give here and there a pittance
for the increase of such knowledge. But men of science, who have by this
time come to a sense of their own dignity and importance, understand
that there is no knowledge about reality which is useless, no research
into nature which is wasted. You might say that to describe and classify
the fleas which inhabit the bodies of rats and ground-squirrels, and to
study under the microscope the bacteria which live in the blood of these
fleas--that this would be an occupation hardly worthy of the divinity
that is in man. But presently, as a result of this knowledge about fleas
and flea diseases being in existence and available, a bacteriologist
discovers the secret of the dread bubonic plague, which hundreds of
times in past history has wiped out a great part of the population of
Europe and Asia.

Mark Twain tells in his "Connecticut Yankee" how his hero was able to
overcome the wizard Merlin, because he knew in advance of an eclipse of
the sun. And this was fiction, of course; but if you prefer fact, you
may read in the memoirs of Houdin, the French conjurer, how he was able
to bring the Arab tribes into subjection to the French government by
depriving the great chieftains of their strength. He gathered them into
a theatre, and invited their mighty men upon the stage, and there was an
iron weight, and they were able to lift it when Houdin permitted, and
not to lift it when he forbade. These noble barbarians had never heard
of the electro-magnet, and could not conceive of a force that could
operate through a solid wooden floor beneath their feet.

Such things, trivial as they are, serve to illustrate the difference
between ignorance and knowledge, and the power which knowledge gives.
The man who knows is godlike to those who do not know; he may enslave
them, he may do what he pleases with their lives, and they are powerless
to help themselves. Anyone who would help them must begin by giving them
knowledge, real knowledge. There is no such thing as freedom without
knowledge, and it must be the best knowledge, it must be new knowledge;
he who goes against new knowledge armed with old knowledge is like the
Chinese who went out to meet machine-guns with bows and arrows, and with
umbrellas over their heads.

Once upon a time knowledge was the prerogative of kings and priests and
ruling castes; but this supreme power has been wrested from them, and
this is the greatest step in human progress so far taken. "Seek and ye
shall find," is the law concerning knowledge today. "Knock, and it shall
be opened unto you." In this, my Book of the Mind, I say to you that
knowledge is your priceless birthright, and that you should repudiate
all men and all institutions and all creeds and all formulas which seek
to keep this heritage from you. Beware of men who bid you believe
something because it is told you, or because your fathers believed it,
or because it is written in some ancient book, or embodied in some
ancient ceremonial. Break the chains of these venerable spells; and at
the same time beware of the modern spells which have been contrived to
replace them! Beware of party cries and shibboleths, the idols of the
forum, as Plato called them, the prejudices which are set as snares for
your feet. Beware of cant--that paraphernalia of noble sentiments,
artificially manufactured by politicians and newspapers for the purpose
of blinding you to their knaveries. Remember that you live in a world of
class conflicts; at every moment of your life your mind is besieged by
secret enemies, it is exposed to poison gas-clouds deliberately released
by people who seek to make use of you for purposes which are theirs and
not yours. In the fairy-tales we used to love, the hero was provided
with magic protection against the perils of those times; but what hero
and what magic will guard the modern man against the propaganda of
militarism, nationalism, and capitalist imperialism?

The mind is like the body in that it can be trained, it can be taught
sound habits, its powers can be enormously increased. There are many
books on mind and memory training, some of which are useful, and some of
which are trash. There is an English system widely advertised, called
"Pelmanism," of which I have personally made no test, but it has won
endorsements of a great many people who do not give their endorsements
lightly.

This is the subject of applied psychology, and just as in medicine, or
in law, or in any of the arts, there is a vast amount of charlatanry,
but there is also genuine knowledge being patiently accumulated and
standardized. When the United States government had to have an army in a
hurry it did not make its millions of young men into teamsters or
aviators at random. It used the new methods of determining reaction
times, and testing the coordination of mind and body. Recently I visited
the Whittier Reform School in California, where delinquent boys are
educated by the state. A boy had been set to work in the tailor shop,
and it had been found that he was unable to make the buttons and the
buttonholes of a coat come in the right place. For nine years the state
of California, and before it the state of Georgia, had been laboring to
teach this boy to make buttons and buttonholes meet; the effort had cost
some five thousand dollars, to say nothing of all the coats which were
spoiled, and all the mental suffering of the victim and his teachers.
Finally someone persuaded the state of California to spend a few
thousand dollars and install a psychological bureau for the purpose of
testing all the inmates of the institution; so by a half hour's
examination the fact was developed that this boy was mentally defective.
Although he was eighteen years old in body, his mind was only eight
years old, and so he would never be able to achieve the feat of making
buttons and buttonholes meet.

This is a new science which you may read about in Terman's "The
Measurement of Intelligence." By testing normal children, it is
established that certain tasks can be performed at certain ages. A child
of three can point to his eyes, his nose and his mouth; he can repeat a
sentence of six syllables, and repeat two digits, and give his family
name. Older children are asked to look at a picture and then tell what
they saw; to note omissions in a picture, to arrange blocks according to
their weight, to arrange words into sentences, to note absurdities in
statements, to count backwards, and to make change. Children of fifteen
are asked to interpret fables, to reverse the hands of a clock, and so
on. Of course there are always variations; every child will be better at
some kinds of tests than at others. But by having a wide variety, and
taking the average, you establish a "mental age" for the child--which
may be widely different from its physical age. You may find some whose
minds have stopped growing altogether, and can only be made to grow by
special methods of education. Enlightened communities are now conducting
separate schools for defective children--replacing the old-fashioned
schoolmaster who wore out birch-rods trying to force poor little
wretches to learn what was beyond their power.

In the same way psychology can be applied in industry, and in the
detection of crime. Here, too, there is a vast amount of "fake," but
also the beginning of a science. Our laws do not as yet permit the use
of automatic writing and the hypnotic trance in the investigation of
crime, but they have sometimes permitted some of the simpler tests, for
example, those of memory association. The examiner prepares a list of a
hundred names of objects, and reads those names one after another, and
asks the person he is investigating to name the first thing which is
suggested to him by each word in turn. "Engine" will suggest "steam," or
perhaps it will suggest "train"; "coat" will suggest "trousers," or
perhaps it will suggest "pocket," and so on. The examiner holds a
stop-watch, and notes what fraction of a second each one of these
reactions takes. The ordinary man, who is not trying to conceal
anything, will give all his associations promptly, and the reaction
times will be approximately alike. But suppose the man has just murdered
somebody with an axe, and buried the body in a cellar with a fire
shovel, and taken a pocketbook, and a watch, and a locket, and a number
of various objects, and climbed out of the cellar window by breaking the
glass; and now suppose that in his list of a hundred objects the
psychologist introduces unexpectedly a number of these things. In each
case the first memory association of the criminal will be one which he
does not wish to give. He will have to find another, and that inevitably
takes time. One or two such delays might be accidental; but if every
time there is any suggestion of the murder, or the method or scene of
the murder, there is noticed confusion and delay, you may be sure that
the conscious mind is interfering with the subconscious mind. The
difference between the conscious and the subconscious mind is always
possible to detect, and if you are permitted to be thorough in your
experiments, you can make certain what is in the subconscious mind that
the conscious mind is trying to conceal.

Here, as everywhere in life, knowledge is power, and expert knowledge
confers mastery over the shrewdest untrained mind. The only trouble is
that under our present social system the trained mind is very apt to be
working in the interest of class privilege. The psychologist who is
employed by a great corporation, or by a police department, may be as
little worthy of trust as a chemist who is engaged in making poison
gases to be used by capitalist imperialism for the extermination of its
rebellious slaves. But what this proves is not that scientific knowledge
is untrustworthy, but merely that the workers must acquire it, they must
have their own organizations and their own experiments in every field.
To give knowledge to the masses of mankind, slow and painful as the
process seems, is now the most important task confronting the
enlightened thinker.

The method of psychoanalysis gives us also much insight into the
phenomena of genius, and the hope that we may ultimately come to
understand it. At present we are embarrassed because genius is so often
closely allied to eccentricity; the supernormal appears in connection
with the subnormal--and it is often hard to tell them apart. Great poets
and painters in revolt against a world of smug commercialism, adopt
irresponsibility as their religion; they live in a world of their own,
they dress like freaks, they refuse to pay their debts, or to be true to
their wives. They are followed by a host of disciples, who adopt the
defects of the master as a substitute for his qualities. And so there
grows up a perverted notion of what genius is, and wholly false
standards of artistic quality. There is nothing mankind needs more than
sure and exact tests of mental superiority; not merely the ability to
acquire languages and to solve mathematical equations, but the ability
to carry in the mind intense emotions, while at the same time shaping
and organizing them by the logical faculty, selecting masses of facts
and weaving them into a pattern calculated to awaken the emotion in
others. This is the last and greatest work of the human spirit, and to
select the men who can do it, and foster their activity, is the ultimate
purpose of all true science.




CHAPTER XVII

THE CONDUCT OF THE MIND

     (Concludes the Book of the Mind with a study of how to preserve and
     develop its powers for the protection of our lives and the lives of
     all men.)


Someone wrote me the other day, asking, "When is the best time to
acquire knowledge?" I answer, "The time is now." It is easier to learn
things when you are young, but you cannot be young when you want to be,
and if you are old, the best time to acquire knowledge is when you are
old. It is true that the brain-cells seem to harden like the body, and
it is less easy for them to take on new impressions; but it can be done,
and just as Seneca began to learn Greek at eighty, I know several old
men whom the recent war has shaken out of their grooves of thought and
compelled to deal with modern ideas.

But if you are young, then so much the better! Then the divine thrill of
curiosity is keenest; then your memory is fresh, and can be trained;
your mind is plastic, and you can form sound habits. You can teach
yourself to respect truth and to seek it, you can teach yourself
accuracy, open-mindedness, flexibility, persistence in the search for
understanding.

First of all, I think, is accuracy. Learn to think straight! Let your
mind be as a sharp scalpel, penetrating unrealities and falsehoods,
cutting its way to the facts. When you set out to deal with a certain
subject, acquire mastery of it, so that you can say, "I know." And yet,
never be too sure that you know! Never be so sure, that you are not
willing to consider new facts, and to change your way of thinking if it
should be necessary. I look about me at the world, and see tigers and
serpents, dynamite and poison gas and forty-two centimeter shells--yet I
see nothing in the world so deadly to men as an error of the mind. Look
at the mental follies about you! Look at the prejudices, the delusions,
the lies deliberately maintained--and realize the waste of it all, the
pity of it all!

Every man, it seems, has his pet delusions, which he hugs to his bosom
and loves because they are his own. If you try to deprive him of those
delusions, it is as though you tore from a woman's arms the child she
has borne. I have written a book called "The Profits of Religion," and
never a week passes that there do not come to me letters from people who
tell me they have read this book with pleasure and profit, they are
grateful to me for teaching them so much about the follies and delusions
of mankind, and it is all right and all true, save for two or three
pages, in which I deal with the special hobby which happens to be their
hobby! What I say about all the other creeds is correct--but I fail to
understand that the Mormon religion is a dignified and inspired
religion, a gift from on high, and if only I would carefully study the
"Book of Mormon," I would realize my error! Or it is all right, except
what I say about the Christian Scientists, or the Theosophists, or
perhaps one particular sect of the Theosophists, who are different from
the others. Today there lies upon my desk a letter from a man who has
read many of my books, and now is grief-stricken because he must part
company from me; he discovers that I permit myself to speak
disrespectfully about the Seventh Day Adventist religion, whereas he is
prepared to show the marvels of biblical prophecy now achieving
themselves in the world. How could any save a divinely revealed religion
have foreseen the present movement to establish the Sabbath by law? Yes,
and presently I shall see the last atom of the prophecy fulfilled--there
will be a death penalty for failure to obey the Sabbath law!

Cultivate the great and precious virtue of open-mindedness. Keep your
thinking free, not merely from outer compulsions, but from the more
deadly compulsions of its own making--from prejudices and superstitions.
The prejudices and superstitions of mankind are like those diseased
mental states which are discovered by the psychoanalyst; what he calls a
"complex" in the subconscious mind, a tangle or knot which is a center
of disturbance, and keeps the whole being in a state of confusion. Each
group of men, each sect or class, have their precious dogmas, their
shibboleths, their sacred words and stock phrases which set their whole
beings aflame with fanaticism. They have also their phobias, their words
of terror, which cannot be spoken in their presence without causing a
brain-storm.

At present the dread word of our time is "Communist."

You can scarcely say the word without someone telephoning for the
police. And yet, when you meet a Communist, what is he? A worn and
fragile student, who has thought out a way to make the world a better
place to live in, and whose crime is that he tells others about his
idea! Or perhaps you belong to the other side, and then your word of
terror is the word "Capitalist." You meet a Capitalist, and what do you
find? Very likely you find a man who is kindly, generous in his personal
impulses, but bewildered, possibly a little frightened, still more
irritated and made stubborn. So you realize that nearly all men are
better than the institutions and systems under which they live; you
realize the urgent need of applying your reasoning powers to the problem
of social reorganization.

Cultivate also, in the affairs of your mind, the ancient virtue of
humility. There is an oldtime poem, which perhaps was in your school
readers, "Oh, why should the spirit of mortal be proud?" My answer is,
for innumerable reasons. The spirit of mortal should be proud and must
be proud because life throbs in it, and because life is a marvelous
thing, and the excitement of life is perpetual. Yesterday I met a young
mother; and of what avail is all the pessimism of poets against the
pride of a young mother? "Oh!" she cried, and her face lighted up with
delight. "He said 'Goo'!" Yes, he said "Goo!"--and never since the world
began had there been a baby which had achieved that marvel. Presently it
will be, "Look, look, he is trying to walk!" Then he will be getting
marks at school, and presently he will be displaying signs of genius.
Always it will take an effort of the mind of that young mother to
realize that there are other children in the world as wonderful as her
own; and perhaps it will take many generations of mental effort before
there will be young mothers capable of realizing that some other child
is more wonderful than her child.

In other words, it is by a definite process of broadening our minds that
we come to realize the lives of others, to transfer to them the interest
we naturally take in our own lives, and to admit them to a state of
equality with ourselves. This is one of the services the mind must
render for us; it is the process of civilizing us. And there is another,
and yet more important task, which is to make clear to us the fact that
we do not altogether make this life of ours, that there is a universe of
power and wisdom which is not ours, but on which we draw. "The fear of
the Lord is the beginning of wisdom," said the Psalmist. We know now
that fear is an ugly emotion, destructive to life; but it may be
purified and made into a true humility, which every thinking man must
feel towards life and its miracles.

Also the man will have joy, because it is given him to share the high,
marvelous adventure of being. To the pleasures of the body there is a
limit, and it comes quickly; but the pleasures of the mind are infinite,
and no one who truly understands them can have a moment of boredom in
life. To a man who possesses the key to modern thought, who knows what
knowledge is and where to look for it, the life of the mind is a
panorama of delight perpetually unrolled before him. To the minds of our
ancestors there was one universe; but to our minds there are many
universes, and new ones continually discovered.

The only question is, which one will you choose? Will you choose the
universe of outer space, the material world of infinity? Consider the
smallest insect that you can see, crawling upon the surface of the
earth; small as that insect is in relation to the earth, it is not so
small, by millions of times, as is the earth in relation to the universe
made visible to our eyes by the high-power telescope, plus the
photographic camera, plus the microscope. If you want to know the
miracles of this world of space, read Arrhenius' "The Life of the
Universe," or Simon Newcomb's "Sidelights on Astronomy." Suffice it here
to say that we have a chemistry of the stars, by means of the
spectroscope; that we can measure the speed and direction of stars by
the same means; that we have learned to measure the size of the stars,
and are studying stars which we cannot even see! And then along comes
Einstein, with his theories of "relativity," and makes it seem that we
have to revise a great part of this knowledge to allow for the fact that
not merely everything we look at, but also we ourselves, are flying
every which way through space!

Or will you choose the universe of the atom, the infinity of the
material world followed the other way, so to speak? Big as is the
universe in relation to our world, and big as is our world in relation
to the insect that crawls on it, the insect is bigger yet in relation to
the molecules which compose its body; and these in turn are millions of
millions of times bigger than the atoms which compose them; and then,
behold, in the atom there are millions of millions of electrons--tiny
particles of electric energy! We cannot see these infinitely minute
things, any more than we can see the electricity which runs our trolley
cars; but we can see their effects, and we can count and measure them,
and deal with them in complicated mathematical formulas, and be just as
certain of their existence as we are of the dust under our feet. If you
wish to explore this wonderland, read Duncan's "The New Knowledge," or
Dr. Henry Smith Williams' "Miracles of Science."

Or will you choose the universe of the subconscious, our racial past
locked up in the secret chambers of our mind? Or will you choose the
universe of the superconscious, the infinity of genius manifested in the
arts? By the device of art man not merely creates new life, he tests it,
he weighs it and measures it, he tries experiments with it, as the
physicist with the molecule and the astronomer with light. He finds out
what works, and what does not work, and so develops his moral and
spiritual muscles, training himself for his task as maker of life.

Written words can give but a feeble idea of the wonders that are found
in these enchanted regions of the mind. Here are palaces of splendor
beyond imagining, here are temples with sacred shrines, and
treasure-chambers full of gold and priceless jewels. Into these places
we enter as Aladdin in the ancient tale; we are the masters here, and
all that we see is ours. He who has once got access to it--he possesses
not merely the magic lamp, he possesses all the wonderful fairy
properties of all the tales of our childhood. His is the Tarnhelm and
the magic ring which gives him power over his foes; his is the sword
Excalibur which none can break, and the silver bullet which brings down
all game, and the flying carpet upon which to travel over the earth, and
the house made of ginger-bread, and the three wishes which always come
true, and the philter of love, and the elixir of youth, and the music of
the spheres, and--who knows, some day he may come upon heaven, with St.
Peter and his golden key, and the seraphim singing, and the happy blest
conversing!




PART TWO

THE BOOK OF THE BODY




CHAPTER XVIII

THE UNITY OF THE BODY

     (Discusses the body as a whole, and shows that health is not a
     matter of many different organs and functions, but is one problem
     of one organism.)


The reader who has followed our argument this far will understand that
we are seldom willing to think of the body as separate from the mind.
The body is a machine, to be sure, but it is a machine that has a
driver, and while it is possible for a sound machine to have a drunken
and irresponsible driver, such a machine is not apt to remain sound very
long. Frequently, when there is trouble with the machine, we find the
fault to be with the driver; in other words, we find that what is needed
for the body is a change in the mind.

If you wish to have a sound body, and to keep it sound as long as
possible, the first problem for you to settle is what you want to make
of your life; you must have a purpose, and confront the tasks of life
with energy and interest. What is the use of talking about health to a
man who has no moral purpose? He may answer--indeed, I have heard
victims of alcoholism answer--"Let me alone. I have a right to go to
hell in my own way."

I am aware, of course, that the opposite of the proposition is equally
true. A man cannot enjoy much mental health while he has a sick body. It
is a good deal like the old question, Which comes first, the hen or the
egg? The mind and the body are bound up together, and you may try to
deal with each by turn, but always you find yourself having to deal with
both. Most physicians have a tendency to overlook the mind, and
Christian Scientists make a religion of overlooking the body, and each
pays the penalty in greatly reduced effectiveness.

My first criticism of medical science, as it exists today, is that it
has a tendency to concentrate upon organs and functions, and to overlook
the central unity of the system. You will find a doctor who specializes
in the stomach and its diseases, and is apt to talk as if the stomach
were a thing that went around in the world all by itself. He will
discuss the question of what goes into your stomach, and overlook to
point out to you that your stomach is nourished by your blood-stream,
which is controlled by your nervous system, which in turn is controlled
by hope, by ambition, by love, by all the spiritual elements of your
being. A single pulse of anger or of fear may make more trouble with the
contents of your stomach than the doctor's pepsins and digestive
ferments can remedy in a week.

Of course, you may do yourself some purely local injury, and so for a
time have a purely local problem. You may smash your finger, and that is
a problem of a finger; but neglect it for a few days, and let blood
poison set in, and you will be made aware that the human body is one
organism, and also that, in spite of any metaphysical theories you may
hold, your body does sometimes dominate and control your mind.

Some one has said that the blood is the life; and certainly the blood is
both the symbol and the instrument of the body's unity. The blood
penetrates to all parts of the body and maintains and renews them. If
the blood is normal, the work of renewal does not often fail. If there
is a failure of renewal--that is, a disease--we shall generally find an
abnormal condition of the blood. The distribution of the blood is
controlled by the heart, a great four-chambered pump. One chamber drives
the blood to the lungs, a mass of fine porous membranes, where it comes
into contact with the air, and gives off the poisons which it has
accumulated in its course through the body, and takes up a fresh supply
of oxygen. By another chamber of the heart the blood is then sucked out
of the lungs, and by the next chamber it is driven to every corner of
the body. It takes to every cell of the body the protein materials which
are necessary for the body's renewal, and also the fuel materials which
are to be burned to supply the body's energy; also it takes some thirty
million millions of microscopic red corpuscles which are the carriers of
oxygen, and an even greater number of the white corpuscles, which are
the body's scavengers, its defenders from invasion by outside germs.

There are certain outer portions of the body, such as nails and the
scales of the skin, which are dead matter, produced by the body and
pushed out from it and no longer nourished by the blood. But all the
still living parts of the body are fed at every instant by the stream of
life. Each cell in the body takes the fuel which it needs for its
activities, and combines it with the oxygen brought by the red
corpuscles; and when the task of power-production has been achieved, the
cell puts back into the blood-stream, not merely the carbon dioxide, but
many complex chemical products--ammonia, uric acid, and the "fatigue
poisons," indol, phenol and skatol. The blood-stream bears these along,
and delivers some to the sweat glands to be thrown out, and some to the
kidneys, and the rest to the lungs.

All of this complicated mass of activities is in normal health perfectly
regulated and timed by the nervous system. You lie down to sleep, and
your muscles rest, and the vital activities slow up, your heart beats
only faintly; but let something frighten you, and you sit up, and these
faculties leap into activity, your heart begins to pound, driving a
fresh supply of blood and vital energy. You jump up and run, and these
organs all set to work at top speed. If they did not do so, your muscles
would have no fresh energy; they would become paralyzed by the fatigue
poisons, and you would be, as we say, exhausted.

All the rest of the body might be described as a shelter and accessory
to the life-giving blood-stream; all the rest is the blood-stream's
means of protecting itself and renewing itself. The stomach is to digest
and prepare new blood material, the teeth are to crush it and grind it,
the hands are to seize it, the eyes are to see it, the brain is to
figure out its whereabouts. Man, in his egotism, imagines his little
world as the center of the universe; but the wise old fellow who lives
somewhere deep in our subconsciousness and looks after the welfare of
our blood-stream--he has far better reason for believing that all our
consciousness and our personality exist for him!

Now, disease is some failure of this blood-stream properly to renew
itself or properly to protect itself and its various subsidiary organs.
When you find yourself with a disease, you call in a doctor; and unless
this doctor is a modern and progressive man, he makes the mistake of
assuming that the disease is in the particular organ where it shows
itself. You have, let us say, "follicular tonsilitis." (These medical
men have a love for long names, which have the effect of awing you, and
convincing you that you are in desperate need of attention.) Your throat
is sore, your tonsils are swollen and covered with white spots; so the
doctor hauls out his little black bag, and makes a swab of cotton and
dips it, say in lysol, and paints your tonsils. He knows by means of the
microscope that your tonsils are covered and filled with a mass of
foreign germs which are feeding upon them; also he knows that lysol
kills these germs, and he gives you a gargle for the same purpose, puts
you to bed, and gradually the swelling goes down, and he tells you that
he has cured you, and sends you a bill for services rendered. But maybe
the swelling does not go down; maybe it gets worse and you die. Then he
tells your family that nature was to blame. Nature is to blame for your
death, but it never occurs to anyone to ask what nature may have had to
do with your recovery.

I do not know how many thousands of diseases medical science has now
classified. And for each separate disease there are complex formulas,
and your system is pumped full of various mineral and vegetable
substances which have been found to affect it in certain ways. Perhaps
you have a fever; then we give you a substance which reduces the
temperature of your blood-stream. It never occurs to us to reflect that
maybe nature has some purpose of her own in raising the temperature of
the blood; that this might be, so to speak, the heat of conflict, a
struggle she is waging to drive out invading germs; and that possibly it
would be better for the temperature to stay up until the battle is over.
Or maybe the heart is failing; then our medical man is so eager to get
something into the system that he cannot wait for the slow process of
the mouth and the stomach, he shoots some strychnine directly into the
blood-stream. It does not occur to him to reflect that maybe the heart
is slowing up because it is overloaded with fatigue poisons, of which it
cannot rid itself, and that the effect of stimulating it into fresh
activity will be to leave it more dangerously poisoned than before.

We are dealing here with processes which our ancient mother nature has
been carrying on for a long time, and which she very thoroughly
understands. We ought, therefore, to be sure that we know what is the
final effect of our actions; more especially we ought to be sure that we
understand the cause of the evil, so that we may remove it, and not
simply waste our time treating symptoms, putting plasters on a cancer.
This is the fundamental problem of health; and in order to make clear
what I mean, I am going to begin by telling a personal experience, a
test which I made of medical science some twelve or fourteen years ago,
in connection with one of the simplest and most external of the body's
problems--the hair. First I will tell you what medical science was able
to do for my hair, and second what I myself was able to do, when I put
my own wits to work on the problem.

I had been overworking, and was in a badly run down condition. I was
having headaches, insomnia, ulcerated teeth, many symptoms of a general
breakdown; among these I noticed that my hair was coming out. I decided
that it was foolish to become bald before I was thirty, and that I would
take a little time off, and spend a little money and have my hair
attended to. I did not know where to go, but I wanted the best authority
available, so I wrote to the superintendent of the largest hospital in
New York, asking him for the name of a reliable specialist in diseases
of the scalp. The superintendent replied by referring me to a certain
physician, who was the hospital's "consulting dermatologist," and I went
to see this physician, whose home and office were just off Fifth Avenue.

He examined my scalp, and told me that I had dandruff in my hair, and
that he would give me a prescription which would remove this dandruff
and cause my hair to stop falling out. He charged me ten dollars for the
visit, which in those days was more money than it is at present. Being
of an inquiring turn of mind, I tried to get my money's worth by
learning what there was to learn about the human hair. I questioned this
gentleman, and he told me that the hair is a dead substance, and that
its only life is in the root. He explained that barbers often persuade
people to have their hair singed, to keep it from falling out, and that
this was an utterly futile procedure, and likewise all shampooing and
massage, which only caused the hair to fall out more quickly. It was
better even not to wash the hair too often. All that was needed was a
mixture of chemicals to kill the dandruff germs; and so I had the
prescription put up at a drug store, and for a couple of years I
religiously used it according to order, and it had upon my hair
absolutely no effect whatever.

So here was the best that medical science could do. But still, I did not
want to be bald, so I went among the health cranks--people who
experiment without license from the medical schools. Also, I
experimented upon myself, and now I know something about the human hair,
something entirely different from what the rich and successful
"consulting dermatologist" taught me, but which has kept me from
becoming entirely bald:

First, the human hair is made by the body, and it is made, like
everything else in the body, out of the blood-stream. It is perfectly
true that the dandruff germ gets into the roots, and makes trouble, and
that the process of killing this germ can be helped by chemicals; but it
does not take a ten-dollar prescription, it only takes ten cents' worth
of borax and salt from the corner grocery. (Put a little into a saucer,
moisten it, rub it into the scalp, and wash it out again.) But
infinitely more important than this is the fact that healthy hair roots
are a product of healthy blood, and that unhealthy blood produces sick
hair roots, which cannot hold in the hair. Most important of all is the
fact that in order to make healthy hair roots the blood must flow fully
and freely to these hair roots; whereas I had been accustomed for many
hours every day of my life to clap around my scalp a tight band which
almost entirely stopped the circulation of the life-giving blood to my
sick hair roots. In other words, by wearing civilized hats, I was
literally starving my hair to death.

As soon as I realized this I took off my civilized hat, and have never
worn one since. As a rule, I don't wear anything. On the few occasions
when I go into the city, I wear a soft cap. Now and then I experience
inconvenience from this--the elevator boy in some apartment house tells
me to come in by the delivery entrance, or the porter of a sleeping-car
will not let me in at all. I remember discussing these embarrassments
with Jack London, who went even further in his defiance of civilization,
and wore a soft shirt. It was his custom, he said, to knock down the
elevator boys and sleeping-car porters. I answered that that might be
all right for him, because he could do it; whereas I was reduced to the
painful expedient of explaining politely why I went about without the
customary symbols of my economic superiority.

The "consulting dermatologist" had very solemnly and elaborately warned
me concerning the danger of moving my hair too violently, and thus
causing it to come out; but now my investigations brought out the fact
that moving the hair, that is, massaging the scalp, increases the flow
of blood to the hair roots, and further increases resistance to disease.
As for causing the hair to fall out, I discovered that the more quickly
you cause a hair to fall out, the greater is the chance of your getting
another hair. If a hair is allowed to die in the root, it kills that
root forever, but if it is pulled out before it dies, the root will make
a new hair. Every "beauty parlor" specialist knows this; she knows that
if a hair is pulled, it grows back bigger and stronger than ever, and so
to pull out hair is the last thing you must do if you want to get rid of
hairs!

I know a certain poet, who happens to have been well-endowed with
physical graces by our mother nature. He finds it worth while to
preserve them--they being accessory to those amorous experiences which
form so large a part of the theme of poetry. Anyhow, this poet values
his beautiful hair, and you will see him sitting in front of his
fireplace, reading a book, and meanwhile his fingers run here and there
over his head, and he grabs a bunch of hair and pulls and twists it. He
has cultivated this habit for many years, and as a result his hair is as
thick and heavy as the "fuzzy-wuzzies" of Kipling's poem. It is a
favorite sport of this poet to lure some rival poet into a contest. He
will mildly suggest that they take hold of each other's hair and have a
tug of war. The rival poet, all unsuspecting, will accept the challenge,
and my friend will proceed to haul him all over the place, to the
accompaniment of howls of anguish from the victim, and howls of glee
from the victor, who has, of course, a scalp as tough as a rhinoceros
hide.

I am not a poet, and it is not important that I should be beautiful, and
I have been too busy to remember to pull my hair; but by giving up tight
hats, and by limiting the amount of my overworking, I have managed to
keep what hair I had left when the hair specialist had got through with
me. I tell this anecdote at the beginning of my discussion of health,
because it illustrates so well the factors which appear in every case of
disease, and which you must understand in seeking to remedy the trouble.

We have a phrase which has come down to us from the ancient Latins,
"vis medicatrix naturae," which means the healing power of nature. So
long ago men realized that it is our ancient mother who heals our
wounds, and not the physician. Out of this have grown the cults of
