
This was the first serious conversation that had 
taken place between Mr. and Mrs. Hartley on the 
subject of the education of their child. As their 
thoughts became more and more steadily directed to 
the subject, they saw their duty clearer and clearer. 
At least, such was the case with Mrs. Hartley, for 
her's was the task of making the first impression 
upon her child's mind — the first and most lasting 
impression. Upon the character of the mother de 
pends, almost entirely, the future character and' 
position of the child. No matter how wise and 
good the father may be, his influence will do but 
little if opposed to that of an injudicious mother. 
Take ten instances where men have risen from 
humble stations into eminence, and nine of these 
at least will be found the result of a mother's in- 
fluence. Her love is a different one; it is more 
concentrated— and the more we love an object, the 
more accurate becomes our perception of tlie means 
of benefitting that object. The father is, usually, 


all absorbed in the pursuit of a business or profes- 
sion by which to secure the temporal good of his 
family, and has little time, and too often less incli- 
nation to devote himself to his children. When 
he retires into his family, his mind seeks rest from 
the over excitements of the day, and he is unpre- 
pared to give to his children judicious instruction, 
or to administer wise correction. He cannot adopt 
a system, and regularly carry it out, because he is 
with them only for a short time each day, and can- 
not know their characters thoroughly, nor the 
means that best re-act upon and keep their evils 
quiescent. Upon the mother devolves, therefore, 
of necessity, the high and important duty of mould- 
ing the characters of her children — of impressing 
them for good or evil — of giving them true strength 
for their trials in after life. 

Sensibly did Mrs. Hartley feel this. The path 
of duty lay clearly defined before her, and she 
shrunk not from walking therein. Love for her 
child, and a high religious principle, were her 
prompters — that religious principle was a reverence 
for God, and a purified love of the neighbor. Tt 
was a religion that showed itself less in external 
acts of piety (though these were never omitted) 
than in an orderly and blameless life — an upright 
walk and a chaste conversation. Her charity con- 



 

sisted in the faithful performance of all known du- 
ties — the filling up of her measure of usefulness in
the sphere where Providence had placed her. 

