What did they think was the matter with it ?" 
" I don't know, sir ; — they said it was outlandish, and what 
a figure I looked in it." 
" Well, certainly that was not very polite. Put it on and 
let me see." 
Ellen obeyed. 
" I am not the best judge of ladies' bonnets, it is true," 
said he, " but I can see nothing about it that is not perfectly 
proper and suitable, — nothing in the world ! So that is what 
has kept you bareheaded all day ? Didn't your mother wish 
you to wear that bonnet?" 
" Yes, sir." 
" Then that ought to be enough for you. Will you be 
ashamed of what she approved, because some people that 
haven't probably half her sense choose to make merry with 
it ? — is that right ?" he said gently, " Is that honouring her 
as she deserves ?" 
" No, sir," said Ellen, looking up into his face, " but I 
never thought of that before ; — I am sorry." 
" Never mind being laughed at, my child. If your mo- 
ther says a thing is right, that's enough for you — let them 
laugh !" 
" I won't be ashamed of my bonnet any more," said Ellen, 
tying it on ; " but they made me very unhappy about it, and 
very angry too." 
" I am sorry for that," said her friend, gravely. " Have 
you quite got over it, Ellen ?" 
" O yes, sir, — long ago." 
" Are you sure V 
" I am not angry now, sir." 
" Is there no unkindness left towards the people who 
laughed at you ?" 
" I don't like them much," said Ellen ; — "how can I ?" 
"You cannot of course like the company of ill-behaved 
people, and I do not wish that you should ; but you can and 
ought to feel just as kindly disposed towards them as if they 
had never offended you — just as willing and inclined to please 
them or do them good. Now, could you offer Miss — what's 
her name ? — some of your candies with as hearty good-will 
as you could before she laughed at you ?" 
" No, sir, I couldn't. I don't feel as if I ever wished to 
see them again." 
" Then, my dear Ellen, you have something to do, if you 
were in earne.-t in the resolve you made this morning. ' If 
ye forgive unto men their trespasses, my Heavenly Father 
will also forgive you ; but if ye forgive not men their trespasses, neither will my f;ither forgive your trespasses !' " 
He was silent, and so was Ellen, for some time. His words 
had raised a struggle in her mind ; and she kept her face 
turned towards the shore, so that her bonnet shielded it from 
view; but she did not in the legist know what she was looking 
at. The sun had been some time descending through a sky 
of cloudless splendor, and now was just kissing the mountain tops of the western horizon. Slowly and with great 
majesty he sank behind the distant blue line, till only a glittering edge appeared, — and then that was gone. There were 
no clouds hanging over his setting, to be gilded and purpled 
by the parting rays, but a region of glory long remained, to 
show where his path had been. 
The eyes of both were fixed upon this beautiful scene, but 
only one was thinking of it. Just as the last glimpse of the 
sun disappeared Ellen turned her face, bright again, towards 
her companion. He was intently gazing towards the hills 
