thoughts began to come into her head of that which was 
more pure still, and more steadfast. How long they have 
been shining, thought Ellen ; — going on just the same from 
night to night and from year to year, — as if they never would 
come to an end. But they ivUl come to an end — the time 
ivill come when they will stop shining — bright as they are ; 
and then, when all they are swept away, then heaven will be 
only begun ; that will never end ! — never. And in a few 
years we who were so happy a year ago and are so sorry 
now, shall be all glad together there, — this will be all over ! 
And then as she looked, and the tears sprang to her 
thoughts, a favorite hymn of Alice's came to her remem- 
brance. 

Ye stars are but the shining dust 

Of my divine abode ; 
The pavements of those heavenly courts 

Where I shall see my God. 







The Father of eternal lights 

Shall there his beams display ; 
And not one moment's darkness mix 

With that unvaried day. 

" Not one moment's darkness !" " Oh," thought little Ellen, — " there are a great many here !" — Still gazing up at the 
bright calm heavens, while the tears ran fast down her face, and 
fell into her lap, there came trooping through Ellen's mind 
many of tliose ^vords she had been in the habit of reading to 
her mother and Alice, and which she knew and loved so well. 

"And there shall be no night there; and they need no 
candle, neither light of the sun ; for the Lord God giveth 
them light : and they shall reign for ever and ever. And 
there shall be no more curse, but the throne of God and of 
the Lamb shall be in it ; and his servants shall serve him : 
and they shall see his face ; and his name shall be in their 
foreheads. And God shall wipe away all tears from their 
eyes ; and there shall be no more death, neither sorrow, nor 
crying, neither shall there be any more pain : for the former 
things have passed away. 

" And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come 
again and receive you unto myself ; that where I am, there 
ye may be also." 

While Ellen was yet going over and over these precious 
things, with a strong sense of their preciousness in all her 
throbbing grief, there came to her ear through the perfect 
stillness of the night the faint, far-off, not-to-be-mistaken, 
sound of quick-coming horse's feet, — nearer and nearer every 
