"Certainly," replied Wilkinson.

The money was paid down.

"So much for not stopping on the way to business for a glass of brandy."

This thought was spontaneous in the mind of Wilkinson. After his
customer had left, he fell into a musing state, in which many thoughts
were presented, that, from the pain and self-condemnation they
occasioned, he tried to push from his mind. But he was not able to do
this. Much of the history of his daily life for the past few years
presented itself, and, in reviewing it, many things stood out in bold
relief, which were before regarded as of little moment. Not until now
did he clearly see the dangerous position in which he stood.

"So near the brink of ruin!" he sighed. "I knew the path to be a
dangerous one; I knew that other feet had slipped; but felt secure in
my own strength. Ah! that strength was weakness itself. I a drunkard!"
He shuddered as the thought presented itself. "And Mary, the hopeless,
brokenhearted wife of one lost to every ennobling sentiment of the
human mind! It is awful to think of it!"

Wilkinson was deeply disturbed. For some time longer his mind dwelt on
this theme: then, in the depths of his own thoughts, and in the
presence of Heaven, he resolved to be in safety, by avoiding the path
of danger; to put forever from his lips the cup from which he had so
often drank confusion.

Suddenly he appeared to be lifted above the level he had occupied, into
a region whose atmosphere was purer, and to a position from which he
saw things in new relations. It was only then that he fully
comprehended the real danger from which he had escaped.

"And my wife has saved me!" was the involuntary acknowledgment of his
heart.

The rest of the afternoon was spent by Wilkinson in a careful
investigation of his affairs. He ascertained the entire amount he would
have to pay in the coming six months, and also his probable resources
during the time. The result was very discouraging. But for the sum lost
to Carlton he would have seen all clear; but the abstraction of so much
lessened his available means, and would so clog the wheels of his
business as to make all progress exceedingly difficult.

There was a shadow on the brow of Wilkinson when he met his wife that
evening, and she saw it the moment he came in, notwithstanding his
effort to seem cheerful. This shadow fell upon her heart, but she did
not permit its reproduction on her countenance.

After tea, Mary was busied for a short time in getting little Ella to
sleep. When she returned, at length, to their sitting-room, she had a
small package in her hand, which, with a smiling face, she laid upon
the table at which her husband sat reading.

"What is that, dear?" he asked, lifting his eyes to her face.

"We shall soon see," was answered, and Mrs. Wilkinson commenced opening
the package. In a moment or two, five or six rolls of coin were
produced, nicely enveloped in paper.

