to-night."

Fleda gave her a smile and a hand, but did not speak. Barby
drew up a chair beside her, and they sat silent for some time,
while quiet tears from the eyes of each said a great many
things.

"Well, I hope you'll be as happy as you deserve to be,"  were
Barby's first words, in a voice very altered from its
accustomed firm and spirited accent.

"Make some better wish for me than that, dear Barby."

"I wouldn't want any better for myself," said Barby,
determinately.

"I would for you," said Fleda.

She thought of Mr. Carleton's words again, and went on in
spite of herself.

"It is a mistake, Barby. The best of us do not deserve
anything good; and if we have the sight of a friend's face, or
the very sweet air we breathe, it is because Christ has bought
it for us. Don't let us forget that, and forget him."

"I do, always," said Barby, crying, "forget everything. Fleda,
I wish you'd pray for me when you are far away, for I aint as
good as you be."

"Dear Barby," said Fleda, touching her shoulder
affectionately, "I haven't waited to be far away to do that."

Barby sobbed for a few minutes, with the strength of a strong
nature that rarely gave way in that manner; and then dashed
her tears right and left, not at all as if she were ashamed of
them, but with a resolution not to be overcome.

"There won't be nothing good left in Queechy, when you're
gone, you and Mis' Plumfield  without I go and look at the
place where Hugh lies "

"Dear Barby," said Fleda, with softening eyes, "won't you be
something good yourself?"

Barby put up her hand to shield her face. Fleda was silent,
for she saw that strong feeling was at work.

"I wish't I could," Barby broke forth at last, "if it was only
for your sake."

"Dear Barby," said Fleda, "you can do this for me  you can go
to church, and hear what Mr. Olmney says. I should go away
happier if I thought you would, and if I thought you would
follow what he says; for, dear Barby, there is a time coming
when you will wish you were a Christian more then you do now,
and not for my sake."

"I believe there is, Fleda."

