
For the space of more than a year did Nina submit to her father, for
approval, every month an accurate statement of what she had done,
with a minute account of all the moneys expended. But after that
time she failed to render this account, although she received the
usual supply, and was as actively engaged as before in works of
benevolence among the poor peasantry. The father often wondered at
this, but did not inquire the cause. He had never asked an account:
to render it had been a voluntary act, and he could not, therefore,
ask why it was withheld. He noticed, however, a change in Nina. She
was more thoughtful, and conversed less openly than before. If he
looked at her intently, her eyes would sink to the floor, and the
color deepen on her cheek. She remained longer in her own room,
alone, than she had done since their removal to the castle. Every
day she went out, and almost always took the direction of Blanche
Delebarre's cottage, where she spent several hours.

Intelligence of his daughter's good deeds did not, so often as
before, reach the old baron's ears; and yet Nina drew as much money
as before, and had twice asked to have the sum doubled. The father
could not understand the meaning of all this. He did not believe
that any thing was wrong--he had too much confidence in Nina--but he
was puzzled. We will briefly apprise the reader of the cause of this
change.

One day--it was nearly a year from the time Nina had become a
constant visitor at Blanche Delebarre's--the young lady sat reading
a book in the matron's cottage. She was alone--Blanche having gone
out to visit a sick neighbor at Nina's request. A form suddenly
darkened the door, and some one entered hurriedly. Nina raised her
eyes, and met the gaze of a youthful strange, who had paused and
stood looking at her with surprise and admiration. With more
confusion, but with not less of wonder and admiration, did Nina
return the stranger's gaze.

"Is not this the cottage of Blanche Delebarre?" asked he, after a
moment's pause. His voice was low and musical.

"It is," replied Nina. "She has gone to visit a sick neighbor, but
will return shortly."

"Is my mother well?" asked the youth.

Nina rose to her feet. This, then, was Pierre Delebarre, of whom his
mother had so often spoke. The heart of the maiden fluttered.

"The good Blanche is well," was her simple reply. "I will go and say
to her that her son has come home. It will make her heart glad."

"My dear young lady, no!" said Pierre. "Do not disturb my mother in
her good work. Let her come home and meet me here--the surprise will
add to the pleasure. Sit down again. Pardon my rudeness--but are not
you the young lady from the castle, of whom my mother so often
writes to me as the good angel of the village? I am sure you must
be, or you would not be alone in my mother's cottage."

Nina's blushes deepened, but she answered without disguise that she
was from the castle.

A full half hour passed before Blanche returned. The young and
