He spoke gravely, more gravely than he was used, and Fleda's
acuteness saw that there was some solid reason for this sudden
determination. Her face changed sadly, but she was silent, her
eyes never wavering from those that read hers with such gentle
intelligence.
"You will be satisfied to have me go, Elfie, when I tell you
that I am going on business which I believe to be duty.
Nothing else takes me away. I am going to try to do right,"
said he, smiling.
Elfie could not answer the smile. She wanted to ask whether
she should never see him again, and there was another thought
upon her tongue too; but her lip trembled, and she said
nothing.
"I shall miss my good fairy," Mr. Carleton went on, lightly;
"I don't know how I shall do without her. If your wand was
long enough to reach so far I would ask you to touch me now
and then, Elfie."
Poor Elfie could not stand it. Heir head sank. She knew she
had a wand that could touch him, and well and gratefully she
resolved that its light blessing should "now and then" rest on
his head; but he did not understand that; he was talking,
whether lightly or seriously  and Elfie knew it was a little
of both  he was talking of wanting her help, and was ignorant
of the help that alone could avail him. "O that he knew but
that!" What with this feeling and sorrow together, the child's
distress was exceeding great; and the tokens of grief in one
so accustomed to hide them were the more painful to see. Mr.
Carleton drew the sorrowing little creature within his arm,
and endeavoured with a mixture of kindness and lightness in
his tone to cheer her.
"I shall often remember you, dear Elfie," he said; "I shall
keep your rose always, and take it with me wherever I go. You
must not make it too hard for me to quit Paris  you are glad
to have me go on such an errand, are you not?"
She presently commanded herself, bade her tears wait till
another time as usual, and trying to get rid of those that
covered her face, asked him "What errand?"
He hesitated.
"I have been thinking of what we were talking of yesterday,
Elfie," he said at length. "I am going to try to discover my
duty, and then to do it."
But Fleda at that clasped his hand, and squeezing it in both
hers, bent down her little head over it to hide her face and
the tears that streamed again. He hardly knew how to
understand, or what to say to her. He half suspected that
there were depths in that childish mind beyond his fathoming.
He was not, however, left to wait long. Fleda, though she
might now and then be surprised into showing it, never allowed
her sorrow of any kind to press upon the notice or the time of
others. She again checked herself and dried her face.
"There is nobody else in Paris that will be so sorry for my
leaving it," said Mr. Carleton, half tenderly and half
pleasantly.
"There is nobody else that has so much cause," said Elfie,
near bursting out again, but she restrained herself.
"And you will not come here again;, Mr. Carleton?" she said,
after a few minutes.
"I do not say that  it is possible  if I do, it will be to
see you, Elfie."
A shadow of a smile passed over her face at that. It was gone
