  No congregation, or company of negroes, shall, under pretence of
  divine worship, assemble themselves, contrary to the act regulating
  patrols.

[Sidenote: Stroud, p. 93. Prince’s Digest, p. 447.]

“The act regulating patrols,” as quoted by the editor of Prince’s
Digest, empowers every justice of the peace to disperse ANY assembly
or meeting of slaves which may disturb the peace, &c., of his
majesty’s subjects, and permits that every slave found at such a meeting
shall “immediately be corrected, WITHOUT TRIAL, by receiving on the
bare back twenty-five stripes with a whip, switch, or cowskin.”

The history of legislation in South Carolina is significant. An act was
passed in 1800, containing the following section:

[Sidenote: Stroud, p. 93. 2 Brevard’s Dig. 254, 255.]

  It shall not be lawful for any number of slaves, free negroes,
  mulattoes or mestizoes, even in company with white persons, to meet
  together and assemble for the purpose of mental instruction or
  religious worship, either before the rising of the sun, or after
  the going down of the same. And all magistrates, sheriffs, militia
  officers, &c. &c., are hereby vested with power, &c., for dispersing
  such assemblies, &c.

The law just quoted seems somehow to have had a prejudicial effect upon
the religious interests of the “slaves, free negroes,” &c., specified in
it; for, three years afterwards, on the petition of certain religious
societies, a “protective act” was passed, which should secure them
this great religious privilege; to wit, that it should be unlawful,
before nine o’clock, “to break into a place of meeting, wherein shall be
assembled the members of any religious society of this state, provided
a majority of them shall be white persons, or otherwise to disturb
their devotion, unless such person shall have first obtained * * * * a
warrant, &c.”

Thirdly. It appears that many masters, who are disposed to treat their
slaves generously, have allowed them to accumulate property, to raise
domestic animals for their own use, and, in the case of intelligent
servants, to go at large, to hire their own time, and to trade upon
their own account. Upon all these practices the law comes down, with
unmerciful severity. A penalty is inflicted on the owner, but, with a
rigor quite accordant with the tenor of slave-law the offence is
considered, in law, as that of the slave, rather than that of the
master; so that, if the master is generous enough not to regard the
penalty which is imposed upon himself, he may be restrained by the fear
of bringing a greater evil upon his dependent. These laws are, in some
cases, so constructed as to make it for the interest of the lowest and
most brutal part of society that they be enforced, by offering half the
profits to the informer. We give the following, as specimens of slave
legislation on this subject:

The law of South Carolina:

[Sidenote: Stroud, pp. 46, 47. James’ Digest, 385, 386. Act of 1740.]

  It shall not be lawful for any slave to buy, sell, trade, &c., for
  any goods, &c., without a license from the owner, &c.; nor shall any
  slave be permitted to keep any boat, periauger,[17] or canoe, or
