And William of Deloraine, good at need." 

In one of the long corridors we were traversing, we heard 
the voice of merriment, and found a gay party of young people and children amusing themselves at games. I thought 
what a grand hide-and-go-seek place the castle must be — 
whole companies might lose themselves among the rooms. 
The central hall of the building goes up to the roof, and is 
surmounted by a dome. The architecture is in the Italian 
style, which I think much more suited to the purposes of ordinary life than for strictly religious uses. I never saw a church 
in that style that produced a very deep impression on me. 
This hall was gorgeously frescoed by Italian masters. The 
door commands the view of a magnilicent sweep of green 
lawn, embellished by an artificial lake. It is singular in how 
fine and subtile a way different nationalities express themselves 
in landscape gardening, while employing the same materials. 
I have seen no grounds on the continent that express the par- 
t in ilar shade of ideas which characterize the English. There 
is an air of grave majesty about the wide sweep of their out- 



 

lines — a quality suggestive of ideas of strength and endurance which is appropriate to their nationality. 

In Lord Carlisle's own room we saw pictures of Sum- 
ner, Prescott, and others of his American friends. This 
custom of showing houses, which prevails over Europe, is, I 
think, a thing which must conduce greatly to national improve- 
ment. A plea for the beautiful is constantly put in by them 
— a model held up before the community, whose influence 
cannot be too highly estimated. Before one of the choicest 
paintings stood the easel of some neighboring artist, who was 
making a copy. He was quite unknown to the family, but 
comes and goes at his pleasure, the picture being as freely at 
his service as if it were an outside landscape. 

After finishing our survey, I went with Lady Carlisle into 
her own boudoir. There I saw a cabinet full-length picture 
of her mother, the Duchess of Devonshire. She is represented with light hair, and seemed to have been one whose beauty 
was less that of regular classic model, than the fascination of a 
brilliant and buoyant spirit inspiring a graceful form. Lady 
Carlisle showed me an album, containing a kind of poetical 
record made by her during a passage through the Alps, which 
she crossed on horseback, in days when such an exploit was 
more difficult and dangerous than at present. I particularly 
appreciated some lines in closing, addressed to her children, 
expressing the eagerness with which she turned from all that 
nature and art could offer, in prospect of meeting them once 
more. 

Lord Carlisle is still in Turkey, and will, probably, spend 
the winter in Greece. His mother had just received a letter from him, and he thinks that war is inevitable. 

In one of the rooms that we traversed I saw an immense 



 

