colored, as she replied, smiling, "I do not know why it should, Mr.
Villet."

The Frenchman shrugged his shoulders: "Nor I! I do not comprehend these
affairs myself, but it is usual, I believe, for the visible visage to
elongate with the expansion of the--qu'est ce que c'est?--grace in
the soul."

There was a laugh. Charley and Ida were grave; and Mr. Villet's
politeness took the alarm. "I entreat your pardon, Miss Ross; I did not
meditate an offence."

"You have given none," answered she. "You would not knowingly make
sport of what you must respect. Religion is not gloomy, nor is it
ridiculous."

"Its professors, with some honorable exceptions, are one or the other,"
said Richard.

"This is their misfortune or failing, not the fault of the system,"
returned Ida. "Mortal nature is fallible, Mr. Copeland."

"You admit it, then?" said Mr. Thornton. "The greatest objection I have
to pious people is that they do not permit this indulgence to abused
human nature. They wind themselves up in their impenetrable cloaks of
sanctification and perfectionism, and send us--no matter where--for
hankering after innocent amusements. And if one of their caste beats
time to a merry tune, or shows his head inside of a theatre, he is
run down as if he had the hydrophobia. Such sermons as they preach
about the hand or foot offending! It would be a wise precaution, in
my judgment, to make the amputation of the feet part of the ceremony
of initiation into church membership. You are superior to such
narrow-mindedness, I hope, Miss Ida?"

"If 'narrow-mindedness' signifies drawing a distinct line of
demarcation between the church and the world, I shall come under your
lash, Mr. Thornton."

"And do you, candid and liberal as you are, declare that there is
sin--mind you! a 'want of conformity to, or transgression of the law of
God'--in moving through a certain form of steps to the sound of music?"
said he, indignantly.

"I do not profess to see sin in the mere act of dancing," replied Ida;
"but--I do not wish to argue, Mr. Thornton. If nothing else forbade my
joining in the amusement, it is prohibited by the church to which I
belong."

"Worse and worse! Miss Ida, this is unworthy of you. It is the Papal
doctrine of depositing one's conscience in the priest's pocket book. If
your church commanded you to steal or kill, would you obey?"

"No; for a higher law forbids it. I am bound to follow the church only
so far as it follows the Bible."

"But the Bible says there is a time to dance."

Ida smiled; "I am surprised," said she, "that sensible persons should
quote that poor text so frequently, as authority for dancing. In the
same connection we read, 'there is a time to kill;'--you would be loath
