
"Does she know of it?" A shadow went over his face.

Mr. Hammond shook his head.

Yet, even as he spoke, a wild cry of distress was heard below. Some
indiscreet person had borne to the ears of the mother the fearful news
about her son, and she had come wildly flying toward the tavern, and
was just entering.

"It is my poor mother," said Willy, a flush coming into his pale face.
"Who could have told her of this?"

Mr. Hammond started for the door, but ere he had reached it, the
distracted mother entered.

"Oh! Willy, my boy! my boy!" she exclaimed, in tones of anguish that
made the heart shudder. And she crouched down on the floor, the moment
she reached the bed whereon he lay, and pressed her lips--oh, so
tenderly and lovingly!--to his.

"Dear mother! Sweet mother! Best of mothers!" He even smiled as he said
this; and, into the face now bent over him, looked up with glances of
unutterable fondness.

"Oh, Willy! Willy! Willy! my son, my son!" And again her lips were laid
closely to his.

Mr. Hammond now interfered, and endeavored to remove his wife, fearing
for the consequence upon his son.

"Don't, father!" said Willy; "let her remain. I am not excited nor
disturbed. I am glad that she is here, now. It will be best for us
both."

"You must not excite him, dear," said Mr. Hammond--"he is very weak."

"I'll not excite him," answered the mother. "I'll not speak a word.
There, love"--and she laid her fingers softly upon the lips of her
son--"don't speak a single word."

For only a few moments did she sit with the quiet formality of a nurse,
who feels how much depends on the repose of her patient. Then she began
weeping, moaning, and wringing her hands.

"Mother!" The feeble voice of Willy stilled, instantly, the tempest of
feeling. "Mother, kiss me!"

She bent down and kissed him.

"Are you there, mother?" His eyes moved about, with a straining motion.

"Yes, love, here I am."

"I don't see you, mother. It's getting so dark. Oh, mother! mother!" he
shouted suddenly, starting up and throwing himself forward upon her
bosom--"save me! save me!"

How quickly did the mother clasp her arms around him--how eagerly did
she strain him to her bosom! The doctor, fearing the worst
