station. His road lay by the house of his friend, 
Squire Lee ; and as he was approaching it, he met 
Annie. She said she had come out to take her morn- 
ing walk ; but Bobby knew very well that she did not 
usually walk till an hour later ; which, with the fact 
that she had asked him particularly, the day before, 
what time he was going, made Bobby believe that she 
had come out to say good by, and bid him God 
speed on his journey. At any rate, he was very glad 
to see her. He said a great many pretty things to 
her, and talked so big about what he was going to do, 
that the little maiden could hardly help laughing in 
his face. 

Then at the house he shook hands with the squire, 




and sliook hands again with. Annie, and resumed his 
journey. His heart felt lighter for having met them, 
or at least for having met one of them, if not both ; 
for Annie's eyes were so full of sunshine that they 
seemed to gladden his heart, and make him feel truer 
and stronger. 

After a pleasant walk, for he scarcely heeded the 
distance, so full was he of his big thoughts, he 
reached the railroad station. The cars had not yet 
arrived, and would not for half an hour. 

" Why should I give them a dollar for carrying me 
to Boston, when I can just as well walk ? If I get 
tired, I can sit down and rest me. If I save the dol- 
lar, I shall have to earn only fifty-nine more to pay 
my note. So here goes ; " and he started down the 
track. 



 



CHAPTER VII. 

IN WHICH BOBBY STANDS UP FOR " CERTAIN IN- 
ALIENABLE RIGHTS." 

WHETHER it was wise policy, or " penny wise and 
pound foolish' policy for Bobby to undertake such a 
long walk, is certainly a debatable question ; but as 
my young readers would probably object to an argu-ment, we will follow him to the city, and let every 
one settle the point to suit himself. 

His cheerful heart made the road smooth beneath 
his feet. He had always been accustomed to an active, busy life, and had probably often walked more 
than twenty miles in a day. About ten o'clock, 
though he did not feel much fatigued, he seated himself on a rock by a brook, from which he had just 
taken a drink, to rest himself. He had walked slowly 
