yourself, and teach your child to lie, which is much worse."

The poor woman burst into tears, and protested that she had told the
truth, and nothing but the truth; declaring that Katy was a good girl,
that she had eaten nothing that day, and would not tell a lie. Dr.
Flynch was a man of method, and when a tenant did not pay the rent, it
was his purpose to get rid of that tenant in the quietest way possible.
In the present case there was a difficulty, and public opinion would
not justify him in turning a sick woman out of the house; but if she
lied, had money concealed, and would not pay her rent, it would alter
the matter. As he wished to believe this was the case, he had no
difficulty in convincing himself, and thus quieting his poor apology
for a conscience.

Besides being a man of method, Dr. Flynch was a man of upright walk and
conversation; at least, he passed for such with those who did not know
anything about him. If Mrs. Gordon should happen to hear that he had
turned out the sick woman, he could then inform her how feelingly he
had pointed out to her the wickedness of her conduct, which he thought
would sound exceedingly well.

"Mrs. Redburn," he continued, "I will give you till this time to-morrow
to get out of the house; if you are not gone then, I shall be under the
painful necessity of removing your goods into the street. Good
morning;" and Dr. Flynch turned upon his heel, and walked out of the
room.

"My poor child! what will become of us?" sobbed the sick woman, as she
grasped Katy's hand, and pressed it to her bosom with convulsive energy.

"Don't cry, mother; something can be done. I will go and see Mrs.
Gordon, and beg her to let you stay here."

"You must not do that; Dr. Flynch told me, if I troubled her about the
house, I should not stay in it another minute, even if I paid the rent."

"He is a bad man, mother; and I don't believe Mrs. Gordon knows what he
does here."

"There is one thing more we can do, Katy," continued Mrs. Redburn,
wiping away her tears, and taking from under her pillow a heavy silver
watch. "This was your father's; but we must sell it now. It is all we
have left."

"I should hate to have that sold, mother."

"We must sell it, or pawn it."

"We will pawn it then."

"How shall we do it? I have not strength to rise, and they will cheat
you if you offer it."

"I will tell you what I can do, mother; I will get Simon Sneed to go
with me to the pawnbroker's shop. He is very kind to me, and I know he
will. He comes home to dinner at two o-clock."

This plan was agreed to, and Katy then went to work to clean and cook
the flounders.

