 
much ; and when I got this chance to let the 
Fawn, I about made up my mind to go." 
" Then it is all right; but I am sorry John will 
not consent to the arrangement." 
" I don't want to stay on shore a whole week," 
pouted the first mate of the Fawn. " If they 
would only take me as skipper, I should like it 
first rate. What shall I do with myself for a 
whole week on shore ? " 
" I don't see as I can go, then," added Paul. 
" Well, I don't want to keep you from going, 
Paul ; " and a better feeling seemed to be roused 
in John's bosom. 
" I can't afford to let the Fawn lie idle for a 
week, in the busy season," continued Paul. 
" Can't I go a-fishing in her while you are 
gone? " 
" Certainly not ; you can't have my share to 
smash up on the rocks," said Paul, a little tartly. 
" You know you ran the boat on the rocks this 
very afternoon." 
John felt a little lame here, and he did not 
 
venture a reply. He had sacrificed liis reputation 
as a navigator by carelessly attempting to run too 
near the reef, and he felt that his brother's con- 
clusions were correct. 
" Well, at any rate, I won't keep you from 
going in the Flyaway, whatever I do. I will 
agree to let her to Mr. Morrison." 
" That's generous, John. You have got the 
right kind of a heart beneath your jacket, though 
you have an odd way of showing it sometimes," 
said Captain Littleton. 
'' John means right, sir," added Paul. 
" I like to have a little fun myself, as well as 
the rest of the fellows," continued John, " but I 
am willing to stay at home for Paul's sake." 
" That's the right feeling, my boy," replied 
Captain Littleton ; " and if your mother is willing, 
you may go in the Flyaway." 
" Hoo-ray ! " shouted John, jumping out of his 
chair, and performing some gymnastic feats, that 
astonished the visitor and the family. " I may 
go — mayn't I, mother." 
 
'' I have no objection, if Captain Littleton thinks 
it is safe." 
'' He will be as safe as my own son, Mrs. 
Duncan," added the captain. 
" Hoo-ray ! " shouted John again. 
" Come, my son, behave yourself, or they won't 
want such an unmannerly fellow in the company." 
" I will be as polite as a French dancing master." 
John was in luck again, and for the following 
three days he talked of nothing but the cruise of 
the Flyaway. Even sailing in the Fawn seemed 
tame to the idea of going off one or two hundred 
miles, and visiting towns and cities he had never 
