felt sure, the same that Captain Allen’s mother had sent to him by the
hands of Jacob Perkins. Doubtless, some memory of his mother, stirred by
the sight of this locket, had caused him to revoke his former will, and
execute this one in favor of his sister. There was no room to question,
for a moment, its genuineness. It had all legal formality, and the men
who witnessed the signature were living and well known to us all. I was
named as one of the executors. So there was some perplexing business
before me; for, in taking things as they were, it was not probable that
the executors under the former will would be able, promptly, to give a
satisfactory account of their trust, or to hand over the property in a
shape acceptable to the right heirs.

But, of this, more anon. Our good friends went home early after this
singular discovery, showing more bewilderment than elation of manner. I
think that Constance and I were gladder in heart than they.



CHAPTER XXV.



The first thing done was to place the will on record; the next to give
proper legal notice of its existence to the executors under the previous
will, Judge Bigelow and Squire Floyd. Mr. Dewey, on the announcement
of this discovery, unhesitatingly declared the paper a forgery; but the
witnesses to the signature of Captain Allen were living, and ready to
attest its genuineness. They remembered, very distinctly, the time when
their names were appended to the document. It was only a year before the
Captain’s death. They were walking past the Allen House, when the old
man called them in, and asked them to witness the signing of a paper. Of
its contents they had no knowledge, as he did not make any communication
on the subject. But he signed it in their presence, and their signatures
showed this will to be the paper then executed.

Notwithstanding this, it came to our ears, that Mr. Dewey persisted in
alleging fraud, forgery, and the complicity of these witnesses. And
from the manner of Judge Bigelow and Squire Floyd, in the first brief
interview I had with them, it was plain that they were far from being
satisfied that all was right. Their manner was that of men utterly
confounded. If the property in question had been held by them as really
their own, they could hardly have exhibited more feeling.

After the will was entered at the proper office, and thus made public,
the following paragraph appeared in our “Weekly Star”--

“Remarkable Discovery of a Will.--A singular circumstance happened in
our town last week, no less than the discovery of a new and more recent
will of the late Captain Allen, by which all of his large property is
devised to his sister and her heirs. It was found in a secret drawer,
contained in an antiquated French Secretary, which Dr.----bought when
the furniture of the Allen House was sold, previous to a renovation
of the old mansion for the residence of Mr. Ralph Dewey. The late Mrs.
Montgomery, who resided for a time at the Allen House, was sister to
Captain Allen, and her daughter is now the wife of our townsman, Henry
Wallingford, Esq. We congratulate the parties on the good fortune which
has come to their door.”

The marriage of Mr. Dewey took place within a month after the discovery
of this will, and he brought his new wife to S----, installing her as
