with me--printed, but in sheets. I did them strong! more than that I
will not answer for; but I wish I could send you a copy. It would be
only a curiosity in art, though; you could not read it. It is an
admirable translation in Fijian. As I have had but very slight previous
practice in bookbinding, my rate of progress was at first somewhat
slow; and after a few days of solitary labour I was glad to accept the
offer of help from four or five native apprentices--some of our local
preachers. They took to the work kindly; and in five weeks we finished
the edition--sixty copies. I could do the next sixty quicker. These are
the first Fijian testaments in Ono, and you can understand--or you
cannot--what a treasure. The natives who came to purchase them found no
fault with the binding, I assure you. So you see I have been bookseller
as well as the other thing; and I received pay for my testaments in
sinnet--you know what that is. It is as good as money for the mission
use here in Fiji. During these bookbinding weeks I was making
excursions hither and thither, to preach and baptize. Twice a week I
took a time to see the local preachers and teachers and examine them
and hear them read and talk to them and be talked to by them. Every
Tuesday and Friday I did this. The whole course of the week's work is
now something like the following:
"Sunday begins with a prayer-meeting. Afterwards old and young have a
catechism exercise together. Morning and afternoon, preaching.
"Monday, the morning there is a children's school, and the afternoon a
school for grown people. I question both classes on the sermons of the
preceding day; and I hope English people have as good memories. The
afternoon school is followed by a prayer-meeting. Tuesdays and Fridays
I have the teachers' meeting in addition.
"Wednesday I preach, have leaders' meeting, and give out work for the
week to come.
"Thursday, preaching at one of the neighbouring towns, and a sort of
young class-meeting.
"Friday, I have said what I do.
"Saturday has a prayer-meeting.
"So much for the regular work. Then there are the sick to look after,
and my own private studies; and there is not a minute to spare. A few
that cannot be spared are claimed by the mosquitos, which hold their
high court and revel here at Ono; of all places on the earth that I
know, their headquarters. When I was here before with Brother Lefferts
and others, two of them could not sit still to read something that
wanted to be read; they walked the floor, one holding the candle, the
other the paper; both fighting mosquitos with both hands. I am of a
less excitable temperament--for I contrive to live a little more
quietly.
"Shall I tell you some of these native testimonies of Christians who a
little while ago worshipped idols? At our love-feast lately some thirty
or forty spoke. They did my heart good. So may they yours. These people
said but few words, full of feeling; my report cannot all give the
effect. I wish it could.
"One old chief, who could hardly speak for feeling, said, 'These are
new things to me in these days;' (he meant the love-feasts) 'I did not
know them formerly. My soul is humbled. I rejoice greatly in the Lord.
I rejoice greatly for sending his servants.'
"A Tongan teacher--'I desire that God may rule over me,' (i. e., direct
me) 'I desire not to govern myself. I know that I am a child of God: I
know that God is my father. My friends wrote for me to go to Tonga; but
I wondered at it. I wish to obey the Father of my soul.'
"A local preacher--'I know that God is near, and helps me sometimes in
my work. I love all men. I do not fear death; one thing I fear, the
Lord."
"Leva Soko, a female class-leader, a very holy woman, said,--this is
