theirselves about the hall, and follow the motions I will make as I
shall count.”

Five minutes of chaos, then all fell into order, and nothing was
heard but the leader’s voice and the stir of many bodies moving
simultaneously. An uninitiated observer would have thought himself
in Bedlam; for as the evening wore on, the laws of society seemed
given to the winds, and humanity gone mad. Bags flew in all
directions, clubs hurtled through the air, and dumb-bells played a
castinet accompaniment to peals of laughter that made better music
than any band. Old and young gave themselves up to the universal
merriment, and, setting dignity aside, played like happy-hearted
children for an hour. Stout Dr. Quackenboss gasped twice round the
hall on one toe; stately Mrs. Primmins ran like a girl of fifteen to
get her pins home before her competitor; Tommy Inches, four feet
three, trotted away with Deacon Stone on his shoulder, while Mr.
Steepleton and Miss Maypole hopped together like a pair of lively
young ostriches, and Ned Amandine, the village beau, blew arrows
through a pop-gun, like a modern Cupid in pegtops instead of
pinions.

The sprightly young lady whose entrance had been so opportune seemed
a universal favorite, and was overwhelmed with invitations to “bag,”
 “hop,” and “blow” from the gentlemen who hovered about her,
cheerfully distorting themselves to the verge of dislocation in
order to win a glance of approbation from the merry black eyes which
were the tapers where all these muscular moths singed their wings.
Mr. Bopp had never seen such a little piece of earnestness before,
and began to think the young lady must be training for a boat-race
or the ring. Her dumb-bells flew about till a pair of white arms
looked like the sails of a windmill; she hit out from the shoulder
with a vigor that would have done execution had there been anything
but empty air to “punish;” and the “one, two, three!” of the Zouave
movement went off with a snap; while the color deepened from pink to
scarlet in her cheeks, the black braids tumbled down upon her
shoulders, and the clasp of her belt flew asunder; but her eye
seldom left the leader’s face, and she followed every motion with an
agility and precision quite inspiring. Mr. Bopp’s courage rose as he
watched her, and a burning desire to excel took possession of him,
till he felt as if his muscles were made of India-rubber, and his
nerves of iron. He went into his work heart and soul, shaking a
brown mane out of his eyes, issuing commands like general at the
head of his troops, and keeping both interest and fun in full blast
till people laughed who had not laughed heartily for years; lungs
got their fill for once, unsuspected muscles were suddenly
developed, and, when the clock struck ten, all were bubbling over
with that innocent jollity which makes youth worth possessing, and
its memory the sunshine of old age.

The last exercise was drawing to a close, and a large ring of
respectable members of society were violently sitting down and
rising up in a manner which would have scandalized Miss Wilhelmina
Carolina Amelia S. Keggs to the last degree, when Mr. Bopp was seen
to grow very pale, and drop in a manner which it was evident his
pupils were not expected to follow.

At this unexpected performance, the gentlemen took advantage of
their newly-acquired agility to fly over all obstacles and swarm on
to the platform, while the ladies successfully lessened their
unusual bloom by staring wildly at one another and suggesting awful
