if not met ! The law of imprisonment for debt was on 
the statute-book of the state, and in active operation, 
as the full debtor's apartment in the county jail too 
soberly testified. And creditors, at that time, often 
made short work with their debtors by forcing them to 
give security for the payment of their claims, in sight, 
so to speak, of the jail door. This was the process now 
taken by one of the doctor's creditors, who had grown 
impatient and ill-natured. 
' But it's night, "'answered Doctor Hofland. " How 
am I to get bail at this late hour ? The proceeding is 
an outrage ! Who issued this warrant ?" 
 
" Mr. Ashmun." 
" He knows me very well. Say to him that I will 
appear and give security to-morrow morning." 
" I'm sorry, doctor, but I can't meet your wishes. 
My warrant requires that I produce your body to-day. 
I've been here twice before. But you can get bail 
easily enough. The debt is only ninety-three dollars. 
Come, if you please." 
There was no escape. The hand of the law was on 
him, and he must stand up, as other men had to stand 
up, to its full requirement. 
"I am called out imperatively," he said, pushing 
open a little way the door of the apartment where he 
had left his children a few minutes before. Don't wait 
tea for me, as I may be detained for some time.' 
Then the door shut, and Lena heard her husband's 
feet go quickly down the stairway that led to his office. 
The tone of voice left echoing in her memory haunted 
her in a strange way, and troubled her feelings. It 
had something in it which she did not understand; 
something that left the impression of a disturbed mind 
disturbed from within, not from without for itself, 
and not for the peril or extremity of another. 
An hour passed, and the doctor did not come back. 
From the moment of his departure, his wife had felt the 
pressure of an unusual concern, which continued to 
increase until vague fears crowded into her heart. After 
her children were in bed, her mind fell into such an anx- 
 
ious state, that she was unable to read or sew, and 
wandered about, from room to room, up stairs and down, 
like a perturbed spirit. Eight, nine o'clock came, and 
the doctor had not yet returned. But, now, a note from 
him, so hastily written that she could with difficulty 
make out the words, was placed in her hands. It 
read 
" DEAR LENA : I shall, I fear, be detained all night. 
Don't expect me, if I am not home by ten o'clock. 
Give the children, for me, their go-to-bed kiss. 
Lovingly, 
E. H." 
" Not home to-night ! Strange ! What can it 
mean ? " 
Mrs. Hofland read the note a second time. It's tenor 
puzzled her. Why did he not say where he was, or 
hint at the real cause of his absence ? This was not 
like her husband. There was something wrong! What 
