and must have his own way. 

The result of the conference was, that the provost-mar- 
shal yielded the point, and a sentinel was placed at the 
door of Somers's chamber, to which the captain had re- 
treated. The officer visited the room, and fully identi- 
fied his prisoner, between whom and himself a sharp 
conversation ensued, much to the amusement of the 
doctor. The captain was assured, that, in due time, he 
should swing ; which pleasant information he received 
with becoming good nature, promising to be present 
when the exciting event should take place. The pro- 
vost-marshal retired, satisfied vvith the precautions he 
had taken. 

For the following three days, the sentinel at the door, 
with a loaded musket in his hand, kept guard over his 
prisoners. Somers had improved rapidly ; though, by the 
advice of his managing friend, he pretended to be much 



 

worse than he really was. Dr. Scoville, though he 
still kept his word and maintained his position with re- 
gard to the prisoners, continually ' ; thorned " the captain 
with a prospect of the gallows, which he declared was 
his certain doom. De Banyan still preserved his equa- 
nimity, and still declared that he should never be hung. 
" What do von intend to do?" asked Somers on the 



third day of his confinement, after the doctor had taunted 
his guest with more than usual severity. 

" I haven't the least idea, my dear boy," replied the 
captain with a grim smile. " So far, I have no plans. 
When you are able to move, Somers, we will see what 
can be done." 

" I can move now : you need not delay a single hour 
on my account. I am all right but my arm." 

De Banyan was by no means as cheerful as he 
appeared to be. He was troubled, and paced the 
room with uneasy tread ; but, the moment the doctor 
entered the room, he was as gay as a Broadway beau. 
Somers had vainly attempted to persuade him to make 
his own escape, and leave him to his fate ; but the brave 
fellow steadily refused to desert him under any circum- 
stances that could possibly present themselves. 

The captain was remarkably still for him, after Somers 
had convinced him that he was able to move. He paced 
the room as before ; but his eyes were glancing uneasily 
at the floor, the ceiling, and the walls of the apartment. 


