you are tempted to do wrong during my absence. This time, in
particular, I wish you to behave very well, and not do any mischief.
You know what father says about you?"

"He don't like me," pouted Fanny Jane.

"When you are good he likes you."

"He scolds me all the time."

"He never scolds you; he reproves you when you do wrong, and I am sorry
to say that is very often indeed. He says, if you do not behave better,
he shall send you back to your uncle at the west."

"I don't want to go there."

"But you must, if you do not do better. He would have sent you before
if I had not interceded for you."

"Hadn't what?"

"If I hadn't begged him not to do so."

"I won't be sent back to my uncle's, any how," replied Fanny Jane,
sharply; for the intimations of what might be, roused a spirit of
resentment, rather than of penitence, in her mind.

"We will not talk about that now, Fanny Jane. We are going to Hudson to
spend a week. The strongest objection to our visit was, that you would
not behave well while we were gone."

"O, I will behave well!"

"We intend to trust you once more. If you disappoint me this time, I
shall not be able to say another word in your favor; and I am quite
sure father will send you off to Minnesota just as soon as we get
back."

The carriage was waiting at the door; Bertha was already seated, and
Fanny, having done all she could to insure the good behavior of the
troublesome young miss who had become her peculiar charge, hastened to
join her sister, and they were driven away towards the railroad
station.

In the two tall and elegant ladies, seated in the Woodville family
carriage, our readers would hardly recognize Bertha and Fanny Grant,
for eight years have elapsed since they were introduced, as children,
to our young friends. Bertha maintains her pure and beautiful
character, and is still a blessing to the family, and to the
neighborhood in which she resides. Fanny is taller and prettier than
her sister; and, having put away her childish follies, she is quite a
dignified personage.

Mighty events had transpired since they were children, and the country
was entering upon the second year of the great civil war, which
desolated the sunny South, and carried mourning to almost every
household of the free North. Richard Grant had already distinguished
himself as a captain in a popular New York regiment, of which the Rev.
Ogden Newman, whilom Noddy, was the chaplain.

