his young friend's father, and such a "spinning of yarns" for thirty
days had never been known before. Tom told a story of the Cumberland;
then Captain Somers had a West India yarn; and gran'ther Greene was
indulgently permitted to relate his experience in the "last war," though
it was observed that the old man, whose memory was much impaired, always
told the same story.

Never did a happier trio gather around a kitchen fire than that which
sat around the cook-stove at Pinchbrook on those autumn mornings. Very
likely Mrs. Somers thought the "men folks" were in the way at times;
but, she was too much interested in the stories told, and too good
natured to raise an objection, especially when John joined the party.

In the mean time, Somers was rapidly regaining his health and strength.
As may be supposed, he was a lion in Pinchbrook, and was invited to
every party and every merry-making in the place. Captain Barney was with
him a great deal, and was as fond of him as though he had been his own
son. Of course the young ladies of Pinchbrook regarded the lieutenant as
a great man; and if it had not been known in town that he was "paying
attention" to a commodore's daughter, he might have been absolutely
persecuted by the fair ones of his native village.

In strict observance of his promise, Somers had written several letters
to Kate Portington, but had received no answer. These epistles, with the
exception of an occasional playful remark, were confined to the details
of his naval operations. The events of his career were faithfully
recorded, and they were in no sense such productions as many silly young
men would have written under similar circumstances. No answer to any of
them had been received.

Since his arrival at Pinchbrook, Somers had written two letters; but at
the end of the first month of his furlough, he had not heard a word from
Kate. He was troubled, and no doubt thought Kate was very cold and
cruel. He knew that Pillgrim had not seen her, and therefore could not
have prejudiced her against him. It was possible that his letters had
not reached their destination; Kate might be away from home; and he was
not willing to believe that anything had occurred to make her less
friendly to him than formerly.

Somers, as we have so often had occasion to represent him, was always in
favor of "facing the music." If there was anything the matter, he wanted
to know it. If the lady wished to discontinue the acquaintance, he
wanted to know that; and when he could no longer content himself in
Pinchbrook, with the question unsettled, he started for Newport. On his
arrival he proceeded at once to the residence of Commodore Portington.
With a firm hand he rang the bell--in surprising contrast with his first
visit, for now he was firm and decided.

The servant informed him that Miss Portington was at home, and he sent
up his card. Somers sat nervously waiting the issue. Presently the
servant returned and handed him a card, on which was written, "Miss
Portington is not at home to Mr. John Somers."

He was confounded by this cool reply. Though her present conduct was in
accordance with the unanswered letters, he had not expected to be thus
rudely repelled. If she had any objection to him, why didn't she tell
him so? He had done his duty to his country, and kept his promises to
her. It was the severest blow he had ever received.

He read the card, rose from his chair, and left the house, as dignified
