with Mr. Auchester, which, terrible as it seemed at first, 
had led to such happy results, betrayed how she had always 
been, in his heart, 
" best, 
Loveliest without compare." 
She listened as if in a dream. Was there indeed so 
blessed a thing in store for her as this tender, ever-present 
love ! With every word of his she realized it more truly. 
And she was thankful to give him what he prized so dearly 
her whole heart. The shadows of the past fell away. 
This later love, purified by suffering, grown strong amid 
long, dreary vigils and many tears, stood boldly forth now, 
and was crowned with a holy, ever-enduring faith. 
 
Tessy came home flushed and happy. Daisy stole shyly 
away from her lover. Yes, it had coine to that ! 
There were no differences, no misunderstandings. They 
went their way peacefully, growing more deeply into each 
other's hearts with every passing hour. She felt she be- 
longed to him in a peculiar sense, and he re-read his dream 
of love this time the blossom of truth, and constancy, and 
manhood. They could not take life in Lily's joyous, riotous 
fashion, but they were none the less happy. 
Mabel was their only confidant until the bridal day was 
appointed. That was for early June a quiet affair, with 
the same folded hands to bless her that had blessed Lily. 
She took upon herself her true name Daisy Bertrand, 
Richard's wife ! It gave her a feeling of sweet, solemn 
awe. 
Afterwards a grand holiday. Not Europe, as Richard 
had once dreamed ; not with the woman who had filled out 
that picture ; but over wonderful lakes and wonderful rivers, 
through cities that had risen as if by the command of the 
fabled genii ; over broad, smiling prairie lands, back again 
to Niagara, to the St. Lawrence with its crown of beauty 
the Thousand Isles. How happy they were ! how content ! 
Last of all, home. She crossed the threshold, as a blessed 
wife, whose portals she had passed for the first time with 
her dead baby. She clung to her husband's arm, and 
glanced up into hia grave face, and the royal smile that 
illumined it was her welcome. 
" The beloved of the Lord shall dwell in safety by him, 
and the Lord shall cover him all the day long." 
CHAPTER XXXVII. 
That more and more a providence 
Of love is understood, 
' Making the springs of time and sense 
Sweet with eternal good ; 
That all the jarring notes of life 
Seem blending in a psalm, 
And all the angles of its strife 
Slow rounding into calm. 
And so the shadows fall apart, 
And so the west winds play ; 
And all the windows of my heart 
I open to the day. 
J. GK WHITTIEB. 
Do you care for any more ? Great joy, like great grief, 
is sufficient unto itself, and needs no translator. Therefore 
the clasp of happy years must always be Carlyle's " golden 
