and beast, and the creeping thing, and the fowls of the air.' " 

" Why must they be killed, uncle Sam ?" 

" The whole place was so foul. Tiny, the Lord would wash 
it all away, and make a new world for a new family." 

" I should think Adam would have been glad to shut his 
eyes upon it," said my grandmother. 

" I have no doubt he was. His children were bom in his 
likeness, and his heart must have been bitter within him 
when he saw what sort of a likeness it was. Let us hope he 
had the comfort of knowing that ' as in Adam all die, even 
80 in Christ shall all be made alive.' " 

" What does that mean, uncle Sam ? " 

" It means this, Tiny. That Adam stood as the father of 
all mankind, and by sinning drew down a curse upon them ; 
and that Jesus stood as the Saviour of all mankind, and by 
doing lifted the curse off. Life is bought for everybody, 
unless they persist in going on to sin ; if they do, there remaineth no more sacrifice for them." 

" Uncle Sam," I said, " I guess Adam knew it" 

" I think he did. Tiny. And in this record of him and 
Seth's children, which tells how long he lived, and when 
each died, there is a beautiful account given of two among 
them. Enoch 'walked with God' — and so did Noah. In 
the midst of all the wickedness and confusion around them, 
those two men walked mith God." 

" How is that, uncle Sam ? " said I, when all the others 
were silent. 

" How is it when you and I go into the forest together ? " 

" Why, you carry me in your arms," I said. 

" Jesus carries the lambs in His bosom," said uncle Sam, 
gravely. "But how is it when a servant walks with his 
master ?" 
 

" Why, lie keeps near him, and watches to see what his 
master wants him to do." 

" ' As the eyes of servants look unto tbe hand of their 
masters, and as the eyes of a maiden unto the hand of her 
mistress, so our eyes wait upon the Lord our God.' And 
the Lord says, ' I will guide thee with mine eye. But can 
two walk together unless they be agreed?" 

"No, uncle Sam." 

"Then, if we walk with God, we must love what He loves, 
and hate what He hates, and be ready to do the work He 
wants done. We shall say — ' I have set the Lord alway before me ; because he is at my right hand, I shall not be 
moved.' And God will say, 'I tbe Lord thy God will hold 
