" There she is," replied Lawry, quietly, as he 
pointed in the direction of the Goblins. 
Ben looked at her ; he did not seem to be pleased 
to find her on the top of the water. His oft-repeated 
prophecy had been a failure, and Lawry was full as 
smart as people said he was. 
" Humph ! " said he. " She isn't much of a 
steamboat if those barrels brought her up." 
" There she is ; and I have done all I promised 
to do." 
" What you going to do next, Lawry ? " 
"I'm going to pump her out next." 
" You'd better do it pretty quick, or she'll go to 
the bottom again," added Ben, as he walked into the 
house. 
" There comes Mr. Sherwood, with the ladies," 
said Lawry, as he glanced up the road, when his 
brother had gone ; and his brown face glowed with 
pleasure as he spoke. 
" I congratulate you, boys," said Mr. Sherwood, as 
he grasped Lawry' s hand. "We gave three cheers for 
 
you on the hill, when we saw that you had raised the 
Woodville." 
" Thank you, sir. We worked pretty hard, but 
we were successful." 
" You have done bravely," said Mrs. Sherwood. 
" We thought, from what your brother said last 
night, that you would fail." 
" Ethan and I didn't think so." 
" I suppose you wouldn't sell very cheap to-night, 
Lawry," added Mr. Sherwood. 
" No, sir ; the Woodville is a gift, and I should not 
be willing to sell her at any price." 
" Well, Lawry, I am as glad as you are at your 
success. Do you want any help yet ? " 
" No, sir ; we are just going on board of her to 
stay over night, for we are afraid the heavy wind will 
do mischief." 
" I wouldn't do that. You must rest to-night." 
" I'm afraid something will happen if we don't look 
out for her," 
" Are you going to pump her out to-night ? " 
" We may begin pretty early in the morning," said 
Lawry, with a smile. 
" Haste and waste, my boy. If you stay on board 
of her to-night, and get sick, you will not make any- 
thing by your labor." 
" If the wind goes down we shall sleep ashore as 
usual. I don't think it blows quite so hard as it did." 
" I don't," added Ethan. 
" Boys, you musn't overdo this thihg," added Mr. 
Sherwood, seriously. 
His wife whispered to him just then. 
" Yes, Bertha," he continued. " I'll tell you what 
I'm going to do, Lawry. I have four men at work 
for me. I can spare them one day, and they shall 
pump out the Woodville for you." 
"You needn't object," interposed Mrs. Sherwood. 
" Indeed you must not, Lawry," added Miss 
