down I went, flat, in the bottom of the pew!

"I guess my cheeks were as red as two beets when I got up; and the
President saw me, and he looked right at me,—right into my eyes and
laughed. He did now, really, and he looked as if he couldn't help it,
possibly.

"When he laughs it looks like a little sunbeam or something, running all
over his face.

"Father says we shan't probably see him again. They don't have any
receptions now at the White House, because they are in mourning.

"We went to a Quaker meeting this afternoon, but there isn't any time to
tell about it."

JOY'S JOURNAL.

"Monday, June 23.

"Oh dear me! We've seen so much to-day I can't remember half of it. I
shall write what I can, and Gypsy may write the rest.

"In the first place, we went to the Capitol. It's built of white marble,
and it's very large. There are quantities of long steps on different
sides of it, and so many doors, and passages, and rooms, and pillars. I
never could find my way out, in the world, alone. I wonder the Senators
don't get lost sometimes.

"About the first place you come into is a round room, called the
rotunda. Uncle says rotunda means round. There are some pictures there.
One of them is Washington crossing the Delaware, with great cakes of ice
beating up against the boat. One of the men has a flag in his hand.
Gypsy and I liked it ever so much.

"Oh!—the dome of the Capitol isn't quite finished. There is
scaffolding up there, and it doesn't look very pretty.

"Well, then we went upstairs, and I never saw such handsome stairs! They
are marble, and so wide! and the banisters are the most elegant
variegated marble,—a sort of dark brown, and they are so broad! Why,
I should think they were a foot and a half broad, but then I don't know
exactly how much a foot is.

"We went into two rooms that Gypsy and I both liked best of anything.
One is called the Marble Room, and the other the Fresco Room. The Marble
Room is all made of marble,—walls, floor, window-sills, everything but
the furniture. The marble is of different colors and patterns, and
just as beautiful! The furniture is covered with drab damask.

"The Fresco Room is all made of pictures. Frescoes are pictures painted
on the ceilings, Uncle says. He says Michael Angelo, the great sculptor
and artist, used to paint a great many, and that they are very
beautiful. He says he had to lie flat on scaffoldings while he was
painting the domes of great churches, and that, by looking up so, in
that position, he hurt his eyes very much. This room I started to tell
about is real pretty. I've almost forgotten what the furniture is
covered with. Seems to me it is yellow damask, or else it's the Marble
Room that's yellow, and this is drab,—or else—I declare! We've seen
so much to-day, I've got everything mixed up!
