tenderness, and my lady went to him, saying brokenly, as she embraced
him with maternal warmth, “God bless you for this act, Maurice, and
reward you with a perfect cure. To you I owe the lives of both my
children; how can I thank you as I ought?”

“I dare not tell you yet,” he whispered eagerly, then added, “I am
growing faint, Aunt. Get me away before I make a scene.”

This hint recalled my lady to her usual state of dignified
self-possession. Bidding Jasper and the major help Treherne to his room
without delay, she begged Rose to comfort her sister, who was sobbing
hysterically, and as they all obeyed her, she led her daughter away to
her own apartment, for the festivities of the evening were at an end.

At the same time Mrs. Snowdon and Annon bade my lady good-night, as if
they also were about to retire, but as they reached the door of the
gallery Mrs. Snowdon paused and beckoned Annon back. They were alone
now, and, standing before the fire which had so nearly made that
Christmas Eve a tragical one, she turned to him with a face full of
interest and sympathy as she said, nodding toward the blackened shreds
of Octavia’s dress, and the scorched tiger skin which still lay at their
feet, “That was both a fortunate and an unfortunate little affair, but I
fear Maurice’s gain will be your loss. Pardon my frankness for Octavia’s
sake; she is a fine creature, and I long to see her given to one worthy
of her. I am a woman to read faces quickly; I know that your suit does
not prosper as you would have it, and I desire to help you. May I?”

“Indeed you may, and command any service of me in return. But to what do
I owe this unexpected friendliness?” cried Annon, both grateful and
surprised.

“To my regard for the young lady, my wish to save her from an
unworthy man.”

“Do you mean Treherne?” asked Annon, more and more amazed.

“I do. Octavia must not marry a gambler!”

“My dear lady, you labor under some mistake; Treherne is by no means a
gambler. I owe him no goodwill, but I cannot hear him slandered.”

“You are generous, but I am not mistaken. Can you, on your honor, assure
me that Maurice never played?”

Mrs. Snowdon’s keen eyes were on him, and he looked embarrassed for a
moment, but answered with some hesitation, “Why, no, I cannot say that,
but I can assure you that he is not an habitual gambler. All young men
of his rank play more or less, especially abroad. It is merely an
amusement with most, and among men is not considered dishonorable or
dangerous. Ladies think differently, I believe, at least in England.”

At the word “abroad,” Mrs. Snowdon’s face brightened, and she suddenly
dropped her eyes, as if afraid of betraying some secret purpose.

“Indeed we do, and well we may, many of us having suffered from this
pernicious habit. I have had special cause to dread and condemn it, and
the fear that Octavia should in time suffer what I have suffered as a
girl urges me to interfere where otherwise I should be dumb. Mr. Annon,
there was a rumor that Maurice was forced to quit Paris, owing to some
dishonorable practices at the gaming table. Is this true?”
