eleven we took the train for Dublin, where we arrived at half past
three. Though I made diligent search among the passengers, I could not
find E. Dunkswell, and I concluded that he had gone to Liverpool in the
steamer. In the evening I took the train for Kingstown, where I embarked
in the steamer for Holyhead, at which place I again took a train, and at
seven o'clock on Saturday morning was at Morley's, in London, at least
eight hours before my fellow-voyagers could arrive.
After I had breakfasted, I took the Bunyard letter from my money-belt,
and hastened to find Old Jewry.
CHAPTER XXV.
IN WHICH ERNEST VISITS STONY STRATFORD, AND E. DUNKSWELL COMES TO GRIEF.
THOUGH I was in a strange land, and in the midst of the wonders of the
Old World, I had but little curiosity to see the grand sights which
London can present. I had been whirled through Ireland, Wales, and
England to the great metropolis, part of the time by daylight; and
though I had kept my eyes wide open, I realized that my mission was
higher and grander than studying landscapes, and wandering through the
vaulted arches of old cathedrals.
When Mr. Carmichael told me, early in the morning, that I was in
England, the thought that I was in the same country with my mother
thrilled me with delight, which, however, was not unmingled with
apprehension lest I should seek and not find; lest disease and death
had robbed me of her I sought. At the station in Euston Square I had
parted with the telegraph agent, with many thanks for his kindness. I
took his address, hoping that at some future time I might be able to
reciprocate the attention he had bestowed upon me. I may as well say
here that Mr. Carmichael afterwards came to the United States, and that
I helped him to a situation which paid him ten times the salary he had
ever before received, when he was as grateful to me as I had been to
him.
Morley's Hotel is in Trafalgar Square, at one end of the Strand. I had
looked up Old Jewry in the Post-office Directory. The hall porter of the
hotel had given me general directions, and I walked out into the Strand,
and took an omnibus with the word "Bank" painted on it. On the top of
the London omnibus there is a double seat along the middle, on which the
passengers sit facing the buildings on each side of the street. I
occupied one of these places. The Bank of England was my objective
point, for Old Jewry was near it. I passed St. Paul's, whose towering
height and blackened walls I recognized, and entered Cheapside--a name
which sounded quite familiar to me. I descended from my perch when the
omnibus stopped, and after several inquiries found the place I sought.
Old Jewry was nothing but a narrow lane, and I had no difficulty in
finding the number of Mr. Bunyard's office. I followed his name,
repeated on the walls, up three flights of stairs; and by the time I had
reached the third floor, I came to the conclusion that my uncle's agent
was a person of no great consequence. He was fortunately in his room, a
little apartment ten feet square, with no furniture but a desk and two
chairs. Mr. Bunyard was a man of fifty or more. He stopped writing when
I entered, and looked at me.
"Mr. Bunyard?" I asked, as politely as I could, while my heart leaped
with emotion.
"The same," replied he.
I handed him the letter, which he opened at once. He took from it a bill
of exchange, which seemed to light up his face with satisfaction.
"I am very happy to hear from my friend Mr. Thornton. I hope he is quite
well. He does not mention the bearer of this letter," continued the
agent, bestowing an inquiring look upon me.
"He was not aware, when he wrote the letter, that I should be the bearer
of it," I replied, evasively. "My name is Thornton."
"I am happy to meet you, Mr. Thornton," he added.
