Thornton. I expelled him once; but out of regard for his uncle, to
whom I am under great obligations, I reversed my sentence, and
endeavored to reduce him to proper subjection."

"Have you seen this paper, Mr. Parasyte?" continued the visitor,
handing him the circular. "It seems to be signed by nearly all the
students in the Institute."

Mr. Parasyte took the printed document, and proceeded to read it. When
he had gone far enough to comprehend the nature of the paper, he
turned red; and when he came to the long array of signatures, he
became very pale.

"May I inquire the object of this paper?" demanded the principal, with
quivering lips.

"I'm sure I don't know. I never saw or heard of it till I entered
this room," replied Mr. Hale "I see that it is addressed to the
parents of the students."

"I need not say that the statements contained in this circular are,
without a single exception, infamous falsehoods and slanders. I think
you know me well enough, Mr. Hale, to understand that justice and
fairness have always characterized my dealings with my pupils."

Mr. Hale did not so understand it. He knew that the reverse of this
statement was the truth. Mr. Parasyte then insisted on relating the
facts connected with the "breaking away." He told the story of my
misconduct, as he termed it, and embellished it with sundry flourishes
about his own impartiality and magnanimity. He said that after it had
been fairly proved that I had assaulted my schoolmate, in
consideration of my previous good conduct, he had only required that I
should apologize in private to the one I had injured. Forbearance
could extend no farther than this; but I had even refused to make this
slight reparation for the offence I had committed. Then I had openly
disobeyed and insulted him in the presence of the whole school.

"Of course, after this," continued Mr. Parasyte, "I could do nothing
more for him. My gentleness was not appreciated; my leniency was
despised. My mistake was in treating him too kindly--in not resorting
to the strong arm in the beginning. Then, as I might have expected of
such an obdurate boy, I was subjected to a personal assault."

"But all the boys seemed to be on his side," said the matter-of-fact
Mr. Hale.

"Very true. Thornton keeps a boat, and almost any boy may be bought or
sold with a boat. He has sailed them on the lake, and won them by his
arts."

"Isn't it possible that there was some mistake in the matter of the
quarrel between Thornton and Poodles?"

"It is quite impossible that there should have been any mistake,"
replied Mr. Parasyte, with a look of injured innocence. "I
investigated the matter very carefully and impartially."

"I should really like to hear what the boys have to say about it,"
added Mr. Hale.

