vide for emergencies ; you see if I don't bring 
up bread and butter for you hot bread ; crisp 
pieces of crust; right out of the oven; with 
the butter melting." 

Mary was gone another ten minutes, and 
came back with a tumbler of water. 

" Take it somebody, do ! I can't hold it for 
laughing. Here, Lou Armstrong, you must 
faint right away if you have the least regard for 
my conscience. Ran into Mrs. M. splash ! 
Knocked off her waterfall you ought to have 
seen it spin ! begged her pardon, but my 
feelings were agitated my room-mate was 
sick, and wanted a glass of water. And Oh 
dear ! the woman was so compassionate, and 
offered to come up and see her ! Wouldn't 
anybody have the goodness to be thirsty ! " 

The prospect began to look serious; the 
" clear, bare, unadulterated pickles," 
impossible, through that hope deferred, which maketh 
the heart sick. 

At last Maude Clare said that she had 
thought of a plan. Maude Clare was famous 
for thinking of plans, and very willing to look 
on and see somebody else carry them out. 

There is a plate of oyster crackers on the 
china closet shelf; I saw them this noon, when 
we hadn't enough for the oysters, and Dolly 
said they were all gone." Maude was inter 
rupted by a chorus of " Just the thing ! " 

"And Gypsy might go down she 's so 
little through the dining-room ; there isn't 
a soul there ; if anybody comes, she can whisk 
up the kitchen stairs, and if anybody comes 
from the kitchen, she can want my Testament 
that I dropped under the dining-room table at 
Biblical. You are so little, you know, Gypsy, 
and can get out of the way like a squirrel. I 
would go myself, but I 'm always so big; 
everybody sees me" 

Gypsy 's eyes had begun to twinkle at th 


prospect. What good fun it would be ! And 
when a thing promised good fun, Gypsy was 
not apt to think very far about it. 

" Good ! I 'll do it. Here I bequeath you 
my pickle, girls, if I come to an untimely end. 
Keep it sacred to my memory, will you?" So, 
with her bubbling laugh, she bounded away 
from them, and downstairs. 

