"OUR BOYS AND GIRLS." It was written in response to a great number of
calls for a sequel to "THE STARRY FLAG." The author was pleased to
learn that Levi Fairfield had made so pleasant an impression upon his
young friends, and the gratifying reception extended to him in the
present story, as it appeared in the Magazine, was quite as flattering
to the writer as to Levi himself. When a good boy, like the hero of
"The Starry Flag," is regarded with so much kindly interest by our boys
and girls, it is convincing evidence that they have the capacity to
appreciate noble conduct, daring deeds, and a true life.

The author is not disposed to apologize for the "exciting" element--as
some have been pleased to denominate it--of this and others of his
stories. If goodness and truth have been cast down, if vice and sin
have been raised up, in the story, an explanation would not, and ought
not to, atone for the crime. The writer degrades no saints, he
canonizes no villains. He believes that his young friends admire and
love the youthful heroes of the story because they are good and true,
because they are noble and self-sacrificing, and because they are
generous and courageous, and not merely because they engage in stirring
adventures. Exciting the youthful mind in the right direction is one
thing; exciting it in the wrong direction is quite another thing.

Once more it becomes the writer's pleasant duty to acknowledge the
kindness of his young friends, as well as of very many parents and
guardians, who have so often and so freely expressed their approbation
of his efforts to please his readers. He has been continually cheered
by their kind letters, and by their constant favor, however manifested;
and he cannot help wondering that one who deserves so little should
receive so much.



"This is the spot, Bessie," said Levi Fairfield, as he paused on the
bank of the brook which flows into the bay near Mike's Point.

"But what was the thing you made?" asked Bessie Watson, as she looked
with interest at the place indicated, though she could not see anything
very remarkable, or even strange.

"It was a young saw-mill," laughed Levi. "It rested on those flat
stones you see there; but the dam is entirely washed away. I made it in
Mr. Mogmore's carpenter's shop, near uncle Nathan's house. After a deal
of fussing and tinkering, I got it so that it sawed through a board two
feet long from one end to the other. It was the proudest day of my life
when I showed Mr. Mogmore the two parts, separated by my machine; and
he declared I should make a good machinist."

"Where is the saw-mill now?" inquired Bessie, interested in the machine
because it had been made by Levi, rather than because she had a taste
for mechanics.

"It is up in the attic of uncle Nathan's house; at least it was there
three years ago, when I went to live with Mr. Gayles."

"I should really like to see it."

"Should you? Well, you shall, if the thing is still in being. I will go
down to uncle Nathan's and get it, and then I will set it up, and you
shall see it go," answered Levi, as he led the way towards the house of
his uncle.
