had seen more of the world.

The banker tried to think what motive the barber could have for
arraying himself against one who had done so much for him--one who had
voluntarily paid his family the reward of five hundred dollars. It was
possible that the Wittleworths had been at work upon André; that they
had induced him to give evidence in support of their assertion that
Marguerite was dead. Mr. Checkynshaw was a shrewd and deep man, in his
own estimation, and he was confident, if any such scheme had been
devised, he could fathom it. He rather preferred, therefore, to see the
members of the family separately, and Maggie was the best one to begin
with.

Mr. Checkynshaw was admitted to the parlor of the barber's home, and
Maggie was the only person in the house with him; for Leo was at
school, still determined, make or break, to obtain the medal. The fair
girl blushed when she recognized the visitor, and, having heard that
the Wittleworths had instituted the suit, she trembled with fear; for
she suspected that the great man's coming related to that event.

"Maggie, I am sorry you and your father have been giving bad counsels
to those Wittleworths," the banker began, in solemn tones, but
apparently more in grief than in anger.

"Why, sir! Bad counsels?" exclaimed Maggie.

"I have given the Wittleworths money enough to keep them comfortable
for the rest of their lives; but they are ungrateful, and are now
seeking to annoy me as much as possible."

"I am very sorry."

"I thought I had done enough for your family to make you all my
friends; but it seems I was mistaken," added the great man, sadly
reproachful in his manner.

"I am sure, sir, we are very grateful to you, and would not willingly
do anything to injure you," protested Maggie, warmly.

"Why did your father tell the Wittleworths, then, that he was employed
in the cholera hospital in Paris?"

"Because he was employed there," replied Maggie, who deemed this a
sufficient reason for saying so.

"Was he, indeed?" asked the banker, who had been sceptical even on this
point.

Maggie told the whole story of the two Marguerites, as she had heard it
from her father.

"One Marguerite died, and you were the other," said Mr. Checkynshaw,
musing.

"Yes, sir; and I don't know to this day who my father and mother were;
but I suppose they died of cholera. I was told they did. Mon père
traced them to their lodgings, and identified the clothing and a locket
I wore."

"A locket?" asked the banker, curiously.
