would."
"But that is what I wanted to ask about, Maria. How ought one
to let one's light shine?"
I remember now the kind of surveying look the woman gave me. I
do not know what she was thinking of; but she looked at me, up
and down, for a moment, with a wonderfully tender, soft
expression. Then turned away.
"How let um light shine?" she repeated. "De bestest way, Miss
Daisy, is fur to make him burn good."
I saw it all immediately; my question never puzzled me again.
Take care that the lamp is trimmed; take care that it is full
of oil; see that the flame mounts clear and steady towards
heaven; and the Lord will set it where its light will fall on
what pleases Him, and where it will reach mayhap, to what you
never dream of.
CHAPTER VI.
WINTER AND SUMMER.
From the Christmas holidays, I think I began slowly to mend.
My aunt watched me, and grumbled that kitchen amusements and
rides with Darry should prove the medicines most healing and
effectual; but she dared stop neither of them. I believe the
overseer remonstrated on the danger of the night gatherings;
but my aunt Gary had her answer ready, and warned him not to
do anything to hinder me, for I was the apple of my father's
eye. Miss Pinshon, sharing to the full my aunt's discontent,
would have got on horseback, I verily believe, to be with me
in my rides; but she was no rider. The sound of a horse's four
feet always, she confessed, stamped the courage out of her
heart. I was let alone; and the Sunday evenings in the
kitchen, and the bright morning hours in the pine avenues and
oak groves, were my refreshment and my pleasure, and my
strength.
What there was of it; for I had not much strength to boast for
many a day. Miss Pinshon tried her favorite recipe whenever
she thought she saw a chance, and I did my best with it. But
my education that winter was quite in another line. I could
not bear much arithmetic. Bending over a desk did not agree
with me. Reading aloud to Miss Pinshon never lasted for more
than a little while at a time. So it comes, that my
remembrance of that winter is not filled with school
exercises, and that Miss Pinshon's figure plays but a
subordinate part in its pictures. Instead of that, my memory
brings back first and chiefest of all, the circle of dark
faces round the kitchen light wood fire, and the yellow blaze
on the page from which I read; I a little figure in white,
sitting in the midst among them all. That picture  those
evenings  come back to me, with a kind of hallowed perfume of
truth and hope. Truth, it was in my lips and on my heart; I
was giving it out to those who had it not. And hope,  it was
in more hearts than mine, no doubt; but in mine it beat with
as steady a beat as the tickings of my little watch by my
side, and breathed sweet as the flowers that start in spring
from under the snow. I had often a large circle; and it was
part of my plan, and well carried into execution, that these
evenings of reading should supply also the place of the
missing prayer-meeting. Gradually I drew it on to be so
understood; and then my pieces of reading were scattered along
between the prayers, or sometimes all came at first, followed
by two or three earnest longer prayers from some of those that
were present. And then, without any planning of mine, came in
