'spectable. I haven't been to Tony Pastor's, or the Old Bowery, for
ever so long. I'd rather save up my money to support me in my old
age. When my hair gets gray, I'm goin' to knock off blackin' boots,
and go into some light, genteel employment, such as keepin' an
apple-stand, or disseminatin' pea-nuts among the people.

"I've got so as to read pretty well, so my tooter says. I've been
studyin' geography and grammar also. I've made such astonishin'
progress that I can tell a noun from a conjunction as far away as
I can see 'em. Tell Mr. Munroe that if he wants an accomplished
teacher in his school, he can send for me, and I'll come on by the
very next train. Or, if he wants to sell out for a hundred dollars,
I'll buy the whole concern, and agree to teach the scholars all I
know myself in less than six months. Is teachin' as good business,
generally speakin', as blackin' boots? My private tooter combines
both, and is makin' a fortun' with great rapidity. He'll be as rich
as Astor some time, if he only lives long enough.

"I should think you'd have a bully time at your school. I should
like to go out in the boat, or play ball with you. When are you
comin' to the city? I wish you'd write and let me know when you do,
and I'll call and see you. I'll leave my business in the hands of my
numerous clerks, and go round with you. There's lots of things you
didn't see when you was here before. They're getting on fast at the
Central Park. It looks better than it did a year ago.

"I aint much used to writin' letters. As this is the first one I
ever wrote, I hope you'll excuse the mistakes. I hope you'll write
to me again soon. I can't write so good a letter as you; but, I'll
do my best, as the man said when he was asked if he could swim over
to Brooklyn backwards. Good-by, Frank. Thank you for all your
kindness. Direct your next letter to No. -- Mott Street.

  "Your true friend,
  "DICK HUNTER."


When Dick had written the last word, he leaned back in his chair,
and surveyed the letter with much satisfaction.

"I didn't think I could have wrote such a long letter, Fosdick,"
said he.

"Written would be more grammatical, Dick," suggested his friend.

"I guess there's plenty of mistakes in it," said Dick. "Just look at
it, and see."

Fosdick took the letter, and read it over carefully.

"Yes, there are some mistakes," he said; "but it sounds so much like
you that I think it would be better to let it go just as it is. It
will be more likely to remind Frank of what you were when he first
saw you."

"Is it good enough to send?" asked Dick, anxiously.

"Yes; it seems to me to be quite a good letter. It is written just
as you talk. Nobody but you could have written such a letter, Dick.
I think Frank will be amused at your proposal to come up there as
