but little boats can get through that narrow opening in the
reef; and I suppose, Solomon's cedar timber got through."

"The ships of old time were not much more than our boats, many
of them," said my father. "How delightfully you realise
everything, Daisy!"

"Well, papa, - don't you?"

"Not the past, child. I realise you by my side."

"Papa, if you think about it a little, you will realise Joppa
too."

"I have not your imagination, Daisy. About Solomon's temple, -
there is nothing of it left now, I suppose?"

"Oh, no, papa!"

"It might, Daisy. Thebes is vastly older."

"But, papa, - don't you remember, there was not one stone of
all those buildings to be left upon another stone. Nothing is
left - only some of the foundation wall that supported the
floor, or the platform, of the Temple."

"Well, we shall see, when we go to Jerusalem," my father said.

In the meantime we went out and took a great walk about the
environs of Joppa. Through the miles of gardens; the grand
orange groves, and pomegranate, lemon, fig, apricot and palm
orchards. The oranges and lemons getting their great harvests
ready; cultivation going on beneath the trees; the water-
wheels working; the curious hedges of prickly pear, four and
six feet high, reminding us all the while, if nothing else
did, that we were in a very strange land. What endless delight
it was! The weather had just cleared the day before; and to-
day, the fifteenth of January, the sun shone still and fair
and warm. I saw that papa was getting good with every step,
and growing interested with every hour. We went down to the
beach, and strolled along as far as the tanneries; every wave
that broke at my side seeming to sing in my ears the reminder
that it broke on the shores of Palestine. Papa wished the
oranges were ripe; I wished for nothing.

Then we entered the city again, and examined the bazars;
lingering first a good while to watch the motley, picturesque,
strange and wild crowd without the city gate. It was my first
taste of Oriental life; papa knew it before, but he relished
it all afresh in my enjoyment of it. Of course we were taken
to see Simon's house and the house where Tabitha died.

"Do you realise anything here, Daisy?" papa asked, as we stood
on the flat roof of the first of these two.

"Yes, papa."

"Pray, what? St. Peter never saw this building, my dear."

"No, papa, I don't think it. But he saw the Mediterranean -
