the dead, and added to that of the living.
I learned that the body of Mrs. Goodridge had been recovered, and that
friends on board of the steamer would take charge of it. There was
nothing more for me to do, and I fled, sick at heart, from the awful
spectacle. I went to a small hotel near the landing, and though I slept
heavily, awake or in my slumber, the scenes of death and woe I had
beheld still haunted my mind. I took an early breakfast, and then
endeavored to find a boat bound down the river. There was none in Cairo
that would start that day, and it might be several days before I could
obtain a passage. I could not think of prolonging the agonizing suspense
of our passenger on the raft, or of leaving the two females to the care
of so heavy a thinker as Sim Gwynn. If a squall or a sudden rise of the
river occurred, my assistant would be helpless; and if the raft broke
loose, he would not have wit enough to bring it up to the shore again.
I walked up and down the levee, thinking what I should do. I could not
charter a steamer, and there was no conveyance on the other side of the
Mississippi. While I was thus fretting at the delay, I came to a yard
where boats were kept for sale. Most of them were for the use of
steamers, and were far beyond my means; but I found a second-hand skiff,
which I purchased for ten dollars, including in the price a pair of good
oars. It would be a handy thing to have on the raft, and if I had had it
when I first saw poor Emily Goodridge in the water, I could have saved
her without any difficulty.
In this light boat I embarked at nine o'clock. The raft was ten or
twelve miles below Cairo; but the swift current would speed me on my way
with little labor at the oars. I pulled steadily, and with just power
enough to give me steerage-way; and when I reached the raft, I found I
had made the passage in little more than two hours.
"Hookie!" ejaculated Sim, with a stupid stare, as I ran the skiff up to
the raft.
"Catch the painter!" I called, throwing him the rope.
"I hain't seen no painter," he replied, staring around him, and letting
the rope run off the raft, and the skiff go adrift.
I pulled up to the raft again, and succeeded in making my deck hand
understand that he was to hold on to the rope attached to the boat.
"Where did you get that boat?"
"Catch hold, and haul it up," I replied; for I seldom found it
practicable to answer Sim's questions.
"Did you find this boat?" he asked when he had pulled it up on the
platform.
"No; how is the girl we saved?"
"Did you make this boat?"
"No; I bought it; gave ten dollars for it. How is the girl?"
"O, she's sick! Leastwise, she ain't very well, and didn't sleep much."
I did not suppose she had slept very well; for one with such a fearful
anxiety on her mind must have suffered intensely during the long night.
I hastened into the house, and found dear Flora making some tea for her
patient. I surmised that the poor child had also spent a sleepless
night, for she looked pale and ill herself, and I trembled for her
welfare, devoted and self-sacrificing as she was in the presence of the
heavy woe of her charge.
"How is Emily?" I asked.
"She is very sick, I fear," replied poor Flora, sadly, for she seemed to
make her patient's sufferings her own. "She has hardly closed her eyes
during the night."
"And you have not slept yourself, Flora."
"No, I have not. The poor girl has talked about her mother all night
long. What news do you bring, Buckland?"
"I hardly dare to speak it," I replied, in a whisper.
"It can be no worse that her fears. She is already reconciled to the
