after the disorder and insubordination which had prevailed in the ship
during the drill. Some of those who complained the loudest had
permitted their love of fun to get the better of their discretion, and
had joined in the disorder which prevailed during the drill. Many
well-disposed boys had assisted the conspirators against the peace of
the ship by joining in what appeared to them to be but a mere frolic,
while it was, in fact, an organized attempt to make mischief. They had
encouraged the spirit of insubordination, without supposing they were
engaged in anything more than a mere lark, involuntary on their part,
and suggested only by the circumstances of the moment.

From the captain's stand-point, the confusion had a very grave aspect;
while from that of the seamen, it was a matter of trivial consequence.
The commander was mortified to find the discipline so weak; and he
could have no confidence in himself or his crew until his orders were
promptly obeyed. He was thinking only of the welfare of the ship and
her crew. He had no intention of punishing the students, when he
suggested the plan of going to sea,--only of perfecting the discipline.
It seemed to him just as though three weeks on shore had demoralized
the ship's company. Though he was now aware that the runaways had done
what they could to make trouble, the confusion seemed to be too
extensive to be accounted for by their agency. Two of the best boys on
board had been sent to the mainmast for disobedience; and it was clear
that the runaways had not produced all the trouble.

The commodore fully sustained him, and believed that it was best for
the ship to go to sea. If the students had forgotten the ropes, or were
so much embarrassed in their new stations, that they could not set a
sail or get up the anchor without making a mess of it, the ship ought
to go to sea. On the return of the excursionists from Germany, it might
be necessary to put to sea without an hour's delay, as the principal
had suggested. Shipwreck and disaster might follow if the crew were not
in working order. It was a plain case to the captain.

Paul Kendall had explained the situation to the Arbuckles as mildly as
he could. He had told them that the seamen were a little disorderly,
and that it was necessary to have them in perfect discipline before
they went to Germany. Without intending to do so, he had produced the
impression on their minds, that the trip would be given up unless the
boys performed their duty to the entire satisfaction of the principal.
In talking with the officers, they had expressed their fear that the
proposed excursion would not take place. Perhaps the guests were not
far from right; for certainly the students would not be allowed to step
on shore if the discipline of the ship was not satisfactory. Miss Grace
was sadly disturbed at the thought of depriving the students of the
pleasure of seeing the Rhine, its wonders and its beauties.

"Why, I thought your crew were in perfect discipline, Captain--no, I
mean Commodore--Kendall," said she, as they sat upon the quarter-deck,
discussing the great question of the hour.

"They are, generally," replied Paul. "But you know we are a little
world by ourselves, and we have our troubles just like other people. It
will be all right, I hope, in a day or two. The students get a little
wild sometimes."

"Captain Shuffles is such a noble fellow, I should think they would all
wish to do their best. I'm sure I should, if I were a sailor in your
ship."

