"I can tell you beforehand that you won't get any."

"We won't dispute about that," said John. "I shall be glad to go about
this business at once, as I do not wish to be kept away from my studies
any longer than is absolutely necessary."

"I'm thinking, young man," said Mr. Huxter, "that it will be a good
while before you go back to your Latin and Greek."

"Why so?" said John.

"Read that, and you'll know," said Mr. Huxter; and he drew a note from
his pocket, and handed it to John.




CHAPTER XV.

MRS. OAKLEY'S NOTE.


John opened the note, little suspecting the nature of its contents. It
was as follows:--

 "JOHN OAKLEY:--I have made an arrangement with my brother to have
 you board with him for the present. As you and Benjamin find it so
 difficult to agree, it will be much better that you should live
 apart. If you had not treated him so brutally I should not be under
 the necessity of sending you away from home. I hope you will give my
 brother no trouble, but will follow his directions. He understands
 what course I wish him to pursue with you. If he reports favorably of
 you, I will send for you to return at a proper time."

  "JANE OAKLEY."

 "P. S. I will forward your trunk by express, early next week."

John read this cold and unjust letter with mingled anger and dismay.
It was hard to have all the blame of his quarrel with Ben thrown upon
him, when Ben had been the aggressor, and he had only contended for
his just rights. So he was to be exiled from home on Ben's account.
He could not help thinking how happily his father and he used to
live together before the present Mrs. Oakley came to the farm as
house-keeper. And now she and her son had taken possession, and he
was turned adrift. What would his father have thought, could he have
foreseen what would happen so soon after his death!

These thoughts, and others not less disturbing, passed through John's
mind as he read his stepmother's letter. Mr. Huxter's eyes were fixed
upon his face in cruel exultation, for he imagined the nature of John's
feelings, and enjoyed his sorrow.

"Well, Oakley, what do you say to that?" he demanded.

"I don't know what to say," said John.

"No, I presume not. The fact is, you haven't got anything to say in the
matter. My sister is your natural guardian, and she has sent you to me
to manage. She says you're rather a tough subject; but I reckon I can
