proceed from a generous, well-regulated soul. Kow 
when Mr. Meredith comes to look at our house we 
 
shall not expect him to examine the foundation- 
stones, the timber, the thickness of the walls, and 
inspect the quality of our wall-paper, — shall we ? ” 
“ Why, no ” ; and she laughed at the ridiculous 
idea. 
“ He will judge it altogether, and if it has a pleas- 
ant, harmonious effect, he will enjoy it. Just so it is 
with character. We never expect to tell people how 
bad our tempers were, and what hard work we had to 
make them better, — that we were very vain, and 
had striven against it, and the many faults that 
continually beset poor human nature ? And yet it is 
these small, unseen things that improve us, — this 
constant, daily work. If the painters had neglected 
one side of our house, or put on some other color, it 
would be very quickly remarked.” 
“ Indeed, it would ” ; and Kathie laughed. 
“ So glaring faults are very easily observed ; and, 
on the other hand, pretty, engaging manners are as 
much admired. You sometimes like people without 
being able to explain why, — do you not ? ” 
“ O yes ! — Miss Jessie for one.” 
“Miss Jessie is pleasant, refined, and possesses true 
appreciation. She never carries about with her an 
obtrusive sense of edu cation or dress. I am glad that 
you have chanced upon such a friend, although you 
are a little girl ; and she is one of the persons who 
look for something beside wealth and show. Am 
I preaching you too much of a sermon ? ” 
“ Oh no, I like to hear you talk,” Kathie said, 
simply. 
“ I will only add that if you had been a noisy, 
ill-mannered child, I should not have enjoyed taking 
you to New York, and I doubt if even the fortune 
would have gained you many admirers.” 
Kathie felt that this was true. It had not been 
simply because she was rich that Mrs. Havens and 
Mr. Meredith had taken such pains to entertain her. 
A child with less humility than Kathie might have 
felt secretly elated ; but as she gave Uncle Robert’s 
hand a fond squeeze she hoped inwardly that she 
would always be able to please and satisfy the friends 
who had been so kind. 
A few days after this Mr. Meredith made his ap- 
pearance at Brookside. He was delighted with the 
house and its surroundings, and most glad to see 
Kathie. But, joy of all, he had brought with him 
two elegant ponies that Uncle Robert had ordered, — - 
 
sleek and shining creatures with beautiful manes and 
great gentle-looking eyes. One had a white star in 
his forehead. 
“ For the present,” Uncle Robert said, “ one pony 
is to he Kathies and the other Rob’s. Kathie will 
be generous with hers, I know, and I want Rob to be 
manly and obliging. The first one who acts selfishly 
forfeits the pony.” 
