never came back. Perhaps your presentiment points to some such fatality.
These little accidents have happened in better-regulated families than
ours.”

“WINSTON!”

She gasped and blanched in pain or terror.

“What is the matter? Have I hurt you?” releasing his grasp.

“Yes--HERE!” laying his hand upon her heart, the beautiful eyes
terrified and pathetic as those of a wounded deer. “For the love of
Heaven, never stab me again with such suggestions. When you die, I shall
not care to live. When you cease to love me, I shall wish we had died
together on our marriage-day--my husband!”

He let her twine her arms about his neck, laid his cheek to her brow,
clasped her tightly and kissed her impetuously, madly, again and yet
again--disengaged himself, and ran down the steps. She was standing
on the top one, still flushed and breathless from the violence of his
embrace, when he looked back from the gate, her commanding figure framed
by the embowering creepers, as Mabel’s girlish shape had been when
Frederic Chilton waved his farewell to her from the same spot.

Did either of them think of it, or would either have reckoned it an
ominous coincidence, if the remembrance of that long-ago parting had
presented itself then and there?

Herbert spent the day upon the lounge in the family sitting-room--a cosy
retreat, between the parlor and the conservatory, which had been added
to the lower floor in the reign of the present queen. Her brother’s
seizure was no trifling ailment. Alternations of stupor and racking
spasms of pain defied, for several hours, his wife’s application of
the remedies she had found efficacious in former attacks. Her ultimate
resort was chloroform, and by the liberal use of this, relaxation of the
tense nerves and a sleep that resembled healing repose were induced by
the middle of the afternoon. The weather continued to threaten rain,
although none had fallen as yet, and the wind moaned lugubriously in
the leafless branches of the great walnut before the end window of the
narrow apartment. It was a grand tree, the patriarch of the grove
that sheltered the house from the north winds. Mabel, relieved from
watchfulness, and to some extent from anxiety, by her husband’s profound
slumber, lay back in her chair with a long-drawn sigh, and looked out at
the naked limbs of the wrestling giant--the majestic sway and reel she
used to note with childish awe--and thought of many things which had
befallen her since then, until the steady rocking of the boughs and hum
of the November breeze soothed her into languor--then drowsiness--then
oblivion.

She awoke in alarm at the sense of something hurtful or startling
hovering near her.

The fire had been trimmed before she slept, and now flamed up gayly; the
window was dusky, as were the distant corners of the room, and Herbert
was gazing steadfastly at her.

“I fell asleep without knowing it. I am sorry! Have you wanted anything?
How long have you been awake?”

“Only a few minutes, my dearest!” with no change in the mesmeric
