 
" A little," she answered, timidly. 
" And your voice is exceedingly sweet and smooth. 
You ought to have an excellent teacher. I should 
like to hear you in some other pieces. I suppose you 
sing a good deal." 
" When I am at home/' returned Kathie. 
Ada could no longer endure the sight of Mr. De 
Castro's attention to another. She called him to ex- 
plain to them the name of some tropical flower, and 
then she and Julie exerted their charms to the utmost. 
She might venture to deal more generously with Julie, 
as that young lady was so soon to leave the city. 
Mrs. Henriques changed her seat, and Kathie was 
left alone. Every one in the room seemed happy and 
engrossed except herself. And then the little French 
clock on the mantel struck the half-hour. At nine 
she must go home. 
The moments were long and wearisome. She 
counted the seconds and prayed for them to go faster. 
She did not dare to leave her seat, for a feeling of 
awkwardness chained her to it. Mr. Meredith, glan- 
cing up suddenly, took in the position of the droop- 
ing and dispirited face, and brought his argument to 
a rather abrupt close. 
" My dear child/' he said, approaching her, " you 
should not let such a trifling mischance cloud your 
evening. After all, it was of very little account." 
" I should like to go home," she made answer, in a 
tremulous voice. " Aunt Euth told me to come at 
nine." 
"Which gives you fifteen minutes' grace. Shall 
we go over and talk to Ada and Julie ? ' 
" I would rather go home " ; and this time her voice 
was full of tears. 
" My child, you shall do as you like. It is a fine 
night, so suppose I walk with you, instead of send- 
ing you in the carriage ? ' 
Kathie gave him a bright, grateful look. 
" Very well. Make your adieus then." 
That was a great trial. She had half a mind to 
slip unnoticed out of the room, but Mr. Meredith 
smoothed the way for her by announcing her de- 
parture to the girls and to Mrs. Henriques, who was 
in their vicinity. 
" What makes you go so soon ? ' : ' asked Ada, lan- 
guidly. 
Mrs. Henriques kissed her warmly, and this broke 
the spell of reserve. 
 
" I am sorry about the singing," said Madame 
Hernadez, in a low tone. " If we were not going to- 
morrow, I should ask to have the visit repeated." 
That comforted Kathie a good deal, the tone in 
which it was spoken being so frank and pleas- 
ant. 
Kathie thought she ought to make some apology 
to Mrs. Meredith, but although that lady dismissed 
her very graciously, there was an air about her that 
showed the child she still felt offended. 
