that I did not charge you any interest upon it for the time you had it."

"The money wasn't yours. It belonged to Matt Rockwood. You stole it;
and I intended to get all I could for my friend here, Morgan Blair, to
whom all of it belongs."

"You and your friend seem to understand each other very well, except
so far as the pistol is concerned."

"I act for him. He is a young fellow, and don't know much about the
ways of the world."

"He appears to be learning very rapidly."

"He is the rightful heir of the man up the river, whose money you have.
I expect you to give it up to him."

"And I expect to do so myself, just as soon as he proves the claim.
Though I think I have a better right to the money than he has, I will
give it up whenever he satisfies me that he is the nephew of Matt
Rockwood. If this is your business with me, you can't get ahead any
farther with it to-night."

"Have you the note with you--the note of Mr.--What's his name?"

"Mr. Gracewood," added Blair.

"I respectfully decline to answer," I replied.

"But you must give it up before you leave this house."

"Then I shall stay here longer than you will want to board me."

"I don't intend to board you," sneered Lynch. "You will neither eat nor
drink till you give up this note, and the hundred dollars you got out
of me at the police station."

"So far as the money is concerned, I spent a part of it, and the rest I
left at my boarding-house."

"You can give me an order on your landlady for what you have left, and
Blair will go and get it."

"I will not give him that trouble."

"You prefer to stay here--do you?"

"I do; this isn't a bad place to stay, and I can stand it here a while."

"Consider well your situation, Phil. This is my room. I board here when
I am in town, and--"

"It's good enough for me, if it is for you."

"It is a gambling-house, and the people who live here are my friends. I
can bring in half a dozen men to help me."

"Bring them in," I replied, laughing, though I confess that I was not
very much amused.

