 the faithful services of her friend and attendant in the instructions
 to her executors contained in her will. Such was the position of Mrs.
 Mimms towards Lady Byron; and we think no one will question that
 it was of a nature to entitle all that Mrs. Mimms may say on the
 subject of the relations of Lord and Lady Byron to the most respectful
 consideration and credit.'

Such is the chronicler's account of the faithful creature whom nothing
but intense indignation and disgust at Mrs. Beecher Stowe would lead
to speak on her mistress's affairs; but Mrs. Beecher Stowe feels none
the less sincere respect for her, and is none the less obliged to her
for having spoken. Much of Mrs. Mimms's testimony will be referred to
in another place; we only extract one passage, to show that while Lord
Byron spent his time in setting afloat slanders against his wife, she
spent hers in sealing the mouths of witnesses against him.

Of the period of the honeymoon Mrs. Mimms says:--

 'The happiness of Lady Byron, however, was of brief duration; even
 during the short three weeks they spent at Halnaby, the irregularities
 of Lord Byron occasioned her the greatest distress, and she even
 contemplated returning to her father. Mrs. Mimms was her constant
 companion and confidante through this painful period, and she does not
 believe that her ladyship concealed a thought from her. With laudable
 reticence, the old lady absolutely refuses to disclose the particulars
 of Lord Byron's misconduct at this time; she gave Lady Byron a solemn
 promise not to do so.

        *       *       *       *       *

 'So serious did Mrs. Mimms consider the conduct of Lord Byron, that
 she recommended her mistress to confide all the circumstances to her
 father, Sir Ralph Milbanke, a calm, kind, and most excellent parent,
 and take his advice as to her future course. At one time Mrs. Mimms
 thinks Lady Byron had resolved to follow her counsel and impart her
 wrongs to Sir Ralph; but on arriving at Seaham Hall her ladyship
 strictly enjoined Mrs. Mimms to preserve absolute silence on the
 subject--a course which she followed herself;--so that when, six weeks
 later, she and Lord Byron left Seaham for London, not a word had
 escaped her to disturb her parents' tranquility as to their daughter's
 domestic happiness. As might be expected, Mrs. Mimms bears the
 warmest testimony to the noble and lovable qualities of her departed
 mistress. She also declares that Lady Byron was by no means of a cold
 temperament, but that the affectionate impulses of her nature were
 checked by the unkind treatment she experienced from her husband.'

We have already shown that Lord Byron had been, ever since his
separation, engaged in a systematic attempt to reverse the judgment of
the world against himself, by making converts of all his friends to a
most odious view of his wife's character, and inspiring them with the
zeal of propagandists to spread these views through society. We have
seen how he prepared partisans to interpret the Fourth Canto of 'Childe
Harold.'

This plan of solemn and heroic accusation was the first public attack
on his wife. Next we see him commencing a scurrilous attempt to turn
her to ridicule in the First Canto of 'Don Juan.'

It is to our point now to show how carefully and cautiously this Don
Juan campaign was planned.
