
There was one portion of this speech that set Mr. Martin to thinking.
Mrs. Waters was a widow--he was a widower. By marrying her he would
secure a home, and the money received from the boarders would be paid to
him. He might not be accepted. Still it would do no harm to try.

"Mrs. Waters," he said, abruptly, wreathing his features into what he
considered an attractive smile, "since I lost my wife I've been feeling
very lonely. I need a wife to look after me and my little gal. If you
will marry me, we'll live happy, and--"

"Thank you, Mr. Martin," said Mrs. Waters, considerably astonished at
the sudden turn affairs had taken; "but I've got too much to do to think
about marrying. Leastways, I don't care about marrying a man that can't
pay his board-bill."

"Just as you say," answered Martin, philosophically; "I've give you a
good chance. Perhaps you won't get another very soon."

"Well, if there isn't impudence for you!" ejaculated Mrs. Waters, as her
boarder left the room. "I must be hard up for a husband, to marry such a
shiftless fellow as he is."

The next morning, Mr. Martin made his appearance, as usual, at the
breakfast-table. Notwithstanding his proposal of marriage had been so
decidedly rejected the day before, his appetite was not only as good as
usual, but considerably better. In fact, as he was not quite clear where
his dinner was to come from, or whether, indeed, he should have any at
all, he thought it best to lay in sufficient to last him for several
hours. Mrs. Waters contemplated with dismay the rapid manner in which he
disposed of the beef-steak and hash which constituted the principal
dishes of her morning meal, and decided that the sooner she got rid of
such a boarder the better.

Mr. Martin observed the eyes of the landlady fixed upon him, and
misinterpreted it. He thought it possible she might have changed her
mind as to the refusal of the day before, and resolved to renew his
proposal. Accordingly he lingered till the rest of the boarders had left
the table.

"Mrs. Waters," he said, "maybe you've changed your mind since
yesterday."

"About what?" demanded the landlady, sharply.

"About marrying me."

"No, I haven't," answered the widow; "you needn't mention the matter
again. When I want to marry you, I'll send and let you know."

"All right!" said Martin; "there's several after me, but I'll wait a
week for you."

"Oh, don't trouble yourself," said the landlady, sarcastically; "I don't
want to disappoint anybody else. Can you pay me this morning?"

"I'll have the money in a day or two."

"You needn't come back to dinner unless you bring the money to pay your
bill. I can't afford to give you your board."
