The sneer stung Gilliat, and the mortification of still being 
a prisoner made him tremble with rage. He gave a sudden 
wrench and aimed a backward blow at his adversary, but it 
went wide of its aim. 



 

"Take that, in memory of your insult to a defenceless 
girl, and go ;" loosening his hold of Gilliat with so sudden 
a force that the youth stumbled. And there in his face was 
the red flush left by the other's hand. 

Eustace Gilliat arose livid with passion, and confronted the 
supple giant standing unmoved before him. To venture a 
blow would be the simplest folly. 

" A Gilliat never forgives an insult, never ! You will hear 
of this again ;" a look of baffled hatred gleaming from his 
eyes. 

"Very well. The girl possibly can tell her own story. It 
will be two against one, but if your high-born Gilliat blood 
thirsts for the notoriety " with another stinging laugh. 

Eustace Gilliat walked away in ignominious, impotent 
silence, the rage of a narrow, selfish nature that could brook 
no control. If look could have murdered, his surely would 
have done so. 

Victor felt quite light of heart. He had struck the blow 
against the class of aristocrats, as well as the particular in 
dividual. The secret antagonism had raised its voice in pro 
test, and now he meant to fight his way through. 

Ah, Victor, youth has many battles on this rough ground, 
where neither can see his adversary clearly, and there is a good 
deal of useless fighting with shadows. 

Long before midnight Bohmerwald had sunk into the silence 
of peaceful slumber. Paul and Victor shared a great room 
whose uncarpeted floor was silvery white, and whose single 
pallets were fragrant with sweet herbs. 



CHAPTER VII. 

BY dawn the little village was again astir, but there was no 
bright flutter of holiday caps and gowns. The clear, shrill ring of 
the cocks from wayside eminences, the lowing of kine, and the 
faint bleating of the distant sheep, mingled with the cheerful 
but uncadenced voices of men and women, taking up their 
homely life. 

And they were content, Victor thought, gazing idly out over 
the lovely landscape in its rosy, morning haze. No rank, nervous 
vitality to be rubbed sharply against the plodding details, until 
it was all one keen, aching sore. Was it because they knew no 
