It seemed that there had hardly ever been such 
an eventful period in the lives of the family before, 
and he listened to a minute account of it from Cousin 
Lucy. " You know, Frank," says she, " that Sallie's 
one idea in life is to keep the baby from getting the 
whooping-cough, and I declare that these premises 
have done nothing but reecho with the most dolo- 
rous whoops ever since you've been gone, so that at 
times, in my fear that Sallie would think I'd been 
careless about the boy, I've been ready to throw 
myself into the water, and nothing 's prevented me 
but the doubt whether it wouldn't be better to 
throw in the whoopers instead." 

At this moment a pale little girl, with a face wan 
and sad through all its dirt, came and stood in the 
doorway nearest the baby, and in another instant 
she had burst into a whoop so terrific that, if she had 
meant to have his scalp next it could not have been 
more dreadful. Then she subsided into a deep and 
pathetic quiet, with that air peculiar to the victims 
of her disorder of having done nothing noticeable. 
But her outburst had set at work the mysterious 
machinery of half a dozen other whooping-coughers 
lurking about the building, and all unseen they 
wound themselves up with appalling rapidity, and in 
the utter silence which followed left one to think 
they had died at the climax. 

" Why, it's a perfect whooping-cough factory, 
this place," cries Cousin Lucy in a desperation. 
" Go away, do, please, from the baby, you poor little 
dreadftd object you," she continues, turning upon 




the only visible operative in the establishment. 
"Here, take this ; " and she bribes her with a bit of 
sponge-cake, on which the child runs lightly off along 
the edge of the wharf. " That's been another of 
their projects for driving me wild," says Cousin 
Lucy, — " trying to take their own lives in a hun- 
dred ways before my face and eyes. Why will their 
mothers let them come here to play? " 

Really,' they were very melancholy little figures, 
and might have gone near to make one sad, even if 
they had not been constantly imperilling their lives. 
Thanks to its being summer-time, it did not much 
matter about the scantiness of their clothing, but 
their squalor was depressing, it seemed, even to 
themselves, for they were a moumfid-looking set of 
children, and in their dangerous sports trifled silently 
and almost gloomily with death. There were none 
of them above eight or nine years of age, and most 
of them had the care of smaller brothers, or even 
babes in arms, whom they were thus early inuring 
to the perils of the situation. The boys were dressed 
in pantaloons and shirts which no excess of rolling 
