" I mean cold water. I have heard you 
say you don't like it, but it would be very 
good for you, in two ways. I am going to 
bathe you with it from your head to your 
feet. Here is my bath tub, and I'll have it 
ready in a minute. Take off your clothes, 
Matilda." 
It was with nothing less than horror that 
Matilda now earnestly besought her aunt to 
think better of this determination. She did 
dislike cold water, and after a child's luxurious fashion had always been allowed to use 
warm water. But worse than cold water was 
the idea of her aunt, or anybody, presuming to 
apply it in the capacity of bather. Matilda 
refused and pleaded, alternately ; pleaded 
very humbly at last ; but in vain. 
" I thought I knew something that would 
bring you down," Mrs. Candy said composedly and pleased ; and in the same manner 
proceeded to strip off Matilda's clothes, put 
her in the bath tub, and make thorough application of the hated element as she had said, 
from head to foot; scrubbing and dousing 
and sponging ; till if Matilda had been in the 
 
sea she would not better have known how 
cold water felt all over her. It was done in 
five minutes too ; and then after being well 
rubbed down, Matilda was directed to put on 
her clothes again and finish her patching. 
" I fancy you will feel refreshed for it now," 
said her aunt. " This will be a good thing 
for you. I used to give it to Clarissa always 
when she was a little thing ; and now I will 
do the same by you, my love. Every day, 
you shall come to me in the morning when 
you first get up." 
No announcement could have been more 
dismayful ; but this time Matilda said nothing. She bent herself to her patching, the 
one uppermost desire being to finish it and 
get out of the room. The cold water had 
refreshed and strengthened her, much as she 
disliked and hated it; at the same time the 
sense of hunger, from the same cause, grew 
keener than ever. Matilda tried her very best 
to lay the patch straight and get it basted so. 
And so keen the endeavour was, so earnest 
the attention, that though laying a linen patch 
by the thread is a nice piece of business, she 
succeeded at last. Mrs. Candy was content 
with the work, satisfied with its being only 
basted for that time, and let her go. 
Matilda slowly made her way down to the 
lower regions, where Maria was still at work, 
and asked for something to eat. Maria 
looked very black, and demanded explanations 
of what was going on upstairs. Matilda 
would say nothing, until she had found some 
thing to satisfy her hunger and had partially 
devoured a slice of bread and meat. In the 
midst of that she broke off, and wrapping her 
arms round her sister in a clinging way, 
