could. She turned in to cook; and she didn't know no more about it than
I know about talkin' any language beside my own. Not so much; for I kin
tell French when I hear it; but she didn't know boiling water."
"What can I do to help you, Miss Redwood?" Matilda asked, suddenly
remembering the present.
"There aint nothin' to do, child, 'cept what I'm doin'. The breakfast
table is sot. I guess you've had your hands full, as well as the rest
of us. But I declare you've kept things pretty straight. I don't let
the butter set in the pantry, though; it goes down cellar when I'm to
home."
"That kitchen pantry is cold, Miss Redwood."
"It's too cold, child. Butter hadn't ought to be where it kin freeze,
or get freezing hard; it takes the sweetness out of it. You didn't know
that. And the broom and pan I left at the head of the coal stairs. They
ain't there now."
Matilda fetched them.
"The minister said you kept things in train, as if you'd been older,"
Miss Redwood went on. "I was always askin'; and he made me feel pretty
comfortable. He said he was."
"We have had a very nice time, Miss Redwood. We hadn't the least
trouble about anything."
"Trouble was our meat and drink down yonder," said Miss Redwood. "I
thought two o' them poor furriners would surely give up; but they
didn't; and it's over with. Praise the Lord! And I'm as glad to be home
again as if I had found a fortin. But I was glad to be there, too. When
a man--or a woman--knows she's in her place, she's just in the
pleasantest spot she kin get to; so I think. And I knew I was in my
place there. But dear, Mrs. Laval thinks your place is with her now; so
she bid me tell you to be ready."
"When?"
"Well, some time along in the morning she will send the carriage to
bring you, she said."
"Has Francis come back?"
"Who's Francis?"
"I mean the coachman."
"I don't know nobody's names," said Miss Redwood; "'cept the men I took
care of; and I guess I had my own names for them. I couldn't pucker my
mouth to call them after Mrs. Laval."
"Why, what did you call them?" said Matilda. "I know what their names
were; they were Jules and Pierre Failly. What did you call them?"
"It didn't make no odds," said Miss Redwood, "so long as they knew I
was speaking to 'em; and that they knew; 'cause when I raised one
man's head up, he knew I warn't speaking to the other man. I called one
of 'em Johnson, and 'tother Peter. It did just as well. I dare say
now," said Miss Redwood, with a bit of a smile on her face, "they
thought Johnson meant beef tea, and Peter meant a spoonful of medicine.
It did just as well. Come, dear; you may go get the coffee canister for
me; for now I'm in a hurry. There ain't coffee burned for breakfast."
It was Matilda's last breakfast at the parsonage. She could have been
sorry, only that she was so glad. After breakfast she had her bag to
pack; and a little later the grey ponies trotted round the sweep and
drew up at the door. Matilda had watched them turning in at the gate
and coming down the lane, stepping so gayly to the sound of their
bells; and they drew a dainty light sleigh covered with a wealth of
fine buffalo robes. The children bade good bye to Mr. Richmond, and
jumped in, and tucked the buffalo robes round them; the ponies shook
their heads and began to walk round the sweep again; then getting into
the straight line of the lane, away they went with a merry pace, making
the snow fly.
It seemed to Matilda that such a feeling of luxury had never come over
