and I feel as if I had been ' out visiting.' It was 
very good of you to come, Ada, and gives you a little 
glimpse of real country. I hope you were not wearied." 
" On the contrary, I was a good deal interested. 
But how do they manage with so many children ? ' 
" I suppose it doesn't seem a great many to them. 
And how nice it will be when they are grown up and 
married, and come home to Thanksgiving dinners ! I 
wish we had a dozen children." 
Ada thought how often she had wished herself an 
only child, and how, since the reverse of fortune, she 
had almost grudged the money spent upon the others. 
Ah, how narrow and selfish her soul really was ! 
" How generous it was of you to take so much 
pains with that Sarah Strong ! ' Ada said, as they 
were preparing for bed. " But I should be afraid 
that people of that stamp would presume." 
" If there is anything nice, and any lifting up in 
this world, why shouldn't they get their share ? 
And I often think they have more real, true deli- 
cacy than many of whom you might rightfully ex- 
pect it." 
" That was going out of the way to find work, I am 
sure," Ada said, with a half-smile, rather doubtful, as 
if she was not fully satisfied. 
" Was it ? No, I think it came right in my way. 
And it seemed to be one of the very ' least of these.' 
ver since all the good and enchanting fortune came 
to me I have been trying to give thanks, not in words 
only, but in making other lives a little bit pleasanter, 
if I could ; and I feel as if it was the poor and barren 
ways that wanted to be taught to blossom, not those 
with roses already in them." 
A great choking seemed to rise in Ada's throat. 
Something had been in her heart for many days, at 
times vexing her through very perverseness, and then 
rendering her grateful in spite of herself. 
" I heard,' she began, in a low tone, averting her 
face, " that you might have gone to the White Moun- 
tains with a pleasant party. You gave it up in order 
to" 
" Not altogether," exclaimed Kathie, with a quick 
flush and a little quiver through all her pulses. 
Mamma could not go, nor Emma, and I would 
rather have stayed at home anyhow. But I am 
very glad if ' 
" It has been a pleasant visit, and I have improved 
in health, perhaps in some other ways as well. You 
were very kind to think of it, to do it. Good night." 
Ada's voice was husky, and she turned abruptly 
away. Kathie did not feel slighted because there 
 
was no warmer demonstration. She understood that 
it would be very hard for Ada, after always having 
held herself loftily above her, to confess herself in 
any secondary position. And Kathie had learned the 
grandest and sweetest part of Divine charity, not to 
seek her own. It was enough that the work was 
done. So long as the sheaves came in, it made little 
difference whether they were laid at her feet or not. 
