he overheard it too, and I know he didn't like it; it was so very marked
a thing, you see!"

"Eva gave that pin to Sophie Elmore! The girl is crazy. She is too
provoking for anything! I can't think what it is, Nelly, makes your
girls so singular."

Mrs. Wouvermans, it will appear, was one of that very common class of
good people who improve every opportunity to show how very senseless
their neighbors are compared with themselves. The sole and only reason,
as might be gathered from her remarks, why anything disagreeable
happened to anybody, was because they did not do, or had not done just
as she should have done in their circumstances.

Now Mrs. Van Arsdel, though conceding in general that sister Maria was
stronger and brighter than herself, was somewhat rebellious under the
process of having it insisted in detail that every unfortunate turn of
affairs was her fault, and so she answered with some spirit.

"I don't see that my girls are any more singular than other people's.
Very few mothers have brought up nicer girls than mine. Everybody says
so."

"And I say, Nelly, they are peculiar," insisted Mrs. Wouvermans.
"There's Ida going off at her tangent! and Miss Eva! Well! one thing, it
isn't my fault. I've done the very best I could in instructing them!
It must come from the Van Arsdel side of the house. I'm sure in our
family girls never made so much trouble. We all grew up sensible, and
took the very best offer we had, and were married and went about our
duties without any fuss. Though of course we never had a chance like
this."

"Now, I shouldn't wonder in the least," said Mrs. Van Arsdel, "if Sydney
should fly off to Sophie Elmore. It's evident that she is perfectly
infatuated with him! and you know men's hearts are caught on the rebound
very often."

"Oh, yes," said Aunt Maria, "I shouldn't wonder, just as Jerold Macy
flew off to Blanche Sinclair, when Edith Enderly coquetted so with him.
He never would have gone to Blanche in the world if Edith had not thrown
him off. Edith was sorry enough afterward when it was too late to help
it."

"I declare," said Mrs. Van Arsdel, "one never knows what trouble is till
one has girls at the marrying age!"

"It's all your own fault," said Aunt Maria, "you indulge them too much.
For my part," she continued, "I like the French way of arranging these
things. It ought not to be left to the choice of a young silly girl. The
parents ought to arrange for her, and then the thing is settled without
any trouble. Of course people of experience in mature life can choose
better for a girl than she can choose for herself! Our girls in America
have too much liberty. If I had daughters to bring up I should bring
them up so that they would never think of disputing what I told them."

"So you are always saying, Maria," said Mrs. Van Arsdel, "it's quite
safe to say what you'll do when you haven't any, but it's very provoking
to me. I only wish you had Ida and Eva to manage."

"I only wish I had!" said Aunt Maria. "I should have had them both well
