going with my girls: they are all just as wild about it as they can be,
and say that it is the greatest fun that has been heard of this summer.”

In fact, there was not a man, woman, or child, in a circle of fifteen
miles round, who could show shade or color of an invitation, who was
not out in full dress at Mrs. John Seymour’s party. People in a city
may pick and choose their entertainments, and she who gives a party
there may reckon on a falling off of about one-third, for various other
attractions; but in the country, where there is nothing else stirring,
one may be sure that not one person able to stand on his feet will
be missing. A party in a good old sleepy, respectable country place
is a godsend. It is equal to an earthquake, for suggesting materials
of conversation; and in so many ways does it awaken and vivify the
community, that one may doubt whether, after all, it is not a moral
benefaction, and the giver of it one to be ranked in the noble army of
martyrs.

Everybody went. Even Mrs. Lennox, when she had sufficiently swallowed
her moral principles, sent in all haste to New York for an elegant
spick and span new dress from Madame de Tullegig’s, expressly for the
occasion. Was she to be outshone by unprincipled upstarts? Perish the
thought! It was treason to the cause of virtue, and the standing order
of society. Of course, the best thing to be done is to put certain
people down, if you can; but, if you cannot do that, the next best
thing is to outshine them in their own way. It may be very naughty
for them to be so dressy and extravagant, and very absurd, improper,
immoral, unnecessary, and in bad taste; but still, if you cannot help
it, you may as well try to do the same, and do a little more of it.
Mrs. Lennox was in a feverish state till all her trappings came from
New York. The bill was something stunning; but, then, it was voted by
the young people that she had never looked so splendidly in her life;
and she comforted herself with marking out a certain sublime distance
and reserve of manner to be observed towards Mrs. Seymour and the
Follingsbees.

The young people, however, came home delighted. Tom, aged twenty-two,
instructed his mother that Follingsbee was a brick, and a real jolly
fellow; and he had accepted an invitation to go on a yachting cruise
with him the next month. Jane Lennox, moreover, began besetting her
mother to have certain details in their house rearranged, with an eye
to the Seymour glorification.

“Now, Jane dear, that’s just the result of allowing you to visit in
this flash, vulgar genteel society,” said the troubled mamma.

“Bless your heart, mamma, the world moves on, you know; and we must
move with it a little, or be left behind. For my part, I’m perfectly
ashamed of the way we let things go at our house. It really is not
respectable. Now, I like Mrs. Follingsbee, for my part: she’s clever
and amusing. It was fun to hear all about the balls at the Tuileries,
and the opera and things in Paris. Mamma, when are we going to Paris?”

“Oh! I don’t know, my dear; you must ask your father. He is very
unwilling to go abroad.”

“Papa is so slow and conservative in his notions!” said the young lady.
“For my part, I cannot see what is the use of all this talk about the
Follingsbees. He is good-natured and funny; and, I am sure, I think
she’s a splendid woman: and, by the way, she gave me the address of
lots of places in New York where we can get French things. Did you
