blackest of bread and dried fish. These men were the serfs who had been
liberated by the noble policy of the present emperor.
The Volga, at Nijni, is about two thirds of a mile wide, and is
covered with boats of all sorts and sizes. The depth of water between
this point and Kazan does not admit of the passage of the largest
passenger steamers. The voyager from Tver to the Caspian would
change steamers for larger ones at Nijni and at Kazan. Merchandise
is transported on the river in boats, the largest of which are about
a hundred and fifty feet long, with a single mast, well forward, and
appear to be very substantially built. In the middle there is a house
on deck, generally with an Oriental dome, painted green, which is
possibly a chapel. There are other smaller boats, and a tug steamer
tows from four to eight of the different sizes. These boats are owned
by corporations, such as the Volga Transportation Company. Vast
quantities of wheat are conveyed from Saratoff, and other places, to
the head of navigation.
The students gathered on the bridge, or hurricane deck would be a more
proper name for it. Two Russian pilots were at the tall wheel, and they
looked as little like sailors as it is possible to conceive. They wore
the long sheep-skin pelisse, with pants stuffed into their boots, and
Cossack or Tartar caps. They looked particularly solemn; but they are
said to know their business perfectly.
The navigation of the river is very difficult in some places, and it
requires not a little skill and experience to keep the boat in the
channel. In shoal places, dikes have been built to turn the course of
the current, or to keep it within certain limits. Large sums of money
have been spent by the government in dredging and otherwise improving
the navigation. In August the river is generally low, and there is an
extensive prospect of sand-bars between the banks of the stream. The
Volga flows through a flat country, but there is a ridge on the right
bank, which, in places, causes the formation of a considerable bluff.
The regulations for steamers passing each other appear to be excellent,
and collisions to be impossible. The boat going down stream has the
right of way. She whistles, and the officer of the deck waves a flag in
the daytime, a lantern at night, on the side which the other boat is to
pass him. The steamer going up stream whistles in reply, and a flag is
waved in the direction the down boat is to take. If they are to pass
on the starboard hand, both officers go to the starboard side, on the
paddle-boxes, raise the flag, and drop it over on this side, repeating
the movement several times; if on the port side, the signals are made
accordingly.
There is nothing like variety of scenery on the river, and in a short
time the view becomes very monotonous. There are occasional villages
to be seen on the shore, but they are composed only of log-houses. The
larger towns have one or more fine churches. Late in the afternoon the
Stafet made a landing at one of these places, and the greater part
of the deck passengers left the boat. On the bluff was a church with
a green dome, and the Russian cross at the summit. As soon as they
landed, all the peasants turned their faces towards the church, crossed
themselves, and bowed reverently. A few dropped upon their knees, and
bent to the ground. In this manner they thank God for bringing them
in safety to their journey's end. No one seems to notice them, or to
regard their conduct as at all singular.
The boat stopped long enough at this place to "wood up," the work of
which was done by women, while scores of stout men stood by, looking
on. These women were of all ages; but none of them were handsome enough
to excite the sympathy of cold-blooded foreigners. They wore calico
dresses, with the belt or waist directly under the arms. The wood was
carried on two poles, forming a hand-barrow, and the women bore loads
which would have strained the backs of ordinary men.
