


 

standing the efforts heretofore made to check it, the 
evil of intemperance is steadily upon the increase. 

" There is no going behind this," the agent went 
on, while I sat as one dumb before him. 

A shuddering cry came over from "purgatory." 
He watched my face for a moment, and then said, 

" No trade but yours gives a harvest like that. In 
a single year over a hundred and sixty poor wretches 
have gone into the mania-a-potu ward of this prison 
and suffered the torments of the damned. Thirty- 
three died there a death of inconceivable horror. 

" Have you ever," he went on, after observing me 
closely for a little while, " made yourself familiar 
with the statistics of your business ?" 

I shook my head. 

" I wonder at that," he returned. " Men usually 
post themselves in such matters. Do you know how 
much is spent in the United States in a single year 
for intoxicating liquor ? I mean in the taverns, res 
taurants, saloons and liquor-shops ?" 

" I have heard, I think, but do not now remember," 
I replied. 

" Over a billion and a half of dollars, or more than 
one-third the amount received by retailers of all other 
kinds of merchandise. Is it any wonder, sir, that our 
prisons and almshouses are full ? How many poor 
creatures, do you think, have been committed for 
drunkenness to this prison alone in twenty years ? 
You would never guess. A hundred and ninety 
thousand !" 


" Impossible !" I exclaimed. 

" Too true, sir too sadly true," the agent replied. 
" There is no need for exaggeration. The facts are 
appalling enough as they stand. I give you simply 
the prison record. And is it any matter of wonder ? 
You have not been for years in this business without 
some knowledge of its practical workings. You can 
call to mind many, alas, how many ! now worthless 
sots, paupers or criminals who were once sober, in 
dustrious men. Think of the fearful work that eight 
thousand bars and dram-shops, open seven days in 
the week, can do in a single city ! Eight thousand 
dram-shops, and only four hundred churches and 
three hundred and eighty schools ! How fearful the 
