
Next he strolled into a side street, and began to play in front of some
dwelling-houses. Two or three young children, who had been playing in
the street, gathered about him, and one of them gave him a penny. They
were clamorous for another tune, but Phil could not afford to work for
nothing, and, seeing no prospects of additional pay, took his violin,
and walked away, much to the regret of his young auditors, who, though
not rich, were appreciative. They followed him to the end of the block,
hoping that he would play again, but they were disappointed.

Phil played two or three times more, managing to obtain in all
twenty-five cents additional. He reached the corner of Thirteenth Street
just as the large public school, known as the Thirteenth Street School,
was dismissed for its noon intermission.

“Give us a tune, Johnny,” cried Edward Eustis, one of the oldest boys.

“Yes, a tune,” joined in several others.

This was an invitation to which Phil was always willing to respond.
Besides, he knew from experience that boys were more generous, in
proportion to their means, than those of larger growth, and he hoped to
get enough from the crowd around him to increase his store to a dollar.

The boys gathered around the little minstrel, who struck up an Italian
tune, but without the words.

“Sing, sing!” cried the boys.

Phil began to sing. His clear, fresh voice produced a favorable
impression upon the boys.

“He’s a bully singer,” said one. “I can’t sing much better myself.”

“You sing! Your singing would be enough to scare a dozen tom cats.”

“Then we should be well matched. Look here, Johnny, can’t you sing
something in English?”

Phil, in response to this request, played and sang “Shoo Fly!” which
suiting the boys’ taste, he was called upon to repeat.

The song being finished, Edward Eustis took off his cap, and went around
the circle.

“Now, boys, you have a chance to show your liberality,” he said. “I’ll
start the collection with five cents.”

“That’s ahead of me,” said James Marcus. “Justice to a large and
expensive family will prevent me contributing anything more than two
cents.”

“The smallest favors thankfully received,” said Edward.

“Then take that, and be thankful,” said Tom Lane, dropping in a penny.

“I haven’t got any money,” said Frank Gaylord, “but here’s an apple;”
 and he dropped a large red apple into the cap.

Phil; watching with interest the various contributions, was best pleased
