"That boy" has just come on deck, and had seated himself in the waist.
He had recovered his wind, and was now nearly as good as new. He felt
that he had done a big thing, and he wondered that no one said anything
to him. The boat that brought him to the yacht had gone for the party
which had been left on the island; and no one but the colonel knew
anything about the part he had borne in the affair. But he was not long
neglected, for the instant Colonel Montague thought of him he hastened
to the waist, and with tears in his eyes, grasped him by the hand.
Doubtless he betrayed more emotion than the occasion seemed to
warrant--emotion which was not all gratitude.

"My lad, you have done me a service which I can never forget," said he,
wiping the tears from his eyes.

"It's all right, sir. I feel better than if I hadn't done it," replied
Bobtail.

"But come aft, and see Grace," added the colonel.

"No, sir, I think I won't bother her now. She must feel pretty bad after
the ducking she got."

Just at this moment the barge from Blank Island dashed up to the steps.
Mrs. Montague was a demonstrative woman, and she had not even yet ceased
to scream.

"O, where is she? where is she, Edward?" cried the poor mother, as she
rose in the stern of the boat.

"Here I am, mother," exclaimed Grace, hastening to the rail on the
quarter-deck. "I am not drowned or hurt."

Mrs. Montague was assisted up the steps, and in another moment she was
sobbing over her child in her arms. While this scene was transpiring on
the quarter-deck, the rest of the party went to Little Bobtail, and took
him by the hand, as they expressed their admiration of his heroic
conduct.

"That wan't anything," replied Bobtail. "I have dived off that rock
twenty times before."

"But Grace would have drowned if you hadn't done it."

"Well, I don't know. I suppose, if I hadn't gone for her, some of the
rest of you would."

"I don't know about that," said one of them, shaking his head. "I might
have gone into the water, but I couldn't have done much."

Mrs. Montague hurried Grace into the cabin as soon as the violence of
her emotions had in a measure subsided.

"But I haven't seen Captain Bobtail yet," said the daughter.

"You shall see him; but you must take off your wet clothes first,"
replied her mother.

"Not yet, mother. I must see him this instant. Tell him to come down
here."

