think of? Look at this lofty room; this grave thick carpet; that
cheerful coal-fire; these neat little tables; these large, clean
windows; these quiet, ministerial waiters, who seem to take a paternal
interest in your wants, and best of all in this simple, wholesome,
well-cooked food.'

Here the arrival of a glorified beefsteak and a shining pint-pot of
foaming ale give an appropriate finish to Livy's lecture. She fell upon
her lunch like a famished woman, and was speechless till much meat had
vanished, and the ale was low in the pot.

'It is good,' admitted Amanda, who took to her beer like a born
Englishwoman, and swallowed some of her prejudices with her delicious
beef.

'It's such a comfort to know that I am not eating a calf's brains or a
pig's feet, that I can enjoy it with a free mind, and the sight of
those two beautiful old gentlemen gives it an added relish,' said
Matilda, who had been watching a pair of hale old fellows eat their
lunch in a solid, leisurely way that would have been impossible to an
American.

'It is so restful to see people take things calmly, and not bolt their
meals, or rush about like runaway steam-engines. It is this moderation
that keeps Englishmen so hearty, jolly, and long-lived. They don't tear
themselves to pieces as we do, but take time for rest, exercise, food,
and recreation, like sensible people as they are. It is like reposing on
a feather-bed to live here, and my tired nerves rejoice in it,' said
Lavinia, eating bread and cheese as if that was her mission in life.

'A slight amount of haste will be advisable, my Granny, unless we intend
to spend all our substance on these restful comforts of yours. This
hotel is delightfully cosy, but expensive; so the quicker we go into
lodgings the better for us,' suggested the thrifty Amanda, seeing that
Livy was too infatuated to care for cost.

'I'll go the first thing to-morrow and look at the rooms Mrs. Blank
recommended to us. This afternoon we will rest and write letters, unless
some one comes to call,' said Livy, leading her girls to the
reading-room, where sleep-inviting chairs, tables supplied with
writing-materials, and groves of newspapers, wooed the stranger to
repose.

Hardly were they seated, however, than Jeames brought in the card of a
friend who had been told when they would arrive, and hastened at once to
meet them. How pleasant is the first familiar face one sees in a strange
land! Doubly pleasant was Mr. C.'s, because he brought hospitable
invitations from other friends, kind welcomes, and tickets to several of
the art exhibitions then open.

Hardly had he gone, after a half-hour's chat, than another card was
handed, and the name it bore caused a slight flutter in the dove-cot. A
friend of Miss Livy's, in Boston, had sent orders to his brother in
London to devote himself to the wandering ladies when they came. They
had never met; the poor man didn't care to have his quiet invaded by
strange women, and to do the honours of London is no small task: yet
this heroic gentleman obeyed orders without a murmur; and, leaving his
artistic seclusion, shouldered his burden with the silent courage of a
Spartan.

