It was said that he had several times drawn his revolver and 
levied money contributions on citizens at dead of night in the 
public streets of Virginia. 

Five months after the above item appeared, Williams was 
assassinated while sitting at a card table one night; a gun was 
thrust through the crack of the door and Williams dropped 
from his chair riddled with balls. It was said, at the time, 
that Williams had been for some time aware that a party 
of his own sort (desperadoes) had sworn away his life ; and 
it was generally believed among the people that Williams's 
friends and enemies would make the assassination memorable — 
and useful, too — by a wholesale destruction of each other.* 

* However, one prophecy was verified, at any rate. It was asserted bj 
the desperadoes that one of their brethren (Joe McGee, a specud policeman) 
was known to be the conspirator chosen by lot to assassinate Williams ; and 
they also asserted that doom had been pronounced against McGee, and that 
lie would be assassinated in exactly the same manner that had been adopted 
for the destruction of Williams — a prophecy which came true a year later. 
After twelve months of distress (for McGee saw a fancied assassin in every 
man that approached him), he made the last of many efforts to get out of 
the country unwatched. He went to Carson and eat down in a saloon to 
wait for the stage — it would leave at four in the morning. But as the night 
It did not so happen, but still, times were not dull during the 
next twenty- four hours, for within that time a woman was killed 
by a pistol shot, a man was brained with a slung shot, and a 
man named E-eeder was also disposed of permanently. Some 
matters in the Enterprise account of the killing of Eeeder are 
worth noting — especially the accommodating complaisance of a 
Virginia justice of the peace. The italics in the following nar- 
rative are mine : 

Moke Cutting and Shootixg. — The devil seems to have again broken 
loose in our town. Pistols and guns explode and knives gleam In our streets 
as in early times. When there has been a long season of quiet, people are 
slow to wet their hands in blood ; but once blood is spilled, cutting and 
shooting come easy. Night before last Jack Williams was assassinated, 
and yesterday forenoon we had more bloody work, growing out of the kill- 
ing of Williams, and on the same street in which he met his death. It 
appears that Tom Reeder, a friend of Williams, and George Gumbert were 
talking, at the meat market of the latter, about the killing of Williams the 
previous night, when Reeder said it was a most cowardly act to shoot a man 
in such a way, giving him " no show." Gumbert said that Williams had 
" as good a show as he gave Billy Brown," meaning the man killed by Wil- 
liams last March. Reeder said it was a d — d lie, that Williams had no show 
at all. At this, Gumbert drew a knife and stabbed Reeder, cutting him in 
two places in the back. One stroke of the knife cut into the sleeve of 
Reeder's coat and passed downward in a slanting direction through his 
clothing, and ent-ered his body at the small of the back ; another blow 
struck more squarely, and made a much more dangerous wound. Gumbert 
gave himself up to the officers of justice, and was shortly after discharged 
by Justice At will, on his own recognizance, to appear for trial at six o'clock 
in the evening. In the meantime Reeder had been taken into the office of 
Dr. Owens, where his wounds were properly dressed. One of his wounds was 
considered quite dangerous, and it was thought by many that it would prove 

waned and the crowd thinned, he grew uneasy, and told the bar-keeper that 
assassins were on his track. The bar-keeper told him to stay in the middle 
of the room, then, and not go near the door, or the window by the stove. 
