
“Then get her off, cost what it may,” said Mrs. Dinneford.

“She will be here in less than half an hour.” Mrs. Bray looked at the
face of a small cheap clock that stood on the mantel.

“She will?” Mrs. Dinneford became uneasy, and arose from her chair.

“Yes; what shall I say to her?”

“Manage her the best you can. Here are thirty dollars--all the money I
have with me. Give her that, and promise more if necessary. I will see
you again.”

“When?” asked Mrs. Bray.

“At any time you desire.”

“Then you had better come to-morrow morning. I shall not go out.”

“I will be here at eleven o’clock. Induce her if possible to leave the
city--to go South, so that she may never come back.”

“The best I can shall be done,” replied Mrs. Bray as she folded the
bank-bills she had received from Mrs. Dinneford in a fond, tender sort
of way and put them into her pocket.

Mrs. Dinneford retired, saying as she did so,

“I will be here in the morning.”

An instant change came over the shallow face of the wiry little woman as
the form of Mrs. Dinneford vanished through the door. A veil seemed to
fall away from it. All its virtuous sobriety was gone, and a smile of
evil satisfaction curved about her lips and danced in her keen black
eyes. She stood still, listening to the retiring steps of her visitor,
until she heard the street door shut. Then, with a quick, cat-like step,
she crossed to the opposite side of the room, and pushed open a door
that led to an adjoining chamber. A woman came forward to meet her. This
woman was taller and stouter than Mrs. Bray, and had a soft, sensual
face, but a resolute mouth, the under jaw slightly protruding. Her eyes
were small and close together, and had that peculiar wily and alert
expression you sometimes see, making you think of a serpent’s eyes. She
was dressed in common finery and adorned by cheap jewelry.

“What do you think of that, Pinky Swett?” exclaimed Mrs. Bray, in a
voice of exultation. “Got her all right, haven’t I?”

“Well, you have!” answered the woman, shaking all over with unrestrained
laughter. “The fattest pigeon I’ve happened to see for a month of
Sundays. Is she very rich?”

“Her husband is, and that’s all the same. And now, Pinky”--Mrs. Bray
assumed a mock gravity of tone and manner--“you know your fate--New
Orleans and the yellow fever. You must pack right off. Passage free and
a hundred dollars for funeral expenses. Nice wet graves down there--keep
off the fire;” and she gave a low chuckle.

“Oh yes; all settled. When does the next steamer sail?” and Pinky almost
screamed with merriment. She had been drinking.
