"You won't be gone long, Hugh ? " 
" No ; the man will be waiting at the road." 
" Then I will run upstairs, lock up my riding- 
skirt, and come down and wait for you." 
Bessie went through the garden and up to her 
room, while Hugh, riding one horse and leading 
the other, crossed the pasture and the grove, and 
gave them to a man who was waiting near the 
fence: he led them down the narrow road to- 
wards the west, for the old stone house was in the 
east suburb of Westerton, more than two miles 
from the business portion of the town. 
Bessie Darrell was sixteen, — a tall, slender 
maiden, with irregular features, brown complex- 
ion, dark eyes, and a quantity of dark, curling hair 
which defied all restraint, whether of comb, net, 
or ribbon. Her eyes were bright and her ex- 
pression merry, but beyond this there was little 
beauty in her face. A quick student, Bessie al- 
ways stood at the head of her classes for scholar- 
ship, and at the foot as regards demeanor. Twice 
had she been expelled for daring escapades in 
defiance of rule, and Aunt Faith's heart had 
ached with anxiety, when the truant returned 
home in disgrace. But her merry vivacity had 
made home so pleasant that the seasons of penance 
were, as Tom said, " the jolliest of the year," aunt 
Gem openly hoped that Bessie would soon be ex- 
pelled again. Poor Aunt Faith sometimes 
thought there must be a tinge of gypsy blood in 
Bessie's ancestors on the Darrell side of the house, 
for in no other way could she account for her 
niece's taste for wild rambles and adventure. 
" Bessie, my child," she said one evening during 
the previous year, when she had happened to dis- 
cover her wayward niece returning from a 
solitary drive with Sultan, one of the carriage horses, 
in Hugh's high buggy, " if you are fond of driv- 
ing, you shall go when you please. I will hire a 
low basket phseton for your especial use, and I 
shall be glad to go with you when you wish." 
" Oh, Auntie ! if I can go when I please, there 
is no fun in it," said Bessie, laughing. 
" Then I am to conclude, my dear, that the 
fun, as you call it, consists in deceiving me," 
said Aunt Faith, gravely. 
" Oh no, Auntie ; not you especially, but all 
the world, you know. ' It's against the rule ! ' 
That sentence has always been my greatest 
temptation. I do so long to try all those forbidden 
things ; If I had been Eve, and if the forbidden 
fruit had been a delicious peach instead of a com- 
monplace apple, I should certainly have taken it. 
Now there was Miss Sykes at Corry Institute ; 
she was always saying, 'young ladies, it is 
against the rule to go into the garret. Three 
bad marks to any one who even opens the door.' 
That was enough for me ; I slipped off my shoes 
and climbed up the stairs, while a crowd of girls 
stood in the hall to see what happened. I opened 
