said to contain $2,000 and $5,000 respectively; I did not open the
packages or count the money; I did not give any note or receipt for
the same; I made no memorandum of the transaction, and neither did my
friend. That night this evil man Noble came troubling me again: I could
not rid myself of him, though my time was very precious. He mentioned my
young friend and said he was very anxious to have the $7000 now to begin
his banking operations with, and could wait a while for the rest. Noble
wished to get the money and take it to him. I finally gave him the
two packages of bills; I took no note or receipt from him, and made no
memorandum of the matter. I no more look for duplicity and deception in
another man than I would look for it in myself. I never thought of
this man again until I was overwhelmed the next day by learning what a
shameful use he had made of the confidence I had reposed in him and
the money I had entrusted to his care. This is all, gentlemen. To the
absolute truth of every detail of my statement I solemnly swear, and I
call Him to witness who is the Truth and the loving Father of all whose
lips abhor false speaking; I pledge my honor as a Senator, that I have
spoken but the truth. May God forgive this wicked man as I do.
Mr. Noble--“Senator Dilworthy, your bank account shows that up to
that day, and even on that very day, you conducted all your financial
business through the medium of checks instead of bills, and so kept
careful record of every moneyed transaction. Why did you deal in bank
bills on this particular occasion?”
The Chairman--“The gentleman will please to remember that the Committee
is conducting this investigation.”
Mr. Noble--“Then will the Committee ask the question?”
The Chairman--“The Committee will--when it desires to know.”
Mr. Noble--“Which will not be during this century perhaps.”
The Chairman--“Another remark like that, sir, will procure you the
attentions of the Sergeant-at-arms.”
Mr. Noble--“D--n the Sergeant-at-arms, and the Committee too!”
Several Committeemen--“Mr. Chairman, this is Contempt!”
Mr. Noble--“Contempt of whom?”
“Of the Committee! Of the Senate of the United States!”
Mr. Noble--“Then I am become the acknowledged representative of a
nation. You know as well as I do that the whole nation hold as much
as three-fifths of the United States Senate in entire
contempt.--Three-fifths of you are Dilworthys.”
The Sergeant-at-arms very soon put a quietus upon the observations of
the representative of the nation, and convinced him that he was not in
the over-free atmosphere of his Happy-Land-of-Canaan:
The statement of Senator Dilworthy naturally carried conviction to the
minds of the committee.--It was close, logical, unanswerable; it bore
many internal evidences of its truth. For instance, it is customary in
all countries for business men to loan large sums of money in bank bills
instead of checks. It is customary for the lender to make no memorandum
of the transaction. It is customary, for the borrower to receive the
money without making a memorandum of it, or giving a note or a receipt
for it’s use--the borrower is not likely to die or forget about it.
It is customary to lend nearly anybody money to start a bank with
especially if you have not the money to lend him and have to borrow it
for the purpose. It is customary to carry large sums of money in bank
bills about your person or in your trunk. It is customary to hand a
large sum in bank bills to a man you have just been introduced to (if
he asks you to do it,) to be conveyed to a distant town and delivered
to another party. It is not customary to make a memorandum of this
transaction; it is not customary for the conveyor to give a note or a
receipt for the money; it is not customary to require that he shall get
a note or a receipt from the man he is to convey it to in the distant
town. It would be at least singular in you to say to the proposed
