for miles around." 
" But it isn't always that," in his dry humor- 
ous way. "And it is always round." 
" Then mine shall be its holiday name, a kind 
of orolden remembrance." 
"It is beautiful;' Miss Churchill said with 
deep feeling. " Miss Fanny your father preached 
a good sermon last Sunday morning, about our 
longing for loveliness and grandeur which was 
far away, and not enjoying that right beside us, 
and our desiring to do some great thing, waiting 
 
years for the opportunity, when we might have 
made our lives rich with the small daily deeds 
that are at our very finger ends. And how 
many of us long for Italy when we have clear 
skies and glowing sunsets at home that we know 
nothing about ! ' 
"Because such lives are crowded full to re- 
pletion. I sometimes wonder if we do not have 
too much instead of not enough ? I find a large 
world right around here, because I can't get out 
comfortably to any larger one." 
" And because you see the beauty in every 
thing," returned Fanny softly. " It's just like 
daily bread, the now, and here. we need not 
starve to-day because of a famine coming a 
hundred years hence." 
Mr. Churchill raised his grave eyes and smiled, 
just a little. They moved on quietly again, the 
wide glory of the twilight heavens falling gently 
over, clasping hands with the indistinct outlines 
of the beautiful earth. The creek went rippling 
and winding around, making a pleasant stir, and 
the insects began to chirp in low tones as if 
not quite sure the night was coming. 
"What a delightful day ! Though I have not 
done half the tilings that I meant to," said Miss 
 
Lucy as they were nearing home. " We were to 
look over those Russian views this afternoon, 
and I was to show you my sketches. It is all 
Winthrop's fault. We shall have to take the 
day over again, Fanny." 
"I cannot say that I am sorry I came, having 
a high regard for the truth. But then I am 
going ; and the world will still last ; ' he re- 
turned. 
" That must be our comfort." 
"I wish you and your sister would come over 
soon, not merely to tea, but to spend a good 
long afternoon ; ' said Miss Churchill. "And I 
have a basket of flowers to send home with 
YOU." 
"Does Miss Endicott go alone?' Winthrop 
asked. 
"In the carriage- -unless you should have 
the politeness to accompany her, * answered Miss 
Churchill rather inconsequently. 
"With pleasure- -if Aunt Lucy can spare me." 
