matter over with her?"

"Oh, if you would!" said Florence beseechingly. She felt that Mr.
Howard was on her side, though she did not quite understand why.

"Yes," rejoined Granny, catching at a straw. "You could tell her how it
is,--poor Joe's children, every one on 'em so precious to me. I never
had much learnin'; but I love 'em for father and mother both, and I
can't bear to think of their going away. Ah, well! it's a world full of
trouble, though they've always been good to me, poor dears."

Mrs. Howard turned away her face to hide her tears, and presently left
them to get a slice of nice fresh cake and a glass of milk for her
guests. Her heart really ached for Granny.

So it was settled that Mr. Howard would go over to Seabury, and learn
all the particulars of the offer. Granny was very thankful indeed. Soon
after, they picked up Dot, and started homeward.

"You rather approve of it," Mrs. Howard said to her husband, watching
the retreating figures, and smiling at Dot, who pulled at every wayside
daisy-head.

"Florence has her heart set upon it, that is plain to see."

"And yet it seems ungrateful in her."

"It would be nobler for her to stay with Granny, and help rear the
others. Yet that is more than one can reasonably expect of pretty young
girlhood."

"She is industrious, and has many excellent points but she is a good
deal ashamed of the poverty."

"I wonder whether she would be any real assistance? She has a good deal
of vanity, and love of dress; and no doubt she would spend most of her
money upon herself. Then, in some mood of dissatisfaction, she might
marry unwisely, and perhaps be more trouble than comfort to Granny. If
Mrs. Osgood is in earnest, Florence would at least receive an education
that might fit her for a nice position in case Mrs. Osgood tired of
her."

"And the life at home is not a great delight to her," said Mr. Howard
with a smile. "But whether I would like to give up my brothers and
sisters"--

"Florence is peculiar. Ten years from this time she may love them
better than she does now."

There was a noisy time in the "Old Shoe" that night. They were all
so glad to have Flossy back again. Kit played on imaginary fiddles;
Charlie climbed on her chair, and once came tumbling over into her lap;
Hal watched her with delight, and thought her prettier than ever; Joe
whistled and sang, and told her all that had occurred in the store,
pointing his stories with an occasional somerset, or standing on his
head to Dot's great satisfaction.

"Well, that is really margaret-nificent," declared Joe, flourishing
Granny's old apron on the broomstick. "Flossy, you are in luck! It is
all due to your winning ways and curly hair."
