amazed, but anger and hate returned' in another instant. 

The hall door opened, and Catherine presented her 
tall figure and uncompromising ffece. 

' 'Mr. Cameron," she said — "it is my wish that you 
should never enter this house again. Mrs. Tremaine 
will not see you. Good-day sir," and she made a formal 
courtesy. 

Jasper Cameron glared at her, amazed at the uncere- 
monious dismissal* 

" You think, with the natural inconsequence of women, 
that you can evade and defy laws and consequences. 
You will find— " 

Did fate always mean to play into this man's hands ? 
As he stepped into the hall, he caught sight of a figure 
opposite, half hidden by a broken bit of fence. He had 
a quick eye, and a good memorj T , and he felt sure it 
must be Ralph Tremaine. 

Catherine Dawson preserved an obstinate silence. 
He stepped out on the door-silL 

" Yes, you will find how really foolish all these pre- 
cautions are," with the airy wave of his hand, and 
half smile, which was as near as he could come to


smile, in his present rage. "I shall keep to my first 
promise, and not be driven away by any foolish whims. 
By the first of September, if Dora keeps her same mind, 
I shall bid her a final adieu, but I shall not give up 
hope until then. However, you will find me a gentle- 
man in any emergency, and come to think better of me 
than you do now. If there were any hope with Mr. 
Tremaine — but there is not. He is a most implacable 
man, and his handsome cousin espoused his side 
warmly." 

" Will you go?" demanded Mrs. Dawson. 

" Oh yes, my dear Madam. Adieu, and next time 
we meet, may you be in a more amiable temper." 

He bowed and smiled, as the door shut. If any man 
were watching, he should noj read discomfiture. So he 
stood as if in abstraction, then turned and waved his 
hand to the window, and walked slowly down the street, 
looking back, now and then ; and when he had reached 
the corner, setting himself to watch. 

It was Ralph Tremaine. Some spell that he could 
not resist had lured him thither, this afternoon. If he 
could see Dora by an open window — or, perhaps, she 
might be in the little garden. How poor every thing 
looked in this neighborhood. How could Dora, with 
her refined tastes, endure it! Strange that she should 
