me to die, that is well ; the sun will come and burn 
me, thirst will come and madden me, these wounds 
will torture me, and all is no more than I deserve. 
But Silver ? If I die, she dies. If you forsake me, 
you forsake her. Listen; do you believe in your 
Christ, the dear Christ? Then, in his name I swear 
to you that you cannot reach her alone, that only I 
can guide you to her. save me, for her sake ! Must 
she suffer and linger and die ? God, have pity and 
soften his heart ! " The voice died away in sobs, the 
weak slow sobs of an old man. 



 

But "Waring, stern in avenging justice, drew him- 
self from the feeble grasp, and walked down towards 
the boats. He did not intend fairly to desert the mis- 
erable old creature. He hardly knew what he intended, 
but his impulse was to put more space between them, 
between himself and this wretch who gathered his 
evil living from dead men's bones. So he stood gaz- 
ing out to sea. A faint cry roused him, and, turning, 
he saw that the old man had dragged himself half 
across the distance between them, marking the way 
with his blood, for the bandages were loosened by his 
movements. As Waring turned, he held up his hands, 
cried aloud, and fell as if dead on the sands. "I am 
a brute," said Waring. Then he went to work and 
brought back consciousness, rebound the wounds, lifted 
the body in his strong arms and bore it down the 
beach. A sail-boat lay in a cove, with a little skiff in 
tow. Waring arranged a couch in the bottom, and 
placed the old man in an easy position on an im- 
promptu pillow made of his coat. Fog opened his 
eyes. " Anything come ashore ? " he asked faintly, try- 
ing to turn his head towards the reef. Conquering 
his repugnance, the young man walked out on the 
long point. There was nothing there; but farther 
down the coast barrels were washing up and back 
in the surf, and one box had stranded in shallow 
water. "Am I, too, a wrecker?" he asked himself, 
as with much toil and trouble he secured the booty 



 

and examined it. Yes, the barrels contained pro- 
visions. 

Old Fog, revived by the sight, lay propped at the 
stern, giving directions. Waring found himself a child 
obeying the orders of a wiser head. The load on 
board, the little skiff carrying its share behind, the 
young man set sail and away they flew over the 
angry water ; old Fog watching the sky, the sail, and 
the rudder, guiding their course with a word now and 
then, but silent otherwise. 
