thinking of?"

"Well, really, Maria, I don't see as he has the least intention--he
seems perfectly satisfied to live as we do."

"You must put him up to it, Nelly--depend upon it, he's in danger of
sinking down and giving up; and he has splendid business talents. He
should go to operating in stocks, you see. Why, men make fortunes in
that way. Look at the Bubbleums, and the Flashes, they were all down
two years ago, and now they're up higher than ever, and they did it
all in stocks. Your husband would find plenty of men ready to go in
with him and advance money to begin on. No man is more trusted. Why,
Nelly, that man might die a millionaire as well as not, and you ought
to put him up to it; it's a wife's business to keep her husband up."

"I have tried to, Maria; I have been just as cheerful as I knew
how to be, and I've retrenched and economized everywhere, as all the
girls do--they are wonderful, those girls! To see them take hold so
cheerfully and help about household matters, you never would dream
that they had not been brought up to it; and they are so prudent about
their clothes--so careful and saving. And then the boys are getting
on so well. Tom has gone into surveying with a will, and is going out
with Smithson's party to the Rocky Mountains, and Hal has just got a
good situation in Boston----"

"Oh, yes, that is all very well; but, Nelly, that isn't what I mean.
You know that when men fail in business they are apt to get blue and
discouraged and give up enterprise, and so gradually sink down and
lose their faculties. That's the way old Mr. Snodgrass did when he
failed."

"But I don't think, Maria, that there is the least danger of my
husband's losing his mind--or sinking down, as you call it. I never
saw him more cheerful and seem to take more comfort of his life. Mr.
Van Arsdel never did care for style--except as he thought it pleased
me--and I believe he really likes the way we live now better than the
way we did before; he says he has less care."

"And you are willing to sink down and be a nobody, and have no
carriage, and rub round in omnibuses, and have to go to little mean
private country board instead of going to Newport, when you might
just as well get back the position that you had. Why, it's downright
stupidity, Nelly!"

"As to mean country board," pleaded Mrs. Van Arsdel, "I don't know
what you mean, Maria. We kept our old homestead up there in Vermont,
and it's a very respectable place to spend our summer in."

"Yes, and what chances have the girls up there--where nobody sees
them but oxen? The girls ought to be considered. For their sakes you
ought to put your husband up to do something. It's cruel to them,
brought up with the expectations they have had, to have to give all up
just as they are coming out. If there is any time that a mother must
feel the want of money it is when she has daughters just beginning
to go into society; and it is cruel towards young girls not to give
them the means of dressing and doing a little as others do; and dress
does cost so abominably, now-a-days; it's perfectly frightful--people
cannot live creditably on what they used to."

"Yes, certainly, it is frightful to think of the requirements of
