down as though a ten pound weight had been attached to it, and she
looked so sad and gloomy that I could not think for a moment longer of
depriving her of this triumphal march, for so I am afraid she regarded
it. Of course I did not hint to her that I could not afford to spend
two or three hundred dollars in travelling, for we were still lovingly
cheating each other into the belief that she was a princess and I was a
representative of Crœsus himself.
There was not a dollar to my credit at the bank, and I had not a dollar
to my credit anywhere else. I was fretful one day, and unguardedly
mentioned to Tom Flynn that I was short. The generous fellow promptly
offered to lend me a hundred dollars. I am surprised now that I was
able to accept it, but I did, and he put my “value received” into his
wallet as choicely as though it had been as good as the gold itself.
But a hundred dollars, though Tom seemed to think it would pay for
every thing which it could possibly enter into the head of a groom to
procure, was expended in trifles and before we were ready to start upon
the bridal tour I was penniless again.
I wanted three hundred dollars, for it would not be safe to start on a
ten-days’ trip attended by such a helpmate as Lilian with less than
this sum in my pocket. First class hotels, private parlors, carriages,
the opera in New York, would make large demands upon my purse. I was
rather sorry that Tom Flynn had offered to lend me a hundred dollars,
for if he had not done so I should have asked him to favor me with the
loan I now needed. I could not ask him, after what he had done. My
uncle, Captain Halliard was a rich man, though he was a calculating and
a careful one. I had been a favorite of his in my earlier years, and I
knew that he had a great deal of regard for the honor of the family. I
had hardly seen him since he helped me into my situation, for he had
been on a business mission to Europe.
Three hundred dollars was nothing to a man of his resources, and, with
some sacrifice of pride on my part, I made up my mind to wait upon him
with my request. He would understand the case, and readily see that a
young man about to be married must incur a great many extraordinary
expenses, and it would not be at all strange that he was temporarily
“short.” I found the worthy old gentleman in the insurance office, up
to his eyes in the news of the day. I talked with him for some time
about indifferent topics, about my mother’s health and the affairs of
Springhaven. Then I rose to depart, in the most natural manner in the
world though I was rather grieved to see that he was not sorry to have
me go; in fact, he returned to his newspaper with an eagerness which
seemed to intimate that I had bored him. I took a few steps towards the
door, and then, as though I had forgotten something, I hastily retraced
my steps.
“By the way, uncle—I’m sorry to trouble you, but—could you lend me
three hundred dollars for a few weeks?”
“Three hundred dollars!” exclaimed the venerable seeker after the main
chance, just as though I had attacked him in the tenderest part of his
being.
“The fact is, uncle, getting married in these times is an expensive
luxury, and I find myself a little short, though, of course, I shall be
all right as soon as I get settled down.”
“It’s rather a bad sign for a young man to have to borrow money to get
married with,” he added with a glance of severe dignity at me.
“Never mind it, uncle. I won’t trouble you, then, if it is not
convenient,” I replied, in a thoroughly off-hand manner, as though the
little favor I asked was of more consequence to him than to me. “I
shall expect to see you at the house of Mr. Oliphant at the ceremony,
and remember the levee is at eight o’clock. Don’t fail to be there,
uncle.”
“Stop a minute! I suppose if you need three hundred dollars, I can let
