
'I suppose mine were what yours are now.'

'Then yours never had existence.'

'And your dress happens. Do you mean that?'

'No, no!but if I had worn two or three necklaces to the woods 
this morning, it would have been want of sense and taste, not of 
views.'

'Certainly. Your "views" of dress are sense and taste. Or rather, 
your instinct, I should say.'

'But,' said Hazel,'no, that is not what I mean. Sense and taste 
have to do directly with the subject,they grow out of it, or are 
mixed up with it,I wish anybody had ever taught me to talk, 
among other things!I mean, they are intrinsic. And "views" 
always seemed to take an outside stand, irrespective of everything. 
I think I do not like "views." '

'You cannot help having them,' said Dane laughing at her. ' 
"Views" are merely the simplest word for how you see a thing; 
under what light, and proportions, and relations.'

Hazel shook her head.

'I never was famous for seeing things,' she said. 'I think I go more 
by instinct. What do you compliment me by supposing my views 
of dress to be, Mr. Rollo?'

'That is something from which you are to get, and give, the sense 
of beauty, in infinite variety.'

"Well, leaving that statement for the present, what are yours, 
please?'

'That it is a usable thing, which I am to use, like everything else,
for my Master.'

Hazel glanced at him, and looked away.

'Up to a certain point,' she said, 'our views go side by side; we both 
call it a power.'

Dane was silent, with a certain sweet, grave silence, that evidently 
was not in want of thoughts. Hazel sat still too for a few minutes, 
knotting her little fingers together. She glanced at him again before 
she went on.

'But further than that, I do not understand. I think, generally, I have 
dressed to please myself,not often for a purpose; though I could 
do that, I suppose, upon occasion. That is, in my sort of way. But 
in yours, Mr. Rollo,I should get in such a labyrinth of black 
merino and green silk and blue velvet and white muslin, no line 
that ever was twisted would be long enough to guide me out.'

'There's a short way out,' said Rollo. 'I will not let you get into a 
labyrinth.'

