and was withdrawn, before he gave a short, grave 'yes.' Hazel
went back to her musings without another word, and only the
least bit of a triumphant curl about the corners of her mouth.
'I wonder how it would feel?' she said, crossing and
uncrossing her hands.
'What?' said Primrose.
'Bonds--and chains,' said the girl, clasping her wrist tight.
'To have my hands tied!'
'You are not called upon to find out, my dear,' said Dr.
Maryland; 'that is not required of you. But remember, Hazel,
no bonds are heavy but love wears.'
'Depends upon how they get on, sir,' she said, quickly.
'What?' said the doctor, with a somewhat comic twinkle coming
into his eye. 'How is that?'
'I hate bonds, Dr. Maryland!--from the very bottom of my
heart.'
'You have never worn the sort I spoke of, my dear,' he said,
smiling. 'I never heard anybody complain of them.'
'What sort?' said Hazel. 'Bonds are bonds.'
'But love likes her bonds,' said the doctor.
The girl shook her head. 'She likes her way, sir! in my case.
When Mr. Falkirk forbids me to--well, no matter what,--to do
something,' she said, dropping her eyes, 'I do suppose I obey
better than if I didn't love him. But I hate it all the same.
It makes me feel--like my name,' she added with a laugh.
'Love likes her bonds,' the doctor repeated, shaking his head.
'And the arrow that is weighted flies freest against the
wind,' Rollo remarked.
'What do you mean by that?' said Primrose. 'Duke, you look
very funny with that cat upon your shoulder.'
'Pussy likes it,' said Rollo.
'Dane, have you finished your business with Hazel?' said Dr.
Maryland. 'I must be going presently.'
'Well, sir,--if Prim and Arthur will excuse me.'
He brought himself, pussy cat and all, to a chair by Wych
Hazel's side. The others drew off a little.
'I am going away,' he said. 'Business takes me to New York for
a week or two. Possibly to Chicago; but I hope not. I hope to
bring your horses back with me. Do you want to give me any
directions respecting them?'
'Directions?--I think not. O yes!' said Hazel, touching her
fingers to the cat's head and instantly withdrawing them,--'I
want my pony to be very fast. Because----' but there she
stopped.
'Well?' said he.
'That is all.'
'It is unfinished.'
'Cannot you do anything without knowing why?'
'Unbusinesslike. But I'll do my best.'
'Well,'--said Hazel, 'I told Mr. Falkirk.--Of course I like to
go fast, for its own sake,--and then if I ever had to ride for
my life!'--
It was spoken so demurely that only her cheeks betrayed her.
Over their treason the girl grew impatient.
'I just want a fast horse. Don't you know what that means,
without explanation?'
'Why no,' said he, probably enjoying his advantage though he
held it after his usual undemonstrative fashion. Excepting
that his eyes took a further advantage which none others ever
did. No flattery in them, nor conventional deference, and
