been accomplished by a body of men not one of 
whom received a particle of benefit from it. Some 
of the jokers use to call at the association rooms 
and have a good time chaffing the members and 
offering them the charity of taking them as steers- 
men for a trip, so that they could see what the 
forgotten river looked like. However, the associa- 
tion was content ; or at least it gave no sign to the 
contrary. Now and then it captured a pilot who 
was * out of luck," and added him to its list ; and 
these later additions were very valuable, for they 
were good pilots; the incompetent ones had all 
been absorbed before. As buisness freshened, 
wages climbed gradually up to two hundred and 
fifty dollars — the association figure — and became 
firmly fixed there ; and still without benefiting a 
member of that body, for no member was hired. 
The hilarity at the association's expense burst aU 
bounds, now. There was no end to the fun whioh 
that poor martyr had to put up with. 
However, it is a long lane that has no tnmiii<?. 
Winter approached, business doubled and trebled, 
and an avalanche of Missouri, Illinois, and Upper 
Mississippi Eiver boats came pouring down to take 
a chance in the New Orleans trade. All of a 
sadden, pilots were in great dtsmand, and were 
correspondingly scarce. The time for revenge was 
come. It was a bitter pill to have to accept 
association pilots at last, yet captains and owners 
agreed that there was no other way. But none of 
these outcasts offered ! So there was a still bit- 
terer pill to be swallowed : they must be sought 
out and asked for their services. Captain was 
the first man who found it necessary to take the 
dose, and he had been the loudest derider of the 
organization. He hunted up' one of the best of the 
association pilots and said, — 
' Well, you boys have rather got the best of us 
for a little while, so I'll give in with as good a 
grace as I can. I've come to hire you ; get your 
trunk abroad ri ht away. I want to leave at twelve 
o'clock." 
" I don't know about that. Who is your other 
pilot?" 
*' rve got I. S . Why ? " 
" I can't go with him. He don't belong to the 
association." i:iict 
"What!" - 
"It's so." --tRf 
" Bo you mean to tell me that you won't tunl  
wheel with one of the very best and oldest pilots 
on the river because he don't belong to yonr 
assooiation ? " 
" Yes, I do." 
'' Well, if this isn't putting on airs ! I snppoBed 
I was doing you a benevolence ; but I begin to 
think that I am the party that wants a favor dono. 
Are you acting under a law of the concern ? '* 
" Yes' 
. " Show it to me." 
