blooms, freshly-cut grass, and the breezy odor of grow- 





ing trees. And there were excursions for one, two, or 
three daj-s, planned alwaj-s by Fan in the most felicitous 
manner. She never had to stop to turn her money over, 
to see how far it would go. Up on the grand peaks, where 
one seems to get nearer the Infinite, to take great breaths 
of the feast prepared centuries beforehand, to read the 
writing that God's finger had traced in these signs of 
grandeur, a glory that quivered and duplicated itself in 
air and sky, that pulsed and trembled, reaching up and 
up, changing, undulating, widening, diminishing, brought 
close and revealed with an answering blessedness that 
entered the deep places of the soul. 

They were scrambling over the moss and lichened 
rocks one day, half listening to some gay voices at a little 
distance, half looking to their own ways, three girls and 
their father, when a sudden turn brought them together. 

" O Mrs. Kinnard ! " cried some one. 

" What an unlooked-for pleasure!" This voice was 
deep, rich, and familiar. 

It was Elsie Graham and Mr. Van Alstyne, with a 
background of other people. For a moment Mrs. Kin 
nard was silent with astonishment. 

" That we should stumble over one another here ! Is 
Mrs. Glyndon with you? That would make it about even ; 
for we have some half-dozen Severn-point people at the 
hotel. Allow me to introduce my friends, Mrs. Sherrard, 
Mrs. Payne, Mr. Payne, Mr. St. John, Mr. Mallory." 

Mrs. Kinnard recovered from her surprise, and intro 
duced her party, in turn. 

There was a general asking of questions. Where were 
they staying? What were they doing? And for all 
summer? 

Mrs. Sherrard was a magnificent woman certainty. 
Mrs. Pa'ne looked very plain beside her. But there was 
something, too much of the flashing of silks and dia 
monds, too much of her in every waj-, from the bold, 



 

black ej'e down to the shapely foot that made itself con 
spicuous. 

They were all going up to the mountain- top. Both 
parties had brought lunch-baskets. 
