constant visitations of pestilence, and the rule of a hundred masters.
It was a great city before the migration of the Ionians into Asia Minor,
it saw the rise and fall of Sardis, it was restored from a paralysis
of four centuries by Alexander. Under all vicissitudes it seems to have
retained its character of a great mart of exchange, a necessity for
the trade of Asia; and perhaps the indifference of its conglomerate
inhabitants to freedom and to creeds contributed to its safety.
Certainly it thrived as well under the Christians, when it was the seat
of one of the seven churches, as it did under the Romans, when it was a
seat of a great school of sophists and rhetoricians, and it is equally
prosperous under the sway of the successor of Mohammed. During the
thousand years of the always decaying Byzantine Empire it had its share
of misfortunes, and its walls alternately, at a later day, displayed the
star and crescent, and the equal arms of the cross of St. John. Yet,
in all its history, I seem to see the trading, gay, free, but not
disorderly Smyrna passing on its even way of traffic and of pleasure.

Of its two hundred thousand and more inhabitants, about ninety thousand
are Rayah Greeks, and about eighty thousand are Turks. There is a
changing population of perhaps a thousand Europeans, there are large
bodies of Jews and Armenians, and it was recently estimated to have as
many as fifteen thousand Levantines. These latter are the descendants
of the marriage of Europeans with Greek and Jewish women; and whatever
moral reputation the Levantines enjoy in the Levant, the women of this
mixture are famous for their beauty. But the race is said to be not
self-sustaining, and is yielding to the original types. The languages
spoken in Smyrna are Turkish, a Greek dialect (the Romaic), Spanish,
Italian, Trench, English, and Arabic, probably prevailing in the order
named. Our own steamer was much more Oriental than the city of Smyrna.
As soon as we stepped ashore we seemed to have come into a European
city; the people almost all wear the Frank dress, the shops offer little
that is peculiar. One who was unfamiliar with bazaars might wonder at
the tangle of various lanes, but we saw nothing calling for comment. A
walk through the Jewish quarter, here as everywhere else the dirtiest
and most picturesque in the city, will reward the philosophic traveller
with the sight of lovely women lolling at every window. It is not
the fashion for Smyrniote ladies to promenade the streets, but they
mercifully array themselves in full toilet and stand in their doorways.

The programme of the voyage of the Achille promised us a day and a half
in Smyrna, which would give us time to visit Ephesus. We were due Friday
noon; we did not arrive till Saturday noon. This vexatious delay had
caused much agitation on board; to be cheated out of Ephesus was an
outrage which the tourists could not submit to; they had come this way
on purpose to see Ephesus. They would rather give up anything else in
the East. The captain said he had no discretion, he must sail at 4 p. M.
The passengers then prepared a handsome petition to the agent, begging
him to detain the steamer till eight o’clock, in order to permit them
to visit Ephesus by a special train. There is a proclivity in all those
who can write to sign any and every thing except a subscription paper,
and this petition received fifty-six eager and first-class signatures.
The agent at Smyrna plumply refused our request, with unnecessary
surliness; but upon the arrival of the captain, and a consultation
which no doubt had more reference to freight than to the petition, the
official agreed, as a special favor, to detain the steamer till eight
o’clock, but not a moment longer.

We hastened to the station of the Aidin Railway, which runs eighty miles
to Aidin, the ancient Tralles, a rich Lydian metropolis of immemorial
foundation. The modern town has perhaps fifty thousand inhabitants, and
