
As she became accustomed to the change in his external appearance,
she discovered that he was altering fast in other ways and watched the
“distinguished-looking gentleman” with much interest, saying to herself,
when she saw a new sort of dignity about him alternating with an unusual
restlessness of manner, and now and then a touch of sentiment, “Genius
is simmering, just as I predicted.”

As the family were in mourning, there were no festivities on Rose’s
twenty-first birthday, though the boys had planned all sorts of
rejoicings. Everyone felt particularly tender toward their girl on that
day, remembering how “poor Charlie” had loved her, and they tried
to show it in the gifts and good wishes they sent her. She found her
sanctum all aglow with autumn leaves, and on her table so many rare and
pretty things, she quite forgot she was an heiress and only felt how
rich she was in loving friends.

One gift greatly pleased her, though she could not help smiling at the
source from whence it came, for Mac sent her a Cupid not the chubby
child with a face of naughty merriment, but a slender, winged youth
leaning on his unstrung bow, with a broken arrow at his feet. A poem,
“To Psyche,” came with it, and Rose was much surprised at the beauty of
the lines, for, instead of being witty, complimentary, or gay, there was
something nobler than mere sentiment in them, and the sweet old fable
lived again in language which fitly painted the maiden Soul looking for
a Love worthy to possess it.

Rose read them over and over as she sat among the gold and scarlet
leaves which glorified her little room, and each time found new depth
and beauty in them, looking from the words that made music in her ear to
the lovely shapes that spoke with their mute grace to her eye. The whole
thing suited her exactly, it was so delicate and perfect in its way,
for she was tired of costly gifts and valued very much this proof of
her cousin’s taste and talent, seeing nothing in it but an affectionate
desire to please her.

All the rest dropped in at intervals through the day to say a loving
word, and last of all came Mac. Rose happened to be alone with Dulce,
enjoying a splendid sunset from her western window, for October gave her
child a beautiful good night.

Rose turned around as he entered and, putting down the little girl,
went to him with the evening red shining on her happy face as she said
gratefully: “Dear Mac, it was so lovely! I don’t know how to thank you
for it in any way but this.” And, drawing down his tall head, she gave
him the birthday kiss she had given all the others.

But this time it produced a singular effect, for Mac turned scarlet,
then grew pale, and when Rose added playfully, thinking to relieve the
shyness of so young a poet, “Never again say you don’t write poetry, or
call your verses rubbish I knew you were a genius, and now I’m sure of
it,” he broke out, as if against his will: “No. It isn’t genius, it is
love!” Then, as she shrank a little, startled at his energy, he added,
with an effort at self-control which made his voice sound strange: “I
didn’t mean to speak, but I can’t suffer you to deceive yourself so. I
must tell the truth, and not let you kiss me like a cousin when I love
you with all my heart and soul!”

“Oh, Mac, don’t joke!” cried Rose, bewildered by this sudden glimpse
into a heart she thought she knew so well.
