and rule his realm independently. Their common name, Saxon, came from a
peculiar weapon, the sachs; a stone war-mallet or battle-axe, which was
made fast to a longer or shorter wooden handle. In the strong hands of
the Saxons this was a fearful weapon, with which they rushed fearlessly
upon the foe, hastening to come to a hand-to-hand fight; for they liked
to be at close quarters with their enemies.
"'Wild and terrible as their other customs were, was also their idol
worship. Their principal deity was called Woden, in whose honour men
were slaughtered upon great blocks of stone; their throats being cut
with stone knives. Not far off, some two or three hours from
Hermannsburg, are still what are called the seven stone-houses; in
other words, blocks of granite set up in a square, upon which a great
granite block lies like a cover. The men to be sacrificed were slain
upon these blocks of granite. Quite near our village too, there stood
formerly some such sacrificial altars. How fearful and bloody these
sacrifices were, appears from what an old writer relates; that it was
the custom of the Saxons, when they returned home from their warlike
expeditions, to sacrifice to their idols every tenth man among the
captives; the rest they shared among themselves for slaves. And upon
special occasions, for instance, if they had suffered severe losses in
the war, the whole of the captives would be consecrated to Woden and
sacrificed. That's the Woden we call one day of the week after.'"
"We? One day of the week!" exclaimed Maggie; while Flora looked up and
said, "Oh yes! Wednesday."
"Wednesday?" repeated Maggie.
"Woden's-day," said Meredith.
"Is it Woden's-day? Wednesday? But how come we to call it so, Ditto?"
"Because our fathers did."
"But that is very strange. I don't think we ought to call it
Woden's-day."
"The Germans do not call it so, who live at this time round those old
stone altars; they say Mittwoche, or Mid-week. But the English Saxons
seem to have kept up the title."
"Are those stone altars standing now, Ditto?"
"Some of them, Pastor Harms says; and what is very odd, it seems they
call them stone houses; and don't you recollect Jacob called his stone
that he set up at Bethel, 'God's house'?"
"Well, Ditto, go on please," said Maggie.
"You don't care for archæology. Well--'The German emperor Charlemagne,
who reigned from 768 to 814, was a good Christian. He governed the
kingdom of the Franks; and that means the whole of central and southern
Germany, together with France and Italy; and all these, his subjects,
had been already Christian a long time. On the north his empire was
bordered by our heathen ancestors, the Saxons, and they were the sworn
foes of Christianity. Whenever they could, they made a rush upon
Charlemagne's dominions, plundered and killed, destroyed the churches
and put to death the Christian priests; and were never quiet. So
Charlemagne determined to make war upon the Saxons, partly to protect
his kingdom against their inroads, and partly with the intent to convert
them with a strong hand to the Christian religion. Then arose a fearful
war of thirty-three years' length, which by both sides was carried on
with great bitterness. The Saxons had, in especial, two valiant,
heroic-hearted leaders, called "dukes" because they led the armies. The
word "duke," therefore, means the same as army-leader. The one of them
in Westphalia was named Wittekind; the other in Eastphalia was named
Albion, also called Alboin. Charlemagne was in a difficult position. If
he beat the Saxons, and thought, now they would surely keep the peace,
and he went off then to some more distant part of his great empire,
immediately the Saxons broke loose again, and the war began anew.
Charlemagne was made so bitter by this, that once when he had beaten the
