“My dearest, I am afraid we must give up our plan,” he said, softly, as
he led her away: “Helwyze is so changed, I come to tell you, lest it
should shock you when you see him. I think it would be cruel to go at
once. Can you wait a little longer?”

“If we ought. How is he changed?”

“Just worn away, as a rock is by the beating of the sea, till there
seems little left of him except the big eyes and greater sharpness of
both tongue and temper. Say nothing about it, and seem not to notice it;
else he will freeze you with a look, as he did me when I exclaimed.”

“Poor man! we will be very patient, very kind; for it must be awful to
think of dying with no light beyond,” sighed Gladys, touching the cross
at her white throat.

“A Dante without a Beatrice: I am happier than he;” and Canaris laid his
cheek against hers with the gesture of a boy, the look of a man who has
found the solace which is also his salvation.

Helwyze received them quietly, a little coldly, even; and Gladys
reproached herself with too long neglect of what she had assumed as a
duty, when she saw how ill he looked, for his summer had not been a
blissful one. He had spent it in wishing for her, and in persuading
himself that the desire was permissible, since he asked nothing but what
she had already given him,—her presence and her friendship. It was her
intellect he loved and wanted, not her heart; that she might give her
husband wholly, since he understood and cared for affection only: her
mind, with all its lovely possibilities, Helwyze coveted, and reasoned
himself into the belief that he had a right to enjoy it, conscious all
the while that his purpose was a delusion and a snare. Olivia had
mourned over the moody taciturnity which made a lonely cranny of the
cliffs his favorite resort, where he sat, day after day, watching, with
an irresistible fascination, the ever-changing sea,—beautiful and bitter
as the hidden tide of thought and feeling in his own breast, where lay
the image of Gladys, as placid, yet as powerful, as the moon which ruled
the ebb and flow of that vaster ocean. Being a fatalist for want of a
higher faith, he left all to chance, and came home simply resolved to
enjoy what was left him as long and as unobtrusively as possible; since
Felix owed him much, and Gladys need never know what she had prayed
not to know.

Sitting at the table, as they sat almost a year ago, he watched the two
young faces as he had done then, finding each, unlike his own, changed
for the better. Gladys was a girl no longer; and the new womanliness
which had come to her was of the highest type, for inward beauty lent
its imperishable loveliness to features faulty in themselves, and
character gave its indescribable charm to the simplest manners. Helwyze
saw all this; and perceiving also how much heart had already quickened
intellect, began to long for both, and to grudge his pupil to her new
master.

Canaris seemed to have lost something of his boyish comeliness, and had
taken on a manlier air of strength and stability, most becoming, and
evidently a source of pardonable pride to him. At his age even three
months could work a serious alteration in one so easily affected by all
influences; and Helwyze felt a pang of envy as he saw the broad
shoulders and vigorous limbs, the wholesome color in the cheeks, and
best of all, the serene content of a happy heart.

