and Mr. Ross entered. It gave me such a curious feeling, 
Chris ! My arms dropped at my side, with the sensation 
of a prisoner who surrenders. Yet we did not speak. 
When the car came up, it was pouring like a deluge. He 
held his umbrella over me, stepped into the car, paid fare 
for two with the deliberation of happier times, stopped at 
the right place, and escorted me to my own roof-tree dry 
and safe. All this time I was thinking of my shameful 
behavior of last night. I did act like a fiend or a fish- 
woman. No, I wasn’t profane : so the fiend will do. I 
was very thoroughly ashamed, and felt that I never 
should respect myself until I had apologized. I’m not a 
moral coward, if I have a quick temper. So I said my 
little say ; and he asked if he might not come in and talk 
it all over. I must have dreamed it before, Chris ; for I 
knew just how every thing was going to happen, and it 
made no difference whether I promised to marry liim now, 
or six months hence. I could not run away from destiny. 
Fate had caught me, and held me in a tight clutch. When 
he was all through, I tested his affection by two questions ; 
and they were both answered satisfactorily. I think he 
loves me with his whole heart and soul.” 
“But you!” I cry, — “are not your wishes to be 
taken into account ? ’ ’ 
“ Chrissie, I do believe I love him as weU as I shall 
ever love any one. He has some of the ways I like. He 
is clean and neat as a pin, — think of having a slovenly 
man around! — he does not even smoke; is temperate, 
frugal, industrious ; and, O Chris ! so deliciously kind. 
If I were going to be sick a long while, I would not ask 
a better nurse. I am not romantic or sentimental : I 
cannot get up to glowing heights. Marriage seems quite 
an every-day business, after all. You really do have to 
think where you will live afterwards, and how much you 
can afford to spend a week. The engagement is to be 
brief. If everybody consents, we shall be married this 
fall.” Her voice breaks off sharp and cold. 
“ O Theo I it can’t be. We never were so poor in all 
our lives. What will you do for wedding- clothes ? ” 
“ Well, I don’t know. Providence, who seems to have 
brought this about, will show us a way ; or if there is no 
way, why, then it cannot be done ; that is all. And now I 
believe I will go to bed : I’m deadly tired.” 
“ Tell me one thing first. Are you very happy? ” 
I look into her eyes, as the angel may look at the day 
of judgment. They do not droop, nor stare, nor laugh 
with that mirthful mischief, but are solemn, and holding 
something in their far depths that I cannot see. 
“ O God ! ” I pray with a swift breath, “if it is not 
right, do not let this thing happen.” 
It is so strange for the next two or three days ! 
Father and mother talk it over. Theo hunts up the let- 
ters of recommendation that have never been used, and 
begs father to write. Mr. Ross has made no secret of 
his standing, or his friends in the old country. They are 
plain working-people, the brothers doing business in a 
small way, the mother able to spell correctly, and write a 
very nice letter to her son. The sister’s husband in Aus- 
tralia is getting rich. 
“ I wonder if you will ever go back to England,” says 
