"He must be just as well as merciful," I heard 
her remark, one evening, to a friend. The an 
swer, to which I listened, went over the common 
ground of atonement for the satisfaction of jus 
tice. I watched Mrs. Olney 's face. It did not 
brighten. The argument failed. 
"Yes yes I understand all that," was her 
answer. 
"And are you not satisfied to rest here?" asked 
the friend. 
" No," was the despondent reply. 
"Why not?" 
" Simply, because having broken the law, and 
thus offended God, I cannot see how forgiveness 
is possible. My early life was an insult to him. 
I'm ade light of his precepts ; I scorned the offers 
of salvation. When he said, Give me thy heart, 
I turned from him, and laid my heart an offering 
upon the shrine of this wicked world. And now, 
 
when I seek him, he hides his face from me. I 
am in terror, but he mocks at my fear." 
" Every one that asketh receiveth ; and he that 
seeketh findeth ; and to him that knocketh, it 
shall be opened." So answered the friend in 
words of divine truth. 
I again observed the lady 's face, to see how 
this clear declaration would aifect her. For a 
moment, it seemed to lighten ; but the shadow 
was not lifted. 
"It must be regarded only as an appearance 
that God is angry," I ventured here to remark. 
"Divine love infinite compassion are qualities 
adverse to anger. The wicked, under such suf 
fering and restraint as are the consequences of 
evil, naturally enough attribute their pains to the 
angry punishment of an offended God. And 
when God speaks in warning to the wicked, it is 
as a father to his disobedient children. He ap 
pears with signs of anger, though love and com 
passion are in his heart. There is a state of evil 
*mong men, which will obey no law but that of 
 
fear. The sword must be unsheathed, and the 
right arm bared, or the wicked will not submit. 
This is the state addressed, when anger and 
punishment are spoken of in the word. God 's 
infinite love, which yearns over every creature, 
was veiling itself under forms of wrath." 
She listened calmly, and with evident interest ; 
and did not offer any suggestions adverse to what 
I had said. Still, I could see no light drifting 
through the shadows on her face. Her mental 
condition interested me, and I endeavored to 
comprehend its meaning ; but, after a long con 
versation, I found myself unable to get down to 
the real cause of her morbid state. To the clear 
est teaching of the Bible, and the fairest conclu 
sions drawn therefrom, she had only her doubts 
to oppose. They were, enshrouding her like a 
