

  Third Week.      Thursday.
  ——
  Chicken Cream Soup.
  Ragoût of Rabbits.      Parsnip Fritters.
  Stewed Celery.      Glazed Sweet Potatoes.
  ——
  Orange Tartlets.
  ——


CHICKEN CREAM SOUP.

Boil an old fowl, with an onion, in four quarts of cold water, until
there remain but two quarts. Take it out, and let it get cold. Cut
off the whole of the breast, and chop very fine. Mix with the pounded
yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, and rub through a colander. Cool, skim,
and strain the soup into a soup-pot. Season; add the chicken-and-egg
mixture; simmer ten minutes, and pour into the tureen. Then add a small
cup of boiling milk.


RAGOÛT OF RABBITS.

Pair of rabbits; ½ lb. of fat salt pork; 1 large onion; 1 tablespoonful
of butter, and same of browned flour; pepper and salt; ½ lemon, peeled
and sliced thin; glass of sherry; ½ cup of gravy.

Slice the onion; dredge with flour, and fry brown in the butter. Add
half a cupful of gravy, and, when well mixed, turn all into a saucepan.
Put in the rabbits, jointed as for fricassee, the sliced bacon, and
lemon. Season; cover closely, and stew an hour, or until the meat is
tender. Thicken with browned flour; boil once, and pour out.


PARSNIP FRITTERS.

Scrape and halve the parsnips. Boil tender in hot salted water. Mash
smooth, picking out the woody bits. Add a beaten egg to every four
parsnips, a teaspoonful of flour—pepper and salt at your discretion,
and enough milk to make into a thick batter. Drop, by the spoonful,
into hot lard, and fry brown. Drain in a hot colander, and dish.


STEWED CELERY.

Scrape, and cut into short bits. Cook tender in hot salted water. Pour
this off; add enough cold milk to cover the celery. Heat to a boil;
stir in a good spoonful of butter rolled in flour, pepper and salt.
Stew five minutes longer.


GLAZED SWEET POTATOES.

Boil soft, peel carefully, and lay in a greased dripping-pan in a
good oven. As they begin to crust over, baste with a little butter,
repeating this several times, as they brown. When glossy, and of a
golden russet, dish.

