wizard, as he looked here and there, seeking a way, 
peering into the tangle, or withdrawing from a thicket, 
and muttering to himself, '' There ain't no speckerla- 
tion there." And when the way became altogether 
inscrutable, " Waal, this is a reg'lar random scoot 
of a rigmarole." As some one remarked, " The dic- 
tionary in his hands is like clay in the hands of the 
potter." A petrifaction was a " kind of a hard-wood 
chemical git-up." 

There is no conceit, we are apt to say, like that born 
of isolation from the world, and there are no such con- 
ceited people as those who have lived all their lives in 
the woods. Phelps was, however, unsophisticated in 
his until the advent of strangers into his life, who 
brought in literature and various other disturbing 





influences, I am sorry to say that the effect has been 
to take off something of the bloom of his simplicity, 
and to elevate him into an oracle. I suppose this 
is inevitable as soon as one goes into print; and 
Phelps has gone into print in the local papers. He 
has been bitten with the literary "git-up." Justly 
regarding most of the Adirondack literature as a 
" perfect fizzle," he has himself projected a work, and 
written much on the natural history of his region. 
Long ago he made a large map of the mountain coun- 
try; and, until recent surveys, it was the only one 
that could lay any claim to accuracy. His history is 
no doubt original in form, and unconventional in 
expression. Like most of the writers of the seven- 
teenth century, and the court ladies and gentlemen of 
the eighteenth century, he is an independent speller. 
Writing of his work on the Adirondacks, he says, " If 
I should ever live to get this wonderful thing written, 
I expect it will show one thing, if no more ; and that 
is, that everything has an opposite. I expect to show 
in this that literature has an opposite, if I do not show 
anything else. We could not enjoy the blessings and 
happiness of riteousness if we did not know innicuty 
was in the world : in fact, there would be no riteous- 
ness without innicuty." Writing also of his great 
enjoyment of being in the woods, especially since he 
has had the society there of some people he names, he 
adds, '' And since I have Literature, Siance, and Art 
all spread about on the green moss of the mountain 
woods or the gravell banks of a cristle stream, it 
seems like finding roses, honeysuckels, and violets on 
a crisp brown cliff in December. You know I don't 
believe much in the religion of seramony ; but any 
riteous thing that has life and spirit in it is food for 



 

