" Oh, Lord Lambeth, wait till the great heat is 
over," Mr. Westgate interposed. "Boston in 
this weather would be very trying; it 's not the 
temperature for intellectual exertion. At Boston, you know, you have to pass an examination 
at the city limits ; and when you come away they 
give you a kind of degree." 

Lord Lambeth stared, blushing a little ; and 
Percy Beaumont stared a little also but only 
with his fine natural complexion glancing aside 
after a moment to see that his companion was 
not looking too credulous, for he had heard a 
great deal of American humor. " I dare say it 
is very jolly," said the younger gentleman. 

" I dare say it is," said Mr. Westgate. " Only 
I must impress upon you that at present to 
morrow morning, at an early hour you will be 
expected at Newport. We have a house there; 
half the people in New York go there for the 
summer. I am not sure that at this very moment my wife can 'take you in ; she has got a lot 
of people staying with her; I don 't know who 
they all are; only she may have no room. But 
you can begin with the hotel, and meanwhile you 
can live at my house. In that way simply 
sleeping at the hotel you will find it tolerable. 
For the rest, you must make yourself at home at 
my place. You mustn't be shy, you know; if 
you are only here for a month that will be a 
great waste of time. Mrs. Westgate won 't neg 
lect you, and you had better not try to resist her. 
I know something about that. I expect you'll 
find some pretty girls on the premises. I shall 
write to my wife by this afternoon 's mail, and to 
morrow morning she and Miss Alden will look 
out for you. Just walk right in and make your 
self comfortable. Your steamer leaves from this 
part of the city, and I will immediately send out 
and get you a cabin. Then, at half past four 
o clock, just call for me here, and I will go with 
you and put you on board. It 's a big boat ; you 
might get lost. A few days hence, at the end of 
the week, I will come down to Newport, and see 
how you are getting on." 

The two young Englishmen inaugurated the 
policy of not resisting Mrs. Westgate by submit 
ting, with great docility and thankfulness, to her 
husband. He was evidently a very good fellow, 
and he made an impression upon his visitors; 
his hospitality seemed to recommend itself consciously
with a friendly wink, as it were as if 
it hinted, judicially, that you could not possibly 
make a better bargain. Lord Lambeth and his 
cousin left their entertainer to his labors and 
returned to their hotel, where they spent three 
or four hours in their respective shower-baths. 
Percy Beaumont had suggested that they ought 
to see something of the town ; but " Oh, damn 
the town !" his noble kinsman had rejoined. 
