is wholly true; nay, I am sure it is not. All the 
same, my whole nature responded to that life and 
yearned towards it. I like the delicate perfection 
of detail in all matters of personal surrounding; 
dress, table, furniture, service, habits of life. It 
suits me; I am well in it; life seems well ordered 
so. I had just had a dip in that pleasant wave of 
life; and now was landed high and dry on my old 
shore. Olive remained surrounded by such sweet 
circumstances; and I ? Turkey carpets for the- 
one, and a thickly painted, bare, yellow, kitchen 
floor for the other. Delights of form and colour 
in all household details on the one hand; on the 
other, these rough wooden chairs, rush-bottomed or 
wooden-seated, painted chocolate colour, with impossible apples roughly portrayed on the upper 
slats of their backs. Look at my great stone 
hearth, of not very smooth slabs of limestone; the 
great deal table, the coarse whitewashed walls, 
the brown - painted wainscoting ; and remember 
her dainty and elegant and convenient tables and 
chairs, and her picture-hung apartments, tapestried 
and curtained. Fancy went on and on, touching 
and tasting and feeling the contrasts, point by 
point; and all the while I knew I was only skirmish 
ing with the accessories of the subject, and I must 
grapple with the heart of it. And so at last I did, 
I came up to it, face to face. I saw it and met it 
full. Olive had sailed off upon the wide sea of life, 
with the love and the strength she wanted, to go 
with her; I was left behind, to hear the waves 
break upon the shore. 
I spent some hard hours there upon the floor. I 
kept up the fire; for a while the fire gave me the 
only light and comfort I had. There was a fight 
to be fought with discontent; in other words, with 
my own will. For months this struggle had been 
before me, biding its time. Now its time was come. 
The enemy must be met and vanquished, or I must 
make shipwreck of faith. I could not live and do 
my work as a Christian with this unpeace in my 
heart. And as I never dreamed of making ship 
wreck of faith, I knew I must meet and vanquish 
the enemy. But meet him first. And I met him. 
 looked the whole thing squarely in the face ; 
blinked nothing, disguised nothing, covered nothing. I looked at Olive's lot, and I looked at mine. 
not at the furniture and the carpets now, but at 
the one thing which of all human things is the 
best; the love which one's own love meets, and 
M-hich meets it; one's heart's counterpart. Olive 
had it, and in this case that meant that I should 
3 without it to my dying day. Was I willing? 
could I accept my portion ? could I say simply and 
heartily and finally, "Thy will be done?" Could 
I let the Lord arrange and decide and appoint for 
me, and be satisfied with his appointing ? 
He who has never fought such a fight does not 
know what it means. It comes to this; "Child, 
 
are you willing to die ? Not to leave the world, 
but to stay in it and be dead?" If one can come 
