that 's common enough ; but it was harm of me to 
go if I didn 't quite respect her, — if I thought 
her silly, and was willing to be amused with her. 
One hasn 't any right to do that. I saw this when 
I saw you." She still hung her head, and looked 
away. " I want you to tell me something," he 
pursued. " Do you remember once — the second 
time we talked together — that you said Dunham 
was in earnest, and you wouldn 't answer when I 
asked you about myself? Do you remember ? " 
" Yes," said the girl. 
" I didn 't care, then. I care very much now. 
Y r ou don't think me — you think I can be in ear- 
nest when I will, don't you ? And that I can re- 
gret — that I really wish " — He took the hand 
that played with the shawl-fringe, but she softly 
drew it away. 
 
u Ah, I see!" he said. " You can't believe in 
me. You don't believe that I can be a good man 
— like Dunham ! " 
She answered in the same breathless murmur, 
" I think you are good." Her averted face drooped 
lower. 
"I will tell you all about it, some day ! " be cried, 
with joyful vehemence. " Will you let me ? " 
"Yes," she answered, with the swift expulsion 
of breath that sometimes comes with tears. She 
rose quickly and turned away. He did not try to 
keep her from leaving him. His heart beat tumult- 
uously ; his brain seemed in a whirl. It all meant 
nothing, or it meant everything. 
" What is the matter with Miss Blood?" asked 
Dunham, who joined him at this moment. " I just 
spoke to her at the foot of the gangway stairs, and 
she wouldn't answer me." 
" Oh, I don't know about Miss Blood — I don't 
know what's the matter," said Staniford. " Look 
here, Dunham ; I want to talk with you — I want 
to tell you something — I want you to advise me 
— I — There 's only one thing that can explain 
it, that can excuse it. There 's only one thing that 
can justify all that I 've done and said, and that 
can not only justify it, but can make it sacredly 
and eternally right, — right for her and right for 
me. Yes, it 's reason for all, and for a thousand 
times more. It makes it fair for me to have let 
her see that I thought her beautiful and charming, 
 
that I delighted to be with her, that I — Dunham," 
cried Stamford, " I 'm in love ! " 
Dunham started at the burst in which these rav- 
ings ended. " Stamford," he faltered, with grave 
regret, "I hope not ! " 
u You hope not ? You — you — What do you 
mean ? How else can I free myself from the self- 
reproach of having trifled with her, of " — 
Dunham shook his head compassionately. " You 
can't do it that way. Your only safety is to fight 
it to the death, — to run from it." 
