crochet in all its forms, as offerings to her departing friend.
“You can write often, and tell me all about everybody, for I shall want
to know, and people will soon forget me when I’m gone,” said Ralph,
looking at Merry, who was making a garland of yellow leaves for Juliet’s
black hair.
Jill promised, and kept her word; but the longest letters went from the
farm-house on the hill, though no one knew the fact till long afterward.
Merry said nothing now, but she smiled, with a pretty color in her
cheeks, and was very much absorbed in her work, while the talk went on.
“I wish I was twenty, and going to seek my fortune, as you are,” said
Jack; and the other boys agreed with him, for something in Ralph’s new
plans and purposes roused the manly spirit in all of them, reminding
them that playtime would soon be over, and the great world before them,
where to choose.
“It is easy enough to say what you’d like; but the trouble is, you have
to take what you can get, and make the best of it,” said Gus, whose own
views were rather vague as yet.
“No you don’t, always; you can make things go as you want them, if you
only try hard enough, and walk right over whatever stands in the way. I
don’t mean to give up my plans for any man; but, if I live, I’ll carry
them out--you see if I don’t;” and Frank gave the rock where he lay a
blow with his fist, that sent the acorns flying all about.
One of them hit Jack, and he said, sorrowfully, as he held it in his
hand so carefully it was evident he had some association with it,--
“Ed used to say that, and he had some splendid plans, but they didn’t
come to anything.”
“Perhaps they did; who can tell? Do your best while you live, and I
don’t believe anything good is lost, whether we have it a long or a
short time,” said Ralph, who knew what a help and comfort high hopes
were, and how they led to better things, if worthily cherished.
“A great many acorns are wasted, I suppose; but some of them sprout and
grow, and make splendid trees,” added Merry, feeling more than she knew
how to express, as she looked up at the oaks overhead.
Only seven of the party were sitting on the knoll now, for the rest had
gone to wash the dishes and pack the baskets down by the boats. Jack and
Jill, with the three elder boys, were in a little group, and as Merry
spoke, Gus said to Frank,--
“Did you plant yours?”
“Yes, on the lawn, and I mean it shall come up if I can make it,”
 answered Frank, gravely.
“I put mine where I can see it from the window, and not forget to water
and take care of it,” added Jack, still turning the pretty brown acorn
to and fro as if he loved it.
“What do they mean?” whispered Merry to Jill, who was leaning against
her knee to rest.
“The boys were walking in the Cemetery last Sunday, as they often do,
and when they came to Ed’s grave, the place was all covered with little
acorns from the tree that grows on the bank. They each took up some as
they stood talking, and Jack said he should plant his, for he loved Ed
very much, you know. The others said they would, too; and I hope the
trees will grow, though we don’t need anything to remember him by,”
 answered Jill, in a low tone, thinking of the pressed flowers the girls
kept for his sake.
The boys heard her, but no one spoke for a moment as they sat looking
across the river toward the hill where the pines whispered their
lullabies and pointed heavenward, steadfast and green, all the year
round. None of them could express the thought that was in their minds as
Jill told the little story; but the act and the feeling that prompted it
were perhaps as beautiful an assurance as could have been given that
the dear dead boy’s example had not been wasted, for the planting of the
