She picked out a less elegant resort, and on issuing 
from its portal at the hour she had fixed she saw the 
young man standing apart. She offered him no rec- 
ognition until she had crossed the street, and he had 
followed her to some distance. Here, with a smile, 
" Excuse my apparent want of cordiality," she said. 
" You know what to believe about that. Prudence 
before everything." And on his asking her in what 
direction they should walk, " Where we shall be least 
observed," she murmured. 

Morris was not in high good -humor, and his re- 
sponse to this speech was not particularly gallant. 
" I don't flatter myself we shall be much observed 
anywhere." Then he turned recklessly toward the 
centre of the town. "I hope you have come to tell 
me that he has knocked under," he went on. 

" I am afraid I am not altogether a harbinger of 
good ; and yet, too, I am to a certain extent a mes- 
senger of peace. I have been thinking a great deal, 
Mr. Townsend," said Mrs. Penniman. 

" You think too much." 

" I suppose I do ; but I can't help it, my mind is 
so terribly active. When I give myself, I give my- 
self. I pay the penalty in my headaches, my fa- 





mous headaches a perfect circlet of pain ! But I 
carry it as a queen carries her crown. Would you 
believe that I have one now ? I wouldn't, however, 
have missed our rendezvous for anything. I have 
something very important to tell you." 

" Well, let's have it," said Morris. 

" I was perhaps a little headlong the other day in 
advising you to marry immediately. I have been 
thinking it over, and now I see it just a little differ- 
ently." 

"You seem to have a great many different ways 
of seeing the same object." 

" Their number is infinite !" said Mrs. Penniman, 
in a tone which seemed to suggest that this conven- 
ient faculty was one of her brightest attributes. 

" I recommend you to take one way, and stick to 
it," Morris replied. 

" Ah, but it isn't easy to choose. My imagina- 
tion is never quiet, never satisfied. It makes me a 
bad adviser, perhaps, but it makes me a capital 
friend." 
