friends. Her father is an Austrian nobleman, at present in 
Home ; her mother, oddly enough, was named Grenville." 

Madame Grenville turned frightfully pale, but stared at 
the two as if they had unearthed some fatal plot. 

Mrs. Byington's voice had been low, but distinct. Mr. 
Grenville started suddenly and came forward, his slender 
form swaying with agitation. 

" What are you saying, Madame Waldeburgh ? And 
her mother's name Grenville ? Impossible ! I once had a 
daughter child, let me look at you. Such a strange 
coincidence ! But Sophia," to his wife, M you learned 
thai she was dead. Yes. We had a public and legal 
announcement. And she left no children. Her two baby 





boys died her husband deserted her there must be 
some mistake," and he glanced wildly at the three. 

"If your daughter's name was Ellen Grenville, she was 
surely Miss Waldeburgh's mother. I have a servant in 
my family who lived with her, who saw her die, who 
brought the child to this city. Her father was languishing 
in a foreign prison on account of some political trouble. 
He has since been our guest, and we have found him an 
honorable and cultivated gentleman," was Mrs. Byingtou's 
concise explanation. 

"My God, Sophia! How could this fearful mistake 
have occurred ? Could I see this domestic, madame ? " to 
Mrs. Byington. 

" You will exert yourself too much," and Madame Gren- 
ville seated him in a chair. He did seem exhausted. 

" No, no ; let me see her. I must know the truth. My 
child ! " and he placed his trembling hand on Queenie's 
shoulder. 

" Nay, I insist," exclaimed Madame Grenville. " Let 
Mrs. Byington tell her story. How or where did she find 
this child, and how could she identify it after so many 
years. We will not excite ourselves unduly." 

The others had crowded around Queenie and were 
studying her with unfeigned curiosity. She felt so strange 
among them, she understood in the depths of her soul that 
Madame Grenville was unfriendly, that if a look could anni- 
hilate, she would be swept out of existence. Then Roger 
came and placed his arm around her protectingly. Ah, if 
she might belong to him ! She understood then who was 
keeper of her heart. 

" The story is long, but I will try to go over it briefly," 
Mrs. Byington said, feeling that there was some reason 
