boat was approaching the shoal place, Cornwood asked me what ailed my
neck. It was clear enough that he did not know what had transpired in
the woods.

"In accordance with the plan you arranged with Captain Boomsby before
you came on board of the Sylvania, I have been shot," I replied. "The
ball, instead of going through my head, only grazed my neck. Your man
is a very bad shot."

"My man! Who is my man?" demanded Cornwood. But I saw that he was pale
under the charge.

"Griffin Leeds, of course," I answered. "But you have managed it very
clumsily, from the moccasin down to the shooting. You ought to have
employed a man that could hit the side of a house at sixty feet."

"I don't understand you," gasped he.

"Yes, you do. But the game is up. The gentleman who came to-day is my
father, and Captain Boomsby will give up the chase as soon as he sees
and knows him."

"I am sure I don't know what you are talking about."

"Then we won't talk any more," I added, retiring from the pilot-house
after the boat had passed over the doubtful shoal, which the rain had
rendered harmless.

At seven in the evening we reached Enterprise, where we remained
overnight. At daylight the next morning, before any of our passengers
were stirring, we started down the river again. At two in the afternoon
we were alongside the Sylvania. We merely put Washburn, Ben Bowman,
Landy Perkins, and Hop Tossford on board of her, to run her down to
Jacksonville, and kept on our way. But it was midnight when we made the
wharf of the company that owned the Wetumpka. Except those in charge of
the steamer, all were asleep. About daylight, the Sylvania anchored in
the berth she had occupied before.

Our fish and game which had been kept in the extra ice-house were in
excellent condition. I sent my share to the Carlton Hotel, whose
proprietors had been polite to me. I had handed Griffin Leeds over to
the police on our arrival. On Monday morning we were all back again on
board of the Sylvania, and were glad enough of the change into her. But
we had had a magnificent time up the river; all hands were satisfied,
and ready for another cruise.

Monday was the first day of April, and Owen came on board to settle his
accounts. He insisted upon paying me seven hundred dollars for the
month; but my father resented the proposition. He allowed me to take
the amount I had received the month before, and no more.

"Owen, you have behaved very badly," said my father seriously.

"I know I have, uncle; but I have repented it, and I hope you will
forgive me," replied Owen. "The nobleness of Alick conquered me, and I
am a better fellow than I ever was before in my life."

"I have heard what Alick has to say about it; and so far as the past is
concerned, I freely forgive you for his sake," added my father.

