sent him to Florida in one steamer, while Owen went with me in the
Sylvania. My friend Robert Washburn, the mate of the steam-yacht, had
discovered the plot, and we had been on our guard night and day to meet
any treachery.

Captain Boomsby claimed me and all that I had, when he learned that my
father was dead. He had done his best to obtain the steam-yacht, but
his unfortunate habit of drinking too much whiskey had defeated his
plan. In his attempt to destroy me he had taken the life of the
solicitor.

On our voyage, "going South," we had encountered a heavy gale in the
Gulf of St. Lawrence. Owen Garningham, my cousin, had been swept from
the hurricane-deck of the Sylvania by the raging sea. At the risk of my
own, I had saved his life. This act had conquered him, and he no longer
took any interest in the plan to destroy me, if he had ever thought of
anything so bad as this. He became my strong friend, and had no further
desire to rob me of my father's estate, or to obtain the title, for
which he cared more than I did.

The Shepards were a family we first met at a regatta in Portland
Harbor. Owen had become deeply interested in Miss Edith, the daughter,
and, at his invitation, the family had come most of the way to Florida
in the steamer. We had been up the Ocklawaha River to Lake Griffin, and
up the St. Johns as far as any steamer could go. My father, who had
left me at college in Montomercy, to attend to his affairs in England,
had been called to India on business. His absence was the opportunity
for the conspirators, and they destroyed our letters.

When I learned that my father was not dead, I had written to him. He
had followed me up the St. Johns, and appeared in time to save me from
the bullet of one of Captain Boomsby's agents. He learned the whole
truth from me, and at once cancelled the charter by which my cousin
Owen was to have the use of the steamer for a year, one half of which
had now expired.

The Tiffanys were father and daughter, whom the crew of the Sylvania
had saved from a fire at St. Augustine. The gentleman was an intimate
friend of my father, who requested him to see me when he visited this
country. His daughter Margie, if not as pretty as Edith Shepard,
interested me more. As arranged before we left Detroit, we were to go
up the Mississippi River. The Tiffanys had accepted the invitation to
join us, for they were tourists for pleasure and observation.

My father was an English baronet, succeeding to the title and estates
by the death of an elder brother. He had served in the army for many
years, and had attained the rank of major. He was better pleased to be
called by his military than by his family title, in this republican
land. But he was too proud to allow me to continue in the employ of my
cousin, though he did not object to his nephew as a passenger when I
desired it. He left everything to me to manage as I pleased after he
had cancelled the charter agreement. With this abstract of previous
events my readers will be prepared to understand what is to follow.

Captain Boomsby's saloon was on Bay Street. He had a bar for the white
and respectable customers on that street, and another in the rear for
negroes. I was never even tempted to drink any intoxicating beverages;
and when he became a rumseller, I thought my tyrant had found his
proper level. His son Nick tended the front bar, while he waited upon
the negroes, who imbibed the cheapest corn-whiskey and apple-brandy by
