“Oh, I’m ever so much better, to-night. The air’s just as dry! And you
needn’t mind Mr. Libby. He’s such an old friend! Besides, I’m sure to
gain the case.”

“No matter. Even as a divorced woman, you oughtn’t to go on in this
way.”

“Well, I would n’t, with every one. But it’s quite different with Mr.
Libby. And, besides, I have to keep my mind from preying on itself
somehow.”




II.

Mrs. Maynard sat in the sun on the seaward-looking piazza of the hotel,
and coughed in the warm air. She told the ladies, as they came out from
breakfast, that she was ever so much better generally, but that she
seemed to have more of that tickling in her throat. Each of them advised
her for good, and suggested this specific and that; and they all asked
her what Miss Breen was doing for her cough. Mrs. Maynard replied,
between the paroxysms, that she did not know: it was some kind of
powders. Then they said they would think she would want to try something
active; even those among them who were homoeopathists insinuated a fine
distrust of a physician of their own sex. “Oh, it’s nothing serious,”
 Mrs. Maynard explained. “It’s just bronchial. The air will do me more
good than anything. I’m keeping out in it all I can.”

After they were gone, a queer, gaunt man came and glanced from the
doorway at her. He had one eye in unnatural fixity, and the other set at
that abnormal slant which is said to qualify the owner for looking round
a corner before he gets to it. A droll twist of his mouth seemed partly
physical, but: there is no doubt that he had often a humorous intention.
It was Barlow, the man-of-all-work, who killed and plucked the poultry,
peeled the potatoes and picked the peas, pulled the sweet-corn and
the tomatoes, kindled the kitchen fire, harnessed the old splayfooted
mare,--safe for ladies and children, and intolerable for all others,
which formed the entire stud of the Jocelyn House stables,--dug the
clams, rowed and sailed the boat, looked after the bath-houses, and came
in contact with the guests at so many points that he was on easy terms
with them all. This ease tended to an intimacy which he was himself
powerless to repress, and which, from time to time, required their
intervention. He now wore a simple costume of shirt and trousers, the
latter terminated by a pair of broken shoes, and sustained by what he
called a single gallows; his broad-brimmed straw hat scooped down upon
his shoulders behind, and in front added to his congenital difficulty of
getting people in focus. “How do you do, this morning, Mrs. Maynard?” he
said.

“Oh, I’m first-rate, Mr. Barlow. What sort of day do you think it’s
going to be for a sail?”

Barlow came out to the edge of the piazza, and looked at the sea and
sky. “First-rate. Fog’s most burnt away now. You don’t often see a fog
at Jocelyn’s after ten o’clock in the mornin’.”

He looked for approval to Mrs. Maynard, who said, “That’s so. The air’s
just splendid. It ‘s doing everything for me.”

