that moment the muscles of his nose began to twitch, 
and the end of that organ to lift and wrinkle. This 
continued, and Tom began to evince a growing dis- 
tress. He looked appealingly, first at one and then 
another of the lords about him, and tears came into 
his eyes. They sprang forward with dismay in their 
faces, and begged to know his trouble. Tom said 
with genuine anguish: 

“I crave your indulgence; my nose itcheth 
cruelly. What is the custom and usage in this 
emergence? Prithee speed, for ’tis but a little time 
that I can bear it.” 

None smiled; but all were sore perplexed, and 
looked one to the other in deep tribulation for coun- 
sel. But, behold, here was a dead wall, and nothing 
in English history to tell how to get over it. The 
Master of Ceremonies was not present; there was 

no one who felt safe to venture upon this uncharted- 
sea, or risk the attempt to solve this solemn prob- 
lem. Alas! there was no Hereditary Scratcher. 
Meantime the tears had overflowed their banks, and 
begun to trickle down Tom’s cheeks. His twitching 
nose was pleading more lugently than ever for relief. 
At last natme broke down the barriers of 
etiquette; Tom lifted up an inward prayer for pardon 
if he was doing wrong, and brought relief to the 
burdened hearts of his court by scratching his nose 
himself. 

His meal being ended, a lord came and held before 
him a broad, shallow, golden dish with fragrant 
rose-water in it, to cleanse his mouth and fingers 
with; and my lord the Hereditary Diaperer stood by 
with a napkin for his use. Tom gazed at the dish 
a puzzled moment or two, then raised it to his 
lips, and gravely took a draught. Then he returned 
it to the waiting lord, and said: 

“Nay, it likes me not, my lord; it hath a pretty 
flavor, but it wanteth strength.” 

This new eccentricity of the prince’s ruined mind 
made all the hearts about him ache; but the sad 
sight moved none to merriment. 

Tom’s next unconscious blunder was to get up and 
leave the table just when the chaplain had taken his 
stand behind his chair and with uplifted hands and 
dosed uplifted eyes, was in the act of beginning 
the blessing. Still nobody seemed to perceive that 
the prince had done a thing unusual. 

By his own request, our small friend was now 
conducted to his private cabinet, and left there 
alone to his own devices. Hanging upon hooks in 
the oaken wainscoting were the several pieces of a 
suit of shining steel armor, covered all over with 
