"I can't see you, dear, but I hope you look better than I do, for the
yellow of my hair has washed into my eyes and the red of my cheeks is
quite gone, I'm sure," answered Dora, as her wet dress flopped in the
breeze and the broken foot sticking up showed her that her blue boots
were ruined.

"I don't care a bit how I look. It's great fun now we are safe. Pop up
your head and see the wide prairie flying past. I do hope that poor baby
got away and swam home to his mother. The upset into the river was quite
to his taste, I fancy," said Flora, who was much excited by her
adventure and eager for more.

Presently one of the men set the dolls up in the corner of a window to
dry, and there they stood viewing the fine landscape with one eye while
the other watched the scene of devastation within. Everything was in
great confusion after the accident, so it is not strange that the dolls
were not missed when they slowly slid lower and lower till a sudden
lurch of the car sent them out of the window to roll into a green field
where cows were feeding and children picking strawberries.

"This is the end of us! Here we shall lie and mould forgotten by
everybody," said Dora, who always took a tragical view of things.

"Not a bit of it! I see cows eating toward us and they may give us a
lift. I've heard of their tossing people up, though I don't know just
how it's done. If they don't, we are in the path and some of those
children are sure to find us," answered Flora cheerfully, though she
stood on her head with a bunch of burrs pricking her nose.

She was right. A bright-eyed little German girl presently came trotting
along the path with a great basket full of berries on her head arranged
in pretty pottles ready for the market. Seeing the red cow sniffing at a
brown paper parcel she drove her away, picked it up and peeped in at the
open end.

The sight of two dolls in such a place made her feel as if fairies had
dropped them there for her. She could not read the direction and hurried
home to show her treasure to her brothers and sisters of whom there were
eight.

"What will become of us now!" exclaimed Dora, as eager hands slipped
them out of the wrapper and smoothed their damp skirts in a room that
seemed swarming with boys and girls of all sizes.

"Don't worry, we shall get on nicely, I'm sure, and learn German of
these young persons. It is a great relief to be able to stretch one's
limbs and stand up, isn't it?" answered Flora, undismayed by anything
that had happened as yet.

"Yes, dear, I love you but I am tired of being tied to you all day. I
hope we shall live through this noise and get a little rest, but I give
up the idea of ever seeing Portland," answered Dora, staring with all
her blue eyes at the display of musical instruments about the room, and
longing to stop her ears, for several of the children were playing on
the violin, flute, horn or harp. They were street musicians, and even
the baby seemed to be getting ready to take part in the concert, for he
sat on the floor beside an immense bass horn taller than himself, with
his rosy lips at the mouth piece and his cheeks puffed out in vain
attempts to make a "boom! boom!" as brother Fritz did.

