irreverence either to his feeling or her own. " I 
told you long ago," he went on, "that you should 
not be expected to surrender your profession. I 
should be ashamed of myself if I could ask it of 
you. I am proud of you. I feel my heart leap 
over everything you achieve. It is as if I had 
done it myself, only that it makes me happier, it 
makes me prouder. I want you just as you are, 
the bravest woman I ever knew, the strongest 
woman and the sweetest. Do you think I would 
take your sweetness without your strength ? I 
want it all. I want you. There is nothing I will 
not do to make you feel this, to make it easy, to 



 

help you along. I could help you a very little in 
Boston. That has been a comfort to me. Why, 
what kind of a fellow should I be, if I could ap 
proach a woman like you, and propose to drink 
down her power and preciousness into my one lit 
tle thirsty life, absorb her, annihilate her, 
and offer her nothing but myself in exchange for 
a freedom so fine, an influence so important, as 
yours ? I shall never be a great man, but I am 
not small enough for that ! " 

She had listened to him attentively, and now 
lifted her eyes, which seemed again to retreat from 
him with that sacred timidity. 

" I never heard a man talk like that before," 
she said softly. " It is something even to say it. 
I thank you, Mr. Yorke. Your manliness and no 
bleness only make it harder for me " Her 
voice sank. 

" Everything should be done to make the sacri 
fice as light as it can be made," urged Yorke. " I 
have thought it all over and all through. I know 
what I am saying. This is not the rhapsody of a 
lover who cannot see beyond his momentary ec 
stasy. I offer you the devotion of a man who has 
belief in the great objects of your life ; in whom 
you have created that belief ; to whom you have 
become Oh, you are so dear to me ! " he added 



 

brokenly, " I cannot think of life without you. I 
never knew what love was like before. I never 
understood that a woman could be to any man 
what you are, must be, to me." 

While he .spoke she had grown very pale, and it 
was with difficult composure that she said, 
