Daniel was proud of his descent from such a man, and in the last year
of his life declared that “this is sufficient emblazonry for my arms;
enough of heraldry for me.”

Ebenezer Webster, Daniel’s father, is described as “a man of great
firmness, whose bearing and manner were decisive; tall and erect, with
a full chest, black hair and eyes, and rather large and prominent
features.” He had never attended school, but his natural powers,
supplemented by his own persistent efforts for education, qualified
him for a high and influential place in the community in which he
lived. But in one thing he was lacking, the ability to make money, and
was obliged to practise the utmost frugality in his household. Though
he filled various important positions, his compensation was of the
smallest. He charged the town for important services but three or four
shillings a day—a sum which even the most modest of office-holders
nowadays would regard as quite beneath their acceptance.

How he succeeded in wresting a subsistence for his large family from
his sterile acres must remain a mystery. He was willing to live poorly,
but there was one subject which cost him anxious thought. How was he
to provide his family, and especially the two youngest boys, with the
educational advantages which had been denied to him? There were no good
schools near home, and without money he could not send his boys out of
town to school.

Help came in an unexpected way.

One day the stalwart farmer entered his house with a look of
satisfaction on his dark and rugged features.

“Wife,” he said, “I have been appointed Judge of the Court of Common
Pleas for the county.”

“Indeed!” said his wife, naturally pleased at the honor which had been
conferred upon her husband.

“It will bring me three to four hundred dollars a year,” said Mr.
Webster, “and now I can hope to educate my boys.”

This was his first thought, and hers. It was not proposed to improve
their style of living, to buy new furniture or new clothes, but to
spend it in such a way as would best promote the interests of those
whom God had committed to their keeping.

Three or four hundred dollars! It was a very small sum, so most of my
boy readers will think; and so it was, but in a farmer’s household on
the bleak acres of New Hampshire it would go a considerable way. Every
dollar in Ebenezer Webster’s hands brought its money’s worth, and as we
shall see hereafter it brought rich interest to the investor.

But Daniel was still too young for any immediate steps to be taken in
the desired direction. He was sent to the small town schools, where he
learned what the master was able to teach him. Sometimes he had two and
a half and three miles to walk to school, but the farmer’s boy, though
delicate, was not thought too delicate for such a walk. Indeed the
boy’s delicacy was in his favor, for he was thought not robust enough
to work on the farm steadily, and was sent to school, as an elder
half-brother, Joseph, laughingly said, “to make him equal with the rest
of the boys.” It was hard for those who saw him in later years, in his
majestic proportions, to believe that he had been a delicate boy. The
