month he presented a puzzling spectacle to his companion. 
He had caught instinctively the keynote of the Old World. 
He observed and enjoyed, he criticised and rhapsodised, 
but though all things interested him and many delighted 
him, none surprised him ; he invented short cuts and anti 
cipated the unexpected. Witnessing the rate at which 
he did intellectual execution on the general spectacle of 
European life, Rowland at moments felt vaguely uneasy 
for the future ; the boy was living too fast, he would have 
said, and giving alarming pledges to ennui in his later 
years. But we must live as our pulses are timed, and 
Roderick 's struck the hour very often. He was by ima 
gination, though he never became in manner, a natui al 
man of the world ; he had intuitively, as an artist, what 
one may call the historic consciousness. He asked Row 
land questions which this halting dilettante was quite un 
able to answer, and of which he was equally unable to 
conceive where he had picked up the data. Roderick 
ended by answering them himself, tolerably to his satisfac 
tion, and in a short time he had almost turned the tables, 
and become in their walks and talks the accredited foun 
tain of criticism. Rowland took a generous pleasure in. 
his companion 's confident coup'd ceil ; Roderick was so 
much younger than he himself had ever been ! Surely ]; 
youth and genius hand in hand were the most beautiful 




sight in the world. Roderick added to this the charm of 
his more immediately personal qualities. The vivacity of 
his perceptions, the audacity of his imagination, the pic- 
turesqueness of his phrase when he was pleased and even 
more when he was displeased his abounding good - 
humour, his candour, his unclouded frankness, his unfail 
ing impulse to share every emotion and impression with 
his friend ; all this made comradeship a high felicity, and 
interfused with a deeper amenity the wanderings and con 
templations that beguiled their pilgrimage to Rome. 

They had gone almost immediately to Paris, and had 
spent their days at the Louvre and their evenings at the 
theatre. Roderick was divided in mind as to whether 
Titian or Mademoiselle Delaporte were the greater artist. 
They had come down through France to Genoa and 
Milan, had spent a fortnight in Venice and another in 
Florence, and had now been a month in Rome. Roderick 
had said that he meant to spend three months in simply 
looking, absorbing, and reflecting, without putting pencil 
to paper. He looked indefatigably, and certainly saw 
great things things greater doubtless at times than the 
intention of the artist. And yet he made few false steps, 
and wasted little time in theories of what he ought to like 
and to dislike. He judged instinctively and passionately, 
but never vulgarly. At Venice for a couple of days he 
had half a fit of melancholy over the pretended discovery 
that he had missed his way, and that the only proper 
vestment of plastic conceptions was the colouring of 
Titian and Paul Veronese. Then one morning the two 
young men had themselves rowed out to Torcello, and 
