
"We did keep our secret pretty well, I believe," and he glances fondly
at Marcia.

"Well," replies Laura, rising, "I suppose the best wish of all is that
you may not regret your step in haste."

"It was not so hasty as that," and he laughs, with the flavor of one
who has won.

Laura makes her adieus coldly, feeling outgeneralled by his evident
determination not to be put down.

"What are we to do?" she asks of madame, half an hour later. "This
horrid reception staring us in the face! Of course people will go out
of curiosity. Marcia always did delight in being talked about."

"But is her husband so horribly unpresentable?" and madame's beautiful
eyes are filled with sympathy.

"Oh, you can present anything here in New York, that is the worst of
it!" cries Laura, angrily. "That is why I like Newport. And Marcia is
so utterly silly."

"But Mr. Wilmarth?"

"I hate the sight of him, and Marcia used to say everything about him.
He's humpbacked or something, and looks like a tiger. Well, I do wish
her joy if ever he should get in a tantrum. You see, after all, the
idea of bringing such a man in the family. Floyd's marriage was bad
enough."

"But your petite sister-in-law does improve wonderfully."

"Don't call her anything to me," says Laura, disdainfully. "She is
simply Floyd's wife. I only wish we were going to sail this very day
and get out of all the escalandre."

Madame laughs comfortingly. Laura resolves to go up to Grandon Park to
see in what estimation the marriage is held there.

They are surprised and puzzled. Mrs. Grandon's mortification is a
little assuaged, and in her secret heart she is thankful Marcia has
done no worse. She has been lawfully married by a reputable clergyman,
she is staying at a fashionable hotel, and will no doubt have a stylish
reception. She has married a man who can not only keep her in comfort,
but who is likely to keep her out of any further imprudences, and
therefore one need have no care or anxiety about the future. The step
certainly has some compensations to her, if they are and must remain
unconfessed to the world.

"I do regret it," Floyd says, candidly, "for I am afraid Marcia's
romance has led her into an unwise step. I cannot imagine Jasper
Wilmarth being tender to a woman. I have never been able to like or
admire him, or, for that matter, trust him, and our views seldom
accord. I suppose the secret of it was that Marcia was afraid of
opposition."

"But what are you going to do, recognize them at once?"

