planing-machine; and the boys were directed to lay them on the bench,
and use the smoothing-plane upon them. These planes were adjusted so
they cut the thinnest possible shaving. The shelves were made as
smooth as glass.

“I don’t see how we are to put the shelves up,” said Ben Ludlow when
the boards were finished.

“That is just the river we are to cross next,” replied Mr. Brookbine.
“I believe we have no iron brackets, though I dare say the machinists
at the other end of the shop could make them for us if we are willing
to wait for them. For the want of them we will make a couple of ogee
brackets of pine for each shelf.”

“Ogee!” exclaimed Steve Baxter. “Is that Latin?”

“It may be: I don’t know. My Greek and Latin were neglected. The ogee
form is very common, and there is an ogee arch in architecture.--We
need a blackboard in the shop as well as in the schoolroom,” said the
carpenter, turning to Captain Gildrock. “But I can chalk it out on one
of these box-tops.”

He made a drawing of half a square, connecting the ends of the two
sides by a diagonal. In other words, it was a right-angled triangle,
resting on one of the points, with the side perpendicular to the top.

“This is the shape of the board we shall get out. I divide the
diagonal into two equal lengths. Each half will be the chord of the
arc of a circle. The upper arc is outside of the chord, and the lower
one inside of the chord;” and Mr. Brookbine drew the arcs with his
chalk.

“But you can’t get that figure out of that piece of board,” interposed
Thad, who was thinking with all his might.

“Very true, my lad; and I am glad to see that you have your eyes open.
I want you to correct all my blunders. In order to get the ogee out of
this piece of wood, I must draw a line parallel to the diagonal, far
enough inside of it to permit me to get the arc out of the piece.”

“Isn’t there any other way to do it?” asked Dory.

“There is another way, and perhaps it is a better one,” replied Mr.
Brookbine, as he drew another square on the board. “On the diagonal I
draw the two arcs” (suiting the action to the words). “With a
keyhole-saw, I follow this curved line, and cut the board in two
pieces. Perhaps this will be the better way to do it, as it will give
a little different practice.”

“That is the way I was thinking of,” added Dory.

“I am glad you thought of it. You and Thad may go to the lumber-room,
and get the board to make these brackets of. We want six pairs of
them, and we are to get out six pieces six inches square.”

The boys soon returned with a board about twenty inches long and a
little over a foot wide. It was sawed into six pieces, planed and
squared to the exact size required. While the boys were thus employed,
the carpenter made a pattern of a single bracket out of a piece of
quarter-inch board. As soon as one of the square boards was ready, he
