flatter yourself that a woman like Leonora Carantoni will fall in love
with you because you are brave. But I dare say I did wrong, and I am
sorry for it. You have qualities which any one may admire, but you have
others which I despise."

"I despise them myself, sometimes," said Julius, almost to himself.

"Despise them always,--at least, and be consistent," answered Diana.
"But you will not. You like them, those bad qualities, and when you like
them, they make a miserable wretch of you, as they do now. You know well
enough, however cleverly you may deceive yourself, that you ought not to
be here. You stay,--you are a coward, besides being a great many worse
things which I leave you to understand."

Batiscombe's eyes flashed angrily in the starlight.

"You are cruel, Diana, and unkind," he said.

Diana was silent a moment, and she drew her dark lace shawl about her,
as though she were cold. When she spoke her voice was infinitely soft
and gentle.

"Do not say that, Julius. Do not say I am ever cruel to you,--for to
you, of all people in the world, I would be most kind."

Julius bent down and pressed his hands to his temples, and sighed
heavily.

"Oh, Diana," he groaned, "I know it, I know it."

"Then I will not say any more. Do this thing because it is right,--not
because I ask you to. Have I ever reproached you before, when you have
come to me of your own accord and told me your troubles? What right have
I to reproach you?"

Julius was silent. He knew in his heart that she had the right, because
he still loved her best. He sat immovable, his head buried in his hands.
Diana rose and stood beside him; she lightly laid her hand upon his
shoulder, allowing it to linger kindly for a moment, and then she turned
and moved away.

The spell was broken, and Batiscombe rose swiftly and followed her.
There was a light in the drawing-room that opened upon the terrace,
which Batiscombe had not noticed before. As they entered they found
Marcantonio with a candle, overturning books and papers as if in search
of something. He looked up with a curious expression of surprise in his
face, holding the candle before him.

"Ah!" he cried, "good-evening, my friends. You have been taking a little
air. Eh? I imagined that you were all asleep."

Madame de Charleroi smiled serenely at her brother. She knew it was an
accident, and that he had a habit of forgetting things and coming to
look for them. She said it had been hot all day, and she and Monsieur
Batiscombe had been enjoying the coolness of the terrace. Julius bowed
blandly and said good-night. But he suspected Marcantonio of having come
to watch his sister. They passed on, and Marcantonio stood for a moment
looking after them as they went out into the hall, where lights were
still burning. He shrugged his shoulders.

