ing around for companionship, no outward show, at least, 
of the days being long. They were, sometimes, in spite of 
his best efforts. He missed the stir and interest of the 





every-day life. He went to church with his mother and 
his uncle, he played with or oftener teased the baby, who 
was a source of amusement. Mrs. Alston had come to 
love it devotedly. For a long while Bertha had been rather 
shy of her grandmother, as if in some way she understood 
the want of perfect accord, but both had outgrown that. 
Mr. Conover had made known to her his intention of ulti- 
mately adopting the child. 

"We shall need something when Kathie goes," he said 
gravely. " Bertha will keep us from growing old too fast." 

Kathie was a most important personage in the Macken- 
zie household during this time. She lifted half the burden 
off of Aunt Ruth's shoulders ; she infused strength, and 
brightness, and sunshine everywhere. Bruce once said 
there were no cloudy days or storms, at which she laughed 
gayly. 

'k Well, there maybe in China," he answered. "But 
when we get around to China it has cleared away." 

He was so sure he had over-lived the passionate want 
and longing. She had been lent for a little while to bridge 
over this time of pain and suffering, but she belonged to 
another ; so he let himself rejoice and be glad with a 
greater joy, a possibility of satisfying and peace, a height 
which lifts one above the desire for self and rejoices truly 
in the happiness of another, and all heights bringing one 
nearer the great glory. He was so thankful, too, that he 
should get entirely well. 

" I think we often have good tidings of great joy," he 
said to Kathie, "if we could only stop and view them 
rightly." 

So " the feast was set, the guests were met," and no 
one enjoyed it more than General Mackenzie. He had 
rather envied Mr. Conover his many occasions of playing 
host, but now he had the full glory, with Kathie at his side, 
almost as a daughter. Oh, why could it not be?" 

Charlie, and Fred, and Kathie had hung the house with 






evergreens. Rob had scoured the city and ruined himself, 
he declared, in holly berries, and brought up from Cedar- 
wood some trails of glistening bitter-sweet. They had 
