good to her; he had been like an elder brother; 
and in that light she remembered him and wished 
for him. The fact that she was a child no longer 
did not change all this. Esther had lived alone 
with her father, and kept her simplicity. 

Going to school might have damaged the sim 
plicity, but somehow it did not. Several reasons 
prevented. For one thing, she made no intimate 
friends. She was kind to everybody, nobody was 
taken into her confidence. Her nature was apart 
from theirs; one of those rare and few whose fate 
it is for the most part to stand alone in the world; 
too fine for the coarseness, too delicate for the 
rudeness, too noble for the pettiness of those around 
them, even though they be not more coarse or rude 
or small-minded than the generality of mankind. 
Sympathy is broken, and full communion impossible. It is the penalty of eminence, to put its possessor apart. I have seen a lily stand so in a 
bed of other flowers ; a perfect specimen ; in form 
and colouring and grace of carriage distinguished 
by a faultless beauty; carrying its elegant head a 
little bent, modest, but yet lofty above all the rest 





of the flower bed. Not with the loftiness of inches 
however, for it was of lower stature than many 
around it; the elevation of which I speak was 
moral and spiritual. And so it was alone. The 
rest of the flowers were more or less fellows ; this 
one in its apart elegance owned no social communion with them. Esther was a little like that among 
her school friends; and though invariably gracious 
and pleasant in her manners was instinctively felt 
to be different from the rest. Only, Esther was a 
white lily ; the one I tried to describe, or did not 
try to describe, was a red one. 

Besides this element of separateness, Esther was 
very much absorbed in her work. Not seeking, like 
most of the others, to pass a good examination ; but 
studying in the love of learning, and with a far-off 
ideal of attainment in her mind with which she 
hoped one day to meet Pitt, and satisfy if not equal 
him. I think she hardly knew this motive at work ; 
however it was at work, and a powerful motive too. 

And lastly, Esther was a "favourite." No help 
for it ; she was certainly a favourite, the girls pronounced; and some of them had the candour to 
add, that they did not see how she could help it, 
or how Miss Fairbairn could help it either. 

" Girls, she has every right to be a favourite," 
one of them set forth. 

" Nobody has a right to be a favourite ! " was 
the counter cry. 

" But think, she never does anything wrong." 
