no selfish, sordid aims ; living out the greater truths, that 
in some occult way were slowly dawning upon him, — the 
vital, joyous, uplifting truths, higher than mere intellec- 
tual culture, yet a part of it, shaped to the fine, broad 
uses of humanity. He had seen such a man, such a 
woman. Oh, sad travesty of fate, why cannot these two 
souls transmit their saintly and knightly virtues to pos- 
terity ? 
It was a great relief to Celia Marshall to know that she 
 
need not face this question immediately. She went to 
the city. Mrs. Linthorpe was urgent, and plans for future 
work were coming in that argued well for the prosperity 
and reputation of the artist, — a series of designs for a 
favorite poem, two or three studies of ornamental art, 
and some copies of past efforts, singularly beautiful. 
There would be work enough presently to bring about 
the realization of her dream. Daisy married, Bertie's 
future assured in the pride if not the affection of his 
father, and her mother belonging to her alone. Better 
than any love of lovers, she said proudly. 
The first evening she related to Mr. and Mrs. Howarth 
her mother's trial and decision. They had heard of her 
father's return, and wondered what the outcome might 
be. 
" I do not see that she could well have done differently," 
said Mr. Howarth. "There is no question but that the 
child would have been given to his father. When we 
come to that higher, finer life where motives and deeds 
count against mere money, we may find purer justice 
meted out. Tell her for me that she has our warmest 
sympathy." He could answer for his wife here. 
"It is a cruel, selfish wrong!" Mrs. Howarth's eyes 
flamed with the deep sense of injustice that thrilled every 
pulse. " It makes me sick of the world, sick of the weary 
years of waiting, sick of the sermons and culture and 
efforts for human souls that we so prate about, of the 
great advancement we fancy we have made, when no one 
recognizes the difference between a life-long devotion and 
a momentary pleasure or whim that costs nothing. O my 
dear child, God help her to bear her burden, and we must 
not leave it all for Him to do. He gives us all a duty in 
this matter." 
Celia clasped the strong, warm hands, and they inspired 
her anew with faith in the future. 
Mrs. Howarth's sympathy did not stop here. While 
she would have rigorously excluded anyone tainted by 
the breath of wrong or scandal, her clear eyes could see 
this woman's justification. Not a move in all these years 
that had been a bid for license, for any freedom beyond 
the merest duty. She had come and gone in the business 
world, commanding only the most respectful attention. 
Were not her virtues to outweigh her husband's vices ? 
Could mere wealth so gloss over a wrong? 
She went to her as a sister might. Her clear, high 
approval inspired Mrs. Marshall, lifted her out of that 
dreary depth where even courage must have failed after 
a while. She could have made a brave stand for her 
children's sake, but, that ended, the rest of the struggle 
appeared futile, useless. 
