accepted the invitation, feeling a sense of relief at the thought of not
having any dish to worry about, though not one of them owned that she
was tired of "messing," as the disrespectful boys called it.

It was unanimously decided to wither with silent scorn the audacious
Alfred and his ally, Rex, while Phil was to be snubbed by his sister
till he had begged pardon for his share of the evil deed. Then, having
sweetened their tongues and tempers with the delicious bonbons, the
girls departed, feeling that the next lunch would be an event of unusual
interest.

The idea of it originated in a dinner which Patty got one day, when
Nancy, who wanted a holiday, was unexpectedly called away to the funeral
of a cousin,--the fifth relative who had died in a year, such was the
mortality in the jovial old creature's family. Edith's mother was very
busy with a dressmaker, and gladly accepted the offer the girls made to
get dinner alone.

"No fancy dishes, if you please; the boys come in as hungry as hunters,
and want a good solid meal; so get something wholesome and plain, and
plenty of it," was the much-relieved lady's only suggestion, as she
retired to the sewing-room and left the girls to keep house in their own
way.

"Now, Edie, you be the mistress and give your orders, and I'll be cook.
Only have things that go well together,--not all baked or all boiled,
because there isn't room enough on the range, you know;" said Patty,
putting on a big apron with an air of great satisfaction; for she loved
to cook, and was tired of doing nothing.

"I'll watch all you do, and learn; so that the next time Nancy goes off
in a hurry, I can take her place, and not have to give the boys what
they hate,--a picked-up dinner," answered Edith, pleased with her part,
yet a little mortified to find how few plain things she could make well.

"What do the boys like?" asked Patty, longing to please them, for they
all were very kind to her.

"Roast beef, and custard pudding, with two or three kinds of vegetables.
Can we do all that?"

"Yes, indeed. I'll make the pudding right away, and have it baked before
the meat goes in. I can cook as many vegetables as you please, and soup
too."

So the order was given and all went well, if one might judge by the
sounds of merriment in the kitchen. Patty made her best gingerbread,
and cooked some apples with sugar and spice for tea, and at the stroke
of two had a nice dinner smoking on the table, to the great contentment
of the hungry boys, who did eat like hunters, and advised mamma to send
old Nancy away and keep Patty for cook; which complimentary but rash
proposal pleased their cousin very much.

"Now this is useful cookery, and well done, though it looks so simple.
Any girl can learn how and be independent of servants, if need be. Drop
your class, Edith, and take a few lessons of Patty. That would suit me
better than French affairs, that are neither economical nor wholesome."

"I will, mamma, for I'm tired of creaming butter, larding things, and
beating eggs. These dishes are not so elegant, but we must have them; so
