the servant, and she, in turn, is fearlessly admiring the all-powerful
Czar.
“‘You may go,’ he says to the officer. ‘I will keep this woman. She
shall have a palace.’
“It was in this way that Peter the Great met for the first time the
woman who afterwards became Catharine of Russia....
“And now tell me, what do you think of my prologue?”
“Very curious, very original; but the rest of it?”
“That you shall have in a little while; in the mean time, I am planning
an entirely novel mise-en-scène. Russia is for our theatres, and
especially for yours, an unexplored and fecund mine. We will be the
first to introduce it.”
Balzac left me in a state of great enthusiasm, and I built mountains of
hopes on the inevitable success of “Pierre et Catharine.”
When I saw him again, however, everything had changed. He had given up
the Russian drama for the moment, but promised to complete it later on.
He had, he said, thought it over. It was a colossal undertaking, in
which nothing should be neglected; and as the details concerning
certain ceremonies were wanting, he proposed to take a trip to Moscow
during the winter, and study the subject on the ground itself. He
begged me, therefore, not to insist upon its immediate production, and
offered another play in the place of the one thus postponed.
In spite of my disappointment, I could, of course, do nothing but
submit, and in sheer despair I asked him to tell me something of his
new piece.
“It will be horrible,” Balzac contentedly replied.
“How, horrible?”
“Understand me: it is not a question of a heavy melodrama, in which the
villain burns the house down, and runs the inmates through and
through,—not at all. My play is to be a simple comedy, in which
everything is calm, tranquil, and pleasing. The men play placidly at
whist, the women laugh and chat over their worsted work, everything
announces harmony and order; but beneath this calm surface passions are
at work, and the drama ferments, till at last it bursts forth like the
flame of a conflagration.”
“You are in your element, sir. Then your plot is found?”
“Completely. It was chance, our habitual collaborateur, that furnished
me with it. I know a family,—whom I will not name,—composed of a
husband, a daughter by a first marriage, and a stepmother, still young
and childless. The two women adore each other. The little attentions of
the one and the caressing tenderness of the other are admired by all
who know them. I, too, thought it charming, at first; then I became
surprised, not that a stepdaughter and stepmother should love each
other,—for there is nothing unnatural in such an affection,—but that
they should love each other so dearly. Excess spoils all things. I
began, therefore, to observe them more closely, and a few trivial
incidents served to confirm my impression that all was not as it
appeared. Finally, a few evenings ago, all doubt on the subject was
removed. When I entered the drawing-room, it was almost deserted, and I
saw the daughter leaving the room without having seen me; in so doing,
she glanced at her stepmother, and what a look she gave her! It was
like the thrust of a dagger. The stepmother was engaged in putting out
the candles on the whist-table. She turned to the girl; their eyes met,
and the most gracious of smiles played on their lips. The door closed
on the girl, and the expression on the stepmother’s face changed
suddenly to one of bitter contraction. All this, you will readily
understand, passed like a flash of lightning; but I had seen quite
enough, and I said to myself, Here are two creatures who loathe each
other. What had happened? I do not know, and I never want to; but from
that moment the entire drama unrolled before me.”
