Jim Millon's wife was enough to account for his 
going, herself. She was a pretty bad assortment," 
said Lapham, lowering his voice and glancing round 
at the door to make sure that it was shut, " and she 
used to lead Jim one kind of life. Well, sir," con 
tinued Lapham, synthetising his auditors in that form 
of address, " that fellow used to save every cent of 
his pay and send it to that woman. Used to get me 
to do it for him. I tried to stop him. ' Why, Jim,' 
said I, ' you know what she'll do with it.' ' That 's 
so, Cap,' says he, ' but I don't know what she 'll do 
without it.' And it did keep her straight straight 
as a string as long as Jim lasted. Seemed as it 
there was something mysterious about it. They had 
a little girl, about as old as my oldest girl, and 
Jim used to talk to me about her. Guess he done 
it as much for her as for the mother ; and he said to 
me before the last action we went into, ' I should 
like to turn tail and run, Cap. I ain't comin' out o' 
this one. But I don't suppose it would do.' ' Well, 
 
not for you, Jim,' said I. ' I want to live,' he says ; 
and he bust out crying right there in my tent. ' I 
want to live for poor Molly and Zerrilla' that's 
what they called the little one ; I dunno where they 
got the name. ' I ain't ever had half a chance ; and 
now she 's doing better, and I believe we should get 
along after this.' He set there cryin' like a baby. 
But he wan't no baby when he went into action. I 
hated to look at him after it was over, not so much 
because he 'd got a ball that was meant for me by a 
sharpshooter he saw the devil takin' aim, and he 
jumped to warn me as because he didn't look like 
Jim ; he looked like fun ; all desperate and savage. 
I guess he died hard." 
The story made its impression, and Lapham saw 
it. " Now I say," he resumed, as if he felt that he 
was going to do himself justice, and say something 
to heighten the effect his story had produced. At 
the same time he was aware of a certain want of 
clearness. He had the idea, but it floated vague, 
elusive, in his brain. He looked about as if for 
something to precipitate it in tangible shape. 
" Apollinaris ? " asked Charles Bellingham, handing 
the bottle from the other side. He had drawn his 
chair closer than the rest to Lapham's, and was 
listening with great interest. When Mrs. Corey 
asked him to meet Lapham, he accepted gladly. 
" You know I go in for that sort of thing, Anna. 
Since Leslie's affair we're rather bound to do it. 
And I think we meet these practical fellows too 
little. There 's always something original about 
 
them." He might naturally have believed that 
the reward of his faith was coming. 
" Thanks, I will take some of this wine," said 
Lapham, pouring himself a glass of Madeira from a 
black and dusty bottle caressed by a label bearing 
the date of the vintage. He tossed off the wine, 
unconscious of its preciousness, and waited for the 
