on.
Have ready a cup of milk almost boiling, and beat in until the potato
is soft and smooth.
Heap in a deep dish for the table.
Onions (boiled).
Remove the outer layers until you reach the sleek, silvery, crisp
skins. Cook in plenty of boiling, salted water, until tender. Forty
minutes should be sufficient, unless the onions are very old and large.
Turn off all the water; add a cupful from the tea-kettle with one of
warm milk and stew gently ten minutes.
Heat, meanwhile, in a saucepan, half a cupful of milk with a large
tablespoonful of butter.
Drain the onions in a hot clean colander, turn them into a heated
deep dish, salt and pepper lightly, and pour the boiling milk and
butter over them.
Onions cooked thus are not nearly so rank of flavor as when boiled in
but one water.
Tomatoes (stewed).
Put ripe tomatoes into a pan, pour boiling water directly from the
kettle, upon them, and cover closely for five minutes. The skins will
then come off easily.
When all are peeled, cut them up, throwing away the unripe parts and
the cores, and put them into a clean saucepan with half a teaspoonful
of salt.
Stew twenty minutes before adding a heaping tablespoonful of butter,
one teaspoonful of white sugar (for a dozen large tomatoes) and a
little pepper. Stew gently fifteen minutes, and serve.
Scalloped Tomatoes.
Scald, skin, and cut each crosswise, into two or three pieces. Just
melt a teaspoonful of butter in a pie-plate, or pudding-dish, and put
into this a layer of tomatoes. Lay a bit of butter on each slice,
sprinkle lightly with salt, pepper, and white sugar, and cover with
fine dry cracker, or bread crumbs. Fill the dish with alternate layers
of tomato crumbs, having a thick coating of crumbs on the top, and
sticking tiny “dabs” of butter all over it.
Bake, covered, half an hour. Take off the tin pan, or whatever you have
used to keep in the steam, and brown nicely before sending to table.
Beets.
Wash well, taking care not to scratch the skin, as they will “bleed”
while in cooking if this is cut or broken.
Cook in boiling water an hour and a half if young, three, four or five
hours as their age increases.
Drain, scrape off the skins, slice quickly with a sharp knife; put into
a vegetable dish, and pour over them a half a cupful of vinegar, with
two tablespoonfuls of butter, heated to boiling, and a little salt and
pepper.
Let them stand three minutes covered in a warm place before serving.
Green Peas.
Shell and leave in very cold water fifteen minutes. Cook in plenty of
boiling, salted water. They should be done in half an hour.
Shake gently in a hot colander to get rid of the water; turn into a
heated deep dish, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and stir in fast and
lightly with a fork, two tablespoonfuls of butter.
Eat while hot.
String Beans.
Do not cook these at all unless you are willing to take the trouble of
“stringing” them.
With a small sharp knife cut off the stem and blossom-tips, then trim
away the tough fibres from the sides carefully, and cut each bean into
inch-lengths.
