advised the coxswain to run into the Winooski, and about all that could
be heard in the snarl wanted to smash her. Wash Barker had brains, and
he seemed to be aware that he could do nothing of the sort, for the
reason that the cool coxswain of the enemy would not let him.

"I say, Tinkers!" shouted Wash, who had evidently concluded what to do.

Dory was as dignified as George Washington when his title was ignored,
and he refused to answer while he and his companions were called by an
offensive name. Wash hailed several times in the same strain without
getting a reply. His crew seemed to be tired of yelling at him, and
there was a silence in the barge after the coxswain had called a dozen
times to his opponent.

"Winooski, ahoy!" shouted some one in the boat, who had perhaps learned
from some sea novel how to hail another craft.

"On board the Dasher!" replied Dory.

"Are you all deaf there?" demanded Wash Barker angrily, when he
discovered that his opponent had the power of speech; "I have been
yelling at you for half an hour."

"We don't answer to the name of Tinkers, Greasers, Chip-makers, or
anything of that sort," returned the coxswain of the Winooski.

"Oh, you don't!" sneered Wash, when Dory had, with a couple of strokes
of the oars, placed the stern of the barge within a few feet of that of
the Racer.

"We do not. You have our clothes in your boat, and I will trouble you to
return them to us," added Dory.

"Don't give them up!" yelled a fellow in the bow of the Dasher.

"No, no!" shouted half a dozen others; "don't give them up!"

This looked like war, and things had a stormy aspect ahead. But Dory
decided to pay no attention to anyone but the officer of the boat.

"Hold on to the clothes!" shouted the students in the Racer, when they
understood what was going on.

The commodore of the squadron was thus fully informed in regard to the
state of feeling in both his boats. Whatever his own view, he seemed to
be unable to stand up against his companions.

"Our clothes were taken from the shore while we were in the water, and,
as we need them very much, I will thank you to return them," continued
Dory, repeating his request in what some of his crew considered a very
"gingerly" tone.

"Don't give them up!" yelled a crowd from both boats.

"You can hear what our fellows say to your request," replied Wash in a
more pliable manner than he had yet assumed.

"I speak to you as the coxswain in charge of the boat, and I am waiting
for your reply," added Dory. "The clothes belong to us, and I think you
can have no doubt that they ought to be returned to the owners."
