Poor Joe! she was very miserable, but she had made a brave effort. Her
pale cheeks and darkened eyes contrasted painfully with the roses she
wore, and her short nervous remarks to those who spoke to her sounded very
unlike her former self.

"How do you do, Miss Thorn?" John said, very quietly. "It is a long time
since we met."

Joe put her small cold hand in his, and it trembled so much that John
noticed it. She turned her head a little away from him, frightened now
that he was at last come.

"Yes," she said in a low voice, "it is a long time." She felt herself turn
red and then pale, and as she looked away from John she met Mrs. Wyndham's
black eyes turned full upon her in an inquiring way. She started as though
she had been caught in some wrong thing; but she was naturally brave, and
after the first shock she spoke to John more naturally.

"We seem destined for festivities, Mr. Harrington," she said, trying to
laugh. "We parted at a ball, and we meet again at a wedding."

"It is always more gay to meet than to part," answered John. "I think this
is altogether one of the gayest things I ever saw. What a splendid fellow
your cousin is. It does one good to see men like that."

"Yes, Ronald is very good-looking," said Joe. "I am so very glad, you do
not know; and he is so happy."

"Any man ought to be who marries such a woman," said John. "By the bye,"
he added with a smile, "Vancouver takes it all very comfortably, does he
not? I would like to know what he really feels."

"I am sure that whatever it is, it is something bad," said Joe.

"How you hate him!" exclaimed John with a laugh.

"I--I do not hate him. But you ought to, Mr. Harrington. I simply despise
him, that is all."

"No, I do not hate him either," answered John. "I would not disturb my
peace of mind for the sake of hating any one. It is not worth while."

Some one came and spoke to Joe, and John moved away in the crowd, more
disturbed in mind than he cared to acknowledge. He had gone to Joe's side
in the firm conviction that Mrs. Wyndham was only making an untimely jest,
and that Joe would greet him indifferently. Instead she had blushed,
turned paler, hesitated in her speech, and had shown every sign of
confusion and embarrassment. He knew that Mrs. Wyndham was right, after
all, and he avoided her, not wishing to give a fresh opportunity for
making remarks upon Joe's manner.

The breakfast progressed, and the people wandered out into the garden from
the hot rooms, seeking some coolness in the shady walks. By some chain of
circumstances which John could not explain, he found himself left alone
with Joe an hour after he had first met her in the house. A little knot of
acquaintances had gone out to the end of one of the walks, where there was
a shady old bower, and presently they had paired off and moved away in
various directions, leaving John and Joe together. The excitement had
brought the faint color to the girl's face at last, and she was more than
usually inclined to talk, partly from nervous embarrassment, and partly
