arms resting on the bench, and her head laid on her arms; her straw hat
was off, the rose-tree shading her from the afternoon sun. Carlos Mateo,
mounting guard near, eyed Winthrop sharply as he approached. But though
Garda of course heard his steps, she did not move; he came up and stood
beside her, still she did not raise her head. He could see her face in
profile, as it lay on her arm; it was pale, the long lashes were wet
with tears.

"Garda," he said.

"Yes, I know who it is," she answered without looking up;--"it is Mr.
Winthrop. Mamma has asked you to come and talk to me, I suppose; but it
is of no use." And he could see the tears drop down again, one by one.

"I should be glad to come on my own account, without being asked, if I
could be of any use to you, Garda."

"You cannot," she murmured, hopelessly.

His speech had sounded in his own ears far too formal and cold for this
grieving child--for the girl looked not more than fourteen as she sat
there with her bowed head on her arms. He resisted, however, the impulse
to treat her as though she had been indeed a child, to stoop down and
try to comfort her.

"I am very sorry to find you so unhappy," he went on, still feeling that
his words were too perfunctory.

"I don't believe it; I wish I did," answered Garda, who was never
perfunctory, but always natural. "If I did, perhaps I could talk to you
about it, and then it wouldn't be quite so hard."

"Talk to me whether you believe it or not," suggested Winthrop.

"I cannot; you never liked him."

A frown showed itself on Winthrop's face; but Garda could not see it,
and he took good care that his voice should not betray irritation as he
answered: "But as I like you, won't that do as well? You ought to feel
safe enough with me to say anything."

"Oh, why won't you be good to me?" said the girl, in a weeping tone,
abandoning the argument. "I shall die if everybody is so cruel when I am
suffering so."

"I am not cruel," said Winthrop. He had seated himself on the bench near
her, he put out his hand and laid it for a moment on her bright brown
hair.

The touch seemed very grateful to Garda; instantly she moved towards
him, put her arms on his knee, and laid her head down again, in much the
same attitude she often assumed when with Margaret Harold, save that she
did not look up; her eyes remained downcast, the lashes heavy with
tears. "I cannot bear it--he has gone away," she said, letting her
sorrow come forth. "I liked him so much--so much better than I liked any
one else. And now he has gone, and I am left! And there was no
preparation--it was so sudden! Only yesterday we had that beautiful walk
on Patricio beach (don't you remember?--I called to you as we passed),
and he said nothing about going. I can never tell you how long and
dreadful the time has been since I got his note this morning."
