took her quickly in his arms, and kissed her passionately twice. 

" Come quickly, my beloved," he whispered. " The 
king waits below." 

"I heard his voice — and then I fled," she whis- 
pered hurriedly; and they began to descend again. 
"I hate her — I knew I should," she whispered, as 
she leaned upon his arm. So they emerged into the 
corridor, and met Darius waiting for them. The 
queen was nowhere to be seen, and the door at the 
farther extremity of the narrow way was wide open. 

The king was as calm as though nothing had 
occurred; he still held the open letter in his hand 
as Nehushta entered the passage, and bowed herself 
before him. He took her hand for a moment, and 
then dropped it ; but his eyes flashed suddenly and 
his arm trembled at her touch. 

" Thou hadst almost lost thy way," he said. " The 
palace is large and the passages are many and devious. 
Come now, I will lead thee to the gardens. There 
thou canst find friends among the queen's noble 
women, and amusements of many kinds. Let thy 
heart delight in the beauty of Shushan, and if there 
is anything that thou desirest, ask and I will give it 
thee." 



 

Nehushta bent her head in thanks. The only thing 
she desired was to be alone for half an hour with 
Zoroaster ; and that seemed difBcult. 

" Thy servant desireth what is pleasant in thy 
sight," she answered. And so they left the passage 
by the open door, and the king himself conducted 
Nehushta to the entrance of the garden, and bade the 
slave-woman who met them to lead her to the pavilion 
where the ladies of the palace spent the day in the 
warm summer weather. Zoroaster knew that what- 
ever liberty his singular position allowed him in the 
quarter of the building where the king himself lived, 
he was not privileged to enter that place which was 
set apart for the noble ladies. Darius hated to be 
always surrounded by guards and slaves, and the ter- 
races and staircases of his dwelling were generally 
totally deserted, — only small detachments of spear- 
men guarding jealously the main entrances. But the 
remainder of the palace swarmed with the gorgeously 
dressed retinue of the court, wdth slaves of every 
colour and degree, from the mute smooth-faced Ethiopian to the accomplished Hebrew scribes of the great 
nobles ; from the black and scantily-clad fan-girls to 
the dainty Greek tirewomen of the queen's toilet, 
who loitered near the carved marble fountain at the 
entrance to the gardens; and in the outer courts, 
detachments of the horsemen of the guard rubbed 
