chapter.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 3: Briefe über die Schopenhauer'sche Philosophie.]

[Footnote 4: "Yes, yes, Sarastro reigns herein."--Air from the Magic
Flute.]

[Footnote 5: An article in the Revue des Deux Mondes.]

[Footnote 6: Hegel et Schopenhauer. Paris: Hachette et Cie.]

[Footnote 7: Arthur Schopenhauer. Von ihm, Ueber ihn. Berlin.]




CHAPTER III.

THE SPHINX'S RIDDLE.


In the Munich beer halls, when one student is heard laying down the law
about something which he does not understand to a companion who cares
not a rap on the subject, it is very generally taken for granted that
the two are talking metaphysics. Indeed, metaphysics has a bad name
everywhere. In itself, it suggests nothing very enticing, and even its
nomenclature seems to bring with it a sort of ponderosity which is very
nearly akin to the repulsive.

This prejudice, of course, is not without its reason. The philosophers,
nearly one and all, seem to have banded themselves into a sort of
imaginary freemasonry, whose portals they bar to any one refusing to
robe his thoughts in a garment of technical speech. Moreover, at the
very gateway of their guild there looms before the timorous the fear of
a hideous initiation, the cold douche of logic, and the memorizing of
hateful terms. There can therefore be no stronger proof of
Schopenhauer's ability than that which is contained in the fact that he
successfully eluded all these stale abuses, and turned one of the
heaviest kinds of writing into one of the most agreeable.

Indeed, Schopenhauer is not only one of the most profound thinkers of
the essentially profound nineteenth century, but, what is still more
noteworthy, he is an exceptionably fascinating teacher. His spacious
theories and tangential flights are, of course, not such as charm the
reader of the penny dreadful; but any one who is interested in the
drama of evolution and the tragi-comedy of life will, it is believed,
find in him a fund of curious information, such as no other thinker has
had the power to convey.

He has, it is true, made the most of the worst; but beyond this
reproach, but one other of serious import remains to be brought against
him, and that is that though he has been dead and buried for very
nearly a quarter of a century, he is still on the outer margin of his
epoch. For this he is not, of course, entirely to blame. There are
among thinkers many pleasant optimists still, who form a respectable
majority; to be sure, a wise man once said that in considering a new
subject the minority were always right; but, disregarding for the
moment the fallacy of believing that this world is the best one
