while the second officer proceeded to fasten the cottage to the rings in
the bow of the scow. It was to remain on the rollers during the trip to
its destination, and Captain Dornwood made sure that it was secured
beyond the possibility of any accident.

All the spare hands were then ordered to the shore, Dory leading the
way. The lumber, jack-screws, blocks, and other material were put on the
scow, for there was still abundance of space forward and abaft the
house. Everything connected with the cottage was put on board.

"By the big wooden spoon!" exclaimed Paul, when the burden of the work
was done. "I didn't believe you could do it with a hundred men."

"We haven't finished the job yet," replied Dory, laughing.

"But I believe you can do all the rest of it," added Paul, filled with
admiration. "These students are good for something besides keeping bread
and meat from spoiling."

"They are good fellows," answered Dory, "but we have not quite finished
over here yet."

"You fellows might come over here some night and carry off the building
of the Chesterfield Collegiate Institute if you felt like it. I don't
see what more there is to do."

A lot of shovels, hoes, and iron rakes had been brought over on the
steamer, and these were now carried on shore. The post-holes under the
cottage were filled up, every particle of rubbish was removed, and the
ground raked over until every thing was as smooth as though no human
being had ever resided within a mile of the spot.

"By the big wooden spoon!" shouted Paul. "It looks just as it did when
we first came here."

"We will leave everything in good order and condition so that Major
Billcord shall have nothing to complain of," replied Dory. "Now make the
Dragon fast to the stern of the gundalow, and we will get under way. I
think you had better stay in the house to see that everything goes right
there."

"All right, Dory, I will do just as you say; but I don't believe you
have started a joint in the cottage. I went up to look at the chimney
with a lantern while you were shifting it, and there is not a crack in
it."

The chimney reached only from a beam to the ridge pole, and a couple of
feet above it, so that the brickwork had required no special
consideration. But the building had been subjected to no hard usage, and
no damage had been done to it. All the furniture remained just as it had
been for two years, and Mrs. Bristol might have kept house in it as well
as when it was stationary.

As soon as the ship's company were all on board of the steamer, or the
scow, the captain gave the word to go ahead. The tow-lines had been
adjusted before. The end of the gundalow, which was aground, grated a
little on the sand, but it came off without difficulty, and the Sylph
with her tow headed down the lake.

The officers of the steamer were so well accustomed to handling the
