go. Couldn't we go to-day ? " she added, with eager 
defiance. 

"It's too late to-day," said Mrs. Bowen quietly. 
"I will write to remind the gentlemen." 

" Thank you. I wish we could have gone to-day." 

" You can have the carriage if you wish to drive 
anywhere," said Mrs. Bowen. 

"I will take Effie to see Mrs. Amsden." But 
Imogene changed her mind, and went to call upon 
two Misses Guiociardi, the result of an international 
marriage, whom Mrs. Bowen did not like very well. 
Imogene drove with them to the Gascine, where they 
bowed to a numerous military acquaintance, and 
they asked her if Mrs. Bowen would let her join 
them in a theatre party that evening : they were New- 



 

Yorkers by birth, and it was to be a theatre party in 
the New York style ; they were to be chaperoned by 
a young married lady ; two young men cousins of 
theirs, just out from America, had taken the box. 

When Imogene returned home she told Mrs. Bowen 
that she had accepted this iqvitation. Mrs. Bowen 
said nothing, but when one of the young men came 
up to hand Imogene down to the carriage, which was 
waiting with the others at the gate, she could not 
have shown a greater tolerance of his second-rate 
New Yorkiness if she had been a Boston dowager 
offering him the scrupulous hospitalities of her 
city. 

Imogene came in at midnight; she hummed an 
air of the opera as she took off her wraps and orna- 
ments in her room, and this in the quiet of the hour 
had a terrible, almost profane effect : it was as if 
some other kind of girl had whistled. She showed 
the same nonchalance at breakfast, where she was 
prompt, and answered Mrs. Bowen's inquiries about 
her pleasure the night before with a liveliness that 
ignored the polite resolution that prompted them. 

Mr. Morton was the first to arrive, and if his dis- 
couragement began at once, the first steps masked 
themselves in a reckless welcome, which seemed to 
fill him with joy, and Mrs. Bowen with silent per- 
plexity. The girl ran on about her evening at the 
opera, and about the weather, and the excursion 
they were going to make ; and after an apparently 
needless ado over the bouquet which he brought 
her, together with one for Mrs. Bowen, she put it 


