to have nothing in this world to do but to come down 
to her meals, and another a physician who had not 
been able, in embracing the medical profession, to 



 

deny herself the girlish pleasure of her pet name, 
and was lettered in the list of guests in the entry as 
Dr. Cissie Bluff. In the attic, which had a north- 
light favourable to their work, were two girls, who 
were studying art at the Museum; one of them 
looked delicate at first sight, and afterwards seemed 
merely very gentle, with a clear-eyed pallor which 
was not unhealth. A student in the Law School sat 
at the table with these girls, and seemed sometimes 
to go with them to concerts and lectures. From his 
talk, which was almost the only talk that made itself 
heard in the dining-room, it appeared that he was 
from Wyoming Territory ; he treated the young 
ladies as representative of Boston and its prejudices, 
though apparently they were not Bostonians. There 
were several serious and retiring couples, of whom one 
or otherwas an invalid, and several who were poor, and 
preferred the plated gentility of Mrs. Harmon 's hotel 
it was called the St. Albans ; Mrs. Harmon liked the 
name to the genuine poverty of such housekeeping 
as they could have set up. About each of these 
women a home might have clung, with all its loves 
and cares ; they were naturally like other women ; 
but here they were ignoble particles, without 
attraction for one another, or apparently joy for 
themselves, impermanent, idle, listless j they had got 
rid of the trouble of housekeeping, and of its dignity 
and usefulness. There were a few children in the 
house, not at all noisy ; the boys played on the side 
walk, and the little girls stayed in their rooms with 
their mothers, and rarely took the air oftenerthan they. 



 

They came down rather later to breakfast, and 
they seemed not to go to school ; some of them had 
piano lessons in their rooms. Their mothers did not 
go out much ; sometimes they went to church or the 
theatre, and they went shopping. But they had 
apparently no more social than domestic life. Now 
and then they had a friend to lunch or dinner ; if a 
lady was absent, it was known to Mrs. Harmon, 
and through her to the other ladies, that she was 
spending the day with a friend of hers at an hotel 
in Newton, or Lexington, or Woburn. In a city full 
of receptions, of dinner-giving, and party-going, 
Mrs. Harmon 's guests led the lives of cloistered 
nuns, so far as such pleasures were concerned; 
occasionally a transient had rooms for a week or two, 
and was continually going, and receiving visits. She 
