come from your having tied your hands. It must come from 
the growth of your perception ; from your seeing things, of 
yourself, sincerely and with conviction, in the light in which 
I see them ; from your feeling that for your work your free- 
dom is essential, and that there is no freedom for you and 
me save in religiously not doing what you will often be 
asked to do and I never!' Miss Chancellor brought out 
these last words with a proud jerk which was not without 
its pathos. ' Don't promise, don't promise ! ' she went on. 
' I would far rather you didn't. But don't fail me don't 
fail me, or I shall die ! ' 

Her manner of repairing her inconsistency was altogether 
feminine : she wished to extract a certainty at the same 
time that she wished to deprecate a pledge, and she would 
have been delighted to put Verena into the enjoyment of 
that freedom which was so important for her by preventing 
her exercising it in a particular direction. The girl was 
now completely under her influence ; she had latent 
curiosities and distractions left to herself, she was not 



 

always thinking of the unhappiness of women ; but the 
touch of Olive's tone worked a spell, and she found some- 
thing to which at least a portion of her nature turned with 
eagerness in her companion's wider knowledge, her elevation 
of view. Miss Chancellor was historic and philosophic ; 
or, at any rate, she appeared so to Verena, who felt that 
through such an association one might at last intellectually 
command all life. And there was a simpler impulse ; 
Verena wished to please her if only because she had such a 
dread of displeasing her. Olive's displeasures, disappoint- 
ments, disapprovals were tragic, truly memorable ; she grew 
white under them, not shedding many tears, as a general 
thing, like inferior women (she cried when she was angry, 
not when she was hurt), but limping and panting, morally, 
as if she had received a wound that she would carry for 
life. On the other hand, her commendations, her satisfac- 
tions were as soft as a west wind ; and she had this sign, 
the rarest of all, of generosity, that she liked obligations of 
gratitude when they were not laid upon her by men. Then, 
indeed, she scarcely recognised them. She considered 
men in general as so much in the debt of the opposite sex 
that any individual woman had an unlimited credit with 
them ; she could not possibly overdraw the general feminine 
account. The unexpected temperance of her speech on 
this subject of Verena's accessibility to matrimonial error 
seemed to the girl to have an antique beauty, a wisdom 
purged of worldly elements ; it reminded her of qualities 
that she believed to have been proper to Electra or Anti- 
gone. This made her wish the more to do something that 
would gratify Olive ; and in spite of her friend's dissuasion 
she declared that she should like to promise. 'I will 
promise, at any rate, not to marry any of those gentlemen 
that were at the house,' she said. ' Those seemed to be 
the ones you were principally afraid of.' 

