suspicious one, and if it had so served, how far did those suspicions
extend? Did he think that his wife and her guest had been occupied with
aimless chit-chat, or did he believe that their conversation had been
of a personal and intimate nature?

As Lenox pondered over these things it seemed to him that, let Mr.
Incoul suspect what he might, the one and unique cause for apprehension
lay in the attitude which Maida had assumed when her husband, after
closing the door, had gone to her in search of an explanation. That
he had so gone there was to him no possible doubt. And it was in the
expectancy of tidings as to the result of that explanation that he
waited the entire day in his room.

But the afternoon waned into dusk and still no tidings came. As
the hours wore on his uneasiness decreased. “Bah!” he muttered to
himself at last, “in the winter I gave all my mornings to Pyrrho and
Ænesidemus, and here six months later during an entire day I bother
myself about eventualities.”

He sighed wearily with an air of self-disgust, and rising from the sofa
on which his meditations had been passed he went to the window. The
Casino opposite was already illuminated. “They will be there to-night,”
he thought. “I have been a fool for my pains. If Maida hasn’t written
it is because there has been nothing to write. I will look them up
after dinner and everything will be as before.” He took off his morning
suit and got himself into evening dress. He tied his white cravat
without emotion, with a precision that was geometric in its accuracy,
and to hold the tie in place he ran a silver pin through the collar
without so much as pricking his neck. He was thoroughly at ease. The
fear of the blow had passed. Pyrrho, Ænesidemus, the whole corps of
ataraxists had surged suddenly and rescued him from the toils of the
inscrutable.

At a florist’s in the street below he found an orchid with which he
decked his button-hole, and then in search of dinner he sauntered
into Helder’s, a restaurant on the main street, a trifle above the
Grand Hôtel. It was crowded; there did not seem to be a single table
unoccupied. He hesitated for a moment, and was about to go elsewhere
when he noticed some one signaling to him from the remoter end of the
garden. He could not at first make out who it was and it was not until
he had made use of a monocle that he recognized a fellow Baltimorean,
Mr. Clarence May, with whom in days gone by he had been on terms
approaching those of intimacy.

Mr. Clarence May, more familiarly known as Clara, was a pigeon-shooter
who for some years past had been promenading the side scenes of
continental life. He was well known in the penal colonies of the
Riviera, and hand-in-glove with some of the most distinguished
rastaquouères, yet did he happen in a proscenium it was by
accident. In appearance he was not beautiful: he was a meagre little
man, possessed of vague features and an allowance of sandy hair so
undetermined that few were able to remember whether or not he wore any
on his face. When he spoke it was with a slight stutter, a trick of
speech which he declared he had inherited from his wet-nurse.

He rose from his seat, and hurrying forward, greeted Lenox as though he
had seen him the week before. He was anything but an idealist, yet he
treated Time as though it were the veriest fiction of the non-existent,
and he bombarded no one with questions as to what had become of them,
or where had they been.
