drink a drop again, so help me Mother Mary ! ' And 
then he kissed me, — for they don't, you know, after 
you 've been married. And he 's gone out haddockin', 
but we parted very kind. And so I come to tell you, 
for it mayn't be many days that I could walk it, and 
I 've been that to him as I said I should, and I thought 
you 'd better know." 

"You've had no breakfast," answered Mother Mary, 
"and you've walked too far. Here, stop at the Holly 
Tree as you go home ; get a bowl of soup ; and take the 
ferry back. There, there ! don't cry quite so hard. 
I 'll try to stay a little longer. I won't leave town till 
Jack comes in. It takes the Rock of Ages to cure the 
hanker, Teen. But I 've seen older men than he is 
stop as if they had been stopped by a lasso thrown from 

heaven. If there's any save in him," added Mother 
Mary below her breath, " he shall have his chance, this 
time." 

He went aboard sober, and sober he stayed. He kept 
a good deal by himself and thought of many things. 
His face paled out and refined, as their faces do, from 
abstinence ; the ghost of his good looks hovered about 
him ; he mended up his clothes ; he did a kind turn to a 
messmate now and then ; he told some excellent clean 
stories, and raised the spirits of the crew ; he lent a 
dollar to a fellow with the rheumatism who had an indebt- 
edness to liquidate for St. Galen's Oil. When he had 
done this, he remembered that he had left his wife 

without money, and said aloud : ''That 's a mean 

trick to play on a woman." 

He had bad luck, however, that trip ; his share was 
small ; he made seven dollars and twenty-seven cents 
in three weeks. This was conceded by the crew of 
the fishing-schooner (her name was the Destiny) to be 
because Jack had "sworn off." It is a superstition 
among them. One unfamiliar with the lives of these 
men will hammer cold iron if he thinks to persuade 
them that rum and luck do not go together ; or that to 
"reform" does not imply a reduction of personal in- 
come. You might as well try to put the fisherman's 
fist into a Honiton lace jumper, as the fisherman's mind 
into proportion upon this point. 

Therefore Jack took his poor trip carelessly ; it was 
to be expected ; he would explain it to Mother Mary 
when he got in. He drank nothing at all ; and they 
weighed for home. 

When Jack stepped off the Destiny, at Zephaniah 
Salt & Co.'s wharf at Fairharbor, after that voyage, 



clean, pale, good-natured, and sober, thinking that he 
