
' I am very patient,' answered Meschini humbly. ' And 
I am used to it. I grew accustomed to the life when I was 
young.' 

' You say the collection is valuable. Are there any very 
beautiful books ? I would like to see some of them.' 

The fair young creature sat down upon one of the high 
carved chairs at the end of a table. Meschini went to the 
other side of the hall and unlocked one of the drawers which 
lined the lower part of the bookcases to the height of three 
or four feet. Each was heavily carved with the Montevarchi 
arms in high relief. It was in these receptacles that the 
precious manuscripts were kept in their cases. He returned 
bringing a small square volume of bound manuscript, and 
laid it before Faustina. 

"This is worth an enormous sum,' he said. 'It is the 
only complete one in the world. There is an imperfect 
copy in the library of the Vatican.' 

'What is it?' 

' It is the Montevarchi Dante, the oldest in existence.' 

Faustina turned over the leaves curiously, and admired 
the even writing though she could not read many of the 
words, for the ancient characters were strange to her. It was 
a wonderful picture that the couple made in the great hall 
On every side the huge carved bookcases of walnut, black 
with age, rose from the floor to the spring of the vault, their 
dark faces reflected in the highly-polished floor of coloured 





marble. Across the ancient tables a ray of sunlight fell from 
the high clere-story window. In the centre, the two figures 
with the old manuscript between them ; Faustina's angel 
head in a high light against the dusky background, as she 
bent forward a little, turning the yellow pages with her 
slender, transparent fingers, the black folds of her full gown 
making heavy lines of drapery, graceful by her grace, and 
rendered less severe by a sort of youthfulness that seemed 
to pervade them, and that emanated from herself. Beside 
her, the bent frame of the broken down librarian, in a 
humble and respectful attitude, his long arms hanging down 
by his sides, his shabby black coat almost dragging to his 
heels, his head bent forward as he looked at the pages. All 
his features seemed to have grown more sharp and yellow 
and pointed, and there was now a deep red flush in the 
upper part of his cheeks. A momentary light shone in his 
gray eyes, from beneath the bushy brows, a light of intelli 
gence such as had formerly characterised them especially, 
brought back now perhaps by the effort to fix his attention 
upon the precious book. His large, coarse ears appeared to 
point themselves forward like those of an animal, following 
the direction of his sight. In outward appearance he 
