                         THE LITTLE RED PURSE.
Among the presents which Lu found on her tenth birthday was a pretty red
plush purse with a steel clasp and chain, just like mamma’s, only much
smaller.  In it were ten bright new cents, that being the sum Lu
received each week to spend as she liked.  She enjoyed all her gifts
very much; but this one seemed to please her even more than the French
doll in blue silk, the pearl ring, or "Alice in Wonderland,"--three
things which she had wanted for a long time.
"It is so cunning, and the snap makes such a loud noise, and the chain
is so nice on my arm, and the plush so red and soft, I can’t help loving
my dear little purse.  I shall spend all the money for candy, and eat it
every bit myself, because it is my birthday, and I must celebrate it,"
said Lu, as she hovered like a bee round a honey-pot about the table
where the gifts were spread.
Now she was in a great hurry to go out shopping, with the new purse
proudly carried in her small fat hand.  Aunty was soon ready, and away
they went across the pleasant Park, where the pretty babies were
enjoying the last warm days of autumn as they played among the fallen
leaves.
"You will be ill if you eat ten cents’ worth of candy to-day," said
aunty.
"I ’ll sprinkle it along through the day, and eat each kind seppyrut;
then they won’t intersturb me, I am sure," answered Lu, who still used
funny words, and always got interrupt and disturb rather mixed.
Just then a poor man who had lost his legs came creeping along with a
tray of little flower-pots to sell.
"Only five cents, miss.  Help an unfortnit man, please, mum."
"Let me buy one for my baby-house.  It would be sweet.  Cora Pinky May
would love to have that darling little rose in her best parlor," cried
Lu, thinking of the fine new doll.
Aunty much preferred to help the poor man than to buy candy, so the
flower-pot was soon bought, though the "red, red rose" was unlike any
ever seen in a garden.
"Now I ’ll have five cents for my treat, and no danger of being ill,"
said Lu, as they went on again.
But in a few moments a new beggar appeared, and Lu’s tender heart would
not let her pass the old woman without dropping two of her bright cents
in the tin cup.
"Do come to the candy-place at once, or I never shall get any," begged
Lu, as the red purse grew lighter and lighter every minute.
Three sticks of candy were all she could buy, but she felt that she
could celebrate the birthday on that, and was ready to go home and begin
at once.
As they went on to get some flowers to dress the cake at tea-time, Lu
suddenly stopped short, lifted both hands, and cried out in a tone of
despair,--
"My purse! my purse!  I ’ve lost it.  Oh, I ’ve lost it!"
"Left it in the store probably.  Come and look for it," said aunty; and
back they turned, just in time to meet a shabby little girl running
after them with the precious thing in her hand.
"Ain’t this yours?  I thought you dropped it, and would hate to lose
it," she said, smiling pleasantly.
"Oh, I should.  It’s spandy new, and I love it dearly.  I ’ve got no
more money to pay you, only this candy; do take a stick," and Lu
presented the red barley sugar.
The little girl took it gladly, and ran off.
"Well, two sticks will do.  I ’d rather lose every bit of it than my
darling purse," said Lu, putting it carefully in her pocket.
"I love to give things away and make people happy," began Lu, but
stopped to watch a dog who came up to her, wagging his tail as if he
