articles of leather, smooths his hair with the little brushes he 
always has in his pocket, draws his sword and marches out with 
his company of grenadiers to the exercising ground, as merrily and 
as naturally as though he had spent the night in bed. 

Before he left the house again, Greif received a letter from 
his father. It was some time since the latter had mentioned 



 

Rieseneck and Greif did not now expect any news concerning him. 
He turned pale as he read the contents. It appeared that 
Rieseneck had landed in Europe and intended to proceed without 
delay to Berlin, in order to report himself at the Home Office as 
one who desired to take advantage of the amnesty with the 
intention of residing in his native country. 

' I myself,' wrote Greifenstein, ' have serious doubts in this 
matter. I cannot believe that your uncle is included in the 
general pardon for political offenders. He committed a crime 
against both civil and military law and was condemned by a 
court-martial. It would have been more respectable to shoot him 
at once. As this was not done, I have actually been obliged to 
write to him, now, warning him that in my opinion he is not safe. 
In the meanwhile, be careful, my dear boy, and keep amongst 
your own Korps, where you are not likely to have trouble about 
your infamous relation. He is not worth fighting for, though you 
would of course be obliged to go out if a stranger made disagree- 
able remarks. Happily, in a little more than a month, you will 
be at home, where such things cannot occur. Praise be to Heaven, 
we are very well, though your mother continues to be more silent 
than usual. Hexerl has got over the distemper very well and is a 
fine pup. I have decided not to fell the old wood, though it is 
quite time. What need have I for the money ? Let the trees 
stand till the wind blows them down. Perhaps you will be glad, 
though you do not often go to that part of the forest. I have 
sent your rifle to Stuttgardt to be re -sigh ted as you wished. 
And so, good-bye. 5 

Greif put the letter into his pocket and went gloomily on his 
way to the lecture, reflecting that at that very moment Rieseneck 
was probably on his way to Berlin. 



CHAPTER X 

THE snow fell heavily in the Black Forest during the third week 
of December. It lay in great white drifts against the huge 
rampart of Greifenstein, blown against the rough masonry by 
the bitter north wind, until the approach to the main gate was a 
deep trench dug in the white covering of the earth. The driving 
blast had driven great patches of flakes against the lofty wall so 
that they stuck to the stones and looked like broad splashes of 
white paint. The north sides of the pointed roofs on the towers 
were white, too, and gleamed in the occasional bursts of sunshine 
that interrupted the fierce weather. In the forest, the slanting 
branches of the firs were loaded down with irregular masses of 
