peck of the most magnificent peaches I ever saw, 
ripening from the first until the middle of October. 
I planted all the pits, but only ten of them germi 
nated. The second year I sold from it a basket of 
peaches for which I obtained two dollars and a half. 
I had learned that very early fruit and the very late 
commanded the best prices. I had budded several 
stray peach-trees, and also planted again. I had 
what might be called a swamp of young peach- 
trees; so Hildreth and I decided that we would 
devote one acre to a peach-farm, with rows of 



 

strawberries set between. There were fifty young 
grapevines Riker had planted out, but they had 
not been well cared for ; and a few fruit-trees of 
various kinds. Two cherries were dying. Some 
of the dwarf-pears looked thrifty. We wanted to 
raise enough fruit to pay the tax on the whole 
place. Later on in the season we would transplant 
the peaches, raspberries, and blackberries. 

We decided to devote one house exclusively to 
roses, and make those a specialty. We had 
received a catalogue from one famous rose-grower, 
and Hildreth had resolved to visit him in prefer 
ence to sending an order by mail. I had numbers 
of roses, and some rarely beautiful, both in slips I 
had raised, and others from roots divided. We 
should take from our place all we could spare 
without impoverishing it, even if we sold. 

The week Hildreth was away, young Benson came 
over. I let him see my poultry account, and im 
parted various bits of experience. To make hens 
lay in winter, to raise chicks of breeds that grew 
rapidly and could be put on the market early, 
and to keep some choice kinds, pure, of course, 
from which one could sell eggs for hatching, seemed 
about the greatest points. As for the rest, good 
diet, cleanliness, and care in season, light and 
warmth, were about all the grand secrets. So far 




I had kept mine free from vermin, had no contagious 
diseases, and very few cases of gapes. When my 
chickens were first hatched out, I put some kerosene 
under the mother's wings, and now and then a sprin 
kling of sulphur around them. While I had them in 
the loft, I took up a sod every day or two, and let 
them peck at the tender roots, and scratch off the dirt. 
I also fed them bits of meat and worms occasionally. 

Walter had given the subject a good deal of study ; 
but he said, 
