condition is socially very different from what it is in New York or
Boston; the small village associations survive a little yet, struggling
against the territorial distances, but the social mass is still
unorganized, although “society” is a prominent feature in the
newspapers. Of course it is understood that there are people “in
society,” and dinners, and all that, in nowise different from the same
people and events the world over.

A striking feature of the town is “youth,” visible in social life as
well as in business. An Eastern man is surprised to see so many young
men in responsible positions, at the head, or taking the managing oar,
in great moneyed institutions, in railway corporations, and in societies
of charity and culture. A young man, graduate of the city high-school,
is at the same time president of a prominent bank, president of the
Board of Trade, and president of the Art Institute. This youthful spirit
must be contagious, for apparently the more elderly men do not permit
themselves to become old, either in the business or the pleasures of
life. Everything goes on with youthful vim and spirit.

Next to the youth, and perhaps more noticeable, the characteristic
feature of Chicago is money-making, and the money power is as obtrusive
socially as on change. When we come to speak of educational and
intellectual tendencies, it will be seen how this spirit is being at
once utilized and mitigated; but for the moment money is the recognized
power. How could it be otherwise? Youth and energy did not flock here
for pleasure or for society, but simply for fortune. And success in
money-getting was about the only one considered. And it is still that
by which Chicago is chiefly known abroad, by that and by a certain
consciousness of it which is noticed. And as women reflect social
conditions most vividly, it cannot be denied that there is a type known
in Europe and in the East as the Chicago young woman, capable rather
than timid, dashing rather than retiring, quite able to take care of
herself. But this is not by any means an exhaustive account of the
Chicago woman of to-day.

While it must be said that the men, as a rule, are too much absorbed
in business to give heed to anything else, yet even this statement will
need more qualification than would appear at first, when we come to
consider the educational, industrial, and reformatory projects. And
indeed a veritable exception is the Literary Club, of nearly two hundred
members, a mingling of business and professional men, who have fine
rooms in the Art Building, and meet weekly for papers and discussions.
It is not in every city that an equal number of busy men will give
the time to this sort of intellectual recreation. The energy here is
superabundant; in whatever direction it is exerted it is very effective;
and it may be said, in the language of the street, that if the men of
Chicago seriously take hold of culture, they will make it hum.

Still it remains true here, as elsewhere in the United States, that
women are in advance in the intellectual revival. One cannot yet
predict what will be the result of this continental furor for literary,
scientific, and study clubs—in some places in the East the literary wave
has already risen to the height of the scientific study of whist—but for
the time being Chicago women are in the full swing of literary life.
Mr. Browning says that more of his books are sold in Chicago than in any
other American city. Granting some affectation, some passing fashion, in
the Browning, Dante, and Shakespeare clubs, I think it is true that
the Chicago woman, who is imbued with the energy of the place, is more
serious in her work than are women in many other places; at least she
is more enthusiastic. Her spirit is open, more that of frank admiration
