our care and oversight, what can they do? If the people who have been
so rash in freeing them had only thought of even that one thing! But I
suppose they did not think of it, and naturally, because the
abolitionist societies, we are told, were composed principally of old
maids."

Eve laughed. "Why can't they have nurses, as other people do?"

"You don't mean regular monthly nurses, of course?"

"Why not?--if they can afford to pay for them. They might club together
to supply them."

"Oh, I don't think that would be at all appropriate, really. And Eve
does not mean it, I assure you," said Miss Sabrina, coming to the
rescue; "her views are perfectly reasonable, dear Mrs. Singleton; you
would be surprised."

"You would indeed!" Eve thought.

But they talked no more of the nig-roes.

"How is Miss Hillsborough?" Miss Sabrina asked.

"Right well, I am glad to say. My dear Aunt Peggy, Miss Bruce; and what
she is to me I can hardly tell you! You know I am something of a
talker"--here Mrs. Singleton laughed softly. "And we are so much alone
here now, that, were it not for Aunt Peggy, I should fairly have to talk
to the chickens!" (One at least would be ready, Eve thought.) "Don't you
know that there are ever so many little things each day that we want to
say to somebody?" Mrs. Singleton went on. "Thinking them is not
enough. And these dear people, like Aunt Peggy, who sit still and
listen;--it isn't what they answer that's of consequence; in fact they
seldom say much; it's just the chance they give us of putting our own
thought into words and seeing how it looks. It does make such a
difference."

"You are fortunate," Eve answered. "And then you have your little boy,
too; Cicely has told me about him--Rupert; she says he is a dear little
fellow."

"Dear heart!" exclaimed Miss Sabrina, distressed. "Cicely is
sometimes--yes--"

But Mrs. Singleton laughed merrily. "I will show him to you presently,"
she said.

"Mr. Singleton is so extraordinarily agreeable!" said Miss Sabrina, with
unwonted animation.

"Oh yes, he is wonderful; and he is a statesman too, a second Patrick
Henry. But then as regards the little things of each day, you know, we
don't go to our husbands with those."

"What do you do, then?--I mean with the husbands," Eve asked.

"I think we admire them," answered Mrs. Singleton, simply.

Lucasta, the negro girl, now appeared with a tray. "Pray take some
Madeira," said their hostess, filling the tiny glasses. "And plum-cake."
