Fifth Wheel in Boston " 
Fulkerson slowly and sadly shook his head, but 
decidedly, " "Wouldn't do. You might as well say 
St. Louis or Cincinnati. There 's only one city that 
belongs to the whole country, and that's Xew 
York." 
" Yes, I know," sighed March ; " and Boston be- 
longs to the Bostonians ; but they like you to make 
yourself at home while you 're visiting." 
" If you 'll agree to make phrases like that, right 
along, and get them into The Round-Lohbi some- 
how, I'll say four thousand," saiil Fulkerson. "You 
think it over now, i\Iarch. You kdh it over with 
Mrs. March ; I know you will, anyway ; and I 
might as well make a virtue of advising you to 
do it. Tell her I advised you to do it, and you 
let me know before next Saturday what you've 
decided." 
March shut down the rolling top of his desk in 
the corner of the room, and walked Fulkerson out 
before him. It was so late that the last of the chore- 
women who washed down the marble halls and stairs 
of the great building had wrung out her floor-cloth 
and departed, leaving spotless stone and a clean 
damp smell in the darkening corridors behind her. 
" Couldn't offer you such swell quarters in New 
York, March," Fulkerson said as he went tack-tack- 
ing down the steps with his small boot-heels. "But 
I 've got my eye on a little house round in "West 
Eleventh Street, that I 'm going to fit up for my 
bachelor's hall in the third story, and adapt for The 
Lone Hand in the first and second, if this thing goes 
through ; and I guess we 'll be pretty comfortable. 
It's right on the Sand Strip- — no malaria of any 
kind." 
" I don't know that I 'm going to share its salu- 
brity with you yet," March sighed in an obvious 
travail which gave Fulkerson hopes. 
"Oh yes, you are," he coaxed. "Now, you talk 
it over with your wife. You give her a fair, unpre- 
judiced chance at the thing on its merits, and I 'm 
very much mistaken in Mrs. March if she doesn't 
tell you to go in and win. "We 're bound to win ! " 
They stood on the outside steps of the vast edifice 
beetling like a granite crag above them, with the 
stone groups of an allegory of life-insurance fore- 
.shortened in the bas-relief overhead. March ab- 
sently lifted his eyes to it. It was suddenly strange 
after so many years' familiarity, and so was the well- 
known street in its Saturday-evening solitude. He 
asked himself, with prophetic homesickness, if it 
were an omen of what was to be. But he only said 
musingly, " A fortnightly. You know that didn't 
work in England. The Forinigldh is published once 
a month now." 
" It works in France," Fulkerson retorted. " The 
Fievue des Deux Mondes is still published twice a 
month. I guess we can make it work in America — 
with illustrations." 
" Going to have illustrations ? " 
