monkey with him mucli. I supposed he was going 
to bring you to book about old Liudau, somehow." 
Fulkerson broke into a laugh. 
March remained serious, " Mr. Dryfoos," ho 
said, willing to let the simple statement have its own 
weight with Fulkerson, and nothing more, "came 
in here and ordered me to discharge Lindau from 
his employment on the magazine — to tui'n him off, 
as he put it." 
" Did he ? " asked Fulkerson, with unbroken cheer- 
fulness. " The old man is business, every time. Well, 
I suppose you can easily get somebody else to do 
Lindau's work for you. This town is just running 
over with lialf- starved linguists. What did you 
say ? " 
" What did I say ? " March echoed. " Look here, 
Fulkerson ; you may regard this as a joke, but I 
don't. I 'm not used to being spoken to as if I were 
the foreman of a shop, and told to discharge a sen- 
sitive and cultivated man like Lindau, as if he 
were a drunken mechanic; and if that's your idea 
of me " 
" Oh, hello, now, March ! You mustn't mind the 
old man's way. He don't mean anything by it — he 
don't Jcnoiv any better, if you come to that." 
"Then I know better," said March. "I refused 
to receive any instructions from Mr. Dryfoos, whom 
I don't know in my relations with Every Other Week, 
and I referred him to you." 
" You did ? " Fulkcrson whistled. " He owns the 
thing ! " 
" I don't care -who owns the thing," said INIarch. 
"My negotiations were witli you alone from the 
beginning, and I leave tliis matter with you. What 
do you M'isli done about Lindau ? " 
"Oh, better let the old fool droj)," said Fulkerson. 
" He 'll light on his feet somehow, and it will save 
a lot of rumpus." 
" And if I decline to let him drop ? " 
" Oh, come, now, March ; don't do that," Fulker- 
son began. 
" If I decline to let him drop," March repeated, 
" what will you do ? " 
" I 'll be dogged if I know n-Juii I 'll do," said Ful- 
kerson. " I hope you won't take that stand. If the 
old man went so far as to speak to you about it, his 
mind is made up, and we might as well knock under 
first as last." 
"And do you mean to say that you would not 
stand by me in what I considered my duty — in a 
matter of piinciple ? " 
"Why, of course, March," said Fulkerson coax- 
ingly, " I mean to do the right thing. Lut Dryfoos 
owns the magazine " 
"He doesn't own ?»c," said March, rising. "He 
has made the little mistake of speaking to me as if 
he did ; and when" — March put on his hat and took 
his overcoat down from its nail — " when you bring 
me his apologies, or come to say that, having failed 
to make him understand they were necessary, you 
