of ignorance, if not the attention of the 
student. 

We have known invalids, prisoners of their 
inert muscles during all the bloom and
brilliance of life. Some late-found medical
inspiration, some personal surrender of devotion 
on the part of a friend, some unexpected joy 
or unimagined grief, or even some electric 
alarm, has allured, or shocked, or startled the 
sick man to his feet. 

The power of motion was not dead, but slept. 
Late and loath though they be, the great 
flexile and extensor actions of the great muscles 
begin. Between the grave of his life and the 
grave of his death the man partakes of a 
resurrection. 

Such a discovery of blessedness, we may 
suppose, comes to him who, after the sluggish- 
ness, or willfulness, or disease of unbelieving 
years, is led by the late cultivation of his 
spiritual faculties to the possession of spiritual 
truth. 

Facts before which his intellect has been a 
blank illuminate his consciousness. Mysteries 
at which he sneered become shrines before 
which he kneels. Powers which he has not 
hitherto recognized magnify his nature. Hopes 
which he has never known irradiate his life. 
Contrition that he has not understood permeates 
his heart. Tenderness which he has never 
approached gives pathos, as it gives purity, to 
his past. A future of which he has never 
dreamed intensifies and glorifies his present. 
He learns the value of his own being, and 
experiences the friendship of God. In the clos- 
ing days of his history, as in the final scenes of 
the apocalyptic vision, there are " new heavens 
and a new earth." 



A tendency to ask irreverent questions is 
no sign of strength. It is wholesome for us, 
in this day of facile defiance and hard acceptance, 
to remember this. In an age which fails 
in deference, it is a healthful thing to do, to 
summon our spiritual instincts to order. The 
bust of young Augustus in the shop window 
wears a lung protector ; Clytie serves to 
advertise the "Boston battery;" and positivist 
writers go out of their way to address Jehovah 
by the familiar pronoun " you." We 
have not passed the period when skepticism is 
more apt than not to be regarded as a proof 
of superior intelligence, but we have reached 
the stage at which no intelligent mind can 
