sonating had its especial moments of suspense and perplexity 
and added variety and even occasionally a degree of excitement 
to their conversation. At the theatre, for the most part, she 
was really flushed with eagerness ; and with the spectators who 
turned an admiring eye into the dim compartment of which 





she pervaded the front, she might have passed for a romantic, 
or at any rate an insatiable young woman from the country. 

Mrs. Rooth took a more placid view, but attended immensely 
to the story, in respect to which she manifested a patient good 
faith which had its surprises and its comicalities for Sherring- 
ham. She found no play too tedious, no entr'acte too long, no 
baignoire too hot, no tissue of incidents too complicated, no 
situation too unnatural and no sentiments too sublime. She 
gave Sherringham the measure of her power to sit and sit an 
accomplishment to which she owed, in the struggle for exist- 
ence, such superiority as she might be said to have achieved. 
She could outsit every one, everything else ; looking as if she 
had acquired the practice in repeated years of small frugality 
combined with large leisure periods when she had nothing 
but time to spend and had learned to calculate, in any situation, 
how long she could stay. " Staying " was so often a saving 
a saving of candles, of fire and even (for it sometimes implied 
a vision of light refreshment) of food. Sherringham perceived 
soon enough that she was complete in her way, and if he had 
been addicted to studying the human mixture in its different 
combinations he would have found in her an interesting com- 
pendium of some of the infatuations that survive a hard 
discipline. He made indeed without difficulty the reflection 
that her life might have taught her the reality of things, at 
the same time that he could scarcely help thinking it clever of 
her to have so persistently declined the lesson. She appeared 
to have put it by with a deprecating, ladylike smile a plea of 
being too soft and bland for experience. 

She took the refined, sentimental, tender view of the universe, 
beginning with her own history and feelings. She believed in 
everything high and pure, disinterested and orthodox, and 
even at the Hotel de la Garonne was unconscious of the shabby 
or the ugly side of the world. She never despaired : otherwise 
what would have been the use of being a Neville-Nugent? 
Only not to have been one that would have been discouraging. 
She delighted in novels, poems, perversions, misrepresentations 
and evasions, and had a capacity for smooth, superfluous 
falsification which made Sherringham think her sometimes an 
amusing and sometimes a tedious inventor. But she was not 
dangerous even if you believed her ; she was not even a 
warning if you didn't. It was harsh to call her a hypocrite, 
because you never could have resolved her back into her 
character : there was no reverse to her blazonry. She built in 
the air and was not less amiable than sho pretended : only 




