;ome miles, they made a halt. Mansur Bey ordered the 
Russian commandant to be brought before him, reproached 
lim with the murder of his kinsman, heaped terms of 
ibloquy upon him, and ordering him to be disrobed, 
vith one stroke of his sword severed his head from its 
runk. He carried this bloody trophy of his cunning and 
)ravery, back with him to his fastness in the mountains, 
eaving the body to be torn to pieces by the wolves and 
jackals. 
Such audacity on the part of the Circassians, drove, the 
 
Russians on their part, to deeds of similar boldness, such 
as in another war they found it hard to meet. Therefore, 
when the Russians fell into the power of this ruthless and 
vindictive enemy, made much more bitter by successful op- 
position, they knew a horrible lot was sure to be theirs, and 
60 they on their part shunned no medium, however cruel, 
to avoid being taken prisoners. A few years ago, an offi- 
cer bearing despatches of importance, was sent to the near- 
est fortress ; a detachment of Cossacks accompanied him. 
They passed over the first part of the road without meet- 
ing with any thing to disturb them ; but scarcely had they 
entered the next defile, when many shots were fired from 
a party under covert, upon the Russians, " I had just 
called out to my men," said the officer, in relating the 
occurrence, " to follow me, when a ball struck and wounded 
me, breaking both arms. I looked around and saw most of 
my Cossacks lying dead on the ground, and the others flying 
in wild confusion. My horse, frightened by the continued 
shots fired from all around me, was completely unmanage- 
able, and ran off at full gallop. My arms being powerless, 
I sought to seize the bridle that lay on his mane, with my 
teeth, but I could not accomplish it; nothing, therefore, 
remained for me but to hold as fast as possible by the sad- 
dle. My horse dashed on towards the fortress, when to 
my great dismay, I saw a large tree with all its branches 
lying across the road a few yards before me. It was not 
possible that my horse could pass this barrier without 
stumbling, and in this case, I must be thrown out of the 
saddle. It was as I feared ; his hind legs became entangled 
in the branches and he fell to his knees ; with a strength 
familiar ; a thick cloud seemed spread before me, througli 
which my eyes were too dim to pierce. In a little while 
I lost all consciousness ; my limbs gave way, and I fell 
from the saddle. But some one caught me, and as they 
did so, the pain of my broken arms forced from me a loud 
cry ; I stammered forth, as they afterwards told me, a few 
unintelligible words. They bathed my head and face with 
cold water; I recovered from my fainting fit, and as I 
looked up, saw with inexpressibly joy, that I was sur- 
rounded by my own countrymen. My noble, faithful horse, 
as though possessing reasohing powers, had brought me on 
the right road to the fortress. They carried me to the 
hospital, where by good nursing and the skilful treatment of 
a young physician, I reqovered entirely, and without losing 
either of my arms, as it was at one time feared I should. 
Among the many tribes of the Mongolian races which 
inhabit the dreary wastes of Siberia, are the Tschutski ; 
entirely independent of Russia, by paying a small tribute 
of feus and sea calves, they live under their own laws and 
