

 

which it was transplanted. One would hardly expect just 
these things I'vom Jasper Bradley. I want to tell you how 
I iirst saw him." 

He makes a picture of it all. She has never given him 
credit for vivid descriptive powers. Has she not dealt him 
scant measure in many respects beside ? Or is  that 
lie has not stood still — that he, like some others, has a 
grand capacity for self-improvement as well as that general 
outside advancement. Did she think this capability was 
inherent in special natures tonly ? And what if his is the 
special, the unusual soul ? 

She has a ctil'ious, lost feeling, another as strange, as if 
she were aware of a strongly marked presence crowding 
into her life thait she protests against with passionate 
sincerity. 

" Jasper Bl-adtey has many of the qualities and attrac- 
tions of a very dangerous man," he isays presently, when 
she is sileii't a long while, it seems to him. She never 
talked much, he remembers. " But there is a latent quality 
quite indescribable tha;t puts -one on guard." 

Regina Hal'ford flushes with a guilty feeling, thankful 
that it is now too dark for him to see. If she had taken 
her first subtle warniTig — if ste had -not been so urgently 
fitting her theories to the facts they could not really 
assimilate. 

Itis getting quite dark now. He can see the whiteness 
of her face with its crown of dusky hair, and he has an 
inward feeling that it is strangely weary. It is too soon 
to comfoft her; this time he will be wary. But oh, the 
passionate longing that l-ends him !

She rises and aslts Martha to bring in the lamps. While 
the good woman is arranging them to the proper degree of 
softness for a summer night, Eegina goes to summon her 
mother. Perdita has fallen asleep after her battling day. 

Mrs. Halford takes the lead in the conversation now. 
Regina is one of the few women born to repose ; she never 
indulges in restless little habits. Her statuesque symmetry 
has fine poses in any position she takes : every line seems 




to adapt itself to the harmonious whole. Her hands lie 
idly in her lap, and her slim fingers look as if they might 
be sculptured. Could they grasp and hold, he wonders ? 

He has so much to say about Cynthia. The mother 
quality in Mrs. Halford takes a finer pride in her daughter's 
venture and possible fame than he has supposed. 
