rays as by those of the sun in spring, and my hunger is appeased by the
honey of your incomparable eloquence----'

'My friend,' said Abdullah, interrupting him again, 'I pray you to let
me go forward now, for I have a very important matter in hand, though it
is with difficulty that I tear myself away from your society and I would
willingly listen much longer to the words of the wise.'

Then the blind man turned to the other beggars, and his hearing told him
that by this time there were at least threescore in the street.

'Come, my brothers!' he cried. 'Let us accompany our benefactor to the
house of his friend, and afterwards we will wait for him and see that he
reaches his own dwelling in safety. Surely it is not fitting that a
sheikh of such great consideration should go about the streets at night
without so much as an attendant carrying a lantern. Let us go with him.'

Now these last words were the signal agreed upon, and even as Abdullah
began to protest that he desired no such honourable escort as the
beggars offered him, one came from behind and suddenly drew a thick
barley-sack over his head, so that his voice was heard no more, and he
was dragged down by the throat, while the one-eyed hunchback caught him
by the legs and bound his feet and four others laid hold of his hands
and tied them firmly behind him. Nor had Almasta time to utter a single
cry before she was bound hand and foot with her head in a sack, like her
husband. Then at a signal the beggars took up the two as though they had
been bales packed ready for a camel's back, and carried them away
swiftly into the darkness, towards the eastern gate where the blind man
lived in a ruined house together with three or four of his most trusted
companions. He also sent a messenger to his relation, the Bedouin, as
had been agreed. It was already quite dark in the streets and the few
persons who met the beggars did not see what they were carrying, nor ask
questions of them, merely supposing that they had lingered long in the
public square after evening prayers and were now returning in a body to
their own quarter.

The blind man's house was built of three rooms and a wall, standing in a
square around a small court. But only one of the rooms had a roof of its
own, though there was a sort of cellar under the floor of one of the
others which served at once as a lodging for beggars in winter, as a
storehouse for food when there was any in supply and as a place of
deposit for the ancient iron chest in which the common fund of money was
kept. To this vault the Sheikh of the beggars made his companions bring
the two prisoners, and having set them on the floor, side by side, he
proceeded to hold a council, in which the captives themselves had no
part, since their heads were tied up in dusty barley-sacks and they
could not speak so as to be heard.

'O my brothers!' said the blind man. 'Allah has delivered the enemies of
the kingdom into our hand, and it is necessary to decide what we will do
with them. Let the oldest and the wisest give their opinions first, and
after them the others, even to the youngest, and last of all I will
speak, and let us see whether we can agree.'

'Let us kill the man and bury him, and then cast lots among us for the
woman,' said one.

'No,' said the next, a man who had twice made the pilgrimage, and was
much respected, 'we cannot do this, for the man is a true believer, and
evil will befall us if we shed his blood. Let us rather keep him here,
