“Tiberius has and will.”

Pilate nodded; it was the third time he had heard the threat that day.

“There are many rooms in his palace,” he answered, with covert
significance.

“Yes, I know it. There are many, as you say. But there is one I will
enter. On the door stands written The Future, and behind it, Pilate, is
your death.”

The Roman, goaded to exasperation, sprang to his feet. An expression which
Antipas had used occurred to him. “Away with the hetaira,” he cried; and
he was about, it may be, to order her to be tossed to the fierce wild
swine in the paddocks of the park when the prisoner and his guards
reappeared on the tessellated pavement, and Mary, already dragged from
him, was instantly forgot.

A tattered sagum, which had once been scarlet, but which had faded since,
hung, detained at the shoulder by a rusty buckle, and bordered by a
laticlave, loosely about his form. In his hand a bulrush swayed; on his
head was a twisted coil of bear’s-breech, in which, among the ruffled
leaves, one bud remained; it was white, the opening edges flecked with
pink, perhaps with blood, for from the temples and about the ear a rill
ran down and mixed with the purple of the laticlave below. And in this red
parody of kingship the Christ stood, unmoved as a phantom, but in his face
and eyes there was a projecting light so luminous, so intangible, and yet
so real, that the skeptical procurator started, the staff of office
pendent in his grasp.

“Ecce homo!” he exclaimed. Instinctively he drew back, and, wonderingly,
half to himself, half to the Christ, “Who are you?” he asked.

“A flame below, a soul above,” Jesus answered, yet so inaudibly that the
guards beside him did not catch the words.

To Pilate his lips had barely moved, and his wonderment increased. “Why do
you not answer?” he said. “You must know that I have the power to condemn
and to acquit.”

With that gentleness that was the flower of his parables Jesus raised his
voice. “No,” he replied, “you can have no power against me unless it come
from above.”

Again Pilate drew back. Unsummoned to his lips had sprung the words,
“Behold the man!” and now he exclaimed, “Behold the king!”

But to the mob the vision he intercepted was lost. They saw the jest
merely, and with it the stains that torture leaves. The sight of blood is
heady; it inebriates more surely than wine. The mob, trained by the
elders, and used by them as a body-guard, fanatic before, were intoxicated
now. With one accord they shrieked the liturgy again.

“Sekaph! Sekaph! Let him be crucified.”

In that gust of hatred Pilate recovered. He turned to Caiaphas:

“I have released one prisoner; I will release another too.”

“My lord, be warned by one who is your elder.”
