



CHAPTER IV

MONSIEUR GILFLEUR EXPLAINS


The two officers and ten men that had been sent off to the Chateaugay
after she got under way, had evidently been considered necessary by the
authorities on shore after the receipt of the intelligence that another
vessel for the Confederates had been sent to Bermuda. A steamer had
arrived that day from Liverpool, and Captain Passford must have received
his mail after he landed from the tug. Captain Chantor had waited
several hours for the signal to get under way, and there had been time
enough to obtain the reinforcement from the Navy Yard.

The officer in command of the detachment of sailors said that he had
been ordered to follow the Chateaugay, and he had been provided with a
fast boat for this purpose. The steamer proceeded on her course as soon
as the transport boat had cast off her fasts, and everything suddenly
quieted down on board of her. The distance between the Ionian and the
man-of-war was soon reduced to about a mile. It was beginning to grow
dark, but the crew had been stationed and billed while the ship lay off
the Navy Yard; but the new hands sent on board were assigned to watches
and quarter-watches, stationed and billed, as though they were a part of
the regular ship's company. One of the two additional officers was
placed in each of the watches.

Before it was really dark everything on board was in order, and the ship
was put in perfect trim. Christy could not help seeing that Captain
Chantor was a thorough commander, and that his officers were excellent
in all respects. He walked about the ship, wishing to make himself
familiar with her. His father had not written to him in regard to the
second vessel which the Chateaugay was to look out for in the vicinity
of the Bermuda Islands, and he only knew what the captain had told him
in regard to the matter.

If the steamer was armed, as probably she was, an action would be likely
to come off, and the young lieutenant could not remain idle while a
battle was in prospect. His quick eye enabled him to take in all he saw
without much study, and only one thing bothered him. In the waist,
secured on blocks, was something like the ordinary whaleboat used in the
navy; but it was somewhat larger than those with which he was familiar
in the discharge of his duties, and differed in other respects from
them. The first watch would begin at eight o'clock, and all hands were
still on duty.

"What do you call this boat, Mr. Carlin?" asked Christy, as the third
lieutenant was passing him.

"I call it a nondescript craft," replied the officer, laughing. "It is
something like a whaleboat, but it isn't one."

"What is it for?" inquired the passenger.

"That is more than I know, sir. It was put on deck while we were still
at the Navy Yard. I never saw a boat just like it before, and I have not
the remotest idea of its intended use. Probably the captain can inform
