until Claud, her uncle, recalled her 
and Messalina disappeared, that the 
empress awoke. She too, she deter- 
mined, would rule, and the Jus osculi 
aiding, she married out of hand that 
imbecile uncle of hers, on whose knee 
she had played as a child. 
The day of the wedding a young 
patrician, expelled from the senate, 
killed himself. Agrippina had accused 
him of incest, not because hewasguilty, 
nor yet because the possibility of such 
a sin shocked her, but because he 
was betrothed to Octavia, a slender 
maiden with blue, pathetic eyes, who  
happened to be Claud's daughter, and 
who, Agrippina determined, should 
be Nero's wife. Presently Caligula's 
widow, an old rival of her own, a 
 
lady who had thoucrht she would like 
to be empress twice, and whom 
Claud had eyed grotesquely, was disencumbered of three million worth of 
emeralds, with which she heightened 
her beauty, and told very civilly that 
it was time to die. So too disap- 
peared a Calpurina, a Lepida; women 
young, rich, handsome, impure, and 
as such dangerous to Agrippina's 
peace of mind. The legality of her 
crimes was so absolute that the mere 
ownership of an enviable object was 
a cause for death. - A senator 
had a vilia which pleased her; he was 
invited to die. A knight had a pair 
of those odorous murrhine vases, 
which Pompey had found in Armenja, 
and which on their first appearance 
set Rome wild; he, too, was invited 
to die. 
But, though Agrippina dealt in 
death, she dealt in seductions too. 
 
Rome, that had adored Caligula, 
promptly fell under his sister's sway. 
There was a splendor in her eyes, 
which so many crimes had lit; in her 
carriage there was such majesty, the 
pomp with which she surrounded herself was so magnificent, that Rome, 
enthralled, applauded. Beyond, on 
the Rhine, a city which is to-day 
Cologne, rose in honor of her sover- 
eignty. To her wishes the senate 
was subservient, to her indiscretions 
blind. Claud, who meanwhile had 
been wholly sicfhtless, suddenly sliowcd 
signs of discernment. A woman, 
charged with illicit commerce, 
was brought to his tribunal. He 
condemed her, of course. "In my 
