rather angry at the time, because Crowdie and little Frank Miner were
there, and a couple of servants. But I give you my word, I didn’t say
anything beyond making them all four swear that they wouldn’t tell--”

“And this is the result!” said Katharine, with a sigh. “What was that he
said about being turned out of the club?”

“Crowdie? Oh--some nonsense or other! He felt his ladyship offended
because there had been a bit of a wrestling match in the hall of his
club, that’s all, and said he meant to leave it--”

“No--but about Jack being turned out--”

“It’s all nonsense of Crowdie’s. Men are turned out of a club for
cheating at cards, and that sort of thing. Besides, Jack’s popular with
most of the men. I don’t believe you could get a committee to sit on his
offences--not if he locked the oldest member up in the ice-chest, and
threw the billiard-table out of the window. He says he has no
friends--but it’s all bosh, you know--everybody likes him, except that
doughy brother-in-law of mine!”

Katharine was momentarily comforted by Bright’s account of the matter,
delivered in his familiar, uncompromising fashion. But she was very far
from regaining her composure. She saw that Bright was purposely making
light of the matter; and in the course of the silence, which lasted
several minutes after he had finished speaking, it all looked worse than
it had looked before she had known the exact truth.

She felt, too, an instinct of repulsion from Ralston, which she had
never known, nor dreamed possible. Could he not have controlled himself
a few hours longer? It was their wedding day. Twelve hours had not
passed from the time when they had left the church together until he had
been drunk--positively drunk, to the point of knocking down his best
friend in such a place as a club. She could not deny the facts. Even
Hamilton Bright, kind--more than kind, devoted--did not attempt to
conceal the fact that Ralston had been what he called ‘lively.’ And if
Bright could not try to make him out to have been sober, who could?

And they had been married that morning! If he had been sober--the word
cut her like a whip--if he had been sober, they would at that very
moment have been sitting together--planning their future--perhaps in
that very corner.

She did not know all yet, either. The clock was striking twelve. It was
about at that time that John Ralston was brought into his mother’s house
by a couple of policemen, who had found his card-case in his pocket, and
had the sense--with the hope of a handsome fee--to bring him home,
insensible, stunned almost to death with the blow he had received.

They had waked him roughly, the conductor and the other man, who was
really a prize fighter, at the end of the run, in front of the horse-car
stables, and John had struck out before he was awake, as some excitable
men do. The fight had followed as a matter of course, out in the snow.
The professional had not meant to hurt him, but had lost his temper when
John had reached him and cut his lip, and a right-handed counter had
settled the matter--a heavy right-hander just under John’s left ear.

The policemen said they had picked him up out of a drunken brawl.
According to them, everybody was drunk--Ralston, the prize fighter,--who
had paid five dollars to be left in peace after the adventure,--the
