was sure that he knew his toboggan intimately ;
and they set out to climb Small 
Tom forthwith ; their peals of laughter 
when Fay 's feet went through the snow, or 
Don tripped up, or the toboggan " struck," 
echoing down the white hillside, with a ring 
that brought several of the lank, lean matrons
in the scattering farmhouses to breathe 
on their frosted windows and look through 
at the tobogganers. But the farmers daugh 
ters made quite big holes in the frost, to 
watch the young climbers, and one took the 
skin off from her tongue, and her mother 
made her gargle alum and water for the rest 
of the day. 

Fay found a slide that was to her mind ; 
there had been some coasting on it a few 
days ago, and it was broken in, a little. 
Still, it was a long, dizzy, diving road to 
take, and the two young people looked it 
over cautiously before they sat down. 

" I think, by steering carefully there 
and avoiding those stumps and putting- 
down brakes there, we can make it, don't 
you, Miss Fay ? " said Don eagerly. 

" I rather think so," said Fay, calculating 
the pitch with her trained eyes. " I've 





coasted here forty times on a common sled. 
We call it a little too steep for bobs." 

"Oh, a toboggan is ever so much safer 
than a bob," explained Don confidently. 

"All right," nodded Fay. "Go ahead. 
I'm not afraid, if you're not." 

He started slowly. How delightful was 
the toboggan ! Fay held on tight, and 
laughed out like a little girl. They began to 
move to start to skim to plunge 
to fly. Small Tom was a very small mountain, 
but a very big hill. He reared his 
humped side like a rocking camel, and that 
toboggan, once under way, went down like 
madness. It was all done in who knew how 
few moments ? A whirr a whizz a dive 
a flash, and something had happened. 
Somewhere, a sunken stump had snagged, 
or Small Tom 's crust had yielded, they 
never knew just what was the matter ; but 
there was a crash, a bump, stars, darkness, 
pain, and snow in the throat, and oh, who 
