PARTING COMPANY.

"I mistrust that man Fletcher," said Obed to Harry Vane the next day,
taking the opportunity when, at one of their rests, the man referred to
had sauntered into the woods.

"I don't like him myself," said Harry. "Have you any particular reason
for mistrusting him?"

"He was searchin' my pockets last night when he thought I was asleep,"
answered Obed, and he related the incident of the night before.

"It looks suspicious," said Harry. "I have not much money, but I don't
care to lose what I have."

"I should like to shake him, but I don't see how we can very well. He's
a reg'lar member of the party."

"We can be on our guard at any rate," said Harry. "I'll tell Jack, and
advise him to be careful also."

At this point Dick Fletcher returned. He looked suspiciously from one to
the other, under the impression that something had been said about him.
He asked no questions, however, and no information was volunteered. He
could not but observe, however, that there was more or less restraint in
the manner of his companions toward him, and that they were not disposed
to be social.

That day they made nine miles, the road being slightly better than the
day before. About five o'clock they reached a rude wayside inn, over the
door of which was a swinging sign, on which was printed:

TRAVELLERS' REST.

"We might as well stop here, instead of camping out," said Fletcher.

"I'm agreeable," said Obed, "if the tax isn't too high."

"Oh, Linton is moderate in his charges," said Fletcher. "I've known him
a good while. He's a good fellow."

This was not a very valuable recommendation in the opinion of Obed and
the two boys, but they had no objection to becoming guests of the
establishment.

It was a rude building, and the accommodations were very limited. In
fact, there were but two sleeping rooms. One of these Fletcher occupied,
and the other was given up to the other members of the party, there
being two beds.

"I'd rather bunk in with you, if you don't mind," said Stackpole to
Harry. "I don't feel easy in the same room with Fletcher."

"We shall be very glad of your company, Mr. Stackpole."

"If I snore, just come and turn me over. I don't want to disturb
nobody."

"I think Jack and I will be too sound asleep to be disturbed by your
snoring," said Harry with a laugh. "However, if there is any occasion, I
