like dat. You'll call me ma or mammy, dat's what you'll call
me--leastways when dey ain't nobody aroun'. Say it!"

It cost Tom a struggle, but he got it out.

"Dat's all right. Don't you ever forgit it ag'in, if you knows what's
good for you. Now den, you has said you wouldn't ever call it lies en
moonshine ag'in. I'll tell you dis, for a warnin': if you ever does say
it ag'in, it's de las' time you'll ever say it to me; I'll tramp as
straight to de Judge as I kin walk, en tell him who you is, en prove it.
Does you b'lieve me when I says dat?"

"Oh," groaned Tom, "I more than believe it; I know it."

Roxy knew her conquest was complete. She could have proved nothing to
anybody, and her threat about the writings was a lie; but she knew the
person she was dealing with, and had made both statements without any
doubt as to the effect they would produce.

She went and sat down on her candle-box, and the pride and pomp of her
victorious attitude made it a throne. She said--

"Now den, Chambers, we's gwine to talk business, en dey ain't gwine to
be no mo' foolishness. In de fust place, you gits fifty dollahs a month;
you's gwine to han' over half of it to yo' ma. Plank it out!"

But Tom had only six dollars in the world. He gave her that, and
promised to start fair on next month's pension.

"Chambers, how much is you in debt?"

Tom shuddered, and said--

"Nearly three hundred dollars."

"How is you gwine to pay it?"

Tom groaned out--"Oh, I don't know; don't ask me such awful questions."

But she stuck to her point until she wearied a confession out of him: he
had been prowling about in disguise, stealing small valuables from
private houses; in fact, he made a good deal of a raid on his
fellow-villagers a fortnight before, when he was supposed to be in St.
Louis; but he doubted if he had sent away enough stuff to realize the
required amount, and was afraid to make a further venture in the present
excited state of the town. His mother approved of his conduct, and
offered to help, but this frightened him. He tremblingly ventured to say
that if she would retire from the town he should feel better and safer,
and could hold his head higher--and was going on to make an argument,
but she interrupted and surprised him pleasantly by saying she was
ready; it didn't make any difference to her where she stayed, so that
she got her share of the pension regularly. She said she would not go
far, and would call at the haunted house once a month for her money.
Then she said--

"I don't hate you so much now, but I've hated you a many a year--and
anybody would. Didn't I change you off, en give you a good fambly en a
good name, en made you a white gen'l'man en rich, wid store clothes
on--en what did I git for it? You despised me all de time, en was al'ays
sayin' mean hard things to me befo' folks, en wouldn't ever let me
