
he had dared to read them, no ? Well, when 
Diego Estenega heard of that, he made his 
father send to Boston and Mexico for those 
books and many more, and took them up to his 
redwood forests in the north, far away from the 
priests. And they say he had read other books 
before, although such a lad ; his father had 
brought them from Spain, and never cared much 
for the priests. And he has been to Mexico 
and America and Europe ! God of my soul ! it 
is said that he knows more than his Excellency 
himself, — that his mind works faster. Ay ! 
but there was a time when he was wild, — when 
the mescal burnt his throat like hornets and 
the aguardiente was like scorpions in his brain ; 
but that was long ago, before he was twenty ; 
now he is thirty-four. lie amuses himself 
sometimes with the girls, — valgame Dios ! he 
has made hot tears flow, — but I suppose we do 
not know enough for him, for he marries none. 
Ay I but he has a charm." 

"Like what does he look ? A beautiful cab- 
allero, I suppose, with eyes that melt and a 
mouth that trembles like a woman in the 
palsy." 

'' Ay, no, my Chonita ; thou art wrong. He 
is not beautiful at all. He is rather haggard, 
and wears no mustache, and he has the pro- 


file of the great man, fine and aquiline and 
severe, excepting when he smiles, and then 
sometimes he looks kind and sometimes he 
looks like a devil. He has not the beauty of 
color ; his hair is brown, I think, and his eyes 
are gray, and set far back ; but how they flash ! 
I think they could burn if they looked too long. 
He is tall and straight and very strong, not so 
indolent as most of our men. They call him 
The American because he moves so quickly and 
gets so cross when people do not think fast 
enough. ZT^? thinks like lightning strikes. Ay! 
they all say that he will be governor in his 
time ; that he would have been long ago, but 
he has been away so much. It must be that 
he has seen and admired thee, my Chonita, and 
discovered thy grating. Thou art happy that 
thou too hast read the books. Thou and he will 
be great friends, I know ! " 

'' Yes I ' exclaimed Chonita, scornfully. '' It 
is likely. Thou hast forgotten — perhaps — the 
enmity between the Capulets and the Mon- 
tagues was a sallow flame to the bitter hatred, 
bom of jealousy in love, politics, and social 
precedence, which exists between the Este 
negas and the Iturbi y Moncadas ? " 
