"Curse you, then!" said Bill, savagely.

"Suit yourself, Mr. Burglar," said old Jack, indifferently. "There's an
old saying, 'Curses, like chickens, still come home to roost.' Your
cursing won't hurt me any."

"If my curses don't my fists may!" retorted Bill, with a malignant look.

"You won't have a chance to carry out your threats for some years to
come, if you get your deserts," said Jack, by no means terrified. "I've
only done my duty, and I'm ready to do it again whenever needed."

By this time the safe was open; all present saw the envelope of money
labeled "$12,000."

The two burglars saw the prize which was to have rewarded their efforts
and risk with a tantalizing sense of defeat. They had been so near
success, only to be foiled at last, and consigned to a jail for a term
of years.

"Curse the luck!" muttered Bill, bitterly, and in his heart Mike said
amen.

"Gentlemen, I will count this money before you," said the janitor, as he
opened the parcel.

The count was quickly accomplished. It resulted, as my readers already
know, in the discovery that, in place of twelve thousand, the parcel
contained but one thousand dollars.

"Eleven thousand dollars short!" said Jack. "Gentlemen, will you take
notice of this? Of course it is clear where the rest is gone--Talbot
carried it away with him."

"Where is he?" inquired one of the policemen. "He ought to be pursued."

"By this time he is in custody," said Jack.

"Look here, old man, who engineered this thing?" demanded Bill.

"Come here, Dan," said Jack, summoning our hero, who modestly stood in
the background. "Mr. Burglar, this boy is entitled to the credit of
defeating you. We should have known nothing of your intentions but for
Dan, the Detective."

"He!" said Bill, scornfully. "Why, I could crush him with one hand."

"Force is a good thing, but brains are better," said Jack. "Dan here has
got a better head-piece than any of us."

"You've done yourself credit, boy," said the chief policeman. "When I
have a difficult case I'll send for you."

"You are giving me more credit than I deserve," said Dan, modestly.

"If I ever get out of jail, I'll remember you," said Bill, scowling. "I
wouldn't have minded so much if it had been a man, but to be laid by the
heels by a boy like you--that's enough to make me sick."

"You've said enough, my man," said the policeman who had him in charge.
