But the remark, brilliant as it might have proved to be, was interrupted
by the explosion which was heard on the south road, and which had been
the signal for Captain Dingfield to make the attack.
"There goes your bridge!" exclaimed Kipps, looking at his prisoner with
a glow of exultation on his brown face. "Now I reckon you can see that
your Yankee cavalry couldn't save it."
"I cannot see the bridge from here, and I don't know whether or not they
have been able to save it. Wait till we get further news, Mr. Kipps."
"I reckon we don't stop here no longer, for we've done our work, and
that bridge is burning lively before this time," added the foreman, as
he shouted to the negro driver to hitch on his mules.
In ten minutes more the bridgemen had loaded themselves in the covered
wagon, with all their tools and material. Deck was given a place under
the canvas, while the four men were seated at the forward end. The negro
started his team, and the prisoner had no idea where he was going.
CHAPTER XXI
A NEW DISPOSITION OF THE FORCES
Major Lyon listened with the most intense interest to Lieutenant
Makepeace's statement in regard to the bridge-builders, as he called
them, though bridge-burners proved to be a more appropriate designation.
It was clear enough to him that his son had encountered these men; and
the disappearance of Deck appeared to be explained, though what had
become of him was still the vital question.
Life Knox had returned alone, leaving his men to guard the bridge; and
if it had been in order for the sergeant to express an opinion on the
subject, he would have said that sentinels should have been placed on it
as soon as the company of Captain Titus had been captured. The major had
tardily arrived at this conclusion. As soon as he came to the vicinity
of the hospital, Knox discovered the plumed hat of the commander, which
Deck had watched all the time he was on the bridge.
"I'm right sorry I don't bring you any good news of your son," said
Life, riding up to the commander, and saluting him as soon as he turned
away from the wounded prisoner. "The first thing we had to do was to put
out the fires, and then I went about a mile up the track to look for
Deck; but I could not find him."
"Did you see anybody over there?" asked the major.
"Not a solitary soul, Major Lyon."
"The prisoner in the hospital, with whom I have been talking, said that
four bridge-builders, with a wagon and six mules, went over that way,"
suggested the major.
"I reckon they've been to the bridge, and set it afire; but none of them
was there when I come to it. If they had a wagon and six mules, they
left as soon as they'd done the job they come to do."
"What was the condition of the bridge when you reached it, Knox?" asked
the major.
"It was all afire, but it hadn't burnt much. If we'd got there ten
minutes later, nothin' could saved it; and we had to work lively as it
was."
"But there was an explosion there."
"That didn't amount to shucks. I reckon they stuck the cans of powder in
between the 'butment and the bankin', and it only blowed out a lot of
dirt, and knocked off a couple of stones from the top of the wall. They
brought half-a-dozen bundles of light wood with them, pulled them to
pieces, and then poured sperits turpentine over and all around 'em; for
we found the cans on the platform. The fires were blazin' lively when we
got there; but we poked the wood all off the bridge. We found some
barrels o' water they kept on the platform to put out fires, and it
didn't take long to make an end on't. That's all I know about it,
major."
"But what do you suppose has become of Dexter, Knox?" asked the father,
