going to heaven, had moved them all immeasurably. The cheerful sweetness
would have deceived any but practised eyes, and even now Dil seemed
buoyed up by her delicious happiness.
“Won’t they come back?” she asked presently, with a touch of longing in
her voice.
“Yes, dear.”
“I’d like him to stay.”
“Yes, he shall stay.”
The household had not been disturbed by the near approach of the awesome
visitant. The children had not missed her, since she had brought no
gayety to them, but rather grudged Miss Virginia to her. They were at
their supper now. How easily they had forgotten the hardships of their
lives!
Virginia and John Travis entered presently. The soft summer night fell
about them, as they sat watching the frail little body, so wasted that
its vitality was fast ebbing. She talked in quaint, disjointed snatches,
piecing the year’s story together with a pathos almost heart-breaking in
its very simplicity. Her trust in him had been so perfect.
“I don’t know what’s ’come o’ mother,” she said, after one of the
silences. “But Bess ’n’ me’ll tell the Lord Jesus ’bout her, ’n’ mebbe
he can do somethin’ that’ll keep her ’way from Mrs. MacBride’s, ’cause
she wasn’t so bad before she took to goin’ there. I’ve been so feared of
her all the time, but I don’t feel feared no more. Bess said we
shouldn’t when you came back, and wisht your name had been Mr.
Greatheart. We liked him so. But they’ve all gone wrong in Barker’s
Court. Oh, can’t some one set thim right an’ straight, an’ bring thim
outen the trouble an’ drinkin’ an’ beatin’, an’ show thim the way? It’s
jes’ like thim folks leavin’ the City of Destruction. An’ oh, we’ve all
come out of it, Owny an’ little Dan. Maybe mother’ll find the way.”
“We’ll find her and try to show her,” said John Travis, with a voice
full of emotion.
“Oh, will you?” There was a satisfying delight in her tone. “An’ the
boys? If some one’d look after thim, I think I’d like to go to Bess. Do
you b’l’eve the Lord Jesus would come an’ take me if I ast him? Seems so
long since I had Bess.”
“I think he will,” Travis said, in a tone he tried to keep steady.
“I ain’t pritty, like Bess, an’ I can’t sing.”
“But you will sing there. And you will love the Saviour. That is all he
asks.”
“I can’t seem to understand how he could be so good to poor folks. An’ I
don’t see why they ain’t all jes’ wild to love Him. Tell me some more
’bout his comin’ down from heaven to help thim.”
With the little hand in his, he told the wider, greater story of the
Saviour’s love,—how he had come to redeem, to sanctify all future
suffering in his own, to give himself a ransom. And even now Travis’s
mind reverted to the hours of discussion with his cousin. Ah, how could
he have brought bread to that famishing soul, that had fed so long on
the husks of the world’s wisdom, but for the afternoon with the
children, the meeting with the Lord Jesus in the way.
The moon came up and flooded the room with softened splendor, the summer
night was fragrant with exquisite odors. Almost it seemed as if the very
heavens were opened. The wide eyes were full of wordless rapture, and a
great content shone in the ethereal face.
Then Dilsey moved about restlessly.
“My little Dil, what can I do for you?” he asked with tender solicitude.
A strange shudder seemed to run over her. Was it a premonition?
“I wish you’d take me in your strong arms ’n’ hold me. ’Pears if I’d
like to be clost to some one, just sheltered like. An’ you an’ Miss
Virginia sing ’bout ‘The rivers of delight.’”
John Travis lifted her up. She was so small and light; a child who was
