


in its peril, and in a passion of devotion they were 
eager were they not ? to follow the flag and to 
give their brief lives to its imperishable glory. 
Nothing is impossible to a nation with an ideal 
like that. It was this flame that ran over Europe 
in the struggle of France against a world in arms. 
It was this national ideal that was incarnate in 
Napoleon, as every great idea that moves the world 
is sooner or later incarnated. "What was it that 
we saw in Washington on his knees at Yalley 
Forge, or blazing with wrath at the cowardice on 
Monmouth? in Lincoln entering Eichmond with 
bowed head and infinite sorrow and yearning in 
his heart? An embodiment of a great national 
idea and destiny. 

In France this ideal burns yet like a flame, and 
is still evoked by a name. It is the passion of 
glory, but the desire of a nation, and Napoleon was 
the incarnation of passion. They say that he is 
not dead as others are dead, but that he may come 
again and ride at the head of his legions, and strike 
down the enemies of France ; that his bugle will 
call the youth from every hamlet, that the roll of 
his drum will transform France in a camp, and the 
grenadiers will live again and ride with him, amid 
hurrahs, and streaming tears, and shouts of " My 
Emperor ! Oh, my Emperor " Is it only a legend ? 
But the spirit is there ; not a boy but dreams of it, 
not a girl but knots the thought in with her holiday tricolor. That is to have an abiding ideal, and 
patiently to hold it, in isolation, in defeat, even in 
an overripe civilization. 

We believe do we not? in other triumphs than 
those of the drum and the sword. Our aspirations 
for the republic are for a nobler example of human 
society than the world has yet seen. Happy is the 
country, and the metropolis of the country, whose 
youth, gilded only by their virtues, have these aspi- 
rations! 

"When the party broke up, the street lamps were 
beginning to twinkle here and there, and Jack discovered to his surprise that the Twist business 
would have to go over to another day. It was such 
a hurrying life in New York. There was just time 
for a cup of tea at Mrs. Trafton's. Everybody 
dropped in there after five o'clock, when the duties 
of the day were over, with the latest news, and to 
catch breath before rushing into the programme of 
the evening. 

There were a dozen ladies in the drawing-room 
when Jack entered, and his first impression was 
that the scream of conversation would be harder to 
talk against than a Wagner opera ; but he presently 
got his cup of tea, and found a snug seat in the 
chimney-corner by Miss Tavish ; indeed, they moved 
