had never had the slightest doubt as to either the one or the other. The
engagement was still very new. As Mr. Barclay had investments at
Chattanooga to look after, the little party of four had taken these
beautiful October days for an excursion to Tennessee. Mrs. Barclay had
heard that one of the elder Willoughbys had built a cottage "not far
from the Great Smoky Mountains," and as the paradisiacal weather
continued, with the forests all aglow and the sky a mixture of blue and
gold, she suggested that they should go over from Chattanooga and take a
look at it. Walter had therefore arranged it. From the Warm Springs he
himself had ridden on in advance, in order to have the house opened;
this was the moment when he had made his brief visit to Asheville for
the purpose of ordering supplies. The Barclays were to come no farther
eastward than The Lodge; they were to return in a day or two to Warm
Springs, and thence back to Chattanooga. Even if he had known that Ruth
Chase was at L'Hommedieu, Walter would not have been deterred from
pleasing Mrs. Barclay by any thought of her vicinity; but, as it
happened, he supposed that she was in New York. For a recent letter from
Nicholas Willoughby had mentioned that Chase himself was there, and that
he was going abroad with his wife for several years, sailing by the next
Wednesday's Cunarder.

"Darby and Joan?" Walter had repeated, in answer to Mrs. Barclay's
remark. "That is exactly what I am after, mother. Come, let us settle
the matter now on the spot--the bona fide Darby-and-Joan-ness. When
shall it begin?"

"'Mother'!" commented Mrs. Barclay, laughing. "You have not lost much in
your life through timidity, Walter; I venture to say that."

"Nothing whatever," Walter replied, promptly. "Shall we arrange it for
next month? I have always said I should select November for my wedding,
to see how my wife bears bad weather."

"No, no. Not quite so soon as that," answered Mrs. Barclay. "But early
in the year perhaps," she went on, consentingly, as she looked at her
daughter's happy blushing face.

Ruth heard every word; the veranda was not four yards distant; through
the crevices in the foliage she could see them all distinctly.

She had immediately recognized the Barclays. Anthony Etheridge's speech
about Walter's being in their train came back to her, and other mentions
of their name as well. But this was mechanical merely; what held her,
what transfixed her, was Walter's own countenance. Marion Barclay, Mrs.
Barclay, all the rumors that Etheridge could collect, these would have
been nothing to her if it had not been for that--for Walter's face.

And Walter was, in truth, very happy. Marion was everything that he
wished his wife to be: she was accomplished and statuesque; to those she
liked she could be charming; her features had the distinction which he
had always been determined that his wife should possess. He was not
marrying her for her fortune, though he was very glad she had that,
also. He was much in love with her, and it was this which Ruth had
perceived--perceived beyond a doubt.

For ten minutes she stood there motionless, her eyes resting upon him.
Then, feeling a death-like chill coming, she had just sense enough, just
life enough left, to move backward noiselessly through the smooth leaves
until she had reached the open forest beyond. As a whole life passes
before the eyes of a drowning man, in the same way she saw as in a
