"In carrying out the plan which you suggested, Captain Scott, I found
that the Fatimé was not disposed to follow you as long as the
Guardian-Mother was in sight," continued the commander, while the "Big
Four" looked at each other, wondering that Captain Ringgold had turned
aside from the subject which was a burning one to them. "In order to
help Captain Mazagan in his movements, I picked up a pilot off Ras
Bourlos, and stood in behind a neck of land. We took the ground there,
and stuck hard in the soft mud, though the chart gave water enough to
float the ship."
"That was unfortunate," added Scott.
"A government tug hauled us off on the next tide, and I followed you at
the best speed of the ship. I went in at Limasol, though I did not
believe you would make that port in a southerly gale, and the lookout
reported the Maud in this bay. That is the reason of my delay in joining
you as arranged," said the commander, finishing his narrative. "But I
expected to find the Fatimé here also; for she was pressing on after you
the last we saw of her."
"We lost sight of her early last night," added Scott. "Her lights
disappeared, and we could form no idea as to what had become of her. I
think now that we outsailed her; for we carried a reefed foresail before
the gale, and it must have helped a good deal."
"She came into this bay this morning," added Louis, who thought the
conference was moving on very slowly.
"I see that you wish me to drag out of you the particulars of your stay
here, Captain Scott," said the commander with a smile. "As I have not
the least idea what you have been about here, I find some difficulty in
framing my questions. You know that a lawyer, when he examines a witness
in court, is in possession of all the facts, as I am not on the present
occasion. I have learned that the Fatimé came to this bay, and that she
is at the bottom now. Perhaps you will be willing to inform me, Captain,
by this time, how the Pacha's steamer happens to be at the bottom."
"We had a fight here, and I ran the Maud into her, stove a big hole in
her side, and she went to the bottom!" almost shouted Scott, who had
been not a little perplexed at the manner of proceeding of the
commander. "I believe that is telling the whole story in a heap, sir."
Captain Ringgold sprang out of his chair, evidently startled by the
intelligence; and he had never been known to make so much of a
demonstration before since he had been in command of the ship. He stood
looking into the face of Captain Scott as though he were incredulous in
regard to the announcement just made to him; and that a little
steam-yacht only forty feet in length had run into and sunk a vessel of
four hundred tons was calculated to stagger a man of his experience in
nautical affairs.
"Do you mean literally, Captain Scott, that you ran into and sank the
Fatimé?" demanded the commander.
"Literally and exactly, sir, that was what was done," replied the young
captain very decidedly.
"It looks incredible," added the commander, as he resumed his seat.
"It is the exact truth, Captain Ringgold," said Louis.
"I vouch for the truth of the statement, Captain, if my word is good for
anything," Felix followed.
"I give my testimony in the same direction," Morris put in.
"Of course I do not doubt the truth of your statement," replied the
commander. "But it looks like an amazing fact that the little Maud was
able to do so much mischief to a steamer of the size of the Fatimé.
However, she is about as big as some of the little tug-boats in New York
Harbor that drag ships of five hundred tons after them. In spite of all
that has been said in the last six months about the extraordinary
strength of the Maud, I should have supposed the blow, if you went at
the steamer at full speed, would have crushed in her bow."
