could not insinuate any doubt of a lady's word.

"And you have never been tempted to marry again?" I essayed with great
lack of prudence.

"Oh, Dr. Fenwick, do you think it would be right?" said the widow,
leaning more heavily on my arm.

"If you should meet one who was congenial to you. I don't know why not."

"I have always thought that if I ever married again I would select a
professional gentleman," murmured the widow.

I began to understand my danger and tried a diversion.

"I don't know if you would consider Prof. Poppendorf a 'professional
gentleman'," I said.

"Oh, how horrid! Who would marry such an old fossil?"

"It is well that the Professor does not hear you."

Perhaps this conversation is hardly worth recording, but it throws some
light on the character of the widow. Moreover it satisfied me that
should I desire to marry her there would be no violent opposition on
her part. But, truth to tell, I would have preferred the young woman
from Macy's, despite the criticism of Mrs. Wyman. One was artificial,
the other was natural.

We reached Schiller Hall, after a long walk. It was a small hall,
looking something like a college recitation room.

Prof. Poppendorf took his place behind a desk on the platform and looked
about him. There were scarcely a hundred persons, all told, in the
audience. The men, as a general thing, were shabbily dressed, and
elderly. There were perhaps twenty women, with whom dress was a
secondary consideration.

"Did you ever see such frights, Doctor?" whispered the widow.

"You are the only stylishly dressed woman in the hall."

Mrs. Wyman looked gratified.

The Professor commenced a long and rather incomprehensible talk, in
which the words material and immaterial occurred at frequent intervals.
There may have been some in the audience who understood him, but I was
not one of them.

"Do you understand him?" I asked the widow.

"Not wholly," she answered, guardedly.

I was forced to smile, for she looked quite bewildered.

The Professor closed thus: "Thus you will see, my friends, that much
that we call material is immaterial, while per contra, that which is
usually called immaterial is material."

"A very satisfactory conclusion," I remarked, turning to the widow.
