brought out the mongoose. He tackled him at once, and killed him about as
quick as a rifle would have done it. I think you will learn all you want to
know about snakes as you travel through India."

Sir Modava retired with the usual applause. As the company returned from
the platform, a gun from the Blanche attracted their attention.




                                 CHAPTER XI

                        A PLEASANT DINNER-PARTY AT SEA


The Blanche was on the starboard beam of the Guardian-Mother, or, in shore
parlance, she was on the right-hand side of her as both ships sailed to the
eastward. She chose her own position, and it varied considerably at
different times, though it was generally about half a mile from her
consort. At the present time she had come within less than a quarter of a
mile, as the sea was quite smooth.

"Why, the Blanche is all dressed up as though she were going to a ball!"
exclaimed Mrs. Belgrave, as the booming gun attracted the attention of the
entire party.

"So she is," added the commander, as he observed her altered appearance for
the first time; for he had been giving his whole attention to the lecture.
"Captain Sharp is evidently getting up some sort of a frolic."

The first gun was followed by a second, and then by a third; and they
continued till thirty-one of them had been discharged. Four pieces were
evidently used, and they were fired with considerable rapidity, proving
that the British tars who formed her ship's company had seen service in the
navy.

"What does all that mean?" queried Captain Ringgold, as the party gathered
about him for an explanation, though he was as much puzzled as any of them.
"It is not a national salute, so far as I know, and I am utterly unable to
say what it means."

But as soon as the firing ceased a signal number went up to the fore-peak.
Bangs was the signal officer, and he had his book open as soon as he saw
that it was needed.

"What is it, Bangs?" asked the commander at the window of the pilot-house.

"'Stop; I have something to communicate,'" replied the quartermaster.

"All right; give her one bell," added the commander.

Bangs gave the proper signal for the affirmative, after he had struck the
gong. The letting off of the steam was enough to inform the captain of the
Blanche that his request was complied with, and it was seen that he had a
boat all ready to drop into the water. The screw of the ship ceased to
revolve; and then, to save time, the commander of the Guardian-Mother
ordered the quartermaster to ring to back her, and the Blanche followed her
example. As soon as the headway was nearly killed, the quarter-boat went
into the water, with an officer in uniform in the stern-sheets. The cutter
pulled to the American's side, and a ladder was dropped.
