"Why, the very last one that ever was--last night. My friend rode half
the night in order to give me, as the captain of the Home Guards, this
news, as soon as he got to the town, less than half an hour ago. I
called on Lieutenant Ripley, and ordered him to muster our company, and
get as many volunteers to defend the town as he could. The second
lieutenant, who lives near me, will march the men on guard in the
little village to town at once. I believe I have told you all I know,
Captain Gordon."

"I am exceedingly obliged to you for the information you have given
me," replied the commander of the company.

"I am inclined to think I had better take the bull by the horns, and
march my company, all but a guard for the town, over here, and join
you. My men all have horses, and are well armed, though they are not
provided with sabres. Most of them have hunting-rifles, and are dead
shots," continued the colonel.

"I shall not object to your marching your company over here, though I
think I can handle the enemy alone; but you must use your own
judgment," added the captain.

"I would rather fight the battle over here than in the town; and I
shall bring my men, and put them under your command, Captain Gordon. I
think they are all ready by this time," replied the colonel, as he
wheeled his horse, and rode back at a gallop.

The commander communicated the intelligence he had just received to his
two lieutenants; and it was heard by some of the cavalrymen, from whom
it passed along the ranks, till all of them knew that a battle would
soon be fought, perhaps within a couple of hours. The captain rode back
to the head of the column. He had increased the speed of the company
from a walk to a trot while conversing with Colonel Halliburn.

The captain had no doubt that the information he had received was
entirely correct; and he hurried his men somewhat, hoping to find a
better place for the coming combat than he had yet seen along the road,
with woods on each side of the way. But he rode about three miles
farther before he came to a location that suited him. It was a hill
with a rude farmhouse at the top of it, on the right. The land on this
side had been cleared, and the crops had been harvested from it. At the
ascent of the hill on the left, about ten acres had been recently
cleared, while a continuous forest began at the crest of the hill, and
extended as far as he could see.

The captain realized that he could not have found a better location for
his purpose in the whole State of Kentucky; and he gave the order to
halt and to remain at ease when the company was not more than half-way
up the hill. He preferred to make his charge, when it came to that,
down the hill; and he had come to a halt where his force could not be
seen by an enemy on the other side of the elevation.

Captain Gordon was accounted a skilful strategist; and as he sat on his
horse at the head of the column, he matured his plan to meet the
attack, or to begin it, as the case might be. He had not waited much
more than an hour when the Millersville Home Guard galloped up to the
foot of the hill, and halted. The captain rode back to the head of
their column, and the colonel in command saluted him. The horses were
reeking with foam, and seemed to be well nigh winded, so great was the
speed to which they had been urged. It was a horse-raising country, and
