and Guernalec refilled their glasses three times before the storm of
applause which the toast of Sylvia had provoked, subsided.

Three times the glasses were filled and emptied to Sylvia, and again to
Trent, who protested.

"This is irregular," he cried, "the next toast is to the twin Republics,
France and America?"

"To the Republics! To the Republics!" they cried, and the toast was drunk
amid shouts of "Vive a France! Vive l'Amérique! Vive la Nation!"

Then Trent, with a smile at West, offered the toast, "To a Happy Pair!"
and everybody understood, and Sylvia leaned over and kissed Colette, while
Trent bowed to West.

The beef was eaten in comparative calm, but when it was finished and a
portion of it set aside for the old people below, Trent cried: "Drink to
Paris! May she rise from her ruins and crush the invader!" and the cheers
rang out, drowning for a moment the monotonous thunder of the Prussian
guns.

Pipes and cigarettes were lighted, and Trent listened an instant to the
animated chatter around him, broken by ripples of laughter from the girls
or the mellow chuckle of Fallowby. Then he turned to West.

"There is going to be a sortie to-night," he said. "I saw the American
Ambulance surgeon just before I came in and he asked me to speak to you
fellows. Any aid we can give him will not come amiss."

Then dropping his voice and speaking in English, "As for me, I shall go
out with the ambulance to-morrow morning. There is of course no danger,
but it's just as well to keep it from Sylvia."

West nodded. Thorne and Guernalec, who had heard, broke in and offered
assistance, and Fallowby volunteered with a groan.

"All right," said Trent rapidly,--"no more now, but meet me at Ambulance
headquarters to-morrow morning at eight."

Sylvia and Colette, who were becoming uneasy at the conversation in
English, now demanded to know what they were talking about.

"What does a sculptor usually talk about?" cried West, with a laugh.

Odile glanced reproachfully at Thorne, her fiancé.

"You are not French, you know, and it is none of your business, this war,"
said Odile with much dignity.

Thorne looked meek, but West assumed an air of outraged virtue.

"It seems," he said to Fallowby, "that a fellow cannot discuss the
beauties of Greek sculpture in his mother tongue, without being openly
suspected."

Colette placed her hand over his mouth and turning to Sylvia, murmured,
"They are horridly untruthful, these men."

"I believe the word for ambulance is the same in both languages," said
