

308 THE STOEY OF JESUS CHRIST 

false humility, had tossed off its mask. The true 
force of this remarkable man had now expressed 
itself. To make himself Dictator, to become King 
of the nation, was clearly his intention. The peo- 
ple seemed to be at his feet. What would be the 
consequence ? 

The unrest deepened in the capital. The officers 
of Rome could not deny that they shared it, though 
treating the matter with well-bred indifference. The 
Jewish Church sent her delegates into the crowd 
with orders to report what was to be seen. Hurried 
councils and secret threats and plots muttered in 
Temple and palace. 

The mob rushed on. The jam thickened. The 
uproar increased. The Nazarene was said to have 
descended the mountain, to be crossing the valley, to 
be climbing the sacred hills of Zion. In an hour 
in minutes he would be in sight. He and his 
retinue were coming up rapidly, splendidly* In a 
moment Ah, there ! 

The cries of the multitude rose to the heavens. 
For a space, one could neither hear nor see. A craze 
to witness the gorgeous spectacle seized the quietest 
man in the crowd. A kind of glorious madness set 
in. Who would have believed that this country 
Eabbi could have commanded such a demonstration? 

Ah, behold! at last! That is he. Here is the 
heretic. See the madman. Look at the Sabbath- 
breaker, the blasphemer, the excommunicated. Rabbi. 
There is the revolutionist, the pretender, . . , Rub 
the eyes well. Look again. Doubt your senses, but 
look once more. 



INTO JERUSALEM 309 

The day was quiet and warm. Spring sang out- 
side of the city. The sky was a pallid, pure color. 
All the people were in their Passover clothes. Festal 
bands were coming up everywhere, and these from 
without and those others, the throng from within the 
capital, met in a mass. 

In the centre of it was a plain man. He rode a 
young animal whose neck had never before known 
the bridle, the colt of an ass, which, it was said, 
had been mysteriously found, or strangely offered 
to his service. No trappings, no tricks of effect, 
deviated from the simplicity of his mount. No steed 
of war bore him on his errand of peace. He had no 
arms and no armor. There was no retinue. Not a 
