Slowly the lean, dark woman left her seat, raising one thin arm, and
pointing straight at Orsino's face, her head thrown back, her parched
lips parted and showing her teeth.

'Murderer!' she cried. 'You dare to show me your face--you dare to show
me the hands that killed my son! You dare to stand there before God and
me--to hear God's curse on you and mine--to answer for blood--'

Her lips and throat were dry, so that she could not speak, but choked,
and swallowed convulsively, and her eyes grew visibly red. Orsino was
riveted to the spot and speechless. For a moment he did not even think
of Vittoria, cowering back against the curtain. The woman's worn face
was changed in her immense wrath, and he could not take his eyes from
her. She found her voice again, painfully, fighting against the fiery
dryness that choked her.

'With his innocent blood on your hands, you come here--you come to face
his very mother in her sacred grief--to see my tears, to tear out the
last shreds of my heart, to revile my mother's soul--to poison the air
that breathes sorrow! But you think that I am weak, that I am only a
woman. You think, perhaps, that I shall lose my senses and faint. It
would be no shame, but I am not of such women.'

Her voice gathered fulness but sank in tone as she went on. Still Orsino
said nothing, for it was impossible to interrupt her. She must say her
say, and curse her curse out, and he must listen, for he would not turn
and go.

'You have come,' she said, speaking quickly and with still rising fury.
'I am here to meet you. I am here to demand blood of you for blood. I am
here to curse you, and your name, and your race, your soul and their
souls, dead and living, in the name of God, who made my son, of Christ,
who died for him, of the Holy Saints, who could not save him from the
devil you are--in the name of God, and of man, and of the whole world, I
curse you! May your life be a century of cruel deaths, and when you die
at last with a hundred years of agony in you, may your immortal soul be
damned everlastingly a thousand-fold! May you pray and not be heard, may
you repent and not be forgiven, may you receive the Holy Sacraments to
your damnation and the last Unction with fire in hell! May every living
creature that bears your name come to an evil before your eyes, your
father--your mother--the men and women of your house, and your unborn
children! Blood--I would have blood! May your blood pay for mine, and
your soul for my son's soul, who died unconfessed in his sins! Go,
assassin! go, murderer of the innocent! go out into the world with my
mother's curse on you, and may every evil thing in earth and hell be
everlastingly with you and yours, living and dead!
Blood!--blood!--blood!'

Her voice was suddenly and horribly extinguished in the last word, as
an instrument that is strained too far cracks in a last discordant note
and is silent. She stood one moment more, with outstretched hand and
fingers that would still make the sign of one more unspoken curse, and
then, without warning, she fell back in a heap towards the couch.

Simultaneously, Vittoria and Orsino sprang forward to catch her, but
even before Vittoria could reach her she lay motionless on the floor,
her head on the edge of the sofa, her hands stretched out on each side
of her, her thin fingers twitching desperately at the carpet. A moment
later, they were still too, and she was unconscious, as the two began to
lift her up.
