" He said so." 
" That's very nice of him. If he could devote him- 
self to her ; but — And would she like to go ? " 
" To please him, she would." Westover was silent, 
and the girl surprised him by the appeal she suddenly 
made to him. " Mr. Westover, do you believe it 
would be very well for either- of us to go ? I think it 
would be better for us to leave all that part of his life 
alone. It's no use in pretending that we're like the 
kind of people he knows, or that we know their ways, 
and I don't believe — " 
Westover felt his heart rise in indignant sympathy. 
" There isn't any one he knows to compare with you !" 
he said, and in this he was thinking mainly of Bessie 
 
Lynde. " You're worth a thousand — If I were — if 
he's half a man he would be proud — I beg your par- 
don ! I don't mean — but you understand — " 
Cynthia put her head far out of the window, and 
looked along the steep roof before them. " There is 
a blind oflE one of the windows. I heard it clapping 
in the wind the other night. I must go and see the 
number of the room." She drew her head in quickly 
and ran away without letting him see her face. 
He followed her. '' Let me help you put it on 
again ! " 
" No, no ! " she called back. " Frank will do that, 
or Jombateeste, when they come to shut up the 
house." 
XLI. 
Westover did not meet Durgin for several days af- 
ter his return from Lion's Head. He brought mes- 
sages for him from his mother and from Whitwell, 
and he waited for him to come and get them so long 
that he had to blame himself for not sending them to 
him. When JefE appqpred, at the end of a week, 
Westover had a certain embarrassment in meeting 
him, and the eSort to overcome this carried him be- 
yond his sincerity. He was aware of feigning the 
cordiality he showed, and of having less real liking 
for him than ever before. He suggested that he must 
be busier every day, now, with his college work, and he 
resented the air of social prosperity which JefE put on 
in saying, Yes, there was that, and then he had some 
engagements which kept him from coming in sooner. 
He did not say what the engagements were, and 
they did not recur to the things they had last spoken 
of. Westover could not do so without Jeff's leading, 
and he was rather glad that he gave none. He stayed 
only a little time, which was spent mostly in a show 
of interest on both sides, and the hollow hilarities 
which people use to mask their indifference to one an- 
other's being and doing. Jeff declared that he had 
 
never seen Westover looking so well, and said lie 
mnst go up to Lion's Head again ; it had done him 
good. As for his picture, it was a corker; it made 
him feel as if he were there ! He asked about all the 
folks, and received Westover's replies with vague 
laughter, and an absence in his bold eye, which made 
