' They will come again. But as to matters now in 
hand ; I came to leave with you some instructions. You 
will follow me in a few days. Order your affairs, for you 
will be absent long.' 

' Will Jean and Pierre go with me ? ' 

' No ; they would refuse now, but presently they will 
come, and with them they will bring my parents' blessing, 
and likewise their consent that I take up my mission. I 
shall be stronger then — stronger for that ; for lack of it I 
am weak now.' She paused a little while, and the tears 
gathered in her eyes ; then she went on : M would say 
good-bye to Little Mengette. Bring her outside the village 
at dawn ; she must go with me a little of the way — ' 

' And Haumette ? ' 

She broke down and began to cry, saying — 
' No, oh, no — she is too dear to me ; I could not bear 
it, knowing I should never look upon her face again.' 

The Governor keeps his promise to Joan.


Next morning I brought Mengette, and we four walked 
along the road in the cold dawn till the village was far 
behind ; then the two girls said their good-byes, clinging 
about each other's neck, and pouring out their grief in 
loving words and tears, a pitiful sight to see. And Joan 
took one long look back upon the distant village, and the 
Fairy Tree, and the oak forest, and the flowery plain, and 
the river, as if she was trying to print these scenes on her 
memory so that they would abide there always and not 
fade, for she knew she would not see them any more in 
this life ; then she turned, and went from us, sobbing 
bitterly. It was her birthday and mine. She was seven- 
teen years old. 

CHAPTER II 

After a few days, Laxart took Joan to Vaucouleurs, and 
found lodging and guardianship for her with Catherine 
Royer, a wheelwright's wife, an honest and good woman. 
Joan went to mass regularly, she helped do the housework, 
earning her keep in that way, and if any wished to talk 
with her about her mission — and many did — she talked 
freely, making no concealments regarding the matter now. 
I was soon housed near by, and witnessed the effects 
which followed. At once the tidings spread that a young 
girl was come who was appointed of God to save France. 
The common people flocked in crowds to look at her and 
speak with her, and her fair young loveliness won the half 
of their belief, and her deep earnestness and transparent 
sincerity won the other half. The well-to-do remained 
away and scoffed, but that is their way. 

Next, a prophecy of Merlin's, more than eight hundred 
years old, was called to mind, which said that in a far 
future time France would be lost by a woman and restored 
