Ben declared that the club had done exceedingly well for the first day
afloat, and now they must go to the spot where Captain and Mrs. Sedley
were looking at them. Frank was directed to run for the cottage of the
widow Weston.
"Now we must give the captain the compliment of tossing oars to him,"
said Ben on the way over. "When a boat in the navy is to meet or pass
one containing a superior officer, it is the fashion to salute him with
a toss of the oars exactly as you have learned to do it to-day."
The teacher explained it more in detail; and the boat headed down the
lake, keeping as close to the shore as it was prudent to go.
"Stand by to toss!" said Frank, prompted by the old sailor. "Toss!"
The oars all went up to a perpendicular, with no straggling ones among
them; and the Zephyr had headway enough to keep her moving a quarter of
a mile. Captain Sedley took off his hat, acknowledging the salute,
while Mrs. Sedley waved her handkerchief very vigorously. Then the oars
were trailed in due form, and the boat went up to the flat rock where
they had embarked. Frank's father and mother came over to congratulate
the boys upon the proficiency they had made in a single afternoon. The
lady then invited all the crew and Uncle Ben to visit the mansion,
where they found a nice collation awaiting them. They had been on the
lake all the afternoon, and the air and exercise had given them
excellent appetites. Neither the captain nor his wife preached to them,
but talked very pleasantly about the boat and the rowing. They took
their leave before dark, and a dozen families knew all about the
excursion before bedtime.
CHAPTER VIII
THE SECOND LESSON
It was hard work for the boys to confine their attention to their
studies during the next few days; but Frank Sedley made a severe
struggle to do so, and succeeded very well. Perhaps he accomplished as
much or more by his efforts to induce his companions not to be carried
away by the fascinations of boating as by the efforts of his own will.
It was plain enough that his father would not permit the Zephyr to
interfere with the studies of the boys, and he represented this danger
very strongly to his friends. They all did their best to keep their
minds fixed upon the lessons, and they made a reasonable success of
their efforts. But they were all looking forward to Saturday afternoon
with eager anticipations; and when it came, they were at the flat rock
which served as a landing-place half an hour before the appointed time.
The Zephyr was there; and so was Uncle Ben, who gave them all a
pleasant greeting, and made quite a long speech about the necessity of
keeping cool, and not spoiling the practice of the club, as they called
it, though it had not yet been organized, by their foolish hurry and
impatience. They all promised to be as cool as Nelson at Trafalgar; and
no doubt they all intended to keep their promise, but the fascination
of working the new boat sometimes proved to be too much for them.
"Where are the flags, Uncle Ben? We haven't put them up yet," said
Frank.
"Here they are, my boy," replied the old sailor, taking them from the
cushioned seat in the stern-sheets. "The blue silk one, with silver
stars around the letter 'Z,' goes in the bow. You'll find a place for
it there, Tony, and you may put it up. Here is the American flag, and
it goes in the starn. You will find a place for it, Frank; put it
there."
The two boys inserted the end of each staff in the socket prepared for
it, and the breeze spread out the flags to the great delight of the
juvenile boatmen. They made the boat look very gay and jaunty, and
seemed to give the finishing glory to the beautiful craft. The boys
wanted to get into the boat, but Uncle Ben would not permit one of them
to do so; everything must be done in shipshape order.
