that I hold this belief on a par with the
Christian religion ; and am not altogether inclined 
to deny the sardonic impeachment ! When 
our bodies cease to be drugged into disease 
and sin, it is my personal impression that our 
souls will begin to stand a fair chance ; 
perhaps not much before. 

Too brief a creed ! Yet still too short a 
life to practice it ! But may the clover refuse 
to grow over my grave, and the flowers laid 
there by the dearest hands shrink from it, if I 
outlive the impulse of my heart to keep step 
with the onward movement of human life, and 
to perceive the battle afar off, charging when 
and where I can. 

Justice Holmes, the son of our great poet, 
in a recent Decoration Day address struck a 
paean in praise of the " splendid carelessness 
of life " which war taught us. Give us such 
splendid carelessness, in moral as in physical 
danger, and the world will spin fast towards 
tjie stars. 

I have intimated that the claims of my study 
have interfered with the demands which social 
reform would otherwise have made upon my 
life. This is an evitable fact, imperfectly to 
be understood, except by people whose business 
is to stay in a study. There is a puzzled 
expression sometimes cast upon one by men 
and women but especially by women 
whom one holds in the highest honor ; whose 
own existence is dedicated to the moral agitation 
of the platform and the convention and to 
the machinery of organization. Mine is not, 
nor has it ever been. My intellect may go 
with them, and my heart may throb for them, 
but my time and vitality have always been 
distinctly the property of my ideals of literary 
art ; ideals which are not the less imperious to 
me, because I know better than any of my 
critics how impossible it has been for me to 
reach them, where they 

" Swing like lamps in the Judgment Hall 
On the Eve of the Day of the Last Awaking." 

" Do not trouble her. She works in another 
way from ours," said Mrs. Livermore gently, 
one day, to some unknown agitator, who was 
abusing rather than entreating me into the 
performance of some platform exhibition for 
the sake of the cause. I blessed the great 
woman who defended me from the small one ; 
and I think of her words and manner grate 
fully, to this day. And this leads me to say, 
by the way, if I may spare a paragraph for the 
confession : that it is fortunate for the real 
