Like the octogenarian whose teeth gave out before his dry toast, she
"hadn't finished, but she stopped" there, being clean out of breath.
"But Mrs. A.!" I raised my girlish voice to reach the deaf ears. "I
think all that is beautiful. I only wish I could imitate her, and be
as popular and as much beloved."
"Humph!" inhaling the snuff spitefully. "She's too sweet to be
wholesome. Fair words butter no parsnips. Look out for a tongue that's
smooth on both sides. What does the Bible say of the hypocrite? 'The
words of his mouth were smoother than butter.' I'd rather have honest
vinegar!"
I stood too much in dread of her frankness to ask if sugar is never
honest, or to speculate audibly why she chose parsnips with their
length of fibre and peculiar cloying sweet, as types of daily living.
The adage seemed droll enough to me then, and it is odd even now that
I have become familiar with it in the talk of old-fashioned people.
Interpreting it as they do, I dispute it stoutly. Parsnips may be only
passable to most palates even when buttered. They would be intolerable
with vinegar. Furthermore,--before we drop the figure,--if anything
can butter them, it is fair words.
This business which we call living is not easy at the best. Our
parsnips are sometimes tough and stringy; sometimes insipid; often
withered by drought or frost-bitten. If served without sauce, they--to
quote our old-fashioned people again--"go against the stomach."
There is a pernicious fallacy to the effect that a rough tongue is an
honest one. There are quite as many unpleasant untruths told as there
are flattering falsehoods. Because a speech is kind it is not of
necessity a lie, nor does a remark gain in truth in direct ratio as it
loses its politeness. Often the blunt criticism is the outcome of a
savage instinct on the part of the perpetrator. In America, men and
women (always excepting Italians) do not carry poniards concealed in
their breasts, or swords at their sides. In lieu of these the tongue
is used to revenge an evil.
The Psalmist exclaims: "Let the righteous smite me; it shall be a
kindness; and let him reprove me; it shall be an excellent oil," but
the average representative of the nineteenth century will not echo his
sentiment. It may be that the "righteous" of that day had a more
agreeable way of offering reproof than have the modern saints. However
that may be, the "excellent oil" seems to have given place to
corrosive sublimate and carbolic acid--neither of which, applied in an
undiluted form, may be even remotely suspected of soothing an open
wound. True, they are fatal to bacteria, but at the same time they
madden the sufferer as would coals of living fire.
Even supposing one lays herself open to the charge of flattery, is it
not less of a fault than to merit the reputation for brutal
fault-finding? Who would not rather be a healer than a scarifier?
"Faithful may be the wounds of a friend" (and on this word "friend" I
lay special stress), but the converse is also true. Faithful are his
healings. Have you never had a whole day brightened by some seemingly
chance remark which warmed the cockles of your heart with a delicious
glow? It may have been that you were disappointed in some cherished
scheme--how much disappointed no one guessed and you were ashamed to
confess. It may have been that you were struggling to be brave and
cheerful under some trial, the weight of which you thought others
could not appreciate. The cheering word may only have been--"My dear,
how sweet you are looking to-day! You do my old eyes good." Or perhaps
an appreciative other-half has pressed your hand and whispered, "You
are the bravest little woman in the world!" Who does not remember how,
at such a time, the unexpected sympathy or encouragement brought the
quick tears to the eyes, and to the cheeks the flush which meant a
bound of joy from the heavy heart? If we could but remember that we
