man who is charged with the burden of souls, and 
who persuadeth them. A fine, inner light glowed 
through his features, as a sacred lamp glows through 
alabaster or some exquisite shell. His plaintive lip 
trembled. His deep eyes burned and retreated, as 
if they veiled themselves. An expression dazzling 
to behold settled upon his face. His white garment 
gathered light, and shone. Suddenly pausing, he 
stretched forth his hands. What delicate arrange 
ment of the chancel lamps illuminated them ? It was 
noticed by many, and spoken of afterwards below 
the breath. For, as he raised them in benediction 
upon the people, there scintillated from the palms a 
light. Some said that it was reflected from the 
radiance of the man's face. Some said that it had 




The face of the stranger swam before her " 





another cause. Only this is sure : when he did uplift 
his hands to bless them, all the people fell upon their 
knees before him. 

It was now almost dark in the church, and no 
man could see his neighbor's face. The choir, on 
their knees, began to sing, "Holy, holy, holy" 
When their voices fell, the preacher's rose : 

" And now may the grace of God the Father, and 
the love of Jesus Christ his Son, your Lord, and the 
peace of the Holy Spirit, be upon you ; for there is 
Life Eternal ; and God is the Light thereof ; whose 
children ye are forever. Amen, and Amen." 

His voice ceased. The hush that followed it was 
broken only by sobs. 

The electric lights sprang out all over the church. 
In the sudden brilliance the kneeling people lifted 
their wet faces to the stranger's, thinking to catch 
a last sight of him for life-long treasure. 

But the chancel was empty. As silently, as 
strangely, as he had come, the preacher had gone. 
It was the fashion of the man. Such was his will. 
He was never seen at Saint Agatha's again ; nor, 
though his name and fame were widely sought, were 
they ever learned by any. 

The great, strange crowd of worshipers melted 



 
