
I now fancied him changing sexes ; and 
as my eyes began to close in slumber, I 
imagined my fat landlord actually con- 
verted into as fat a landlady. However, 
sleep made but few changes in my situa- 
tion. The tavern, the apartment, and 
the table continued as before. Nothing 
suffered mutation but my host, who was 
fairly altered into a gentlewoman whom 
I knew to be Dame Quickly, mistress of 
this tavern in the days of Sir John ; and 
the liquor we were drinking seemed con- 
verted into sack and sugar. 

'' ' My dear Mrs. Quickly,' cried I (for 
I knew her perfectly well at first sight), 
'I am heartily glad to see you. How 
have you left Falstaff, Pistol, and the 
rest of our friends below stairs.? — brave 
and hearty, I hope ? ' " 

There was little left for Irving, the 
pioneer of England - loving Americans, 
but an hour of musing over past mirth, 
and a fruitful gossip (O that some crafty 
and unscrupulous listener could have 
written us down its story !) with a worthy 
woman, self-constituted historian of the 
region, and like Mrs. Quickly in being 
''a poor widow of Eastcheap." She it 
was who suggested that, although he had 
 

necessarily failed in looking upon the 
tavern, he might find a picture of it at 
Saint Michael's Church, Crooked Lane. 
Now, not only had the back window of 
the inn looked out upon Saint Michael's 
churchyard, but the inn itself had passed 
into the hands of the church ; the reve- 
nues of Bacchus thus reverting to the 
Establishment. Nothing therefore could 
be more natural than that Saint Michael's 
should preserve the counterfeit present- 
ment of its useful ward. But, though 
Irving betook himself there without 
delay, no such relic was forthcoming. 
Countless were the tombs of fishmon- 
gers therein, for Saint Michael's lived 
near neighbor to Billingsgate. There 
also were treasured the ashes of William 
Walworth, the doughty knight, most in- 
trepid of lord mayors, who smote Wat 
Tyler at Smithfield. In the little grave- 
yard adjoining the church stood the 
tombstone of honest Robert Preston, 
drawer of renown, doubtless the succes- 
sor of that Francis who had the im- 
mortal honor of serving Prince Hal and 
