could see everything plainly. I acknowledge I was nonplussed by what I
did see.

In the centre of the shed, which must have been at least a hundred feet
long, stood what I thought at first was the skeleton of an enormous
whale. After a moment's silent contemplation of the thing I saw that
it could not be a whale, for the frames of two gigantic bat-like wings
rose from each shoulder. Also I noticed that the animal possessed
legs--four of them--with most unpleasant-looking webbed claws fully
eight feet long. The bony framework of the head, too, resembled
something between a crocodile and a monstrous snapping turtle.
The walls of the shanty were hung with drawings and blue prints. A
man dressed in white linen was tinkering with the vertebræ of the
lizardlike tail.

"Where on earth did such a reptile come from?" I asked at length.

"Oh, it's not real!" said Daisy scornfully; "it's papier-maché."

"I see," said I--"a stage prop."

"A what?" asked Daisy, in hurt astonishment.

"Why, a--a sort of Siegfried dragon--a what's-his-name--er, Pfafner, or
Peffer, or----"

"If my father heard you say such things he would dislike you," said
Daisy. She looked grieved, and moved toward the door. I apologized--for
what, I knew not--and we became reconciled. She ran into her father's
room and brought me the rifle, a very good Winchester. She also gave me
a cartridge belt, full.

"Now," she smiled, "I shall take you to your observatory, and when we
arrive you are to begin your duty at once."

"And that duty?" I ventured, shouldering the rifle.

"That duty is, to watch the ocean. I shall then explain the whole
affair--but you mustn't look at me while I speak; you must watch the
sea."

"This," said I, "is hardship. I had rather go without the luncheon."

I do not think she was offended at my speech; still she frowned for
almost three seconds.

We passed through acres of sweet bay and spear grass, sometimes
skirting thickets of twisted cedars, sometimes walking in the full
glare of the morning sun, sinking into shifting sand where sun-scorched
shells crackled under our feet, and sun-browned seaweed glistened,
bronzed and iridescent. Then, as we climbed a little hill, the sea wind
freshened in our faces, and lo! the ocean lay below us, far-stretching
as the eye could reach, glittering, magnificent.

Daisy sat down flat on the sand. It takes a clever girl to do that and
retain the respectful deference due her from men. It takes a graceful
girl to accomplish it triumphantly when a man is looking.

"You must sit beside me," she said--as though it would prove irksome to
me.
