performance we have just witnessed will not allow me to kill the actors
or any of them."

"What did we come to Borneo for, Louis?" asked the captain.

"To see the country, and explore some of its rivers."

"I thought we came here to hunt and fish," added Scott.

"I did not come here to kill harmless creatures for the fun of it. We
want a full-grown orang, and I am ready to hunt for him," replied Louis.
"We want him for the purpose of study, and to show to our friends on
board of the ship. I don't object to shooting any bird or animal to
extend our information."

Louis had his double-barrelled fowling-piece in his hand. Suddenly he
brought it to his shoulder and fired. All eyes were directed to the
shore, and a large bird was seen to drop upon the ground. The captain
started the boat, and ran her up to the bank. Clinch leaped ashore, and
soon brought the bird on board. Its plumage was highly colored and very
beautiful.

"What do you call that bird, Louis?" asked Morris.

"Chambers calls it simply the argus, but the more common name is the
argus-pheasant," replied Louis.

"Faix, he's a magnificent crayter; and what a long tail our cat has
got," added Felix, as he spread the bird out on the gunwale.

The last remark referred to the long tail of the bird, which made the
entire length from the bill to the end of it about five feet. Only two
of the feathers were thus prolonged, adding about three feet to the
dimension. The variety of colors were jet black, deep brown, fawn,
white, and a number of secondary hues. The bird, deprived of his
feathers, is about the size of an ordinary hen.

"But you can't see him at his best now that he is dead," continued
Louis, who had read up the animal life he expected to find in Borneo.
"Like a peacock, though to a less extent, he can spread out his pretty
feathers, but not in the same manner; for they open out in the form of a
circle, making a sort of round disk on his back and concealing his head.
If you could see the bird alive with his wings spread out you would find
every feather had a number of marks that look like eyes, and seventeen
have been counted on one of them. Each of these marks consists in part
of a jet-black ring, with other different colored rings inside of it,
which make the whole figure like an eye.

"You remember a fellow who was called Argus in mythology, who had a
hundred eyes, of which only two were ever asleep at the same time. This
bird gets his name from him; though the story is that Mercury killed
him, and Venus transferred his eyes to the tail of the peacock."

"Thanks for the lecture, Louis," said Scott when he had finished his
description. "It was certainly a part of our plan in coming to Borneo to
study natural history; and we are doing so instead of shooting all the
time."

Just at this moment Felix, who had wandered from the fore cabin to the
waist, discharged his fowling-piece. The Milesian was as good a shot as
