Effie." 

" #Ae's not ill, surely?" 

" She's not right with the fright Gorham had 
this morning. So I'm not satisfied." 

" Let him then by all means see her," Rose said. 

Their talk had, through the action of Vidal's 
presence, dropped from its chilly height to the 
warmest domestic level, and what now stuck out 
of Tony was the desire she should understand 
that on such ground as that he was always glad 
to meet her. Dennis Vidal faced about again in 
time to be called, as it were, if only by the tone 
of his host's voice, to witness this. "A bientot. 
Let me hear from you and from him that in 
my absence you've been extremely kind to our 
friend here." 

Rose, with a small but vivid fever-spot in her 
cheek, looked from one of the men to the other, 
while her kindled eyes showed a gathered purpose 
that had the prompt and perceptible effect of ex 
citing suspense. " I don't mind letting you know, 
Mr. Bream, in advance exactly how kind I shall be. 
It would be affectation on my part to pretend to 
be unaware of your already knowing something of 





what has passed between this gentleman and me. 
He suffered, at my hands, in this place, four years 
ago, a disappointment a disappointment into the 
rights and wrongs, into the good reasons of which 
I won't attempt to go further than just to say that 
an inevitable publicity then attached to it." She 
spoke with slow and deliberate clearness, still look 
ing from Tony to Vidal and back again; after 
which her strange intensity fixed itself on her old 
suitor. "People saw, Mr. Vidal," she went on, 
" the blight that descended on our long relations, 
and people believed and I was at the time in 
different to their believing that it had occurred 
by my act. I'm not indifferent now that is to 
any appearance of having been wanting in consid 
eration for such a man as you. I've often wished 
I might make you some reparation some open 
atonement. I'm sorry for the distress that I'm 
afraid I caused you, and here, before the principal 
witness of the indignity you so magnanimously 
met, I very sincerely express my regret and very 
humbly beg your forgiveness." Dennis Vidal, 
staring at her, had turned dead white as she kept 
it up, and the quiet nobleness of her inspired pen 
ance had brought tears into Tony's eyes. She 
saw them there as she looked at him once more, 
