surviving 300 naked patriots were still defiant, still persistent, 
still efficacious with their rude weapons, and the Governor and 
the 40,000 knew not which way to turn, nor what to do. 

Then the Bricklayer — that wonderful man — proposed to 
go out into the wilderness, with no weapon but his tongue, 
and no protection but his honest eye and his humane heart ; 
and track those embittered savages to their lairs in the gloomy 
forests and among the mountain snows. Iaturally, he was 
considered a crank. But he was not quite that. In fact, he 
was a good way short of that. He was building upon his long 
and intimate knowledge of the native character. The deriders 
of his project were right — from their standpoint — for they 
believed the natives to be mere wild beasts ; and Robinson was 
right, from his standpoint — for he believed be natives to be 
human beings. The truth did really lie between the two. 
The event proved that Robinson's judgment was soundest ; 
but about once a month for four years the event came near 
to giving the verdict to the deriders, for about that frequently 
Robinson barely escaped falling under the native spears. 

But history shows that he had a thinking head, and was 
not a mere wild sentimentalist. For instance, he wanted the 
war parties call in before he started unarmed upon his mission 
of peace. He wanted the best chance of success — not a half- 
chance. And he was very willing to have help ; and so, high 
rewards were advertised, for any who would go unarmed with 
him. This opportunity was declined. Robinson persuaded 
some tamed natives of both sexes to go with him — a strong 
evidence of his persuasive powers, for those natives well knew 
that thsir destruction would be al)nost certain. As it turned 
out, they had to face death over and over again. 

Robinson and his little party had a difficult undertaking upon 
their hands. They could not ride off, horseback, comfortably 
into the woods and call Leonidas and his 300 together for a 
talk and a treaty the following day ; for the wild men were 

not in a body ; they were scattered, immense distances apart, 
over regions so desolate that even the birds could not make a 
living with the chances offered — scattered in groups of twenty, 
a dozen, half a dozen, even in groups of three. And the mis- 
sion must go on foot. Mr. Bonwick furnishes a description of 
those horrible regions, whereby it will be seen that even 
fugitive gangs of the hardiest and choicest human devils the 
world has seen — the convicts set apart to people the " Hell of 
Macquarrie Harbor Station" — were never able, but once, to sur- 
vive the horrors of a march through them, but starving and 
struggling, and fainting and failing, ate each other, and died : 

" Onward, still onward, was the order of the indomitable Robinson. No 
one ignorant of the western country of Tasmania can form a correct idea of the 
traveling difficulties. While I was resident in Hobart Town, the Governor, 
Sir John Franklin, and his lady, undertook the western journey to Macquarrie 
Harbor, and suffered terribly. One man who assisted to carry her ladyship 
through the swamps, gave me his bitter experience of its miseries. Several 
were disabled for life. No wonder that but one party, escaping from Mac- 
quarrie Harbor convict settlement, arrived at the civilized region in safety. 
Men perished in the scrub, were lost in snow, or were devoured by their com- 
panions. This was the territory traversed by Mr. Robinson and his Black 
