countrymen in England." 

This fantastical folly was in all de- 
grees, from the courtier down to the 
carter. " It is a world to see the cost- 
liness and the curiosity, the excess and 
the vanity, the pomp and the bravery, 
the change and the variety, and finally 
the fickleness and the folly that is in all 
degrees ; insomuch that nothing is more 
constant in England than inconstancy of 
attire. So much cost upon the body, so 
little upon souls ; how many suits of ap- 
parel hath the one, or how little furni- 
ture hath the other !" And how men 
and women worry the poor tailors, with 
endless fittings and sending back of gar- 
ments, and trying on ! " Then must the 
long seams of our hose be set with a 
plumb line, then we puff, then we blow, 
and finally sweat till we drop, that our 
clothes may stand well upon us." 

The barbers were as cunning in vari- 
ety as the tailors. Sometimes the head 
was polled; sometimes the hair was 
curled, and then suffered to grow long 
like a woman's locks, and many times 
cut off, above or under the ears, round 
as by a wooden dish. And so with the 
beards : some shaved from the chin, like 
the Turks ; some cut short, like the beard 
of the Marquis Otto ; some made round, 
like a rubbing - brush ; some peaked, 
others grown long. If a man have a 
lean face, the Marquis Otto's cut makes 
it broad ; if it be platter-like, the long, 
slender beard makes it seem narrow ; 
"if he be weasel-beaked, then much 
hair left on the cheeks will make the 
owner look big like a bowdled hen, and 
so grim as a goose." Some courageous 
gentlemen wore in their ears rings of 
gold and stones, to improve God's work, 
which was otherwise set off by mon- 
strous quilted and stuffed doublets, that 
puffed out the figure like a barrel. 

There is some consolation, though I 
don't know why, in the knowledge that 
writers have always found fault with 
women's fashions, as they do to-day. 
Harrison says that the women do far 
exceed the lightness of the men ; " such 
staring attire as in time past was sup- 
posed meet for light housewives only is 
now become an habit for chaste and so- 
ber matrons." And he knows not what 
to say of their doublets, with pendant 
pieces on the breast full of jags and cuts ; 
