sound ! " holding up her small hands entreatingly. 
 
Her golden hair was floating down her back. 
There was something weird about her sudden ap 
pearance, and for a moment he could not speak. 
" I'm so wretched. I had to come to tell you, 
Roy, I'm going away. I can't stand it." 
She leaned over the arm of the chair. Her eyes 
were full of tears, and her pretty mouth and chin 
quivered. She moved him inexplicably. 
" Going away Bessie " 
He touched her arm with his fingers. Was she 
walking in her sleep ! Or was he dreaming ? 
" Yes ; Aunt Hannah has as good as turned me 
out. I have a little money. I shall go away it 
doesn't matter where, since I am not wanted here. 
And if I don't find friends, I can only die in the 
end," and a sob choked her. 
" Bessie ! " He could never have told who 
made the movement. He raised his arm and put 
it over her shoulder, and she seemed to drop into 
his lap, like a poor fluttering bird, giving a sigh 
of content. 
" I thought at first you liked me. It was no 
plan of mine coming here, and how should I know 
the home wasn't really Aunt Hannah's ? And I 
tried so hard to please ! I've been a little slave all 
summer. I thought maybe I had earned some 
right to a home. But I wish she had never sent 
for me. It's been nothing but pain and misery. 
 
And as for the dressmaking scheme I hate it! 
I'll kill myself first ! " 
She was sobbing softly now, and her head went 
down on his shoulder. Roy looked at her in a 
dazed fashion. She was so small and helpless. 
" I told Aunt Hannah there was no need of 
your going. She ought to have some one, and I 
am likely to be out so much now. You shall 
stay. Why, your keep wouldn't be more than 
that of a kitten, and there is an abundance of 
everything " 
Bessie made a gesture of protest, and partly 
raised her head, enough for him to see her tear- 
wet eyes and tremulous rose-red lips. 
" I have no real claim on you. Oh," with a fling 
of bitterness, "she has made me understand that! 
The home is yours. I am no kin to you ! But I 
wanted to tell you how it was, so when you come 
home some night and hear a long tale of my in 
gratitude, you will know why I couldn't stay. 
And there have been so many pleasant times 
when " 
"You must stay, child." 
" But you see, if I was your half-sister, it would 
make a world of difference ! No ; I shall just go 
off quietly 
"You shall not, Bessie." 
What did he mean to say ? Oh, heavens ! if 
 
