Still the season in New York had been a rathe* 
brilliant one, with various noted singers. An 
opera troupe from Havana had been giving some 
famous operas ; and Hanny was delighted to hear 
" La Somnambula," because now she could com- 
pare notes with Daisy Jasper. 
And in May, the famous rivalry between two 
leading theatres, that culminated in a great riot, 
occurred. Edwin Forrest, the great tragedian of 
that day, and many a year later, and Macready, a 
celebrated English actor, seemed almost pitted 
against each other in the same play, Hamlet. A 
certain party coming into existence had taken for 
its watchword Americanism of a rather narrow 
sort, and was protesting against all foreign influ- 
ence. Macready had played, and then gone to ful- 
fil another engagement, but was to return and play 
again. Some of the hot heads decided he should 
not ; and though all precautions were taken, the 
feeling was that the better sense of the community 
would prevent any absolute disturbance. But the 
mob had grown larger and stronger in their nar- 
row prejudice, and, before the play was half 
through, an onslaught w r as made on the opera- 
house. The rioters were in such force that the 
famous Seventh Regiment had to be called out. 
It was a night of terror and tragedy, and the whole 
city was wild with alarm. So serious did it be- 
come, that it was not quelled without bloodshed ; 
and for days the whole city seemed amazed that 
such a thing could have happened. 
But before the surprise and regret had died 
away, a sudden sound of alarm ran through the 
city, in curiously muffled tones that blanched the 
bravest faces, a visitant, then feared beyond 
measure, that science had not been able to cope 
with. People spoke of it with bated breath. It 
was not simply among the poor and destitute, 
or those indifferent to cleanliness and order, but 
it spread everywhere, the dreaded, mysterious 
cholera. 
The older people remembered the scourge of 
almost twenty years before, and many of them 
prepared to fly to places of safety. The plague 
spot of the city was- then the old Five Points, 
where the lowest and poorest, beggars and thieves, 
and sometimes murderers, had crowded in until 
it was a nest to be shunned and feared. Through 
this tract the plague swept like wildfire. 
Margaret had accepted the urgent invitation of 
the cousins at Tarrytown, and gone thither with her 
baby, insisting also upon taking her little sister. 
Father Underhill was glad to have her out of dan- 
ger, and was fain to persuade his wife to follow. 
" No," she said stoutly ; " Joe must remain ; and 
you and Stephen cannot run away from business. 
With Margaret and Hanny safe, I shall stay to keep 
watch over the rest of you. I may be needed." 
Dolly had taken her two children up to her sis- 
 
