desperately in love, which had ultimately persuaded Helen to marry him
in spite of her judgment.  He turned pale when he was long near her, his
eyes flashed darkly, his hands shook a little, and his voice trembled.
An older woman might have thought it all rather theatrical, but he
seemed to suffer, and that moved Helen, though it did not make her
really love him.  Women know that weakness of theirs and are more afraid
of pitying an importunate suitor than of admiring him.  So Helen married
Harmon.

Disillusionment came as daylight steals upon dancers in a ballroom.  At
first it was not so painful as might have been imagined, for Helen was
not excessively sensitive, and she had never really loved the man in the
least.  He grew tired of her and left her to herself a good deal. That
was a relief, at first, for after she had realized that she did not love
him, she shrank from him instinctively, with something very like real
shame, and to be left alone was like being respected.

"Mrs. Blank’s husband is neglecting her," says one.

"She does not seem to care; she looks very happy," answers another.

And she is temporarily happy, because Mr. Blank’s neglect gives her a
sense of bodily relief, for she knows that she has made a mistake in
marrying him.  It was so with Helen, and as she was not a changeable nor
at all a capricious person, it might have continued to be so.  But
Harmon changed rapidly in the years that followed.  From having been
what people called fast, he became dissipated.  He had always loved the
excitement of wine.  When it failed him, he took to stronger stuff,
which presently became the essential requisite of his being.  He had
been said to be gay, then he was spoken of as wild, then as dissipated.
Some people avoided him, and every one pitied Helen. Yet although he
ruined his constitution, he did not wreck his fortunes, for he was lucky
in all affairs connected with money.  There remained many among his
acquaintances who could not afford to disapprove of him, because he had
power.

He drank systematically, as some men do, for the sake of daily
excitement, and Helen learned to know tolerably well when he was
dangerous and when he might be approached with safety.  But more than
once she had made horrible mistakes, and the memories of them were like
dreams out of hell.  In his drunkenness her face recalled other days to
him, and forgotten words of passion found thick and indistinct
utterance.  Once she had turned on him, white and desperate in her
self-defence. He struck her on the forehead with a cut-glass decanter,
snatched from her toilet table.  When she came to herself hours
afterwards, it was daylight.  Harmon was in a drunken sleep, and the
blood on his face was hers.

She shuddered with pain from head to foot when she thought of it.  Then
had come strange lapses of his memory, disconnected speech, even
hysterical tears, following senseless anger, and then he had ceased to
recognize any one, and had almost killed one of the men who took care of
him, so that it was necessary to take him to an asylum, struggling like
a wild beast.  Twice, out of a sense of duty, she had been to see
whether he knew her, but he knew no one, and the doctors said it was a
hopeless case.  Since then she had received a simple confirmation of the
statement every month, and there seemed to be no reason for expecting
any change, and she felt free.

Free was the only word she could find, and she applied it to herself in
