any of her unhappy experiences. After a time she fell among the dry pine
needles, her good, as she expressed it, still trying to fight down her
bad. She felt that the demon possessing her would have sung aloud had
she not held it by the throat. She conjured up all the horrible details
of her mother’s death and ordered her soul to pity; but her brain
remarked coldly that her mother had probably felt nothing. She imagined
the charred corpse, but it only offended her artistic sense.
Finally she fell asleep. The day was far gone when she awoke. She lay
for a time staring at the dim arches above her, listening to the night
voices she had once loved so passionately. At last she drew a deep sigh.
“I might just as well face the truth,” she said aloud. “I’m glad, and
that’s the end of it. It’s wicked and I’m sorry; but what is, is, and I
can’t help it. We’re not all made alike.”
                                 XVIII
Patience was once more installed in Lola’s room. Mr. Foord applied for
letters of guardianship, which were granted at once. But as he had
feared, she was left without a penny. He wrote to his half-sister,
asking her if she would take charge of his ward. Miss Tremont replied in
enthusiastic affirmation. Miss Galpin invited Patience to spend two
weeks with her in San Francisco, offering to replenish the girl’s
wardrobe with several of her own old frocks made over.
Those two weeks seemed to Patience the mad whirl of excitement of which
she had read in novels. She had never seen a city before, and the very
cable cars fascinated her. To glide up and down the hills was to her the
poetry of science. The straggling city on its hundred hills, the crowded
streets and gay shop windows, the theatres, the restaurants, China Town,
the beautiful bay with its bare colorous hills, surprised her into
admitting that life appeared to be quite well worth living after all.
When she returned to Monterey she talked so fast that Mr. Foord clapped
his hands to his ears, and Rosita listened with expanded eyes.
“Ay, if I could live in San Francisco!” she said, plaintively. “I acted
all summer, Patita, but I got tired of the same people, and I want to go
to the big theatres and see the real ones do it. I’d like to hear a
great big house applauding, only I’d be so jealous of the leading lady.”
Patience was to start, immediately after Christmas, by steamer for New
York. Mr. Foord spent the last days giving her much good advice. He said
little of his own sorrow to part from her. Once he had been tempted to
keep her for the short time that remained to him, but had put the
temptation aside with the sad resignation of old age. He knew Patience’s
imperative need of new impressions in these her plastic years.
The day before she left she went over to Carmel to say good-bye to
Solomon. He flapped his wings with delight, although he could not see
her, and nestled close to her side in a manner quite unlike his haughty
habit. Patience thought he looked older and greyer, and his wings had a
dejected droop. She took him in her arms with an impulse of tenderness,
and this time he did not repulse her.
“Poor old Solomon,” she said, “I suppose you are lonely and forlorn in
your old age, but this old tower wouldn’t be what it is without you.
It’s too bad I can’t write to you as I can to my two or three other
friends, and you’ll never know I haven’t forgotten you, poor old
Solomon. Oh, dear! Oh, dear! I wonder if owls do suffer too. You look so
wise and venerable, perhaps you are thinking that lonely old age is
terrible—as I know Mr. Foord does.”
Solomon pecked at her mildly. Her gaze wandered out over the ocean. She
wondered if a thousand years had passed since she had dreamed her
dreams. Their very echoes came from the mountains of space.
When she went away Solomon followed her to the head of the stair. She
looked upward once and saw him standing there, with drooping wings and
head a little bent. The darkness of the stair gave him vision, and he
fluttered his wings expectantly, as she paused and lifted her face to
