green light. The boys shivered in their 
coyote skin coats and drew close together; 
they dared not run about to keep warm ; 
they must husband their strength, and 
hunger was biting. There was no wind in 
the tree-tops, no murmur of creek, only 
the low hum of the forest, that in their 
strained ear-sense grew to a roar. Finally 
they fell asleep, and it was dark when 
Roldan awoke. He shook Adan. 
" Come," he said ; and his partner, 
grumbling but acquiescent, got to his feet 
and tramped heavily over the soft ground. 
They had fled beyond paths, and Roldan 
 
could only trust to his locality sense, which 
he knew to be good. But more than once 
they were brought to halt before a wall of 
brush, which no man could have penetrated 
without an axe. Then they would feel 
their way along its irregular bristling side 
for a mile or more before it thinned 
sufficiently for egress. Frequently they heard 
the deadly rattle, and more than once the 
near cry of a panther, but there was 
nothing to do but push on. Precautions would 
have availed them nothing, and there was 
no refuge nearer than the pueblo. Some 
times they walked down aisles unchoked 
by brush but full of moving shadows, above 
which sounded the lonely continuous hoot 
ing of the owl. Now and again bats 
whirred past, and once a startled wildcat 
scurried across the path and darted up a 
tree, crying with terror. 
" If we only don't meet a bear," thought 
Roldan, who dared not speak lest his voice 
should shake courage and terrors apart. 
It was midnight when Adan announced 
with what emphasis was left in him, 
" We are lost." 
Roldan answered through his teeth : 
" Yes, but I think I hear the creek. When 
we find that, all we have to do is to follow 
it south." 
" My heart is in the South," muttered 
Adan. " We might follow that." 
" I am ashamed of you," said Roldan, 
with a lofty scorn which was good for five 
words and no more. 
It was a half hour later that they stood 
upon the high bank of the creek and looked 
gratefully up at the broad strip of night 
light. After the dense shadows of the 
forest the cold light of stars seemed more 
radiant than noon-day. 
" We cannot follow along the bank for 
more than a little way at a time, on 
account of the ferns and brush," said Roldan. 
" We should walk three times the distance, 
