



take refuge from lier behind a barrier of devotion 
and prayer ; the insolence of wit and force against 
which the holy man of Clairvaux had never found a 
weapon of thought or speech. And still the hard 
Norman eyes were colder and angrier than her own, 
and still the man's head was high, and his face like 
a mask. At last she felt her lids tremble, and 
her lips quiver ; his face moved strangely in her 
sight, his cold resistance hurt her as if she were 
thrusting herself uselessly against a rock ; she knew 
that he was stronger than she, and that she loved 
him. The struggle was over ; her face softened, and 
her eyes looked down. Beatrix could not under- 
stand, for she had expected that the Queen would 
command Gilbert to leave them, and that before long 
her vengeance would most certainly overtake him. 
But instead, it was the young soldier without fame 
or fortune, the boy with whom she had many a time 
played children's games, before whom Eleanor, 
Duchess of Guienne and Queen of France, lost 
courage and confidence. 

A moment later she looked up again, and not a 
trace of her anger was left to see. Simply and 
quietly she came to Gilbert's side and laid her hand 
upon his sleeve. 

" You make me say things I do not mean," she said. 

If she had actually asked his forgiveness in words, 
she could not have expressed a real regret more 
plainly, nor perhaps could she have done anything 
so sure to produce a strong impression upon the 
two who heard her. Gilbert's face relaxed instantly, 
and Beatrix forgot to be afraid. 



 

"I crave your Grace's pardon," said the young 
man. " If I spoke rudely let my excuse be that it 
was not for myself. We were children together," he 
added, looking at Beatrix, "we grew up together, 
and after long parting we have met by chance. 
There is much left of what there was. I pray that 
without concealment I may see the Lady Beatrix 
again." 

The Queen turned slowly from them and stood 
for a few moments looking toward the sea. Then 
she turned again and smiled at Gilbert, not unkindly; 
but she said no word, and presently, as they stood 
there, she left them, and walked slowly away with 
bent head, toward the palace. 

