gift of inexorable inquiry as to where and 
what they should have gone and have done 
if they had not been exactly as they were. 
He had in short his resources, and his mis 
tress had never been so conscious of them ; 
on the other hand they had never interfered 
so little with her own. She liked to be as 
she was if it could only have lasted. She 
could accept even without bitterness a rigour 
of economy so great that the little fee they 
paid for admission to the pier had to be bal 
anced against other delights. The people 
at Ladle 's and at Thrupps had their ways of 
amusing themselves, whereas she had to sit 
and hear Mr. Mudge talk of what he might 
do if he didn' t take a bath, or of the bath he 
might take if he only hadn't taken something 





else. He was always with her now, of 
course, always beside her; she saw him 
more than hourly, more than ever yet, 
more even than he had planned she should 
do at Chalk Farm. She preferred to sit at 
the far end, away from the band and the 
crowd ; as to which she had frequent differ 
ences with her friend, who reminded her 
often that they could have only in the thick 
of it the sense of the money they were get 
ting back. That had little effect on her, for 
she got back her money by seeing many 
things, the things of the past year, fall 
together and connect themselves, undergo 
the happy relegation that transforms melan 
choly and misery, passion and effort, into 
experience and knowledge. 

She liked having done with them, as she 
assured herself she had practically done, 
and the strange thing was that she neither 
missed the procession now nor wished to 
keep her place for it. It had become there, 
in the sun and the breeze and the sea-smell, 
a far-away story, a picture of another life. 





If Mr. Mudge himself liked processions, 
liked them at Bournemouth and on the pier 
quite as much as at Chalk Farm or any 
where, she learned after a little not to be 
worried by his perpetual counting of the fig 
ures that made them up. There were 
dreadful women in particular, usually fat 
and in men 's caps and white shoes, whom 
