go in time. If your friend Percy should be going again, and will
accept you as a companion, I will let you go."

This somewhat cheered up Clarence, though with the natural
impatience of youth he wanted to go at once.

"I think I never knew a boy as lucky as Ben," said he.

"He certainly has been strangely fortunate," said Mr. Walton.

"He would have been glad to take a place in a store at five dollars
a week, and now he's got something ever so much better. I believe he
has more money than I to spend, and I am sure he dresses better."

"He seems to have made an impression upon this Major Grafton. I
shouldn't be surprised if Grafton adopted him. He has no family of
his own, and is, I imagine, very rich."

We know that on this last point Mr. Walton was misinformed. The
suggestion, however, was enough to excite the envy and jealousy of
Clarence.

"Do you think he will be richer than I?" he asked.

"You will be well provided for, Clarence. You won't have occasion
for envying your cousin, even if he should be adopted by Major
Grafton."

We have now to change the scene to the little town of Sunderland,
from which our hero had come to New York to seek the good fortune
which he so strangely found.

We direct our steps to a plain cottage, containing but four rooms
and an attic, which stood a little out of the centre of the village.
Small and plain as it was, it had an air of refinement and good
taste, with its climbing honeysuckles, tiny bed of flowers, its
trimly-kept lawn and neat surroundings, which are vainly sought
about many more pretentious residences.

Here dwelt Mrs. Baker and Ben's little sister, Alice, but ten years
old. She bore a strong family resemblance to Ben, and was equally
good-looking.

"It seems an age since Ben left home," said Mrs. Baker, with a
little sigh.

"I miss him dreadfully, mother," said Alice. "Why need he go away?"

"I can't blame him, Alice, though I am very sorry to have him go,"
said Mrs. Baker. "He is ambitious----"

"What does that mean?" asked Alice, puzzled.

"It means that he is anxious to get on in the world--to make money.
It is a natural feeling for a boy."

"He used to earn money here at home," said Alice.

"Only a little. No doubt he can do better in New York, if he can get
a chance. If his uncle will only help him----"
