idealize the scene and the people engaged in it, 
he must invent dramatic circumstances and posi- 
tions and language, so as to produce a " picture." 
And this picture, embroidered on a commonplace 
incident, has got the name of " news." The 
thread of fact in this glittering web the reader 
must pick out by his own wits, assisted by his 
memory of what things usually are. And the 
public likes these stories much better than the 




 

unadorned report of facts. It is accustomed to 
this view of life, so much so that it fancies it 
never knew what war was, or what a battle was, 
until the novelists began to report them. 

Mr. Brad was in the story stage of his evolu- 
tion as a writer. His light facility in it had its 
attraction for Philip, but down deep in his nat- 
ure he felt — and the impression was deepened 
by watching the career of several bright young 
men and women on the press — that indulgence in 
it would result in such intellectual dishonesty as 
to destroy the power of producing fiction that 
should be true to life. He was so impressed by 
the ability and manifold accomplishments of Mr. 
Brad that he thought it a pity for him to travel 
that road, and one day he asked him why he did 
not go in for literature. 

" Literature !" exclaimed Mr. Brad, with some 
irritation ; " I starved on literature for a year. 
"Who does live on it, till he gets beyond the 
necessity of depending on it ? There is a lot of 
humbug talked about it. You can't do anything 
till you get your name up. Some day I will 
make a hit, and everybody will ask, " Who is 
this daring, clever Olin Brad V Then I can get 
readers for anything I choose to write. Look at 
Champ Lawson. He can't write correct English, 
he never will, he uses picturesque words in a con- 
nection that makes you doubt if he knows what 




 

they mean. But he did a dare-devil thing pict- 
uresquely, and now the publishers are at his 
feet. When I met him the other day he affected 
to be bored with so much attention, and wished 
he had stuck to the livery-stable. He began at 
seventeen by reporting a runaway from the point 
of view of the hostler." 

