Harbor I will let you go back to Scranton and obtain from the Averys all
the information you can. You may get a clew that may lead to a
discovery of your parentage."

"I hope so," answered Jed. "I don't like to feel that I have no
relations."

"Meanwhile you may take this letter of your friend Percy's and answer it
as you see fit."

A few days later Percy Dixon received the following letter:


     MY DEAR AND CONSIDERATE FRIEND PERCY:

     Mr. Roper has asked me to answer your kind letter. He appreciates
     your interest in him, but he doesn't seem to think that my company
     will injure him as much as you imagine. He thinks I shall enjoy
     myself better with him than in the company of Mr. and Mrs. Fogson,
     and therefore won't send me away. We are staying at the Newport
     House, and enjoying ourselves very much. If you come down this way
     call on us, and I will give you a good dinner. Tell Mr. and Mrs.
     Fogson not to worry about me, as I am well and happy.

          Yours truly,
                JED GILMAN.


"I never saw such cheek!" said Percy in mortified anger as he tore Jed's
letter to pieces. "It is strange how that young pauper prospers. But it
won't always last!" and this reflection afforded him some satisfaction.




CHAPTER XXXIII.

THE POORHOUSE RECEIVES TWO VISITORS.


Let us change the scene to the Scranton poorhouse. Mr. Fogson has just
come in from splitting wood. It was a task to which he was very much
averse, but he had not been able to find any one to fill Jed's place.

"Drat that boy!" he said, as he sank into a chair.

"What boy?"

"Jed Gilman. He ought to be here at work instead of roaming round doing
no good to himself or anybody else."

"Perhaps he would be glad to come back. I dare say he has seen the time
when he didn't know where his next meal was coming from," rejoined Mrs.
Fogson hopefully.

"I hope so."

"I don't know as I want him back," went on the woman.

"I do! He's good for splitting wood, if he ain't good for anything
