his old trousers taken out of storage with some clothes 
of her own, he found it impossible to use the side 
pockets which the change in his figure carried so far 
to the rear when the garment was reduced at the 
waist. At the same time her own dresses of ten 
years earlier would not half meet round her; and one 
of the most corroding cares of a woman who had done 
everything a woman could to get rid of care, was 
what to do with those things which they could neither 
of them ever wear again. She talked the matter over 
with herself before her husband, till he took the des 
perate measure of sending them back to storage ; and 
they had been left there in the spring when the Lan 
ders came away for the summer. 
They always spent the later spring months at a 
hotel in the suburbs of Boston, where they arrived in 
May from a fortnight in a hotel at New York, on their 
way up from hotels in Washington, Ashville, Aiken 
 
and St. Augustine. They passed the summer months 
in the mountains, and early in the autumn they went 
back to the hotel in the Boston suburbs, where Mrs. 
Lander considered it essential to make some sojourn 
before going to a Boston hotel for November and 
December, and getting ready to go down to Florida 
in January. She would not on any account have gone 
directly to the city from the mountains, for people 
who did that were sure to lose the good of their sum 
mer, and to feel the loss all the winter, if they did 
not actually come down with a fever. 
She was by no means aware that she was a selfish 
or foolish person. She made Mr. Lander subscribe 
statedly to worthy objects in Boston, which she still 
regarded as home, because they had not dwelt any 
where else since they ceased to live there ; and she 
took lavishly of tickets for all the charitable enter 
tainments in the hotels where they stayed. Few if 
any guests at hotels enjoyed so much honor from por 
ters, bell-boys, waiters, chambermaids and bootblacks 
as the Landers, for they gave richly in fees for every 
conceivable service which could be rendered them; 
they went out of their way to invent debts of gratitude 
to menials who had done nothing for them. He would 
make the boy who sold papers at the dining-room 
door keep the change, when he had been charged a 
profit of a hundred per cent, already ; and she would 
let no driver who had plundered them according to 
the carriage tariff escape without something for him 
self. 
A sense of their munificence penetrated the clerks 
 
and proprietors with a just esteem for guests who 
always wanted the best of everything, and questioned 
no bill for extras. Mrs. Lander, in fact, who ruled 
these expenditures, had no knowledge of the value of 
things, and made her husband pay whatever was asked. 
Yet when they lived under their own roof they had 
lived simply, and Lander had got his money in an old- 
fashioned business way, and not in some delirious 
speculation such as leaves a man reckless of money 
