himself, was a person whom he had the best reason to remember.

It was Clarence Clayton.

He touched Mr. Packard's arm, and silently pointed to Clayton.

"Well, I'll be jiggered!" exclaimed the cattleman, in surprise. "That
fellow has got nerve."

Mr. Clayton was evidently enjoying himself. Beside his plate stood a
pint bottle of champagne of Delmonico's special brand. His dinner would
probably involve an expense of five dollars.

"He must have sold or pawned the watch," suggested Rupert in a low
voice.

At this moment Clayton looked around. He at once recognized the two whom
he had last seen at the Battery.

"So we meet again?" he said, coolly.

"Yes," answered the cattleman. "You appear to be having a pleasant
time."

"I generally do," returned Clayton.

"You seem to have negotiated a loan."

"I met a party who seemed to know more about gold watches than you do."

"I congratulate you," said Packard, dryly.

Clayton returned to the discussion of his dinner, and soon the two
friends were served.

"Shall I order some champagne, Rupert?" asked the man from Colorado.

"Not for me. I have promised my mother to avoid drink."

"You are wise. Far be it from me to tempt you. I have seen too much of
the evil done by intemperance."

Clarence Clayton evidently had no such objection to drink. He drained
the bottle, and calling for a cigar, leaned back in his chair, with a
self-satisfied smile.

"That fellow is a curiosity," Packard said. "He probably has good
abilities, and would meet with success in an honest career. He has made
poor use of his talents. I wonder if he ever reflects upon the
inevitable end of his dishonesty?"

"It doesn't seem to trouble him much," returned Rupert.

Neither he nor Clayton observed the quiet entrance of a small,
unobtrusive man, with sharp eyes, who, taking rapid glances at the
guests, moved towards the table occupied by the adventurer.

Sitting in pleasant enjoyment of his cigar, Clayton's attention was
drawn by a slight tap on his shoulder. Looking up in momentary
impatience he saw the newcomer at his side.
