give the footman. She changed her mind hurriedly 
twenty times, but was careful to select the most 


 

becoming street-frock she possessed, a gentian blue 
cloth trimmed with sable. There were three hats to 
match it, and she tried on each, to the surprise of her 
maid, who usually found her easy to please. She 
finally decided upon a small toque which was made 
to set well back from her face into the heavy waves of 
her hair. She was too wise to wear a veil, for her 
complexion was flawless, her forehead low and full, 
and her hair arranged loosely about it ; she wore no 
fringe. 

As the footman closed the door of the coupe and 
she said curtly, "The Capitol," she knew that her 
mind had made itself up in the moment that it had 
conceived the possibility of a call upon Senator North. 

That point settled, she was calm until she reached 
the familiar entrance to the Senate wing, and rehearsed 
the coming interview. 

But her cheeks were hot and her knees were trembling as she left the elevator and hurried down the corridor to the Committee Room which Burleigh, when 
showing her over the building one morning, had pointed 
out as Senator North's. She never had felt so nervous. 
She wondered if women felt this sudden terror of the 
outraged proprieties when hastening to a tryst of which 
the world must know nothing. And she was over- 
whelmed with the vivid consciousness that she was 
actually about to demand the time and attention of 
one of the busiest and most eminent men in the 
country. If it had not been for a stubborn and 
long-tried will, she would have turned and run. 

A mulatto was sitting before the door. When she 
asked, with a successful attempt at composure, for 
Senator North, he demanded her card. She happened to have one in her purse, and he went into the 
room and closed the door, leaving her to be stared at 
by the strolling sight-seers. 

The mulatto reopened the door and invited her to 
enter a large room with a long table, a bookcase, and a 
number of leather chairs. Before he had led her far, 
Senator North appeared within the doorway of an 
inner room. 

" I am glad to see you," he said. " I know that 
you are in trouble or you would not have done me this 
honor. It is an honor, and as I told you before I shall 
feel it a privilege to serve you in any way. Sit here, 
by the fire." 

Betty felt so grateful for his effort to put her at her ease, 
so delighted that he was all her imagination had pictured, 
and had not snubbed her in what she conceived to be 
the superior senatorial manner, that she flung herself 
