
"You are hardly out of childhood yet."

"Wait until you see me in the gorgeousness of a train and a top-knot.
You will wonder at my dignity. Perhaps you will not recognize me. The
gown is pink. That may be some help."

"Pink. The pink roses are the sweetest, I believe."

She nodded with a spice of coquetry.

"And now are we to crawl through this dismal glade? Think of Indians
lying in ambush!"

"Nay, do not spoil a pleasant ride by such a grewsome suggestion."

He led the way, and they soon emerged to the open again. The Capital
loomed up; the scattered houses made quite a show, after all.

That evening Roger and she were partners at whist against his mother
and grandmother, and the ladies won.

The next day the girls went over to Washington.

"I wish your visit could have been longer," Mrs. Carrington said. "I
should have enjoyed asking in the young people about here and having a
dance."

Patricia was very sorry. She had been on the extreme confines of
young-ladyhood.

"It was just delightful!" Jaqueline explained to Mrs. Jettson. "Both
ladies are lovely, but Madam is grand and holds you in a little awe.
She looks like some old picture stepped out of a frame. And they are
just crazy over girls--no, you cannot imagine such stately ladies being
crazy over anything. They made so much of Patty that she put on airs."

"I'm almost as tall as you, Miss Jaqueline!"

"But you would look ridiculous with a train and your hair done up high,
and a mincing step----"

"I didn't think that you minced very much!" interrupted the younger.
"I saw you run down the garden walk, and Mr. Ralph said----" making a
sudden halt.

"Well, what did he say?"

Patty paused, for she recalled the fact that Mr. Ralph's comment had
been distinctly complimentary.

"Don't dispute, girls. Patty, you are nothing but a child, if you are
tall, and you know you wouldn't like to give up racing and climbing and
dancing to old Sam's fiddle. You girls do have the best of everything,
while poor Dolly and Marian----"

"I'm glad grandpapa isn't any real relation to me!" exclaimed Patricia.
"I like father a million times better."

"That comes of being a bachelor when you are married. I'm sure an old
