
“You know better than that, Mr. Wentworth,” answered Gerald calmly.

“You are certainly very modest in your demands. Twenty thousand
dollars, indeed!”

“It was not I who fixed upon that sum, but yourself. As my father’s
sacrifice brought you over three hundred thousand dollars, it was a
good bargain for you.”

“What have you to show in proof of this extraordinary claim of yours?”
demanded Wentworth, waiting eagerly for the answer.

“Your confession over your own signature that you forged the check, a
crime attributed to my father, and confessing that he bore the blame to
screen you.”

“Where is this paper?” demanded Wentworth, edging, as if unconsciously,
nearer the boy.

“It is safe,” answered Gerald, rising and facing his companion.

“Show it to me! I won’t believe in its existence unless you show it to
me.”

“This is not the time to show it,” said Gerald.

“I differ with you. This is the precise time to show it if you have it,
which I very much doubt.”

“I will show it to you in due time, Mr. Wentworth. This is not the
right time, nor the right place.”

“Have you it about you?”

“I shall answer no more questions, Mr. Wentworth.”

Wentworth eyed Gerald, doubting whether he should not seize him then
and there and wrest from him the paper if he proved to have it, but
there was something in the resolute look of the boy that daunted him,
man though he was, and he decided that it would be better to have
recourse to a little strategy. For this the boy would be less prepared
than for open force.

“Look here, Gerald,” he said, moderating his tone and moving further
away, as if all thoughts of violence had left him, “I will have a few
plain words with you. If you have any paper compromising me in any way,
I will make it worth your while to give it to me. I remember that I was
in a little trouble, and being young made a mountain out of a molehill.
Still I don’t care to have it come out now, when I am a man of repute,
that I ever sowed wild oats like most young men. I will make you the
same offer that I did your father. Give me the paper and I will give
you a thousand dollars to start you in life. Think what such a sum will
be to a boy like you.”

“I don’t think I care much for money, Mr. Wentworth,” responded Gerald.
“But my father left me this claim upon you as a sacred trust. I feel
that I owe it to his memory to collect it to the uttermost farthing.”

Bradley Wentworth shrugged his shoulders.
