and remarkable improvement which had now befallen her.

One day Mr. Avery announced that he had the toothache, and if he were
not so driven he would go and see Armstrong; he meant to give Armstrong
all his work after this; Armstrong was a good fellow, and they often
met Saturdays at the club.  But the great Electric case was up just
then, and necessary dentistry was an impossible luxury to the young
lawyer.  Endurance was a novelty, and Avery grew nervous under it.  He
bore pain neither better nor worse than most men; and he was really
suffering.  Any wife but Jean would have called him cross.  Jean called
him her poor boy.  She dragged herself from her lounge--she had been a
little less well the last few days--and lavished herself, as women like
Jean do, pouring out her own tenderness--a rare wine.  After all, there
are not too many tender women; Jean was a genius in sympathy.  She
spent more sweetness and strength on that toothache than the other kind
of woman has to give her husband if he meets a mortal hurt.  Avery
received this calmly.  He was used to it.  To do him justice, he did
not know how cross he was.  He was used to that, too.  And so was she.
The baby was ailing, besides, and things went hard.  The sick woman's
breath began to shorten again; and the coy color which had been so hard
to win to her lips fled from them unobserved.  The doctor was not
called; Helen Thorne was out of town; and so it happened that no one
noticed--for, as we say, Marshall Avery had the toothache.

One night he came home late, and as irritable as better men than he may
be, and be forgiven for it, for the sake of that species of modern
toothache in which your dentist neither extracts nor relieves, but
devotes his highly developed and unhappy ingenuity to the demonic
process which is known as "saving a tooth."

"He calls it killing a nerve," sputtered Avery.  "I should call it
killing a patient.  This performance is the Mauser bullet of up-to-date
dentistry.  It explodes all over you--  Oh, do let me alone, Jean!  You
can't do anything for me.  A man does n't want to be bothered.  Go and
lie down, and look after yourself.  Where is that hot water?  I asked
for alcohol--laudanum--some confounded thing.  Can't anybody in this
house do anything for me?  I don't trouble them very often."

"It's Molly's evening out," said Mrs. Avery patiently.  "I 'll get
everything as fast as I can, dear."  She was up and down stairs a good
deal; she did not notice, herself, how often.  And when she got to bed
at last, she cried--she could not help it.  It was something he had
said.  Oh, no matter what!  But she did not know how to bear it, for
she was so exhausted, and sobs, which were her mortal enemy, overcame
her as soon as she was alone.

He did not hear her, for the door was shut between their rooms, and he
was quite occupied with his Mauser bullet.  He had fallen into the
habit of shutting the door when the second baby was born; he maintained
that the boy was worse than Pink.  Pink cried like a lady, but the boy
bellowed like a megatherium.

A little before half-past ten she heard him get up and dress and stir
about.  He opened the door, and said, without coming in:--

"I 'm going to have this blank thing out.  I 'm going to Armstrong's
house.  I won't stand it another hour.  I 'll be home presently."

She tried to tell him how sorry she was, and to say some one of the
little loving, wifely things with whose warm, sun-penetrated atmosphere
