as I sat brooding by the window where the white sea-fog rolled against
the sweating panes. Mount ate in silence; I could scarcely swallow any
food. Presently I pushed away my plate, drew paper and ink before me,
and fell to composing a letter. From the tap-room below a boy came to
bring us our morning cups, and we washed the salty tang from our
throats. Mount lighted his yard of clay and lay back, puffing smoke
at the smeared window-panes. I wrote slowly, drinking at intervals.

The morning draught refreshed us; and when at length sunshine broke
out over the bay, something of our dormant spirits stirred to greet
it.

"How silent is the world outside," said I, listening to the sea-birds'
mewing, and mending my quill with my hunting-knife.

"Misery breeds silence," he said.

"Are men starving here around us?" I asked, trying to realize what I
had heard.

"Ay, and dying of it. The sun yonder no longer signals breakfast for
Boston. Better finish your fish while you may."

He pulled slowly at his pipe. "If I am right," he drawled, "it would
be close to mid-day now in England--the King's dinner-hour. His
Majesty should be greasing his chin with hot goose-gravy."

His blue eyes began to shine; the long pipe-stem snapped short between
forefinger and thumb; the smoking bowl dropped, and he set his
moccasined heel upon it, grinding clay and fire into the stone floor.
I watched him for a moment, and then resumed my writing.

"God save the King," he sneered, "and smear his maw thick with good
fat meat! Let the rebel babes o' Boston die snivelling at their rebel
mothers' dried-up breasts! It's a merry life, Cardigan. I dreamed last
night a naked skeleton rode through Boston streets a-beating a jolly
ringadoon on his bones:

     "'Yankee doodle came to town
       A-riding on a pony--'

But the pony was all bones, too, like the Pale Horse, and sat Death
astride, beating ever the same mad march:

     "'Yankee doodle--doodle--do!
       Yankee doodle--dandy!'

'Twas the bay wind shaking the weather-vane--nothing more, lad. Come,
shall we steer au large?"

"I must first send my letter," said I; and began to re-read it:

      BOSTON, October 29, 1774.

      "To Mistress Felicity Warren:

      "DEAR, DEAR SILVER HEELS,--Being cured of my hurts and having
      done with Johnson Hall and my dishonourable kinsman, Sir John
      Johnson, Bart: I now take my pen in hand to acquaint you that
      I know all, how that through the mercy of Providence you have
