



CHAPTER III


  “For you alone I strive to sing,
    Oh, tell me how to woo!”

When Helen was left alone, she seated herself before her old music
stand which had been brought down to welcome her, and proceeded to
glance over and arrange the pieces she had learned and loved in her
young girlhood. Most of them made her smile, and when she reflected
upon how difficult she used to think them, she realized that now
that it was over she was glad for the German regime. Helen had
accounted herself an accomplished pianist when she went away, but
she had met with new standards and learned to think humbly of
herself in the great home of music. She possessed a genuine fondness
for the art, however, and had devoted most of her three years to it,
so that she came home rejoicing in the possession of a technic that
was quite a mastership compared with any that she was likely to
meet.

Helen’s thoughts did not dwell upon that very long at present,
however; she found herself thinking again about Arthur, and the
unexpected ending of her walk with him.

“I had no idea he felt that way toward me,” she mused, resting her
chin in her hand; “what in the world am I going to do? Men are
certainly most inconvenient creatures; I thought I was doing
everything in the world to make him happy!”

Helen turned to the music once more, but the memory of the figure
she had left sunken helplessly upon the forest seat stayed in her
mind. “I do wonder if that can be why he did not wait for me,” she
thought, shuddering,--“if he was too wretched to see me again; what
CAN I do?” She got up and began walking restlessly up and down the
room for a few minutes.

“Perhaps I ought to go and look for him,” she mused; “it was an hour
or two ago that I left him there;” and Helen, after thinking the
matter over, had half turned to leave, when she heard a step outside
and saw the door open quickly. Even before she saw him she knew who
it was, for only Arthur would have entered without ringing the bell.
After having pictured him overcome by despair, it was rather a blow
to her pride to see him, for he entered flushed, and seemingly
elated.

“Well, sir, you’ve treated me nicely!” she exclaimed, showing her
vexation in spite of herself.

“You will forgive me,” said Arthur, smiling.

“Don’t be too sure of it,” Helen said; “I looked for you everywhere,
and I am quite angry.”

“I was obeying your high command,” the other replied, still smiling.

“My command? I told you to wait for me.”
