"I cannot see well," he answered, straining his neck. "Wait a minute!"
he cried, as Marietta took the tongs. "I see now! We have got it! I
believe we have got it! Oh, if I could only walk!"

"Patience--you shall see it. It is almost cool. It is quite stiff now."

She took the little flat cake up with the tongs, very carefully, and
held it before his eyes. The light fell through it from the window, and
her head was close to his, as they both looked at it together.

"I never dreamed of such a colour," said Zorzi, his face flushing with
excitement.

"There never was such a colour before," answered Marietta. "It is like
the juice of a ripe pomegranate that has just been cut, only there is
more light in it."

"It is like a great ruby--the rubies that the jewellers call 'pigeon's
blood.'"

"My father always said it should be blood-red," said Marietta. "But I
thought he meant something different, something more scarlet."

"I thought so, too. What they call pigeon's blood is not the colour of
blood at all. It is more like pomegranates, as you said at first. But
this is a marvellous thing. The master will be pleased."

Nella came and looked too, convinced that the glass had in some way
turned out more beautiful by the magic of her mistress's touch.

"It is a miracle!" cried the woman of the people. "Some saint must have
made this."

The glass glowed like a gem and seemed to give out light of its own. As
Zorzi and Marietta looked, its rich glow spread over their faces. It was
that rare glass which, from old cathedral windows, casts such a deep
stain upon the pavement that one would believe the marble itself must be
dyed with unchanging color.

"We have found it together," said Marietta.

Zorzi looked from the glass to her face, close by his, and their eyes
met for a moment in the strange glow and it was as if they knew each
other in another world.

"Do not let the red light fall on your faces," said Nella, crossing
herself. "It is too much like blood--good health to you," she added
quickly for fear of evil.

Marietta lowered her hand and turned the piece of glass sideways, to see
how it would look.

"What shall we do with it?" she asked. "It must not be left any longer
in the crucible."

"No. It ought to be taken out at once. Such a colour must be kept for
church windows. If I were able to stand, I would make most of it into
cylinders and cut them while hot. There are men who can do it, in the
glass-house. But the master does not want them here."

