cannot find my cousin Hugh, then I think all places will 
be alike until we go back to France.” 

“But I do not want to go back,” declared Sylvie. “I 
want to stay here. I hate to live on a ship and be taken 
by pirates.” 

“They may leave thee behind, petite. Thou wilt not 
lack for care nor love, I think. Thy sweet face and 
voice will win thee both,” and Madame smiled. 

Barbette had meant to accompany them, but they 
overruled her desire. Gervaise and Jaques could attend 
to everything. So the ladies sent many thanks to the 
good captain, with instructions to pay him well, since 
they had been so fortunate in not losing their treasures. 

They went out in the garden when the men were gone. 
Beside Pit-a-pat there was a magnificent striped tiger 
cat, with sleepy, yellow eyes, who was used to much 
petting. Mere Milhet brought some needlework, and 
entertained her guests with old stories of the city, to which 
Angelique listened with the greatest interest. What 
romance centred about the old town, for it did indeed 
seem strangely old, when one considered the dead and 
gone heroes planting it in a virgin forest ! All the rest 
of the American continent Mere Milhet spoke of dis- 
dainfully. To her there was but one city. 

It was noon when the men returned with a funny little 
wagon drawn by a mule. But all their luggage was safe, 
except one chest of clothing and bedding that could not 
be taken on the boat, while the numberless boxes of the 
good Dutch vrou in company with that were left in the 
hands of the pirates, and she remained inconsolable. 

The Ten Broecks had found a vessel going to Mobile 
from whence they could ship to New York. Already 
every sailor had obtained employment. Captain Bolmer 




would go to New York. Captain Strong was to sail as 
soon as his cargo of cotton could be loaded, but he would 
give himself the pleasure of calling on the ladies after 
sunset, and thanking his good friend. Mere Milhet, for 
her kindness. 

“No, no,” with a shake of the head. “I am glad it so 
happened. M’sieu, the captain, has been very good to 
me; while I like not the grasping Americans, he is not 
of their kind, but a fair and honorable man.” 

Mere Milhet did not think it necessary to explain even 
to her priest that there were sundry little ventures in 
which the Spanish Government was overreached. There 
was much quiet smuggling to outside ports as well as up 
and down the river. Madame called it turning an honest 
penny. But both kept their own counsel. 
