
At first I did not comprehend what all that mass of fluffy hair could
be. A deep gasp from Mount enlightened me, and I dropped the packet in a
revulsion of horror indescribable. For the parcel was fairly bursting
with tightly packed scalps.

In the deathly silence I heard Redstock's hoarse breathing. Mount knelt
down and gently lifted a heavy mass of dark, silky hair.

At last Elerson broke the silence, speaking in a strangely gentle and
monotonous voice.

"I think this hair was Janet McCrea's. I saw her many times at
Half-moon. No maid in Tryon County had hair like hers."

Shuddering, Mount lifted a long braid of dark-brown hair fastened to a
hoop painted blue. And Elerson, in that strange monotone,
continued speaking:

"The hair on this scalp is braided to show that the woman was a mother;
the skin stretched on a blue hoop confirms it.

"The murderer has painted the skin yellow with red dots to represent
tears shed for the dead by her family. There is a death-maul painted
below in black; it shows how she was killed."

He laid the scalp back very carefully. Under the mass of hair a bit of
paper stuck out, and I drew it from the dreadful packet. It was a sealed
letter directed to General St. Leger, and I opened and read the contents
aloud in the midst of a terrible silence.

     "SACANDAGA VLAIE,
     August 17, 1777

     "General Barry St. Leger

     "SIR,--I send you under care of Daniel Redstock the first
     packet of scalps, cured, dried, hooped, and painted; four
     dozen in all, at twenty dollars a dozen, which will be eighty
     dollars. This you will please pay to Daniel Redstock, as I
     need money for tobacco and rum for the men and the Senecas
     who are with me.

     "Return invoice with payment acquitted by the bearer, who
     will know where to find me. Below I have prepared a true
     invoice. Your very humble servant,

     "F. MCCRAW.

"Invoice.

(6) Six scalps of farmers, green hoops to show they were killed
    in their fields; a large white circle for the sun, showing
    it was day; black bullet mark on three; hatchet on two.

(2) Two of settlers, surprised and killed in their houses or barns;
    hoops red; white circle for the sun; a little red foot to show
    they died fighting. Both marked with bullet symbol.

(4) Four of settlers. Two marked by little yellow flames to show
