
as if it were a question of immediate action, she visibly 
considered. " Out of waiting for him ? — of seeing him at 
all ? " 

" Oh no — not that," said poor Strether, looking grave. 
" I've got to wait for him — and I want very much to see 
him. But out of the terror. You did put your finger on 
it a few minutes ago. It's general, but it avails itself of 
particular occasions. That's what it's doing for me now. 
I'm always considering something else ; something else, I 
mean, than the thing of the moment. The obsession of 
the other thing is the terror. I'm considering at present, 
for instance, something else than  'ou." 

She listened with charming earnestness. " Oh, you 
oughtn't to do that ! " 

" It's what I admit. Make it, then, impossible." 

She continued to think. " Is it really an ' order ' from 
you ? — that I shall take the job .'' IVt'// you give yourself 
up .' " 

Poor Strether heaved his sigh. " If I only could ! But 
that's the deuce of it — that I never can. No — I can't." 

She was not, however, discouraged. " But you desire to, 
at least ! " 

" Oh, unspeakably ! " 

" Ah then, if you'll try ! " — and she took over the job, 
as she had called it, on the spot. " Trust me ! " she 
exclaimed ; and the action of this, as they retraced their 
steps, was presently to make him pass his hand into her 
arm in the manner of a kind, dependent, paternal old 
person who wishes to be " nice" to a younger one. If he 
drew it out again, indeed, as they approached the inn, this 
may have been because, after more talk had passed 
between them, the relation of age, or at least of experience 
— which, for that matter, had already played to and fro 
with some freedom — affected him as incurring a readjust- 
ment. It was at all events perhaps lucky that they arrived 
in sufficiently separate fashion within range of the hotel 
door. The young lady they had left in the glass cage 
watched as if she had come to await them on the threshold. 
At her side stood a person equally interested, by his 
attitude, in their return, and the effect of the sight of whom 
was instantly to determine for Strether another of those 




responsive arrests that we have had so repeatedly to note. 
He left it to Miss Gostrey to name, with the fine, full 
bravado, as it almost struck him, of her " Mr. VVaymarsh !" 
what was to have been, what — he more than ever felt as 
his short stare of suspended welcome took things in — 
would have been, but for herself, his doom. It was already 
