It would still be soon enough to play tricks v/ith the 
water, if he chose that form of vengeance, and he 
grinned again as he thought of the vast expense he 
could force upon Volterra in order to save the palace. 
But lie might do something else. Instead of flooding 
the cellars and possibly drowning the masons who had 
ousted him, he could turn informer and defeat the 
schemes of Volterra and Malipieri, for he never 
doubted but that if they found anything of value they 
meant to keep the whole profit of it to themselves. 

He had the most vague notions of what the treasure 



 

might be. When the fatal accident had happened his 
grandfather had been the only man who had actually 
penetrated into the innermost hiding-place ; the rest 
had fled when the water rose and had left him to 
drown. They had seen nothing, and their story had 
been handed down as a mere record of the catastrophe. 
Toto knew at least that the vaults had then been en- 
tered from above, which was by far the easier way, but 
a new pavement had long ago covered all traces of the 
aperture. 

There was probably gold down there, gold of the 
ancients, in earthen jars. That was Toto's belief, 
and he also believed that when it was found it would 
belong to the government, because the government 
took everything, but that somehow, in real justice, it 
should belong to the Pope. For Toto was not only a 
genuine Roman of the people, but had always regarded 
himself as a sort of hereditary retainer of an ancient 
house. 

His mind worked slowly. A day passed, and he 
heard the steady hammering still, and after a second 
night he reached a final conclusion. The Pope must 
have the treasure, whatever it might be. 

That, he decided, was the only truly moral view, and 
the only one which satisfied his conscience. It would 
doubtless be very amusing to be revenged on the 
masons by drowning them in a cellar, with the abso- 
lute certainty of never being suspected of the deed. 
The plan had great attractions. The masons them- 
selves should have known better than to accept a job 





which belonged by right to him, and they undoubtedly 
deserved to be drowned. Yet Toto somehow felt that 
as there was no woman in the case he might some day, 
in his far old age, be sorry for having killed several 
men in cold blood. It was really not strictly moral, 
