she's joined with us plebes to fool the yearlings."

"She's jes' full o' fun," laughed Texas, "but I reckon the great
reason's cause she's so fond o' Mark. I wish I had his luck. I jes'
stand off, 'n look at her and wonder s'posin' 'twas me--dog gone it!"

Texas saw an amused smile begin to flit about his companion's merry
face; he suspected he was about to "remind" that cheerful recounter of a
yarn; so he stopped.

"Tell you what," he continued after some more thinking. "I know 'nother
girl that's dead gone on Mark."

"B'gee!" cried Dewey in surprise. "Who's that?"

"'Moll' Adams."

"Who on earth is she?"

"I reckon she came in afore you met us," mused Texas. "Yes, 'twas 'fore
you joined the Banded Seven. You know Bull Harris?"

"B'gee!" laughed Dewey. "Didn't I lick the cuss once?"

"That's so," said Texas. "I forgot. Well, Bull--'twas jes' like him--was
botherin' this girl down on the road to Highland Falls one day. He had
hold of her arm an' she was fightin' to git away or somethin'. Anyhow
Mark knocked him down, which was the beginnin' of all this hazin'
business. Bull got all his yearlin' gang after Mark. After that Mark did
her 'nother favor, got her brother out of a terrible scrape. An' I think
she's been mighty fond of him ever since."

"B'gee!" laughed Dewey. "This is real romantic. What makes you think
so?"

"I've seen her hangin' roun' the hospital inquirin' fo' Mark. An' I can
tell by the way she looks at him. I don't think she likes to see him so
chummy with Grace."

"That's more romantic yet," chuckled Dewey. "Why don't Mark care for
her?"

"You see," said Texas, "some o' the cadets, one of 'em a pretty decent
feller, a friend o' Mark's, told him that she waren't--she waren't quite
right. She's somethin' of a flirt, you know. I don't like girls that
kind much myself an' I'm sure Mark don't. He's kep' pretty shy o' her,
an' I kinder think she's noticed it."

"Is she pretty?" inquired the other.

"She's mos' as pretty as Grace," responded Texas. "An' that's sayin' a
deal. She's what you call a brunette--black hair an' eyes. There's some
girls a feller feels are all right; he feels he's a better feller when
he's with them. Grace Fuller's one of 'em. She's jes' the angel we call
her. Then there's some that ain't, an' this girl's one of them."

"Quite a character analysis," laughed the other. "But I guess, b'gee,
you're right, all the same. And speaking of unpleasant characters,
there's that Bull Harris. We haven't heard from him for a long time."

