red lips quivered.
“And you were so gay a little while ago. Oh, my darling—” His full heart
overflowed in his face.
She held up her hand in entreaty. “Don’t,” she said in a half-irritated
way. “I shall never be any one’s darling again. And,” in something of
her old imperious tone, “if I cannot have the love I want I will not
have any!”
He looked at her in amaze. Did she love some one else, then? He was
suddenly stunned. That had never entered his thoughts.
“Oh,” she exclaimed with a burst of feeling, “you have been very good to
me, André. You rescued me in that dreadful peril, and I shall always be
grateful. And I wish you prosperity and happiness.”
Then she vanished from the garden and shut herself in her room. When
Uncle Gaspard begged her to come out, as this was André’s last evening,
she said her head ached and she could not bear the sound of voices.
They went down to see the boats off, and the air was almost rent with
good wishes. This was always a great occasion. There in the foremost one
was M. Pierre Chouteau and André beside him, both waving their hands in
response to the “Bon voyage!” from a hundred throats. The Colonel
stood beside his mother, who was a proud and happy woman, and who
chatted in a charming fashion with her friends and had singled out
Barbe, it seemed, who had come with her niece Sophie.
The line rounded the curve and began to take in the turn, and the
sailors’ shouts were mere echoes. To-day the water was tranquil enough,
and the heavens so blue that all the atmosphere had an extraordinary
brilliance.
Madame Chouteau invited some of the friends to come and dine with her.
“I do not want to,” Renée said, shrinking back. “But you go, Uncle
Gaspard, and take my excuse. I am not well. I shall go to bed and make
Mère Lunde doctor me, and be right by to-morrow.”
What was the matter with the child? She had grown pale and heavy-eyed.
He had been much engrossed with the boats and André’s perplexity, and
the impression that she desired to evade him, so he had made it easy for
her to do so. But if she were going to be ill!
She threaded her way homeward and sat for awhile under her favorite
tree, looking at the vision of Barbe smiling and Uncle Gaspard listening
to her attractive manner of talking and smiling back. For all the summer
sunshine she was cold, and her temples throbbed with a dull pain. She
did not want to cry outwardly, but within her heart seemed weeping
bitter tears, and its beating was like the dull thud of pounding on
lead.
She startled Mère Lunde when she came in so wan and spiritless. The good
woman steeped some herbs, and she did really go to bed. Uncle Gaspard
did not get home until almost supper-time, and some trappers were in the
shop dickering about pelts.
He came and sat on the side of the bed presently and held her hands,
wondering if it was a cold, and recalling the fact that he had heard
there were some cases of fever about.
She was very languid for several days. He was down at the levee,
supervising some of the new work; indeed, it seemed as if he was in
great demand. She would curl herself up in the big chair at the corner
of the fireplace, not on account of the cold, for the door stood open,
as well as the heavy shutters, and the sunshine stole in the room,
dancing about on the floor like groups of sprites. Mère Lunde would nod
in her chair. Chloe was out in the garden, working. It was so quiet, the
very silence appealed strangely to her, and her mind wandered off to the
future.
Some day Barbe would come here from the church leaning on Uncle
Gaspard’s arm and looking up in his face with smiles, holding her pretty
child by the hand. He would love it as he had loved her. He would carry
