my breath. I don't want to go." 
"Will that do? I want you to be comfortable and 
happy. Five different girls have asked me to the dance 
to-night. Four of them would have been miserable if 
I had confined my attentions to one, and the whole five 
would have been indignant if I had distributed them im 
partially. And you are ungrateful." 
Something in his tone touched me. After a pause 
he said, "And you have them all. Ruth, I want you 
to love me with your whole soul and body. I want you 
to marry me." 
"There is Miss Campbell and Miss Conover. Think 
how much finer looking they are. Oh, I can't think 
why you should want to marry me." 
"Well, queer as it may seem, and indifferent as you 
are now, there are some other points. I want you. 
I've resolved to win you, and shall do my best. And 
your father needs my assistance, may for some time to 
come. Can't we three pull together ? You are not old 
enough to have loved any one else, you don't know any 
thing about love, you little white blossom, so I shall 
teach you. Your father has consented." 
 
I felt as if a net was drawn around me. Did I want 
to escape and leave father to suffer all sorts of anx 
ieties? Here was some one strong enough, willing 
enough to shoulder them. 
"Oh, I don't know I don't know !" 
"You don't love Ben," he declared fiercely. "It 
would be folly to wait all those years." 
"Oh, no, no," I cried: 
"And mother had a half hope Homer would wait 
for you. You see I know the family plans. Chris is 
too young even for you to wait." 
There was another. But it might be years before we 
should see him. And he would have changed in all 
that grand life. He was learning so much that we com 
mon people would seem beneath him. 
"Chita!" How tender the tone was! 
At the word she was off, for we had left the crooked, 
uneven streets behind us. What a night it was ! You 
could see the mountains of the moon traced out in 
vague darkness, and the rest in glorious effulgence. 
Some planets were visible, but she seemed to outshine 
the starry crowd, and veil the blue of the sky in a silver 
haze. Great far reaches of prairie like a sea, the stubble 
holding a gem on every little twig. From somewhere 
came a waft of wild grape, but it was so dry there was 
very little dew. The crunch of Chita's hoofs made a 
regular beat of music, but around all was a hush of 
emptiness, a kind of mystery that allured yet filled one 
with terror at its very solemnity, an atmosphere of 
strange enchantment, as if one could ride on to another 
world. Was I going on to a strange new world?" 
"Isn't it splendid ! I sometimes come out here alone, 
in fact, though I've ridden children on Chita, I've never 
taken one of the older girls out in this boundless soli 
tude. Chita and I keep our secrets together. What 
do you suppose is beyond? Oh, must every one die 
in the end and go to that strange country? Wouldn't 
