"I understand without any explanation. I think you did right."

She went back to the fireplace and sat down in the corner of the sofa,
leaning far back and stretching out one foot to the fender in an
unconscious attitude of perfect grace. In the grey afternoon the
firelight began to play in her auburn hair. Now and then she glanced at
Marcello with half-closed lids, and there was a suggestion of a smile on
her lips. Marcello saw that in her way she was as beautiful as Regina,
and he remembered how they had kissed, without a word, when the moon's
rays quivered through the trees by the Roman shore, more than two years
ago. They had been children then. All at once he felt a great longing to
kneel down beside the sofa and throw his arms round her waist and kiss
her once again; but at almost the same instant he thought of Regina,
waiting for him by the window over there in Trastevere, and he felt the
shame rising to his face; and he leaned back in his low chair, clasping
his hands tightly over one knee, as if to keep himself from moving.

"Marcello," Aurora began presently, but she got no further.

"Yes?" Still he did not move.

"I have something on my conscience." She laughed low. "No, it is
serious!" she went on, as if reproving herself. "I have always felt that
everything that has happened to you since we parted that morning by the
shore has been my fault."

"Why?" Marcello seemed surprised.

"Because I called you a baby," she said. "If you had not been angry at
that, if you had not turned away and left me suddenly--you were quite
right, you know--you would not have been knocked down, you would not
have wandered away and lost yourself. You would not have lost your
memory, or been ill in a strange place, or--or all the rest! So it is
all my fault, you see, from beginning to end."

"How absurd!" Marcello looked at her and smiled.

"No. I think it is true. But you have changed very much, Marcello. You
are not a boy any longer. You have a will of your own now; you are a
man. Do you mind my telling you that?"

"Certainly not!" He smiled again.

"I remember very well what you answered. You said that I should not
laugh at you again. And that has come true. You said a good many other
things. Do you remember?"

"No. I was angry. What did I say? Everything that happened before I was
hurt seems very far off."

"It does not matter," Aurora answered softly. "I am glad you have
forgotten, for though I was angry too, and did not care at the time, the
things you said have hurt me since."

"I am sorry," Marcello said gently, "very, very sorry. Forgive me."

"It was all my fault, for I was teasing you for the mere fun of the
thing. I was nothing but a silly school-girl then."

"Yes. You have changed, too."
