ful boundlessness stirred the depths of Helen's 
soul. Would she be following the mysterious 
track sometime? Life had been full of surprises 
to her, would they go on and on ? 
"The air is invigorating," Mrs. Wilmarth said. 
"People do need changes, I suppose. The quiet 
of Hope was restful at first. Oh, do you sup- 
pose I shall turn into a discontented old woman?" 
"You will have to wait a long time first, and 
even now you are going to renew your youth." 
Mrs. Wilmarth smiled. "You cannot realize 
how glad I am to have you back. Yes, I wish 
more than ever that you really belonged to me. 
And I suppose Mrs. Dayton is saying the same 
thing. I try to study out the charm." 
"Have I such a wonderful gift? I think it is 
because people need just what I can give them. 
You see their need rounds it out." 
"Or the reverse," tenderly. "They do need 
what you give so generously. The world is full 
of needs." 
"I am glad to have anything to bestow." 
The elder was thinking that while Miss Craven 
might charm witfi her exquisite playing this girl 
had the light and spirit that entered into true 
living. 
Mr. Wilmarth halted. "You must begin bath- 
ing to-morrow," he said to his wife. "I am 
anxious to see how you stand it. And I must 
look up some experienced person to watch over 
you when I am not here. Helen, you ought to 
learn to swim." 
"That would be simply glorious !" and her eyes 
sparkled while her heart beat joyfully. Juliet 
gave a shiver. 
"Would you be afraid?" he asked rather teas- 
ingly. 
"Yes, I should, I do not believe I would ever 
have the courage to cross the ocean for all the 
wonderful things on the other side. It seems to 
stretch so far, to such immeasurable distances. 
I never realized it before, but then I never saw it 
in all its majesty. No, I couldn't learn to swim. 
I do not believe I want to trust myself to it at all. 
It seems so — so stealthy." 
"And I like the far off distance. Why I should 
like to be out there where sky and ocean meet. 
Juliet, you must have waded in a brook when 
you were little ! And you have gone out on the 
river," said Helen earnestly,' almost upbraidingly. 
"But the river is so different," protested Juliet. 
"I used to like sea bathing years ago. It is 
very exhilarating. And if it will strengthen me, 
I shall be glad. You will not be afraid, Helen." 
"Oh, no, no !" clasping her friend's hand. 
They walked along the beach. It dried so 
quickly in the summer sun. Here and there was 
a boat or bathing house, but it was not a fashion 
resort. Presently they turned homeward. Helen 
had a handful of curious shells and said next 
