From a shelf he brought down a box, took off the cover, and left me to
make my selection.  Soon I found what I desired and laid it aside,
waiting for Monsieur Friard to return.  Again I observed the other
customer.  There is always a mystery to be solved and a story to be
told, when a man makes the purchase of a pistol in a pawnshop.  A man
who buys a pistol for the sake of protection does so in the light of
day, and in the proper place, a gun-shop.  He does not haunt the
pawnbroker in the dusk of evening.  Well, it was none of my business;
doubtless he knew what he was doing.  I coughed suggestively, and
Friard came slipping in my direction again.

"This is what I want.  How much?" I inquired.



"Fifty cents; it has never been worn."

I drew out my wallet.  I had arrived in town too late to go to the
bank, and I was carrying an uncomfortably large sum in gold-bills.  As
I opened the wallet to extract a small bill, I saw the stranger eying
me quietly.  Well, well, the dullest being brightens at the sight of
money and its representatives.  I drew out a small bill and handed it
to the proprietor.  He took it, together with the mask, and sidled over
to the cash-register.  The bell gave forth a muffled sound, not unlike
that of a fire-bell in a snow-storm.  As he was in the act of wrapping
up my purchase, I observed the silent customer's approach.  When he
reached my side he stooped and picked up something from the floor.
With a bow he presented it to me.

"I saw it drop from your pocket," he said; and then when he saw what it
was, his jaw fell, and he sent me a hot, penetrating glance.

"The ten of hearts!" he exclaimed in amazement.

I laughed easily.

"The ten of hearts!" he repeated.

"Yes; four hearts on one side and four on the other, and two in the
middle, which make ten in all,"--raillery in my tones.  What the deuce
was the matter with everybody to-night?  "Marvelous card, isn't it?"

"Very strange!" he murmured, pulling at his lips.

"And in what way is it strange?" I asked, rather curious to learn the
cause of his agitation.

"There are several reasons,"--briefly.

"Ah!"

"I have seen a man's hand pinned to that card; therefore it is
gruesome."

"Some card-sharper?"

He nodded.  "Then again, I lost a small fortune because of that
card,"--diffidently.

"Poker?"
