window next."

"Bob, let me lead him into the street," cried Randy, rushing up and
catching the horse by the bridle.

"You let my horse alone!" shouted the rich boy, unreasonably. "I can
manage him well enough."

"Very well," answered Randy, quietly, and dropped his hold. As he did
so the steed made a plunge along the sidewalk for several yards,
knocking over a barber's pole and a newsstand.

"Stop dot! Vot you mean py dot?" yelled the German barber, rushing from
his establishment in alarm.

"Get along there, you brute!" cried Bob Bangs, savagely, and struck the
horse once more. Again the steed swerved, and made a half turn and
began to back.

"Stop him!"

"He is going into the window!"

Crash! And then followed a jingle of glass, and into the window of a
grocery next to the barber shop backed the horse, until his hind hoofs
rested on a row of canned tomatoes and sardines. Bob Bangs gave a yell
of fear and terror and dropped to the sidewalk and then caught the
horse by the head. The groceryman came forth from his store in a hurry,
and a bitter argument ensued, while a big crowd began to collect. In
the end Bob Bangs had to promise to pay for all damage done, and led
his horse away by hand, too fearful of further trouble to mount once
more.

Randy did not wait to see the end of the dispute, for the train was now
due and he had just time enough to hurry to the depot and get aboard
the cars. He dropped into the first seat that came to hand and laughed
heartily.

"You seem to be enjoying yourself," said a man sitting near.

"I just saw something very funny," answered our hero, and told what it
was. The man laughed, too.

"It puts me in mind of the time I tried to ride the mule in the circus.
It was a trick animal and got me into seven kinds of trouble."

Randy had not had many opportunities to ride on the cars and he enjoyed
the trip to Tarrytown very much. Noon found him in the city named and
he crossed the river on the ferryboat. Then he hunted up a cheap but
neat restaurant, where he got dinner.

"No use of bothering Mr. Shalley just at noon hour," he thought, and so
did not go around to the steamboat man's office until one o'clock. A
clerk was present who said his employer would come in at two o'clock,
so our hero had another hour to wait.

"Is your name Randy Thompson?" questioned the clerk. When told that it
was, he continued: "Mr. Shalley is expecting you. I believe you are to
be one of the new deckhands."

