the Presidio, Gervasio, Santiago and Lieutenant 
Eivera. Castro had returned to Monterey, Sal was 




officer of the day, and the other young men had 
sulkily declined to be the guests of a man who 
looked as haughty as the Tsar himself and betrayed no disiDOsition to recognize in Spain the 
first nation of Europe. But no one missed them. 
The girls, in their flowered muslins and bright 
rebosos, the men in gay scrapes and embroidered 
botas, looked a fine mass of color as they galloped down to the beach and laughed and chat- 
tered as youth must on so glorious a morning. 
Even Sturgis, always careful to be as nearly one 
with these people as his different appearance and 
temperament would permit, wore clothes of green 
linen, a ruffled shirt, deer skin botas and sombrero. 

Three of the ship's canoes awaited the guests, 
and as not one of the women had ever set 
foot in a boat, there was a chorus of shrieks. 
Doiia Ignacia murmured an audible prayer and 
clutched Gertrudis Kudisinda to her breast. 

'' Madre de Dios! The water! I cannot! " she 
muttered. But Santiago took her firmly by one 
elbow, Sturgis by the other, Davidov caught up 
the children with a reassuring laugh, and in a 
moment she was trembling in the middle of the 
canoe. Concha had already leaped into the 
second and waved a careless little salutation to 




the Juno. Her eyes sparkled. Her nostrils flut- 
tered. She felt indifferent to everything but the 
certain pleasure of the day. Eezanov was sure 
to be charming. What mattered the morrow, and 
possible nights of doubt, despair, hatred of life 
and wondering self-contempt? 

Eezanov awaited the canoes in the prow of the 
ship. He wore undress uniform and a cap instead 
of the cocked hat of ceremony which had excited 
their awe. He too tingled with a sense of youthful 
gaiety and adventure. As he helped his guests 
up the side of the vessel, and listened to the delighted laughter of the girls, saw the dancing 
eyes of even the haughty and reserved Santiago, 
he also dismissed the morrow from his thoughts. 

As Dona Ignacia was hauled to the deck, uttering embarrassed apologies for bringing the two 
little girls, Eezanov protested that he adored children, patted their heads, and told off a young 
sailor to amuse them. 

Four tables on the deck were set with coffee, 
chocolate, Eussian tea, and strange sweets that 
the cook had fashioned from ingredients to which 
his skilful fingers had long been strangers. 
