'You know everything!' cried Omobono. 'The man must be a great
astrologer! I will go myself to the beggars' quarter and do your
bidding.'

Zoë had played her little comedy because she had by this time guessed
the man's character, and wished to make sure that she could rely on
his help in anything she decided to do; for it was clear that whenever
Zeno was absent, the secretary was in charge of the whole
establishment, and the servants would obey him without hesitation. As
Gorlias had told him, whatever he did was right in their eyes.

That he was in haste to do her bidding she discovered before the
afternoon was half over, for as she sat in her window she saw him go
down to wait for his master at the marble steps, and he walked slowly
on the strip of black and white pavement by the water's edge.

At last he stood still, and looked towards Blachernæ, for the skiff
was in sight. Zoë drew her veil across her face and rested her head
against the right-hand side of the open window as if she were very
tired, and she did not move from this position as the boat came near.
Zeno was leaning back in the stern, and could not help seeing her as
he approached the house, but from her attitude he thought she did not
see him, and he looked up at her steadily for two or three seconds.
She was quite motionless.

Omobono stood by the water's edge as Zeno stepped ashore, and asked
permission to say a few words to him at once. Zeno dismissed the boat
by a gesture.

'Has anything happened?' he asked, glancing up at the window again.

Zoë had not moved, but she could see him through her veil. Then the
two men walked up and down, while Omobono spoke in a low tone, but
though she could not hear the words she knew what the substance was.
Then came Zeno's voice, cold and clear.

'Certainly not,' he said decidedly. 'I shall do nothing of the sort!
If she has no appetite send for a doctor. Do you take me for one? Send
for old Solomon the Jewish physician. He is the best, and he is an old
man. If he says the girl needs air, take her out in the boat, her and
the maids, on fine mornings.'

A question from Omobono followed, which Zoë could not hear distinctly.
Zeno was evidently annoyed.

'Omobono, you are a good man,' he said; 'but you have no more sense
than a cackling hen! Never think! It is not your strong point. When
you do just what I tell you, you never make a mistake.'

The secretary's voice was heard again, low and indistinct.

'No,' answered Zeno. 'You need not go and tell her what I have said,
for she has probably heard every word of it herself, from the window.
It is useless ever to tell women anything. They always know before
they are told.'

Thereupon Zeno went in, apparently in a bad temper. If anything can
make a woman angry when she is overhearing a conversation about
herself, it is to hear it said that she is undoubtedly listening. Zoë
had not hidden herself, and Zeno must have meant her to hear what he
