gathered amshaspands and izeds, angels and seraphs, the winged host of
loveliness that in Babylon enthralled the Jews who returned from
captivity escorted by them. The allurement of their charm, enchanting
then, enchants the world to-day. There has been little that is more
poetic, except perhaps Ormuzd himself, who symbolized whatever is
blinding in beauty, particularly the sun's effulgence, the radiance of
light.

The light endures, though the god has gone. Yet at the time, aloof in
clear ether and aloft, he resplended in a sovereignty that only
Ahriman disputed.

Ahriman has been more steadfast than Ormuzd. He too captivated the
captive Hebrews. The latter adopted him and called him Satan, as they
also adopted one of his minor legates, Ashmodai--transformed by the
Vulgate into Asmodeus--a little jealous devil who, in the apocryphal
Tobit, strangled husbands on their bridal nights. Ahriman, his
master, represented everything that was the opposite of Ormuzd.
Ahriman dwelt in darkness, Ormuzd in light. Ormuzd was primate of
purity; Ahriman, prince of whatever is base. One had angels and
archangels for aids, the other fiends and demons. Between their forces
war was constant. Each strove for the soul of man. But after death,
when, in the balance, the deeds of the defunct were weighed, there
appeared a golden-eyed redeemer, Mithra, who so closely resembled the
Christ that the world hesitated, for a moment, between them.

It was because of these conceptions that Persia dreamed of conquering
the West. At Marathon and at Salamis that illusion was looted. History
tells of the cohorts that descended there. It relates further what
they did. But of what they thought there is no record. It was,
perhaps, too obvious. Ormuzd, god of light and, in the Orient, god of
the day, was, in the darker and duller Occident, menaced there also by
Ahriman. Politically the expedition is not very explicable. Considered
from a religious standpoint the motive is clear. But though the
Persian forces could not uphold their light in Greece, higher forces
projected it far beyond, to the remote north, to a south that was
still remoter.

Originally the light was Vedic. It was identical with that of Agni, of
Indra and of Varuna. But while these, without subsidence, passed,
absorbed by Brahm, the light of Iran, deflecting, persisted, and so
potently that it lit the Teutonic sky, glows still in Christendom,
after refracting perhaps in Inca temples. Its revelation is due to
Zarathrustra.

Zarathrustra, commonly written Zoroaster, is a name translatable into
"star of gold" and also into "keeper of old camels." Probably it was
first employed to designate an imaginary prophet, and then a series of
spiritual though actual successors by whom, in the course of
centuries, the Avesta was evolved. Otherwise Zarathrustra and Gotama
are brothers in Brahmanaspati. Both had virgin mothers. In the lives
of both miracles are common. The advent of Zarathrustra was accounted
the ruin of demons. When he was born he laughed aloud. As a child he
slept in flames. As a man he walked on water. Before prodigies such as
these fiends fell like autumn leaves. Hence, on the part of the devil,
an attempt to seduce him from the divine. Mairya, the demon of death,
offered him, as Mara offered Gotama, as Satan offered Jesus, the
empire of the earth. Zarathrustra rebuked the devil first with stones,
then with pious words. From him, as from the Buddha and the Christ,
abashed the tempter retreated.[9]
