tone. " I don't regret it." She was too old to play 
golf ; not too old (the more was the marvel) for 
other less wholesome, less innocent games. She 
and the golf girls took hold of the ancient and 
royal sport called life at two extremes. 

" Come here, Mab Miller ! " cried Mrs. Marriot. 
Mab Miller came. She was the champion golf girl, 
and looked it, every masculine inch of her, from 

her bare head to her broad foot. Striding across 
the piazza, she sat down on the rail ; one hand 
rested on her hip, and her bare elbow protruded 
at a sharp angle. 

"I want to present you — " began Mrs. Marriot. 
She looked about for Dr. Frost just in time to 
recall him from an obvious retreat. The young 
man suffered the introduction without enthusiasm, 
yet not without a certain interest which might be 
called scientific curiosity. 

Mab Miller spoke in a contralto verging on the 
bass, and held her hand straight out like a man. 
The surgeon's eye traveled leisurely up and down 
the golf girl's brown arm. 

" Fine deltoid," he thought. " How beautifully 
it would demonstrate ! " 

" I want a gin fizz," observed Miss Miller. Dr. 
Frost bowed, and without comment ordered the 
nectar required by this modern Hebe. But the 
champion did not call for more than one gin fizz. 
She was quite temperate. She was as careful as a 
prize-fighter in training. 

As much could not be said of one very pretty 
blonde girl, exquisitely dressed, and formed in 
every movement and accent on the standards of 
social life which we call fashionable for lack of a 
more definite term, and Mrs. Marriot turned upon 
her. 

 

" Tracie Benton, come here ! Sit down by me," 
whispered Douce Marriot, with a curl of her full 
lip. Mrs. Marriot knew quite well when to check 
her own convivial instincts. She knew where to 
stop in everything; which, perhaps, was the worst 
of it. 

By a single, subtle motion of her lace parasol she 
made a prisoner of the blonde girl in a piazza chair 
beside herself — an impulse of good feeling with 
which Douce Marriot was not unendowed. " One 
must atone, at times," she thought quizzically. " I 've 
matched a vivisector and a golf champion. That 's 
sin enough on my soul for one day. Now I 'll see 
