
A Supreme Church. At Boston. Branch Churches. All over the world One
Pastor for the whole of them: to wit, her book, Science and Health. Term
of the book’s office--forever.

In every C.S. pulpit, two “Readers,” a man and a woman. No talkers,
no preachers, in any Church-readers only. Readers of the Bible and her
books--no others. No commentators allowed to write or print.

A Church Service. She has framed it--for all the C.S. Churches--selected
its readings, its prayers, and the hymns to be used, and has appointed
the order of procedure. No changes permitted.

A Creed. She wrote it. All C.S. Churches must subscribe to it. No other
permitted.

A Treasury. At Boston. She carries the key.

A C.S. Book--Publishing House. For books approved by her. No others
permitted.

Journals and Magazines. These are organs of hers, and are controlled by
her.

A College. For teaching C.S.




DISTRIBUTION OF THE MACHINE’S POWERS AND DIGNITIES

Supreme Church. Pastor Emeritus--Mrs. Eddy. Board of Directors. Board
of Education. Board of Finance. College Faculty. Various Committees.
Treasurer. Clerk. First Members (of the Supreme Church). Members of the
Supreme Church.

It looks fair, it looks real, but it is all a fiction.

Even the little “Pastor Emeritus” is a fiction. Instead of being merely
an honorary and ornamental official, Mrs. Eddy is the only official in
the entire body that has the slightest power. In her Manual, she has
provided a prodigality of ways and forms whereby she can rid herself of
any functionary in the government whenever she wants to. The officials
are all shadows, save herself; she is the only reality. She allows no
one to hold office more than a year--no one gets a chance to become
over-popular or over-useful, and dangerous. “Excommunication” is the
favorite penalty-it is threatened at every turn. It is evidently the pet
dread and terror of the Church’s membership.

The member who thinks, without getting his thought from Mrs. Eddy before
uttering it, is banished permanently. One or two kinds of sinners can
plead their way back into the fold, but this one, never. To think--in
the Supreme Church--is the New Unpardonable Sin.

To nearly every severe and fierce rule, Mrs. Eddy adds this rivet: “This
By-law shall not be changed without the consent of the Pastor Emeritus.”

Mrs. Eddy is the entire Supreme Church, in her own person, in the matter
of powers and authorities.

