not college people.” 
“ Then we are alike, though you have so 
many friends it is not lonesome for you. I 
do so like some one with whom to enjoy 
things. But I know I couldn’t give much. 
Oh, you have been very kind to me! And 
 
listening to the music, the songs, a thought 
came into my mind — a song it was, and it 
sung itself in my brain. If I could write 
music — ” in a wistful tone. 
“ Take it up next year. Why do I you want 
Greek? ” 
“ Oh, there are so many splendid things in 
it! And I guess my father would be better 
satisfied. But music stirs me so, and that 
‘ Good Night ’ — 
“ ‘ Good night to all sweet tender things 
That haunt the underwold, ’ ” 
she chanted in a soft, untrained voice. “ I 
want to write a beautiful song and set it to 
exquisite music. Then I shall dedicate it to 
you.” 
“Oh, thank you! I shall look for it next 
year. Now I know you will surely come 
back, and I hope we shall have nice times. 
It will seem a good deal better to you.” 
Shirley glanced up with smiling eyes. She 
was a sweet-natured child, and it seemed as 
if she had gone astray among such a host of 
girls. 
“ I shall count on it all the vacation.” 
Was there not a duty here? Was not hap- 
piness a charm to be diffused about, rather 
than gathered in little circles? She slipped 
Shirley's arm through hers and began leading 
her about, introducing her to several. Miss 
Van Blascom passed. 
“Here is an ardent admirer!” exclaimed 
Helen, “ who deeply and entirely appreciated 
the setting you gave that beautiful song,” and 
she introduced Shirley, who glanced up with 
shy hesitation that made her more charming. 
“ Miss Chardavoyne — let me see — ” and 
the tall girl knit her brow in thought. 
“Wasn’t there — oh! I have it, a poem in 
February’s Miscellany. It was brimming over 
with music. Why, you could write songs. It 
is a fine gift to be able to get the lilt, the swing, 
the tenderness, the melody that can be wedded 
to notes. Some day, I may be singing one of 
your songs.” 
“ Then I must write one just for you,” 
Shirley returned simply with charming candor 
Then Lorraine found them. Her eyes were 
shining with delight. 
 
“ Father is coming for commencement,” 
and there was a joyous ring in her tone. 
“ The letter was in the last mail. I'm just 
