street crowds after. But I do not look so far ahead. If I am a success
to-night I am going to make believe that I am an old-time belle like
Helena Belmont, or my poor little mother, for that matter. And I shall
feel just like her when I start, for Angélique will pin up my skirts
under a long cloak, and pull carriage boots over my slippers so that
nothing will be spoiled going down those steps. I suppose I can't hope
to be quite such a belle as if I had lived in those less-sophisticated
days, but who knows? And I can forget Rosewater--and Bohemia; I sha'n't
even think of the Stones until New Year's eve; I sent them their
Christmas presents this morning, on purpose. I am going to be frivolous,
coquette, and imagine myself a girl of the old Southern Set, when there
were no new people. And I'm going to make them think I am a great
beauty, whether I am or not. I remember mamma used to say to me:
'Cultivate the beauty air. That often is more effective than beauty
itself. Tiny Montgomery was a beauty according to every known standard,
but she had no dash, and was never looked at when Helena Belmont was in
the room.' So to-night, you'll see me sail into that ballroom as if I
already had the town at my feet. By-the-way--the last time I began to
feel like a real girl again was that night at Arcot--and I did feel
eighteen--triumphant--happy--until I got back and saw Lord Zeal in the
library. I have never forgotten his face."
"Nor have I," said Gwynne, dryly; but he turned pale. "I suppose you
haven't had the least suspicion what he came to tell me that night?"
"I thought to say good-bye without letting you know--it isn't possible
that he told you he intended to kill himself?"
"He told me a good deal more. He had shot Brathland. Murdered him, in
plain English. You may fancy the night I had with him."
Isabel stared up at him, the radiance gone from her face.
"And you have been carrying that about in addition to everything else?"
"It was brutal to tell you this to-night! I can't imagine why I did,
particularly as I have never told even my mother--who, like everybody
else not necessarily in the secret, thinks that Zeal killed himself in
despair over his failing health. But--yes, I remember that dress now--I
rarely notice the details of women's clothes--but I remember admiring
those blue lilies on that airy white stuff--I suppose you suddenly
brought the whole thing back as vividly as if we were at Capheaton
instead of out here on the edge of creation. You must forgive me and
forget it."
"Yes I will! I'll forget everything for a week." She wheeled about and
rubbed her cheeks. Gwynne stooped suddenly and kissed the little black
mole on her shoulder.
"This is all I ask in return for the baubles," he murmured; and then as
he met a blazing eye: "Could I do less than restore your lovely color?
But I must fly and get into my togs."
XXXIII
The old-fashioned interior of the Polk House, with, on the lower floor,
its double parlors connected by sliding doors, its narrow central hall,
and its many shapeless rooms of varying size, had been entirely
remodelled by the essentially modern Mrs. Hofer. Her husband had wished
to build an imposing mass of shingles and stones, but Mrs. Hofer was far
too impatient to wait a year--perhaps two, if there were strikes--to
take up her abode on Nob Hill, and the Polk House was in the market.
Perhaps something in the stolid uncompromising exterior of the old
barrack appealed to her irresistibly, mausoleum that it was of an
aristocratic past. But upon the interior she wasted no sentiment, and
some half a million of her husband's dollars. There were now three great
rooms on the lower floor and four small ones, besides a circular hall
with a spiral marble stair. The drawing-room, which ran from east to
west, was one of the most notable rooms in the country, had been the
subject of violent controversy, newspaper and verbal, and was a
