"Logical but doubtful. He had long since lost the entrée to Bath House
and to all the Great Houses. Only you, worse luck, had the power to
bring him into a circle where he was able to meet the girl."
"Then you must admit that I have done some good. Had he not been able
to meet her, he no doubt would have gone from bad to worse. I at least
have been the medium in his reform, the necessary medium."
"I don't believe in reform."
"You were brought up at the court of George IV."
"So were you, and therefore should have more sense. Warner is
temporarily set up. No doubt of that. He feels a new man and looks
like one. No doubt he has sworn never to drink again and means it.
But wait till the honeymoon has turned to green cheese. Wait till he
begets another poem. Poets to my mind have neither more nor less than
a rotten spot in the brain that breaks out periodically, as hidden
diseases break out in the body. Look at poor Byron."
It was Lady Hunsdon's turn to be satiric. "Poor dear Byron must have
had a row of rotten spots one of which was always in eruption. One may
judge not so much by his achievements as by his performances."
"Never mind!" cried Lady Constance, the colour deepening in her
pendulous cheeks streaked with purple. "He was the most beautiful
mortal that ever breathed and I was in love with him and am proud of
it."
"I feel much more original that I was not----"
"Oh, dear friends," cried Mrs. Nunn, pathetically. "We have to do
with a living poet--unhappily. Byron has been in Hucknall-Torkard
church these twenty years. Do advise me."
"Stay and see it through," said Lady Constance. "I know love when I
see it. It is so rare nowadays that it fairly wears a halo. By and by
it will be extinct on earth and then we shall be kneeling to St. Eros
and St. Venus and forget all the naughty stories about them, just as
we have forgotten the local gossip about the present saints. You
cannot prevent this match. You cannot even postpone it. I regret it as
much as you do, but I cannot help sympathising with them! So young and
so full of high and beautiful ideals! They will be happy for a time.
Who knows? He really may be a new man. Maria can convince herself of
anything she chooses; I feel disposed to take a leaf out of her book."
Mrs. Nunn set her lips, thrust her bust up and her chin out. She
looked obstinate and felt implacable. "I go to-morrow. Upon that I
am resolved. I should be criminal to encourage her----"
There was a tap at the door. A servant entered with a note.
"From Anne!" announced Mrs. Nunn. She dismissed the servant and read
it aloud:
      DEAR AUNT EMILY:
      Miss Ogilvy has sent the coach for me, feeling sure that I
      have incurred your displeasure, and asking me to go at once
      to the Grange. I have no wish to leave you if you remain at
      Bath House, but if you are resolved upon going to-morrow, I
      shall accept her invitation. Will you not let me come in
      and say good bye, dear aunt? Be sure that I am deeply
      grateful for all you have done for me and only wish that I
      might spare you so much pain.
                              ANNE.
Mrs. Nunn called in her maid and sent a verbal refusal to see her
niece.
"I would have saved her if I could." She was now quite composed, in
the full sense of duty done. "But it is imperative that I go to-morrow
and announce aloud my disapproval of this unfortunate marriage. I
shall renounce my guardianship of her property the day I return to
London. I cannot save her, so I wash my hands."
"I shall stay for the wedding," said Lady Constance, "and all London
