"Oh, my dear Rachel loves me too much," the child said laughingly.
There were so many odd and pretty things that they staid up until all
the girls had come--not one of them declined. Then they went down to the
parlors.
"Cousin Chilian said this back room was to be mine. That lovely desk
and the cabinet were my own mother's. And the table is teakwood. The
chair father had carved for me, and that big portrait is father. This
case has miniatures of them both, but it is too big ever to wear."
"What a pity!"
It was a beautifully engraved gold case, set with jewels.
"Well, you are a lucky girl! And you can have all these yourself. You
just don't have to share them with anybody. Is the room truly yours?"
"Why, it is to put my things in, but anybody can come in it, and we can
go in the other room. Most of those articles were Cousin Chilian's
father's and mother's, and the great clock in the hall came over in
1640. It's funny;" and she laughed. "Old furniture and quilts and things
never get cross and queer as folks sometimes do."
"Well, they're not really alive."
"And they last so much longer than folks."
They had not inspected all the things when Miss Winn invited them out to
supper. She took the head of the table, and began to talk so that they
should not feel embarrassed. The lovely old china was on the table, and
two vases of flowers that looked as if they were set with gems. 'Mimy
passed the plates of bread and butter and cold meats and cottage cheese,
and after a little they all began to talk as if it was recess at
school.
Mr. Chilian Leverett passed through the sitting-room and thought it was
really an enchanting sight, and that Cynthia was the prettiest girl of
them all.
People had not thought up ice cream in those days, but they made lovely
custards, baked in cups with handles, and a tiny spoon to eat them with.
They were the last of the tea.
Then they went into the front parlor, which was the larger and played
fox and geese, and blind-man's buff in a ring. Oh, Elizabeth, it was
enough to disturb your rest to have those merry feet twinkle over the
beautiful rug, when you scarcely dared walk tiptoe for fear of crushing
the soft pile. But they had a grand, good time.
Then Mr. Leverett brought in Cousin Eunice, who had a bit of white at
her neck and wrists, and a lavender bow on her cap. She had protested
against the bow, but Miss Winn had carried her point.
Mr. Leverett set them to doing some amusing things he had resurrected
from his own boyhood. Catches on words, such as "Malaga grapes are very
good grapes, but the grapes of Oporto are better." And then, "A hen, a
hen, but not a rooster. Can you say that?" They were greatly puzzled
and looked at Cynthia, who was silently smiling, saying it over in every
manner, until at last one girl almost shrieked out, "That," and there
was a chorus of laughter.
At nine o'clock they were bidden to come home. Some of them were sent
for and those who lived near together went in a group. Ben Upham came
for his sisters.
"I don't see why they couldn't have had boys," said Ben to Polly. "Ever
so many of us would have been glad to come."
"Well, we didn't have any real boys' plays. But the supper was elegant.
And 'Mimy waited so nicely. Cynthia's going to have the back parlor for
hers, and Mr. Leverett has bought a new spinet. And she has the most
beautiful things----"
"Oh, yes, I've seen those;" rather impatiently.
"And Mr. Leverett's just splendid!"
"I always told you so;" somewhat grumpily. "But I'd rather be up in the
study with him and Cynthy than to go to half a dozen parties."
