audience a few illustrations of how dishonest officials could make
money in this city.

“‘Let us imagine a case,’ he said. ‘You are an inspector of fruit,
and there is a scarcity of lemons in New York. There are two ships
full of lemons on the way, and one ship gets in twenty-four hours
ahead. Now the law requires that the fruit be carefully inspected.
If you are too careful about it, it will take more than twenty-four
hours, and the owner of the cargo will lose a small fortune. So he
comes to you and offers you a thousand or two, and you don’t stop to
open every crate of his lemons.’

“The district attorney told that story at a meeting, and the next
morning the newspapers published it. That afternoon he happened to
meet a fruit inspector, who was an old friend of his. ‘Say, old
man,’ said the inspector, ‘who the devil told you about those
lemons?’”

The next morning Montague called at Price’s office.

“Mr. Price,” he said, “a matter has come up in my discussions with
Mr. Haskins about which I thought it necessary to consult you
immediately.”

“What is it?” asked Price.

“Mr. Haskins informs me that it is understood that the Hill
Manufacturing Company is to be favoured in the matter of contracts.”

Montague was watching Price narrowly, and he saw his jaw set grimly,
and a hostile look come upon his features. Price had been lounging
back in his chair; now, slowly, he straightened himself up, as if to
receive an attack.

“Well?” he asked.

“Is Mr. Haskins correct?” asked the other.

“He is correct.”

“He also stated that you are interested in the company. Is that
true?”

“That is true.”

“He also stated that the company did not manufacture, but simply
sold. Is that true?”

“Yes, that is true.”

“Very well, Mr. Price,” said Montague. “This is a matter about which
we must have an understanding without delay. In my preliminary talks
with you I was informed that it was your wish to find a man who
should run the road honestly. The situation which you have just
outlined to me does not seem to me consistent with that programme.”

Montague was prepared for an angry response, but he saw the other
make an effort and control himself.

“You must realise, Mr. Montague,” he said, “that you are not very
