beginning to look about him for fresh material, he had 
doubted more than once whether his severity was not 
the effect of an unjustifiable prejudice. 

It struck him now, in turning the corner of the wood- 
lot above the meadow where the snow-battle had taken 
place, and suddenly finding himself face to face with 
Miss Shirley, that nature was in one of her uninventive 
moods and was helping herself out from the old stock- 
in-trade of fiction. All the same, he felt a glow of 
pleasure, which was also a glow of pity ; for while Miss 
Shirley looked, as always, interesting, she look tired, 
too, with a sort of desperate air which did not otherwise 
account for itself. She had given, at sight of him, a 
little start, and a little " Oh !" dropped from her lips, 
as if it had been jostled from them. She made haste 
to go on, with something like the voluntary hardi- 
ness of the courage that plucks itself from the primary 
emotion of fear, " You are going down to try the 
skating ?" 

" Do I look it, without skates ?" 

" You may be going to try the sliding," she returned. 
" I'm afraid there won't be much of either for long. 
This soft air is going to make havoc of my plans for 
to-morrow." 

" That's too bad of it. Why not hope for a hard 
freeze to-night ? You might as well. The weather has 

 

been known to change its mind. You might even change 
your plans." 

" No, I can't do that. I can't think of anything else. 
It's to bridge over the day that's left before Seeing 
Ghosts. If it does freeze, you'll come to Mrs. West- 
angle's afternoon tea on the pond ?" 

" I certainly shall. How is it to be worked ?" 

" She's to have her table on a platform, with runners, 
in a bower of evergreen boughs, and be pushed about, 
and the people are to skate up for the tea. There are 
to be tea and chocolate, and two girls to pour, just as in 
real life. It isn't a very dazzling idea, but I thought it 
might do; and Mrs. Westangle is so good-natured. 
Now, if the thermometer will do its part !" 

" I am sure it will," Verrian said, but a glance at 
the gray sky did not confirm him in his prophetic 
venture. The snow was sodden under foot; a breath 
from the south stirred the pines to an aeolian response 
and moved the stiff, dry leaves of the scrub-oaks. A 
sapsucker was marking an accurate circle of dots round 
the throat of a tall young maple, and enjoying his work 
in a low, guttural soliloquy, seemingly, yet, dismayingly, 
suggestive of spring. 
