to another vagrant impulse.
"Gretchen, I do not think I shall marry the king of Jugendheit."
Gretchen grew red with pride. Her highness was telling her state
secrets!
"You love some one else, Highness?" How should a goose-girl know that
such a question was indelicate?
Her highness did not blush; the color in her cheeks receded. She
fondled the heart-shaped locket which she invariably wore round her
throat. That this peasant girl should thus boldly put a question she
herself had never dared to press!
"You must not ask questions like that, Gretchen."
"Pardon, Highness; I did not think." Gretchen was disturbed.
But the princess comforted her with: "I know it. There are some
questions which should not be asked even by the heart."
This was not understandable to Gretchen; but the locket pleased her eye.
Her highness, observing her interest, slipped the trinket from her neck
and laid it in Gretchen's hand.
"Open it," she said. "It is a picture of my mother, whom I do not
recollect having ever seen. Wait," as Gretchen turned it about
helplessly.
"I will open it for you." Click!
Gretchen sighed deeply. To have had a mother so fair and pretty! She
hadn't an idea how her own mother had looked; indeed, being sensible and
not given much to conjuring, she had rarely bothered her head about it.
Still, as she gazed at this portrait, the sense of her isolation and
loneliness drew down upon her, and she in her turn sought the flowers
and saw them not. After a while she closed the locket and returned it.
"So you love music?" picking up the safer thread.
"Ah, yes, Highness."
"Do you ever go to the opera?"
"As often as I can afford. I am very poor."
"I will give you a ticket for the season. How can I reward you for
bringing this message? Don't have any false pride. Ask for something."
"Well, then, Highness, give me an order on the grand duke's head vintner
for a place."
"For the man who is to become your husband?"
"Yes, Highness."
"You shall have it to-morrow. Now, come with me. I am going to take you
to Herr Ernst. He is the director of the opera. He rehearses in the
court theater this morning."
Gretchen, undetermined whether she was waking or dreaming, followed the
princess. She was serenely unafraid, to her own great wonder. Who could
describe her sensations as she passed through marble halls, up marble
staircases, over great rugs so soft that her step faltered? Her wooden
shoes made a clatter whenever they left the rugs, but she stepped as
lightly as she could. She heard music and voices presently, and the
former she recognized. As her highness entered the Bijou Theater, the
Herr Direktor stopped the music. In the little gallery, which served as
the royal box, sat several ladies and gentlemen of the court, the grand
duke being among them. Her highness nodded at them brightly.
"Good morning, Herr Direktor."
"Good morning, your Highness."
"I have brought you a prima donna," touching Gretchen with her whip.
The Herr Direktor showed his teeth; her highness was always playing some
jest.
"What shall she sing in, your Highness? We are rehearsing The Bohemian
Girl."
The chorus and singers on the little stage exchanged smiles.
"I want your first violin," said her highness.
"Anton!"
