with the somewhat acrid juice of my indifferent peaches; it made me
think them very good. This was the first of a series of kindly services
it rendered me. It made me agree next, as we started, that the gentleman
at the booking-office at Lucerne had but played a harmless joke when he
told me the regular seat in the banquette was taken. No one appeared
to claim it; so the conductor and I reversed positions, and I found him
quite as conversible as the usual Anglo-Saxon.

He was trolling snatches of melody and showing his great yellow teeth in
a jovial grin all the way to Bellinzona--and this in face of the sombre
fact that the Saint-Gothard tunnel is scraping away into the
mountain, all the while, under his nose, and numbering the days of the
many-buttoned brotherhood. But he hopes, for long service’s sake, to be
taken into the employ of the railway; he at least is no cherisher of
quaintness and has no romantic perversity. I found the railway coming
on, however, in a manner very shocking to mine. About an hour short of
Andermatt they have pierced a huge black cavity in the mountain, around
which has grown up a swarming, digging, hammering, smoke-compelling
colony. There are great barracks, with tall chimneys, down in the gorge
that bristled the other day but with natural graces, and a wonderful
increase of wine-shops in the little village of Göschenen above. Along
the breast of the mountain, beside the road, come wandering several
miles of very handsome iron pipes, of a stupendous girth--a conduit for
the water-power with which some of the machinery is worked. It lies at
its mighty length among the rocks like an immense black serpent,
and serves, as a mere detail, to give one the measure of the central
enterprise. When at the end of our long day’s journey, well down in warm
Italy, we came upon the other aperture of the tunnel, I could but uncap
with a grim reverence. Truly Nature is great, but she seems to me to
stand in very much the shoes of my poor friend the conductor. She is
being superseded at her strongest points, successively, and nothing
remains but for her to take humble service with her master. If she can
hear herself think amid that din of blasting and hammering she must be
reckoning up the years to elapse before the cleverest of Ober-Ingénieurs
decides that mountains are mere obstructive matter and has the Jungfrau
melted down and the residuum carried away in balloons and dumped upon
another planet.

The Devil’s Bridge, with the same failing apparently as the good Homer,
was decidedly nodding. The volume of water in the torrent was shrunken,
and I missed the thunderous uproar and far-leaping spray that have kept
up a miniature tempest in the neighbourhood on my other passages.
It suddenly occurs to me that the fault is not in the good Homer’s
inspiration, but simply in the big black pipes above-mentioned. They
dip into the rushing stream higher up, presumably, and pervert its
fine frenzy to their prosaic uses. There could hardly be a more vivid
reminder of the standing quarrel between use and beauty, and of the
hard time poor beauty is having. I looked wistfully, as we rattled into
dreary Andermatt, at the great white zigzags of the Oberalp road which
climbed away to the left. Even on one’s way to Italy one may spare a
throb of desire for the beautiful vision of the castled Grisons. Dear
to me the memory of my day’s drive last summer through that long blue
avenue of mountains, to queer little mouldering Ilanz, visited before
supper in the ghostly dusk. At Andermatt a sign over a little black
doorway flanked by two dung-hills seemed to me tolerably comical:
Mineraux, Quadrupedes, Oiseaux, OEufs, Tableaux Antiques. We
bundled in to dinner and the American gentleman in the banquette made
the acquaintance of the Irish lady in the coupé, who talked of the
weather as foine and wore a Persian scarf twisted about her head. At
the other end of the table sat an Englishman, out of the intérieur, who
