She did not look as if she lacked either 
physical or mental fiber. 
a We thought we would go to the city on 
Tuesday. Then I will appoint Wednesday. 
And we are to give a day or two to our young 
married couple who are in the throes of select- 
ing a home and no doubt need much good ad- 
vice. I am very anxious to see Shirley, for 
 
that matter, Willard as well, though they seem 
very like children to me.” 
Juliet laughed as she raised her eyes to 
Helen. 
“ Don’t allow yourself to grow old too fast, 
or to outgrow your contemporaries,” she said. 
“ Youth is too charming to be thrust aside for 
any fancied wisdom.” 
“ Oh, I’m not longing for old age, nor even 
middle life. I mean to have a good long- 
youth, and we shall share it together. Now 
you may read your letters and I will answer 
mine.” 
Helen read hers over again and admired the 
tone of it, the cordiality that was not effusive- 
ness. 
Yes, it would be quite a new experience. 
Hitherto she had been cast almost exclusively 
with girls and women. She recalled the fact 
that she had not liked Professor Blake at 
first — most of the girls had been afraid of his 
sharp glance that seemed to hold so much in 
reserve, and his sarcasms. Perhaps young 
girls did appear weak and puerile to learned 
men, and she recalled her father’s opinion of 
them. But they were to be the women of the 
future, wives and mothers doubtless, and they 
needed sympathy when they did not see the 
way clearly. 
There had been animated discussions on co- 
education. This would be one aspect of it. 
Boys, at what was supposed to be the most 
troublesome period of their lives. If only 
they liked to study! If they were intent upon 
acquiring an education! She had roused 
more than one girl to an appreciation of her 
opportunities, but there was a difference be- 
tween a friend and a teacher. 
“ But I shall not worry about it now,” she 
said to herself. “ I’m not going to plan how 
I shall cross the stream until I get to it. There 
will be a bridge or a boat most likely, and 
some one to hold out a helping hand. There 
always has been.” 
She answered her important note first. 
There were several others. Now and then 
she paused to listen to the sweet voices and the 
merry baby laughter that floated up from the 
porch. What a lovely girlhood these Gartney 
children would have with Miss Craven. The 
 
