it) tumult as rises from the mad but not malign de- 
mons of that most dramatic representation of perdition. 
The merchants, alike staid, whether old or young, con- 
gregated in groups which, dealing in a common type 
of goods, kept the same places till, toward three o'clock, 
they were lost in the mass which covered the floor. 
Even then there was no uproar, no rush or push, 
no sharp cries or frenzied shouting; but from the 
crowd, which was largely made up of elderly men, 
there rose a sort of surd, rich hum, deepening ever, 
and never breaking into a shriek of torment or de- 
rision. It was not histrionic, and yet for its com- 
mercial importance it was one of the most moving 
spectacles which could offer itself to the eye in the 
whole world. 

I cannot pretend to have profited by my visit to that 
immensely valuable deposit of books, bought from the 
Spencer family at Althorp, and dedicated as the Ry- 
lands Library to the memory of a citizen of Man- 
chester. Books in a library, except you have time 
and free access to them, are as baffling as so many 
bottles in a wine-cellar, which are not opened for you, 
and which if they were would equally go to your head 
without final advantage. I find, therefore, that my 



sole note upon the Rylands Library is the very honest 
one that it smelt, like the cathedral, of coal-gas. The 
absence of this gas was the least merit of the beautiful 
old Chetham College, with its library dating from the 
seventeenth century, and claiming to have been the 
first free library in England, and doubtless the world. 
In the cloistered picturesqueness of the place, its medi- 
aeval memorials, and its ancient peace, I found myself 
again in those dear Middle Ages which are nowhere 
quite wanting in England, and against which I rubbed 
off all smirch of the modernity I had come to Man- 
chester for. 



IF I had waited a little till I had got into the beau- 
tiful Derbyshire country which lies, or rather rolls, be- 
tween Manchester and Sheffield, I could as easily have 
got rid of my epoch in the smiling agricultural land- 
scape. I do not know just the measure of the Black 
Country in England, or where Sheffield begins to be 
perhaps the blackest spot in it; but I am sure that 
nothing not surgically clean could be whiter than the 
roads that, almost as soon as we were free of Man- 
chester, began to climb the green, thickly wooded hills, 
and dip into the grassy and leafy valleys. In the very 
heart of the loveliness we found Sheffield most nobly 
posed against a lurid sunset, and clouding the sky, which 
can never be certain of being blue, with the smoke of 
a thousand towering chimneys. From whatever point 
you have it, the sight is most prodigious, but no doubt 
the subjective sense of the great ducal mansions and 
