in an English city; one, beloved by all, completed a brilliant course
at Harvard, and when hope and life were in their prime, laid his noble
head down for his last sleep in Mount Auburn. The gay girls are staid
matrons and mothers now, with sons and daughters of their own, as old
as themselves were in that far-off, care-free time.

I have written “care-free” twice upon one page, and because I can
conjure up no other phrase that so aptly describes what that veritable
arbor on the Hill Difficulty we call “Life,” was to me. Household cares
were an unknown quantity in the well-conducted pension. Our breakfast
of French rolls, coffee, tea, boiled eggs, honey, and, for the younger
children, creamy milk, was brought to our salon every morning. A
substantial luncheon (the déjeuner à la fourchette) was served in the
pension salle à manger at one, and a dinner of six or seven courses,
at seven. Our fellow-guests were, for the most part, unobjectionable;
a fair proportion were agreeable and desirable acquaintances. About
one-third were Americans; another third were English; the rest were
Italians, Germans, Russians, and French. A table at one end of the
room was assigned to English-speaking boarders, and we soon made up a
pleasant clique that did not, however, exclude several foreigners. Thus
we persisted in calling them to ourselves. There were excursions every
few days to places of interest within easy reach. Coppet, the home
and burial-place of Madame de Staël; the Villa Diodati, where Byron
and Shelley lived and wrote; Ferney the château from which Voltaire
wrote letters to the magnates of the world, and within the walls of
which he entertained all the famous wits and many of the beauties of
his stirring times; Chillon, immortalized by Bonnivard and the poem
founded upon his captivity—were some of the memorable haunts with which
frequent visits made us familiar.

Exercise was a luxury in the ozone-fraught air, fresh every morning,
and work was the natural result of the abounding vitality thus
engendered. In no other quarter of the globe have I found such
sustained vigor of mental and physical forces as during our residence
in Switzerland. I record the fact gratefully, and as a possible helpful
suggestion to other sufferers from the overstimulating climate and
prevalent energy of American life. Rome was a gracious rest; Geneva was
upbuilding.

It was a positive wrench to the heartstrings to leave her in May, and
take our course leisurely northward.

The summer was given, and happily, to England, our headquarters being,
successively, the Isle of Wight, Leamington, and Brighton.

Late in September, we sailed for New York.




XLV

SUNNYBANK—A NEW ENGLAND PARISH—“MY BOYS”—TWO “STARRED” NAMES


WITH no more idea as to our permanent abiding-place than had the Father
of the Faithful, when he turned his back upon Ur of the Chaldees, and
his face toward a land he knew not of, “still journeying toward the
south,” in obedience to daily marching orders—we sought, upon reaching
our native shores, the one pied-à-terre left to us on the continent.
