draw upon during the next three or four days.  Hunting for buried
treasures was never a junketing.  The admiral will tell you that.  At
dawn!"  Then he added whimsically: "I trust we haven't disturbed the
royal family below."

"Hang the royal family!"

"Their own parliament, or Reichstag, will arrange for that!" and the
little man laughed.

Dawn came soon enough, yellow and airless.

"My dear," said Mrs. Coldfield, "I really wish you wouldn't go."

"But Laura and Miss von Mitter insist on going.  I can't back out now,"
protested Coldfield.  "What are you worried about?  Brigands,
gun-shots, and all that?"

"He will be a desperate man."

"To steal a chest full of money is one thing; to shoot a man is
another.  Besides, the admiral will go if he has to go alone; and I
can't desert him."

"Very well.  You will have to take me to Baden for nervous prostration."

"Humph!  Baden; that'll mean about two-thousand in fresh gowns from
Vienna or Paris.  All right; I'm game.  But, no nerves, no Baden."

"Go, if you will; but do take care of yourself; and let the admiral
go first, when there's any sign of danger."

Coldfield chuckled.  "I'll get behind him every time I think of it."

"Kiss me.  They are waiting for you.  And be careful."

It was only a little brave comedy.  She knew this husband and partner
of hers, hard-headed at times, but full of loyalty and courage; and she
was confident that if danger arose the chances were he would be getting
in front instead of behind the admiral.  A pang touched her heart as
she saw him spring into the carriage.

The admiral had argued himself hoarse about Laura's going; but he had
to give in when she threatened to hire a carriage on her own account
and follow.  Thus, Coldfield went because he was loyal to his friends;
Laura, because she would not leave her father; Hildegarde, because to
remain without knowing what was happening would have driven her mad; M.
Ferraud, because it was a trick in the game; and Cathewe and
Fitzgerald, because they loved hazard, because they were going with the
women they loved.  The admiral alone went for the motive apparent to
all: to lay hands on the scoundrel who had betrayed his confidence.

So the journey into the mountains began.  In none of the admiral's
documents was it explained why the old Frenchman had hidden the
treasure so far inland, when at any moment a call might have been made
on it.  Ferraud put forward the supposition that they had been watched.
As for hiding it in Corsica at all, every one understood that it was a
matter of sentiment.

Fitzgerald keenly inspected the drivers, but found them of the ordinary
