were Bonnie, and Jim, the great watchdog, who 
was only let loose at night to frighten away the 
marauders, and Bitsy, the funny, ugly little Scotch 
terrier, and Pilot, the beautiful collie, to say noth- 
ing of the chickens and the doves and the mag- 
nificent peacock and his plain little hen. So Mr. 
Mann was busy at first getting acquainted with 
everything in his wonderful new world. 
He thought now and then of Mrs. Ross’s re- 
mark about a wife. If she had a sister! And 
he thought of the children, too, but he would like 
them quite large so they could be companionable. 
He was very happy with the spring work, the 
wonderful bloom and fragrance of everything. 
Why, he had no idea the world was so beautiful ! 
He spent hours just looking at it, and could never 
have put his joy into words. He almost hated 
the two days he spent in the city. Mrs. Ross 
had found him a nice housekeeper. Her two sons 
were married and settled, but she insisted that 
while she was well and able she would be happier 
earning her own living. She was a fine cook and 
neat without being fussy. 
Nearly every afternoon he took a drive around 
country ways, finding new delights everywhere. 
The Rosses came up and spent a fortnight. Oh, 
what a good time they had! But the children 
went every summer to their grandmother’s, a little 
seaside place where they bathed and played in the 
sand, and came home brown and rosy, ready for 
another year’s schooling. 
 
But he was more lonesome than ever. He went 
driving round, he called on his neighbors, he even 
strayed down into the little town of Denby, that 
seemed very slow and primitive. And this after- 
noon he found his way through this little old lane 
and saw the crying children. 
CHAPTER II 
AMARYLLIS 
So Mr. Adonijah Mann jogged along, thinking 
of the eight children. He wondered if the mother 
wouldn’t like to give away two, one would be so 
lonesome. Now and then he chuckled as he 
thought of their wailing. And then he smiled as 
he recalled the beauti fullest mother.” What 
would she be like ? Mrs. Ross was rather tall and 
slim. There were some nice-looking mothers who 
sat out on the porches at Grafton, or swung in the 
hammocks, or held a baby. The mother of eight 
wouldn’t have any time for such indulgences. 
What a lot of stockings there would be to mend ! 
He had seen Mrs. Ross darning them in her dainty 
fashion. 
He turned into Denby. It had a rather thrift- 
less, seedy aspect. The houses needed painting, 
the fences needed mending. It looked odd to 
see the woodpile on what seemed to be the side- 
walk. One or two women he passed were doing 
a belated washing and stopped to stare at him. 
