thrilled him, and they went down stairs together, she talking all the
while.
"Didn't I tell you?" she whispered, as they caught a glimpse of the
library in passing, where Cairns stood holding Cynthia's hands between
his own and kissing them. "Wait, Jim, darling! You mustn't interrupt
them----"
"I'm going to!" he said, exasperated. "I want to know what they're going
to do----"
"Jim!"
"Oh, all right, dear. Only they gave me a good scare when I wanted to be
alone with you."
She pressed his arm slightly:
"You haven't noticed my gown."
"It's a dream!" He kissed her shoulder lace, and she flushed and caught
his arm, then laughed, disconcerted by her own shyness.
Farris presented himself with a tray of cocktails.
"Jack! Come on!" called Desboro; and, as that gentleman sauntered into
view with Cynthia on his arm, something in the girl's delicious and
abashed beauty convinced her host. He stretched out his hand; she took
it, looking at him out of confused but sincere eyes.
"Is it all right to wish you happiness, Cynthia?"
"It is quite all right--thank you."
"And to drink this H. P. W. to your health and happiness?"
"That," she said laughingly, "is far more serious. But--you may do so,
please."
The ceremony ended, Desboro said to Jacqueline, deprecatingly:
"This promises to be a jolly, but a rather noisy, dinner. Do you mind?"
And it was both--an exceedingly jolly and unusually noisy dinner for
four. Jacqueline and Cynthia both consented to taste the champagne in
honour of this occasion only; then set aside their glasses, inflexible
in their prejudice. Which boded well for everybody concerned, especially
to two young men to whom any countenance of that sort might ultimately
have proved no kindness.
And Jacqueline was as wise as she was beautiful; and Cynthia's intuition
matched her youthful loveliness, making logic superfluous.
Feeling desperately frivolous after coffee, they lugged out an old-time
card table and played an old-time game of cards--piquet--gambling so
recklessly that Desboro lost several cents to Cairns before the evening
was over, and Jacqueline felt that she had been dreadfully and rather
delightfully imprudent.
Then midnight sounded from the distant stable clock, and every timepiece
in the house echoed the far Westminster chimes.
Good-nights were said; Jacqueline went away with Cynthia to the latter's
room; Desboro accompanied Cairns, and endured the latter's rhapsodies as
long as he could, ultimately escaping.
In their sitting-room Jacqueline was standing beside the bowl of white
carnations, looking down at them. When he entered she did not raise her
head until he took her into his arms. Then she looked up into his eyes
and lifted her face. And for the first time her warm lips responded to
his kiss.
She trembled a little as he held her, and laid her cheek against his
breast, both hands resting on his shoulders. After a while he was aware
that her heart was beating as though she were frightened.
"Dearest," he whispered.
There was no answer.
"Dearest?"
He could feel her trembling.
After a long while he said, very gently: "Come back and say good-night
to me when you are ready, dear." And quietly released her.
And she went away slowly to her room, not looking at him. And did not
