
                   "Ford, three feet at low water."


The Stockbridge Indian who had stepped behind a river boulder and laid
his rifle in rest across the top, still stood there watching the young
Oneida in midstream who, in turn, was intently examining the river bank
opposite.

Nothing stirred there, save some butterflies whirling around each other
over a bed of purple milkweed, but we all watched the crossing, rifles
at a ready, as the youthful Oneida waded slowly out into the full
sunshine, the spray glittering like beaded topazes on his yellow paint.

Presently he came to a halt, nosing the farther shore like a lean and
suspicious hound at gaze; and stood so minute after minute.

Mayaro, crouching beside me, slowly nodded.

"He has seen something," I whispered.

"And I, too," returned the Mohican quietly.

I looked in vain until the Sagamore, laying his naked arm along my
cheek, sighted for me a patch of sand and water close inshore--a tiny
bay where the current clutched what floated, and spun it slowly around
in the sunshine.

A dead fish, lying partly on the shore, partly in the water, was
floating there. I saw it, and for a moment paid it no heed; then in a
flash I comprehended. For the silvery river-trout lying there carried a
forked willow-twig between gill and gill-cover. Nor was this all; the
fish was fresh-caught, for the gills had not puffed out, nor the supple
body stiffened. Every little wavelet rippled its slim and limber
length; and a thread of blood trailed from the throat-latch out over
the surface of the water.

Suddenly the young Oneida in mid-stream shrank aside, flattening his
yellow painted body against a boulder, and almost at the same instant a
rifle spoke.

I heard the bullet smack against the boulder; then the Mohican leaped
past me. For an instant the ford boiled under the silent rush of the
Oneidas, the Stockbridge Indian, and the Mohican; then they were
across; and I saw the willows sway and toss where they were chasing
something human that bounded away through the thicket. I could even
mark, without seeing a living soul, where they caught it and where it
was fighting madly but in utter silence while they were doing it to
death--so eloquent were the feathery willow-tops of the tragedy that
agitated each separate slender stem to frenzy.

Suddenly I turned and looked at the Wyandotte, squatting motionless
beside me. Why he had remained when the red pack started, I could not
understand, and with that confused thought in mind I rose, ran down to
the water's edge, the Wyandotte following without a word.

A few yards below the ford a giant walnut tree had fallen, spanning the
stream to a gravel-spit; I crossed like a squirrel on this, the burly
Wyandotte padding over at my heels, sprang to the bottom sand, and ran
up the willow-gully.
