letters in an unknown hand.

She began at one of them. More exactly, she began, as some women do
begin, at the end. The signature startled. At once, as she turned to
the initial sentences, she experienced the curious and unenviable
sensation of falling from an inordinate height, and it was not with
any idea that the sensation would cease, but rather with the craving to
know, which in certain crises of the emotions becomes more unendurable
than any uncertainty can be, that she read the rest of the first
letter; after it, the second letter, and the third.

Then, as truth stared at her and she at truth, so monstrous was its
aspect that, with one shuddering intake of the breath, life withered
within her, light vanished without.

When ultimately, without knowing who she was; when, conscious only of
an objective self struggling in darkness with the intangible and the
void, when then life and light returned, she was on the floor, the
monster peering at her.

She disowned it, disavowed it. But beside her on the floor the letters
lay. There was its lair. It had sprung from them, and always from them
it would be peering at her, driving her mad with its blighting eyes,
unless----

She got on her hands and knees, and from them to her feet. Her body
ached from the fall, and her head was throbbing. With the idea that
smelling salts, or some cologne water which she had, might help her,
she went and fetched them from an adjoining room. They were not of much
use, she found, though presently she could think more clearly, and in
a little while she was considering the possibility that had loomed.

In certain conditions the soul gets used to monsters. It makes itself
at home with what it must. Her soul, she thought, might also. But even
as she thought it, she knew she never could. She knew that even were
she able to succeed in blinding herself to this thing by day, at night
it would crawl to her, sit at her side, pluck at her sleeve, wake her,
and cry: “Behold me!”

It would cry it at her until she cried it at him. Then inevitably it
would kill her.

She had been seated, bathing her head with cologne. Now fear,
helplessness, the consciousness of both possessed her. They impelled
her to act. She stood up. She looked about the room. Filled with
flowers and sunshine, it said nothing. Beyond was the sea. It called to
her. It told her that in a rowboat she could drift and be lost. It told
her that that night she could throw herself from the yacht. The blue
expanse, the high white waves, the little mauve ripples invited.

The room, though, with its flowers and sunshine, deterred. To throw
herself from the yacht meant that she would have to wait. It meant
more. It meant that she would have to see him. It meant that she would
have to feign and pretend. These things she could not do.

There remained the rowboat. Yet, in some way, now, the sea seemed less
inviting. At the thought of its embrace and of its depths she shrank.
To die, to cease any more to be, to succumb like the heroines of the
old tragedies to fate, at the idea of that, her young soul revolted.
There must be some other course.
