but did not seem to notice anything; then the 
lids fell and the beautiful long lashes shadowed 
her cheeks. 
“Carry her to my house across the street,” 
and she led the way. 
He picked up the light burden as if it had 
been a feather. She opened the door and asked 
him to take the child upstairs and lay heron 
the couch. 
“I am obliged to you,” she said. “In a 
way I am in Settlement work. We’ll have a 
doctor and see what is the matter. Then I’ll 
decide about the hospital. And I will find out 
about those people.” 
"You’re a good sort, ma'am,' and he 
touched his hat brim to her. 
"Jane,’ she called. "This poor child isn’t 
exactly in a faint, but something is the matter. 
Get a warm bath ready and we’ll put her in. 
I’ll telephone to Dr. Richards.” 
"Yes — he was just going out. Would be up 
for a first call.” 
Miss Armitage undressed her. She was 
clean and neat, but the poor little body was 
painfully thin. Then they carried her to the 
bath. Jane rubbed her softly and she gave 
some responsive sighs. 
"What a pretty lot of little curls and fine 
as silk. I do wonder who she can be?” 
"She’s the little nurse girl who brings those 
babies, twins I suppose they are, and sits on 
the stoop over opposite.” 
"What happened?” 
"Well it’s some sort of a collapse. Now I’ll 
find a nice nightgown, and we’ll see what the 
doctor says.” 
Marilla opened her eyes. They were a 
sort of blueish gray, but now very heavy and 
dull. Her lips moved, but the tone was very 
low. It sounded as if she said "fairy god- 
mother” and Miss Armitage smiled. 
"Oh, poor little thing!” 
Dr. Richards flew around in his auto. 
‘Ohj I thought something had happened 
to you,” he began. 
'It has,” and she detailed the simple story. 
He followed her up to the room. It was 
such a lovely, restful room. A white bed in 
the alcove, white window drapery, a carpet 
with considerable light blue in it, a dressing 
case, a writing desk, some books and pictures, 
mostly Madonnas. 
'Poor child,” he said. "She’s been worked 
too hard. All her strength seems gone. And 
a case of heat prostration. It's been an awful 
day. Who is she?” 
Miss Armitage told over the incident. 
"I have seen her sitting there several times. 
It is shady in the afternoon.” 
"Two fat babies,” and he laughed. "I 
