in a rather mirthful tone. “ I want them to have 
a good education, and the pleasantest home I can 
make for them.” 
And homes are so much. But when business 
exigencies take one away, you have to trust to 
others. Money is not the greatest good, but when 
you are once in the race it is hard to step out. I 
am not sure but you are to be envied, my friend.” 
What a delightful meal it was ! No one seemed 
held in check, and the spontaneity was charming. 
After they returned to the parlor, Mr. Colla- 
more begged Chan to sing. 
“ I know some nice things now,” he said in a 
quiet way. Arthur liked that about the birds 
and where there were no words, so I sang just as 
it came into my mind.” 
The visitor listened in charmed surprise. Ah, 
no wonder a voice like that could exorcise pain. 
Mr. Mann, that child has an unusual voice ; 
perhaps you do not realize it. He is worthy of the 
best musical education. Why, in the city he 
would be a star ! ” Mr. Collamore exclaimed 
earnestly. 
I shall do my best for them all. I can’t spare 
him to any city now. When you have longed for 
children of your own to love and care for, and 
been denied, and then have them come to you al- 
most like a miracle, you cannot relinquish them at 
once. Mr. Howard Gwynne, the composer, has 
taken a peculiar interest in him — if he has not for- 
gotten about him in the press of other matters.” 
Gwynne ! He has been doing some excellent 
work abroad. No, he will not forget a voice like 
that. Oh, Mr. Mann, give him a free hand.” 
A voice is a rather uncertain thing. I want 
them all to be well and happy, to have enough joy 
to brighten their after-lives.” 
You are a man out of a thousand,” and Mr. 
Collamore pressed his host’s hand warmly. 
But presently he had to say good-night to their 
charming hospitality, and he begged to make an 
arrangement that sometime later on, when he was 
in the city, he should have them all for a day’s 
pleasure. But he took an especial leave of Chand- 
ler, and carried away a picture of the pretty room 
that seemed sacred to Arthur’s memory. 
Mr. Mann drove him down to the station. 
Your . eldest boy looks like a bright business 
lad, Mr. Mann,” he said. When you have given 
him his education, if I can be of any service plac- 
ing him anywhere — and I do meet with fine oppor- 
tunities now and then for worthy young men — 
I shall be most happy to be of service. I want to 
keep an interest in you all. I cannot tell you how 
much I have enjoyed this delightful hospitality of 
yours. Why, you are doing a most excellent 
work. I hardly think you are aware of it.” 
A work of love,” returned Adonijah Mann. 
I wish more people understood that.” 
They parted with a fervent esteem for each 
