in.  I returned to make a restitution, only to learn that it had been
made by you, long ago.  A trick of young Elmore's.  I shouldn't have
come back if I could have sent the money."

Arthur raised his head and sat up.  "Ah, why did you not write?  Why
did you not let me know where you were?  God is my witness, if there is
a corner of this world unsearched for you.  For two years I had a man
hunting.  He gave up.  I believed you dead."

"Dead?  Well, I was in a sense."

"You have suffered, but not as I have.  Always you had before you your
great, splendid, foolish sacrifice.  I had nothing to buoy me up; there
was only the drag of the recollection of an evil deed, and a moment of
pitiful weakness.  The temptation was too great, Paul."

"How did it happen?"

"How does anything like that happen?  Curiosity drew me first, for at
college I never played but a few games of bridge.  Curiosity, desire,
then the full blaze of the passion.  You will never know what that is,
Paul.  It is stronger than love, or faith, or honor.  God knows I never
thought myself weak; at school I was the least impetuous of the two.
Everything went, and they cheated me from the start.  Roulette and
faro.  Then I put my hand in the safe.  To this day I can not tell why.
I owed nothing to those despicable thieves, Craig least of all."

"Craig.  I met him over there.  Pummeled him."

"I didn't act like a man.  Some day a comfortable fortune would fall to
the lot of each of us.  But I took eight thousand, lost it, and came
whining to you.  You don't belong to this petty age, Paul.  You ought
to have been a fellow of the Round Table."  Arthur smiled wanly.  "To
throw your life away like that, for a brother who wasn't fit to lace
your shoes!  If you had written you would have learned that everything
was smoothed over.  The Andes people dropped the matter entirely.  You
loved the mother far better than I."

"And she must never know," quietly.

"Do you mean that?"

"I always mean everything I say, Arty.  Can't you see the uselessness
of telling her now?  She has gone all these years with the belief that
I am a thief.  A thief, Arty, I, who never stole anything save a
farmer's apples.  They would have called you a defaulter; that's
because you had access to the safe, whereas I had none."  Arthur
winced.  "I don't propose to disillusion the mother.  I am strong
enough to go away without seeing her; and God knows how my heart
yearns, and my ears and eyes and arms."

Warrington reached mechanically for the portrait in the silver frame,
but Arthur stayed his hand.

"No, Paul; that is mine."

Warrington dropped his hand, puzzled.  "I was not going to destroy it,"
ironically.

"No; but in a sense you have destroyed me.  Compensation.  What
