"No, it won't do. Now, if you will restrain your very natural enthusiasm
and let me ask a few questions----"
"Go ahead," said the suave gentleman, whose name was Munsell. "But I
don't believe we have anything to suit you in Seminole County."
"Oh, I don't know," returned White coolly, "is it all under water?"
"There are a few shell mounds. The highest is nearly ten inches above
water. We call them hills."
"I might wish to acquire one of those mountain ranges," remarked White
seriously.
After a moment they both laughed.
"Are you in the game yourself?" inquired Mr. Munsell.
"Well, my game is a trifle different."
"Oh. Do you care to be more explicit?"
White shook his head:
"No; what's the use? But I'll say this: it isn't the 'Perpetual Sunshine
and Orange Grove' game, or how to become a millionaire in three years."
"No?" grinned Munsell, lifting his expressive eyebrows.
White bent over the map for a few moments.
"Here," he said carelessly, "is the Spanish Causeway and the Coakachee
River. It's all swamp and jungle, I suppose--although I see you have it
plotted into orange groves, truck gardens, pineapple plantations, and
villas."
Munsell made a last but hopeless effort. "Some day," he began, with
dignity--but White's calm wink discouraged further attempts. Then the
young man tapped with his pencil lots numbered from 200 to 210, slowly,
going over them again for emphasis.
"Are those what you want?" asked Munsell.
"Those are what I want."
"All right. Only I can't give you 210."
"Why not?"
"Yesterday a party took a strip along the Causeway including half of 210
up to 220."
"Can't I get all of 210?"
"I'll ask the party. Where can I address you?"
White stood up. "Have everything ready Tuesday. I'll be in with the
cash."
XXVII
And on Tuesday he kept his word and the land was his for a few hundred
dollars--all except the half of Lot No. 210, which it appeared the
"party" declined to sell, refusing to consider any profit whatever.
"It's like a woman," remarked Munsell.
"Is your 'party' a woman?"
"Yes. I guess she's into some game or other, too. Say, what is this
Seminole County game, Mr. White?--if you don't mind my asking, now that
you have taken title to your--h'm!--orange grove."
"Why do you think there is any particular game afoot?" inquired the
young man curiously.
"Oh, come! You know what you're buying. And that young lady knew, too.
You've both bought a few acres of cypress swamp and you know it. What do
you think is in it?"
"Snakes," said White coolly.
"Oh, I know," said Munsell. "You think there's marl and phosphoric
rock."
"And isn't there?" asked White innocently.
"How should I know?" replied Munsell as innocently; the inference
being that he knew perfectly well that there was nothing worth
purchasing in the Causeway swamp.
But when White went away he was a trifle worried, and he wondered
uneasily why anybody else at that particular time should happen to
invest in swampy real estate along the Spanish Causeway.
