though of course my arms soon gave out, and I 
had to turn him over to my husband. This is 
one of the famous fishing-grounds of the world, 
and I am glad of that, because it will keep the men 
happy while I enjoy the simshine. 

"I have discovered a fascinating diversion," 
she wrote, in a second letter. "I make them take 
me in the laimch to one of the loneliest of the 
keys; they go off to fish, and I have the whole 
day to myself, and am as happy as a child on a 
picnic. I roam the beach, I take off my shoes and 
stockings — there are no newspaper reporters snap- 
ping pictures. I dare not go far in, for there are 
huge black creatures with dangerous stinging 
tails; they rush away in a cloud of sand when I 
approach, but the thought of stepping upon one 
by accident is terrifying. However, I let the 
little wavelets wash roimd my toes, and I try to 
grab little fish, and I pick up lovely shells; and 
then I go on, and I see a huge turtle waddling to 
the water, and I dash up, and would stop him if 
I dared, and then I find his eggs — such an adven- 
ture! 

"I am the prey of strange appetites and crav- 
ings. I have a delicious limcheon with me, but 

suddenly the one thing in the world I want to 
eat is turtle-eggs. I have no matches with me 
and I do not know how to build a fire like the 
Indians, so I have to hide the eggs back in the 
sand imtil tomorrow. I hope the turtle does not 
move them — and that I have not lost my craving 
in the meantime! 

"Then I go exploring inland. These islands 
were once the haunts of pirates, so I may imagine 
all sorts of romantic things. What I find are 
lemon-trees. I do not know if they are wild, or 
if the key was once cultivated; the lemons are 
huge in size, and nearly all skin, but the flavor 
is delicious. Turtle-eggs with wild lemon-juice! 
And then I go on and come to a mangrove-swamp 
— dark and forbidding, a grisly place ; you imagine 
the trees are in torment, with limbs and roots 
tangled like writhing serpents. I tiptoe in a 
little way, and then get frightened, and run back 
to the beach. 

"I see on the sand a mysterious little yellow 
creatm-e, nmning like the wind; I make a dash, 
and get between him and his hole; and so he 
stands, crouching on guard, staring at me, and 
I at him. |He is some sort of crab, but he stands 
on two legs like a caricature of a man; he has 
two big weapons upraised for battle, and staring 
black eyes stuck out on long tubes. He is an 
imcanny thing to look at; but then suddenly 
the idea comes. How do I seem to himf I realize 
