Black Hundred.  He would no longer be able to keep tab on the
organization.  They had deserted their former quarters absolutely.  The
agent of whom they had leased the building knew nothing except that he
would have to repair the place.  The rent had been paid a year in
advance, as it had been these last eight years.  He had dealt through
an attorney who knew no more of his clients than the agent.  So it will
be seen that Jones had in reality received a check.

More than all this, it would give his enemies renewed confidence; and
this was a deeper menace than he cared to face.  But he went about his
affairs as usual, giving no hint to any one of the mental turmoil which
had possession of him.

It is needless to state Norton did not scoop his rivals on the
counterfeit story.  But he set to work exploring the cellar of the
gutted building, and in one corner he found a battered die.  He turned
this over to the secret service men.  There was one man he wanted to
find--Vroon.  This man, could he find him, should be made to lead him,
Norton, to the new stronghold.  He saw the futility of trying to trap
Braine by shadowing him.  He desired Braine to believe that his escape
from the freighter had been a bit of wild luck and not a preconceived
plan.  Braine was out of reach for the present, so he began to search
for the man Vroon.  He haunted the water front saloons for a week
without success.

He did not know that it was the policy of the Black Hundred to lay low
for a month after a raid of such a serious character.  So the Hargreave
menage had thirty days of peace; always watched, however.  For Braine
never relaxed his vigilance in that part of the game.  He did not care
to lose sight of Jones, who he was positive was ready for flight if the
slightest opportunity offered itself.

Norton went back to the primrose paths of love; and sometimes he would
forget all about such a thing as the Black Hundred.  So the summer days
went by, with the lilacs and the roses embowering the Hargreave home.
But Norton took note of the fact that Florence was no longer the
light-hearted schoolgirl he had first met.  Her trials had made a
serious woman of her, and perhaps this phase was all the more
enchanting to him, who had his serious side also.  Her young mind was
like an Italian garden, always opening new vistas for his admiring gaze.

He went about his work the same as of old, interviewing, playing
detective, fattening his pay envelope by specials to the Sunday edition
and some of the lighter magazines.  Sometimes he had vague dreams of
writing a play, a novel, and making a tremendous fortune like that chap
Manders, who only a few years ago had been his desk mate.  He really
began the first chapter of a novel; but that has nothing to do with
this history.

All ready, then.  The chess are once more on the board, and it is the
move of the Black Hundred.

The day was rather cloudy.  Jones viewed the sky wearily.  He could
hear Florence playing rather a cheerless nocturne by Chopin.  Fourteen
weeks ago this warfare had begun, and all he had accomplished, he and
those with him, was the death or incarceration of a few inconsequent
members of the Black Hundred.  Always they struck and always he had to
ward off.  He had always been on the defensive; and a defensive fighter
may last a long while, but he seldom wins; and the butler knew that
they must win or go down in bitter defeat.  There was no half-way route
