village came flocking from their houses to see what had happened, and
they thronged the street and shouldered and jostled one another in
excitement and fright; and then Father Adolf appeared, and they fell
apart in two walls like the cloven Red Sea, and presently down this
lane the astrologer came striding and mumbling, and where he passed
the lanes surged back in packed masses, and fell silent with awe, and
their eyes stared and their breasts heaved, and several women fainted;
and when he was gone by the crowd swarmed together and followed him
at a distance, talking excitedly and asking questions and finding out
the facts. Finding out the facts and passing them on to others, with
improvements--improvements which soon enlarged the bowl of wine to a
barrel, and made the one bottle hold it all and yet remain empty to the
last.

When the astrologer reached the market-square he went straight to a
juggler, fantastically dressed, who was keeping three brass balls in
the air, and took them from him and faced around upon the approaching
crowd and said: “This poor clown is ignorant of his art. Come forward
and see an expert perform.”

So saying, he tossed the balls up one after another and set them
whirling in a slender bright oval in the air, and added another,
then another and another, and soon--no one seeing whence he got
them--adding, adding, adding, the oval lengthening all the time, his
hands moving so swiftly that they were just a web or a blur and not
distinguishable as hands; and such as counted said there were now a
hundred balls in the air. The spinning great oval reached up twenty
feet in the air and was a shining and glinting and wonderful sight.
Then he folded his arms and told the balls to go on spinning without
his help--and they did it. After a couple of minutes he said, “There,
that will do,” and the oval broke and came crashing down, and the balls
scattered abroad and rolled every whither. And wherever one of them
came the people fell back in dread, and no one would touch it. It made
him laugh, and he scoffed at the people and called them cowards and old
women. Then he turned and saw the tight-rope, and said foolish people
were daily wasting their money to see a clumsy and ignorant varlet
degrade that beautiful art; now they should see the work of a master.
With that he made a spring into the air and lit firm on his feet on
the rope. Then he hopped the whole length of it back and forth on one
foot, with his hands clasped over his eyes; and next he began to throw
somersaults, both backward and forward, and threw twenty-seven.

The people murmured, for the astrologer was old, and always before had
been halting of movement and at times even lame, but he was nimble
enough now and went on with his antics in the liveliest manner. Finally
he sprang lightly down and walked away, and passed up the road and
around the corner and disappeared. Then that great, pale, silent, solid
crowd drew a deep breath and looked into one another’s faces as if
they said: “Was it real? Did you see it, or was it only I--and I was
dreaming?” Then they broke into a low murmur of talking, and fell apart
in couples, and moved toward their homes, still talking in that awed
way, with faces close together and laying a hand on an arm and making
other such gestures as people make when they have been deeply impressed
by something.

We boys followed behind our fathers, and listened, catching all we
could of what they said; and when they sat down in our house and
continued their talk they still had us for company. They were in a sad
mood, for it was certain, they said, that disaster for the village must
follow this awful visitation of witches and devils. Then my father
