
It was strangely neutral, the hue of the moment when they discovered she
had gone. They had not called her in the morning, but Anne had listened
many times at the door, and Lydia had prepared a choice tray for her,
and Mary Nellen tried to keep the coals at the right ardour for
toasting. Jeff had stayed in the house, walking uneasily about, and at a
little after ten he came out of his chair as if he suddenly recognised
the folly of staying in it so apathetically.

"Go up," he said to Lydia. "Knock. Then try the door."

Lydia got no answer to her knock, and the door yielded to her. There was
the bed untouched, on the hearth the cold ashes of last night's fire.
She stood stupidly looking until Jeff, listening at the foot of the
stairs, called to her and then himself ran up. He read the chill order
of the room and his eyes came back to Lydia's face.

"Oh," said Lydia, "will he be good to her?"

"Yes," said Jeff, "he'll be good enough. That isn't it. What a fool I
am! I ought to have watched her. But Esther wasn't daring. She never did
anything by herself. I couldn't get to New York now--" He paused to
calculate.

He ran downstairs, and without speaking to his father, on an irrational
impulse, over to Madam Bell's. There he came unprepared upon the
strangest sight he had ever seen in Addington. Sophy, her cynical, pert
face actually tied up into alarm, red, creased and angry, was standing
in the library, and Madam Bell, in a wadded wrapper and her nightcap,
was counting out money into her trembling hand. To Sophy, it was as
terrifying as receiving money from the dead. She had always looked upon
Madam Bell as virtually dead, and here she was ordering her to quit the
house and giving her a month's wages, with all the practicality of a
shrewd accountant. Madam Bell was an amazing person to look at in her
wadded gown and felt slippers, with the light of life once more
flickering over her parchment face.

"Rhoda Knox is gone," she announced to Jeff, the moment he walked in. "I
sent her yesterday. This girl is going as soon as she can pack."

Jeff gave Sophy a directing nod and she slipped out of the room. She was
as afraid of him as of the masterful dead woman in the quilted wrapper.
Anything might happen since the resurrection of Madam Bell.

"Where is she?" asked Jeff, when he had closed the door.

"Esther?" said Madam Bell. "Gone. She's taken every stitch she had that
was worth anything. Martha told me she was going for good."

"Who's Martha? Oh, yes, yes--Madame Beattie."

The light faded for an instant from the parchment face.

"Don't tell me," she sharply bade him, "Esther's coming back?"

"No," said Jeff. "If she does, she shall come to me."

He went away without another word, and Madam Bell called after him:

"Tell Amabel to look round and get me some help. I won't have one of
