
It suddenly occurred to her that this might be a very sensible thing to
do, and simultaneously she appreciated the fact that he possessed what
was called charm and magnetism. Moreover, the complete devotion of even
a passably attractive member of the over-sex in alarming predicaments
was a very precious thing. Possibly for the first time in her life she
experienced a sensation of gratitude, and she smiled at him so radiantly
that he caught his breath.

"No one but you could have consoled me for the loss of Anna, but you are
not to say one word of that sort to me until I am out of this dreadful
place. I couldn't stand the contrast! Will you promise?"

"Very well."

"Now will you really do something for me--get me a sleeping powder from
the druggist? To-morrow I shall be myself again, but I must sleep
to-night."

"I'll get it." His voice was matter of fact, for love made certain of
his instincts keen if it blunted others. "That is, if you will promise
to go to bed early and see none of these reporters, men or women. They
are camped all over the Courthouse yard."

She gave an exclamation of disgust. "I'll never see another newspaper
person as long as I live. They are responsible for this, and I hate
them."

"Good! You shall have the powder in ten minutes. Oh, by the way, will
you give me a written permit to pass the night in your house? I want to
go through your husband's papers and see if I can find any clue to
unknown enemies. He may have received threatening letters. I can obtain
the official permission without any difficulty."

She wrote the permit unsuspiciously. At nine o'clock that night he let
himself into the Balfame house determined to find the pistol before
morning. He knew the police would get round to the inevitable search
some time on the following day.




CHAPTER XXI


Alys Crumley entertained four of the newspaper women at a picnic lunch
in her studio. She was grateful for the distraction from her own
thoughts and diverted by their theories. None had seen Mrs. Balfame save
through the medium of the staff artist, and they were inclined to accept
the primâ facie evidence of her guilt. When Alys fetched a photograph
from the house, however, they immediately reversed their opinion, for
the pictured face was that of a lovely cold and well-bred woman without
a trace of hardness or predisposition to crime. They fell in love with
it and vowed to defend her to the best of their ability, Miss Crumley
promising to exert her influence with the accused to obtain an interview
for the new devotees.

Before wrapping the photograph for its inevitable journey to New York,
Alys gave it a moment of study herself, wondering if she may not have
misinterpreted what she saw that morning. No one had worshipped at that
