"and good-bye to ye, Joe Smith." Her eyes did not 
waver; but Hal noted a catch in her voice, and he found 
himself with an impulse to take her in his arms. It was 
very puzzling. He knew he loved Jessie Arthur; he re- 
membered the question Mary had once asked him — could 
he be in love with two girls at the same time ? It was not 
in accord with any moral code that had been impressed 
upon him, but apparently he could ! 



 He went out to the street, where hie brother was 
pacing up and down in a ferment. The " hardware 
drummer" had made another effort to start a conversa- 
tion, and had been told to go to hell — no less ! 

"Well, are you through now?" Edward demanded, 
taking out his irritation on Hal. 

" Yes," replied the other. " I suppose so." He real- 
ised that Edward would not be concerned about Edstrom's 
broken arm. 

" Then, for God's sake, get some clothes on and let's 
have some food." 

" All right," said Hal. But his answer was listless, 
and the other looked at him sharply. Even by the moon- 
light Edward could see the lines in the face of his younger 
brother, and the hollows around his eyes. For the first 
time he realised how deeply these experiences were cut- 
ting into the boy's soul. " You poor kid ! " he exclaimed, 
with sudden feeling. But Hal did not answer; he did 
not want sympathy, he did not want anything! 

Edward made a gesture of despair. " God knows, I 
don't know what to do for you ! " 

They started back to the hotel, and on the way Edward 
cast about in his mind for a harmless subject of conver- 



 

sation. He mentioned that he had foreseen the shutting 
up of the stores, and had purchased an outfit for his 
brother. There was no need to thank him, he added 
grimly ; he had no intention of travelling to Western City 
in company with a hobo. 

So the young miner had a bath, the first real one in a 
long time. (Never again would it be possible for ladies 
to say in Hal Warner's presence that the poor might at 
least keep clean!) He had a shave; he trimmed his 
finger-nails, and brushed his hair, and dressed himself as 
a gentleman. In spite of himself he found his cheerful- 
ness partly restored. A strange and wonderful sensation 
— to be dressed once more as a gentleman. He thought 
of the saying of the old negro, who liked to stub his toe, 
