the great dumping-ground of the world. 
Unless we legislate meanwhile. 
V 
FOUR OF THE HIGHLY SPECIALIZED 
THERE are four other ways in which women 
(exclusive of the artist class) are enjoying 
remunerative careers: as social secretaries, play 
brokers, librarians, and editors; and it seems to me 
that I cannot do better than to drop generalities in 
this final chapter and give four of the most notable 
instances in which women have "made good" in these 
highly distinctive professions. I have selected four 
whom I happen to know well enough to portray at 
length : Maria de Barril, Alice Kauser, Belle da Costa 
Greene, and Honore Willsie. It is true that Mrs. 
Willsie, being a novelist, belongs to the artist class, 
but she is also an editor, which to my mind makes her 
success in both spheres the more remarkable. To edit 
means hours daily of routine, details, contacts, mechanical work, business, that would drive most writers 
of fiction quite mad. But Mrs. Willsie is exceptionally 
well balanced. 
I 
Maria De Barril 
A limited number of young women thrown abruptly 
upon their own resources become social secretaries if 
their own social positions have insensibly prepared 
them for the position, and if they live in a city large 
enough to warrant this fancy but by no means inactive post. In Washington they are much in demand 
by Senators' and Congressmen's wives suddenly translated from a small town where the banker's lady hobnobbed with the prosperous undertaker's family, to a 
city where the laws of social precedence are as rigid 
as at the court of the Hapsburgs and a good deal 
more complicated. But these young women must 
themselves have lived in Washington for many- years, 
or they will be forced to divide their salary with a 
native assistant. 
The most famous social secretary in the United 
States, if not in the world, is Maria de Barril, and 
she is secretary not to one rich woman but to New 
York society itself. Her position, entirely self-made, 
is unique and secure, and well worth telling. 
Pampered for the first twenty years of her life like 
a princess and with all her blood derived from one of 
the oldest and most relaxed nations in Europe, she 
was suddenly forced to choose between sinking out 
of sight, the mere breath kept in her body, perhaps, 
on a pittance from distant relatives, or going to work. 
She did not hesitate an instant. Being of society 
she knew its needs, and although she was too young 
to look far ahead and foresee the structure which was 
to rise upon these tentative foundations, she shrewdly 
began by offering her services to certain friends often 
hopelessly bewildered with the mass of work they 
 
were obliged to leave to incompetent secretaries and 
housekeepers. One thing led to another, as it always 
does with brave spirits, and to-day Miss de Barril has 
a position in life which, with its independence and 
freedom, she would not exchange for that of any of 
her patrons. She conducted her economic venture 
with consummate tact from the first. Owing to a 
