

 

that repeatedly checked in her the expression of 
judgments. Their idleness was as mean and bare 
on her own side, she too much felt, as on his; 
and heaven knew that if he could sit with screwed- 
up eyes for hours the case was as flagrant in her 
aimless driftings, her incurable restless revolutions, as a pretence of "interests" could consort 
with. 

She revolved and drifted then, out of his sight 
and in another quarter of the place, till four 
o'clock had passed; when on returning to him 
she found his chair empty and was sure of what 
had become of him. There was nothing else in 
fact for his Sunday, as he on that day denied 
himself the resource of driving, or rather of being 
driven, from which the claim of the mechanical 
car had not, in the Newport connection, won 
him, and which, deep in his barouche, behind his 
own admirable horses, could maintain him in 
meditation for meditation's sake quite as well as 
a poised rocking-chair. Left thus to herself, 
though conscious she well might have visitors, 
she circled slowly and repeatedly round the 
gallery, only pausing at last on sight of a gentleman who had come into view by a path from 
the cliff. He presented himself in a minute as 
Davey Bradham, and on drawing nearer called 
across to her without other greeting: "Won't 
you walk back with me to tea ? Gussy has sent 
me to bring you." 





 

"Why yes, of course I will — that's nice of 
Gussy," she replied; adding moreover that she 
wanted a walk, and feeling in the prospect, though 
she didn't express this, a relief to her tension and 
a sanction for what she called to herself her tact. 
She might without the diversion not quite have 
trusted herself not to emulate, and even with 
the last crudity, her father's proceeding; which 
she knew she should afterwards be ashamed of. 
"Anyone that comes here," she said, "must 
come on to you — they'll know;" and when 
Davey had replied that there wasn't the least 
chance of anyone's not coming on she moved 
with him down the path, at the end of which they 
entered upon the charming cliff walk, a vast 
carpet of undivided lawns, kept in wondrous condition, with a meandering right-of-way for a seaward fringe and bristling wide-winged villas that 
spoke of a seated colony; many of these huge 
presences reducing to marginal meanness their 
strip of the carpet. 

