There was already before him, goodness knew, 
matter enough for response. 

This evening at any rate, while the day dark 
ened and the weather shrouded his vigil, he in 
voked convenient illusions with a tremour he had 
not yet felt; he arrived, between his fondness and 
his fear, at the easiest compromise with concen 
tration. Unmistakably, as the afternoon waned, 
he held off as much as he hovered. It was a 
natural effect of his restlessness that he didn't 
for the present see himself settled. It was posi 
tively as if, with the cup so held to his lips, the 
taste of 1710 might prove too stiff a dose. He 
would judge, as it were, when he came back 
back, as who should say also, from everywhere 
else. He would go of course everywhere else; 
intellectually now he could so well afford to. 
This would make all the general initiation that, 





  

as a preliminary, was indispensable the series of 
scattered dashes and superficial dips. Strange his 
divination, or whatever one might call it, that 
from such a plunge at Number Nine as would 
thoroughly penetrate he might possibly not emerge 
undamaged or even, it was actually to be fig 
ured, not emerge at all. He might remain there 
below, remain in the quintessential depth that 
stood so ready for a real resident. He pulled up 
his patrol as it again came to him that for this 
privilege of real residence he had a candidate in 
hand. He loitered anew, looked and listened, 
strolled and stopped, paused at moments, with 
hands in pockets, to gaze all too gravely at a 
mere panel in a wainscot, a mere seam in a cur 
tain, and repeat over vaguely the name of Mrs. 
Midmore of Drydown. She had gradually be 
come for him less abstract, and he reflected with 
interest that she was the one historic figure he 
was as yet in position to introduce into the view. 
There were in fact moments of desultory thought 
when he felt as if she were already in it by her 
own act so close a relation to it seemed asserted 
by her proved resolution. This proved resolution 
was, so far as his wondering mind could now place 
her before him, what was most the mark of her 
aspect, and there were literally for him flights of 
fancy through which, as she stood there, she 
looked out at him with a hard old face. Yes, she 
would be old, Mrs. Midmore of Drydown in the 
sense at least that she wouldn't be new: she 
wouldn't without that have what he could only 
phrase as the connection; and she would not less 
assuredly be hard: she wouldn't without that have 
