
" Come," said Neale, " you better answer. How much 
d'he pay you for the lot? " 

And Aunt Tab did not speak. Mary, who had taken 
her hand, as it hung at her side, gave it a little warning 
pressure, not so much in sympathy as to tell her the time 
had come. 

" Do you mean to say you ain't goin' to answer me? " 
asked Neale, in a low voice. 

Mary started at the voice. She was afraid of it. 
With a sick certainty, it came to her that she knew how 
crimes befell in houses safe as .this: some savage inner 
devil, decently hidden but never slain, lay in men and 
women and suddenly sprang out to desperate deeds. 

" D'you go to him an' offer it to him? " asked Neale, 
" or did he come to you? If he stepped into this house, 
by—" 

He stopped and Mary said impulsively: 
" He didn't, Thomas, never since the night he talked to 
you." 



 

She was innocently harrying him and he felt a small 
sudden rage against her, a whifF from the greater wind 
of his large anger. He turned upon her and seized her 
wrist, and Mary found he was dragging her out into the 
hall. And then Aunt Tab began to scream. 

" O my soul ! " she cried over and over, " don't you 
hurt Mary ! Don't you hurt Mary ! " 

And Mary, revolting under the indignity of it, called 
over her shoulder: 

" Don't be a fool, Tabitha. He isn't hurting me." 

But he was bruising her soft wrist: only now the pain 
was less because she was not resisting him, but walking 
with her head up. Once she warned him : 

" Thomas, you'd better not, Thomas, dear — " she 
had not called him that for years — " remember." 

Thomas did not hear her. He had no rage against 
her, only she was the obstacle in his path. He took her, 
in one sweep of striding haste, across the other front 
room, pushed her into the bedroom behind it and locked 
the door upon her. And Aunt Tab, seeing that Mary was 
indeed not to be killed, slipped noiselessly through the 
kitchen and the shed and ran for the barn. She plunged 
into its dusty cavern and the cows rattled their chains 
at her, thinking she meant more fodder; but she saw the 
