dearest." ... She lifted her clear eyes: "I am quite ready to sacrifice
you, too," she said.

I smiled: "That would cost you very little," I said.

There was another short silence.  The girl looked at me with a curious
intentness as though mentally appraising me—trying to establish in her
mind any value I might represent to her—if any.

"It’s like an innocent bystander being hit by a bullet in a revolution,"
she murmured: "it’s a pity: but it is unavoidable, sometimes."

"I represent this theoretical and innocent bystander?"

"I’m afraid you do, Mr. O’Ryan; the chances are that you’ll get hurt."

A perfectly inexplicable but agreeable tingling sensation began to
invade me, amounting almost to exhilaration.  Was it the Irish in me,
subtly stirred, by the chance of a riot?  Was it a possible opportunity
to heave a brick, impartially and with Milesian enthusiasm?

"Thusis," said I, "there is only one question I must ask you to answer."

"I know what it is."

"What?"

"You are going to remind me that, to-day, the whole world is divided
into two parts; that the greatest war of all times is being waged
between the forces of light and of darkness.  And you are going to ask
me where I stand."

"I am."

The girl rose; so did I.  Then she stepped forward, took my right hand
and rested her other upon it.

"I stand for light, for the world’s freedom, for the liberties of the
weaker, for the self-determination of all peoples.  I stand for their
right to the pursuit of happiness.  I stand for the downfall of all
tyranny—the tyranny of the mob as well as the tyranny of all autocrats.
That is where I stand, Mr. O’Ryan.... Where do you stand?"

"Beside you."

She dropped my hand with an excited little laugh:

"I was certain of that.  In Berne I learned all about you.  I took no
chances in coming here.  I took none in being frank with you."  She
began to laugh again, mischievously: "Perhaps I took chances in being
impertinent to you.  There is a dreadful and common vein of frivolity in
me.  I’m a little reckless, too.  I adore absurd situations, and the
circumstances—when you unwillingly discovered that I was
attractive—appealed to me irresistibly. And I am afraid I was silly
enough—common enough—malicious enough to thoroughly enjoy it.... But,"
she added naïvely, "you gave me rather a good scare when you threatened
to kiss me."

"I’m glad of that," said I with satisfaction.

