circle around Constantinople? Is there something dead in Persia? Is
the Bagdad railroad dying? Is Enver Bey at his last gasp? Is Talaat?
Or perhaps the savoury odour comes from the Yildiz----"

"Nihla! Is there nothing sacred--nothing thou fearest on earth?"

"Only old age--and thy smile, my Ferez. Neither agrees with me." She
stretched her arms lazily.

"Allons," she said, stifling a pleasant yawn with one slim hand,"--my
maid will wake below and miss me; and then the dogs of Stamboul yonder
will hear a solo such as they never heard before.... Tell me, Ferez,
do you know when we are to weigh anchor?"

"At sunrise."

"It is the same to me,"--she yawned again--"my maid is aboard and all
my luggage. And my Ferez, also.... Mon dieu! And what will Cyril have
to say when he arrives to find me vanished! It is, perhaps, well for
us that we shall be at sea!"

Her quick laughter pealed; she turned with a careless gesture of
salute, friendly and contemptuous; and her white bernous faded away in
the moonlit fog.

And Ferez Bey stood staring after her out of his near-set, beady eyes,
loving her, desiring her, fearing her, unrepentant that he had sold
her, wondering whether the day might dawn when he would find it best
to kill her for the prosperity and peace of mind of the only living
being in whose service he never tired--himself.




I

A SHADOW DANCE


Three years later Destiny still wore a rosy face for Nihla Quellen.
And, for a young American of whom Nihla had never even heard, Destiny
still remained the laughing jade he had always known, beckoning him
ever nearer, with the coquettish promise of her curved forefinger, to
fame and wealth immeasurable.

       

Seated now on a moonlit lawn, before his sketching easel, this
optimistic young man, whose name was Barres, continued to observe the
movements of a dim white figure which had emerged from the villa
opposite, and was now stealing toward him across the dew-drenched
grass.

When the white figure was quite near it halted, holding up filmy
skirts and peering intently at him.

"May one look?" she inquired, in that now celebrated voice of hers,
through which ever seemed to sound a hint of hidden laughter.

"Certainly," he replied, rising from his folding camp stool.
