spy, and who are their witnesses in the Goober case, and what
they’re going to say.”

“But how can I find out things like that?” cried Peter.

“You’ve got to use your wits,” said McGivney. “But I’ll give you one
tip; get yourself a girl.”

“A girl?” cried Peter, in wonder.

“Sure thing,” said the other. “That’s the way we always work. Guffey
says there’s just three times when people tell their secrets: The
first is when they’re drunk, and the second is when they’re in
love--”

Then McGivney stopped. Peter, who wanted to complete his education,
inquired, “And the third?”

“The third is when they’re both drunk and in love,” was the reply.
And Peter was silent, smitten with admiration. This business of
sleuthing was revealing itself as more complicated and more
fascinating all the time.

“Ain’t you seen any girl you fancy in that crowd?” demanded the
other.

“Well--it might be--” said Peter, shyly.

“It ought to be easy,” continued the detective. “Them Reds are all
free lovers, you know.”

“Free lovers!” exclaimed Peter. “How do you mean?”

“Didn’t you know about that?” laughed the other.

Peter sat staring at him. All the women that Peter had ever known or
heard of took money for their love. They either took it directly, or
they took it in the form of automobile rides and flowers and candy
and tickets to the whang-doodle things. Could it be that there were
women who did not take money in either form, but whose love was
entirely free?

The detective assured him that such was the case. “They boast about
it,” said he. “They think it’s right.” And to Peter that seemed the
most shocking thing he had yet heard about the Reds.

To be sure, when he thought it over, he could see that it had some
redeeming points; it was decidedly convenient from the point of view
of the man; it was so much money in his pocket. If women chose to be
that silly--and Peter found himself suddenly thinking about little
Jennie Todd. Yes, she would be that silly, it was plain to see. She
gave away everything she had; so of course she would be a “free
lover!”

Peter went away from his rendezvous with McGivney, thrilling with a
new and wonderful idea. You couldn’t have got him to give up his job
now. This sleuthing business was the real thing!

It was late when Peter got home, but the two girls were sitting up
for him, and their relief at his safe return was evident. He noticed
