been evacuated during the first Battle of the Mame and 
only the poor had returned. The weU-to-do provincials 
in this street had had homes elsewhere, perhaps a flat in 



 

Paris; or they had established themselves in the south. 
The street had an intensely secretive air, brooding, 
waiting. Soon all these houses would be reopened, the 
dull calm life of a provincial town would flow again, the 
only difference being that the women who went in and 
out of those narrow doors and down this long and twisted 
street would wear black; but for the most part they 
would sit in their gardens behind, secluded from every 
eye, as indifferent to their neighbors as of old, with that 
ingrained unchangeable bourgeois suspicion and exclusiveness; and the fagades, the street itself, would look 
little less secretive than now. 




Nowhere could she find such seclusion if she wished for 
it. This house was the only one in the street that belonged to a member of the noblesse, and the bourgeoisie 
had as little "use" for the noblesse as the noblesse for 
the bourgeoisie. 

For the moment Alexina felt that the house was hers, 
and the street itself. She was literally its only inhabitant. As she stood looking up and down its misty grayness she felt more peaceful than she had felt for many 
days. There were certain fierce terrible emotions that 
she never wanted to feel again, and one of them was ruthlessness. She had done much good in the past four 
years ; she had been, for the most part, high-minded, self- 
sacrificing, indifferent to the petty things of life, even 
to discomfort, and it had given her a sense of elevation 
— when she had had time to think about it. It was only 
certain extraordinary circumstances that brought other 
qualities as inherent as life itself surging to the top. It 
was demoralizing even to fight them, for that involved 
recognition. Better that she protect herself from their 
assaults. True, she was young, but she had had her fill 
of drama. All her old cravings, never satisfied in the 
old days of peace without and insurgence within, had 
been surfeited by this close personal contact with the 
greatest drama in history. 

Why return to Paris at all? "Why not settle down. 



 

here at once, live a life of thought and study, and give 
abundant help where help was needed ? There were villages within a few miles where the inhabitants were living in the ruins. (The Germans in their first retreat had 
been too hard pressed to linger long enough to set fire to 
this large town and they had not been able to reach it 
during their second drive.) 

That had been a last flicker of romance at the em- 
bassy ... a last resurgence of the evil the war had done 
