It was, in his opinion, the most astonishing letter 
he had ever read. He hated to destroy it; but that 
was the obligation imposed; and he was an honourable 
man. 
Not since she had discovered it had Ruth touched 
or opened the mission Bible; but to-night (the same 
upon which the wonderful manuscripts started on 
their long and circuitous voyage to America) she 
was inexplicably drawn to it. In all these weeks she 
had not once knelt to pray. Why should she? she 
asked rebelliously. God had never answered any of 
her prayers. But this time she wanted nothing for 
herself: she wanted something for Hoddy —  success. 
So, not exactly hopefully but earnestly, she returned 
to the feet of God. She did not open the Bible but 
laid it on the edge of the bed, knelt and rested her 
forehead upon the worn leather cover. 
It was not a long prayer. She said it audibly, 
having learned long since that an audible prayer was 
a concentrated one. And yet, at the end of this 
prayer a subconscious thought broke through to 
consciousness. " And someday let him care for me ! " 
She sprang up, alarmed. This unexpected in- 
terpolation might spoil the efficacy of all that had 
gone before. She hadn't meant to ask anything for 
herself. Her stifled misery had betrayed her. She 
had been fighting down this thought for days: that 
Hoddy did not care, that he did not love her, that he 
had mistaken a vagary of the mind for a substance, 
  .nd now regretted what he had done —  married a 
 
' 
girl who was not his equal in anything. The agony 
on the sands now ceased to puzzle her. 
All her tender lures, inherent and acquired, had 
scattered themselves futilely against the reserve he 
liad set between them. Why had he offered her 
tbat kiss on board The Tigress? Perhaps that had 
l>een his hour of disenchantment. She hadn't 
measured up; she had been stupid; she hadn't known 
how to make love. 
Loneliness. Here was an appalling fact: all her 
previous loneliness had been trifling beside that which 
now encompassed her and would for years to come. 
If only sometimes he would grow angry at her, 
impatient! But his tender courtesy was unfailing; 
and under this would be the abiding bitterness of 
having mistaken gratitude for love. Very well. She 
would meet him upon this ground: he should never 
be given the slightest hint that she was unhappy. 
She still had her letter of credit. She could run 
away from him, if she wished, as she had run away 
from her father; she could carry out the original ad- 
venture. But the cases were not identical. Her 
father —  man of rock —  had never needed her, where- 
as Hoddy, even if he did not love her, would always 
be needing her. 
Love stories ! .... A sob rushed into her throat, 
and to smother it she buried her face in a pillow. 
Spurlock, filled with self-mockery, sat in a chair 
