dropped in, was a young man who generally spent 
more time in conversing with the mother than with 

the daughter. If his design had been first to con- 


ciliate Mrs. Hartley, his plan was certainly a good 
one. But he was innocent of any design further 
than to gain opportunities for observing closely the 
character and disposition of Marien. He had am- 
ple means for supporting a wife, and had been 
looking about him for one at least a year. The 
first impression m.ade upon him by Marien was 
favorable. He was not struck by her beauty and 
accomplishments half so much as by the sentiments 
which he occasionally heard fall from her lips. 
The way in which her parents guarded her, he 
saw and understood at once, and this strengthened 
his belief that she was a precious treasure for him 
who could wnn her heart. 

While he observed her at a distance, as it were 
others were clustering around her, and using every 
art to gain her favor. But, even while they were 
pressing for attention, her eye was wandering away 
to him, and often the words they uttered were un- 
heard in her recollection of sentiments which he 
had spoken. Why this was so, Marien did not ask 
herself. She did not even notice the fact. When 
the young man, at last, began to make advances, 
siie received them with an inward pleasure unfelt 
before. This did not escape the mother's watchful 
eve. But she had no word to say in objection. 
Long before any serious inroad upon Marian's 



 

affections had been made, father, mother, and bro- 
ther were thoroughly acquainted with the young 
man's family, standing and character. They were 
unexceptionable. 

When he, finally, made application for her hand, 
he received, promptly, this answer : — 

" Take her, and may she be to you as good a 
wife as she has been to us a child." 

Marien was twenty-three years of age, when she 
became a wedded wife. Many wed younger, but 
few as wisely. 

The next event of interest in the life of Mrs. 
Hartley, was the marriage of Clarence, In this 
matter she was careful to leave her son in the 
most perfect freedom. Although from principle 
she did this, she was not without great concern on 
the subject, for she well knew that his whole char- 
acter would be modified for good or evil by his 
wife. It is enough to say, that Clarence chose 
wisely. 



CHAPTER XVI. 

CONCLUSION. 

Having brought our readers to this point, not, 
we hope, without proiit to themselves, we find that 
we have little more to add. The mother's untiring 
devotion to her children has not been in vain. — 
The good seed sown in their minds has produced 
a pleasant harvest. 

We could present a strong and painful contrast 
in the results attendant upon the course pursued 
by Mrs. Fielding; but we will not do so. It would 
be of little use to throw dark shades upon the pic- 
ture we have drawn. There are few who read 
this, who cannot look around and see the baleful 
consequences that have followed neglect and in- 
difference such as were manifested by Mrs. Field- 
ing towards her children. The instances are, alas .' 
too numerous. 

In closing this volume, the author would remark 
to those who may feel disappointed in not finding 
it so full of incident and description as they had 
expected, that to have given it a lighter character 
M'oukl have required the sacrifice of much that he 
wished to say. The subject is one so full of in- 
terest to a certain class, that no charms of fiction 
were required to hold their attention. To have 
extended our book further, or to have introduced 
a greater variety of scenes, would have occupied 
the time and attention of the reader to very little 
purpose. To those who have read aright, enough 
