said Alice after a few minutes. " Whose fault is it, Ellen ?" 

" I think it is aunt Fortune's fault," said Ellen raising her 
head ; " I don't think it is mine. If she had behaved well 
to me I should have behaved well to her. I meant to, I am 
sure " 

" Do you me til to say you do not think you have been in 
fault at all in the matter ?" 

" No ma'am — I do not mean to say that. I have been 
very much in fault — very often — I know that. I get very 
angry and vexed, and sometimes I say nothing, but some- 
times I get out of all patience and say things I ought not. I 
did so to-day ; but it is so very hard to keep still when I am 
in such a passion ; — and now I have got to feel so towards 
aunt Fortune that I don't like the sight of her ; I hate "the 
very look of her bonnet hanging up on the wall. I know it 
isn't right ; and it makes me miserable ; and I can't help it, 
for I grow worse and worse every day ; — and what shall I 

do ?"

Ellen's tears came faster than her words. 

" Ellen my child," -said Alice after a while, — " there is but 
one way. You know what I said to you yesterday ?" 

" I know it, but dear Miss Alice, in my reading this morning I came to that verse that speaks about not being forgiven 
if we do not forgive others ; and oh ! how it troubles me ; 
for J can't feel that I forgive aunt Fortune ; I feel vexed 
whenever the thought of her comes into my head ; and how 
can I behave right to her while I feel so ?" 

*\ You are right there, my dear ; you cannot indeed ; the 
heart must be set right before the life can be." 




" But what shall I do to set it right ?" 
" Pray." 

" Dear Miss Alice I have been praying all this morning 
that I might forgive aunt Fortune, and yet I cannot do it." 

" Pray still, my dear," said Alice, pressing her closer in 
her arms, — pray still ; if you are in earnest the answer will 
come. But there is something else you can do, and must do, 
Ellen, besides praying, or praying may be in vain." 

" What do you mean, Miss Alice ?" 

" You acknowledge yourself in fault — have you made all 
the amends you can ? Have you, as soon as you have seen 
yourself in the wrong, gone to your aunt Fortune and 
acknowledged it, and humbly asked her pardon ?" 

Ellen answered " no" in a low voice. 

" Then my child your duty is plain before you. The next 
thing after doing wrong is to make all the amends in your 
power ; confess your fault, and ask forgiveness, both of God 
and man. Pride struggles against it, — I see yours does, — 
but my child, ' God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace 
unto the humble.' " 

Ellen burst into tears and cried heartily. 

" Mind your own wrong doings my child, and you will not 
be half so disposed to quarrel with those of other people. 
But Ellen dear, if you will not humble yourself to this you 
must not count upon an answer to your prayer. ' If thou 
bring thy gift to the altar, and there rememberest that thy 
brother hath aught against thee,' — what then ? —  Leave 
there thy gift before the altar ;' go first and be reconciled to 
thy brother, and then come." 

" But is it so hard to forgive !" sobbed Ellen. 

" Hard ? yes it is hal*d when our hearts are so. But there 
is little love to Christ and no just sense of his love to us in 
the heart that finds it hard. Pride and selfishness make it 
hard ; the heart full of love to the dear Saviour cannot 
lay up offences against itself." 

" I have said quite enough," said Alice after a pause ; 
" you know what you want, my dear Ellen, and what you 
ought to do. I shall leave you for a little while to change 
my dress, for I have been walking and riding all the morning. 
Make a good use of the time while I am gone." 

Ellen did make ^ood use of the time. When Alice returned she met her with another face than she had worn all 
that day, humbler and quieter ; and flinging her arms around 
her, she said. 

" I will ask aunt Fortune's forgiveness ; — I feel I can do it 
now." 

" And how about forgiving, Ellen ?" 
