fixed stars that shine with varied light in the political
metropolis,--raised still higher the standard of self-estimation. Her
daughter Emeline, now a beautiful and accomplished young lady,
accompanied her mother wherever she went, and attracted a large share
of attention. Among those who seemed particularly pleased with Emeline
was a young man, a member of Congress from New York, who belonged to a
wealthy and distinguished family, and who was himself possessed of
brilliant talent, that made him conspicuous on the floor of Congress,
even among men of long-acknowledged abilities. His name was Erskine.

Soon after meeting with the Hon. Mr. Erskine, Mrs. Minturn felt a
strong desire to bring him to the feet of her daughter. He presented
just the kind of alliance she wished for Emeline. In imagination she
soon began to picture to herself the elevated and brilliant position
her child would occupy as the wife of Erskine, and she resolved to
leave no means untried for the accomplishment of her wishes.
Accordingly, she was particularly attentive to the young man whenever
thrown into his company; and sought, by flattering his self-love, to
make him feel in the best possible humour with himself while in her
society. In this way she succeeded in drawing him frequently to her
side, where Emeline was always to be found. A sprightly, well-educated,
and finely accomplished girl, Emeline soon interested the young M. C.;
and he showed her, as has been said, a good deal of attention during
the winter, and Mrs. Minturn flattered herself that her daughter had
made a conquest.

When the session of Congress closed, the Minturns returned home in the
enjoyment of a much higher opinion of themselves than they had ever
before entertained, and quite disposed to be rather more choice than
before in regard to their visiting acquaintance. A few days after their
reappearance in old circles, a card of invitation to meet some friends
at the house of Mr. and Mrs. Allender was received. It extended to
themselves and their eldest daughter, Emeline. Mrs. Minturn handed the
card to her husband on his return from his office in the evening.

"What is this?" he asked, on taking it. "Ah, indeed!" he added, in
rather an equivocal voice, on perceiving its tenor. "Are you going?"

"I rather think not."

"Just as you say about it," remarked the acquiescing husband.

"The truth is," said Mrs. Minturn, "a regard for our position makes it
necessary for us to be more select in our acquaintances. I don't wish
Emeline to be on terms of intimacy with Clara Allender any longer.
There is too great a difference in their social relations. As people
are judged by the company they keep, they should be a little choice in
their selection. I like Mrs. Allender very well in her place. She is a
good, plain, common-sense sort of a woman, but she occupies a grade
below us; and we should remember and act upon this for the sake of our
children, if for nothing else."

"No doubt you are right," replied Mr. Minturn. "Mr. Allender has
neither energy of character nor enterprise; he, therefore, occupies a
dead level in society. At that level he cannot expect every one else to
remain."

"Not us, at least."

"No."

"Clara called to see Emeline yesterday. I saw her in the parlour, and
asked her to excuse Emeline, as she was a little indisposed. It is
true, I had to fib a little. But that was better than a renewal of an
acquaintance that ought now to cease. She seemed a little hurt, but I
can't help it."

"Of course not. I am sorry, for their sakes, that we must give up the
acquaintance. No loss can come to us, as we have more friends, now,
than are just convenient."

"It would help Clara a good deal," remarked Mrs. Minturn, "to mingle in
our circle. Her mother feels this, and, therefore, does not wish to
give us up. I've not the least doubt but this party is made on our
account. It won't do, however; they will have to let us go."

"It will be sufficient to send our regrets," said Mr. Minturn.

"We'd better not even do that," replied his wife. "That will indicate a
wish to retain the acquaintance, and we have no such desire. Better
sever the relation at once and be done with the matter. It is
unpleasant at least, and there is no use in prolonging disagreeable
sensations."

"Be it so, then," remarked Mr. Minturn, rising; and so the thing was
decided.

Mrs. Minturn had lapsed into a small mistake touching the reason that
induced Mr. and Mrs. Allender to give an entertainment just at that
time. It was not in honour of their return from Washington, and
designed to unite the families in a firmer union; no, a thought like
this had not entered the mind of the Allenders. The honour was designed
for another--even for the Hon. Mr. Erskine, who was the son of one of
Mr. Allender's oldest and most valued friends, whom he had not seen for
many years, yet with whom he had enjoyed an uninterrupted
correspondence. On his return home, Mr. Erskine remained a few days in
the city, as much to see Mr. Allender as for any thing else, his father
having particularly desired him to do so. He had never met Mr. Allender
before, but was charmed with his gentlemanly character and fine
intelligence at the first interview, and still more pleased with him at
