
" That is a parting proof of Mr. Harris' regard," he said, 
scornfully. " A fortnight ago, he took it into his head to 
give it to me, because, he said, he believed I should try to 
get away one of these days. Looks interesting, doesn't 
it ? " he said, drawing his glove on again. 

" I declare, my very blood runs cold when I think of it 
your condition and your risks ! " said Mr. Wilson. 

" Mine has run cold a good many years, Mr. Wilson ; at 
present, it's about up to the boiling point," said George. 

" Well, my good sir," continued George, after a few 
moments' silence, " I saw you knew me ; I thought I'd just 
have this talk with you, lest your surprised looks should 
bring me out. I leave early to-morrow morning, before 
daylight ; by to-morrow night I hope to sleep safe in Ohio. 
I shall travel by daylight, stop at the best hotels, go to the 
dinner-tables with the lords of the land. So, good-bye, sir ; 
if you hear that I'm taken, you may know that I'm dead ! " 

George stood up like a rock, and put out his hand with 
the air of a prince. The friendly little old man shook it 
heartily, and after a little shower of caution, he took his 
umbrella, and fumbled his way out of the room. ' 




G-eorge stood thoughtfully looking at the door as the old 
man closed it. A thought seemed to flash across his inind. 
He hastily stepped to it, and opening it said 

" Mr. Wilson, one word more." 

The old gentleman entered again, and George, as before, 
locked the door, and then stood for a few moments looking 
on the floor irresolutely. At last, raising his head with a 
sudden effort 

"Mr. Wilson, you have shown yourself a Christian in 
your treatment of me I want to ask one last deed of 
Christian kindness of you." 

WeU, George." ' 

" Well, sir, what you said was true. I am running a 
dreadful risk. There isn't on earth a living soul to care if I 
die," he added, drawing his breath hard, and speaking with 
a great effort. " I shall be kicked out and buried like a dog, 
and nobody '11 think of it a day after only my poor wife ! 
Poor soul ! she'll mourn and grieve ; and if you'd only con- 
trive, Mr. Wilson, to send this little pin to 'her. She gave 
it to me for a Christmas present, poor child ! Give it to 
her, and tell her I loved her to the last. Will you ? Will 
you ? " he added earnestly. 

" Yes, certainly ; poor fellow ! " said the old gentleman, 
taking the pin, with watery eyes, and a melancholy quiver in 
his voice. 

" Tell her one thing," said George, " it's my last wish, it 
she can get to Canada, to go there. No matter how kind 
her mistress is no matter how much she loves her home ; beg 
her not to go back for slavery always ends in misery. Tell 
her to bring up our boy a free man, and then he won't suffer 
as I have. Tell her this, Mr. Wilson, will you ? " 

" Yes, George, I'll tell her ; but I trust you won't die. 
Take heart, you're a brave fellow. Trust in the Lord, 
George. I wish in my heart you were safe through, though 
that's what I do." 

" Is there a God to trust in ? " said George, in such a tone 
of bitter despair as arrested the old gentleman's words. 
" Oh, I've seen things all my life that have made me feel 
that there can't be a God. You Christians don't know how 
these things look to us. There is a God for you, but is there 
any for us ? " 





"Oh, now, don't don't, my boy!" said the old man, 
almost sobbing as he spoke ; " don't feel so. There is 
there is ; clouds and darkness are round about Him, but 
righteousness and judgment are the habitation of His throne. 
There 's a God, George believe it ; trust in Him, and I 'm 
sure He'll help you. Everything will be set right if not 
in this life, in another." 

The real piety and benevolence of the simple old man 
invested him with a temporary dignity and authority as he 
spoke. Greorge stopped his distracted walk up and down the 
room, stood thoughtfully a moment, and then said quietly 

" Thank you for saying that, my good friend ; I '11 think 
of that." 
