
The undertaker was already beginning to feel the heartless
indifference of Jasper, and his last remark was half in irony, half in
smothered contempt.

"Looks! Oh! I never do any thing for looks. If I can be of any
service, I will be there--but, if not, not. I'm a right up-and-down,
straight-forward man of the world, you see."

The undertaker bowed, saying that all should be as he wished.

"You can step around there, after a while, Edward," said Jasper, as
soon as the undertaker had retired. "When you go, I wish you would
ascertain, particularly, what has been done with the child. If a
neighbour has taken her home, make inquiry as to whether she will be
retained in the family; or, better still, adopted. You can hint, in a
casual way, you know, that her parents have left property, which may,
some time or other, be valuable. This may be a temptation, and turn
the scale in favour of adoption; which may save me a world of trouble
and responsibility."

"There is some property left?" remarked Claire.

"A small house or two, and a bit of worthless land in the mountains.
All, no doubt, mortgaged within a trifle of their value. Still, it's
property you know; and the word 'property' has a very attractive sound
in some people's ears."

A strong feeling of disgust toward Jasper swelled in the young man's
heart, but he guarded against its expression in look or words.

A customer entering at the moment, Claire left his principal and moved
down behind the counter. He was not very agreeably affected, as the
lady approached him, to see in her the person from whom he had taken
ten dollars on the previous day, in excess of a reasonable profit. Her
serious face warned him that she had discovered the cheat.

"Are you the owner of this store?" she asked, as she leaned upon the
counter, and fixed her mild, yet steady eyes, upon the young man's
face.

"I am not, ma'am," replied Claire, forcing a smile as he spoke.
"Didn't I sell you a lot of goods yesterday?"

"You did, sir."

"I thought I recognised you. Well, ma'am, there was an error in your
bill--an overcharge."

"So I should think."

"A overcharge of five dollars."

Claire, while he affected an indifferent manner, leaned over toward
the woman and spoke in a low tone of voice. Inwardly, he was trembling
lest Jasper should became cognizant of what was passing.

"Will you take goods for what is due you; or shall I hand you back the
money?" said he.

"As I have a few more purchases to make, I may as well take goods,"
was replied, greatly to the young man's relief.

"What shall I show you, ma'am?" he asked, in a voice that now reached
the attentive ears of Jasper, who had been wondering to himself as to
what was passing between the clerk and customer.

A few articles were mentioned, and, in a little while, another bill of
seven dollars was made.

"I am to pay you two dollars, I believe?" said the lady, after Claire
had told her how much the articles came to. As she said this, Jasper
was close by and heard the remark.

"Right, ma'am," answered the clerk.

The customer laid a ten-dollar bill on the counter. Claire saw that
the eyes of Jasper were on him. He took it up, placed it in the
money-drawer, and stood some time fingering over the change and small
bills. Then, with his back turned toward Jasper, he slipped a five
dollar gold piece from his pocket. This, with a three dollar bill from
the drawer, he gave to the lady, who received her change and departed.

Other customers coming in at the moment, both Jasper and his clerk
were kept busy for the next hour. When they were alone again, the
former said--

"How large a bill did you sell the old lady from the country, who was
in this morning?"

"The amount was seven dollars, I believe."

"I thought she said two dollars?"

"She gave me a ten-dollar bill, and I only took three from the
drawer," said the young man.

"I thought you gave her a piece of gold?"

"There was no gold in the drawer," was replied, evasively.
