
One of the reasons for this, to her husband so unaccountable,
trembled on Ellen's tongue, but she could not make up her mind to
reprove him; and so bore in silence, and with some pain, what she
felt as a reflection upon her want of frugality in managing
household affairs.

Let us advance the characters we have introduced, a year in their
life's pilgrimage, and see if there are any fruits of these good
resolutions.

"Where is Thorne, this morning?" asked the owner of the shop,
speaking to Moreland, one morning, an hour after all the workmen had
come in.

"I do not know, really," replied Moreland. "I saw him yesterday,
when he was well."

"He's off gunning, I suppose, again. If so, it is the tenth day he
has lost in idleness during the last two months. I am afraid I shall
have to get a hand in his place, upon whom I can place more
dependence. I shall be sorry to do this for your sake, and for the
sake of his wife. But I do not like such an example to the workmen
and apprentices; and besides being away from the shop often
disappoints a job."

"I could not blame you, sir," Moreland said; "and yet, I do hope you
will bear with him for the sake of Ellen. I think if you would talk
with him it would do him good."

"But, why don't you talk to him, William?"

"I have talked to him frequently, but he has got so that he won't
bear it any longer from me."

"Nor would he bear it from me, either, I fear, William."

Just at that moment the subject of the conversation came in.

"You are late this morning, Henry," said the owner of the shop to
him, in the presence of the other workmen.

"It's only a few minutes past the time," was replied, moodily.

"It's more than an hour past."

"Well, if it is, I can make it up."

"That is not the right way, Henry. Lost time is never made up."

Thorne did not understand the general truth intended to be
expressed, but supposed, at once, that the master of the shop meant
to intimate that he would wrong him out of the lost hour,
notwithstanding he had promised to make it up. He therefore turned
an angry look upon him, and said--

"Do you mean to say that I would cheat you, sir?"

The employer was a hasty man, and tenacious of his dignity as a
master. He invariably discharged a journeyman who was in the least
degree disrespectful in his language or manner towards him before
the other workmen. Acting under the impulse that at once prompted
him, he said:

"You are discharged;" and instantly turned away.

As quickly did Henry Thorne turn and leave the shop. He took his way
homeward, but he paused and lingered as he drew nearer and nearer
his little cottage, for troubled thoughts had now taken the place of
angry feelings. At length he was at the door, and lifting slowly the
latch, he entered.

"Henry!" said Ellen, with a look and tone of surprise. Her face was
paler and more care-worn than it was a year before; and its calm
expression had changed into a troubled one. She had a babe upon her
lap, her first and only one. The room in which she sat, so far from
indicating circumstances improved by the passage of a year, was far
less tidy and comfortable; and her own attire, though neat, was
faded and unseasonable. Her husband replied not to her inquiring
look, and surprised ejaculation, but seated himself in a chair, and
burying his face in his hands, remained silent, until, unable to
endure the suspense, Ellen went to him, and taking his hand, asked,
so earnestly, and so tenderly, what it was that troubled him, that
he could not resist her appeal.

"I am discharged!" said he, with bitter emphasis. "And there is no
other establishment in the town, nor within fifty miles!"

"O, Henry! how did that happen?"

"I hardly know myself, Ellen, for it all seems like a dream. When I
left home this morning, I did not go directly to the shop; I wanted
to see a man at the upper end of the town, and when I got back it
was an hour later than usual. Old Ballard took me to task before all
the shop, and intimated that I was not disposed to act honestly
towards him. This I cannot bear from any one; I answered him in
anger, and was discharged on the spot. And now, what we are to do,
heaven only knows! Winter is almost upon us, and we have not five
dollars in the world."

