Stealthily, to avoid punishment, he went to her but watchful eyes
were upon him, and he was soon brought back. Gently and earnestly
his mother would chide his disobedience; harshly his father would
punish it--but all was of no avail.

"Where is Andrew?" asked Mr. Howland, on returning home one evening
from his store, and not seeing the bright little fellow in the room
with his mother. This was on the occasion of his introduction to the
reader.

"I don't know. He was here just now," replied Mrs. Howland.

"I saw him a little while ago playing on the steps with Emily
Winters," said the nurse, who had come recently into the family, and
was not aware of the prohibition that existed in regard to the child
she had mentioned.

"Is it possible!" exclaimed Mr. Howland, angrily. Then he added in
an excited voice, "go and bring him home immediately!"

The nurse left the room and soon returned with the child. In his
face was a look of blended fear, anger and resolution.

"Where have you been, sir?" sternly asked Mr. Howland.

The child made no answer.

"Do you hear me, sir?"

A slight motion of shrinking and alarm might have been seen in the
little fellow as the angry voice of his father fell upon his ears.
But he did not look up or make a reply.

"Will you answer me? Stubborn boy!" exclaimed Mr. Howland, now
catching hold tightly of Andrew's arm.

"Why don't you answer your father, my child?" said the mother, in a
voice that was tender and appealing. The tone reached the boy's
heart, and he lifted his large blue eyes from the floor and fixed
them on his father's threatening countenance.

"Say! Where have you been?" repeated Mr. Howland.

"To see Emily," returned Andrew.

"Haven't I forbidden you to go there?"

The child's eyes sunk again to the floor.

"Say! Haven't I forbidden you to go there?"

But there was no answer.

"Do you hear me?"

"Andrew! Andrew! why don't you answer your father?" came in
distressed and tremulous tones from his mother's lips.

Mr. Howland was about turning to chide sharply his wife for this
interference, when Andrew again raised his eyes and said--

"Yes, sir."

"Then why have you disobeyed me?"

The boy's eyes fell again, and he remained silent.

"I'll break you of this if I break your heart!" said Mr. Howland
severely, and, as he spoke, he almost lifted the child from the
floor with his strong arm as he led him from the room. A groan
issued from the mother's heart and she covered her face and wept.

By the time Mr. Howland reached the chamber above, to which he
repaired with Andrew, the excitement of his anger had subsided; but
not his stern purpose in regard to his child, who had again
disobeyed him. The absolute necessity of obedience in children he
recognized in all its length and breadth. He saw no hope for them in
the future unless obedience were constrained at every cost. Happy
both for them and himself would it have been if he had been wiser in
his modes of securing obedience, and more cautious about exacting
from his children things almost impossible for them to perform.
Without a law there is no sin. Careful, then, should every parent be
how he enacts a law, the very existence of which insures its
violation.

Mr. Howland had sought, by various modes of punishment, other than
chastisement, to enforce obedience in this particular case. Now he
was resolved to try the severer remedy. Andrew had expected nothing
farther than to be shut up, alone, in the room, and to go, perhaps,
supperless to bed, and he was nerved to bear this without a murmur.
But when the rod became suddenly visible, and was lifted above him
in the air, his little heart was filled with terror.

"Oh, father!" he exclaimed, in a voice of fear, while his upturned,
appealing face became ashy pale.

"You have disobeyed me again, my son," said Mr. Howland, coldly and
sternly, "and I must whip you for it. Disobedient children have to
be punished."

