
And now come lumbering over from Charlestown the engines and
fire-companies.

“What impudence of Charlestown,” say these men, “to be sending over
here,—just as if we could not put our own fires out! They have fires
over there, as much as we do.”

And now the flames roar and burn, and shake hands across the streets.
They leap over the steeples, and glare demoniacally out of the
church-windows.

“For Heaven’s sake, DO SOMETHING!” is the cry. “Pull down the houses!
Blow up those blocks of stores with gunpowder! Anything to stop it.”

“See, now, what ultra, radical measures they are going at,” says one of
these spectators.

Brave men, who have rushed into the thickest of the fire, come out, and
fall dead in the street.

“They are impracticable enthusiasts. They have thrown their lives away
in foolhardiness,” says another.

So, church of Christ, burns that awful fire! Evermore burning, burning,
burning, over church and altar; burning over senate-house and forum;
burning up liberty, burning up religion! No earthly hands kindled that
fire. From its sheeted flame and wreaths of sulphurous smoke glares out
upon thee the eye of that ENEMY who was a murderer from the beginning.
It is a fire that BURNS TO THE LOWEST HELL!

Church of Christ, there was an hour when this fire might have been
extinguished by thee. Now, thou standest like a mighty man
astonished,—like a mighty man that cannot save. But the Hope of Israel
is not dead. The Saviour thereof in time of trouble is yet alive.

If every church in our land were hung with mourning,—if every Christian
should put on sack-cloth,—if “the priest should weep between the porch
and the altar,” and say, “Spare thy people, O Lord, and give not thy
heritage to reproach!”—that were not too great a mourning for such a
time as this.

O, church of Jesus! consider what hath been said in the midst of thee.
What a heresy hast thou tolerated in thy bosom! Thy God the defender
of slavery!—thy God the patron of slave-law! Thou hast suffered the
character of thy God to be slandered. Thou hast suffered false witness
against thy Redeemer and thy Sanctifier. The Holy Trinity of heaven has
been foully traduced in the midst of thee; and that God whose throne is
awful in justice has been made the patron and leader of oppression.

This is a sin against every Christian on the globe.

Why do we love and adore, beyond all things, our God? Why do we say to
him, from our inmost souls, “Whom have I in heaven but thee, and there
is none upon earth I desire beside thee”? Is this a bought up
worship?—is it a cringing and hollow subserviency, because he is great
and rich and powerful, and we dare not do otherwise? His eyes are a
flame of fire;—he reads the inmost soul, and will accept no such
service. From our souls we adore and love him, because he is holy and
just and good, and will not at all acquit the wicked. We love him
because he is the father of the fatherless, the judge of the
widow;—because he lifteth all who fall, and raiseth them that are bowed
down. We love Jesus Christ, because he is the Lamb without spot, the
one altogether lovely. We love the Holy Comforter, because he comes to
convince the world of sin, and of righteousness, and of judgment. O,
holy church universal, throughout all countries and nations! O, ye great
cloud of witnesses, of all people and languages and tongues!—differing
in many doctrines, but united in crying Worthy is the Lamb that was
slain, for he hath redeemed us from all iniquity!—awake!—arise up!—be
not silent! Testify against this heresy of the latter day, which, if it
were possible, is deceiving the very elect. Your God, your glory, is
slandered. Answer with the voice of many waters and mighty thunderings!
Answer with the innumerable multitude in heaven, who cry, day and night,
Holy, holy, holy! just and true are thy ways, O King of saints!

-----

Footnote 25:

  This resolution is given in Birney’s pamphlet.

Footnote 26:

  The synods were also made courts of last appeal in judicial cases.

Footnote 27:

  Speech of W. Phillips, Boston.

Footnote 28:

  Minutes of the New School Assembly, p. 188.

Footnote 29:

  These two resolutions are given on the authority of Goodel’s History.
  I do not find them in the Minutes.



