
"It is not my name after I leave this--I shall forget and be forgotten.
Let me go!"

"Forget! forgotten! you may! a false woman can forget the mother who
reared her! but the stain upon them! your tears, nor his blood can
cleanse it!"

"You are mad!" said Mrs. Read, regaining her composure. "You cannot
stop me. My home is in another land. Why do you talk of disgrace? the
brutal dotard I fly from, will unfasten my legal fetters, and then I
shall live! the life for which my Creator destined me!"

"You speak your Creator's name! trampling upon His laws--His curse
hanging over you! Oh! I entreat you, by a mother's prayers--for the
sake of your old father, tottering upon the verge of the grave--in
the name of your honorable and loving brother, not to expose your
design! You shall not--you cannot go; the doors are locked--call for
assistance from those who are without, and I will alarm the household.
To-morrow your name will be trumpeted at the corner of every street.
Ha! that cry! they have discovered all! Too late! too late! but no!--"
She tore off the cloak and bonnet, and threw them into a corner, as
Sarah rushed down the steps.

"Mistress! Miss Ida! for the Lord's sake, come! Master is dying!"

A cry from Josephine pierced their ears. Ida forgot her companion, but
she reached the chamber with her. Writhing, convulsed, screaming, he
was wrestling with the Destroyer; the disease had grappled his heart.
Mrs. Read sank upon her knees, as blasted by a thunderbolt; Josephine
shrieked in helpless dismay; Ida was wrought up to too high a pitch,
to think of self.

"Where is John?" she cried. "Here! run for Dr. Ballard! Mr. Read is
very ill! Call for Mr. Talbot as you come back. Fly!"

He was down stairs while she was speaking. "Why, Miss Ida, the key is
not here!"

She ran for it, unlocked the door, and pushed him out. A man stood
in the shade of the porch, whom John did not perceive, in his rapid
egress; but he seized Ida's hand, as she would have shut him out.

"Helen!"

"Mrs. Read's husband is dying, Mr. Ashlin!"

"Good heavens!"

The bolt had shot into its place, ere he could say more.

All the accompaniments of the last agony, of which Ida had ever heard,
read or conceived, were realized in this struggle;--the blackening
features, drenched with sweat, the starting eye, the twitching muscles,
the death-rattle,--the soul was tearing through the clay receptacle:
yet for two hours the awful conflict was protracted.

Morning! a sheet covered the rigid, motionless limbs and countenance,
telling in death, of suffering; and there were solemn stoppings and
stifled whispers through the house; and crape waved from the door,
where the traitorous friend had waited, at night, for the dead man's
wife.

Mrs. Read was borne to her chamber in hysteric convulsions, and
continued raving and swooning all day--attacking, in tigress fury,
every one who approached her, excepting Ida. Her she would not suffer
to quit her sight. Holding her hands in a frantic grasp, she poured
forth such tales as made her heart ache: of warm Spring evenings,
when the air was laden with sweet-briar scent, and the young moon was
swimming in the pale blue sky, and the star of love shone upon them--an
eye of light--from the blushing west, and he sung to her--poetry
ascending from his heart as perfume from the flowers--songs, upon
whose memory she lived, in the winter of his absence. "But"--and the
deep wells of her eyes were black with anguish, "her heart died, and
dissolution came not to the body--would that it had! and the thought
of the past was a yawning abyss, like the abode of the lost, from which
arose hot, poisonous simooms and tormenting spirits. The world brought
incense and gaudy offerings, and friends their best treasures, but it
closed not--and she resolved, by self-immolation, to shut the chasm; by
an irrevocable sacrifice, to seal it forever. The effort was idle--she
sold soul and body for nought. He came, and turned her face to the
Future. His heart had wavered, but returned to its allegiance. She was
his, by an earlier, holier tie than her loathed tyrant's;--away in the
sunny land of their youthful dreams, they would live, unmolested by
memory or care. She clung to duty, until her husband drove her from
him with a curse; to a brother's love,--and he painted that brother's
hatred of him, and threatened to see her no more;--and by the specious
names of "soul-dictates," and the "religion which enjoins truth, and
condemns hypocrisy," gained her promise. The hand of the Almighty
interfered!

Ida shut up her tears, and reasoned and plead with her; praying
inwardly for her comfort, and that her own mind and nerves might not
fail her. She rested the maniac's head upon her breast--bathed the
beating temples, and pressed her cool lips to the parched ones, working
with pain--beseeching her, with every endearing epithet, to rest and
forget. But the lava crust was heaving; and the long-repressed flood
spread over it in fast, soothing streams. The June twilight was on the
earth--as she had described those of years agone; and in calming tones,
she bade Ida "sing."
