cathedral. How individual is every cathedral ! York is not 
like Westminster, nor like Strasbourg, nor Cologne, any more 
than Shakspeare is like Milton, or Milton like Homer. In 
London I attended morning service in Westminster, and explored its labyrinths of historic memories. The reading of 
the Scriptures in the English tongue, and the sound of the 
chant, affected me deeply, in contrast with the pictorial and 
dramatic effects of Eomanism in continental churches. 

As a simple matter of taste, Protestantism has made these 
buildings more impressive by reducing them to a stricter 
unity. The multitude of shrines, candlesticks, pictures, statues, and votive offerings, which make the continental churches 
resemble museums, are constantly at variance with the majestic grandeur of the general impression. Therein they typify 
the church to which they belong, which has indeed the grand 
historic basis and framework of Christianity, though overlaid 
with extraneous and irrelevant additions. 

This Cathedral of York has a severe grandeur peculiar to 



 

itself. I saw it with a deep undertone of feeling ; for it was 
the last I should behold. 

No one who has appreciated the wonders of a new world of 
art and association can see, without emotion, the door closing 
upon it, perhaps forever. I lingered long here, and often 
turned to gaze again ; and after going out, went back, once 
more, to fill my soul with a last, long look, in which I bade 
adieu to all the historic memories of the old world. I thought 
of the words, " We have a building of God, a house not mado 
with hands, eternal in the heavens." 

These glorious arches, this sublime mystery of human 
power and skill, is only a shadow of some eternal substance, 
which, in the ages to come, God will yet reveal to us. 

It rained with inflexible pertinacity during all the time we 
were at York ; and the next day it rained still, when we took 
the cars for Castle Howard station. 

In riding through the park from the station, we admired an 
avenue composed of groups of magnificent beeches, sixteen or 
eighteen in a group, disposed at intervals on either hand. 

The castle, a building in the Italian style, rose majestically 
on a slight eminence in the centre of a green lawn. "We 
alighted in the crisis of one of the most driving gusts of wind 
and rain, so that we really seemed to be fleeing for shelter. 
But within all was bright and warm. 

Lady Carlisle welcomed us most affectionately, and we 
learned that, had we not been so reserved at the York station, in concealing our names, we should have received a note 
from her. However, as we were safely arrived, it was of no 
consequence. 

Several of the family were there, among the rest Lady 
Dover and Mr. and Mrs. E. Howard. They urged us to 




 

remain over night ; but as we had written to Leeds that we 
should be there in the evening train, we were obliged to de- 
cline. We were shown over the castle, which is rich in works 
of art. There was a gallery of antiques, and a collection of 
paintings from old masters. In one room I saw tapestry exactly like that which so much interested us in Windsor, representing scenes from the Book of Esther. It seemed to be of 
a much more ancient date. I was also interested in a portrait 
of an ancestor of the family, the identical " Belted Will " who 
figures in Scott's Lay. 

" Belted Will Howard shall come with speed, 
And William of Deloraine, good at need." 

In one of the long corridors we were traversing, we heard 
the voice of merriment, and found a gay party of young people and children amusing themselves at games. I thought 
what a grand hide-and-go-seek place the castle must be — 
whole companies might lose themselves among the rooms. 
The central hall of the building goes up to the roof, and is 
surmounted by a dome. The architecture is in the Italian 
style, which I think much more suited to the purposes of ordinary life than for strictly religious uses. I never saw a church 
in that style that produced a very deep impression on me. 
This hall was gorgeously frescoed by Italian masters. The 
door commands the view of a magnilicent sweep of green 
lawn, embellished by an artificial lake. It is singular in how 
fine and subtile a way different nationalities express themselves 
in landscape gardening, while employing the same materials. 
I have seen no grounds on the continent that express the par- 
t in ilar shade of ideas which characterize the English. There 
is an air of grave majesty about the wide sweep of their out- 



 

lines — a quality suggestive of ideas of strength and endurance which is appropriate to their nationality. 

