ten boys to each boat.

Although the success of the criminal undertaking required the utmost
caution, Charles found his command were disposed to be very boisterous,
and all his efforts would hardly keep them quiet. After some trouble he
got away from the shore; but his crew, from the want of discipline,
were utterly incapable of pulling in concert. They had not taken three
strokes before they were all in confusion--tumbling off the thwarts,
knocking each other in the back, and each swearing at and abusing his
companions.

"Hold your jaw, there!" called Tim Bunker, in a low tone, from the
Butterfly.

"Cease rowing!" said Charles.

But they would not "cease rowing," and the prospect was that a general
fight would soon ensue in spite of all the coxswain's efforts to restore
order. At last Tim came alongside, and rapping two or three of the
turbulent Rovers over the head with a boathook, he succeeded in quieting
them.

After several attempts Charles got them so they could pull without
knocking each other out of the boat; but he was heartily disgusted with
his crew, and would gladly have escaped from them, even if Rippleton
Jail had yawned to receive him. After half a dozen trials he placed the
Zephyr alongside the Sylph, let go her moorings, and took her in tow.
The Rovers then pulled for the island; but the passage thither was long
and difficult.




CHAPTER XVI.

THE CAMP ON THE ISLAND.


As the crew of the Zephyr tugged at their oars, their imperfect
discipline imposing double labor upon them, Charles had an opportunity
to consider his position. The bright color of romance which his fancy
had given to the enterprise was gone. The night air was cold and damp,
and his companions in error were repulsive to him. There was no pleasure
in commanding such a motley crew of ill-natured and quarrelsome bullies,
and if it had been possible, he would have fled from them. Who plunges
into vice may find himself in a snare from which he cannot escape though
he would.

At last they reached the island, and the Sylph was anchored near the
shore. There was a great deal of hard work to be done; but each of the
Rovers seemed to expect the others would do it.

"Now, Charley, everything is right so far," said Tim Bunker, whose party
had just drawn Joe Braman's boat upon the beach.

"Everything is wrong," Charles wanted to say; but Tim was too powerful
to be lightly offended.

"I can do nothing with such a crew as that," whined he. "They won't
mind, and every fellow wants his own way."

"Hit 'em if they don't mind," replied Tim.

"I think we had better spend an hour in drilling them. We can't handle
the boat as it is."

"We must get the tents up before we do anything else. You go after the
stakes and poles and I will get the provisions."

Before the crews returned to the boats, Tim made a little speech to them
upon the necessity of order; promising, if any boy did not obey, he
would thrash him "within an inch of his life."

"Now tumble into the boats, and, Charley, if any feller don't do what
you tell him, let me know it, and I will lick him for you."

"All aboard!" said Charles.

"Where are we going now?" asked one of his crew.

"No matter; all you have got to do is to obey orders," replied Charles,
sharply.

"Say that again!" said the fellow, with an oath, as he doubled up his
fist, and menaced the unfortunate coxswain with a thrashing.

"Hallo, Tim!" shouted Charles, who dared not venture to carry out the
Bunker's summary policy.

"What's the row?" said Tim, as he hastened to the spot.

"I can't do anything with this crew; here is a fellow shaking his fist
in my face."

"Let him be civil then," added the refractory Rover.

"It was you, was it, Barney?" said Tim, as he stepped into the boat.

"I'll bet it was," replied the fellow, standing upon the defensive.

