land. That wide, deep chasm of conscious self-poverty and emptiness
which lies at the bottom of every human heart, making men crave property
as something to add to one's own bareness, and to ballast one's own
specific levity, is sooner filled by land than any thing else.

Your hoary New England farmer walks over his acres with a grim
satisfaction. He sets his foot down with a hard stamp; here is
reality. No moonshine bank stock! no swindling railroads! Here is
his bank, and there is no defaulter here. All is true, solid, and
satisfactory; he seems anchored to this life by it. So Pope, with fine
tact, makes the old miser, making his will on his death bed, after
parting with every thing, die, clinging to the possession of his land.
He disposes with many a groan of this and that house, and this and that
stock and security; but at last the manor is proposed to him.

          "The manor! hold!" he cried,
    "Not that; I cannot part with that!"--and died!

In such terms we discoursed yesterday, Herr Professor and myself, while
jogging along in an old-fashioned chaise to inspect a few acres of wood
lot, the acquisition of which had let us, with great freshness, into
these reflections.

Does any fair lady shiver at the idea of a drive to the woods on the
first of February? Let me assure her that in the coldest season Nature
never wants her ornaments full worth looking at.

See here, for instance--let us stop the old chaise, and get out a minute
to look at this brook--one of our last summer's pets. What is he doing
this winter? Let us at least say, "How do you do?" to him. Ah, here he
is! and he and Jack Frost together have been turning the little gap in
the old stone wall, through which he leaped down to the road, into a
little grotto of Antiparos. Some old rough rails and boards that dropped
over it are sheathed in plates of transparent silver. The trunks of the
black alders are mailed with crystal; and the witch-hazel, and yellow
osiers fringing its sedgy borders, are likewise shining through their
glossy covering. Around every stem that rises from the water is a
glittering ring of ice. The tags of the alder and the red berries of
last summer's wild roses glitter now like a lady's pendant. As for the
brook, he is wide awake and joyful; and where the roof of sheet ice
breaks away, you can see his yellow-brown waters rattling and gurgling
among the stones as briskly as they did last July. Down he springs! over
the glossy-coated stone wall, throwing new sparkles into the fairy
grotto around him; and widening daily from melting snows, and such other
godsends, he goes chattering off under yonder mossy stone bridge, and we
lose sight of him. It might be fancy, but it seemed that our watery
friend tipped us a cheery wink as he passed, saying, "Fine weather, sir
and madam; nice times these; and in April you'll find us all right; the
flowers are making up their finery for the next season; there's to be a
splendid display in a month or two."

Then the cloud lights of a wintry sky have a clear purity and brilliancy
that no other months can rival. The rose tints, and the shading of rose
tint into gold, the flossy, filmy accumulation of illuminated vapor that
drifts across the sky in a January afternoon, are beauties far exceeding
those of summer.

Neither are trees, as seen in winter, destitute of their own peculiar
beauty. If it be a gorgeous study in summer time to watch the play of
their abundant leafage, we still may thank winter for laying bare before
us the grand and beautiful anatomy of the tree, with all its interlacing
network of boughs, knotted on each twig with the buds of next year's
promise. The fleecy and rosy clouds look all the more beautiful through
the dark lace veil of yonder magnificent elms; and the down-drooping
drapery of yonder willow hath its own grace of outline as it sweeps the
bare snows. And these comical old apple trees, why, in summer they look
like so many plump, green cushions, one as much like another as
possible; but under the revealing light of winter every characteristic
twist and jerk stands disclosed.

One might moralize on this--how affliction, which strips us of all
ornaments and accessories, and brings us down to the permanent and solid
wood of our nature, develops such wide differences in people who before
seemed not much distinct.

But here! our pony's feet are now clinking on the icy path under the
shadow of the white pines of "our wood lot." The path runs in a deep
hollow, and on either hand rise slopes dark and sheltered with the
fragrant white pine. White pines are favorites with us for many good
reasons. We love their balsamic breath, the long, slender needles of
their leaves, and, above all, the constant sibylline whisperings that
never cease among their branches. In summer the ground beneath them is
paved with a soft and cleanly matting of their last year's leaves; and
then their talking seems to be of coolness ever dwelling far up in their
fringy, waving hollows. And now, in winter time, we find the same smooth
floor; for the heavy curtains above shut out the snow, and the same
voices above whisper of shelter and quiet. "You are welcome," they say;
"the north wind is gone to sleep; we are rocking him in our cradles. Sit
down and be quiet from the cold." At the feet of these slumberous old
pines we find many of our last summer's friends looking as good as new.
The small, round-leafed partridgeberry weaves its viny mat, and lays out
its scarlet fruit; and here are blackberry vines with leaves still
green, though with a bluish tint, not unlike what invades mortal noses
in such weather. Here, too, are the bright, varnished leaves of the
Indian pine, and the vines of feathery green of which our Christmas
garlands are made; and here, undaunted, though frozen to the very heart
this cold day, is many another leafy thing which we met last summer
rejoicing each in its own peculiar flower. What names they have received
from scientific god-fathers at the botanic fount we know not; we have
always known them by fairy nicknames of our own--the pet names of
