“May-be I can help you a little. Don’t you remember how angry you were
when Mr. Mellon’s old brindle got into our garden, and trampled over
your lettuce-bed, and how you struck her with the oven-pole, and knocked
off one of her horns?”

“But I didn’t mean to do that, though.”

“No; but then you were angry, and struck old Brindle with a right good
will. And if Mr. Mellon had felt disposed, he might have prosecuted for
damages.”

“But she had no business there.”

“Of course not. Neither had our geese any business in Neighbour Barton’s
yard. But, perhaps, I can help you to another instance, that will be
more conclusive, in regard to your doing and saying unreasonable things,
when you are angry. You remember the patent churn?”

“Yes; but never mind about that.”

“So you have not forgotten how unreasonable you was about the churn. It
wasn’t good for anything--you knew it wasn’t; and you’d never put a jar
of cream into it as long as you lived--that you wouldn’t. And yet, on
trial, you found that churn the best you had ever used, and you wouldn’t
part with it on any consideration. So you see, Sally, thai even you can
say and do unreasonable things, when you are angry, just as well as Mr.
Barton can. Let us then consider him a little, and give him time to get
over his angry fit. It will be much better to do so.”

Mrs. Gray saw that her husband was right, but still she felt indignant
at the outrage committed on her geese. She did not, however, say
anything about suing the shoemaker--for old Brindle’s head, from which
the horn had been knocked off, was not yet entirely well, and one
prosecution very naturally suggested the idea of another. So she took
her three fat geese, and after stripping off their feathers, had them
prepared for the table.

On the next morning, as Farmer Gray was going along the road, he met the
shoemaker, and as they had to pass very near to each other, the farmer
smiled, and bowed, and spoke kindly. Mr. Barton looked and felt very
uneasy, but Farmer Gray did not seem to remember the unpleasant incident
of the day before.

It was about eleven o’clock of the same day that one of Farmer Gray’s
little boys came running to him, and crying,

“Oh, father! father! Mr. Barton’s hogs are in our cornfield.”

“Then I must go and drive them out,” said Mr. Gray, in a quiet tone.

“Drive them out!” ejaculated Mrs. Gray; “drive ‘em out, indeed! I’d
shoot them, that’s what I’d do! I’d serve them as he served my geese
yesterday.”

“But that wouldn’t bring the geese to life again, Sally.”

“I don’t care if it wouldn’t. It would be paying him in his own coin,
and that’s all he deserves.”

“You know what the Bible says, Sally, about grievous words, and they
apply with stronger force to grievous actions. No, no, I will return
Neighbour Barton good for evil. That is the best way. He has done wrong,
and I am sure is sorry for it. And as I wish him still to remain sorry
for so unkind and unneighbourly an action, I intend making use of the
best means for keeping him sorry.”

“Then you will be revenged on him, anyhow.”

“No, Sally--not revenged. I hope I have no such feeling. For I am not
angry with Neighbour Barton, who has done himself a much greater wrong
than he has done me. But I wish him to see clearly how wrong he acted,
that he may do so no more. And then we shall not have any cause to
complain of him, nor he any to be grieved, as I am sure he is, at his
own hasty conduct. But while I am talking here, his hogs are destroying
my corn.”

And so saying, Farmer Gray hurried off, towards his cornfield. When he
arrived there, he found four large hogs tearing down the stalks, and
pulling off and eating the ripe ears of corn. They had already destroyed
a good deal. But he drove them out very calmly, and put up the bars
through which they had entered, and then commenced gathering up the
half-eaten ears of corn, and throwing them out into the lane for the
hogs, that had been so suddenly disturbed in the process of obtaining a
liberal meal. As he was thus engaged, Mr. Barton, who had from his own
house seen the farmer turn the hogs out of his cornfield, came hurriedly
up, and said,

“I am very sorry, Mr. Gray, indeed I am, that my hogs have done this! I
will most cheerfully pay you for what they have destroyed.”

“Oh, never mind, Friend Barton--never mind. Such things will happen,
occasionally. My geese, you know, annoy you very much, sometimes.”

“Don’t speak of it, Mr. Gray. They didn’t annoy me half as much as
I imagined they did. But how much corn do you think my hogs have
destroyed? One bushel, or two bushels? or how much? Let it be estimated,
and I will pay for it most cheerfully.”

“Oh, no. Not for the world, Friend Barton. Such things will happen
sometimes. And, besides, some of my men must have left the bars down, or
