wish I had done as you wanted me to do." 
" Can't be helped now, and we will do the next 
best thing," replied Bobby, as he left his companion 
to enter a house. 
Tom did very well, and by the middle of the after- 
noon they had sold all the books but four. " The 
Wayfarer" had been liberally advertised in that vi- 
cinity, and the work was in great demand. Bobby's 
heart grew lighter as the volumes disappeared from 
his valise, and already he had begun to picture the 
scene which would ensue upon his return to the little 
black house. How glad his mother would be to see 
him, and, he dared believe, how happy Annie would 
be as she listened to the account of his journey in the 
State of Maine ! Wouldn't she be astonished when 
he told her about the steamboat, about the fog, and 
about the wild region at the mouth of the beautiful 
Kennebec ! 
Poor Bobby ! the brightest dream often ends in 
sadness ; and a greater trial than any he had been 
called upon to endure was yet in store for him. 
As he walked along, thinking o'f Riverdale and its 
 
loved ones, Tom came out of a grocery store where he 
had just sold a book. 
" Here, Bob, is a ten dollar bill. I believe I have 
sold ten books for you," said Tom, after they had 
walked some distance. " You had better keep the 
money now ; and while I think of it, you had better 
take what I have left of my former sales ; ' and Tom 
handed him another ten dollar bill. 
Bobby noticed that Tom seemed very much con- 
fused and embarrassed ; but he did not observe that 
the two bills he had handed him were on the same 
bank. 
" Then you had ten dollars left after your frolic," 
he remarked, as he took the last bill. 
" About that ; ' and Tom glanced uneasily behind 
him. 
" What is the matter with you, Tom ? ' asked 
Bobby, who did not know what to make of his com- 
panion's embarrassment. 
" Nothing, Bob ; let us walk a little faster. We 
had better turn up this street," continued Tom, as, 
with a quick pace, he took the direction indicated. 
Bobby began to fear that Tom had been doing 
something wrong ; and the suspicion was confirmed 
by seeing two men running with all their might 
towards them. Tom perceived them at the same 
moment. 
" Run ! " he shouted, and suiting the action to the 
word, he took to his heels, and fled up the street into 
which he had proposed to turn. 
Bobby did not run, but stopped short where he 
was till the men came up to him. 
" Grab him," said one of them, " and I will catch 
the other." 
The man collared Bobby, and in spite of all the 
resistance he could make, dragged him down the 
street to the grocery store in which Tom had sold his 
last book. 
" What do you mean by this ? ' asked Bobby, his 
blood boiling with indignation at the harsh treatment 
to which he had been subjected. 
" We have got you, my hearty," replied the man, 
releasing his hold. 
No sooner was the grasp of the man removed, than 
Bobby, who determined on this as on former occa- 
sions to stand upon his inalienable rights, bolted for 
 
the door, and ran away with all his speed. But his 
captor was too fleet for him, and he was immediately 
retaken. To make him sure this time, his arms were 
tied behind him, and he was secured to the counter 
of the shop. 
In a few moments the other man returned dragging 
Tom in triumph after him. By this time quite a 
crowd had collected, which nearly filled the story 
Bobby was confounded at the sudden change that 
had come over his fortunes ; but seeing that resistance 
would be vain, he resolved to submit with the 
best grace he could. 
" I should like to know what all this means ? '' he 
inquired, indignantly. 
The crowd laughed in derision. 
" This is the chap that stole the wallet, I will be 
bound," said one, pointing to Tom, who stood in 
surly silence awaiting his fate. 
" He is the one who came into the store," replied 
the shopkeeper. 
" I haven't stole any wallet," protested Bobby, 
who now understood the whole affair. 
The names of the two boys were taken, and war- 
rants procured for their detention. They were 
searched, and upon Tom was found the lost wallet, 
and upon Bobby two ten dollar bills, which the loser 
was willing to swear had been in the wallet. The 
evidence therefore was conclusive, and they were both 
sent to jail. 
Poor Bobby ! the inmate of a prison 
