the view opened full upon the river, a sharp angle of which
lay there in a nook like a mountain lake; its further course
hid behind a headland of the western shore; and only the bend
and a little bit before the bend could be seen from the
valley. The level spot about the house gave perhaps half an
acre of good garden ground; from the very edge of that, the
grey rising ledges of granite and rank greensward between held
their undisputed domain. There the wild roses planted
themselves; there many a flourishing sweet-briar flaunted in
native gracefulness, or climbed up and hung about an old cedar
as if like a wilful child determined that only itself should
be seen. Nature grew them and nature trained them; and sweet
wreaths, fluttering in the wind, gently warned the passer-by
that nature alone had to do there. Cedars, as soon as the
bottom land was cleared, stood the denizens of the soil on
every side, lifting their soft heads into the sky. Little else
was to be seen. Here and there, a little further off, the
lighter green of an oak shewed itself, or the tufts of a
yellow pine; but near at hand the cedars held the ground,
thick pyramids or cones of green, from the very soil, smooth
and tapered as if a shears had been there; but only nature had
managed it. They hid all else that they could; but the grey
rocks peeped under, and peeped through, and here and there
broke their ranks with a huge wall or ledge of granite, where
no tree could stand. The cedars had climbed round to the top
and went on again above the ledge, more mingled there with
deciduous trees, and losing the exceeding beauty of their
supremacy in the valley. In the valley it was not unshared;
for the Virginia creeper and cat-briar mounted and flung their
arms about them, and the wild grape-vines took wild
possession; and in the day of their glory they challenged the
bystander to admire anything without them. But the day of
their glory was not now; it came when Autumn called them to
shew themselves; and Autumn's messenger was far off. The
cedars had it, and the roses, and the eglantine, under
Summer's rule.

It was in the prime of summer when the two fishers went down
to their boat. The valley level was but a few feet above the
river; on that side, with a more scattering growth of cedars,
the rocks and the greensward gently let themselves down to the
edge of the water. The little dory was moored between two
uprising heads of granite just off the shore. Stepping from
rock to rock the brothers reached her. Rufus placed himself in
the stern with the fishing tackle, and Winthrop pushed off.

There was not a stir in the air; there was not a ripple on the
water, except those which the oars made, and the long widening
mark of disturbance the little boat left behind it. Still --
still, -- surely it was Summer's siesta; the very birds were
still; but it was not the oppressive rest before a
thunderstorm, only the pleasant hush of a summer's day. The
very air seemed blue -- blue against the mountains, and kept
back the sun's fierceness with its light shield; and even the
eye was bid to rest, the distant landscape was so hidden under
the same blue.

No distant landscape was to be seen, until they had rowed for
several minutes. Winthrop had turned to the north and was
coasting the promontory edge, which in that direction
stretched along for more than a quarter of a mile. It
stretched west as well as north, and the river's course beyond
it was in a north-easterly line; so that keeping close under
the shore as they were, the up view could not be had till the
point was turned. First they passed the rock-bound shore which
fenced in the home valley; then for a space the rocks and the
heights fell back and several acres of arable ground edged the
river, cut in two by a small belt of woods. These acres were
not used except for grazing cattle; the first field was
occupied with a grove of cylindrical cedars; in the second a
soft growth of young pines sloped up towards the height; the
ground there rising fast to a very bluff and precipitous range
which ended the promontory, and pushed the river boldly into a
curve, as abrupt almost as the one it took in an opposite
direction a quarter of a mile below. Here the shore was bold
and beautiful. The sheer rock sprang up two hundred feet from
the very bosom of the river, a smooth perpendicular wall;
sometimes broken with a fissure and an out-jutting ledge, in
other parts only roughened with lichens; then breaking away
into a more irregular and wood-lined shore; but with this
variety keeping its bold front to the river for many an oar's
length. Probably as bold and more deep below the surface, for
in this place was the strength of the channel. The down tides
rushed by here furiously; but it was still water now, and the
little boat went smoothly and quietly on, the sound of the
oars echoing back in sharp quick return from the rock. It was
all that was heard; the silence had made those in the boat
silent; nothing but the dip of the oars and that quick mockery
of the rowlocks from the wall said that anything was moving.

But as they crept thus along the foot of the precipice, the
other shore was unfolding itself. One huge mountain had been
all along in sight, over against them, raising its towering
head straight up some fourteen hundred feet from the water's
edge; green, in the thick luxuriance of summer's clothing,
except where here and there a blank precipice of many hundred
feet shewed the solid stone. Now the fellow mountain, close
beyond, came rapidly in view, and, as the point of the
promontory was gained, the whole broad north scene opened upon
the eye. Two hills of equal height on the east shore looked
