Harry vouchsafed no reply to this speech, and followed Jacob into the house. His first meal at his 
new place confirmed all he had heard about the penu- 
riousness of his master. There was very little to eat 
on the table, but Mrs. "Wire gave him the poorest 
there was — a hard crust of brown bread, a cold 
potato, and a dish of warm water with a very little 
molasses and milk in it, which he was expected to 
imagine was tea. 

Harry felt no disposition to eat. He was too sad 
and depressed, and probably if the very best had been 
Bet before him, he would have been equally indif- 
ferent. 

He ate very little, and Jacob felt more kindly to- 
wards him than before this proof of the smallness of 
his appetite. He had been compelled to get rid of 
his last boy, because he was a little ogre, and it 
neemed as though he would eat him out of house and 
aome. 

After supper Harry assisted Jacob about the barn. 





anil it was nearly eight o'clock before they finished. 

" Now, boy, it is about bed time, and I will show
you your rooms, if you like," suid Jacob. " Before 
you go, let me tell you it won't do any good to try 
to run away from here, for I am going to borrow 
Leman's bull-dog." 

Harry made no reply to this remark, and followed 
his master to the low attic of the house, where ho 
was pointed to a rickety bedstead, which he was to 
occupy. 

" There, jump into bed afore I carry the candle 
off," continued Jacob. 

" I don't care about any light. You needn't 
wait," replied Harry, as he slipped off his shoes and 
stockings. 

" That is right; boys always ought to be learnt to 
go to bed in the dark," added Jacob, as he departed. 

But Harry was determined not to go to bed in the 
lark ; so, as soon as he heard Jacob's step on the 
floor below, he crept to the stairway, and silently de- 
scended. He had made up his mind not to wait for  
tl« bull-dog. Pausing in the entry, he heard Jacol 



tell his wife that he was going over to Leman's to 
borrow his dog ; he was afraid the boy would get up 
in the night and set his barn on fire, or run away. 
Jacob then loft the house, satisfied, no doubt, that the 
bull-dog would be an efficient sentinel while the family were asleep. 

After allowing time enough to elapse for Jacob to 
reach Leman's house, he softly opened the front dooi 
and went out. It was fortunate for him that Mrs. 
Wire was as " deaf as a post," or his suddenly matured plan to " try again " might have been a failure. 
As it was, h:g departure was not observed. It was 
quite dark, and after he bad got a short distance from 
the bouse, he felt a reasonable degree of security. 

His first purpose was to get as far away from Red- 
field as possible, before the daylight should come to 
betray him ; and, taking the road, he walked as fast 
as his legs would carry him towards Boston. Jacob's 
house was on the turnpike, which was the direct roaj 
to the city, and the distance which the squire bad 
rarried him in his wagon was so much clear gain. 

He did not feel very sentimental now. The shy 
was oversha i Dwei with clouds, sc that he could aol 





Bee any stirs, ami the future did not look half Ml 
bright as his fancy had pictured it on the preceding 
night. But he was free again; and free under more 
favorable circumstances than before. This time he 
was himself commander of the expedition, and was to 
suffer for no one's bad generalship but his own. Be- 
sides, the experience he had obtained was almost a 
guarantee of success. It had taught him the neces- 
sity of care and prudence. 

The moral lesson he had learned was of infinitely 
more value than even the lesson of policy. For the 
urst time in his life he was conscious of a deep and 
