folding her hands with a grave face, she looked up at Mr. Linden with a
smile which yielded the whole question.
"To prove to you what a naughty child you have been," said Mr. Linden,
"I shall give you an increase of outdoor lessons, and take you off on
an expedition the first mild day. On which occasion you may study
me--if you have any of Miss Essie's curiosity."
"Don't I?" said Faith. "And I am going to do it more. What expedition
are you going on, Endecott?"
"Up to Kildeer river--I have business there. Will you trust yourself to
me in a boat--if I will let you steer?"
"I'll do anything to go," said Faith. "And I suppose if I steered
wrong, the helm would come about pretty quick!" And so ended her last
early morning studies.
It was in the afternoon of the same day that Faith put in practice what
she had been thinking of when she avowed her determination of further
studying Mr. Linden. He had come home from school, and it was the dusky
hour again; the pleasant interregnum between day and night when even
busy folk take a little time to think and rest. Mr. Linden was
indulging in both apparently; he was in one of those quiet times of
doing nothing which Faith chose for making any of her very gentle
attacks upon him. One seemed to be in meditation now. She stole up
behind him and leaned down on the back of his chair, after her wont.
"Endecott"--she said softly.
Faith's voice was in ordinary a pleasant thing to hear; but this name
from her lips was always a concretion of sweetness, flavoured
differently as the case might be. Sometimes with mere gladness,
sometimes with the spirit of fun, often enough with a little timidity,
and sometimes with a rose-drop from the very bottom of her heart's
well; with various compounds of the same. But this time it was more
than timidity; Faith's one word was spoken as from lips that were
positively afraid to follow it with others.
"That note," said Mr. Linden smiling, "seems to come from the top of a
primeval pine tree--with a hawk in sight! Little bird, will you please
come down into the lower regions of air?--where you can be
(comparatively) safe."
Faith laughed; but the hawk remained in sight--of her words.
"You said this morning I never asked you any but impossible things."
"Most sorrowfully true!--have you another one ready?"
"If I ask you something possible, what will you do?" she said, softly
touching the side of his head with her hand. It was Faith's utmost
freedom; a sort of gentle admiring touch of her fingers which the thick
locks of hair felt hardly more than a spider's feet.
"That depends so much upon the thing!" he said, half turning to give
her the look which belonged to his words. "There are such a variety of
ways in which I might deal with it--and with you."
"I am not going to ask you anything but what would be right."
"You do not doubt that my answer will be conformable?"
"Yes I do. It will be your 'right,' but it may not be my 'right,' you
know."
"If you get what is not your right, you ought to be contented," said
Mr. Linden.
"Now you have turned me and my meaning round! Endecott--you know Aunt
Dilly gave me something?--mayn't I--won't you let me lend it to you?"
Very low and doubtfully the words came out! But if Faith had any more
to say, she had little chance for a while. One quick look round at her
Mr. Linden gave, but then he sprang up and came to where she stood,
lifting her face and giving her her "right" in one sense at least.
Other answer he made none.
"Endy--have I asked a possible thing this time?" she said under breath.
"My precious child!--Do you think it possible?"
"It ought to be possible, Endecott." And if ever an humble suggestion
of a possibility was made, Faith made it then.
"I shall have to go back to my first answer," said Mr. Linden,--"I have
no words for any other. Faith, dearest--don't you know that it is not
needful? Will that content you, little sweet one?"
A soft "no."
"Why not?" he said, making good his threat. "What do you want me to
have more than I need?"
"I fear the ways you will take to make that true. I should think you
might, Endecott!"--The ellipsis was not hard to supply.
"I shall not take any unlawful means--nor any unwise ones, I hope," he
said lightly. "What are you afraid I shall do?"
"Get up early in the morning," she whispered.
"But that is so pleasant! Do you suppose I get up late now, little
bird?"
"Not late, with breakfast at seven. How early do you?"
"Philosophically early! Do you know you have not had your poem
to-day?--what shall it be? sunrise or sunset?"
"Which you please," she said gently, with the tone of a mind upon
something else. Mr. Linden looked down at her in silence for a minute.
"Dear Faith," he said, "I told you truly that there is no need. This
year's work has done quite as much as I thought it would. What are you
afraid of?"
"I am not afraid of much," she said, looking up at him now with a clear
brow. "But Endy, I have changed my mind about something. Could you
easily come down and read with me a little while every morning?--or are
you busy?"
"I am never too busy to spend time with you, my child,--that is one
piece of pleasure I shall always allow myself. At what hour shall I
come?"
"At six o'clock, can you?" said Faith. "If you gave me a quarter of an
hour then, I should still have time enough for breakfast work. This
morning I was afraid--but I was foolish. This evening I want all I can
get. And when you read me a ladder of verses again," she said
smiling, "I shall mark them in my Bible, and then I shall have them by
and by--when you are gone."
"Yes, and I can send you more. It is good to go up a ladder of Bible
verses when one is afraid--or foolish," he said gently and answering
her smile. "One end of it always rests on earth, within reach of the
weakest and weariest."
