Mr. Linden. Is it my duty to do it on sudden?"
"It might be, Miss Faith. Indeed I think it is now!"
"What would you like them to be about, Mr. Linden? and I'll try."
"Nay, you may choose: sense is of universal application."
"If I should say what was uppermost," said Faith, "it would be, How
very pleasant what we are doing now, is!"
"Which part?"
"Both parts!--Every part! One makes the other more pleasant." And
Faith's happy face looked so.
"Very sensible words!" said Mr. Linden smiling. "I agree to them
perfectly,--which is, you know, in every mind, the great test of sense.
The picture, Miss Faith, we have before us."
"Yes,--isn't it lovely to-day, Mr. Linden? and hasn't it been lovely
ever since we set out? Except that broken harness--and I don't think
that has hurt anything, either."
"No, I am not sure that even the harness was much the worse. And 'it'
has been very lovely. As for the poem, Miss Faith, you cannot be
trusted with that--and must resign yourself to hearing it read. What
shall it be?"
"I don't know," said Faith. "I know hardly any poetry, Mr. Linden,
except what I have heard you read. Will you read some, perhaps, this
evening?"
"Yes--every evening, if you like,--if we are to follow Göthe's rule.
Just before tea is a good time, don't you think so?"
"Yes indeed!" said Faith, whose colour rose from pure pleasure, as her
thought went back to L'Allegro and Il Penseroso. "I don't think there
is any time pleasanter for it. But they're all pleasant--I've dropped
my whip, Mr. Linden!"--
"I will get it for you," he said checking his horse, "if you will
promise not to run away! I am afraid of your 'enterprising' spirit,
Miss Faith."
But her look at him was a little touched and deprecating. They turned
their horses together and went back a few steps. There was no trouble
in finding the whip, for just where it had been dropped, a boy stood
holding it on high for Faith's acceptance The boy was Phil Davids.
"Thank you, Phil!" said Faith, surprised and grateful.
"I see it go out of your hand," said Phil.
"Yes," said. Mr. Linden--whose smile and word of thanks had accompanied
Faith's,--"Phil has singularly quick eyes. They have done me good
service before."
As they turned again, Farmer Davids stood at their horses' heads. They
were just at the farmer's door, and he so entreated them to come 'in
and rest,' that there was no refusing his hospitality. It was large,
and various--Pumpkin pies and cider, and much pouring forth of
gratitude and admiration for Mr. Linden's success with Phil.
"What have you done to that fellow?" his father remarked admiringly to
Mr. Linden. "You never see such an alteration in a boy. He
used--oncet--to talk hard words agin you, sir;--you won't mind hearing
it now; but he's come all about, and lately there's nothing to Phil's
mind can equal up to Mr. Linden. He don't say much about it, sir, but
it's evident. And he's been at me and his mother this fortnight or two,
to give him something to make a present to you--the boys do, he says;
and he wants the best thing on the farm should go, and so do I, sir, if
we knowed oncet what would be most favourable. It would be a kindness,
sir, as I should be grateful for,--if you'd say what would do you most
service or be most pleasure--of anything that is on the farm;--fruit or
vegetables or dairy. We're plain folks, sir; I say what I mean. Take
some pie, Mr. Linden!--some cider, sir?"
Answering these various questions and demands as best he might, Mr.
Linden contrived to convince Mr. Davids that Phil himself was the thing
"on the farm" that he cared most about; and his goodwill, better than
any special manifestation thereof; giving at the same time full and
grateful thanks for the other things that had come to him when he was
ill.
"Yes," said Mr. Davids, smiling one of his grim and rare smiles,--"all
that don't help our difficulty, you see. Well, Phil and I'll have to
put our heads together. But there's one person can send nothing that
will tell half his good feelings of gratefulness to you,--and that's
me." And a very unwonted softening of the stern man's eye and brow
shewed that he spoke a gentle truth.
Kind words answered him,--words of personal kindness and interest, and
deep pleasure too; but Mr. Davids knew it was a pleasure, an interest,
a kindness, that had each (like Samuel Rutherford's hope) "a face
looking straight out unto that day!"
Truly, "a city that is set on an hill, cannot be hid!"
And the farmer felt it, and his manner softened, and his interest grew
more wistful and intent with every minute they stayed.
Faith was on horseback and Mr. Linden about to follow, when Farmer
Davids arrested him with a low remark and question.
"She's a fine-faced girl--looks as her father needn't ha' been ashamed
of her. Looks good--like he did. Is she going to marry the son of
Judge Harrison, sir?"
"Dr. Harrison has told me nothing of the kind."
"I heerd it"--said the farmer. "I didn't know nothing, how it might be.
Good day, sir! I hope you'll come again." And they trotted off at last,
with again the renewed feeling of liberty and pleasure of motion. But
the sun had descended perceptibly nearer to the horizon than he was
when they dismounted. However there was nothing to do but to ride, for
the proposed route was a circuit and they were passed the first half of
the way already.
"That was good, Mr. Linden," said Faith.
"Which part of it this time?"
"I don't mean the pumpkin pie and the cider," she said smiling.
"Do you feel rested?"
"Oh yes! Rested and tired too. At least, quite ready to move on again."
"Yes, so am I. But do you know Göthe left out one very important item
in his daily directions?"
"What was that?"
"One should, if possible, every day give some one else a little
pleasure."
