While they were discussing this important ques- 
tion, which even threatened a rupture in the 
partnership between the young fishermen, Captain 
Littleton was admitted by Mrs. Duncan. 
" What's the matter, boys ? You are not quar- 
relling, I hope," said Captain Littleton, as he 
entered the room, for he had heard a portion of 
one of John's excited speeches while at the door. 
" O, no, sir," replied Paul. '' I have got a 
chance to let the Fawn for a week, and John is 
opposed to my doing so." 
" Is he ? I am sorry for that. Mr. Morrison 
spoke to me about a boat for the week, and I 
recommended him to you. I had a motive for 
doing so, for I want you to join the excursion in 
the Flyaway. I thought you would like to go, if 
you could do so without any loss." 
'' Thank you, sir. I should like to go very 
 
much ; and when I got this chance to let the 
Fawn, I about made up my mind to go." 
" Then it is all right; but I am sorry John will 
not consent to the arrangement." 
" I don't want to stay on shore a whole week," 
pouted the first mate of the Fawn. " If they 
would only take me as skipper, I should like it 
first rate. What shall I do with myself for a 
whole week on shore ? " 
" I don't see as I can go, then," added Paul. 
" Well, I don't want to keep you from going, 
Paul ; " and a better feeling seemed to be roused 
in John's bosom. 
" I can't afford to let the Fawn lie idle for a 
week, in the busy season," continued Paul. 
" Can't I go a-fishing in her while you are 
gone? " 
" Certainly not ; you can't have my share to 
smash up on the rocks," said Paul, a little tartly. 
" You know you ran the boat on the rocks this 
very afternoon." 
John felt a little lame here, and he did not 
 
venture a reply. He had sacrificed liis reputation 
as a navigator by carelessly attempting to run too 
near the reef, and he felt that his brother's con- 
clusions were correct. 
" Well, at any rate, I won't keep you from 
going in the Flyaway, whatever I do. I will 
agree to let her to Mr. Morrison." 
" That's generous, John. You have got the 
right kind of a heart beneath your jacket, though 
you have an odd way of showing it sometimes," 
said Captain Littleton. 
'' John means right, sir," added Paul. 
" I like to have a little fun myself, as well as 
the rest of the fellows," continued John, " but I 
am willing to stay at home for Paul's sake." 
" That's the right feeling, my boy," replied 
Captain Littleton ; " and if your mother is willing, 
you may go in the Flyaway." 
" Hoo-ray ! " shouted John, jumping out of his 
chair, and performing some gymnastic feats, that 
astonished the visitor and the family. " I may 
go — mayn't I, mother." 
 
'' I have no objection, if Captain Littleton thinks 
it is safe." 
'' He will be as safe as my own son, Mrs. 
Duncan," added the captain. 
" Hoo-ray ! " shouted John again. 
" Come, my son, behave yourself, or they won't 
want such an unmannerly fellow in the company." 
" I will be as polite as a French dancing master." 
John was in luck again, and for the following 
three days he talked of nothing but the cruise of 
the Flyaway. Even sailing in the Fawn seemed 
tame to the idea of going off one or two hundred 
miles, and visiting towns and cities he had never 
seen, and had never before expected to see. He 
could hardly sleep nights, and when he did sleep, 
it was only to dream of being out of sight of land, 
or of occupying a berth in the cabin of the yacht. 
Paul concluded his bargain with Mr. Morrison, 
and made all his preparations for an absence of a 
week or ten days — a longer time than he had 
ever been away from home before. He cleaned 
up the Fawn for Mr, Morrison, and split wood 
 
enougli to last his mother a fortnight. It had 
already been decided that the yacht should go to 
the eastward, and visit Gloucester, the Isles of 
Shoals, Portsmouth, and Portland ; and to be pre- 
pared for the excursion, he carefully studied all 
the maps and books he could procure, which gave 
any information in regard to these places. 
The Flyaway was to sail on Friday at high 
water. For more than a fortnight, Captain Gor- 
don had been training the boys of the Tenean 
Club to serve as  able seamen" on board the 
yacht. There were twelve of them, including 
