on my mind that it has been neglected.”

But the spring months passed--summer glided by--and still there was
no advertisement for heirs, nor any steps taken, so far as Wallingford
could learn, to ascertain their existence.

Mrs. Montgomery still occupied the old mansion, waiting patiently the
issue whatever it might be. Her health, I regretted to find, was not
firm. She suffered a great deal from nervous debility; and I saw,
plainly, that she had failed considerably during the past few months.
Blanche, on the contrary, after recovering from the illness which
followed immediately on her arrival in S----, had continued in excellent
health; and was growing daily more matured and womanly both as to mental
development and personal bearing.

The mill improvements went on all summer, exciting no little interest
in our town, and occasioning no small amount of talk and speculation.
It was some time in the fall of that year, that I was permitted to hear
this brief conversation between a couple of townsmen. Mr. A----had made
some query as to the source of all the money expended on the new mill of
Squire Floyd, which was now standing forth, under roof, in most
imposing proportions, compared with the old works. Mr. B----shrugged his
shoulders, and replied,

“Floyd and the Judge are joint executors of old Allen’s estate, you
know.”

“What does that signify?” inquired Mr. A----.

“It may signify a great deal. They have trust funds in their possession
to a large amount, I am told.”

“They are both honorable men, and would not violate their trust,” said
A----.

“I will not gainsay that,” answered Mr. B----. “Still, they may use
these funds temporarily, and wrong no one.”

Nothing more was said in my presence, but I turned their remarks over
and over again, feeling less satisfied the more I pondered them. A day
or two afterwards I met Mr. Wallingford, and said to him,

“How comes on the search for the heirs of the Allen estate?”

The question caused him to look grave.

“No progress has been made, so far as I can learn,” he answered.

“Isn’t this indifference on the part of the executors a little
extraordinary?” I remarked.

“I must confess that I do not understand it,” said the young lawyer.

“There is personal, as well as real estate?”

“Yes. Stocks worth twenty thousand dollars.”

“I have heard it suggested, that trust funds in the case are going into
Squire Floyd’s mill.”

Wallingford started at the suggestion, and looked for some moments
intently in my face; then dropped his eyes, and stood lost in thought a
good while.

“Where did you hear the suggestion?” he at length inquired.

I repeated the conversation just mentioned, and named the individuals
with whom it had occurred.

“And now, Henry,” said I, “put this hint, and the singular neglect of
the executors to search for the heirs to the Allen property, together,
and tell me how the matter shapes itself in your mind. We speak
confidentially with each other, of course.”

“I don’t just like the appearance of it, that is all I can say, Doctor,”
 he replied in a half absent manner.

“As you represent the interests of Mrs. Montgomery,” said I, “is it not
your duty to look a little closer into this matter?”

“It is; and I shall give it immediate attention.”

He did so, and to his surprise, found that all the bank stock had been
sold, and transferred. It was now plain to him where at least a part
of the funds being so liberally expended on the mill property of Squire
Floyd came from. On venturing to make some inquiries of Judge Bigelow
bearing on the subject, that individual showed an unusual degree of
irritation, and intimated, in terms not to be misunderstood, that he
thought himself competent to manage any business he might undertake, and
did not feel disposed to tolerate any intermeddling.

From that time, Wallingford saw that a separation from his old preceptor
was inevitable; and he so shaped events, that in less than three months
he made the separation easy and natural, and took an office to himself
alone.

Still there was no movement on the part of the executors in regard
to the valuable estate in their hands. Summer and fall passed, and
Christmas saw the splendid improvements of Squire Floyd completed,
and the new mill in operation, under the vigorous power of steam. The
