‘Each the welcome ‘Come’ awaits’? 



What does the Bible tell about that?” 

“ I don’t know, mother,” said Debby. 

“If you turn to the twenty-fifth chapter 
of Matthew,” said her mother, “you will 
find that it tells about a day when the Son 
of Man (that means the Lord Jesus, you 
know, Debby) shall come in his glory. 




When he came to this world before, it 
was in poverty and humiliation; but the 
next time it shall be ‘in his glory, and 
all the holy angels with him. Then 
shall he sit upon the throne of his glory ; 
and before him shall be gathered all 
nations.’ ” 

“That means people from all the different countries,” said Debby. “I had that 
in my geography lesson.” 

“Yes,” said her mother; “it means all 
the people from all the countries: — from 
Greenland, and India, and Africa, and all 
the rest. They shall be all gathered before 
him, ‘and he shall separate them one from 
another, as a shepherd divideth the sheep 
from the goats.’ 

“Now, when men divide the nations, 
Debby, they do it partly by the colour 
of their faces: — the red skins by themselves, and the white, and the black, and 




the copper-coloured. But how will the 
Lord Jesus divide them?” 

“ I don't know,” said Debby. 

“ Think, ’ ’ said her mother. * ‘ What was 
that verse you learned last Sunday?” 

“Oh, I know,” said Debby: — “‘The 
Lord seeth not as man seeth ; for man looketh on the outward appearance; but the 
Lord looketh on the heart.’ Then he’ll 
divide ’em by their hearts : won’t he?” 
“Yes,” said her mother; “for, ‘as a man 
thinketh in his heart, so is he.’ And the 
Lord will know what lives have been spent 
in loving service to him, and what have 
not. 

“And then shall he, the King of kings 
and Lord of lords, say unto them on 
his right hand, ‘Come, ye blessed of my 
Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for 
you from the foundation of the world.’ 
To those on his left hand he shall say, 



 


‘Depart, ye cursed, into everlasting fire, 
prepared for the devil and his angels.’ 
Think how those will feel to whom the 
Lord Jesus in that day shall say, ‘Depart.’ ” 

Debby did not answer, except by a little 
sob that came up in her throat and choked 
back the words. 

“ Do you think Debby Delaine will be 
among the little travellers to whom the 
King shall say ‘ Come?’ ” asked her mother, 
softly. 

“I don’t know,” said Debby, struggling 
with her tears. “I think Jane will, — and 
Tom Lane.” 

“What makes you think so?” said her 
mother. 

“ They’re so good,” said Debby. 

“ What else does the hymn say of the 
little travellers?’ ’ said Mrs. Delaine. “Over 
what are they conquerors?” 

