in mind o' that I went out cap'en in when I was jist beginning to
court you, as somebody else is courtin' our Sally here."

"Now, father," said Sally, threateningly, "what did I tell you?"

"It's really lemancholy," said the Captain, "to think how it does
distress gals to talk to 'em 'bout the fellers, when they ain't thinkin'
o' nothin' else all the time. They can't even laugh without sayin'
he-he-he!"

"Now, father, you know I've told you five hundred times that I don't
care a cent for Moses Pennel,--that he's a hateful creature," said
Sally, looking very red and determined.

"Yes, yes," said the Captain, "I take that ar's the reason you've ben
a-wearin' the ring he gin you and them ribbins you've got on your neck
this blessed minute, and why you've giggled off to singin'-school, and
Lord knows where with him all summer,--that ar's clear now."

"But, father," said Sally, getting redder and more earnest, "I don't
care for him really, and I've told him so. I keep telling him so, and he
will run after me."

"Haw! haw!" laughed the Captain; "he will, will he? Jist so, Sally; that
ar's jist the way your ma there talked to me, and it kind o' 'couraged
me along. I knew that gals always has to be read back'ard jist like the
writin' in the Barbary States."

"Captain Kittridge, will you stop such ridiculous talk?" said his
helpmeet; "and jist carry this 'ere basket of cold chicken down to the
landin' agin the Pennels come round in the boat; and you must step spry,
for there's two more baskets a-comin'."

The Captain shouldered the basket and walked toward the sea with it, and
Sally retired to her own little room to hold a farewell consultation
with her mirror before she went.

You will perhaps think from the conversation that you heard the other
night, that Sally now will cease all thought of coquettish allurement in
her acquaintance with Moses, and cause him to see by an immediate and
marked change her entire indifference. Probably, as she stands
thoughtfully before her mirror, she is meditating on the propriety of
laying aside the ribbons he gave her--perhaps she will alter that
arrangement of her hair which is one that he himself particularly
dictated as most becoming to the character of her face. She opens a
little drawer, which looks like a flower garden, all full of little
knots of pink and blue and red, and various fancies of the toilet, and
looks into it reflectively. She looses the ribbon from her hair and
chooses another,--but Moses gave her that too, and said, she remembers,
that when she wore that "he should know she had been thinking of him."
Sally is Sally yet--as full of sly dashes of coquetry as a tulip is of
streaks.

"There's no reason I should make myself look like a fright because I
don't care for him," she says; "besides, after all that he has said, he
ought to say more,--he ought at least to give me a chance to say no,--he
shall, too," said the gypsy, winking at the bright, elfish face in the
glass.

"Sally Kittridge, Sally Kittridge," called her mother, "how long will
you stay prinkin'?--come down this minute."

"Law now, mother," said the Captain, "gals must prink afore such times;
it's as natural as for hens to dress their feathers afore a
thunder-storm."

Sally at last appeared, all in a flutter of ribbons and scarfs, whose
bright, high colors assorted well with the ultramarine blue of her
dress, and the vivid pomegranate hue of her cheeks. The boat with its
white sails flapping was balancing and courtesying up and down on the
waters, and in the stern sat Mara; her shining white straw hat trimmed
with blue ribbons set off her golden hair and pink shell complexion. The
dark, even penciling of her eyebrows, and the beauty of the brow above,
the brown translucent clearness of her thoughtful eyes, made her face
striking even with its extreme delicacy of tone. She was unusually
animated and excited, and her cheeks had a rich bloom of that pure deep
rose-color which flushes up in fair complexions under excitement, and
her eyes had a kind of intense expression, for which they had always
been remarkable. All the deep secluded yearning of repressed nature was
looking out of them, giving that pathos which every one has felt at
times in the silence of eyes.

"Now bless that ar gal," said the Captain, when he saw her. "Our Sally
here's handsome, but she's got the real New-Jerusalem look, she
has--like them in the Revelations that wears the fine linen, clean and
white."

"Bless you, Captain Kittridge! don't be a-makin' a fool of yourself
about no girl at your time o' life," said Mrs. Kittridge, speaking under
her breath in a nipping, energetic tone, for they were coming too near
the boat to speak very loud.

"Good mornin', Mis' Pennel; we've got a good day, and a mercy it is so.
'Member when we launched the North Star, that it rained guns all the
mornin', and the water got into the baskets when we was a-fetchin' the
things over, and made a sight o' pester."

"Yes," said Mrs. Pennel, with an air of placid satisfaction, "everything
seems to be going right about this vessel."

