In low tones, Richard detailed the scheme into which his outline of a
purpose had grown, and when they parted at noon, the arrangements were
all completed.




CHAPTER VI.

RICHARD GIVES ANOTHER ILLUSTRATION OF SLEEP-WALKING.


For six or seven nights following the expedition to the watermelon
patch of Mr. Batterman, Richard Grant did not "walk in his sleep." The
parental solicitude of his father prompted him to set a watch for
several nights; and Mr. Presby, who was still anxious to pursue his
scientific investigations, slept with one eye open, that he might be in
readiness to avail himself of the reappearance of the phenomenon.

The philosopher's hint that sleep-walkers are sensitive to any allusion
to their infirmity, had prevented him and Mr. Grant from informing the
subject of their precautions of the steps they had taken to observe his
movements, and Richard was entirely unconscious that vigilant eyes were
upon him while he slept, or while he ought to sleep.

But Richard was too lame and sore from the effects of his flogging to
indulge again so soon in the luxury of "sleep-walking." He had not been
questioned in regard to the blood upon the seats of the Greyhound, for,
being asleep when the stains were made, of course he would know nothing
about them. Mr. Presby explained his inactivity and want of energy upon
philosophical principles, and every body seemed to be satisfied.

The salve which the sufferer applied to his wounded members healed the
bruises in a few days, and he was again in condition to pursue his
wonted sports and pleasures. After the lapse of a week, as the patient
exhibited no further signs of the malady, the watch was discontinued;
but Mr. Presby was too enthusiastic in the cause of science to abandon
the case so soon. He sat up in his chamber till midnight, with his ears
wide open, to catch the slightest indication of a movement on the part
of his interesting subject.

Every day, Richard and Sandy met; and they never failed to renew the
mutual pledges they had made to be revenged upon "Old Batterbones." The
plan was discussed and amended till no further improvement could be
made; and by this time Richard was so far recovered from his injuries
as to enable him to take the leading part in its execution. The night
was appointed for the purpose, and it was agreed that the boys should
meet at a point just below Whitestone, where Richard was to take Sandy
into the Greyhound, and proceed to the inlet where they had before
landed.

It was a very difficult matter for Richard to get out of the house
without detection. If he could succeed in opening his door, and walk
through the long halls of the mansion without attracting the attention
of any of its numerous inmates, he could hardly expect to unlock any of
the outer doors with safety. After much reflection, he decided that it
would be the better way to go out as he had gone before--over the roof
of the conservatory, and down the trellis.

With the proper tools, therefore, he had removed the nails with which
his father had secured the window of his chamber. He had then skilfully
adjusted them, so that they appeared to be as his father had left them,
though he could easily pull them out. At ten o'clock he retired as
usual, but the hour of meeting was one o'clock, for the young rascals
had come to the conclusion that their purpose could be better executed
in the small hours of the morning, when the farmer and his man would
probably be asleep.

Richard waited impatiently till he heard the clock strike twelve. There
had been no noise in the chamber of Mr. Presby for some time, and he
concluded that the old gentleman must be asleep. He had gone to bed as
usual, in order to remove any suspicion in case he should find it
necessary to act the part of the sleep-walker again. He rose and
dressed himself for the expedition, using the utmost care to avoid
disturbing the slumbers of the troublesome philosopher in the adjoining
room.

Every thing worked to his entire satisfaction, and he was not conscious
that he had made the slightest noise. The nails were removed from the
window; but, though he had taken the precaution to oil the sash where
it slid up and down, it creaked a little, in spite of all the care he
could use. He was satisfied that the noise could not wake Mr. Presby,
and he continued his operations. Leaving the window open, as a
somnambulist would naturally be expected to do, he crept softly over
the roof, and reached the trellis without accident.

As yet there was no appearance of an interruption; but the first bar of
the trellis, upon which he placed his foot, creaked and snapped. As the
noise, so far as he could see, attracted no notice, he resumed his
attempt, and reached the ground without any further impediment, real or
imaginary.

With stealthy step he retreated from the house till there was no longer
any danger of being discovered. Quickening his pace, he soon reached
the pier, and with the skiff boarded the Greyhound. The night was
certainly favorable for the execution of dark deeds. The midnight
assassin, the incendiary, or the burglar would have rejoiced in its
darkness, its dense black clouds, and its fitful winds.

Richard Grant still felt the cowhide of his enemy tingling upon his
