
Virginia interposed her ready tongue. " That is the most 
nonsensical part of the story ! Nothing but a pitiful little 




tea-rose in her hair, and another in her bosom, and just be 
cause Mr. Robert Lay gave her the bush, and this is the 
first time it has blossomed! Isn't that too love-sick?" 

Helen remained unmoved by the ridicule and arguments 
of her finery-loving train. 

" My mind is made up !" she said, pleasantly, but decidedly, to their varied and repeated attacks. 

" She might have had orange-blossoms from Lily's green 
house, if she wished," pursued Virginia. " I see that you 
have a tree loaded with them, Lily. It was very generous 
and considerate in it to come out in full dress just now, and 
in you to keep every flower and bud for the benefit of your 
friends." 

" Not one of them shall be gathered by you, or any one 
else, for to-morrow's frolic !" returned the proprietress of 
the flowers, curtly. 

Virginia stared in blank astonishment. 

" Why, Lily ! that is downright stinginess, and not what 
we should have expected from you ! We girls expected a 
sprig apiece for our bouquets, and the bride's should be 
composed almost entirely of them. What is a wedding 
without orange-blossoms ?" 

" You will shortly have an opportunity of seeing, unless 
you furnish yourselves from some other quarter. Not one 
of mine shall you have." 

Apparently, the diminutive beauty was what would have 
been termed, in a larger and homelier woman, " desperately 
out of humor." 

" One would think that this tree was a present from your 
true-love you value its productions so highly !" observed 
another "friend." 

Lily bit her lip, and her blue eyes emitted sparkles of angry light. Only Helen, of all the girls, knew that Robert 
was the donor of nearly every rare plant in her collection ; 




that the orange-tree was one of his contributions, she having raised it from a graft set expressly for her by his hand, 
three years before, in a fine bush that graced the Greenfield 
conservatory ; and Helen did not know how sedulously she 
had tended it to its present flourishing estate ; the kisses she 
had showered upon its glossy leaves ; the tears that had 
lately gemmed its snow-white petals but the random hit 
was stinging. 

" Lily is quite right, allow me to say, young ladies !" said 
the bride, coming to the help of her discomfited rival. 
" The tree is too beautiful as it now is, to be spoiled by 
your destructive fingers. The green-house will be lighted 
to-morrow evening, and the orange be the queen of the floral 
belles." 

" I comprehend ! Touch not a single bough! " said 
Virginia, dramatically. " But I want to ask, my dear Mrs. 
Lay Mercy, Helen ! don't murder me with your eyes, and 
upon rny word of honor as a lady, I won't give you the 
title again until the minister grants me leave !" cried the 
giddy creature, crouching behind the chair of her nearest 
neighbor, in affected terror. 

" What were you about to inquire ?" said Helen, recovering herself. 

"Only whether you expected Mr. Lay over to-night; 
whether he is so selfish and lover-like as to deprive us of 
your society on this, the last evening of your freedom ?" 

"He will not be here, I think. Do you want me, 
Sally?" 

"No, ma 'am, but your uncle told me to say as how 
he would like to speak to you a minute in the office." 

Sally had never said " master" to or of Colonel Floyd, 
when she could avoid it, since the shooting adventure in the 
melon-patch. She did not belong to him, she used to boast, 
and would not compliment him by the respectful title. 






To the office Helen bent her way, leaving her fair attendants to talk over and wonder at her marvellous serenity ; 
as Virginia Shore had it, " her cool style of taking what 
