
“I thought of my little sister, far away in Alabama, fancied she
came to me, and muttered, ‘Amy, kiss me, good-by.’ The women sobbed
at that; but the girl bent her sweet compassionate face to mine, and
kissed me on the forehead. That was my wife.”

“So you seceded from Secession right away, to pay for that
lip-service, hey?”

“No, Thorn, not right away,--to my shame be it spoken. I’ll tell you
how it came about. Margaret was not old Bent’s daughter, but a
Virginia girl on a visit, and a long one it proved, for she couldn’t
go till things were quieter. While she waited, she helped take care
of me; for the good souls petted me like a baby when they found that
a Rebel could be a gentleman. I held my tongue, and behaved my best
to prove my gratitude, you know. Of course, I loved Margaret very
soon. How could I help it? She was the sweetest woman I had ever
seen, tender, frank, and spirited; all I had ever dreamed of and
longed for. I did not speak of this, nor hope for a return, because
I knew she was a hearty Unionist, and thought she only tended me
from pity. But suddenly she decided to go home, and when I ventured
to wish she would stay longer, she would not listen, and said, ‘I
must not stay; I should have gone before.’”

“The words were nothing, but as she uttered them the color came up
beautifully over all her face, and her eyes filled as they looked
away from mine. Then I knew that she loved me, and my secret broke
out half against my will. Margaret was forced to listen, for I would
not let her go, but she seemed to harden herself against me, growing
colder, stiller, statelier, as I went on, and when I said in my
desperate way,--

“‘You should love me, for we are bid to love our enemies,’ she
flashed an indignant look at me and said,--

“‘I will not love what I cannot respect! Come to me a loyal man, and
see what answer I shall give you.’

“Then she went away. It was the wisest thing she could have done,
for absence did more to change me than an ocean of tears, a year of
exhortations. Lying there, I missed her every hour of the day,
recalled every gentle act, kind word, and fair example she had given
me. I contrasted my own belief with hers, and found a new
significance in the words honesty and honor, and, remembering her
fidelity to principle, was ashamed of my own treason to God and to
herself. Education, prejudice, and interest, are difficult things to
overcome, and that was the hottest fight I ever passed through,
for, as I tell you, I was a coward. But love and loyalty won the
day, and, asking no quarter, the Rebel surrendered.”

“Phil Beaufort, you’re a brick!” cried Dick, with a sounding slap on
his comrade’s shoulder.

“A brand snatched from the burnin’. Hallelujah!” chanted Flint,
seesawing with excitement.

“Then you went to find your wife? How? Where?” asked Thorn,
forgetting vigilance in interest.

“Friend Bent hated war so heartily that he would have nothing to do
with paroles, exchanges, or any martial process whatever, but bade
me go when and where I liked, remembering to do by others as I had
been done by. Before I was well enough to go, however, I managed, by
means of Copperhead influence and returned prisoners, to send a
letter to my father and receive an answer. You can imagine what both
contained; and so I found myself penniless, but not poor, an
outcast, but not alone. Old Bent treated me like a prodigal son, and
put money in my purse; his pretty daughters loved me for Margaret’s
sake, and gave me a patriotic salute all round when I left them, the
humblest, happiest man in Pennsylvania. Margaret once said to me
that this was the time for deeds, not words; that no man should
stand idle, but serve the good cause with head, heart, and hand, no
matter in what rank; for in her eyes a private fighting for liberty
was nobler than a dozen generals defending slavery. I remembered
that, and, not having influential friends to get me a commission,
enlisted in one of her own Virginia regiments, knowing that no act
of mine would prove my sincerity like that. You should have seen her
face when I walked in upon her, as she sat alone, busied with the
army work, as I’d so often seen her sitting by my bed; it showed me
all she had been suffering in silence, all I should have lost had I
chosen darkness instead of light. She hoped and feared so much she
could not speak, neither could I, but dropped my cloak, and showed
her that, through love of her, I had become a soldier of the Flag.
How I love the coarse blue uniform! for when she saw it, she came to
me without a word and kept her promise in a month.”

“Thunder! what a harnsome woman!” exclaimed Flint, as Phil, opening
the golden case that held his talisman, showed them the beautiful,
beloved face of which he spoke.

“Yes! and a right noble woman too. I don’t deserve her, but I will.
We parted on our wedding-day, for orders to be off came suddenly,
and she would not let me go until I had given her my name to keep.
We were married in the morning, and at noon I had to go. Other women
wept as we marched through the town, but my brave Margaret kept her
tears till we were gone, smiling, and waving her hand to me,--the
hand that wore the wedding-ring,--till I was out of sight. That
image of her is before me day and night, and day and night her last
words are ringing in my ears,--

