again a few days later. Eleanor had got into full train of her island
life by this time. She was studying hard to learn the language, and
beginning to speak words of it with her strange muster of servants.
Housekeeping duties were fairly in hand. She had begun to find out,
too, what Mr. Rhys had foretold her respecting visitors. They came in
groups and singly, at all hours nearly on some days, to see the new
house and the new furniture and the new wife of "Misi Risi." Eleanor
could not talk to them; she could only be looked at, and answer through
an interpreter their questions and requests, and watch with unspeakable
interest these strange poor people, and admire with unceasing
admiration Mr. Rhys's untiring kindness, patience, and skill, in
receiving and entertaining them. They wanted to see and understand
every new thing and every new custom. They were polite in their
curiosity, but insatiable; and Mr. Rhys would shew and explain and
talk, and never seem annoyed or weary; and then, whenever he got a
chance, put in his own claim for attention, and tell them of the
Gospel. Eleanor always knew from his face and manner, and from theirs,
when this sort of talk was going on; and she listened strangely to the
unknown words in which her heart went along so blindly. When he thought
her not needed, or when he thought her tired, Mr. Rhys would dismiss
her to her own room, which he would not have invaded; and Eleanor's
reverence for her husband grew with every day, although she would not
at the beginning have thought that possible.

At the end of these first few days, Eleanor went one afternoon into Mr.
Rhys's study. He was in full tide of work now. The softly swinging door
let her in without much noise, and she stood still in the middle of the
room, in doubt whether to disturb him or no. He was busy at his
writing-table. But Mr. Rhys had good ears, even when he was busy. While
she stood there, he looked up at her. She was a pretty vision for a man
to see and call wife. She was in one of the white dresses that had
stirred Mrs. Esthwaite's admiration; its spotless draperies were in as
elegant order as ever they had been for Mrs. Powle's drawing room; the
rich banded brown hair was in as graceful order. She stood there very
bright, very still, looking at him.

"You have been working a long time, Rowland. You want to stop and rest."

"Come here, and rest me," he answered stretching out his hand.

"Rowland," said Eleanor when she had been standing a minute beside him.
"Mrs. Balliol wants me to cut off my hair."

Mr. Rhys looked up at her, for with one arm round her he was still
bending attention upon his work. He glanced up as if in doubt or wonder.

"I have been over to see her," Eleanor repeated, "and she counsels me
to cut off my hair; cut it short."

"See you don't!" he said sententiously.

"Why?" said Eleanor.

"It would be the cause of our first and last quarrel."

"Our first," said Eleanor stifling some hidden amusement; "but how
could you tell that it would be the last?"

"It would be so very disagreeable!" Mr. Rhys said, with a gravity so
dryly comic that Eleanor's gravity was destroyed.

"Mrs. Balliol says I shall find it, my hair, I mean, very much in my
way."

"It would be in my way, if it was cut off."

"She says it will take a great deal of precious time. She thinks that
your razor would be better applied to my head."

"Than to what other object?"

"Than to its legitimate use and application. She wants me to get you to
let your beard grow, and to cut off my hair. 'It's unekal'--as Sam
Weller says."

Eleanor was laughing; she could not see Mr. Rhys's face very well; it
was somewhat bent over his papers; but the side view was of
unprovokable gravity. A gravity however which she had learned to know
covered a wealth of amusement or of mischief, as the case might be. She
knelt down to bring herself within better speaking and seeing distance.

"Rowland, what sort of people are your coadjutors?"

"They are the Lord's people," he answered.

Eleanor felt somewhat checked; the gravity of this answer was of a
different character; but she could not refrain from carrying the matter
further; she could not let it rest there.

"Do you mean," she said a little timidly, but persistently, "that you
are not willing to speak of them as they are, to me?"

He was quite silent half a minute, and Eleanor grew increasingly sober.
He said then, gently but decidedly,

"There are two persons in the field, of whose faults I am willing to
talk to you; yours and my own."

"And of others you think it is wrong, then, to speak even so privately
and kindly as we are speaking?" Eleanor was very much chagrined. Mr.
