
prisoners, sweltering in the confined air of the closet, 
listened with breathless interest to the shouts of the 
soldiers outside, and to the rapid steps of those within 
the mansion. 

The doctor and the sentinel entered the chamber so 
lately occupied by the prisoners. The former swore in 
no measured terms at the faithlessness of the sentry at 
the door, and at the stupidity of those who guarded the 
house outside. But they seemed to have no doubt as to the 
manner of the escape. There was the open window, and 
the rope made of the bed-linen, which De Banyan had 



 

pulled with his hands till it had the appearance of hav- 
ing sustained a great weight. Dr. Scoville did not even 
try the door of the closet ; and the anxious listeners soon 
had the pleasure of hearing the sounds of horses' hoofs, 
as the cavalry rode off to engage in the search for the 
fugitives. 

Every thing about the house soon subsided into the 
most profound quiet ; and it was evident that the doctor 
and all the soldiers were engaged in the search. After 
this solemn stillness had continued for a time, they heard 
the voices of the servants in the chamber. They talked 
, about the escape ; and all of them expressed a hope that 
" poor young massa would get out ob de way." Here 
was an opportunity for an alliance, offensive and defen- 
sive, which the prudent captain could not reject. Care- 
fully opening the door, he presented himself to the aston- 
ished negroes. With considerable difficulty, he hushed 
their noisy exclamations, and opened the case so elo- 
quently, that all three of them readily promised to help 
the fugitives in making their escape. They grinned with 
delight when they comprehended the trick by which the 
doctor and the soldiers had been put on the wrong 
scent. 

With their assistance, the fugitives left the house, and 
made their way to the stable, where Alick. the man who 
had waited upon them in the room, raised a plank in the 
floor, and introduced them to secure but not very com- 



 

fort able quarters under the building. There was no 
cellar under the stable, and the space which they occu- 
pied was not more than two feet in height ; but what it 
lacked in this direction, it made up in length and 
width. 

When the fugitives were fairly installed in their new 
hiding-place, Alick sat down on the floor, and told them 
all he knew about the events which had transpired since 
their absence had been discovered. He Thought them an 
abundant supply of food and drink, and promised to 
provide them with horses as soon as it was dark. It 
was nearly night before the doctor returned ; and, while 
attending to his horse, Alick asked him some questions 
about the chase. He was not very communicative ; for, 
of course, the pursuit had been unsuccessful : but the 
ingenious black wormed some facts out of him in regard 



to the events of the day, which enabled him to be of great 
assistance to the fugitives. 

The doctor had hardly gone into the house before 
Alick commenced his preparations for departure ; and 
three horses instead of two were in readiness when 
Somers and the captain emerged from their covert. 
Alick was to be one of the party ; and by the fields in 
the rear of the house they commenced their perilous 

journey. 



 




CHAPTER XXX. 

ANOTHER COMMISSION. 

 
THE horses which De Banyan and Somers rode 
 were those taken from the stable of Captain 
Sheffield, which had not yet been removed 
from Dr. Scovilie's stable ; while that on which 
