
"Very well, Noddy; then you may get out of the scrape as you can," said
the young lady, angrily.

"What scrape?"

"Why, they will accuse you of setting the boat-house afire; and you told
Ben you wished it was burned down."

"But I didn't set it afire."

"Who did, then?"

"That's just what I want to find out. That's what worries me; for I
can't see how it happened, unless it took fire from that bucket of water
I left on the floor."

Fanny was too much disturbed by the conduct of her boatman, or by some
other circumstance, to laugh at Noddy's joke; and the brilliant sally
was permitted to waste itself without an appreciative smile. She sat
looking at the angry flames as they devoured the building, while her
companion vainly attempted to hit upon a satisfactory explanation of the
cause of the fire. Noddy was perplexed; he was absolutely worried, not
so much by the probable consequences to himself of the unfortunate
event, as by the cravings of his own curiosity. He did not see how it
happened; and if a potent juggler had performed a wonderful feat in his
presence, he could not have been more exercised in mind to know how it
was done.

Noddy was neither a logician nor a philosopher; and therefore he was
utterly unable to account for the origin of the fire. In vain he wasted
his intellectual powers in speculations; in vain he tried to remember
some exciting cause to which the calamity could be traced. Meanwhile,
Miss Fanny was deliberating quite as diligently over another question;
for she apparently regarded the destruction of the boat-house as a small
affair, and did not concern herself to know how it had been caused. But
she was very anxious to reach Whitestone before ten o'clock, and her
rebellious boatman had intimated his intention not to carry out his part
of the agreement.

"What are you thinking about, Noddy?" asked she, when both had
maintained silence for the full space of three minutes, which was a
longer period than either of them had ever before kept still while
awake.

"I was thinking of that fire," replied Noddy, removing his gaze from the
burning building, and fixing it upon her.

"Are you going to Whitestone, or not?" continued she, impatiently.

"No; I don't want to go to Whitestone, while all of them down there are
talking about me, and saying I set the boat-house afire."

"They will believe you did it, too."

"But I didn't, Miss Fanny. You know I didn't."

"How should I know it?"

"Because I was with you; besides, you came out of the boat-house after I
did."

"If you will row me over to Whitestone, I will say so; and I will tell
them I know you didn't do it."

Noddy considered the matter for a moment, and, perhaps concluding that
it was safer for him to keep on the right side of Miss Fanny, he
signified his acceptance of the terms by taking up his oars, and pulling
towards Whitestone. But he was not satisfied; he was as uneasy as a fish
out of water; and nothing but the tyranny of the wayward young lady in
the boat would have induced him to flee from the trouble which was
brewing at Woodville. He had quite lost sight of the purpose which had
induced him to disobey Bertha's orders.

Our young adventurers had not left Woodville without an object. There
was a circus at Whitestone--a travelling company which had advertised to
give three grand performances on that day. Miss Fanny wanted to go; but,
either because her father was otherwise occupied, or because he did not
approve of circuses, he had declined to go with her. Bertha did not
want to go, and also had an engagement.

Fanny had set her heart upon going; and she happened to be too wilful,
just at that period, to submit to the disappointment to which her
father's convenience or his principles doomed her. Bertha had gone to
the city at an early hour in the morning to spend the day with a friend,
and Fanny decided that she would go to the circus, in spite of all
obstacles, and in the face of her father's implied prohibition. When she
had proceeded far enough to rebel, in her own heart, against the will of
her father, the rest of the deed was easily accomplished.

Noddy had never been to a circus; and when Fanny told him what it
was,--how men rode standing up on their horses; how they turned
somersets, and played all sorts of antics on the tight rope and the
slack rope; and, above all, what funny things the clowns said and
did,--he was quite ready to do almost anything to procure so rare a
pleasure as witnessing such a performance must afford him. It did not
require any persuasion to induce him to assist Fanny in her
disobedience. The only obstacle which had presented itself was his
morning work in the boat-house, which Bertha's departure for the city
had prevented him from doing at an earlier hour.
