“I have called, Mr. Crump, to know if you are ready with your quarter’s
rent.”

“I think I told you, last night, how I was situated. Of course I am
sorry----”

“So am I,” said the landlord, “for I may be obliged to have recourse to
unpleasant measures.”

“You mean that we must leave the house!”

“Of course, you cannot expect to remain in it if you are unable to pay
the rent. Of course,” added Colman, making an inventory with his
eyes, of the furniture, “you will leave behind a sufficient amount of
furniture to cover your bill----”

“Surely, you would not deprive us of our furniture!”

“Is there any hardship in requiring payment of honest debts?”

“There are cases of that description. However, I will not put you to
that trouble. I am ready to pay you your dues.”

“You have the money?” said Colman, hastily.

“I have, and something over; as you will see by this document. Can you
give me the two hundred and eighty dollars over?”

It would be difficult to picture the amazement of Colman. “Surely, you
told me a different story last night,” he said.

“Last night and this morning are different times. Then I could not pay
you; now, luckily, I am able. If you cannot change this amount, and will
accompany me to the bank, I will place the money in your hands.”

“My dear sir, I am not at all in haste,” said the landlord, with a
return of his former affability. “Any time within a week will do. I
hope, by the way, you will continue to occupy this house.”

“As I have already engaged Mr. Harrison’s house, at the corner of the
street, I shall be unable to remain. Besides, I do not want to interfere
with the family who are so desirous of moving in.”

Mr. Colman was silenced. He regretted, too late, the hasty course which
had lost him a good tenant. The family referred to had no existence;
and, it may be remarked, the house remained vacant for several months,
when he was glad to rent it at the old price.



CHAPTER V. A LUCKY RESCUE.



THE opportune arrival of the child inaugurated a season of comparative
prosperity in the home of Timothy Crump. To persons accustomed to live
in their frugal way, three hundred dollars seemed a fortune. Nor, as
might have happened in some cases, did this unexpected windfall tempt
the cooper or his wife to extravagances.

“Let us save something against a rainy day,” said Mrs. Crump.

“We can, if I get work soon,” answered her husband. “This little one
will add but little to our expenses, and there is no reason why we
should not save up at least half of it.”

“There’s no knowing when you will get work, Timothy,” said Rachel, in
her usual cheerful way; “it isn’t well to crow before you’re out of the
woods.”

“Very true, Rachel. It isn’t your failing to look too much at the sunny
side of the picture.”

“I’m ready to look at it when I can see it anywhere,” said his sister,
in the same enlivening way.

“Don’t you see it in the unexpected good fortune which came with this
child?” asked Timothy.

“I’ve no doubt it seems bright enough, now,” said Rachel, gloomily, “but
a young child’s a great deal of trouble.”

“Do you speak from experience, Aunt Rachel?” inquired Jack, demurely.

“Yes;” said his aunt, slowly; “if all babies were as cross as you were
when you were an infant, three hundred dollars wouldn’t begin to pay for
the trouble of having one round.”

Mr. Crump and his wife laughed at this sally at Jack’s expense, but
the latter had his wits about him sufficiently to answer, “I’ve always
heard, Aunt Rachel, that the crosser a child is the pleasanter he will
grow up. What a very pleasant baby you must have been!”

“Jack!” said his mother, reprovingly; but his father, who looked upon it
as a good joke, remarked, good-humoredly, “He’s got you there, Rachel.”

The latter, however, took it as a serious matter, and observed that,
when she was young, children were not allowed to speak so to their
elders. “But, I don’t know as I can blame ‘em much,” she continued,
wiping her eyes with the corner of her apron, “when their own parents
