continued to give his friend every facility for prosecuting his
inquiries into the secret of the marvellous success of the "American
navy."

After writing out his statement of Coles's plans, he had carefully and
prayerfully considered his duty in relation to the startling information
he had thus accidentally obtained. Of course he had no doubt as to what
he should do. He must be sure that the Ben Nevis was handed over to the
government; that Coles and Langdon were put in close quarters. He only
inquired how this should be done. Though the Snowden and the Theban had
been captured in the former instance, both Kennedy and Coles had escaped
punishment, and one of them was again engaged in the work of pulling
down the government.

If he gave information at the present stage of the conspiracy, his plans
might be defeated. Though Coles had mentioned no names, it was more than
probable that he was aided and abetted in his treasonable projects by
other persons. There were traitors in Boston, New York, and
Philadelphia, men of wealth and influence, occupying high positions in
society, who were engaged in just such enterprises as that which had
been revealed to the young naval officer.

Somers felt, therefore, that a premature exposure might ruin himself
without overthrowing the conspirators. A word from one of these
influential men might lay him on the shelf, to say the least, and remove
all suspicion from the guilty ones. He must proceed with the utmost
caution, both for his own safety and the success of his enterprise.

Besides, he felt that, if he could get "inside of the ring," he should
find out who the great men were that were striking at the heart of the
nation in the dark. By obtaining the confidence of the conspirators, he
could the more easily baffle them, and do the country a greater service
than he could render on the quarter deck of the Chatauqua.

After an earnest and careful consideration of the whole matter, he
concluded that his present duty was to pay out rope enough to permit
Coles and his guilty associates to hang themselves. For this purpose, he
was prepared to receive Langdon with open arms, to accept the commission
intended for him, and to enter into the secret councils of his country's
bitterest enemies.

Somers, pure and patriotic in his motives, did not for a moment consider
that he exposed himself to any risk in thus entering the councils of the
wicked, or even in taking a commission in the service of the enemy. He
did not intend to aid or abet in the treason of the traitors, and he did
not think what might be the result if a rebel commission were found upon
his person. He might be killed in battle with this damning document in
his pocket. If any of the conspirators were caught, they might denounce
him as one of their number. He did not think of these things. He was
ambitious to serve his treason-ridden country, and he forgot all about
himself.

It was half past three when Somers and Wynkoop returned to the hotel
from their visit to the navy yard. Langdon had evidently been in
England, for he insisted upon calling it a "dock yard." They separated
to dress for dinner, as the courtly John Bull expressed it. At four they
met again in the private parlor, where an elegant dinner was served, and
where Mr. Wynkoop sipped his sherry "which had twice made the voyage to
the East Indies," though it probably came from the cellar of the hotel.
When the coffee had been brought in, and the waiters had retired, the
representative of the royal navy lighted his cigar, and began, in a very
moderate way, to express some slight admiration for the skill and
prowess of the rebels. Somers helped him along until he became a
thorough rebel.

"With all my admiration for the American navy, Mr. Somers, I find there
is a great deal of injustice towards the officers, especially the
younger ones," continued Mr. Wynkoop, after he had sufficiently
indicated his sympathy for the "noble and gallant people who were
struggling against such hodds in the South."--The lieutenant
occasionally pressed an h into use where it was not needed--probably
to be entirely consistent with himself.

"That's true; and I have suffered from it myself," replied Somers,
determined that his companion should want no inducement to make his
proposition as soon as he was ready.

"I don't doubt it, Mr. Somers;" and Mr. Wynkoop stated some instances
which had come to his knowledge.

Somers then gave a list of his own imaginary grievances, and professed
to be greatly dissatisfied with his present position and prospects.

"I think you would do better in the Confederate navy," said the
lieutenant, warmly.

"Perhaps I should."

"Whichever side you fight for, you fight for your own country."

"That's true."

"When the South wins,--as win she will,--all who fought against her,
will be like prophets in their own country--without honor. In less than
two months the independence of the Confederate States will be
acknowledged by England and France. I happen to know this."

"It would not surprise me."

"My uncle, the Earl of--never mind; I won't mention his name--my uncle,
