“You have lodgings to let?” she said, in a tone of inquiry.

“We’re pretty full, now,” said Mother Morton, looking with some
curiosity at the eager face of the young questioner. “All our best rooms
are taken.”

“That makes no difference,” said the young girl; “about the best rooms,
I mean. We are not able to pay much.”

She cast a glance at her father, who wore an abstracted look as if he
were thinking of some matter quite foreign to the matter in hand.
Catching her glance and thinking that an appeal was made to him, he
said, hurriedly, “Yes, my child, you are quite right.”

“I wonder whether he’s in his right mind,” thought the practical Mrs.
Morton. “The little girl seems to be worth two of him.”

“I have one room in the fourth story,” she said aloud, “which is now
vacant. It is rather small; but, if it will suit you, you shall have it
cheaper on that account.”

“I should like to see it,” said the child. “Come, father,” taking him by
the hand, and leading him as if she were the elder; “we’re going up
stairs to look at a room which, perhaps, we may like well enough to
hire.”

At the head of the fourth landing the landlady threw open a door,
revealing a small room, some twelve feet square, scantily provided with
furniture. Its dreariness was, in some measure, relieved by a good
supply of light,—there being two windows.

The young girl was evidently accustomed to look on the bright side of
things; for, instead of spying out the defects and inconveniences of the
apartment, her face brightened, and she said, cheerfully, “Just what we
want, isn’t it, papa? See how bright and pleasant it is.”

Thus applied to, her father answered, “Yes, certainly;” and relapsed
into his former abstraction.

“I think,” said the young girl, addressing the landlady, “that we will
engage the room; that is,” she added, with hesitation, “if the rent
isn’t too high.”

Mother Morton had been interested in the child’s behalf by the mingling
of frank simplicity and worldly wisdom, which she exhibited, and perhaps
not least by the quiet air of protection which she assumed towards her
father, for whom it was evident she entertained the deepest and most
devoted affection. An impulse, which she did not pause to question, led
her to name a rent much less than she had been accustomed to receive for
the room.

“One dollar and seventy-five cents a week,” repeated the child. “Yes,
that is reasonable. I think we had better engage the room; don’t you,
papa?”

“Eh?”

“I think we had better engage this room at one dollar and seventy-five
cents a week.”

“Oh, certainly,—that is, by all means, if you think best, my child. You
know I leave all such matters to you. I have so many other things to
think of,” he added, dreamily, raising his hand to his forehead.

“Yes,” said the child, softly; “I know you have, dear papa.”

“We’ll take the room,” she said to Mother Morton, whose curiosity
momentarily increased, “at the price you named, and will commence now,
if you have no objection.”

“Oh, no; but your baggage. You will need to bring that.”

“We have not much to bring. We shall get it to-morrow.”

“You will board yourselves?” asked the landlady.

“Yes, I shall cook. I am quite used to it,” was the grave reply.

“At any rate you won’t feel like it to-night. I will send you up some
supper.”

“Thank you,” said the child, her face lighting up gratefully; “I am sure
you are very kind,” and she held out her hand in instinctive
acknowledgment.

If Mother Morton had before been prepossessed in her favor, this act, so
frank and child-like, completed the conquest of her heart.

“I am very glad,” said she, quite enveloping in her own broad palm the
little hand which the child extended; “I am very glad, my dear child,
that you are going to live here. I think I shall like you.”

“How kind you are!” said the child, earnestly. “Everybody is kind to
father and me;” and she turned towards her parent, who was gazing
abstractedly from the window.

“Your father does not say much,” said Mrs. Morton, unable to repress her
curiosity.

“He has a great deal on his mind,” said the child, lowering her voice,
