Peace turned her quiet face over on the pillow 


in surprise that afternoon, at the sight of her 
standing by the bed. 

“ Why, how still you must have been ! I 
didn’t hear you come in at all.” 

“ Do you want me? I suppose I do tire you 
to death.” 

“ Want you ? Oh, I am so glad ! ” 

“ That ’s nice,” said Gypsy, in her honest 
fashion ; “ I do so love to have people glad to 
see me ! ” 

The sunlight which flooded the room fell all 
over Peace ; her face in it looked pitifully thin 
and pale ; paler than usual, though smiling as 
it always was, and quiet. 

“ What ’s the matter? ” said Gypsy, abruptly, 
looking down on it. 

“Matter? Oh, nothing. Did I say anything 
was the matter? ” 

“ No, you never do. But something is. 
What has happened?” 

“ I didn’t sleep much, — well, not any, last 
night, that’s all. Come, Gypsy, let’s not talk 
about me.” 


“But what kept you awake?” persisted 
Gypsy. Peace made no reply. 

“ Peace, I do believe it was your aunt ! ” 

Peace coloured painfully, but she would not 
speak. Just what the girl had to bear in her 
orphaned, dependent life, probably no one ever 
knew. This was sure, — the physical suffering 
was the least of it. Yet the woman to whose 
charge her weakness and her pain were left was 
never consciously unkind to her brother’s child ; 
she was one of those people — and their name 
is Legion — who “ mean well!' but “ don't know 
how!' 

“ What has she been saying to you ? ” said 
Gypsy, in a savage undertone. 

“ Oh, nothing much ; she came home tired, 
and of course she couldn’t help wishing I could 
work, and — Gypsy, I don’t want to talk about 
it. She didn’t know I cared. She is very 
good. She put my tea back on the stove this 
morning because it was so weak the first time ; 
she did, really, Gypsy.” 

“ She ’d have been a heathen if she hadn’t ! ” 

exploded Aunt Jane’s sworn enemy. Peace 
understood that it was all for love of her, but it 
gave her more pain than help when Gypsy 
talked like this. She laid her hands down in 
Gypsy’s in a weak, appealing way, and said : 

“Gypsy — please!'' and Gypsy stopped 
short, — only tapping her foot angrily on the 
floor. 

“If you would only talk about yourself!’’ 
said Peace. 

“ That ’s what I always do when I get with 
you. Then if I say anything else, I say it all 
wrong, and I don’t see that I ’m any good any- 
way. I believe I ’ll get a piece of court-plaster 
and paste it over my mouth, and then the world 
will be so much the safer.’’ 

“ But you had something to say when you 
came in,’’ said Peace, smiling; “I saw it 
in your eyes. What is that, — from your 
brother? ’’ 

Gypsy answered by unfolding the slip of 
paper and giving it to Peace. Whether it was 
quite right to show to any one else what Tom 

was not willing that his mother should see, she 
never stopped to think. She had no secrets 
from Peace Maythorne. If this were to be, as 
she vaguely felt that it might be, the first of 
many others like it, she felt sure that she never 
