good."

"I mean to be good, Jenny. From this time I shall try to do better than
I ever did before."

"Then you will be, Fanny."

"I don't think I ever tried to be good, but I shall now," replied the
penitent girl, as she wiped away her tears.

Jenny seemed to be weary, and Fanny sat by the bedside gazing in
silence at her beautiful and tranquil expression. The sufferer was
looking at the rich flowers of the bouquet, which had been placed on a
stand at the side of the bed. They were a joy to her, a connecting link
between the beautiful of heaven and the beautiful of earth.

"Will you sing me a hymn, Fanny?" asked the sick girl, without removing
her gaze from the flowers.

Without any other reply to the question, Fanny immediately sang this
verse:--

    "If God hath made this world so fair,
      Where sin and death abound,
    How beautiful, beyond compare,
      Will Paradise be found!"

"How beautiful!" murmured Jenny, her eyes still fixed upon the flowers.
"Will you take out that moss-rose, Fanny, and let me hold it in my
hand?"

Fanny gave her the flower, and then sang another hymn. For an hour she
continued to sing, and Jenny listened to the sweet melodies, entranced
and enraptured by the visions of heaven which filled her soul. Then she
asked Fanny to read to her from the Bible, indicating the book and
chapter, which was the eighth chapter of Romans.

"'For we are saved by hope,'" Fanny read.

"Now, stop a moment: 'For we are saved by hope,'" said the sufferer.
"Do you know what the emblem of Hope is, Fanny?"

"An anchor."

"Will you hand me that little box on the table?"

Fanny passed the box to her, and she took from it a little gold
breastpin, in the form of an anchor.

"This was given to me by my father when I was a little girl. My
Sunday-school teacher told me years ago what an anchor was the emblem
of, and told me at the same time to remember the verse you have just
read--'For we are saved by hope.' That anchor has often reminded me
what was to save me from sin. Fanny, I will give you this breastpin to
remember me by."

"I shall never forget you, Jenny, as long as I live!" said Fanny,
earnestly.

"But when you remember me, I want you to think what the anchor means.
You say you are not good, but I know you are. You mean to be good, you
hope to be good; and that will make you good. Do you know we can always
have what we hope for, if it is right that we should have it? What we
desire most we labor the hardest for. If you really and truly wish to
be good, you will be good."

Fanny took the breastpin. If it had been worth thousands of dollars, it
would not have been more precious to her. It was the gift of the loving
and gentle being who was soon to be transplanted from earth to heaven;
of the beautiful girl who had influenced her as she had never been
influenced before; who had lifted her soul into a new atmosphere. She
placed it upon her bosom, and resolved never to part with it as long as
she lived.

"Hope and have, Fanny," said Jenny, when she had rested for a time.
"Hope for what is good and true, and you shall have it; for if you
really desire it, you will be sure to labor and to struggle for it."

"Hope and have," repeated Fanny. "Your anchor shall mean this to me.
Jenny, I feel happier already, for I really and truly mean to be good.
But I think I ought to tell you how wicked I am."

"No, don't tell me; tell your mother."

"I have no mother."

"Then you are poorer than I am."

"And no father."

"Poor Fanny! Then you have had no one to tell you how to be good."

"Yes, I have the kindest and best of friends; but I have been very
ungrateful."

"They will forgive you, for you are truly sorry."

"Perhaps they will."

"I know they will."
