the cat-head."

"What is the cat-head, sir?" asked Kendall

"Do you wish to go to sea without knowing what the cat-head is?" replied
the principal. "You shall know in due time. To-morrow we shall select
the officers, fifteen in number, who are to occupy the after cabin."

This announcement created a decided sensation among the eighty-seven
boys gathered in the waist, for the subject had been full of interest to
them. The after cabin had thus far been a sealed book; the door was
locked, and they had not even seen the inside of the apartment. They
were curious to visit this cabin, and to know who were to occupy it.

"After the organization of the school, it is my intention to give these
offices to those who obtain the highest number of merit marks, which
will be given for good conduct, good lessons, and progress in
seamanship. The best boy, who is at the same time the best scholar and
the best seaman, shall be captain. We have no marks now by which to make
the selection, and I intend to have you elect him the first time,
reserving to myself the right to veto your choice if it is obviously an
improper one."

As Mr. Lowington uttered this last remark, he glanced, perhaps
unconsciously, at Shuffles, who stood directly in front of him.

"Young gentlemen, the ballot will take place to-morrow morning, at nine
o'clock. I have given you this notice, that you may be able to consider
the matter and, if you choose, to make nominations for the several
offices," continued the principal.

"What are the offices, sir?"

"The first and most important one, of course, is the captain. The others
are four lieutenants, four masters, two pursers, and four midshipmen."

"What are they to do?" asked Kendall.

"I will not explain their duties now; it would require too much time. I
mentioned them in the order of their importance. Now, young gentlemen,
you should select your candidates for these offices by merit, not by
favor. I am aware that a few of you have been to sea, but probably none
of you are competent to handle a ship; and your choice should be based
mainly on good character and good conduct. I hope I shall be able to
approve the choice you may make. You are dismissed now."

"Three cheers for the principal!" shouted one of the boys.

"Silence, young gentleman! Let me say now, that no expressions of
approbation or disapprobation are to be allowed."

The boys separated into groups, and immediately gave their attention to
the important subject suggested to them by Mr. Lowington. It must be
acknowledged that violent symptoms of "log-rolling" began to be
exhibited. There were fifty, if not eighty-seven young men who wished to
be captain, and sit at the head of the table in the after cabin. Some of
them went down into the steerage, and in five minutes there was a
confused jabbering in every part of the ship.

"For whom shall you vote, Wilton?" asked Shuffles in a group of half a
dozen which had gathered around one of the mess tables.

"I don't know? whom do you go for?" replied Wilton.

"I rather think I shall go for Bob Shuffles. In my opinion, he is the
best fellow on board," replied the owner of that name.

"That's modest," laughed Wilton.

"Do you know of any fellow that would make a better captain than I
should?"

"You don't know the first thing about a ship."

"What odds does that make? I can learn as fast as anybody else."

"Do you expect every fellow to vote for himself?" asked Howe, another of
the group.

"Of course I don't; I expect them to vote for me," answered Shuffles,
with great good-nature.

"You are rather cheeky, Shuffles."

"What's the use of mincing the matter? Here we are, half a dozen of the
best fellows in the ship. We can't all be captain; but one of us can be
just as well as not."

"That's so," added Howe, approvingly. "But who shall that one be?"

"I am the one, without a doubt," said Shuffles.

"I don't see it," interposed Monroe, shaking his head; and he was the
young gentleman who had assisted the aspirant for the captaincy to rob
Mr. Lowington's favorite peach tree.

"What have you got to say about it, Ike Monroe? Do you expect us to go
for you?"

"I didn't say so."
