miles away, the separate trees, and houses, and rocks on a 
mountain side can be clearly made out, the air is so free from 
vapour. But you are right ; it was not a large possession. 
All the promised land was only a little piece of country about 
as big as Wales in Great Britain ; a strip of country not 





more than forty miles broad on an average, and not a hundred and fifty miles long." 

"As long as from New York to Albany!" exclaimed 
Priscilla. 

" Shows that the importance of things is not measured by 
their size. But see what a wonderfully prepared land it was 
for God's chosen people. Lying at the very utmost limit of 
the old Asiatic world, it was separated and cut off from all 
its great kingdoms with curious care. On the north, there 
were the mountain ranges of Lebanon and Hermon, shutting 
it in. On the south, the long dry desert of sand and rock 
stretching between it and Egypt. Deserts again on the east, 
impassable except by slow caravan travel ; and besides those, 
this deep cut valley of the Jordan with its furious little 
river, sunk between the mountain wall of Gilead and Moab 
on the one hand, and the home hills of Canaan on the other. 
The Mediterranean on the west. There never was a little 
piece of land so defended. The only possible way of getting 
to it with an army, was by the level plains along the sea- 
coast. That was the road by which the Egyptian kings went 
to fight the Assyrians, and the Assyrians came to conquer 
the Egyptians. But then see ; the land of Canaan itself) 
between the plains and the Jordan valley, was one stretch of 
high mountain country ; its average height more than equal- 
ling the highest of the Highlands on the Hudson River ; and 
to get up into that mountain country there was and is no 
other way but by the long, winding, steep, narrow wadys, 
through which the springs and brooks that take their beginning in the upper region find their way down to the lowlands. No army with spoil or baggage would like to find 
itself in those narrow passes ; and it could with difficulty 
get along in them." 

"And do you think God made the land of Canaan just so, 
for the children of Abraham to live in ? " 

" What do you think, Prissy ? Do you think those moun- 
tains piled themselves up from north to south, and the 
Jordan dug its own bed, and the desert spread its sand 
wastes all around, just by chance ? " 



 

" No, uncle Sam. I don't think that." 

"Nothing is by chance, my child. There does not a spai'- 
row fall to the ground without our Father ; much more, 
EQs chosen people do not light on an inheritance that He 
has not prepared for them. But now, who was to take 
Abraham's inheritance ? He had no child ; and he was not 
a young man any longer. Very likely, up to this time he 
had thought that Lot, his brother's son, would be his heir ; 
but Lot had gone to settle in Sodom, away from him. He 
had ndzed himself up with the people of the land, and not 
even Abraham's affection could judge him worthy to share 
an inheritance with God's people. Yet the promise came 
again at this time to Abraham — ' I will make thy seed as the 
dust of the earth : so that if a man can number the dust of 
the earth, then shall thy seed also be numbered.' " 

" Were there so many people of the Jews, in that little 
country?" Liph asked. 

" The promise was true in two ways, Liph ; it had a double 
meaning, as the prophecies of the Bible were very apt to 
have. In the first place, it was literally true. There never 
lived a man, since the days of the heads of the race, whose 
children made so many nations as the children of Abraham. 
But in the second place, Christ was the true promised seed 
who was to come in Abraham's line and be the King of the 
whole earth; and all who are Christ's people are called 
children of Abraham. These are his real family ; Gentiles 
as well as Jews ; all that great multitude that no man can 
number, that will stand before the throne with white robes 
and palms in their hands, as well as those that are sealed 
from the tribes of Israel ; and to these his real people because 
they are Christ's people, the real, deep, precious promises 
are made, of which the earthly promises were just signs and 
pictures, as it were. We, too, seek a better country, even a 
heavenly. We, too, are strangers and pilgrims, as all our 
forefathers were. Here have we no continuing city, but we 
seek one to come; and our citizenship is in heaven. 'If ye 
be Christ's, then are ye Abraham's seed, and heirs according 
to tbepromiae.'" 





