" I don't feel much like dinner." 

" I do." 

" What is to be done next ? " 

" We must get her up a little farther out of the 
water. We can easily get some more casks under 
her now ; but let us have some dinner first." 

They sat down on a timber on the raft, and ate 
the dinner they had brought with them. They could 
not keep their eyes off the steamer during the meal. 



 

rind they continued to discuss the means of complet- 
ing the work they had begun. 

After dinner the labor was renewed with redoubled 
energy. Four more casks were attached to the bow, 
and four removed from the stern ; the effect of which 
was to lift the bow out of water, while the deck at 
the after part was again submerged. This was Law- 
ry's plan for ascertaining the extent of the injury 
which the hull had received. It now appeared that, 
when the Woodville struck the Goblins, she had slid 
up on a flat rock, while a sharp projection from the 
reef had stove a hole, not quite three feet in diam- 
eter, just above her keel. 

" Now we must stop this hole," said Lawry ; " and 
we may as well do it here as anywhere." 

" That's just my idea," responded Ethan. "There's 
a painted floor-cloth in the kitchen, which will just 
cover it. I will get it." 

" Have you any small nails on board ? " 

" Plenty of them." 

The kitchen and the engineer's store-room were 
now out of water, so that Ethan had no difiiculty in 
procuring the articles needed in stopping up the hole. 







A couple of slats were placed over the aperture to 
prevent the floor-cloth from being forced in by the 
pressure of the water. Both of the boys then went 
to work nailing on the carpet, which was new and 
very heavy. The nails were put very close together, 
and most of them beiug carpet tacks, with broad 
heads, they pressed the oil-cloth closely down to the 
woodwork. It was not expected entirely to exclude 
the water ; but the leakage could be easily controlled 
by the pumps. 

Several of the casks were now removed from the 
bow to the stern, until the hull sat even on the 
water. All the heavy articles on deck, including 
the contents of the " chain box," were transferred 
to the raft, and the laborers were ready to commence 
the long and trying operation of pumping her out. 
It was now six o'clock, and it was plain that this 
jeb could not be finished that night. The wind was 
beginning to freshen, and there were indications of 
bad weather. Lawry had at first intended to move 
the Woodville up to the ferry-landing as soon as she 
floated ; but Ethan, for certain reasons, which were 
satisfactory to his fellow-laborer, wished to pump 



 

her out where she was ; and it was found to be a 
very difficult thing to tow her up to the ferry, in her 
water-logged condition. 

It was not safe to leave her, with the prospect 
of a heavy blow, so near the Goblins, and they 
carried out the anchors in the wherry, and with the 
assistance of the capstan on the forward deck, heaved 
her out into a secure position. The Woodville was 
safe for the night, and the supper horn was sounding 
at the ferry-house. Nearly exhausted by their severe 
exertions, the boys returned to the cottage. 

" I'm so glad that you have done it ! " exclaimed 
Mrs. Wilford, when they went in to supper. 

She had been a deeply interested observer of the 
