little Tessy. 

" Mr. Auchester accompanied Mrs. Suydam over this 
morning. I brought out baby, and she opened her eyes so 
prettily it quite amused him. He said he had thought of 
buying her a silver cup, but he believed he should have to 
get a pony instead. Lily, dear, I like him so very, very 
much ! He will tell you Mrs. Suydam has changed her plans. 
On account of going West in the fall, with Mr. Suydam, she 
has given up Saratoga. So she and Mr. Auchester have 
planned a pleasant trip to the Catskills, as soon as Mabel is 





sufficiently recovered to travel. It is to be a real gay family 
party. 

" Tell Richard that I am happier than I ever hoped to be. 
Baby Alice has come to cheer me in this saddest of all sea- 
sons. G-od has been very good to me." 

Richard gathered from these words Daisy's earnest en- 
deavor to overlive the memory of the past summer. He did 
not dream of the greater stroke that had tempered her 
anguish, and would forever keep her from wishing back her 
lost darling. It was " well " with the child, and "well" also 
with her, rejoicing in another's new-born hope. 

How thoughtful and tireless she was ! The cool touch of 
her fingers, the low, sweet sound of her voice, and her ten- 
der smile were invaluable in a sick room. Withal, she 
found time to see that Philip was not neglected, keeping 
everything in Mabel's fashion, from the box of cravats to the 
arrangement of the study table, where fresh flowers greeted 
him every morning. 

On the anniversary of her baby's death a letter came from 
Richard, containing some flowers gathered from the little 
grave. She wondered how he could know her heart so well. 
Was it strange she should live over again that fearful night ? 
How could she have borne it but for him ! Not even broth- 
erly necessity had compelled him to be so kind. All had 
been given from the fulness of his own grand, generous 
heart. It was pleasant to owe so much to his abundant ten- 
derness. 

Mabel and baby Alice throve finely. The day for the 
christening was appointed, and Mr. Auchester brought up 
Lily and the two younger ones. Tessy was wild over the 
baby, and begged Daisy not to grow jealous. 

"For, after all," she said, in her odd, womanly fashion, 
" I love you with a grown-up love, which is much stronger. 
Only, Alice is so sweet, and can endure so much kissing, 
that it's a great comfort to have her in the family." 

Mabel was taken to church for the christening. Richard, 



 

Daisy, and Mrs. Suydam stood for the little one. It was a 
solemn and comforting service to the scarcely more than 
child, whose heart went back to her own baby's baptism. 
He had " passed the waves of this troublesome world, and 
entered the land of everlasting life." Kneeling at the font, 
she prayed that she might be enabled to do her duty, not 
only to this child, but to all those loved ones whom God had 
given her. She had ceased to ask why such heavy trials 
had fallen to her lot ; content, and trust in a merciful Father, 
were all she desired. 

Mrs. Suydam and her three children and Mr. Auchester 
remained to dinner at the rectory. The little ones had a 
merry time on the lawn with Tessy, afterwards. Lily and 
her lover strolled away, and Richard, drawing Daisy's arm 
through his, led her down the shady path until they were 
lost to sight. 

The day was lovely. A westerly breeze blew wafts of 
fragrance from the odorous pines and hemlock woods, re- 
freshed by the late rains. Rifts of quivering sunshine flecked 
the short grass at their feet, and the birds warbled from 
leafy coverts. Some fine, electric sense governed each, 
keeping them quiet a long while, one of those perfect pauses 
of satisfied silence. Daisy was first to break it. 

" I don't know how to thank you for the letter you sent 
me. I wanted to answer it, only it seemed so perfect in 
itself, I knew not what to say." 

Her voice faltered, and the long lashes drooped over her 
eyes. 

" I am glad it comforted you." He took in his the little 
hand that rested on his arm, as he went on , 

