received there the visits of princes and other dis- 
tinguished persons whom Duke Alfonso allowed to 
see him, or that a prisoner who was often permitted 
to ride about the city in a carriage should have been 
thrust back into such a cavern on his return to the 
hospital. "After this," says our valet de place who 
knows how to read and write, " visit the prison of 
Tasso, certain that in the hospital of St. Anna that 
great man was confined for many years ; " and, with 
this chilly warning, leaves his reader to his emotions. 
I am afraid that if as frank caution were uttered 
in regard to other memorable places, the objects of 
interest in Italy would dwindle sadly in number, and 
the valets de place, whether they know how to read 
and write or not, would be starved to death. Even 
the learning of Italy is poetic ; and an Italian would 
rather enjoy a fiction than know a fact in which 
preference I am not ready to pronounce him unwise. 
But this characteristic of his embroiders the stranger's 
progress throughout the whole land with fanciful im- 
probabilities ; so that if one use his eyes half as much 
as his wonder, he must see how much better it would 
have been to visit, in fancy, scenes that have an in- 
terest so largely imaginary. The utmost he can 
make out of the most famous place is, that it is pos- 
sibly what it is said to be, and is more probably as 
near that as any thing local enterprise could furnish. 
He visits the very cell in which Tasso was confined, 
and has the satisfaction of knowing that it was the 
charcoal-cellar of the hospital in which the poet 
dwelt. And the genius loci where is that ? Away 




in the American woods, very likely, whispering some 
dreamy, credulous youth, telling him charming 
fables of its locus, and proposing to itself to abandon 
him as soon as he sets foot upon its native ground. 
You see, though I cared little about Tasso, and 
nothing about his prison, I was heavily disappointed 
in not being able to believe in it, and felt somehow 
that I had been awakened from a cherished dream. 



BUT I have no right to cast the unbroken shadow 
of my skepticism upon the reader, and so I tell him 
a story about Ferrara which I actually believe. He 
must know that in Ferrara the streets are marvel- 
ous long and straight. On the corners formed by 
the crossing of two of the longest and straightest of 
these streets stand four palaces, in only one of 
which we have a present interest. This palace my 
guide took me to see, after our visit to Tasso's prison, 
and, standing in its shadow, he related to me the 
occurrence which has given it a sad celebrity. It 
was, in the time of the gifted toxicologist, the resi- 
dence of Lucrezia Borgia, who used to make poison- 
ous little suppers there, and ask the best families 
of Italy to partake of them. It happened on one 
occasion that Lucrezia Borgia was thrust out of a 
ball-room at Venice as a disreputable character, and 
treated with peculiar indignity. She determined to 
make the Venetians repent their unwonted accession 
of virtue, and she therefore allowed the occurrence to 



 

be forgotten till the proper moment of her revenge 
arrived, when she gave a supper, and invited to her 
board eighteen young and handsome Venetian nobles. 
Upon the preparation of this repast she bestowed all 
the resources of her skillful and exquisite knowledge ; 
and the result was, the Venetians were so felicitously 
poisoned that they had just time to listen to a speech 
from the charming and ingenious lady of the house 
before expiring. In this address she reminded her 
guests of the occurrence in the Venetian ball-room, 
and perhaps exulted a little tediously in her present 
vengeance. She was surprised and pained when 
one of the guests interrupted her, and, justifying 
the treatment she had received at Venice, declared 
himself her natural son. The lady instantly recog- 
nized him, and in the sudden revulsion of maternal 
feeling, begged him to take an antidote. This he 
not only refused to do, but continued his dying re- 
proaches, till his mother, losing her self-command, 
drew her poniard and plunged it into his heart. 

The blood of her son fell upon the table-cloth, and 
this being hung out of the window to dry, the wall 
received a stain, which neither the sun nor rain of 
centuries sufficed to efface, and which was only re- 
moved with the masonry, when it became necessary 
to restore the wall under that window, a few months 
before the time of my visit to Ferrara. Accordingly, 
the blood-stain has now disappeared ; but the consci- 
