have some one stronger, on whom she could lean. 
The first surprise and grief occasioned by Hope's de- 
parture had worn off. Katy was garrulous, to be sure, 
and from her Joe learned all that she had missed of 
Stephen's sorrow. The fond old servant was loud in 
 
her lamentations, and stubborn in her faith that Hope 
had gone off with some gallant young lover. Joe feebly 
said, "I don't think it, Katy. No one ever came to the 
house that she seemed interested in, or for whom she 
cared." But Katy still persisted. She had imbued 
Stephen with this belief, because there was no other that 
could account so well, not only for the young girl's de- 
parture, as for the coldness of her note. Joe's dan- 
gerous illness at this period had roused his fears and 
sympathies in another direction, and perhaps prevented 
his yielding to the passionate grief that might otherwise 
have absorbed him. 
The shock had brought him back to his olden self 
caused him to think of all that lay between. Had he 
any real right to Hope's love? Was there not a curse 
upon his very life, a stain that could never be washed 
away ? She did not know this ; but all unconsciously 
she had become an avenger in the hands of God. And 
since he could not contest this judgment, Stephen Dane 
bowed his head. 
. 
XI. 
SAD HEAKTS. 
A SLOW-PASSING summer full of sweets. A 
quiet house, just as if some one had been carried 
forth for burial. A yearning and a longing for a pres- 
ence that came not never would again, they both said, 
fearfully, to themselves. 
They had fallen into a strange manner of living. Both 
were reserved, though not from any feeling of pride or 
selfishness. Indeed, it was a peculiar state, brought 
about by a peculiar combination. No explanation had 
ever passed between them. It may appear strange, yet 
you will sometimes know of two people living together 
through months of silence, because the right moment 
passed without the needed words being spoken, and no 
other ever came. 
Stephen fancied at first that Joe might know more 
of Hope's heart than he had learned. But all mention 
of her departure distressed Joe so greatly, that, from 
natural kindliness, he resolved to avoid it. Each day 
it seemed to her she was growing more positively afraid 
, 
of Stephen. She understood, in a vague way, that it 
was Hope who had drawn them nearer together, who 
had rounded the sharp points of each nature, and soft- 
ened the asperities, rendering home such a bright, en- 
chanting place. There was no one now to make them 
laugh with gay little sallies ; no one to sing through 
summer twilights ; no soft arms to steal around her 
neck, the little hands clasping to make a rest for her 
chin. " Dear Joe, you are so kind ! " How many times 
she had heard the words ! Nothing now to break this 
chilling, awful dread that threw its shadow over the 
house. 
If Joe had recovered her full strength and sturdiness ; 
if she could have gone to the stores and to market ; 
cheapened tradesmen and scolded huckster women ; 
swept the house and weeded the garden, she might 
have regained her spirits in some degree. Instead, 
everything was a burden. She was glad to have Katy 
relieve her. Some mornings she felt so weary that she 
did not come down until after Stephen had breakfasted 
and gone. Then she idled about, dusting the library 
and parlor, sat down by the open windows, and gazed 
vacantly at the fur-off, luminous sky. Was there One 
there who knew what she needed, and would take pity 
on her? She was so tired with this endless, tangled 
mass of thought. She was so pained with Stephen's 
sad face. If she had not told Hope ! 
Consequently, after the first improvement, she fell 
 
into a hopeless, apathetical state, growing thinner and 
paler, and so unlike the Joe of other days. Stephen 
took her to the sea-side ; the air was too strong, and made 
her cough ; then to pretty inland resorts ; but nothing 
roused her. She was no great lover of nature ; she had 
few resources of her own for such a period as this. At 
times even Stephen's generous care fretted her, and she 
was cold and ungracious, when her heart was almost 
breaking with pity and remorse. 
And Stephen, unable to read her heart, bore patiently 
with her, his own heavy enough. There was with him 
no lack of subjects for thought. Almost daily he went 
over the past, looking at its blackness, its foul deeds, 
and abhorring himself in the deepest humiliation. Yet 
where could he have made one step different ? A strange 
fate had led him on, had compelled him, as it were, to 
bear other burdens than his own. But the most pain- 
ful of all to him was his utter inability to make restitu- 
tion. He fancied at times, because he had dared to love 
Hope, God had set this seal upon his punishment 
never to know how she fared, or what she might be 
called upon to suffer. He fairly hated the gold that 
