slip, and in spite of my habitual modesty, I voted unanimously that I
was smart. But it was all luck, in this instance, which favored me; for
I heard some one say that the train was thirty minutes late that day. It
was due in Poughkeepsie at ten minutes before one, and left half an hour
behind its time. If it had been in season, of course I should have lost
it. I was very thankful for the accident which, the conductor said, had
delayed the train.

From the car window I had frequent views of the river; and in a short
time I saw the steamer in which I had come down, ploughing her way down
the stream to her destination. I could almost fancy I saw Kate on the
hurricane deck. The poor girl had trouble enough now, and I had no doubt
she was bitterly lamenting the misfortune which had separated us. On
whirled the train, and I soon lost sight of the boat; but I hoped to be
able to get on board of her at her next stopping-place, if I could find
where that was. I inquired of a gentleman who sat in front of me at what
places the steamers stopped. He informed me that some of them stopped at
all the towns, but the larger of them at only the principal ones. I
mentioned the steamer on which I had been a passenger, and he assured me
she would make a landing at Peekskill.

In about an hour the train arrived at this place, and I hastened to the
river; but I was obliged to wait over an hour before the steamer
appeared. She came up to the pier, and I went on board. I was
immediately recognized by a dozen persons who had seen me on the roof of
the storehouse. They wanted to ask me some questions; but I avoided
them, and rushed up to the saloon. I inquired of the stewardess for
Kate, and was told that she was in her state-room. I gave the four
raps, and she opened the door.

"Why, Ernest Thornton!" exclaimed she. "Where did you come from?"

"From up the river," I replied.

The inquisitive passengers had followed me to the state-room, and I was
obliged to go in and shut the door in order to avoid them. I saw by the
looks of Kate's eyes that she had been crying. Our sudden and unexpected
separation had been even a greater trial to her than I had supposed, and
her smile was now so full of joy that I never felt happier before in my
life.

"I was sure I had lost you, Ernest Thornton. Why, how can it be that you
are here, when you were left on the wharf more than two hours ago?" said
she, bewildered by my presence, for our reunion was quite as unexpected
as the separation had been.

"It is very easily explained, Kate," I replied, with abundant
good-nature. "I hope you have not been crying."

"But I have. I never felt so bad before in my life. I believed I had
lost the last friend I had in the world, for I was afraid that horrible
Tom Thornton would kill you, or do something almost as bad. But you
don't explain how you happen to be here. Did you fly?"

"No; I came in the train, which happened to be half an hour late for my
especial accommodation;" and I related my story in full.

"I am sorry I didn't jump when you told me to do so," said she, when I
had finished. "I ought to have jumped, even if I had been sure of
falling into the river."

"I ought not to have asked you to take such a leap, Kate; and it is very
fortunate that you had not the courage to do it, for Tom Thornton would
have been with us. It couldn't have happened any better even if we had
planned it ourselves. Who was the man that helped you down from the
paddle-box? What did the people say to you? Did you tell them anything?"

"I did tell them, Ernest Thornton. I hope I haven't done anything
wrong," she replied, a sudden shade of anxiety passing over her
features.

"It will do no harm."

"The man that helped me down was the steward, they said. Indeed, he was
very kind to me, and so were all the people. Half a dozen of them
promised to take care of me when I reached New York, and help me find my
uncle. They wanted to know who you were, and why the gentleman wanted to
catch you."

"What did you tell them?" I asked, rather fearful that she had told more
than I cared to have the public know about my affairs.

"I told them the truth; that I had been ill-used by a person, and that
you were taking me to my uncle in New York."

"Did you tell them who Tom Thornton was?"

"I only said he had been sent after me. The steward thought he must have
supposed I was on the building when he jumped ashore. I didn't tell them
anything about your troubles. I didn't know that you would wish me to do
so."

"I am glad you did not. But, Kate, you needn't stay in here any longer.
We have got rid of Tom Thornton, and you may go out and look at the
scenery, if you wish. Have you been to dinner?"

"Yes, the steward gave me some dinner. He was very good to me, and I
want to thank him ever so much for his kindness."

When we left the state-room, we were surrounded by the curious
