wouldn't charge him anything for board.

"All right!" said Dick. "If you don't mind I'll bring my wife along,
too. She's delicate, and the country air might do her good."

Jonathan stared at him in amazement, uncertain whether to credit the
fact of his marriage. Dick walked on with Frank, leaving him in an
apparent state of stupefaction, and it is possible that he has not
yet settled the affair to his satisfaction.

"Now," said Frank, "I think I'll go back to the Astor House. Uncle
has probably got through his business and returned."

"All right," said Dick.

The two boys walked up to Broadway, just where the tall steeple of
Trinity faces the street of bankers and brokers, and walked
leisurely to the hotel. When they arrived at the Astor House, Dick
said, "Good-by, Frank."

"Not yet," said Frank; "I want you to come in with me."

Dick followed his young patron up the steps. Frank went to the
reading-room, where, as he had thought probable, he found his uncle
already arrived, and reading a copy of "The Evening Post," which he
had just purchased outside.

"Well, boys," he said, looking up, "have you had a pleasant jaunt?"

"Yes, sir," said Frank. "Dick's a capital guide."

"So this is Dick," said Mr. Whitney, surveying him with a smile.
"Upon my word, I should hardly have known him. I must congratulate
him on his improved appearance."

"Frank's been very kind to me," said Dick, who, rough street-boy as
he was, had a heart easily touched by kindness, of which he had
never experienced much. "He's a tip-top fellow."

"I believe he is a good boy," said Mr. Whitney. "I hope, my lad, you
will prosper and rise in the world. You know in this free country
poverty in early life is no bar to a man's advancement. I haven't
risen very high myself," he added, with a smile, "but have met with
moderate success in life; yet there was a time when I was as poor as
you."

"Were you, sir," asked Dick, eagerly.

"Yes, my boy, I have known the time I have been obliged to go
without my dinner because I didn't have enough money to pay for it."

"How did you get up in the world," asked Dick, anxiously.

"I entered a printing-office as an apprentice, and worked for some
years. Then my eyes gave out and I was obliged to give that up. Not
knowing what else to do, I went into the country, and worked on a
farm. After a while I was lucky enough to invent a machine, which
has brought me in a great deal of money. But there was one thing I
got while I was in the printing-office which I value more than
money."

"What was that, sir?"

"A taste for reading and study. During my leisure hours I improved
myself by study, and acquired a large part of the knowledge which I
now possess. Indeed, it was one of my books that first put me on the
track of the invention, which I afterwards made. So you see, my lad,
that my studious habits paid me in money, as well as in another
way."

"I'm awful ignorant," said Dick, soberly.

"But you are young, and, I judge, a smart boy. If you try to learn,
you can, and if you ever expect to do anything in the world, you
must know something of books."

"I will," said Dick, resolutely. "I aint always goin' to black boots
for a livin'."

"All labor is respectable, my lad, and you have no cause to be
ashamed of any honest business; yet when you can get something to do
that promises better for your future prospects, I advise you to do
so. Till then earn your living in the way you are accustomed to,
avoid extravagance, and save up a little money if you can."

"Thank you for your advice," said our hero. "There aint many that
takes an interest in Ragged Dick."

"So that's your name," said Mr. Whitney. "If I judge you rightly,
it won't be long before you change it. Save your money, my lad,
buy books, and determine to be somebody, and you may yet fill an
honorable position."

"I'll try," said Dick. "Good-night, sir."

"Wait a minute, Dick," said Frank. "Your blacking-box and old
clothes are upstairs. You may want them."

"In course," said Dick. "I couldn't get along without my best
clothes, and my stock in trade."
