a glimpse of the wistful eyes following me, and said, in a 
low tone, 

"Will you come to my room, Ellen?" 

" With pleasure," was the response. 

So, after Thirza had brushed out my hair, I dismissed 
her. A moment after, I answered the low tap at my door. 

Ellen seated herself on the hassock, and leaned her arms 
upon my knee. What a simple, lovely child she seemed. 

" I have had a long talk with Hugh to-day," she began. 
" We are both better satisfied to give up the engagement. 
It will disappoint uncle sadly ; but I do think it will be 
wiser for Hugh. I should never have been strong enough 
to rouse his ambition or pride. It "Would have proved 
another wasted life, idled away in ease and indolence. 
The right chord has been touched, although "and as 
she paused, I saw a tear glittering on her long lashes. 

"I am afraid I have made a good deal of trouble for 
you all," I returned. "I cannot tell you how much I re- 
gret it." 

"Is there no hope for Hugh ? Miss Adrianee, you don't 
know what he is capable of. And if there was some high 
aim to lead him on, I know he could and would strive to 
render himself worthy of such a woman." 

" My darling, you rate me too highly. I cannot even 
solve the difficulties in my own path ; and I should be a 
poor guide for any other human soul. Love might inspire 
a woman; but I have not even that. We could never be 
anything beyond the most ordinary friends." 

" Then it is useless to try?" 

"Is not the richest love spontaneous? Why have you 
failed in learning to love him ? " 



 

The fair face flushed, and the eyes were downcast. 

" I want to be honest with yon," she said, presently. 
' I f-mcied in the earlier years that I did love him. My 
nature is quiet, and to a certain extent passive; lie was 
stronger, and swayed me by the force of his impressions; 
but he was young, and there was no occasion for hurrying 
our marriage. So it has gone on. Last summer we were 
staying at Sulphur Springs, uncle's favorite resort. I met 
a stranger, and formed one of those transient acquaintances 
that generally leave behind only a pleasant memory. But 
this man had a soul that spoke to mine, moved it as noth- 
ing else ever had, I did not dream of clanger. On the last 
evening of his stay we walked together for an hour or two, 
and drifted out on the swift current of love. It was told 
in looks and a clasp of the hand, for he knew I was engaged 
to my cousin, and he waited for a sign from me. I was 
brave enough then to put by the tempting cup not meant 
for my lips. Heaven knew what it cost me, but I did it. 
And if Hugh had loved me, I should have striven hard to 
banish that remembrance." 

" Would it have been right?" 

"Yes. I cannot argue, I can only understand that 
strength and courage are meant for just these emergencies. 
It is when one wants to do a wrong thing that one must 
pray to be kept from temptation. My duty was here." 

"And yet Hugh had failed you before that!" 

" I did not know it. He talked of you ; still it is only 
recently that I felt the bond was irksome to him." 

" If you had been aware last summer " 

" Don't," she said, with a sudden quiver through her 
frame. "I acted up to the light I had. I wanted above 
all things to do right, and I was bound by ties of affection. 
to uncle and aunt." 

" But you see Hugh didn't stop to think of what was 



 

right, or whether he would give you pain. What if you 
had loved him?" 

"Dear, is it wise to suffer over things that can never 
happen ? There is enough pain in our daily lives." 

" I think a man should be just as honorable, and true, and 
