Christians, she went down into the waters of baptism feeling that she
was leaving father, mother, and home, and casting herself on God alone.

Her parents, with true John Bull obstinacy, made good their word,
and shut their doors upon her; but an uncle, struck perhaps with her
courage and constancy, opened to her an asylum where she remained till
her marriage. In later years her parents became reconciled to her.

The religious life thus begun was carried on with a marked and
triumphant fullness. She was a woman of enthusiastic convictions,
of strong mind, and of great natural eloquence, and during the
infancy and childhood of William Lloyd he was often with her in the
prayer-meetings, which were vivified by the electric eloquence of
her prayers and exhortations--for the Baptist as well as Methodist
denominations, allowed to women as well as men, a Christian equality in
the use of the gifts of instruction.

The father of Garrison, a man possessed of some genius and many
fascinating and interesting traits, was one of the victims of
intemperance in those days when so many families were saddened by its
blight; and at quite an early age Mrs. Garrison was left with a family
of helpless little ones, with no other heritage but her faith in God,
and her own undaunted and courageous spirit. She was obliged to put her
boys out at a very tender age, to struggle for themselves, while she
followed the laborious profession of a sick nurse.

William Lloyd, her second son, was by temperament fitted to be
impressed by a woman like his mother. He had listened to the burning
recital of her experience, and his heart, even in early infancy,
learned to thrill in sympathy with the solemn grandeur of religious
devotion and absolute self-sacrifice. All his mother's religious ideas
became his own; and even as a boy he was a strict and well versed
Baptist, having at his tongue's end every argument which supported the
peculiar faith which his mother's enthusiasm had taught him to regard
as the only true one.

The necessities of life, however, early separated him from her society.
When only nine years of age he was placed in the shop of a shoemaker to
learn the trade, but the confinement and employment were unfavorable
to his health and uncongenial to his feelings. He was longing for
educational advantages, and bent on a career in the world of ideas.

He was taken from this situation and sent to school at Newburyport,
paying for his board and schooling by sawing wood, doing errands, and
performing other labors out of school hours.

After some unsuccessful experiments at different situations, he found
at last a congenial sphere in being apprenticed as a printer to Ephraim
W. Allen, editor of the Newburyport Gazette.

His bent had always been for letters, and he engaged in this occupation
with enthusiasm, and that minute and careful faithfulness and accuracy
in regard to the smallest minutiæ which formed a very marked trait in
his character. In all that relates to the expression of ideas by the
written or printed signs of language, Garrison had a natural aptitude,
and attained to a peculiar perfection.

His handwriting was, and is, even at this time of life, as perfect in
point of legibility, neatness, and exact finish, as if he had been by
profession a writing-master.

Even in the days when the Liberator was the most despised and
rejected of all papers, the very lowest in the scale of genteel
appreciation, its clear and elegant typography, and the grace and
completeness of its mechanical disposition, won for it admiration. He
understood to a nicety that art which solicits the eye of a reader, and
makes a printed sheet look attractive.

It was not long before his fervid mind began to reach beyond the
mechanical setting of his types, to the intellectual and moral purposes
to be accomplished through them.

Garrison was one of the ordained priests of nature, one of the order
of natural prophets who feel themselves to have a message to society,
which they must and will deliver.

He began sending anonymous articles to the paper on which he was
employed, which were well received, and which, consequently, he had
more than once the pleasure of setting up in type.

Encouraged by their favorable reception, he gradually began to offer
articles to other journals. A series of articles for the Salem
Gazette, under the signature "Aristides," attracted particular
attention, and were commended by Robert Walsh in the Philadelphia
National Gazette, who attributed them to Timothy Pickering; a
compliment of no small significance to a young mechanic.

In 1824, his employer, Mr. Allen, was obliged for a long time to be
absent from the charge of his paper, when Mr. Garrison acted as editor
of the Newburyport Herald, of which he had been previously printer.

In 1826 he became proprietor and editor of a paper called the Free
Press, in his native town. He toiled at it with unceasing industry,
and that patient cheerfulness of enthusiasm which made every labor
light. He printed his own editorials, without previously writing
them, a fact which more than anything else shows how completely he
had mastered the mechanical part of his profession. But with all this
industry and talent, the work of keeping up a newspaper of so high a
moral tone as that to which he was always aspiring, was simply beyond
the ability of a poor man, and he was obliged to relinquish it. He
