nothing to the purpose. I don't care what he is."

"Oh, Preston! he is a good man  he is a servant of God; he
will wear a crown of gold in heaven;  and you have dared to
touch him!"

"Why, hoity toity!" said Preston. "What concern of mine is all
that! All I know is, that he did not do what I ordered him."

"What did you order him?"

"I ordered him not to show you the saddle I had got for you,
till I was there. I was going to surprise you. I am provoked
at him!"

"I am surprised " I said. But feeling how little I prevailed
with Preston, and being weak in body as well as mind, I could
not keep back the tears. I began to walk on again, though they
blinded me.

"Daisy, don't be foolish. If Darry is to wear two crowns in
the other world, he is a servant in this, all the same; and he
must do his duty."

"I asked for the saddle " I said.

"Why, Daisy, Daisy!" Preston exclaimed  "don't be such a
child. You know nothing about it. I didn't touch Darry to hurt
him."

"It was a sort of hurt that if he had not been a Christian he
would have made you sorry for."

"He knows I would shoot him if he did," said Preston coolly.

"Preston, don't speak so!" I pleaded.

"It is the simple truth. Why shouldn't I speak it?"

"You do not mean that you would do it?" I said, scarce opening
my eyes to the reality of what he said.

"I give you my word, I do! If one of these black fellows laid
a hand on me I would put a bullet through him, as quick as a
partridge."

"But then you would be a murderer " said I. The ground seemed
taken away from under my feet. We were standing still now, and
facing each other.

"No, I shouldn't," said Preston. "The law takes better care of
us than that."

"The law would hang you," said I.

"I tell you, Daisy, it is no such thing! Gentlemen have a
right to defend themselves against the insolence of these
black fellows."

"And have not the black fellows a right to defend themselves
against the insolence of gentlemen?" said I.

"Daisy? you are talking the most unspeakable non- sense," said
Preston, quite put beyond himself now. "Don't you know any
better than that? These people are our servants  they are our
property  we are to do what we like with them; and of course
the law must see that we are protected, or the blacks and the
whites could not live together."

"A man may be your servant, but he cannot be your property," I
said.

"Yes, he can! They are our property, just as much as the land
is; our goods, to do what we like with. Didn't you know that?"

"Property is something that you can buy and sell," I answered.

"And we sell these people, and buy them too, as fast as we
like."

"Sell them!" I echoed, thinking of Darry.

"Certainly."

"And who would buy them?"

"Why, all the world; everybody. There has been nobody sold off
the Magnolia estate, I believe, in a long time; but nothing is
more common, Daisy; everybody is doing it everywhere, when he
has got too many servants, or when he has got too few."

"And do you mean," said I, "that Darry and Margaret and
Theresa and all the rest here, have been bought?"

"No; almost all of them have been born on the place."

"Then it is not true of these," I said.

"Yes, it is; for their mothers and fathers were bought. It is
the same thing."
