Fairfield," replied Dock, smoothly.

"There now! Tell me I don't know!" retorted the irate helpmate,
somewhat appeased by the delicate compliment. "'Tain't in reason that
boy meant to do sech a thing."

Mr. Fairfield groaned, and changed his position in the bed. His bones
ached, and his bruises smarted; but the task of showing that Levi was
wicked enough even to plan a deliberate murder was too pleasing a one
to be abandoned, though the twinges of pain that darted through the
miser's limbs indicated rest both for body and mind. The sufferer
rehearsed all the points bearing against his nephew in the heinous act
under consideration, and he succeeded in satisfying himself and his
visitor that the young man intended to shorten his uncle's life. Mrs.
Fairfield,--grateful for the newspapers, which had given her a new
joy in the desolate world, and for the chickens, turkeys, and
roasting-pieces, which afforded her an occasional respite from salt
fish and fresh fish,--Mrs. Fairfield was obstinate, and refused to
believe that Levi--who, by the way, had just added the "Cape Ann Light"
to his aunt's sum total of earthly joys--was capable of doing a wicked
act.

"Women folks don't see through things," said Mr. Fairfield, disgusted
at his wife's want of perception. "I've been thinkin' o' what you said
last night," he added, turning to Dock. "I never thought of sech a
thing before; but, I vow, it's just as you said."

"Well, Squire Fairfield, I didn't say that to set you against the boy;
only to have you keep your eyes open," replied Dock.

"When I fell into that hole, it opened my eyes so wide, I shan't shet
'em agin very soon."

Mrs. Fairfield wanted to know "what on airth all this talk meant;" and
the relations of Levi to his uncle's post-mortem estate were explained,
so that "women folks" could understand them. She did not believe Levi
cared for the property, what there was of it, and she was not yet
willing to believe that he set the trap to destroy his uncle.

"I believe it; and what's more, I know it," persisted the miser. "But
I'll cheat him out of it; I'll make a will this very day! I'll give
what little I have to Susan--I will, by gracious!"

"It's very proper for you to do so," replied Dock, mildly.

"Can't you write a will, Dock?"

"Me! No. I don't know how. You must make it strong, or they'll break
it, you know. Better send for Squire Saunders, and have it done right."

"Squire Saunders!" exclaimed the invalid. "What'll he charge?"

"O, five dollars, perhaps."

"Five dollars! What jest for writin' a little or sunthin?"

"Perhaps he won't charge you more than three."

"I shan't give no three dollars, nuther. I can't afford it. I'm
e'enamost stripped of everything now."

The will was not made, and Dock left the house, promising to call again
in the afternoon.




CHAPTER VI.

THE STARRY FLAG.


Levi Fairfield, in happy ignorance of the misfortune which had befallen
his uncle, headed The Starry Flag towards the mansion of Mr. Watson.
This was to be a great day with him, and he was filled with hope and
exultation.

The Starry Flag was a capital boat, but Levi had long been beset by an
ambition to sail something larger. This desire was about to be
realized, for Mr. Watson, always a lover of the sea, had contracted for
a yacht of eighty tons, at the establishment of a celebrated builder in
the city. She was to be ready by the 1st of June, but she was not
completely stored and furnished till the 10th.

Mr. Watson had remained in the city over night, and was to sail in the
yacht for his summer home the next morning--on the day that Levi missed
falling into the chasm. As the wind was fair, and tolerably fresh, the
young skipper thought she would arrive by noon, and he was to take the
ladies round as far as Eastern Point, to give her a welcome to the
waters of the Cape.

Levi was to be the commander of the yacht, and he was every way
qualified for the position. He had studied navigation, could take an
observation, and do all the problems required of a thorough sailing
master. On the deck of a vessel he was in his element, and there was
not a point in navigation or seamanship with which he was not familiar.
He could not only hand, reef, and steer, but he could knot and splice,
parcel and serve, as neatly and as skilfully as a veteran man-of-war's
man. He was interested in such matters, and had spent hours and hours
in making short and long splices, eye splices, Turk's heads, and other
