In about half an hour the ferry was reached, and, passing through,
the party went on board the boat. They had scarcely done so, when an
exclamation of surprise was heard, proceeding from feminine lips, and
Dick heard himself called by name.

"Why, Mr. Hunter, this is an unexpected pleasure. I am so glad to
have met you."

Turning his head, Dick recognized Mr. and Mrs. Clifton. Both had
been fellow-boarders with him in Bleecker Street. The latter will be
remembered by the readers of "Fame and Fortune" as Miss Peyton. When
close upon the verge of old-maidenhood she had been married, for the
sake of a few thousand dollars which she possessed, by Mr. Clifton,
a clerk on a small salary, in constant pecuniary difficulties. With
a portion of his wife's money he had purchased a partnership in a
dry-goods store on Eighth Avenue; but the remainder of her money Mrs.
Clifton had been prudent enough to have settled upon herself.

Mrs. Clifton still wore the same ringlets, and exhibited the same
youthful vivacity which had characterized her when an inmate of Mrs.
Browning's boarding-house, and only owned to being twenty-four, though
she looked full ten years older.

"How d'e do, Hunter?" drawled Mr. Clifton, upon whose arm his wife was
leaning.

"Very well, thank you," said Dick. "I see Mrs. Clifton is as
fascinating as ever."

"O you wicked flatterer!" said Mrs. Clifton, shaking her ringlets, and
tapping Dick on the shoulder with her fan. "And here is Mr. Fosdick
too, I declare. How do you do, Mr. Fosdick?"

"Quite well, thank you, Mrs. Clifton."

"I declare I've a great mind to scold you for not coming round to see
us. I should so much like to hear you sing again."

"My friend hasn't sung since your marriage, Mrs. Clifton," said Dick.
"He took it very much to heart. I don't think he has forgiven Clifton
yet for cutting him out."

"Mr. Hunter is speaking for himself," said Fosdick, smiling. "He has
sung as little as I have."

"Yes, but for another reason," said Dick. "I did not think it right
to run the risk of driving away the boarders; so, out of regard to my
landlady, I repressed my natural tendency to warble."

"I see you're just as bad as ever," said Mrs. Clifton, in excellent
spirits. "But really you must come round and see us. We are boarding in
West Sixteenth Street, between Eighth and Ninth Avenues."

"If your husband will promise not to be jealous," said Dick.

"I'm not subject to that complaint," said Clifton, coolly. "Got a cigar
about you, Hunter?"

"No. I don't smoke."

"No, don't you though? I couldn't get along without it. It's my great
comfort."

"Yes, he's always smoking," said Mrs. Clifton, with some asperity. "Our
rooms are so full of tobacco smoke, that I don't know but some of my
friends will begin to think I smoke myself."

"A man must have some pleasure," said Clifton, not appearing to be much
discomposed by his wife's remarks.

It may be mentioned that although Mrs. Clifton was always gay and
vivacious in company, there were times when she could display
considerable ill-temper, as her husband frequently had occasion to
know. Among the sources of difficulty and disagreement was that portion
of Mrs. Clifton's fortune which had been settled upon herself, and
of which she was never willing to allow her husband the use of a
single dollar. In this, however, she had some justification, as he was
naturally a spendthrift, and, if placed in his hands, it would soon
have melted away.

"Where are you going, Mr. Hunter?" inquired Mrs. Clifton, after a pause.

"Fosdick and I have planned to take a carriage and ride to Fort
Hamilton."

"Delightful!" said Mrs. Clifton. "Why can't we go too, Mr. Clifton?"

"Why, to tell the plain truth," said her husband, "I haven't got money
enough with me. If you'll pay for the carriage, I'm willing to go."

Mrs. Clifton hesitated. She had money enough with her, but was not
inclined to spend it. Still the prospect of making a joint excursion
with Richard Hunter and Fosdick was attractive, and she inquired:--

"How much will it cost?"

"About five dollars probably."

"Then I think we'll go," she said, "that is, if our company would not
be disagreeable to Mr. Hunter."
