"Of course I shall; but, if I learn my trade, I shall always have it to
fall back upon."

"That is very true; but I wish to impress it upon your mind that
fickleness of purpose is fatal to any real success in morals, in
science, and in business."

Our conversation was interrupted by the stopping of the steamer at a
wood-yard; for I never lost an opportunity, on those occasions, to take
a walk on shore. I was nervously anxious to see everything there was to
be seen. All was new and strange; and every day, as the settlements on
the banks of the great river increased in number and extent, afforded
me a new sensation. As I had been brought up far away from the haunts
of civilization, even a house was a curiosity to me; and I gazed with
astonishment at the busy scenes which were presented to me in some of
the larger towns. At St. Joseph we had taken on board quite a number of
passengers, and the scene in the cabin had become much livelier than
before.

The addition was not wholly an improvement, for among the new arrivals
were not a few gamblers. From this time the tables were occupied by
these blacklegs, and such of the passengers as they could induce to
join them in the hazardous sport, from early in the morning until
late at night. The parties thus engaged were surrounded by a crowd
of curious observers, watching the turnings of the game, and perhaps
calculating their own chances if they engaged in the wretched business.
I had looked on myself with interest, and when I saw a man put five
dollars into his pocket on the turn of a card, I thought it was an easy
way to make money; but then I had an opportunity to see that it was
just as easy a way to lose it.

Mr. Gracewood had called me away from my position near the table, after
the gamblers had commenced their operations, and cautioned me never
to play for money at any game. He explained to me the nature of the
business, and assured me that the gamblers who had come on board at
St. Joseph were of the vilest class of men. After his lecture I was
not tempted to try my hand with the party at the table. The talk about
making and losing money at games of chance introduced the subject of
my own finances. I had paid my passage to St. Louis, and had besides
nearly one hundred dollars in gold in a shot-bag in my pocket.

While we were talking, I took out the bag, and counted the pieces, as I
had done several times on the passage, to assure myself that my funds
were all right. My excellent friend told me I must learn prudence, and
that I ought not to exhibit my money, especially while we had so many
suspicious characters on board. I was alarmed, and looked around to
discover who had observed me. One of the passengers, who had come on
board at "St. Joe," was promenading the deck, and I had noticed that
he passed quite near me several times. He was a young man flashily
dressed, but he did not look like a bad man. I put my shot-bag into my
pocket, resolved not to show it again, and we continued to discuss the
financial question till it led us to the consideration of my future
occupation.

The wood-yard where the boat stopped was in a lonely region, and it
was just sunset when she touched the shore. Its location was at the
mouth of a stream down which the wood was brought in flatboats, though
a young forest was growing in the region around the landing. As it was
too damp for his wife and daughter to walk, Mr. Gracewood would not go
on shore, and I went alone. It was a great luxury to stretch one's legs
for an hour on the hard ground after living for weeks on the steamer.

"How long before you leave?" I asked of the captain, as I went over the
plank.

"Perhaps not till morning," he replied.

"Do you stay here all night?"

"It's going to be foggy, and I don't think we can run down to
Leavenworth, which is not more than seven miles from here. We should
have to lie there till morning if we went on."

I was sorry for this, because Mrs. Gracewood had a friend in the place,
where we intended to spend the evening, and I was anxious to see the
inside of a civilized house. However, we could make the visit the next
day, for the boat was to stay several hours at the town. I went on
shore, and several of the passengers did the same.

"It's quite smoky on the river," said a young man, coming up to me as
we landed.

"Yes; the captain says he shall probably have to lie here till
morning," I replied.

"That's too bad," added my companion, the St. Joe passenger whom I had
observed on the hurricane deck when I was counting my money. "I meant
to go to a prayer-meeting in Leavenworth this evening."

"A prayer-meeting!" I repeated, my interest awakened; for I had heard
Mr. Gracewood speak of such gatherings, though I had never attended one.

"When I came up the river three days ago, they were holding them every
evening in the chapel; and I am anxious to attend."

"I should like to go very much."

"I think I shall go as it is," continued the young man, looking at his
watch.

