cleave the air with its wings. 

All she could do was to pray, for she had returned to the 
God-given centre of faith after all her wanderings and unbelief. 
God would send the right in His own good time. 

Meanwhile Doctor Trewartha pulled the lap-robe over his 
companion's feet, although the coach was closed. She settled 
herself with her strong, independent air, and looked quite a 
queen in the dim light of the lamp. 

"Well," he said, "are you satisfied ?" And there was a quiet 
curl of amusement around the bearded mouth. 

"If I had expected to regret it I should not have come." 

"There is quite a space between satisfaction and regret;" 
gravely, still smiling. "And first impressions sway you." 

"Which matters little, since they do not need to be of 
unalloyed pleasure. But you are never satisfied, Doctor 
Trewartha, until one is turned inside out for your delectation. 
Well, Anah Hurst is a good deal changed ; has become a weak, 
religious enthusiast, which is just so much better than a strong 
one. She needs fresh air, generous food, walks and rides, and 
some society of the right kind, to give her moral strength and 
largeness of purpose and idea. I never did fancy women fed 
exclusively on a diet of sermons." 

"Unless you had to preach them yourself." 



 

She laughed this time ; she was used to his sharp thrusts. 

"Yes, I like my own preaching. It is a weakness of human 
nature, I cling to a few in order to keep myself womanly." 

"And the young man ?" when she had made a long 
pause. 

"The face is too handsome. It brought up a shadowy 
something that eludes my memory ; but there is passion and 
ambition in it, a strong side of feeling and but half-grown 
brain, or he wouldn't have thrown himself into that gulf yon 
der, poor fool ! He's been fed on a mush of transcenden 
talism, and rights, and wrongs, until he hardly knows where 
he stands, and yet he has the face of an aristocrat. It's the 
contradiction I like," growing vehement; "the weak side 
of inconsistency, the rapid moods travelling from heaven to hell 
in a moment of space, and the mouth that shuts in hopes, 
aims, and desires, like a vice. He would never utter weak, 
blatant cries when fate had him at her worst." 

"You have been studying him pretty well," said the Doctor 
in some surprise. 

"My eyes were for him, my ears for his mother. And, 
Frank Trewartha, I mean to take them home with me. If he 
suits me on farther acquaintance, I shall make him heir of 
Cragness. I'd like to go to my grave with the thought of 
a McRae reigning after me. Though he has but little of the 
blood there never was a handsome one in the whole race. I 
mean that he shall have the name, however. " 

Doctor Trewartha sat and mused. "She should have had 
a son," he said to himself. 



CHAPTER XV. 

THE morning came in with a storm : a dreary leaden sky 
and a bitter wind scurrying the pellets of snow about and drift 
ing them into nooks and crannies, corners of stoops, and the 
ground edge of fences. Anah Hurst tidied up her simple 
room, bathed her husband's face and hands, and put on his 
gray woollen dressing-gown. Victor lifted him into the arm 
chair and dragged him in front of the fire. 

There was something in the wasted and melancholy figure 
and the indescribable pathos of the eyes that touched Victor 
singularly this morning, especially as they followed him round 
with that haunting, longing look. You could see that the 
brain had gone a little astray, in the effort he made to think, 
to recover his own identity and that of those around him, or 
perhaps some subtle sense of the secret he considered his, 
and felt that he must still hide. A wandering, wavering light, 
unsubstantial as dreams, and a childish longing for the love 
he had deemed it his duty to thrust aside, when the march oi 
life was hurried. Heaven knows it was slow enough now. 

"Are you going away?" reaching out the hand that shook 
visibly, something beyond a mere nervous tremble. 

"I was not." 

He came a little nearer and took the wasted fingers in his, 
