
The following letter will here be inserted as confirming a part of Lady
Byron's story:--


 TO THE EDITOR OF 'MACMILLAN'S MAGAZINE.'

 'SIR,--I trust that you will hold me excused from any desire
 to be troublesome, or to rush into print. Both these things are far
 from my wish. But the publication of a book having for its object the
 vindication of Lord Byron's character, and the subsequent appearance
 in your magazine of Mrs. Stowe's article in defence of Lady Byron,
 having led to so much controversy in the various newspapers of the
 day, I feel constrained to put in a few words among the rest.

 'My father was intimately acquainted with Lady Byron's family for many
 years, both before and after her marriage; being, in fact, steward to
 Sir Ralph Milbanke at Seaham, where the marriage took place; and, from
 all my recollections of what he told me of the affair (and he used
 often to talk of it, up to the time of his death, eight years ago), I
 fully agree with Mrs. Stowe's view of the case, and desire to add my
 humble testimony to the truth of what she has stated.

 'Whilst Byron was staying at Seaham, previous to his marriage, he
 spent most of his time pistol-shooting in the plantations adjoining
 the hall, often making use of his glove as a mark; his servant being
 with him to load for him.

 'When all was in readiness for the wedding-ceremony (which took place
 in the drawing-room of the hall), Byron had to be sought for in the
 grounds, where he was walking in his usual surly mood.

 'After the marriage, they posted to Halnaby Lodge in Yorkshire, a
 distance of about forty miles; to which place my father accompanied
 them, and he always spoke strongly of Lady Byron's apparent distress
 during and at the end of the journey.

 'The insulting words mentioned by Mrs. Stowe were spoken by Byron
 before leaving the park at Seaham; after which he appeared to sit
 in moody silence, reading a book, for the rest of the journey. At
 Halnaby, a number of persons, tenants and others, were met to cheer
 them on their arrival. Of these he took not the slightest notice, but
 jumped out of the carriage, and walked away, leaving his bride to
 alight by herself. She shook hands with my father, and begged that he
 would see that some refreshment was supplied to those who had thus
 come to welcome them.

 'I have in my possession several letters (which I should be glad to
 show to anyone interested in the matter) both from Lady Byron, and her
 mother, Lady Milbanke, to my father, all showing the deep and kind
 interest which they took in the welfare of all connected with them,
 and directing the distribution of various charities, &c. Pensions were
 allowed both to the old servants of the Milbankes and to several poor
 persons in the village and neighbourhood for the rest of their lives;
 and Lady Byron never ceased to take a lively interest in all that
 concerned them.

 'I desire to tender my humble thanks to Mrs. Stowe for having
 come forward in defence of one whose character has been much
 misrepresented; and to you, sir, for having published the same in your
 pages.

  'I have the honour to be, sir, yours obediently,

  'G. H. AIRD.

  'DAOURTY, NORTHAMPTONSHIRE, Sept. 29, 1869.'




CHAPTER III.

CHRONOLOGICAL SUMMARY OF EVENTS.


I have now fulfilled as conscientiously as possible the requests of
those who feel that they have a right to know exactly what was said in
this interview.

It has been my object, in doing this, to place myself just where I
should stand were I giving evidence under oath before a legal tribunal.
In my first published account, there were given some smaller details of
the story, of no particular value to the main purpose of it, which I
received not from Lady Byron, but from her confidential friend. One
of these was the account of her seeing Lord Byron's favourite spaniel
lying at his door, and the other was the scene of the parting.

The first was communicated to me before I ever saw Lady Byron, and
under these circumstances:--I was invited to meet her, and had
expressed my desire to do so, because Lord Byron had been all my life
an object of great interest to me. I inquired what sort of a person
Lady Byron was. My friend spoke of her with enthusiasm. I then said,
'but of course she never loved Lord Byron, or she would not have left
him.' The lady answered, 'I can show you with what feelings she left
him by relating this story;' and then followed the anecdote.

Subsequently, she also related to me the other story of the
parting-scene between Lord and Lady Byron. In regard to these two
incidents, my recollection is clear.
