said she, extending the package towards me.
"What do you wish me to do with it?" I replied, taking her
treasure--her only treasure, it seemed to me, either in earth or in
heaven.
It was only the treasure where thieves break through and steal; and the
thief was at hand--one whom she had trained up in the ways of worldly
wisdom.
"I don't know; only put it where Charles can't get it; that's all."
"But I have no safe place for it."
"You can put it somewhere. I feel better now it is out of my hands,"
she added, with a deep sigh.
"Really, Mrs. Whippleton, I can't take charge of this. I am afraid it
would make me as miserable as it has you."
"You must take it, Philip. You are the only honest man I know of. Keep
it safe, and when I'm gone,--if I'm goin' this time,--don't give it to
anybody but my administrator."
"I don't like to take it, Mrs. Whippleton."
"That's the very reason why I want you to take it. If you was more
willing, I shouldn't be so anxious to give it to you. I know you'll be
careful of it."
"I will tell you what I will do with it, if you are willing. I want to
go to St. Louis to see my father. If Mr. Whippleton will let me off
to-morrow, for a few days, I will go then. I will seal up the package,
and my father will keep it in his safe."
"Is your father honest?"
"He is."
"He must be if he is your father. Do as you think best. If he can put
the money out at interest for me, I should like it all the better."
"Very well. I will give you my receipt for this package, and that will
at least be evidence that I took it, and at your request."
I put the treasure in my pocket, and then led the conversation into
another channel. I tried to awaken in her mind an interest in that
other treasure, where thieves do not break through nor steal; but she
was tired, and said she wanted to rest. She had talked so much that she
was all worn out. She was a sad spectacle to me, and though she had
gathered together a considerable fortune, it seemed to me that her life
was a failure; she had not realized the true success.
I went to my room, opened the package, and made out a list of all the
valuable papers which it contained. I wrote a receipt for them and for
the money, and then, with the treasure under my pillow, I went to
sleep. The next morning I called upon the old lady, and gave her the
receipt. The nurse thought she was better, and said she had slept very
well after I left her. Mrs. Whippleton told me she was willing to pay
my expenses to St. Louis, and I might take the money for the purpose
from the package.
CHAPTER XII.
IN WHICH PHIL VISITS THE HOUSE OF MR. COLLINGSBY, AND SEES MISS MARIAN.
I went to the counting-room at an early hour. My first care was to tie
up the valuable package, which I had brought with me, in thick paper,
and to seal it very carefully. I wrote my own name upon it, and then
placed it in one of the drawers of the safe, the key of which was kept
in the desk. I hoped to obtain permission, when Mr. Whippleton came to
the counting-room, to visit St. Louis, especially as business was not
as driving as usual. I did all my routine work, and the junior partner
had not arrived. I was not anxious to see him for any other purpose
than to obtain leave of absence. Indeed, the idea of meeting him was
very embarrassing. After what his mother had said, I was satisfied that
Mr. Whippleton had been using the funds of the firm in his own private
speculations. It was evident that he had appropriated no less a sum
than forty thousand dollars, which was represented by the fictitious
invoices. I did not believe that he intended to purloin the money, but
would replace it when his land speculations yielded their returns. Mr.
Collingsby never examined the books thoroughly, and was not likely to
discover the fraud. I knew all about it, and it suddenly flashed upon
my mind that it would be wrong for me to be a party to a concealment.
I was not employed by Mr. Whippleton alone, but by the firm. My
obligations were to both the partners; and though Mr. Collingsby never
took any notice of me, my duty to him was just as urgent as to the
junior. The thought startled me. My soul revolted at the idea of any
treachery to Mr. Whippleton, who had always been very kind to me. But
on the other hand, my moral sense revolted at the thought of concealing
his fraud. I was troubled by the situation.
Mrs. Whippleton did not believe that her son's enterprise in real
estate was a success. In her own words, he "had been bitten." It seemed
to me that, in the end, there must be a fearful explosion. As I had the
whole charge of the books now, I did not see how I could avoid any
complicity with the fraud. In fact, I had already discovered it. I felt
that I had a duty to perform, and that, if I exposed the junior
partner, he, and not I, would be guilty of his fall. Was it meanness,
ingratitude, or treachery in me to put Mr. Collingsby on his guard? If
I could save Mr. Whippleton, I wished to do so. It was plain that he
had come to a realizing sense of his danger, and was persecuting his
mother to obtain the means of making good his deficit. But all the old
lady's money would not cover the deficiency, and it was also
impossible for him to obtain it. He had falsified the books, and he
could not undo that.
If I continued to cover up Mr. Whippleton's error, I became a party to
it. He was a bad man, and I could not fail to see my duty. I must
inform Mr. Collingsby of what I had discovered. But though my duty was
clear, my inclination rebelled. The junior partner had been kind and
considerate; the senior, lofty and distant. It seemed almost like
betraying my friend. While I was still considering the matter, Mr.
Whippleton came in. I had not reached any conclusion, except that I
would not be a party to the fraud by concealing it.
"Phil, do you know where Mr. Collingsby lives?" said the junior
partner, while I was still in this state of doubt and uncertainty.
"I do, sir."
"I wish you would go up and show him this list of lumber," continued
Mr. Whippleton, who seemed to be very much excited, and was very pale.
"Tell him I can buy the lot at a very low figure if I can pay cash at
