and wait upon me." 

" It has not been any hardship at all, Aunt Ruth, 
but just like a pleasant visit." 

" I am glad to hear you say so. And can you keep 
a merry Christmas without me ? " 

" Without you ! "Why ? " asked Kathie, in surprise. 
" Will you not be well enough to travel ? " 

" No, my dear child. The operation has not been 
quite so successful as Dr. Markham hoped, and a 
little of it must be done over again. So you see I 
cannot keep Christmas with the rest of you." 

" Aunt Ruth ! I am so sorry ! ' : 

" My darling, I regret it also. It seems too bad 
that anything should mar our first happy Christmas 
at Cedarwood. But you must forget me a little while 
and enjoy yourself to the utmost." 

Kathie did not reply for some moments. It was a 
very great disappointment. And when she thought 
of Aunt Ruth all alone while the rest Were making 
'merry her heart almost misgave her. 



 

" Will the operation be very painful, Aunt Kuth ? ' 
she asked, in a low tone. 

" It is only very slight, I believe, but it will of 
course delay my recovery. I do not think I should 
be well enough to go home if that had not happened 
You see I cannot walk across the floor yet." 

"I wonder if you ever will be well," and 
Kathie's tone was slow and hesitating. 

" Dr. Markham thinks so." 

Kathie felt that the words were not uttered real 
hopefully. 

" But what do you think, Aunt Euth ? or, at least, 
what do you feel in your heart ? ' 

" That it is as God wills, my darling." 

Kathie felt a great choking in her throat, and could 
not speak. It seemed to Aunt Euth that she really 
had not strength to say the rest, so she would let it 
wait. Kathie's stay had been very pleasant thus far, 
it was true, but it might be duller after the gay 
holidays. There were other forebodings, too, that she 
could not quite shake off, a fear, perhaps, that even 
this skill and experience could hardly work a miracle. 

" Will mamma come down again ? ' 

" Not for the operation. It is hardly worth while ; 







indeed, she will know nothing of it until it is 



over." 



Kathie wanted very much to ask when it would 
be, but her courage failed. Certainly not until next 
week, she thought, and then Uncle Eobert and Miss 
Jessie would be here. 

There was nothing more said about it, though 
Kathie tried to be cheerful and talked of General 
Mackenzie, whom she liked very much. But she 
was exceedingly tender to Aunt Euth, arranging her 
dinner in the most tempting fashion, and coaxing 
her to eat. 

In the afternoon she went for her walk as usual. 
Mrs. Gifford found her very grave and quiet. She 
was thinking about her disappointment, and some- 
thing else, the possibility of staying on with Aunt 
Euth and giving up the Christmas visit. Mamma 
could not be spared, and even if she were, Cedarwood 
without her would not be much better than New York. 
Only last night General Mackenzie had told her that 
