Mr. Meredith, but I may work for others. Rouse thee, little Kathie!"




CHAPTER IX.

THORNS IN THE PATH.


IT appeared to Kathie that she had never known so long a fortnight as
the first two weeks of Uncle Robert's absence; yet everything had gone
on just the same, none of the duties were changed, only the absence and
the dreadful suspense.

Yet something else had happened, or was working itself out slowly day by
day. Among the new scholars were several quite stylish and fashionable
girls, who felt inclined to draw a line, or make some kind of a social
distinction.

Foremost among these was Isabel Hadden, a tall, showy girl, who prided
herself upon her figure and style. Her father had made a fortune as an
army contractor, and was now in Washington. He had purchased a very
pretty country residence at Brookside, and installed his family there,
though Mrs. Hadden frequently joined him for weeks at a time.

Belle had been at a second-rate boarding-school for a year before the
family had attained their present grandeur. Now a distant connection
filled the position of governess to the host of younger children; but
Belle considered herself too large to come in with "that crowd," as she
rather disdainfully termed them.

She was sent to school every morning in the carriage, and it not
infrequently came for her in the afternoon. Rather distant and haughty
at first, she had not made friends very easily. Mrs. Thorne happened to
meet Mrs. Hadden at an evening party, and it was followed by a mutual
acquaintance. Thereupon Isabel and Lottie became friends, though the
latter was somewhat younger. Lottie's mother was very ambitious for her,
and since Mr. Thorne would not consent to the expense of a
boarding-school, she sent Lottie to Mrs. Wilder, as it was so much more
genteel.

Belle became the leader of the small clique who discussed fashions
habitually. She criticised the dresses, cuffs, collars, and laces for
the edification of her youthful hearers, until Emma Lauriston said one
day, "Miss Hadden is as good as a fashion-magazine. I don't know but
she would be invaluable in a fancy goods' store."

Lottie still kept to her old habit of calling upon Kathie for assistance
when lessons were puzzling. For several days in succession she had
occupied Kathie's short intermission, and Mrs. Wilder found that she
began to depend too much upon this kindly help.

"Miss Kathie," her teacher said at length, "I have a request or a
command in my mind,--you can consider it as which ever is easiest to
obey," and Mrs. Wilder smiled.

Kathie smiled as well, in her pleasant fashion.

"I am sorry to find fault with any generous deed that school-girls do
for one another, but I think Lottie Thorne has come to depend altogether
too much upon you. It is hardly fair to occupy your few moments of
recreation when by a little closer application she could solve her own
problems and translations. This is really necessary for her own good."

"I did not like to be disobliging," Kathie answered, by way of excuse.

"Your generosity is carried almost to a fault at times. You must learn
to say 'No' occasionally."

Kathie's soft eyes were downcast. It would be very hard to refuse.

"Lottie has as much time to study her lessons at home as you have, and I
am always ready to explain any difficulty. That is one of my duties
towards my pupils. I am in a measure answerable for her improvement; and
if she slips through upon the assistance of others she will be the loser
in the end. You understand what I mean?--that while I do not wish to
discourage a helpful feeling among the girls, I desire that each one
should study for herself."

"Yes," Kathie said, in a low tone.

"And, my little friend, it is necessary that one should learn to be just
as well as generous."

Kathie felt the force of the remark. Uncle Robert had explained this
occasionally to her in connection with Rob, who was rather fond of
making her extensively useful. Then she always hated to say no to
others. It was easier to sacrifice her own pleasures or desires.

To smooth the matter for her, Mrs. Wilder announced that morning that
she wished each girl's translations to be exclusively her own work, and
if there was any great difficulty she would be glad to have them apply
to her.

Kathie left the school-room the instant recess began. Lottie was still
puzzling over her algebra, and, having finished that, she took up her
imperfect French, meaning to go in search of her little helper.

Two or three girls were discussing a party.
