denly all over her dogged face. "Now I don't 
mind you. Stay to supper. We'll have supper 
right away. Come here a minute. Catty dear." 

Catty dear would not come. Catty dear stood 
scowling in the middle pf the room, a sullen, ill- 
tempered, ill-controlled, uncontrollable Catty dear 
as one could ask to see. 





"For love's sake," said Sip, on her patient 
fingers ; "here a minute, for love's sake. Catty." 

" For love's sake ? " repeated Catty, in her 
pathetic language. 

" Only for love's sake, dear," said Sip. 

Catty came with this, and laid her head down 
with a singularly gentle motion on Sip's faded 
plaid lap. Miss Kelso could see her now, in the 
light in which they three were sitting. A girl 
possibly of fifteen years, — a girl with a low fore- 
head, with wandering eyes, with a dull stoop to 
the head, with long, lithe, magnetic fingers, 
with a thick, dropping under lip, — a girl walled 
up and walled in from that labyrinth of sympa- 
thies, that difficult evolution of brain from beast, 
the gorgeous peril of that play at good and evil 
which we call life, except at the wandering eyes, 
and at the long, lithe, magnetic fingers. An ugly 
girl. 

She lay, for an ugly girl, very still in her
sister's lap. Sip softly stroked her face, talking 
now to the child and now to her visitor, wound 
about in a pretty net of soft sounds and softer 
emotions. A pleasant change had fallen upon 
her since the deaf-mute came in. 





" See how pleasant it is to come home early, 
Catty." (She won't talk to-night, because you 're 
here.) " For love's sake, dear, you know." (That 
's the way I get along with her. She likes that.) 
" For love's sake and my sake, and with the lamp 
and fire bright. So much better — " (It 's never 
her fault, poor dear ! God knows, I never, never 
laid it up against her as it was her fault.) " 
Better than the dark street-corners, Catty — " 

" There 's light in the shops," said Catty, on 
her long fingers, with a shrewd, unpleasant smile. 

"And supper at home," said Sip, quickly, 
rising. " For love's sake, you know. And company 
to supper ! " 

" For love's sake .' " asked Catty, rising too. 

" I don't know for whose sake ! " said Sip, all 
the pleasantness gone in a minute from hef. 

The young lady and Catty were standing now, 
between the lamp-glow and the fire-glow, side by 
side. They were a startling pair to be standing 
side by side. They stood quite still, except that 
Catty passed her fingers curiously over Miss 
Kelso's dress, — it seemed that she saw quite as 
much with her fingers as with her eyes, — and 
that she nodded once or twice, as if she were 





talking to herself, in a stupid way. Parley's fine, 
fair,' finished smile seemed to blot out this 
miserable figure, and to fill the room with a kind of 
dazzle. 

" Good God ! " cried Sip, sharply. " You asked 
me for the difierence. Look at that ! You 
asked what difference the dirt makes. That 's 
the difference ! To be born in it, breathe it, 
swallow it, grow on it, live it, die and go back to 
it — bah ! If you want to go the devil, work in 
the dirt. Look at her ! " 

"I look at her," said Perley, with a solemn, 
frightened look upon her young face, — "I look 
at her, Sip. For love's sake. Believe me if you 
can. Make her understand. I look for love's 
sake." 
