sober, discreet, and rational man. It was one of those daylight,
matter-of-fact kinds of talks, with no nonsense about them, in which
things are called by their right names. He confessed his own sins, and
took upon his own shoulders the blame that properly belonged there;
and, having thus cleared his conscience, took occasion to give Lillie a
deal of grandfatherly advice, of a very sedative tendency.

They had both been very silly, he said; and the next step to being
silly very often was to be wicked. For his part, he thought she ought
to be thankful for so good a husband; and, for his own part, he should
lose no time in trying to find a good wife, who would help him to be
a good man, and do something worth doing in the world. He had given
people occasion to say ill-natured things about her; and he was sorry
for it. But, if they stopped being imprudent, the world would in time
stop talking. He hoped, some of these days, to bring his wife down to
see her, and to make the acquaintance of her husband, whom he knew to
be a capital fellow, and one that she ought to be proud of.

Thus, by the intervention of good angels, the little paper-nautilus
bark of Lillie’s fortunes was prevented from going down in the great
ugly maelstrom, on the verge of which it had been so heedlessly sailing.

Harry was not slow in pushing the advantage of his treaty of friendship
with Rose to its utmost limits; and, being a young gentleman of parts
and proficiency, he made rapid progress.

The interview of course immediately bred the necessity for at least a
dozen more; for he had to explain this thing, and qualify that, and,
on reflection, would find by the next day that the explanation and
qualification required a still further elucidation. Rose also, after
the first conversation was over, was troubled at her own boldness, and
at the things that she in her state of excitement had said; and so was
only too glad to accord interviews and explanations as often as sought,
and, on the whole, was in the most favorable state towards her penitent.

Hence came many calls, and many conferences with Rose in the library,
to Mrs. Van Astrachan’s great satisfaction, and concerning which Mr.
Van Astrachan had many suppressed chuckles and knowing winks at Polly.

“Now, pa, don’t you say a word,” said Mrs. Van Astrachan.

“Oh, no, Polly! catch me! I see a great deal, but I say nothing,” said
the good gentleman, with a jocular quiver of his portly person. “I
don’t say any thing,—oh, no! by no manner of means.”

Neither at present did Harry; neither do we.




CHAPTER XXIV.

SENTIMENT v. SENSIBILITY.


THE poet has feelingly sung the condition of

    “The banquet hall deserted,
     Whose lights are fled, and garlands dead,” &c.,

and so we need not cast the daylight of minute description on the
Follingsbee mansion.

Charlie Ferrola, however, was summoned away at early daylight, just
as the last of the revellers were dispersing, by a hurried messenger
from his wife; and, a few moments after he entered his house, he
was standing beside his dying baby,—the little fellow whom we have
seen brought down on Mrs. Ferrola’s arm, to greet the call of Mrs.
Follingsbee.

It is an awful thing for people of the flimsy, vain, pain-shunning,
pleasure-seeking character of Charlie Ferrola, to be taken at times,
as such people will be, in the grip of an inexorable power, and held
face to face with the sternest, the most awful, the most frightful
realities of life. Charlie Ferrola was one of those whose softness and
pitifulness, like that of sentimentalists generally, was only one form
of intense selfishness. The sight of suffering pained him; and his
first impulse was to get out of the way of it. Suffering that he did
not see was nothing to him; and, if his wife or children were in any
trouble, he would have liked very well to have known nothing about it.

But here he was, by the bedside of this little creature, dying in the
agonies of slow suffocation, rolling up its dark, imploring eyes, and
lifting its poor little helpless hands; and Charlie Ferrola broke out
into the most violent and extravagant demonstrations of grief.

The pale, firm little woman, who had watched all night, and in whose
tranquil face a light as if from heaven was beaming, had to assume the
care of him, in addition to that of her dying child. He was another
helpless burden on her hands.

There came a day when the house was filled with white flowers, and
people came and went, and holy words were spoken; and the fairest
flower of all was carried out, to return to the house no more.

“That woman is a most unnatural and peculiar woman!” said Mrs.
Follingsbee, who had been most active and patronizing in sending
flowers, and attending to the scenic arrangements of the funeral. “It
is just what I always said: she is a perfect statue; she’s no kind of
feeling. There was Charlie, poor fellow! so sick that he had to go to
