and those which flow north and west into the Baltic and the Arctic
Ocean. The Valdai Hills, in the west-central part, which are not over
a thousand feet above the level of the sea, are the only elevations
or any consequence, except on or near the frontiers, where we find
the Ural and Caucasus ranges. Some portions of the country are uneven,
as Russian Poland and the Crimea; but there is very little variety of
scenery in the greater part of this vast region. In such a country you
would, of course, expect to find large rivers. The largest of these
is the Volga, twenty-two hundred miles long, and navigable to within
fifty miles of its source. The Don and the Dnieper are about a thousand
miles long. The Ural, the Dwina, the Petchora, and the Vistula are
important rivers. Russia contains thousands of lakes, most of them
in the northern and north-western part. Lake Ladoga, the largest in
Europe, is about the size of Lake Ontario; Onega is half as large;
Lake Peipus is twice as large as Lake Champlain; and Lake Ilmen is a
little larger than Moosehead, in Maine. Nearly all these rivers and
lakes are navigable for steamers and barges. You may take a boat,--the
commodore's barge, if you please,--go up to St. Petersburg, through the
Neva to Lake Ladoga, by the Volkof to Lake Ilmen, by canals, lakes,
and rivers, into the Volga, which becomes navigable for steamers at
Tver, a town on the railroad from Petersburg to Moscow. Continuing on
your voyage down the river to Nijni Novgorod, where the traveller by
steamer takes a larger boat, fifty-three miles below Kazan, or eight
hundred and fifty from Tver, you will reach the Kama River, the longest
tributary of the Volga. Pursuing your voyage up this river, you would
arrive at Perm,--if you went by steamer;--in about a week; and this
town is within two hundred miles of Asia. This is the usual route to
Siberia below Nijni, and the one by which convicts are sent. Instead
of going up the Kama, you could continue down the Volga, passing the
large towns of Simbirsk, Saratoff, to Tsaritsin, from which there is a
railroad to Kalatch, on the River Don, down which steamers descend to
the Crimea. From Tsaritsin you may proceed down the river to Astrakhan,
on the Caspian Sea, on which steamers ply to ports in Persia and
elsewhere. The Volga is the Mississippi of Russia, and of quite as much
importance to that country as the Father of Waters to us. The Baltic
and the Black Seas are also connected by a canal which unites the
Beresina, a branch of the Düna, or Western Dwina, to the Dnieper. There
are several other canals which connect the great natural water-ways, so
that boats may go from either of the seas on the border of Russia to
either of the others.

"A grand system of railroads has also been projected, as you may see
on the map. The first important one built was that from St. Petersburg
to Moscow, which was constructed by Americans at a vast expense,
considering the nature of the country through which it passes. An
English gentleman waited upon the Russian minister of finance with a
letter of introduction.

"'Then you have come to see Russia,' said his excellency.

"'Hardly the whole of it; I only desire to see what is most curious in
the country,' replied the tourist.

"'Ah! I then I will first show you the contract with the Americans to
build the railway to Moscow,' added the minister.

"Doubtless it was a very curious document, especially in the price
which his imperial majesty agreed to pay for the work. When he was
asked where he would have the road located, he took a ruler, and drew
a straight line on the map between the two cities; and except one
deviation to avoid the erection of an expensive bridge, this line
was followed, and consequently very few towns are upon the road.
A line extends south from Moscow to Kief, over six hundred miles,
and the communication of St. Petersburg with Odessa will soon be
completed. Lines from Cracow and Warsaw to Odessa are also in course of
construction. One may now go all the way by express train from Paris,
Ostend, or Calais, to St. Petersburg, in three days. Russia has now
forty-seven hundred miles of railway open for traffic; and nearly ten
thousand miles more are to be completed in four years.[A]

[Footnote A: The United States had, January 1, 1870, 48,860 miles of
railroad in operation, and 27,507 miles projected and in progress.]

"The principal productions of Russia are grain, hemp, flax, linseed,
tallow, and lumber. Wheat is by far the most important crop, and is
raised in vast quantities on the plains of Central Russia, and the
steppes of the south. It exported, in 1867, nearly one hundred
millions of rubles' worth of this grain. Next in value is the flax
crop, of which the exports amounted in the same year to about twenty
million rubles."

"How much is a ruble?" asked Captain Cantwell.

"That is rather a difficult question to answer," replied the professor.

"Harper's Hand-book says in one place, a ruble is
eighty cents; in another, that it is seventy; in another,
eighty-three," suggested one of the students.

"Nearly all the money in circulation is paper, subject to varying
discounts, from ten to twenty per cent. Our money is also paper, and
at a discount of twelve or fifteen per cent. I have made a careful
comparison of the values of a dollar and a ruble, using the weight of
pure silver in each as a basis, and I find that a ruble is 74.88+
cents; call it seventy-five cents. When gold bears a premium of twenty
per cent, in Russia,--which I understand is the usual rate at the
present time,--a ruble is worth sixty-four cents; but with our gold at
a premium of twelve and a half per cent., its value would be raised to
seventy-two cents."

