think putty well of him, as folks allers does when a body is up in the
world, and hes houses and lands. Lordy massy! riches allers covers a
multitude o’ sins.

“Finally, when Ruth hed ben six months with her, one day Lady Maxwell
got to tellin’ her all about her history, and what hed ben atween her
and her cousin, when they was young, and how they hed a quarrel and he
flung off to Ameriky, and all them things that it don’t do folks no good
to remember when it’s all over and can’t be helped. But she was a lone
body, and it seemed to do her good to talk about it.

“Finally, she says to Ruth, says she, ‘I’ll show you a room in this
house you han’t seen before. It was the room where we hed that quarrel,’
says she; ‘and the last I saw of him was there, till he come back to
die,’ says she.

“So she took a gret key out of her bunch; and she led Ruth along a
long passage-way to the other end of the house, and opened on a great
library. And the minute Ruth came in, she threw up her hands and gin a
great cry. ‘Oh!’ says she, ‘this is the room! and there is the window!
and there is the cabinet! and there in that middle drawer at the back
end in a bundle of papers is the will!

“And Lady Maxwell she said, quite dazed, ‘Go look,’ says she. And Ruth
went, jest as she seed herself do, and opened the drawer, and drew forth
from the back part a yellow pile of old letters. And in the middle of
those was the will, sure enough. Ruth drew it out, and opened it, and
showed it to her.

“Wal, you see that will give Ruth the whole of the Gineral’s property in
America, tho’ it did leave the English estate to Jeff.

“Wal, the end on’t was like a story-book.

“Jeff he made believe be mighty glad. And he said it must a ben that the
Gineral hed got flustered with the sperit and water, and put that
‘ere will in among his letters that he was a doin’ up to take back to
England. For it was in among Lady Maxwell’s letters that she writ him
when they was young, and that he’d a kep’ all these years and was a
takin’ back to her.

“Wal, Lawyer Dean said he was sure that Jeff made himself quite busy and
useful that night, a tyin’ up the papers with red tape, and a packin’
the Gineral’s trunk; and that, when Jeff gin him his bundle to lock up
in his box, he never mistrusted but what he’d got it all right.

“Wal, you see it was jest one of them things that can’t be known to the
jedgment-day. It might a ben an accident, and then agin it might not;
and folks settled it one way or t’other, ‘cordin’ to their ‘pinion
o’ Jeff; but ye see how ‘mazin’ handy for him it happened! Why, ef it
hadn’t ben for the providence I’ve ben a tellin’ about, there it might a
lain in them old letters, that Lady Maxwell said she never hed the heart
to look over! it never would a turned up in the world.”

“Well,” said I, “what became of Ruth?” “Oh! Cap’n Oliver he came back
all alive, and escaped from the Algerines; and they was married in
King’s Chapel, and lived in the old Sullivan House, in peace and
prosperity. That’s jest how the story was; and now Aunt Lois can make
what she’s a mind ter out on’t.”

“And what became of Jeff?” “Oh! he started to go over to England, and
the ship was wrecked off the Irish coast, and that was the last of him.
He never got to his property.”

“Good enough for him,” said both of us.’ “Wal, I don’t know: ‘twas
pretty hard on Jeff. Mebbe he did, and mebbe he didn’t. I’m glad I
warn’t in his shoes, tho’. I’d rather never hed nothin’. This ‘ere
hastin’ to be rich is sich a drefful temptation.

“Wal, now, boys, ye’ve done a nice lot o’ flax, and I guess we’ll go up
to yer grand’ther’s cellar and git a mug o’ cyder. Talkin’ always gits
me dry.”









THE MINISTER’S HOUSEKEEPER.

Scene.--The shady side of a blueberry-pasture.--Sam Lawson with the
boys, picking blueberries.--Sam, loq.

As, you see, boys, ‘twas just here,--Parson Carryl’s wife, she died
along in the forepart o’ March: my cousin Huldy, she undertook to keep
house for him. The way on’t was, that Huldy, she went to take care
o’ Mis’ Carryl in the fust on’t, when she fust took sick. Huldy was
a tailoress by trade; but then she was one o’ these ‘ere facultised
persons that has a gift for most any thing, and that was how Mis’ Carryl
come to set sech store by her, that, when she was sick, nothin’ would do
for her but she must have Huldy round all the time: and the minister,
he said he’d make it good to her all the same, and she shouldn’t lose
nothin’ by it. And so Huldy, she staid with Mis’ Carryl full three
months afore she died, and got to seein’ to every thing pretty much
round the place.

“Wal, arter Mis’ Carryl died, Parson Carryl, he’d got so kind o’ used to
