seems just as good." 
" Go on, Pink ; let us quit princesses and 
get to the real business. What do you want 
to get, first thing ? " 
" First thing," said Matilda, " I think would 
be to get somebody to clean the house. 
There are only two little rooms. It wouldn't 
be much. Don't you think so, Norton ? " 
" As we cannot build a palace, and have it 
new, I should say the old one had better be 
cleaned." 
" Sabrina Rogers would do it, I dare say," 
Matilda went on ; " and maybe that would 
be something good for her." 
" Teach her to clean her own ? " said Norton. 
" Why no, Norton ; her own is clean. I 
meant, maybe she would be glad of the 
pay." 
" There's another princess, eh, that wants 
a palace ? " said Norton. " If we could, we 
would new build Lilac lane, wouldn't we ? 
But then, I should want to make over the 
people that live in it." 
" So should I ; and that is the hardest. 
But perhaps, don't you think the people 
would be different, if they had things different?" 
" I'm certain I should be different, if I
lived where they do," said Norton. " But go 
on, Pink ; let us try it on what's her name. 
We have only cleaned her house yet." 
" The first thing, then, is a bedstead, Norton." 
" A bedstead ! What does she sleep on ? " 
" On the floor; with rags and straw, and I 
think a miserable make-believe of a bed. No 
sheets, no blankets, nor anything. It is 
dreadful." 
 
" Rags and straw," said Norton. " Then 
a bedstead wants a bed on it, Pink ? and 
blankets or coverlets or something, and sheets, 
and all that." 
Matilda watched Norton's pencil as it 
noted the articles. 
" Then she wants some towels, and a basin 
of some sort to wash in." 
" Hm ! " said Norton. Herself, I hope ? " 
" Yes, I hope so. But she has nothing to 
make herself clean with." 
" Then a stand and basin and towels ; 
and a pitcher, Pink, I suppose, to hold 
water." 
" Yes, a pitcher or jug or something. We 
want to get the cheapest things we can. And 
soap." 
" Let's have plenty of that," said Norton, 
putting down soap. " Now then what 
next ? " 
" A little wooden table, Norton ? she has 
nothing but a chair to set her tea on." 
" A table. And a carpet ? " 
 
" O no, Norton ; that's not necessary. It 
is warm weather now. She does not want 
that. But she does want a pail for water. I 
have to take the tea-kettle to the pump." 
Norton at this laughed, and rolled over on 
the grass in his amusement. Having thus 
refreshed himself, he came back to business. 
" Has she got anything to go on her fire, 
except a tea-kettle ? " 
" Not much. A saucepan would be a very 
useful thing, and not cost much. I bought 
one the other day; so I know." 
" What's a saucepan ? " said Norton. " A 
pan to make sauce in ? " 
It was Matilda's turn to laugh. " Poor Mrs. 
Eldridge don't have many puddings, I guess
to make sauce for," she said. 
" Well Pink, now we come, don't we, to 
the eating line. We must stock her up." 
'' Put down a broom first, Norton." 
" A broom ! Here goes." 
" Yes, you can't think how much I have 
wanted a broom there. And a tea-pot. O 
yes, and a little milk pitcher, and sugar bowl. 
Can't we ? " 
" I should think we could," said Norton. 
Tea-cups ? 
" I guess not. She's got two ; and three 
plates. Now, Norton the eatables. What 
did you think of? " 
" I suppose there isn't anything in the 
house," said Norton. 
" Nothing at all except what we took 
there." 
u Then she wants everything." 
" But You see, Norton, she can't do any 
thing herself; she couldn't use some things. 
There would be no use." 
" No use in what ? " 
