and the always fascinating bay. I went down the back- 
bone of the limestone ridge towards the sea the other 
afternoon, before sunset, and unexpectedly came upon a 
group of little stone cottages on a ledge, which are quite 
hidden from below. The'inhabitants were as much sur- 
prised to see a foreigner break through their seclusion as 
I was to come upon them. However, they soon recov- 
ered presence of mind to ask for a little money. Half 
a dozen old hags with the parchment skin sat upon the 


rocks in the sun, spinning from distaffs, exactly as their 
ancestors did in Greece two thousand years ago, I doubt 
not. I do not know that it is true, as Tasso wrote, that 
this climate is so temperate and serene that one almost 
becomes immortal in it. Since two thousand years all 
these coasts have changed more or less, risen and sunk, 
and the temples and palaces of two civilizations have 
tumbled into the sea. Yet I do not know but these 
tranquil old women have been sitting here on the rocks 
all the while, high above change and worry and decay, 
gossiping and spinning, like Fates. Their yarn must be 
uncanny. 

But we wander. It is difficult to go to any particular 
place here ; impossible to write of it in a direct manner. 
Our mule-path continues most delightful, by slopes of 
green orchards nestled in sheltered places, winding round 
gorges, deep and ragged with loose stones, and groups 
of rocks standing on the edge of precipices, like mediae- 
val towers, and through village after village tucked away 
in the hills. The abundance of population is a constant 
surprise. As we proceed, the people are wilder and 
much more curious about us, having, it is evident, seen 
few strangers lately. Women and children, half-dressed 
in dirty rags which do not hide the form, come out from 
their low stone huts upon the windy terraces, and stand, 
arms akimbo, staring at us, and, not seldom, hailing us 
in harsh voices. Their sole dress is often a single split 
and torn gown, not reaching to the bare knees, evidently 
the original of those in the Naples ballet (it will, no doubt, 
be different when those creatures exchange the ballet for 
the ballot) ; and, with their tangled locks and dirty faces, 
they seem rather beasts than women. Are their hus- 
bands brigands, and are they in wait for us in the chest- 
nut grove yonder ? 

The grove is charming ; and the men we meet there 
gathering sticks are not so surly as the women. They 
point the way ; and, when we emerge from the wood, St. 
Maria a Castello is before us on a height, its white and 



red church shining in the sun. We climb up to it. In 
front is a broad, flagged terrace ; and on the edge are deep 
wells in the rock, from which we draw cool water. Plen- 
tifully victualed, one could stand a siege here, and per- 
haps did in the gamey Middle Ages. Monk or soldier 
need not wish a pleasanter place to lounge. Adjoining 
the church, but lower, is a long, low building with three 
rooms, at once house and stable, the stable in the centre, 
though all of them have hay in the lofts. The rooms do 
not communicate. That is the whole of the town of St. 
Maria a Castello. 

In one of the apartments, some rough-looking peasants 
are eating dinner, a frugal meal : a dish of unclean po- 
lenta, a plate of grated cheese, a basket of wormy figs, 
and some sour red wine ; no bread, no meat. They 
looked at us askance, and with no sign of hospitality. 
We made friends, however, with the ragged children, 
one of whom took great delight in exhibiting his litter of 
puppies ; and we at length so far worked into the good 
graces of the family, that the mother was prevailed upon 
to get us some milk and eggs. I followed the woman 
into one of the apartments to superintend the cooking 
of the eggs. It was a mere den, with an earth floor. A 
fire of twigs was kindled against the farther wall, and a 
little girl, half-naked, carrying a baby still more economi- 
cally clad, was stooping down to blow the smudge into a 
flame. The smoke, some of it, went over our heads out 
at the door. We boiled the eggs. We desired salt ; and 
the woman brought us pepper in the berry. We insisted 
on salt, and at length got the rock variety, which we 
pounded on the rocks. We ate our eggs and drank our 
milk on the terrace, with the entire family interested 
spectators. The men were the hardest-looking ruffians 
we had met yet : they were making a bit of road near 
by, but they seemed capable of turning their hands to 
easiei: money-getting ; and there couldn't be a more con- 
venient place than this. 

When our repast was over, and I had drank a glass 




of wine with the proprietor, I offered to pay him, ten- 
dering what I knew was a fair price in this region. 
