found myself awake. 
There is an old adage that dreams go by contraries, 
and I tried to comfort myself with the thought that 
this dream was an assurance of safety. But the 
comfort was very small. Lloyd came along about 
ten o clock on Monday morning. His first act was 
to drink a large glass of brandy. I noticed that his 
hands were unsteady, the glass shaking as he raised 
it to his mouth. 
" That 's bad, Tom," I remarked. 
" What 's bad ?" he asked, turning on me with a 
look that said, " Take care !" 
" The way you re going on," I returned. " If you 
don 't  taper off a little, you 'll see sights before long." 
He looked very much annoyed, and swore between 
his teeth. After that he was moody and silent, as 
usual. He helped at the bar for an hour, and then 
asked me to let him have five hundred dollars. I 
had some money in bank, and he knew it. I had 
already loaned him over two thousand dollars to 
complete his payments on a lot of ground purchased 
somewhere, up town. He had promised to give 
me a mortgage on the property, but had not yet 
done so. 
" What do you want with five hundred dollars ?" 
I asked. 
" Got a payment to make on some property I 
bought last week," he answered, not looking me in 
the face. " It 's a great bargain, and will double in 
value in a year or two." 
"Where is it?" I inquired. 
" Away up town," he replied. 
" You haven t given me the mortgage you prom 
ised on that other property," I said. 
He fired up and got into a little rage, swore con 
siderably, and wanted to know if I thought he was 
going to swindle me. I told him it was no use get 
ting into a passion. Business was business. He 
had already borrowed two thousand dollars, and so 
far neglected to put the security agreed upon into 
my hands. If he wanted any more, he must first 
execute the mortgage. I kept my eye fixed steadily 
upon him, and showed by my manner that I was in 
earnest. He fretted and swore for a while, but 
cooled down. 
" I must have the money this morning, Hiram,"
he said, at last, in a coaxing way. " Your mortgage 
is all ready, and has been for a month. I didn 't know 
that you were thinking about it. I 'll get it for you 
this afternoon. Give me a check this morning. I 
don 't  wish to lose the chance I have for securing a 
great bargain. 
I gave him a check, but reluctantly ; I had lost faith 
in him. He might be going to buy a property, but 
 
I had my doubts. I did not see him again that day, 
nor the mortgage he had promised. 
Time passed on until the middle of the afternoon, 
and the nervousness I had felt since morning was 
beginning to wear away. After all, the notice we 
had received was only a threat meant to scare us off. 
Or if more was intended, sufficient evidence had not 
been procured to warrant the commencement of a 
suit. I was laughing over the matter with a custom 
er who had referred to the movement against the 
Sunday traffic, when through the opening door ap 
peared the face of the constable who had served the 
warrant on Lloyd after his assault on Jacobs. The 
laugh died in my throat. He came up to the bar, 
and leaning over, said to me in a low voice, 
" You re wanted round at the alderman s." 
" What for ?" I asked, not able to keep my voice 
steady and clear. 
" Got a case against you." 
"For what?" . 
" Selling on Sunday." 
"When must I appear?" 
" Now. The witnesses are all present." 
There was no help for it. I had to go. At the 
alderman 's I found four or five men waiting for me. 
Three of them were old and good customers who 
had drank at our bar every Sunday for months and 
months. They had been in on the day before, and 
I had sold them liquor. Had they turned against me ? 
I felt my knees give way. If that were so, I was in- 
  
deed in peril. The case was opened, and these three 
men, who had been seen going into and coming out 
of " The Retreat," were put on oath, and against their 
will, I could perceive, compelled to give evidence 
against me compelled to testify that I had sold 
them whisky and ale and beer on Sunday, and that 
they had paid for the same and drank it standing at 
the bar. Two of them were well-known business 
men with families of grown-up children, and the 
other was a young man, the son of a well-known 
clergyman, but a little fast. I saw that they were 
very much annoyed at their position and the dis 
creditable notoriety they would obtain if the matter 
went to court and they were compelled to appear as 
