fore their vast congregations. In the midst of the reatling of 
a lijmn a brown, stately dame would sweep up the aisle with 
a world of airs, with nothing in the world on but a " stovepipe " 
hat and a pair of cheap gloves ; another dame would follow? 
tricked out in a man's shirt, and nothing else ; another one 
would enter with a flourish, with simply the sleeves of a bright 
calico dress tied around her waist and the rest of the garment 
dragging behind like a peacock's tail off duty ; a stately " buck" 
Kanaka would stalk in with a woman's bonnet on, wrong side 
before — only this, and nothing more ; after him would stride 
his fellow, with the legs of a pair of pantaloons tied around his 
neck, the rest of his person untrammeled ; in his rear would 
come another gentleman simply gotten up in a fiery neck-tie 
and a striped vest. The poor creatures were beaming with 

complacency and wholly unconscious of any absurdity in their 
appearance. They gazed at each other with happy admiration, 
and it was plain to see that the young girls were taking note 
of what each other had on, as naturally as if they had always 
lived in a land of Bibles and knew what churches were made 
for ; here was the evidence of a dawning civilization. Tho 
spectacle which the congregation presented was so extraordi- 
nary and withal so moving, that the missionaries found it dif- 
ficult to keep to the text and go on with the services ; and by 
and by when the simple children of the sun began a general 
swapping of garments in open meeting and produced some 
irresistibly grotesque effects in the course of re-dressing, there 
was nothing for it but to cut the thing short with the benedic- 
tion and dismiss the fantastic assemblage. 

In our country, children play " keep house ;" and in the same 
high-sounding but miniature way the grown folk here, with 
the poor little material of slender territory and meagre popu- 
lation, play " empire." There is his royal Majesty the King, 
with a New York detective's income of thirty or thirty-tive 
thousand dollars a year from the " royal civil list " and the 
" royal domain." He lives in a two-story frame " palace." 
And there is the " royal family " — the customary hive of 

royal brothers, sisters, cousins and other noble drones 
and vagrants usual to monarchy, — all with a spoon in 
the national pap-dish, and all bearing such titles as his 
or her Royal Highness the 
Prince or Princess So-and-so. 
Few of them can carry their royal splendors far enough 
to ride in carriages, however ; they sport the economical 
Kanaka horse or " hoof it "
with the plebeians. 
Then there is his Excellency the " royal Chamberlain " — a 
sinecure, for his majesty dresses himself with his own hands, 
except when he is ruralizing at AVaikiki and then he requires 
UQ dressing. 

Next we have his Excellency the Conmiander-in-chief of the 
Household Troops, whose forces consist of about the number 
of soldiers usually placed under a corporal in other lands. 

Next comes the royal Steward and the Grand Equerry in 
Waiting — high dignitaries with modest salaries and little to do. 

Then we have his Excellency the First Gentleman of the 
Bed-chamber — an office as easy as it is magniticent. 

Next we come to his Excellency the Prime Minister, a ren- 
egade American from New Hampshire, all jaw, vanity, bom- 
bast and ignorance, a lawyer of " shyster" calibre, a fraud by 
nature, a humble worshiper of the sceptre above him, a reptile 
never tired of sneering at the land of his birth or glorifying 
the ten-acre kingdom that has adopted him — salary, $4,000 a 
year, vast consequence, and no perquisites. 

Then we have his Excellency the Imperial Minister of Fi- 
nance, who handles a million dollars of public money a year, 
sends in his annual " budget " with great ceremony, talks pro- 
digiously of " finance," suggests imposing schemes for paying 
off the " national debt " (of$150,000,) and does it all for $4,000 
a year and unimaginable glory. 

Next we have his Excellency the Minister of War, who 
holds sway over the royal armies — they consist of two hundred 
and thirty uniformed Kanakas, mostly Brigadier Generals, and 
if the country ever gets into trouble with a foreign power we 
shall probably hear from them. I knew an American whose 
copper-plate visiting card bore this impressive legend : " 
Lieutenant-Colonel in the Royal Infantry. To say that he was 
proud of this distinction is stating it but tamely. The Minister 
of War has also in his charge some venerable swivels on Punch- 
Bowl Hill wherewith royal salutes are fired when foreign ves- 
sels of war enter the port. 

Next comes his Excellency the Minister of the Navy — a 
nabob who rules the " royal fleet," (a steam-tug and a sixty-ton 
schooner.) 

And next comes his Grace the Lord Bishop of Honolulu, 
the chief dignitary of the '' Established Church " — for when 
the American Presbyterian missionaries had completed the 
reduction of the nation to a compact condition of Cliristianitj, 
native royalty stepped in and erected the grand dignity of an 
" Established (Episcopal) Church " over it, and imported a 
