You would like to put a bent pin in their chair 
when they are about calmly to sit down. 





A sitting hen on her nest is calm, but hope 
ful ; she has faith that her eggs are not china. 
These people appear to be sitting on china eggs. 

Perfect culture has refined all blood, warmth, 



flavor, out of them. We admire them without 
envy. They are too beautiful in their manners 
to be either prigs or snobs. They are at once 
our models and our despair. They are properly 
careful of themselves as models, for they know 
that if they should break, society would become 
a scene of mere animal confusion. 

MANDEVILLE. I think that the best-bred peo 
ple in the world are the English. 

THE YOUNG LADY. You mean at home. 

MANDEVILLE. That's where I saw them.* 
There is no nonsense about a cultivated English 
man or woman. They express themselves stur 
dily and naturally, and with no subservience to 
the opinions of others. There 's a sort of hearty 
sincerity about them that I like. Ages of cul 
ture on the island have gone deeper than the 
surface, and they have simpler and more natural 

* Mandeville once spent a week in London, riding about on 
the tops of omnibuses. 



 

manners than we. There is something good in 
the full, round tones of their voices. 

HERBERT. Did you ever get into a diligence 
with a growling Englishman who hadn't secured 
the place he wanted ? 

THE MISTRESS. Did you ever see an English 
exquisite at the San Carlo, and hear him cry 
" Bwavo " ? 

MANDEVILLE. At any rate, he acted out his 
nature, and wasn't afraid to. 

THE FIRE-TENDER. I think Mandeville is 
right, for once. The men of the best culture in 
England, in the middle and higher social classes, 
are what you would call good fellows, easy 
and simple in manner, enthusiastic on occasion, 
and decidedly not cultivated into the smooth 
calmness of indifference which some Americans 
seem to regard as the sine qna non of good 
breeding. Their position is so assured that they 
do not need that lacquer of calmness of which 
we were speaking. 

THE YOUNG LADY. Which is different from 
the manner acquired by those who live a great 
deal in American hotels? 



 

THE MISTRESS. Or the Washington manner? 

HERBERT. The last two are the same. 

THE FIRE-TENDER. Not exactly. You think 
you can always tell if a man has learned his 
society carriage of a dancing-master. Well, 
you cannot always tell by a person's manner 
whether he is a habitu/ of. hotels or of Washing 
ton. But these are distinct from the perfect 
polish and politeness of indifferentism. 



IV. 

DAYLIGHT disenchants. It draws one from the 
fireside, and dissipates the idle illusions of con 
versation, except under certain conditions. Let 
us say that the conditions are : a house in the 
country, with some forest-trees near, and a few 
evergreens, which are Christmas-trees all winter 
