in all lights, and I have almost decided to go ; 
there is nothing to keep me here, and no doubt 
the society at Saratoga and Newport would be of 
great advantage to me." 

" In what way, Sibyl ? " 

" In giving me the acquaintance of persons and 
families who will be desirable friends for a life- 
time. I am not rich, as you know, Aunt Faith, 
and I do not wish to be a burden upon Hugh. I 
consider it prudent to look to the future, and see 
life as it really is ; I do not believe in fancies, — 
I must have something sure." 

Aunt Faith looked at the speaker in silence 
 

for a moment. Then she said, " There is nothing 
sure in this life, Sibyl, but our trust in God." 

" I know that, Aunt ; I hope you do not think 
I have been remiss in my religious duties ? " 

" No, child no," replied Aunt Faith with a 
half-sigh ; " but are you sure there is nothing in 
Wester ton that interests you more than the fash- 
ionable life at Saratoga ! " 

" Nothing, Aunt ; except affection for all of 
you, of course." Sibyl's voice did not waver, 
neither did the shade of color in her oval cheek 
deepen ; Aunt Faith, who was watching her 
closely, said no more on that subject, but turned 
the discussion towards the arrangements for the 
journey. " You will need some additions to your 
wardrobe, I suppose, my dear ? " 

" Yes, Aunt ; I think I shall take that money 
that is coming to me this month for the purpose. 
I do not care for many dresses, but they must be 
perfect of their kind, and I think I shall purchase 
that antique set of pearls at Carton's." 

" But they are very costly, Sibyl." 



 

" Of course they are. I should not wish them 
if they were not rare. Pearls become me, and 
the antique setting will set me off far better than 
anything modern ; a white organdie, long and 
flowing, with the pearls, would be just my style,'' 
said Sibyl in a musing voice, as though she saw 
herself so arrayed. As she spoke, a vision rose 
before Aunt Faith's eyes : Sibyl at Saratoga, her 
classical head and hair adorned with the antique 
circlet, rising in simple beauty from the soft, 
white draperies. " She will look like a Greek 
statue," thought the elder lady ; " after all, how 
beautiful she is ! " 

The discussion went on, arranging the details 
of the various toilets, a committee of ways and 
means highly important in Sibyl's eyes. 

" At any rate, you need not begin immediately, 
Sibyl," said Aunt Faith ; " if you only wish two 
or three dresses ; and those are to be so simple, a 
week will be time enough to devote to them. 
You can have a full month of quiet here with all 
of us, dear ; and, after all, something may hap- 
pen to change your plans." 



 

" I think not, Aunt Faith. Are you going ? 
Then I may as well fmi?h my practising ; " and 
for the next hour the Spring-song filled the par- 
lor with its oft-repeated harmony. 

Down in the back garden, Tom and Gem were 
deeply engaged in the construction of an under- 
ground shanty. The grassy terrace behind the 
north piazza sloped down in a gentle declivity 
towards the vegetable garden, and at the base of 
this small hill the two sappers and miners were 
at work, their operations being marked by a 
convenient growth of currant-bushes at the top. 
The three dogs watched the proceedings with 
great interest. Turk, always thoughtful of his 
own comfort, had stretched himself out near by 
under the shadow of the bushes, and Pete Trone, 
in the excess of his zeal, had burrowed so far 
into the hill that nothing was to be seen but his 
tail and hind legs ; Grip,, however, persisted in 
