and cities hundreds of miles away. It was distinguished by frankness of
language as well as by brevity:

“The child is born. Buckstone gives notice of the thieving Knobs
University job. It is said the noses have been counted and enough votes
have been bought to pass it.”

For some time the correspondents had been posting their several journals
upon the alleged disreputable nature of the bill, and furnishing daily
reports of the Washington gossip concerning it. So the next morning,
nearly every newspaper of character in the land assailed the measure and
hurled broadsides of invective at Mr. Buckstone. The Washington papers
were more respectful, as usual--and conciliatory, also, as usual. They
generally supported measures, when it was possible; but when they
could not they “deprecated” violent expressions of opinion in other
journalistic quarters.

They always deprecated, when there was trouble ahead. However, ‘The
Washington Daily Love-Feast’ hailed the bill with warm approbation.
This was Senator Balaam’s paper--or rather, “Brother” Balaam, as he
was popularly called, for he had been a clergyman, in his day; and he
himself and all that he did still emitted an odor of sanctity now that
he had diverged into journalism and politics. He was a power in the
Congressional prayer meeting, and in all movements that looked to the
spread of religion and temperance.

His paper supported the new bill with gushing affection; it was a noble
measure; it was a just measure; it was a generous measure; it was a pure
measure, and that surely should recommend it in these corrupt times;
and finally, if the nature of the bill were not known at all, the ‘Love
Feast’ would support it anyway, and unhesitatingly, for the fact that
Senator Dilworthy was the originator of the measure was a guaranty that
it contemplated a worthy and righteous work.

Senator Dilworthy was so anxious to know what the New York papers would
say about the bill, that he had arranged to have synopses of their
editorials telegraphed to him; he could not wait for the papers
themselves to crawl along down to Washington by a mail train which has
never run over a cow since the road was built; for the reason that it
has never been able to overtake one. It carries the usual “cow-catcher”
 in front of the locomotive, but this is mere ostentation. It ought to be
attached to the rear car, where it could do some good; but instead, no
provision is made there for the protection of the traveling public,
and hence it is not a matter of surprise that cows so frequently climb
aboard that train and among the passengers.

The Senator read his dispatches aloud at the breakfast table. Laura
was troubled beyond measure at their tone, and said that that sort of
comment would defeat the bill; but the Senator said:

“Oh, not at all, not at all, my child. It is just what we want.
Persecution is the one thing needful, now--all the other forces are
secured. Give us newspaper persecution enough, and we are safe. Vigorous
persecution will alone carry a bill sometimes, dear; and when you start
with a strong vote in the first place, persecution comes in with double
effect. It scares off some of the weak supporters, true, but it soon
turns strong ones into stubborn ones. And then, presently, it changes
the tide of public opinion. The great public is weak-minded; the great
public is sentimental; the great public always turns around and weeps
for an odious murderer, and prays for him, and carries flowers to his
prison and besieges the governor with appeals to his clemency, as soon
as the papers begin to howl for that man’s blood.--In a word, the great
putty-hearted public loves to ‘gush,’ and there is no such darling
opportunity to gush as a case of persecution affords.”

“Well, uncle, dear; if your theory is right, let us go into raptures,
for nobody can ask a heartier persecution than these editorials are
furnishing.”

“I am not so sure of that, my daughter. I don’t entirely like the tone
of some of these remarks. They lack vim, they lack venom. Here is one
calls it a ‘questionable measure.’ Bah, there is no strength in that.
This one is better; it calls it ‘highway robbery.’ That sounds something
like. But now this one seems satisfied to call it an ‘iniquitous
scheme’. ‘Iniquitous’ does not exasperate anybody; it is weak--puerile.
The ignorant will imagine it to be intended for a compliment. But this
other one--the one I read last--has the true ring: ‘This vile, dirty
effort to rob the public treasury, by the kites and vultures that now
infest the filthy den called Congress’--that is admirable, admirable! We
must have more of that sort. But it will come--no fear of that; they’re
not warmed up, yet. A week from now you’ll see.”

“Uncle, you and Brother Balaam are bosom friends--why don’t you get his
paper to persecute us, too?”

“It isn’t worth while, my daughter. His support doesn’t hurt a bill.
Nobody reads his editorials but himself. But I wish the New York papers
would talk a little plainer. It is annoying to have to wait a week for
them to warm up. I expected better things at their hands--and time is
precious, now.”

At the proper hour, according to his previous notice, Mr. Buckstone duly
introduced his bill entitled “An Act to Found and Incorporate the Knobs
Industrial University,” moved its proper reference, and sat down.

The Speaker of the House rattled off this observation:

“‘Fnobjectionbilltakuzhlcoixrssoreferred!’”

Habitues of the House comprehended that this long, lightning-heeled
