only of her. My feelings have made me almost crazy, and I hardly knew
what I was about when I applied the incendiary torch to the Maud."

"I thought it was a card of friction matches."

"The world will laugh and jeer at me for loving one above my station;
but love makes us equals."

"Perhaps it does when the love is on both sides," added the practical
boat-builder.

"But I think I am fitted to adorn a higher station than that in which I
was born."

"If so, you will rise like a stick of timber forced under the water; but
it strikes me that you have begun in the wrong way to figure for a
rise."

"But I wish to rise only for Nellie's sake. You can help me, Don John;
you can take me into her presence, where I can have the opportunity to
win her affection."

"I guess not, Laud. Shall I tell you what she said to me this
afternoon?"

"Tell me all."

"She said you were an impudent puppy, and she was sorry I invited you."

"Did she say that?" asked Laud, looking up to the cold, pale moon.

"She did; and I was obliged to tell her that I didn't invite you."

"Perhaps I have been a fool," mused the lover.

"There's no doubt of it. Nellie Patterdale dislikes, and even despises
you. I have heard her say as much, in so many words. That ought to
comfort you, and convince you that it is no use to fish any longer in
those waters."

"Possibly you are right; but it is only because she does not know me. If
she only knew me better--"

"She would dislike and despise you still more," said Donald, sharply.
"If she only knew that you set the Maud afire, she would love you as a
homeless dog likes the brickbats that are thrown at him."

"You will not tell her that, Don John?"

"I will not tell her, or any one else, if you behave yourself. Now I
want to ask some more questions."

"Go on, Don John."

"Where did you get the money you paid for the Juno?" demanded Donald,
with energy.

"Where did I get it?" repeated Laud, evidently startled by the question,
so vigorously put. "I told you where I got it."

"Tell me again."

"Captain Shivernock gave it to me."

"What for?"

"I can't tell you that."

"Why not?"

"Because it is a matter between the captain and me."

"I don't care if it is. You said you would answer all my questions, if I
would not prosecute."

"Questions about the Maud," explained Laud. "I have told you the secret
of my love--"

"Hang the secret of your love!" exclaimed Donald, disgusted with that
topic. "I meant all questions."

"But I cannot betray the secrets of Captain Shivernock. My honor--"

"Stick your honor up chimney!" interrupted Donald. "If you go back on
the agreement, I shall take the fire before Squire Peters. The question
I asked was, why Captain Shivernock gave you four or five hundred
dollars?"

"I wish I could answer you, Don John; but I do not feel at liberty to do
so just now. I will see the captain, and perhaps I may honorably give
you the information you seek."

"You needn't mince the matter with me. I know all about it now; but I
want it from you."

"All about what?" asked Laud.

"You needn't look green about it. Do you remember the Saturday when I
told you the Juno was for sale?"

