give you a list of ten or twenty influential citizens whose will would
be next to law in a matter like this who could in a month, if they put
heart and hand to it, do such a work for humanity here as would make the
angels glad. But they are too busy with their great enterprises to give
thought and effort to a work like this.”

A shadow fell across the missionary’s face. There was a tone of
discouragement in his voice.

“The great question is what to do,” said Mr. Dinneford. “There are no
problems so hard to solve as these problems of social evil. If men and
women choose to debase themselves, who is to hinder? The vicious heart
seeks a vicious life. While the heart is depraved the life will be evil.
So long as the fountain is corrupt the water will be foul.”

“There is a side to all this that most people do not consider,” answered
Mr. Paulding. “Self-hurt is one thing, hurt of the neighbor quite
another. It may be questioned whether society has a right to touch the
individual freedom of a member in anything that affects himself alone.
But the moment he begins to hurt his neighbor, whether from ill-will
or for gain, then it is the duty of society to restrain him. The common
weal demands this, to say nothing of Christian obligation. If a man were
to set up an exhibition in our city dangerous to life and limb, but
so fascinating as to attract large numbers to witness and participate
therein, and if hundreds were maimed or killed every year, do you think
any one would question the right of our authorities to repress it? And
yet to-day there are in our city more than twenty thousand persons who
live by doing things a thousand times more hurtful to the people than
any such exhibition could possibly be. And what is marvelous to think
of, the larger part of these persons are actually licensed by the State
to get gain by hurting, depraving and destroying the people. Think of
it, Mr. Dinneford! The whole question lies in a nutshell. There is
no difficulty about the problem. Restrain men from doing harm to each
other, and the work is more than half done.”

“Is not the law all the while doing this?”

“The law,” was answered, “is weakly dealing with effect--how weakly let
prison and police statistics show. Forty thousand arrests in our city
for a single year, and the cause of these arrests clearly traced to the
liquor licenses granted to five or six thousand persons to make money
by debasing and degrading the people. If all of these were engaged in
useful employments, serving, as every true citizen is bound to do, the
common good, do you think we should have so sad and sickening a record?
No, sir! We must go back to the causes of things. Nothing but radical
work will do.”

“You think, then,” said Mr. Dinneford, “that the true remedy for all
these dreadful social evils lies in restrictive legislation?”

“Restrictive only on the principles of eternal right,” answered the
missionary. “Man’s freedom over himself must not be touched. Only his
freedom to hurt his neighbor must be abridged. Here society has a right
to put bonds on its members--to say to each individual, You are free to
do anything by which your neighbor is served, but nothing to harm him.
Here is where the discrimination must be made; and when the mass of the
people come to see this, we shall have the beginning of a new day. There
will then be hope for such poor wretches as crowd this region; or if
most of them are so far lost as to be without hope, their places,
when they die, will not be filled with new recruits for the army of
perdition.”

“If the laws we now have were only executed,” said Mr. Dinneford,
“there might be hope in our legislative restrictions. But the people
are defrauded of justice through defects in its machinery. There are
combinations to defeat good laws. There are men holding high office
notoriously in league with scoundrels who prey upon the people. Through
these, justice perpetually fails.”

“The people are alone to blame,” replied the missionary. “Each is busy
with his farm and his merchandise with his own affairs, regardless
of his neighbor. The common good is nothing, so that his own good is
served. Each weakly folds his hands and is sorry when these troublesome
questions are brought to his notice, but doesn’t see that he can do
anything. Nor can the people, unless some strong and influential leaders
rally them, and, like great generals, lead them to the battle. As I said
a little while ago, there are ten or twenty men in this city who, if
they could be made to feel their high responsibility--who, if they could
be induced to look away for a brief period from their great enterprises
and concentrate thought and effort upon these questions of social
evil, abuse of justice and violations of law--would in a single month
inaugurate reforms and set agencies to work that would soon produce
marvelous changes. They need not touch the rottenness of this half-dead
carcass with knife or poultice. Only let them cut off the sources
of pollution and disease, and the purified air will do the work of
restoration where moral vitality remains, or hasten the end in those who
are debased beyond hope.”

“What could these men do? Where would their work begin?” asked Mr.
Dinneford.

“Their own intelligence would soon discover the way to do this work if
their hearts were in it. Men who can organize and successfully conduct
great financial and industrial enterprises, who know how to control
the wealth and power of the country and lead the people almost at will,
would hardly be at fault in the adjustment of a matter like this.
What would be the money influence of ‘whisky rings’ and gambling
associations, set against the social and money influence of these
men? Nothing, sir, nothing! Do you think we should long have over six
thousand bars and nearly four hundred lottery-policy shops in our city
