label says."
"What do you think, Mr. Arbuton?" asked Mrs. Ellison with unabated
anxiety.
"Well, really, I don't know," said Mr. Arbuton, who thought it a very
trivial kind of talk, "I can't say, indeed. I haven't taken any of it up
in my hand."
"That's true," said Mrs. Ellison gravely, with an accent of reproval for
the others who had not thought of so simple a solution of the problem,
"very true."
The colonel looked into her face with an air of well-feigned alarm. "You
don't think the sprain has gone to your head, Fanny?" he asked, and
walked away, leaving Mr. Arbuton to the ladies. Mrs. Ellison did not
care for this or any other gibe, if she but served her own purposes; and
now, having made everybody laugh and given the conversation a lively
turn, she was as perfectly content as if she had not been herself an
offering to the cause of cheerfulness. She was, indeed, equal to any
sacrifice in the enterprise she had undertaken, and would not only have
given Kitty all her worldly goods, but would have quite effaced herself
to further her own designs upon Mr. Arbuton. She turned again to her
guide-book, and left the young people to continue the talk in unbroken
gayety. They at once became serious, as most people do after a hearty
laugh, which, if you think, seems always to have something strange and
sad in it. But besides, Kitty was oppressed by the coldness that seemed
perpetually to hover in Mr. Arbuton's atmosphere, while she was
interested by his fastidious good looks and his blameless manners and
his air of a world different from any she had hitherto known. He was one
of those men whose perfection makes you feel guilty of misdemeanor
whenever they meet you, and whose greeting turns your honest good-day
coarse and common; even Kitty's fearless ignorance and more than Western
disregard of dignities were not proof against him. She had found it easy
to talk with Mrs. March as she did with her cousin at home: she liked to
be frank and gay in her parley, to jest and to laugh and to make
harmless fun, and to sentimentalize in a half-earnest way; she liked to
be with Mr. Arbuton, but now she did not see how she could take her
natural tone with him. She wondered at her daring lightness at the
breakfast-table; she waited for him to say something, and he said, with
a glance at the gray heaven that always overhangs the Saguenay, that it
was beginning to rain, and unfurled the slender silk umbrella which
harmonized so perfectly with the London effect of his dress, and held it
over her. Mrs. Ellison sat within the shelter of the projecting roof,
and diligently perused her book with her eyes, and listened to their
talk.
"The great drawback to this sort of thing in America," continued Mr.
Arbuton, "is that there is no human interest about the scenery, fine as
it is."
"Why, I don't know," said Kitty, "there was that little settlement round
the saw-mill. Can't you imagine any human interest in the lives of the
people there? It seems to me that one might make almost anything out of
them. Suppose, for example, that the owner of that mill was a
disappointed man who had come here to bury the wreck of his life
in--sawdust?"
"O, yes! That sort of thing; certainly. But I didn't mean that, I meant
something historical. There is no past, no atmosphere, no traditions,
you know."
"O, but the Saguenay has a tradition," said Kitty. "You know that a
party of the first explorers left their comrades at Tadoussac, and came
up the Saguenay three hundred years ago, and never were seen or heard of
again. I think it's so in keeping with the looks of the river. The
Saguenay would never tell a secret."
"Um!" uttered Mr. Arbuton, as if he were not quite sure that it was the
Saguenay's place to have a legend of this sort, and disposed to snub the
legend because the Saguenay had it. After a little silence, he began to
speak of famous rivers abroad.
"I suppose," Kitty said, "the Rhine has traditions enough, hasn't it?"
"Yes," he answered, "but I think the Rhine rather overdoes it. You can't
help feeling, you know, that it's somewhat melodramatic and--common.
Have you ever seen the Rhine?"
"O, no! This is almost the first I've seen of anything. Perhaps," she
added, demurely, yet with a tremor at finding herself about to make
light of Mr. Arbuton, "if I had had too much of tradition on the Rhine I
should want more of it on the Saguenay."
"Why, you must allow there's a golden mean in everything, Miss Ellison,"
said her companion with a lenient laugh, not feeling it disagreeable to
be made light of by her.
"Yes; and I'm afraid we're going to find Cape Trinity and Cape Eternity
altogether too big when we come to them. Don't you think eighteen
hundred feet excessively high for a feature of river scenery?"
Mr. Arbuton really did have an objection to the exaggerations of nature
on this continent, and secretly thought them in bad taste, but he had
never formulated his feeling. He was not sure but it was ridiculous, now
that it was suggested, and yet the possibility was too novel to be
entertained without suspicion.
However, when after a while the rumor of their approach to the great
objects of the Saguenay journey had spread among the passengers, and
they began to assemble at points favorable for the enjoyment of the
spectacle, he was glad to have secured the place he held with Miss
Ellison, and a sympathetic thrill of excitement passed through his loath
superiority. The rain ceased as they drew nearer, and the gray clouds
that had hung so low upon the hills sullenly lifted from them and let
their growing height he seen. The captain bade his sight-seers look at
the vast Roman profile that showed itself upon the rock, and then he
pointed out the wonderful Gothic arch, the reputed doorway of an
unexplored cavern, under which an upright shaft of stone had stood for
ages statue-like, till not many winters ago the frost heaved it from its
base, and it plunged headlong down through the ice into the unfathomed
depths below. The unvarying gloom of the pines was lit now by the
pensive glimmer of birch-trees, and this gray tone gave an indescribable
sentiment of pathos and of age to the scenery. Suddenly the boat rounded
the corner of the three steps, each five hundred feet high, in which
Cape Eternity climbs from the river, and crept in under the naked side
