his treasure again, by shrewd management, when he went to New York. But,
in spite of his grief over his loss, Harvey wrote the account of the
wreck of the Waldo for the newspaper, in the course of the next day, and
sent it off by mail.

After Leopold had done all he could to comfort the invalid,--though he
failed, as others had, to lessen the burden which weighed him down,--he
left the room, and walked down to the principal street of the village,
on which the Cliff House was located. A few rods from the hotel he came
to the smallest store in the place, in the window of which were
displayed a few silver watches and a rather meagre assortment of cheap
jewelry. On the shelves inside of the shop was a considerable variety of
wooden clocks, and, in a glass case on the counter, a quantity of
spoons, forks and dishes, some few of which were silver, while the
greater part were plated, or of block tin. Over the door was the sign
"LEOPOLD SCHLAGER, WATCH-MAKER." The proprietor of this establishment
was Leopold's uncle, his mother's only brother, which explains the
circumstance of our hero's having a foreign name.

Of course, if Leopold Schlager was a German, Mrs. Bennington was of the
same nationality, though any one meeting her about the hotel would
hardly have suspected that she was not a full-blooded American. Over
thirty years before, she had emigrated with her younger brother, when
the times were hard in Germany. Her father was dead, and her elder
brother, Leopold, was not yet out of his time, learning the trade of a
watch-maker. The younger brother went to the west, taking her with him,
and established himself on a farm. He was not very successful, and his
sister, at the age of twelve, went to live with an American family in
Chicago, the lady of which had taken a fancy to her. She was brought up
to work, though her education was not neglected. Before she was
twenty-one her brother in the west died. But by this time she was
abundantly able to take care of herself.

When the family in which she was so kindly cared for was broken up by
the death of the father, she went to work in the kitchen of a large
hotel, where she enlarged her knowledge and experience in the art of
cooking, till she was competent to take a situation as the cook of a
small public house. In this place she increased the reputation of the
establishment by her skill, till the proprietor was willing to pay her
any wages she demanded.

Peter Bennington, a native of Maine, was employed in the hotel; and he
was so well pleased with the looks of the German cook that he proposed
to her, and was accepted. Katharina Schlager spoke English then as well
as a native; and she was not only neat and skillful, but she was a
pretty and wholesome-looking woman. Peter married her, and, after a
while, bought out the hotel. But he was not successful in the venture;
and, with only a few hundred dollars in his pocket, he returned to
Rockhaven, his native place, where he soon opened the Cliff House.

Leopold was born in Chicago, and his mother had insisted upon naming him
after her brother in Germany.

Mr. Bennington had done very well in the hotel; but he was ambitious to
do business on a larger scale, and was revolving in his mind a plan to
make the Cliff House into a large establishment, which would attract
summer visitors in great numbers. He had bought the present hotel, and
paid for it from his profits; and he hoped soon to be able to rebuild it
on a larger scale.

His wife was faithful and devoted to him and the children. She had
always done the cooking for the Cliff House, which had given it an
excellent reputation. She was not only a good and true woman, but she
was an exceedingly useful one to a hotel-keeper. For years she had
tenderly thought of her absent brother in Germany. She often wrote to
him, and learned that he was doing a good business in a small city.
After years of persuasion, she induced him to join her in America. He
was met on the wharf in New York, when he landed, by Mr. Bennington and
his wife, and conducted to Rockhaven without delay. He could not speak a
word of English then; but for six months he devoted himself to the study
of it under the tuition of his sister and her children, till he was
competent to carry on his business in the town. He was a very skillful
workman, and all the watches in Rockhaven and on the island came to him
to be cleaned and repaired. Even the rich men of the place found that he
could be safely trusted with their valuable gold time-keepers, and he
became quite celebrated in his line. He sold a watch occasionally, and
had a small trade in clocks and other wares, so that he really made more
money than in his native land. He had brought with him a considerable
capital, and was enabled to stock his store without any aid from his
sister.

If Herr Schlager missed his "sauer kraut" and "bier," he enjoyed the
company of his sister and her children. Leopold was his favorite,
perhaps because he bore the watch-maker's name. They were fast friends;
and in the undertaking which Leopold was laboring to accomplish, he had
made his uncle his confidant.

When the young man entered the store, he bestowed his first glance upon
a small iron safe behind the counter, in which the watch-maker kept his
watches, silver ware, and other valuables at night. Leopold was
interested in that strong box, for the reason that it contained his own
savings. For six months he had been hoarding up every penny he earned
for a purpose, and he had placed his money in the hands of his uncle for
safe keeping. Perhaps Herr Schlager's iron safe was as much the occasion
of his confidence in his uncle as the fact of their relationship.
Leopold's present visit was made in order to dispose of the proceeds of
his morning's work, before he lost it or was tempted to spend any
portion of it.

"Ah, mine poy! you have come mit more money. I see him in your head,"
