who was wiser than I and did not trust such important 
matters to memory. It struck me, by and by, that I 
had been making a most foolish and calamitous mis- 
take, in one respect ; doubtless I had not only made 
my own destruction sure by directing attention to 
those other boys, but had already accomplished theirs ! 
Doubtless the lightning had stretched them all dead in 
their beds by this time ! The anguish and the fright 

which this thought gave me made my previous suffer- 
ings seem trifling by comparison. 

Things had become truly serious. I resolved to turn 
over a new leaf instantlv; I also resolved to connect 
myself with the church the next day, if I survived to 
see its sun appear. I resolved to cease from sin in all 
its forms, and to lead a high and blameless life forever 
after. I would be punctual at church and Sunday- 
school ; visit the sick ; carry baskets of victuals to the 
poor (simply to fulfill the regulation conditions, al- 
though I knew we had none among us so poor but 
they would smash the basket over my head for my 
pains) ; I would instruct other boys in right ways, and 
take the resulting trouncings meekly ; I would subsist 
entirely on tracts; I would invade the rum shop and 
warn the drunkard — and finally, if I escaped the fate 
of those who early become too good to live, I would 
go for a missionary. 

The storm subsided toward daybreak, and I dozed 
gradually to sleep with a sense of obligation to Lem 
Hackett for going to eternal suffering in that abrupt 
way, and thus preventing a far more dreadful disaster 
— my own loss. 

But when I rose refreshed, by and by, and found 
that those other boys were still alive, I had a dim sense 
that perhaps the whole thing was a false alarm ; that 
the entire turmoil had been on Lem's account and no- 
body's else. The world looked so bright and safe that 
there did not seem to be any real occasion to turn over 
a new leaf. I was a little subdued during that day, 
and perhaps the next; after that, my purpose of 
reforming slowly dropped out of my mind, and I had 
a peaceful, comfortable time again, until the next 
storm. 

That storm came about three weeks later; and it 
was the most unaccountable one, to me, that I had 


ever experienced; for on the afternoon of that day, 
“Dutchy” was drowned. Dutchy belonged to our 
Sunday-school. He was a German lad who did not 
know enough to come in out of the rain; but he was 
exasperatingly good, and had a prodigious memory. 
One Sunday he made himself the envy of all the youth 
and the talk of all the admiring village, by reciting 
three thousand verses of Scripture without missing a 
word : then he went off the very next day and got 
drowned. 

Circumstances gave to his death a peculiar impres- 
siveness. We were all bathing in a muddy creek which 
had a deep hole in it, and in this hole the coopers had 
sunk a pile of green hickory hoop-poles to soak, some 
twelve feet under water. We were diving and “ seeing 
who could stay under longest.’ ’ We managed to re- 
main down by holding on to the hoop-poles. Dutchy 
made such a poor success of it that he was hailed with 
laughter and derision every time his head appeared 
above water. At last he seemed hurt with the taunts, 
and begged us to stand still on the bank and be fair 
with him and give him an honest count — “ be friendly 
and kind just this once, and not miscount for the sake 
of having the fun of laughing at him .' 9 Treacherous 
winks were exchanged, and all said, “ All right, 
Dutchy — go ahead, we’ll play fair.” 

Dutchy plunged in, but the boys, instead of begin- 
ning to count, followed the lead of one of their number 
and scampered to a range of blackberry bushes close 
by and hid behind it. They imagined Dutchy’ s 
humiliation, when he should rise after a superhuman 
effort and find the place silent and vacant, nobody 
there to applaud. They were “ so full of laugh” with 
the idea that they were continually exploding into 
muffled cackles. Time swept on, and presently one 
who was peeping through the briers said, with surprise: 


"Why, he hasn't come up yet !’  

The laughing stopped. 

"Boys, it’s a splendid dive," said one. 

"Never mind that," said another, " the joke on him 
is all the better for it." 

