"He'll be offended if I don't print it, won't he?"

"I'll tell you how to get over that.  Say, in an editorial paragraph,
'We have received a thoughtful essay from 'L. S.', on 'The
Immortality of the Soul.' We regret that its length precludes our
publishing it in the 'Gazette.'  We would suggest to the author to
print it in a pamphlet.'  That suggestion will be regarded as
complimentary, and we may get the job of printing it."

"I see you are shrewd, Ferguson.  I will follow your advice."




CHAPTER XXXIII.

AN UNEXPECTED PROPOSAL.

During his temporary editorship, Harry did not feel at liberty to
make any decided changes in the character or arrangement of the
paper; but he was ambitious to improve it, as far as he was able, in
its different departments.  Mr. Anderson had become rather indolent
in the collection of local news, merely publishing such items as were
voluntarily contributed.  Harry, after his day's work was over, made
a little tour of the village, gathering any news that he thought
would be of interest to the public.  Moreover he made arrangements to
obtain news of a similar nature from neighboring villages, and the
result was, that in the course of a month he made the "Gazette" much
more readable.

"Really, the 'Gazette' gives a good deal more news than it used to,"
was a common remark.

It was probably in consequence of this improvement that new
subscriptions began to come in, not from Centreville alone, but from
towns in the neighborhood.  This gratified and encouraged Harry, who
now felt that he was on the right tack.

There was another department to which he devoted considerable
attention.  This was a condensed summary of news from all parts of
the world, giving the preference and the largest space, of course, to
American news.  He aimed to supply those who did not take a daily
paper with a brief record of events, such as they would not be
likely, otherwise, to hear of.  Of course all this work added to his
labors as compositor; and his occasional sketches for Boston papers
absorbed a large share of his time.  Indeed, he had very little left
at his disposal for rest and recreation.

"I am afraid you are working too hard, Harry," said Ferguson.  "You
are doing Mr. Anderson's work better than he ever did it, and your
own too."

"I enjoy it," said Harry.  "I work hard I know, but I feel paid by
the satisfaction of finding that my labors are appreciated."

"When Mr. Anderson gets back, he will find it necessary to employ you
as assistant editor, for it won't do to let the paper get back to its
former dulness."

"I will accept," said Harry, "if he makes the offer.  I feel more and
more that I must be an editor."

"You are certainly showing yourself competent for the position."

"I have only made a beginning," said our hero, modestly.  "In time I
think I could make a satisfactory paper."

One day, about two months after Mr. Anderson's departure, Ferguson
and Harry were surprised, and not altogether agreeably, by the
entrance of John Clapp and Luke Harrison.  They looked far from
prosperous.  In fact, both of them were decidedly seedy.  Going West
had not effected an improvement in their fortunes.

"Is that you, Clapp?" asked Ferguson.  "Where did you come from?"

"From St. Louis."

"Then you didn't feel inclined to stay there?"

"Not I.  It's a beastly place.  I came near starving."

Clapp would have found any place beastly where a fair day's work was
required for fair wages, and my young readers in St. Louis,
therefore, need not heed his disparaging remarks.

"How was it with you, Luke?" asked Harry.  "Do you like the West no
better than Clapp?"

"You don't catch me out there again," said Luke.  "It isn't what it's
cracked up to be.  We had the hardest work in getting money enough to
get us back."

As Luke did not mention the kind of hard work by which the money was
obtained, I may state here that an evening's luck at the faro table
had supplied them with money enough to pay the fare to Boston by
railway; otherwise another year might have found them still in St.
Louis.

"Hard work doesn't suit your constitution, does it?" said Ferguson,
slyly.
