certain prettiness, were lacking now. Still, Charlie thought it a
godsend to have so many clothes all at once, having fallen heir to
Flossy's discarded heritage.

"Granny!" exclaimed Hal, rushing in breathless one afternoon, "Mr.
Kinsey says he will take all my chickens to market! Isn't that
splendid? He is going on Friday, and again next Tuesday; and he showed
me how to make a crate to pack them in. Now is the very time, he says."

"But we'll have to kill 'em, Hal!" exclaimed Granny aghast.

"To be sure: that's the hard part of it, isn't it;" and Hal looked
sober.

"They seem a'most like human beings. They patter round after Dot, and
talk to her in their queer fashion, and eat out of her hand. But, then,
we couldn't keep them all through the winter."

"We shall save the pets. There are some that I could not spare. But you
must not grow chicken-hearted, Granny;" and he laughed softly at her.

"Deary me! Somehow I can't bear to part with any thing any more. What a
foolish old cretur!"

"The dearest old creature in the world!" and Hal kissed her. "I wouldn't
have you changed a mite, except, that, when you were almost a hundred,
I'd like to set you back so that we could keep you always."

"I sha'n't be worth it, Hal;" and she shook her head.

"I shall have to stay home from school on Tuesday. I am quite anxious
to know what our fortune will be, and whether it has paid."

For Hal had gone back to school, as there seemed no business opening
for him. Mr. Terry had raised Joe's wages; and, one way and another,
they managed to get along quite comfortably. Hal tried to make up for
the absence of Florence, and comforted Granny in many tender, girlish
ways. He would pull her cap straight, and find her glasses and her
thimble, two things that were forever going astray. Then he borrowed
books from one and another to read aloud evenings; and, though Granny
sat in the chimney-corner and nodded, she always declared that it was
the loveliest thing in the world, and that she didn't believe but Hal
would write a book some day himself, he was so powerful fond of them.

To Charlie and Kit this was a great enjoyment. Indeed, it seemed as
if in most things they listened more readily than they ever had to
Florence. Dear, sweet-souled Hal! Your uses and duties in the world
were manifold. And yet it tries our faith to see such fine gold dropped
into the crucible. Is it those whom the Lord loveth?

They had a great time on Thursday. Joe was up early in the morning, as
he thought there was some fun in making an onslaught upon the army of
chickens; so when Hal and Granny stepped over the threshold, they saw a
great pile of decapitated fowls.

"Why, Hal, you'll make a mint of money!" exclaimed Joe. "I suppose you
mean to put it in government bonds."

Hal only laughed.

But he and Granny were busy as bees all day. About four o'clock Mr.
Kinsey came over to see how the packing progressed.

"There are just two dozen," said Hal; "and I shall have two dozen again
next week."

"They're beauties too! Why, I believe they go ahead of mine. You've
plucked them nicely. Poultry's pretty high this year; retailing at
twenty-five and twenty-eight, I heard."

They weighed them, and then laid them snugly in the crate; plump and
yellow, looking almost good enough to eat without a pinch of salt, Mr.
Kinsey said.

"Now I shall send them all over to the station, and they'll go through
in the freight-train. Jim will soon be here with the wagon."

Joe and Hal counted up the possible profit that evening. They had
raised, with all their broods, sixty-five chickens. The actual outlay
for food had been seventeen dollars; and Hal had sold eggs to the value
of two dollars and a half.

"It's better than keeping store, I do believe!" ejaculated Joe. "Hal,
you have a genius for farming."

"Does raising chickens prove it?"

"If a hundred of corn-meal costs two fifty, what will the biggest
chanticleer in the lot come to? There's a question for you, Granny."

"Why, it would depend on--how much he weighed," said Granny cautiously.

"Oh, no! it would depend on how you cooked him. In my kitchen he'd come
to pot-pie, according to the double rule of a good hot fire."

"You won't sell 'em all, Hal?" said Charlie anxiously.

"No: we will have a little Thanksgiving for ourselves."

Granny sighed. They all knew of whom she was thinking,--a sweet,
