Florida seconding his arguments with gentle good 
sense. 

It seemed a long time till the commissary came, 
but his coming instantly simplified the situation. 
Perhaps because he had never been able to befriend 
a consul in trouble before, he befriended Ferris to 
the utmost. He had met him with rather a brow 
beating air ; but after a glance at his card, he gave 
a kind of roar of deprecation and apology. He had 
the ladies and Don Ippolito in out of the gondola, 
and led them to an upper chamber, where he made 
them all repose their honored persons upon his sofas. 
He ordered up his housekeeper to make them coffee, 
which he served with his own hands, excusing its 
hurried feebleness, and he stood by, rubbing his 
palms together and smiling, while they refreshed 
themselves. 

" They need never tell me again that the Aus- 
trians are tyrants," said Mrs. Vervain in undertone 
to the consul. 

It was not easy for Ferris to remind his host of 



 

the malefactors ; but he brought himself to this un 
graciousness. The commissary begged pardon, and 
asked him to accompany him below, where he con 
fronted the accused and the accusers. The tragedy 
was acted over again with blood-curdling effective 
ness by the Chiozzotti ; the gondoliers maintaining 
the calm of conscious innocence. 

Ferris felt outraged by the trumped-up charge 
against them. 

" Listen, you others the prisoners," said the com 
missary. " Your padrone is anxious to return to 
Venice, and I wish to inflict no further displeasures 
upon him. Restore their rope to these honest men, 
and go about your business." 

The injured gondoliers spoke in low tones to 
gether ; then one of them shrugged his shoulders 
and went out. He came back in a moment and 
laid a rope before the commissary. 

" Is that the rope ? " he asked. " We found it 
floating down the canal, and picked it up that we 
might give it to the rightful owner. But now I 
wish to heaven we had let it sink to the bottom of 
the sea." 

" Oh, a beautiful story ! " wailed the Chiozzoti. 
They flung themselves upon the rope, and lugged 
it off to their boat ; and the gondoliers went out, 
too. 

The commissary turned to Ferris with an amiable
smile. u I am sorry that those rogues should 
escape," said the American. 


" Oh," said the Italian, " they are poor fellows ; 
it is a little matter ; I am glad to have served 
you." 

He took leave of his involuntary guests with 
effusion, following them with a lantern to the gon 
dola. 

Mrs. Vervain, to whom Ferris gave an account 
of this trial as they set out again on their long-hind 
ered return, had no mind save for the magical effect 
of his consular quality upon the commissary, and 
accused him of a vain and culpable modesty. 

" Ah," said the diplomatist, " there's nothing 
like knowing just wJien to produce your dignity. 
There are some officials who know too little, 
like those guards ; and there are some who know 
too much, like the commissary's superiors. But 
he is just in that golden mean of ignorance where 
he supposes a con.nl is a person of importance/ 

Mrs. Vervain deputed this, and Ferris submitted 
in silence. Presently, as they skirted the shore to 
get their bearings for the route across the lagoon, a 
fierce voice in Venetian shouted from the darkness, 
"Indrio, wdrio!" (Back, back!) and a gleam of 
the moon through the pale, watery clouds revealed 
the figure of a gendarme on the nearest point of 
land. The gondoliers bent to their oars, and sent 
the boat swiftly out into the lagoon. 

" There, for example, is a person who would be 
