" No, no;' I rejoined firmly. "You must 
not go." 
"What then? 
" Return to Stephen directly. Redeem the past 
with a brave, true, upright manhood. You can 
do it. I do not believe you will ever be tempted 
in that way again." 
" You are right there. If you could know 
how I have governed myself during the past 
two months. I feel as if half my temper was 
gone, --since that awful night. But to go back 
to humble myself to him v 
" Have you not hurt his pride cruelly ? ' I 
said. 
Louis was silent. 
" Oh, please do go for my sake," I entreated. 
Let papa ' 
" No," hoarsely. " I couldn't talk to any one 
but you. I was wild to see you. I wanted to 
know what you thought- -if I was past redemp- 
tion" 
''No, you are not. You do not understand 
how some of these very faults may be transformed 
into virtues. Is it not braver to struggle than 
to give up like a coward in despair." 
' I never was cowardly." 
Prove your bravery by going to Stephen. 
Start anew. God will give you strength and 
grace. I know you can succeed." 
He glanced at me long and earnestly. There 
was a strange wistfulness in his face that 
touched me. 
" Promise ! ' I took his cold hand in mine. 
" No, I cannot- quite. I must think of it. 
And I must go, also, I have kept you too long 
in the cold. v 
"But where are }~ou going?' 
" I shall take the train at seven ; ' evasively. 
I pleaded again, warmly, earnestly. I fancied 
that I saw tears in his eyes, but he would 
not promise me positively. 
We said a lingering good-bye in the starlight. 
I felt assured that he must come to a better 
sense of the matter. 
Then I hurried home. They were through 
supper. Papa was putting on his overcoat. 
'I was just coming for you. Why how 
excited you look ! Is Mrs. Aitken worse ? " 
" No, I have been walking rapidly. 
" Let me pour your tea ; ' began Nelly. " I 
was head of the table, and felt quite grand." 
I tried to be composed. I had promised not 
to say a word about the meeting, but it seemed 
strange to have such an important secret in my 
keeping. 
Before I went to bed that night I wrote to 
Stephen. I never could remember what I said, 
for I sealed the letter without reading it over, 
and sent it when Nelly w r ent to school. But I 
begged him to be patient and merciful to Louis. 
Nothing else of importance happened in my 
week of house-keeping. Thursday evening we 
received a letter from Fan that was sketchy and 
funny and incoherent. I felt that she must 
really be in love. How strangely the links of 
life join, I said to myself. 
We were glad enough to get them home on 
Saturday afternoon. Edith had a slight cold, 
but Fan was bright and rosy and glowing in 
her descriptions. She had never had such fun 
in her life. They had bought carpets, furniture, 
pictures, ornaments ; the Duncan family silver 
was wonderful to behold, and the house delight- 
ful, just old fashioned enough not to be grand. 
Mrs. Whitcomb was installed house-keeper and 
was as much in love with Stephen as every- 
body else. We were all to make visits as often 
as we could, and during vacation he meant to 
have the whole family. 
He sent papa a set of new books which were 
just what he had been wishing for. 
"Oh," exclaimed Xelly, "it will be splendid 
to go to New York like everybody else. Chil- 
dren, we must begin to save our money." 
"Are there any tidings of Louis?' I asked 
with my heart in my throat. 
"Xo. Mr. Duncan intends to begin a search 
himself next week. He is resolved to find him." 
After supper papa came round to Fanny and 
played with her golden hair and watched her as 
she talked. How much he loved her ! Did he 
feel that there might be a rival ere long, a 
break in the chain of girls ? Yet she seemed so 
gladly, so unconsciously happy. 
It was the children's bed time at last. They 
kissed round and round as if they were never to 
see anybody again. I had to hurry them finally, 
their good night was so lingering. 
" Fanny," papa said, " will you come in my 
study a few moments." 
