              Caught in the branches
    That sweetly droop across a creek far down the coast,
              That calm spectator,
              The alligator,
    Doth spy, then wait to call his mate, who rules the roast.

              “She comes and craunches
              Maria Sanchez,
    While boat and crabs the gentle husband meekly chews.
              How could they eat her,
              That señorita,
    Whose story still doth make quite ill the Spanish Muse?”

We heaped praises upon John’s pure Castilian ode--all save the
Professor, who undertook to criticise a little. “I have made something
of a study of poetry,” he began, “and I have noticed that much depends
upon the selection of choice terms. For instance, in the first verse you
make use of the local word ‘dug-out.’ Now in my opinion, ‘craft’ or
‘canoe’ would be better. You begin, if I remember correctly, in this
way:

    “‘Maria Sanchez
      Launches her dug-out--’”

“Oh no, Professor,” said Sara; “this is it:

    “‘Maria Sanchez
      Her dug-out launches.’”

“The same idea, I opine, Miss St. John,” said the Professor, loftily.

“But the rhymes, Sir?”

The Professor had not noticed the rhymes; poetry should be above rhymes
altogether, in his opinion.

The pleasant days passed, we sailed up and down the Matanzas, walked on
the sea-wall, and sat in the little overhanging balcony, which, like all
others in St. Augustine, was hung up on the side of the house like a
cupboard without any support from below. Letters from home meanwhile
brought tidings of snow and ice and storm, disasters by land and by sea.
A lady friend, a new arrival, had visited the Ancient City forty years
before, in the days of the ancien régime. “It is much changed,” she
said. “These modern houses springing up every where have altered the
whole aspect of the town. I am glad I came back while there is still
something left of the old time. Another five years and the last old wall
will be torn down for a horrible paling fence. Forty years ago the town
was largely Spanish or Moorish in its architecture. The houses were all
built of coquina, with a blank wall toward the north, galleries running
around a court-yard behind, where were flowers, vines, and a central
fountain. The halls, with their stone arches, opened out into this
greenery without doors of any kind, tropical fashion. Those were the
proud days of St. Augustine; the old families reigned with undisputed
sway; the slaves were well treated, hospitality was boundless, and the
intermixture of Spanish and Italian blood showed itself in the dark eyes
that glanced over the balconies as the stranger passed below. It has all
vanished now. The war effaced the last fading hue of the traditional
grandeur, and broke down the barriers between the haughty little city
and the outside world. The old houses have been modernized, and many of
them have given place to new and, to my ideas, thoroughly commonplace
dwellings. There is one left, however, the very mansion where I was so
charmingly entertained forty years ago; its open arches remain just as
they were, and the old wall still surrounds the garden. Up stairs is the
large parlor where we had our gay little parties, with wines, and those
delicious curled-up cakes, all stamped with figures, thin as a wafer,
crisp and brittle, which seemed to be peculiar to St. Augustine.”

“Did you know there was a native artist here?” said John, calling up one
morning as he sat on the balcony, Sara and myself endeavoring to write
duty letters.

“Painter or sculptor?” I inquired, pen in hand, pausing over an
elaborate description of a sunset with which I was favoring a
soul-to-soul correspondent. “Let me see: standing on the glacis with the
look-out tower outlined against--”

“Sculptor,” answered John. “His studio is on Charlotte Street not far
from here. Let us walk down and see him.”

“Look-out tower outlined against the golden after-glow. Is it worth
going to see?”

“Indeed it is. There is a fine design--a lion carved in stone, and also
a full-length figure of Henry Clay walking in the gardens of Ashland;
and what is more, these statues are on top of the house outlined
against--”

“The golden after-glow,” I suggested.

“Certainly,” said John. “And inside you will find rare antique vases,
Egyptian crocodiles, Grecian caskets, and other remarkable works, all
executed in stone.”

“I have long craved an alligator, but could not undertake the cigar-box
discipline,” I answered, rising. “A crocodile carved in stone will be
just the thing. Come, Sara.”

We walked down Charlotte Street, and presently came to a small house
with a low wing, whose open shutter showed the studio within. On the
roof were two figures in coquina, one a nondescript animal like the
