receive guests; and every improvement and every additional touch of
brightness to the rooms seems to please them as much as if they were
going to be married themselves.

Miss Dorcas said to me that our coming to live in their neighborhood
had been the greatest blessing to them that ever had happened for
years--that it had opened a new life to them.

As to Maggie, dear Mother, she is becoming a real comfort to me. I do
think that all the poor girl's sorrows and sufferings have not been in
vain, and that she is now a true and humble Christian.

She has been very useful in this sudden hurry of work that has
fallen upon us, and seems really delighted to be so. In our group of
families, Maggie will always find friends. Angie wants her to come and
live with them when they begin housekeeping, and I think I shall let
her go.

I shall never forget the dreadful things I saw the night I went after
her. They have sunk deep into my heart; and I hope, Mother, I see more
clearly the deepest and noblest purpose of life, so as never again to
forget it.

But, meantime, a thousand little cares break and fritter themselves
on my heart, like waves on a rock. Everybody is running to me, every
hour. I am consulter and sympathizer and adviser, from the shape of a
bow and the positions of trimming up to the profoundest questions of
casuistry. They all talk to me, and I divide my heart among them all,
and so the days fly by with frightful rapidity, and I fear I shall get
little time to write, so pray come and see for yourself

     Your loving

          Eva.




CHAPTER LI.

THE HOUR AND THE WOMAN.


It is said that Queen Elizabeth could converse in five languages, and
dictate to three secretaries at once, in different tongues, with the
greatest ease and composure.

Perhaps it might have been so--let us not quarrel with her laurels; it
only shows what women can do if they set about it, and is not a whit
more remarkable than Aunt Maria's triumphant management of all the
details of two weddings at one time.

That estimable individual has not, we fear, always appeared to
advantage in this history, and it is due to her now to say that nobody
that saw her proceedings could help feeling the beauty of the right
person in the right place.

Many a person is held to be a pest and a nuisance because there isn't
enough to be done to use up his capabilities. Aunt Maria had a passion
for superintending and directing, and all that was wanting to bring
things right was an occasion when a great deal of superintendence and
direction was wanting.

The double wedding in the family just fulfilled all the conditions. It
opened a field to her that everybody was more than thankful to have
her occupy.

Lovers, we all know, are, ex-officio, ranked among the incapables;
and if, while they were mooning round in the fairy-land of sentiment,
some good, strong, active, practical head were not at work upon the
details of real life, nothing would be on time at the wedding. Now,
if this be true of one wedding, how much more of two! So Aunt Maria
stepped at once into command by acclamation and addressed herself to
her work as a strong man to run a race; and while Angie and St. John
spent blissful hours in the back parlor, and Jim and Alice monopolized
the library, Aunt Maria flew all over New York, and arranged about
all the towels and table-cloths and napkins and doilies, down to the
very dish-cloths. She overlooked armies of sewing women, milliners and
mantua-makers--the most slippery of all mortal creatures--and drove
them all up to have each her quota in time. She, with Mrs. Van Arsdel,
made lists of people to be invited, and busied herself with getting
samples and terms from fancy stationers for the wedding cards. She
planned in advance all the details of the wedding feast, and engaged
the cake and fruit and ice-cream.

Nor did she forget the social and society exigencies of the crisis.

She found time, dressed in her best, to take Mrs. Van Arsdel in full
panoply to return the call of Mrs. Dr. Gracey, who had come, promptly
and properly, with the doctor, to recognize Miss Angelique and
felicitate about the engagement of their nephew.

She arranged for a dinner-party to be given by Mrs. Van Arsdel, where
the doctor and his lady were to be received into family alliance, and
testimonies of high consideration accorded to them. Aunt Maria took
occasion, in private converse with Mrs. Dr. Gracey, to assure her of
her very great esteem and respect for Mr. St. John, and her perfect
conviction that he was on the right road now, and that, though he
might possibly burn a few more candles in his chapel, yet, when he
came fully under family influences, they would gradually be snuffed
