oven.


NEAPOLITAN CAKE. + (Yellow, pink, white and brown.)

Yellow.

2 cups powdered sugar.

1 cup butter stirred to light cream with sugar.

5 eggs—beaten well, yolks and whites separately.

½ cupful sweet milk.

3 cups prepared flour.

A little nutmeg.

Pink and White.

1 pound sugar—powdered.

1 pound prepared flour.

½ pound butter creamed with sugar.

10 eggs—the whites only—whisked stiff.

Divide this batter into two equal portions. Leave one white, and color
the other with a very little prepared cochineal. Use it cautiously, as
a few drops too much will ruin the color.

Brown.

3 eggs beaten light.

1 cup powdered sugar.

¼ cup of butter creamed with sugar.

2 table-spoonfuls cream.

1 heaping cup prepared flour.

2 table-spoonfuls vanilla chocolate grated and rubbed smooth in the
cream, before it is beaten into the cake.

Bake all in jelly-cake tins. The above quantity should make one dozen
cakes—three of each color. Of course, half as much will suffice for an
ordinary family baking. But it is convenient to prepare it wholesale in
this manner for a large supper, for a charity bazaar entertainment, or
a church “sociable.”

Filling.

1st. 2 cups sweet milk.

2 table-spoonfuls corn-starch, wet with milk.

2 eggs.

2 small cups powdered sugar.

Heat the milk, stir in the sugar and corn-starch; boil five minutes and
put in the eggs. Stir steadily until quite thick. Divide this custard
into two parts. Stir into one 2 table-spoonfuls of chocolate (grated)
and a teaspoonful of vanilla; into the other bitter almond.

2d. Whites of three eggs, whisked stiff.

1 cup of powdered sugar—heaping.

Juice, and half the grated peel of 1 lemon.

Whip up well. Lay the brown cake as the foundation of the pile; spread
with the yellow custard. Put the pink, coated with chocolate, next, and
the white frosting between the third and fourth cakes—i.e. the white
and yellow. You can vary the order as your fancy dictates. Cover the
top with powdered sugar, or ice it.

This cake looks very handsome cut into slices and mixed with plain, in
baskets or salvers. You can hardly do better than to undertake it, if
you have promised a liberal contribution to any of the objects above
named.


ORLEANS CAKE.

1 liberal pound best flour, dried and sifted.

1 pound powdered sugar.

¾ pound butter, rubbed to a cream with the sugar.

6 eggs beaten light, and the yolks strained.

1 cup cream.

1 glass best brandy.
