held the wasted little hand in his. At length he 
took a small bottle from his pocket, and looked 
around for a spoon ; it was a pure and delicate cor- 
dial which he had often given to the sick child to 
sustain its waning strength. 



 

" Oh, if you please, sir, indeed, I don't feel sure 
that it does Harry any good. Thank you for offer- 
ing it so free but but, if you 'd just as lieve 
 I 'd rather not, sir, if you please, sir." 

The parson looked up in astonishment; the costly 
cordial had robbed him of many a fire. 

" Why don't you tell the minister the truth ? " called 
out a voice from the inner room, the harsh voice of 
the husband. " Why don't you say right out that 
Brother Saul was here last night, and prayed over 
the child, and give it some of his own medicine, and 
telled you not to touch the parson's stuff? He said 
it was pizen, he did." 

The parson rose, cut to the heart. He had shared 
his few dimes with this woman, and had hoped much 
from her on account of her early church-training. On 
Sunday she had been one of the few who came to the 
chapel, and when, during the summer, she was smitten 
with fever, he had read over her the prayers from " The 
Visitation of the Sick " ; he had baptized this child 
now fading away, and had loved the little fellow ten- 
derly, taking pleasure in fashioning toys for his baby 
hands, and saving for him the few cakes of Mrs. 
Malone's table. 

"I didn't mean to have Saul, I didn't indeed, 
sir," said the mother, putting her apron to her eyes. 
" But Harry he was so bad last night, and the neigh- 
bors sort o' persuaded me into it. Brother Saul does 




pray so powerful strong, sir, that it seems as though it 
must do some good some way ; and he 's a very com- 
fortable talker too, there's no denying that. Still, I 
didn't mean it, sir ; and I hope you 'll forgive me." 

"There is nothing to forgive," replied the parson, 
gently ; and, leaving his accustomed coin on the table, 
he went away. 

Wandering at random through the pine forest, una- 
ble to overcome the dull depression at his heart, he 
came suddenly upon a large bull-dog ; the creature, one 
of the ugliest of its kind, eyed him quietly, with a slow 
wrinkling of the sullen upper lip. 

The parson visibly trembled. 

" Traid, are ye ? " called out a voice, and the athlete 
of the breakfast-table showed himself. 

" Call off your dog, please, Mr. Long." 

" He ain't doin' nothin', parson. But you 're at lib- 
erty to kick him, if you like," said the man, laughing 
as the dog snuffed stealthily around the parson's gai- 
ters. The parson shifted his position; the dog fol- 
lowed. He stepped aside ; so did the dog. He turned 
and walked away with a determined effort at self-con- 
trol ; the dog went closely behind, brushing his ankles 
with his ugly muzzle. He hurried ; so did the dog. 
At last, overcome with the nervous physical timidity 
which belonged to his constitution, he broke into a 
run, and fled as if for life, hearing the dog close behind 
and gaining with every step. The jeering laugh of the 



 

athlete followed him through the pine-tree aisles, but 
he heeded it not, and when at last he spied a log-house 
on one side he took refuge within like a hunted hare, 
breathless and trembling. An old woman smoking a 
pipe was its only occupant. " What 's the matter?" 
she said. "O, the dog?" And, taking a stick of 
wood, she drove the animal from the door, and sent 
him fleeing back to his master. The parson sat down 
by the hearth to recover his composure. 

" Why, you 're most frightened to death, ain't yer ? " 
said the old woman, as she brushed against him to 
make up the fire. " You 're all of a tremble. I would 
n't stray so far from home if I was you, child." 

