been for her once was dead. That knowledge struck 
to her heart with a chill. 

" For I need a friend sadly. " 

There had been one daring thrill of hope when she 
first heard his story, but now it slipped away like a 
pale ghost. She said to herself that she had loved him 
with deeper faithfulness than he had loved her. 






CHAPTER XV. 



MOVING IN THE DARK. 




jOR I need a friend sadly," Ralph Tremaine re- 
peated slowly. 

If Edith Lester had loved him as well in 
that old time as Edith Merrivour did now, poverty 
would hardly have frightened her from his side. Yet 
there was something besides love. She was able to 
endow a man royally, and she would not be compelled 
to share any privation for love's sake. 

"Yes. Oh, Ralph!" 

There was a world of tender pity in her tones for the 
man who was suffering. 

'.' I cannot imagine how you heard. It surprised me 
so much — unless it was — Jasper Cameron." 

There was a sound of faintness and wandering in 
his tone. 

"It was Jasper Cameron, her husband." 

Edith Merrivour said this very clearly. She had 
much tenderness for him, but only the barest justice 
for the woman. 

" No," and his face flushed with sudden warmth. 
"He is not her husband ! A man who could desert, 
who could willfully deceive — " 



" I think you are hasty, Ralph. I do not know that 
I admire the man in any special degree. We met him 
abroad before Mr. Merrivour's death, and, afterward, 
were indebted to him for some polite attentions, and, to 
my surprise, we saw him at the table when we went to 
dinner on Saturday. I cannot tell you just how it came 
about — he and mamma were discussing relatives and 
old friends, when j r our name was mentioned. He be- 
traj^ed a very peculiar agitation, and, presently, told the 
strange circumstance. I think he loves her very deeply 
and feels most generously towards her." 

" Oh, Edith, you do not know ! I love her too ! She 
was mine, mine ! and I cannot half believe this horri- 
ble story true." 

"Has she — Mrs. Tremaine, or Mrs. Cameron, more 
correctly, denied it? " 

Tremaine buried his face in his hands. " Edith," 
he replied in a husky, half-strangled voice, " I suppose 
it is legally true. But she could not have loved him. 
And then to think of the months of tenderness, of trust, 
of a right more divine, than any mere law can give ! If 
I could see Mm ! For in my first brief interview I was 
too much stunned to question. Is he here?" 

" I will ring and inquire. Shall I invite him to this 
room?" 

" If you will." 

A servant was despatched for Mr. Cameron. He 
soon made his appearance, bringing word that Mr. 



Cameron had gone away in the morning. He might be 
back in a week, but he was not certain. He had given 
up his room, but left part of his baggage. 

"Where did he say his letters were to be sent?" 
asked Mr. Tremaine. 
