due or praise, or gaining herself by that other's dispar 
agement. And, somehow, she felt tender and pitiful to 
tho woman in her grave, knowing now how she had 
missed establishing herself in her husband's heart; ever 
plucking fruit that turned to ashes, and hewing out broken 
cisterns, when the bread and wine of love's own sacrament 
was within her reach. 
" You are right," he said humbly. 
A week afterward he went to the city, and returned 
with one of his old preceptors, now an eminent and expe 
rienced physician. If he had ever such a lingering hope 
of a mistake in his own diagnosis, it was dispelled. 
There was an exceeding faint chance of tha child's out 
growing it, with a trifling lameness. There was a later 
operation, when he had more strength and maturity ; but 
the disease would also have gained greater headway. 
There was the present operation with all its risk. 
" The most important thing will be the care afterward. 
I should advise his being sent to a hospital, like St. 
Luke's for instance. Then he would have experienced 
nursing," said Dr. Francis. 
This opinion was imparted to Nelly. 
" Could you not be as watchful of the case as the best 
nurse there? " she asked of her husband. 
" Of course. But there are a hundred and one little 
things ; and it will be a very heavy tax on you." 
" If I were the child's own mother, I hardly know how 
I should decide ; but I think then, I should keep him, 
and try my best. As the case stands, I ask you as a 
favor not to send him away. He will be nearer to us 
both, if we go with him every step of the sad way. If 
you have confidence in me ' ' 
" I would trust my own life in your hands," was his 
vehement answer. " Confidence ! " 
" Then let us keep him. I should be sorry to have the 
world, or Aunt Adelaide," and she smiled with tears in 
her eyes, "think that I was glad to escape the solemn 
duties I took upon myself. And, if any thing should go 
wrong, we will not look back upon our decision regret 
fully." 
" How generous you are, Nelly!" and he studied her 
in amaze. "Honestly, I would rather keep him under 
my own eye ; but it is a great deal to ask of one young 
as you are. It may be a year or two ; and here is your 
own life ' ' 
i-'Xarn young enough surely to give away a little of it. 
Shall I not have you and your love to comfort and sus 
tain? " 
" God bless j-ou, my darling ! " 
There was coming into his soul a solemn reverence for 
womanhood. True, he had seen it under many phases ; 
but it is one thing to look at a flower in your neighbor's 
garden, without knowing all the particulars of soil and 
culture, and quite another to have it under your very eye, 
growing thriftily through shine and shade, dispensing 
fragrance and beauty da} r by day in the most bounteous 
manner. Nothing under his hand had ever so bloomed be 
fore. He had believed that nearness dispelled the charm ; 
that daily using brushed off the pink of peach, and purple 
of grape ; that household virtues throve oftener in books 
than in daily life. Nelly's strength and sweetness touched 
him with a dim amaze ; and he hardly dared place full 
faith in it, lest it should vanish. 
For herself, she had become quite strongly attached to 
Bertie. She could see how much his training had injured 
him. With a sort of moral cowardice he united great 
persistencj" ; so that, when he had once told what was not 
true, he was very apt to keep to the story, and impress it 
upon his hearers. His sense of injustice was very keen ; 
and the s} r stem of depriving him of every possible pleasure, 
of being always on the lookout for faults and naughti 
ness, of showing that he never, for a moment, was 
trusted, had worked much evil in the child's nature. 
There was another point in which Aunt Adelaide did con 
stant battle. Bertie had a vein of humor and drollery that 
his aunt could not understand. She never made jokes, 
and never saw the point of them ; and repartee, she con 
sidered, for the most part, ill bred. All this she called 
impertinence, and punished it severely ; until the child, 
between ignorance and fear, had come to have a sort of 
half-stupid hesitation. 
It was such a strange, new thing for him to be caressed, 
that at first he took it with a wondering, half-funny 
complacency. Miss Grove thought all such matters 
simply foolish, and declared that she always mistrusted 
people who were eager to make such a parade, besides the 
fact of its being under-bred. Her idea of manliness 
seemed to be stoicism. Unemotional herself, and living 
according to a code of formal rules that she had gathered 
from her very small world, she fancied, like many narrow- 
minded people, that it was adapted to age and infancy 
alike, to any kind of circumstances and position. Maud 
had never troubled her by any excess of feeling ; but she 
had been fighting the tendency in Bertie ever since his 
birth. It was her pride that the children had never been 
ill, and that they knew more than any children of their 
age. So that they behaved properly, what more w r as 
needed ? 
Nelly had touched the deadened chords of the child's 
soul. It was so nice to be made much of; to have his 
