he took a pair of white gloves from his pocket and began 
abstractedly to fit them on.

'Arthur!' said Mrs. Coles severely, whose eyes were never known 
to be off duty,'what can you be about?'

'That's the way some people do,' said Rollo after a quick glance; 
'they are never ready for an occasion till the occasion is half over.'

'But what is the "occasion"?' said Mrs. Coles.

'Christmas day at Chickareedinnerand, Arthur seems to think, 
ceremony.'

'Look at Arthur, Prim,' said her sister.

'It is a leisure moment,' said Dr. Arthur fastening a button,'and I 
so seldom have leisure in which to try on new gloves. One of the 
minor comforts of life, is having your gloves fit.' And Dr. Arthur 
glanced at Dane from under his brows, and went back to his other 
glove and the Christmas wind again.

'I declare,' said Prudentia, 'I think you are very unceremonious!'

'Extremes meet,here as often elsewhere,' replied Dane.

'But what have you been getting new white gloves for, Arthur?' 
asked his younger sister.

'They look better than old ones, Prim,when they fit.'

'Has Molly Seaton sent you cards for her wedding?'

'I dare say.What about it?'

'She hasn't,nor anybody else,' said Rollo.

'Useless things'said Dr. Arthur. 'I am glad they have not come.'

Another time Dane might have discussed the subject; but not to-
night. He was silent. And as people catch the hidden influences 
abroad in the air, the others grew silent too, not knowing why, 
thinking it was the wind which drew their attention. Dr. Arthur, 
leaning against the mantelpiece with his eyes on the floor, in an 
attitude of keen listening, had plainly forgotten his gloves; and the 
fire snapped softly, and the red coals fell, and still nobody spoke. 
Until, when some little time had passed by, there came a sound of 
steps in the hall,steps slow and rather heavy; and the door 
opened softly, and a vision came in. Not hers the steps they had 
heard; so noiselessly she came in, so vision-like she looked, so 
lovely, so girlish in her loveliness, that a caught breath, a half 
exclamation, greeted her on all hands. The glittering dress was all 
changed. Not for the white clouds in which her mother might have 
arrayed her, nor for anything that should make her conspicuous, or 
could be so. More for seclusion than for show, Wych Hazel had 
chosen her bridal dress. Dark,so dark that the depths of folds 
might have been black, and only the light-touched edges threw off 
a sea-green reflet; with no ornaments but the châtelaine at her side, 
with no adornment but her own silky hair in its own wayward 
arrangement. To all this there was just one addition. Hazel had 
taken the lace veil,exquisite in pattern, cobweb-like in texture,
and laid it across her head like a Spanish mantilla, from whence it 
came down about her on all sides to the floor, leaving only the face 
and the front of the dress clear. One little ungloved hand held the 
lace lightly together; for gloves that there was nobody to take off, 
Hazel could not put on.

Mrs. Bywank and Reo followed close behind her, behind them old 
Gyda. But there is something in a crisis which stills some natures; 
and while the faces of the faithful old retainers, weatherbeaten 
with life's alternating wind and sun, worked and stirred with 
emotion, the girl herself was quiet and composed, with almost the 
grave childish calm of her own little picture. Her step was a little 
quick, but even the colour did not stir, until when after the first 
three steps into the room there came a minute's hesitation, as if she 
did not quite know where to go, now she was there. If any others 
of the household followedas probably they didthose who 
looked saw only the three; and perhaps the glitter of Gyda's 
embroidery just behind.

Just while Wych Hazel made those three steps into the room, there 
was a pause upon all that saw her. A half smothered 'My dear!'
came from Mrs. Coles' astonished lips, and was arrested mid way. 
For so many seconds Dane did not move, losing everything else in 
the direct vision; but then he was at Wych Hazel's side 
immediately and gave her his arm. A great light had come up into 
his face, all the light of a smile, but he was not smiling. He led 
Wych Hazel forward till they stood at the edge of the semicircle 
which had spread out right and left of the table, everybody having 
risen to his feet.

'You see what we want of you, Dr. Maryland,' he said. 'Will you 
do us the greatest favour you ever can do us?'

'My dear boy!Dane!' exclaimed the old doctor in 
bewilderment,'is it possible? Is this little lady ready on such 
short notice?'

'She is ready,'replied Dane, with a hidden ring of strength and 
tenderness in his voice that only one person could fairly 
