and every soul on board was hard at work, except 
the two pilots ; they did nothing but play gentle- 
man, up town, and receive the same wages for it 
as if they had been on duty. The moment the 
boat touched the wharf at citlior city, they wore 
ashore ; and they were not likely to bo seen again 
till the last boll wns ringing and everything in 
readiness for another voyage. 

When a captain got hold of a pilot of particularly 
high reputation, he took pains to keep him. When 
wages were four hundred dollars a month on the 
Upper Mississippi, I have known a captain to 
keep such a pilot in idleness, under full pay, three 
months at a time, while the river was frozen up. 
And one must remember that in those cheap times 
four hundred dollars was a salary of almost in- 
conceivable splendor. Few men on shore got such 
pay as that, and when they did they were mightly 
looked up to. When pilots from either end of the 
river waii lered into our small Missouri village, 
they were ght by the best and the fairest, and 
treated w ''alted respect. Lying in port under 
wages was a thing which many pilots greatly en- 
joyed and appreciated ; especially if they belonged 
in the Missouri River in the heyday of that trade 
(Kansas times), and got nine hundred dollars a 
trip, which was equivalent to about eighteen hun- 
dered dollars a month. Here is a conversation of 
that day. A chap out of the Illinois Biver, with a 
little stem-wheel tub, accosts a couple of ornate 
and gilded Missouri River pilots : — 

'' Gentlemen, I've got a pretty good trip for the 
up-country, and shall want you about a month. 
How much will it be ? " 



'' Eighteen hundred dollars apiece.'' 
" Heavens and earth ! You take my boat, let 
me have your wages, and I'll divide ! " 

I will remark, in passing, that Mississippi steam- 
boatmen were important in landsmen's eyes (and 
in their own, too, in a degree) according to the 
dignity of the boat they were on. For instance, 
it was a proud thing to be of the crew of such 
stately craft as the Aleck Scott or the Grand Turk. 
Negro firemen, deck hands, and barbers belonging 
to those boats were distinguished personages in 
their grade of life, and they were well aware of 
that fact, too. A stalwart darkey once gave offense 
at a negro ball in New Orleans by putting on a 
good many airs. Finally, one of the managers 
bustled up to him and said, — 

"Who is you, any way? Who is you? dat's 
what I wants to know ! " 

The offender was not disconcerted in the least, 
but swelled himself up and threw that into his 
voice which showed that he knew he was putting 
on all those airs on a stinted capital. 

"Who is I? Who is I? I let you know mighty 
quick who I is ! I want you niggers to understan' 
dat I fires de middle do' on de Aleck Scott!" 

That was sufficient. ' 

The barber of the Grand Turk was a spruce 
young negro, who aired his importance with balmy 
complacency, and was greiitly courted by the circle 
in which he moved. The young colored population 
of New Orleans were much given to flirting, at 
twilight, on the pavements of the back streets. 
Somebody saw and heard something like the 
following, one evenmg, in one of those localities. 
A middle-aged negro woman projected her head 
through a broken pane and shouted (very willing 
that the neighbors should hear and envy), '' You 
Mary Ann, come inde house dis minute! Stannin' 
out dab foolin' 'long wid dat low trash, an' heah's 
de barber off'n de Gran' Turk wants to conwerse 
wid you ! " 

My reference, a moment ago, to the fact that a 
pilot's peculiar official position placed him out of 
the reach of criticism or command, brings Stephen 

W naturally to my mind. He was a giffced 

pilot, a good fellow, a tireless talker, and had both 
wit and humor in him. He had a most irreverent 
independence, too, and was deliciously easy-going 
and comfortable in the presence of age, official dig- 
nity, and even the most august wealth. He al- 
ways had work, he never saved a penny, he was a 
most persuasive borrower, he was in debt to every 
