and the tea-kettle had been boiled and was kept boiling 
in some unknown region. Doors and windows stood open, 
letting the sweet air pass through ; and if the floor was 
 
bare and the chairs were wooden, both one and the other 
were bright with cleanliness ; and the long board was 
bright in another way. Yet the word is not misapplied. 
Such piles of snowy bread and golden cake, such delicate 
cheeses and puffy biscuits, and such transparencies of rich- 
coloured preserves, were an undoubted adornment to Mrs. 
Starling's deal table ; and might have been to any table 
in the world. The deal was covered, however, with white 
cloths. At the upper end the hostess took her place behind a regiment of cups and saucers, officered by great tin 
pots which held the tea and coffee. Diana waited. 
Everybody had come expecting a good supper and 
primed for enjoyment ; and now the enjoyment began. 
Mrs. Starling might smile grimly to herself as she saw her 
crab apples and jellies disappear, and the piles of biscuits go down and get heaped up again by Diana's care. 
Nobody was at leisure enough to mark her. 
' Eat when you can, Mr. Masters,' said Mrs. Boddington ; ' you won't get hot biscuits anywhere in Pleasant 
Valley but here.' 
' Why not ? ' said Mr. Masters. 
' It ain't the fashion that's all.' 
' I s'pose you've seen the fashions to-day down at Elmfield, Mr. Masters,' said Mrs. Salter. ' They don't think as 
we hev' no fashions up here in the mountains.' 
' Their fashions is ridiculous ! ' said Mrs. Flandin. ' Do 
you think it's becomin', Mr. Masters, for Christian women 
to go and make sights of themselves ? ' 
' In what way, Mrs. Flandin ? ' 
'Why goodness ! you've seen 'em. Describin's impossible. Euphemie Knowlton, she came into church last Sab- 
bath three yards in extent, ef she was a foot. It beat me, 
how she was goin' to get in. Why there warn't room for 
but three of 'em in the slip, and it took 'em somethin' like 
half an hour to get fixed in their places. I declare I was 
ashamed, and I had to look, for all. ' 
' So had I,' assented Miss Carpenter. ' I couldn't fairly 
keep my eyes off of 'em.' 
' And I'm certain she couldn't go agin the wind, with 
her bonnet ; it stuck just right up from her face, and ended in a pint, and she had a hull garden in the brim of it, 
I think ministers had ought to preach about such doin's.' 
' And you don't know what ministers are good for if 
they don't ? ' said Mr. Masters. 
' Did you ever see a minister that could get the better 
of 'em ? ' said Mrs. Boddington. 'Cos, if you did, I would 
like to go and sit under his preachin' a spell, and see what 
he could do for me.' 
' Does that express the mind of Pleasant Valley generally ? ' asked the minister, and gravely this time. 
' La ! we ain't worse than other folks,' said Mrs. Salter. 
' There's no harm in dressin' one's self smart now and then, 
is there ? And we want to know how, to be sure. ' 
' I hope you don't think Euphemie Knowlton knows 
how ? 'Tain't a quarter as becomin' as the way we dress in 
Pleasant Valley. There ain't the least bit of prettiness or 
gracefulness in a woman's bein' three yards round ; anyhow we don't think so when it's nature.' So Mrs. Salter. 
' What do you think o' lettin' your hair down over the 
shoulders, as if you were goin' to comb it ? ' said Mrs. 
Boddington ; ' and goin' to church so ? ' 
' But how ever did she make it stand out as it did.' 
asked Miss Carpenter. ' It was just like spun glass, nothin' smooth or quiet about it. Such a yellow mop I 
never did see. And it warn't a child neither. Who is she, 
anyhow ? ' 
 
'Not she. It is a grown woman,' said Mrs. Flandin ; 
' and she looked like a wild savage. Don't the minister 
agree with me, that it ain't becomin' for Christian women 
to do such things ? ' 
It was with a smile and a sigh that the minister an- 
swered. ' Where are you going to draw the line, Mrs. 
Flandin ? ' 
' Well ! with what's decent and comfortable.' 
'And pretty? ' 
' La ! yes,' said Mrs. Salter. ' Do let us be as nice as 
we kin.' 
' I think people had ought to make themselves as nice- 
lookin' as they can,' echoed one of the younger ladies of 
the party ; and there was a general chorus of agreeing voices. 
' Well ! ' said the minister, ' then comes the question, 
what is nice-looking? I dare say the young lady with the 
flowing tresses thought she was about right.' 
' She thought she was the only one,' said Mrs. Boddington. 
A subject was started now which was fruitful enough to 
keep all tongues busy ; and whether biscuits or opinions 
had the most lively circulation for some time thereafter it 
would be hard to say. Old and young, upon this matter of 
town and country fashions, and fashion in general, " gave 
tongue " in concert ; proving that Pleasant Valley knew 
what was what as well as any place in the land ; that it 
was doubtful what right Boston or New York had to dictate to it ; at the same time the means of getting at the 
earliest the mind of Boston or New York was eagerly discussed, and the pretensions of Elmfield to any advantage 
in that matter as earnestly denied. The minister sat silent, with an imperturbable face that did him credit. At 
last there was a rush of demands upon him for his judgment. He declared that so much had been said upon the 
subject he must have time to think it over ; and he promised to give them some at least of his thoughts before long 
in a sermon. 
With this promise, highly satisfied, the assembly broke 
up. Mrs. Starling declared afterwards to her daughter, 
that if there had been any more fashions to talk about they 
would never have got done supper. But now bonnets were 
put on, and work put up, and one after another family 
party went off in its particular farm wagon or buggy. It 
was but just sundown ; the golden glory of the sky was 
