at certain times the royal judges made a progress 
through the entire German country. They were 
called Graiven, from the word graw or grau' (that 
means, 'grey,' Maggie) because ordinarily old, experienced, eminent men were chosen for the office. 
These courts for cases of life and death were holdeir by the Grafs under the open sky, in public, and 
in full daylight, so that the judgment pronounced 
could be at once carried into execution. Our 



 

chronicle takes this occasion to relate a story 
about our Hermann Billing, which sets in a clear 
light the pure character of this admirable man. In 
his journey ings as Graf, he came also to his native 
place, to Harm's ouden dorp. It was then long 
after his father's death ; and as head of the family 
he had distributed his seven manor-farms, as fiefs, 
partly to his brothers, partly to other near relations. The great honours to which Hermann had 
been elevated had become the ruin of these men ; 
they behaved themselves proudly towards their 
neighbours, and even took unrighteous ways to enlarge their boundaries, secure in the belief that no 
one would dare to call them in question about 
it, whilst they had such a powerful brother and 
kinsman. Now when Hermann, after the accustomed fashion, was holding the criminal court on 
the Graivenberg (where now the graven farm lies, 
half an hour from Hermannsburg) there presented 
himself a certain Conrad, a freiling, that is, a free 
man ; and accused the holders of Hermann's fiefs, 
that they had by violent and unjust means taken 
from him half his farm and joined it to their own 
estates. 

" ' Hermann's face, at other times so gentle and 
kind, grew dark, and with deep sadness but with a 
lofty severity he ordered his brothers and kinsmen 
to be brought before him. Conrad's charge was 
proved to be true, for the Billings could not lie, 
even if they had done injustice. And what did 
Hermann? When the acts of violence that his 




brothers and relations had done were proved, great 
tears flowed down the cheeks of the tall, strong 
man, and he cried out with a voice which his tears 
half choked, " Could you do that, and bear the name 
of Billing ! " He said no more, but was seen to fold 
his hands and pray with the greatest earnestness. 
Then he spoke : " My brothers and kinsmen, make 
your peace now with God; we look upon each other 
for the last time. You are guilty of death; you 
must die ; you have doubly deserved death, because 
you are of the race of Billing." 

" ' The priests, who were always in attendance 
on the tribunal of life and death where Hermann 
was the judge, came forward; in the grounds of 
the court they received the criminals' confession, 
and upon their penitent acknowledgment of their 
sin, gave them assurance of forgiveness and then 
the bread that represents the Lord's body. So, reconciled with God, the seven men came back to the 
place of judgment; and after Hermann had again 
prayed with them and commended the penitents 
to the Lord, he had their heads struck off before 
his eyes.' " 

Meredith stopped perforce, for a storm of exclamations burst upon him. " Horrible ! " " Fright 
ful ! " "I never heard of such an awful man ! " 

" I think he was rather an awful man," said Meredith. " I have no doubt all ill-doers would have 
held him in a good deal of awe." 

" But his own brothers ! " said Esther. 

"They were convicted criminals, all the same." 



 

" But don't you think a man ought to spare his 
own ! " 

" A man yes. A judge no." 

" But a judge is a man." 

" I should think it was very disagreeable for a 
man to be a judge," said Meredith. 

" But why ? " asked Flora. " I should think it 
was nice, just for that reason, that a man could 
spare people he wanted to spare." 

"Flora Franklin!" exclaimed her brother. "Is 
that your idea of a judge?" 

