crew, get out of the warm bed and light a candle, struggle into his
cold pantaloons, and pull on boots in which the thermometer would have
gone down to zero, rake open the coals on the hearth and start the
morning fire, and then go to the barn to "fodder." The frost was thick
on the kitchen windows; the snow was drifted against the door; and
the journey to the barn, in the pale light of dawn, over the creaking
snow, was like an exile's trip to Siberia. The boy was not half awake
when he stumbled into the cold barn, and was greeted by the lowing and
bleating and neighing of cattle waiting for their breakfast. How their
breath steamed up from the mangers, and hung in frosty spears from
their noses! Through the great lofts above the hay, where the swallows
nested, the winter wind whistled and the snow sifted. Those old barns
were well ventilated.
I used to spend much valuable time in planning a barn that should be
tight and warm, with a fire in it if necessary in order to keep the
temperature somewhere near the freezing point. I couldn't see how the
cattle could live in a place where a lively boy, full of young blood,
would freeze to death in a short time if he did not swing his arms and
slap his hands, and jump about like a goat. I thought I would have a
sort of perpetual manger that should shake down the hay when it was
wanted, and a self-acting machine that should cut up the turnips and
pass them into the mangers, and water always flowing for the cattle
and horses to drink. With these simple arrangements I could lie in
bed, and know that the "chores" were doing themselves. It would also
be necessary, in order that I should not be disturbed, that the crow
should be taken out of the roosters, but I could think of no process
to do it. It seems to me that the hen-breeders, if they know as much
as they say they do, might raise a breed of crowless roosters, for the
benefit of boys, quiet neighborhoods, and sleepy families.
There was another notion that I had, about kindling the kitchen fire,
that I never carried out. It was, to have a spring at the head of my
bed, connecting with a wire, which should run to a torpedo which I
would plant overnight in the ashes of the fireplace. By touching the
spring I could explode the torpedo, which would scatter the ashes and
uncover the live coals, and at the same time shake down the sticks
of wood which were standing by the side of the ashes in the chimney,
and the fire would kindle itself. This ingenious plan was frowned on
by the whole family, who said they did not want to be waked up every
morning by an explosion. And yet they expected me to wake up without
an explosion. A boy's plans for making life agreeable are hardly ever
heeded.
I never knew a boy farmer who was not eager to go to the district
school in the winter. There is such a chance for learning, that he
must be a dull boy who does not come out in the spring a fair skater,
an accurate snowballer, and an accomplished slider downhill, with or
without a board, on his seat, on his stomach, or on his feet. Take a
moderate hill, with a foot-slide down it worn to icy smoothness, and a
"go-round" of boys on it, and there is nothing like it for whittling
away boot-leather. The boy is the shoemaker's friend. An active lad
can wear down a pair of cowhide soles in a week so that the ice will
scrape his toes. Sledding or coasting is also slow fun compared to
the "bareback" sliding down a steep hill over a hard, glistening
crust. It is not only dangerous, but it is destructive to jacket and
pantaloons to a degree to make a tailor laugh. If any other animal wore
out his skin as fast as a schoolboy wears out his clothes in winter,
it would need a new one once a month. In a country district-school,
patches were not by any means a sign of poverty, but of the boy's
courage and adventurous disposition. Our elders used to threaten to
dress us in leather and put sheet-iron seats in our trousers. The
boy said that he wore out his trousers on the hard seats in the
school-house ciphering hard sums. For that extraordinary statement
he received two castigations,—one at home, that was mild, and one
from the schoolmaster, who was careful to lay the rod upon the boy's
sliding-place, punishing him, as he jocosely called it, on a sliding
scale, according to the thinness of his pantaloons.
What I liked best at school, however, was the study of history, early
history, the Indian wars. We studied it mostly at noontime, and we had
it illustrated as the children nowadays have "object-lessons,"—though
our object was not so much to have lessons as it was to revive real
history.
Back of the school-house rose a round hill, upon which tradition said
had stood in colonial times a block-house, built by the settlers for
defense against the Indians. For the Indians had the idea that the
whites were not settled enough, and used to come nights to settle them
with a tomahawk. It was called Fort Hill. It was very steep on each
side, and the river ran close by. It was a charming place in summer,
where one could find laurel, and checkerberries, and sassafras roots,
and sit in the cool breeze, looking at the mountains across the river,
and listening to the murmur of the Deerfield. The Methodists built a
meeting-house there afterwards, but the hill was so slippery in winter
that the aged could not climb it, and the wind raged so fiercely
that it blew nearly all the young Methodists away (many of whom were
afterwards heard of in the West), and finally the meeting-house
itself came down into the valley and grew a steeple, and enjoyed
itself ever afterwards. It used to be a notion in New England that a
meeting-house ought to stand as near heaven as possible.
The boys at our school divided themselves into two parties; one was the
Early Settlers and the other the Pequots, the latter the most numerous.
The Early Settlers built a snow fort on the hill, and a strong fortress
it was, constructed of snowballs rolled up to a vast size (larger than
the Cyclopean blocks of stone which form the ancient Etruscan walls
in Italy), piled one upon another, and the whole cemented by pouring
on water which froze and made the walls solid. The Pequots helped the
whites build it. It had a covered way under the snow, through which
only could it be entered, and it had bastions and towers and openings
to fire from, and a great many other things for which there are no
names in military books. And it had a glacis and a ditch outside.
When it was completed, the Early Settlers, leaving the women in the
school-house, a prey to the Indians, used to retire into it, and await
the attack of the Pequots. There was only a handful of the garrison,
