fields. A city boy, he had grown up among city 
scenes, and the city 's hard features were stamped 
upon him. For over twenty-five years all inte 
rest had been absorbed in bales and boxes of 
goods; in stocks and bills; in mortgages, bonds 
and money securities. And now, that he no 
longer cared for these things, what came in to 
take their places and hold his restless thoughts ? 
"Visit Europe," suggested another friend, who 
saw the growing discontent of Mr. Fanshaw. 
This was conned over. A year in London, 
Paris, Florence and Rome looked promising. 
He went, and enjoyed to the degree a man of his 
education and habits of life is capable of enjoy 
ing; but found the annoyances incident to tra 
veling abroad in excess of the pleasure. So he 
came home, to find home drearier than when he 
went away. There was a time when Mr. Fan 
shaw enjoyed the daily newspaper; but then he 
took a lively interest in cotton and grain, and the 
prioi of leading stocks. Political affairs had also 
a certain attraction; for the political world was in 
 
close connection with the business world. He 
moved about, too, among live men, all on the 
alert, like himself, and ambition, as well as inte 
rest, kept him posted in common affairs, so as to 
stand their equals. But now he had ruled him 
self out of the current movements of the day, and 
gradually losing the " run of things," lost the old 
desire for his newspaper no, we err not the old 
desire, but the old enjoyment. The newspaper 
was resorted to as before, with a certain pleasura 
ble anticipation ; but rarely did its columns yield 
the honey he would find. Dry and unprofitable 
all. Daily the sheet was thrown aside in disap 
pointment. 
Out of the live current, Mr. Fanshaw was 
moving in a small, sluggish eddy, round and 
round. Vitality was departing every day. Mind 
was growing weaker through an impotent ex 
haustion of itself; and as it grew weaker he grew 
unhappier. Plainly, Mr. Fanshaw had made a 
mistake in retiring from business. So one ven 
tured to say. 
 
" I know that," was his answer. " I didn 't 
understand myself." 
" Go into business again," was suggested. 
But Mr. Fanshaw shook his head, answering, 
" No ; I am out of the current, and have not the 
boldness to venture in again. Nearly three years 
of idleness have reduced the old vigor of mind. 
I feel that T should be unequal to the require 
ments. A business life, as the M r orld goes now, 
is a different thing from floating with the tide. 
There is no success but for those who strain 
every muscle pulling against the stream." 
And this was the simple truth. Ease, idleness, 
and loss of mental vigor through sluggishness of 
mind, had robbed Mr. Fanshaw of strength to 
such a degree that he dared not venture again out 
upon the waters where he had once held his place 
among the boldest and most vigorous. 
Two years more of a fruitless life, and then, 
without warning, down from a summer sky fell a 
desolating storm, sweeping from hundreds and 
thousands, all over the land, the gathered wealth 
 
of years. While it raged, a bolt struck the fair 
edifice which Mr. Fanshaw had builded, and it 
fell in hopeless ruin to the ground. Of all its 
goodly stones, scarcely one remained unbroken ot 
in its place. 
Stunned at first; then appalled by the disaster; 
and then quickened into a fearful sense of his 
helplessness and hopelessness, Mr. Fanshaw 's first 
state of mind was one of bitter complaints. He 
called this misfortune a hard and cruel dispensa 
tion ; and when a wiser one. than himself drew 
near, and sought to lift his thoughts into a purer 
atmosphere, where he could see stars shining in 
the midnight sky, he rejected his offered words 
of instruction, and called God cruel and unjust. 
"Nay, my friend, say not so," was answered. 
" God is good, and just, and wise. Out of this 
darkness, he will, in his own good time, I trust, 
bring you into marvelous light. His ways are 
not as our ways, but they lead upwards ; he sees 
not as we see; but in his purposes are eternal feli 
city. I think that he has work for you yet in this 
 
world, Mr. Fanshaw ; work that only your hands 
can aright perform." 
But Mr. Fanshaw rejected the proposition. 
Worldly wealth had been the greatest good in his 
eyes. Through long years he had toiled for it 
with an unabating ardor. And now, it was 
swept from his grasp. 
It so happened that, a few days afterwards, 
