sorrow by a process of diversion. 
Supper-time. How ridiculous ! and yet we must eat. 
No one has said a word about Mr. Ross. Neither does he 
return. 
Dell goes out for a walk ; mother takes a little rest on 
the sofa down stairs : I am alone with Theo. 
“ Chi’issie,” she begins in a very low tone, “will you 
help me to think what happened last night ? ’ ’ 
“ How can I? I was not here,” I reply with a great 
gasp. 
“ Did Alex say any thing down stairs? ” 
“ No : he went straight out.” 
‘ ‘ The man who came had something to do with it. I have 
had many horrible misgivings, Chris. I was so angry last 
night ! I stood here, in the middle of the floor, and stamped 
mj" foot like a little vixen. But it was so strange ! I cannot 
make it out.” 
“ Where did he go? ” 
“ Ah, I don’t know. Chris, he was crazy. His eyes 
were terrible. He would give me no satisfaction, but 
went round, packing up a few articles in a satchel, and 
then — maybe I did try him. I insisted upon knowing. 
He said — oh, with such a laugh ! — that I had complained 
of his love so often, and now he meant to relieve me of it ; 
 
that, as kisses and caresses and watchful tender care had 
been so burdensome, I need take no more. I can’t remem- 
ber all. He never kissed me after the coming of that man. 
Chrissie, light the gas, dear, and look in that second bu- 
reau-drawer. There is a box containing some papers, — 
his brothers’ letters and his mother’s.” He accidentally 
broke the lock yesterday morning. Open it, and bring 
them all to me.” 
I look in the box : it is quite empty. 
“ There isn’t a letter here.” 
“ Yes, there is ; scattered in the drawer, maybe, he tum- 
bled things about so.” 
I take out ever}- thing. Not a letter or a scrap of 
paper. It is some time before she will be convinced. 
“ Chrissie,” after a long silence, “ do you know of any 
reason why he should thus desert me ? ’ ’ 
“ No,” I cry tremulously, “ unless — unless” — 
‘‘ Unless he had a wife before he married me. I think, 
Chrissie, that he had, and that she has come to this coun- 
try. If I had died last night, dear, it would all have 
been ended.” 
CHAPTER XVIII. 
" When sorrows come, they come not single spies, . . , 
Like sweet hells jangled, out of tune, and harsh.” 
Hamlet. 
Theo does not sleep much through the night. Once or 
twice, just lost in the realms of dreamland, she cries out, 
“ O my love, my love ! ” At morning she turns wearily 
“ To think of a whole long life without any more love, 
any more tender kisses, anj" foolish, endearing care, put- 
ting on my stockings and slippers, canying me about in 
his arms, bathing my head when it ached, brushing my 
hair and kissing it, and saying ridiculously sweet things. 
He loved me so ! I used to wish he never had ; and yet I 
came to like it — and now it is gone forever.’’ 
“ He may come back, Theo.” 
“But how can he explain? — unless he was drunk, 
yes, absolutely drunk, Chrissie ; and he did not look like 
that. If he was, I should be bitterly ashamed of him all 
my days. I said to him, ‘ Sometimes a man has a wife 
in another country.’ I think the Devil must have put 
it into my mind ; and I thought he would strike me to 
the floor. I felt so afraid of him, that I wished, oh ! how 
I wished I was free ! And now ’ ’ — 
“ Do you love him, Theo? do you? ” and I look eagerly 
in her Cyes. 
“Yes, I suppose I do,” in an absent, dreamy way 
“ He always had a strange fascination for me. The night 
we made up for the last time, when it seemed fated that I 
must marry him, I told him what the doctors had said. 
 
‘ If I were sure of clying in a year, would you want to 
many me?’ I asked. And he said he would rather have 
one year of bliss with me than a lifetime with any other 
woman. He promised to take such care of me ; and, 
Chrissie, I thought it would soften the blow at the last, if 
I had belonged to some one else a little while. I had such 
queer, strange feelings now and then, quite as if I might 
die. We were so poor too ! I could do nothing but remain 
a burthen on you. I made him promise to board home for 
six months : it would be a little help. Was it selfish? and 
is God punishing me for that planning? ” 
“ O Theo my darling, you did it for our sakes I ” And, 
fiinging my arms about her, we both sob softlj", just as 
if the keen ears of love could not hear. 
She recovers first, and gathers up her voice by dint of 
little coughs and sundiy clearings of her throat. 
“ Not all together. You see, I had come to believe that 
my life was not worth much, and he loved me so. I could 
make him very happy ; and, in return, he would do a little 
for me and mine. But, if I had not loved him to some 
extent, I could not have done it. He wasn’t rich enough 
to make it an absolute temptation ; ’ ’ and she laughs as 
happy childhood might laugh. “ I began to feel that it 
was a duty. I couldn’t seem to put it out of my way. 
