
“Your mother?”

“Yes.”

“Mine now.” The girl touched it with her lips, then softly closed and
laid it on her lap.

Silently Canaris stood watching her, as she re-slung both poor but
precious relics, while the costlier one slipped down, as if ashamed to
lie beside them. He caught and swung it on his finger, thinking of
something he had lately read to Helwyze.

“Kharsu, the Persian, sent a necklace to Schirin, the princess, whom he
loved. She was a Christian, and hung a cross upon his string of pearls,
as you did,” he said aloud.

“But I am not a princess, and Mr. Helwyze does not love me; so the
pretty story is all spoiled.”

“This thing recalled it. I have given you a necklace, and you are
hanging a cross upon it. Wear the one, and use the other, for my sake.
Will you, Gladys?”

“Did Schirin convert Kharsu?” asked the girl, catching his thought more
from his face than his words; for it wore a look of mingled longing and
regret, which she had never seen before.

“That I do not know; but you must convert me: I am a sad heathen,
Helwyze says.”

“Has he tried?”

“No.”

“Then I will!”

“You see I’ve had no one to teach me any thing but worldly wisdom, and I
sometimes feel as I should be better for a little of the heavenly sort.
So when you wear the rosary I shall give you—‘Fair saint, in your
orisons be all my sins remembered;’” and Canaris put his hand upon her
head, smiling, as if half-ashamed of his request.

“I am no Catholic, but I will pray for you, and you shall not be lost.
The mother in heaven and the wife on earth will keep you safe,”
whispered Gladys, in her fervent voice, feeling and answering with a
woman’s quickness the half-expressed desire of a nature conscious of its
weakness, yet unskilled in asking help for its greatest need.

Silently the two young lovers put on their amulets, and, hand in hand,
went back along the winding path, till they reached the great eglantine
that threw its green arches across the outlet from the wood. All beyond
was radiantly bright and blooming; and as Canaris, passing first to hold
back the thorny boughs, stood an instant, bathed in the splendor of the
early sunshine, Gladys exclaimed, her face full of the tender idolatry
of a loving woman,—

“O Felix, you are so good, so great, so beautiful, if it were not
wicked, I should worship you!”

“God forbid! Do not love me too much, Gladys: I do not deserve it.”

“How can I help it, when I feel very like the girl who lost her heart to
the Apollo?” she answered, feeling that she never could love too much.

“And broke her heart, you remember, because her god was only a stone.”

“Mine is not, and he will answer when I call.”

“If he does not, he will be harder and colder than the marble!”

When Canaris, some hours later, told Helwyze, he looked well pleased,
thinking, “Jealousy is a helpful ally. I do not regret calling in its
aid, though it has cost Olivia her pearls.” Aloud he said, with a
gracious air, which did not entirely conceal some secret anxiety,—

“Then you have made a clean breast of it, and she forgives all
peccadilloes?”

“I have not told her; and I will not, till I have atoned for the meanest
of them. May I ask you to be silent also for her sake?”

“You are wise.” Then, as if glad to throw off all doubt and care, he
asked, in a pleasantly suggestive tone,—

“The wedding will soon follow the wooing, I imagine, for you make short
work of matters, when you do begin?”

“You told me to execute your wish in my own way. I will do so, without
troubling Mrs. Surry, or asking you to give us your blessing, since
playing the father to orphans is distasteful to you.”

Very calm and cool was Canaris now; but a sense of wrong burned at his
heart, marring the satisfaction he felt in having done what he believed
to be a just and generous act.

“It is; but I will assume the character long enough to suggest, nay,
insist, that however hasty and informal this marriage may be, you will
take care that it is one.”

