" It would be awfully kind of you to come 
and stay there," said Lord Lambeth. He took a 
vague satisfaction in the circumstance that Percy 
Beaumont had not heard him make the remark I 
have just recorded. 

Mr. Westgate all this time had not, as they 
said at Newport, "come on." His wife more 
than once announced that she expected him on 
the morrow ; but on the morrow she wandered 
about a little, with a telegram in her jewelled 
lingers, declaring it was very tiresome that his 
business detained him in New York ; that he 
could only hope the Englishmen were having a 
good time. " I must say," said Mrs. Westgate, 
"that it is no thanks to him if you are." And 
she went on to explain, while she continued that 
slow-paced promenade which enabled her well- 
adjusted skirts to display themselves so advan 
tageously, that unfortunately in America there 
was no leisure class. It was Lord Lambeth 's 
theory, freely propounded when the young men 
were together, that Percy Beaumont was having 
a very good time with Mrs. Westgate, and that, 
under the pretext of meeting for the purpose of 
animated discussion, they were indulging in practices that imparted a shade of hypocrisy to the 
lady 's regret for her husband 's absence. 

"I assure you we are always discussing and 





differing," said Percy Beaumont. "She is awfully argumentative. American ladies certainly 
don 't mind contradicting you. Upon my word I 
don 't think I was ever treated so by a woman 
before. She 's so devilish positive." 

Mrs. Westgate 's positive quality, however, evidently had its attractions, for Beaumont was 
constantly at his hostess 's side. He detached 
himself one day to the extent of going to  New 
York to talk over the Tennessee Central with Mr. 
Westgate ; but he was absent only forty-eight 
hours, during which, with Mr. Westgate 's assist 
ance, he completely settled this piece of business. 
" They certainly do things quickly in New York," 
he observed to his cousin ; and he added that 
Mr. Westgate had seemed very uneasy lest his 
wife should miss her visitor he had been in 
such an awful hurry to send him back to her. 
"I'm afraid you'll never come up to an American 
husband, if that 's what the wives expect," ho 
said to Lord Lambeth. 

Mrs. Westgate, however, was not to enjoy much 
longer the entertainment with which an indulgent 
husband had desired to keep her provided. On 
the 21st of August Lord Lambeth received a telegram from his mother, requesting him to return 
immediately to England; his father had been 
taken ill, and it was his filial duty to come to him. 



  

The young Englishman was visibly annoyed. 
"What the deuce does it mean?" he asked of 
his kinsman. " What am I to do ?" 

Percy Beaumont was annoyed as well ; he had 
deemed it his duty, as I have narrated, to write 
to the Duchess, but he had not expected that 
this distinguished woman would act so promptly 
upon his hint. "It means," he said, "that your 
father is laid up. I don 't suppose it 's any thing 
serious ; but you have no option. Take the first 
steamer ; but don 't be alarmed." 

Lord Lambeth made his farewells; but the 
few last words that he exchanged with Bessie 
Alden are the only ones that have a place in our 
record. " Of course I needn 't assure you," he 
said, " that if you should come to England next 
year, I expect to be the first person that you in 
form of it." 

Bessie Alden looked at him a little and she 
smiled. "Oh, if we come to London," she an 
swered, "I should think you would hear of it." 

Percy Beaumont returned with his cousin, and 
his sense of duty compelled him, one windless 
afternoon, in mid- Atlantic, to say to Lord Lambeth that he suspected that the Duchess 's tele 
gram was in part the result of something he him 
self had written to her. " I wrote to her as I 
explicitly notified you I had promised to do 



