
"Thank you. That will be better than to sleep in the streets. But are
you not afraid to make me this offer?"

"Why should I be?"

"I might rob you during the night."

"You might, but you don't look like one who would so reward confidence."

"You are right. If you had fifty thousand dollars I would not touch a
dollar of it. I will accept your offer. How can I repay you for your
kindness?"

"There may be a way. We will talk of that this evening."

Nine o'clock found the three collected in the small room which had been
hired by Ferguson for himself and Tom.

"My friend," said Ferguson, "you told us that you found a favorable
place for mining up in the Sierras."

"Yes, I 'struck it rich.'"

"I take it for granted that you did not exhaust the wealth of the
place?"

"Far from it. I only dipped into it. There is abundance left."

"Is this place known to many?"

"To only one, so far as I know. He and I worked independently, but were
company for each other."

"But what induced you to leave so rich a claim?"

"I was tired of working, and wanted to come to the city for a change.
You know what a change I have experienced here."

"Why don't you go back and start anew in the place where you met with
your former good fortune?" asked Ferguson.

"Because I am penniless. I must find something to do here for a while.
When I have got together a little fund, sufficient for the purpose, I
will go back."

"Would you go back now, if you had the chance?"

"Would I? Certainly I would, for I could make money faster there than
here."

"Would you have any objection to let Tom and myself accompany you?"

"Not the least. I should be glad of your company. There is gold enough
for us all."

"Then we will start to-morrow, that is, if you and Tom are willing."

"I am ready," said Tom, promptly.

"But I have nothing. I don't like to be an expense to you," objected the
young man.

"We will pay your expenses. We shall be more than recompensed by the
richness of the mines. We might find something to do here, but both Tom
and myself prefer the freedom of the mining camp, and, if the spot is
as rich as you have led us to suspect, we shall make more money there."

"Agreed!" said the young man, promptly. "Name the hour of starting, and
rely upon me to be ready."

Ferguson was evidently well pleased with this response. He felt that his
new acquaintance would be so far away from the city, and would sooner
retrieve his fortunes at the mines. He hoped, too, to find opportunity
to strengthen his principles, and guard him against the temptations of
the city when he should again visit it. Again, he had reason to think
that the arrangement would benefit Tom and himself in a pecuniary way,
and the Scotchman was by no means indifferent to that consideration;
though, as we have seen, he did not unduly exalt the power or value of
money.

Tom, too, was pleased with the prospect. He was grateful and attached to
Ferguson, whom he felt to be a true friend, but he was glad to have
another companion nearer his own age. The young man was of a
prepossessing exterior, and when he had shaken off his present
disquietude looked as if he might be a cheerful and agreeable companion.

"Since we are to live together, for a time at least, and become
fellow-workers," said Ferguson, "we ought to know each other better. I
will introduce myself first."

Hereupon Ferguson gave a brief account of himself, which need not be
repeated, and then called upon Tom, who followed his example.

"Now it is my turn," said their new acquaintance. "You don't even know
my name yet, though you have done me such an important service. I have
already told you that I am from Ohio. My name is Richard Russell, though
my friends generally call me Dick. My father, whom I had the misfortune
to lose several years since, was at one time a member of Congress. He
left a small property, the income of which is barely sufficient to
