blue eyes, dimples in the ruddy cheeks, and the innocent expression
which makes a young girl so sweet an object to old eyes.

The crusty gentleman evidently agreed with me, for he peeped over the
top of the paper at his pleasant little neighbor as she sat studying a
lesson, and cheering herself with occasional sniffs at a posy of
mignonette in her button-hole.

When the old gentleman caught my eye, he dived out of sight with a loud
"Hem!" but he was peeping again directly, for there was something
irresistibly attractive about the unconscious lassie opposite; and one
could no more help looking at her than at a lovely flower or a playful
kitten.

Presently she shut her book with a decided pat, and an air of relief
that amused me. She saw the half-smile I could not repress, seemed to
understand my sympathy, and said with a laugh,--

"It was a hard lesson, but I've got it!"

So we began to talk about school and lessons, and I soon discovered that
the girl was a clever scholar, whose only drawback was, as she confided
to me, a "love of fun."

We were just getting quite friendly, when several young men got in, one
of whom stared at the pretty child till even she observed it, and showed
that she did by the color that came and went in her cheeks. It annoyed
me as much as if she had been my own little daughter, for I like
modesty, and have often been troubled by the forward manners of
schoolgirls, who seem to enjoy being looked at. So I helped this one
out of her little trouble by making room between the old gentleman and
myself, and motioning her to come and sit there.

She understood at once, thanked me with a look, and nestled into the
safe place so gratefully, that the old gentleman glared over his
spectacles at the rude person who had disturbed the serenity of the
child.

Then we rumbled along again, the car getting fuller and fuller as we got
down town. Presently an Irishwoman, with a baby, got in, and before I
could offer my seat, my little school-girl was out of hers, with a
polite--

"Please take it, ma'am; I can stand perfectly well."

It was prettily done, and I valued the small courtesy all the more,
because it evidently cost the bashful creature an effort to stand up
alone in a car full of strangers; especially as she could not reach the
strap to steady herself, and found it difficult to stand comfortably.

Then it was that the crusty man showed how he appreciated my girl's good
manners, for he hooked his cane in the strap, and gave it to her,
saying, with a smile that lighted up his rough face like sunshine,--

"Hold on to that, my dear."

"Ah," thought I, "how little we can judge from appearances! This grim
old soul is a gentleman, after all."

Turning her face towards us, the girl held on to the stout cane, and
swayed easily to and fro as we bumped over the rails. The Irishwoman's
baby, a sickly little thing, was attracted by the flowers, and put out a
small hand to touch them, with a wistful look at the bright face above.

"Will baby have some?" said my girl, and made the little creature happy
with some gay red leaves.

"Bless your heart, honey, it's fond he is of the like o' them, and
seldom he gets any," said the mother, gratefully, as she settled baby's
dirty hood, and wrapped the old shawl round his feet.

Baby stared hard at the giver of posies, but his honest blue eyes gave
no offence, and soon the two were so friendly that baby boldly clutched
at the bright buttons on her sack, and crowed with delight when he got
one, while we all smiled at the pretty play, and were sorry when the
little lady, with a bow and a smile to us, got out at the church corner.

"Now, I shall probably never see that child again, yet what a pleasant
picture she leaves in my memory!" I thought to myself, as I caught a
last glimpse of the brown hat going round the corner.

But I did see her again many times that winter; for not long after, as I
passed down a certain street near my winter quarters, I came upon a
flock of girls, eating their luncheon as they walked to and fro on the
sunny side,--pretty, merry creatures, all laughing and chattering at
once, as they tossed apples from hand to hand, munched candy, or
compared cookies. I went slowly, to enjoy the sight, as I do when I meet
a party of sparrows on the Common, and was wondering what would become
of so many budding women, when, all of a sudden, I saw my little
school-girl.

Yes, I knew her in a minute, for she wore the same brown hat, and the
rosy face was sparkling with fun, as she told secrets with a chosen
friend, while eating a wholesome slice of bread-and-butter as only a
hungry school-girl could.

She did not recognize me, but I took a good look at her as I went by,
longing to know what the particular secret was that ended in such a gale
of laughter.

