
" Olive, you are losing your good habits." 

" Good for Chesterfield." 

"Good for anywhere. Come, I have work her 
you. I wish you would get right up." 

"What sort of work?" said Olive without moving. 

" Mr. Iredell's work. Get up, and I will tell y*ou 
about it." 

" Mr. Iredell's work I don't do, child." 

"But I do, while he is away," said I; "as much 
of it as I can. This time I want your help." 

" Money ? " said Olive. 

" No, not money. I have money." 

"You have ? Where did you get it ? " 

" It is Mr. Iredell's money. He put some in my 
hands the morning he went away, to do his work 
with." 

"Very odd of him! He never put any in my 
hands." 

"You just said, you do not do his work. But 
do get up, Olive! I need your help, and time is 
precious." 

" It is very cold, isn't it?" 



 

" Tremendous. Like some of the days at Chesterfield." 

"What help do you want of me? I can talk 
here." 

" I do not want you to talk, not to me. I want 
you to go out. Come, Olive, get up, and I will 
tell you about it while you are dressing." 

Importunity will do a great deal with indolent 
people. Olive indolent! She had been wont to 
shew herself uiitirable, active, efficient, whenever 
there was any call for those qualities. Now she was 
turned into a fine lady. But she got up, an hour 
or more before her time. I rang for Martha, and 
the business of dressing began. 

"Now what is this all about? " said Olive. " Go 
out? I cannot go out in such weather." 

"Somebody came to see Mr. Iredell; and as I 
was the only member of the family visible, Harry 
brought the word to me." 

"When?" 

"Just at breakfast time. I found a man in the 
hall, whom I saw immediately to be a gentleman, 
but very poorly dressed and trembling with the 
cold. Literally, Olive; he had no overcoat." 

" My dear, a great many people have no overcoat." 

" What does the Bible say about that ? " 

" The Bible ? I am sure I don't know. I didn't 
know it said anything about overcoats. Eastern 
people do not wear them." 

" It says, Let him that hath two coats impart 
to him that hath none. " 



 

Is that what you want of me? to buy this 
man an overcoat ? " said Olive facing round upon 
me. 

"No. Do not interrupt Martha. I have not 
done my story. It was not only that he was ill-dressed, Olive; but his face was haggard, pinched, 
thin and worn and grey " 

" An old man ? " 

"Not at all; in the prime of life, and very pre 
possessing; but in his eyes there was the dreadful 
look of a man pursued and run down by a wild 
