
" She had it out of me before I knew," said 
Dunham. " I didn 't realize what she was after ; 
and I didn 't realize how peculiar the situation 
might seem " — 

" I see nothing peculiar in the situation," inter- 
rupted Stamford, haughtily. Then he laughed con- 
sciously. " Or, yes, I do ; of course I do ! You 
must know her to appreciate it, though." He 
mused a while before he added : " No wonder Mrs. 
Rivers was determined to come aboard ! I wish 
we had let her, — confound her ! She 'll think 
I was ashamed of it. There 's nothing to be 
ashamed of! By Heaven, I should like to hear any 
one " — Stamford broke off, and laughed, and then 
bit his lip, smiling. Suddenly he burst out again, 
frowning : " I won't view it in that light. I refuse 
to consider it from that point of view. As far as 
I 'm concerned, it 's as regular as anything else in 
life. It 's the same to me as if she were in her 
own house, and I had come there to tell her that 
she has my future in her hand. She 's such a lady 
by instinct that she 's made it all a triumph, and 
I thank God that I haven 't done or said anything 
to mar it. Even that beast of a Hicks didn 't ; it 's 
no merit. I 've made love to her, — I own it ; of 

 



 

course I have, because I was in love with her ; and 
my fault has been that I haven 't made love to her 
openly, but have gone on fancying that I was 
studying her character, or some rubbish of that 
sort. But the fault is easily repaired. " He turned 
about, as if he were going to look for Lydia at 
once, and ask her to be his wife. But he halted 
abruptly, and sat down. " No ; that won't do," he 
said. " That won't do at all." He remained 
thinking, and Dunham, unwilling to interrupt his 
reverie, moved a few paces off. " Dunham, don't 
go. I want your advice. Perhaps I don't see it 
in the right light." 

" How is it you see it, my dear fellow ? " asked 
Dunham. 

" I don't know whether I 've a right to be ex- 
plicit with her, here. It seems like taking an ad- 
vantage. In a few days she will be with her 
friends " — 

" You must wait," said Dunham, decisively. 
" You can't speak to her before she is in their care ; 
it wouldn 't be the thing. You 're quite right 
about that." 

" No, it wouldn 't be the thing," groaned Stam- 
ford. " But how is it all to go on till then ?" he 
demanded desperately. 

" Why, just as it has before," answered Dunham, 
with easy confidence. 

" But is that fair to her ? " 

" Why not ? You mean to say to her at the 



 

right time all that a man can. Till that time 
comes I haven 't the least doubt she understands 
you." 

" Do you think so?" asked Stamford, simply. 
He had suddenly grown very subject and meek to 
Dunham. 

" Yes," said the other, with the superiority of a 
betrothed lover; " women are very quick about 
those things." 

" I suppose you 're right," sighed Staniford, with 
nothing of his wonted arrogant pretension in re- 
gard to women's moods and minds, " I suppose 
you 're right. And you would go on just as be- 
fore?" 

u I would, indeed. How could you change with- 
out making her unhappy — if she 's interested in 
you? " 

" That 's true. I could imagine worse things 
than going on just as before. I suppose," he added, 
