to be finished with all the elegance art can bring. She saw one of my
articles, and sent to me; and we have been corresponding. In September I
am to go to New York, and make arrangements. There is to be painting and
frescoing, and rooms finished in different styles,--indeed, I cannot
tell the half myself, until I see her."
The pale face had kindled with a fine and proud enthusiasm. More than
ever, Jack recognized the artistic refinement of his friend. What would
law or medicine have been to him as a profession?
"Humph!" grunted Jack. "A great vacation that will be! But you must be
careful, or you will not live out half your days. You've a look in your
face like the little chap I first knew."
The smile that crossed it then, Jack did not understand. It seemed to
Fred Lawrence that half his days would suffice, when Sylvie Barry was
his friend's wife.
"Yet you see the 'little chap' lived"--with an attempt at gayety.
"Yes. And, Fred, I am more glad than I can put into words, to know that
you have been so successful. It is just the career for you. It's odd
that a great commonplace, blundering fellow like me should have two such
artistic friends as you and Sylvie Barry."
The well-trained face did not blanch a muscle. He felt, with a flash of
subtile inner consciousness, that Darcy was studying him. Thank God, he
could stand before his friend free from a thought of treachery! All
these weeks he had walked over burning coals, but the smell of the fire
was not in his garments.
Jack thought it over long after Fred had gone. Why could not these two
people see! Surely they were meant for one another. It puzzled, it
almost fretted him. Sylvie was so peculiar, so changed in these few
weeks! What did it all mean?
And on Saturday when he was to go down to the beach, Fred pleaded some
urgent business to a neighboring city. He was not quite brave enough to
see them together.
"I have been meaning to go for some time," he said with gravity, "but I
did not like to think they would be alone over Sunday. Now that you will
be there, I certainly can spare three or four days."
"See here," returned Jack,--"wait until Monday. Come, we'll have a nice
day together down there on the sands. Sundays always seem so wonderful
by the ocean, with the grand chant forever in your ears. The very waves
are saying,--
          "'Let every thing that hath breath praise the Lord.'"
But Fred Lawrence would not suffer himself to be persuaded.
CHAPTER XXIII.
JACK DARCY'S business-tour, while it had not been productive of any
great financial results, had restored his healthy mental equilibrium. He
found other firms were having it just as hard, and that the country was
still overrun with men willing to work for any wages. Prices were
certainly falling. All kinds of raw products were offered at the very
lowest figure; and, labor being so cheap, manufactured goods must
perforce be low. Men were not now counting on a speedy return to good
times and high prices: they began to admit that the latter were the
outcome of extravagant speculation. They bought what they wanted, and no
more. They gave no extensive credits, and now really appeared to be
anxious to reach a permanent basis.
"We shall have to sell most of our stock at cost," he said to Winston.
"Lucky to get that, I suppose. And we shall come out about even--no
profits for this six months. Still, we shall not run back, and that is
something gained."
"We can count on the new goods, I'm pretty sure," returned Winston.
"I've had some inquiries, and sent samples. Some of the fancy
overcoatings are to be duplicated. That looks like business."
It did, indeed. Jack sat at his desk, ruminating upon it, and feeling as
if at last they saw a light through the woods, when a step startled him,
because it was not the kind of step usually heard through that hall, so
he turned. It was Fred Lawrence, with a face of ashen pallor. Jack
sprang up, dazed with the vision.
"I was to come and tell you--Maverick has gone to Depford Beach--Miss
Barry is very ill, and they have telegraphed for him. He left word--that
we were to come."
The voice had a strained, unnatural sound; and the eyes looked like
those that have wept out a passionate sorrow, and are dry from despair.
"Ill--Miss Barry--not Sylvie?"
Could he speak of her in that calm tone? A passion of rage swelled in
Fred's heart, and flushed his face. Only a moment, for the great throb
of thankfulness that it was not Sylvie restored him.
"It is Miss Barry. You will go?"
The tone had that peculiar, wandering cadence, as if somehow the soul
had dropped out of it.
"Certainly," and Jack sprang up, puzzled by something quite intangible
in Fred's demeanor.
"There are just twenty minutes to catch this train. The eight-ten does
not stop at Depford, you know."
"True: I will just speak to Winston"--
"I will meet you at the station," returned Fred hurriedly, turning away.
Much as he loved Jack, it seemed as if he could not walk to the station
with him. A feeling of profound pity for Sylvie rose in his heart. This
man, noble, generous, helpful, and affectionate, had not the finely
responsive nature Sylvie Barry needed. There would be some distance or
coldness, or, worse still, a fatal dissonance. One part of her nature
must remain unmated: her soul would have a language in which he would
not only be deaf, but wholly dumb. He could express no more than the
possibilities of his nature. It was not the fine and essential
difference between man and woman, but that more fatal gulf in which
there would appear no certain glimpses of a royally endowed love in all
its spontaneity, its glow of feeling, its variation of rich emotions.
How would she, with her versatile, changeful soul, with its cycle of
moods, ever live in the strong, steady prison of his heart!
If he had thought perfect honor to his friend the greatest trial of his
life, what was this to be? He could not stay and see the slow, consuming
inward fire that would burn her soul to ashes while it was still in the
body. Thank God, he could go away, would go soon indeed, and never
return! He would nerve himself for these few days of torture.
