son, Mark. There you have the whole." 
" He is a great deal older than you. I suppose he has 
been in the habit of assisting you ? " 
" Never saw him in my life until this last October, when, 
one windy day, he found me coughing on the Exton pier ; 
and, soon afterward, he brought me down here." 
" Came, then, on your account ? " 
" By no means ; he was coming himself. It's a queer 
story; I'll tell it to you. It seems he went with the Kenton 
Arctic expedition you remember it ? Two of the ships were 
lost; his was one. But I'll have to get up and say it as he 
did." Here Carl rose, put down his pipe, extended one hand 
stiffly in a fixed position, and went on speaking, his very 
voice, by force of the natural powers of mimicry he possessed, 
sounding like Mark's : 
" We were a company of eight when we started away 
from the frozen hulk, which would never see clear water un 
der her bows again. Once before we had started, thirty-five 
strong, and had come back thirteen. Five had died in the 
old ship, and now the last survivors were again starting forth. 
We drew a sledge behind us, carrying our provisions and the 
farcical records of the expedition which had ended in death, 
as they must all end. We soon lose sight of the vessel. It 
was our only shelter, and we look back ; then, at each other. 
Cheer up ! says one. Take this extra skin, Mark ; I am 
stronger than you. It's Proctor's voice that speaks. Ten 
days go by. There are only five of us now, and we are walk 
ing on doggedly across the ice, the numbing ice, the killing 
ice, the never-ending, gleaming, taunting, devilish ice. We 
have left the sledge behind. No trouble now for each to 
carry his share of food, it is so light. Now we walk together 
for a while ; now we separate, sick of seeing one another's 
pinched faces, but we keep within call. On the eleventh day 
a wind rises ; bergs come sailing into view. One moves down 
upon us. Its peak shining in the sunshine far above is no 
thing to the great mass that moves on under the water. Our 
ice-field breaks into a thousand pieces. We leap from block 
to block ; we cry aloud in our despair ; we call to each other, 
and curse, and pray. But the strips of dark water widen be 
tween us ; our ice-islands grow smaller ; and a current bears 
us onward. We can no longer keep in motion, and freeze as 
we stand. Two float near each other as darkness falls ; 
Cheer up, Mark, cheer up ! cries one, and throws his flask 
across the gap between. Again it is Proctor's voice that 
speaks. 
" In the morning only one is left alive. The others are 
blocks of ice, and float around in the slow eddy, each sol 
emnly staring, one foot advanced, as if still keeping up the 
poor cramped steps with which he had fought off death. The 
one who is still alive floats around and around, with these 
dead men standing stiffly on their islands, all day, sometimes 
so near them that the air about him is stirred by their icy 
forms as they pass. At evening his cake drifts away through 
an opening toward the south, and he sees them no more, 
save that after him follows his dead friend, Proctor, at some 
distance behind. As night comes, the figure seems to wave 
its rigid hand in the distance, and cry from its icy throat, 
Cheer up, Mark, and good-by ! 
Here Carl stopped, rubbed his hands, shivered, and looked 
to see how his visitor took the narrative. 
" It's a pretty cold story," said Schwartz, " even in this 
broiling sun. So he came down here to get a good, full 
warm, did he ? He's got the cash, I suppose, to pay for his 
fancies." 
" I don't call that a fancy, exactly," said Carl, seating him- 
self on the hot white sand in the sunshine, with his thin hands 
clasped around his knees. " As to cash I don't know. He 
works very hard." 
" He works because he likes it," said Schwartz, contemp 
tuously ; " he looks like that sort of a man. But, at any rate, 
he don't make it work much ! " 
" He is awfully good to me," admitted Carl. 
" It isn't on account of your beauty." 
" Oh, I'm good looking enough in my way," replied the 
youth. " I acknowledge it isn't a common way ; like yours, 
for instance." As he spoke, he passed his hand through his 
thin light hair, drew the ends of the long locks forward, and 
examined them admiringly. 
" As he never saw you before, it couldn't have been 
brotherly love," pursued the other. " I suppose it was pity." 
" No, it wasn't pity, either, you old blockhead," said Carl, 
laughing. " He likes to have me with him ; he likes me." 
" I see that myself, and that's exactly the point. Why 
should he ? You haven't any inheritance to will to him, have 
you ? " 
" My violin, and the clothes on my back. I believe that's 
all," answered Carl, lightly. He took off his palmetto hat, 
made a pillow of it, and stretched himself out at full length, 
closing his eyes. 
" Well, give me a brother with cash, and I'll go to sleep, 
too," said Schwartz. W T hen Deal came home at sunset, the 
dark-skinned visitor was gone. 
But he came again ; and this time stayed three days. 
Mark allowed it, for Carl's sake. All he said was, " He can 
not be of much use in the restaurant up there. What is he ? 
Cook? Or waiter?" 
" Oh, Schwartz isn't a servant, old fellow. He helps en 
tertain the guests." 
" Sings, I suppose." 
Carl did not reply, and Deal set Schwartz down as a lager- 
