his cheeks, and using his stomach like the bellows of the Scotch
bagpipe, and producing the same droning sound as that delightful
instrument. But I would rather hear this boy half a day than the bagpipe
a week.

I talked about buying the pipe, but the boy made it himself, and prized
it so highly that I could not pay him what he thought it was worth, and
I had not the heart to offer its real value. Therefore I left him in
possession of his darling, and gave him half a silver piastre. He kissed
it and thanked me warmly, holding the unexpected remuneration for his
genius in his hand, and looking at it with shining eyes. I feel an
instant pang, and I am sorry that I gave it to him. I have destroyed
the pure and ideal world in which he played to himself, and tainted
the divine love of sweet sounds with the idea of gain and the scent of
money. The serenity of his soul is broken up, and he will never again
be the same boy, exercising his talent merely for the pleasure of it.
He will inevitably think of profit, and will feverishly expect something
from every traveler. He may even fall so far as to repair to landings
where boats stop, and play in the hope of backsheesh.

At night we came to Assiout, greeted from afar by the sight of its
slender and tall minarets and trees, on the rosy background of sunset.



0417




CHAPTER XXXII.—JOTTINGS.

LETTING our dahabeëh drift on in the morning, we spend the day at
Assiout, intending to overtake it by a short cut across the oxbow which
the river makes here. We saw in the city two examples, very unlike, of
the new activity in Egypt. One related to education, the other to the
physical development of the country and to conquest.

After paying out respects to the consul, we were conducted by his two
sons to the Presbyterian Mission-School. These young men were educated
at the American College in Beyrout. Nearly everywhere we have been in
the East, we have found a graduate of this school, that is as much as
to say, a person intelligent and anxious and able to aid in the
regeneration of his country. It would not be easy to overestimate the
services that this one liberal institution of learning is doing in the
Orient.

The mission-school was under the charge of the Rev. Dr. John Hogg and
his wife (both Scotch), with two women-teachers, and several native
assistants. We were surprised to find an establishment of about one
hundred and twenty scholars, of whom over twenty were girls. Of course
the majority of the students were in the primary studies, and some were
very young; but there were classes in advanced mathematics, in logic,
history, English, etc. The Arab young men have a fondness for logic and
metaphysics, and develop easily an inherited subtlety in such studies.
The text-books in use are Arabic, and that is the medium of teaching.

The students come from all parts of Upper Egypt, and are almost all
the children of Protestant parents, and they are, with an occasional
exception, supported by their parents, who pay at least their board
while they are at school. There were few Moslems among them, I think
only one Moslem girl. I am bound to say that the boys and young men
in their close rooms did not present an attractive appearance; an
ill-assorted assembly, with the stamp of physical inferiority and
dullness—an effect partially due to their scant and shabby apparel, for
some of them had bright, intelligent faces.

The school for girls, small as it is, impressed us as one of the most
hopeful things in Egypt. I have no confidence in any scheme for the
regeneration of the country, in any development if agriculture, or
extension of territory, or even in education, that does not reach woman
and radically change her and her position. It is not enough to say that
the harem system is a curse to the East: woman herself is everywhere
degraded. Until she becomes totally different from what she now is, I am
not sure but the Arab is right in saying that the harem is a necessity:
the woman is secluded in it (and in the vast majority of harems there
is only one wife) and has a watch set over her, because she cannot be
trusted. One hears that Cairo is full of intrigue, in spite of locked
doors and eunuchs. The large towns are worse than the country; but I
have heard it said that woman is the evil and plague of Egypt—though
I don’t know how the country could go on without her. Sweeping
generalizations are dangerous, but it is said that the sole education of
most Egyptian women is in arts to stimulate the passion of men. In the
idleness of the most luxurious harem, in the grim poverty of the lowest
cabin, woman is simply an animal.

What can you expect of her? She is literally uneducated, untrained in
every respect. She knows no more of domestic economy than she does of
books, and she is no more fitted to make a house attractive or a room
tidy than she is to hold an intelligent conversation. Married when she
is yet a child, to person she may have never seen, and a mother at an
age when she should be in school, there is no opportunity for her to
become anything better than she is.

A primary intention in this school is to fit the girls to become good
wives, who can set an example of tidy homes economically managed,
in which there shall be something of social life and intelligent
companionship between husband and wife. The girls are taught the common
branches, sewing, cooking, and housekeeping—as there is opportunity for
learning it in the family of the missionaries. This house of Dr. Hogg’s,
