and flattered him to feel that he could afford, morally 
speaking, to have a kittenish wife. He had within 
himself a fund of common sense to draw upon, so 
that to espouse a paragon of wisdom would be but to 
carry water to the fountain. He could easily make 
up for the deficiencies of a wife who was a little silly, 
and if she charmed and amused him, he could treat 
himself to the luxury of these sensations for them- 
selves. He was not in the least afraid of being 
ruined by it, and if Blanche's birdlike chatter and 
turns of the head had made a fool of him, he knew it 





perfectly well, and simply took his stand upon his 
rights. Every man has a right to a little flower-bed, 
and life is not all mere kitchen-gardening. Bernard 
rapidly extemporized this rough explanation of the 
surprise his friend had offered him, and he found it 
all-sufficient for his immediate needs. He wrote 
Blanche a charming note, to which she replied with 
a great deal of spirit and grace. Her little letter was 
very prettily turned, and Bernard, reading it over 
two or three times, said to himself that, to do her 
justice, she might very well. haVe polished her intel- 
lect a trifle during these two or three years. As she 
was older, she could hardly help being wiser. It 
even occurred to Bernard that she might have profited 
by the sort of experience that is known as the disci- 
pline of suffering. What had become of Captain 
Lovelock and that tender passion which was appar- 
ently none the less genuine for having been expressed 
in the slang of a humorous period ? Had they been 
permanently separated by judicious guardians, and 
had she been obliged to obliterate his image from her 
lightly-heating little heart ? Bernard had felt sure at 
Baden that, beneath her contemptuous airs and that 
impertinent consciousness of the difficulties of con- 
quest by which a pretty American girl attests her 
allegiance to a civilization in which young women 
occupy the highest place — he had felt sure that 
Blanche had a high appreciation of her handsome 





Englishman, and that if Lovelock should continue to 
relish her charms, he might count upon the advan- 
tages of reciprocity. But it occurred to Bernard that 
Captain Lovelock had perhaps been faithless; that, 
at least, the discourtesy of chance and the inhumanity 
of an elder brother might have kept him an eternal 
prisoner at the Hotel de Hollande (where, for all Ber- 
nard knew to the contrary, he had been obliged to 
work out his destiny in the arduous character of a 
polyglot waiter) ; so that the poor young girl, casting 
backward glances along the path of Mrs. Vivian's 
retreat, and failing to detect the onward rush of a 
rescuing cavalier, had perforce believed herself for- 
saken, and had been obliged to summon philosophy 
to her aid. It was very possible that her philo- 
sophic studies had taught her the art of reflection ; 
and that, as she would have said herself, she was tre- 
mendously toned down. Once, at Baden, when Gor- 
don Wright happened to take upon himself to remark 
that little Miss Evers was bored by her English gal- 
lant, Bernard had ventured to observe, in petto, that 
Gordon knew nothing about it. But all this was of 
no consequence now, and Bernard steered further and 
further away from the liability to detect fallacies in 
his friend. Gordon had engaged himself to marry, 
and our critical hero had not a grain of fault to find 
with this resolution. It was a capital thing ; it was 
just yflnt he wanted ; it would do him a world of 





good. Bernard rejoiced with him sincerely, and re- 
gretted extremely that a series of solemn engagements 
to pay visits in England should prevent his being 
present at the nuptials. 

They were well over, as I have said, when he 
reached New York. The honeymoon had waned, and 
the business of married life had begun. Bernard, at 
the end, had sailed from England rather abruptly. A 
friend wo had a remarkably good cabin on one of 
the steamers was obliged by a sudden detention to 
give it up, and on his offering it to Longueville, the 
latter availed himself gratefully of this opportunity 
of being a little less discomposed than usual by the 
Atlantic billows. He therefore embarked at two 
days' notice, a fortnight earlier than he had intended 
and than he had written to Gordon to expect him. 
Gordon, of course, had written that he was to seek 
