
Titania stared a little. Kate was used to asking advice 
on subjects quite beyond the child's comprehension. So 
much black was not cheerful, most assuredly. It would be 
pleasant to go to the theatre again, to be asked out to 
dainty suppers, and have the stir of active life. 

Titania enjoyed it ; how could she help when it had been 
daily food. Yet she indulged in moments of passionate 
weeping for Dick, when Kate was out of sight. Though 
too young to discriminate, she felt, and vaguely understood, 
the shallowness of Kate's nature. Already Titania had 
grown prematurely wise in some respects. 

" I may as well tell you," began Kate, as they were sun- 
ning themselves in the Park one brilliant morning, late in 
May, " that I am engaged ; " and a conscious smirk over 
spread her face. " Mr. Chippenham asked me last night." 

"Oh ! " Titania cried, and it was like a sound of pain. 
Could Dick be so soon forgotten ? 

Kate looked surprised. 

"You don't seem to like him very much, and yet it is 
really ungrateful in you, Titania. I am sure he does a 
great many nice things for you ; and he adores me. I sup- 
pose I did love Dick when I first married him, but he was 
always very masterful, and thought I did not know 
anything. Now dear Gilbert is so different. He always 
consults me, and calls me an angel instead of a fool. And 
he wants to be married very soon. He doesn't consider it 
worth while to wait a whole year." 

" And you are going to put him in Dick's place give 
him all Dick's money, love him, and kiss him ; " and 
Titania's eyes dilated with something like horror, as well 
as disgust. 

" How you do talk ! You forget that I love him," said 
Kate, much aggrieved. 





" It is very strange," faltered Titania, turning away to 
hide her tears. 

" Why, no, it isn't strange at all. You are a little girl, 
and don't know anything about love. But you are so 
pretty that you will soon have lovers of your own. I wish 
you could grow tall faster. And about the money, Gil- 
bert isn't going to take it, under any circumstances. It is 
to be all settled on myself, and I am to give him power of 
something, I've forgotten what, and he is to invest it, 
and pay me the interest. And so we are going right on to 
sell everything. I think we shall go to Paris for our bridal 
tour." 

Titania said no more, but Kate rambled on in her foolish 
fashion, supremely happy and content. The child won- 
dered why she should have disliked Mr. Chippenham so, 
from the very first, and she experienced an undefined mis- 
giving for Kate. Of herself she scarcely thought. 

Kate had received one very advantageous offer for her, 
a fortnight after Dick's death ; but, to her credit, she had 
refused it. Dick had loved the child so well that she 
seemed a sacred trust to her. But to Mr. Chippenham 
nothing had any sacredness. He viewed Titania as a part 
of the property the dead man had left. 

Altogether he was quite elated with his engagement. 
Kate was somewhat older than himself, and lacked the re- 
finement of taste that he admired in a woman ; but she 
was easily flattered and easily led, and there was the 
money. He was quite surprised when he came to learn 
the amount. Kate trusted him implicitly. One of the 
executors of the will was dead, the other declined serving, 
so the whole business fell to Kate and her lover. There 
would be no check to the ignorance of the one, or the sel- 
fish cupidity of the other. 

And Gilbert Chippenham determined to become a great 
man. Hitherto he had been repressed, and not appreciated. 
A winter in Paris, with certain stage associations, would 





give him position. Managers would not dare snub him 
after that, and with a bound he expected to leap into the 
arena of fame. 

The farm and its belongings were disposed of, and cer- 
tain stocks turned into ready money. Kate and Titania 
went to Saratoga, but it was early in the season, and Mad- 
ame Barretti did not seem to take among these people. 
