done Catherine justice. You must remember that 
she has the prospect of thirty thousand a year." 

The Doctor looked at his sister a moment, and 
then, with lightest touch of bitterness, " You at least 
appreciate her," he said. 

Mrs. Almond blushed. 

"I don't mean that is her only merit; I simply 
mean that it is a great one. A great many young 
men think so ; and you appear to me never to have 



been properly aware of that. You have always had 
a little way of alluding to her as an un marriageable 
girl." 

"My allusions are as kind as yours, Elizabeth," 
said the Doctor, frankly. " How many suitors has 
Catherine had, with all her expectations how much 
attention has she ever received? Catherine is not 
unmarriageable, but she is absolutely unattractive. 
What other reason is there for Lavinia being so 
charmed with the idea that there is a lover in the 
house ? There has never been one before, and La- 
vinia, with her sensitive, sympathetic nature, is not 
used to the idea. It affects her imagination. I must 
do the young men of New York the justice to say 
that they strike me as very disinterested. They 
prefer pretty girls lively girls girls like your own. 
Catherine is neither pretty nor lively." 

" Catherine does very well ; she has a style of her 
own which is more than my poor Marian has, who 
has no style at all," said Mrs. Almond. " The reason 
Catherine has received so little attention, is that she 
seems to all the young men to be older than them- 
selves. She is so large, and she dresses so richly. 
They are rather afraid of her, I think ; she looks as 
if she had been married already, and you know they 
don't like married women. And if our young men 
appear disinterested," the Doctor's wiser sister went 
on, " it is because they marry, as a general thing, so 
young before twenty-five, at the age of innocence 
and sincerity before the age of calculation. If they 
only waited a little, Catherine would fare better." 

"As a calculation? Thank you very much," said 
the Doctor. 





"Wait till some intelligent man of forty comes 
along, and he will be delighted with Catherine," Mrs. 
Almond continued. 

" Mr. Townsend is not old enough, then ? His mo- 
tives may be pure." 

" It is very possible that his motives are pure ; I 
should be very sorry to take the contrary for grant- 
ed. Lavinia is sure of it; and, as he is a very pre- 
possessing youth, you might give him the benefit of 
the doubt." 

Doctor Sloper reflected a moment. 

" "What are his present means of subsistence ?" 

" I have no idea. He lives, as I say, with his sister." 

" A widow, with five children ? Do you mean he 
lives upon her ?" 

Mrs. Almond got up, and with a certain impa- 
tience, " Had you not better ask Mrs. Montgomery 
herself ?" she inquired. 

" Perhaps I may come to that," said the Doctor. 
"Did you say the Second Avenue?" He made a 
note of the Second Avenue. 







 



VII. 



