
" Dolly Copley ! " ci-ied Christina. " Do you 
want the world to look small, as long as you are 
obliged to live in it ? " 

" It looks big enough," said Dolly smiling, " as 
soon as I get home." 

The conversation however after this did take a 



 

turn, and ran upon more every day topics; less 
interesting to Dolly however. But the speakers 
were interesting always; and she watched them, 
the play of sense and nonsense, of feeling and fun, 
not caring much that the matter of the talk did 
not concern her; until Mrs. Thayer and her escort 
were heard returning. 

And then indeed the evening changed its character; however the fascination remained for Dolly. 
The talk was no longer on personal subjects; it 
went gayly and jovially over all sorts of light matters; an excellent supper was served; and in the 
novelty and the brightness and the liveliness of all 
about her, Dolly was in a kind of bewitchment. 
It was a lull, a pause in the midst of her cares, 
a still nook to which an eddy had brought her, out 
of the current; Dolly took the full benefit. She 
would not think of trouble. Sometimes a swift 
feeling of contrast swept in upon her, the contrast 
of her friend's safe and sheltered life. No care for 
her; no anxiety about ways and means; no need 
to work for money; and no need to fear for anybody dear to her. Christina's father was her guardian, not she his; he might be a very hum drum 
man, and no doubt was, but his daughter had no 
cause to be ashamed for him ; had not the burden 
'of his life and character on her own shoulders to 
take care of. A swift, keen feeling of this contrast 
would come over Dolly; but she put it away as 
instantly, and would not see or hear anything but 
what was pleasant. 



CHAPTER XXVI. 

NAPLES. 

DOLLY shared her friend's room. Talk ran on, 
all the while they were undressing, upon all 
manner of trifles. When they were laid down, 
however, and Dolly was just rejoicing to be quiet 
and think, Christina began to speak in a different 
tone. 

" Dolly, how do you like him ? " 

I think, if Dolly had liked him less, she would 
have been fuller in his praise. I do not know by 
what sort of hidden instinct and unconscious diplomacy she answered very coolly and with no 
enthusiasm. 

" I like him very well. I think he is true." 

" True ! Of course he is true. If he wouldn't 
be so stupid. To expect one to be unlike all the 
world ! " 

Dolly was silent. 

" He's crotchetty, that's what he is," Christina 
went on. " I hate a man to be crotchetty. I shall 
work him out of it, if ever we come to live together." 

" I don't believe you will, Christina." 

" Why not ? " quickly. 



 

" I don't think you will," Dolly repeated. 

"Because you have the same notions that he 
has. My dear little Dolly! you don't know the 
world. You oarit live in the world and be running 
your head perpetually against it; indeed you cannot. You may break your head, but you won't do 
anything else. And the world will laugh at you." 

"But Christina, whom do you serve? For it 
comes to that." 

" Whom do I serve ! Pooh, that's not the question." 

" It comes to that, Christina." 

" Well, of course there is but one answer. But 
Sandie would have me give up everything ; everything ! all I like, and all I want to do." 
