morrow. 

It has never yet occurred to him that he might be the 
proprietor of Glen Ormiston on the same terms as Ward 
Allaire. In the first place, he has been trained to the 
greatest sanctity in regard to marriage. His mother and 
father were one of the perfectly matched couples with 
whom love was supreme ; and tliough Mrs. St. George 
died before her son reached manhood, to both Boa and 



 



 




htiBband she was a near spiritaal presenos, with only ths 
merest veil between. Mr. and Mrs. AUaire were alike 
happy in their wedded life. It wonld shock St. George 
nearly as much to see Mrs. Allaire marry again, as if his 
own father had proposed such a thing. He had never 
jested npon the subject, and Allaire's manner of consider- 
ing it pained him ; yet, he reflected, that was the modem 
way. He was behind the brisk, careless, sceptically philo- 
sophic age, just as this old house lapped over too far into 
past decades to be modernized. Certainly, Mark Ormis- 
ton was to be commended for making his additions so 
in keeping with its spirit. He could not fancy Ward 
Allaire here in the capacity of master ; he was too friv- 
olous, too much taken up with small personal desires. 
Would they change and refurnish and belittle? Perhaps 
they would not come at all. Was Miss Ormiston's fancy 
anything beyond a sense of ownership? He knew so very 
litda about her. 



 



 



CHAFTBB VI. 

THAT KNOWLEDOB IS SOBSOIT. 

Christhas ORBasTON is walking under the great maples 
at Meadowcroft that shower down on her the red 
blossoms in which the early spring has arrayed them. 
The grass is of a tender, soggestive greenness; the 
beds are full of yellow jonquil and almost every shade of 
crocus. Baqk in the edges are hosts of white and blue 
field violets. Nature is allowed some rights here that 
gardeners are bound to respect. 

They have left the city on Mrs. Allaire's account, and 
very much to Dolly's disgust. But her mother has been 
threatened with an illness, and the doctor ordered her 
away at once. 

''You two girls may remain with Helen,'' she says, 
languidly. 

'' I would rather go," Christmas replies, at once. 

Later on she recognizes one of the vague impulses that 
warns her to fly from a danger ; but she feels now that she 
is tired of balls and parties, theatres, drives, calls, and 
luncheons. The same people, the same dances and jests 
worn threadbare. Does it amuse or interest? How can 
women endure it year after year? How can Helen Stan- 
nard, with her fine and noble mental gifts, bend all her 
energies to keep at the head of a small circle, and with 
the exclusiveness of a queen, bar out all who do not come 
up to the full measure of birth, refinement, and position? 
Has she condescended to her, Christmas wonders ? 

She is glad she has had the experience. The intangible 
something that indicates one's bent decides her that she 
is not meant for purely fashionable life. Yet she has 



 



 



 
