Ralph took no pains to ask questions, the answers to which 
would suggest only the vague or the disagreeable. Now, how- 
ever, the native admiration of which his cousin was the object 
had become more concrete ; it took the form of a young man 
who had followed her to London; who was interested in a 
cotton-mill, and had manners in the American style. Ralph had 
two theories about this young man. Either his passion was a 
sentimental fiction of Miss Stackpole's (there was always a sort 
of tacit understanding among women, born of the solidarity of 



 

the sex, that they should discover or invent lovers foi each 
other), in which case he was not to be feared, and would pro- 
bably not accept the invitation ; or else he would accept the 
invitation, and in this event would prove himself a creature too 
irrational to demand further consideration. The latter clause of 
Ralph's argument might have seemed incoherent ; but it em- 
bodied his conviction, that if Mr. Goodwood were interested in 
Isabel in the serious manner described by Miss Stackpole, he 
would not care to present himself at Gardencourt on a summons 
from the latter lady. " On this supposition," said Ralph, " he 
must regard her as a thorn on the stem of his rose j as an inter- 
cessor he must find her wanting in tact." 

Two days after he had sent his invitation he received a very 
short note from Caspar Goodwood, thanking him for it, regret- 
ting that other engagements made a visit to Gardencourt impos- 
sible, and presenting many compliments to Miss Stackpole. 
Ralph handed the note to Henrietta, who, when she had read it, 
exclaimed 

"Well, I never have heard of anything so stiff! " 

" I am afraid he doesn't care so much about my cousin as you 
suppose," Ralph observed. 

" No, it's not that ; it's some deeper motive. His nature is 
very deep. But I am determined to fathom it, and I will write 
to him to know what he means." 

His refusal of Ralph's overtures made this yowng man vaguely 
uncomfortable ; from the moment he declined to come to Garden- 
court Ralph began to think him of importance. He asked him- 
self what it signified to him whether Isabel's admirers should be 
desperadoes or laggards ; they were not rivals of his, and were 
perfectly welcome to act out their genius. Nevertheless he felt 
much curiosity as to the result of Miss Stackpole's promised 
inquiry into the causes of Mr. Goodwood's stiffness a curiosity 
for the present ungratitied, inasmuch as when he asked her 
three days later whether she had written to London, she was 
obliged to confess that she had written in vain. Mr. Goodwood 
had not answered her. 

"I suppose he is thinking it over," she said; "he thinks 
everything over ; he is not at all impulsive. But I am accus- 
tomed to having my letters answered the same day." 

Whether it was to pursue her investigations, or whether it was 
in compliance with still larger interests, is a point which remains 
somewhat uncertain ; at all events, she presently proposed to 
Isabel that they should make an excursion to London together. 

" If I must tell the truth," she said, " I am not seeing much 



 

at this place, and I shouldn't think you were either. I have not 
even seen that aristocrat what's his name 1 Lord Washburton. 
He seems to let you severely alone." 

" Lord Warburton is coming to-morrow, I happen to know," 
replied Isabel, who had received a note from the master of Lock- 
leigh in answer to her own letter. "You will have every 
opportunity of examining him." 

" Well, he may do for one letter, but what is one letter when 
you want to write fifty   I have described all the scenery in this 
vicinity, and raved about all the old women and donkeys. You 
may say what you please, scenery makes a thin letter. I must 
go back to London and get some impressions of real life. I was 
there but three days before I came away, and that is hardly time 
to get started." 

As Isabel, on her journey from New York to Gardencourt, had 
seen even less of the metropolis than this, it appeared a happy 
suggestion of Henrietta's that the two should go thither on a 
visit of pleasure. The idea struck Isabel as charming ; she had 
a great desire to see something of London, which had always 
been the city of her imagination. They turned over their scheme 
together and indulged in visions of aesthetic hours. They would 
stay at some picturesque old inn one of the inns described by 
Dickens and drive over the town in those delightful hansoms. 
Henrietta was a literary woman, and the great advantage of being 
a literary woman was that you could go everywhere and do 
everything. They would dine at a coffee-house, and go after- 
