elders, who were troubled by the levity of his behav 
ior with young people on other occasions, by asking 
one of the ministers to open the exercises with prayer, 
and another, at the close, to invoke the Divine bless 
ing ; there was no especial relevancy in this, but it 
pleased. He kept himself, from the beginning, pretty 
constantly in the popular eye. He was a speaker at 
all public meetings, where his declamation was ad 
mired ; and at private parties, where the congealed 
particles of village society were united in a frozen 
mass, he was the first to break the ice, and set the 
angular fragments grating and grinding upon one 
another. 

He now went to his room, and opened his desk with 
some vague purpose of bringing up the arrears of his 
correspondence. Formerly, before his interest in the 
newspaper had lapsed at all, he used to give his Sun 
day leisure to making selections and writing para 
graphs for it; but he now let the pile of exchanges lie 
unopened on his desk, and began to rummage through 
the letters scattered about in it. They were mostly 
from young ladies with whom he had corresponded, 
and some of them enclosed the photographs of the 



 

writers, doing their best to look as they hoped he 
might think they looked. They were not love-letters, 
but were of that sort which the laxness of our social 
life invites young people, who have met pleasantly, to 
exchange as long as they like, without explicit inten 
tions on either side ; they commit the writers to noth 
ing; they are commonly without result, except in 
wasting time which is hardly worth saving. Every 
one who has lived the American life must have pro 
duced them in great numbers. While youth lasts, 
they afford an excitement whose charm is hard to 
realize afterward. 

Hartley 's correspondents were young ladies of his 
college town, where he had first begun to see some 
thing of social life in days which he now recognized 
as those of his green youth. They were not so very 
far removed in point of time ; but the experience of 
a larger world in the vacation he had spent with a 
Boston student had relegated them to a moral remote 
ness that could not readily be measured. His friend 
was the son of a family who had diverted him from 
the natural destiny of a Boston man at Harvard, and 
sent him elsewhere for sectarian reasons. They were 
rich people, devout in their way, and benevolent, after 
a fashion of their own ; and their son always brought 
home with him, for the holidays and other short vaca 
tions, some fellow-student accounted worthy of their 
hospitality through his religious intentions or his in 
tellectual promise. These guests were indicated to 
the young man by one of the faculty, and he accepted 
their companionship for the time with what perfunc 
tory civility he could muster. He and Bartley had 
amused themselves very well during that vacation. 
The Hallecks were not fashionable people, but they 
lived wealthily: they had a coachman and an inside 
man (whom Bartley at first treated with a considera 
tion which it afterward mortified him to think of) ; 



 

their house was richly furnished with cushioned seats, 
dense carpets, and heavy curtains ; and they were 
visited by other people of their denomination, and of 
a like abundance. Some of these were infected with 
the prevailing culture of the city, and the young 
ladies especially dressed in a style and let fall ideas 
that filled the soul of the country student with won 
der and worship. He heard a great deal of talk that 
he did not understand ; but he eagerly treasured every 
impression, and pieced it out, by question or furtive 
observation, jnto an image often shrewdly true, and 
often grotesquely untrue, to the conditions into which 
he had been dropped. He civilized himself as rapidly 
as his light permitted. There was a great deal of 
church-going ; but he and young Halleck went also 
to lectures and concerts ; they even went to the opera, 
and Bartley, with the privity of his friend, went to 
the theatre. Halleck said that he did not think there 
was much harm in a play ; but that his people stayed 
away for the sake of the exanfple, a reason that 
certainly need not hold with Bartley. 

At the end of the vacation he returned to college, 
leaving his measure with Halleck 's tailor, and his 
heart witli all the splendors and elegances of the 
town. He found the ceilings very low and the fash 
ions much belated in the village ; but he reconciled 
himself as well as he could. The real stress came 
