     contemplate this delicious abode and not feel an admiration of the
     genius and the poetical spirit of those who first devised this
     earthly paradise. There is an intoxication of heart and soul in
     looking over such scenery at this genial season. All nature is just
     teeming with new life, and putting on the first delicate verdure
     and bloom of spring. The almond-trees are in blossom; the fig-trees
     are beginning to sprout; everything is in the tender bud, the
     young leaf, or the half-open flower. The beauty of the season is
     but half developed, so that while there is enough to yield present
     delight there is the flattering promise of still further enjoyment.
     Good heavens! after passing two years amidst the sunburnt wastes of
     Castile, to be let loose to rove at large over this fragrant and
     lovely land!"

It was not easy, however, even in the Alhambra, perfectly to call up the
past:--

     "The verity of the present checks and chills the imagination in its
     picturings of the past. I have been trying to conjure up images of
     Boabdil passing in regal splendor through these courts; of his
     beautiful queen; of the Abencerrages, the Gomares, and the other
     Moorish cavaliers, who once filled these halls with the glitter of
     arms and the splendor of Oriental luxury; but I am continually
     awakened from my reveries by the jargon of an Andalusian peasant
     who is setting out rose-bushes, and the song of a pretty Andalusian
     girl who shows the Alhambra, and who is chanting a little romance
     that has probably been handed down from generation to generation
     since the time of the Moors."

In another letter, written from Seville, he returns to the subject of
the Moors. He is describing an excursion to Alcala de la Guadayra:--

     "Nothing can be more charming than the windings of the little river
     among banks hanging with gardens and orchards of all kinds of
     delicate southern fruits, and tufted with flowers and aromatic
     plants. The nightingales throng this lovely little valley as
     numerously as they do the gardens of Aranjuez. Every bend of the
     river presents a new landscape, for it is beset by old Moorish
     mills of the most picturesque forms, each mill having an embattled
     tower,--a memento of the valiant tenure by which those gallant
     fellows, the Moors, held this earthly paradise, having to be ready
     at all times for war, and as it were to work with one hand and
     fight with the other. It is impossible to travel about Andalusia
     and not imbibe a kind feeling for those Moors. They deserved this
     beautiful country. They won it bravely; they enjoyed it generously
     and kindly. No lover ever delighted more to cherish and adorn a
     mistress, to heighten and illustrate her charms, and to vindicate
     and defend her against all the world than did the Moors to
     embellish, enrich, elevate, and defend their beloved Spain.
     Everywhere I meet traces of their sagacity, courage, urbanity, high
     poetical feeling, and elegant taste. The noblest institutions in
     this part of Spain, the best inventions for comfortable and
     agreeable living, and all those habitudes and customs which throw a
     peculiar and Oriental charm over the Andalusian mode of living may
     be traced to the Moors. Whenever I enter these beautiful marble
     patios, set out with shrubs and flowers, refreshed by fountains,
     sheltered with awnings from the sun; where the air is cool at
     noonday, the ear delighted in sultry summer by the sound of falling
     water; where, in a word, a little paradise is shut up within the
     walls of home, I think on the poor Moors, the inventors of all
     these delights. I am at times almost ready to join in sentiment
     with a worthy friend and countryman of mine whom I met in Malaga,
     who swears the Moors are the only people that ever deserved the
     country, and prays to Heaven that they may come over from Africa
     and conquer it again."

In a following paragraph we get a glimpse of a world, however, that the
author loves still more:--

     "Tell me everything about the children. I suppose the discreet
     princess will soon consider it an indignity to be ranked among the
     number. I am told she is growing with might and main, and is
     determined not to stop until she is a woman outright. I would give
     all the money in my pocket to be with those dear little women at
     the round table in the saloon, or on the grass-plot in the garden,
     to tell them some marvelous tales."

And again:--

     "Give my love to all my dear little friends of the round table,
     from the discreet princess down to the little blue-eyed boy. Tell
     la petite Marie that I still remain true to her, though
     surrounded by all the beauties of Seville; and that I swear (but
     this she must keep between ourselves) that there is not a little
     woman to compare with her in all Andalusia."

The publication of "The Life of Columbus," which had been delayed by
Irving's anxiety to secure historical accuracy in every detail, did not
take place till February, 1828. For the English copyright Mr. Murray
paid him £3,150. He wrote an abridgment of it, which he presented to his
generous publisher, and which was a very profitable book (the first
edition of ten thousand copies sold immediately). This was followed by
the "Companions," and by "The Chronicle of the Conquest of Granada," for
which he received two thousand guineas. "The Alhambra" was not published
till just before Irving's return to America, in 1832, and was brought
out by Mr. Bentley, who bought it for one thousand guineas.

"The Conquest of Granada," which I am told Irving in his latter years
regarded as the best of all his works, was declared by Coleridge "a
chef-d'oeuvre of its kind." I think it bears re-reading as well as any
