
" Let me go ! " demanded the man. 

" Not an inch ! To lame yourself for life, and 
help nobody ! You never "can get up there. Sit 
back ! Take the reins ! Drive on for help ! There 
must be men at dinner behind that barn. Do as 
I bid you ! Do as I ask you&gt; please." 



 

He obeyed her ; lie cursed his helplessness, but 
he obeyed. She was already out of his sight, be 
hind the saw-mill. The next instant, as he drove, 
lashing the pony, he saw her run swiftly out upon 
the chained logs above the dam. lie closed his 
eyes. She poised herself like a chamois. He saw 
her sink upon her knees, had she slipped ? His 
breath came fast and feeble. The road darkened 
before him, and the forest whirled. 

. Am I going to do such a lady-like thing as to 
faint ? " thought the sick man. He fixed his eyes 
fiercely upon the blue reins, they seemed to 
remain knotted in his fingers ; he had a vision of 
the flying road, of the sudden sun, of dashing down 
upon a group of men, of seeing figures dart, of 
cry answering to cry ; and his next precise impres 
sion was that he had been sitting in the bottom of 
that phaeton, with his head on the cushions, longer 
than he supposed. He was alone, by the barn she 
spoke of. All the men were gone. He gathered 
his soul together, and drove back as he had come. 

A cluster of men hung on the bank above the 
dam. A motionless figure lay on the ground in 
the centre of the group. For an instant Yorke 
could see nothing distinctly. 

" Turn him over ! " rang out a clear, sweet,
imperious voice. " No, not so. So. This way. 
There ! Now, here, Jenley ! You help me. 



 

" All right, Doctor ! " said an unseen man.
Silence followed. Yorke bowed his face upon his 
crutch, with a confused idea of saying his prayers. 
All he could think of was the Apostles Creed and 
Fairy Lilian. The trickle of the fall fell cheer 
fully over the dam. 

" Tompkins, you here ! " came the word of com 
mand, in that calm, refined voice. " Work at his 
feet, as I bade you. Keep the arms, Jenley. Tear 
the shirt, don't wait. Harder, Smith ! Get 
more blankets from the house, bed-quilts, any 
thing. And flannel cloths, all you can muster. 
Be quiet. Work more steadily. Don't get 
excited. I want even motions, so." 

Fifteen minutes passed. One of the men spoke 
in a lone tone : 

" He don't budge, Doctor." 

She made no answer. They worked on silently. 
Yorke looked at his watch. Twenty-two min 
utes. 

" Ma.ke that chest movement just as I told you, 
Jenley ! patiently. Have courage. Give me 
the flannel, Smith. No. Rub upwards, not down ; 
I told you twice. Harder. Here, I 'll show you." 

Twenty-six minutes. Half an hour. The lum 
bermen began to mutter. Yorke could hear their 
faint gutteral protest. 



 

" You can't resusentite a dead man, Doctor." 

" He 's dead, that 's gospel sure, deader  
Judas." 

" A critter 's legs don't hang that way if he 's 
livin ." 

" You hain't seen so many drownded lumbermen 
as we have, young lady." 

" My arms ache," said one big fellow earnestly. 
" I 've rubbed a long spell. Give him up, Doc 
