"She is not more than a mile astern of us," replied Dory.

"Is she coming near us?"

"She is headed directly for us."

"And where is this boat?" continued Peppers.

"We are approaching Long Point, and are within half a mile of it. We are
inside of Sister Islands, and the Sylph seems to be taking the same
course. She acts just as though she was following us," said Dory, who
had been watching the progress of the beautiful steam-yacht ever since
she first came in sight.

"She does act as though she was following us, don't she, Dory Dornwood?"
added Pearl Hawlinshed.

"I have no doubt she is following us," replied Dory.

"Do you know of any reason why she should follow us?" asked the skipper,
trying to conceal his anxiety.

"I don't," answered Dory.

"Do you know her owner, Dory?" inquired Pearl.

Dory hesitated. It was a disagreeable topic to him, and he would gladly
have avoided it. It was plain enough that the Sylph was following the
Goldwing, but Dory could think of no reason why she should do so.

"Do you know Captain Gildrock, her owner?" asked Pearl again, and with
more energy than before.

"I do know him: he is my uncle," replied Dory, who could see no reason
why he should conceal the disagreeable truth--for it was disagreeable to
him--from the skipper.

"Your uncle!" exclaimed Pearl, apparently startled at the reply. "Do you
mean to say that Captain Gildrock is your uncle, you young cub?"

"I mean to say it, and I do say it."

But Dory wished with all his might that the captain was not his uncle,
or any other relation.

"He is one of the richest men in this part of the country," added Pearl,
looking astern at the elegant steam-yacht.

"I know it; but I don't have any thing to do with him, and I don't think
he is coming after this boat on my account," added Dory.

"I suppose you will be glad to get on board of her," suggested Pearl,
who had now become quite nervous in spite of his fine philosophy.

"No, I shouldn't. I was never on board of the Sylph in my life; and I
shall not go on board of her if I can help it," answered Dory.

"You and your uncle don't seem to be on the best of terms," continued
Pearl, as he headed the boat to the eastward, after passing Long Point.

The skipper ran the Goldwing close to the point. The Sylph was within
hailing-distance of her at this time; but the steamer had to go a
quarter of a mile or more to the northward of the point in order to find
water enough for her greater draught. In this way Pearl gained half a
mile or more upon her. This enabled him to run the distance to the Gut,
which is the strait, or channel, between North Hero and South Hero, or
Grand Isle. It was about half a mile wide, between Bow-Arrow Point and
Tromp's Point; though there is only a narrow channel, between a red and
a black buoy, for vessels that drew over five feet of water at the
lowest stage of the lake.

Pearl headed the Goldwing to the southward of the buoys. The Sylph was
almost up with the schooner again; and, if the latter had gone between
the buoys, the steamer would have overhauled her before she reached
them. The skipper became more and more nervous. It was clear to Dory
that Pearl was not familiar with the navigation of this difficult
place; for he frequently looked over the side of the boat into the
water, doubtless to see how deep it was.

"How deep is the water ahead, Dory Dornwood?" asked the skipper, when he
seemed to be bewildered, and evidently expected the boat to take the
bottom every moment.

"If you are going to sail the boat, you must do it alone," replied Dory
after a little hesitation. "I won't do any thing to help you as things
are now."

"Goldwing, ahoy!" shouted some one with a gruff voice in the forward
part of the Sylph.

But the steam-yacht had stopped her propeller, and immediately began to
back. Her pilot knew how deep the water was on the shoal. Pearl made no
reply to the hail, and the schooner continued on her course. Off Tromp's
Point she struck her centre-board; but, as she was going before the
wind, she did not need it, and Pearl hauled it up so that the boat slid
over the shallow place.

The man with the gruff voice hailed the boat again; but the skipper did
not respond. Pearl hauled in his sheets, and headed the boat to the
north-west. The steamer then went through the channel.
