resented, he now felt that he was irritated against her and could not
forgive her inopportune interruption. All his opposition was roused; and
as if in despite of his old love he dwelt on the thoughts of the
present, and delighted in recalling the details of the fair Marchesa's
conversation, the quickly changing expression of her face, the tones of
her voice, the grace of her movements. She was so strong and living that
he felt his whole being permeated with the atmosphere and essence of her
life.

As he leaned back in his chair, he experienced a sensation by no means
new to him, of intense delight in existence, and he breathed in the soft
fresh air, and tasted that it was the breath of love.

A small, short step sounded on the tiles of the terrace, coming toward
his corner. He looked round quickly, and was aware of the tall and
graceful figure of Diana de Charleroi, muffled in something dark, but
unmistakable in its outline and stately presence. In a moment she was
beside him; he rose and threw away his cigarette, somewhat astonished.

"Get another chair," said she, in a low voice. "It is pleasant here."

He obeyed quickly and noiselessly, as he did everything. She had taken
his chair, and he sat down beside her, waiting for her to speak.

"I thought I should find you here, Julius," she said, calling him by his
Christian name without the smallest hesitation. "I wanted to speak to
you alone."

"You have the faculty of finding me," said Julius with a short, low
laugh.

"Since when is it so disagreeable to you?" asked Diana.

Julius was silent, for there was nothing he could say. He wished he had
said nothing at first,--it would have been much better. Diana
continued.

"You and I know each other well enough to talk freely," she said. "We
need not beat about the bush and say pretty things to each other, and I
forgive you for being rude, because I know you very well, and am willing
to sacrifice something. But I will not forgive you again if you are rude
in public. There are certain things one does not permit one's self, when
one is a gentleman."

"You are very good, Diana," said Batiscombe, humbly. "I am very sorry. I
lost my temper."

"Naturally," she answered coolly. "You always lose your temper,--you
always did,--and yet you fancy continually that you hide it. Let that
go. I have forgiven you for this time, because I am the best friend you
have."

"The only one," said Julius.

"Perhaps. You are well hated, I can tell you. Then treat me as a friend
in future, if you please, and not as an inquisitive acquaintance who
makes a point of annoying you for her own ends."

She spoke calmly, in a quiet, determined voice, without the slightest
hesitation or affectation. Julius bent his head.

"I always mean to," he said.

"Now listen to me," she continued. "I came upon you this afternoon by
pure accident. I do not owe you any apology for that, and you know very
well that I am the last person in the world to do things in that way, by
stealth. That is the reason I come to you here, at night, to tell you my
mind frankly."

"Yes," said Batiscombe, in a muffled voice, "I know."

"I came upon you by accident," said she, "and I made a discovery. You
pass your afternoons in the society of my sister-in-law, and you lose
your temper with me when I find you together,--though you always wish me
to understand that you prefer my society to that of any woman in the
world."

"Ah--how you express it!" exclaimed Julius.

"I express it as plainly as I can. I cannot help it if you do not like
it. It is all true. And the inference is perfectly clear. Do you see?"

"No," said Batiscombe.

"You do not? Very well, I will draw it for you."

She leaned back in the chair and looked at him; her eyes were accustomed
by this time to the gloom, and she could see him quite clearly in the
starlight. He moved uneasily.

"Pray go on," he said.

"The inference is this. You are making love to Leonora Carantoni."

"You shall not say that," said Batiscombe, between his teeth, still
looking fiercely at her.

"You might forbid a man to say it," answered Diana, in low, calm tones.
"And for anything I care you may forbid any other woman in the world to
say it. But you cannot forbid me. I have the right."
