was not willing to ask either of the boys about it. The sons had both
joined the school, and both were discharging their duties manfully.
Doubtless there had been a stormy scene at the house of the farmer,
and Mr. Millweed had risen somewhat in the estimation of the
shipmaster.

The tables were set a second time at half-past twelve; and the port
watch fared as well as the starboard, for, as far as practicable, a
fresh meal had been cooked for its members. Mr. Jepson reported
Bolingbroke as both willing and intelligent. He knew all about a
steam-engine, and not a little about chemistry and the mathematics;
for which the captain was willing to give the credit to the Genverres
high-school.

Obeying the instructions of the captain, Dory had come about, and the
steamer was headed up the lake. At Cumberland Head she changed her
course again, and ran for Plattsburgh. At the north beacon on the
breakwater, he rang to stop her. The second officer, prompted by the
captain, had the anchor all ready to let go. The pilot gave the order
when he was ready.

“Let go the anchor!” shouted Will Orwell.

Splash it went into the water: the Sylph swung around, and all hands
were called. Captain Gildrock made a little speech to the boys,
praised them for what they had done during the forenoon, and then gave
them two hours’ liberty to go on shore. He expected them to behave
like gentlemen, and not disgrace the uniform they wore. They were to
be on the wharf at three o’clock, in readiness to return to the
steamer.

The dummy exercise of lowering the boats was made real; and, with the
exception of Jepson and Bates, all hands went on shore. No restraint
was put upon them as to where they should go. Dory thought he would
call upon some of his old friends in the place; and he started for the
town, which is about three-quarters of a mile from the lake-shore.
After he had passed the railroad-station, Oscar Chester suddenly
presented himself before him. He had evidently been lying in wait for
him.

“Dory Dornwood, we meet now on an equal footing; and I think I can
keep my feet on the solid land as well as you can,” said the second
pilot savagely. “I promised to get even with you, and my time has
come.”

“If your time has come, Oscar Chester, my time has not gone,” replied
Dory calmly; and therein he had the advantage of the rebel. “I don’t
want to quarrel with you, and I won’t if I can help it. I should like
to talk the matter over with you, for I think you will be fair when
you look on both sides of the question.”

“I don’t want to talk it over. You insulted me last night, and then
you caused me to be tumbled into the lake. I am going to have
satisfaction; for I never forgive an insult,” added Oscar, waxing
fierce as his anger boiled within him.

“I did not intend to insult you; and I only did what any skipper would
have done under the same circumstances,” continued Dory.

“No more talk. I intend to thrash you here and now, till you say you
have had enough of it, and are willing to beg my pardon,” stormed
Oscar, as he threw off his uniform sack, and tossed his badged cap
upon the grass at the side of the road.

By this time a party of the ship’s company came up. The second officer
was in it; and, as soon as he understood what was going on, he
hastened to the scene. He spoke to Oscar, and tried to induce him not
to meddle with Dory. The others were not disposed to interfere with
such a fellow as the second pilot. Will Orwell was his crony; and he
persisted, taking his friend by the arm, and trying to lead him away.

“Don’t talk to me, Will Orwell! You are half a traitor to me,” said
Oscar, shaking off his crony.

Without waiting for another word, the rebel leaped upon Dory. An
instant later Oscar went over backwards, with the blood spurting from
his nose. He sprang to his feet, and renewed the attack. In two
minutes more he lay upon the ground, unable to rise.




CHAPTER XIX.

SOMETHING THAT HAPPENED ON SHORE.


Oscar Chester was not killed, or even very seriously injured. The last
blow of Dory had been planted in a sensitive place, and he had been
stunned by it. His companions gathered around him, lifted him up, and
procured some water from the Fouquet Hotel, with which they washed his
head. In a few minutes his senses came back to him, and he was able to
comprehend the situation.

Dory had been hit several times; but he was a tough youngster, and
seemed to be none the worse for the battle. As he viewed the matter,
he had simply defended himself, according to the first law of nature.
He had done his best beforehand to avoid the fight, and had proposed
to talk the matter over in order to ascertain who was to blame.

