Ludovisi !" Rowland, in some confusion, did the 
honours as he could, but the little old gentleman begged 
him with the most obsequious of smiles to give himself 
no trouble. " I have been in many a studio ! " he said, 
with his finger in the air, and a strong Italian accent. 

We are going about everywhere," said his companion. 
" I am passionately fond of art !" 

Rowland smiled sympathetically, and let them turn 
to Roderick 's statue. He glanced again at the young 
sculptor, to invite him to bestir himself, but Roderick 
was still staring wide-eyed at the beautiful young mistress 

 

of the poodle, who by this time had looked up and was 
gazing straight at him. There was nothing bold in her 
look ; it expressed a kind of languid imperturbable in 
difference. Her beauty was extraordinaiy ; it grew and 
grew as the young man observed her. In such a face 
the maidenly custom of averted eyes and ready blushes 
would have seemed an anomaly ; nature had produced 
it for man 's delight, and meant that it should surrender 
itself freely and coldly to admiration. It was not im 
mediately apparent, however, that the young lady found 
an answering entertainment in the physiognomy of her 
host ; she turned her head after a moment and looked 
idly round the room, and at last let her eyes rest on the 
statue of the w r oman seated. It being left to Rowland 
to stimulate conversation, he began by complimenting 
her on the beauty of her dog. 

"Yes, he is very handsome," she murmured. "He 
is a Florentine. The dogs in Florence are handsomer 
than the people," and on Rowland 's caressing him 
"His name is Stenterello," she added. "Stenterello, 
give your hand to the gentleman." This order was given 
in Italian. " Say bnon giorno a Lei." 

Stenterello thrust out his paw and gave four short 
shrill barks ; upon which the elder lady turned round 
and raised her forefinger. 

"My dear, my dear, remember where you are ! Ex 
cuse my foolish child," she added, turning to Roderick 
with an agreeable smile. " She can think of nothing 
but her poodle." 

" I am teaching him to talk for me," the young girl 
went on, without heeding her mother; "to say little 
things in society. It will save me a great deal of trouble. 
Stenterello, love, give a pretty smile and say tanti com- 
plimenti ! " The poodle wagged his white pate it 
looked like one of those little pads in swan s-down for 
applying powder to the face and repeated the barking 
process. 



 

" He is a wonderful beast," said Rowland. 

" He is not a beast," said the young girl. " A beast 
is something black and dirty something you can't touch." 

" He is a very valuable dog," the elder lady explained. 
" He was presented to my daughter by a Florentine 
nobleman." 

"It is not for that I care about him. It is for him 
self. He is better than the Duke ! " 

" My precious love ! " exclaimed the mother in depre 
cating accents, but with a significant glance at Rowland 
which seemed to bespeak his attention to the glory of 
possessing a daughter who could deal in that light fashion 
with the aristocracy. 

Rowland remembered that when their unknown visitors 
had passed before them, a year previous, in the Villa 
Ludovisi, Roderick and he had exchanged conjectures 
as to their nationality and social quality. Roderick had 
declared that they were old-world people ; but Rowland 
now needed no telling to feel that he might claim the 
elder lady as a fellow-countrywoman. She was a person 
of what is called a great deal of presence, with the faded 
traces, artfully revived here and there, of once brilliant 
beauty. Her daughter had come lawfully by her loveli 
ness, but Rowland mentally made the distinction that 
the mother was silly, and the daughter was not. The 
mother had a fatuous countenance a countenance, 
Rowland suspected, capable of expressing an inordinate 
degree of fatuity. The young girl, in spite of her childish 
satisfaction in her poodle, was not a person of a weak 
understanding. Rowland received an impression that 
for reasons of her own she was playing a part. What 
was the part and what were her reasons? She was 
interesting ; Rowland wondered what were her domestic 
