together disappointed in the marriage, and she could en- 
dure it no longer ; she had been a fool for ever trying to 
live with him. She had gone with some one who cared for 
her beyond a boy's silly regard ; she would have all she 
wanted, and he need make no search for her or trouble 
himself in any way about her. She had never cared for 
the child or wanted it ; so he might take the child, and get 
a divorce as soon as he pleased ; it could not be too soon 
for her. 
" There is no question, then, about freedom " 
The young face was turned to him with a strained, des- 
perate longing, and yet a peculiar awe. His voice was 
hoarse with emotion as he cried : 
"That is not all. There was a terrible accident right 
in the beginning of their journey. He escaped unharmed. 
She was terribly injured about the head, and taken to a 
hospital. After a few days the doctors decided she might 
recover, but that she would never have her senses again. 
Then the word was sent to me. The lover, you see, could 
not take her at so great a sacrifice. O Uncle Robert, 
isn't it horribly hard ! What can I do ? " 
He flung himself on the sofa and buried his face on the 
cushioned arm, while hard, dry sobs shook his frame. His 
uncle paced the floor in great distress. All this young life 
that should have been so bright, and glad, and promising, 
marred and blighted by one fatal deed. 
He sprang up suddenly, his eyes fierce with despairing 
passion, his voice clinging to a last ray of hope. 
" Ought I to keep to her, Uncle Robert? She went 
away for her own pleasure. She did not even care for her 
own little child. She has broken. God 's law, man's law, 
and a horrible, swift punishment has overtaken her. Is 
there any justice in making me suffer for it, years, per- 
haps?" 
" O my boy, we cannot decide this in a moment ! You 
are worn out with excitement, and must have a little rest ; 
and I must think it over. Can I see her some time ? " 
" Yes. She has been sent here. She is in the hospital. 
Every care and attention will be paid her." 
" Then we will not settle that point to-night. Sit down 
here and rest." 
CHAPTER XVII. 
IN spite of Robert Alston's splendid physique and buoy- 
ant temperament, his night's vigil and the anxiety of the 
past week had begun to tell upon him. He looked worn 
and haggard ; his lips seemed compressed to a thin, bluish 
line. His uncle had tried to make him sleep some through 
the night, but the greater part of it had been spent in 
restlessly pacing the floor, even if he refrained from 
impatient questioning. He had asked for leave of absence 
from the counting-house, so he could have the day to 
devote to his uncle and the sadder errands. 
There were many little things that had not been related 
in the hurried story of the evening before. The young 
man did not spare himself, and yet it seemed as if the 
foolish girl had made fully as great a sacrifice, unless she 
had counted on the possible wealth of the youth. It was 
quite evident she had taken no special interest in any of 
his pursuits, neither had it been from any ardent regard 
for him. 
They went together to see her. There was one cut at 
the edge of her hair, and the discolor from bruises had not 
quite disappeared. Seen there, in that strange life-in- 
death state, the face had come back to a curious, youtliful 
beauty, the beauty put in marble when a soul is not needed. 
The skin was fine and soft, full of sinuous blue pencillings, 
the rounded chin had a deep dimple, the full, curved lips 
were closed even now with a coquettish half smile, and the 
long bronze lashes shadowed the pale cheeks. Once, she 
opened her eyes. They were of that infantile, purple blue, 
and Mr. Conover, well versed in the ways and wiles of 
womankind, could readily understand how dangerous their 
snares might be for unwary youth. Yet it had seemed as 
if that would be the least of all temptations to Robert 
Alston. 
They saw one of the physicians presently. It was merely 
an iteration of the verdict. There was no reason why she 
should not live ; her physical injuries had not been severe, 
but the brain had suffered beyond any repair. 
" She will be harmless," he said in a gentle tone ; 
''never violent, and probably sink into mild idiocy. Of 
course she will need continual care. I think I should 
advise an asylum, unless she has friends, such as mother 
or sister. Even then it is a tiresome charge to one unused 
to such cases." 
' ' Do you know anything about her mother ? " Uncle 
Robert asked afterward. 
Rob gave a shiver of disgust. "No," he answered; 
''they quarrelled bitterly the last time she was here, and 
they are not people one would care to hunt up, even if we 
could." 
" Of course," the elder said gravely, " there is only one 
thing to do at present. When she is discharged from here 
she must be placed somewhere in safety, and provision 
made for her. An asylum will be the best." 
If she had died ! They could not but think of that sim- 
ple ending to the tragedy, and yet God had not chosen 
so to make it. And how to take the next important step 
rightly and truly for this young soul was a matter of 
grave consideration to Robert Conover. 
