
" I can get the flower," he called to her. " Will you 
trust me?" 

" I don 't want it ; I would rather not have it ! " she 
cried. 

"Will you trust me?" he repeated, looking at her. 




She looked at him, and then at the flower ; he 
wondered whether she would shriek and swoon as Chris 
tina had done. "I wish it were something better!" 
she said, simply ; and then stood watching him while he 
began to clamber. Rowland was not a trained acrobat, 
and his enterprise was difficult ; but he kept his wits 
about him, made the most of narrow footholds and 
coigns of vantage, and at last secured his prize. He 
managed to stick it into his button-hole, and then he 
contrived to descend. There was more than one chance 
for an ugly fall, but he evaded them all. It was doubt 
less not gracefully done, but it was done, and that was 
all he had proposed to himself. He was red in the face 
when he offered Mary the flower, and she was visibly 
pale. She had watched him without moving. All this 
had passed without the knowledge of Mrs. Hudson, who 
was dozing beneath the hood of the carriage. Mary 's 
eyes did not perhaps display that ardent admiratior 
which was formerly conferred by the queen of beauty at 
a tournament ; but they expressed something in which 
Rowland found his reward. "Why did you do that? * 
she asked, gravely. 

He hesitated. He felt that it was physically possible 
to say, " Because I love you ! " but it was not morally 
possible. He lowered his pitch and answered simply, 
" Because I wanted to do something for you." 

" Suppose you had fallen?" 

" I believed I should not fall. And you believed it, I 
think." 

"I believed nothing. I simply trusted you, as you 
asked me." 

" Quod erat demonstrandum /" cried Rowland. "I 
think you know Latin." 

When our four friends were established in what I have 
called their grassy valley, there was a good deal of scrambling over slopes both grassy and stony, a good deal of 
flower-plucking on narrow ledges, a great many long 



 

walks, and, thanks to the tonic mountain air, not a little 
exhilaration. Mrs. Hudson was obliged to intermit her 
suspicions of the deleterious atmosphere of the Old World, 
and to acknowledge the superior purity of the breezes of 
Engelthal. She was certainly more placid than she had 
been in Italy ; having always lived in the country, she 
had missed in Rome and Florence that social solitude, 
mitigated by bushes and rock, which is so dear to the 
true New England temperament. The little unpainted 
inn at Engelthal, with its plank partitions, its milk-pans 
standing in the sun, its "help," in the form of angular 
young women of the country-side, reminded her of places 
of summer sojourn in her native land ; and the beautiful 
historic chambers of the Villa Pandolfini passed from her 
memory without a regret, and without having in the least 
modified her ideal of a satisfactory habitation. Roderick 
had changed his sky, but he had not changed his mind ; 
his humour was still that of which he had given Rowland 
a glimpse in that sharp outbreak on the Lake of Como. 
He kept his despair to himself, and he went doggedly 
about the ordinary business of life ; but it was easy to see 
that his spirit was mortally heavy, and that he lived and 
moved and talked simply from the force of habit. In 
that sad half-hour among the Italian olives there had 
been such a fierce sincerity in his tone that Rowland began 
to abdicate the critical attitude. He began to feel that 
it was perfectly idle to appeal to his comrade 's will ; there 
was no will left ; its place was a mocking vacancy. This 
view of the case indeed was occasionally contravened by 
certain indications on Roderick 's part of the surviving 
faculty of resistance to disagreeable obligation : one might 
still have said, if one had been disposed to be didactic at 
any hazard, that there was a method in his madness, that 
his moral energy had its sleeping and its waking hours, 
and that in an attractive cause it was capable of rising 
with the dawn. But, on the other hand, pleasure in this 
case was quite at one with effort j evidently the greatest 




