contained a sufficient promise of genius to warrant a further pursuit
of literary honors on the part of the young aspirant. The play,
conscientiously examined, was deemed simply detestable, and the referee
adjudged that Balzac might do what he would, but that literature was
certainly not his vocation.

From this decision there was no present appeal; and while his mother
and sisters begged him to engage in some other occupation, his father
assured him that he would suppress his allowance should he persist in
his intentions. Another perhaps would have yielded, but his pride and
belief in his destiny made his resolution unalterable, and Balzac was
left in solitary sadness to meditate on the coquetries of the Muse.

“I delighted,” he says in “La Peau de Chagrin,” “in the thought that I
should live in the midst of tumultuous Paris in an inaccessible sphere
of work and silence, in a world of my own, of books and ideas, where
like the chrysalis I should build a tomb only to emerge again brilliant
and famous.

“I took the chances of dying to live. In reducing existence to its
actual needs, I found that three sous for charcuterie prevented me
from dying of hunger and preserved my mind in a state of singular
lucidity, while enabling me at the same time to observe the wonderful
effects which diet produces on the imagination. My lodging cost three
sous a day, I burned at night three sous’ worth of oil, and for two
sous more I heated my room with charcoal: and in this manner I lived in
my aerial sepulchre, working night and day with such pleasure that
study seemed the most beautiful theme, the happiest solution, of
existence. The calm and silence necessary to the student possess an
indescribable something which is as sweet and intoxicating as love, and
study itself seems to lend a sort of magic to all that surrounds us.
The forlorn desk on which I wrote, my piano, my bed, my chair, the
zigzags of the wall-paper,—all these things became as though animated
and humble friends, the silent accomplices of my future. Many a time I
have communicated my soul to them in a glance, and often in looking at
the broken moulding I encountered new developments of thought, some
striking proof of my system, or words which I considered peculiarly
fitted to express ideas almost untranslatable.”

Balzac had not as yet any settled plan of work, but he tried his hand,
while forming his style, at a quantity of comic operas, dramas,
comedies, and romances, none of which, however, were accepted save by
the gutter’s sneering fatalist, the ragpicker.

After many fruitless attempts and knocks at many a door, Balzac
succeeded at last in finding a publisher, but of a type seen only in
opéra bouffe, who proffered in payment of a romance a promissory note
with a year to run. Balzac of course had no choice. He wished to appear
in print. The bargain was concluded, and the “Héritière de Birague” was
produced. Then, under various pseudonyms, such as Lord R’hoone, the
anagram of Honoré, Dom Rago, M. de Viellerglé, and Horace de
Saint-Aubin, he produced a quantity of novels somewhat after the style
of Pegault Lebrun, and yet so diverse in treatment that one of them,
“Wann-Chlore,”[2] was attributed to a luminary of the Romantic school,
and another, “Annette et le Criminel,” was suppressed by the
censorship. Some of these books, whose paternity he always denied, have
since been collected under the title of “Œuvres de Jeunesse,” but of
the greater part no trace remains.

Exhausted by privations and worn with continued study, Balzac was
obliged to return to his family, then established at Villeparisis,
where, broken in mind and health, he sank into an almost hopeless
dejection.

“Is this what you term life,” he wrote[3] to his sister,—“this
involuntary rotation and perpetual return of the same things? I am in
the springtide of a flowerless life, and I long to have some charm
thrown over my chill existence; for of what use is fortune and pleasure
when youth is gone? Of what use is the actor’s gown if he play no
longer his part? Old age is a man who has dined and looks at others
eat; and I, I am young, and I hunger before an empty plate—Laura,
Laura, shall I, then, never realize my two immense desires, to be
celebrated and to be loved?”

But Balzac soon wearied of this plaintive inactivity, and, fertile in
projects, conceived the plan of printing Molière complete in one
volume, and of following it with similar editions of the French
classics. When these had appeared, he proposed, like Richardson, to
produce his own works, and his illuminous imagination immediately
foresaw new Clarissas issuing from the press.

The necessary working capital he procured from his family, who, though
far from rich, were none the less glad to aid him in an enterprise for
which literature would be abandoned and a legitimate business adopted.

But after the publication of Molière and La Fontaine, in each of which
he inserted an elaborate and original introduction, he was obliged,
through the cabals of the other publishers, to relinquish his plan,
while burdened at the same time with a load of debt which oppressed
almost every hour of his after life.

He was now absolutely without resources. The expense of a few sous
attending the carriage of a letter, an omnibus ride, anything, in fact,
which demanded the outlay of ready money, he was obliged to forego, and
even remained in his garret that he might preserve as long as possible
the only shoes which he owned.

“My sole possessions,” he wrote to his sister, “are my books, which I
cannot part with, and my good taste, which unfortunately for the rich
cannot be bought. If I were in prison I should be happier; life then
