existence you women--the good ones--do lead! I have the greatest
sympathy for you. When you're wretched, you can't do anything; you can't
escape, and you can't take any of the compensations men take when they
want to balance ill luck in other directions; all you can do is--sit
still and bear it! I wonder you endure it as you do. But I won't talk
about it, talking's all rot; short of killing myself, I don't know that
there's anything I can do that would improve the situation; and that
wouldn't be of any use either, at least to you, because it would leave
you feeling guilty, and guilt you could never bear. Come, hold up your
head, Madge; nothing in this stupid life is worth feeling so wretched
about; life's nothing but rubbish, after all. Get the checker-board and
we'll have a game."

Margaret had risen. "I can't to-night."

"But what am I to do, then?" began Lanse, in a complaining tone. He was
as good as his word, he had already dismissed the subject from his mind.
"Well, if you must go," he went on, "just hand me that book of poor
Malleson's, first."

This was a book of sketches of the work of Mino da Fiesole, the loving,
patient studies of a young American who had died in Italy years before,
when Lanse was there. Lanse had been kind to him, at the last had closed
his eyes, and had then laid him to sleep in that lovely shaded cemetery
under the shadow of the pyramid outside the walls of Rome--sweet last
resting-place that lingers in many a traveller's memory. The book of
sketches had been left to him, and he was very fond of it.

As Margaret gave it to him he saw her face more clearly, saw the traces
of tears under the dark lashes. "Yes, go and rest," he said,
compassionately; "go to bed. I should reproach myself very much if I
thought it was waiting upon me, care about me, that had tired you so."

"No, I have very little to do; the men do everything," Margaret
answered. "I haven't half as much to attend to here as I have at home."
She seemed to wish to reassure him on this point.

"At home?" said Lanse, jocularly. "What are you talking about? This is
your home, isn't it?--wherever I happen to be."

But evidently his wife's self-control had been rudely shaken when her
tears had mastered her, for now she could not answer him, she turned and
left the room.

"Courage!" he called after her as she went towards the door. "You should
do as I do--not mind trifles; you should shake them off."

She went with a swift step to her own room, and threw herself face
downward upon a low couch, her head resting upon her clasped hands; the
sudden movement loosened her hair, soon it began to slip from its
fastenings and drop over her shoulders in a thick, soft, perfumed mass;
then, falling forward, lock by lock, the long ends touched the floor.

As she lay thus behind her bolted doors, fighting with an unhappiness so
deep that her whole heart was sobbing and crying, though now she did
not shed outwardly a tear, her husband, stroking his brown beard
meditatively, was getting a great deal of enjoyment out of poor
Malleson's book. Lanse had a very delicate taste in such matters; he
knew a beautiful outline when he saw it, from a single palmetto against
the blue, on a point in the St. John's, to these low reliefs of the
sweetest sculptor of the Renaissance. Long before, he had told Margaret
that he married her for her profile; slim, unformed girl as she was,
there had been, from the first moment he saw her, an immense
satisfaction for his eyes in the poise of her head and the clearness of
her features every time she entered the room.

Whether he would have found any satisfaction in these same outlines,
could he have seen them prone in their present abandonment, only himself
could have told.

He would have said, probably, that he found no satisfaction at all.
Lansing Harold, as has been remarked before, had a great deal of
benevolence.




CHAPTER XXVI.


"I don't know how to tell you, Mrs. Harold, what has happened," began
Dr. Kirby. "I cannot explain it even to myself." The Doctor was
evidently very unhappy, and much disturbed.

He was in the sitting-room of the house on the river--a place not so
desolate after eight months of Margaret's habitation there. She could
not restore the blossoming vines to the stripped exterior, she could not
bring to life again the old trees; but within she had made a great
change; the rooms were fairly comfortable now, green blinds gave a
semblance of the former leafy shade.

But more than the rooms was the mistress of them herself transformed.
The change was not one of manner or expression; it was the metamorphosis
which can be produced by a complete alteration of dress. For Lanse had
objected to the simplicity of his wife's attire, and especially to the
plain, close arrangement of her hair. "You don't mean it, I know," he
said, "but it has an appearance of affectation, a sort of 'holier than
thou' air. I hate to see women going about in that way; it looks as if
they thought themselves so beautiful that they didn't mind calling
attention to it--with sanctimonious primness, of course; it's the most
