it would be refused, it was to be disappointed. 

" I shall be glad to spend an hour with you, if you 
will allow me," Oswald answered, promptly. ' Com- 
pany and firelight seem very attractive, jvhen one 
thinks of the empty walls and close rooms across the 
way." 

Elizabeth, light in hand, led the way to the sitting- 
room. She thought, with a slight relief, that Grand- 
mother could not have failed to hear every word of the 
previous conversation. " At least she knows who he 
is," thought she. Can any one, except those who have 
endured the daily trial of being watched and judged 
by some one who has the power of pricking the sens- 
itive flesh with innumerable pins of criticism, know 
how an outbreak is sometimes dreaded in families ? 






 

Elizabeth, for it was always she on whom the burden 
of disagreeable explanations fell, introduced Craig to 
her grandmother. The young man bowed in his easy 
manner, with perhaps an added deference. Madam 
Nye said, without glancing at him, 

" How do you do ? Elizabeth, hand me my knitting 
and put the candle on the light-stand." The request 
was portentous ; in seasons of great domestic calamity, 
Grandmother, tacitly refusing communion with the rest 
of the family, had a candle on a small stand by her 
side, knitting there in silence while the others occupi- 
ed the table. 

Oswald appeared to be quite unconscious of the chill 
in the social atmosphere, and while Elizabeth quietly 
carried out Grandmother's commands, made himself 
comfortable in the easiest corner of the not very luxu- 
rious sofa. " Such a delightful day, Mrs. Nye," he 
said, easily, with a familiarity which a Stratford man 
would not have attained after six months' acquaintance. 
" There is such a strong taste of salt water in the whole 
town that I shall stay for more of it. May I hold your 
yarn, Madam ? ' turning suddenly to Grandmother, 
who had finished her ball and was untwisting another 
skein. 

" No, I am much obliged to you ; I can do it my- 
self," said the old lady, with a severity which was not 
the less marked for including every one. "' Elizabeth, 
turn the back of that chair round here." 

But Oswald was before her : he placed the chair, 
and seating himself opposite her, took the skein gently 
from her and put it over his own hands. 

" Now which way shall I turn it ? You want to get 



at the end, do you not?" He held it deferentially, 
turning to go on with his day's experience to Mrs. Nye. 
Perhaps even in so small an encounter as this, it 
was the first time Grandmother had been worsted. 
His good-natured, imperturbable way of taking things 
for granted was something to which she was not ac- 
customed, and having hesitated at the decisive first 
minute, she could not retrieve her failure. Scorning to 
glance at the others to see how they took it, she began 
winding steadily. 

Craig had by this time taken to discussing the town. 
' A strange, bare waste of a place, isn't it ? And 
yet, it's a rare field for an artist ; though I should feel 
sorry to have a view of the coast hung in my room. 
It would keep me frozen." The remark held a great 
deal for Elizabeth ; the sea made her uneasy, and the 
low level of the entire view had always oppressed her. 
Sometimes a hint from a book gave her a quick inspi- 
ration of a different life, one in which there should be 
deeper color and warmer air, but the picture soon 
faded ; she had not enough imagination to utilize it 
into permanent comfort. 

'We don't have anytime to think about artists," 
said Grandmother, her monotonous tones startlingly 
severe after the modulations of Oswald's. " The Crea- 
tor didn't make the world for men to paint ! " 

' Ah, there you are right, of course. I do not pre- 
tend to account for His designs, and therefore I 
couldn't contradict you, if you were not." All this 
with a humility which removed from it the sting of 
sarcasm. 

