
" A good servant, sir, I should say. You may 
see a case occasionally where it has got to be the 
master," 

" What do you mean by that ? " 

"A man unable to be anything and spoiled for 
doing anything worth while, because he has so 
much of it; a man whose property is so large that 
he has come to look upon money as the first thing." 

"It is the first thing and the last thing, I can 
tell you. Without it, a man has to play second 
fiddle to somebody else all his life." 

" Do you think there is no independence but that 
of the purse, sir ? " 

" Beggarly little use in any other kind. In fact 
there is not any other kind, Pitt. What passes 
for it is just fancy, and struggling to make believe. 
The really independent man is the man who need 
not ask anybody else's leave to do anything." 

Pitt let the question drop, and went on with his 
breakfast, for which he seemed to have a good ap 
petite. "Your muffins are as good as ever, mo 
ther," he remarked. 

Mrs. Dallas, to judge by her face, found nothing 
in this world so pleasant as to see Pitt eat his breakfast, and nothing in the world so important to do 
as to furnish him with satisfactory material. Yet 
she was not a foolish woman, and preserved all the 
time her somewhat stately presence and manner; 
it was in little actions and words now and then 





that this care for her son's indulgence and delight 
in it made itself manifest. It was manifest enough 
to the two who sat at breakfast with her; Mr. 
Dallas observing it with a secret smile, his son 
with a grateful swelling of the heart, which a 
glance and a word sometimes conveyed to his mother. Mrs. Dallas's contentment this morning was 
absolute and unqualified. There could be no doubt 
what Betty Frere would think, she said to herself. 
Every quality that ought to grace a young man, 
she thought she saw embodied before her. The 
broad brow, and the straight eyebrow, and the 
firm lips, expressed what was congenial to Mrs. 
Dallas's soul ; a mingling of intelligence and will, 
well defined, clear and strong; but also sweet. 
There was thoughtfulness but no shadow in the 
fine hazel eyes; no cloud on the brow; and the 
smile when it came was frank and affectionate. 
His manner pleased Mrs. Dallas infinitely ; it had 
all the finish of the best breeding, and she was 
able to recognize this. 

" What are you going to be, Pitt ? " his father 
broke in upon some laughing talk that was going 
on between mother and son. 

" To be, sir ? I beg your pardon ! " 

" After you have done with Oxford, or with 
your college course. You know I intend you to 
study for a profession. Which profession would 
you choose ? " 

Pitt was silent. 

" Have you ever thought about it ? " 





" Yes, sir. I have thought about it." 

" What conclusion did you come to ? " 

" To none, yet," the young man answered slowly. 
" It must depend." 

"On what? 

" Partly, on what conclusion I come to respect 
ing something else," Pitt went on in the same 
manner, which immediately fastened his mother's 
attention. 

" Perhaps you will go on and explain yourself," 
said his father. " It is good that we should under 
stand one another." 

Yet Pitt was silent. 
