the foot of Beech Hill. About one third of the way across the lake was a
low peninsula, whose surface was nearly flat, and not more than three
feet above the usual level of the lake. This point projected out into
the lake about ten rods, and formed the western shore of the
bay,--called by the boys Hornet Bay, on account of a quarrel some of
them had had with insects of that name, in which the hornets got the
better of them.

"This is Chowder Point," Bolly began, indicating with the pointer the
projection of rocks, which had formerly been much used for picnic
purposes. "This is the location I have chosen for the boat-house."

"Why didn't you put it on the other side of the lake?" asked one of the
students, who thought it was too far from the old wharf.

"Chowder Point is just the same distance from the shop and schoolroom
as the old wharf, and only half the distance from the dormitory,"
replied Bolly, with patient dignity.

"And about the same distance from the mansion-house," added the
principal. "I must ask the students not to interrupt the speaker, and
not to ask any more questions until he has finished his explanation."

While the captain was making this remark, Bolly dashed off a
parallelogram, rather more than twice as long as it was wide. It covered
the end of Chowder Point, the extremity of which extended a short
distance outside of it.

"This figure represents the location of the boat-house," continued
Bolly, using the pointer. "You observe that about one third of the
building is on the land, or rocks, and the rest of it is over the
water."

"But where does the wharf come in?" asked an excited student.

"No questions!" interposed the principal. "You need not answer it,
Millweed."

"I shall come to the wharf in a few minutes," replied Bolly. "The main
building, represented by this parallelogram, is to be ninety-one feet
long by thirty-one feet wide,--rather narrow for the length, you will
say; but the proportions will be improved a little before I finish."

The speaker took the crayon and marked off the docks for the barges.
They opened at the south end of the structure, into Hornet Bay. He had
made the inner ends of the two docks something in shape of the bows of
the boats, so that the idea could be better obtained by the listeners.

"These docks are fifty-four feet long, and nine feet wide. The space
between them is a platform six feet wide. Next to the walls of the
building on each side is a platform three feet wide. You will see that I
am giving you the plan of the building as well as the location; but this
seems to be the most natural way to do it."

Bolly then drew a section of the structure, looking at the south end of
it. At the lower part on each side four feet were added to the breadth
of the house, increasing it to forty feet, with the allowance for the
thickness of the sides. But this addition was only one fourth of the
whole height of the house. It had a slanting roof, making the addition
what used to be called a "lean-to."

The excitement of the boys increased as Bolly advanced with his plans,
and they wondered what this narrow strip on each side of the building
could mean. They wanted to ask questions, and it was hard work for them
to keep from bursting out into a volley of inquiries. The amateur
architect drew a great many lines across this narrow addition, which
tended to throw some light on the mystery. But the added strips looked
very like a couple of ladders.

"These are the dressing-rooms," Bolly proceeded, when he had finished
this part of the drawing. "There are forty of them, as required in the
terms, and each of them is four feet by three. From each a door opens to
the outside platforms on the docks."

At this point the students took it all in, and a round of applause
greeted this feature, which the boys thought was an admirable one. The
oarsmen could come out of the dressing-rooms in which they had put on
their uniforms, and step directly into the barges.

"These additions to the sides are only six feet high at the eaves and
seven at the walls. The lower story of the boat-house is twelve feet
high. This leaves five feet of space above the roof of the
lean-to,--that's what my father calls the L of his house. In this space
are to be ten windows on each side. There are also four windows over
the doors at the end of the boat-house by which the barges are to be
admitted."

"I think your building will be well lighted, Mr. Millweed," interposed
Mr. Plint, thinking the speaker appeared to have some doubts on this
point.

"Thank you, sir," replied Bolly, much gratified at the architect's
approval. "Six feet from the inner ends of the docks will be a fence,
with a gate opposite each platform," continued the speaker, indicating
it by a dotted line. "The dressing-rooms end at this fence. Then there
is a passage-way ten feet wide across the house. At the shore end of it
is the principal entrance."

Bolly then divided the space on the plan north of this passage-way into
four parts, and said they were the two storerooms, the sailroom, and the
