inspection ? If she were lying in her grave, would she 
like another woman to question and dissect the love she 
had borne her husband? Perhaps the noblest quality in 
Helen Howarth was the readiness with which she applied 
the Golden Rule to herself. "Whatsoever ye would that 
men should do unto you." And as he had said, they had 
not been exigeant lovers. He had answered her require- 
ments as to moral and spiritual purity ; his manhood was 
not so much the consummation of affluent culture, travel, 
and artistic taste, as the noble expression of a rich, many- 

 





sided nature that had never been dwarfed and marred by 
specious reasoning on the side of weak indulgence. She 
realized now how immeasurably her love had grown in 
the years, by this high and fine contact, when she could 
be stung by the exhumation of a dead and gone love. The 
admiration still remained. Mrs. Marshall had become the 
woman his clear insight had predicted. 

Was there a keener, nameless pain that could hardly be 
denominated jealousy, — the anguish of a motherhood 
that never had been ? Did they ask her, these two men, 
to take into her house the child of the woman her hus- 
band might have loved, to surround her with those bene- 
fits her own mother was powerless to give, to advance 
her, to assist her up the heights of fame with rapid strides 
instead of making it a tiresome way? Ah, how could she? 
If it had been any other person's child ! 

That Leonard had not mentioned the money transaction, 
she held perfectly honorable. He would not have blurted 
a man's business about, and he owed a woman the same 
consideration. But how strange that his money should 
have enabled Mrs. Marshall to take the important step in 
separating herself from her husband ! Was he, after all, 
involved in her life by some strange undercurrent of fate ? 

Mrs. Howarth went about her daily duties. Many a 
little child in a hospital ward had come to know the gra- 
cious, kindly lady with the voice of softest music, and a 
hand whose every touch was gentle, whose gifts seemed 
bestowed with some secret wonderful knowledge of the 
wishes of the recipient. Young girls glanced up at her 
with grateful eyes when her benevolence made it possible 
to leave the toil and moil of the deadly struggle for bread, 
and catch what seemed to them a week's glimpse of hea- 
ven. And all the while, like a sad refrain of some dis- 
tant music, the words were chanting themselves in brain 
and soul — " This ye ought also to have done, and not to 
leave the other undone." 



 

A weaker woman might not have risen above self. Helen 
Howarth resolved upon one step. Her husband had gone 
on a business trip to meet a convention of some railroad 
magnates, and the next morning proving unusually de- 
lightful, she resolved to visit Mrs. Van Cleve, and, accom- 
panied by her maid, completed the brief journey with no 
unusual fatigue. She was shown into the lovely reception- 
room, and awaited the advent of its fair mistress. 

"My dear Mrs. Howarth, this is indeed a pleasure!" 
and Mrs. Van Gleve's eyes expressed more than delight. 
" And you have come for a visit, so I shall let you rest a 
bit before I deluge you with questions. Allow me to send 
away your wraps rather than fatigue you by going upstairs." 

The maid disappeared with them. 

" Helen," began her friend, hurriedly, " there is another 
little matter that you must decide according to your plea- 
sure. I sent for Celia Marshall this morning, having, after 
much persuasion, induced her mother to allow her to 
spend the day, the condition being that she should not be 
exposed to any embarrassing introductions. She can come 
again some other time, so you must say frankly whether 
you prefer to see her or not. You visit me so seldom that 
I cannot afford to have our delight spoiled," and she 
smiled with a winning, but impartial expression. 

" How odd, when I came to you for a little help to settle 
this very perplexing question. It has cost me much anxious 
thought ; though I suppose I ought to rise above all minor 
considerations; but it is difficult to make opposing ex- 
tremes meet, or at least agree." 

" I should like you to know Miss Marshall, but I waive 
my desire in consideration of another gratification. It is 
a case where generosity ceases to be a real sacrifice." 

The clear tone, enfranchised from self, touched Mrs. 
