floury dish, and put enough dripping in the pan to cover them as they
lie on their sides in it. It should be very hot before they go in.

Roll over carefully in the fat as they brown, not to spoil the shape.
Do not put too many in the pan at once; as fast as they are done take
them up and lay in a hot colander until all are ready. Arrange neatly
on a heated flat dish and serve.


A Mutton Stew.

Cut slices of cold mutton half an inch thick, trim away fat and skin
and divide the lean meat into neat squares about an inch across.

Drop a piece of onion as large as a hickory-nut in a cupful of water
and boil fifteen minutes. Strain the water through a bit of muslin,
squeezing the onion hard to extract the flavor. Allow this cupful of
water to two cupfuls of meat. If you have less mutton use less water;
if more increase the quantity of liquid.

Pour the water into a clean saucepan and when it boils add two full
tablespoonfuls of butter cut into bits and rolled over and over in
browned flour until no more will adhere to the butter.

Stir this in with a little pepper and salt, a pinch of mace and a
teaspoonful of lemon-juice. Boil up once and drop in the meat. Cover
closely and let it simmer at one side of the stove, almost, but never
quite boiling, for ten minutes.

Turn into a deep dish and serve very hot.


Minced Mutton on Toast.

Trim off skin and fat from slices of cold mutton and mince in a
chopping-tray. Season with pepper and salt.

Into a clean frying-pan, pour a cupful of mutton-gravy which has been
skimmed well, mixed with a little hot water and strained through a bit
of coarse muslin.

When this boils, wet a teaspoonful of browned flour with three
tablespoonfuls of cold water, and a teaspoonful of tomato or walnut
catsup, or half a teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce. Rub out all the
lumps and stir into the gravy in the frying-pan. Boil up once well
before putting in the mutton.

As soon as the mixture bubbles and smokes all over, draw it to one
side of the range where it will keep hot, but not quite boil; cover
it closely, and let it stand five minutes. Warmed-over mutton becomes
insipid when cooked too much.

Before the mince is put into the pan, toast the bread. Cut thick slices
from a stale loaf, and trim off the crust. If you would have them look
particularly nice, cut them round with a cake or biscuit-cutter. Toast
to a light-brown, and keep hot until the mince is cooked.

Then lay the toast on a heated platter; butter the rounds well on both
sides, and pour on each a tablespoonful of boiling water. Heap a
great spoonful of the minced mutton on each piece.

The mince should not be a stiff paste, nor yet so soft as to run all
over the dish. A cupful of gravy will be enough for three cupfuls of
meat.

Some people fancy a little green pickle or chow chow chopped very fine
and mixed in with the mince while cooking. Others think the dish
improved by the addition of a teaspoonful of lemon-juice put in just
before taking it from the fire.


Devilled Mutton.

    Cut even slices of cold mutton, not too fat.

    Stir together and melt in a clean frying-pan two
      tablespoonfuls of butter and one of currant or grape
      jelly.

    When it hisses lay in the mutton and heat
      slowly—turning several times—for five minutes, or
      until the slices are soft and very hot, but not until
      they begin to crisp.

    Take out the meat, lay on a warmed dish, cover and set
      over boiling water.

    To the butter and jelly left in the pan add three
      tablespoonfuls of vinegar.

    A small teaspoonful of made mustard.

    A quarter spoonful of salt.

    Half as much pepper as you have salt.

    Stir together over the fire until they boil, and pour
      on the meat. Cover three minutes over boiling water,
      and serve.

