in passing ; and once or twice, she looked back at 
the dark staircase with an expression of something 
akin to disgust. At last she reached a door which 
opened upon a terrace, much like the one where she 
had left Zoroaster a few moments before, saving that 
the floor was less polished, and that the spaces between the columns were half filled with hanging 
plants and creepers. Upon the pavement at one end 
were spread rich carpets, and half a dozen enormous 
cushions of soft-coloured silk were thrown negligently 
one upon the other. Three doors, hung with curtains, 
opened upon the balcony, — and near to the middle 
one, two slave-girls, clad in white, crouched upon 
their heels and talked in an undertone. 

Atossa stepped forward upon the marble, and the 
rustle of her dress and the quick short sound of her 
heeled shoes, roused the two slave-girls to spring to 
their feet. They did not know the queen, but they 
thought it best to make a low obeisance, while their 
dark eyes endeavoured quickly to scan the details of 
her dress, without exhibiting too much boldness. 
Atossa beckoned to one of them to come to her, 
and smiled graciously as the dark-skinned girl 
approached. 

" Is not thy mistress Nehushta ? " she inquired ; 
but the girl looked stupidly at her, not comprehending her speech. " Nehushta," repeated the queen. 



 

pronouncing the name very distinctly with a questioning intonation, and pointing to the curtained 
door. The slave understood the name and the question, and quick as thought, she disappeared within, 
leaving Atossa in some hesitation. She had not intended to send for the Hebrew princess, for she 
thought it would be a greater compliment to let 
Nehushta find her waiting ; but since the barbarian 
slave had gone to call her mistress, there was nothing 
to be done but to abide the result. 

Nehushta, however, seemed in no hurry to an- 
swer the summons, for the queen had ample time to 
examine the terrace, and to glance through the hang- 
ing plants at the sunlit meadows and the flowing 
stream to southward, before she heard steps behind 
the curtain, and saw it lifted to allow the princess to 
pass. 

The dark maiden was now fully refreshed and 
rested from the journey, and she came forward to 
greet her guest in her tunic, without her mantle, a 
cloud of soft white Indian gauze loosely pinned upon 
her black hair and half covering her neck. Her 
bodice-like belt was of scarlet and gold, and from one 
side there hung a rich-hilted knife of Indian steel in 
a jewelled sheath. The long sleeves of her tunic 
were drawn upon her arms into hundreds of minute 
folds, and where the delicate stuff hung in an oblong 
lappet over her hands, there was fine needlework 
and embroidery of gold. She moved easily, with a 
languid grace of secure motion ; and she bent her 
head a little as Atossa came quickly to meet her. 

The queen's frank smile was on her face as she 



 

grasped both Nehushta's hands in cordial welcome, 
and for a moment, the two women looked into each 
other's eyes. Nehushta had made up her mind to hate 
Atossa from the first, but she did not belong to that 
class of women who allow their feelings to show 
themselves, and afterwards feel bound by the memory of what they have shown. She, too, smiled most 
sweetly as she surveyed the beautiful fair queen 
from beneath her long drooping lids, and examined 
her appearance with all possible minuteness. She 
remembered her well enough, but so warm was the 
welcome she received, that she almost thought she 
had misjudged Atossa in calling her hard and cold. 
She drew her guest to the cushions upon the carpets, 
and they sat down side by side. 

" I have been talking about you already this morn- 
ing, my princess," began Atossa, speaking at once in 
familiar terms, as though she were conversing with 
an intimate friend. Nehushta was very proud ; she 
knew herself to be of a race as royal as Atossa, 
though now almost extinct ; and in answering, she 
spoke in the same manner as the queen ; so that the 
latter was inwardly amused at the self-confidence of 
the Hebrew princess. 

"Indeed?" said Nehushta, "there must be far 
more interesting things than I in Shushan. I would 
have talked of you had I found any one to talk 
with." 

The queen laughed a little. 
