before him; then he snatched off the spectacles, and caught up his cane,
crying angrily,--

"You rascal, how dare you!"

But Jocko tossed the paper in his face, and with one jump lighted on the
back of old Tom, the big yellow cat, who lay asleep close by. Scared
half out of his wits, Tom spit and bounced; but Jocko held fast to his
collar, and had a fine race round the garden, while the girls laughed at
the funny sight, and Neddy shouted, "It’s a circus; and there’s the
monkey and the pony."  Even grandpa smiled, especially when puss dashed
up a tree, and Jock tumbled off. He chased him, and they had a great
battle; but Tom’s claws were sharp, and the monkey got a scratch on the
nose, and ran crying to Neddy for comfort.

"Now, you naughty fellow, I ’ll chain you up, and stop these dreadful
tricks.  But you are great fun, and I can’t whip you," said the boy; for
he knew what it was to enjoy a holiday, and poor Jocko had not had one
for a long time.

Jocko ate some lunch, took a nap in the grass, and then was ready for
more frolics.  Neddy had fastened him to a tree in the garden, so that
he could enjoy the sun and air, and catch grasshoppers if he liked.  But
Jocko wanted something more; and presently Neddy, who was reading in his
hammock on the piazza, heard a great cackling among the hens, and looked
up to see the monkey swinging by his tail from a bough, holding the
great cock-a-doodle by his splendid tail, while all the twenty hens
clucked and cackled with wrath and fear at such a dreadful prank.

"Now, that’s too bad; I will slap him this time," said Neddy, running
to save his handsome bird from destruction.  But before he got there
poor cocky had pulled his fine tail-feathers all out in his struggles,
and when set free was so frightened and mortified that he ran away and
hid in the bushes, and the hens went to comfort him.

Neddy gave Jocko a good whipping, and left him looking as meek as a
baby, all cuddled up in a little bunch, with his head in his hands as if
crying for his naughtiness.  But he was n’t sorry.  Oh, dear, no! for in
half an hour he had picked every one of the sweet peas Aunt Jane was so
fond of, thrown all the tomatoes over the fence, and let the parrot out
of his cage.  The sight of Polly walking into the parlor with a polite
"How are you, ma’am?" sent Aunt Jane to see what was going on.  Neddy
was fast asleep in the hammock, worn out with his cares; and Jocko,
having unhooked his chain, was sitting on the chimney-top of a
neighbor’s house, eating corn.

"We shall not live to the end of the week if this sort of thing goes on.
I don’t know what to do with the little beast; he ’s as bad as an
elephant to take care of," said the poor lady, in despair, as she saw
Jocko throw his corncob down on the minister’s hat as that stately
gentleman went by.

As none of them could catch him, Miss Jane let him alone till Neddy
waked up and could go and find some of the big boys to help him.

Jocko soon left the roof, and skipped in at a window that stood open.
It was little Nelly Brown’s play-room, and she had left her pet doll
Maud Mabel Rose Matilda very ill in the best bed, while she went down to
get a poppy leaf to rub the darling’s cheeks with, because she had a
high fever.  Jocko took a fancy to the pretty bed, and after turning the
play-house topsy-turvy, he pulled poor Maud Mabel Rose Matilda out by
her flaxen hair, and stuffing her into the water-pitcher upside down,
got into the bed, drew the lace curtains, and prepared to doze
deliciously under the pink silk bed-cover.

Up came Nelly, and went at once to the dear invalid, saying in her
motherly little voice,--

"Now, my darling child, lie quite still, and I won’t hurt you one bit."

But when she drew the curtain, instead of the lovely yellow-haired doll
in her ruffled nightcap, she saw an ugly little black face staring at
her, and a tiny hand holding the sheet fast. Nelly gave one scream, and
flew downstairs into the parlor where the Sewing-circle was at work,
frightening twenty-five excellent ladies by her cries, as she clung to
her mother, wailing,--

"A bogie! a bogie!  I saw him, all black; and he snarled at me, and my
dolly is gone! What shall I do? oh, what shall I do?"

There was great confusion, for all the ladies talked at once; and it so
happened that none of them knew anything about the monkey, therefore
they all agreed that Nelly was a foolish child, and had made a fuss
about nothing. She cried dismally, and kept saying to her mother,--

"Go and see; it’s in my dolly’s bed,--I found it there, and darling
Maudie is gone."

"We will go and see," said Mrs. Moses Merryweather,--a stout old lady,
who kept her six girls in such good order that they would never have
dared to cry if ten monkeys had popped out at them.

Miss Hetty Bumpus, a tall thin maiden lady, with a sharp eye and pointed
nose, went with her; but at the door that led to the dining-room both
stopped short, and after one look came flying back, calling out
together,--

"Mrs. Brown, your supper is spoilt! a dreadful beast has ruined it all!"

Then twenty-five excited ladies flew across the hall to behold Jocko
