upon the pillows, breathing still but quite unconscious.

Doctor Longstreet entered at that moment and ran to his side. But when he
saw him he paused. Even Mrs. Ambrose was white with horror, and Mary
Goddard stood motionless, staring down at her husband, her hands gripping
the disordered coverlet convulsively.

Mr. Juxon had entered, too, while Mr. Ambrose remained outside with the
detective, who had been frightened into submission by the physician's
last threat. The squire saw what was happening and paced the room in the
greatest agitation, wringing his hands together and biting his lips. John
had closed the door and came to the foot of the bed and looked at
Goddard's face. After a pause, Doctor Longstreet spoke.

"We might possibly restore him to consciousness for a moment--"

"Don't!" cried Mary Goddard, starting as though some one had struck her.
"That is--" she added quickly, in broken tones, "unless he can live!"

"No," answered the physician, gravely, but looking hard at the unhappy
woman. "He is dying."

Goddard's staring eyes were glazed and white. Twice and three times he
gasped for breath, and then lay quite still. It was all over. Mary gazed
at his dead face for one instant, then a faint smile parted her lips: she
raised one hand to her forehead as though dazed.

"He is safe now," she murmured very faintly. Her limbs relaxed suddenly,
and she fell straight backwards. Charles Juxon, who was watching her,
sprang forward and caught her in his arms. Then he bore her from the
room, swiftly, while John Short who was as white and speechless as the
rest opened the door.

"You may go in now," said Juxon as he passed Booley and Mr. Ambrose in
the passage, with his burden in his arms. A few steps farther on he met
Holmes the butler, who carried a telegram on a salver.

"For Mr. Short, sir," said the impassive servant, not appearing to notice
anything strange in the fact that his master was carrying the inanimate
body of Mary Goddard.

"He is in there--go in," said Juxon hurriedly as he went on his way.

The detective and the vicar had already entered the room where the dead
convict was lying. All stood around the bed, gazing at his pale face as
he lay.

"A telegram for Mr. Short," said Holmes from the door. John started and
took the despatch from the butler's hands. He hastily tore it open,
glanced at the contents and thrust it into his pocket. Every one looked
round.

"What is it, John?" whispered the vicar, who was nearest to him.

"Oh--nothing. I am first in the Tripos, that is all," answered John very
simply, as though it were not a matter of the least consequence.

Through all those months of untiring labour, through privation and
anxiety, through days of weariness and nights of study, he had looked
forward to the triumph, often doubting but never despairing. But he had
little guessed that the news of victory would reach him at such a moment.
It was nothing, he said; and indeed as he stood with the group of pale
and awe-struck spectators by the dead man's bed, he felt that the
greatest thing which had ever happened to him was as nothing compared
with the tragedy of which he had witnessed the last act.

It was all over. There was nothing more to be said; the convict had
escaped the law in the end, at the very moment when the hand of the law
was upon him. Thomas Reid, the conservative sexton, buried him "four by
six by two," grumbling at the parish depth as of yore, and a simple stone
cross marked his nameless grave. There it stands to this day in the
churchyard of Billingsfield, Essex, in the shadow of the ancient abbey.

All these things happened a long time ago, according to Billingsfield
reckoning, but the story of the tramp who attacked Squire Juxon and was
pulled down by the bloodhound is still told by the villagers, and Mr.
Gall, being once in good cheer, vaguely hinted that he knew who the tramp
was; but from the singular reticence he has always shown in the matter,
and from the prosperity which has attended his constabulary career, it
may well be believed that he has a life interest in keeping his counsel.
Indeed as it is nearly ten years since Mr. Reid buried the poor tramp, it
is possible that Mr. Gall's memory may be already failing in regard to
events which occurred at so remote a date.

It was but an incident, though it was perhaps the only incident of any
interest which ever occurred in Billingsfield; but until it reached its
termination it agitated the lives of the quiet people at the vicarage,
at the cottage and at the Hall as violently as human nature can be moved.
It was long, too, before those who had witnessed the scene of Goddard's
death could shake off the impression of those awful last moments. Yet
time does all things wonderful and in the course of not many months there
remained of Goddard's memory only a great sense of relief that he was no
longer alive. Mary Goddard, indeed, was very ill for a long time; and but
for Mrs. Ambrose's tender care of her, might have followed her husband
within a few weeks of his death. But the good lady never left her, until
she was herself again--absolutely herself, saving that as time passed and
her deep wounds healed her sorrows were forgotten, and she seemed to
bloom out into a second youth.

So it came to pass that within two years Charles Juxon once more asked
