I linger on this particular discomfort, for it was but 
a single item in a considerable list of grievances, 
grievances dispersed through six weeks of constant 
railway travel in France. I have not touched upon 
them at an earlier stage of this chronicle, but my re 
serve is not owing to any sweetness of association. 
This form of locomotion, in the country of the ameni 
ties, is attended with a dozen discomforts; almost all 
the conditions of the business are detestable. They 
force the sentimental tourist again and again to ask 
himself whether, in consideration of such mortal an 
noyances, the game is worth the candle. Fortunately, 
a railway journey is a good deal like a sea voyage; 
its miseries fade from the mind as soon as you arrive. 
That is why I completed, to my great satisfaction, 
my little tour in France. Let this small effusion of 
ill-nature be my first and last tribute to the whole 
despotic gare: the deadly salle d attente, the insuffer 
able delays over one 's luggage, the porterless platform, 
the overcrowded and illiberal train. How many a 
time did I permit myself the secret reflection that it 
is in perfidious Albion that they order this matter 


best! How many a time did the eager British mer 
cenary, clad in velveteen and clinging to the door of 
the carriage as it glides into the station, revisit my 
invidious dreams! The paternal porter and the re 
sponsive hansom are among the best gifts of the Eng 
lish genius to the world. I hasten to add, faithful 
to my habit (so insufferable to some of my friends) of 
ever and again readjusting the balance after I have 
given it an honest tip, that the bouillon at Lyons, 
which I spoke of above, was, though by no means an 
ideal bouillon, much better than any I could have 
obtained at an English railway station. After I had 
imbibed it, I sat in the train (which waited a long 
time at Lyons) and, by the light of one of the big 
lamps on the platform, read all sorts of disagreeable 
things in certain radical newspapers which I had 
bought at the book-stall. I gathered from these sheets 
that Lyons was in extreme commotion. The Rhone 
and the Saone, which form a girdle for the splendid 
town, were almost in the streets, as I could easily be 
lieve from what I had seen of the country after leav 
ing Orange. The Rhone, all the way to Lyons, had 
been in all sorts of places where it had no business 
to be, and matters were naturally not improved by 
its confluence with the charming and copious stream 
which, at Macon, is said once to have given such a 
happy opportunity to the egotism of the capital. A 
visitor from Paris (the anecdote is very old), being 
asked on the quay of that city whether he didn 't ad 
mire the Saone, replied good-naturedly that it was 



  

very pretty, but that in Paris they spelled it with 
the ei. This moment of general alarm at Lyons had 
been chosen by certain ingenious persons (I credit 
them, perhaps, with too sure a prevision of the rise 
of the rivers) for practising further upon the appre 
hensions of the public. A bombshell filled with 
dynamite had been thrown into a cafe", and various 
votaries of the comparatively innocuous petit verre 
had been wounded (I am not sure whether any one 
had been killed) by the irruption. Of course there had 
been arrests and incarcerations, and the "Intransi- 
geant" and the "Rappel" were filled with the echoes 
of the explosion. The tone of these organs is rarely 
edifying, and it had never been less so than on this 
occasion. I wondered, as I looked through them, 
whether I was losing all my radicalism; and then I 
wondered whether, after all, I had any to lose. Even 
in so long a wait as that tiresome delay at Lyons I 
failed to settle the question, any more than I made 
up my mind as to the probable future of the militant 
democracy, or the ultimate form of a civilization which 
should have blown up everything else. A few days 
later, the waters went down at Lyons; but the de 
mocracy has not gone down. 

I remember vividly the remainder of that evening 
which I spent at Macon, remember it with a chatter 
ing of the teeth. I know not what had got into the 
place; the temperature, for the last day of October, 
was eccentric and incredible. These epithets may 
also be applied to the hotel itself, an extraordinary 





structure, all facade, which exposes an uncovered rear 
to the gaze of nature. There is a demonstrative, 
voluble landlady, who is of course part of the fagade; 
but everything behind her is a trap for the winds, 
with chambers, corridors, staircases, all exhibited to 
