" Do you think we 're very introspective. " 

"Do your' 

" I know I 'm not. I hardly ever think about 
myself at all. At any rate, not till- it 's too late. 
That 's the great trouble. I wish I could. But I 'm 
always studying other people. They're so much 
more interesting.'' 

" Perhaps if you knew yourself better you wouldn't 
think so," suggested Colville. 

" Yes, I know they are. I don't think any young 
person can be interesting.'' 

" Then what becomes of all the novels ? They 're 
full of young persons." 

" They 're ridiculous. If I were going to write a 
novel, I should take an old person for a hero — thirty- 
five or forty. She looked at Colville, and blushing 
a little, hastened to add, " I don't believe that they 
begin to be interesting much before that time. Such 
flat things as young men are always saying ! Don't 
you remember that passage somewhere in Heine's 
Pictures of Travel, where he sees the hand of a lady 
coming out from under her mantle, when she 's con- 
fessing in a church, and he knows that it 's the hand 
of a young person who has enjoyed nothing and suf- 
fered nothing, it 's so smooth and flower-like ? After 
I read that I hated the look of my hands — I was 
only sixteen, and it seemed as if I had had no more 
experience than a child. Oh, I like people to bo 
through something. Don't you i" 

"WeliPyes, 'll suppose I do. Other people." 

"No ; but don't you like it for yourself V 



 

"I can't tell; I haven't been through anything v 
worth speaking of yet." 

Miss Graham looked at him dubiously, but 
pursued with ardour : " Why, just getting back to 
Florence, after not having been here for so long — 
I should think it would be so romantic. Oh dear ! 
I wish I were here for the second time." 

" I 'm afraid you wouldn't like it so well," said ' 
Colville. "I wish I were here for the first time. 
There 's nothing like the first time in everything." 

" Do you really think so 'll" 

" Well, there 's nothing like the first time in 
Florence." 

" Oh, I can't imagine it. I should think that re- 
calling the old emotions would be perfectly fascinat- 
mg. 

"Yes, if they'd come when you do call them. 
But they 're as contrary-minded as spirits from the 
vasty deep. I 've been shouting around here for my 
old emotions all day, and I haven't had a responsive 
squeak." 

" Oh !" cried Miss Graham, staring full-eyed at 
him. "How delightful!" Effie Bowen turned 
away her pretty little head and laughed, as if it 
might not be quite kind to laugh at a person's joke 
to his face. 

Stimulated by their appreciation, Colville went on 
with more nonsense. " No ; the only way to get at 
your old emotions in regard to Jj'lorenc e is to borrow 
them from somebody who 's having the m fresh. 
What do you think about Florence, Miss Graham ?" 



 

" I Ve been here two months." 

"Then it's too late?" 

" No, I don't know that it is. I keep feeling the 
strangeness all the time. But I can't tell you. It 's 
very different from Buffalo, I can assure you." 

" Buffalo ? I can imagine the difference. And 
it 's not altogether to the disadvantage of Buffalo." 

" Oh, have you been there ?" asked Miss Graham, 
