"Martha, will you take them up-stairs? for, of course, 
you are tired," to the ladies. " You will find the rooms 
in readiness " ; she is careful not to give the rooms any 
homelike air by adding the cordial possessive "your." 
" Whatever you need for the child will be sent up ; and 
your luggage?" 

" That will be here presently," says the spokesman. 

They ascend the broad staircase of polished oak, that 
leads to a hall above wide enough for a gallery. The 
doors stand open. 

"This, I believe, is for Mrs. Wentworth," Martha 
remarks, quietly. 



It is spacious, with southwesterly exposure, but is in 
some way shaded from the sun. Doris can feel tliat it is 
beautiful, although in simple summer garniture. She lays 
her satchel and handkerchief on the console ; she takes 
off her bonnet and her long veil that enfolds her. She is 
thinner, and looks worn and tired, but her face is that of 
a child. It looks really more youthful than six months 
ago. 

The baby wakes and cries. He has been very good all 
day ; indeed, is seldom cross. Marie shakes out the white 
bundle and smooths the long robe, loving and talking in a 
mixture of French ai^d English. Doris turns and stands 
before a mirror and is frightened. The glass not only 
reflects her slim figure and pale face, but the large apart< 
ment, its snowy bed in heavy black-walnut garnishings, 
the pictures, the chairs, the bright, soft rugs on the green- 
ish white matting, the great chimney-piece and open fire- 
place set around with red brick, and the tall andirons 
crossed at an angle. 

Has he been here ? For a moment she almost looks for 
his ghost to enter the open door. She remembers a verse 
he was very fond of, beginning, — 

'' All houses wherein men have lived and died, 
Are haunted houses " ; 

and with a great pang she recalls the fact that he did not 
die here. No soundless, intangible ghost can meet her on 
any threshold, and there is an agony of intense passion 
and despair, as if she just realized that he had gone out 
of her life forever. 

Doris takes the child and drops into a low willow rocker. 
It is crying in sore earnest now, and she bows over it, 
her tears mingling with its unsorrowful ones, although 
they seem full of anguish. A new life stares her in the 
face. She is not only the child's mother, but Lloyd Went- 
worth's widow ; and she is only eighteen. Life stretches 
out interminably. 



 



 



 

Marie has been unpacking her satchel. There are sev- 
eral matters to be attended to. She stands in the door- 
way considering whether she will ring the bell when Mai-tha 
passes, and the result of brief conversation is that Marie 
follows her through another hall with several turns, and 
by another stairs finds herself in the kitchen apartment. 

Mrs. Gilbert bustles in. " What is the matter with the 
baby, Doris ? " she cries. " Why don't you let Marie take 
him ? Isn't everything splendid ! Oh, Doris, you are the 
luckiest girl in the land ! " 

" Don't ! " Doris Wentworth cries hoarsely, putting up 
her hand to shade her face. " I — .- " She shuts her lips 
firmly lest she shall cry out with her new sorrows. 

" To be sure, it is hard for you in a certain sense, and 
if Lloyd could have lived it would have been so delightful ! 
I was not prepared for so much giandeur. I always make 
allowance for your uncle's stories ; he is one of the san- 
guine, flowery people ; so I said to myself, if we find it 
half as wonderful as his description of it, it will do. But 
you will be lost in this great house. I wonder if the other 
Wentworths mean to stay on ? They really haven't any 
right." 

Doris is hushing the baby. Is his blind cry the same 
protest of the soul as hers ? She dreads the great house 
