' Yes, no doubt I am out of it ; but I still have a right 
to say, all the same, in contradiction to your imputation of 
a moment ago, that I care for the people exactly as much 
as I ever did.' 

' My poor Hyacinth, my dear infatuated little aristocrat, 
was that ever very much ? ' the Princess asked. 





' It was enough, and it is still enough, to make me willing 
to lay down my life for anything that will really help them.' 

' Yes, and of course you must decide for yourself what 
that is ; or, rather, what it's not.' 

' I didn't decide when I gave my promise. I agreed to 
take the decision of others,' Hyacinth said. 

' Well, you said just now that in relation to this business 
of yours you had thought of many things,' the Princess 
rejoined. ' Have you ever, by chance, thought of anything 
that will help the people?' 

'You call me fantastic names, but I'm one of them 
myself.' 

' I know what you are going to say ! ' the Princess broke 
in. ' You are going to say that it will help them to do 
what you do to do their work and earn their wages. 
That's beautiful so far as it goes. But what do you pro- 
pose for the thousands and thousands for whom no work 
on the overcrowded earth, under the pitiless heaven 
is to be found? There is less and less work in the world, 
and there are more and more people to do the little that 
there is'. The old ferocious selfishnesses must come down. 
They won't come down gracefully, so they must be 
smashed !' 

The tone in which the Princess uttered these words 
made Hyacinth's heart beat fast, and there was something 
so inspiring in her devoted fairness that the vision of a 
great heroism flashed up again before him, in all the 
splendour it had lost the idea of a tremendous risk and 
an unregarded sacrifice. Such a woman as that, at such 
a moment, made every scruple seem a prudence and every 
compunction a cowardice. ' I wish to God I could see it 



as you see it !' he exclaimed, after he had looked at her a 
minute in silent admiration. 

' I see simply this : that what we are doing is at least 
worth trying, and that as none of those who have the 
power, the place, the means, will try anything else, on their 
head be the responsibility, on their head be the blood !' 

' Princess,' said Hyacinth, clasping his hands and feeling 
that he trembled, 'dearest Princess, if anything should 
happen to you ' and his voice fell ; the horror of it, a 
dozen hideous images of her possible perversity and her 
possible punishment were again before him, as he had 
already seen them in sinister musings; they seemed to 
him worse than anything he had imagined for himself. 

She threw back her head, looking at him almost in 
anger. ' To me ! And pray why not to me ? What title 
have I to exemption, to security, more than any one else ? 
Why am I so sacrosanct and so precious?' 

' Simply because there is no one in the world, and there 
has never been any one in the world, like you.' 

' Oh, thank you !' said the Princess, with a kind of dry 
impatience, turning away. 

The manner in which she spoke put an end to their 
conversation. It expressed an indifference to what it 
might interest him to think about her to-day, and even a 
contempt for it, which brought tears to his eyes. His 
tears, however, were concealed by the fact that he bent his 
head over her hand, which he had taken to kiss ; after 
which he left the room without looking at her. 



XLVJ 

' I HAVE received a letter from your husband,' Paul Muni- 
ment said to the Princess, the next evening, as soon as 
he came into the room. He announced this fact with 
a kind of bald promptitude and with a familiarity of man- 
ner which showed that his visit was one of a closely-con- 
nected series. The Princess was evidently not a little 
surprised by it, and immediately asked how in the world 
the Prince could know his address. ' Couldn't it have been 
by your old lady ?' Muniment inquired. 'He must have 
