was passing through the stage of miracles ; he carried his 
responsibility in the general elongation of his person, of 
his gestures (his hands were now always in the air, as if he 
were being photographed in postures), of his words and 
sentences, as well as in his smile, as noiseless as a patent 
hinge, and in the folds of his eternal waterproof. He was 
incapable of giving an off-hand answer or opinion on the 
simplest occasion, and his tone of high deliberation in- 
creased in proportion as the subject was trivial or domestic. 
If his wife asked him at dinner if the potatoes were good, 
he replied that they were strikingly fine (he used to speak 
of the newspaper as 'fine' he applied this term to 
objects the most dissimilar), and embarked on a parallel 



 

worthy of Plutarch, in which he compared them with other 
specimens of the same vegetable. He produced, or would 
have liked to produce, the impression of looking above 
and beyond everything, of not caring for the immediate, of 
reckoning only with the long run. In reality he had one 
all-absorbing solicitude the desire to get paragraphs put 
into the newspapers, paragraphs of which he had hitherto 
been the subject, but of which he was now to divide the 
glory with his daughter. The newspapers were his world, 
the richest expression, in his eyes, of human life ; and, for 
him, if a diviner day was to come upon earth, it would be 
brought about by copious advertisement in the daily prints. 
He looked with longing for the moment when Verena 
should be advertised among the 'personals/ and to his 
mind the supremely happy people were those (and there 
were a good many of them) of whom there was some 
journalistic mention every day in the year. Nothing less 
than this would really have satisfied Selah Tarrant ; his 
ideal of bliss was to be as regularly and indispensably a 
component part of the newspaper as the title and date, or 
the list of fires, or the column of Western jokes. The 
vision of that publicity haunted his dreams, and he would 
gladly have sacrificed to it the innermost sanctities of home. 
Human existence to him, indeed, was a huge publicity, in 
which the only fault was that it was sometimes not suffi- 
ciently effective. There had been a Spiritualist paper of 
old which he used to pervade ; but he could not persuade 
himself that through this medium his personality had at- 
tracted general attention ; and, moreover, the sheet, as he 
said, was played out anyway. Success was not success so 
long as his daughter's physique, the rumour of her engage- 
ment, were not included in the ' Jottings/ with the certainty 
of being extensively copied. 

The account of her exploits in the West had not made 
their way to the seaboard with the promptitude that he 
had looked for; the reason of this being, he supposed, 
that the few addresses she had made had not been lectures, 
announced in advance, to which tickets had been sold, but 
incidents, of abrupt occurrence, of certain multitudinous 
meetings, where there had been other performers better 



 

known to fame. They had brought in no money ; they 
had been delivered only for the good of the cause. If it 
could only be known that she spoke for nothing, that 
might deepen the reverberation ; the only trouble was that 
her speaking for nothing was not the way to remind him 
that he had a remunerative daughter. It was not the way 
to stand out so very much either, Selah Tarrant felt ; for 
there were plenty of others that knew how to make as 
little money as she would. To speak that was the one 
thing that most people were willing to do for nothing ; it 
was not a line in which it was easy to appear conspicuously 
disinterested. Disinterestedness, too, was incompatible with 
receipts ; and receipts were what Selah Tarrant was, in his 
own parlance, after. He wished to bring about the day 
when they would flow in freely ; the reader perhaps sees 
the gesture with which, in his colloquies with himself, he 
accompanied this mental image. 

It seemed to him at present that the fruitful time was 
not far off; it had been brought appreciably nearer by that 
fortunate evening at Miss Birdseye's. If Mrs. Farrinder 
could be induced to write an ' open letter ' about Verena, 
that would do more than anything else. Selah was not 
remarkable for delicacy of perception, but he knew the 
world he lived in well enough to be aware that Mrs. 
Farrinder was liable to rear up, as they used to say down 
in Pennsylvania, where he lived before he began to peddle 
lead-pencils. She wouldn't always take things as you 
might expect, and if it didn't meet her views to pay a 
public tribute to Verena, there wasn't any way known to 
Tarrant's ingenious mind of getting round her. If it was 
a question of a favour from Mrs. Farrinder, you just had 
to wait for it, as you would for a rise in the thermometer. 
He had told Miss Birdseye what he would like, and she 
seemed to think, from the way their celebrated friend had 
been affected, that the idea might take her some day of 
