"Good evening, Prince." Giovanni turned, and recognised Anastase Gouache,
the Zouave.

"Ah, Gouache--how are you?"

"I am going to pay you a visit," answered the Frenchman.

"I am very sorry--I have just left home," returned Giovanni, in some
surprise.

"Not at your house," continued Anastase. "My company is ordered to the
mountains. We leave to-morrow morning for Subiaco, and some of us are to
be quartered at Saracinesca."

"I hope you will be among the number," said Giovanni. "I shall probably
be married next week, and the Duchessa wishes to go at once to the
mountains. We shall be delighted to see you."

"Thank you very much. I will not fail to do myself the honour. My homage
to Madame la Duchesse. I must turn here. Good night."

"Au revoir," said Giovanni, and went on his way.

He found Corona in an inner sitting-room, reading beside a great
wood-fire. There were soft shades of lilac mingled with the black of her
dress. The year of mourning was past, and so soon as she could she
modified her widow's weeds into something less solemnly black. It
was impossible to wear funeral robes on the eve of her second marriage;
and the world had declared that she had shown an extraordinary degree of
virtue in mourning so long for a death which every one considered so
highly appropriate. Corona, however, felt differently. To her, her dead
husband and the man she now so wholly loved belonged to two totally
distinct classes of men. Her love, her marriage with Giovanni, seemed so
natural a consequence of her being left alone--so absolutely removed
from her former life--that, on the eve of her wedding, she could almost
wish that poor old Astrardente were alive to look as her friend upon her
new-found happiness.

She welcomed Giovanni with a bright smile. She had not expected him that
evening, for he had been with her all the afternoon. She sprang to her
feet and came quickly to meet him. She almost unconsciously took the
morocco case from his hands, not looking at it, and hardly noticing what
she did.

"My father has come back. It is all settled!" cried Giovanni.

"So soon! He must have flown!" said she, making him sit down.

"Yes, he has never rested, and he has found out all about it. It is a
most extraordinary story. By the by, he sends you affectionate messages,
and begs you to accept these diamonds. They were my mother's," he added,
his voice softening and changing. Corona understood his tone, and perhaps
realised, too, how very short the time now was. She opened the case
carefully.

"They are very beautiful; your mother wore them, Giovanni?" She looked
lovingly at him, and then bending down kissed the splendid coronet as
though in reverence of the dead Spanish woman who had borne the man
she loved. Whereat Giovanni stole to her side, and kissed her own dark
hair very tenderly.

"I was to tell you that there are a great many more," he said, "which my
father will offer you on the wedding--day." Then he kneeled down beside
her, and raising the crown from its case, set it with both his hands upon
her diadem of braids.

"My princess!" he exclaimed. "How beautiful you are!" He took the great
necklace, and clasped it about her white throat. "Of course," he said,
"you have such splendid jewels of your own, perhaps you hardly care for
these and the rest. But I like to see you with them--it makes me feel
that you are really mine."

Corona smiled happily, and gently took the coronet from her head,
returning it to its case. She let the necklace remain about her throat.

"You have not told me about your father's discovery," she said, suddenly.

"Yes--I will tell you."

In a few minutes he communicated to her the details of the journey. She
listened with profound interest.

"It is very strange," she said. "And yet it is so very natural."

"You see it is all Del Ferice's doing," said Giovanni. "I suppose it was
really an accident in the first place; but he managed to make a great
deal of it. It is certainly very amusing to find that the last of the
other branch is an innkeeper in the Abruzzi. However, I daresay we
shall never hear of him again. He does not seem inclined to claim his
title. Corona mia, I have something much more serious to say to you
to-night."

"What is it?" she asked, turning her great dark eyes rather wonderingly
to his face.

"There is no reason why we should not be married, now--"

"Do you think I ever believed there was?" she asked, reproachfully.

"No, dear. Only--would you mind its being very soon?"
