"The skipper 'll tell you, mebby. I won't. No, I 




vow I won't. Let me go. I 've done my share of this. 
Let me up on deck ! I want the air ! " 

"I won't let you up on deck— so help me! — till you 
tell!" 

" Let me off, Jack, let me off ! " 




" Tell me who it was, I say ! " 

"Lord in heaven, the poor devil don't know, — he 
really don't." 

" I thought you would ha' told me, Rowe," said Jack 
with a smile, — his old winning smile, that had captivated 
his messmates all his life. 

" I will tell you ! " cried Rowe Salt with an oath of 
agony. " You killed your wife ! You murdered her. 
She 's dead Teen ain't to home. She 's dead." 



VI. 

They made way for him at this side and at that, for 
he sprang up the gangway, and dashed among them. 
When he saw them all together, and how they looked at 
him, he stopped. A change seemed to strike his pur- 
pose, be it what it might. 

" Boys," said Jack, looking all about, " ye won't have 
to go no bail for me. I 'll bide my account, this time." 

He parted from them, for they let him do the thing 
he would, and got himself alone into the bows, and there 
he sank down, crouching, and no one spoke to him. 

The Daredevil rounded Eastern Point, and down the 
shining harbor, all sails set, came gayly in. They were 
almost home. 

Straightway there started out upon the winter sea a 
strong, sweet tenor, like a cry. It was Jack's voice, — 
everybody knew it. He stood by himself in the bows, 
back to them, singing like an angel or a madman, — 
>.cme said this ; some said the other, — 

" Rock of Ages, cleft for me ! 
Let me hide myself in thee ; . . . 

Thou must save, and thou alone . . . 

When I soar to worlds unknown, 
See thee on thy judgment throne," — 

sang Jack. 



With the ceasing of his voice, they divined how it 
was, by one instinct, and every man sprang to him. 
But he had leaped and gained on them. 




The waters of Fairharbor seemed themselves to leap 
to greet him as he went down. These that had borne 
him and ruined him buried him as if they loved him. 



He had pushed up his sleeves for the spring, hard to the 
shoulder, like a man who would wrestle at odds. 

As he sank, one bared arm, thrust above the crest of 
the long wave, lifted itself toward the sky. It was his 
right arm, on which the crucifix was stamped. 

VII. 

White and gold as the lips and heart of a. lily, the 
day blossomed at Fairharbor one June Sunday, when 
these things were as a tale that is told. It was a warm 
day, sweet and still. There was no wind, no fog. The 
harbor wore her innocent face. She has one ; who can 
help believing in it, to see it ? The waves stretched 
themselves upon the beach as if they had been hands 
laid out in benediction ; and the colors of the sky were 
like the expression of a strong and solemn countenance. 

