
“How did you know I had it? If it hadn’t been for her, I shouldn’t have
brought any. She put it into my pocket just as I was leaving. She said
you would all want to see what she looked like.”

He had taken it out of his pocket, and he held it, smiling fondly upon
it. Alice seemed to smile back at him. He had lost her in the reluctance
of his father and sisters; and now his mother--it was his mother who had
given her to him again. He thought how tenderly he loved his mother.

When he could yield her the photograph, she looked long and silently at
it. “She has a great deal of character, Dan.”

“There you’ve hit it, mother! I’d rather you would have said that than
anything else. But don’t you think she’s beautiful? She’s the gentlest
creature, when you come to know her! I was awfully afraid of her at
first. I thought she was very haughty. But she isn’t at all. She’s
really very self-depreciatory; she thinks she isn’t good enough for me.
You ought to hear her talk, mother, as I have. She’s full of the noblest
ideals--of being of some use in the world, of being self-devoted,
and--all that kind of thing. And you can see that she’s capable of it.
Her aunt’s in a Protestant sisterhood,” he said, with a solemnity which
did not seem to communicate itself to his mother, for Mrs. Mavering
smiled. Dan smiled too, and said: “But I can’t tell you about Alice,
mother. She’s perfect.” His heart overflowed with proud delight in her,
and he was fool enough to add, “She’s so affectionate!”

His mother kept herself from laughing. “I dare say she is, Dan--with
you.” Then she hid all but her eyes with the photograph, and gave way.

“What a donkey!” said Dan, meaning himself. “If I go on, I shall disgust
you with her. What I mean is that she isn’t at all proud, as I used to
think she was.”

“No girl is, under the circumstances. She has all she can do to be proud
of you.”

“Do you think so, mother?” he said, enraptured with the notion. “I’ve
done my best--or my worst--not to give her any reason to be so.”

“She doesn’t ‘want any--the less the better. You silly boy! Don’t you
suppose she wants to make you out of whole cloth just as you do with
her? She doesn’t want any facts to start with; they’d be in the way.
Well, now, I can make out, with your help, what the young lady is;
but what are the father and mother? They’re rather important in these
cases.”

“Oh, they’re the nicest kind of people,” said Dan, in optimistic
generalisation. “You’d like Mrs. Pasmer. She’s awfully nice.”

“Do you say that because you think I wouldn’t?” asked his mother. “Isn’t
she rather sly and hum-bugging?”

“Well, yes, she is, to a certain extent,” Dan admitted, with a laugh.
“But she doesn’t mean any harm by it. She’s extremely kind-hearted.”

“To you? I dare say. And Mr. Pasmer is rather under her thumb?”

“Well, yes, you might say thumb,” Dan consented, feeling it useless to
defend the Pasmers against this analysis.

“We won’t say heel,” returned his mother; “we’re too polite. And your
father says he had the reputation in college of being one of the most
selfish fellows in the world. He’s never done anything since but lose
most of his money. He’s been absolutely idle and useless all his days.”
 She turned her vivid blue eyes suddenly upon her son’s.

Dan winced. “You know how hard father is upon people who haven’t done
anything. It’s a mania of his. Of course Mr. Pasmer doesn’t show to
advantage where there’s no--no leisure class.”

“Poor man!”

Dan was going to say, “He’s very amiable, though,” but he was afraid
of his mother’s retorting, “To you?” and he held his peace, looking
chapfallen.

Whether his mother took pity on him or not, her next sally was
consoling. “But your Alice may not take after either of them. Her father
is the worst of his breed, it seems; the rest are useful people,
from what your father knows, and there’s a great deal to be hoped for
collaterally. She had an uncle in college at the same time who was
everything that her father was not.”

“One of her aunts is in one of those Protestant religious houses in
England,” repeated Dan.

“Oh!” said his mother shortly, “I don’t know that I like that
particularly. But probably she isn’t useless there. Is Alice very
religious?”

“Well, I suppose,” said Dan, with a smile for the devotions that came
into his thought, “she’s what would be called ‘Piscopal pious.”

Mrs. Mavering referred to the photograph, which she still held in
her hand. “Well, she’s pure and good, at any rate. I suppose you look
forward to a long engagement?”

Dan was somewhat taken aback at a supposition so very contrary to what
was in his mind. “Well, I don’t know. Why?”
