
She knew without inquiry where to find him, and hastened at once to the
library, breathless when she reached his chair. He had been dozing over
a book, but at the rustle of her gown, he started and rubbed his eyes.

"It's good of you to come," he said, by way of greeting. "Why, Eden, I
haven't seen you for two days. Sit down there and let me look at you.
It's odd; I was going to you after the funeral. You know about General
Meredith, don't you? He went off like that. He is to be buried this
afternoon."

Mr. Menemon stood up and hunted for a match with which to light a lamp.
"Yes," he continued, "he was only ill for twenty-four hours. Think of
that, now! To tell you the truth, I haven't been very bright myself. I
wanted to speak to you about it. All last winter I was more or less
under the weather, and for some time I have been planning a trip abroad.
Now that you have an establishment of your own, Eden, you won't want
me." And as he said this, he smiled.

"Father, I have more need of you than ever."

"Yes," he answered, "I was jesting. I know you will miss me; but I will
come back with the violets."

He had succeeded in lighting the lamp and, still smiling, he turned and
looked at her. "The father-in-law element," he continued, and then
stopped abruptly, amazed at the expression of his daughter's face. "What
is it, Eden?" he asked at last.

"If you go abroad, I go with you."

For a moment he eyed her, as though seeking, untold, to divine the
meaning of her words.

"Nothing has gone wrong, has it?" he asked.

"He has deceived me."

"Usselex?"

"Who else is there whose deception I would notice?"

"You are mistaken, Eden; it is my fault; he consulted me in the
matter----"

"He consulted you? But how is such a thing possible. He never could
have consulted you, and if he had you would not have listened."

"Ah! but I did though. Between ourselves I thought it not uninteresting.
After all, it was not his fault. I thought it unadvisable that you
should learn of it before marriage, and afterwards, well, afterwards, it
was immaterial whether you did or whether you didn't."

"Father, either it is not you that speak, or I am demented."

"There, my dear, don't take it so seriously. I can't call it an everyday
matter, of course, but such things do happen, and as I said before, a
man's a man for all of that. If he said nothing it was because--well,
Eden, how could he? Ask yourself, how could he?"

"You knew of this before my marriage and you permitted the marriage to
take place?"

"Well--er, yes, Eden. Frankly now, it was a difficult matter to discuss
with you. You see, it was this way: a young girl like yourself, brought
up as you have been, is apt to have prejudices which men and women of
the world do not always share. And this is a case in point. Even now
that you are married I can understand your disapproval, but----"

"Disapproval! Is that what you call it? Have you no other term? Father,
it seems to me that you are worse than he. Had anyone told me that you
could countenance such a thing I would have denied his sanity." She hid
her face in her hands and moaned dumbly to herself, "I am desolate,"
she murmured, "I am desolate, indeed."

"No, Eden, not that, not that. Eden, listen to me; there, if you only
listen to me a moment. Eden, it is not a thing that I countenance, nor
is it one of which I approve. But the fault is not his. It is in the
nature of some women that such things should be. It is a thing to be
deplored, to be overlooked. The old law held that the sins of the father
should be visited on the son; but we are more liberal now. Besides, it
is part of the past; what use is there----"

"Part of the past? I saw him with her the day before yesterday, and----"

"Why, she is dead."

"Father, of whom are you speaking?"

"Of his mother, of course; and you?"

"I am speaking of his mistress, whom he wishes your daughter to
entertain."

"Eden, it is impossible. I misunderstood you. What you say is absurd.
Usselex is incapable of such infamy."

"He is, then, and he has the capacity to have me share it too."

"But tell me, what grounds have you for saying----"
