
Christy and Flint were confined in an unoccupied warehouse, and were fed
tolerably well, and they were supplied with some kind of dried grass for
beds. It was not at all like the luxurious stateroom of the lieutenant
on board of the Bellevite, or even the quarters of Flint; but they were
determined to make the best of it. Flint had become reconciled to his
situation, and Christy was even cheerful.

After he had been in the warehouse a few days, Christy was not a little
surprised to receive a visit from his uncle, Colonel Passford. He was
not surprised at the kindness of the planter in making the visit, but
that he should know so soon that he was a prisoner of war, for he had
fully decided not to make any appeal to his uncle; and he could not
imagine how he had discovered his situation.

"I am glad to see you, Christy," said Colonel Passford, extending his
hand, which Christy took without any hesitation.

"And I suppose you are glad to see me here," added the nephew, with a
smile.

"While I am glad to see you deprived of the power to injure the cause I
love, and to which I have pledged all that I have and all that I am, I
am sorry that you should be in trouble, Christy. I hope I have Christian
feeling enough to keep me from rejoicing at the misfortunes of any
person, and especially of my brother's son. I can say sincerely that
I am sorry you are in trouble," said the colonel solemnly.

"Oh, I am not in trouble, Uncle Homer!" exclaimed Christy, laughing.
"I have done my duty to my country, my conscience is clean, and I am
not to be upset by an accident like this. I am really happy in the
consciousness that I have been faithful to the cause of my country."

  [Illustration: "I am glad to see you, Christy."--Page 308.]

"I wish you had been; but we will not talk about that, for I suppose you
and your father have the same views," replied the planter, looking very
sad.

"I don't believe we should agree if we talked about it for a year, and
we had better give the subject the go-by. But how are Aunt Lydia and
Gerty?"

"Both are very well. I hope your father is in good health, as well as
your mother and sister."

"All very well."

"I have not heard a word from any of you for about five months,"
continued Colonel Passford. "In fact, not since you were here in May."

"We got home all right, and the Bellevite is a man-of-war now. She
captured one valuable prize off the coast of Carolina, and another at
Pensacola," replied Christy cheerfully.

"She ought never to have been allowed to leave Mobile Bay," added the
colonel.

"Your people certainly did everything they could to prevent her from
leaving, and I hope you don't blame yourselves for letting her go. What
about Corny, sir?" asked Christy.

"Major Pierson was very much to blame for permitting the Bellevite to
pass the forts when she came in, and he lost his command. But he has
devoted all his life to redeem his fault by her recapture. He took Corny
with him, and a naval officer; I only know that the attempt to recapture
her failed from the fact that the Bellevite is now on the blockade."

Finding that his uncle knew nothing of the events which had transpired
at Bonnydale, Christy told him all about them, informing him at the end
that Corny was a prisoner of war on parole at his father's house,
recovering from his wound.




CHAPTER XXVIII

AN ENTERPRISE FOR A DARK NIGHT


"Corny wounded!" exclaimed Colonel Passford, rising with no little
emotion from the box on which he had seated himself.

"Not seriously, Uncle Homer," added Christy.

"But how was he wounded? I have heard of no battle in the vicinity of
New York till now, though our papers contain some news from outside,"
continued the planter.

"It was hardly a battle," replied Christy. "Captain Carboneer had
brought a crew for a steamer through Canada, I believe, for the purpose
of capturing the Bellevite as she lay at Bonnydale. Major Pierson and
Corny were to assist him; and the major wished Captain Carboneer to take
Florry on board of her, and convey her to the South, when he had taken
possession of the steamer; but the naval officer was too high-toned to
do anything of the kind."

"I did not suppose Major Pierson could do such a thing," added the
planter, biting his lips.
