heart as she is of gold?'

"'Absolutely,' I answered--a remark which may have sounded snobbish, but
still was wholly true.

"'Ah!' he exclaimed, 'there are birds that do not sing untaught.'

"'You are beginning well,' I thought.

"The next day he lunched with us, and came again in the evening. In
addition to his marquisate, he had a fluty tenorino voice; what they
call a voix de salon. He sang all sorts of things for us, and he sang
them very well. When the air was lively he looked at Fanny, when it was
sentimental he looked at me. Thereafter I saw a great deal of him. One
day we would make up a party for Nice, on another we would go to San
Remo, or else back in the mountains, or to Grasse. Of course, as you
know, customs over there are such that he had no opportunity of being
alone with me, even for a second; but he had an art of making love in
public which must have been the result of long practice. It was both
open and discreet. It was not in words; it was in the inflection of the
voice and in the paying of the thousand and one little attentions which
foreigners perform so well. Now, to me, a tiara might be becoming, but
it is an ornament for which I have never felt the vaguest covetousness.
Moreover, I had no intention of marrying an Italian, however fabulous
the ancestry of that Italian might be. And, besides, the attentions of
which I was the apparent object were, I knew, addressed less to me than
to the blue eyes of my check-book. The Florentine nobleman who is
disposed to marry a dowerless American is yet to be heard from. This by
the way. However, I accepted the attentions with becoming grace, and
marked the cunning of his tricks. One evening he did not put in an
appearance, but at midnight, I heard, on the road before my window, the
tinkle of a guitar. I did not need to peer through the curtains to know
from whom it came. First he sang a song of Tosti's, and then the
serenade from "Don Pasquale:"

    'Com' è gentil, la notte in mezz' Aprile.

    Poi quando sarò morto, tu piangerai
    Ma ritornarmi in vita, tu non potrai.'

"Sentimental? Yes, sentimental to the last degree. But on the Riviera, in
spring, and at night, one's fancy turns to that sort of thing with
astounding ease. I listened with unalloyed pleasure. It was like a
Boccaccian echo. And as I listened I wondered whether I should ever
learn what love might be. The idea of taking a course of lessons from a
man who strummed on a guitar in front of my window never entered my
head. The next day Fanny came to me in a state of great excitement. The
guitarist, it appeared, had, with all proper and due formality, asked
leave to place his coronet at my feet. Ce que j'ai ri!

"You can hear Fanny from here. She accused me of flirting with the man.
'You have no right,' she said, 'to treat him as though he were a college
boy at Mt. Desert.' What he had done to make her so vicious I never
discovered. It must have been the title, a title always went to her
head. Poor Fanny! That evening, when he came, she declined to be
present. I had to see him alone. My dear, he was too funny. He had
prepared a little speech which he got off very well, only at the end of
it he lapsed into English. 'We will loaf,' he said, 'we will be always
loafers.' He meant, of course, to assert that we should love and be
always lovers, but the intricacies of our pronunciation were too much
for him. I could have died, it was so amusing. I managed, however, to
keep a straight face. 'Marquis,' I said, 'I am deeply honored, but your
invitation is one that I am unable to accept.' A more astounded man you
never saw. He really thought that he had but to ask, and it would be
given. He declined to take No for an answer. He said he would wait.
Actually, he was so pertinacious that I had to drag Fanny up to Paris.
He followed us in the next train. There was no getting rid of him at
all. If he sent me one note he sent me a hundred, and notes ten pages
each, at the very least. Finally, as you heard, he tried the dramatic.
One afternoon, while I was out shopping, he bribed a waiter at the hotel
where we lodged. When I returned, there he was, waiting for me. 'At
last,' he cried, 'at last we are face to face. You think I do not love.
Cruel one, behold me! I love as no mortal ever loved before. See, I die
at your feet!' And there, before my very eyes, he whipped out a pistol,
pulled the trigger, tumbled over and seemed fully disposed to carry out
the programme to the end. He had shot himself; there was no doubt about
that; but he had shot himself in such an intelligent manner, that,
though there was blood enough to frighten a sensitive young person out
of her wits, yet of danger there was none at all. Talk to me about
comedians! When I discovered the farce which had been enacted with the
sole object of stirring my sympathies into affection, I was
flabbergasted at the wiles of man.

"It was after that episode that I returned to Beacon Street. It was
there that what you are pleased to call the scandal began. Fanny, whose
desire to marry me off was simply epic, one day caught an Englishman;
young, so she said, and good-looking. And that Englishman, she made up
her mind, I should ensnare. Fanny, as you know, was possessed with an
ungratified desire to pay annual visits to swell country houses on the
other side. Hence, I suppose, her efforts. Having caught the Englishman,
the next step was to serve him up in becoming form. To that end she gave
a tentative dinner. I got to it late; in fact, I was the last to arrive.
Fanny, I could see, was in a state of feverish excitement. She presented
to me one or two men, whose names I did not catch, and a moment later
one of them gave me his arm. When we were seated at table, and while he
was sticking a chrysanthemum in his button-hole, I glanced at the card
on his plate. It bore for legend Lord Alfred Harrow. It was then I took
my first look at him. My dear, he was the ugliest man I have ever seen;
he was so ugly that he was positively attractive. His mouth was large
enough to sing a duet, but his teeth were whiter than mine."
