himself.

The doctor meanwhile was running on as doctors do. "Yes," Mistrial heard
him say, "she was most unhappy; no woman likes a rival, and when that
rival is her own maid, matters are not improved. For my part, the moment
I saw how delicate she was, I thought, though I didn't dare to say so, I
thought her husband had acted with great forethought. The maid was
strong as an ox, and in putting her in the same condition as his wife he
had simply and solely supplied her with a wet-nurse. But then, at this
time particularly, women are so unreasonable. Not your good lady--a
sweeter disposition--"

Whatever encomium he intended to make remained unfinished. From the room
beyond a cry filtered; he turned hastily and disappeared. The cry
subsided; but presently, as though in the interval the sufferer had
found new strength or new torture, it rose more stridently than before.
And as the rumor of it augmented and increased, a phrase of the
physician's returned to Mistrial. "Everything is going very nicely," he
told himself, and began to pace the floor.

A fraction of an hour passed, a second, and a third. The cry now had
changed singularly; it had lost its penetrating volume, it had sunk into
the rasping moan of one dreaming in a fever. Suddenly that ceased, the
silence was complete, and Mistrial, a trifle puzzled, moved out into the
hall. There he caught again the murmur of her voice. This time she was
talking very rapidly, in a continuous flow of words. From where he stood
Mistrial could not hear what she was saying, and he groped on tip-toe
down the hall. As he reached the door of the room in which she was, the
sweet and heavy odor of chloroform came out and met him there; but still
the flow of words continued uninterruptedly, one after the other, with
the incoherence of a nightmare monologuing in a corpse. Then, without
transition, in the very middle of a word, a cry of the supremest agony
rang out, drowning another, which was but a vague complaint.

"It's a boy," the nurse exclaimed.

And Justine through a rift of consciousness caught and detained the
speech. "So much the better," she moaned; "he will never give birth."




V.


"We brought nothing into this world, and it is certain we can carry
nothing out. The Lord gave, and the Lord hath taken away: blessed be the
name of the Lord."

To this, Mistrial, garbed in black, responded discreetly, "Amen."

He was standing opposite the bier. At his side was Justine. Before him
Dr. Gonfallon, rector of the Church of Gethsemane,--of which the
deceased had been warden,--was conducting the funeral rites. To the left
was Thorold. Throughout the length and breadth of the drawing-room other
people stood--a sprinkling of remote connections, former constituents,
members of the bar and of the church, a few politicians; these, together
with a handful of the helpless to whom the dead statesman had been
trustee, counsellor too, and guide, had assembled there in honor of his
memory. At the door, sharpening a pencil, was a representative of the
Associated Press.

For the past few days obituaries of the Hon. Paul Dunellen varied from
six inches to a column in length. One journal alone had been
circumspect. No mention of the deceased had appeared in its issues. But
in politics that journal had differed with him--a fact which accounted
sufficiently for its silence. In the others, however, through
biographies more or less exact, fitting tributes had been paid. The
World gave his picture.

Yet now, as Dr. Gonfallon, in words well calculated to impress, dwelt on
the virtues of him that had gone, the tributes of the newspapers seemed
perfunctory and trite. Decorously, as was his custom, he began with a
platitude. Death, that is terrible to the sinner, radiant to the
Christian, imposing to all, was here, he declared, but the dusk of a
beautiful day which in departing disclosed cohorts of the Eternal
beckoning from their glorious realm. Yet soon he warmed to his work, and
eulogies of the deceased fell from him in sonorous periods, round and
empty. He spoke of the nobility of his character, the loyalty he
displayed, not to friends alone, but to foes as well. He spoke of that
integrity in every walk of life which had won for him the title of
Honest Paul--a title an emperor might crave and get not. He spoke too of
the wealth he had acquired, and drew a moral from the unostentatiousness
of his charities, the simplicity of his ways. He dwelt at length on the
fact that, however multiple the duties of his station had been, his duty
to his Maker was ever first. Then, after a momentary digression, in
which he stated how great was the loss of such as he, he alluded to the
daughter he had left, to that daughter's husband, sorely afflicted
himself, yet, with a manliness worthy of his historic name, comforting
the orphan who needed all his comfort now; and immediately from these
things he lured another moral--an appeal to fortitude and courage; and
winding up with the customary exordium, asked of Death where was its
sting.

Where was it indeed? A day or two later Mistrial found time to think of
that question and of other matters as well. It was then six weeks since
the birth of the child, and Justine, fairer than ever before, was
ministering to it in the adjacent room. Now and again he caught the
shrill vociferation of its vague complaints. It was a feeble infant,
lacking in vitality, distressingly hideous; but it lived, and though it
