dollars' worth of flowers. That looked enormous to 
me. I went over the account several times to see if 
it was true. ' But we had such splendid luck with 
heliotrope and bourvafdia, and there was always a 
demand for roses. I felt now that we might reason 
ably expect to succeed. 

Now there came a thaw with a " muggy " week. 
This was worse than the cold. How to get the 
right proportion of ventilation and not chill, the 



 

right amount of watering, and how to provide for a 
sun that obstinately refused to shine, were important 
questions. But we came through it pretty well for 
new beginners. Some of our largest heliotropes 
blighted, and we cut them back. Some of our roses 
hung listlessly ; but we had hosts of carnations, and 
no end of violets. 

We planted now a hundred three-inch pots with 
cucumber-seeds, three to a pot. Where we could 
make room for them, we hardly knew ; but some of 
the violets and other things would be done before 
long, and for a month, at least, we need not worry. 
Eve came home radiant. Joe and Ruth and the 
baby claimed her for a whole week : indeed, she was 
in danger of being divided around piecemeal. 
Where Lawrence was to come in, rather puzzled me. 
But distance all the rest, he surely did. 

"I suppose you think it queer enough that I 
have not hunted up some one with a fortune," she 
said to me in a curiously defiant manner, as if that 
had been my plan for her. " Aunt Carry will con 
sider that I have gone out of my senses, for she did 
pick out a rich old fellow in Washington who has 
worn himself almost to a shadow amassing a for 
tune. And there hav,e been others. But I like 
him" blushing warmly, "for his manliness, his 
truth, and his sense of honor about little matters 



 



that so many people pass over ; " and her eyes are 
lustrous as she utters this. "I could trust him to 
the uttermost, I could trust him anywhere, under 
any stress ; and the world is full of evil deeds now 
adays. O Ad, my darling ! " and her soft arms are 
about my neck, her flushed cheek throbs against 
mine, " have we not both found the best, the sweetest 
thing in the whole wide world ? Is it not Eden come 
over again ? Who cares for the great Babylon with its 
strifes and env}dngs and hatreds ? We shall be rich 
enough for our needs, and, what is immeasurably 
better, we shall be happy, gladly, joyfully happy. 
We shall not envy any nabob of them all." 

I held her in my arms many minutes. Who dares 
to say other loves pale beside the one great soul- 
giving ? 

I think Pryor rather resented Eve's engagement 
in a queer, irritable sort of way ; but everybody 
else took it fairly well. Sadie Palmer insisted that 
she had thrown herself away, and that, if she had 
shown good sense, she would have chosen a plumber, 
so she could have made sure of a trip to Europe. 
But we four were satisfied. 

The baby's name, too, did get settled at last. It 
was simply Thurston. Eve and I stood for it. I 
endowed it with a silver cup and five dollars that 
opened the little lad's banking-account. 



 

We exhort our young people a great deal on the 
subject of saving money, and there are tremen 
dous economical essays in many of the more intel 
lectual journals. I sometimes wonder how the 
writers thereof would live and save on fifty dollars a 
month. Here was my essay for four months. I 
seldom smoked. I rarely drank beer or any other 
liquor. Our housekeeping, as I have said, was a 
joint affair, we three men paying the bills ; and we 
did buy at a considerable advantage. My cost of 
the living, including Eve's share, was as follows, 
under the head of board : 

October. Board $26 
