There came to our ears a wail of despair for 
the race at which the stoutest trembled. Was 
it the roar of the ocean of all time ? Nay ; 
look abroad ; it was but the rustle of a brain- 
wave on the shore. The time is at hand. The 
moment of the ebb has come. This is the 
law. They who took away from us the only 
hopes that made existence anything else than 
a stupendous tyranny perpetrated upon a de- 
frauded race, shall see their dark work come 



surging back from the cap to the trough. This 
is the law. Long have they taught us the 
rights of such autocracy. Well have they 
worshiped the Law of Nature. In the way of 
social position, they would take nothing less 
for it than the Throne of God. By the creeds 
of their own deeds they shall be judged, or 
there is no conclusion in logic and no unity 
in history. In an old French picture demons 
toss a lost soul from one to the other, like a 
ball. Truth, which fares hard in an untruth- 
ful world, meets here a fate as restless. This 
is the law. 

In the parlance of philosophy, we are told 
that the force embodied as momentum in a 
given direction cannot be destroyed ; and that, 
even if it disappear, or seem to disappear, it 
reappears in the form of reaction on the re- 
tarding body. The easy illustration of the 
tuning-fork is used to remind us that " as 
much force as the finger exerts in pulling 
the prong aside, so much opposing force is 
brought into play among the cohering parti- 
cles. Hence, when the prong is liberated, it is 
urged back by a force equal to that used in- 
deflecting it." 





The materialistic sound-wave has turned. 
This, he that slumbereth can hear. It will be 
nothing new in human story if we are called 
upon to observe that the ebb is at least as 
great as the flow. The exerting force, we 
must remember, not only meets its opposing 
force, it creates its opposing force. This is 
the law. 

It has been written of the father of Goethe 
that he had no spiritual elements in him by 
which his weak points could be transformed 
into strong ones. What is true of a given 
type of character is true of a corresponding 
type of belief. In the whole Agnostic direc- 
tion of motion there lacked the spiritual ele- 
ment by which its weak points could be con- 
verted into strong ones, thus to stand out 
against the crisis of the ebb and be carried 
over into the next vibration in a form likely 
to perpetuate the vitality of the last. 

I think one may venture the assertion that 
the ruling philosophy of our day has done 
nothing more important than the arousing of 
a tremendous resistance to itself. This re- 
sistance promises to be, at the least, as pow- 
erful as the force which it resists. The inex- 







orable rhythm has begun in the motion of 
thought. A theory should be a gun. It should 
never shoot without calculating on the recoil. 
The materialist did not calculate upon the 
recoil ; and the recoil has come. In the hun- 
ter's phrase, his weapon has kicked. 

It has been said of Lessing that he knew 
but one system of tactics, which was with 
fixed bayonet to run his rival through the 
body. " He made no prisoners. When the 
work was over there was nothing left of his 
antagonist." The skepticism of our day has 
made too many prisoners ; and her prisoners 
are escaping beneath her eyes. 

The interesting thing, however, about the 
whole matter is the point of the compass at 
which the dungeon walls have been broken. 
Or, to keep to our figure, it is the direction of 
