
The last words were in a sharp whisper; and Tino obeyed with a sudden
bob of the head that sent his curls over his eyes, and then laughed such
a boyish laugh as he shook them back that the gentleman leaning forward
to look at him joined in it, and the ladies smiled sympathetically as
they pushed a dish of bonbons nearer to him.  Mario gave him an
indulgent look, and went on in the same benevolent tone telling all he
meant to do, till the kindly gentleman from Rome was much interested,
having lads of his own and being fond of music.

Tino listened to the fine tales told of him and hoped no one would ask
him about Genoa, for he would surely betray that he had never been there
and could not lie as glibly as Mario did. He felt rather like the little
old woman who did not know whether she was herself or not, but consoled
himself by smiling at the ladies and eating a whole plateful of little
cakes standing near him.

When they rose, Tino made his bow, and Mario walked down the long hall
with his hand on the boy’s shoulder and a friendly air very impressive
to the spectators, who began at once to gossip about the pretty lad and
his kind protector, just as the cunning gentleman planned to have them.

As soon as they were out of sight, Mario’s manner changed; and telling
Tino to sit down and digest his dinner or he would n’t be able to sing a
note, he went to the balcony to smoke till the servant came to conduct
them to Conte Alborghetti’s salon.

"Now mind, boy; do exactly as I tell you, or I ’ll drop you like a hot
chestnut and leave you to get home as you can," said Mario, in a sharp
whisper, as they paused on the threshold of the door.

"I will, signor, indeed I will!" murmured Tino, scared by the flash of
his master’s black eye and the grip of his hand, as he pulled the
bashful boy forward.

In they went, and for a moment Tino only perceived a large light room
full of people, who all looked at him as he stood beside Mario with his
guitar slung over his shoulder, red cheeks, and such a flutter at his
heart that he felt sure he could never sing there.  The amiable host
came to meet and present them to a group of ladies, while a flock of
children drew near to look at and listen to the "nice singing boy from
Genoa."

Mario, having paid his thanks and compliments in his best manner, opened
the little concert by a grand piece upon the piano, proving that he was
a fine musician, though Tino already began to fancy he was not quite so
good a man as he wished to appear.  Then he sang several airs from
operas; and Tino forgot himself in listening delightedly to the mellow
voice of his master, for the lad loved music and had never heard any
like this before.

When Tino’s turn came, he had lost his first shyness, and though his
lips were dry and breath short, and he gave the guitar an awkward bang
against the piano as he pulled it round ready to play upon, the
curiosity in the faces of the children and the kindly interest of the
ladies gave him courage to start bravely off with "Bella Monica,"--the
easiest as well as gayest of his songs.  It went well; and with each
verse his voice grew clearer, his hand firmer, and his eyes fuller of
boyish pleasure in his own power to please.

For please he did, and when he ended with a loud twang and kissed his
hand to the audience as he always used to do to the girls at home, every
one clapped heartily, and the gentlemen cried, "Bravo, piccolo!  He
sings in truth like a little nightingale; encore, encore!"

These were sweet sounds to Tino; and he needed no urging to sing "Lucia"
in his softest tones, "looking like one of Murillo’s angels!" as a young
lady said, while he sang away with his eyes piously lifted in the manner
Mario had taught him.

Then followed a grand march from the master while the boy rested; after
which Tino gave more folk-songs, and ended with a national air in which
all joined like patriotic and enthusiastic Italians, shouting the
musical chorus, "Viva Italia!" till the room rang.

Tino quite lost his head at that, and began to prance as if the music
had got into his heels. Before Mario could stop him, he was showing one
of the little girls how to dance the Salterello as the peasants dance it
during Carnival; and all the children were capering gayly about the wide
polished floor with Tino strumming and skipping like a young fawn from
the woods.

The elder people laughed and enjoyed the pretty sight till trays of ices
and bonbons came in; and the little party ended in a general enjoyment
of the good things children most delight in.  Tino heard his master
receiving the compliments of the company, and saw the host slip a paper
into his hand; but, boylike, he contented himself with a pocket full of
sweetmeats, and the entreaties of his little patrons to come again soon,
and so backed out of the room, after bowing till he was dizzy, and
bumping against a marble table in a very painful manner.

"Well, how do you like the life I promised you?  Is it all I said?  Do
we begin to fill our pockets, and enjoy ourselves even sooner than I
expected?" asked Mario, with a good-natured slap of the shoulder, as
they reached his apartment again.

"It is splendid!  I like it much, very much! and I thank you with all my
heart," cried Tino, gratefully kissing the hand that could tweak
sharply, as well as caress when things suited its owner.

