chair toward Beaton, who dropped into it. " You 're 
right, Dan'el ; it 's a book, to all practical intents 
and purposes. And what we propose to do with the 
American public is to give it twenty-four books like 
this a year — a complete library — for the absurd sum 
of six dollars. We don't intend to sell 'em — it 's no 
name for the transaction — but to give 'em. And 
what we want to get out of you — beg, borrow, buy, 
or steal from you — is an opinion whether we shall 
make the American public this princely present in 
paper covers like this, or in some sort of flexible 
boards, so they can set them on the shelf and say no 
more about it. Now, Dan'el, come to judgment, as 
our respected friend Shylock remarked." 

Beaton had got done looking at the dummy, and 
he dropped it on the table before Fulkerson, who 
pushed it away, apparently to free himself from 
partiality. " I don't know any tiling about the 
business side, and I can't tell about the effect of 
cither style on the sales ; but you 'll spoil the whole 
character of the cover if you use anything thicker 
than that thickish paper." 

" All right ; very good ; first-rate. The ayes have 
it. Paper it is. I don't mind telling you that we 
had decided for that paper before you came in. Mr. 



 

March -wanted it, because he felt in his bones just 
the way j'ou do about it, and Mr. Dryfoos wanted 
it, because he 's the counting-room incarnate, and 
it 's cheaper ; and I wanted it, because I always like 
to go with the majority. Now what do you think 
of that little design itself ? " 

" The sketch ? " Beaton pulled the book toward 
him again and looked at it again. " Eather decora- 
tive. Drawing 's not remarkable. Graceful; rather 
nice." He pushed the book away again, and Fulker- 
son pulled it to his side of the table. 

" Well, that 's a piece of that amateur trash you 
despise so much. I went to a painter I know — by 
the way, he was guilty of suggesting you for this 
thing, but I told him I was ahead of him — and I 
got him to submit my idea to one of his class, and 
that's the result. Well, now, there ain't anything 
in this world that sells a book like a pretty cover, 
and we're going to have a pretty cover for Every 
Other JFeek every time. We 've cut loose from the 
old traditional quarto literary newspaper size, and 
we 've cut loose from the old two-column big page 
magazine size ; we 're going to have a duodecimo 
page, clear black print, and paper that 'll make your 
mouth water; and we 're going to have a fresh 
illustration for the cover of each number, and we 
ain't a-going to give the public any rest at all. 
Sometimes we 're going to have a delicate little 
landscape like this, and sometimes we're going to 
have an indelicate little figure, or as much so as the 
law AA'ill allow." 



 

The young man leaning against the mantcl])iece 
hhished a sort of protest. 

March smiled and said dryly, " Those are the 
numbers that Mr. Fulkerson is going to edit himself." 

"Exactly. And Mr. Beaton here is going to 
supply the floating females, gracefully airing them- 
selves against a sunset or something of that kind." 
Beaton frowned in embarrassment, while Fulkerson 
went on philosophically. "It's astonishing how 
you fellows can keep it up at this stage of the pro- 
ceedings ; you can paint things that your harshest 
critic would be ashamed to describe accurately; 
you're as free as the theatre. But that's neither 
here nor there. What I 'm after is the fact that 
we 're going to have variety in our title-pages, and 
we are going to haA'e novelty in the illustrations of 
the body of the book. March, here, if he had his 
own way, wouldn't have any illustrations at all." 

"Not because I don't like them, Mr. Beaton," 
March interposed, " but because I like them too much. 
I find that I look at the pictures in an illustrated 
article, but I don't read the article very much, and I 
fancy that 's the case with most other people. You've 
got to doing them so prettily that you take our eyes 
off the literature, if you don't take our minds off." 

" Like the society beauties on the stage : people 
