other paddle, she began to row, so that she could look back the longer.
His figure remained motionless for many minutes; then he sat down on the
edge of his canoe. Thus she left him, alone under Jupiter Light.




XXXI.


When Eve reached the camp, after her parting with Paul, Cicely was
waiting for her on the beach, alone; apparently she had sent every one
away. "Well?" she said, as the canoe grated on the sand.

"I told him," Eve answered.

"Everything?"

"Everything."

"And he did not--?"

"No, he did not."

For an instant Cicely's face expressed keen sympathy. Then her
expression changed. "You did it, you know. You'll have to pay for it!"

"Will you help me to get away?" Eve asked.--"I cannot see him again."

"And do you imagine that by any chance he wishes to see you?" demanded
Cicely, sarcastically.

"But he will have to come back here--he must; let me go away before he
comes. We were leaving to-morrow in any case; help me off now," Eve
pleaded.

Cicely surveyed her with pitiless eyes; the once strong Eve now looked
at her imploringly, her face despairing, her voice broken. Having had
her satisfaction, the vindictive little creature turned, and, going back
to the lodge, began to issue orders with imperative haste, as though she
had but one wish in the world, namely, to help Eve; Mrs. Mile found
herself working as she had never worked before; the Irishmen tumbled
over each other; Porley and the cook constantly gallopaded--no other
word could describe their gait. The judge worked fiercely; he helped in
launching the canoes until the blood rushed to his head; he ran after
the Irishmen; he carried Jack, he scolded Porley. And then, during one
of these journeys, his strength failed so suddenly that he was obliged
to sit down; as there was no bench near, he sat down on the ground.

Soon afterwards Mrs. Mile came by.

"Dear me! Do let me assist you," she said sweetly.

"I am merely looking at the lake; it is charming this morning," replied
the judge, waving his hand.

"I could assist you so well," said the nurse, coming nearer, "knowing,
as I do, the exact position of all the muscles."

"Muscles, madam? It's more than I do! May I ask you to pass on?"

One of the Irishmen next appeared, carrying Jack's pillows and toys.

"Can you tell me where Mr. Hollis is?" demanded the judge, still seated.

"Mr. Hollis, surr? Yes, surr. Think he's gone fishing, surr."

"D--n him! He takes a nice time for it--when we're sweating here,"
muttered the judge, angrily.

But poor Hollis was fishing only in a figurative sense, and in bitter
waters. He had sent for Paul--yes; but he could not stay to witness his
return with Eve; (he had not the slightest doubt but that Eve would
return with him). He shook hands with Paul upon his arrival, and made a
number of jokes, as usual. But soon after the younger man's canoe had
started eastward in search of Eve, a second canoe, with Hollis paddling,
stole quietly away, going in the opposite direction. Its occupant
reached Port aux Pins, in due time. He remained there but a few hours.

A month later a letter came to Paul from a small town near the base of
the Rocky Mountains. "You see, when I got back to Port aux Pins, it sort
of came over me that I'd go west. People are more lively out here, and
not so crowded. I've got hold of a capital thing in raisins, in southern
California. If that fails, there is stock-raising, and plenty of other
things; and the same old auctioneer line. I've left a trifle in the
savings-bank for Jacky. Perhaps you'll take charge of it for him? You'll
hear from me again soon.--C. HOLLIS."

But Paul never heard from him; from that moment all trace of him was
lost. Ferdie, if he had known Hollis, would have had a vision of him
making his way year by year farther westward, always attired in the
black coat and tall hat (which marked his dignity as a lawyer), whether
voyaging in a prairie schooner, chopping wood at a camp, hunting elk, or
searching for ore. But Paul had no such visions, he did not see human
lives as tableaux-vivants. He was sincerely sorry that Hollis had
vamosed in that way. But he understood it too.

The trifle turned out to be eight hundred dollars. It was regularly
entered to little Jack's account, and there was a pass-book with his
full name, "John Frederick Bruce." "Bruce,--that did it," thought Paul;
