It is unnecessary that I should go into details as to the ore and coal
deposits of this region: the official reports are accessible. It may be
said, however, that the reports of the Geological Survey as to both
coal and iron have been recently perfectly confirmed by the digging of
experts. Aside from the coal-measures below the sandstone, there have
been found above the sandstone, north of Pine Mountain, 1650 feet of
coal-measures, containing nine beds of coal of workable thickness, and
between Pine and Cumberland mountains there is a greater thickness of
coal-measures, containing twelve or more workable beds. Some of these
are coking coals of great excellence. Cannel-coals are found in sixteen
of the counties in the eastern coal-fields. Two of them at least are of
unexampled richness and purity. The value of a cannel-coal is determined
by its volatile combustible matter. By this test some of the Kentucky
cannel-coal excels the most celebrated coals of Great Britain. An
analysis of a cannel-coal in Breathitt County gives 66.28 of volatile
combustible matter; the highest in Great Britain is the Boghead,
Scotland, 51.60 per cent. This beautiful cannel-coal has been brought
out in small quantities via the Kentucky River; it will have a market
all over the country when the railways reach it. The first coal
identified as coking was named the Elkhorn, from the stream where it was
found in Pike County. A thick bed of it has been traced over an area of
1600 square miles, covering several counties, but attaining its greatest
thickness in Letcher, Pike, and Harlan. This discovery of coking coal
adds greatly to the value of the iron ores in north-eastern Kentucky,
and in the Red and Kentucky valleys, and also of the great deposits
of ore on the south-east boundary, along the western base of the
Cumberland, along the slope of Powell’s Mountain, and also along
Wallin’s Ridge, three parallel lines, convenient to the coking coal in
Kentucky. This is the Clinton or red fossil ore, stratified, having
from 45 to 54 per cent, of metallic iron. Recently has been found on the
north side of Pine Mountain in Kentucky, a third deposit of rich “brown”
ore, averaging 52 per cent, of metallic iron. This is the same as the
celebrated brown ore used in the furnaces at Clifton Forge; it makes a
very tough iron. I saw a vein of it on Straight Creek, three miles north
of Pineville, just opened, at least eight feet thick.

The railway to Pineville follows the old Wilderness road, the trail of
Boone and the stage-road, along which are seen the ancient tavern
stands where the jolly story-telling travellers of fifty years ago were
entertained and the droves of horses and cattle were fed. The railway
has been stopped a mile west of Pineville by a belligerent property
owner, who sits there with his Winchester rifle, and will not let the
work go on until the courts compel him. The railway will not cross the
Cumberland at Pineville, but higher up, near the great elbow. There
was no bridge over the stream, and we crossed at a very rough and rocky
wagon-ford. Pineville, where there has loner been a backwoods settlement
on the south bend of the river just after it breaks through Pine
Mountain, is now the centre of a good deal of mining excitement and
real-estate speculation. It has about five hundred inhabitants, and a
temporary addition of land buyers, mineral experts, engineers, furnace
projectors, and railway contractors. There is not level ground for a
large city, but what there is is plotted out for sale. The abundant iron
ore, coal, and timber here predict for it a future of some importance.
It has already a smart new hotel, and business buildings, and churches
are in process of erection. The society of the town had gathered for the
evening at the hotel. A wandering one-eyed fiddler was providentially
present who could sing and play “The Arkansas Traveller” and other tunes
that lift the heels of the young, and also accompany the scream of the
violin with the droning bagpipe notes of the mouth-harmonica. The star
of the gay company was a graduate of Annapolis, in full evening dress
uniform, a native boy of the valley, and his vis-à-vis was a heavy man
in a long linen duster and carpet slippers, with a palm-leaf fan, who
crashed through the cotillon with good effect. It was a pleasant party,
and long after it had dispersed, the troubadour, sitting on the piazza,
wiled away sleep by the break-downs, jigs, and songs of the frontier.

Pineville and its vicinity have many attractions; the streams are clear,
rapid, rocky, the foliage abundant, the hills picturesque. Straight
Creek, which comes in along the north base of Pine Mountain, is an
exceedingly picturesque stream, having along its banks fertile little
stretches of level ground, while the gentle bordering hills are
excellent for grass, fruit orchards, and vineyards. The walnut-trees
have been culled out, but there is abundance of oat, beech, poplar,
encumber, and small pines. And there is no doubt about the mineral
wealth.

We drove from Pineville to Cumberland Gap, thirteen miles, over the now
neglected Wilderness road, the two mules of the wagon unable to pull
us faster than two miles an hour. The road had every variety of badness
conceivable—loose stones, ledges of rock, bowlders, sloughs, holes,
mud, sand, deep fords. We crossed and followed up Clear Creek (a muddy
stream) over Log Mountain (full of coal) to Canon Creek. Settlements
were few—only occasional poor shanties. Climbing over another ridge, we
reached the Yellow Creek Valley, through which the Yellow Creek meanders
in sand. This whole valley, lying very prettily among the mountains, has
a bad name for “difficulties.” The hills about, on the sides and tops of
which are ragged little farms, and the valley itself, still contain some
lawless people. We looked with some interest at the Turner house, where
a sheriff was killed a year ago, at a place where a “severe” man fired
into a wagon-load of people and shot a woman, and at other places where
in recent times differences of opinion had been settled by the revolver.
This sort of thing is, however, practically over. This valley, close to
Cumberland Gap, is the site of the great city, already plotted, which
the English company are to build as soon as the tunnel is completed.
It is called Middleborough, and the streets are being graded and
preparations made for building furnaces. The north side of Cumberland
Mountain, like the south side of Pine, is a conglomerate, covered with
superb oak and chestnut trees. We climbed up to the mountain over
a winding road of ledges, bowlders, and deep gullies, rising to an
extended pleasing prospect of mountains and valleys. The pass has a
