me if I 've found anything yet. To be sure, we 
might be arrested and sent up somewhere. But 
even in that extreme case we should be provided 
for. Oh no, I 'm not afraid of losing my place ! 
I've merely a sort of psychological curiosity to 
know how men like Dryfoos and Fulkerson will 
work out the problem before them." 
IX. 
It was a curiosity which Fulkerson himself 
shared, at least concerning Dryfoos. " I don't know 
what the old man 's going to do," he said to March, 
the day after the Marches had talked their future 
over. " Said anything to you yet ? " 
" No, not a word." 
" Ycm 're anxious, I suppose, same as I am. Fact 
is," said Fulkerson, blushing a little, " I can't ask to 
have a day named till I know where I am in con- 
nection with the old man. I can't tell whether I 've 
got to look out for something else, or somebody else. 
Of course, it 's full soon yet." 
" Yes," March said, " much sooner than it seems 
to us. We 're so anxious about the future that we 
don't remember how very recent the past is." 
"That's something so. The old man's hardly 
had time yet to pull himself together. "Well, I 'm 
glad you feel that way about it, March. I guess it 's 
more of a blow to him than we realise. He was a 
good deal bound up in Coonrod, though he didn't 
always use him very well. Well, I reckon it 's apt to 
happen so oftentimes ; curious how cruel love can 
be. Heigh ] We 're an awful mixture, March ! " 
  
" Yes, that 's the marvel and the curse, as Brown- 
ing says." 
" Why, that poor boy himself," pursued Fulker- 
son, "had streaks of the mule in him that could 
give odds to Beaton, and he must have tried the old 
man by the May he would give in to his will, and 
hold out against his judgment. I don't believe he 
ever budged a hair's-brcadth from his original posi- 
tion about wanting to be a preacher and not want- 
hv to be a business man. "Well, of course ! I don't 
think business is all in all ; but it must have made 
the old man mad to find that without saying any- 
thing, or doing anything to show it, and after seem- 
ing to come over to his ground, and really coming, 
practically, Coonrod was just exactly where he first 
planted himself, every time." 
" Yes, people that have convictions are difficult. 
Fortunately, they 're rare." 
" Do you think so ? It seems to me that every- 
body 's got convictions. Beaton himself, who hasn't 
a principle to throw at a dog, has got convictions the 
size of a barn. They ain't always the same ones, I 
know, but they 're always to the same effect, as far 
as Beaton's being Number One is concerned. The 
old man 's got convictions — or did have, unless this 
thing lately has shaken him all up — and he believes 
that money will do everything. Colonel Woodburn 's 
got convictions that he wouldn't part with for untold 
millions. "Why, March, you got convictions yourself ! " 
•' Have I ? " said March. " I don't know what 
they are." 
  
" "Well, neither do I ; but I know you were ready 
to kick the trough over for them when the old man 
wanted us to bounce Lindau that time." 
" Oh yes," said March ; lie remembered the fact ; 
but he was still uncertain just what the convictions 
were that he had been so staunch for. 
" I suppose we could have got along without you," 
Fulkerson mused aloud. " It 's astonishing how you 
always can get along in this world without the man 
that is simply indispensable. Makes a fellow realise 
that he could take a day off now and then without 
deranging the solar system a great deal. Now here 's 
Coonrod — or rather, he isn't. But that boy managed 
his part of the schooner so well that I used to 
tremble when I thought of his getting the better of 
the old man, and going into a convent or something 
of that kind ; and now here he is, snuffed out in 
half a second, and I don't believe but what we shall 
be sailing along just as chipper as usual inside of 
thirty days. I reckon it will bring the old man to 
the point when I come to talk with him about who 's 
to be put in Coonrod's place. I don't like very well 
to start the subject with him ; but it 's got to bo 
done some time." 
" Yes," March admitted. " It 's terrible to think 
how unnecessary even the best and wisest of us is to 
the purposes of Providence. When I looked at that 
poor young fellow's face sometimes — so gentle and 
true and pure — I used to think the world was appre- 
ciably richer for his being in it. But are we appre- 
ciably poorer for his being out of it now ] " 
  
"No, I don't reckon wo are," said Fulkerson. 
"And what a lot of the raw material of all kinds 
the Almighty must have, to waste us the way he 
seems to do. Think of throwing away a precious 
