declared one of the Tory ladies in vexation.

"She is not commanding." Madam Wetherill laid down her card as she
smiled, and trumped her adversary. "But she hath a certain dignity and
intelligence that makes up for inches, and a face that is winning and
expressive, with fine, dark eyes and fair skin showing just a natural
blossom on her cheek. And her manners are most agreeable. I am sorry we
could not have given her some sort of welcome. Well, moppet?" as
Primrose entered shyly with a written message to her great aunt, "make
your best courtesy, child, and tell the ladies how you liked Madam
Washington."

Primrose obeyed with a pretty flush on her cheek, and an irresistibly
shy manner.

"I liked her very much. And she said she once had a little girl of her
own, and then her eyes looked almost as if they had tears in them, they
were so soft and sweet. Her face was beautiful."

"Well, well, we all feel disposed to envy thee," said Sally. "Some of us
should have the courtesy to go to-morrow."

Mrs. Ferguson rapped on the table. "If no one means to pay attention to
the game we may as well give up and devote ourselves to laudation," she
said shortly.

Madam Wetherill looked at the note and said, "Yes," and Primrose,
courtesying, stole out softly. But afterwards the game was ended with a
good deal of curtness on Mrs. Ferguson's part, who had lost; for, while
people were strenuous enough on some points, no one disdained to play
for money.

The girls stopped for a cup of chocolate that Mistress Janice sent in,
and renewed the talk of their disappointment, bewailing the prospect of
a dull enough season.

But there were much excitement and high and bitter discussions to mark
the winter. The breach between the war party and the peace party of
Quakers widened greatly, and the outcome was the Free Quakers, or
Fighting Quakers, as they came to be called. The departure of the
British from Boston was hailed as a sign of hope. Thomas Paine's "Common
Sense" was widely read, and disputed the palm with Dickinson's "Farmer's
Letters" that had been so popular. Adams and James Allen, who disagreed
with Paine, issued pamphlets, and many writers aired their opinions
under various assumed names.

Andrew Henry came in regularly to market. His father had not regained
his full strength, and his leg was rather untrustworthy in slippery
weather. Now and then he paused at some tavern, as they were considered
respectable meeting places, to hear the discussions, for he was much
perturbed in these days. He was made a welcome guest at Madam
Wetherill's also, and met from time to time some notable person, and
became much interested in Mr. Benjamin Franklin.

Very little had been said about Primrose at home. Rachel was growing
into daughterhood, and though Lois Henry would have denied the
slightest suggestion of matchmaking, she saw with no disfavor that
Rachel was much drawn toward Andrew.

When spring opened grandmother failed rapidly and took to her bed a
great part of the time, so that it was necessary to bring her downstairs
for convenience' sake. It would be rather troublesome to have a
discordant element, and the Henrys felt that Primrose was more firmly
established in her willful ways, no doubt, and they did not care for a
continual struggle like that which had begun and ended so disastrously
the preceding summer.

The spirit of revolt had gained ground in all the Colonies; still it had
been hard work to persuade them to act together. But, in May, Congress
passed resolutions leading to the better equipment of the Colonies for
the struggle. At dinners--the only sources of amusement now--the King's
health was no longer drunk, but "The free and independent States of
America" were toasted with acclaim. With the old Assembly the political
power of the Friends waned, and Philadelphia was taking upon herself a
great and serious change. If Bunker Hill had electrified the country,
the Declaration of Independence, read to the few people who gathered to
hear it at the State House, was to be the imperishable crown of the
city, although it was not signed until August.

The King's arms were taken down and burned, the church bells rang, and
the young people caught the enthusiasm from a few bonfires on the square
and lighted them elsewhere, little thinking they were kindling a flame
in men's souls that was to be handed down to posterity for ages. A very
small beginning then, but among the hearers was Andrew Henry, who
wondered mightily at the boldness of such a step, though the glory of it
thrilled every pulse, and he was amazed at the fighting blood within
him.

At the yearly meeting he and his father had attended, the Friends had
counseled against open rebellion and shown each other the futility of
such a step. All acts of violence and bloodshed were deprecated, and
Lexington and Concord pronounced a useless sacrifice, and displeasing to
God. But in the little knots that had gathered afterward there had been
more than one low, dissentient voice concerning a man's duty, and the
impossibility of a government so far away knowing what was best for the
Colonies.

He was to meet Madam Wetherill, who had come in to her city home on some
business.

