so easy to name the next day but one. But who could have foreseen that his
friends would miss that particular train and only arrive late in the
evening?

He paced his room in growing anxiety, his trouble increasing in exact
proportion with the decrease of the daylight.

"Fifty marks!" he exclaimed, in dismay, as he realised more completely the
dilemma in which he was placed. "Fifty marks! It is an enormous sum to
find at a moment's notice. If they had only telegraphed me a credit at
once, I could have got it from a bank--a bank--yes--but they do not know
me. That is it. They do not know me. And then, it is late."

The drops of perspiration stood on his pale forehead as he began to walk
again. He glanced at his possessions and turned from the contemplation of
them in renewed despair. Many a time, before, he had sought among his very
few belongings for some object upon which a pawnbroker might advance five
marks, and he had sought in vain. The furniture of the room was not his,
and beyond the furniture the room contained little enough. He had parted
long ago with an old silver watch, of which the chain had even sooner
found its way to the lender's. A long-cherished ring had disappeared last
winter, by an odd coincidence, at the very time when Johann Schmidt's
oldest child was lying ill with diphtheria. As for clothing, he had
nothing to offer. The secrets of his outward appearance were known to him
alone, but they were of a nature to discourage the hope of raising money
on coat or trousers. A few well-thumbed volumes of Russian authors could
not be expected to find a brilliant sale in Munich at a moment's notice.
He looked about, and he saw that there was nothing, and he turned very
pale.

"And yet, before midnight, it must be paid," he said. Then his face
brightened again. "Before midnight--but they will be here before then, of
course. Perhaps I may borrow the money for a few hours."

But in order to do this, or to attempt it, he must go out. What if his
friends arrived at the moment when he was out of the house?

"No," he said, consulting his imaginary time-table, "there is no train
now, for a couple of hours, at least."

He took up his hat and turned to go. It struck him, however, that to
provide against all possible accidents it would be as well to leave some
written word upon his table, and he took up a sheet of writing paper and a
pen. It was remarkable that there was a good supply of the former on the
table, and that the inkstand contained ink in a fluid state, as though the
Count were in the habit of using it daily. He wrote rapidly, in Russian.

"This line is to inform you that Count Skariatine is momentarily absent
from his lodging on a matter of urgent importance, connected with a
personal engagement. He will return as soon as possible and requests that
you will have the goodness to wait, if you should happen to arrive while
he is out."

He set the piece of notepaper upright, in a prominent position upon the
table, and exactly opposite to the door. He did not indeed recollect that
in the course of half an hour the room would be quite dark, and he was
quite satisfied that he had taken every reasonable precaution against
missing his visitors altogether. Once more he seized his hat, and a moment
later he was descending the long flights of stairs towards the street. As
he went, the magnitude of the sum of money he needed appalled him, and by
the time he stepped out upon the pavement into the fresh evening air, he
was in a state of excitement and anxiety which bordered on distraction.
His brain refused to act any longer, and he was utterly incapable of
thinking consecutively of anything, still less of solving a problem so
apparently incapable of solution as was involved in the question of
finding fifty marks at an hour's notice. It was practically of little use
to repeat the words "Fifty marks" incessantly and in an audible voice, to
the great surprise of the few pedestrians he met. It was far from likely
that any of them would consider themselves called upon to stop in their
walk and to produce two large gold pieces and a small one, for the benefit
of an odd-looking stranger. And yet, as he hurried along the street, the
poor Count had not the least idea where he was going, and if he should
chance to reach any definite destination in his erratic course he would
certainly be much puzzled to decide what he was to do upon his arrival.
The one thing which remained clearly defined in his shaken intelligence
was that he must pay to Fischelowitz the money promised within the limit
of time agreed upon, or be disgraced for ever in his own eyes, as well as
in the estimation of the world at large. The latter catastrophe would be
bad enough, but nothing short of self-destruction could follow upon his
condemnation of himself.

A special Providence is said to watch over the movements of madmen,
sleep-walkers and drunkards. Those who find difficulty in believing in the
direct intervention of Heaven in very trivial matters of everyday life,
are satisfied to put a construction of less tremendous import upon the
facts in cases concerning the preservation of their irresponsible
brethren. A great deal may be accounted for by considering what are the
instincts of the body when momentarily liberated from the directing
guidance of the mind. It has been already noticed in the course of this
story that, when the Count did not know where he was going, he was
generally making the best of his way to the establishment in which so much
of his time was passed. This is exactly what took place on the present
occasion. Conscious only of his debt, and not knowing where to find money
with which to pay it, he was unwittingly hurrying towards the very place
in which the payment was to be made, and, within a quarter of an hour of
his leaving his lodging, he found himself standing on the pavement, over
against the tobacconist's shop, stupidly gazing at the glass door, the
well-known sign and the familiar, dilapidated chalet of cigarettes which
held a prominent place in the show window. No longer ago than yesterday
afternoon the little Swiss cottage had been flanked by the Wiener Gigerl,
