Nash a part he's quite incapable of playing. He can neither 
make trouble nor take trouble ; no trouble could ever either 
have come out of him or have gone into him. Moreover," 
our young man continued, " if Julia has talked to you so much 
about the matter, there's no harm in my talking to you a 
little. "When she threw me over in an hour, it was on a per- 
fectly definite occasion. That occasion was the presence in 
my studio of a dishevelled actress." 

" Oh Nick, she has not thrown you over ! " Biddy protested. 
" She has not I have the proof." 

Nick felt, at this direct denial, a certain stir of indignation, 
and he looked at his sister with momentary sternness. " Has 
she sent you here to tell me this ? What do you mean by the 
proof ? " 

Biddy's eyes, at these questions, met her brother's with a 
strange expression, and for a few seconds, while she looked 
entreatingly into his own, she wavered there, with parted lips, 
vaguely stretching out her hands. The next minute she had 
burst into tears she was sobbing on his breast. He said 
" Hallo ! " and soothed her ; but it was very quickly over. 
Then she told him what she meant by her " proof," and what 
she had had on her mind ever since she came into the room. 
It was a message from Julia, but not to say not to say what 
he had asked her just before if she meant ; though indeed 
Biddy, more familiar now, since her brother had had his arm 
round her, boldly expressed the hope that it might in the end 
come to the same thing. Julia simply wanted to know (she 
had instructed Biddy to sound him discreetly) if Nick would 
undertake her portrait ; and the girl wound up this experi- 
ment in " sounding" by the statement that their beautiful 
kinswoman was dying to sit. 





"Dying to sit?" repeated Nick, whose turn it was, this 
time, to feel his colour rise. 

" Any time you like after Easter, when she comes up to 
town. She wants a full-length, and your very best, your most 
splendid work." 

Nick stared, not caring that he had blushed. " Is she 
serious? " 

" Ah, Nick serious ! " Biddy reasoned tenderly. She came 
nearer to him, and he thought she was going to weep again. 
He took her by the shoulders, looking into her eyes. 

" It's all right, if she knows L am. But why doesn't she 
come like any one else ? I don't refuse people ! " 

" Nick, dearest Nick ! " she went on, with her eyes conscious 
and pleading. He looked into them intently as well as she, 
he could play at sounding and for a moment, between these 
young persons, the air was lighted by the glimmer of mutual 
searchings and suppressed confessions. Nick read deep, and 
then, suddenly releasing his sister, he turned away. She 
didn't see his face in that movement, but an observer to whom 
it had been presented might have fancied that it denoted a 
foreboding which was not exactly a dread, yet was not 
exclusively a joy. 

The first thing Nick made out in the room, when he could 
distinguish, was Gabriel Nash's portrait, which immediately 
filled him with an unreasoning resentment. He seized it and 
turned it about ; he jammed it back into its corner, with its 
face against the wall. This bustling transaction might have 
served to carry off the embarrassment with which he had 
finally averted himself from Biddy. The embarrassment how- 
ever was all his own ; none of it was reflected in the way 
Biddy resumed, after a silence in which she had followed his 
disposal of the picture : 

" If she's so eager to come here (for it's here that she wants 
to sit, not in Great Stanhope Street never !) how can she 
prove better that she doesn't care a bit if she meets Miss 
Rooth ? " 

"She won't meet Miss Rooth," Nick replied, rather dryly. 

'Oh, I'm sorry ! " said Biddy. She was as frank as if she 
had achieved a sort of victory over her companion ; and she 
seemed to regret the loss of a chance for Mrs. Dallow to show 
magnanimity. Her tone made her brother laugh, but she 
went on, with confidence : " She thought it was Mr. Nash 
who made Miss Rooth come." 

"So he did, by the way," said Nick. 





" Well, then, wasn't that making trouble ? " 

