along the shore, and supplied those who had landed 
with provisions, but could not succeed in finding the raft. 
They were already returning when on the morning of our 
rescue the wind changed, and the captain had the vessel 
turned round once more ; two hours afterwards they dis- 
cerned something firom the mast-head and soon recognized 
it for our raft. Another smaller vessel had gone to the 
rescue of the seventeen people upon the stranded frigate ; 
but contrary winds detained it and when, after fifty days, 
it reached the wreck, only three men were found on it 
alive. Each of these kept themselves secluded from the 
others, and when in thfiir search for food, which had been 
soaked and spoilt in the salt water, they encountered 


one another they threatened each other with their 

knives. 

We reached the Senegal the same day that we had been 
found, and were received in the colony with great kindness 
and sympathy, even the negro slaves wept bitterly when 
they saw our miserable, reduced condition. Six of our 
number died soon after, notwithstanding the greatest care ; 
the nine who survived returned as soon as they were 
strong enough, to their native country. 

We add to this narrative of the shipwrecked sailor, that 
most of his companions were ill for the re'st of their 
Kves, and the captain immediately upon his return to 
France, was tried before a court martial for his cowardice 
and unpardonable negligence, and was judged unworthy 
 f his post and expelled from the service. 




A LAEGE Village in one of the most beautiful and fertile 
valleys of the interior of AMca is my birth-place ; it must 
be very far from the coast, for I do not remember ever 
having heard, during my childhood, of the sea or of white 
men. My parents possessed quite a large estate and a 
multitude of slaves, and as I was the youngest of seven 
children, I was naturally my mother's favorite, and she 
took a great deal of pains with my education. From my 
earliest youth I practised constantly, shooting with a bow 
and arrow, and hurling the javelin. Thus I grew up to 
my eleventh year, when an end was suddenly put to my 
happiness. 

One day, when my parents had gone as usual into the 
fields to labor with the slaves, and no one was left at home 
but myself av.d one of my sisters, who was about a year 
my senior, two men and a woman climbed over the wall 
that surrounded the yard in which we were, seized us 
both, gagged us so that we could not scream, and ran with " 
us into the nearest forest. Here they bound our hands, 
and carried us on until the sun went down, and we reached 
a little house. Here they unbound us, but stupefied with 
fatigue and terror, we could not eat, and soon found some 
relief from our cruel fate in sleep. The next morning we 


continued our journey, and arrived, after travelling all day 
through a dense forest, at a place that seemed familiar to 
me. I soon saw several people, and began to scream out 
to them with all my might, but my shrieks produced no 
effect except to cause our persecutors to gag us again, and 
put us into a bag until we were out of sight of any one. 
At night they again offered us something to eat, but we 
refused it, and found a mournful satisfaction in crying in 
each other's arms the whole night long. But alas ! even 
this poor comfort was taken from us, for the next day they 
tore my sister away from me, and carried her away, leav- 
ing me in a state of perfect despair. I wept and sobbed, 
and for eight days eat nothing but what was forced down 
my throat. At last, after travelling many days, they sold 
me, in quite a pleasant country, to a wealthy herdsman. 
This man had two wives, and some children ; they all 
treated me kindly, and took great pains to console me, 
especially the elder wife, who looked something like my 
mother. Although I was far from my own home, these 
people spoke my language. My master was, by trade, a 
smith, and my heaviest labor was to manage the bellows 
for him. I think the metal in which he worked was gold, 
for it was of a beautiful light yellow color, and was worn 
by the women upon their wrists and ankles. 

I had not been quite a month with these people, before 
they trusted me to go alone any where. I used this lib- 
erty to find out every thing that I could concerning the 
road that might lead me to my home. I often went in the 
cool of the evening, with the girls to the fountain, and 
helped them to fill their jars with water, and I then 




observed where the sun rose and set, and learnt also that 
my father's house lay toward the rising of the sun. I 
