
"It's a go! Come right along! Our house is less than half a mile away."

Then the two boys emerged from the woods, and made their way to a
comfortable farmhouse, situated in the midst of fertile fields. John
went into the house, and presently came out with his mother.

"Are you the young man that wants to go to Hyacinth?" she asked.

"Yes, ma'am."

"Well, I don't know of any objection. Don't stay too long."

"I'll be back in time for supper, mother."

"Did your mother ask you what I was going for?" asked Fred.

"No; I told her you wanted to take a ride."

"That will answer. I wish there was enough snow left for sleighing."

The horse was quickly harnessed to an open buggy, and the two boys got
in. John took the reins, and turned out of the yard. Soon they were
speeding over the road that led to Hyacinth. It was a pleasant drive,
but Fred was too much occupied by thoughts of what he carried to pay
much attention to the scenery.

At length they turned into the principal street of Hyacinth.

The express office was just across the way from the railway depot.

Fred entered and inquired, "How soon will a package start for New
York?"

"In about an hour."

"As it is valuable, I will get you to put it up securely, and seal it."

"Very well."

The agent wrapped it up in some thick brown paper, gave it to Fred to
direct, and then laid it carefully away.

"Do you wish to insure it?" he asked. "What is the value?"

"I will insure it for five hundred dollars."

Fred knew that this would secure extra care, and he did not care to
name the real worth lest it might tempt some employee to dishonesty.

"Now," he said, as they left the office, "I feel easy in my mind."

But when the boys were half way home, they overtook another buggy,
containing two occupants. One of them was the landlord of the Lion Inn,
the other was Paul Bowman.




CHAPTER XXXIV.

BOWMAN'S PANIC.

Paul Bowman, who was driving, the landlord having given up the reins to
him, checked the horse and hailed Fred in evident surprise.

"Where have you been?" he inquired abruptly.

"I have been to ride," answered Fred, with an appearance of unconcern.

"I thought you were going to call on Sinclair."

"So I was, but after you left I decided to take a walk in another
direction. I met John, and engaged him to take me to drive."

"Are you going home now?"

"Yes, I think so. Can you take me to the hotel, John?"

"Yes," answered his companion readily.

"Then we will follow along behind Mr. Bowman."

Of course there could be no private conversation, so John and he spoke
on indifferent topics. When they reached the hotel Fred jumped from the
buggy.

"Good-by, John," he said. "You will hear from me soon," he added in a
significant tone.

Then he joined Bowman, who was wholly unsuspicious of the disaster that
had befallen him.

"I should like to go over to Sinclair's," thought Fred, "but I suppose
Bowman will expect me to keep him company."

But in this he was agreeably disappointed.

At seven o'clock the landlord drove round, and Bowman sprang into the
buggy.
