The brook sent a message to her; the blood that had flowed from the
sacrifices was in it, and in the fresh morning it reeked a little, as such
brooks do. It was here, she thought, the Master had been taken, and for a
second she stopped again. The sun now was rising behind her; the color of
the sky shifted. Beyond Jerusalem a mountain was melting in excesses of
vermilion, and the ravine that had been gray was assuming the tenderest
green. The star had disappeared, but from each tree broke the greeting of
a bird.

A rustle of the leaves near by startled her, and she looked about,
fearful, as women are, of some beast of prey. A white robe was there, a
white turban, and beneath it the swart face of one whom she had known.

To her eyes came massacres. “Judas!” she exclaimed, and looked up in that
roof of her world where day puts its blue and night puts its black.
“Judas!” she repeated. Her small hands clenched, and the rhymes of her
mouth grew venomous.

Then the woman spoke in her. “Why did you not kill me first?”

Judas swayed like an ox hit on the forehead. The motion distracted and
irritated her. “Can’t you speak,” she cried, “or does hell hold you,
tongue and all?”

He raised a hand as though he feared another blow. The gesture was so
human and yet so humble that Mary looked into his face. Time, which turns
the sweet-eyed girl into a withered spectre, must have touched him with
its thumb. His eyes were ringed and cavernous, his cheeks empty.

“You have heard, then?” he said; but he evinced no curiosity. He spoke
with the apathy of one who takes everything for granted, one with whom
fate is to have its will. “I have just come from there,” he added, with a
backward gesture. “I never thought that such a thing could be. No, I swear
it, I never did.” Then, in answer perhaps to some inner twinge, perhaps
also because of the expression of Mary’s lips, he continued: “If there is
a new oath, one that has never been used before, prompt me, and I will
swear again, I never did. I thought——”

Mary interrupted him savagely: “There are ten kinds of hypocrisy. You have
nine of them; you will develop the tenth and invent a new one besides.”

At this Judas made a pass with his hands and stared absently at the
ground. “Mary,” he said, “life is a book which man reads when he dies.
During the last hour I have been unrolling it. In its scroll I found
existence a wine-shop where the guest fares so badly that he would go at
once were it not that he fears to call for the reckoning. The reckoning,
Mary, is death. I have called for it. I am about to pay. Let me tell you.
I have no excuse to offer, no forgiveness now to await. My heart was a
meadow: you made it stone. There were well-springs in it: you dried them,
Mary. When I first saw you, you were a dream fulfilled. Others had brought
echoes of life; you brought its song. It was then that I heard the Master
speak. I followed him, and tried to forget. It must be that I failed, for
when I saw you in Capharnahum my blood danced, and when you spoke I
trembled. It was love, Mary; and love, when it is not death, is life. It
was that I sought at your side. You would not listen. Innocence is a
garment. You seemed to have wrapped it about you. I tried to tear it away.
There was my fault, and this my punishment. Your right was inflexible as a
prison-door, and yet always behind it was the murmur of a mysterious
Perhaps. The others turned to me; I turned to you. I forgot again, but
this time it was my duty, my allegiance, and my faith. Mary, I loved the
Master more wholly even than I loved you. He was the Spirit; you were the
flesh. In him was the future; in you the tomb. I thought to conquer both.
While I mixed my darkness with his light, I pursued you as night pursues
the day. On the light I have cast a shadow, and to you I have brought a
blight. But, Mary, both will disappear. The one consolation I cling to now
is that belief. When I delivered him up, it was myself I betrayed, not
him. I am forever dead, and he forever living. While I bargained with the
priests and pretended that my aim was coin, when I led the levites and the
Temple-guard just here to where he stood, during all the hours since I
left you, I tried to escape from that cage we call Fate. Mary, there is
something about us higher than our will. The revenge I sought on you
forsook me before I reached the city’s gate. It is the intangible that has
brought me where I am. I have sworn to you I never thought this thing
could be. I swear it now again. In carrying out the threat I made, I
thought to make you fear my hate and make him greater than he was. His
enemies, I had seen, were many. Those that had believed in him grew daily
less. In Jerusalem his miracles had ceased, and I thought that, when the
levites and the Temple-guard approached, he would speak with Samuel’s
thunder, answer with Elijah’s flame. I thought the stars would shake, the
moon grow red; that he would produce the lost Urim, the vanished Ark, and
so forever silence disbelief. I was wrong, and he was right. Belief is in
the heart, not in the senses; the visible contradicts, but faith is not to
be confuted. No, Mary, the tombs are not dumb. I said so once, I know, but
they answer, and mine will speak. On it perhaps a caricature may be
daubed, and about it prejudice will uncoil. I deserve it. Yet though you
think me wholly base, remember no man is that. Since I met you my life has
been a battle-field in which I have fought with conscience. It has
conquered. I am its slave; it commands, and I obey.”

He drew a breath as though he had more to add, and turned to where she
stood. There was no one there. From an olive-branch a red-start piped to
the morning; over the buds of a pomegranate a bee buzzed its delight;
across the leaves of a myrtle a blue spider was busy with its web, but
Mary was no longer there. He peered through the underbrush, and wandered
to the grove beyond. There was no one. He looked to the hill-top: there
was the advancing sun. He looked in the valley: there were the pilgrims’
booths, the grazing camels and fat-tailed sheep.

“She has gone,” he told himself. “She would not even listen.”

