
"Of course you see no difficulties in the way of such an undertaking as
you propose," added Christy.

"There may be difficulties; but I think they can be overcome. I purpose
to act through you, my friend, as my resources are rather limited at the
present moment. In other words, I propose that you shall issue certain
orders which I intend to dictate," Captain Flanger proceeded, as coolly
as though he had been in his own cabin instead of that of his companion.

"You mean to dictate your orders to me," repeated the commander.

"Precisely so; and you will readily see that I am not exactly in a
position to act in any other manner, as I cannot go back on deck and
deliver them in person, for your officers would be prejudiced against
me, and might be disposed to rebel against my authority."

"Not improbable," added Christy. "You propose that I shall go on deck,
and give your orders, acting as your proxy."

"Hardly, my dear friend, for I fear that on deck you would give way to
your own individual prejudices against me, and do something that would
jeopard my interest in the premises. With your approbation, I should
prefer to resort to a method that prevails in the army, though not to
any considerable extent in the navy. More clearly, I will invite you to
send your orders on deck in writing, over your own signature."

"You think that method would suit you better than the usual one of
delivering orders verbally," said Christy, laughing as much at the
coolness as at the impudence of his companion.

"It will not only suit me better, but you cannot fail to see that it is
the only practicable way for me to operate with my present very limited
resources. If I had a dozen good men and true,--not such dunderheads as
your officer captured in the Magnolia,--I should be able to proceed in a
more orderly and regular manner. In that case, I should issue my orders
in person, and not compel you to act as my intermediary."

"I understand you perfectly now; but as you have not, fortunately for
me, and unfortunately for yourself, the dozen men at hand, I am to hold
the fiddle while you play upon it, as I have seen a couple of negro
minstrels do it."

"An excellent simile, Captain Passford, and I could not have invented a
better myself," returned the privateersman. "I think we understand each
other perfectly, and therefore it is not necessary to use up any more
time in explanations. You are too intelligent a person to fail to
comprehend my plan. As an epitome of the whole scene, I may add that I
propose to do what my friend Galvinne undertook with that cousin of
yours: I intend to take the Bronx into Pensacola Bay, and have her used
in the service of the righteous cause in which the people of the South
are engaged," continued Captain Flanger, as though he believed in all he
was saying.

"I suppose it is the righteousness of the cause in particular that calls
forth your admiration," chuckled Christy.

"Precisely so; in this cause, though I drink whiskey, chew, and smoke,
and never swear except when I am excited, I am a religious man," said
the intruder, laughing.

"I suppose you were religiously inclined when you were engaged in the
business of smuggling," added the commander.

"I cannot say that I was; the cause of the South is religion itself, and
I am there every time. Who told you that I had been engaged in
smuggling?"

"It dropped from some of the men that were captured in the sloop."

"It could have dropped only from Mike Bornhoff, for he is the only one
who knew anything about it. He is my property, and when we are fairly
in Pensacola Bay I shall seize him up to the grating, and give him
thirty-nine for opening his mouth when he ought to have kept it closed.
Where is he now, for I did not find him among the prisoners?"

"He has enlisted as a seaman, and seems to be a good one. By the way,
where did you learn that my cousin attempted to take the Bronx into
Pensacola Bay?" asked Christy curiously, though he was using up the time
he could not yet improve.

"It was not your cousin at all who attempted to take the vessel into
Pensacola Bay; it was Galvinne, for Corny only acted as a figure-head,
as I intend to use you. Galvinne was a prisoner by my side on board of
the flag-ship, and told me all about it when he was releasing my right
hand from the bracelet," replied Captain Flanger.

"Then I am to do duty as a figure-head, am I?" laughed Christy.

"Precisely; and you are a better-looking one than your cousin. But
excuse me for changing the subject of the conversation, for I am losing
time. I see by the telltale over our heads that the Bronx is headed to
the south-west, which is doubtless the course you were ordered to take
by the commodore."

"The telltale is honest, and tells no lies," replied Christy.

"Where are you bound, Captain Passford?" asked Flanger, in a careless
and indifferent manner, as he looked about the cabin.

