flames have burst through. Jasper seizes some valuables 
and a box of papers and flings them out of the front 
window. The flames have cut off his retreat, so he lets 
himself down over the porch, and runs around just in time 
to see his father break away from the man and disappear 
in the burning house again. He leaps up the stairs, now 
full of smoke, gropes around calling his father, and finds 
him in a heap on the landing. 

" The will ! " Morton Bradley moans feebly. " I want the 
will. It is not signed." 

Jasper bears him down again. The chill September 
morning has sent a streak of pale, watery yellow down low 
in the eastern sky, and all the rest is purple-blue save 
where the tall tree-tops seem to shadow it with blackness. 
There are no stars left. The flame begins to creep through 
the roof and shoots out lurid rays. The grass is drenched 
with dew, the very paths are dank. 

" Get out the wagon at once, and take us all down to 
Hardin's," says Jasper when he can collect his senses. He 
chafes his father's cold hands, wraps his own coat around 
him. It seems an age before the man returns, and then 
the frightened horse is almost unmanageable. 

"Lead him down a short distance. Perdita ! " 

Perdita is sheltered in Mrs. Grouse's lap, crying and 
laughing in an hysterical manner. 

"Come," Jasper commands, and takes his father in his 
arms, staggering under the burden which he soon finds is a 
dead weight. 

" But — oughtn't something be done to save it ? " asks 
Abram, glancing back at the house. 

" It will have to go," Jasper laughs bitterly. Is this the 
end of Bradley House ! 

For a few moments the confusion at the Hardins' is quite 
indescribable. It is not light enough yet to see clearly. 
Mrs. Hardin lights a lamp and stirs the fire. 





' Get some blankets, something warm," Jasper eries in 
a startled tone. He pulls a small flask of brandy out of his 
pocket and forces some through his father's lips,-but it is 
not swallowed. " He has fainted," he says a moment later. 

When they have done their utmost and can find no pulse, 
no heart-beat, Abram is despatched for the doctor. But 
Jasper Bradley has a presentiment that no physician's skill 
can fan back the spark of life. There is a great sigh — is it 
relief ? He has kept his promise to his dying mother, who 
loved this man so passionately, who had saved him more 
than once from the consequences of deeds absolutely crimi- 
nal ; who had provided luxuries for his delicate tastes and 
habits when he was too indolent or too improvident to 
provide even daily bread. It seems a kind of travesty to 
him. This man with his steady-going, thrifty ancestry 
back of him which should have evolved a continuation of 
worthy traits, and the pretty stage dancer, for there had 
been a time when she was handsome, slim, and graceful, 
and coined money with her twinkling feet. Stately 
Regina's theories would be sadly at fault. Jasper won- 
ders how he ever dared to aspire to her supreme favor. 

With broad daylight that end of the town is astir. Two 
engines go up to Bradley House, but they are too late to 
be of much service. The doctor's verdict is as Jasper has 
foreseen. Perdita has had a chill, and now a fever begins 
to follow. She is wide-eyed and almost out of her senses 
with terror. 

" Hadn't she better be taken to Mrs. Halford's ? " sug- 
gests Mrs. Hardin. "They're about settled by this time. 
Well, if their movin' wasn't directed by the hand of Provi- 
dence, I'll give up." 

Jasper holds "a consultation with Mrs. Grouse. 

" I'll take her at once to a hotel, and you jnust nurse 
her," he says. " She had a fright last night with father ; 
he was a little out of his mind. Then she had a horrid 
dream about the will, and she will likely be delirious. I 
can trust you to take good care of her." 

Mrs. Grouse assents to this arrangement, and Jasper 



 

Bradley loses no time in bringing it about. There is a 
profound sympathy for him in this overwhelming tide of 
