room. It was with inexpressible relief that he looked up and saw Louise
coming down the stairs.

"Why, Sue!" she cried; and she flew down the steps, and threw her arms
around her friend's neck. "Oh, Sue, Sue!" she said, in that voice a
woman uses to let another woman know that she understands and
sympathizes utterly with her.

Suzette coldly undid her clasping arms. "Let me go, Louise."

"No, no! You shan't go. I want you--you must stay with us, now. I know
Matt doesn't believe at all in that dreadful report."

"That wouldn't be anything now, even if it were true. There's another
report--don't you know it?--in the paper this morning." Louise tried to
look unconscious in the slight pause Suzette made before she said: "And
your father has been saying my father is a thief."

"Oh, papa!" Louise wailed out.

It was outrageously unfair and ungrateful of them both; and Hilary gave
a roar of grief and protest. Suzette escaped from Louise, and before he
could hinder it, flashed by Hilary to the street door, and was gone.




XX.


The sorrow that turned to shame in other eyes remained sorrow to
Northwick's daughters. When their father did not come back, or make any
sign of being anywhere in life, they reverted to their first belief, and
accepted the fact of his death. But it was a condition of their grief,
that they must refuse any thought of guilt in him. Their love began to
work that touching miracle which is possible in women's hearts, and to
establish a faith in his honor which no proof of his dishonesty could
shake.

Even if they could have believed all the things those newspapers accused
him of, they might not have seen the blame that others did in his acts.
But as women, they could not make the fine distinctions that men make in
business morality, and as Northwick's daughters, they knew that he would
not have done what he did if it was wrong. Their father had borrowed
other people's money, intending to pay it back, and then had lost his
own, and could not; that was all.

With every difference of temperament they agreed upon this, and they
were agreed that it would be a sort of treason to his memory if they
encouraged the charges against him by making any change in their life.
But it was a relief to them, especially to Suzette, who held the purse,
when the changes began to make themselves, and their costly
establishment fell away, through the discontent and anxiety of this
servant and that, till none were left but Elbridge Newton and his wife.
She had nothing to do now but grieve for the child she had lost, and she
willingly came in to help about the kitchen and parlor work, while her
husband looked after the horses and cattle as well as he could, and
tended the furnaces, and saw that the plants in the greenhouses did not
freeze. He was up early and late; he had no poetic loyalty to the
Northwicks; but as nearly as he could explain his devotion, they had
always treated him well, and he could not bear to see things run behind.

Day after day went by, and week after week, and the sisters lived on in
the solitude to which the compassion, the diffidence, or the contempt of
their neighbors left them. Adeline saw Wade, whenever he came to the
house, where he felt it his duty and his privilege to bring the
consolation that his office empowered him to offer in any house of
mourning; but Suzette would not see him; she sent him grateful messages
and promises, when he called, and bade Adeline tell him each time that
the next time she hoped to see him.

One of the ladies of South Hatboro', a Mrs. Munger, who spent her
winters as well as her summers there, penetrated as far as the library,
upon her own sense of what was due to herself as a neighbor; but she
failed to find either of the sisters. She had to content herself with
urging Mrs. Morrell, the wife of the doctor, to join her in a second
attempt upon their privacy; but Mrs. Morrell had formed a notion of
Suzette's character and temper adverse to the motherly impulse of pity
which she would have felt for any one else in the girl's position. Mrs.
Gerrish, the wife of the leading merchant in Hatboro', who distinguished
himself by coming up from Boston with Northwick, on the very day of the
directors' meeting, would have joined Mrs. Munger, but her husband
forbade her. He had stood out against the whole community in his belief
in Northwick's integrity and solvency; and while every one else accused
him of running away as soon as he was reported among the missing in the
railroad accident, Gerrish had refused to admit it. The defalcation came
upon him like thunder out of a clear sky; he felt himself disgraced
before his fellow-citizens; and he resented the deceit which Northwick
had tacitly practised upon him. He was impatient of the law's delays in
seizing the property the defaulter had left behind him, and which was
now clearly the property of his creditors. Other people in Hatboro',
those who had been the readiest to suspect Northwick, cherished a guilty
leniency toward him in their thoughts. Some believed that he had gone to
his account in other courts; some that he was still alive in poverty and
exile, which were punishment enough, as far as he was concerned. But
Gerrish demanded something exemplary, something dramatic from the law.
He blamed the Ponkwasset directors for a species of incivism, in failing
to have Northwick indicted at once, dead or alive.

"Why don't they turn his family out of that house, and hand it over to
