gave up her dead, and on the banks a 
fair city rose, one that had its temples, 
priests, altars and shrines; a city that 
worshipped a star, and called that star 
Antinous. Hadrian then could have 
congratulated himself. Even Caligula 
would have envied him. He had done 
his worst; he had deitied not a lad, but 
a lust. And not for the moment alone. 
A half century later Tertullian noted 
that the worship still endured, and subsequently the Alexandrine Clement 
discovered consciences that Antinous 
had reproached. 
Antinous, deified, was presently forgot. A young Roman, wonderfully 
 
beautiful, Dion says, yet singularly 
effeminate; a youth who could barely 
carry a shield ; who slept between rose- 
leaves and lilies; who was an artist 
withal; a poet who had written lines 
that Martial might have mistaken for 
, his own, Cejonius Verus by name, succeeded thcBithynian shepherd. Hadrian, who would have adopted Antin- 
I ous, adopted Verus in his stead. But 
Hadrian was not happy in his choice. 
 Verus died, and singularly enough, 
Hadrian selected as future emperor. 
 the one ruler against whom history has 
 not a reproach, Pius Antonin. 
Meanwhile the journey continued.  The Thousand and One N ights were re- 
I alized then if ever. The beauty of the 
 world was at its apogee, the glory of 
Rome as well ; and through secrets and 
 marvels Hadrian strolled, note-book in 
 hand, his eyes unwearied, his curiosity 
 unsatiated still. To pleasure him the 
 
intervales took on a fairer glow; cities 
decked themselves anew, the temples 
unveiled their mysteries; and when he 
passed to the intervales liberty came ; 
to the cities, sovereignty ; to the temples, shrines. The world rose to him 
as a woman greets her lover. His 
travels were not fatigues ; they were 
delights, in which nations participated, 
and of which the memories endure as 
though enchanted still. 
It would have been interesting, no 
doubt, to have dined with him in 
Paris; to have quarried lions in their 
African fens; to have heard archaic 
hymns ripple through the rushes of 
the Nile; to have lounged in the 
Academe, to have scaled Parnassus, 
and sailed the  Egian sea ; but, a history 
and an arm-chair aiding, the trave 
has but to close his cjes and the pastl 
returns. Without disturbing so much 
as a shirt-box, he 
promenade. Triremes have foundered ; 
litters  re out of date; painted elephants are no more; the sky has 
changed, climates with it; there are 
colors, as there are arts, that have 
gone from us forever; there are desolate plains, where green and yellow 
was; the shriek of steam where gods 
have strayed ; advertisements in sacred 
groves; Baedekers in ruins that never 
heard an atheist's voice; solitudes 
where there were splendors; the snarl 
of jackals where once were birds and 
bees — yet, history and the arm-chair 
aiding, it all returns. Any traveler 
may follow in Hadrian's steps; he is 
stayed but once— on the threshold of 
the Temple of Eleusis. It is there 
history gropes, impotent and blind, 
and it is there the interest of that 
journey culminated. 
Beyond the episode connected with 
Antinous, Hadrian's journey was 
marked by another, one which occurred 
in Judfea. Both were infamous, no 
doubt, but, what is more to the point, 
both mark the working of the poison 
in the purple that he bore. 
Since Titus had gone, despairful 
Judica had taken heart again. Hope 
in that land was inextinguishable. 
The walls of Jerusalem were still 
standing; in the Temple the offices 
continued. Though Rome remained, 
there was Israel too. Passing that 
way one afternoon, Hadrian mused. 
The city affected him; the site was 
superb. And as he mused it occurred 
to him that Jerusalem was less harmonious to the ear than Hadrianopolis ; 
that the Temple occupied a position 
on which a Capitol would look far 
better; in brief, that Jehovah might 
be advantageously replaced by Jove. 
The army of masons that were ever 
