
“I was glad to serve you, and do not need compensation. You may wish to
work the claim yourself.”

“No; my days of labor are over. I am sixty-five, and might easily be
taken for ten years older. I shall be glad to contribute to your
happiness and success, and that of your friend.”

“Perhaps some one may have discovered and worked the claim.”

“No; it is an out-of-the-way place, and has not attracted attention.”

“How, then, did you discover it?”

“By accident. As to the richness, let this convince you: in less than
six months I took out ten thousand dollars, and having no need of more,
stopped working, and carefully removed all traces likely to betray the
mine’s entrance to a casual observer.”

“It will be a great favor to Tom and myself. We ought to give you a
share of the proceeds.”

The old man shook his head.

“I shall not live long enough to spend the money I have,” he answered.
“You are welcome to all it will yield you. Come here with your friend
to-morrow morning, and I will give you the directions that will enable
you to find the claim.”

“Can I do anything more for you before I go?”

“Yes; you may go to the stream behind the cabin and bring me some fresh
water.”

Grant did as requested, and, elated by his unexpected good luck, started
on his return to Howe’s Gulch.

When Grant reached the cabin jointly occupied by himself and Tom Cooper,
he found Tom sitting outside, smoking his pipe.

He looked very thoughtful.

“Have you got rid of your headache, Grant?” he asked.

“Yes; I feel as lively as a cricket.”

“Then your walk has done you good?”

“A great deal of good,” answered Grant; but Tom did not detect the
significance hidden in the reply. “How long have you been at home?”

“An hour.”

“Then you knocked off work earlier than usual.”

“Yes,” answered Tom soberly. “To tell the truth, Grant, I’m discouraged.
How much do you think our day’s work amounts to?”

“Yours and mine?”

“Yes.”

“How much?”

“A dollar and seventy-five cents! I think, Grant, we had better inquire
the location of the nearest poor house. We may want to ask admission.”

“There’s an old saying, Tom: ‘The darkest hour is just before the day.’”

“How does that apply here?”

“I will tell you. I have secured a claim from which ten thousand dollars
was obtained within six months.”

“And then it petered out?”

“No; the owner stopped working it because he had money enough, and was
satisfied.”

“Hasn’t it been worked since?”

“No.”

“How much did you agree to pay for it?” asked Tom, in excitement.

“Nothing. It was given me for a service I rendered the owner.”

“This seems like a fairy tale, Grant. What does it mean?”

“I will tell you;” and Grant related his afternoon’s adventure.

“Hurrah! we’re in luck!” exclaimed Tom, rising to his feet and swinging
his hat in excitement. “If what you say is true, we’re made men.”

“I am glad you look upon me as a man,” said Grant, smiling.

“I’m only anticipating a little. I hope,” he added anxiously, “the old
man won’t reconsider the matter.”

“Not much chance of it. I haven’t known him long, but I am quite sure
