"I suppose, Obed, you'll be getting married soon after you reach home?"
said Harry.

"The very first thing I shall do will be to pay off the mortgage on
dad's farm," said Mr. Stackpole. "I want to see him a free man, with a
home that can't be taken from him. Then I'll look after the other
matter."

"You are right, Obed. I only wish I had a father to help and care for,"
said Harry soberly.

"I've got a step-father," said Jack, "but I don't feel much like helping
him."

"You have a mother, Jack."

"Yes, but I shall have to be careful about giving her money, for her
husband would get it away from her before long."

"Well, boys, we won't borrow trouble before the time comes. For all I
know Suke Stanwood may have got tired of waitin' for me, and married
some other feller."

"In that case, Obed, I suppose you would die of a broken heart."

"Not much, but I don't mind sayin' that I should feel uncommon blue."

Two days elapsed before Obed and his party started on their return trip.
Meanwhile Colson and Ropes had disappeared. The boys had expected to see
them about the camp, but they had vanished.

"I wonder what has become of them?" said Harry, just as they were
starting.

"I reckon they're hatchin' some new mischief, wherever they are,"
returned Obed composedly. "You maybe sure they're not engaged in any
honest work."

"Perhaps Colson is trying to sell his nugget," suggested Jack with a
smile.

"He's welcome to all he can get for it," said Obed.

Obed was very near the truth in his conjecture. Their greed was excited
by thoughts of the nugget which our three friends had discovered, and
their brains were busied with plans for obtaining possession of it. The
chances didn't seem very encouraging. It was under strong escort, and it
would be sheer madness for the two to attack an armed party. It would
require a much larger force than they could command to make an attack at
all practicable.

With no special plans, but with the hope that something would turn up in
their favor, the two men started for Melbourne in advance of the
government party. They were indebted for the requisite funds to a
successful theft by Colson, who was an expert in his line. It is
unnecessary to chronicle their daily progress. We will look in upon them
on the fourth day.

They were making toilsome progress, over the boggy road, when all at
once they were confronted by three bushrangers headed by Fletcher.

"Surrender, or you are dead men!" exclaimed Fletcher, with a boldness
which will be easily understood when it is considered that his force
outnumbered the travellers two to one.

Neither Colson nor Ropes appeared to be frightened. Indeed, they were
looking for such an encounter.

"All right, gentlemen," said Ropes quietly. "We are quite ready to
surrender."

"Empty your pockets," was the next order.

"All right again!" said Ropes. "I am sorry to say we haven't much to
surrender."

"Is this all you have?" asked Fletcher, frowning when a pound and ten
shillings were delivered to him as their united contributions to the
bushrangers' fund.

"We haven't a penny more."

"Search them!" said Fletcher to his followers.

A search, however, failed to bring to light anything more.

"Why, you poor tramps!" exclaimed Fletcher in disgust. "You are unworthy
the attention of gentlemen."

"Perhaps not, captain," answered Colson. "May I have a word with you in
private?"

Not without suspicion Fletcher granted this unexpected request, and
stepped aside with Colson a few paces, taking care, however, to keep
near enough to his party to insure his safety.

"Well, what have you to say?" he asked abruptly.

"I have no money to give you," replied Colson, "but I have information
that will enable you to obtain a great deal."
