CHAPTER VI. 

IS IT MURDER? 

WHEN the monitor marked the roll at 
prayers next morning, he passed his pencil 
opposite the name of " Calhoun, Lee." 

All the hazing party were conspicuously 
and virtuously present at that devotional 
exercise. They were thoroughly alarmed at 
the state of the case as daylight revealed it 
to college rumor. The facts were running 
like forest fire all over the university by 
eight o clock. 

The tutor, Mr. Middleton, to whose in 
genious mind it had occurred in the course 
of the evening that something had gone 
wrong in his Freshman floor, had, it seemed, 
instituted entirely on his own behalf the 
chase which resulted in tracking down the 
offenders. His meeting with Jerry McCarty 
was one of those fortunate accidents which 
sometimes befall law and order in college 
government. Jerry, whose dogged and 
limited intellect had not yet evolved beyond the 



absorbing subject of body-snatching, track 
ing the hazing party on his own account, 
confident, excited, and relentless, had come 
face to face with the tutor behind the 
receiving-vault. When the two men reached the 
open grave from which the flying figure of 
Donald Marcy had retreated in good order, 
Jerry 's professional pleasure amounted to 
personal agitation, he was so sure, now, of 
his game and his glory. The policeman 's 
countenance, as he lighted and swung his 
lantern upon the prostrate figure of the 
Freshman, was a memorable sight. 

" Begorra, it 's a corrups ! " cried Jerry, 
radiant. " But, be jabers ! " his face fell 
like a plummet in a deep sea " it 's a live 
corrups, bad luck to em ! Glory to God ! " 
added Jerry, with gratification, putting his 
practiced hand to Calhoun 's heart. " It 's 
me belafe we'll have a murther here, sir, 
ennyhow. There 's some comfort in that, 
sir." 

The outlook for Calhoun, even as late as 
the next morning, was dark enough to jus 
tify the policeman 's prognosis. 

The poor fellow had been carefully're 
moved to his room, and faithfully watched 
all night by the best medical skill in the 



 

city. He was breathing, but still uncon 
scious. His brain, the physicians said, was 
affected ; how much, time only could 
determine. He might not outlive the day ; in 
which event they should give a verdict of 
" Death from exposure and fright." He 
might fall into brain fever of a violent and 
deadly type. He might simply sink into 
insanity or idiocy. Such was the cheerful 
choice of results liable to follow from one 
evening 's hazing, and " a little fun." 
Perhaps this is the place to say that such 
" fun " as this has been long since 
abandoned at Harle College. Calhoun 's case 
came into the rude and now outgrown days 
of hazing history. 

The students of Harle College were sober 
enough that morning. It was quite 
unnecessary for the hazors to assume any of 
those expressions of hilarity or indifference 
by which the college boy is accustomed to 
hide his head in the sand of his offenses. 
Such idle pretense would only have identi 
fied them in the general gloom and anxiety. 

Donald Marcy, if not the most guilty, was, 
perhaps, the most sensitive of the culprits ; 
and his distress was greater than the sunny, 
easy, happy - go - lucky fellow knew how to 



bear. Life had gone lightly with Don ; it 
