Yes. People are all going out at this hour in the morning, and it’s of
no especial use to be seen about together. There’s the Assembly ball
to-night, and of course you’ll come and talk to me, but I shall see
you--or no--I’ll write you a note, with a special delivery stamp, and
post it at the District Post-Office. You’ll get it in less than an hour,
and then you’ll know what uncle Robert says.”

“I know already what he’ll say,” answered Ralston. “But why mayn’t I
wait for you here?”

“Now, Jack! Don’t be so ridiculously hopeless about things. And I don’t
want you to wait, for I haven’t the least idea how long it may last, and
as I said, there’s no object in our being seen to meet, away up here by
the Park, at this hour. Good-bye.

“I hate to leave you,” said Ralston, holding out one hand, with a
resigned air, and raising his hat with the other.

“I like that in you!” exclaimed Katharine, noticing the action. “I like
you to take off your hat to me just the same--though you are my
husband.” She looked at him a moment. “I’m so glad we’ve done it!” she
added with much emphasis, and a faint colour rose in her face.

Then she turned away and walked quickly in the direction of Robert
Lauderdale’s house, which was at the next corner. As she went she
glanced at the big polished windows which face the Park, to see whether
any one had noticed her. She knew the people who lived in one of the
houses, and she had an idea that others might know her by sight, as the
niece of the great man who had built the whole block. But there were
only two children at one of the windows, flattening their rosy faces
against the pane and drumming on it with fat hands; very smartly dressed
children, with bright eyes and gayly-coloured ribbons.

As Katharine had expected, Robert Lauderdale was at home, had finished
his breakfast and was in his library attending to his morning letters.
She was ushered in almost immediately, and as she entered the room the
rich man’s secretary stood aside

[Illustration: “‘I’m glad to see you, my dear child!’ he said
warmly.”--Vol. II., p. 3.]

to let her pass through the door and then went out--a quiet, faultlessly
dressed young man who had the air of a gentleman. He wore gold-rimmed
spectacles, which looked oddly on his young face.

Robert Lauderdale did not rise to meet Katharine, as he sat sideways by
a broad table, in an easy position, with one leg crossed over the other
and leaning back in his deep chair. But a bright smile came into his
cheerful old face, and stretching out one long arm he took her hand and
drew her down and gave her a hearty kiss. Still holding her by the hand,
he made her sit in the chair beside him, left vacant by the secretary.

“I’m glad to see you, my dear child!” he said warmly. “What brings you
so early?”

He was a big old man and was dressed in a rough tweed of a light colour,
which was very becoming to his fresh complexion. His thick hair had once
been red, but had turned to a bright sandy grey, something like the
sands at Newport. His face was laid out in broad surfaces, rich in
healthy colour and deeply freckled where the skin was white. His keen
blue eyes were small, but very clear and honest, and the eyebrows were
red still, and bushy, with a few white hairs. Two deep, clean furrows
extended from beside the nostrils into the carefully brushed beard, and
there were four wrinkles, and no more, across the broad forehead. No one
would have supposed that Robert Lauderdale was much over sixty, but in
reality he was ten years older. His elder brother, the philanthropist,
looked almost as though he might have been his father. It was clear
that, like many of the Lauderdales, the old man had possessed great
physical strength, and that he had preserved his splendid constitutional
vitality even in his old age.

Katharine did not answer his question immediately. She was by no means
timid, as has been seen, but she felt a little less brave and sure of
herself in the presence of the head of her family than when she had been
with Ralston a few minutes earlier. She was not aware of the fact that
in many ways she dominated the man who was now her husband, and she
would very probably not have wished to believe she did; but she was very
distinctly conscious that she could never, under any imaginable
circumstances, exert any direct influence over her uncle Robert, though
she might persuade him to do much for her. He was by nature himself of
the dominant tribe, and during forty years he had been accustomed to
command with that absolute certainty of being obeyed which few positions
insure as completely as very great wealth does. As she looked at him for
a moment before speaking, the little opening speech she had framed began
to seem absolutely inadequate, and she could not find words wherewith to
compose another at such short notice. Being courageous, however, she
did not hesitate long, but characteristically plunged into the very
heart of the matter by telling him just what she felt.

“I’ve done something very unusual, uncle Robert,” she began. “And I’ve
come to tell you all about it, and I prepared a speech for you. But it
won’t do. Somehow, though I’m not a bit afraid of you--” she smiled as
she met his eyes--“you seem ever so much bigger and stronger than I
thought you were, now that I’ve got here.”

Uncle Robert laughed and patted her hand as it lay on the desk.

“Out with it, child!” he exclaimed. “I suppose you’re in trouble, in
some way or other, and you want me to help you. Is that it?”

