remember? It’s only three or four weeks ago, but it seems years.”

“It does, indeed. What tight places we’ve been through together since
your father refused to hear of me as a son-in-law! Holloa! There goes
Ham Bright! What in the world can he be doing down here at this time of
day?”

Bright was walking towards them, as quickly as it was natural for him to
walk, with his long, heavy stride.

“It’s of no use to run away--he’s seen us,” said Katharine.

“He looks in a better humour than I’ve seen him lately,” answered John
in a low voice, as they approached Bright.

They met and stood still a moment on the pavement. Even under his great
disappointment Hamilton Bright had never shown the least ill-temper,
though he had avoided the Lauderdales and the Ralstons as much as
possible, and had managed so that he scarcely ever saw John at the bank
except from a distance. But he had been very gloomy of late. Now,
however, as Ralston had said, he looked more cheerful.

“Going down town again?” asked John. “Not that I come from Boston, you
know, Ham--but when one meets a man going down South Fifth Avenue at
half past five in the afternoon, one’s naturally curious. What’s up?”

“Oh--nothing. I was just going as far as Grand Street about a house I’ve
bought there. Did you know they’d found the other will?”

“Found the other will?” repeated Ralston, in the utmost surprise.
“Well--what sort of a will is it? Will it be good?”

“I’m so glad!” exclaimed Katharine, thoughtlessly.

Bright fixed his clear, blue eyes on her with considerable curiosity,
and hesitated an instant before he spoke.

“Of course!” he exclaimed. “They always said you knew what was in it,
cousin Katharine.”

“Did they? I don’t know how they knew that I did,” she answered. “But
I’m glad it’s found, all the same.”

“Are you? Well--I hope it’s all right. Of course nobody knows what’s in
it. Allen wants to collect the family at your house to-morrow morning to
hear it read. It seems to me it might have been managed to-night, but he
said there wasn’t time to send round. I think cousin Alexander objected,
too. He wants all the family. Will you tell your mother, Jack? Eleven
o’clock at Clinton Place. Write a note to Beman to say why you don’t
turn up at the bank.”

“All right,” answered John, gravely. “I hope it will be all right, Ham,
old man,” he added, putting out his hand as Bright showed signs of being
in a hurry.

“Thank you, Jack,” answered the latter, heartily. “Not that you and I
shall ever quarrel about money. Good-bye, cousin Katharine.”

And he went on and left them to pursue their way in the opposite
direction. They walked slowly, and looked into one another’s eyes.

“I thought he’d burned it,” said Ralston at last, in a tone of wonder.

“So did I,” answered Katharine. “Jack,” she continued, after a slight
pause, “it won’t do to go and see papa now. Not till the will’s been
read to-morrow. You don’t know what a state of mind he’ll be in until
he’s heard it--and then--then I’m afraid it will be worse than ever.”

“Yes--let me see--how was it? You and Charlotte and I are to have
everything, and pay half the income to the parents. Isn’t that it?”

“That’s it. And there’s a million set aside for the Brights. But Heaven
only knows what that dreadful court will do this time!”

“I don’t much care,” answered Ralston. “But all the settling up will be
suspended again for ever so long. You’ll never get the money to pay for
your new frock, dear, with all your millions!”

“Oh, Jack--really? I’m frightened to death about those bills!”

“I was only laughing at you,” said John, laughing himself. “Besides, as
I’m really your husband, I’m responsible for your dressmaker’s bills in
the eye of the law. But, I confess, I begin to wonder whether any of us
will ever see any of that money.”




CHAPTER XXXII.


Long after midnight Hester Crowdie sat beside her sleeping husband,
watching him with unwinking eyes. The soft, coloured light was shaded so
that no ray could fall upon his face to disturb his rest, as he lay back
upon the yielding pillow, sleeping very soundly. The house was still,
but the servants were not all gone to bed, for Hester was anxious. At
any moment she might need to send for a doctor. But she sat watching the
unconscious man alone.

His eyes were closed, and his face was flushed. He breathed very
