invaluable flatterers. Though he really knew something about several
subjects no one ever had the slightest respect for his opinion or
judgment. He was an agreeable man, a good-natured gossip, a harmless
critic. He always seemed to have read every word of books which most
people found tiresome and skimmed in half an hour, and he never was
acquainted with the book of the hour until the hour was past. No one
ever understood why he liked Mrs. Willoughby, nor why she liked him,
but if people thought of the matter at all they thought the friendship
very appropriate. Mr. Brown knew everybody in society and was useful in
filling a place, because he was a bachelor, and joined in the hum if
not in the conversation. In appearance he was a bald man with refined
features, a fair beard turning gray, gentle blue eyes, an average
figure, small feet and hands, well-made clothes, a chronic watch-chain
and a ring with an intaglio. His strong point was his memory, his weak
point was his absence of tact.

Marion, who intended that the general conversation of the table should
be followed by a general pairing off after the coffee, reflected that
Mr. Brown would amuse Mrs. Willoughby while Vanbrugh talked to Dolly
and she herself had an opportunity of speaking with Brett. So she asked
Mr. Brown to join the party, and he accepted. Dolly came first, but Mr.
Brown, who was punctuality itself, appeared a moment later. Vanbrugh
arrived next, and last of all Harry Brett, a little late and
apologising rather nervously.

"Did you get my note?" he inquired of Vanbrugh, after the first
greetings and as soon as he could exchange a word with him, unnoticed
in the general conversation.

"No. Anything important? I went out early--before eleven o'clock, and
have not been at home since."

"There was an interesting story of a wreck in the paper this morning,"
said Mr. Brown, addressing the three ladies.

"Stop him," said Brett to Vanbrugh in an energetic whisper. "Now
Brown, my dear fellow," he continued aloud, sitting down beside Mrs.
Darche, "do not begin the day by giving us the Sunday Herald entire,
because we have all read it and we know all about the wreck--"

Mr. Brown, who was used to interruption and to being checked when he
was about to bore people, looked up with mild eyes and protested a
little.

"I say, Brett, you know, you are rather abrupt sometimes, in your way
of shutting people up. But as you say, they have probably all read the
story. I only thought--"

"Only thought!" cried Vanbrugh, taking his cue from his friend. "Only!
As though thinking were not the most important function of the human
animal, next to luncheon--"

"I have not read the story Mr. Brown alludes to," observed Mrs.
Willoughby rather primly.

"Oh--it is all about natural history, and cannibals and latitudes and
people in a boat," said Brett talking very fast. "All that kind of
thing. As for the news I can give you lots of it. Great fire, strike, a
new bacillus in postage-stamp gum--awfully dangerous, Mrs. Willoughby.
Always use a sponge for moistening your stamps or you will get
something--some sort of new disease--what is it, Vanbrugh? You always
know everything."

"Gum-boils," suggested Vanbrugh, without hesitation.

Brett gave him a grateful look, as Mr. Brown's laughter assured him
that the danger was over for the present. But Brett did not desist
until Stubbs opened the dining-room door and they all went in to
luncheon. Mrs. Darche watched him curiously, wondering what was the
matter. She had never before heard him talk so nervously. Vanbrugh had
not the slightest idea of what had happened, but blindly followed
Brett's lead, and helped him to annihilate Mr. Brown, whenever the
latter showed the least inclination to tell a story.

Mr. Brown, however, was an obstinate person. He was not quick on his
feet mentally, so to say, and an insignificant idea had as strong a
hold upon his thoughts as an important one. Somehow he managed to tell
the tale of the wreck to Mrs. Willoughby and Dolly in the little
shifting of companionship which always takes place on leaving table. To
do him justice, he told it very shortly, and Mrs. Darche did not chance
to be listening at the time. Stubbs was offering everybody coffee, and
Marion had a box of cigarettes and was standing before the fireplace
with Vanbrugh and Brett, exchanging a few words with the latter.
Suddenly Mr. Brown's voice rose above the rest.

"Of course," he was saying, "nobody ever knew positively that the man
had really been drowned. But he had never turned up--"

"And probably never will," answered Dolly, glancing nervously at
Marion. But she had caught the words and had turned a little pale.

Vanbrugh looked over to Brown.

"For heaven's sake, Jim," he said, in a low voice. "Talk about
something else, if you must, you know!"

Mr. Brown's face fell as he realised his mistake.

"By Jove!" he exclaimed. "Just like me! I forgot that poor Darche
drowned himself."
