"They are at work all the time on the canal to prevent these accidents,
and several changes have already been made in the original plan of the
canal," said the commander. "Monsieur Lesseps, who projected this
wonderful enterprise, and whose energy and perseverance carried it
through to its completion, made a voyage through the canal in the
Austral, one of the largest of the Orient Line, though not so large as
the one ahead of us, for the purpose of observing any defects. The
result has been that several improvements have been adopted which it is
expected will remove all the difficulties."

"Is Monsieur Lesseps still living, Captain?" inquired Captain Scott.

"He is at the age of eighty-seven this year. His success with the Suez
Canal led him to undertake the construction of the Panama Canal. The
company was formed with the prestige of the great engineer's success on
this isthmus, and the shares were readily sold. The work was begun; but
it was a more difficult undertaking than Suez, and the company suspended
payment four years ago. Speculators and 'boodlers' had 'monkeyed' with
the finances, and the vast scheme is a failure. Whether it will ever be
accomplished remains a question for the future."

"The poor old man and his son were dragged into the mire, and were even
committed to prison, though they were soon released," added Mr.
Woolridge. "I think he was a great man, and I was exceedingly sorry for
his misfortunes."

"He will never receive the honor he deserves on our side of the
Atlantic, I fear," added Captain Ringgold. "After rich and powerful
potentates had rejected the scheme, Lesseps still cherished it. Over
sixty years ago, when he was an employe in the office of the French
consul at Tunis, he was sent to Alexandria on business. Here he was
subjected to a residence of some time in quarantine. He was supplied
with books by the French consul there, and among them was Lapère's
Mémoire. The author was Napoleon's engineer, whose report that the level
of the two seas was not uniform, had set aside the schemes to connect
them by a canal. Lesseps considered his views, and some years after made
the acquaintance of Lieutenant Waghorn, favorably known in connection
with the Overland Route to India by the way of Egypt. The route by
descending the Euphrates River to the head of the Persian Gulf was also
considered. It appears, therefore, that Lesseps was cogitating his great
enterprise for nearly forty years before the work was completed."

"I cannot see the immense importance of this canal as you gentlemen
represent it; but I suppose it is because I am a woman," said Mrs.
Belgrave.

"It is of the greatest importance to England," replied Mr. Woolridge.
"Over twenty-five hundred British vessels went through the canal in
1888; for England has a vast empire in Asia, to say nothing of Australia
and other colonies in the East. Of other nations of Europe, France sent
two hundred and seventy-two ships through the canal, Holland one hundred
and twenty-four, Germany one hundred and twenty-two, and others less
than a hundred each."

"But how many American vessels went through?" asked Captain Scott.

"None were mentioned in the report I saw; and the number must have been
very few. The canal is of vastly less importance to the United States
than to England, France, Holland, and Spain, all of which have colonies
in the East. Since the war, our maritime commerce has been immensely
reduced, though our ships still make voyages to India, China, and
various ports of the East. Then the distance saved to our vessels would
be much less. Roughly estimated,--in fact, guessed at,--I should say
that the distance from New York to Ceylon, near the southern cape of
India, is four-fifths of that around Cape Good Hope. The heavy dues for
passing through the canal are an item, and it would not pay to save two
thousand five hundred miles out of twelve thousand five hundred."

"But the saving from London to Bombay is forty-four per cent," added Mr.
Woolridge. "From Marseilles to the same port it is nearly sixty per
cent. The United States 'is not in it'"--

"Are not in it, papa," interposed Miss Blanche with a silvery laugh.

"No, my dear; is not in it," returned the magnate, with a loving
smile. "I know the government is said to have ruled for the plural, but
I don't accept the ruling. Why, what does E pluribus Unum mean if not
the singular number? For what did we fight the War of the Rebellion if
not to prove that the United States is one government, and are not
forty-four of them at the present moment."

"But the grammar, papa?" asked Blanche.

"The grammar is all right, my child. What are the news, Blanche? The
company is or are, just as you pay your money and take your choice,"
said the father, chucking the fair maiden under the chin.

"Our friend is quite right, and, so far as the canal is concerned, the
United States is not in it," added the commander, laughing at the turn
the conference had taken.

"How far have we gone so far, Captain?" asked Miss Blanche.

"Ten o'clock," he replied, consulting his watch. "We have been moving at
this snail's pace for five hours, and made twenty-five miles, or forty
kilometres. In five more we shall come to El Kantara, where the caravan
route from Egypt into Asia crosses the canal."

"Do the camels have to swim across the canal?" asked Mrs. Blossom.

