perceived that something had gone wrong.

But Fenton was vivaciously discussing last November’s ball games
with his vis-à-vis, a middler whose name is unknown to history.
It was some time before he said, looking far down the long table:--

“Bayard, who is it that says it takes three generations to make a
gentleman?”

“Why, Holmes, I suppose,” answered he who was addressed. “Who else
would be likely to say it?”

“Any of the Avonsons might have said it,” observed a gentlemanly
fellow from the extreme end of the table; he returned his spoon to
his saucer as he spoke. There were several students at the club who
did not drink with their spoons in their teacups, and even laid
the knife and fork in parallels upon the plate, and this was one
of the men. He had an effective and tenderly cherished mustache.
He was, on the whole, a handsome man. It was thought that he would
settle over a city parish.

“I doubt if there was ever an Avonson who could have said it,
Bent,” replied Bayard. The Avonsons were a prominent New England
family, not unknown to diplomacy and letters, nor even to Holt of
the Hecla and St. Mary’s.

“But why, then?” persisted Bent.

“They have believed it too thoroughly and too long to say anything
so fine.”

Bent raised an interrogative eyebrow.

“You won’t understand,” returned Bayard, smiling. All the fellows
turned towards Bayard when he smiled; it was a habit they had. “You
aren’t expected to. You are destined for the Episcopal Church.”

“I see the connection less than ever,” Bent maintained. “But I
scent heresy somewhere. You are doomed to the stake, Bayard. That
is clear as--as the Latin fathers. Have an apple,--do. It’s sour,
but sound. It’s Baldwin year, or we shouldn’t get them except
Sundays.”

Bayard mechanically took the apple, and laid it down untouched. His
eye wandered up the cold length of the long table decorated with
stone china. Somehow, few aspects of the theological life struck
his imagination so typically as a big vegetable dish piled with
cold, unrelieved Baldwins, to be served for after-dinner fruit
on a winter day. In the kind of mental chill which the smallest
of causes may throw over a nature like his, Bayard did not exert
himself to reply to his classmate, but fell into one of the sudden
silences for which he was marked.

“My father,” observed the New Hampshire man quietly, “was a farmer.
He dug his own potatoes the day before he enlisted. Perhaps I am no
judge, but I always thought he was a gentleman--when I was a little
boy.”

Tompkinton shouldered himself out of the conversation, asked one
of the fellows what hour the Professor had decided on for eternal
punishment, and went out into the wintry air, taking long strides
to the lecture-room, with his notebook under the old blue army
cape, of which the northwest wind flung up the scarlet side.

“Has the Professor tea’d you yet, Bent?” asked Bayard, rousing,
perhaps a little too obviously anxious to turn the channels of
conversation. Genealogical problems at best, and in picked company,
are unsafe topics; hence peculiarly dangerous at a club table of
poor theologues, half of whom must, in the nature of things, be
forcing their way into social conditions wholly unknown to their
past. Bayard was quicker than the other men to think of such things.

“Oh yes,” said Bent, with a slightly twitching mustache. “Ten of
us at a time in alphabetical order. I came the first night, being
a B. Madam his wife and Mademoiselle his daughter were present,
the only ladies against such a lot of us. I pitied them. But Miss
Carruth seemed to pity us. She showed me her photograph book, and
some Swiss pickle forks--carved. Then she asked me if I read Comte.
And then her mother asked me how many of the class had received
calls. Then the Professor told some stories about a Baptist
minister. And so by and by we came away. It was an abandoned
hour--for Cesarea. It was ten o’clock.”

“I was in town that night,” observed Bayard. “I had to send my
regrets.”

“If you were in town, why couldn’t you go?” asked the middler.

“I mean that I was out of town. I was in Boston. I had gone home,”
explained Bayard pleasantly.

“You won’t come in now till after the Z’s,” suggested Fenton
quickly; “or else you’ll be left over till the postgraduates take
turn, and the B’s come on again.”

The Baldwin apples were all eaten now, and the stone china was
disappearing from the long table in detachments. Jaynes and the
Special Course man had followed Tompkinton, and the middler and
Bent now pushed back their chairs. Bayard remained a moment to
ask after the landlady’s neuralgia,--he was one of the men who do
