
There was, then, cause for the wife’s pleasurable flutter of spirits
and the doubtful satisfaction expressed, against his intention, in the
husband’s visage at the close prospect of a state banquet given in
honor of their undistinguished selves, at which anonymous edibles would
be washed down with foreign wines, and spicy entrées be punctuated by
spicy hors d’œuvres. Arthur’s predominant quality was sound sense,
and as his spouse had anticipated, his first emotion after hearing
her tale was wonder at the sudden and violent increase of friendship
consequent upon their change of residence, in one who had apparently
forgotten the unimportant fact of her favorite schoolfellow’s existence
for more than five years.

“I can’t imagine why she should care to take us up now,” he demurred.

Susie’s ready flush testified to the hurt he had dealt her pride or
affections. She thought to the latter.

“If you would only not let your prejudice master your reason!” she
sighed. “All New York women hate and dread ferries.”

“There is the Bridge!” put in the Brooklyn-born literalist.

“Which would have taken visitors miles away from us. I was afraid you
would wet-blanket the whole affair. I really dreaded to tell you of
what I was silly enough to look forward to with pleasure. You see you
don’t know what a fine, genuine creature Kitty is. But we won’t dispute
over her or her dinner party. I can write to her and say that we regret
our inability to accept the invitation.”

Arthur closed his teeth upon another struggling sentence. Although
even less of a society man than she was of a society woman, he had
a definite impression that invitations to dinner were usually sent
out some days in advance of the “occasion.” Less distinct, because
intuitive, was the idea that gay young women, already laden with social
obligations, did not press attentions upon everyday folk from Brooklyn,
E. D., unless they hoped to gain something by it, or were addicted to
patronage. The former hypothesis being, as he conceived, untenable, it
followed that Mrs. Hitt, a good-natured rattle, must have said more
than she meant of her intentions toward the strangers, or that she had
a native fondness for playing the lady patroness.

Loving and admiring his wife from the full depths of a quiet heart,
he held all this back. Susie was vivacious, ready of wit and speech,
and he was not. She dearly enjoyed excitement and new acquaintances.
Give him dressing jacket, slippers, and an interesting book, or his
wife’s music and his own fireside, and he would not have exchanged
places with Ward Macallister at his complacent best. Susie would shine
anywhere; she was born to it! He was not even a first-class reflector
of her rays. Yet this noblest of women had stood by him with cheerful
gallantry in their less prosperous days. He had told her over and over
that she had hidden her light under a bushel in becoming the mistress
of such a home as he had to give her, but she had loyally denied this,
and borne her part bravely in the struggle to lap the non-elastic ends
of their common income. To her capital management he owed much of their
present comfort.

Arthur Cornell reasoned slowly, but always in a straight line.

“I am a selfish, brutal fellow, darling,” he said at this point of his
cogitations. “I am afraid I am a little tired to-night. We have had
a busy day at the Bank. You mustn’t mind my growls. When we have had
sup—dinner, I would say!—you’ll find me more than willing to listen and
sympathize.”

Her satisfactory answer was to come over and kiss him silently, taking
his head between her hands and laying her cheek upon it. The hair
was getting thin on the top, and the gaslight brought into gleaming
conspicuousness a few gray hairs. He was older than she by nine years.
It would not be surprising if, for a long time yet, he continued to
say “supper” instead of “dinner.” She was certain he would never learn
to talk of the “drawing room.” But he was her very own, and dearly
beloved, and the kindest, noblest fellow in the world. Whatever he
might do or say, she could never be angry with or ashamed of him.




PART II.


THE evening meal—an excellent one, to which Mr. Cornell did ample
justice—was over. Father and mother, as was their custom, had visited
the nursery in company, heard the children’s prayers, and kissed them
“good-night.” The orderly household had settled down into cheerful
quiet that fell like dew upon weary nerves. Susie went to the piano
presently and played a pensive nocturne, then sang softly a couple of
Arthur’s favorite ballads. The night was blustering, and in the silence
succeeding the music, the wedded pair, seated before the soft-coal fire
in the back parlor, heard the hurrying tread of passers-by echoing
sharply from the frozen stones.

Arthur ended the restful pause. His choice of a theme and the lightness
of his tone were heroic.

“Low neck and short sleeves for me to-morrow night, I suppose, old
lady? That is to say, claw-hammer, and low-cut vest. It’s lucky I had
them made for Lou Wilson’s wedding last winter. There wouldn’t be time
to get up the proper rig, and regrets based upon ‘No dress-coat’ would
be rather awkward.”
