that he required to reach the position of Lieutenant Blenks, who had
heard the firing, and had drawn up his men for any duty that might be
before them. No movement on the part of the prisoners was apparent to
Deck, and they were surrounded by a guard, with their carbines in their
hands; for the officer had ordered them to be on the lookout for any
demonstration.

"I am sent by Captain Truman to ascertain the condition of the
prisoners," said Deck, as he saluted the lieutenant.

"The prisoners are all right," replied the officer with a smile. "As
soon as I heard heavy firing I strengthened the guards around them; for
I thought they might want to take a hand in the fight over yonder. I had
a talk with the second lieutenant of the Guards, now in command, and he
told me that a company of Texan cavalry were to have connected with his
force here."

"But the force we have engaged cannot be more than half the company; and
all of them must have known that at least one of our companies was in
this vicinity," added Deck.

"The lieutenant, whose name is Condor, tried to induce Lagger to wait
till they had joined their forces before he meddled with the bridge; but
he refused to do so."

"Buck Lagger desired to win his spurs while the captain of the Guards
was absent. But you need no assistance here," added Deck, as he wheeled
his horse.

"None at all; we could ride these fellows down in two minutes. But their
arms are loaded into our baggage wagon, and they could do nothing if
they tried," replied the officer.

The messenger galloped up the road and into the field by the side of the
east road. It was not cultivated, though it had been years before, and
was now overgrown in places by small trees and bushes. Behind these Deck
made his way to a point abreast of the enemy. He was in time to hear the
order to charge upon the Union cavalry at the foot of the hill. The
lieutenant had evidently delayed this order for some time; for when his
men ceased to fire, the Union troopers had followed their example, and
prepared for the decisive event of the conflict. The messenger rode into
the road and saluted the officer in command of the flanking party.

"Captain Truman's order is that you follow up the enemy in the rear as
they charge down the hill," said Deck.

"I am all ready to do that," replied the officer, as he pointed to his
men, who sat upon their horses with their drawn sabres in their hands.

They were not more than two hundred feet from the Texans, and Lieutenant
Gadbury had already addressed some inspiring words to them. The other
division could be plainly seen at the foot of the hill, and both parties
were observing the enemy with the most intense interest. Judging from
the impetuous and reckless conduct of the Rangers, the conclusion had
been reached on both sides to charge the foe; for any other movement
would be turning their backs to the enemy.

During the tacit suspension of the conflict, both combatants had
improved the opportunity to care for their wounded. Two of the men only
had been killed so far, but half a dozen of them had been wounded; for
the Texans had given most of their attention to those at the foot of the
hill. Of these six, four kept in their saddles, and refused to take the
rear. The wounds were dressed as far as possible, and Dr. Farnwright was
a busy man at his post on the cross-roads.

Suddenly the officer in command of the Texans appeared in the rear of
his force, and made a furious gesture with his sword, pointing in the
direction of Gadbury's men. This was not what was expected of the
Rangers; and for the moment all the advantage was in favor of the enemy,
so far as numbers were concerned.

"Fours, right about, march!" shouted the Confederate lieutenant. "Now
charge with all the blood there is in you! Ride them down, and use your
sabres like men!"

The order was promptly obeyed by the Texans, who appeared to be under
excellent discipline; but they had hardly whirled around before the
watchful eyes of Captain Truman discovered what they were doing, and his
energetic shouts of orders could be heard by the force now in front of
the Rangers. In another moment the main body of the company were
spurring their steeds with all their might up the hill. Their sabres
were in their hands, and they were using them in urging forward their
horses. They came like a whirlwind, with the captain in advance; and
there was not a man among them who would not have been ashamed to be a
laggard under such leadership.

It was well known that there were two or more companies of cavalry from
Texas in this part of the State, and they had excited an unwholesome
dread among the citizens by their desperate bravery and their reported
prowess. In the squadron of Riverlawn cavalry, as it was sometimes
called, the troopers had talked about them a great deal, and an
emulation had been created among them to measure sabres with them. They
had the opportunity on this occasion, and the pride of every soldier had
been roused to the highest pitch.

Though the flanking division of the company was now outnumbered for the
moment, all the Union men looked upon the change of front in the enemy
as something like the appearance of the white feather, and they were
encouraged by this phase of the combat. Lieutenant Gadbury, as soon as
he saw the change of front on the part of the Rangers, was disposed to
