nothing but pity for the darkened mind of the foreigner, though we believe
in it fully: we are used to the English tourist.”

My friends laughed, and the Altrurian continued: “I am very glad to hear
it, for I feel myself at a peculiar disadvantage among you. I am not only
a foreigner, but I am so alien to you in all the traditions and habitudes
that I find it very difficult to get upon common ground with you. Of
course, I know theoretically what you are, but to realize it practically
is another thing. I had read so much about America and understood so
little that I could not rest without coming to see for myself. Some of the
apparent contradictions were so colossal--”

“We have everything on a large scale here,” said the banker, breaking off
the ash of his cigar with the end of his little finger, “and we rather
pride ourselves on the size of our inconsistencies, even. I know something
of the state of things in Altruria, and, to be frank with you, I will say
that it seems to me preposterous. I should say it was impossible, if it
were not an accomplished fact; but I always feel bound to recognize the
thing done. You have hitched your wagon to a star, and you have made the
star go; there is never any trouble with wagons, but stars are not easily
broken to harness, and you have managed to get yours well in hand. As I
said, I don’t believe in you, but I respect you.” I thought this charming,
myself; perhaps because it stated my own mind about Altruria so exactly
and in terms so just and generous.

“Pretty good,” said the doctor, in a murmur of satisfaction, at my ear,
“for a bloated bond-holder.”

“Yes,” I whispered back, “I wish I had said it. What an American way of
putting it! Emerson would have liked it himself. After all, he was our
prophet.”

“He must have thought so from the way we kept stoning him,” said the
doctor, with a soft laugh.

“Which of our contradictions,” asked the banker, in the same tone of
gentle bonhomie, “has given you and our friend pause just now?”

The Altrurian answered, after a moment: “I am not sure that it is a
contradiction, for as yet I have not ascertained the facts I was seeking.
Our friend was telling me of the great change that had taken place
in regard to work, and the increased leisure that your professional people
are now allowing themselves; and I was asking him where your working-men
spent their leisure.”

He went over the list of those he had specified, and I hung my head in
shame and pity; it really had such an effect of mawkish sentimentality.
But my friends received it in the best possible way. They did not laugh;
they heard him out, and then they quietly deferred to the banker, who made
answer for us all:

“Well, I can be almost as brief as the historian of Iceland in his chapter
on snakes: those people have no leisure to spend.”

“Except when they go out on a strike,” said the manufacturer, with a
certain grim humor of his own; I never heard anything more dramatic than
the account he once gave of the way he broke up a labor union. “I have
seen a good many of them at leisure then.”

“Yes,” the doctor chimed in, “and in my younger days, when I necessarily
had a good deal of charity practice, I used to find them at leisure when
they were ‘laid off.’ It always struck me as such a pretty euphemism. It
seemed to minify the harm of the thing so. It seemed to take all the
hunger and cold and sickness out of the fact. To be simply ‘laid off’ was
so different from losing your work and having to face beggary or
starvation.”

“Those people,” said the professor, “never put anything by. They are
wasteful and improvident, almost to a man; and they learn nothing by
experience, though they know as well as we do that it is simply a question
of demand and supply, and that the day of overproduction is sure to come,
when their work must stop unless the men that give them work are willing
to lose money.”

“And I’ve seen them lose it, sometimes, rather than shut down,” the
manufacturer remarked; “lose it hand over hand, to keep the men at work;
and then as soon as the tide turned the men would strike for higher wages.
You have no idea of the ingratitude of those people.” He said this toward
the minister, as if he did not wish to be thought hard; and, in fact, he
was a very kindly man.

“Yes,” replied the minister, “that is one of the most sinister features of
the situation. They seem really to regard their employers as their
enemies. I don’t know how it will end.”

“I know how it would end if I had my way,” said the professor. “There
wouldn’t be any labor unions, and there wouldn’t be any strikes.”

“That is all very well,” said the lawyer, from that judicial mind which I
always liked in him, “as far as the strikes are concerned, but I don’t
understand that the abolition of the unions would affect the impersonal
process of ‘laying off.’ The law of demand and supply I respect as much as
any one--it’s something like the constitution; but, all the same, I should
object extremely to have my income stopped by it every now and then. I’m
probably not so wasteful as a working-man generally is; still, I haven’t
laid by enough to make it a matter of indifference to me whether my income
went on or not. Perhaps the professor has.” The professor did not say, and
we all took leave to laugh. The lawyer concluded: “I don’t see how those
fellows stand it.”

