around like this with a person that's out of his 
head and says he's going around the world and 
then drown us all. We've got to do something, I 
tell you, and do it before he wakes up, too, or we 
mayn't ever get another chance. Come ! ' 

But it made us turn cold and creepy just to think 
of it, and we said we wouldn't budge. So Tom was 
for slipping back there by himself to see if he couldn't 
get at the steering gear and land the ship. We 
begged and begged him not to, but it warn't no use ; 
so he got down on his hands and knees and begun 
to crawl an inch at a time, we a-holding our breath 
and watching. After he got to the middle of the 
boat he crept slower than ever, and it did seem 
like years to me. But at last we see him get to the 
professor's head and sort of raise up soft and look 
a good spell in his face and listen. Then we see him 
begin to inch along again towards the professor's 
feet where the steering buttons was. Well, he got 
there all safe, and was reaching slow and steady 
towards the buttons, but he knocked down some- 
thing that made a noise, and we see him slump flat 
and soft in the bottom and lay still. The professor 
stirred, and says, ' What's that ? ' But everybody 
kept dead still and quiet, and he begun to mutter 
and mumble and nestle, like a person that's going 
to wake up, and I thought I was going to die, I was 
so worried and scared. 

Then a cloud come over the moon, and I 'most 
cried, I was so glad. She buried herself deeper and 
deeper in the cloud, and it got so dark we couldn't 
see Tom no more. Then it begun to sprinkle rain, 
and we could hear the professor fussing at his ropes 
and things and abusing the weather. We was 
afraid every minute he would touch Torn, and then 
we would be goners and no help ; but Tom was 
already on his way home, and when we felt his hands 
on our knees my breath stopped sudden, and my 
heart fell down amongst my other works, because I 
couldn't tell in the dark but it might be the pro- 
fessor, which I thought it was. 

Dear ! I was so glad to have him back that I 
was just as near happy as a person could be that was 
up in the air that way with a deranged man. You 
can't land a balloon in the dark, and so I hoped it 
would keep on raining, for I didn't want Tom to go 
meddling any more and make us so awful uncomfortable.
Well, I got my wish. It drizzled and 
drizzled along the rest of the night, which wasn't 
long, though it did seem so ; and at daybreak it 
cleared, and the world looked mighty soft and grey 
and pretty, and the forests and fields so good to see 
again, and the horses and cattle standing sober and 
thinking. Next, the sun come a-blazing up gay 
and splendid, and then we begun to feel rusty and 
stretchy, and first we knowed we was all asleep. 


CHAPTER III 

We went to sleep about four o'clock, and woke up 
about eight. The professor was setting back there 
at his end looking glum. He pitched us some 
breakfast, but he told us not to come abaft the 
midship compass. That was about the middle of 
the boat. Well, when you are sharp set, and you 
eat and satisfy yourself, everything looks pretty 
different from what it done before. It makes a 
body feel pretty near comfortable, even when he is 
up in a balloon with a genius. We got to talking 
together. 

There was one thing that kept bothering me, 
and by-and-by I says : 

' Tom, didn't we start East ? ' 

' Yes.' 

'How fast have we been going ? ' 

' Well, you heard what the professor said when 
he was raging around ; sometimes, he said, we was 
making fifty miles an hour, sometimes ninety, 
sometimes a hundred ; said that with a gale to help 
he could make three hundred any time, and said if 
he wanted the gale, and wanted it blowing the 
right direction, he only had to go up higher or 
down lower and find it.' 

'Well, then it's just as I reckoned. The pro- 
fessor lied.' 

' Why ? ' 

' Because if we was going so fast we ought to be 
past Illinois, oughtn't we ? ' 
