disremember now, an’ cured hurted people, an’ made blind folks see, an’
fed the hungry, an’ went back an’ fixed a beautiful pallis for them.
There’s lots more in Barker’s Court that they swear by, but them ain’t
the ones Mr. Travis meant.”
The nurse was as much astonished by the confident ignorance as Mr.
Travis had been, and felt quite as helpless.
“I wish you could believe that little Bess is in heaven,” she said
gently.
“She couldn’t be happy athout me,” the poor child replied confidently,
with tears in her faltering voice. “I always tended her, an’ curled her
hair, an’ wheeled her about, an’—an’ loved her so.” The tone sank to a
touching pathos. “An’ she didn’t go crost no river—she couldn’t stand up
’thout bein’ held. An’ oh, do you s’pose I’d gone an’ left Bess for
anything? No more would she gone an’ left me.”
The brown eyes were heart-breaking in their trustful simplicity. The
child’s confidence was beyond any stage of persuasion. With time one
might unravel the tangle in her untutored brain, but she could not in
the brief while the child would remain in the hospital.
“Tell me about your friend, Mr. Travis,” the nurse said, after a silence
of some moments.
“He painted pictures, an’ he made a beautiful one of Bess. But mammy
burned it with the book. She said there wasn’t any heaven anyway. An’
Mrs. Murphy said it was purgatory, ’n’ if you paid money, you’d get out.
But Bess would go there. An’ he didn’t say nothin’ ’bout purgatory. He
come one day an’ sang the beautifullest hymn ’bout ’everlastin’ spring,’
an’ everybody cried. Poor old Mrs. Bolan was there. But when he comes
back he’ll tell me just how it is.”
Perhaps that was best. Nurse went about her duties, the strange, sweet,
entire faith haunting her. And the pathos of the two setting out for a
literal heaven!
There were days when Dil sat in a vague, absent mood, her eyes staring
into vacancy, seeming to hear nothing that went on about her. But she
improved slowly; and though the nurse tried to persuade her to go to
some friends of hers, she found the child wonderfully resolute.
And yet, when she was discharged, an awful sense of loneliness came over
Dilsey Quinn. The nurse gave her a dollar, and an address to which she
was to apply in case of any misfortune.
“You’ve been so good,” Dil said, with swimming eyes. “An’ I’ll promise
if I don’t get no place.”
And now she must find John Travis. He would surely know if Bess could
get to heaven in any strange way, alone in the night. And if she was
there, then Dil must go straightway. She could not even lose a day.
The world looked curious to her this April day. There were golden
quivers in the sunshine, and a laughing blueness in the sky. And oh,
such a lovely, fragrant air! Dil felt as if she could skip for very joy.
She found her way to the square, and sat down on the olden seat. Already
some flowers were out, and the grass was green. The “cop” came around
presently, but she was not afraid of him now. She rose and spoke to him,
recalling the summer afternoon and the man who had made pictures of
herself and Bess.
“I don’t know who he was. No, he hasn’t been back to inquire.” The
policeman would not have known Dil.
“His name was Mr. John Travis. He writ it on Bess’s picture. I was so
’fraid I’d miss him. But he will come, ’cause he can’t find no one in
Barker’s Court. An’ when I get a place, I’ll come an’ bring the number,
so’s you can tell him.”
“Yes, I’ll be on the lookout for him.” The child’s grave, innocent faith
touched him. How pale and thin she was!
Then she considered. Mrs. Minch would be in the court, she thought.
Perhaps she might steal in without any one seeing her who would tell her
mother afterward. And she could hear about Dan.
She stopped at a baker’s, and bought some lunch. But by and by she began
to grow very tired, and walked slowly, looking furtively about. She was
almost at Barker’s Court when a familiar whistle startled her.
“O Dil Quinn, Dil!” cried a dear, well remembered voice.
Patsey Muldoon caught her hand as if he would never let it go. He had
half a mind to kiss her in the street, he was that glad. His eyes danced
with joy.
“I’ve been layin’ out fer ye, Dil, hangin’ round an’ waitin’. I was dead
sure yous’d come back here. An’ I’ve slipped in Misses Minch’s, an’ jes’
asked ’bout the old gal, an’ I told her ’f you come, jes’ to hold on
t’ye.”
“O Patsey!”
“How nawful thin ye air, Dil. Have ye got railly well?”
Dil swallowed over a great lump in her throat, and had much ado not to
cry, as she said, “I’m not so strong.”
“Well, we want ye, we jes’ do,” and he laughed.
“What for?” It was so good to have any one want her in this desolation,
that she drew nearer, and he put her hand in his arm in a very
protecting fashion.
“Well, I’ll tell ye. See, now, we was boardin’ with an old woman. There
was five of us, but Fin, he waltzed off. The old woman died suddint like
three weeks ago, an’ we’ve bin keepin’ house sence. The lan’lord he come
round, ’n’ we promised the rent every Monday, sure pop; an’ we paid it
too,” proudly. “We’ve got Owny. I’ve had to thrash him twict, but he’s
doin’ fus’ rate now. An’ he sed, if we could git a holt o’ yous! He said
ye made sech lickin’ good stews ’n’ coffee ’twould make a feller sing in
his sleep.”
“O Patsey, you alwers was so good!” Dil wiped her eyes. This
unlooked-for haven was delightful beyond any words.
“’Twas norful quair I sh’d meet you, wasn’t it? An’ we jes’ won’t let
any one in de court know it, ’n’ they can’t blow on us. The ould woman’s
up on de Island, but her time’ll soon be out. Dan, he’s gone to some
’stution. We’ll keep shet o’ her. She’s a peeler, she is! Most up to the
boss in a shindy, now, wasn’t she? But when dey begins to go to de
Island, de way gits aisy fer ’em, an’ dey keep de road hot trottin’ over
it.”
Dil sighed, and shuddered too. We suppose the conscious tie of nature
begets love, but it had not in Dil’s case. And she had a curious feeling
that she should drop dead if her mother should clutch her.
