" Oh, the eldest boy had already been out and 
begged a piece of bread when I came. Of course 
they had to have something more at once. But it 
is very little that I can do." 

He sat down by the bed, and talked with the 
mother, getting her story, while the doctor tidied 
up the room a bit, and then, taking the youngest 
child in her lap and drawing the others about her, 
began to tell a story in a low voice. Presently she 
was aware that the priest was on his knees and say- 
ing a prayer. She stopped in her story, and looked 
out through the dirty window into the chill and 
dark area. 

" What is he doing ?" whispered one of the chil- 
dren. 

" I don't know," she said, and a sort of chill came 
over her heart. It all seemed a mockery, in these 
surroundings. 

When he rose he said to the woman, "We will see 
that you do not want till your husband comes back." 







" And I will look in to-morrow," said the doctor. 

When they were in the street. Father Damon 
thanked her for calling his attention to the case, 
thanked her a little formally, and said that he 
would make inquiries and have it properly attend- 
ed to. And then he asked : " Is your work ended 
for the day ? You must be tired." 

"Oh no; I have several visits to make. I'm 
not tired. I rather think it is good for me, being 
out-of-doors so much." She thanked him, and said 
good-by. 

For a moment he stood and watched the plain, 
resolute little woman threading her way through 
the crowded and unclean street, and then slowly 
walked away to his apartment, filled with sadness 
and perplexity. 

The apartment which he occupied was not far 
from the mission chapel, and it was the one clean 
spot among the ill-kept tenements ; but as to com- 
fort, it was not much better than the cell of an 
anchorite. Of this, however, he was not thinking 
as he stretched himself out on his pallet to rest a 
little from the exhausting labors of the day. Prob- 
ably it did not occur to him that his self-imposed 
privations lessened his strength for his work. 

He was thinking of Kuth Leigh. "What a rare 
soul! And yet apparently she did not think or 
care whether she had a soul. What could be the 
spring of her incessant devotion? If ever woman 







went about doing good in an unselfish spirit it 
was she. Yet she confessed her work hopeless. 
She had no faith, no belief in immortality, no ex- 
pectation of any reward, nothing to offer to any- 
body beyond this poor life. Was this the enthusi- 
asm of humanity, of which he heard so much ? 
But she did not seem to have any illusions, or to be 
burned up by enthusiasm. She just kept on. Ah, 
he thought, what a woman she would be if she were 
touched by the fire of faith ! 

Meantime, Euth Leigh went on her round. 
One day was like another, except that every day 
the kaleidoscope of misery showed new combina- 
tions, new phases of suffering and incompetence, 
and there was always a fresh interest in that. For 
years now this had been her life, in the chill of 
winter and the heat of summer, without rest or 
vacation. The amusements, the social duties, the 
allurements of dress and society, that so much 
occupied the thoughts of other women, did not 
seem to come into her life. For books she had 
little time, except the books of her specialty. The 
most exciting novels were pale compared with her 
daily experiences of real life. Almost her only 
recreation was a meeting of the working-girls, a 
session of her labor lodge, or an assembly at the 
Cooper Union, where some fiery orator, perhaps a 
