along with it — a most embarrassing circumstance. 
But what was a great deal worse was, that it was not 
one story, but two stories tangled together; and 
they obstructed and interrupted each other at every 
turn and created no end of confusion and annoyance. 
I could not offer the book for publication, for I was 
afraid it would unseat the reader's reason. I did not 
know what was the matter with it, for I had not 
noticed, as yet, that it was two stories in one. It 
took me months to make that discovery. I carried 
the manuscript back and forth across the Atlantic 
two or three times, and read it and studied over it 
on shipboard ; and at last I saw where the difficulty 
lay. I had no further trouble. I pulled one of the 
stories out by the roots, and left the other one — a 
kind of literary Cassarean operation. 

Would the reader care to know something about 
the story which I pulled out? He has been told 
many a time how the born-and-trained novelist 
works. Won't he let me round and complete his 
knowledge by telling him how the jack-leg does it? 

Originally the story was called "Those Extraordinary Twins." I meant to make it very short. I 
had seen a picture of a youthful Italian "freak" — 
or "freaks" — which was — or which were — on exhibition in our cities — a combination consisting 
of two heads and four arms joined to a single body 
and a single pair of legs — and I thought I would 
write an extravagantly fantastic little story with this 
freak of nature for hero — or heroes — a silly young 
miss for heroine, and two old ladies and two boys for 
the minor parts. I lavishly elaborated these people 
and their doings, of course. But the tale kept 
spreading along, and spreading along, and other peo- 
ple got to intruding themselves and taking up more 
and more room with their talk and their affairs. 
Among them came a stranger named Pudd'nhead 
Wilson, and a woman named Roxana; and presently 
the doings of these two pushed up into prominence 
a young fellow named Tom Driscoll, whose proper 
place was away in the obscure background. Before 
the book was half finished those three were taking 
things almost entirely into their own hands and 
working the whole tale as a private venture of their 
own — a tale which they had nothing at all to do 
with, by rights. 

When the book was finished and I came to look 
around to see what had become of the team I had 
originally started out with — Aunt Patsy Cooper, 
Aunt Betsy Hale, the two boys, and Rowena the 
light-weight heroine — they were nowhere to be seen; 
they had disappeared from the story some time or 
other. I hunted about and found them — found 
them stranded, idle, forgotten, and permanently 
useless. It was very awkward. It was awkward all 
around ; but more particularly in the case of Rowena, 
because there was a love-match on, between her and 
one of the twins that constituted the freak, and I had 
worked it up to a blistering heat and thrown in a 
quite dramatic love-quarrel, wherein Rowena scath- 
ingly denounced her betrothed for getting drunk, 
and scoffed at his explanation of how it had hap- 
pened, and wouldn't listen to it, and had driven him 
from her in the usual "forever" way; and now 
here she sat crying and broken-hearted; for she had 
found that he had spoken only the truth; that it was 
not he, but the other half of the freak, that had drunk 
the liquor that made him drunk ; that her half was a 
prohibitionist and had never drunk a drop in his life, 
and, although tight as a brick three days in the week, 
was wholly innocent of blame; and indeed, when 
sober, was constantly doing all he could to reform 
his brother, the other half, who never got any satis- 
faction out of drinking, anyway, because liquor 
never affected him. Yes, here she was, stranded 
with that deep injustice of hers torturing her poor 
torn heart. 

I didn't know what to do with her. I was as 
sorry for her as anybody could be, but the campaign 
was over, the book was finished, she was side- 
tracked, and there was no possible way of crowding 
her in, anywhere. I could not leave her there, of 
course; it would not do. After spreading her out 
so, and making such a to-do over her affairs, it 
would be absolutely necessary to account to the 
reader for her. I thought and thought and studied 
and studied ; but I arrived at nothing. I finally saw 
plainly that there was really no way but one — I 
must simply give her the grand bounce. It grieved 
me to do it, for after associating with her so much I 
had come to kind of like her after a fashion, notwithstanding 
she was such an ass and said such 
stupid, irritating things and was so nauseatingly 
sentimental. Still it had to be done. So, at the top 
of Chapter XVII, I put a "Calendar" remark con- 
cerning July Fourth, and began the chapter with 
this statistic: 

