"This is the one," cried the woman, shrilly. 
"Isn't he pretty?" 
 
Mr. Pick looked insolently at Gethryn and 
opened his mouth, but he did not say anything, 
for Rex took him by the throat and kicked him 
headlong into his own box. Then he locked the 
door, and taking out the key, returned and presented it to the woman. 
"Follow him!" he said, and quietly, but for 
cibly, urged her toward the lobby. 
"Mannie! Mannie !" she shrieked, in a voice 
choked by rage and dissipation, "come and kill 
him! He's insulting me!" 
Getting no response, she began to pour forth 
shriek upon shriek, mingled with oaths and ravings. "I shall speak to my sister! Who dares 
prevent me from speaking to my sister ! You, " 
she glared at Yvonne and ground her teeth. 
"You, the good one. You! the mother's pet! 
Ran away from home! Took up with an En 
glish hog!" 
Yvonne sprang to her feet again. 
"Leave the box," she gasped. 
"Ha! ha! Maisoui! leave the box! and let 
her dance while her mother lies dying!" 
Yvonne ave a cry. 
"Ah! Ah!" said her sister, suddenly speaking very slowly, nodding at every word. "Ah! 
Ah ! go back to your room, and see what is there, 
in the room of your lover; the little letter 
from Vernon. She wants you. She wants you. 
That is because you are so good. She does not 
want me. No, it is you who must come to see 
her die. I I dance at the Carnival!" 
Then, suddenly turning on Gethryn with a 
devilish grin, "You ! tell your mistress her mother 
is dying!" She laughed hatefully, but preserved 
her pretense of calm, walked to the door, and 
as she reached it swung round and made an 
insulting gesture to Gethryn. 
"You! I will remember you!" 
The door slammed, and a key rattled in the 
next box. 
Clinging to Gethryn, Yvonne passed down 
the long corridor to the vestibule, while Elliott 
and Rowden silently gathered up the masks and 
opera glasses. Clifford stood holding her 
crushed and splintered fan. He looked at Elliott, 
who looked gloomily back at him, asBraith en 
tered hurriedly. 
"What's the matter? I saw something was 
wrong from the floor. Rex ill?" 
 
"I'm at ease," said Clifford, grimly. "There's 
a sister turned up. A devil of a sister." 
Braith spoke very low. "Yvonne's sister?" 
"Yes, a she-devil." 
"Did you hear her name?" 
"Name's Nina." 
Braith went quietly out again. Passing 
blindly down the lobby, he ran against Mr. 
Bulfinch. Mr. Bulfinch was in charge of a policeman. 
"Hello, Braith!" he called, hilariously. 
Braith was going on with a curt nod, when 
the other man added: 
"I've  taken it out of Pick," and he stopped 
short. "I got my two hundred francs worth," the 
artist of the "London Mirror" proceeded, "and 
now I shall feel bound to return you yours, 
the first time I have it," he ended, vaguely. 
Braith made an impatient gesture. 
"Are you under arrest?" 
"Yes, I am. He couldn't help it," smiling 
agreeably at the Sergeant de Ville. "He saw me 
hit him." 
The policeman looked stolid. 
"But what excuse?" began Braith. 
"Oh! none! Pick just passed me, and I 
felt as if I couldn't stand it any longer, so I 
pitched in." 
"Well, and now you're in for fine and imprisonment." 
"I suppose so," said Bulfinch, beaming. 
"Have you any money with you?" 
"No, unless I have some in your pocket?" said 
the little man, with a mixture of embarrassment 
and bravado that touched Braith, who saw what 
the confession cost him. 
"Lots!" said he, cordially. "But first let us 
try what we can do with Bobby. Do you ever 
drink a petit verre, Monsieur le Sergeant de 
Ville?"with a winning smile to the wooden policeman. 
The latter looked at the floor. 
"No," said he. 
"Never?" 
"Never!" 
Well, I was only thinking that over on the 
corner of the Rue Taitbout one finds excellent 
wine at twenty francs." 
The officer now gazed dreamily at the ceiling. 
"Mine costs forty," he said. 
And a few minutes later the faithful fellow 
stood in front of the Opera house quite alone. 
