her mother, too, as well as the rest of them?

The world is very bright at this glorious Christmas time, and perhaps
there is little use in calling up the sadness of long ago, unless it be
to make the jolly firelight seem more cheerful, the good wife's face
look gladder, and to give the children's laughter a merrier ring, by
contrast with all that is gone. Perhaps, too, some sad-faced, listless,
melancholy youth, who feels that the world is very hollow, and that life
is like a perpetual funeral service, just as I used to feel myself, may
take courage from my example, and having found the woman of his heart,
ask her to marry him after half an hour's acquaintance. But, on the
whole, I would not advise any man to marry, for the simple reason that
no man will ever find a wife like mine, and being obliged to go further,
he will necessarily fare worse. My wife has done miracles, but I will
not assert that any other woman is able to follow her example.

Margaret always said that the old place was beautiful, and that I ought
to be proud of it. I dare say she is right. She has even more
imagination than I. But I have a good answer and a plain one, which is
this--that all the beauty of the Castle comes from her. She has breathed
upon it all, as the children blow upon the cold glass window-panes in
winter; and as their warm breath crystallises into landscapes from
fairyland, full of exquisite shapes and traceries upon the blank
surface, so her spirit has transformed every grey stone of the old
towers, every ancient tree and hedge in the gardens, every thought in my
once melancholy self. All that was old is young, and all that was sad is
glad, and I am the gladdest of all. Whatever heaven may be, there is no
earthly paradise without woman, nor is there anywhere a place so
desolate, so dreary, so unutterably miserable that a woman cannot make
it seem heaven to the man she loves, and who loves her.

I hear certain cynics laugh, and cry that all that has been said before.
Do not laugh, my good cynic. You are too small a man to laugh at such a
great thing as love. Prayers have been said before now by many, and
perhaps you say yours, too. I do not think they lose anything by being
repeated, nor you by repeating them. You say that the world is bitter,
and full of the Waters of Bitterness. Love, and so live that you may be
loved--the world will turn sweet for you, and you shall rest like me by
the Waters of Paradise.




THE DOLL'S GHOST


It was a terrible accident, and for one moment the splendid machinery of
Cranston House got out of gear and stood still. The butler emerged from
the retirement in which he spent his elegant leisure, two grooms of the
chambers appeared simultaneously from opposite directions, there were
actually housemaids on the grand staircase, and those who remember the
facts most exactly assert that Mrs. Pringle herself positively stood
upon the landing. Mrs. Pringle was the housekeeper. As for the head
nurse, the under nurse, and the nursery maid, their feelings cannot be
described. The head nurse laid one hand upon the polished marble
balustrade and stared stupidly before her, the under nurse stood rigid
and pale, leaning against the polished marble wall, and the nursery-maid
collapsed and sat down upon the polished marble step, just beyond the
limits of the velvet carpet, and frankly burst into tears.

The Lady Gwendolen Lancaster-Douglas-Scroop, youngest daughter of the
ninth Duke of Cranston, and aged six years and three months, picked
herself up quite alone, and sat down on the third step from the foot of
the grand staircase in Cranston House.

"Oh!" ejaculated the butler, and he disappeared again.

"Ah!" responded the grooms of the chambers, as they also went away.

"It's only that doll," Mrs. Pringle was distinctly heard to say, in a
tone of contempt.

The under nurse heard her say it. Then the three nurses gathered round
Lady Gwendolen and patted her, and gave her unhealthy things out of
their pockets, and hurried her out of Cranston House as fast as they
could, lest it should be found out upstairs that they had allowed the
Lady Gwendolen Lancaster-Douglas-Scroop to tumble down the grand
staircase with her doll in her arms. And as the doll was badly broken,
the nursery-maid carried it, with the pieces, wrapped up in Lady
Gwendolen's little cloak. It was not far to Hyde Park, and when they had
reached a quiet place they took means to find out that Lady Gwendolen
had no bruises. For the carpet was very thick and soft, and there was
thick stuff under it to make it softer.

Lady Gwendolen Douglas-Scroop sometimes yelled, but she never cried. It
was because she had yelled that the nurse had allowed her to go
downstairs alone with Nina, the doll, under one arm, while she steadied
herself with her other hand on the balustrade, and trod upon the
polished marble steps beyond the edge of the carpet. So she had fallen,
and Nina had come to grief.

When the nurses were quite sure that she was not hurt, they unwrapped
the doll and looked at her in her turn. She had been a very beautiful
doll, very large, and fair, and healthy, with real yellow hair, and
eyelids that would open and shut over very grown-up dark eyes. Moreover,
when you moved her right arm up and down she said "Pa-pa," and when you
moved the left she said "Ma-ma," very distinctly.

"I heard her say 'Pa' when she fell," said the under nurse, who heard
everything. "But she ought to have said 'Pa-pa.'"
