A moment, and he had gone. 





" What rights has she over me ? " he 
queried indignantly. There was no one to 
reply. 

That night the question haunted him, 
and in the morning it greeted him anew. 

" What is her ill-humor to me ?" he asked 
himself. "Haven't I provoked and experienced it a thousand times before ? I 
thought her changed : she isn't. Since her 
return she has done nothing but try to get 
me under her thumb. It's absurd." 

But in spite of the irritation Myrrha inhabited his thoughts. Yet not the Myrrha 
whom he had known. Another had come, 
a new one, so to speak, made up of beauties 
and imperfections, perversities and charms, 
that fused into a unity, adorable, gracious, 
sincere. The form, invisible and undefined, 
which surely accompanies the thoughts of 
the adolescent, and which is but the unincarnated soul of her that is destined to 
reside therein, abruptly took substance. As 
a weed of the sea, loosened and detached, 
rises slowly, stayed by one eddy, then by 





another, before achieving its gradual yet 
sure ascent, a revelation, arrested now by 
an objection, again by a query, yet ever 
nearer the surface, rose from the depths of 
his being and suddenly surged before him. 

" But I love her," he cried. 

There is a magic in those words. No 
sooner were they uttered than an exterior 
force seemed to lift him from himself. His 
mind became a rendezvous of apparitions. 
Myrrha reappeared in countless phases, 
as he had seen her first, as he had seen 
her last, in all the different changes of 
the years ; and a shudder seized him at 
the perception of this love which had 
not existed the day before, and which had 
revealed itself, causelessly, after a night of 
dream, after too many glasses of champagne, perhaps. 

" I love her," he repeated. " But but 
she is not for such as I. She would be 
amused indeed could she suspect." 

He drew breath, went to the dressing- 
table, shut his eyes, waited a moment, 





opened them, and stared at the thing which 
was there. 

" Never," he muttered, as he turned away, 
" never could she care for that" 

During the rest of the day that weariness 
which succeeds a long journey oppressed 
him. He had travelled far indeed into 
that loveliest of lands where the flowers 
distil the reason of love, where the unknown 
and the divine saunter familiarly like the 
gods of old, through mornings mellower 
than August nights, through dusks more 
languid than the moon. But he returned, 
outwearied ; and, as the day waned, a vision 
retreated. His heart was lighter ; he felt 
that his love was decreasing, that it would 
last but a few hours yet, that with sleep 
perhaps it would fade and be lost in the 
penumbra of the past. 

As he lay down, a face seemed pressed to 
his, lips were seeking his own. Myrrha was 
with him still. 

The morrow happened to be Sunday. He 
would see her as a matter of course, and, 





