
"Do you know where you'll end, Roberta! You'll end with us," said Mrs.
Harrowby.

"With you?"

"Yes; in the Church. You've tried everything, beginning with geology and
ending with music (I can't help laughing at the last; you never had any
ear), and you have found no satisfaction. You are the very kind to come
to us; they always do."

The speaker, an American who lived in Naples, had entered the Roman
Catholic Church ten years before; in Boston she had been a Unitarian. It
was the 10th of September, and she was staying for a day in Pisa on her
way southward; she had encountered Miss Spring by chance in the piazza
of Santa Caterina at sunset, and the two had had a long talk with the
familiarity which an acquaintance in childhood carries with it, though
years of total separation may have intervened.

"There is one other alternative," answered Miss Spring; "it was
suggested by a pretty little woman who used to be here. She advised me
to try crystal scent-bottles and dissipation." This being a joke, Miss
Spring had intended to smile; but at this instant her attention was
attracted by something on the other side of the street, and her face
remained serious.

"Crystal scent-bottles? Dissipation? Mercy!" exclaimed Mrs. Harrowby.
"What do you mean?"

But her companion had gone; she was hurrying across the street. "It
isn't possible, Maso, that this is you!" She spoke to a ragged,
sick-looking boy.

Two hours after her question Maso was in bed in the Palazzo Rondinelli.
Madame Corti never came back till October, and the pension was not
open, but servants were there. The house-keeper went through the form of
making protest: "The signora has always such great alarm about fever."

"You will refer Madame Corti to me; I will pay for her alarm," answered
Roberta, marching past her to direct the driver of the carriage, who was
assisting Maso up the stairs. "It's not infectious fever. Only
malarial." Roberta was something of a doctor herself. She superintended
in person the opening of a large, cool room on the second floor, the
making of the bed, and then the installation of Maso between linen
sheets. The servants were all fond of the boy; in addition, Madame Corti
was in Sorrento, and Miss Spring's francs were here. Her francs were
few, but she spent them for Maso as generously as though they had been
many.

The boy, as soon as he was in bed, whispered to Giulio, "Pencil--paper."
Then when Miss Spring had left the room, he scrawled on the page, Giulio
holding a book under it, "My dog is ded," and signed his name. He told
Giulio to give this to her when she came in; then, as he heard her step,
he quickly closed his eyes.

Miss Spring read, and understood. "He was afraid I would ask. And he
could not speak of it. He remembers, poor little fellow, that I did not
care for the dog."

Maso had refused to tell her where his mother was. "She's coming, on the
22d, to the Bagni di Lucca"; this was all he would say. The next morning
at daylight she left him with the nurse (for she had sent immediately
for Dr. Prior and for one of the best nurses in Pisa), and, driving to
the Street of the Lily, she ascended the unclean stairs, with her skirts
held high and her glasses on, to the room at the top of the house. Maso
had himself gathered his few possessions together after his meeting with
her in the piazza of Santa Caterina, but he had not had the strength to
carry them down to the lower door. Miss Spring took the two parcels,
which were tied up in newspapers, and after looking about to see that
there was nothing left, she descended in the same gingerly way, and
re-entered the carriage which was waiting at the door, its wheels
grazing the opposite house. "Yes, he is ill; malarial fever. But we hope
he will recover," she said to the cobbler's wife, who inquired with
grief and affection, and a very dirty face.

To find Mrs. Roscoe's address, so that she could telegraph to her, Miss
Spring was obliged to look through Maso's parcels. She could not ask his
permission, for he recognized no one now; his mind wandered. One of the
bundles contained the best suit, still carefully saved for his mother's
arrival. The other held his few treasures: his mother's letters, with
paper and envelopes for his own replies; the old fairy-book; and Mr.
Tiber's blanket, coverlid, and little collar, wrapped in a clean
handkerchief. The latest letter gave the Paris address.

      

"My dear little boy! If I could only have known!" moaned Violet Roscoe,
sitting on the edge of the bed with her child in her arms. She had just
arrived; her gloves were still on. "Oh, Maso, why didn't you tell me?"

Maso's face, gaunt and brown, lay on her shoulder; his eyes were
strange, but he knew her. "You mustn't get sick again, mother," he
murmured, anxiously, the fixed idea of the summer asserting itself. Then
a wider recollection dawned. "Oh, mother," he whispered with his dry
lips, "Mr. Tiber's dead. Little Tiber!"

His fever-hot eyes could not shed tears, but his mother cried for him,
overwhelmed by the thought of his lonely sorrow. Then she tried to
comfort him: "Tiber was an old dog, Maso; he was not young when we
bought him, and we have had him many years. Dogs do not live very long,
