the woods extended due north about a quarter of a mile to a point
beyond which the stream and the low ground reached nearly to the main
road.

"I want to see the enemy," said Butters. "I can't station my men till I
can see what they are to fire at."

"Then we must go nearer to the meadow," replied Deck, as the lieutenant
of the riflemen halted his command, and he led the way, both of them
keeping behind the trees.

A change in the situation greeted the vision of Lieutenant Lyon as he
reached a position where he could see the stream and the enemy.

"The Confederates have dismounted!" exclaimed Deck, as he pointed to
the enemy for the benefit of his companion.

"So much the better!" added Butters.

"Of course they intend to attack the escort of the train on foot," said
Deck. "All the men of the company are not yet out of the water; but
they are marching by fours, with their carbines unslung, and they will
fire as soon as they get near enough. I must leave you now, Lieutenant
Butters, to bring my men forward," and the lieutenant hastened back to
the road.

Butters ran to the left of his line, and marched his force, with the
thirtieth man at his side, or next behind him, nearly to the point of
the forest, where he stationed the one with the highest number, and
then one in reverse order, about six feet apart, till the first number
was stationed within a rod of the by-road. He had measured the distance
very well, for the centre of his line was a few rods from opposite to
the enemy.

Deck was at the end of the road when Butters reached it. He was ordered
to fire as soon as he was ready. He had told the men when they were
placed to fire as soon as the one on his right had done so. With this
rule, no two or more of the riflemen would aim at the same trooper, as
they could not fail to do in a volley. The first four of the enemy,
with two officers on their left, were moving toward the mired
wagon-train.

Milton had by this time reached the escort, and delivered the
commander's message. The force had ceased their labors, and placed
themselves behind the wagons, though they had their muskets ready for
use. The enemy marched without difficulty, for the sod where it had not
been broken was tough enough to bear them up; but in places the
wandering cattle had cut it up very badly.

Butters in a low tone gave his orders to the first man in the line to
fire, and every one would do the same, down to the thirtieth man,
without any further command; but he had his rifle in his hand, and he
fired himself before he gave the order to the soldier on his left. The
crack of rifles began, and followed each other in rapid succession.
With the fourth discharge five men had fallen, including the foremost
of the two officers on the flank, whom Butters had brought down
himself.

Apparently not one of the sharpshooters missed his aim. They adopted
the method used in the battle on the hill, and kept behind the trees,
so that the enemy could see only the puff of smoke as each weapon was
discharged, and the men were out of sight, or nearly so. Not less than
twenty men had dropped, either killed or wounded. The sharpshooters
were Kentucky riflemen, whose fame had been celebrated in story and
song, and their weapon had been their plaything from their earliest
years.

Suddenly a hoarse command was heard; but its meaning could not be made
out till the men in column dropped upon the ground, and extended
themselves at full length, with their feet directed towards the woods.
At the same time another order was given nearer to the stream, and the
troopers in the water began to remount their horses. The men in the
meadow began to crawl back as hurriedly as possible to the brook. The
troopers hurried their horses as much as they could in the water, and
their progress was tolerably rapid.

The stream continued to extend at about an equal distance from the
forest. The men on the ground continued to drag themselves like snakes
on the sod of the meadow till they reached the water, and mounted their
horses; but not a few of them were shot in their progress, though their
position on the ground was not favorable to the aim of the riflemen.
Deck saw that the enemy would soon be out of the reach of the rifles if
they continued to follow the creek, and he ordered Butters to move his
men to the left.

Butters sent the command down the line from man to man till it reached
the thirtieth man, who led the file to the point. The riflemen
continued to fire as fast as they could load their weapons, but still
in the order designated at first. Butters at his first shot after the
change of position had brought down the lieutenant in command near the
head of the column; and he believed the captain of the company had been
the first to fall by the ball from his rifle on the meadow.

The men dropped rapidly under the fire of the concealed riflemen, and
an officer who had taken the place of the one near the head of the
column in the water was evidently appalled by the havoc in the command.
He shouted an order to his men, which could not be understood in the
woods; but it was inferred when the men suddenly dismounted, and began
to lead their animals, placing them between themselves and the forest.

