lady who had excited my curiosity.




CHAPTER II.

THE MYSTERY DEEPENS.


"The first time I met the Disagreeable Woman," said my neighbor, who was
a commercial traveler, "was on my return from a business trip. Looking
about the table to see what changes had occurred in the family, I saw
sitting opposite to me a woman of somewhat unusual appearance, whose
caustic speech made her feared by the rest of the boarders. This was
three months since."

"What is her name?" I asked.

"Upon my word," he answered reflectively, "I am so accustomed to hear
her spoken of as the Disagreeable Woman that I hardly remember. Let me
see--yes, it is Blagden."

"And the first name?"

"Jane."

"Is it Miss or Mrs. Blagden?"

"I don't know."

"She has been here three months and you do not know," I said, in
surprise.

"Precisely."

"Did it never occur to any one to ask her?"

"Yes, Mrs. Wyman asked her one day."

"And what did she reply?"

"Whichever you please--it is quite immaterial."

"Do you think she has any reason to maintain secrecy on this point?"

"I think not. She probably takes the ground that it is nobody's business
but her own."

"How soon did she obtain her designation of the 'Disagreeable Woman?'"

"Almost immediately I judge. When I first met her she had been a member
of Mrs. Gray's household for a week, and already this was the way she
was spoken of."

"I suppose she does not live in the house?"

"No."

"Where then?"

"No one knows. She comes to her meals punctually, turning into Waverley
Place from Broadway."

"Has no one ever thought of following her home?"

"Yes. A young broker's clerk, on a wager, attempted to track her to her
lodging place. She was sharp enough to detect his purpose. When they
reached Broadway she turned suddenly and confronted him. 'Are you going
up or down Broadway?' she asked. 'Up Broadway,' he answered with some
hesitation, 'Then good evening! I go in the opposite direction.' Of
course there was nothing for him to do but to accept the hint, which was
certainly pointed enough."

"She must be a woman with a history," I said, thoughtfully.

"Most women have histories."

"But not out of the common."

"True. What now do you conjecture as to Miss Blagden's history?"

"I am utterly at a loss."

"Do you think she has had a disappointment?"

"She does not look impressionable. One cannot conceive of her as having
an affair of the heart."

"I don't know. One cannot always judge by the exterior."

"Do you think she has any employment?"

"If so, no one has been able to conjecture what it is."

"To me she seems like an advocate of Woman's Rights, perhaps a lecturer
on that subject."

"Possibly, but I know of nothing to throw light on her business or her
views."
