
Now, in the silence, the remoteness, the solitude, 
unseen of any other eye, he chose for the first time 
to test his power upon the malignant contagion. 
Had he any secret doubts about his ability to con- 
trol it ? He had now acquired an unavoidable con- 
fidence in himself ; it acted on his power, and his 
power reacted on his confidence. Acute sickness 
had proved itself his servant, and hereditary disease 
his slave. Still a leper ! 

The repulsive being, tortured out of all semblance 
to fair human form and flesh, suddenly shuffled like 
an image of some demonic dream ahead of the 
Rabbi, and desperately barred the path. He lifted 
his mutilated arms and hands. A hoarse wail came 
from his hideous lips : 

" Cure me, even me!" 

Jesus stopped, and gently regarded the leper. 
His fathomless pity arose and flooded his face. 

" Thou canst if thou wilt," observed the miserable 
creature half reproachfully. 

By all the laws of church and state, the two were 
forbidden to approach each other, and the leper did 
not further defy the law. 

The healer, on the contrary, did not recognize it. 
He advanced directly, and put out his hand. He 
seemed deeply touched by this cry of mingled re- 
proach and entreaty, as if he could not bear to be 
misunderstood by so wretched a man. 



150 THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST 

Such desolation of suffering acted upon him like 
a law of mechanics. Whatever the cost, he had 
to relieve; whatever the consequence, he could 
not refuse. Such was the government of his 
nature. 

Without a gesture of repugnance, he laid his 
cool, clean touch upon the other's crumbling flesh. 
The outcast of contagion looked in vain for the ex- 
pression of disgust that he was used to seeing on 
the faces of well and blessed men. Not a shadow 
crossed the eyes of the Nazarene : they were like 
stars become human; ineffable compassion rayed 
from them, only that. 

" I will," he said heartily, as one man speaks to 
another when he means kindly by him ; " I will ! " 
Then rang out the vibrant tone of command pecu- 
liar to himself, and familiar now to half the sick of 
Galilee : 

" Be clean ! " 

Was it moments ? Was it hours ? Was it weeks? 
The leper could not have told. He had fallen pros- 
trate in the dust. He arose slowly. Where was 
the horror of all those years, half a lifetime of 
loathsomeness to himself and to all humankind, ~ 
whither had it betaken itself ? What had become 
of the shame, the anguish, the defilement? The 
infected man looked for one revolting sign and 
another of his acquaintance with disgrace. Was he 
gone blind, or maniac, that he could not find them ? 
Gently through his body, that had been the den of 
torments, the sense of freedom from pain and from 



THE HEALER 151 

impurity, strange as the laws of a foreign organism, 
began to stir. 

The Nazarene stood smiling. He seemed to be 
charged with joy. The happiness of the other looked 
a faint thing beside his own. It was as if he him- 
self had suffered everything that went before, as 
if all that history of woe had been his own. So ex- 
quisite his sympathy that the very thrill of being 
healed seemed to run through him. The delight of 
healing was but a portion of his beautiful pleasure. 
He felt every pang that he had removed, and all the 
bliss that he had given. Gladness like the gladness 
of a God shone all over him. It was one of the 
happiest moments of his life. 

" Go," he said with a low and joyous laugh. 
" Find the priest and be purified." 

Now he who had defied in this act of mercy every 
