appeared between the tapestries of the doorway. Miss Senter, still
dancing, nodded slightly, as a signal that she perceived her, and then
Carmela, with an answering nod and one admiring look at Ercole,
disappeared. After all, now that there had been a suspicion about that
extra man, it was a comfort to have had the apartment searched; it
would make the moment of going to bed easier, the American lady
reflected.
It was now half-past eleven. By midnight the last sleepy child had been
carried down the marble stairway, the music ceased, and the musicians
departed. The elders, glad that the noise was over, remained half an
hour longer; then they took leave. Only Lady Kay and her husband were
left; they had waited to take a closer look at Miss Senter's Christmas
present to her brother, which was a large and beautifully executed copy
of Tintoretto's "Bacchus and Ariadne," from the Anticollegio of the
Doge's Palace. It had been placed temporarily on the wall behind the
Christmas-tree.
"How exquisite!" said Lady Kay, with a long sigh. "You are most
fortunate, Mr. Senter."
"Oh yes. Though I don't quite know what they will think of it in
Rochester, New York," answered Peter, chuckling.
Sir William and his wife intended to walk home. When it was cold they
preferred to walk rather than go to and fro in a gondola; and as they
were old residents, they knew every turn of the intricate burrowing
chinks in all the quarters that serve as footways. When they took leave
at one o'clock, Peter and Miss Senter, with American friendliness,
accompanied them to the outer door. Peter was about to open this door
when it was swung back, and a figure reeled in--Ercole. He had taken off
his clown's dress, and wore now his gondolier's costume; but this
costume was in disorder, and his face was darkly red--a purple red.
"Why, Ercole, is it you? What is the matter?" said Miss Senter, as he
staggered against the wall.
"Oh, her Excellency the Consuless, I have been beaten!"
"Beaten? Where have you been? I thought you were down at the landing
with Andrea," said Miss Senter.
"The antiquity-dealer suffocates," muttered Ercole. "And Giorgio--dead!"
This "dead" (morto!) even Peter understood. "Dead! What is he saying,
Barly?"
"The man is saying, Mr. Senter, that an antiquity-dealer is suffocating,
and that somebody he calls Giorgio is dead," translated the
pink-cheeked, portly Lady Kay, in her sweet voice. "It's your gondolier,
isn't it--the one who played the clown so nicely? What a pity! He has
been drinking, I fear."
While she was saying this, Sir William was leading Ercole farther away
from the ladies.
"Yes, he is drunk," said Peter, looking at him. "Too bad! We must have
help. Let's see; Andrea is down at the landing. I'll get him. And you
call Giorgio, Barly."
Here Ercole, held by Sir William, gave a maddened cry, and threw his
head about violently.
"Oh, don't leave my husband alone with him, Mr. Senter," said Lady Kay,
alarmed. "He is a very powerful young man, and his eyes are dreadful.
To me he looks as if he were mad. Those somersaults have affected his
head."
And the gondolier's eyes were indeed strangely bloodshot and wild. Miss
Senter had hurried to the kitchen. But Giorgio was not there. She came
back, and found Ercole struggling with the Englishman and her brother.
"Let me try," she said. "I am not afraid of him. Ercole," she continued,
speaking gently in Italian, "go to your room now, and go to bed quietly;
everything will be all right to-morrow."
Ercole writhed in Sir William's grasp. "The antiquity-dealer! And
Giorgio--dead!"
"Where is Giorgio, Barly?" said Peter, angrily, as he helped Sir William
in securing the gondolier. "And where are the other servants? Where's
Carmela? Find them, and send one down to the landing for Andrea, and the
other for Giorgio. Quick!"
"Oh, Peter, I've been, and I couldn't find Giorgio or any one."
"Carmela was in your bedroom not long ago," said Lady Kay, watching the
gondolier's contortions nervously; "she helped me put on my cloak."
Miss Senter ran to her bedroom, her train flying in the haste she made.
But in a moment she was back again. "There is no one there. Oh, where
are they all?"
Ercole, hearing her voice, peered at her with his crimsoned eyes, and
then, breaking loose suddenly, he came and caught hold of her arm. "The
antiquity-room. Will she come?"
Peter and Sir William dragged him away by main force.
"The gentlemen, then. Will they come?" said the gondolier, hoarsely.
And again freeing himself with two strokes of his powerful arms, he
passed out (for the door was still open), and began to descend the
outside staircase.
"Oh, thank Heaven, he has gone!" "Oh, lock the door!" cried the two
ladies together.
"We must follow him, Mr. Senter," said Sir William. "He is plainly mad
from drink, and may do some harm."
"Yes; and down there Andrea can help us," answered Peter.
And the two gentlemen hastened down the staircase. It was a very long
flight with three turns. The court below was brilliantly lighted by many
wall lamps.
"I don't like my husband's going down," said Lady Kay, in a tremor, as
she stood on the landing outside. "If they are going to seize him, the
more of us the better; don't you think so? For while they are holding
him, you and I could run across and get that other man in from the
riva."
But Miss Senter was not there. She had rushed back into the house, and
was now calling with all her strength: "Giorgio! Carmela! Assunta!
Beppa!" There was no answer, and, seized with a fresh panic by the
strangeness of this silence, she hastened out again and joined Lady Kay,
who was already half-way down the stairs. The gondolier had not turned
towards the water entrance; he had crossed the court in the opposite
direction, and now he was passing through a broad, low door which led
into the hall on the ground-floor behind the show-room of Z. Pelham,
