
"I'd like to see father and Steve and make some plans. I'd like to work
part of father's ground on shares or some way. I'm glad Dave Andrews is
staying on. I don't altogether like Uncle Faid's ideas, and oh, mother,
'tisn't any such jolly home as you had. Poor Aunt Crete is so miserable.
But you see if I really had some interest of my own I'd be learning all
the time."

"I'm sure your father will consent." His mother felt so proud, leaning
on his arm. And some time they would come back. So they talked the
matter over with eager interest, and she quite forgot about the little
girl's bedtime. Retty had joined them and was rehearsing some of her
Western experiences, and the little girl sat with wide-open eyes,
looking at Retty in the moon-light, thinking what a great wonderful
world it was to have so many places and all so different. Did you have
two organs of thought? She was so puzzled about thought, anyhow. For
with one side of her that didn't see Retty, she could see her father so
plainly in this very corner, and she was in his arms, and with the
faculty that wasn't listening to her cousin she could hear her father's
voice. You see, she wasn't old enough to know about dual consciousness.

When Hanny went up-stairs with her mother the boys went also.

"Say, Ben," and his brother gave him a dig in the ribs with his elbow;
"say, Ben, don't you want to go back to New York with mother? If we just
push with all our might and main, together we can."

"Well, don't push me through the side of the house."

"You want to be pushed all the while. You're as slow as 'lasses in
winter time. Ben, you take after Uncle Faid. It takes him 'most all day
to make up his mind. Now I can look at a thing and tell in a minute."

"You seem ready enough to tell." Ben laughed a little provokingly.

"Well, you can go or not as you like. 'Taint half the fun here that it
used to be. I didn't think I cared so much for Hanny."

"Is it Hanny?" in a tone that irritated.

"It's Hanny and mother and John and father and New York, and just a
million things rolled into a bundle. And if you don't care I'll fight my
way through. There, Benjamin Franklin! You'd sit on a stone in the
middle of a field and fly your kite forever!"

Jim was losing his temper.

"Yes, I think I'd like to go. There would be so much to see and
learn."

"Oh, hang it all! Simply go!"

Ben was thinking of the old man--he must have been quite young then--who
was in prison through that awful Reign of Terror. He undressed slowly.
He was not such a fly-away as Jim. But Jim was asleep before he was
ready for bed.

Mrs. Underhill had not really meant to take the boys home with her. She
was quite sure the city was a bad place for boys. And the country was so
much healthier in the summer. But they coaxed. And somehow, the old home
had changed already. The air of brisk cheerfulness was gone. Aunt
Crete had her face tied up most of the time, or a little shawl over her
head. Retty was undeniably careless. Barton Finch played cards with the
hired man. Uncle Faid had some queer ideas about farming.

"I'd like wonderful well to have the boys stay," he said. "They're worth
their keep. A boy 'round's mighty handy. I'd have to hire one."

Somehow she wasn't quite willing to have her boys put in the place of a
hired one, or one bound out from the county house. And Jim had been her
baby for so long. The little girl pleaded also. She told them finally
they might come down and try. But if they were the least bit bad or
disobedient they would be sent back at once.

Mrs. Underhill was half-cured of her homesickness. She had thought she
could never be content in New York; why, she was almost content
already.

She and Hanny took a walk the last day of their stay up on the knoll
where the new house was to be built.

"When all the children are married and father and I get to be old
people, we will come back here. I shall want you, Hanny," and she held
the little girl's hand in a tight clasp.

Hanny wondered if she would be stout and have full red cheeks and look
like Retty? And oh, she did hope her mother wouldn't have tic
douloureux and wear shawls over her head. When all the children were
married--oh, how lonesome it would be!

But she had been quite a little heroine and gone to school one day to
see the girls and boys. And one girl said: "I s'pose it's city fashion
to wear pantalets that way, but my! doesn't it look queer!"

She was very glad to get back to her father. The country was beautiful
with all its bloom and fragrance, but First Street had such a clean,
tidy look with its flagged sidewalks and the dirt all swept up to the
middle of the street, leaving the round faces of the cobble-stones
fairly shining. It was quite delightful to show the boys all over the
house and then go through the yard to the stables and greet Dobbin and
