


Then, stopping short, "Tony puts him up?" he 
abruptly asked. 

" Mr. Vidal ? So it appears." 

He gazed a little, blowing his smoke, at this 
appearance. " And she has gone over to see 
him?" 

"That may be a part of her errand." 

He hesitated again. "They can't have lost 
much time ! " 

"Very little indeed." 

Jean went on again ; but again he checked 
her with a question. "What has he, what has 
the matter you speak of, to do with her cutting 

in ?" He paused as if in the presence of 

things painfully obscure. 

"To the interest others take in the child? 
Ah," said Jean, " if you feel as you do " she 
hesitated " don't ,ask me. Ask her!" 

She went her 'way, and, standing there in 
thought, he waited for her to come, after an 
interval, into sight on the curve of the bridge. 
Then as the minutes elapsed without her doing 
so, he lounged, heavy and blank, up again to 
where he had found her. Manning, while his 
back was turned, had arrived with one of her 
aids to carry off the tea-things ; and from a 



 

distance, planted on the lawn, he bent on these 
evolutions an attention unnaturally fixed. The 
women marched and countermarched, dismantling 
the table ; he broodingly and vacantly watched 
them ; then, as he lighted a fresh cigarette, he 
saw his mother come out of the house to give 
an eye to their work. She reached the spot 
and dropped a command or two ; after which, 
joining him, she took in that her little company 
had dispersed. 

" What has become of everyone ? " 

Paul's replies were slow; but he gave her 
one now that was distinct. "After the talk 
on which I lately left you, I should think you 
would know pretty well what had become of me." 

She gave him a keen look ; her face softened. 
"What on earth's the matter with you?" 

He placidly smoked. "I've had my head 
punched." 

" Nonsense for all you mind me ! " She 
scanned him again. " Are you ill, Paul ? " 

"I'm all right," he answered philosophically. 

"Then kiss your old mammy." Solemnly, 
silently he obeyed her ; but after he had done 
so she still held him before her eyes. She gave 
him a sharp pat. " You're worth them all ! " 





Paul made no acknowledgment of this tribute 
save to remark after an instant rather awkwardly : 
"I don't know where Tony is." 

"I can do without Tony," said his mother. 
"But where's Tony's child?" 

"Miss Armiger has taken her home." 

" The clever thing ! " Mrs. Beever fairly ap 
plauded the feat. " She was here when you came 
out?" 

"No, but Jean told me." 

"Jean was here?" 

"Yes; but she went over." 
