not wholly respect ; a mere convention it seemed to 
 
him, presently. He said : " I've always felt that 
charm in him, too, and I've seen the other traits, 
though not so clearly as you seem to have done. He 
has a powerful will, yes — " 
He stopped, and Whitwell asked, " Been up to any 
deviltry lately ? " 
" I can't say he has. Nothing that I can call inten- 
tional." 
" No," said Whitwell. " What's he done, though ? " 
" Really, Mr. Whitwell, I don't know that you have 
any right to expect me to talk him over, when I'm 
here as his mother's guest — his own guest — " 
"No. I  ha'n't," said Whitwell. "What about 
the father of the girl he's goin' to marry ? " 
Westover could not deny the force of this. " You'd 
be anxious if I didn't tell you what I had in mind, I 
dare say, more than if I did." He told him of JefE's 
behavior with Alan Lynde, and of his talk with him 
about it. "And I think he was honest. It was some- 
thing that happened, that wasn't meant." 
Whitwell did not assent directly, somewhat to 
Westover's surprise. He asked, " Fellow ever done 
anything to Jeff ? " 
" Not that I know of. I don't know that they ever 
met before." 
Whitwell kicked his heels on the edge of the stove 
again. "Then it might been an accident," he said, 
dryly. 
Westover had to break the silence that followed, 
and he found himself defending Jeff, though somehow 
not for JefE's sake. He urged that if he had the 
 
strong will they both recognized in him, he would 
never commit the errors of a weak man, which were 
usually the basest. 
" How do you know that a strong-willed man a'n't a 
weak one ? " Whitwell astonished him by asking. 
" A'n't what we call a strong will just a kind of a bull- 
dog clinch that the dog himself can't unloose ? I take 
it a man that has a good will is a strong man. If Jeil 
done a right thing against his will, he wouldn't rest 
easy till he'd showed that he wa'n't obliged to, by 
some mischief worse 'n what he was kept out of. I 
tell you, Mr. Westover, if I'd made that fellow toe 
the mark anyway, I'd be afraid of him." Whitwell 
looked at Westover with eyes of significance, if not 
of confidence. Then he rose with a prolonged 
" M-wel-l-l ! We're all born, but we a'n't all buried. 
This world is a queer place. But I guess JefE 'll come 
out right in the end." 
Westover said, " I'm sure he will ! " and he shook 
hands warmly with the father of the girl JefE was go- 
ing to marry. 
Whitwell came back, after he had got some paces 
away, and said, " Of course, this is between you and 
me, Mr. Westover." 
" Of course ! " 
" I don't mean Mis' Durgin. I shouldn't care what 
she thought of my talkin' him over with you. I don't 
know," he continued, putting up his hand against the 
door-frame, to give himself the comfort of its support 
while he talked, " as you understood what she meant 
by the young ladies at Boston keepin' up with the 
 
fellows in college. Well, that's what Cynthy's doin' 
with JeflE, right along ; and if he ever works off them 
conditions of his, and gits his degree, it'll be because 
she helped him to. I tell you, there's more than one 
kind of telepathy in this world, Mr. Westover. That's 
all." 
XXXIX. 
Westover understood from Whitwell's after- 
thought that it was Cynthia he was anxious to keep 
ignorant of his misgiving, if they were so much as 
misgivings. But the importance of this fact could 
not stay him against the tide of sleep which was bear- 
ing him down. When his head touched the pillow it 
swept over him, and he rose from it in the morning 
with a gayety of heart which he knew to be returning 
health. He jumped out of bed, and stuffed some 
shavings into his stove from the wood-box beside it, 
and laid some logs on them ; he slid the damper open, 
and then lay down again, listening to the fire that 
showed its red teeth through the slats and roared and 
laughed to the day which sparkled on the white world 
without. When he got out of bed a second time, he 
found the room so hot that he had to pull down his 
window-sash, and he dressed in a temperature of 
twenty degrees below zero without knowing that the 
dry air was more than fresh. Mrs. Durgin called to 
him through the open door of her parlor, as he entered 
the dining-room : " Cynthy will give you your break- 
fast, Mr. Westover. We're all done long ago, and I'm 
busy in here," and the girl appeared with the cofiee- 
pot and the dishes she had been keeping hot for him 
at the kitchen stove. She seemed to be going to leave 
him when she had put them down before him, but 
she faltered, and then she asked, " Do you want I 
