ing on the lake, while the sunset burns 
to gold, and deep dream-locked sleep 
under canvas or in the open air. I 
would not forbid you to read Stevenson 
and Lanier, but the modern novel shall 
be held afar from your rest. Your mus- 
cles shall ache with tramping and the 
oars ; you shall be bruised from stum- 
bling through the forest when you steal 
out by night to feel the dark among the 
pines ; you shall find the simplest fare 
ambrosial; and you shall be called to 
life, every morning, by a chiming chorus 
and the hoarse logic of the legislating 
crows, and wake to see, oh, matchless 
wonder ! the ferns and raspberry vines 
 

breathing outside your tent and painting 
the shadow of their trembling on the 
sunlit walls. Easy is it in England to 
suffer a summer change into vagrom 
ways, tramping the blossomy lanes, eat- 
ing under hedges, and begging the kindly 
carrier for a lift in his van ; and even in 
America two women, comrades pledged, 
may forswear roofs and walk abroad with 
staff and scrip, or even set up their tent 
in a huckleberry pasture, near some 
farmer, lord of New England soil. None 
so necessary as he ; for he shall be the 
purveyor to their comfort, and give them 
milk and eggs for the dirty bills born 
of winter's drudgery, and turned now to 
something worthy through righteous use. 
The camper, to civilized minds, enter- 
tains a bee in her bonnet, in that she 
loves her dripping house by the wood 
better than timbered roofs, though Solo- 
mon had raised them. Her bee drones 
happily, and all the little world hears it ; 
but its very presence invests her with a 
certain sacredness, like that of madmen 
in days of old, and the farmer-folk are 
her leal protectors from hunger and the 
world. These be the tamer ways of 
camping, and pleasant withal; but if 


four or more strong spirits can betake 
them to the deeper wood where even 
the sound of mowing and garnering in- 
vade not, and make their summer home 
by lake or stream, they shall seize hold 
of the garment of their youth even 
though she were vanishing away. They 
shall work hard, and love it. They shall 
cut a path to the strip of beach where 
the water is clear over sand and beguil- 
ing to the bather ; they shall row miles 
for the potatoes for to-morrow's dinner, 
and tug mightily to pile up the sticks 
for next day's fire. Fighting thus the 
old battle over again, warring to fill the 
simpler needs of life at first hand, is 
to return with gladness to our great 
Mother, and cling about her knees. The 
ancient struggle for life shall be enacted 
in little on their sunny stage ; and they 
shall see the earth more clearly, as 
through the eyes of old, and think, too, 
on the stars, nearer now in that they 
brood and smile. Certain pitiful falla- 
cies shall be unlearned through the 
lessoning of camp. The wise pupil, 
stultified by civilized theory, finds with 
amazement that no more secure and 
solemn retreat exists than the forest 
 

path at night, and that darkness is as 
little to be feared as her own cloak. 
She grows into the acquiescence of ani- 
mals under a summer rain ; nay, even to 
joy therein, and gains an added lightness 
when the sun breaks forth. A pillow is 
no longer the mainstay of sleep, and she 
dozes excellent well on a bed of pine 
needles with an arm tucked under her 
head. And, oh, the feasting of the eye ! 
line upon line of trembling branches, 
enthralling shadows of leaf on sunlit 
leaf! The remembrance of it, to one 
who has had that rich surfeit, is like a 
song in the heart. Perhaps that is what 
the thrush sings in forest aisles, when 
twilight falls : the shapes of things, the 
form and color, all the glorified remem- 
brance of his golden day. Who shall say 
no f For after all, what but a thrush's 
