theTIterafy artist to tell the truth about the 
world he lives in, and I suggest that, in so far 
as he fails to be an accurate truth-teller, he 
fails to be an artist. Now there is something 
obviously very familiar about this simple 
proposition ; and, turning to trace the recognition 
down, one is amused to perceive that here is 
almost the precise language of the school of 
writers to which one distinctly does not be 
long. Truth, like climate, is common property ; 
and I venture to suggest that the issue 
between the two contending schools of literary 
art to-day is not so much one of fact as of 
form ; or, perhaps I should rather say, not so 
much one of theory as of temperament in the 
expression of theory. 

A literary artist portrays life as it is, or has 
been, as it might be, or as it should be. We 
classify him as the realist, the romanticist, or 
the idealist ; though I am not sure but our 
classification is more defective than his ability 
to meet it. Separate, for instance, the first of 
these clauses from the formulation. Let us 
say, it is the duty of the artist in fiction to 
day to paint life as it exists. With this inevitable
observation who of us has any quarrel ? 

The quarrel arises when the artist defines 
his subject, and chooses his medium. The 
 

conflict begins when the artist proffers his 
personal impression as to what life is. " Your 
work," said Hall Caine before the Century 
Club, "is what you are." Just here, I ven 
ture to suggest, lies the only important, 
uncontested field left in a too familiar war. Most 
of the controversy between our schools of art 
goes " firing wild," because it fails to perceive 
the true relations of this one simple feature of 
resistance. 

We are all agreed, I submit, that we should 
picture life as it is. If I may return to the 
definite words, our difference is not so much 
one of artistic theory as of the personal 
equation. Our book reveals what life is to us. 
Life is to us what we are. 

Mr. Howells, in his charming papers on 
literary Boston, has given us some of the 
latest phrases of the school of art whose 
chief exponent in America he undoubtedly 
is. Of our great New Englanders Haw 
thorne, Emerson, Longfellow, Lowell, Whit- 
tier, Holmes, Mrs. Stowe he says: "Their 
art was Puritan. So far as it was impressed 
. . . it was marred by the intense ethicism 
that pervaded . . . and still characterizes the 
New England mind. . . . They still helplessly 
pointed the moral in all they did. It was in 
poetry and in romance that they excelled. In 


the novel, so far as they attempted it, they 
failed. . . . New England yet lacks her novel 
ist, because it was her instinct and her 
conscience to be true to an ideal of life rather 
than to life itself." Of the greatest of Ameri 
can novels, he concluded by saying that " it is 
an address to the conscience and not to the 
taste ; to the ethical sense, not the aesthetical 
sense." 

This is not the place, nor does it offer the 
space, in which to reply with anything which I 
should call thoroughness to such a view of the 
nature of art. But it seems to be the place ." 
for me to suggest, at least, so much as this : 
Since art implies the truthful and conscientious 
study of life as it is, we contend that to be 
a radically defective view of art which would 
preclude from it the ruling constituents of life. 
Moral character is to human life what air is to 
the natural world ; it is elemental. 

There was more than literary science in 
Matthew Arnold's arithmetic when he called 
conduct " three fourths of life." Possibly the 
Creator did not make the world chiefly for the 
purpose of providing studies for gifted novel 
ists ; but if He had done so, we can scarcely 
imagine that He could have offered anything 
much better in the way of material, even 
though one look the moral element squarely in 
 

the face, and abide by the fact of its tremendous 
proportion in the scheme of things. The 
