gain by his living."

"You don't think she'd--" Jasper hesitated to proceed.

"Poison him? No, I don't. It wasn't needful; but your papa was that
delicate, it would be enough if he was not rightly treated, and I don't
believe this new doctor did the right thing by him. Dr. Graham and Mrs.
Kent never could agree, but she and the new doctor have been as thick as
can be. They understand one another, I'll be bound."

Jasper looked shocked, and was silent for a moment.

"I don't like Mrs. Kent," he said, "but, Margaret, I hope you're wrong
in this. That any one could wish my dear, gentle father dead I find it
hard to believe."

"You haven't seen as much of your step-mother as I have, Master Jasper."

"Heaven grant you are wrong, Margaret! If I thought it were true I
should never want to look at the woman again."

"Hush!" said Margaret, suddenly putting her hand on her lip.

Jasper understood her caution, when he saw his step-mother enter the
kitchen. She looked from one to the other with a suspicious glance.

"This is a strange place for you, Jasper," said she, in slow, cold
accents.

"I don't see why, madam," he answered, in a voice equally cold.

"I find you--a young gentleman--conferring with a servant."

"With a trusted servant, who has been in our family for years. Nothing
could be more natural."

"I don't agree with you," said Mrs. Kent, in a chilly tone.

"I am unfortunate in not winning your approbation," said Jasper, not
caring to suppress the sarcasm.

"It strikes me you are impertinent," said Mrs. Kent.

She had thrown off the mask. During her husband's life she had taken
special pains to be polite to Jasper, though in so doing she did
violence to her feelings. There was no more to be gained by it, and she
had changed suddenly. Jasper could not help alluding to it.

"How happens it, madam," he said, "that your treatment of me has changed
so entirely since my father's death? Brief as the interval is, you have
lost no time."

There was hatred in the glance she shot at him.

"I was silent out of regard to your father, who was blind to your
faults," she answered. "You must not expect me to be equally blind."

"I don't, madam."

"Do you intend to remain in the kitchen?" demanded Mrs. Kent

"I was questioning Margaret about my father's last days."

"I am the proper one to question."

"Would you have afforded me the information I desired?"

"If the questions you asked were of a proper character."

"Mrs. Kent, I will take you at your word. How does it happen that you
dismissed Dr. Graham, my father's old family physician?"

His step-mother hesitated and looked angry, but she replied, after a
brief pause:

"He did not understand the case."

"What makes you think so? He certainly ought to understand my father's
constitution."

"Perhaps he ought, but he didn't," said Mrs. Kent, sharply.

"You haven't given any reason."

"I have given all I choose. I don't mean to be catechised by a boy."

"Who is this Dr. Kenyon whom you called in afterward?"

"A very skilful physician."

"He looks young."

"He has a high reputation."

"When did he assume charge of my father's case?"

"A week ago."

"And since then he has grown steadily worse."

