" The same as if you was a duchess." 

Maisie was aware on her way downstairs 
that she was now quite as happy as one, 
and also, a moment later, as she hung round 
his neck, that even such a personage would 
scarce commit herself more grandly. There 
was moreover a hint of the duchess in the 





infinite point with which, as she felt, she 
exclaimed : " And this is what you call com- 
ing often?" 

Sir Claude met her, delightfully, in the 
same fine spirit. " My dear old man, don't 
make me a scene I assure you it's what 
every woman does that I look at. Let us 
have some fun it 's a lovely day : clap on 
something smart and come out with me 
then we 'll talk it over quietly." They were 
on their way five minutes later to Hyde 
Park, and nothing that even in the good 
days at her mother's they had ever talked 
over had more of the perfection of security 
than his present prompt explanations. He 
was at his best in such an office and with 
the exception of Mrs. Wix the only person 
she had met in her life who ever explained. 
With him, however, the act had an authority 
transcending the wisdom of woman. It all 
came back, all the plans that always failed, 
all the rewards and bribes that she was 
perpetually paying for in advance and per- 
petually out of pocket by afterwards the 
whole complication to be dealt with intro- 
duced her on each occasion afresh to the 
question of money. Even she herself al- 
most knew how it would have expressed the 





strength of his empire to say that to shuffle 
away her sense of being duped he had only 
from under his lovely moustache to breathe 
upon it. It was somehow in the nature of 
plans to be expensive and in the nature of 
the expensive to be impossible. To be 
" involved " was of the essence of every- 
body's affairs, and also at every particular 
moment to be more involved than usual. 
This had been the case with Sir Claude's, 
with papa's, with mamma's, with Mrs. Beale's, 
and with Maisie's own at the particular mo- 
ment, a moment of several weeks, that had 
elapsed since our young lady had been re- 
established at her father's. There was n't 
" two-and-tuppence " for anything or for any 
one, and that was why there had been no 
sequel to the classes in French literature 
with all the smart little girls. It was devilish 
awkward, didn't she see? to try without 
even the modest sum mentioned to mix her 
up with a remote array that glittered be- 
fore her after this as the children of the 
Rich. She was to feel henceforth as if she 
were flattening her nose upon the hard win- 
dow-pane of the sweet-shop of knowledge. 
If the classes, however, that were select and 
accordingly the only ones were impossibly 





dear, the lectures at the institutions at 
least at some of them were directly ad- 
dressed to the intelligent poor, and it there- 
fore had to be easier still to produce on the 
spot the reason why she had been taken to 
none. This reason, Sir Claude said, was 
that she happened to be just going to be, 
though indeed they had nothing to do with 
that in now directing their steps to the banks 
of the Serpentine. Maisie's own park, in the 
north, had been nearer at hand; but they 
rolled westward in a hansom because at the 
end of the sweet June days that was the 
direction taken by every one any one looked 
at. They cultivated for an hour, on the Row 
arid by the Drive, this opportunity for each 
observer to amuse and for one of them in- 
deed not a little hilariously to mystify the 
other, and before the hour was over Maisie 
had elicited in reply to her sharpest challenge 
