rich enough to go and live in a city where there 
were fine stores and theatres, and plenty of enter 
tainment ! 
Palmer looked at his life with great seriousness, 
almost alarm. He had seen people in Westhorpe 
mismated, he thought, but they did not fly out in 
angry despair. Should he despise himself for his 
lack of wisdom, for his pity that had been so 
easily roused ? That would not better his life. 
No searching self-disquisition would mend matters 
now. 
He had opened his soul to another's wounding 
through very tenderness. He was too thoroughly 
honest to avoid the consequence of his ill-judged 
act. There must be an uncomplaining acceptance 
of the result. 
He felt, in his secret communings, that if he had 
allowed himself to love a woman like Helen Otis 
secretly, hopelessly, even, it might have saved 
him. He had put all thoughts of a deeper liking 
for her out of his mind. She was so far at the 
other end of the plane. Nothing in his simple, 
commonplace life would attract that kind of a 
woman. He had hardly counted on her being 
such friends with Thirza. Yet she had given a 
new impulse to his thoughts. He felt the subtle 
change in himself. Was it not a change that 
would take him farther away from Bessie ? Then 
how much right had he to it ? 
He could not go down to Bessie's level. Her 
virtues and graces were only on the surface. 
Could he raise her a little ? 
He went to work in tender, heartfelt earnest. 
He took her to drive with him, but she rarely 
found anything to interest herself when he talked 
 
of the future. She was not cross, but bored. 
Now and then a man paid her some especial 
attention which served to give her a feeling of 
elation. 
Westhorpe became curiously gay this summer. 
The hotels overflowed. The private houses were 
pushed to their utmost. In the late afternoon the 
principal street was gay with promenaders. ' The 
park was dotted with picturesque groups.; women 
loitering or reading under the shade of the old 
trees ; the stages were kept on the go with parties 
exploring every pretty nook, and taking picnic teas 
or gypsy lunches. 
It was not only the women. Business received 
a great boom as well. Even John Kent, when he 
had secured several large orders, wasn't quite so 
sure the town was going to ruin. Over the river 
it was like a busy hive. The mill was going up 
rapidly. Rows of cottages were making their ap 
pearance, with a little plot of ground on one side 
for a garden. 
" It will make the women and children more 
content. A few vegetables and flowers that they 
can tend themselves, and a pen of chickens, will 
lead them to forget the friends they left behind in 
the city. And the absence of saloons will soon 
tell on the morale of the workmen." 
The mill superintendent had addressed these re- 
 
marks to a group of men who were eagerly dis 
cussing plans, and had hardly taken in the full 
import of the addition to their town. They had 
been laying out part of the property and counting 
up prospective values. 
Roy had all his life enjoyed seeing people 
happy. It was Bessie's evident unhappiness that 
had won the large share of his sympathy. Twenty 
or thirty families suddenly transplanted from all 
their old associations ; some most undesirable, he 
knew, but why not make the new environment 
more attractive ? There had been a certain feeling 
about these people coming in, among the old resi 
dents who rarely considered the world's advance 
ment. He was proud of his native town, and the 
cavillers must see that he had undertaken no ret- 
rogade movement. He was at. once interested 
from this standpoint, and threw himself into the 
work with a new and broadening energy ; and his 
soul unconsciously turned to the two women who 
had discussed philanthropic movements with such 
zest last summer. 
It was hopeless to think of engaging Bessie in 
the advancement of her fellow-creatures, in the 
future welfare of the town. Miss Brinsley and 
two or three other broad-minded young women 
were away. Palmer suddenly realized what the 
higher education was to a woman. Still he tried 
to devote some of his time to Bessie. She under 
stood that it was not quite the thing to frequent 
hotel society without her husband's occasional pro 
tection. There were card-parties, evening dances, 
then an amateur theatrical entertainment for a 
children's hospital in a neighboring city. 
Bessie was in great demand. There was a 
