called private, on the City side, the one 
for summer, the other for winter performances. The Blackfriars was smaller 
than the Globe, was roofed over, and 
needed to be lighted with candles, and 
was frequented more by the better class 
than the more popular Globe. There is 
no evidence that Elizabeth ever attended the public theatres, but the companies 
were often summoned to play before 
her in Whitehall, where the appointments and scenery were much better 
than in the popular houses. 

The price of general admission to 
the Globe and Blackfriars was six- 




 

pence, at the Fashion Theatre two- 
pence, and at some of the inferior thea- 
tres one penny. The boxes at the 
Globe were a shilling, at the Blackfriars 
one -and -six. The usual net receipts 
of a performance were from nine to ten 
pounds, and this was about the sum 
that Elizabeth paid to companies for 
a performance at Whitehall, which was 
always in the evening and did not interfere with regular hours. The the- 
atres opened as early as one o'clock 
and not later than three in the afternoon. The crowds that filled the pit 
and galleries early, to secure places, 
amused themselves variously before the 
performance began : they drank ale, 
smoked, fought for apples, cracked nuts, 
chaffed the boxes, and a few read the 
cheap publications of the day that were 
hawked in the theatre. It was a rough 
and unsavory audience in pit and gallery, but it was a responsive one, and 
it enjoyed the acting with little help to 
illusion in the way of scenery. In fact, 
scenery did not exist, as we understand 
it. A board inscribed with the name 
of the country or city indicated the 
scene of action. Occasionally movable 
painted scenes were introduced. The 
interior roof of the stage was painted 
sky-blue, or hung with drapery of that 
tint, to represent the heavens. But 
when the idea of a dark, starless night 
was to be imposed, or tragedy was to 
be acted, these heavens were hung with 
black stuffs, a custom illustrated in 
many allusions in Shakespeare, like that 
in the line, 

" Hung be the heavens in black, yield day to 
night." 

To hang the stage with black was to 
prepare it for tragedy. The costumes 
of the players were sometimes less nig- 



 

gardly than the furnishing of the stage, 
for it was an age of rich and picturesque 
apparel, and it was not difficult to pro- 
cure the cast-off clothes of fine gentle- 
men for stage use. But there was no 
lavishing of expense. I am recalling 
these details to show that the amuse- 
ment was popular and cheap. The or- 
dinary actors, including the boys and 
men who took women's parts (for 
women did not appear on the stage 
till after the' Restoration) received 
only about five or six shillings a week 
(for Sundays and all), and the first-class 
actor, who had a share in the net re- 
ceipts, would not make more than 
ninety pounds a year. The ordinary 
price paid for a new play was less than 
seven pounds ; Oldys, on what authority 
is not known, says that Shakespeare 
received only five pounds for " Hamlet." 
The influence of the theatre upon 




 

politics, contemporary questions that 
interested the public, and morals, was 
early recognized in the restraints put 
upon representations by the censorship, 
and in the floods of attacks upon its 
