that might be intrusted to him.

But how could he, a man altogether unknown, recommend himself to any
lawyer whose standing and business would make a connection with him
desirable? Perhaps in any other business there would be less
difficulty in making a start.

But Mr. Bolton was resolute and determined, and fortune favored him.

Within thirty miles of the city a stout gentleman of perhaps fifty
entered the car and sat down beside him. He looked like a well-to-do
business man, prosperous and free from care, but for the anxious
expression on his face. He appeared like a man in trouble who stood in
need of advice.

The train had gone several miles before he made up his mind to confide
in the quiet-looking man who sat beside him. He had already taken
stock of Bolton in several furtive glances before he decided to speak
of the matter that troubled him.

"There is something on his mind," thought Bolton. "He looks as if he
wished to speak to some one."

He addressed a casual remark to his companion, who instantly
responded.

"I don't like to trouble you," he said, "but I am somewhat perplexed."

"My dear sir, if in any way I can help you I shall be glad to do so,"
answered Bolton. "I am a lawyer--"

"Are you?" said the other eagerly. "I want to meet a good, honest, and
smart lawyer, who will undertake a case for me."

Bolton pricked up his ears. This seemed to be a providential
opportunity of which he resolved to avail himself.

"I should not like to praise myself," he said modestly, "but I think
you would find me faithful to your interests."

"No doubt of it, sir. Are you a New York lawyer?"

"I am about to connect myself with a law firm in the city," answered
Bolton, heartily hoping that this statement might prove accurate.

"Then you will be able to help me."

"State your case, if you don't mind." Bolton took out a small
memorandum book, and, pencil in hand, sat ready to take down the
important points.

"You must know, sir, that twenty years ago my father died, leaving an
estate of fifty thousand dollars. It was divided equally between my
sister Martha and myself. I married, and Martha, for the last twenty
years, has been a member of my family. Being a spinster, with only
herself to provide for, her property has doubled, while I, having
several children, have barely held my own. Of course I expected that
my children and my self would inherit Martha's money when she died."

"Very natural, sir, and very just."

"Well, Martha died last August. Imagine my dismay when her will was
opened and proved to bequeath her entire estate to various charities
in which she never took any particular interest when living."

"Do you suspect any one of influencing her to this disposition of her
property?"

"Yes, she had had various conversations with a collector for these
societies, who resided in the town during the summer, and who sought
an introduction when he learned that she was a lady of independent
fortune. He called frequently, and flattered up my poor sister, who,
between ourselves, had lately shown signs of mental weakness."

"Did she cut off your family entirely in her will?"

"Yes; she didn't leave even a dollar to any one of my children, though
one of my daughters was named for her."

"Was the collector entitled to a commission on sums secured for the
societies which he rep resented?"

"Yes, that is the cause of his zeal. He would make a very handsome
percentage on an estate as large as my sister's."

"But for him would she have been likely to cut off her relatives?"

"No; we should probably have received every dollar."

"Do you think the collector cherished any matrimonial designs with
reference to your sister?"

"I did think so at one time, but Martha's condition as an invalid led
her to discourage his attentions, though she was evidently flattered
by them."

"Of course you wish to break the will?"

"Yes. Do you think it can be done?"

