finally reconciled I never could tell, but at last the starter’s flag
swept down and they were really off.  Everybody could have seen perfectly
well as they sat, but everybody rose and watched the swift swoop of the
horses, bunched together in the distance, and scarcely distinguishable by
the colours of their riders.  The supreme moment came for me when they
were exactly opposite the grand stand, full half a mile away—the moment
that I remembered from year to year as one of exquisite illusion—for then
the horses seemed to lift from the earth as with wings, and to skim over
the track like a covey of low-flying birds.  The finish was tame to this.
Mrs. March and I had our wonted difference of opinion as to which horse
had won, and we were rather uncommonly controversial because we had both
decided upon the same horse, as we found, only she was talking of the
jockey’s colours, and I was talking of the horse’s.  We appealed to
Kendricks, who said that another horse altogether had won the race, and
this compromise pacified us.

We were all on foot, and he suggested, “We could see better, couldn’t we,
if we went farther down in front?”  And Mrs. March answered—

“No, we prefer to stay here; but you two can go.”  And when they had
promptly availed themselves of her leave, she said to me, “This is
killing me dead, Basil, and if it keeps up much longer I don’t believe I
can live through it.  I don’t care now, and I believe I shall throw them
together all I can from this out.  The quicker they decide whether
they’re in love or not the better.  I have some rights too.”

Her whirling words expressed the feeling in my own mind.  I had the same
sense of being trifled with by these young people, who would not behave
so conclusively toward each other as to justify our interference on the
ground that they were in love, nor yet treat each other so indifferently
as to relieve us of the strain of apprehension.  I had lost all faith in
accident by this time, and I was quite willing to leave them to their own
devices; I was so desperate that I said I hoped they would get lost from
us, as they had from me the night before, and never come back, but just
keep on wandering round for ever.  All sorts of vengeful thoughts went
through my mind as I saw them leaning toward each other to say something,
and then drawing apart to laugh in what seemed an indefinite comradery
instead of an irrepressible passion.  Did they think we were going to let
this sort of thing go on?  What did they suppose our nerves were made of?
Had they no mercy, no consideration?  It was quite like the selfishness
of youth to wish to continue in that fool’s paradise, but they would find
out that middle age had its rights too.  I felt capable of asking them
bluntly what they meant by it.  But when they docilely rejoined us at the
end of the races, hurrying up with some joke about not letting me get
lost this time, and Miss Gage put herself at my wife’s side and Kendricks
dropped into step with me, all I had been thinking seemed absurd.  They
were just two young people who were enjoying a holiday-time together, and
we were in no wise culpable concerning them.

I suggested this to Mrs. March when we got home, and, in the need of some
relief from the tension she had been in, she was fain to accept the
theory provisionally, though I knew that her later rejection of it would
be all the more violent for this respite.




XV


THERE was to be a hop at the Grand Union that night, and I had got
tickets for it in virtue of my relation to Every Other Week.  I must
say the clerk who gave them me was very civil about it; he said they were
really only for the hotel guests, but he was glad to give them to
outsiders who applied with proper credentials; and he even offered me
more tickets than I asked for.

Miss Gage was getting a dress for the hop, and it was to be finished that
day.  I think women really like the scare of thinking their dresses will
not be done for a given occasion, and so arrange to have them at the last
moment.  Mrs. March went with the girl early in the afternoon to have it
tried on for the last time, and they came home reporting that it was a
poem.  My wife confided to me that it was not half done—merely begun, in
fact—and would never be finished in time in the world.  She also assured
Miss Gage that she need not be the least uneasy; that there was not an
hour’s work on the dress; and that the dress-maker’s reputation was at
stake, and she would not dare to fail her.  I knew she was perfectly
sincere in both these declarations, which were, indeed, merely the
expression of two mental attitudes, and had no relation to the facts.

She added to me that she was completely worn out with anxiety and worry,
and I must not think of her going to the hop.  I would have to do the
chaperoning for her, and she did hope that I would not forget what I was
sent for, or get talking with somebody, and leave Miss Gage altogether to
Kendricks.  She said that quite likely there might be friends or
acquaintances of his at the hop—such a large affair—whom he would want to
show some attention, and I must take charge of Miss Gage myself, and try
to find her other partners.  She drilled me in the duties of my position
until I believed that I was letter-perfect, and then she said that she
supposed I would commit some terrible blunder that would ruin everything.

I thought that this was very likely, too, but I would not admit it.

The dress came home at nine o’clock, and operated a happy diversion from
my imaginable shortcomings; for it appeared from Mrs. March’s asides to
me that it was a perfect horror in the set, and that everybody could see
that it had been simply slung together at the last moment, and she
would never, as long as the world stood, go to that woman for anything
again.

