
 

you ? Your poor muscles are soft, where 
ours are now as hard as a deserter's from 
an American barque ay, yi ! " 

u If they have but the chance to become 
soft once more after they too are hard ! " 
muttered Rafael, who was panting and 
lagging. "That priest ! that priest ! " 

" It is true," said Roldan, pausing 
abruptly. " You will not dare to return 
home at present nor we. It is flight once 
more to Los Angeles. We will stay 
there where he would not dare touch us 
if he came until he repents or makes sure 
that we will have told if we intend to tell. 
Will you come? " 

" Will I ? I would go to Mexico if I 
could. I feel that there is not room in the 
Californias for those hands and myself." 

" I will take care of you," said Roldan, 
proudly, anxious to rout the memory of his 
recent humiliation. " But come." And 
Rafael, too weary and bewildered to resent 
the authority of his erst-while rival, trudged 
obediently in the rear. 

" It grows colder," said Adan, significantly. 



 

"Yes," said Roldan. "We near the 



mountains." 



Adan stopped. " Is it the mountains 
again?" he asked. "If it is, then I, for 
one, prefer the priest." 

" The mountains never scared you half 
as badly as the priest did," said Roldan, 
cruelly. " And to say nothing of the fact 
that we need never get lost in the mountains again, the embrace of a grizzly 
would be no harder and more death-sure 
than one in the great arms of that fiend 
that wears a cassock." 

" True. You are always right. But 
promise that whatever happens you will 
not lead us into the Sierras." 

" I promise," said Roldan, much flat 
tered by this unconscious tribute to his 
leadership. 

" Do you think that priest is really a 
devil?" asked Rafael, in an awestruck 
voice. 

" When a man has insulted you, you do 
not know what you think of him," said 
Roldan, flushing hotly. " If he only were 
not a priest I'd fight him, big as he is. 



 

But at least I can outwit him. It consoles 
me to think of his fury when he goes to 
the cave and finds us gone." 

" We'd better get out of this tunnel 
before we talk about having the best of 
the priest, * said Adan. " Suppose he returns to kill us himself " 

" He will not return until to-morrow. 
Then he will have repented. He will 
promise to let us go free if we keep his 
secret. But he will not have that satis 
faction, my friends. Yesterday he had a 
friend in Roldan Castanada ; I would have 
done anything for him, gladly kept his 
secret. But to-day he has an enemy that 
he will do well to fear. A Spaniard 
never forgets an insult." 

" What shall you do ? " asked Rafael, 
eagerly. " Expose him ? " 
