
"All the better. Of course I should have been glad to see Mrs.
Walton and the children, but now you can give me more attention."

"I wonder whether he wants to borrow money," thought the merchant,
with some uneasiness. "If he does, I shall refuse as civilly as I
can. I don't propose to be a prey to impecunious relatives. I need
all the money I can command to further my own schemes. In three or
four years, if things go well, I shall be able to move to Broadway,
and then our family can take a higher social position. My wife would
like to have me move at once, but I don't choose to do anything
rashly. The time has not yet come for so important a step."

"We will go now," said Mr. Walton. "The clerks will close up. If
you will walk as far as the Bowery, we will board a Fourth avenue
car."

"Do you still live on Twelfth street, Nicholas?"

"Yes. Mrs. Walton urges me to take a house on Madison avenue, but I
must not go too fast."

"You are prospering, I take it, Nicholas?"

"He is feeling his way toward a loan, I am afraid," thought the
merchant.

"Yes, I am making headway," he admitted, warily, "but I have to be
very cautious. Oftentimes I am short of money, I assure you. In
fact, I am hampered by my small capital."

"My neighbors in Sunderland would be surprised to hear that," said
Dr. Baker, smiling. "They look upon you as one of the merchant
princes of New York."

"Do they?" said Walton, looking gratified. "Some day I hope to be
what they think I am now."

"You will be, if you are not too much in haste."

"So I hope. And you, I hope you are prospering?" said the merchant,
guardedly.

"I have no cause for complaint," said his brother-in-law,
"especially now."

"What does he mean by 'especially now?'" thought the merchant.

"I am glad to hear it," he said, aloud.

Arrived at the house in Twelfth street--it was a plain brick house
of three stories--dinner was found to be awaiting, and as they sat
down at once, there was no opportunity for a private conversation.
When the cloth was removed, and they were left to themselves, Walton
invited his brother-in-law's confidence by saying, suggestively:

"So business of importance brought you to New York, doctor?"

"Yes, business of great importance!"

"I suppose it seems great to him," thought Walton. "Well," he said
aloud, "you have aroused my curiosity. It is only fair to gratify
it."

"That is what I propose to do. Let me say, then, that this day has
made a great change in me."

"I don't see any change," said Walton, puzzled.

"Yet it has; I awoke this morning a poor man. To-night I am rich."

"You--haven't been speculating?" said Walton, curiously.

"No; I had no money to speculate with. But to-day a fortune has come
to me."

"A fortune! How much?"

"One hundred thousand dollars!" answered the physician.

"A hundred thousand dollars!" ejaculated Nicholas Walton, staring at
his brother-in-law in amazement.

"Yes."

"Explain yourself--that is, if you are not joking."

"Fortunately it is not a joke. As to the explanation, here it is:
Some years ago I was called, when a young practitioner in New York
(I began here, you know), to attend a wealthy West Indian planter,
boarding at the New York Hotel. He was critically sick, and required
constant attention. I had little to do, and devoted myself to him.
He was convinced that he owed his life to me. He paid me handsomely
then, and requested me to keep him apprised of my whereabouts. I
have done so. Yesterday I received a letter, requesting me to come
to New York, and call at a certain room in the Fifth Avenue Hotel. I
did so. I found a Cuban gentleman, who, first apprising me that my
former patient was dead, added, to my amazement, that he had left me
in his will one hundred thousand dollars. Furthermore, he had the
amount with him in negotiable securities, and transferred them at
