Had he suspected the possibility of the boat being manned by Spaniards,
he would have given up the thought as soon as he recognized it as one
belonging to the flagship. It seemed natural that a boat should be sent
to look for them after their protracted absence, and it was a decided
shock to find that he had fallen, alone and unarmed, in the way of his
enemies.

But his surprise affected him but for an instant. He did not propose to
be shot down if he could help it.

The report of the pistol that met Clif's gaze rang out upon the air, but
the bullet did not reach its intended mark.

Like a flash Clif had released his hold upon the boat, and dropped
beneath the water, just in the nick of time.

The Spaniard peered over the side of the boat in the darkness, expecting
to see Clif's form appear on the surface, and hoping to see his life's
blood staining the waters, a testimony to his marksmanship.

How could he have failed to send that bullet crashing through the
American's brain? thought he.

But nothing of the sort happened. Clif not only was not wounded, but was
chipper as a lark. When he disappeared, he dove under the boat and rose
again on the opposite side. The Spaniard would look in vain in that spot
for his intended victim.

But the Spaniard in the bow discovered Clif's head as it appeared for an
instant above the water. With an imprecation of wrath he called his
companion's attention to the spot. But one of them was armed, it seemed.

The other rushed to that side, but when he looked in the direction
indicated, revolver in hand, Clif had again disappeared.

The American lad was as lively as a cricket, and busy thoughts surged
through his brain.

In the first place, he did not propose being a target for a Spanish
bullet. But, above all, he wanted that boat, and, like the cowboy when
he wants a revolver, wanted it "bad."

"How can I get it?" he thought, as his dive brought him up near the bow
of the boat. Help came from an unexpected source, for a few moments
after, he was driven by a new peril to attempt the only plan that could
accomplish it.

The agency that led to his delivery was a shark. That was not the
every-day business of his shark-ship--that of saving an imperiled life
for those inhabitating those waters are especially hungry and voracious.

But it happened this way: As Clif was quietly keeping himself afloat at
the bow of the boat, confident that in that position he ran little risk
of immediate discovery by his enemies, the plans and schemes revolving
in his mind were brought to a sudden standstill by a sight that filled
him with horror. A sharp triangular fin cutting the water like a knife,
flashed past him.

"Merciful Heaven!" he muttered under his breath. "A shark!"

Death faced him on every side. To be sure he might frighten the shark by
churning the surface of the water, but that very act would betray him to
a no less certain death at the hands of his enemies.

His resolve, a desperate one that caused him to shudder as he formed it,
was reached on the instant. The broad back of his enemy, who sat in the
stern, was within easy reach, and inspired his action.

Quick as a flash Clif grasped the stern of the boat with one hand and
with one mighty effort raised himself high out of the water. Before the
Spaniard could divine what was happening, Clif's free arm was thrown
around the fellow's neck, and he was drawn back into the water behind
him.

An instant after Clif clambered over the stern into the boat. With a
shudder at the thought of the fate that awaited the luckless Spaniard,
he addressed himself to the work that lay before him.

And there was plenty of it, and lively, too, while it lasted.

The other Spaniard, who had been peering into the water ahead, turned
sharply around when he heard the noise made by the splash of his
companion, and in the act involuntarily dropped the revolver.

What must have been his feelings upon beholding the lithe and dripping
form of the plucky young American emerging from the sea, may well be
imagined.

But Clif did not pause to study the effects. He seized an oar and sprang
toward his remaining foe.

"Surrender, you villain!" he cried in Spanish as he advanced.

The Spaniard seized an oar and with an oath sprang toward the American.

And there, on the quiet bosom of the water in the dim light of night,
ensued a stubbornly contested duel, in which oars took the place of
broadsword and sabre.

Clif fought savagely and desperately. His blood was up, and he knew that
