Her fond reveries helped her to bear her suspense ; 
they helped to make the days go by, to ease the doubt 
with which she lay down at night, and the heartsick 
hope with which she rose up in the morning. 

One dav, at the hour of his wonted visit, she saw 



 

the vice-consul from her balcony coming, as it seemed 
to her, with another figure in his gondola, and a 
thousand conjectures whirled through her mind, and 
then centred upon one idea. After the first glance 
she kept her eyes down, and would not look again 
while she told herself incessantly that it could not 
be, and that she was a fool and a goose and a perfect 
coot, to think of such a thing for a single moment. 
When she allowed herself, or forced herself, to look 
a second time, as the boat drew near, she had to cling 
to the balcony parapet for support, in her disappoint 
ment. 

The person whom the vice-consul helped out of the 
gondola was an elderly man like himself, and she took 
a last refuge in the chance that he might be Hinkle 's 
father, sent to bring her to him because he could not 
come to her ; or to soften some terrible news to her. 
Then her fancy fluttered and fell, and she waited 
patiently for the fact to reveal itself. There was 
something countrified in the figure of the man, and 
something clerical in his face, though there was noth 
ing in his uncouth best clothes that confirmed this 
impression. In both face and figure there was a vague 
resemblance to some one she had seen before, when 
the vice-consul said : 

" Miss Claxon, I want to introduce the Rev. Mr. 
James B. Orson, of Michigan." Mr. Orson took 
Clementina 's hand into a dry, rough grasp, while he 
peered into her face with small, shy eyes. The vice- 
consul added with a kind of official formality, " Mr. 
Orson is the half-nephew of Mr. Lander," and then 




ONE DAY SHE SAW THE VICE-CONSUL FROM HER BALCONY. 



 

Clementina now knew whom it was that he resembled. 
u He has come to Venice," continued the vice-consul, 
" at the request of Mrs. Lander ; and he did not know 
of her death until I informed him of the fact. I 
should have said that Mr. Orson is the son of Mr. 
Lander 's half-sister. He can tell you the balance 
himself." The vice-consul pronounced the conclud 
ing word with a certain distaste, and the effect of 
gladly retiring into the background. 

" Won 't you sit down ? " said Clementina, and she 
added with one of the remnants of her Middlemount 
breeding, " Won 't you let me take your hat ? " 

Mr. Orson in trying to comply with both her invi 
tations, knocked his well worn silk hat from the hand 
that held it, and sent it rolling across the room, where 
Clementina pursued it and put it on the table. 

" I may as well say at once," he began in a flat ir- 
resonant voice, " that I am the representative of Mrs. 
Lander 's heirs, and that I have a letter from her 
enclosing her last will and testament, which I have 
shown to the consul here " 

"Vice-consul," the dignitary interrupted with an 
effect of rejecting any part in the aifair. 

" Vice-consul, I should say, and I wish to lay them 
both before you, in order that " 

" Oh, that is all right," said Clementina sweetly. 
" I 'm glad there is a will. I was afraid there wasn 't 
any at all. Mr. Bennarn and I looked for it every - 
whe e." She smiled upon the Rev. Mr. Orson, who 
silently handed her a paper. It was the will which 
Milray had written for Mrs. Lander, and which, with 



 

whatever crazy motive, she had sent to her husband 's 
kindred. It provided that each of them should be 
given five thousand dollars out of the estate, and that 
then all should go to Clementina. It was the will 
