" Yes ?" 

" Not that exactly. I couldn't, don't you see, 
betray and use my own relatives in that way." 

" Yes, I see that." 

" It isn't much. I cannot tell how it will 
come out. I tell you — I don't mean that I have 
any right to ask you to keep it as a secret of 
mine, but it is this way : If a writer gives away 
his imagination, his idea, before it is fixed in form 
on paper, he seems to let the air of all the world 
upon it and it disappears, and isn't quite his as it 
was before to grow in his own mind." 




THAT FOETITNE 

" I can understand that," Evelyn replied. 

" Well — " and Philip found himself launched. 
It is so easy to talk about one's self to a sympa- 
thetic listener. He told Evelyn a little about his 
life, and how the valley used to seem to him as 
a boy, and how it seemed now that he had had 
experience of other places and people, and how 
his studies and reading had enabled him to see 
things in their proper relations, and how, finally, 
gradually the idea for a stor^' in this setting had 
developed in his mind. And then he sketched 
in outline the story as he had developed it, and 
left the misty outlines of its possibilities to the 
imagination. 

The girl listened with absorbing interest, and 
looked the approval which she did not put in 
words. Perhaps she knew that a bud will never 
come to flower if you pull it in pieces. When 
Philip had finished he had a momentary regret 
for this burst of confidence, which he had never 
given to any one else. But, in the light of 
Evelyn's quick approval and understanding, it 
was only momentary. Perhaps neither of them 
thought what a dangerous game this is, for two 
young souls to thus unbosom themselves to each 
other. 

A call from Mrs. Mavick brought them to 
their feet. It was time to go. Evelyn simply 
said: 





 

" I think the valley, Mr. Burnett, looks a little 
different already." 

As they drove home along the murmuring 
river through the golden sunset, the party were 
mostly silent. Only Mrs. Mavick and Philip, who 
sat together, kept up a lively chatter, lively be- 
cause Philip was elated with the event of the 
day, and because the nap under the beech-tree 
in the open air had brightened the wits of one 
of the cleverest women Philip had ever met. 

If the valley did seem different to Evelyn, 
probably she did not think so far as to own to 
herself whether this was owing to the outline of 
the story, which ran in her mind, or to the pres- 
ence of the young author. 

Alice and Philip were set down at the farm- 
house, and the company parted with mutual en- 
thusiasm over the success of the excursion. 

" She is a much more interesting girl than I 
thought," Alice admitted. "Not a bit fashion- 
able." 

" And she likes you." 

"Me?" 

" Yes, your ears would have burned." 

" Well, I am glad, for I think she is sincere." 

" And I can tell you another thing. I had a 

long talk while you were taking your siesta. She 

takes an abstract view of things, judging the 

