
He had had another idea, but before he reached it his 
companion had gaily broken in.    Awfully good one 
for you. Duchess — and I'm bound to say that, for a clever 
woman, you exposed yourself ! I've at any rate a sense 
of comfort," Lord Petherton pursued, "in the good re- 
lations now more and more established between poor 
Fanny and Mrs. Brook. Mrs. Brook's awfully kind to 
her and awfully sharp, and Fanny will take things from 
her that she won't take from me. I keep saying to Mrs. 
Brook — don't you know ? — ' Do keep hold of her, and let 
her have it strong.' She hasn't, upon my honor, any one 
in the world but me." 

" And we know the extent of that resource !" the 
Duchess harshly exclaimed. 

'  That's exactly what Fanny says — that she knows it," 
Petherton good - humoredly assented. "She says my 
beastly hypocrisy makes her sick. There are people," 
he pleasantly rambled on, " who ar  awfully free with 



 

their advice, but it's mostly fearful rot. Mrs. Brook's 
isn't, upon my word — I've tried some myself !" 

" You talk as if it were something nasty and home- 
made— gooseberry wine !" the Duchess laughed; ''but 
one can't know Fernanda, of course, without knowing 
that she has set up, for the convenience of her friends, 
a little office for consultations. She listens to the case, 
she strokes her chin and prescribes — " 

'' And the beauty of it is," cried Lord Petherton, '' that 
she makes no charge whatever !" 

'' She doesn't take a guinea at the time, but you may 
still get your account," the Duchess returned. '' Of 
course we know that the great business she does is in 
husbands and wives." 

'' This then seems the day of the wives !" Mr. Mitchett 
interposed as he became aware, the first, of the illustra- 
tion that the Duchess's image was in the act of receiv- 
ing. ''Lady Fanny Cashmore !" — the butler was already 
in the field, and the company, with the exception of Mrs. 
Donner, who remained seated, was apparently conscious 
of a vibration that brought it afresh, but still more nim- 
bly than on Aggie's advent, to its feet. 



IX 

" Go to her straight — be nice to her : you must have 
plenty to say. You stay with me — we have our affair." 
The latter of these commands the Duchess addressed to 
Mr. Mitchett while their companion, in obedience to the 
former and affected, as it seemed, by an unrepressed 
familiar accent that stirred a fresh flicker of Mitchy's 
grin, met the new arrival in the middle of the room 
before Mrs. Brookenham had had time to reach her. 
The Duchess, quickly reseated, watched an instant the 
inexpressive concussion of the tall brother and sister ; 





  

then while Mitchy again subsided in his place, '' You're 
not, as a race, clever, you're not delicate, you're not 
sane, but you're capable of extraordinary good looks," 
she resumed.   Vous avez parfois la grande heauU. ' 

Mitchy was much amused.  'Do you really think 
Petherton has ?" 

The Duchess withstood it. " They've got, both out- 
side and in, the same great general things, only turned, 
in each, rather ' different ways, a way safer for him, as a 
man, and more triumphant for her as — whatever you 
choose to call her I What can a woman do," she richly 
mused, '  with such beauty as that — " 

 ''  Except come desperately to advise with Mrs. Brook" 
— Mitchy undertook to complete her question —  ' as to 
the highest use to make of it ? But see," he imme- 
diately added, 'Miow perfectly competent to instruct her 
our friend now looks." Their hostess had advanced to 
Lady Fanny with an outstretched hand, but with an 
eagerness of greeting merged a little in the sweet pre- 
dominance of wonder as well as in the habit, at such 
moments most perceptible, of the languid lily-bend. 
Nothing, in general, could have been less poorly con- 
ventional than the kind of reception given in Mrs. 
