to do."

"Did you form any conjectures relative to her or her object in bringing
you the child?"

"No. There was nothing to serve as a clew. It was all guesswork on our
part. Still the thought did occur to us that the child had been stolen
or abducted from his people for some reason unknown to us."

The detective hesitated a moment, and then, having apparently made up
his mind to confide in the worthy couple, said: "Your guess was very
near the truth. The child, I have every reason to believe, was stolen
from its mother--the father was dead--through the machinations of an
uncle who wanted the boy's title and estate."

"Title!" exclaimed Mrs. Avery, in great surprise.

"Yes. This boy I believe to be the only son of the late Sir Charles
Fenwick, of Fenwick Hall, Gloucestershire, England."

"Well, well!" ejaculated Mrs. Avery. "Then if the boy had his rights
would he be Sir Jed Gilman?"

"No," answered the detective smiling. "He has no more claim to the name
Jed Gilman than I have."

"What is his real name?"

"Robert Fenwick, as I have every reason to believe."

"Why has there been no search for him till now?"

"There has been a search covering all the intervening years; but the
mother, who is still living, had no information to guide her, and the
search has been a groping in the dark."

"And did the wicked uncle get the title and estate?" asked Mrs. Avery.

"Yes. He is enjoying both now."

"Is it a large estate?"

"It would not be considered large in England. Probably it amounts to
five thousand pounds annual rental."

"Five thousand pounds!" said Mrs. Avery.

"Yes, or in our money about twenty-five thousand dollars."

"And this large estate ought to belong to poor Jed?"

"I submit that, if so, he will not need to be called poor Jed."

"And you say that the mother is living?"

"She is living, and in New York. She is comfortably established at the
Windsor Hotel on Fifth Avenue. It is by her that I am employed. This is
my card."

He drew out a small card bearing the name


     JAMES PEAKE.


"Yes. I am an American," he said in reply to a question by Mrs. Avery.
"I am a New York detective, and was detailed for this work by Inspector
Byrnes."

"What sort of a person is Jed's mother?" asked Mrs. Avery.

"Still a beautiful woman, though she cannot be far from forty years of
age."

"Does she look like the picture in the locket?"

"There is considerable resemblance--of course, making allowance for the
difference in the ages of the two. This locket, Mrs. Avery, is most
important, and will, I think, establish the identity of Jed Gilman with
the stolen heir of the Fenwick estate. Will you permit me to take it and
show it to Lady Fenwick?"

"Has she a title, too?"

"Certainly. She was the wife of Sir Charles Fenwick."

"And what is the name of the wicked uncle?"

"Guy Fenwick. He is known as Sir Guy Fenwick, but probably, almost
positively, has no rightful claim to the title."

"Does he know that you are looking for his nephew?"

"I presume he has taken measures to keep acquainted with all the
movements of Lady Fenwick."

"I wonder how the girl came to give the boy the name of Jed Gilman?"

"I think I can explain this. The name of this treacherous nursemaid was
Jane Gilman. She selected a name as near to her own as possible. You say
