dad was livin’.”

“So the boy has always lived with him?”

“Ever since I knowed him.”

“Humph! Where do they live now?”

“Round in Pearl Street.”

“No, they don’t. They’ve moved.”

“I didn’t know it. Must ’ave moved lately.”

“Yes, it was. Now, boy--what’s your name?”

“Tom Rafferty.”

“Then, Tom, would you like a job?”

“Wouldn’t I!”

“I want to find out where the boy and the old man live. I’ve got some
business with the old man, but he don’t want to see me.”

“Wouldn’t Paul tell you?”

“No.”

“What’s it worth, boss?” asked Tom, with an eye to business.

“It depends on how soon you can find out. How can you find out?”

“I’ll foller Paul when he goes home from the office.”

“That’ll do. Do you think you can find out for me tonight, so as to let
me know tomorrow morning?”

“I reckon I can, boss.”

“Meet me here tomorrow morning, and tell me where they live, and I’ll
give you a dollar.”

Tom had not been expecting more than a quarter, and was very well
pleased with Barclay’s liberality.

“I’ll do it, boss!” he said, striking the box, to indicate that the
shine was completed. Apart from the money that was promised him, he
was glad to thwart Paul, who didn’t want his customer to ascertain the
address.

“I’ll meet you here about nine o’clock, and have another shine,” said
Barclay, as he slipped ten cents--double pay--into Tom’s hand.

“You’ll find me on hand, and right side up with care,” said Tom.
“You’re a gentleman I like to fall in with.”

James Barclay walked away, well pleased with the arrangement he had
made.

“There’s more’n one way of finding out what you want to know,” he
soliloquized. “The old man ain’t sharp, or else he thinks I ain’t.
I’ll give him a call when that troublesome telegraph boy is about
his business. Me and the old man will have considerable business to
discuss. He’s going to give me a share of his money, or I’ll shake the
life out of him. It ain’t pleasant to discipline your dad, but when he
don’t treat you like he ought, it’s the only way.”

Tom Rafferty, towards the close of the afternoon, loitered in the
neighborhood of the telegraph office where Paul was employed. When
Number 91 left the office and betook himself homeward, he did not
notice that he was followed at the distance of a few rods by Tom
Rafferty.

But such was the case.




CHAPTER XVIII. JAMES BARCLAY OBTAINS A CLEW.


No commission could have been more congenial to Tom Rafferty than to
track Paul and the miser. He had never liked Paul, whom he charged
with putting on airs, because he was better dressed than himself, but
his aversion had deepened to hatred since the telegraph boy’s forcible
interference in favor of little Jack. He saw a way now to annoy Paul,
for he was satisfied that James Barclay was no friend of Jerry or
Number 91.

He hovered round the telegraph office till Paul was dismissed, and
then, unobserved by him, sauntered along behind him. At Grand Street,
Paul crossed Broadway and proceeded eastward to where Ludlow Street
opens out of it, and proceeded in a southerly direction for about five
minutes. Had he turned back, he might have suspected Tom’s motive in
following him, but he was absorbed in his own thoughts, and never
looked behind him. At length he entered an open doorway and went
upstairs. Tom carefully noted the number, and then, with a look of
triumph, went back to his usual lounging place at the City Hall Park.

