detail of daily life my mother carried her principle of treating the
orphan as her own child. Our country-made frocks were of dark-green
merino, becoming to my blond companion, and anything but becoming to my
sun-browned skin. Over the frocks were neat black silk aprons with
pockets. White linen-cambric frills, hemstitched by hand, and carefully
crimped, were at our throats and wrists, and sunbonnets upon our heads,
or rather, "slatted" hoods that could be folded at pleasure. These were
of dark-green silk, to match the merinos, and ribbon of the same color
was quilled around the capes, crowns, and brims. Our silk gloves were
also dark green, and my mother had knit them herself.

Every item of our school costume was prescribed by her before we left
home. I comprehend now, why the water stood in Cousin Molly Belle's
eyes, while dancing lights played under the water, when we presented
ourselves at breakfast-time, dressed for the important first day in the
Seminary. I appreciate, furthermore, as it was not possible I should
then, the tact and delicacy with which she gradually modified our
everyday and Sunday attire into something more in accordance with that
of our school-fellows.

As we found out for ourselves, before the day was over, we were little
girls in the midst of young ladies, so far as dress and carriage went.
We were imbued with the idea--gathered from the talk of friends and
acquaintances, and our much reading of English story-books--that we were
to be "polished" by our city associations. It was a shock and a
down-topple of our expectations to be thrown, without preparation, into
the society of girls whose manners were very little, if at all, more
refined than those of the quartette who with us constituted Miss
Davidson's home school. We were even more confounded at the discovery
that our home-education had so rooted and grounded us in the rudiments
of learning that we were classed, after the preliminary examination,
with girls older than we by four and five years. The circumstance did
not make us popular with our comrades.

As if my cheeks had tingled under the assault but to-day, I recall the
exclamation of a girl of fifteen who sat next to me while the
examination in history was held. Her father was a distinguished citizen
of Richmond, and her mother a leader in fashionable society.

"Lord, child! how smart you think yourself, to be sure!" she said aloud,
turning squarely about to look into my face.

I had answered as quietly and briefly as I could, the questions put to
me, and tried politely not to look scandalized at her flippant
failures.

"I'm sure I don't know!" "Never heard of him!" "If I ever knew, I've
forgotten all about it!"--were, to my notion, a disgrace, and her cool
effrontery would have been severely rebuked by our governess, and have
met with still sterner judgment from my mother.

At recess this offensive young person headed a coterie that surrounded
us, criticised our clothes, and catechised us as to our home, our
family, and our mode of home living. Among other choice bon mots from
the Honorable Member's daughter was the inquiry--"if we got the pattern
of our wagon-cover hoods from Mrs. Noah?"

I told Cousin Molly Belle that night, that "the whole pack were
ill-bred, rude, and unbearable."

She agreed heartily with two of my epithets, and took me up on the
third:--

"Nothing is 'unbearable,' Namesake, except the thought of our own folly
or sin. Still, this is a part of the discipline of life I would spare
you, if I could. Endure hardness as a good soldier, and shame their want
of breeding by the perfection of yours. An unmannerly schoolgirl is the
cruellest of tormentors, and"--with a ring of her voice and a snap of
her eyes that were refreshing and characteristic--"I should like to have
the handling of that crew for an hour or two!"

I snuggled up close to her, already measurably consoled, and ready as
usual, with one of the speeches that stamped me as "old-fashioned."

"We are like two wild pigeons, tied by the foot, in a yard full of
peacocks. I would rather be a pigeon than a peacock. But pecks and
struts and screamings are not agreeable, for all that."

Nor was it agreeable to be the only girls in our class-room who were not
invited to a party given the middle of November, by one of the nicest of
our new acquaintances. She had been quite friendly with us, and the very
day the invitations were sent out, laid a sprig of citronaloes silently
on my lap, during a French lesson. The smile that went with the scented
leaves was sweeter still, and made my heart and face glow. When we were
getting our wraps and bonnets in the cloak-room, at the close of the
afternoon session, I edged nearer and nearer to her, pretending to hunt
for my overshoes, meaning to say a word of thanks as soon as the group
about her thinned. I got so near to her that I caught what she was
saying in a low voice to her intimates:--

"I just hated not to invite the Burwells, but they do look so
countryfied! like little old women cut short after they were made. And I
don't believe either of them has a party dress to her name. They would
be a pair of sights in a roomful of well-dressed people."

I slipped away with a barbed arrow in my self-love, and a hard,
resentful pain at my heart, on my mother's account. Fierce tears scalded
the inside of my eyelids as I recalled her weeks of loving preparation
for our school life, the thousand of stitches set by her dear hands,
the gentle smile of satisfaction with which she had surveyed our
