And the country will be foolish enough to just throw itself at her,
and she won't take that! Two kings can't govern a country, and we have
a dozen different kings, with their panaceas, and they have brought
the country to the verge of ruin. Washington had some wisdom, I will
admit, and Adams some sense, but since then, with this half-infidel
who believes in every man having his own religion, and no state church
to rally about, and considers that one man has just as much rights as
another, and that drivel that all men are born free and equal! They are
not, I tell you. And I believe in a state church and the power to make
it respected."
"Don't get so excited, father," admonished his wife. "Come, Randolph,
have a bite of something and a glass of wine. You must be half
famished, Mrs. Patricia--the name come in very handy, you see. And the
little girl. Annis is quite out of the family lines. I don't remember
hearing it. It has a Puritan sound. I think myself it is a shame the
world should be so mixed up on religion. There is but one Bible, and
there should be but one way, and the scoffers and unbelievers be set by
themselves."
"Where are the girls?" asked their father.
"They have looked up Marian, I dare say; and she has Sukey Martin
and two of the maids taking apart gowns and fashioning them over in
modern style. A friend sent Jane some patterns from Philadelphia, and
she passed them on. Did you see much that was new in Baltimore, Madam
Patricia? Though this flightiness of dressing is much to be deprecated,
and fills the minds of young people with vanity. But Jane has insisted
that Marian shall come and make her a long visit this winter. They are
to get in their new house in September. I do hope son Jettson is not
going on too fast."
"He may as well make the money as anyone," subjoined grandfather.
"The quicker they build up the quagmire the better it will be for the
permanency of the Capital. And if some time those canting Puritans
want a separate government of their own, they can take New York or
Philadelphia for their center."
"They are improving rapidly," said the squire. "It will be a fine city.
Daniel Carroll's mansion is an ornament, and the Van Ness house is
planned for much gayety and large companies. And there are many others
in process of erection."
Annis sat beside her mother and thought of the talk with which the day
began. If she had to take sides it would be that of her new father, who
was smiling and good-humored and did not bring his fist down on the
table or the edge of the chair with such a thump that it frightened
you. She did not like the grandfather, she decided. Yet he was a
handsome old man, with his ruffled shirt front, his flowered waistcoat,
his velvet smallclothes, with silver buckles in a bow just below his
knee and others set with brilliants on his shoes.
The ladies discussed the bringing up and the education of girls. They
were to be good housewives, trained in all useful arts, and their chief
business in life was to make good marriages. And Madam Floyd admitted
that she had sent Dolly away because there was an undesirable in the
neighborhood, a young Mr. Sears who had been abroad and who played
high and drank more than was seemly--a degenerate son of a good family.
Dolly was very light and trifling.
"Catharine was a very good, steady girl, but her lover, a most worthy
young man, died, and she lost all heart for gayety. And when I married
Mr. Floyd"--she bent her head over and spoke in a lower tone--"I
thought he had some feeling--men are given to jealousy, you know, and
as Catharine was fond of staying with her brother, and the new family
increased so rapidly that somehow we were weaned away. I was almost
struck dumb when she came and told me about her marriage--a settled
old maid such as she was! However, I hope it is for the best, and that
really made it necessary for Randolph to marry."
The men had gone at politics again.
"Marian and Dolly were too young to go and look after such a family,
even if their father would have spared them. And I think my son has
made a wise choice, though I can't tell you how surprised I was, with
no notice beforehand."
"It was very sudden. I could not have done it with--with a stranger,"
and Patricia colored. "I had been very fond of my cousin. And Mr. Mason
was so kind, so thoughtful----"
"He and Catharine hardly seem like my children," and their mother gave
a faint smile. "I have been Mr. Floyd's wife twenty-five years."
Mrs. Floyd summoned a servant presently and said she would show her
new daughter the house, so they left the men to their pipes and their
disputes. The old house had been built long ago and had many rare
belongings, for one ancestor had been a seafaring man and brought home
no end of curiosities. The wide hall went straight through the middle,
but the kitchens were not detached. There were a great storeroom
and linen press and bedding chests crowded to the brim. Drawers were
sweet with napery laid in lavender and rose leaves. The very air was
delicious with old-time fragrance.
"In the new countries one has little time to lay up stores," Madam
said, "and I suppose there are no instructed maids. It is the story
of Jamestown and the eastern Colonies over again. But we have been
civilized this many a year, and kept in touch with the mother country
as well, though I am not so sure that we would be better off under
her government. My forebears made a brave struggle, and I would not
have it go for nothing. But one finds it idle work contradicting one's
husband," and she smiled faintly. "There are ways to get along more
peaceably. Though it seems as if we may all go to pieces yet."
She opened the next door, where three slaves were spinning piles of
carded wool for winter wear, and the hum of the wheels had the rush of
water over gentle descents. Then they went up another broad staircase
to the sleeping chambers.
"My daughters will have a good outfit," she said proudly. "Jane is a
notable housekeeper and the others are being trained. A woman needs to
know all suitable things."
The sound of girls' voices and merry laughs reached them, and Madam
Floyd frowned sharply. They inspected the sleeping chambers, where most
of the furniture was massive and dark with age, in vivid contrast to
white hangings and blue-and-white spreads.
