like a black and guilty thing. She crept around the side of the
house and entered by another door, stealing into one of the darkened
parlors, where she flung herself down upon a sofa and lay trembling
before that new terror. When a few minutes had passed and she heard
a carriage outside, she sprang up wildly, with the thought that he
might be going. She had run half way to the door before she
recollected that the carriage must be for the lieutenant, and then
she stopped and stood still in the darkness, twisting her hands
together nervously and asking herself what she could do.

It occurred to her that she could look down the piazza from the
window of the room, and so she went swiftly to it. The officer was
just descending to the carriage, Mr. Roberts with him, and her aunt
and Mr. Howard standing at the top of the steps, the latter’s figure
clearly outlined in the moonlight. Helen’s heart was so full of
despair and yearning just then that she could have rushed out and
flung herself at his feet, had he been alone; but she felt a new
kind of shrinking from her aunt. She stood hesitating, therefore,
muttering to herself, “I must let him know about it somehow, and he
will tell me what to do. Oh, I MUST! And I must tell him now, before
it is too late!”

She stood by the window, panting and almost choking with her
emotion, kneading her hands one upon the other in frenzied
agitation; and then she heard Mr. Howard say to her aunt, “I shall
have to ask you to excuse me now, for I must not forget that I am an
invalid.” And Helen clutched her burning temples, seeing him turn to
enter the house, and seeing that her chance was going. She glanced
around her, almost desperate, and then suddenly her heart gave a
great leap, for just beside her was something that had brought one
resource to her mind. She had seen the piano in the dim light, and
had thought suddenly of the song that Mr. Howard had mentioned.

“He will remember!” she thought swiftly, as she ran to the
instrument and sat down before it. With a strength born of her
desperation she mastered the quivering of her hands, and catching
her breath, began in a weak and trembling voice the melody of
Rubenstein:

  “Thou art as a flower,
    So pure and fair thou art;
  I gaze on thee, and sorrow
    Doth steal into my heart.

  “I would lay my hands upon thee,
    Upon thy snowy brow,
  And pray that God might keep thee
    So pure and fair as now.”

Helen did not know how she was singing, she thought only of telling
her yearning and her pain; she was so choked with emotion that she
could scarcely utter a sound at all, and the song must have startled
those who heard it. It was laden with all the tears that had been
gathering in Helen’s heart for days.

She did not finish the song; she was thinking, “Will he understand?”
 She stopped suddenly as she saw a shadow upon the porch outside,
telling her that Mr Howard had come nearer. There was a minute or so
of breathless suspense and then, as the shadow began to draw slowly
backwards, Helen clenched her hands convulsively, whispering to
herself, “He will think it was only an accident! Oh, what can I do?”

There are some people all of whose emotions take the form of music;
there came into Helen’s mind at that instant a melody that was the
very soul of her agitation and her longing--MacDowell’s “To a Water
Lily;” the girl thought of what Mr. Howard had said about the
feeling that comes to suffering mortals at the sight of something
perfect and serene, and she began playing the little piece, very
softly, and with trembling hands.

It is quite wonderful music; to Helen with her heart full of grief
and despair, the chords that floated so cold and white and high were
almost too much to be borne. She played desperately on, however,
because she saw that Mr. Howard had stopped again, and she did not
believe that he could fail to understand that music.

So she continued until she came to the pleading song of the swan.
The music is written to a poem of Geibel’s which tells of the
snow-white lily, and of the bird which wonders at its beauty;
afterwards, because there is nothing in all nature more cold and
unapproachable than a water-lily, and because one might sing to it
all day and never fancy that it heard him, the first melody rises
again, as keen and as high as ever, and one knows that his yearning
is in vain, and that there is nothing for him but his old despair.
When Helen came to that she could go no farther, for her
wretchedness had been heaping itself up, and her heart was bursting.
Her fingers gave way as she struck the keys, and she sank down and
hid her face in her arms, and broke into wild and passionate
sobbing. She was almost choking with her pent-up emotions, so shaken
that she was no longer conscious of what went on about her. She did
not hear Mr. Howard’s voice, as he entered, and she did not even
hear the frightened exclamations of her aunt, until the latter had
flung her arms about her. Then she sprang up and tore herself loose
by main force, rushing upstairs and locking herself in her own room,
where she flung herself down upon the bed and wept until she could
weep no more, in the meantime not even hearing her aunt’s voice from
the hallway, and altogether unconscious of the flight of time.

When she sat up and brushed away her tangled hair and gazed about
her, everything in the house was silent. She herself was exhausted,
