instant that she had ever known.

"I am tired out," she thought; "and I am going to sleep.  I did not
die, after all."  She was aware of turning her face, as her head
dropped back on her pillows, before she sank into ecstasy.


The night was fair and cool.  There was some wind, and the trees in the
Park winced under a glittering frost.  Avery noticed this as he hurried
to Dr. Armstrong's.  The leaves seemed to curl in a sensitive, womanish
fashion, as if their feelings had been hurt before they received their
death-stroke.

"It is the third of November," he thought.  His feet rang on the
sidewalk sharply, and he ran up the long steps with his gloved hand
held to his cheek.

Physical pain always made him angry.  He was irritable with Armstrong,
who had none too good a temper himself; and the two men sparred a
little before the dentist consented to remove the tooth.

Avery was surprised to find how short and simple an affair this was.

"I believe I 'll run into the Club," he observed as he put on his coat.

"Better go home," replied the dentist.  "No?  Then I 'll go along with
you."

The two men started out in silence.

Avery looked across at the wincing leaves on the trees of the Park.
The tower of the Church of the Happy Saints showed black against the
sky.  The club was only around the corner, and he was glad of it, for
the night felt unpleasantly cold to him; he shivered as he entered the
hot, bright, luxurious place; it was heavy with tobacco; the click of
billiard-balls and the clink of a glass sounded to his ear with a
curious distinctness above the laughter and the chat with which the
house seemed to rock and echo.

Romer was there--Tom Romer; and he was uncommonly glad to see Avery.
The two gentlemen, with Armstrong and another man, grouped upon a game
of billiards.  Romer proposed whist, but Armstrong said it was too late
for whist.  Avery did not say anything, and he played stupidly, and
after a while asked to be excused, and got up to go home.

"You 're looking fagged," observed Tom Romer, knocking the ashes from
his cigar artistically.  "You 're overworked.  Most of you professional
chaps are.  Come yachting with me, on the Dream.  We 're going to the
Sound after ducks.  Back in a week.  Start at seven o'clock to-morrow
morning.  Stay and put up here, and get off with me.  Oh!  I forgot.
You 're one of those married men."

"Yes," replied Avery, with a consciousness of superior virtue.  "I
could n't go without saying good-by to my wife.  I wouldn't think of it
for a moment," he added loftily.  "Give me a minute, Romer, to think it
over, will you?"

He strolled to the window, and looked out at the waters of the black
river which rushed whirling past the rear of the clubhouse.  It
occurred to him that Armstrong watched him anxiously.  But Armstrong
did not speak.

"I 'll go--thanks!" said Avery, coming back, with his hands in his
pockets.  "I 'll get word to the office; they can manage without me,
somehow--that is, if you 'll promise to get me back in a week?"

"I 'll set you ashore at the back yard of this club six days from
to-morrow," answered Romer.  "The Dream 's a dandy," added the
yachtsman, swelling a little.  "She can do it."

Avery replied absently, and hurriedly started for home.  In fact, he
ran most of the way (Dr. Armstrong could not keep up with him), for he
was shocked to find that it was now one o'clock.

"Poor Jean!" he thought; "I stayed too long."  Then he remembered for
the first time that he had got to tell Jean that he was going.  It
occurred to him for a moment that he would rather give up going with
Romer than tell Jean.  But it was now too late to do that.

"You see," he said, stopping for Armstrong to overtake him, "I 've
got to go, now."  But Armstrong did not reply; he turned in at his
own house with a manner which his friend felt to be superfluous.  Avery
experienced a certain resentment against the dentist.  He was relieved
to be alone, and walked more slowly.

When he came into his own hall, the house was perfectly still.  He took
off his shoes, and tiptoed upstairs, pausing at the door of his wife's
room.  She was sleeping so soundly that she did not hear him--an
unusual circumstance, for Jean, though a good sleeper, as we said, was
a light one.  The husband was conscious that he had fallen on better
chance than he deserved.  He had expected to find her awake, and more
or less nervous over his belated return.

"What luck!" he thought.  Yes, he was really very glad that Jean was
asleep, poor girl.  She would take it hard--to-morrow.  He moved about
like a cat, packing his valise.  He had several letters to write,
too,--one to his partner, one or two to clients, and one--well, why
not?  Why not write one to his wife?  It would obviate a great deal of
trouble on both sides; in fact, it would save him so much that he
persuaded himself, without undue difficulty, that it would save her
