
“How to behave?” inquired Angelique, mirthfully. 
“And all your little faults?” 

Sylvie was about to say, “How beautiful and how dear 
you are!” For Hortense had begun to weary her with 
'‘mere ange! My little heart! My sweetest flower; my 
star of light, I love you !” And yet as the boys were 
going away, Dick looked her straight in the face and ex- 
claimed, with the candor of one not yet in his teens : 

“I never saw any one as beautiful as you. Miss Sylvie. 
You look like an angel with all that golden hair and your 
eyes just the color of heaven.” 

So the little girl locked that up with her other secrets. 
It had not even called a blush to her cheek. 


Hylas had enjoyed the boys wonderfully, too. He had 
run races with them, being compelled by his wilful 
mistress to give them long odds and then distance them 
in the end. They had rolled and tumbled about until the 
white suits were almost the color of the dog. He had 
found articles hidden away, he had brought sticks, and if 
he could not dance, the supple curves of his long lithe 
body and slim legs were splendid. 

Sylvie was tired and swung in the hammock. Hylas 
went over to Angelique, who sat puzzling over some 
words in the barbarous language that sounded so strong 
and forceful as the boys uttered the ringing sentences. 

“Why do you look at me so,” she asked, with a kind 
of sweet indignation. “It is as if you knew — every- 
thing !” 

Yes, it was as if he said, “Do you remember my 
master? Wherever he goes he carries about with him 
your image. He never forgets you any more than I 
forget him.” 

Then she kept her eyes fixed steadily on her book. 

So they studied and blundered and laughed and 
listened to Mrs. Murch’s stories about girls at the East, 
and books and wonderful lives of dead and gone people 
that were fast spoiling them for the dreamy, languid life 
and the chatter about lovers to come, and settlements for 
the future. Letters too from Gervaise. They had found 
some tidings of Hugh. He had been in several Indian 
skirmishes, wounded in one and carried off a prisoner, 
nursed by an old Indian woman in a solitary wigwam. 

Some one had found it later on burned to the ground. 
It was said a friend had taken the sick man to the South. 
And there all trace of him stopped. They were going 
on to the eastward, would visit some of the larger cities 
and see the President of this great, new nation. “Oh,” 





Gervaise wrote, "T do not wonder Norton is an enthusi- 
astic American. The wonderful achievements are almost 
enough to turn one’s brain.” 

And now autumn was coming on with its greater rich- 
ness of foliage, its luscious fruits, its gorgeous flowers, 
its sunsets full of splendor, the soft languor giving way 
to a kind of briskness even in pleasure. 

One day Claire Fleurien surprised them by a visit. 
Eugene had come down to see some sugar-buyers, Claire 
for a visit home, and they were to bring back Angelique 
and the little Sylvie. 

“But she is no longer little,” in amaze. “Papa 
Fleurien held Felice on his knee and told her baby stories, 
but, merci! Sylvie is a big girl. And now you will be in 
season to see the sugar-making. There is so much on a 
big plantation. Ours is large, but M. Poydras’s is like 
a little town, only not gay with balls and cafes and bal- 
conies full of pretty, gayly dressed women. Ah, New 
Orleans is charming, and I shall come down when the 
holidays set in for a visit. Eugene and I — papa has 
consented, and we shall dance and be merry to our heart’s 
content.” 

Claire was a little rounder and rosier and suggested 
her mother, so fresh and vivacious that she made one’s 
blood start with enjoyment and hope. 

To make a visit on a big plantation and to stay at the 
sugar-making! They had gone out to Monsieur de 
Bore’s for a day at a time, but this would be quite dif- 
ferent. And Claire with all her brightness ! 

“If I could only take Hylas and Telano,” sighed 
