him, if you touch him, Mr. Kenton, you will undo 
everything that the abominable wretch has done 
for Ellen, and you will close my mouth and tie my 
hands. Will you promise that under no provoca 
tion whatever will you do him the least harm? I 
know Ellen better than you do, and I know that 
you will make her hate you unless " 

" Oh, I will promise ! You needn 't be afraid. Lord 



 

help me !" Kenton groaned. " I won 't touch him. 
But don 't expect me to speak to him." 

" No, I don 't expect that. He won 't offer to speak 
to you." 

They slept, and in the morning she stayed to 
breakfast with Ellen in their apartment, and let 
her husband go down with their younger children. 
She could trust him now, whatever form his further 
trial should take, and he felt that he was pledging 
himself to her anew, when Bittridge came hilarious 
ly to meet him in the reading-room, where he went 
for a paper after breakfast. 

" Ah, judge !" said the young man, gayly. " Hello, 
Boyne !" he added to the boy, who had come with his 
father; Lottie had gone directly up-stairs from the 
breakfast-room. " I hope you 're all well this morn 
ing ? Play not too much for Miss Ellen ?" 

Kenton looked him in the face without answering, 
and then tried to get away from him, but Bittridge 
followed him up, talking, and ignoring his silence. 

" It was a splendid piece, judge. You must take 
Mrs. Kenton. I know you 'll both like it. I haven 't 
ever seen Miss Ellen so interested. I hope the 
walk home didn 't fatigue her. I wanted to get a 
cab, but she would walk." The judge kept moving 
on, with his head down. He did not speak, and Bit 
tridge was forced to notice his silence. " Nothing 
the matter, I hope, with Miss Ellen, judge?" 

" Go away," said the judge, in a low voice, fum 
bling the head of his stick. 

"Why, what 's up?" asked Bittridge, and he 



managed to get in front of Kenton and stay him 
at a point where Kenton could not escape. It 
was a corner of the room to which the old man 
had aimlessly tended, with no purpose but to avoid 
him. 

"I wish you to let me alone, sir," said Kenton 
at last. " I can 't speak to you." 

"I understand what you mean, judge," said Bit- 
tridge, with a grin, all the more maddening because 
it seemed involuntary. " But I can explain every 
thing. I just want a few words with you. It 's 
very important; it 's life or death with me, sir," 
he said, trying to look grave. " Will you let me 
go to your rooms with you?" 

Kenton made no reply. 

Bittridge began to laugh. " Then let 's sit down 
here, or in the ladies parlor. It won 't take me 
two minutes to make everything right. If you don 't 
believe I 'm in earnest I know you don 't think 
I am, but I can assure you Will you let me speak 
with you about Miss Ellen?" 

Still Kenton did not answer, shutting his lips 
tight, and remembering his promise to his wife. 

Bittridge laughed, as if in amusement at what 
he had done. " Judge, let me say two words to you 
in private! If you can 't now, tell me when you 
can. We 're going back this evening, mother and 
I are; she isn 't well, and I 'm not going to take 
her to Washington. I don 't want to go leaving 
you with the idea that I wanted to insult Miss 
Ellen. I care too much for her. I want to see you 



 

and Mrs. Kenton about it. I do, indeed. And 
won 't you let me see you, somewhere?" 

