"Ah then you will return? Can you promise one that?"

Her face fairly lighted at his asking for a promise; but she made as if
bargaining a little. "Isn't London rather awful in winter?"

He had been going to ask her if she meant for the invalid; but he
checked the infelicity of this and took the enquiry as referring to
social life. "No--I like it, with one thing and another; it's less of a
mob than later on; and it would have for us the merit--should you
come here then--that we should probably see more of you. So do reappear
for us--if it isn't a question of climate."

She looked at that a little graver. "If what isn't a question--?"

"Why the determination of your movements. You spoke just now of going
somewhere for that."

"For better air?"--she remembered. "Oh yes, one certainly wants to get
out of London in August."

"Rather, of course!"--he fully understood. "Though I'm glad you've hung
on long enough for me to catch you. Try us at any rate," he continued,
"once more."

"Whom do you mean by 'us'?" she presently asked.

It pulled him up an instant--representing, as he saw it might have
seemed, an allusion to himself as conjoined with Kate, whom he was
proposing not to mention any more than his hostess did. But the issue
was easy. "I mean all of us together, every one you'll find ready to
surround you with sympathy."

It made her, none the less, in her odd charming way, challenge him
afresh. "Why do you say sympathy?"

"Well, it's doubtless a pale word. What we shall feel for you will be
much nearer worship."

"As near then as you like!" With which at last Kate's name was sounded.
"The people I'd most come back for are the people you know. I'd do it
for Mrs. Lowder, who has been beautifully kind to me."

"So she has to me," said Densher. "I feel," he added as she at first
answered nothing, "that, quite contrary to anything I originally
expected, I've made a good friend of her."

"I didn't expect it either--its turning out as it has. But I did," said
Milly, "with Kate. I shall come back for her too. I'd do anything"--she
kept it up--"for Kate."

Looking at him as with conscious clearness while she spoke, she might
for the moment have effectively laid a trap for whatever remains of the
ideal straightness in him were still able to pull themselves together
and operate. He was afterwards to say to himself that something had at
that moment hung for him by a hair. "Oh I know what one would do for
Kate!"--it had hung for him by a hair to break out with that, which he
felt he had really been kept from by an element in his consciousness
stronger still. The proof of the truth in question was precisely in his
silence; resisting the impulse to break out was what he was doing for
Kate. This at the time moreover came and went quickly enough; he was
trying the next minute but to make Milly's allusion easy for herself.
"Of course I know what friends you are--and of course I understand," he
permitted himself to add, "any amount of devotion to a person so
charming. That's the good turn then she'll do us all--I mean her
working for your return."

"Oh you don't know," said Milly, "how much I'm really on her hands."

He could but accept the appearance of wondering how much he might show
he knew. "Ah she's very masterful."

"She's great. Yet I don't say she bullies me."

"No--that's not the way. At any rate it isn't hers," he smiled. He
remembered, however, then that an undue acquaintance with Kate's ways
was just what he mustn't show; and he pursued the subject no further
than to remark with a good intention that had the further merit of
representing a truth: "I don't feel as if I knew her--really to call
know."

"Well, if you come to that, I don't either!" she laughed. The words
gave him, as soon as they were uttered, a sense of responsibility for
his own; though during a silence that ensued for a minute he had time
to recognise that his own contained after all no element of falsity.
Strange enough therefore was it that he could go too far--if it was
too far--without being false. His observation was one he would
perfectly have made to Kate herself. And before he again spoke, and
before Milly did, he took time for more still--for feeling how just
here it was that he must break short off if his mind was really made up
not to go further. It was as if he had been at a corner--and fairly put
there by his last speech; so that it depended on him whether or no to
turn it. The silence, if prolonged but an instant, might even have
given him a sense of her waiting to see what he would do. It was filled
for them the next thing by the sound, rather voluminous for the August
afternoon, of the approach, in the street below them, of heavy
carriage-wheels and of horses trained to "step." A rumble, a great
shake, a considerable effective clatter, had been apparently succeeded
by a pause at the door of the hotel, which was in turn accompanied by a
due display of diminished prancing and stamping. "You've a visitor,"
Densher laughed, "and it must be at least an ambassador."
