
It was unexpected, corresponding with no view positively taken at their
departure; when England had appeared, on the contrary, rather relegated
and postponed--seen for the moment, as who should say, at the end of an
avenue of preparations and introductions. London, in short, might have
been supposed to be the crown, and to be achieved like a siege by
gradual approaches. Milly's actual fine stride was therefore the more
exciting, as any simplification almost always was to Mrs. Stringham;
who, besides, was afterwards to recall as the very beginning of a drama
the terms in which, between their smoky candles, the girl had put her
preference and in which still other things had come up, come while the
clank of waggon-chains in the sharp air reached their ears, with the
stamp of hoofs, the rattle of buckets and the foreign questions,
foreign answers, that were all alike a part of the cheery converse of
the road. The girl brought it out in truth as she might have brought a
huge confession, something she admitted herself shy about and that
would seem to show her as frivolous; it had rolled over her that what
she wanted of Europe was "people," so far as they were to be had, and
that if her friend really wished to know, the vision of this same
equivocal quantity was what had haunted her during their previous days,
in museums and churches, and what was again spoiling for her the pure
taste of scenery. She was all for scenery--yes; but she wanted it human
and personal, and all she could say was that there would be in
London--wouldn't there? more of that kind than anywhere else. She came
back to her idea that if it wasn't for long--if nothing should happen
to be so for her--why, the particular thing she spoke of would
probably have most to give her in the time, would probably be less than
anything else a waste of her remainder. She produced this last
consideration indeed with such gaiety that Mrs. Stringham was not again
disconcerted by it, was in fact quite ready--if talk of early dying was
in order--to match it from her own future. Good, then; they would, eat
and drink because of what might happen to-morrow; and they would direct
their course from that moment with a view to such eating and drinking.
They ate and drank that night, in truth, as if in the spirit of this
decision; whereby the air, before they separated, felt itself the
clearer.

It had cleared perhaps to a view only too extensive--extensive, that
is, in proportion to the signs of life presented. The idea of "people"
was not so entertained on Milly's part as to connect itself with
particular persons, and the fact remained for each of the ladies that
they would, completely unknown, disembark at Dover amid the completely
unknowing. They had no relation already formed; this plea Mrs.
Stringham put forward to see what it would produce. It produced nothing
at first but the observation on the girl's side that what she had in
mind was no thought of society nor of scraping acquaintance; nothing
was further from her than to desire the opportunities represented for
the compatriot in general by a trunkful of "letters." It wasn't a
question, in short, of the people the compatriot was after; it was the
human, the English picture itself, as they might see it in their own
way--the world imagined always in what one had read and dreamed. Mrs.
Stringham did every justice to this world, but when later on an
occasion chanced to present itself, she made a point of not omitting to
remark that it might be a comfort to know in advance even an
individual. This still, however, failed in vulgar parlance, to "fetch"
Milly, so that she had presently to go all the way. "Haven't I
understood from you, for that matter, that you gave Mr. Densher
something of a promise?"

There was a moment, on this, when Milly's look had to be taken as
representing one of two things--either that she was completely vague
about the promise or that Mr. Densher's name itself started no train.
But she really couldn't be so vague about the promise, her
interlocutress quickly saw, without attaching it to something; it had
to be a promise to somebody in particular to be so repudiated. In the
event, accordingly, she acknowledged Mr. Merton Densher, the so
unusually clever young Englishman who had made his appearance in New
York on some special literary business--wasn't it?--shortly before
their departure, and who had been three or four times in her house
during the brief period between her visit to Boston and her companion's
subsequent stay with her; but she required much reminding before it
came back to her that she had mentioned to this companion just
afterwards the confidence expressed by the personage in question in her
never doing so dire a thing as to come to London without, as the phrase
was, looking a fellow up. She had left him the enjoyment of his
confidence, the form of which might have appeared a trifle free--that
she now reasserted; she had done nothing either to impair or to enhance
it; but she had also left Mrs. Stringham, in the connection and at the
time, rather sorry to have missed Mr. Densher. She had thought of him
again after that, the elder woman; she had likewise gone so far as to
notice that Milly appeared not to have done so--which the girl might
easily have betrayed; and, interested as she was in everything that
concerned her, she had made out for herself, for herself only and
rather idly, that, but for interruptions, the young Englishman might
have become a better acquaintance. His being an acquaintance at all was
one of the signs that in the first days had helped to place Milly, as a
young person with the world before her, for sympathy and wonder.
Isolated, unmothered, unguarded, but with her other strong marks, her
big house, her big fortune, her big freedom, she had lately begun to
"receive," for all her few years, as an older woman might have done--as
was done, precisely, by princesses who had public considerations to
observe and who came of age very early. If it was thus distinct to Mrs.
Stringham then that Mr. Densher had gone off somewhere else in
connection with his errand before her visit to New York, it had been
also not undiscoverable that he had come back for a day or two later
on, that is after her own second excursion--that he had in fine
reappeared on a single occasion on his way to the West: his way from
Washington as she believed, though he was out of sight at the time of
her joining her friend for their departure. It had not occurred to her
before to exaggerate--it had not occurred to her that she could; but
