
Jim did these up in the square of gingham, and he tied it across
cater-cornered twice, in double knots, and showed Pony how he could put
his hand through and carry it just as easy. He hid it under the bed for
him, and he told Pony that if he was in Pony's place he should go to bed
right away or pretty soon, so that nobody would think anything, and maybe
he could get some sleep before he got up and went down to wait on the
front steps for the circus to come along. He promised to be there with the
other boys and keep them from fooling or making a noise, or doing anything
to wake his father up, or make the constable come. "You see, Pony," he
said, "if you can run off this year, and come back with the circus next
year, then a whole lot of fellows can run off. Don't you see that?"

Pony said he saw that, but he said he wished some of the other fellows
were going now, because he did not know any of the circus boys and he was
afraid he might feel kind of lonesome. But Jim Leonard said he would soon
get acquainted, and, anyway, a year would go before he knew it, and then
if the other fellows could get off he would have plenty of company.

As soon as Jim Leonard was gone Pony undressed and got into bed. He was
not sleepy, but he thought maybe it would be just as well to rest a little
while before the circus procession came along for him; and, anyway, he
could not bear to go down-stairs and be with the family when he was going
to leave them so soon, and not come back for a whole year.

After a good while, or about the time he usually came in from playing, he
heard his mother saying: "Where in the world is Pony? Has he come in yet?
Have you seen him, girls? Pony! Pony!" she called.

But somehow Pony could not get his voice up out of his throat; he wanted
to answer her, but he could not speak. He heard her say, "Go out to the
front steps, girls, and see if you can see him," and then he heard her
coming up the stairs; and she came into his room, and when she saw him
lying there in bed she said: "Why, I believe in my heart the child's
asleep! Pony! Are you awake?"

Pony made out to say no, and his mother said: "My! what a fright you gave
me! Why didn't you answer me? Are you sick, Pony? Your father said you
didn't seem well at the circus; and you didn't eat any supper, hardly."

Pony said he was first-rate, but he spoke very low, and his mother came up
and sat down on the side of his bed.

"What is the matter, child?" She bent over and felt his forehead. "No, you
haven't got a bit of fever," she said, and she kissed him, and began to
tumble his short black hair in the way she had, and she got one of his
hands between her two, and kept rubbing it. "But you've had a long,
tiresome day, and that's why you've gone to bed, I suppose. But if you
feel the least sick, Pony, I'll send for the doctor."

Pony said he was not sick at all; just tired; and that was true; he felt
as if he never wanted to get up again.

His mother put her arm under his neck, and pressed her face close down to
his, and said very low: "Pony, dear, you don't feel hard towards your
mother for what she did the other night?"

He knew she meant boxing his ears, when he was not to blame, and he said:
"Oh no," and then he threw his arms round her neck and cried; and she told
him not to cry, and that she would never do such a thing again; but she
was really so frightened she did not know what she was doing.

When he quieted down she said: "Now say your prayers, Pony, 'Our Father,'"
and she said "Our Father" all through with him, and after that, "Now I lay
me," just as when he was a very little fellow. After they had finished she
stooped over and kissed him again, and when he turned his face into his
pillow she kept smoothing his hair with her hand for about a minute. Then
she went away.

Pony could hear them stirring about for a good while down-stairs. His
father came in from up-town at last and asked:

"Has Pony come in?" and his mother said:

"Yes, he's up in bed. I wouldn't disturb him, Henry. He's asleep by this
time."

His father said: "I don't know what to make of the boy. If he keeps on
acting so strangely I shall have the doctor see him in the morning."

Pony felt dreadfully to think how far away from them he should be in the
morning, and he would have given anything if he could have gone down to
his father and mother and told them what he was going to do. But it did
not seem as if he could.

By-and-by he began to be sleepy, and then he dozed off, but he thought it
was hardly a minute before he heard the circus band, and knew that the
procession was coming for him. He jumped out of bed and put on his things
as fast as he could; but his roundabout had only one sleeve to it,
somehow, and he had to button the lower buttons of his trousers to keep it
on. He got his bundle and stole down to the front door without seeming to
touch his feet to anything, and when he got out on the front steps he saw
the circus magician coming along. By that time the music had stopped and
Pony could not see any procession. The magician had on a tall, peaked hat,
like a witch. He took up the whole street, he was so wide in the black
glazed gown that hung from his arms when he stretched them out, for he
seemed to be groping along that way, with his wand in one hand, like a
blind man.

He kept saying in a kind of deep, shaking voice: "It's all glory; it's all
