“All right! Well, good-by.”

It might have been supposed that Mr. McCracken would have shaken hands
with Bernard now that he was about to go away to a distant point and for
an indefinite time, but he did not offer to do it, and Bernard on the
whole was glad to have it so. He felt a physical repulsion for Mr.
McCracken which he could not explain, and preferred to dispense with all
signs of friendliness.

He felt rather relieved, too, when Mr. McCracken had left the vessel,
and he had seen the last of him, for a time at least.

The preparations for departure continued. The sailors were busy, and
soon the vessel left her wharf, and was towed out into the stream.
Bernard watched the shipping in the harbor, the ferry-boats darting here
and there, the Jersey shore, and later the spires and warehouses of the
great city on the other side of the river. He rather wondered why he did
not see Professor Puffer, but that gentleman had gone below. At length
Bernard thought it time to inquire the whereabouts of his employer. The
steward led him below, and pointed to the door of a stateroom. He
knocked at the door, and did not at first have a reply. A second knock
elicited an indistinct sound which he interpreted as “Come in!”

He opened the door and saw the professor lying in the lower berth in
what appeared to be a stupor.

“Don’t you feel well, Professor Puffer?” asked Bernard.

“Who are you?” returned the professor, with a tipsy hiccough.

This, with the undeniable smell of liquor, and a whisky bottle on the
floor, showed clearly enough what was the matter with the professor.

Bernard was shocked. He had always had a horror of intemperance, and he
regarded his corpulent employer with ill-concealed disgust.

“I am Bernard Brooks, your new secretary,” he answered.

“Thatsh all right! Take a drink,” returned the professor, trying to
indicate the bottle.

“No, thank you. I am not thirsty,” said Bernard.

“Give it to me, then.”

Much against his will Bernard handed the bottle to his learned employer,
who poured down the small amount that was left in it.

“Thatsh good!” he ejaculated.

“Have I got to occupy the room with a man like that?” thought Bernard,
with disgust. “I hope there are very few professors like Professor
Puffer.”




CHAPTER XIV.  SOME OF THE PASSENGERS.

|Bernard had always cherished high respect for literary men and
professors, though it must be confessed that he did not venerate
Professor Snowdon. To find Professor Puffer an inebriate was certainly a
shock to him. Still, he remembered that Burns had been intemperate, and
that Byron loved gin, and that in spite of his taste for whisky
Professor Puffer might be a learned man.

The next day the professor was sober, partly, perhaps, because his
supply of drink had given out. Bernard resolved to get better acquainted
with him.

“Professor Puffer,” he said, after breakfast, “I am ready to begin work
whenever you please.”

“All right! Have you been seasick?”

“No, sir.”

“I thought perhaps for the first three or four days you might be
affected.”

“I thought so, too, as I am not used to the sea, but I haven’t had any
trouble yet, so that I can go to work any time you desire.”

“I shan’t undertake to do any work on the ship, Mr.---- what is your
name?”

“Brooks--Bernard Brooks.”

“Just so. I shall remember after a while.”

“I am very much obliged to you for giving me a situation when you don’t
know any more of me.”

“Oh, Mr. McCracken spoke for you. A sharp man is Mr. McCracken.”

“I dare say he is, but I don’t know much about him.”

“Don’t you?” asked the professor, showing some interest. “Isn’t he your
guardian?”

