Strether's observation, the same effect he himself had 
already more directly felt — the effect of appearing to place 
all knowledge, for the time, on this original woman's side. 
It interested him indeed to mark the limits of any such 
relation for her with his friend as there could possibly be a 
question of, and it particularly struck him that they were 
to be marked altogether in Waymarsh's quarter. This 
added to his own sense of having gone far with her — gave 
him an early illustration of a much shorter course. There 
was a certitude he immediately grasped — a conviction thjft 
Waymarsh would quite fail, as it were, and on whatever 
degree of acquaintance, to profit by her. 

There had been, after the first interchange among the 
three, a talk of some five minutes in the hall, and then the 
two men had adjourned to the garden. Miss Gostrey for 
the time disappearing. Strcther, in due course, accom- 
panied his friend to the room he had bespoken and had, 
before going out, scrupulously visited ; where, at the end 
of another half-hour, he had no less discreetly left him. 
On leaving him he repaired straight to his own room, but 
with the effect, very soon, of feeling the compass of that 
chamber resented by his condition. There he had, on the  
spot, the first consequence of their union. A place was too 
small for him after it that had seemed large enough before.  
He had awaited it with something that he would have : 
been sorry, have been almost ashamed, not to recognise as 
emotion, yet with a tacit assumption, at the same time,   
that emotion would in the event find itself relieved. The 
actual oddity was that he was only more excited ; and his 
excitement — to which, indeed, he would have found it 
difficult instantly to give a name — brought him once more a 
downstairs and caused him for some minutes vaguely to 
wander. He went once more to the garden ; he looked 
into the public room, found Miss Gostrey writing letters  
and backed out ; he roamed, fidgeted and wasted time ; 
but he was to have his more intimate session with his 
friend before the evening closed.  

It was late — it was not till Strether had spent an hour 
upstairs with him — that this subject consented to betake 
himself to doubtful rest. Dinner and the subsequent stroll 
by moonlight — a dream, on Strether's part, of romantic 
effects rather prosaically merged in a mere missing of 
thicker coats — had measurably intervened, and this mid- 
night conference was the result of Waymarsh's having — 
when they were free, as he put it, of their fashionable 
friend — found the smoking-room not quite what he wanted, 
and yet bed what he wanted still less. His most frequent 
form of words was that he knew himself, and they were 
applied on this occasion to his certainty of not sleeping. 
He knew himself well enough to know that he should have 
a night of prowling unless he should succeed, as a pre- 
liminary, in getting as tired as he wanted. If the effort 
directed to this end involved, till a late hour, the presence 
of Strether — consisted, that is, in the detention of the latter 
for full discourse — there was yet an impression of minor 
discipline involved, for our friend, in the picture Way- 
marsh made as he sat, in trousers and shirt, on the edge of 
his couch. With his long legs extended and his large 
back much bent, he nursed alternately, for an almost 
incredible time, his elbows and his beard. He struck his 
visitor as extremely, as almost wilfully uncomfortable ; yet 
what had this been for Strether, from that first glimpse of 





him disconcerted in the porch of the hotel, but the pre- 
dominant note ? It was a discomfort that was in a manner 
contagious, as well as also, in a manner, inconsequent and 
unfounded ; the visitor felt that unless he should get used 
to it — or unless Waymarsh himself should — it would con- 
stitute a menace for his own prepared, his own already 
confirmed, consciousness of the agreeable. On their first 
going up together to the room that Strether had selected 
for him Waymarsh had looked it over, in silence, with a 
sigh that represented for his companion, if not the habit 
of disapprobation, at least the despair of felicity ; and 
this look had recurred to Strether as the key of much that 
he had since observed. " Europe," he had begun to gather 
from these things, had as yet, then, for him, rather failed 
of its message ; he had not got into tune with it, and had 
almost, at the end of three months, renounced any such 
expectation. 

He really appeared at present to insist on that by just 
perching there with the gas in his eyes. This of itself 
somehow conveyed the futility of single rectification in a 
multiform failure. He had a large, handsome head and a 
large, sallow, seamed face — a striking, significant physiog- 
nomic total, the upper range of which, the great political 
brow, the thick, loose hair, the dark, fuliginous eyes, re- 
called even to a generation whose standard had dreadfully 
deviated the impressive image, familiar by engravings and 
busts, of some great national worthy of the earlier part of 
the mid-century. He was of the personal type — and it 
was an element in the power and promise that in their 
earlier time Strether had found in him — of the American 
