the bar back into position and hqard it strike the 
bricks, the tune and the words came back with the 
pendulum rhythm ; and went on and on, still they were 
almost maddening, though there no longer seemed to 
be any sense in them. They made the time pass. 

Sabina heard the dull blows, too, though not very 
loud. It was a comfort to hear anything in the total 



 

darkness, and she tried to amuse herself by counting 
the strokes up to a hundred and then checking the 
hundreds by turning in one finger after another. It 
would be something to tell him when he came back. 
She wondered whether there would be a thousand, and 
then, as she was wondering, she lost the count, and by 
way of a change she tried to reckon how many seconds 
there were in an hour. But she got into trouble with 
the ciphers when she tried to multiply sixty by sixty in 
her head, and she began counting the strokes again. 
They always stopped for a few seconds somewhere 
between thirty and forty. 

She wished he would come back soon, for she was 
beginning to feel very cold again, so cold that presently 
she got upon her feet and walked a dozen steps, feeling her way along the great bronze statue. It was 
better than sitting still. She had heard of prisoners 
who had kept themselves sane in a dark dungeon by 
throwing away a few pins they had, and finding them 
again. It was a famous prisoner who did that. It 
was the prisoner of Quillon — no, " quillon " had something to do with a sword — no, it was Chillon. Then 
she felt dizzy again, and steadied herself against the 
statue, and presently groped her way back to her seat. 
She almost fell, when she sat down, but saved herself 
and at last succeeded in getting to her original posi- 
tion. It was not that she was faint from hunger yet ; 
her dizziness was probably the result of cold and weari- 
ness and discomfort, and most of all, of the unaccus- 
tomed darkness. 





She was ashamed of being so weak, when she listened 
to the steady strokes, far off, and thought of the 
strength and endurance it must need to do what Mali- 
pieri seemed to be doing so easily. But she was very 
cold indeed, chilled to the bone and shivering, and she 
could not think of any way of getting warm. She rose 
again, and struck one of the matches he had given her, 
and by its feeble light she walked a few seconds with- 
out feeling dizzy, and then sat down just as the little 
taper was going to burn her fingers. 

A few minutes later she heard footsteps overhead, 
and saw a faint light through the hole. He was com- 
ing at last, and she smiled happily before she saw him. 

He came down and asked how she was, and he sat on 
the Aphrodite beside iier. 

" If I could only get warm I " she answered. 

" Perhaps you can warm your hands a little on the 
sides of the lantern," he said. 

She tried that and felt a momentary sensation of 
comfort, and asked him what progress he was making. 

" Very slow," he replied. " I cannot hear the least 
sound from the other side yet. Masin is not there." 

She did not expect any other answer, and said noth- 
ing, as she sat shivering beside him. 

" You are very brave," he said presently. 

A long pause followed. She had bent her head low, 
so that her face almost touched her knees. 

" Signer Malipieri — " she began, at last, in rather a 
trembling tone. 

" Yes ? What is it ? " He bent down to her, but she 
did not look up. 



 

"I — I — hardly know how to say it," she faltered. 
" Shall you think very, very badly of me if I ask you 
to do something — something that — " She stopped. 

" There is nothing in heaven or earth I will not do 
for you," he answered. "And I shall certainly not 
