Bessie turned away to listen to her 
father. Could she not boil some beets? 
and he would send in a steak for dinner, 
and— was there anything else? 
Jamie stayed at home all the morning 
and helped to amuse Freddy. Bessie at- 
 
tended to her sleeping rooms, and then 
went to the kitchen. After washing the 
dishes she concluded to try making some 
cookies. They would he so good to eat 
this afternoon when the girls came. 
She had often helped her mother on 
baking days, but it was somewhat differ- 
ent to plan everything for herself. Bes- 
sie was not quite as wise as she fancied, 
though she often imagined that she could 
improve upon her mother’s ways. She 
poured in her milk without any measure- 
ment, and then had to use more flour, 
making twice the quantity of dough that 
she meant to. She could not remember 
whether she had put in salt or not, and, 
without thinking to taste, ran for some 
more. They were rolled out, cut, and 
placed in the pans. 
‘‘ I ’ll make a cake of the rest, ’’she said 
 
to herself. ‘‘I can’t bother cutting out 
so much. ’ ’ 
She put them in the oven and began to 
tidy up her kitchen. What a sight of 
work there was to do, after all! Beans 
to shell and Dick had asked for mashed 
potatoes. Oh, her cookies must be 
done ! 
They were hard and dried, but not the 
beautiful brown that she was accustomed 
to see. What could be the matter I 
There was a good fire— oh, she had never 
turned the damper ! How could she have 
forgotten it? Well, she would try the 
others. As for these— they might as well 
be cannon balls. She would not say any- 
thing about them, but soak them and give 
them to the chickens. A little flour was 
of no account. She turned the damper, 
and the rest baked very nicely. Then 
 
she put in her cake, and was so busy with 
potatoes, beans, and the dinner table that 
she never thought to look until her dishes 
were washed. The cake was a cinder, 
of course, and the pan would have to be 
scoured before it met her mother’s eyes. 
But as the girls were coming, she would 
not do it now. 
Mr. Collins had taken the two boys with 
him, so Bessie thought she would dress 
up for her company. There was a pretty 
lawn dress that her mother was rather 
choice of, but, then, if it did get crumpled, 
she could iron it out again. To be sure, 
her calico was clean, but this was the 
prettiest, and ruffled. She would be very 
careful. 
Carrie came first. She was a bright, 
droll girl, who could talk broken Irish 
and Dutch, and mimicked every one to 
 
tlie life. She came up to Bessie room 
and inspected everything. When SojDhie 
and Mary came, Bessie ran down, leaving 
her there. 
"Let us go out in the barn and have 
a good romp,’’ said Mary. 'It is such 
fun climbing over the hay. And we can 
do nothing much in-doors. ’ ’ 
' ‘ Agreed. I like it much the best, ’’ 
declared Bessie. "Come, Carrie!” she 
called. 
The visitor ran’ down i)resently, and 
said in a breathless way that she had been 
looking out of every window. There 
was a great fragrance of cologne about 
her, and Bessie mistrusted at once that 
she had been helping herself. 
They did have a gay time, sure enough. 
Carrie said and did everything funny, 
but somehow Bessie did not feel quite at 
ease. The amusement did not seem to 
go down to the bottom of her heart and 
satisfy. And as she was scrambling 
about, her dress caught on something. 
Oh, the fearful rent ! Just above the ruf- 
fle, where it never could be mended, for 
it was drawn all out of shape. She might 
have known— why did she wear it out 
here to play in the hay 
is dreadful, isnT it? Will your 
