
Helen felt in her inner consciousness that it would be unwise to talk
about the High School. And she was very busy. She was called upon to
help with the ironing now. She darned all the stockings. She washed the
supper dishes because Aunt Jane was tired out, and Jenny wanted to sew
on her wedding outfit.

Everything had gone along very comfortably. Her white frock had a scant
ruffle put on the bottom to lengthen it down, and new sleeves put in.
Uncle Jason was really proud that she had to "speak a piece."

Everybody stopped to talk and discuss the exercises. The singing was
pronounced first-rate. The History talk stirred up some revolutionary
reminiscences among the old folks. Someone praised Helen's share in the
entertainment.

"Well, I didn't just see the sense of it," declared Aunt Jane. "After
all that great thing, savin' of the ships, as one may say, why didn't he
ask for something worth while? Just a day to go off and see some
woman----"

"She was his wife."

"And, I dare say, he had chances enough to see her. You can't tell what
they are driving at in these new-fangled stories. Now there's 'Pity the
sorrows of a poor old man, whose trembling limbs have borne him to your
door,' and 'Columbia, Columbia, to glory arise, The Queen of the world,
and the child of the skies' that children used to speak when I went to
school, and you could sense them."

Mrs. Mulford repeated them as if she was reeling off so much prose, and
paused out of breath. She was getting rather stout now.

"I thought it rather theatrical," said Mrs. Keen. "I didn't understand
it a bit. The Searings are going to send Louise to the High School. They
have it all fixed, and she's going to board with her sister through the
week. Marty Pendleton's going, too. Dear me! There wa'n't any High
School in my day, and I guess girls were just as smart."

Helen was with the girls in a merry crowd. Some were going away to aunts
and grandmothers, and the envied one, Ella Graham, was going to the
seaside, as the doctor had recommended that to her ailing mother. So
they walked on, chatting, until paths began to diverge. Two roads ran
through the Center, north and south, east and west. There were South
Hope and North Hope, settlements that had branched out from the Center.
North Hope had grown into quite a thriving town with a railroad station
and several social advantages. The High School for the towns around was
situated here.

"Now," began Aunt Jane, as they neared the gate and said good-by to a
few who were going farther on, "now Helen, you just run in and take off
your frock and that white petticoat. They'll do for Sunday. There's peas
to shell and potatoes to clean, and I have to look after the chickens,
and make some biscuits. After spending 'most all the day it's time you
did something."

Helen drew a long breath. She wanted to go out to the old apple tree to
dream and plan. But Aunt Jane didn't consider anything real work outside
of housekeeping and earning money, though Helen had been up since five
in the morning, and very busy with chores before she went to help adorn
the schoolroom.

Sam, who had been inducted into farming two years before, was out in the
field mowing with father and the man. Nathan, next in age, was most
enthusiastic about the good time they had, only if there'd been a treat
like a Sunday School picnic!

"Do stop!" said his mother, "I'm tired and sick of all this school
stuff. Go out and bring in a good basket of wood, or you won't have any
chicken potpie for supper."

Helen hung up her frock, and put on the faded gingham and a checked
apron, and kept busy right along. 'Reely helped shell peas; Fan and Lou
were out playing.

"It's splendid that there isn't any more school," said Fan. "We can just
play and play and play."

The big girl inside was sorry enough there was no more school. Somehow
Aunt Jane's voice rasped her terribly this afternoon. Two whole months
of it! A shudder ran all over her.

There was a savory fragrance through the house presently. Helen tried to
remember everything that went on the table, though she was repeating
snatches of verses to herself. Then Jenny came up the path, stood her
umbrella in the corner, gave her hat a toss that landed it on a stand
under the glass, that Helen had just cleared up, and dropped into a
rocking chair.

"It's been hot to-day, now I tell you;" she said. "Well, did your
fandango go off to suit, Helen?"

"I shouldn't call it fandango," the girl replied.

"Oh, well, what's in a name! Now I'll bet you can't tell what smart chap
said that!"

"Shakspeare."

"Did he really? I suppose it's always safe to tack his name to
