left no artificial barriers of rank or title standing between us. We
were enthusiasts in our love for ornithology; we found new inspiration
in the democracy of our common interests.

As for me, I chatted with my fellows, feeling no restraint myself and
perceiving none. The King of Finland and I discussed his latest
monograph on the speckled titmouse, and I was glad to agree with the
King in all his theories concerning the nesting habits of that
important bird.

Sir Peter Grebe, a large, red gentleman in tweeds, read us some notes
he had made on the domestic hen and her reasons for running ahead of a
horse and wagon instead of stepping aside to let the disturbing
vehicle pass.

The Crown-Prince of Monaco took issue with Sir Peter; so did the Baron
de Becasse; and we were entertained by a friendly and marvellously
interesting three-cornered dispute, shared in by three of the most
profound thinkers of the century.

I shall never forget the brilliancy of that argument, nor the modest,
good-humored retorts which gave us all a glimpse into depths of
erudition which impressed us profoundly and set the seal on the bonds
which held us so closely together.

Alas, that the seal should ever have been broken! Alas, that the
glittering apple of discord should have been flung into our
midst!--no, not flung, but gently rolled under our noses by the gloved
fingers of the lovely Countess d'Alzette.

"Messieurs," said the fair Countess, when all present, excepting she
and I, had touched upon or indicated the subjects which they had
prepared to present to the congress--"messieurs mes confrères, I have
been requested by our distinguished chairman, the Crown-Prince of
Monaco, to submit to your judgment the subject which, by favor of the
King of the Belgians, I have prepared to present to the International
Scientific Congress."

She made a pretty courtesy as she named her own sovereign, and we all
rose out of respect to that most austere and moral ruler the King of
Belgium.

"But," she said, with a charming smile of depreciation, "I am very,
very much afraid that the subject which I have chosen may not meet
with your approval, gentlemen."

She stood there in her dainty Parisian gown and bonnet, shaking her
pretty head uncertainly, a smile on her lips, her small, gloved
fingers interlocked.

"Oh, I know how dreadful it would be if this great congress should be
compelled to listen to any hoax like that which Monsieur de Rougemont
imposed on the British Royal Society," she said, gravely; "and because
the subject of my paper is as strange as the strangest phenomenon
alleged to have been noted by Monsieur de Rougemont, I hesitate--"

She glanced at the silent listeners around her. Sir Peter's red face
had hardened; the King of Finland frowned slightly; the Crown-Prince
of Monaco and Baron de Becasse wore anxious smiles. But when her
violet eyes met mine I gave her a glance of encouragement, and that
glance, I am forced to confess, was not dictated by scientific
approval, but by something that never entirely dries up in the
mustiest and dustiest of savants--the old Adam implanted in us all.

Now, I knew perfectly well what her subject must be; so did every man
present. For it was no secret that his Majesty of Belgium had been
swindled by some natives in Tasmania, and had paid a very large sum of
money for a skin of that gigantic bird, the ux, which has been so
often reported to exist among the inaccessible peaks of the Tasmanian
Mountains. Needless, perhaps, to say that the skin proved a fraud,
being nothing more than a Barnum contrivance made up out of the skins
of a dozen ostriches and cassowaries, and most cleverly put together
by Chinese workmen; at least, such was the report made on it by Sir
Peter Grebe, who had been sent by the British Society to Antwerp to
examine the acquisition. Needless, also, perhaps, to say that King
Leopold, of Belgium, stoutly maintained that the skin of the ux was
genuine from beak to claw.

For six months there had been a most serious difference of opinion
among European ornithologists concerning the famous ux in the Antwerp
Museum; and this difference had promised to result in an open quarrel
between a few Belgian savants on one side and-all Europe and Great
Britain on the other.

Scientists have a deep--rooted horror of anything that touches on
charlatanism; the taint of trickery not only alarms them, but drives
them away from any suspicious subject, and usually ruins,
scientifically speaking, the person who has introduced the subject for
discussion.

Therefore, it took no little courage for the Countess d'Alzette to
touch, with her dainty gloves, a subject which every scientist in
Europe, with scarcely an exception, had pronounced fraudulent and
unworthy of investigation. And to bring it before the great
International Congress required more courage still; for the person
who could face, in executive session, the most brilliant intellects in
the world, and openly profess faith in a Barnumized bird skin, either
had no scientific reputation to lose or was possessed of a bravery far
above that of the savants who composed the audience.

