
The shore train was crowded and seething. 
Surbridge turned the seat, and the lame boy 
and the two dogs sat before them. Miriam 
was very tired. She glanced at Philip. It 
troubled her a little to find that he was such 
a comfort to her. She was almost startled 
at the turn her thoughts were taking. Some- 
thing within her arose and clung to his pre- 
sence as if she could not spare it. She laid 
her head against the side of the window, 
and tried to elude the images that pursued 
her. But Philip sat comfortably reading an 
evening paper at her side ; as if he belonged 
there. 

"Tired?" he asked. "Try to rest. Leave 
everything to me. I 'll look out for the dogs, 
and the boy — and you, too." 

Once or twice she looked enviously at Dan. 
The lad, who knew none of the discomforts 



 

of unclassified feeling, clasped his idol to his 
heart, and, worshiping what he protected, 
entered into peace. Trixy had long since 
ceased to play with her master's pathetic de- 
votion ; the elf -look had never returned to 
her eyes since she and he were reunited after 
death and science had given up the secrets 
which were in them. Trixy loved, at last, as 
she was beloved ; and the lonely lad drank 
deeper of blessedness than most of us do who 
quench our thirst at the cup of human loyalty. 

Mrs. Percy B. Jeffries had dined. The be- 
lated two waited for their broiled chicken and 
raspberries. Miriam ran upstairs to change 
her dress, and put Caro to bed. Surbridge 
strolled in from the piazza, and found Mrs. 
Jeffries conscientiously reading by an ivory 
porcelain lamp, softened through a white 
tulle overskirt. For some unexplained reason 
Miriam had long ago discarded the blue shade. 
Aunt Cornelia laid down her book, and re- 
garded the young man with a tender attention. 
It somehow seemed to Philip an unusual one, 
but for what reason he could not have ex- 
plained. 



 

"I have been reading," said Atint Cornelia, 
" a most extraordinary scientific work. It 
treats of the subterranean life of India and 
Tennessee. I have found it very instructive. 
I had no idea that caves were so convenient ; 
they would make excellent summer hotels. I 
am particularly attracted by a certain kind of 
creature — I think they call it a polyaphron 
— is that it ? Well, it doesn't signify. Did 
you ever hear about it? It is considered the 
blindest of created beings. Listen a minute, 
and I 'll read you what the author says about 
it. The book is written by one of those de- 
lightful swamis who visit the drawing-rooms 
of this country." 

Mrs. Jeffries put on her glasses, and slowly 
and impressively read : 

" The polyaphron " — 

" The polyaphron ! " interrupted Philip, 
" what a delicious name ! I suppose that 
means all kinds of a fool?" 

"Does it?" said Mrs. Jeffries. "Just 
listen. * The polyaphron is found only in 
one cave in the world. It has rudimentary 
wings, and it is supposed that in prehistoric 
times it could have flown out if it had de- 



 

sired. It is born nearly blind, and dies 
wholly so.' " 

Mrs. Jeffries laid down her book and looked 
over her spectacles at the young attorney — 
a thing which he had never seen her do 
before. It made her look suddenly an old 
