unexpectedly blurt out some very rough observation about it, the chances
are that they have been thinking of nothing else for a long time.

A good deal had happened on that afternoon, for what Corbario had said
about Aurora, half playfully and half in earnest, had left Maddalena
under the impression that he had been trying a little experiment on his
own account, to feel his way. Aurora had more than once said in the
preceding years that she did not like his eyes and a certain way he had
of looking at her. He had admired her, even then, and now that he was a
widower it was not at all unlikely that he should think of marrying her.
He was not much more than thirty years old, and he had a singularly
youthful face. There was no objection on the score of his age. He was
rich, at least for his life-time. He had always been called a model
husband while his wife had been alive, and was said to have behaved
with propriety since. Maddalena tried to look at the matter coolly and
dispassionately, as if she did not instinctively dislike him. Why should
he not wish to marry Aurora? No one of the Contessa's acquaintances
would be at all surprised if he did, and most people would say that it
was a very good match, and that Aurora was fortunate to get such a
husband.

This was precisely what Folco thought; and as it was his nature to think
slowly and act quickly, it is not impossible that he may have revolved
the plan in his mind for a year or two while Aurora was growing up. The
final decision had perhaps been reached on that evening down by the
Roman shore, when Professor Kalmon had held up to his eyes the sure
means of taking the first step towards its accomplishment; and it had
been before him late on the same night when he had stood still in the
verandah holding the precious and terrible little tablet in the hollow
of his hand; and the next morning when he had suddenly seen Marcello
close before him, unconscious of his presence and defenceless. He had
run a great risk in vain that day, since Marcello was still alive, a
risk more awful than he cared to remember now; but it had been safely
passed, and he must never do anything so dangerous again. There was a
far safer and surer way of gaining his end than clumsy murder, and from
what the Contessa had told him of the impression she had received the
accomplishment was not far off. She had said that Marcello had looked
half dead; his delicate constitution could not bear such a life much
longer, and he would soon be dead in earnest.

Marcello did not write as regularly as Folco pretended, but the latter
had trustworthy and regular news of him from some one else. Twice a
week, wherever he might be, a square envelope came by the post addressed
in a rather cramped feminine hand, the almost unmistakable writing of a
woman who had seen better days and had been put to many shifts in order
to keep up some sort of outward respectability. The information conveyed
was tolerably well expressed, in grammatical Italian; the only names
contained in the letters were those of towns, and hotels, and the like,
and Marcello was invariably spoken of as "our dear patient," and Regina
as "that admirable woman" or "that ideal companion." The writer usually
said that the dear patient seemed less strong than a month ago, or a
week ago, and expressed a fear that he was slowly losing ground.
Sometimes he was better, and the news was accompanied by a conventional
word or two of satisfaction. Again, there would be a detailed account of
his doings, showing that he had slept uncommonly little and had no
appetite, and mentioning with a show of regret the sad fact that he
lived principally on cigarettes, black coffee, and dry champagne. The
ideal companion seemed to be always perfectly well, showed no tendency
to be extravagant, and gave proof of the most constant devotion. The
writer always concluded by promising that Corbario's instructions with
regard to the dear patient should be faithfully carried out in future as
they had been in the past.

This was very reassuring, and Folco often congratulated himself on the
wisdom he had shown in the selection of Settimia as a maid for Regina.
The woman not only did what was required of her with the utmost
exactitude; she took an evident pleasure in her work, and looked forward
to the fatal result at no very distant time with all the satisfaction
which Corbario could desire. So far everything had gone smoothly.




CHAPTER XI


It was high summer again, and the Roman shore was feverish. In the hot
afternoon Ercole had tramped along the shore with his dog at his heels
as far as Torre San Lorenzo to have a chat with the watchman. They sat
in the shade of the tower, smoking little red clay pipes with long
wooden stems. The chickens walked about slowly, evidently oppressed by
the heat and by a general lack of interest in life, since not a single
grain of maize from the morning feed remained to be discovered on the
disused brick threshing-floor or in the sand that surrounded it. From
some dark recess came the occasional grunt of the pig, attending in
solitude to the business of getting fat before October. Now and then the
watchman's wife moved a chair in the lower room of the tower, or made a
little clatter with some kitchen utensils, and the sounds came out to
the solitude sharply and distinctly.

There had been a flat calm for several days. Forty yards below the tower
the sea lay along the sandy beach like a strip of glistening white
glass, beyond which was a broader band of greenish blue that did not
glitter; and beyond that, the oily water stretched out to westward in an
unending expanse of neutral tints, arabesqued with current streaks and
struck right across by the dazzling dirty-white blaze of the August sun.

Swarms of flies chased each other where the two men sat, settled on
their backs and dusty black hats, tried to settle on their faces and
were brushed away, crawled on the ground, on the walls, even on the
