So they chattered in little groups. Helen and 
Juliet were down in the far corner, half hidden 
by the vines, and only the confused sound reached 
them, unless some girl raised her voice. Helen 
had been watching the stars and speculating on 
other worlds. Turning she saw Juliet leaning 
her chin on one hand, the head bowed over a 
trifle, and her eyes with a far-away look. 
"You ought to have a picture taken," she cried 
with sudden enthusiasm. "You would make — 
well a sort of Mona Lisa; not a nun but some 
sort of sister. It's a wonder to me you didn't 
choose the convent." 
"I wanted real life, not solitude. I think I am 
not truly introspective. I'm trying to get near to 
people, not keep away from them. But I haven't 
known how. It is a wonderful gift. It is, as you 
said last winter, giving of yourself. What a 
lovely visit that was at Hope ! And I have been 
studying you ever since. But even with the same 
motive and desire two people cannot do a thing 
in the same way." 
"Why, no. There is individuality. Why, it 
would make the world tiresome !" 
"I don't know why we shouldn't copy the nice 
traits we find in other people," Juliet said, rather 
resentfully. 
"Oh, we do — sometimes," laughingly. "I have 
several ideals. I think I shall be copying Mrs. 
Aldred. I may have a girls' school some day, or 
a class in college. Then if I had a real home I 
should like to copy Daisy Bell's mother. You 
saw her in the summer, but the place to see her 
truly is the home. There is a beguiling charm in 
every motion, every word and smile. I don't 
know any one who had such a pervasive influence. 
I like Mrs. Travis very much also." 
"I was a little jealous of Daisy after you had 
made up good friends. But I knew she had some 
charming ways, and I — '* 
"You've charmed those Gartney children. How 
did that come about?" 
"They were so shy and lonely, so frightened all 
the time. You could see it in their eyes. I 
thought of my advent here. I fancy in actual ex- 
perience I was about twelve; some girls of that 
age know a great deal more. You took me by 
the hand, otherwise I do not believe I could have 
remained. Oh, you can't think how I longed to 
have some one love me ! And I just guessed how 
these little girls felt. I couldn't have proffered 
comfort and affection to older people, but they 
were not going to be critical. They are so deli- 
cate, too, they have been trained in the nice ways 
of what is called good breeding, I suppose. And 
you know I had no training." 
"You had a natural longing for refinement. 
Why, I do not see how you kept so much of it, 
rather how you obtained it living with one queer, 
rough old man. 
"Do they say much about their new mother? 
 
That term tells the whole story; the distance. 
And I do not see why their father — *' 
"He is very fond of her, admires her im- 
mensely. And he adores his children as well. 
She isn't grudging — you can see by the children's 
clothing. They have pocket money in abundance ; 
Miss Wiley takes charge of that. They have 
lived so alone with their father and the governess 
that they hardly understand the free masonry of 
children. That is where I could sympathize with 
them," and a tender smile crossed the girl's 
face. 
"I suppose the key note is jealousy. Only a 
large-minded woman ought ever to accept the 
children of a dead mother." 
"Or a woman hungering for love and never 
having been satisfied." 
Helen caught her friend's hand in an eager 
clasp. "Something lovely ought to happen to 
you," she said in a kind of impassioned tone. "A 
great house full of people, little and big, and all 
the love you want." 
Why had so many people loved her, Helen 
wondered? 
"Girls, come in and let us have a good sing," 
exclaimed Miss Aldred. "Miss Craven must play 
for US. We have lengthened out our holiday, and 
I hope you have had a good time." 
"And you are just lovely!" declared one en- 
thusiastic girl presently. "The clock is striking 
ten and you lengthen out the indulgence. Will 
you give us another half -hour?" 
"We are just a family now and not a school," 
said Mrs. Aldred. "And, girls, you cannot think 
how gratifying it is to have you so glad to come 
back, so eager to go on with your studies, so am- 
bitious, so cordial to each other. I hope it will be 
a happy and successful year, and that we shall not 
