electric hansom, and Mortimer rose and walked to the 
window. 

" He's gone," he said. 

Lydia stood at the desk, examining the cheque. 

" We ought to afford a decent touring-car now," 
she suggested — " like that yellow and black Serin-Chan- 
teur car of Mr. Plank's." 







CHAPTER XIII 



 



The heat, which had been severe in June, driving 
the last fashionable loiterer into the country, continued 
fiercely throughout July. August was stifling; the 
chestnut leaves in the parks curled up and grew brittle ; 
the elms were blotched; brown stretches scarred the 
lawns ; the blazing colour of the geranium beds seemed 
to intensify the heat, like a bed of living coals. 

Nobody who was anybody remained in town — 
except some wealthy business men and their million 
odd employes ; but the million, being nobodies, didn't 
count. 

Nobody came into town ; that is to say that a mil- 
lion odd strangers came as usual, swelling the sweltering, 
resident population sufficiently to animate the main com- 
mercial thoroughfares morning and evening, but they 
didn't count; the money they spent was, however, very 
carefully counted. 

The fashionable columns of the newspapers informed 
the fashionable ex-urbanated that the city was empty — 
though the East Side reeked like a cattle-pen, and an- 
other million or two gasped on the hot, tin roofs under 
the stars, or buried their dirty faces in the parched 
park grass. 

What the press meant to say was that the wealthy 
section of the city within the shadow of St. Patrick's 
twin white spires and north of Fifty-ninth Street was 





 



as empty and silent as an abandoned gold-mine. Which 
was true. Miles of elaborate, untenanted dwellings 
glimmered blank under the moon and stood tomb-like in 
barren magnificence against the blazing blue of noon. 
Miles of plate-glass windows, boarded, or bearing be- 
tween lowered shade and dusty pane the significant 
parti-coloured placard warning the honest thief, stared 
out at the heated park or, in the cross streets, con- 
fronted each other with inert hauteur, awaiting the 
pleasure of their absent owners. 

The humidity increased; the horses' heads hung 
heavily under their ridiculously pitiful straw bonnets. 
When the sun was vertical nobody stirred; when the 
bluish shadows began to creep out over baked sidewalks, 
broadening to a strip of superheated shade, a few stirred 
abroad in the deserted streets; here a policeman, thin 
blue summer tunic open, helmet in hand, swabbing the 
sweat from forehead and neck ; there a white uniformed 
street sweeper dragging his rubber-edged mop or a 
section of wet hose; perhaps a haggard peddler of 
lemonade making for the Park wall around the Metro- 
politan Museum where, a little later, the East Side 
would venture out to sit on the benches, or the great 
electric tourists' busses would halt to dump out a living 
cargo — perhaps only the bent figure of a woman, verj' 
shabby, very old, dragging her ancient bones along the 
silent splendour of Fifth Avenue, and peering about the 
gutters for something she never finds — always peering, 
always mumbling the endless, wordless, soundless miser- 
ere of the poor. 

Quarrier's huge limestone mansion, looming golden 
in the sun, was tenantless; its owner, closing even The 
Sedges, his Long Island house, and driven northward 
for a breath of air, was expected at Shotover. 
