
There were very few boys in the street. Up 
above, a family that Miss Wing did not ad- 
mire very much — two sharp, shrewd boys, 
who sold papers and did various little odd 
jobs to earn money, and then spent it in folly. 
Their father was not a very steady man, and 
their mother did dressmaking for the neigh- 
borhood around. A thriftless kind of house- 
hold, not at all to Miss Wing’s taste. 

But the Crosbys had won her heart. Three 
fine, sturdy boys — sixteen, fourteen, and 
twelve; and then there were two little girls, 
younger. They always went to church on 
Sunday with their parents, were regular at 
Sunday-school, and everybody spoke in their 




praise. Then they seemed to have such a 
happy time playing ball and croquet in their 
own grounds, or reading under the shady 
trees. 

The first Sunday Frank had a headache and 
did not go out. On the second he went to 
church, but did not want to attend Sunday- 
school, as he did n’t know any of the boys. 

Miss Wing studied a long while on the sub- 
ject, and at last her courage was brought to 
the point by a remark of Frank’s. 

‘I’d like to know those Crosby boys,” he 
said earnestly. “They seem to have such 
jolly times. I watched them playing croquet 
yesterday. It ’s awful dull here. Aunt Sarah.” 

She had a misgiving that it was, though she 
tried to make it as entertaining as possible, 
taking him down-town of errands, and trying 
to instruct him in gardening, for which he had 
very little taste, it must be confessed. 

They came up the street one evening, and 
found the three boys on the grassy slope of 
the lawn, looking very bright and happy. 

 


Miss Wing made a little halt, and cast her 
eyes wistfully toward them. 

‘‘Good evening,” said Randolph, the eldest, 
with a bow and a pleasant smile. They were 
always very polite. 

Miss Wing’s heart was up in her throat. 
Here was her golden opportunity, and another 
might not occur in a long while. 

“If you will be kind enough — ” and she 
paused, turning quite red. 

“If we can be of any service,” and the cour- 
teous Arthur sprang up. 

“I would like to introduce my nephew to 
you. He is a stranger, and going to spend the 
summer with me, and is a good deal at loss 
for companions. If you would come and see 
him—” 

“Thank you. He must come in and see us ;” 
and the three boys responded to the introduc- 
tion. 

“You always appear to be enjoying your- 
selves so much here — there are so many of you 




and you can hardly realize how lonely it is for 
one,’ she exclaimed in a confused, hesitating 
way. 

The boys chatted a little. Frank was de- 
lighted. Aunt Sarah saw the happy light in 
his eyes, and was quite satisfied with her ex- 
periment. 

“I hope they ’ll come soon,” said Frank, as 
they resumed their walk. “They ’re like the 
oldest boys at school, and ought to make the 
first move.” 

