
The Greek with the fawning face bent in his saddle towards the young
Emperor as if he were prostrating himself, and he spoke in a very low
voice.

'Your Majesty would do well to have her tongue torn out before she
says more.'

'Who is she, I say?' cried the sovereign, suddenly furious, as cowards
can be.

No one spoke. The corpse-faced man crept nearer to Zoë, his dull eyes
fixed on her features. Beyond the wall and far off the unseen horse
neighed again. It was growing darker, but all around the scarlet
tunics of the guards were as red as blood.

Then the answer came. The twisted lips of the tormentor moved slowly,
and words came from them in a thin, harsh voice, like the creaking of
the rack.

'She is Michael Rhangabé's daughter.'

'The Protosparthos?' The Emperor's voice shook again.

The corpse-faced man nodded twice in assent, and his thin lips writhed
hideously when Zoë's eyes fell on him.

'I saw her at the prison when I took him out to die,' he said.

His bony hand, all knotty and stained from his horrid work, took the
girl's delicate chin, forcing her to turn her full face to him; and
she quivered from head to foot at his touch. He knew well the
convulsive shiver that ran through the victim he touched for the first
time; he could feel it in his fingers as the musician feels the
strings; he was familiar with it, as the fisherman's hand is with the
tremor and tension of his rod when a fish strikes; and he smiled in a
ghastly way.

'Yes,' he said, 'it is she.' And he laughed.

He held her by the chin and wagged her beautiful head to right and
left.

Since the Emperor had spoken no sound had been heard but the
torturer's discordant voice; but now the outraged girl's shriek of
fury split the air.

'Wretch!'

Her small hands suddenly slipped through the Ethiopian's capacious
hold. Before he could catch her she had wrenched herself free from
both men and had struck a furious blow full in the torturer's livid
face; and though she was but a slender girl her anger gave her a man's
strength, and her swiftness lent her a sudden advantage. The man
reeled back three paces before he could steady himself again.

'Hold her!' cried Andronicus, for he feared she might have a knife
hidden on her, and both her hands were free.

But only for that instant. Though the African was huge, he was quick,
and he was behind her. Almost before the Emperor had called out, Zoë
was a prisoner again, and the man she had struck was close to her with
his battered leathern bag. He looked up to Andronicus for a command
before he began his work.

'Make her tell what she knows,' the Emperor said, reassured since she
was again fast in the African's great hands.

He leaned forward a little, the better to hear the words which pain
was to draw from Zoë's lips, and the Greek minister settled himself
comfortably in the saddle to enjoy the rare amusement of seeing a
beautiful and noble girl deliberately tortured before half a hundred
men. Some of the guards also pressed upon each other to see; but
there were some among them who had served under Rhangabé, and these
looked into one another's faces and spoke words almost under their
breath, that all together swelled to a low murmur, such as the tide
makes on a still night, just when it turns back from the ebb.

The sunset had faded, but there was light enough to see the dark
bruise across the corpse-like face where Zoë had struck it with all
her might.

The man opened his old leathern bag, and his stained hands fumbled in
it, amongst irons that were brown but not rusty, and thongs plaited
with wire, and strangely shaped tools in which there were well-greased
screws that turned easily.

But all these his knotty fingers rejected. He knew each by the touch.
They were good enough for ordinary slaves, or perhaps for a
double-dealing steward, or even a lying courtier. For a highborn
maiden victim he had an instrument far more refined and exquisitely
keen than any of these things, and he treasured it as a very rare
possession which never left him day or night; for it had been sent to
him from very far away in the south as a present of great value; and
it was alive, and needed the warmth of his body constantly lest it
should die. But there was something in the bag that belonged to it and
must be found before it could be taken from its little cage of silver
filigree in the bosom of the corpse-faced man.

He found it. His stained hand drew from the bag a dry walnut. With
