shore below the Fort. For the next month he was 
an invalid in the house of the Comandante. 
Fortunately, his papers and money were sewn in 
an oilskin belt and his father's name was well 
known in California. Moreover, there never was a 
more likable youth. His illness interested all the 
matrons and maids of the Presidio in his fate; 
when he recovered, his good dancing and unselfishness gave him permanent place in the regard 
of the women, while his entire absence of beauty, 
and his ability to hold his own in the mess room, 
established his position with the men. 

In due course word of his plight reached Boston, and a ship was immediately despatched, not 
only to bring the castaway home, but with the 
fine wardrobe necessary to a young gentleman 
of his station. But the same ship brought word 
of his father's death — his mother had gone long 
since — and as there were brothers enamored- of 
the business he hated, he decided to remain in 



 

the country that had won his heart and given 
him health. For some time there was demur on 
the part of the authorities; Spain welcomed no 
foreigners in her colonies. But Sturgis swore 
a mighty oath that he would never despatch a 
letter uninspected by the Comandante, that he 
would make no excursions into the heart of the 
country, that he would neither engage in traffic 
nor interfere in politics. Then having already 
won the atfections of the Governor, he was permitted to remain, even to rent an acre of land 
from the Church in the sheltered Mission valley, 
and build himself a house. Here he raised fruit 
and vegetables for his own hospitable table, 
chickens and game cocks. Books and other luxuries came by every ship from Boston; until for 
a long interval ships came no more. One of these 
days, when the power of the priests had abated, 
and the jealousy which would keep all Californians landless but themselves was counterbalanced 
by a great increase in population, he meant to 
have a ranch down in the south where the sun 
shone all the year round and he could ride half 
the day with his vaqueros after the finest cattle 
in the country. He never should marry because 
he could not marry Concha Argiiello, but he could 



 

think of her, see her sometimes; and in a land 
where a man was neither frozen in winter nor 
grilled in summer, where life could be led in the 
open, and the tendency was to idle and dream, 
domestic happiness called in a feebler note than 
in less equable climes. In his heart he was desperately jealous of Concha's favored cavahers, 
but it was a jealousy without hatred, and his kind 
earnest often humorous eyes were always assuring his lady of an imperishable desire to serve 
her without reward. Of course Concha treated 
him with as little consideration as so humble a 
swain deserved; but in her heart she liked him 
better than either Castro or Sal, for he talked 
to her of something besides rodeos and balls, 
racing and cock-fights ; he had taught her English 
and lent her many books. Moreover, he neither 
sighed nor languished, nor ever had sung at her 
grating. But she regarded him merely as an 
intelligence, a well of refreshment in her stagnant 
life, never as a man. 

" Eosa,'' she said as she caught her hair into 
a high golden comb that had been worn in Spain 
by many a beauty of the house of Moraga, and 
spiked the knot with two long pins globed at the 
end with gold, while the maid fastened her slippers and smoothed the pink silk stockings over 
the arched thin instep above; " what is a lover 
like? Is it like meeting one of the saints of 
heaven? " 

" No, seniorita." 

'' Like what, then I '' 

" Like — like nothing but himself, sehorita. 
You would not have him otherwise."

" Oh, stupid one! Hast thou no imagination? 
Fancy any man being well enough as he is ! For 
instance, there is Don Antonio, who is so handsome and fiery, and Don Ignacio, who can sing 
and dance and ride as no one else in all the Californias, and Don Weeliam Sturgis, who is very 
clever and true. If I could roll them into one — 
a tamale of corn and chicken and peppers — there 
would be a man almost to my liking. But even 
then — not quite. And one man — what nonsense! 
I have too much color to-night, Eosa. ' ' 

" No, senorita, you have never been so beautiful. When the lover comes and you love him, 
sehorita, you will think him greater than our natural king and lord, and all other men poor Indians. ' ' 
