countries, and, as all our communication at home was by electricity, that
we had no letter-post of our own. The very fact that she belonged to a
purer and better age in America disqualified her to conceive of Altruria;
her daughter, who had lived into a full recognition of the terrible
anarchy in which the conditions have ultimated here, could far more
vitally imagine us, and to her, I believe, we were at once a living
reality. Her perception, her sympathy, her intelligence, became more and
more to me, and I escaped to them oftener and oftener, from a world where
an Altrurian must be so painfully at odds. In all companies here I am
aware that I have been regarded either as a good joke or a bad joke,
according to the humor of the listener, and it was grateful to be taken
seriously.
From the first I was sensible of a charm in her, different from that I
felt in other American women, and impossible in our Altrurian women. She
had a deep and almost tragical seriousness, masked with a most winning
gayety, a light irony, a fine scorn that was rather for herself than for
others. She had thought herself out of all sympathy with her environment;
she knew its falsehood, its vacuity, its hopelessness; but she
necessarily remained in it and of it. She was as much at odds in it as I
was, without my poor privilege of criticism and protest, for, as she
said, she could not set herself up as a censor of things that she must
keep on doing as other people did. She could have renounced the world, as
there are ways and means of doing here; but she had no vocation to the
religious life, and she could not feign it without a sense of sacrilege.
In fact, this generous and magnanimous and gifted woman was without that
faith, that trust in God which comes to us from living His law, and
which I wonder any American can keep. She denied nothing; but she had
lost the strength to affirm anything. She no longer tried to do good from
her heart, though she kept on doing charity in what she said was a mere
mechanical impulse from the belief of other days, but always with the
ironical doubt that she was doing harm. Women are nothing by halves, as
men can be, and she was in a despair which no man can realize, for we
have always some if or and which a woman of the like mood casts from her
in wild rejection. Where she could not clearly see her way to a true
life, it was the same to her as an impenetrable darkness.
You will have inferred something of all this from what I have written of
her before, and from words of hers that I have reported to you. Do you
think it so wonderful, then, that in the joy I felt at the hope, the
solace, which my story of our life seemed to give her, she should become
more and more precious to me? It was not wonderful, either, I think, that
she should identify me with that hope, that solace, and should suffer
herself to lean upon me, in a reliance infinitely sweet and endearing.
But what a fantastic dream it now appears!
XXIII
I can hardly tell you just how we came to own our love to each other; but
one day I found myself alone with her mother, with the sense that
Eveleth had suddenly withdrawn from the room at the knowledge of my
approach. Mrs. Gray was strongly moved by something; but she governed
herself, and, after giving me a tremulous hand, bade me sit.
“Will you excuse me, Mr. Homos,” she began, “if I ask you whether you
intend to make America your home after this?”
“Oh no!” I answered, and I tried to keep out of my voice the despair with
which the notion filled me. I have sometimes had nightmares here, in
which I thought that I was an American by choice, and I can give you no
conception of the rapture of awakening to the fact that I could still go
back to Altruria, that I had not cast my lot with this wretched people.
“How could I do that?” I faltered; and I was glad to perceive that I had
imparted to her no hint of the misery which I had felt at such a notion.
“I mean, by getting naturalized, and becoming a citizen, and taking up
your residence among us.”
“No,” I answered, as quietly as I could, “I had not thought of that.”
“And you still intend to go back to Altruria?”
“I hope so; I ought to have gone back long ago, and if I had not met the
friends I have in this house--” I stopped, for I did not know how I
should end what I had begun to say.
“I am glad you think we are your friends,” said the lady, “for we have
tried to show ourselves your friends. I feel as if this had given me the
right to say something to you that you may think very odd.”
“Say anything to me, my dear lady,” I returned. “I shall not think it
unkind, no matter how odd it is.”
“Oh, it’s nothing. It’s merely that--that when you are not here with us I
lose my grasp on Altruria, and--and I begin to doubt--”
I smiled. “I know! People here have often hinted something of that kind
to me. Tell me, Mrs. Gray, do Americans generally take me for an
impostor?”
“Oh no!” she answered, fervently. “Everybody that I have heard speak of
you has the highest regard for you, and believes you perfectly sincere.
But--”
“But what?” I entreated.
“They think you may be mistaken.”
“Then they think I am out of my wits--that I am in an hallucination!”
“No, not that,” she returned. “But it is so very difficult for us to
conceive of a whole nation living, as you say you do, on the same terms
as one family, and no one trying to get ahead of another, or richer, and
having neither inferiors nor superiors, but just one dead level of
equality, where there is no distinction except by natural gifts and good
deeds or beautiful works. It seems impossible--it seems ridiculous.”
“Yes,” I confessed, “I know that it seems so to the Americans.”
“And I must tell you something else, Mr. Homos, and I hope you won’t take
it amiss. The first night when you talked about Altruria here, and showed
us how you had come, by way of England, and the place where Altruria
ought to be on our maps, I looked them over, after you were gone, and I
could make nothing of it. I have often looked at the map since, but I
could never find Altruria; it was no use.”
“Why,” I said, “if you will let me have your atlas--”
She shook her head. “It would be the same again as soon as you went
away.” I could not conceal my distress, and she went on: “Now, you
mustn’t mind what I say. I’m nothing but a silly old woman, and
Eveleth would never forgive me if she could know what I’ve been saying.”
“Then Mrs. Strange isn’t troubled, as you are, concerning me?” I asked,
