his caste was effaced.

The verses, the work of shepherds who were singers, are invocations to
the dawn, to the first flushes of the morning, to the skies'
heightening hues, and the vermillion moment when the devouring Asiatic
sun appears. There are other themes, minor melodies, but the chief
inspiration is light.

To primitive shepherds the approach of darkness was the coming of
death. The dawn, which they were never wholly sure would reappear, was
resurrection. They welcomed it with cries which the Veda preserves,
which the Avesta retains and the Eddas repeat. The potent forces
that produced night, the powers potenter still that routed it, they
regarded as beings whose moods genuflexions could affect. In perhaps
the same spirit that Frenchmen assisted at a lever du roi, and
Englishmen attend a prince's levee, the Aryan breakfasted on song and
sacrifice. It was an homage to the rising sun.

The sun was deva. The Sanskrit root div, from which the word is
derived, produced deus, devi, divinities--numberless, accursed,
adored, or forgot. The common term applied to all abstractions that
are and have been worshipped, means That which shines and the name
which, in the early Orient, signified a star, designates the Deity in
the Occident to-day.

Apologetically, Tertullian, a Christian Father, remarked: "Some think
our God is the Sun." There were excuses perhaps for those that did.
Adonai, a Hebrew term for the Almighty, is a plural. It means lords.
But the lords indicated were Baalim who were Lords of the Sun.
Moreover, when the early Christians prayed, they turned to the East.
Their holy day was, as the holy day of Christendom still is, Sunday,
day of the Sun, an expression that comes from the Norse, on whom also
shone the light of the Aryan deva.

To shepherds who, in seeking pasture for their flocks, were seeking
also pasture for their souls, the deva became Indra. They had other
gods. There was Agni, fire; Varuna, the sky; Maruts, the tempest.
There was Mithra, day, and Yama, death. There were still others,
infantile, undulant, fluid, not infrequently ridiculous also. But it
was Indra for whom the dew and honey of the morning hymns were spread.
It was Indra who, emerging from darkness, made the earth after his
image, decorated the sky with constellations and wrapped the universe
in space. It was he who poured indifferently on just and unjust the
triple torrent of splendour, light, and life.

Indra was triple. Triple Indra, the Veda says. In that description
is the preface to a theogony of which Hesiod wrote the final page. It
was the germ of sacred dynasties that ruled the Aryan and the
Occidental skies. From it came the grandiose gods of Greece and Rome.
From it also came the paler deities of the Norse. Meanwhile ages fled.
Life nomad and patriarchal ceased. From forest and plain, temples
arose; from hymns, interpretations; from prayer, metaphysics; for
always man has tried to analyze the divine, always too, at some halt
in life, he has looked back and found it absent.

In meditation it was discerned that Indra was an effect, not the
cause. It was discerned also that that cause was not predicable of the
gods who, in their undulance and fluidity, suggested ceaseless
transformations and consequently something that is transformed.

The idea, patiently elaborated, resulted in a drainage of the fluid
myths and the exteriorisation of a being entirely abstract. Designated
first as Brahmanaspati, Lord of Prayer, afterward more simply as
Brahma, he was assumed to have been asleep in the secret places of the
sky, from which, on awakening, he created what is.

The conception, ideal itself, was not, however, ideal enough. The
labour of creating was construed as a blemish on the splendour of the
Supreme. It was held that the Soul of Things could but loll, majestic
and inert, on a lotos of azure. Then, above Brahma, was lifted Brahm,
a god neuter and indeclinable; neuter as having no part in life,
indeclinable because unique.

There was the apex of the world's most poetic creed, one distinguished
over all others in having no founder, unless a heavenly inspiration be
so regarded. But the apex required a climax. Inspiration provided it.

The forms of matter and of man, the glittering apsaras of the
vermillion dawns, Indra himself, these and all things else were
construed into a bubble that Brahm had blown. The semblance of reality
in which men occur and, with them, the days of their temporal breath,
was attributed not to the actual but to Mâyâ--the magic of a high
god's longing for something other than himself, something that should
contrast with his eternal solitude and fill the voids of his infinite
ennui. From that longing came the bubble, a phantom universe, the
mirage of a god's desire. Earth; sea and sky; all that in them is, all
that has been and shall be, are but the changing convolutions of a
dream.

In that dream there descended a scale of beings, above whom were set
three great lords, Brahma the Creator, Vishnu the Preserver, and Siva
the Destroyer, collectively the Tri-murti, the Hindu trinity expressed
in the mystically ineffable syllable Om. Between the trinity and man
came other gods, a whole host, powers of light and powers of darkness,
the divine and the demoniac fused in a hierarchy surprising but not
everlasting. Eventually the dream shall cease, the bubble break, the
universe collapse, the heavens be folded like a tent, the Tri-murti
dissolved, and in space will rest but the Soul of Things, at whose
will atoms shall reassemble and forms unite, dis-unite and reappear,
depart and return, endlessly, in recurring cycles.
