

IV

JOHN AMHERST was no one-sided idealist. He felt keenly the growing
complexity of the relation between employer and worker, the seeming
hopelessness of permanently harmonizing their claims, the recurring
necessity of fresh compromises and adjustments. He hated rant, demagogy,
the rash formulating of emotional theories; and his contempt for bad
logic and subjective judgments led him to regard with distrust the
panaceas offered for the cure of economic evils. But his heart ached
for the bitter throes with which the human machine moves on. He felt the
menace of industrial conditions when viewed collectively, their
poignancy when studied in the individual lives of the toilers among whom
his lot was cast; and clearly as he saw the need of a philosophic survey
of the question, he was sure that only through sympathy with its
personal, human side could a solution be reached. The disappearance of
the old familiar contact between master and man seemed to him one of the
great wrongs of the new industrial situation. That the breach must be
farther widened by the ultimate substitution of the stock-company for
the individual employer--a fact obvious to any student of economic
tendencies--presented to Amherst's mind one of the most painful problems
in the scheme of social readjustment. But it was characteristic of him
to dwell rather on the removal of immediate difficulties than in the
contemplation of those to come, and while the individual employer was
still to be reckoned with, the main thing was to bring him closer to his
workers. Till he entered personally into their hardships and
aspirations--till he learned what they wanted and why they wanted
it--Amherst believed that no mere law-making, however enlightened, could
create a wholesome relation between the two.

This feeling was uppermost as he sat with Mrs. Westmore in the carriage
which was carrying them to the mills. He had meant to take the trolley
back to Westmore, but at a murmured word from Mr. Tredegar Bessy had
offered him a seat at her side, leaving others to follow. This
culmination of his hopes--the unlooked-for chance of a half-hour alone
with her--left Amherst oppressed with the swiftness of the minutes. He
had so much to say--so much to prepare her for--yet how begin, while he
was in utter ignorance of her character and her point of view, and while
her lovely nearness left him so little chance of perceiving anything
except itself?

But he was not often the victim of his sensations, and presently there
emerged, out of the very consciousness of her grace and her
completeness, a clearer sense of the conditions which, in a measure, had
gone to produce them. Her dress could not have hung in such subtle
folds, her white chin have nestled in such rich depths of fur, the
pearls in her ears have given back the light from such pure curves, if
thin shoulders in shapeless gingham had not bent, day in, day out, above
the bobbins and carders, and weary ears throbbed even at night with the
tumult of the looms. Amherst, however, felt no sensational resentment at
the contrast. He had lived too much with ugliness and want not to
believe in human nature's abiding need of their opposite. He was glad
there was room for such beauty in the world, and sure that its purpose
was an ameliorating one, if only it could be used as a beautiful spirit
would use it.

The carriage had turned into one of the nondescript thoroughfares, half
incipient street, half decaying lane, which dismally linked the
mill-village to Hanaford. Bessy looked out on the ruts, the hoardings,
the starved trees dangling their palsied leaves in the radiant October
light; then she sighed: "What a good day for a gallop!"

Amherst felt a momentary chill, but the naturalness of the exclamation
disarmed him, and the words called up thrilling memories of his own
college days, when he had ridden his grandfather's horses in the famous
hunting valley not a hundred miles from Hanaford.

Bessy met his smile with a glow of understanding. "You like riding too,
I'm sure?"

"I used to; but I haven't been in the saddle for years. Factory managers
don't keep hunters," he said laughing.

Her murmur of embarrassment showed that she took this as an apologetic
allusion to his reduced condition, and in his haste to correct this
impression he added: "If I regretted anything in my other life, it would
certainly be a gallop on a day like this; but I chose my trade
deliberately, and I've never been sorry for my choice."

He had hardly spoken when he felt the inappropriateness of this avowal;
but her prompt response showed him, a moment later, that it was, after
all, the straightest way to his end.

"You find the work interesting? I'm sure it must be. You'll think me
very ignorant--my husband and I came here so seldom...I feel as if I
ought to know so much more about it," she explained.

At last the note for which he waited had been struck. "Won't you try
to--now you're here? There's so much worth knowing," he broke out
impetuously.

Mrs. Westmore coloured, but rather with surprise than displeasure. "I'm
very stupid--I've no head for business--but I will try to," she said.

"It's not business that I mean; it's the personal relation--just the
thing the business point of view leaves out. Financially, I don't
suppose your mills could be better run; but there are over seven hundred
women working in them, and there's so much to be done, just for them and
their children."
