his words, as he often did in common conversation; there had been
nothing dramatic in his tone; but Margaret had understood well enough
that it was the plain statement of a man who meant to succeed, and
whose strength and resources were far beyond those of ordinary
suitors. She was not exactly frightened; indeed, since her dislike for
him had melted away, it was impossible not to feel a womanly
satisfaction in the magnitude of her conquest; but she also felt
instinctively that serious trouble and danger were not far off.

'You have no right to speak like that,' she said rather weakly, after
a moment.

'Perhaps not. I don't know. But I consider that you have a right to
know the truth, and that's enough for me. It's not as if I'd made up
my mind to steal your ewe-lamb from you and put myself in its place.
Logotheti is not any sort of a ewe-lamb. He's a man, he's got plenty
of strength and determination, he's got plenty of money--even what I
choose to call plenty. He says he cares for you. All right. So do I.
He says he'll marry you. I say that I will. All right again. You're
the prize put up for the best of two fighting men. You're not the
first woman in history who's been fought for, but, by all that's holy,
there never was one better worth it, not Helen of Troy herself!'

The last few words came with a sort of stormy rush, and he turned
round suddenly, and stood with his back against the gate, thrusting
his hands deep into his coat-pockets, perhaps with the idea of keeping
them quiet; but he did not come any nearer to her, and she felt she
was perfectly safe, and that a much deeper and more lasting power had
hold of him than any mere passionate longing to take her in his arms
and press his iron lips on hers against her will. She began to
understand why he was what he was, at an age when many successful men
are still fighting for final success. He was a crown-grasper, like
John the Smith. Beside him Logotheti was but a gifted favourite of
fortune. He spoke of Helen, but if he was comparing his rival with
Paris he himself was more like an Ajax than like good King Menelaus.

Margaret was not angry; she was hardly displeased, but she was really
at a loss what to say, and she said the first sensible thing that
suggested itself and that was approximately true.

'I'm sorry you have told me all this. We might have spent these next
two days very pleasantly together. Oh, I'm not pretending what I don't
feel! It's impossible for a woman like me, who can still be free, not
to be flattered when such a man as you cares for her in earnest, and
says the things you have. But, on the other hand, I'm engaged to be
married to another man, and it would not be loyal of me to let you
make love to me.'

'I don't mean to,' said Van Torp stoutly. 'It won't be necessary. If I
never spoke again you wouldn't forget what I've told you--ever! Why
should I say it again? I don't want to, until you can say as much to
me. If it's time to go, hitch the lead to my collar and take me home!
I'll follow you as quietly as a spaniel, anywhere!'

'And what would happen if I told you not to follow me, but to go home
and lie down in your kennel?' She laughed low as she moved away from
the gate.

'I'm not sure,' answered Van Torp. 'Don't.'

The last word was not spoken at all with an accent of warning, but it
was not said in a begging tone either. Margaret's short laugh followed
it instantly. He took the cue she offered, and went on speaking in his
ordinary manner.

'I'm not a bad dog if you don't bully me, and if you feed me at
regular hours and take me for a walk now and then. I don't pretend I'm
cut out for a French pet, because I'm not. I'm too big for a lap-dog,
and too fond of sport for the drawing-room, I suppose. A good useful
dog generally is, isn't he? Maybe I'm a little quarrelsome with other
dogs, but then, they needn't come bothering around!'

Margaret was amused, or pretended to be, but she was also thinking
very seriously of the future, and asking herself whether she ought to
send for Logotheti at once, or not. Van Torp would certainly not
leave Bayreuth at a moment's notice, at her bidding, and if he stayed
she could not now refuse to see him, with any show of justice. She
thought of a compromise, and suddenly stood still in the lane.

'You said just now that you would not say over again any of those
things you have told me to-night. Do you mean that?'

'Yes, I mean it.'

'Then please promise that you won't. That's all I ask if you are going
to spend the next two days here, and if I am to let you see me.'

'I promise,' Van Torp answered, without hesitation.

She allowed herself the illusion that she had both done the right
thing and also taken the position of command; and he, standing beside
her, allowed himself to smile at the futility of what she was
requiring of him with so much earnestness, for little as he knew of
women's ways he was more than sure that the words he had spoken that
night would come back to her again and again; and more than that he
could not hope at present. But she could not see his face clearly.

'Thank you,' she said. 'That shall be our compact.'

To his surprise, she held out her hand. He took it with wonderful
