is a glamour about college. I hope you like 
it down in the bottom of your heart.” 

“ I believe I am coming to the fascinating 
sense. My purpose was to study, to learn 
things that would fit me for first-class teach- 
ing. I never supposed there could be so much 
fun and frivolity and indifference. I should 
be mortified to death if I had some of the 
atrocious recitations and exercises.” 

“ I think it rather develops a girl, even if 
she does seem unpromising at first. Oh, just 
listen to the grandeur of that wind ! It is way 
up on the hill, rolling down like an organ. It 
suggests Wagner. Do you know much about 
his music ? ” 

“ I heard ‘ Tristran and Isolde ’ last winter. 
It was — well, I can’t think of a proper ad- 
jective — magnificent to me.” 

“ And now — ” Leslie held her arm a mo- 
ment. The sound came rolling down the hill 
in a grand diapason, and you could hear the 
shaking of the leafless branches. It rolled on 
and on, then came across the level in one 
grand sweep that nearly blew them over. 

“ Let us run for our lives while it is at our 



backs," laughed Leslie. “ Ugh! But it is cold, 
and I believe there are spits of snow. Well, 
it is a bad sign to have a green Christmas, I 
have heard, and snow is beautiful." 

They skimmed along with the help of the 
wind. It seemed as if their feet hardly 
touched the ground. Then the wind ceased 
suddenly, and the air felt warm by contrast. 
They slackened their pace and caught their 
breath. 

“ That was fine! " declared Leslie. “ Oh, I 
don’t wonder you won ! And your steps are 
so even, like beats of music. You have knowl- 
edge in your feet, as well as your brain." 

“ What an idea! ” laughed Helen. 

“ ‘ From the desert I come to thee, 

On a stallion shod with fire; 

And the winds are left behind, 

In the speed of my desire,’ ” 

half-chanted Leslie as they paused in the door- 
way. 

“ Oh, that stirring poem of Bayard Tay- 
lor’s! It sets you all aflame. I’m glad you 
like it.” 

“ I haven’t time for ever so many things 


I like. Where shall we go to have a talk over 
our likes and dislikes? I am in a mood for 
discussion. Let us go to the corner of the 
library by the wood fire, if no one is sitting 
there.” 

They had their hearts’ desire. The library 
was deserted, except in the alcove where Miss 
Ferris was talking to several of the seniors on 
suffrage. The place was so large that one 
could only hear the hum. Most of the lights 
were turned low but the fire was blazing 
cheerfully. 

“ We’ll each take a rocking-chair. Our 
English sisters may laugh at us, but I do like 
the swaying, restful motion. It is as soothing 
as a man’s cigar. Now this is comfort. Oues- 
tion first : Why didn’t you go home for vaca- 
tion, Miss Helen Grant?” 

“ One reason was, I have no real home, or 
perhaps too many hospitable ports where my 
barque can drift in, sure of a welcome. The 
other, the most important one, is that I’m so 
shamefully behind that I must spend some days 
in reviewing to be sure of my ground, lest 
I shall be caught napping by some unexpected 


