the doubtful fun if she wished.

Isabel and Gwynne, still tangled in the paper streamers and vigorously
pelted from below, leaned eagerly over the railing and flung handsful of
gold and silver bits upon the already glittering throng. It certainly
was an astonishing sight. There was little seeking after
inconspicuousness, even in the boxes. All were there to celebrate the
birth of the New Year, and to "play the game," however chastened they
might feel on the morrow. All were drinking champagne and growing more
hilarious every moment. One girl modestly dressed, and known to Mrs.
Hofer as an entirely respectable young person, although not of her own
class, was sitting on the knee of the man she was to marry, and drinking
from his glass. The ladies of the lower ten thousand were nicely graded.
Some were dressed with a severe and simple elegance, and painted as
delicately as a miniature. These were very quiet, the carven smile on
their crimson lips not disturbing the careful arrangement of their
features; and their eyes never lost their jewel-like immobility. They
were attended by what is vaguely known as "men about town," men with
money to spend and no position to lose. It was no longer the fashion
among conspicuous men to flaunt their mistresses, but these indefinite
persons kept the old traditions alive. Still other women blazed with
paint and jewels and excessive richness of attire. In attendance were
the big sleek brutes, whom all other men held in contempt. But all were
happy to-night and asking no man for his respect.

At a table in the very middle of the room was a young, buxom, and very
naughty-looking damsel, who evidently was a belle: the circle of black
coats about her round table was unbroken save by herself. What dress she
wore was black, and on her golden head was an immense black hat covered
with feathers. Her abundant diamonds were almost overwhelmed. Every time
one of her escort raised his glass to his lips he toasted her, and she
rose to respond, presumably to give the company the benefit of the tiny
waist that tapered off the white acre above. She was irreverently
hooted, but imperturbably rose and fell like a jack-in-the-box.

Hofer finally sat down to supper with his guests, but they had barely
finished when every clock in town began to boom the midnight hour and
there was a wild ringing of bells all over the city. Down-stairs one of
the young men ran to the orchestra, whirled the leader from his seat,
flung off his own coat, and led the crashing music with a tin horn.
Hofer and Gwynne went to the front of the box, glasses in hand. All
below had sprung to their feet and were waving and clicking their
champagne-glasses, singing, catcalling, tooting, cheering. Even Isabel
and Mrs. Hofer leaned forward. In the turmoil they did not notice that
the young woman in the centre of the room was standing on her table, her
befeathered head flung back, draining her glass; but they turned just in
time to see one of her admirers rifle her bodice and wag his trove at
the company.

"This is too much!" cried Mrs. Hofer, furiously, and running to the
back of the box. "Nicolas, I insist!" But Nicolas was enjoying himself
immensely and paid no attention.

Isabel had been about to follow Mrs. Hofer when she lost her breath and
nearly fell over the edge of the box. Lady Victoria, accompanied by a
man who was unmistakably a pugilist, had entered by a side door.

Isabel's brain seemed to eliminate every thought it had ever possessed
and hurriedly to remodel down to one agonizing point. The pair were
endeavoring to force their way forward to a table that evidently had
been reserved for them. Gwynne was leaning over the railing drinking to
Mr. and Mrs. Trennahan. In a moment his interested eyes would rove over
the crowd again. Isabel suddenly fell on him, bearing him backward.

"Take me out--quick!" she gasped. "I am horribly ill!"

Gwynne, grasping his hat, was fairly borne out of the box. As Isabel was
ghastly and trembling he assumed that she was really ill, and made no
protest, but half-carried her down the stair. They attracted no
attention and reached the sidewalk in a moment.

"If we can only find a carriage!" he said, solicitously. "You never can
walk up those hills. What an atmosphere that was! I don't wonder you
came a cropper. I hope the Hofers won't mind--"

"Nobody minds anything."

She took his arm and they walked up the street. The bells were still
ringing, horns tooting, but the street was comparatively empty. At the
corner a Salvation Army corps was singing hymns to a flabby and penitent
congregation. Just beyond was a row of hacks awaiting the weary
reveller, and in a moment Gwynne and Isabel were driving rapidly along a
dark and deserted street.

"Do you feel better?" he asked.

She did not answer for a moment, afraid of breaking down. Gwynne was
sure to offer prompt consolation, and even if he assumed the brotherly
attitude, she had no wish to be taken in his arms. In spite of herself
his calm reiteration that he intended to marry her had forced its seed
into her brain, for ideas projected from bold determined minds are
insistent things. But never had love and all connected with it been so
hateful to her as at this moment. He peered into her face.

"You are not going to cry!" he exclaimed. "You!"

"No, I am not! But I never was so nearly overcome. Such noise! Such
sights! Such heat! It was too bad to take you away, though. Shall you go
back?"

