
An hour later he sent his card in to Rosamund Fane; and Rosamund came
down, presently, mystified, flattered, yet shrewdly alert and prepared
for anything since the miracle of his coming justified such preparation.

"Why in the world," she said with a flushed gaiety perfectly genuine,
"did you ever come to see me? Will you please sit here, rather near
me?--or I shall not dare believe that you are that same Captain Selwyn
who once was so deliciously rude to me at the Minster's dance."

"Was there not a little malice--just a very little--on your part to
begin it?" he asked, smiling.

"Malice? Why? Just because I wanted to see how you and Alixe Ruthven
would behave when thrust into each other's arms? Oh, Captain
Selwyn--what a harmless little jest of mine to evoke all that bitterness
you so smilingly poured out on me! . . . But I forgave you; I'll forgive
you more than that--if you ask me. Do you know"--and she laid her small
head on one side and smiled at him out of her pretty doll's eyes--"do
you know that there are very few things I might not be persuaded to
pardon you? Perhaps"--with laughing audacity--"there are not any at all.
Try, if you please."

"Then you surely will forgive me for what I have come to ask you," he
said lightly. "Won't you?"

"Yes," she said, her pink-and-white prettiness challenging him from
every delicate feature--"yes--I will pardon you--on one condition."

"And what is that, Mrs. Fane?"

"That you are going to ask me something quite unpardonable!" she said
with a daring little laugh. "For if it's anything less improper than an
impropriety I won't forgive you. Besides, there'd be nothing to forgive.
So please begin, Captain Selwyn."

"It's only this," he said: "I am wondering whether you would do anything
for me?"

"Anything! Merci! Isn't that extremely general, Captain Selwyn? But
you never can tell; ask me."

So he bent forward, his clasped hands between his knees, and told her
very earnestly of his fears about Gerald, asking her to use her
undoubted influence with the boy to shame him from the card-tables,
explaining how utterly disastrous to him and his family his present
course was.

"He is very fond of you, Mrs. Fane--and you know how easy it is for a
boy to be laughed out of excesses by a pretty woman of experience. You
see I am desperately put to it or I would never have ventured to trouble
you--"

"I see," she said, looking at him out of eyes bright with
disappointment.

"Could you help us, then?" he asked pleasantly.

"Help us, Captain Selwyn? Who is the 'us,' please?"

"Why, Gerald and me--and his family," he added, meeting her eyes. The
eyes began to dance with malice.

"His family," repeated Rosamund; "that is to say, his sister, Miss
Erroll. His family, I believe, ends there; does it not?"

"Yes, Mrs. Fane."

"I see. . . . Miss Erroll is naturally worried over him. But I wonder
why she did not come to me herself instead of sending you as her errant
ambassador?"

"Miss Erroll did not send me," he said, flushing up. And, looking
steadily into the smiling doll's face confronting him, he knew again
that he had failed.

"I am not inclined to be very much flattered after all," said Rosamund.
"You should have come on your own errand, Captain Selwyn, if you
expected a woman to listen to you. Did you not know that?"

"It is not a question of errands or of flattery," he said wearily; "I
thought you might care to influence a boy who is headed for serious
trouble--that is all, Mrs. Fane."

She smiled: "Come to me on your own errand--for Gerald's sake, for
anybody's sake--for your own, preferably, and I'll listen. But don't
come to me on another woman's errands, for I won't listen--even to you."

"I have come on my own errand!" he repeated coldly. "Miss Erroll knew
nothing about it, and shall not hear of it from me. Can you not help me,
Mrs. Fane?"

But Rosamund's rose-china features had hardened into a polished smile;
and Selwyn stood up, wearily, to make his adieux.

But, as he entered his hansom before the door, he knew the end was not
yet; and once more he set his face toward the impossible; and once more
the hansom rolled away over the asphalt, and once more it stopped--this
time before the house of Ruthven.

