into his pocket, without so much as a glance at its contents. In making
his exit, the window stuck on the sill. In pressing it the lock snapped
loudly. This was the sound Cavenaugh heard. The burglar ran lightly
across the lawn and disappeared beyond the hedges. And none too soon.
The Cavenaugh drag rolled over the hill and went clattering up to the
porte-cochère.
On the way home Carrington, his mind still wavering between this
expedient and that, decided that, after all, he would take charge of the
papers himself. It didn't seem quite fair that Cavenaugh's safe should
protect his ultimate disgrace. So, upon entering the house, he confided
his desire to Kate, who threw aside her wraps and led him into the
dining-room. She had her own reasons for wishing the papers out of the
safe. She turned on the lights and swirled the combination-knob. At this
moment Norah came in.
"What are you doing?" she asked.
"Mr. Carrington left some valuable papers in the safe, and he wants
them."
Carrington wondered why Norah gazed from him to her sister with so wild
an expression.
"Papers?" she murmured.
Kate opened the door. She sprang to her feet in terror and dismay.
"What is it?" cried Carrington, who saw by her expression that something
extraordinary had happened.
"They ... it is not there!"
Norah sat down and hid her face on her arms.
Carrington rushed over to the safe, stooped and made a hasty
examination. It had been opened by some one who knew the combination! He
stood up, a cold chill wrinkling his spine. He saw it all distinctly.
Cavenaugh knew. He had known all along. Cavenaugh had overheard him
speak to Kate, and had opened the safe after their departure for the
club. It was all very cleverly done. He knew that Kate was utterly
blameless. Then it dawned upon him that, they appeared as though they
accepted the catastrophe as not wholly unexpected! To what did this
labyrinth lead?
                             [Illustration]
A rattle of the curtain-rings wheeled them about. They beheld Cavenaugh
himself standing in the doorway.
"What's the trouble?" he asked, eying Carrington suspiciously.
Carrington answered him icily. "I left some legal documents of great
value in this safe; they are no longer there."
Cavenaugh's jaw dropped. He stared at Kate, then at Norah. If ever there
was written on a face unfeigned dismay and astonishment, it was on the
millionaire's. A moment before Carrington would have sworn that he was
guilty; now he knew not what to believe. He grew bewildered. There had
certainly been a burglar; but who was he?
"Mr. Carrington," said Cavenaugh, pulling himself together with an
effort, "you need have no worry whatever. I will undertake to restore
your documents. I offer you no explanations." He left them abruptly.
The young lawyer concluded to grope no longer. Somebody else would have
to lead him out of this labyrinthine maze. All at once there came to him
a sense of infinite relief. Providence had kindly taken the matter out
of his hands.
"Never mind, Kate," he said. "For my part, I should be entirely
satisfied if I never saw the miserable thing again."
"Father will find it for you." Her eyes were dim with tears of shame.
"What is it, girl?"
"Nothing that I can explain to you, John. Good night."
When he had gone to his room, Norah turned to her sister and sobbed on
her breast.
"Oh, Kate!"
"What is the matter, child?"
"I told grandpa the combination!"
                                  III
CARRINGTON tumbled out of bed at six and threw out the old-fashioned
green blinds. A warm, golden summer morning greeted his eyes, and the
peaceful calm of Sunday lay upon the land. A robin piped in an
apple-tree, an oriole flashed across the flower-beds, and a bee buzzed
just outside the sill. A brave day! He stepped into his tub, bathed, and
dressed in his riding-clothes, for there was to be a canter down to the
sea and return before breakfast. From the window he could see the groom
walking the beautiful thoroughbreds up and down the driveway. There were
only two this morning; evidently Norah was not going.
The Cavenaugh girls had created almost a scandal and a revolution when
they first appeared at Glenwood. People had read and talked about women
riding like men, they had even seen pictures of them, but to find them
close at hand was something of a shock. Yet, when they saw with what
ease the Cavenaugh girls took the hedges, ditches and fences, how their
mounts never suffered from saddle-galls, and, above all, how the two
always kept even pace with the best men riders, opinion veered; and
several ladies changed their habits.
Norah, who saw the droll side of things, once said that the accepted
riding habit for women reminded her of a kimono for a harp.
Carrington stole gently down to the horses. He had great affection for
the sleek thoroughbreds. Their ears went forward when they saw him, and
they whinnied softly. He rubbed their velvet noses and in turn they
nozzled him for sugar-loaves. Had it not been for the night and the
attendant mysteries, his happiness would have been complete. People
waste many precious moments in useless retrospection; so Carrington
resolutely forced the subject from his mind. One thing was certain, the
Cavenaughs knew who the burglar was; and there was something strange in
the idea of an empty safe in a millionaire's home. Pshaw! He took out
the expected sugar-loaves and extended them on both palms. The pair
lipped his hand and crunched the sweets with evident relish.
"How are they to-day, James?"
"Fit for twenty miles, straight away or 'cross-lots, sir. Your mount is
feeling his oats this morning; he hasn't been out for a run since
Thursday, sir. I've put the curb on him in case he takes it into his
head to cut up shines. Here comes Miss Kate, sir."
Carrington's pulse rose. Kate was approaching them. She was pale but
serene. She smiled a good morning, which took in the gentleman and the
