playing ball on the beach or congregated along the sands observant of
the jolly, riotous scene sparkling under the magnificence of a cloudless
sky.

Hamil nodded to a few people as he sauntered toward the surf; he stopped
and spoke to his aunt and Colonel Vetchen, who informed him that
Virginia and Cuyp were somewhere together chastely embracing the ocean;
he nodded to old Classon who was toddling along the wet sands in a
costume which revealed considerable stomach; he saw Malcourt, knee-deep,
hovering around Shiela, yet missing nothing of what went on around him,
particularly wherever the swing of a bathing-skirt caught his quick,
handsome eyes.

Then Cecile stretched out an inviting hand to him from the water and he
caught it, and together they hurled themselves head first into the surf,
swimming side by side out to the raft.

"It's nice to see you again," said the girl. "Are you going to be
agreeable now and go about with us? There's a luncheon at two--your fair
friend Virginia Suydam has asked us, much to our surprise--but after
that I'm quite free if you've anything to propose."

She looked up at him, pink and fresh as a wet rose, balanced there on
the edge of the rocking raft.

"Anything to propose?" he repeated; "I don't know; there's scarcely
anything I wouldn't propose to you. So you're going to Virginia's
luncheon?"

"I am; Shiela won't." She frowned. "It's just as it was two years ago
when Louis Malcourt tagged after her every second. It's stupid, but we
can't count on them any more."

"Does--does Malcourt--"

"Tag after Shiela? Haven't you seen it? You've been too busy to notice.
I wish you wouldn't work every minute. There was the jolliest sort of a
dance at the O'Haras' last night--while you were fast asleep. I know you
were because old Jonas told mother you had fallen asleep in your chair
with your head among a pile of blue-prints. On my way to the dance I
wanted to go in and tie one of Shiela's cunning little lace morning caps
under your chin, but Jessie wouldn't go with me. They're perfectly sweet
and madly fashionable--these little Louis XVI caps. I'll show you one
some day."

For a few moments the girl rattled on capriciously, swinging her
stockinged legs in the smooth green swells that rose above her knees
along the raft's edge; and he sat silent beside her, half-listening,
half-preoccupied, his eyes instinctively searching the water's edge
beyond.

"I--hadn't noticed that Louis Malcourt was so devoted to your sister,"
he said.

Cecile looked up quickly, but detected only amiable indifference in the
young fellow's face.

"They're-always together; elle s'affiche à la fin!" she said
impatiently. "Shiela was only eighteen before; she's twenty now, and
old enough to know whether she wants to marry a man like that or not."

Hamil glanced around at her incredulously. "Marry Malcourt?"

But Cecile went on headlong in the wake of her own ideas.

"He's a sort of a relative; we've always known him. He and Gray used to
go camping in Maine and he often spent months in our house. But for two
years now, he's been comparatively busy--he's Mr. Portlaw's manager, you
know, and we've seen nothing of him--which was quite agreeable to me."

Hamil rose, unquiet. "I thought you were rather impressed by Shiela,"
continued the girl. "I really did think so, Mr. Hamil."

"Your sister predicted that I'd lose my heart and senses to you" said
Hamil, laughing and reseating himself beside her.

"Have you?"

"Of course I have. Who could help it?"

The girl considered him smilingly.

"You're the nicest of men," she said. "If you hadn't been so busy I'm
certain we'd have had a desperate affair. But--as it is--and it makes me
perfectly furious--I have only the most ridiculously commonplace and
comfortable affection for you--the sort which prompts mother to send you
quinine and talcum powder--"

Balanced there side by side they fell to laughing.

"Sentiment? Yes," she said; "but oh! it's the kind that offers
witch-hazel and hot-water bottles to the best beloved! Mr. Hamil, why
can't we flirt comfortably like sensibly frivolous people!"

"I wish we could, Cecile."

"I wish so, too, Garret. No, that's too formal--Garry! There, that ends
our chances!"

"You're the jolliest family I ever knew," he said. "You can scarcely
