It was late in the afternoon when Stradella had finished his work, and
the last note and rest of 'Pietà Signore' were written down. The two had
dined on the supper which Pina and Cucurullo had prepared for them on
the previous evening, and in the warm hours Ortensia had fallen asleep
again for a little while, still listening to the song and hearing it in
her dreams. But when Stradella was sure that nothing more was to be
changed, she opened her eyes wide and got up; and she came and knelt at
his knees as she had done on that last night in the balcony of the old
inn; and then he sang what he had composed, from first to last, in a
voice that just filled her ears when it was loudest, and still echoed in
her heart when it sank to a mere breath. When he was silent at last
there were tears in her eyes, and she kissed his hand as it lay passive
on the silent strings of the lute, while he bent down over her and his
lips touched her hair.

They had not much time left after that, as it seemed to them, when they
remembered it all and looked back on one of the happiest days in their
young lives. The last time they kissed was when they were ready to go
downstairs to the carriage that was waiting to take them to the
Quirinal. Strange to say, Stradella felt a little faint then, and his
heart was beating almost painfully, whereas Ortensia was quite calm and
confident, and smiled at the two sbirri in black who were ready on the
landing to escort the prisoners to the Cardinal's presence.

They were there at last, in a spacious room where everything was either
white, or gilded, or of gold, the walls, the furniture, the big
fireplace, the heavy carpet spread on the marble floor, where the Pope
sat in his gilded chair, himself all in white, with a small white silk
skullcap set far back on his silvery hair. His face was almost white,
too, and the short beard on his chin was like snow, for he was over
eighty years of age, thin, and in ill-health; but the face was kindly,
with soft dark eyes that still had life in them; and the shadow of a
smile flickered round the faded lips as Stradella and Ortensia knelt
together at his feet.

On his left side stood Cardinal Altieri, erect and motionless in his
purple cassock with red buttons, and his scarlet silk cloak. His face
was grave and inscrutable.

'Holy Father,' he had said, as the pair knelt down, 'these are the
prisoners who implore your pardon.'

That was all he said, and for some moments the Pope did not speak,
though he nodded his snowy head twice, in answer to the Cardinal's
words, and his gentle eyes looked from the one young face to the other
as if reading the meaning of each.

'You sang to me a year ago, my son,' he said at length to Stradella. 'Go
now and stand a little way off and make music, for though I am old I
hear well; and do your best, for I will be your judge. If I find you
have even greater mastery than last year, your skill shall atone for
your rude handling of my nephew; but if you sing less well, you must
have an opportunity of practising and perfecting your art in solitude
for a few months.'

If Stradella had dared to glance at the kindly face just then, he would
certainly have noticed how the dark eyes brightened, and almost
twinkled. But Ortensia, being a woman, and still full of girlhood's
innocent daring, was boldly looking up at the Pope while he spoke; and
he smiled at her, and one shadowy hand went out and rested on the black
veil she had pinned upon her hair.

'Go and stand near your husband while he sings to me,' he said. 'You
will give him courage, I am sure!'

The two rose together, and Stradella took up the lute he had laid beside
him on the floor when he had knelt down at the Pope's feet. He and
Ortensia stepped back half-a-dozen paces, and the musician stood still,
but Ortensia moved a little farther away and to one side. The windows
were wide open to the west, and the rich evening light flooded the white
and gold room, and illumined the figure of the aged Pope, the strong
features of the tall grey-haired Cardinal beside him, and the two young
faces of the singer and his wife.

Stradella's heart beat fast and faintly, and his fingers trembled when
they touched the strings and made the first minor chord. As long as he
lived he remembered how at that very moment two swallows shot by the
open window, uttering their eager little note; the room swam with him,
and he thought he was going to reel and fall. For a moment he saw
nothing and knew nothing, except that he had reached the end of the
short prelude on the lute, and that he must find voice to sing for his
liberty and Ortensia's, if not for his life.

'Pietà, Signore----'

The first words broke from his chilled lips in a low cry of despair, so
strange and moving, and yet so musical, that the Cardinal started
visibly, and the Pope raised his white head and looked slowly down the
room, as if some suffering creature must be there at the very point of
death, and crying low for pity and forgiveness. Even Ortensia, who had
heard all, could not believe her ears, though she knew her husband's
genius well.

'Signor pietà----' he sang again.

Fear was gone now, but art poured out the appeal for pardon with supreme
power to move, roused to outdo itself, perhaps, by that first piteous
cry that had broken from the master-singer's lips. The plaintive notes
floated on the golden air as if a culprit spirit were pleading for
forgiveness at the gates of paradise, a wonder to hear.
