was not sharp and forbidding enough ; besides, Madam, 
alone or with the senseless prefix, was archaic, and 
Verrian wished to be very modern with this most of- 
fensive instance of the latest girl. He decided upon 
dealing with her in the third person, and trusting to his 
literary skill to keep the form from clumsiness. 

He tried it in that form, and it was simply disgusting, 
the attitude stiff and swelling, and the diction affected 
and unnatural. With a quick reversion to the impos- 
sible first type, he recast his letter in what was now 
the only possible shape. 

" My deab Miss Brown, — The editor of the Ameri- 
can Miscellany has sent me a copy of his recent letter 
to you and your own reply, and has remanded to me 
an affair which resulted from my going to him with 
your request to see the close of my story now publish- 
ing in his magazine. 

"After giving the matter my best thought, I have 
concluded that it will be well to enclose all the exhibits 
to you, and I now do this in the hope that a serious 

 

study of them will enable you to share my surprise at 
the moral and social conditions in which the business 
could originate. I willingly leave with you the ques- 
tion which is the more trustworthy, your letter to me 
or your letter to him, or which the more truly repre- 
sents the interesting diversity of your nature. I con- 
fess that the first moved me more than the second, and 
I do not see why I should not tell you that as soon as 
I had your request I went with it to Mr. Armiger and 
did what I could to prompt his compliance with it. In 
putting these papers out of my hands, I ought to ac- 
knowledge that they have formed a temptation to make 
literary use of the affair which I shall now be the bet- 
ter fitted to resist. You will, of course, be amused by 
the ease with which you could abuse my reliance on 
your good faith, and I am sure you will not allow any 
shame for your trick to qualify your pleasure in its 
success. 

" It will not be necessary for you to acknowledge this 
letter and its enclosures. I will register the package, 
so that it will not fail to reach you, and I will return 
any answer of yours unopened, or, if not recognizably 
addressed, then unread. 

" Yours sincerely, 

" P. S. Vebeian." 

He read and read again these lines, with only the 
sense of their insufficiency in doing the effect of the 
bitterness in his heart. If the letter was insulting, 
it was by no means as insulting as he would have 
liked to make it. Whether it would be wounding enough 
was something that depended upon the person whom he 
wished to wound. All that was proud and vain and 
cruel in him surged up at the thought of the trick that 
had been played upon him, and all that was sweet and 


kind and gentle in him, when he believed the trick was 
a genuine appeal, turned to their counter qualities. 
Yet, feeble and inadequate as his letter was, he knew 
that he could not do more or worse by trying, and he 
so much feared that by waiting he might do less and 
better that he hurried it into the post at once. If his 
mother had been at hand he would have shown it her, 
though he might not have been ruled by her judgment 
of it. He was glad that she was not with him, for either 
she would have had her opinion of what would be more 
telling, or she would have insisted upon his delaying 
any sort of reply, and he could not endure the thought 
of difference or delay. 

He asked himself whether he should let her see the 
rough first draft of his letter or not, and he decided 
that he would not. But when she came into his study 
on her return he showed it her. 

She read it in silence, and then she seemed to tempo- 
rize in asking, " Where are her two letters ?" 

" I've sent them back with the answer." 

His mother let the paper drop from her hands. 
" Philip ! You haven't sent this!" 

" Yes, I have. It wasn't what I wanted to make it, 
but I wished to get the detestable experience out of 
my mind, and it was the best I could do at the moment. 
Don't you like it ?" 

" Oh — " She seemed beginning to say something, 
but without saying anything she took the fallen leaf 
