Society. They were preparing a de luxe account of the prominent
families of New York; a very sumptuous affair, with a highly exclusive
set of subscribers, at the rate of fifteen hundred dollars per set.
Would Mr. Montague by any chance care to have his family included?

And Mr. Montague explained politely that he was a comparative stranger
in New York, and would not belong properly in such a volume. But the
agent was not satisfied with this. There might be reasons for his
subscribing, even so; there might be special cases; Mr. Montague, as a
stranger, might not realize the important nature of the offer; after he
had consulted his friends, he might change his mind--and so on. As
Montague listened to this series of broad hints, and took in the
meaning of them, the colour mounted, to his cheeks--until at last he
rose abruptly and bid the man good afternoon.

But then as he sat alone, his anger died away, and there was left only
discomfort and uneasiness. And three or four days later he bought
another issue of the paper, and sure enough, there was a new paragraph!

He stood on the street-corner reading it. The social war was raging
hotly, it said; and added that Mrs. de Graffenried was threatening to
take up the cause of the strangers. Then it went on to picture a
certain exquisite young man of fashion who was rushing about among his
friends to apologize for his brother's indiscretions. Also, it said,
there was a brilliant social queen, wife of a great banker, who had
taken up the cudgels.--And then came three sentences more, which made
the blood leap like flame into Montague's cheeks:

"There have not been lacking comments upon her suspicious ardour. It
has been noticed that since the advent of the romantic-looking
Southerner, this restless lady's interest in the Babists and the trance
mediums has waned; and now Society is watching for the denouement of a
most interesting situation."

To Montague these words came like a blow in the face. He went on down
the street, half dazed. It seemed to him the blackest shame that New
York had yet shown him. He clenched his fists as he walked, whispering
to himself, "The scoundrels!"

He realized instantly that he was helpless. Down home one would have
thrashed the editor of such a paper; but here he was in the wolves' own
country, and he could do nothing. He went back to his office, and sat
down at the desk.

"My dear Mrs. Winnie," he wrote. "I have just read the enclosed
paragraph, and I cannot tell you how profoundly pained I am that your
kindness to us should have made you the victim of such an outrage. I am
quite helpless in the matter, except to enable you to avoid any further
annoyance. Please believe me when I say that we shall all of us
understand perfectly if you think that we had best not meet again at
present; and that this will make no difference whatever in our
feelings."

This letter Montague sent by a messenger; and then he went home.
Perhaps ten minutes after he arrived, the telephone bell rang--and
there was Mrs. Winnie.

"Your note has come," she said. "Have you an engagement this evening?"

"No," he answered.

"Well," she said, "will you come to dinner?"

"Mrs. Winnie--" he protested.

"Please come," she said. "Please!"

"I hate to have you--" he began.

"I wish you to come!" she said, a third time.

So he answered, "Very well."

He went; and when he entered the house, the butler led him to the
elevator, saying, "Mrs. Duval says will you please come upstairs, sir."
And there Mrs. Winnie met him, with flushed cheeks and eager
countenance.

She was even lovelier than usual, in a soft cream-coloured gown, and a
crimson rose in her bosom. "I'm all alone to-night," she said, "so
we'll dine in my apartments. We'd be lost in that big room downstairs."

She led him into her drawing-room, where great armfuls of new roses
scattered their perfume. There was a table set for two, and two big
chairs before the fire which blazed in the hearth. Montague noticed
that her hand trembled a little, as she motioned him to one of them; he
could read her excitement in her whole aspect. She was flinging down
the gauntlet to her enemies!

"Let us eat first and talk afterward," she said, hurriedly. "We'll be
happy for a while, anyway."

And she went on to be happy, in her nervous and eager way. She talked
about the new opera which was to be given, and about Mrs. de
Graffenried's new entertainment, and about Mrs. Ridgley-Clieveden's
ball; also about the hospital for crippled children which she wanted to
build, and about Mrs. Vivie Patton's rumoured divorce. And, meantime,
the sphinx-like attendants moved here and there, and the dinner came
and went. They took their coffee in the big chairs by the fire; and the
table was swept clear, and the servants vanished, closing the doors
