small sin in hiding, some fault, perhaps, overlooked or forgotten. All
that she held unworthy in her she told this man; and the man, being an
average man, listened, head bowed over her fragrant hair, adoring her,
wretched in heart and soul with the heavy knowledge of all he dare not
tell or forget or cleanse from him, kneeling repentant, in the sanctuary
of her love and confidence.

She told him everything--sins of omission, childish depravities, made
real only by the decalogue. Of indolence, selfishness, unkindness, she
accused herself; strove to count the times when she had yielded to
temptation.

He was reading the first human heart he had ever known--a heart still
strangely untainted, amid a society where innocence was the exception,
doubtful wisdom the rule, and where curiosity was seldom left very long
in doubt.

His hands fell over hers as her voice ceased, but he did not speak.

She waited a little while, then, with a slight nestling movement, turned
and hid her face on his knees.

"With God's help," she whispered, "I will subdue what threatens me. But
I am afraid of it! Oh, Duane, I am afraid."

He managed to steady his voice.

"What is it, darling, that seems to tempt you," he asked; "is it the
taste--the effect?"

"The--effect. If I could only forget it--but I can't help thinking about
it--I suppose just because it's forbidden--For days, sometimes, there is
not the slightest desire; then something stirs it up in me, begins to
annoy me; or the desire comes sometimes when I am excited or very happy,
or very miserable. There seems to be some degraded instinct in me that
seeks for it whenever my emotions are aroused.... I must be honest with
you; I--I feel that way now--because, I suppose, I am a little
excited."

He raised her and took her in his arms.

"But you won't, will you? Simply tell me that you won't."

She looked at him, appalled by her own hesitation. Was it possible,
after the words she had just uttered, the exaltation of confession
still thrilling her, that she could hesitate? Was it morbid
over-conscientiousness in the horror of a broken promise to him that
struck her silent?

"Say it, Geraldine."

"Oh, Duane! I've said it so often to Kathleen and myself! Let me
promise myself again--and keep my word. Let me try that way, dear,
before I--I promise you?"

There was a feverish colour in her face; she spoke rapidly, like one who
temporises, trying to convince others and over-ride the inward voice;
her slender hands were restless on his shoulders, her eyes lowered,
avoiding his.

"Perhaps if you and Kathleen, and I, myself, were not so afraid--perhaps
if I were not forbidden--if I had your confidence and my own that I
would not abuse my liberty, it might be easier to refrain. Shall we try
it that way, Duane?"

"Do you think it best?"

"I think--I might try that way. Dear, I have so much to sustain me
now--so much more at stake! Because there is the dread of losing
you--for, Duane, until I am mistress of myself, I will never, never
marry you--and do you suppose I am going to risk our happiness? Only
leave me free, dear; don't attempt to wall me in at first, and I will
surely find my way."

She sprang up, trying to smile, hesitated, then slowly came back to
where he was standing and put her arms around his neck.

"Good-bye until luncheon," she said. "I must go back to my neglected
guests--I am going to run all the way as fast as my legs can carry me!
Kathleen will be dreadfully mortified. Do you love me?... Even after my
horrid confessions?... Oh, you darling!... Now that you know the very
worst, I begin to feel as clean and fresh as though I had just stepped
from the bath.... And I will try to be what you would have me,
dear.... Because I am quite crazy about you--oh, completely mad!"

She bent impulsively and kissed his hands, freed herself with a
breathless laugh, and turned and fled.

For a long time her lover stood there, motionless, downcast, clenched
fists in his pockets, face to face with the past. And that which lay
behind him was that which lies behind what is commonly known to the
world as the average man.




CHAPTER X

DUSK

