Jeremiah, and Billings and Buddha walk together, side by side, right
behind a crowd from planets not in our astronomy; next come a dozen or
two from Jupiter and other worlds; next come Daniel, and Sakka and
Confucius; next a lot from systems outside of ours; next come Ezekiel,
and Mahomet, Zoroaster, and a knife-grinder from ancient Egypt; then
there is a long string, and after them, away down toward the bottom, come
Shakespeare and Homer, and a shoemaker named Marais, from the back
settlements of France.”

“Have they really rung in Mahomet and all those other heathens?”

“Yes—they all had their message, and they all get their reward.  The man
who don’t get his reward on earth, needn’t bother—he will get it here,
sure.”

“But why did they throw off on Shakespeare, that way, and put him away
down there below those shoe-makers and horse-doctors and knife-grinders—a
lot of people nobody ever heard of?”

“That is the heavenly justice of it—they warn’t rewarded according to
their deserts, on earth, but here they get their rightful rank.  That
tailor Billings, from Tennessee, wrote poetry that Homer and Shakespeare
couldn’t begin to come up to; but nobody would print it, nobody read it
but his neighbors, an ignorant lot, and they laughed at it.  Whenever the
village had a drunken frolic and a dance, they would drag him in and
crown him with cabbage leaves, and pretend to bow down to him; and one
night when he was sick and nearly starved to death, they had him out and
crowned him, and then they rode him on a rail about the village, and
everybody followed along, beating tin pans and yelling.  Well, he died
before morning.  He wasn’t ever expecting to go to heaven, much less that
there was going to be any fuss made over him, so I reckon he was a good
deal surprised when the reception broke on him.”

“Was you there, Sandy?”

“Bless you, no!”

“Why?  Didn’t you know it was going to come off?”

“Well, I judge I did.  It was the talk of these realms—not for a day,
like this barkeeper business, but for twenty years before the man died.”

“Why the mischief didn’t you go, then?”

“Now how you talk!  The like of me go meddling around at the reception of
a prophet?  A mudsill like me trying to push in and help receive an awful
grandee like Edward J. Billings?  Why, I should have been laughed at for
a billion miles around.  I shouldn’t ever heard the last of it.”

“Well, who did go, then?”

“Mighty few people that you and I will ever get a chance to see, Captain.
Not a solitary commoner ever has the luck to see a reception of a
prophet, I can tell you.  All the nobility, and all the patriarchs and
prophets—every last one of them—and all the archangels, and all the
princes and governors and viceroys, were there,—and  no  small fry—not a
single one.  And mind you, I’m not talking about only the grandees from
 our  world, but the princes and patriarchs and so on from  all  the
worlds that shine in our sky, and from billions more that belong in
systems upon systems away outside of the one our sun is in.  There were
some prophets and patriarchs there that ours ain’t a circumstance to, for
rank and illustriousness and all that.  Some were from Jupiter and other
worlds in our own system, but the most celebrated were three poets, Saa,
Bo and Soof, from great planets in three different and very remote
systems.  These three names are common and familiar in every nook and
corner of heaven, clear from one end of it to the other—fully as well
known as the eighty Supreme Archangels, in fact—where as our Moses, and
Adam, and the rest, have not been heard of outside of our world’s little
corner of heaven, except by a few very learned men scattered here and
there—and they always spell their names wrong, and get the performances
of one mixed up with the doings of another, and they almost always locate
them simply  in our solar system, and think that is enough without going
into little details such as naming the particular world they are from.
It is like a learned Hindoo showing off how much he knows by saying
Longfellow lives in the United States—as if he lived all over the United
States, and as if the country was so small you couldn’t throw a brick
there without hitting him.  Between you and me, it does gravel me, the
cool way people from those monster worlds outside our system snub our
little world, and even our system.  Of course we think a good deal of
Jupiter, because our world is only a potato to it, for size; but then
there are worlds in other systems that Jupiter isn’t even a mustard-seed
to—like the planet Goobra, for instance, which you couldn’t squeeze
inside the orbit of Halley’s comet without straining the rivets.
Tourists from Goobra (I mean parties that lived and died there—natives)
come here, now and then, and inquire about our world, and when they find
out it is so little that a streak of lightning can flash clear around it
in the eighth of a second, they have to lean up against something to
laugh.  Then they screw a glass into their eye and go to examining us, as
if we were a curious kind of foreign bug, or something of that sort.  One
of them asked me how long our day was; and when I told him it was twelve
hours long, as a general thing, he asked me if people where I was from
considered it worth while to get up and wash for such a day as that.
That is the way with those Goobra people—they can’t seem to let a chance
go by to throw it in your face that their day is three hundred and
twenty-two of our years long.  This young snob was just of age—he was six
or seven thousand of his days old—say two million of our years—and he had
all the puppy airs that belong to that time of life—that turning-point
when a person has got over being a boy and yet ain’t quite a man exactly.
If it had been anywhere else but in heaven, I would have given him a
piece of my mind.  Well, anyway, Billings had the grandest reception that
