
“ Ought I to thank you for coming to my 
assistance so promptly?” Helen asked of Mr. 




Underwood, but her eyes had a mirthful gleam 
in them. 

He was gaining daily respect for his new 
teacher. She quite understood what she was 
about and carried herself with admirable 
dignity. He really felt amazed at her mathe- 
matical ability. 

“ That is my one talent,’ she explained, 
when he spoke of it one day. “ As people say 
— it comes natural, and is no trouble, never 
confuses me. All the rest I had to study for, 
almost fight for some things. Then I do 
think real solid study stamps matters on your 
brain, helps your memory.” 

“ I did my duty and you did yours,” Mr. 
Underwood answered, “ or rather yours came 
first. I wish we did not have Eastman. He 
likes to set himself up against authority. We 
had several tussles when he was in the gram- 
mar school. He needs a strong hand, and his 
mother is silly over him. He ought to be sent 
to some good military school, but his mother is 
too much opposed at present, though if he had 
not come to terms I should have prodded his 
father up to this step. He could be a good 


 

scholar with a little energy, but he will not 
make the effort. And he has a way of setting 
up the others. He likes to rule a little coterie 
and he used to delight in mischief. But I 
thought maybe the two years’ training had 
done something for him. However, I do not 
mean to stand any nonsense. He shall not 
rouse a spirit of insubordination. So you 
must keep a good watch and let me know at 
once.” 

“ There is another thing. Will you look 
over the month’s record? ” 

She brought her book, and finding East- 
man’s page placed it before him. 

“ That is disgraceful ! Is there any other 
as bad? ” 

“ Carl Benson’s is only a little better. Larry 
Dinsmore is in the same set but he has more 
pride, I think. Of course these records are 
sent to the parents at the end of the 
month ? ” 

“ That is our regulation. Benson has no 
father and is living with a married sister. He 
has considerable money, too, and that ruins a 
good many boys. I believe he has quite a 




sensible guardian, though. If next month is 
no better I shall complain to him. We cannot 
afford to have our school drop down and get a 
poor name.” 

“ There are some very good scholars, and 
now that they know what is expected of them 
they are attentive and studious.” 

“ Then you are not discouraged? ” in a half- 
teasing tone, lifting his brows. 

“ Discouraged ! ” She stood up straight be- 
fore him, her eyes shining with energy. 

“ You will do. I was a little afraid at first, 
I waited to be asked in some matters, but you 
seldom do that. Either you are of a high 
order, or the training is of a high order.” 

She flushed. “ Give the training a good 
deal of the credit,” she made answer smil- 
ingly. 

“ There must have been some foundation,” 
he returned. “ I’m truly sorry about this low 
record, but the truth must be told.” 
