Malakoff and both fell into position. 

"On guard!" the prince called. "Go!" 

The foils, united for an instant at the ends 
by Le Hillel, now were seeking each other, 
crossing, clashing, functioning with light 
movements of the wrist. 

Welden, taller than Malakoff, perfectly 



 

trained, perfectly tranquil, maintained the 
athlete's easy poise and, while his wrist 
moved, looked pitilessly at his adversary. 
As yet however he attempted nothing decisive. His parries, effected always in the 
smallest possible circle, were as clean, rapid 
and precise as though, with a buttoned foil 
before him, he were on the boards, in an ordinary bout. But in parrying merely, he 
forced Malakoff to show his hand, to tell 
what he knew, to expose the varieties of his 
play. 

These were of the school, classic but not 
brilliant, and Malakoff, at the sight of those 
circles, at the sight of that steel which, when 
not describing them, advanced and returned 
in a line almost geometrically straight, saw 
that he had to deal not only with a swords 
man but with a swordsman of the very first 
class. On the part of an American he had 
counted on nothing of the kind. At the 
evidence of it his sense of nudity increased. 





He felt not only wholly naked but horribly 
insecure. The episode which he had regarded as an entirely formal and tiresome affair 
had rapidly assumed the proportions of an 
assassination. 

"Halt!" cried Saraguine. 

Malakoff was livid. Visibly he perspired, 
audibly he panted and on his forearm was 
a thin red line. 

"You are touched," the prince added. 

The wound was examined. It was but a 
scratch and so slight that it did not require 
even to be staunched. 

Welden, in an undertone, said with a 
smile to Le Hillel: "I know him now. In a 
moment I will pin a carnation in his 
shirt. 

Thoughtlessly while speaking, he had 
rested the point of the foil on the ground. 
Dr. Meyer approached and tenderly with 
a little sponge disinfected it. 

"On guard!" Saraguine called and, as 



 

the two men fell into position again, again 
he called: "Go." 

The foils met as before. Malakoff, to 
hide the nakedness of his debility, masked 
himself behind the hilt, and parried only 
until after a counter-disengage from quatre 
to tierce, not finding Welden's blade, he 
lunged. But the foil, manoeuvred by an 
other and surer hand than his, deflected. 
An unawaited riposte touched him on the 
breast and, as he backed from the prick, a 
return sudden and violent ran him through 
the throat. 

Before him, the double doors, the blazoned 
arch, the high white wall, soared in the air. 
They came to him, fell on him, bore him 
down. From under him the earth slid gently. The savour of something acrid filled his 
mouth. Above him were peering faces and 
fluttering hands. These blankly fainted. 
In that early morning it was night. 

Welden looked at the prostrate form and 


