couldn't get near one, they were rushed off so. But we'll hear it all
in a few days. Too much good news might puff us up with vain glory.
We may look for letters any day. Such a splendid victory!"

Grandfather was wiping the tears from his eyes. Marc Bradin went in to
comfort his daughter, though he could hardly forbear smiling with a
sense of inward amusement as he thought of Sandy Carrick, who had as
good as disowned his son for joining the Colonial army. He'd be glad
enough to have him back again. Though he had been rather disgruntled
at his marrying Barbe Bradin because she had French blood in her
veins, as if the Irish Bradin could not in some degree counteract
that!

Sandy Carrick had been in the sore battle of Braddock's defeat. But
after all the cowardly French had thought retreat the better part of
valor and left the Fort that had been partly burned, left that section
as well, and the government had erected the new Fort Pitt. He insisted
that the French had been really driven out. They certainly had been
checked in their advance to the Mississippi.

Pittsburg was a conglomerate in these early days. Welsh, Irish, and
English had contributed to its then small population of the few
hundreds whose history and beginning were like so many other
emigrants. The houses were ranged largely about the Fort for
protection from the Indians. There were small crooked lanes, a few
dignified by-streets, Penn Street, Duquesne way, Water and Ferry
streets. Colonel George Morgan had built a double-hewn log house of
considerable dimensions, the first house in the settlement to have a
shingle roof. Though the "Manor of Pittsburg" had been surveyed and
Fort Pitt had been abandoned by the British under orders of General
Gage and occupied by Virginia troops under Captain John Neville.

There were some French residents, some Acadians as well, and a few
Virginians who were mostly refugees. The houses were of very primitive
construction, generally built of logs, but made comfortable on the
inside. The emigrants had brought their industries with them. The
women spun and knit, there were several rude looms, but they depended
largely on Philadelphia for supplies.

Pierre Duvernay had fled to Ireland in one of the Huguenot
persecutions, but more fortunate than many, he had been able to take
some of his worldly possessions. Here his only daughter had married
Marc Bradin, his only son had died, and his wife had followed.
Broken-hearted he had accompanied his daughter and son-in-law to the
new Colonies. They had spent a few years in Virginia, then with some
French friends had come to Pittsburg and bought a large holding, which
seemed at the time a misadventure, and so they had built in nearer to
the Fort. Here pretty Barbe Bradin had grown up and married Bernard
Carrick, their neighbor's son, but they had not let the hospitable
Bradin home. Here Daffodil had been born, and the French and Irish
blended again.

"What made you call me Daffodil?" the child said one day to her
mother. "You were named after your mother and gran'mere after hers,
and you should have called me Barbe."

"It would have made no end of confusion. You see it does with
great-grandfather. And when you were born it was lovely sunshiny
weather and the daffodils were in bloom with their tender gold. Then
you had such a funny fuzzy yellow head. I loved the Daffodils so. They
come so early and look so cheerful, and you were such a cheerful baby,
always ready to smile."

"Do you suppose my hair will always stay yellow?"

"Oh, no. It will grow darker."

"Like yours?"

"Well, perhaps not quite as dark. I like it. You are my spring. If I
were in any sorrow, your brightness would comfort me."

Then the sorrow came. The young husband felt it his duty to join the
struggling army and fight for his country. It was in doubtful times.

This queer, rural, primitive settlement knew little about the great
causes. Since the new fort had been built and the French repulsed,
absolutely driven out of their strongholds, there had been only the
infrequent Indian encounters to rouse them. The stern resolves, the
mighty enthusiasm of the Eastern Colonies had not inspired them. Even
the Declaration of Independence, while it had stirred up their alien
and contradictory blood, had not evoked the sturdy patriotism of the
larger towns having so much more at stake. They added to their flocks
and herds, they hunted game and wild animals, and on the whole enjoyed
their rural life.

Sandy Carrick had never known which side to affiliate with the most
strongly. There was the brave old Scottish strain that his mother had
handed down in many a romantic tale, there was the Irish of his father
that had come down almost from royalty itself, from the famous Dukes
that had once divided Ireland between them. Why the Carricks had
espoused the English side he could not have told. He was glad to come
to the new countries. And when, after being a widower for several
years, he married pretty buxom widow Boyle, he was well satisfied with
his place in life.

He had been in the fateful encounter at Braddock's defeat at his first
introduction to the country. The French were well enough in Canada,
which seemed not very far from the North Pole, and a land of eternal
snow, but when they came farther down with their forts and their
