afternoon. The affair was not to be spoken of until date and details
were settled. My heart swelled with pride in him, and in myself as
his chosen confidante, as he went on. The recollection of the scenes
succeeding the barbecue was fresh in our minds, and the memory
sharpened the contrast between the methods of the rival parties.

I was brimful of excitement when I got home, and the various novelties
of the impending event in the history of county politics and village
life were the staple of neighborhood talk for the weeks dividing that
morning ride from the mid-May day of the “rally.”

That was what they called it, for it was not to be a barbecue, although
a collation would be served in the grounds surrounding the Grove Hotel,
situated in the centre of the hamlet, and separated from the public
square by one street. The meeting and the speaking would be in the
grove at the rear of the Court House. Seats were to be arranged among
the trees. It was at my father’s instance and his expense that the
benches would be covered with white cotton cloth—“muslin,” in Northern
parlance. This was in special compliment to the “ladies who, it was
hoped, would compose a great part of the audience.”

This was the chiefest innovation of all that set tongues to wagging
in three counties. The wives and mothers and daughters of voters were
cordially invited by placards strewed broadcast through the length
and breadth of Powhatan. The like had never been heard of within the
memory of the oldest inhabitant. It was universally felt that the step
practically guaranteed the county for Clay and Frelinghuysen.




XIII

A WHIG RALLY AND MUSTER DAY


THE day dawned heavenly fair, and waxed gloriously bright by the time
the preparations for the reception of the guests were completed.
The dust had been laid by an all-day rain forty-eight hours before.
Every blade of grass and the leaves, which rustled joyously overhead,
shone as if newly varnished. At ten o’clock all the sitting-space was
occupied, three-fourths of the assembly being of the fairer sex. Half
an hour later there was not standing-room within the sound of the
orators’ voices. A better-dressed, better-mannered crowd never graced
a political “occasion.” All were in summer gala attire, and all were
seated without confusion. My father, as chairman of the committee of
arrangements, had provided for every stage of the proceeding. It was by
a motion, made by him and carried by acclamation, that Captain Miller,
“a citizen of credit and renown,” was called to preside.

As if it had happened last week, I can, in fancy, see each feature
of this, the most stupendous function that had ever entered my young
life. I suppose there may have been five hundred people present. I
would have said, unhesitatingly, “five thousand,” if asked to make
the computation. I wore, for the first time, a sheer lawn frock—the
longest I had ever had, but, as my mother explained to the village
dressmaker—Miss Judy Cardozo—“Virginia is growing so fast, we would
better have it rather long to begin with.” I secretly rejoiced
in the sweep of the full skirt down to my heels, as giving me a
young-ladylike appearance. “Thad” Ivey, always kind to me, and not
less jolly because he was soon to be a married man, meeting me on the
way up the street, declared that I had “really a ball-room air.” My
hair was “done” in two braids and tied with white ribbon figured with
pale-purple and green flowers. Sprigs of the same color decorated the
white ground of my lawn. I carried a white fan, and I sat, with great
delight, between my mother and Cousin Mary.

                            “‘And bright
    The sun shone o’er fair women and brave men,’”

murmured a gallant Whig to the row of women behind us.

“Isn’t that strange!” whispered I to Cousin Mary; “those lines have
been running in my mind ever since we came.”

Not strange, as I now know. Everybody read and quoted “Childe Harold”
at that period, and I may add, took liberties with the text of favorite
poems to suit them to the occasion.

When the round of applause that greeted the appearance of Captain
Miller upon the platform subsided, everything grew suddenly so still
that I heard the leaves rustling over our heads. His was not an
imposing presence, but he had a stainless reputation as a legislator
and a Whig, and was highly respected as a man. He began in exactly
these words:

“Ladies and gentlemen—fellow-citizens, all!—it behooves us, always
and everywhere, before entering upon the prosecution of any important
enterprise, to invoke the presence and blessing of Almighty God. We
will, therefore, be now led in prayer by the Reverend Mr. Carus.”

My uncle-in-law “offered” a tedious petition, too long-winded to
please the average politician perhaps, but it was generally felt that
a younger man and newer resident could not have been called upon
without incivility verging upon disrespect to a venerable citizen. The
invocation over, the presiding officer announced that “the Whigs, in
obedience to the spirit of fair play to all, and injustice to none,
that had ever characterized the party, would to-day grant to their
honored opponents, the Democrats, the opportunity of replying publicly
to the arguments advanced in the addresses of those representing
