this abides with him still, so that there always proceeds from the
splendid waterfront I speak of a certain secret appeal, something that
seems to have been uttered first in the sonorous chambers of youth. Of
course this association falls to the ground--or rather splashes into the
water--if I am the victim of a confusion. Was the edifice in question
twenty-three years ago the post-office, which has occupied since, for
many a day, very much humbler quarters? I am afraid to take the proper
steps for finding out, lest I should learn that during these years I
have misdirected my emotion. A better reason for the sentiment, at any
rate, is that such a great house has surely, in the high beauty of its
tiers, a refinement of its own. They make one think of colosseums and
aqueducts and bridges, and they constitute doubtless, in Venice, the
most pardonable specimen of the imitative. I have even a timid kindness
for the huge Pesaro, far down the Canal, whose main reproach, more even
than the coarseness of its forms, is its swaggering size, its want
of consideration for the general picture, which the early examples so
reverently respect. The Pesaro is as far out of the frame as a modern
hotel, and the Cornaro, close to it, oversteps almost equally the
modesty of art. One more thing they and their kindred do, I must add,
for which, unfortunately, we can patronise them less. They make even the
most elaborate material civilisation of the present day seem woefully
shrunken and bourgeois, for they simply--I allude to the biggest
palaces--can’t be lived in as they were intended to be. The modern
tenant may take in all the magazines, but he bends not the bow of
Achilles. He occupies the place, but he doesn’t fill it, and he has
guests from the neighbouring inns with ulsters and Baedekers. We are
far at the Pesaro, by the way, from our attaching window, and we take
advantage of it to go in rather a melancholy mood to the end. The long
straight vista from the Foscari to the Rialto, the great middle stretch
of the Canal, contains, as the phrase is, a hundred objects of interest,
but it contains most the bright oddity of its general Deluge air. In all
these centuries it has never got over its resemblance to a flooded city;
for some reason or other it is the only part of Venice in which the
houses look as if the waters had overtaken them. Everywhere else they
reckon with them--have chosen them; here alone the lapping seaway seems
to confess itself an accident.

{Illustration: PALAZZO MONCENIGO, VENICE}

There are persons who hold this long, gay, shabby, spotty perspective,
in which, with its immense field of confused reflection, the houses have
infinite variety, the dullest expanse in Venice. It was not dull, we
imagine, for Lord Byron, who lived in the midmost of the three Mocenigo
palaces, where the writing-table is still shown at which he gave the
rein to his passions. For other observers it is sufficiently enlivened
by so delightful a creation as the Palazzo Loredan, once a masterpiece
and at present the Municipio, not to speak of a variety of other
immemorial bits whose beauty still has a degree of freshness. Some of
the most touching relics of early Venice are here--for it was here she
precariously clustered--peeping out of a submersion more pitiless than
the sea. As we approach the Rialto indeed the picture falls off and a
comparative commonness suffuses it. There is a wide paved walk on either
side of the Canal, on which the waterman--and who in Venice is not a
waterman?--is prone to seek repose. I speak of the summer days--it is
the summer Venice that is the visible Venice. The big tarry barges are
drawn up at the fondamenta, and the bare-legged boatmen, in faded blue
cotton, lie asleep on the hot stones. If there were no colour anywhere
else there would be enough in their tanned personalities. Half the low
doorways open into the warm interior of waterside drinking-shops, and
here and there, on the quay, beneath the bush that overhangs the door,
there are rickety tables and chairs. Where in Venice is there not the
amusement of character and of detail? The tone in this part is very
vivid, and is largely that of the brown plebeian faces looking out of
the patchy miscellaneous houses--the faces of fat undressed women and of
other simple folk who are not aware that they enjoy, from balconies once
doubtless patrician, a view the knowing ones of the earth come thousands
of miles to envy them. The effect is enhanced by the tattered clothes
hung to dry in the windows, by the sun-faded rags that flutter from the
polished balustrades--these are ivory-smooth with time; and the whole
scene profits by the general law that renders decadence and ruin
in Venice more brilliant than any prosperity. Decay is in this
extraordinary place golden in tint and misery couleur de rose. The
gondolas of the correct people are unmitigated sable, but the poor
market-boats from the islands are kaleidoscopic.

The Bridge of the Rialto is a name to conjure with, but, honestly
speaking, it is scarcely the gem of the composition. There are of course
two ways of taking it--from the water or from the upper passage, where
its small shops and booths abound in Venetian character; but it mainly
counts as a feature of the Canal when seen from the gondola or even from
the awful vaporetto. The great curve of its single arch is much to
be commended, especially when, coming from the direction of the
railway-station, you see it frame with its sharp compass-line the
perfect picture, the reach of the Canal on the other side. But the backs
of the little shops make from the water a graceless collective hump, and
the inside view is the diverting one. The big arch of the bridge--like
the arches of all the bridges--is the waterman’s friend in wet weather.
The gondolas, when it rains, huddle beside the peopled barges, and
the young ladies from the hotels, vaguely fidgeting, complain of the
communication of insect life. Here indeed is a little of everything, and
the jewellers of this celebrated precinct--they have their immemorial
row--make almost as fine a show as the fruiterers. It is a universal
market, and a fine place to study Venetian types. The produce of
the islands is discharged there, and the fishmongers announce their
presence. All one’s senses indeed are vigorously attacked; the whole
place is violently hot and bright, all odorous and noisy. The churning
of the screw of the vaporetto mingles with the other sounds--not
indeed that this offensive note is confined to one part of the Canal.
But Just here the little piers of the resented steamer are particularly
near together, and it seems somehow to be always kicking up the water.
