

very glad, as it gave him a chance to remain in 
the midst of events. 

So it happened that he savr Peters emerging 
from the wine cellar, followed by a man with a 
huge basket full of bottles. And this set Samuel 
to pondering hard, the while he scraped away at 
a bowl of potatoes. It was the one thing which 
had disconcerted him in the Ufe of this upper 
world — the obvious part that drinking played in 
it. There were always decanters of liquor upon 
the buffet in the dining room; and liquor was 
served to guests upon any and every pretext. 
And the women drank as freely as the men — 
even Miss Gladys drank, a thing which was sim- 
ply appalling to Samuel. 

Of course, these were privileged people, and 
they knew what they wanted to do. But could 
it be right for anyone to drink? As in the case of 
suicide, Samuel found his moral convictions be- 
ginning to waver. Perhaps it was that drink did 
not aifect these higher beings as it did ordinary 
people! Or perhaps what they drank was some- 
thing that cheered without inebriating! Certain 
it was that the servants got drunk; and Samuel 
had seen that they took the stuff from the de- 
canters used by the guests. 

It was something over which he labored with 
great pain of soul. But, of course, all his hesi- 
tations and sophistries were for the benefit of his 





master — that it could be right for Samuel him- 
self to touch liquor was something that could not 
by any chance enter his mind. 

The dinner had begun; and Samuel went on 
several errands to the room below the butler's 
pantry, and so from the dumb-waiter shafts he 
could hear the sounds of laughter and conversa- 
tion. And more wine went up — it was evidently 
a very merry party. The meal was protracted 
for two or three hours, and the noise grew louder 
and louder. They were shouting so that one could 
hear them all over the house. They were singing 
songs — wild rollicking choruses which were very 
wonderful to listen to, and yet terribly disturbing 
to Samuel. These fortunate successful ones — he 
would grant them the right to any happiness — 
it was to be expected that they should dwell in 
perpetual merriment and delight. But he could 
hear the champagne corks popping every few 
minutes. And could it be right for them to 
drink! 

It grew late, and still the revelry went on. A 
thimderstorm had come up and was raging out- 
side. The servants who were not at work, had 
gone to bed, but there was no sleep for Samuel; 
he continued to prowl about, restless and tor- 
mented. The whole house was now deserted, save 
for the party in the dining room ; and so he crept 
up, by one of the rear stairways, and crouched in 





a doorway, where he could listen to the wild up- 
roar. 

He had been there perhaps ten minutes. He 
could hear the singing and yelling, though he 
could not make out the words because of the noise 
of the elements. But then suddenly, above all the 
confusion, he heard a woman's shrieks, piercing 
and shrill ; and he started up and sprang into the 
hall. Whether they were cries of anger, or of 
fear, or of pain, Samuel could not be certain; 
but he knew that they were not cries of enjoy- 
ment. 

He stood trembling. There rose a babel of 
shouts, and then again came the woman's voice 
— " No, no — you shan't, I say! " 

" Sit down, you fool! " Samuel heard Bertie 
Lockman shout. 

And then came another woman's voice — " Shut 
up and mind your business! " 

" I'll tear your eyes out, you devil! " shrilled 
