
"'Talk fair!' Course he talked fair," said Elihu. "That's a part on 't.
I'll bet a dollar if you's in a court o' law you couldn't remember what
he said."

"I could the sense of it."

"That's it! Why, don't ye know, when anything's business, it's got to be
jest so and no other way? 'Tain't surprisin' you shouldn't. Womenfolks
ain't called on to do brain work, any to speak of--well, keep school
they may, and a matter o' that--but when it comes to business--d'ye have
any witnesses?"

"No," said Amarita, in a small voice.

"Well, you've done about as bad for yourself as ye could, fur 's I can
see. Now, you hearken to me. You leave that packin'-case where he set
it, and don't you move it so much as a hair to the right or the left,
and don't you lift the cover. And if that feller ever darkens these
doors, you come and call me."

Then Elihu rose and took a candle and went off to his desk in the
sitting-room, and Amarita cleared the table with swift, sweeping
motions, as if she longed to hurl the dishes from her. Old Mis' Meade
came heavily back from her bedroom.

"Well," said she, in the scorn sprung from experience, "I never seen
sich actions. Terrible time, an' nobody to it! What made ye tell him?"

Amarita returned no answer. She was washing dishes now, with no noise,
setting down each article softly, yet with the same air of longing to
destroy.

"Witnesses!" old Mis' Meade grumbled, settling to her work by the
window. "If Elihu's the size he used to be, I'd show him how much
womenfolks knew about business. If you want one o' them books to read
to-night, you step into the front entry an' pick ye out one. I'll stand
by ye."

Still Amarita made no answer. She was not thinking of the books. Swift
as wood-creatures coursing on the track of prey, her mind was racing
over the field of her life with Elihu and pinning down the mistakes he
had made. She had never seemed to see them, but not one of them had
escaped her. There was the day when a traveling salesman had sold him
the onion seed that never came up, and the other one when he had bought
Old White of the peddler, and seen him go lame after a two-mile drive,
and when he dated a note on Sunday and the school-teacher had laughed.
At first Amarita had not merely ignored his errors. She had, indeed,
shut her eyes upon them and turned quickly away; but as it became
apparent that Elihu was keeping a record of her impulsive, random deeds
and drawing data from them, so she began to see the list of his, and
turned to it now and then, when he found her foolish, to read it over in
a passionate self-comparison.

When the dishes were done she sat down to her sewing, outwardly calm,
but conscious of that hot flush in her cheeks and of her quickly beating
heart. Old Mis' Meade muttered a little as she knit, and cast her son a
hostile glance from time to time. But Elihu was happily impervious to
criticism. He spread a sheet of paper on the table, and sat down to it
with the air of a schoolboy who is about to square his elbows and
perhaps put out a rhythmic tongue.

"Where's my two-foot rule?" he inquired of Amarita.

"In your t'other trousers," she answered, sewing swiftly, without
looking up.

Elihu glanced at her in a mild surprise, and his mother chuckled. She
was devoted to her son, and more or less overshadowed by his prerogative
as "menfolks" born to absorb the cream of things; but the elderly good
sense in her was alive to the certainty that if Amarita had not been so
yielding, Elihu would never have been so bumptious.

After he had risen and gone off rather helplessly to seek his t'other
trousers, Amarita did glance after him with a tentative movement from
her chair. It almost seemed as if she repented and meant to go on the
quest herself. Old Mis' Meade, translating this, held her breath and
waited; but Amarita only sighed and took a needleful of thread. Then
Elihu returned with the rule and a stubby pencil, and all the evening
long he drew lines and held the paper at arm's length and frowned at
what he saw. Old Mis' Meade was in the habit of going to bed before the
others, and to-night she paused, candle in hand, to interrogate him.

"Elihu!"

"What say?" her son returned. He was again regarding the rectangular
patterns on his page, in some dissatisfaction and yet with pleasure,
too. It was the look of one who makes.

"What under the sun you doin' of?" asked the old lady. "What you rulin'
off? Makes me as nervous as a witch."

Elihu laid down his paper from that removed survey and leaned back in
his chair. It seemed to add some richness to his task to have it
noticed.

"Well," said he, "there's goin' to be a town meetin' next Wednesday, to
take a vote on that money Judge Green left for the Old Folks' Home."

"Yes, yes," said his mother. "I know that. Come, hurry up. This candle's
