darling!”

The baby, howling, dived over Andora’s shoulder for the bag.

“Oh, take him!” his mother ordered.

Andora, from the door, cried out: “I’ll be back at once. Remember, love,
you’re not alone!”

But Lizzie insisted, “Go with them--I wish you to go with them,” in the
tone to which Miss Macy had never learned the answer.

The door closed on her outraged back, and Lizzie stood alone. She looked
about the disordered room, which offered a dreary image of the havoc
of her life. An hour or two ago everything about her had been so
exquisitely ordered, without and within; her thoughts and emotions had
lain outspread before her like delicate jewels laid away symmetrically
in a collector’s cabinet. Now they had been tossed down helter-skelter
among the rubbish there on the floor, and had themselves turned to
rubbish like the rest. Yes, there lay her life at her feet, among all
that tarnished trash.

She knelt and picked up her letters, ten in all, and examined the flaps
of the envelops. Not one had been opened--not one. As she looked, every
word she had written fluttered to life, and every feeling prompting it
sent a tremor through her. With vertiginous speed and microscopic vision
she was reliving that whole period of her life, stripping bare again the
black ruin over which the drift of three happy years had fallen.

She laughed at Andora’s notion of a conspiracy--of the letters having
been “kept back.” She required no extraneous aid in deciphering the
mystery: her three years’ experience of Deering shed on it all the
light she needed. And yet a moment before she had believed herself to be
perfectly happy! Now it was the worst part of her anguish that it did not
really surprise her.

She knew so well how it must have happened. The letters had reached him
when he was busy, occupied with something else, and had been put aside
to be read at some future time--a time which never came. Perhaps on his
way to America, on the steamer, even, he had met “some one else”--the
“some one” who lurks, veiled and ominous, in the background of every
woman’s thoughts about her lover. Or perhaps he had been merely
forgetful. She had learned from experience that the sensations which he
seemed to feel with the most exquisite intensity left no reverberations
in his mind--that he did not relive either his pleasures or his pains.
She needed no better proof of that than the lightness of his conduct
toward his daughter. He seemed to have taken it for granted that Juliet
would remain indefinitely with the friends who had received her
after her mother’s death, and it was at Lizzie’s suggestion that the
little girl was brought home and that they had established themselves at
Neuilly to be near her school. But Juliet once with them, he became the
model of a tender father, and Lizzie wondered that he had not felt
the child’s absence, since he seemed so affectionately aware of her
presence.

Lizzie had noted all this in Juliet’s case, but had taken for granted
that her own was different; that she formed, for Deering, the exception
which every woman secretly supposes herself to form in the experience
of the man she loves. Certainly, she had learned by this time that she
could not modify his habits, but she imagined that she had deepened his
sensibilities, had furnished him with an “ideal”--angelic function!
And she now saw that the fact of her letters--her unanswered
letters--having, on his own assurance, “meant so much” to him, had been
the basis on which this beautiful fabric was reared.

There they lay now, the letters, precisely as when they had left her
hands. He had not had time to read them; and there had been a moment in
her past when that discovery would have been the sharpest pang imaginable
to her heart. She had traveled far beyond that point. She could have
forgiven him now for having forgotten her; but she could never forgive
him for having deceived her.

She sat down, and looked again vaguely about the room. Suddenly she
heard his step overhead, and her heart contracted. She was afraid he was
coming down to her. She sprang up and bolted the door; then she dropped
into the nearest chair, tremulous and exhausted, as if the pushing of
the bolt had required an immense muscular effort. A moment later she
heard him on the stairs, and her tremor broke into a cold fit of shaking.
“I loathe you--I loathe you!” she cried.

She listened apprehensively for his touch on the handle of the door.
He would come in, humming a tune, to ask some idle question and lay
a caress on her hair. But no, the door was bolted; she was safe. She
continued to listen, and the step passed on. He had not been coming
to her, then. He must have gone down-stairs to fetch something--another
newspaper, perhaps. He seemed to read little else, and she sometimes
wondered when he had found time to store the material that used to serve
for their famous “literary” talks. The wonder shot through her again,
barbed with a sneer. At that moment it seemed to her that everything he
had ever done and been was a lie.

She heard the house-door close, and started up. Was he going out? It was
not his habit to leave the house in the morning.

She crossed the room to the window, and saw him walking, with a quick
decided step, between the budding lilacs to the gate. What could have
called him forth at that unwonted hour? It was odd that he should not
have told her. The fact that she thought it odd suddenly showed her how
closely their lives were interwoven. She had become a habit to him, and
he was fond of his habits. But to her it was as if a stranger had opened
