yet admitted to her hopes. This was one of the sudden warm 
days of spring, when summer comes with a leap and sets 
things to moving madly. The wave of it touched them as they 
drove, and wakened them in different measures. Catherine 
drew the sigh that comes after tears, and roused with it to a 
sense of something peacefully new outside her. What was 
this world she looked at, this still reality she- had almost for- 
gotten in the little intricate game of " getting on " ? She had 



 





a delicate sense of beauty, and it had tumultuously responded 
to old-world marvels in her foreign travelling. She accorded 
that response as its reasonable due to the romance of place, 
its poetry collated for her by the consensus of minds. But 
here under the light of home was the gentle stretch where 
man had not reared marvels or destroyed them, — plain, 
kind New England, — and the sight of it roused in her a 
soothed longing as in thje child who runs back to be com- 
forted and finds his mother there. She forgot her trouble- 
some charges, and let her eyes rest on the marsh where the 
tide was flooding, and only when Bess made a low exclamation 
did she look at her. 

The girl had taken off her hat, and the short ends of her 
brown hair were curling up in a new life with the moisture 
and the heat. Her brown cheeks had the tint of red wine, 
and she was leaning forward, hands in her lap, looking from 
side to side. " The sea ! '' she murmured, plainly to herself. 
"The sea!" 

Celia, sitting straight and buoyantly over the rocking of 
the carryall, did not seem to hear her. The stormy look had 
not left her face. Her eyes brooded gloomily and yet with 
a fire of hope in them, on thoughts they determinedly did 
not disclose. Catherine spoke, — 

" No, child, it's not the sea.'' 

Her voice, kind as it always had been, took on a sympa- 
thetic warmth, and Bess started at it. 

"I thought it was the sea." 

" It 's the tide, not the full sea. Didn't you ever see 
the ocean ? " 

Bess shook her head. There was an eloquent beating in 
her throat. It seemed to say if idle waterways, messengers 
of the deep, were such, what could she do when the full 
swing of waves should smite her ? 



 





" We shall have to inquire," said Catherine at length, when 
their charmed progress had gone on leisurely. 

The boy in shirt-sleeves answered with some scorn of 
detail. 

" I know where it is." 

" Mr. Hunter's shooting-box ? " 

" Well, I guess." 

They turned here to the north, and took the tongue of 
land with inland waters on one side and the sea on the other, 
while the sound of waves came murmurously. Bess leaned 
out of the carriage more and more, as if to meet the wonder. 
When they had passed a bluiF it was ready for her, the great 
blue crawling, destructive, girdling snake of the world. In- 
stantly she was out over the wheel, and while she ran the 
carryall drew up farther on before the old gray shingled 
structure that was Hunter's refuge when he ran away from 
town. On the end veranda stood a big figure — as they 
approached, it seemed colossal — Winterbourne, hands in 
his pockets, looking out to sea, and at first taking no more 
notice of them than of any other insignificant detail. But he 
was aware of them, for he laid his pipe on the window-ledge 
and came down the step. 

" Let her go," he said to his wife, a gesture indicating Bess. 
There was tenderness in his voice and in his eyes. "She's 
the natural woman. She'll love the sea and go crazy about 
it down there by herself." 

" Lilian ? " asked his wife, stepping out prettily and feel- 
