
"Do you know anything more about them?"

"They’re rather learned," he said grimly. "One, I understand, is
entitled to practice medicine—the other law....  They scarcely look it."

"Those babies!"

"Certainly.  Snaith was at Keno on business last winter; he heard of ’em
there.  Also—I’ve inquired."

"You have learned nothing to their discredit, I am sure," she said
confidently.

"No; as the fast world wags, they’re respectable enough——"

"Fast!  Jacob!"

"Oh, Sarah, I didn’t mean it in any sinister sense....  They’re merely
rather gay—into everything everywhere—dancing all night, riding,
motoring all over the shop.... They’re pretty girls, and good ones, too,
I guess....  But the world has gone by us, mother.  It’s developed
speed.  That’s what I mean by fast."

"If it were not for the children’s sake, I would be glad to be left
behind," she said, smiling.

"So would I.  Damn this gim-crack fol-de-rol!"

"Jacob!"

"Excuse me....  We’ll do what we ought to; the children want New York,
and I’m going to give it to them if I can....  So I guess you’d better
caution Jack about that girl."

"About Miss Tennant?"

"Silvette; yes.  Tell him to keep away."

"But she is Mr. Edgerton’s cousin."

"It’s too far off to count; besides, it’s not a good enough gamble.  As
far as that goes, I’m not satisfied that Jim Edgerton is good enough."

"Oh, Jacob!  You said——"

"If I’d stuck to all I’ve said, you’d still be doing the family cooking,
dear.  Jim Edgerton does, or did, go everywhere in New York....  I
wonder how far he could take our daughter with him? ... Wait, Sarah—I’m
not reflecting on Christine; I’m only speculating.  How do I know about
the customs and habits of the New York fauna?  I want to go slow.  I
don’t care how little money he has, or even how much he might have had;
I’ll do that part.  But, first, I want to know exactly where he can
take Christine. The knot hole may be too big for her."

"They sent you a report from New York, dear.  You have a full list of
all his relatives."

"I know—I know.  If he had none, I wouldn’t be afraid.  It’s a man’s
relatives who act nasty, not his friends....  Does Christine seem to
like him?"

"The child is frankly devoted to him.... I don’t know if it means
anything more than friendship.  Christine is a strange girl.  There was
young Inwood——"

"Everybody’s beau!  Glad she shipped him.... But to return to
Jack—what’s your opinion?"

"I don’t know.  He is with Silvette so much; he is such a dear boy——"

"Tell him plainly we don’t want her. I like her myself, but there’s
better material.... Other things aside, I don’t want my boy to marry a
girl who plays cards the way she does."

"Jacob!  You don’t mean——"

"No, no!  She’s as square as a die; but she wins too much, stakes too
much—smokes too much, drinks too many cocktails—she and her sister, too.
Why, they’ve won steadily at cards from the beginning.  They’ve a genius
for it.  I never saw such playing.  Poor cards don’t worry them; and
they never take the shadow of advantage, never whine, never ask
questions; there’s never an impatient word, a look of protest—and the
judge and the colonel are beasts to play with!—and if there ever seems
to be the slightest doubt or indication of a dispute over any point,
those girls instantly concede it—cheerfully, too!  They’re clean-cut
sports—thoroughbred....  But, by God!  I don’t want Jack to marry a
gambler!"

He stood up, his glasses glistening, his little burned eyes fixed on
space.

"No," he said; "I’ve done all the gambling that will be done in this
family.  I’ll do a little more—enough to put the bits on one or two men
in New York whose wives could make it easy for my children, if they
cared to. Then I’m done, mother."

She bent her head, and her lips moved.

"What?" he said, hand to his ear.
