
Also, the morning after her arrival came a special delivery letter from
Neville:

"It was a mistake to go, dear, because, although you could not have
known it, matters have changed most happily for us. You were a welcome
guest in my sister's house; you would have been asked to remain after
your visit at Estwich was over. My family's sentiments are
changing--have changed. It requires only you yourself to convince them.
I wish you had remained, although your going so quietly commanded the
respect of everybody. They all are very silent about it and about you,
yet I can see that they have been affected most favourably by their
brief glimpse of you.

"As for your wishing to remain undisturbed for a few days, I can see no
reason for it now, dear, but of course I shall respect your wishes.

"Only send me a line to say that the month of June will mean our
marriage. Say it, dear, because there is now no reason to refuse."

To which she answered:

"Dearest among all men, no family's sentiments change over night. Your
people were nice to me and I have thanked them. But, dear, I am not
likely to delude myself in regard to their real sentiments concerning
me. Too deeply ingrained, too basic, too essentially part of themselves
and of their lives are the creeds, codes, and beliefs which, in spite of
themselves, must continue to govern their real attitude toward such a
girl as I am.

"It is dear of you to wish for us what cannot be; it is kind of them to
accept your wish with resignation.

"But I have told you many times, my darling, that I would not accept a
status as your wife at any cost to you or to them--and I can read
between the lines, even if I did not know, what it would cost them and
you. And so, very gently, and with a heart full of gratitude and love
for you, I must decline this public honour.

"But, God willing, I shall not decline a lifetime devoted to you when
you are not with them. That is all I can hope for; and it is so much
more than I ever dreamed of having, that, to have you at all--even for a
part of the time--even for a part of my life, is enough. And I say it
humbly, reverently, without ignoble envy or discontent for what might
have been had you and I been born to the same life amid the same
surroundings.

"Don't write to me again, dear, until I have determined what is best for
us. Before the first day of summer, or on that day, you will know. And
so will I.

"My life is such a little thing compared to yours--of such slight value
and worth that sometimes I think I am considering matters too
deeply--that if I simply fling it in the scales the balance will
scarcely be altered--the splendid, even tenor of your career will
scarcely swerve a shade.

"Yet my life is already something to you; and besides it is all I have
to give you; and if I am to give it--if it is adding an iota to your
happiness for me to give it--then I must truly treat it with respect,
and deeply consider the gift, and the giving, and if it shall be better
for you to possess it, or better that you never shall.

"And whatever I do with myself, my darling, be certain that it is of you
I am thinking and not of the girl, who loves you.

"V."

By degrees she cleared up her accounts and set her small house in order.

Rita seemed to divine that something radical was in progress of
evolution, but Valerie offered no confidence, and the girl, already
deeply worried over John Burleson's condition, had not spirit enough to
meddle.

"Sam Ogilvy's brother is a wonder on tubercular cases," she said to
Valerie, "and I'm doing my best to get John to go and see him at
Dartford."

"Won't he?"

"He says he will, but you know how horridly untruthful men are. And now
John is slopping about with his wet clay again as usual--an order for a
tomb in Greenwood--poor boy, he had better think how best to keep away
from tombs."

"Why, Rita!" said Valerie, shocked.

"I can't help it; I'm really frightened, dear. And you know well enough
I'm no flighty alarmist. Besides, somehow, I feel certain that Sam's
brother would tell John to go to Arizona"--she pointed piteously to her
trunk: "It's packed; it has been packed for weeks. I'm all ready to go
with him. Why can't a man mould clay and chip marble and cast bronze as
well in Arizona as in this vile pest-hole?"

Valerie sat with folded hands looking at her.

"How do you think you could stand that desolation?"

"Arizona?"
