




had cleaned the game and cooked it, he was ravenously 
hungry, and there was never any question as to what 
would digest. This was just what he had sought ; and 
so now, deliberately, he banned all the muses from his 
presence, and poured the rest of the dyspepsia-medicine 
into- the lake. His muscles became hard, and the flush 
of health returned to his cheeks, and as he went about 
his tasks he laughed and sang, and shouted his defiance 
to the world. And to Corydon he wrote his newest plan 
-to earn a little in the city that winter, and come back 
in the early spring and build a log-cabin for herself 
and the baby! 

11. TWICE a week his mail came to the lumber- 
camp, in care of the friendly foreman. Each time that 
he went out to get it, he hoped for some new turn. 
There was a publisher interested in "The Hearer of 
Truth,", and an editor was reading "The Higher 
Cannibalism" ; also, and most important of all, Miss 
Ethelynda Lewis had now had "The Genius" for nearly 
two months, and had not yet reported. Thyrsis wrote 
to remind her, and after another two weeks, he wrote 
yet more urgently. At last came a note "I have been 
away from the city, and have not had a chance to read 
the play. I will attend to it at once." And then, after 
three weeks more, Thyrsis wrote again and at last 
came a letter that made his heart leap. 

"I have read your play", wrote the popular come- 
dienne-. "I am very much interested in it indeed. I 
have asked my manager to read it, and will write you 
again shortly." 

Thyrsis sent this to Corydon, and again there was 
rejoicing and expectation. "If only I can get the play 
on," he wrote, "our future is safe, for the profits from 





plays are enormous. It will be a great piece of luck 
if I have found the right person at the first attempt." 

More weeks passed. Thyrsis watched the pageant 
of autumn upon the mountains he saw the curtains 
of the lake-shore change to gold and scarlet, and from 
that to pale yellow and brown ; and now, with every 
lightest breeze that stirred, there were showers of leaves 
came fluttering to the ground. The deer left the lake- 
shore and took to the "hard-wood", and the drumming 
of partridges thundered at sunset. The nights were 
bitterly cold, and he spent a good part of his day 
chopping logs and carrying them to camp, so that he 
might keep a blazing fire all night. There were hunt- 
ing-parties in the woods, and he got a deer, and sold 
part of it, and had the rest hanging near his camp. 

And then one night came the first snow-storm ; in the 
morning it lay white and sparkling in the sunlight 
and oh, the wonder of a hunting-trip, when the floor of 
the wilderness was like a page on which could be read 
the tale of all that happened in the night ! One could 
hardly believe that so many creatures were in these 
woods there were tracks everywhere one looked. Here 
a squirrel had run, and here a partridge ; here had been 
a porcupine, with feet like a baby's, and here a fox, and 
here a bear with two cubs. And in yon hollow a deer 
had slept through the night, and here he had blown 
away the snow from the moss ; here two bucks had 
fought ; and here one of them had been started by a 
hunter, and had bounded away with leaps that it was a 
marvel to measure. 

Thyrsis nearly lost his life at these fascinating ad- 
ventures ; for another storm came up, and covered his 
tracks, and when he tried to find his way back by the 
compass, he found that he had forgotten which end of 





the needle pointed to the North! So he wandered 
about for hours ; and in the end had to decide by the 
toss of a penny whether he should get out to the main 
road, or wander off into twenty miles of trackless wilder- 
ness, without either food or matches. Fortunately the 
penny fell right ; and he spent the night at a farm- 
house, and the next day got back to the lumber-camp. 

And there was a letter from Ethelynda Lewis ! Thyr- 
sis tore it open and read this incredible message: 

"Your play has been carefully considered, and I am 
