
"Exactly." He swung the cat in a circle.

"Thank you. And what else do these examination papers contain?"

"Physics mostly--the properties of solid bodies. For example, you choose
a button--any ordinary button," he explained frankly, as though taking
her into his confidence; "say, for instance, the plain bone button of
commerce----"

"And sew it onto some masculine shirt," she nodded as he sank back
apparently overcome with admiration at her intelligence. "And that," she
added, "no doubt is intended to illustrate the phenomenon of adhesion."

"You are perfectly correct," he said with enthusiasm.

"What else is there?" she asked.

"Oh, nothing--nothing very much. A few experiments in bacteriology----"

"Sterilizing nursing bottles?"

"How on earth did you ever guess?" he cried, overwhelmed, but perfectly
alert to the kindling anger in her blue eyes. "Why, of course that is
it. It is included in the science of embryotics--"

"What science?"

"Embryotics. For instance, you take an embryo of any kind--say a--a baby.
Then you show exactly how to dress, undress, wash, feed, and finally
bring that baby to triumphant maturity. It's interesting, isn't it, Miss
Smith?"

She said nothing. He twirled the cat furiously until its tail gave way
and it flew into a corner.

"Captain Jones," she said, "as I understand it, this bill is a codified
conspiracy to turn every woman of this State into a--a washer of clothes,
a cleaner of floors, a bearer of children--and a Haus-frau!"

"I--I would not put it that way," he protested.

"And her reward," she went on, not noticing his interruption, "is
permission to vote--to use the inalienable liberty with which already
Heaven has endowed her."

Tears flashed in her eyes; she held her small head proudly and not one
fell.

"Captain Jones," she said, "do you realize what centuries of suppression
are doing to my sex? Do you understand that woman is degenerating into
an immobility--an inertia--a molluskular condition of receptive passivity
which is rendering us, year by year, more unfitted to either think or act
for ourselves? Even in the matter of marriage we are not permitted by
custom to assume the initiative. We may only shake our heads until the
man we are inclined toward asks us, when he is entirely ready to ask.
Then, like a row of Chinese dolls, we nod our heads. I tell you," she
said, tremulously, "we are becoming like that horrid, degenerate,
wingless moth which is born, mates, and dies in one spot--a living
mechanical incubator--a poor, deformed, senseless thing that has through
generations lost not only the use, but even the rudiments of the wings
which she once possessed. But the male moth flies more strongly and
frivolously than ever. There is nothing the matter with the development
of his wings, Captain Jones."

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




XVI


IT was now growing rather dark in the room.

"I'm terribly sorry you feel this way," he said.

She had averted her eyes and was now seated, chin in hand, looking out of
the window.

"Do you know," he said, "this is a rotten condition of affairs."

"What do you mean?" she asked.

"This attitude of women."

"Is it more odious than the attitude of men?"

"After all," he said, "man is born with the biceps. He was made to do the
fighting."

"Not all of the intellectual fighting."

"No, of course not. But--you don't want him to rock the cradle, do you?"

"Cradles are no longer rocked, Captain Jones. I don't think you would
be qualified to pass this examination with which you menace us."

