Lady Grace’s anxious inference, she will doubtless let me say for her,
that my idea about the Moretto would add to your power--well,” he pushed
on not without awkwardness, “of ‘realising’ advantageously on such a
prospective rise.”

Lord Theign glanced at him as for positively the last time, but spoke to
Lady Grace. “Understand then, please, that, as I detach myself from any
association with this gentleman’s ideas--whether about the Moretto or
about anything else--his further application of them ceases from this
moment to concern us.”

The girl’s rejoinder was to address herself directly to Hugh, across
their companion. “Will you make your inquiry for me then?”

The light again kindled in him. “With all the pleasure in life!” He
had found his cap and, taking them together, bowed to the two, for
departure, with high emphasis of form. Then he marched off in the
direction from which he had entered.

Lord Theign scarce waited for his disappearance to turn in wrath to
Lady Grace. “I denounce the indecency, wretched child, of your public
defiance of me!”

They were separated by a wide interval now, and though at her distance
she met his reproof so unshrinkingly as perhaps to justify the terms
into which it had broken, she became aware of a reason for his not
following it up. She pronounced in quick warning “Lord John!”--for
their friend, released from among the pictures, was rejoining them, was
already there.

He spoke straight to his host on coming into sight. “Bender’s at last
off, but”--he indicated the direction of the garden front--“you may
still find him, out yonder, prolonging the agony with Lady Sand-gate.”

Lord Theign remained a moment, and the heat of his resentment remained.
He looked with a divided discretion, the pain of his indecision, from
his daughter’s suitor and his approved candidate to that contumacious
young woman and back again; then choosing his course in silence he had
a gesture of almost desperate indifference and passed quickly out by the
door to the terrace.

It had left Lord John gaping. “What on earth’s the matter with your
father?”

“What on earth indeed?” Lady Grace unaidingly asked. “Is he discussing
with that awful man?”

“Old Bender? Do you think him so awful?” Lord John showed
surprise--which might indeed have passed for harmless amusement; but he
shook everything off in view of a nearer interest. He quite waved old
Bender away. “My dear girl, what do we care--?”

“I care immensely, I assure you,” she interrupted, “and I ask of you,
please, to tell me!”

Her perversity, coming straight and which he had so little expected,
threw him back so that he looked at her with sombre eyes. “Ah, it’s not
for such a matter I’m here, Lady Grace--I’m here with that fond question
of my own.” And then as she turned away, leaving him with a vehement
motion of protest: “I’ve come for your kind answer--the answer your
father instructed me to count on.”

“I’ve no kind answer to give you!”--she raised forbidding hands. “I
entreat you to leave me alone.”

There was so high a spirit and so strong a force in it that he stared as
if stricken by violence. “In God’s name then what has happened--when you
almost gave me your word?”

“What has happened is that I’ve found it impossible to listen to you.”
 And she moved as if fleeing she scarce knew whither before him.

He had already hastened around another way, however, as to meet her in
her quick circuit of the hall. “That’s all you’ve got to say to me after
what has passed between us?”

He had stopped her thus, but she had also stopped him, and her
passionate denial set him a limit. “I’ve got to say--sorry as I am--that
if you must have an answer it’s this: that never, Lord John, never,
can there be anything more between us.” And her gesture cleared her
path, permitting her to achieve her flight. “Never, no, never,” she
repeated as she went--“never, never, never!” She got off by the door at
which she had been aiming to some retreat of her own, while aghast and
defeated, left to make the best of it, he sank after a moment into a
chair and remained quite pitiably staring before him, appealing to the
great blank splendour.




BOOK SECOND




I

LADY SANDGATE, on a morning late in May, entered her drawing-room by
the door that opened at the right of that charming retreat as a person
coming in faced Bruton Street; and she met there at this moment Mr.
