as a surprise. The corner room had been newly 
furnished. It had a big bay window in it, and 
just off it, over the hall, was this with dainty 
papering, a little white bed, a handsome combina- 
tion bookcase and desk, a table, and some chairs. 
“ Dan may bring your books over some day. 
 
and you can arrange them. Any other things that 
have grown dear to you ’’ 
Chan tried to wink the tears away, then he hid 
his face on the capacious breast. 
I mean you to be very happy here, little lad. 
This is my room, so you will be near by. And 
now we’ll go down and sit by the fire. I have 
something else to tell you.” 
There was not the great Thanksgiving blaze, 
but just a cozy little one with red and blue and 
yellow gnomes chasing each other about. He took 
the big “ Morris ” chair and lifted Chan up on 
his lap, let him snuggle down with the caressing 
arm about him. 
“ Chan, I’m going to trust you with a secret and 
you must keep it sacredly until — let me see — next 
Wednesday. Then your mother and all the chil- 
dren are coming over for a good long visit and 
the merriest sort of a Christmas. And to-morrow 
we are going to buy Santa Claus gifts for Linn 
and Tip, and have a gay little run about, and go 
up to the hospital. I really ought to have taken 
you before. They all want to see you.” 
Oh, I think there ought to be fairy godfathers, 
but in the stories they are always fairy god- 
mothers. And you are just one.” He reached 
up and kissed him. '' You do so many beautiful 
 
things. And I almost didn’t want to come and 
live here, because, you see. I’d grown so used to 
them at home, and mother is so sweet, but I’ll come 
and stay, and be your little boy always ” and 
the soft, child’s voice had a little break in it. 
Yes, dear. Thank you. We are not going 
to lose sight of them, you know, and I hope you 
will go on loving them. We are going to have 
a fine Christmas as you will see.” 
Then they talked over the hospital days and 
poor little Arthur, and presently Chan went to 
bed in his room, and Mr. Mann in the other. Yes, 
it would be very nice, and he was quite reconciled 
to leaving the little old red house. 
It was a nice day, and the big boy and the little 
boy did have a jolly time shopping. Suits all the 
way through and stylish shoes and a box of white 
silk neckties. And Chan must have a handsome, 
light gray suit 
“ But mine is so nice,” he protested. Mother’s 
so careful of it, and I only wear it on Sundays 
and when I come here. It seems as if — as if there 
was going to be a great party.” 
There is, a Christmas party. And now you 
must choose some toys. What would Tip like?” 
There were so many splendid things. He went 
from one to another. But the train of cars with 
the engine and the man at the helm, and the 
stoker with his shovel, and the brakeman standing 
on the platform took his fancy altogether, only 
he was afraid it would cost too much. 
Santa Claus has a long purse,” laughed Mr. 
Mann. 
But I know Linn would like books best, be- 
cause he was wishing he had some like mine. 
And you see if I take mine away he can’t read 
them.” 
So books it was. Then they had luncheon, and 
afterward went to the office for Mr. Mann to look 
over his mail. There was a foreign one with a 
Russian stamp. 
“ Chan,” he exclaimed, “ I must get you a book 
for postage stamps. I have some quite rare for- 
eign ones, ” and he cut around this and laid it in a 
small box. How odd a letter should come from 
St. Petersburg. He cut open the end — glanced 
down the page to the signature Howard 
Gwynne.” 
It concerned Chan. But then the boy was his. 
He would never leave him for any other friend. 
It was certainly complimentary to the child. 
Mr. Gwynne recalled himself to Mr. Mann’s mind 
by the interest he had taken in Chandler Firth’s 
unusual musical ability. He had intended to be 
 
back by the beginning of the new year, but it 
would be April instead. Would Mr. Mann keep 
watch over the child and see that he was well 
cared for physically, and if his parents were in 
poor circumstances, as he believed he had heard, 
he would cheerfully advance any sum to keep him 
in good condition, as he was most anxious to see 
him again, and he referred him to his banker. 
The child was too promising to be allowed to slip 
out of sight. 
