forward.

"What is the matter?" she asked.

"The matter is," said Brown, "that I don't seem to have anything to
write about."

"You are tired," she said. "I think we both are a little tired."

"I am not. Anyway, I have something to write about now. Wait a moment
till I make a note of how you walk--the easy, graceful, flowing motion,
so exquisitely light and----"

"But I don't walk like that!" she said, laughing.

"--Graciously as a youthful goddess," muttered Brown, scribbling away
busily in his note-book. "Tell me; what motive had you just now in
rising and coming to ask me what was the matter--with such a sweetly
apprehensive expression in your eyes?"

"My--my motive?" she repeated, astonished.

"Yes. You had one, hadn't you?"

"Why--I don't know. You looked worried; so I came."

"The motive," said Brown, "was feminine solicitude--an emotion natural
to nice women. Thank you." And he made a note of it.

"But motives and emotions are different things," she said timidly. "I
had no motive for coming to ask you why you seemed troubled."

"Wasn't your motive to learn why?"

"Y-yes, I suppose so."

He laid his head on one side and inspected her critically.

"And if anything had been amiss with me you would have been sorry,
wouldn't you?"

"Yes."

"Why?"

"Why? Because--one is sorry when a friend--when anyone----"

"I am your friend," he said. "So why not say it?"

"And I am yours--if you wish," she said.

"Yes, I do." He began to write: "It's rather odd how friendship begins.
We both seem to want to be friends." And to her he said: "How does it
make you feel--the idea of our being friends? What emotions does it
arouse in you?"

She looked at him in sorrowful surprise. "I thought it was real
friendship you meant," she murmured, "not the sort to make a note
about."

"But I've got to make notes of everything. Don't you see? Certainly our
friendship is real enough--but I've got to study it minutely and make
notes concerning it. It's necessary to make records of everything--how
you walk, stand, speak, look, how you go upstairs----"

"I am going now," she said.

He followed, scribbling furiously; and it is difficult to go upstairs,
watch a lady go upstairs, and write about the way she does it all at the
same time.

"Good-night," she said, opening her door.

"Good-night," he said, absently, and so intent on his scribbling that he
followed her through the door into her room.




XVI


"She goes upstairs as though she were floating up," he wrote, with
enthusiasm; "her lovely figure, poised on tip-toe, seems to soar upward,
ascending as naturally and gracefully as the immortals ascended the
golden stairs of Jacob----"

In full flood of his treacherous imagination he seated himself on a
chair beside her bed, rested the note-book on his knees, and scribbled
madly, utterly oblivious to her. And it was only when he had finished,
for sheer lack of material, that he recollected himself, looked up, saw
how she had shrunk away from him against the wall--how the scarlet had
dyed her face to her temples.

"Why--why do you come--into my bedroom?" she faltered. "Does our
friendship count for no more than that with you?"

"What?" he said, bewildered.

"That you do what you have no right to do. Art--art is not enough
