vulperine fury.

De Fresnoy’s face had grown red as his neckcloth. He brandished his
stick.

“Monsieur!” he cried at Barouffski. “Your conduct is odious. You shall
answer to me for it.”

Barouffski bowed. “For the expression which it has pleased you to
employ, you shall answer to me.”

“Permit me! Permit me!” Tyszkiewicz interjected. “To what do you
object?”

Angrily de Fresnoy turned at him. “Your principal drew before the
order. He----”

“Permit me! Permit me!” Tyszkiewicz interrupted. “The word Allez is an
order. The moment it is uttered hostilities begin. The term Messieurs
is but a polite accessory, a term which may or may not be employed.”

Insolently de Fresnoy considered him. “I have no lessons to receive
from you.”

“Permit me! Permit me----”

But de Fresnoy had turned on his heel. Before him Verplank stood,
Silverstairs on one side, the old surgeon on the other. The young
surgeon had joined them. Beyond, Barouffski was examining the point of
his foil.

From Verplank’s mouth and face blood was running. The wound had not
improved his appearance. The old surgeon, on tiptoes, was staunching it.

“What I like,” he confided, speaking the while very unctuously as
though what he was saying would be a comfort to Verplank; “what I like
is to attend to gentlemen whose wives have deceived them. Outraged
husbands, monsieur, that is my specialty!”

Verplank brushed him aside, shook his foil, and called at de Fresnoy.

“Are the three minutes up?”

“Monsieur!” the old surgeon protested.

The young surgeon intervened.

“But, monsieur----”

De Fresnoy motioned at them.

“Is he in a condition to continue?”

“Why not?” Verplank scornfully replied.

He raised his left hand, and, with a gesture of excuse, turned and
spat. He looked up. His mouth was on fire, his jaw burned, the wound in
his cheek was a flame. Yet these things but added to the intensity of
his eyes. They blazed. There was blood on his face, on his chin, on his
shirt, on his feet. He was hideous. But he was a man, and a mad one.

“He ought to be horsewhipped,” muttered Silverstairs, glaring as he
spoke at Barouffski, who was talking to his seconds.

“On guard, then!” called de Fresnoy.

“Permit me, permit me,” cried Tyszkiewicz. “The point of my principal’s
sword is broken.”

“Give him another then,” de Fresnoy roughly threw out. Insolently he
added: “And teach him how to use it.” In a moment, when from the other
bag, a foil had been got and measured, “On guard,” he repeated.

Again he united the foils. Again he gave the command.

For a moment the weapons clashed.

Suddenly and excitedly Palencia cried: “My principal is touched.”

“Halt,” de Fresnoy, intervening with raised stick, commanded.

Verplank moved back. “Damn him,” he muttered, “I haven’t done with him
yet.”

About Barouffski now, Palencia and the young man with the serious face
had come. The latter was examining Barouffski’s right arm. On it a thin
red line was visible. Very gravely the young man looked up.

“My client is disabled. Profound incision in the region of the flexor
digitorum sublimis accompanied by a notable effusion of blood.”

The old surgeon chuckled. Confidentially as before he addressed
Verplank. “I know that term. It means a scratch. Those ladies there, it
must amuse even them.”

As he spoke he indicated a window at which Violet and Leilah had
appeared, but from which now Leilah was retreating.

Verplank did not hear, did not see. The young surgeon, resuming, had
announced himself as opposed to a continuation of the encounter. It was
