Well, depends on the weather an’ dryin’. I 
don’t like to be druv to death, an’ days are short. 
Yes — I s’pose in about two weeks. What’d you 
do with all the things that old creetur sent you? ” 
“ Oh, we cut some up into carpet rags.” 
“ And what’s your mother goin’ to do with her 
old things?” 
“ We took what we wanted, and some were sold. 
Mrs. Bachman will be glad to have the rest.” 
“ Now, there’s luck agin. Them Dutch people, 
poor as poverty’s hind foot, will get a lot of useful 
things. I’ll lay a penny. And I have to work for 
all I have. That’s the way of this oneven world.” 
You might have some of the rags if they 
would do you any good,” Prim said, to keep from 
laughing. 
‘‘Well, now! When it comes on to rain porridge my dish is upside down. Now, if I’d had 
them there rags last summer, ’twould been a god- 
send. There was a woman over here from Kent’s 
Lake who just built a bungle something ” 
“ Bungalow,” said Amaryllis. She had been 
reading an illustrated article in a magazine, and 
was proud of her knowledge. 
“ They must be silly things, ’cordin’ to account. 
They git old furniture — she wanted to buy some 
of mine, an’ they’re hotfoot on rag carpet; I didn’t 
have half enough rags — if I’d known of them of 
your mother’s ” 
“We didn’t have them then. And we didn’t 
know we should move.” 
“ Your mother’s lucky to rent that place. Ain’t 
it ’most ready to tumble down? It’s nigh onto a 
hundred years old. An’ I suppose you are dreadfully set up. I heard you had a servant and another woman. What can your mother find to do ? 
And I hope she won’t spend that man’s money 
buildin’ one of them outlandish bungle things. 
Good plain houses ought to answer.” 
Amaryllis glanced out of the window. Dan 
had been driving down the road, and was now 
coming back, so she said hurriedly: 
‘‘ Well, then, you’ll dye the warp next week 
and put it in the loom. We would like to have it 
as soon as we can.” . 
They were in the ell room. There was the big 
loom and the smaller one, a spinning-wheel, and a 
reel. Mrs. Betts had woven linsey-woolsey be- 
fore the days of cheap goods. 
“ Leave your pattern so’s I sha’n’t forgit. I 
don’t happen to be specially busy jest now, but 
land alive ! you never can tell. It’ll soon be house- 
cleanin’ time, an’ Denby people ain’t above rag 
carpet yet, though they don’t follow fashions. 
An’ now come in the settin’-room an’ be sociable 
like. I want to hear ’bout the man that married 
your mother. Is he bein’ good to you children ? ” 
He’s splendid!” rejoined Prim. But there 
comes Dan, and we must go,” walking to the door. 
Aunty Betts was eager for a good gossip, and 
was therefore disappointed. So she snapped : 
’Twould be more to Dan’s credit to stay with 
his poor dyin’ wife than gallivantin’ round with 
you gals.” 
Amaryllis flushed indignantly and returned with 
spirit : “ Mr. Mann pays him by the month to do 
whatever he is told, and the money goes to take 
care of her. If he did not work for Mr. Mann, 
he would have to do it for some one else.” 
“ Oh, you needn’t be so snappy. But I s’pose 
you do feel set up ” 
‘‘ Oh, very much,” laughed Prim. “ That’s the 
reason we want rag carpet. We’ll send over to 
see how you get along.” 
Amaryllis opened the door and hurried out. 
Mrs. Borden crossed the street just as Dan was 
handing her into the sleigh. 
“ Well, I declare ! I’m powerful glad to see 
you! So your mother’s married and living with 
the quality over at Grafton, and keeps a servant. 
I should think she’d hardly know herself! You 
mustn’t set yourselves up too high, for fear you 
might have an awful tumble. Is your stepfather 
as rich as they say?” 
‘‘ We are very happy and comfortable,” Rilla 
replied with dignity, as Dan started up the 
horses. 
Mrs. Borden ran in to see Aunty Betts, and the 
two agreed that “ them girls ” were set up beyond 
measure, and that it was scandalous for them to 
be riding round with Dan, while his poor wife 
was dying. “ And Mr. Beers said this Mr. Mann 
was an everyday sort of person, and it was doubt- 
ful if he was so very rich, after all. But what 
could have possessed him to marry a widow with 
eight children ? ” 
As for Prim, she laughed until she was out of 
breath, and catching it, laughed on. 
“ Why can’t people let us be happy in our own 
way? And why are they so curious? And to 
think she’s been a widow twenty years and no one 
has come to marry her ! ” 
What is that? ” asked Dan. 
