and here and there one heard a little squeak of 
hysteria, cut short by some one who was not mie 
whether it was a joke or a scandal. "Why, 
Sylvia!" stammered Mrs. Witherspoon, com- 
pletely staggered. 

Then Sylvia perceived that she was mistress of 
the scene. There came the old rapture of con- 
quest, that made her social genius. "We have 
so much that we want to talk about," she said, 
in her most winning voice. "Let Dolly and 
Emma take our places, and we will sit on the 
sofa in the other room and chat. You and Mrs. 
Armistead come and chaperon us. Won't you 
do that, please?" 

"Why — why — " gasped the bewildered lady. 

"I'm sure that you will both be interested to 
hear what we have to say to each other; and you 
can tell everybody about it afterwards — and that 
will be so much better than having the card- 
game delayed any more." 

And with this side-swipe Sylvia arose, and 
stood and waited, to make sure that her ex-fiancee 
was not too paralyzed to follow. She led him out 
through the tangle of card-tables; and in the door- 
way she stopped and waited for Mrs. Armistead 
and Mrs. Witherspoon, and literally forced these 
two ladies to come with her out of the room. 



 



 

Do you care to hear the details of the punish- 
ment which Sylvia administered to the two 
conspirators? She took them to the sofa, and 
made Frank draw up chairs for them, and when she 
had got comfortably seated, she proceeded to 
talk to Frank, just as gently and sincerely and 
touchingly as she would have talked if there had 
been nobody present. She asked about all that 
had befallen him; and when she discovered that 
he was still not able to chat, she told him about 
herself; about her baby, who was beautiful and 
dear, even if she was blind, and about all the 
interesting things she had seen in Europe. When 
presently the old ladies showed signs of growing 
restless, she put hand-cuflfs on them and chained 
them to their chairs. 

"You see," she said, "it would never do for 
Mr. Shirley and myself to talk without a chap- 
eron. You got me into this situation, you know; 
and Papa and Mamma would never forgive you." 

"You are mistaken, Sylvia!" cried Mrs. Wither- 
spoon. "Mr. Shirley so seldom goes out, and he 
had said he didn't think he coiild come!" 

"I am willing to accept that explanation," 
said Sylvia, pohtely, "but you must help me out, 
now that the embarrassing accident has hap- 
pened." 

Nor did it avail Mrs. Witherspoon to plead her 



 

guests and their score. "You may be sure they 
don't care about the score," said Sylvia. "They'd 
much prefer you stayed here, so that you can 
tell them how Frank and I behaved." 

And then, while Mrs. Witherspoon was getting 
herself together, Sylvia turned upon the other 
conspirator. "We will now hold one of my 
eugenics classes," she said; and added, to Frank, 
"Mrs. Armistead told me that you wanted to join 
my class." 

"I don't xmderstand," replied Frank, at a loss. 

"I will explain," said Sylvia. "It is a not 
very refined joke they have in town. Mrs. 
Armistead meant to say that she credits a dis- 
graceful story that was circulated about you 
when we were engaged, and which my people 
made use of to make me break our engagement. 
I am glad to have a chance to tell you that I have 
investigated, and satisfied myself that the story 
was not true. I want to apologize to you for 
