Then she took her work down stairs and came back flushed and smiling.
"Look, Lilian," in a tone of pride, "it hardly shows! Cook said she
never saw more beautiful darning and that in a big city I could make a
fortune at lace mending. Will you take it to Miss Howe?"
"No, mother," and Lilian spoke in a dignified but not unkindly manner.
"We are not here to run and wait on the girl. Let Miss Howe come for
it."
Mrs. Boyd felt disappointed. She wanted some one beside cook to praise
her handiwork.
Louie fidgeted about her skirt. She and Zay were in Phil's room talking
over the coming Christmas and Mrs. Crawford's return.
"I wonder why that girl doesn't bring my skirt. Maybe they've spoiled
it."
"Have you sent a maid?"
"Why no. I meant Miss Boyd. She oughtn't be above such things."
"Still, she isn't here to run on errands. I think Mrs. Barrington treats
her quite as if she were a scholar, and she's a fine one, too."
"Some day she'll brag of having been educated here, though Mount Morris
doesn't set out to furnish teachers, but the training of young ladies.
Mother likes it because there was no opportunity of making undesirable
acquaintances," and Louie gave her head a toss.
"Is Miss Nevins so very desirable?" asked Zay with a flash of mirth in
her eye.
"Still, if you met her abroad as a rich banker's daughter or heard of
her being presented to the Queen--"
"Girls, don't quarrel about either one of them. Alice Nevins is a fool
and always will be. Lilian Boyd is smart and ambitious but there is
the bar sinister. Her mother isn't the sort of person to come up in the
world and when Miss Lilian gets there she'll ship off her old mother,
put her in an Old Woman's Home. I despise that toss of her head, just as
if she was up to the highest mark already; but they are not worth
disputing about."
Zaidee Crawford drew a long breath. She had almost courage enough to
stand up for her, then she remembered some one had said you were never
sure that some disgraceful thing might come out. Who knew anything about
her father? There was a good deal of pride of birth at Mount Morris as
is apt to be the case where well to do people have lived for a century
or so.
Louie sent a maid for her skirt and admitted that a tailor couldn't have
done it better.
"Only a week" the girls said with their good night to each other.
Not that they were so tired of school, but Christmas was a joyous
occasion, and going home a treat.
CHAPTER VI
AN ESCAPADE AND WHAT CAME OF IT
The closing week of school was full of girlish excitements. Friday and
Saturday most of the girls would go home. Christmas came on the
following Monday. The Miss Kirklands were going to remain and devote the
time to study. Alice Nevins and Elma Ransome had no homes to go to at
present. Mrs. Barrington generally took this for a resting-up time.
Louie rushed into Phillipa's room, breathless and eyes full of wonder.
There was some fancy things strewn around. Phil and Zaidee were at some
gifts.
"What now? Has there been a mistake in the calendar and is Christmas put
off and are we to be aliens from the family bosom?"
Louie laughed and fanned herself vigorously.
"I've been hearing wonderful things about that Clairvoyant. Do you
really know what clairvoyance is? It isn't mere fortune telling. Madge
Hayne went the other day and she was told some really remarkable things.
They had not heard from that brother in a year and didn't know whether
he was dead or alive. She said they would hear from him and that he
would return soon with a fortune, and this very morning the letter came.
He's been in Alaska and British Columbia and goodness knows where all,
and he's tired of rambling and hardships. So he's coming home as he has
made his pile, which I suppose means a fortune. They are all just wild
with joy, and there are to be two marriages this year."
"Then Madge's lover will get his promotion. That is what she is waiting
for," laughed Phil. "But I have heard that the woman told some wonderful
things."
"And while we were abroad in the summer Aunt Kate and I took little
tours around; we were at a Fair in a small town where there were some
real Romany gypsies and one insisted on reading Aunt Kate's future. She
spoke of mamma's walking without crutches, which we couldn't believe and
said after we came home something mysterious would happen to us, that a
member of the family would come from a great distance, that the person
who had her in charge would die, but Aunt Kate laughed and said we had
had no mysterious marriages nor sudden disappearances, so that could
hardly come true."
Phillipa had been considering. "Girls let's go," she exclaimed. "Mrs.
Barrington didn't actually forbid it. She said: 'Girls I hope none of
you will be foolish enough to spend your money on such nonsense. Those
people are generally impostors.' I'd like to have a peep into the
future. There's a young man I am interested in. Now, if he's all fair
and square and means business--"
"You're always on the anxious seat of lovers," said Louie, "and you seem
to have them by dozens."
"I want the very best and richest. Girls, my mother was married when she
was seventeen, and I'll be nineteen in June; but she didn't go to
boarding school for three years and waste her time."
"And I want a tour abroad--a winter or summer in Paris--which is most
attractive, and there may be a little chance of some one leaving father
a fortune. Oh, let us go--just for the fun if nothing else," and Louie
glanced up in her radiant prettiness.
There is something tempting to the young in a peep in the wide
mysterious future. Joys and the so-called good luck are delights to hope
for and it is seldom that any dark pages are unfolded to youth. So the
girls talked and agreed to go the next afternoon.
Examinations were in the morning and the girls had the afternoon to
themselves. Four were going to a musicale, half a dozen to do some last
shopping.
