When the colonel and the others came into view the former seized
Kathlyn by the shoulders and shook her hysterically.

"In God's name, Kit, don't you know any better than to wander off
alone?  Do you want to drive me mad?"

"Why, father, I wasn't afraid!"

"Afraid?  Who said anything about your being afraid?  Didn't you know
that we were being followed?  It is Umballa!  Ah! that gives you a
start!"

"Colonel!" said Bruce gently.

"I know, Bruce, I sound harsh.  But you were tearing your hair, too."

"Forgive me," cried Kathlyn, penitent, for she knew she had done wrong.
"I did not think.  But Umballa?"

"Yes, Umballa.  One of the keepers found a knife by that bridge, and
Ramabai identified it as belonging to Umballa.  Whether he is alone or
with many, I do not know; but this I do know: we must under no
circumstances become separated again.  Now, I'm going to quiz the
chief."

But the chief said that no person described had passed or been seen.
No one but a holy man had come that morning, and he had gone to the
island in the sloop.

"For what?"

The chief smiled, but shook his head.

"Was it not a basket of gold and precious stones?" demanded the colonel.

The chief's eyes widened.  There were others who knew, then?  Bruce
noticed his surprise.

"Colonel, show the good chief the royal seal on your document."

The colonel did so, and the chief salaamed when he saw the royal
signature.  He was mightily bewildered, and gradually he was made to
understand that he had been vilely tricked.

"To the boats!" he shouted, as if suddenly awakening.  "We may be too
late, Lords!  He said he was a holy man, and I believed."

They all ran hastily down to the beach to seize what boats they could.
Here they met a heartrending obstacle in the refusal of the owners.
The chief, however, signified that it was his will; and, moreover, he
commanded that the fishermen should handle the oars.  They would be
paid.  That was different.  Why did not the white people say so at
once?  They would go anywhere for money.  Not the most auspicious sign,
thought Ramabai.  They got into the boats and pushed off.

On the way to the island the colonel consulted the map, or diagram, he
held in his hand.  It was not possible that Umballa knew the exact spot.

A filigree basket of silver, filled with gold and gems!  The man became
as eager and excited as a boy.  The instinct to hunt for treasure
begins just outside the cradle and ends just inside the grave.

To return to Umballa.  Upon landing, he asked at once if any knew where
the cave was.  One man did know the way, but he refused to show it.
There were spirits there, ruled by an evil god.

"Take me there, you, and I will enter without harm.  Am I not holy?"

That put rather a new face upon the situation.  If the holy man was
willing to risk an encounter with the god, far be it that they should
prevent him.  An ordinary seeker would not have found the entrance in a
lifetime.  Umballa had not known exactly where the cave was, but he
knew all that the cave contained.  When they came to it Umballa
sniffed; the tang of sulphur became evident both in his nose and on his
tongue.  He understood.  It was simply a small spring, a mineral, in
which sulphur predominated.  He came out with some cupped in his hands.
He drank and showed them that it was harmless.  Besides, he was a holy
man, and his presence made ineffectual all evil spirits which might
roam within the cave.

Umballa, impatient as he was, had to depend upon patience.  By dint of
inquiries he learned that wild Mohammedans had cast the spell upon the
cave, set a curse upon its threshold.  Umballa tottered and destroyed
this by reasoning that the curse of a Mohammedan could not affect a
Hindu.  Finally, he offered each and all of them a fortune--and won.

Torches were lighted and the cave entered.  There were many side
passages; and within these the astute Umballa saw the true reason for
the curse of the Mohammedans: guns and powder, hundreds and hundreds of
pounds of black destruction!  A lower gallery--the mouth of which lay
under a slab of rock--led to the pit wherein rested the filigree
basket. . . .  For a time Umballa acted like a madman.  He sang,
chanted, dug his hands into the gold and stones; choked, sobbed.  Here
was true kingship; the private treasures of a dozen decades, all his
for the taking.  He forgot his enemies and their nearness as the
fortune revealed itself to him.

As his men at length staggered out of the lower gallery with the basket
slung upon an improvised litter he espied his enemies marching up the
hill!  Back into the cave again.  Umballa cursed and bit his nails.  He
