
Dawn already whitened the east; and up 
out of the ghastly fog edging the German Empire, silhouetted, monstrous, against 







the daybreak, soared a Ldmmergeyer, beating the livid void with enormous, unclean 
wings. 

The orderly heard its scream, shrank, cowering, against the door frame as the huge 
bird's ferocious red and yellow eyes blazed 
level with his. 

Suddenly, above the clamor of the Ldmmergeyer, the shrill bell of the telephone 
began to ring. 

The terrible racket of the Ldmmergeyer 
filled the sky; the orderly stumbled into the 
room, slipped in a puddle of something wet, 
sent an empty bottle rolling and clinking 
away into the darkness; stumbled twice over 
prostrate bodies; reached the telephone, half 
fainting; whispered for help. 

After a long, long while, the horror still 
thickly clogging vein and brain, he scratched 
a match, hesitated, then holding it high, 
reeled toward the door with face averted. 

Outside the sun was already above the 
horizon, flashing over Haut Alsace at his 
feet. 



The Ldmmergeyer was a speck in the sky, 
poised over France. 

Up out of the infinite and sunlit chasm 
came a mocking, joyous hail up through the 
sheer, misty gulf out of vernal depths: 
Cuck-oo I Cuck-oo I Cuck-oo I 



CHAPTER IV 

EECONNAISSANCE 

And that was the way Carfax ended a 
tiny tragedy of incompetence compared to the 
mountainous official fiasco at Gallipoli. Here, 
a few perished among the filthy salamanders 
in the snow; there, thousands died in the 
burning Turkish gorse 

But that's history; and its makers are 
already officially damned. 

But now concerning two others of the fed- 
up dozen on board the mule transport 
Harry Stent and Jim Brown. Destiny linked 
arms with them; Fate jerked a mysterious 
thumb over her shoulder toward Italy. 
Chance detailed them for special duty as 
soon as they landed. 

It was a magnificent sight, the disembarking of the British overseas military force 
sent secretly into Italy. 

They continued to disembark and entrain 
at night. Nobody knew that British troops 
were in Italy. 

The infernal uproar along the Isonzo never 
ceased; the din of the guns resounded through 
the Trentino, but British and Canadian noses 
were sniffing at something beyond the Carnic 
Alps, along the slopes of which they continued to concentrate, Rules, Kilties, and 
Gunners. 

There seemed to be no particular hurry. 
Details from the Canadian contingent were 
constantly sent out to familiarize themselves 
with the vast waste of tunneled mountains 
denting the Austrian sky-line to the northward; and all day long Dominion reconnoitering parties wandered among valleys, alms, 
forest, and peaks in company sometimes with 
Italian alpinists, sometimes by themselves, 
prying, poking, snooping about with all the 
emotionless pertinacity of Teuton tourists 
preoccupied with wanderlust, kultur, and 
ewigkett. 




