not assumed.  For years he had been known in the haberdashery as Webb.
There was more to it, however; there was a tail to the kite.  The
English have an inordinate fondness for hyphens, for mother's family
name and grandmother's family name and great-grandmother's, with the
immediate paternal cognomen as a period.  Thomas' full name was a
rosary, if you like, of yeomen, of soldiers, of farmers, of artists, of
gentle bloods, of dreamers.  The latest transfusion of blood is always
most powerful in effect upon the receiver; and as Thomas' father had
died in penury for the sake of an idea, it was in order that the son
should be something of a dreamer too.  Poetry is but an expression of
life seen through dreams.
His father had been a scholar, risen from the people; his mother had
been gentle.  From his seventh year the boy had faced life alone.  He
had never gone with the stream but had always found lodgment in the
backwaters.  There is no employment quieter, peacefuller than that of a
clerk in a haberdashery.  From Mondays till Saturdays, calm; a perfect
environment for a poet.  You would be surprised to learn of the vast
army of poets and novelists and dramatists who dispense four-in-hands,
collars, buttons and hosiery six days in the week and who go
a-picnicking on the seventh, provided it does not rain.
Thomas had an idea.  It was not a reflection of his lamented father's;
it was wholly his own.  He wanted to be loved.  His father's idea had
been to love; thus, humanity had laughed him into the grave.  So it
will be seen that Thomas' idea was the more sensible of the two.
The voyage was uneventful.  Blue day followed blue day.  When at length
the great port of New York loomed in the distance, Thomas felt a
thrilling in his spine.  Perhaps yonder he might make his fortune; no
matter what else he did, that remained to be accomplished, for he was a
fortune-hunter, of the ancient type; that is, he expected to work for
it.  Shore leave would be his, and if during that time he found
nothing, why, he was determined to finish the summer as a steward; and
by fall he would have enough in wages and tips to give him a start in
life.  At present he could jingle but seven-and-six in his pocket; and
jingle it frequently he did, to assure himself that it was not wearing
away.
An important tug came bustling alongside.  By the yellow flag he knew
that it carried the quarantine officials, inspectors, and a few
privileged citizens.  Among others who came aboard Thomas noted a
sturdy thick-chested man in a derby hat--bowler, Thomas called it.
Quietly this man sought the captain and handed him what looked to
Thomas like a cablegram.  The captain read it and shook his head.
Thomas overheard a little of their conversation.
"You're welcome to look about, Mr. Haggerty; but I don't think you'll
find the person you seek."
"If you don't mind, I'll take a prowl.  Special case, Captain.  Mr.
Killigrew thought perhaps I'd see a face I knew."
"Valuable?"
"Fine sapphires.  A chance that they may come int' this port.  They
haven't yet."
"Your customs inspectors ought to be able to help you," observed the
captain, hiding a smile.  "Nothing but motes can slip through their
fingers."
"Sometimes they're tripped up," replied Haggerty.  "A case like this is
due t' slip through.  I'll take a look."
Thomas heard no more.  A detective.  Unobserved, he went down to his
stuffy cabin, took off the chamois bag and locked it in his trunk.  So
long as it remained on board, it was in British territory.
The following day he went into the great city of man-made cliffs.  He
walked miles and miles.  Naturally he sought the haberdashers along
Broadway.  No employment was offered him: for the reason that he failed
to state his accomplishments.  But he was in nowise discouraged.  He
would go back to Liverpool.  The ship would sail with full cabin
strength, and this trip there would be tips, three sovereigns at least,
and maybe more, if his charges happened to be generous.
He tied the chamois bag round his neck again, and turned in.  He was
terribly tired and footsore.  He slept fitfully.  At half after nine he
sat up, fully awake.  His cabin-mate (whom he rather disliked) was not
in his bunk.  Indeed, the bunk had not been touched.  Suddenly Thomas'
hand flew to his breast.  The chamois bag was gone!
CHAPTER IV
Iambic and hexameter, farewell!  In that moment the poet died in
Thomas; I mean, the poet who had to dig his expressions of life out of
ink-pots.  Things boil up quickly and unexpectedly in the soul;
century-old impulses, undreamed of by the inheritor; and when these
bubble and spill over the kettle's lip, watch out.  There is an island
in the South Seas where small mud-geysers burst forth under the
pressure of the foot.  Fate had stepped on Thomas.
As he sprang out of his bunk he was a reversion: the outlaw in
Lincoln-green, the Yeoman of the Guard, the bandannaed smuggler of the
southeast coast.  Quickly he got into his uniform.  He went about this
affair the right way, with foresight and prudence; for he realized that
he must act instantly.  He sought the purser, who was cordial.
"I'm not feeling well," began Thomas; "and the doctor is ashore.
Where's there an apothecary's shop?"
"Two blocks straight out from the pier entrance.  You'll see red and
blue lights in the windows.  Tummy?"
"I'm subject to dizzy spells.  Where's Jameson?"  Jameson was the surly
cabin-mate.
"Quit.  Gone over to the Cunard.  Fool.  Like a little money advanced?
Here's a bill, five dollars."
"Thank you, sir."  Twenty shillings, ten pence.  "Doesn't Jameson take
his peg a little too often, sir?"
"He's a blighter.  Glad to get rid of him.  Hurry back.  And don't stop
at Mike's or Johnny's,"--smiling.
"I never touch anything heavier than ale, sir."  Mike's or Johnny's; it
saved him the trouble of asking.  Tippling pubs where stewards
foregathered.
His uniform was his passport.  Nobody questioned him as he passed the
barrier at a dog-trot.  Outside the smelly pier (sugar, coffee and
spices, shipments from Killigrew and Company) he paused to send a short
