turned, settled the pillows to her liking, and stretched out her
supple figure on the sofa with a slight sigh.

"Shall I talk to you, Scheherazade, or let you snuggle into the chaste
arms of Morpheus?"

"I can't sleep."

"Is it a talk-fest, then?"

"I am listening."

"Then, were the two recent gentlemen who so rudely pounced upon me the
same gentlemen who so cheerfully chased me in an automobile when you
made red fire?"

"Yes."

"I was betting on it. Nice-looking man--the one with the classical map
and the golden Frick."

She said nothing.

"Scheherazade," he continued with smiling malice, "do you realise that
you are both ornamental and young? Why so young and murderous, fair
houri? Why delight in manslaughter in any degree? Why cultivate
assault and battery? Why swipe the property of others?"

She closed her eyes on the pillow, but, as he remained silent,
presently opened them again.

"I asked them not to hurt you," she said irrelevantly.

"Who? Oh, your strenuous friends with the footpad technique? Well,
they obeyed you unwillingly."

"Did they hurt you?"

"Oh, no. But the car-wheels might have."

"The car-wheels?"

"Yes. They were all for dumping me down the steps of the vestibule.
But I've got a nasty disposition, Scheherazade, and I kicked and bit
and screamed so lustily that I disgusted them and they simply left the
train and concluded to cut my acquaintance."

It was evident that his good-humoured mockery perplexed her. Once or
twice the shadow of a smile passed over her dark eyes, but they
remained uncertain and watchful.

"You really were astonished to see me alive again, weren't you?" he
asked.

"I was surprised to see you, of course."

"Alive?"

"I told you that I asked them not to really hurt you."

"Do you suppose I believe that, after your pistol practice on me?"

"It is true," she replied, her eyes resting on him.

"You wished to reserve me for more pistol practice?"

"I have no--enmity--for you."

"Oh, Scheherazade!" he protested, laughing.

"You are wrong, Mr. Neeland."

"After all I did to you?"

To his surprise a bright blush spread over her face where it lay
framed by the pillows; she turned her head abruptly and lay without
speaking.

He sat thinking for a few minutes, then leaning forward from where he
sat on the bed's edge:

"After a man's been shot at and further intimidated with a large,
unpleasantly rusty Kurdish dagger, he is likely to proceed without
ceremony. All the same, I am sorry I had to humiliate you,
Scheherazade."

She lay silent, unstirring.

"A girl would never forgive that, I know," he said. "So I shall look
for a short shrift from you if your opportunity ever comes."

The girl appeared to be asleep. He stood up and looked down at her.
The colour had faded from the one cheek visible. For a while he
listened to her quiet breathing, then, the imp of perversity seizing
him, and intensely diverted by the situation, he bent over her,
touched her cheek with his lips, put on his hat, took box and
suitcase, and went out to spend the remaining hour or two in the
smoking room, leaving her to sleep in peace.

But no sooner had he closed the door on her than the girl sat straight
