the supreme experiences, including love, they might be routed, the new
force might spring up in an instant like a flower from the magic soils
of India--but not while the conventions bulwarked them. Their sum was
Mrs. Balfame of Elsinore, and not for a moment did they permit
themselves to forget it.
Moreover, it was quite true that she had conquered her first
apprehensions and welcomed the trial as the initial step toward freedom.
Her poise had always been remarkable, the result in part of a
self-centred life and a will driven relentlessly in a narrow groove.
More than ever was she determined to sit through those long days in the
courtroom with the cold aloofness of the unfortunate women of history.
The very ascents she had made of secret and solitary heights alone would
have restored her poise, for she felt on far more friendly terms with
herself than when living with a wretch she loathed, and dreaming of no
higher altitudes then complete success in Elsinore. But she wished for
the first time that she were a younger woman, or had made those ascents
many years ago; she would have liked to reveal herself spontaneously to
this interesting young man who was so deeply in love with her.
Suddenly she wondered if he were as ardently in love with her as in
that brief period when they had talked of themselves. Not loving him in
return, she had been content with lip-service, the sure knowledge that
all his fine abilities were at work upon the obstacles to her freedom;
and she would have been deeply annoyed if he had broken the pact made on
the day of her arrest and reiterated his devotion and his hopes.
But significant happenings--omissions--a certain flatness.... She turned
her head sharply and looked at him. He was still staring moodily through
the bars.
If far too diffident to show the best that was in her, she found it
comparatively simple to practice the feminine art of angling, albeit
with a somewhat heavy hand.
She asked softly: "Don't you think I did the wise thing to tell them I
intended to travel as soon as I was acquitted? It surely would be in
better taste than to settle down here--in that house!"
"Did you mean it? The intention would make a good impression on the
public, certainly."
"Why, of course I meant it. I am not a good hand at saying things merely
for effect."
"Where shall you go? Europe is rather impossible."
"Oh, not altogether. There is always Italy. And there is no danger from
Zeppelins in the interior of Great Britain. And there is Spain--"
"I think Europe a very good place for women to keep away from until the
war is over. Any of the nations may become involved at any
minute--ourselves, for that matter. Better follow the advice of
advertisers and see America first."
"Yes, I could visit the Expositions in California, and camp for a while
in Glacier Park, and there are the Yellowstone and Grand Cañon--but all
that would only consume a few months--and then there is this winter to
think of. What I feel I should do is to stay away for a year, at
least--"
"You could live very pleasantly in Southern California."
"I should be very conspicuous in those small fashionable settlements.
The case has been telegraphed all over the country, and I have seen
dreadful pictures of myself in several Western papers."
"Well, you might live quietly in New York until the war is over. There
is no better place to hide--if you avoid the restaurants and theatres.
And after all, even a cause célèbre is quickly forgotten if there is
no aftermath. But I certainly advise against even sailing for Europe
until peace is declared. There is always the danger of mines and too
enthusiastic submarines."
She turned quite cold and stared at her hands. They were well-shaped but
large, and they looked like blocks of white marble on her black gown. He
was still at the window, and his tone was listless. She had a curious
sense of panic in the region of her heart. But instantly she curled her
lip with defiant scorn. Was she the woman to fancy herself in love with
a man the moment she seemed to be in danger of losing him? Besides, no
doubt, the poor man was tired, and too absorbed in the case to have any
room in him for the moods of the lover. Only a foolish impulsive woman
would in conditions like the present try to rouse a dormant passion.
When she was free, and he as well, his heart would automatically take
precedence once more and he would plead ardently for the privilege of
marrying her. That was quite in order.
She rose briskly. "Let me show you this map," she said. "It is the very
latest--Letitia Battle brought it to me two days ago. And do smoke."
"Thanks, but I must go over and watch those girls. Yes, it is a fine
map. This war certainly is a godsend! Good luck. Keep up those splendid
spirits. You're all right."
CHAPTER XXIX
"Oyez, oyez, oyez! The Supreme Court of the State of New York County of
Brabant trial term is now in session all people having business with
this court may draw near and give their attention and they shall be
heard."
The court crier delivered his morning oration in one breathless
sentence, the last five words of which only have ever been captured by
mortal ears. The roll of the jury was called. The first witness stood on
the step of the witness-stand and swore by the everlasting God that the
testimony he would give in the trial of the People of the State of New
York against the defendant would be the truth, the whole truth and
nothing but the truth, and then he seated himself in the chair. The
trial of Mrs. Balfame began.
It had taken three days to select a jury. If Rush was determined to keep
out Germans, Mr. Gore, the district attorney, was equally reluctant to
admit to the box any man whom he suspected of being under commands from
his wife to get on that jury and acquit Mrs. Balfame, if he had to
imperil his immortal soul. He also harboured suspicions of felonious
activities on the part of Mr. Sam Cummack and certain other patriotic
citizens less devoted to the cause of justice than to Elsinore. In
consequence the questions were not only uncommonly searching, but both
the district attorney and the defendant's counsel exhausted their
peremptory challenges.
The talesmen that had crowded the courtroom beyond the railing were for
