emerge as it were of itself and as from the opera 
tion of what surrounds it. It dwells somehow 
deep in the fact, the great dramatic fact of the 
whole business, that she alone hasn't had the 
mistrust, the malaise and the fear; in connec 
tion with which I seem to see something of no 
small, in fact of the greatest, pop out at me. If 
he has made her his full "confession" don't I 
make out that, to balance this, she also tells 





  

him about herself something of the last intimacy 
not merely how she loves him, but something 
better still than that ? don't I in fact find my 
self just leaping and snatching at the idea which 
answers all my questions of procedure and has 
my perfect solution just locked up and waiting 
within it ? What is more than her confessing to 
him that she loves him, what gives the exhibi- 
tional further twist I was groping for, is that 
she tells him she has loved the man he is a sub 
stitute for, the man of 1820, the real one of that 
actual year, and that in loving himself she has 
but obeyed the irresistible continuity and con 
sistency involved in his force of representation. 
I seem to see really my ideal Tightness in this 
but must keep my head to state here what I see, 
for my perfect use, roundabout it. I have already 
spoken, far above, of her having loved the other 
man, the "real" one, and done so as by the im 
plication that Ralph knows it, is in possession 
of it, and has seen for himself what an identity 
and what a connection reside in it. By what 
means, however, has he originally known it, 
learnt it, got into possession of it ? unless by 
one of the others' having stated it to him. I 
ask myself which then of the others but only 
at once to recognise the matter as already deter 
mined for me by what I have threshed out. He 
gets the knowledge effectively and, as I call it, 
dramatically, to all intents and purposes scenically, 





  

by the fact that the little H.W. man, as I call 
him, betrays the wanted jealousy of him from 
the moment the elder girl breaks off from him. 
Up to that moment not, but after it, and on his 
turning to the younger, with whom the little 
H.W. man is, as I have shown, himself in love, 
then entirely. This jealousy is practically what 
leads to his profession of the truth; so that there 
can be no question of his needing it from her 
he so reads it in her maniere d'etre up to the 
time of, and the great revolution constituted by, 
the scene a faire. What we get thus is her maniere 
d'etre for him, all sufficient, all infinitely touch 
ing, before that scene, and her condition and 
her action after the same; which are two quite 
different things. Then, I mean in this latter 
case, her avowal, the only entire and direct one, 
is quite a different thing; out of which I have to 
pull, as I say, quite what I want. She has loved 
the man of 1820 all in himself keep every shade 
of discrimination here flawlessly clear. She has 
loved him wholly without reward of course, and 
even under his more than indifference, his degree 
of contempt; entirely addressed as he was, and 
has been, to her elder sister. Yet I pull up too 
here, in the midst of my elation though after 
a little I shall straighten everything out to see 
that I introduce an element of confusion in try 
ing to work the matter out as if anything can 
have preceded Ralph's own, Ralph's "conscious" 





  

arrival. Awfully important, and not a little 
difficult, here, not to let any tangle or any em 
broilment lay its insidious trap. Doesn't Ralph 
know by his own experience, if he takes up the 
action from the moment, and the moment only, 
of "arriving," arriving for the first time, all that 
has happened for his predecessor and exactly 
what hasn't ? There, however, I gasp with relief, 
is a question that would be embarrassing to me 
only if, on intenser reflection, I didn't see that I 
