
pluck by their own act any bright flower they 
sufficiently desired to reach. Wonderful during 
the few instants, between these flagrant world- 
lings, the exchange of fine recognitions. It would 
have been hard perhaps to say of them whether 
it was most discernible that Haughty and Cissy 
trusted most his intelligence or his indifference, 
and whether he most applauded or ignored the 
high perfection of their assurance. What was 
testified to all round, at all events — 1 

"Ah then he is as 'odd' as I was sure — in spite 
of Haughty's perverse theory that we shall find 
him the flattest of the flat !" 

It might have been at Haughty's perverse 
theory that Davey was most moved to stare — 
had he not quickly betrayed, instead of this, a 
marked attention to the girl herself. "Oh you 
little wonder and joy !" 

"She is a little wonder and joy," Horton said 
— that at any rate came out clear. 

"What you are, my boy, I'm not pretending 

1 There is a gap here in the MS., with the following note by the 
author: "It is the security of the two others with him that is testi- 
fied to; but I mustn't make any sort of spread about it or about 
anything else here now, and only put Davey on some non-committal 
reply to the question addressed him, such as keeps up the mystery 
or ambiguity or suspense about Gray, his moustache and everything 
else, so as to connect properly with what follows. The real point 
is — that comes back to me, and it is in essence enough — that he 
pleads he doesn't remember, didn't notice, at all; and thereby oddly 
enough can't say. It will come to me right once I get into it. One 
sees that Davey plays with them." 

1



 

to say," Davey returned in answer to this; "for 
I don't accept her account of your vision of Gray 
as throwing any light on it at all." 

"On his judgment of Mr. Fielder, do you 
mean," Cissy earnestly asked, "or on your evi- 
dently awful opinion of his own dark nature?" 

"Haughty knows that I lose myself in his 
dark nature, at my spare moments, and with 
wind enough on to whistle in that dark, very 
much as if I had the fine excitement of the Foret 
de Bondy to deal with. He's well aware that I 
know no greater pleasure of the imagination than 
that sort of interest in him — when I happen also 
to have the time and the nerve. Let these things 
serve me now, however, only to hurry you up," 
Davey went on; "and to say that I of course 
had with our fortunate friend an impressive 
quarter of an hour — which everyone will want 
to know about, so that I must keep it till we sit 
down. But the great thing is after all for your- 
self, Haughty," he added — "and you had better 
know at once that he particularly wants to see 
you. He'll be glad of you at the very first mo- 
ment " 

But Horton had already taken him easily up. 
"Of course I know, my dear man, that he par- 
ticularly wants to see me. He has written me 
nothing else from the moment he arrived." 

"He has written you, you wretch," Cissy at 
once extravagantly echoed — "he has written you 





 

all sorts of things and you haven't so much as 
told me?" 

"He hasn't written me all sorts of things" — 
Horton directed this answer to Davey alone— 
"but has written me in such straight confidence 
and friendship that I've been wondering if I 
mayn't go round to him this evening." 

"Gussy will no doubt excuse you for that pur- 
pose with the utmost joy," Davey rejoined — 
"though I don't think I advise you to ask her 
leave if you don't want her at once to insist on 
going with you. Go to him alone, very quietly 
