“The Mountain? I ain’t afraid of the Mountain!”

Her tone of defiance seemed to escape him. He lay breast-down on the
grass, breaking off sprigs of thyme and pressing them against his lips.
Far off, above the folds of the nearer hills, the Mountain thrust itself
up menacingly against a yellow sunset.

“I must go up there some day: I want to see it,” he continued.

Her heart-beats slackened and she turned again to examine his profile.
It was innocent of all unfriendly intention.

“What’d you want to go up the Mountain for?”

“Why, it must be rather a curious place. There’s a queer colony up
there, you know: sort of out-laws, a little independent kingdom. Of
course you’ve heard them spoken of; but I’m told they have nothing to
do with the people in the valleys--rather look down on them, in fact.
I suppose they’re rough customers; but they must have a good deal of
character.”

She did not quite know what he meant by having a good deal of character;
but his tone was expressive of admiration, and deepened her dawning
curiosity. It struck her now as strange that she knew so little about
the Mountain. She had never asked, and no one had ever offered to
enlighten her. North Dormer took the Mountain for granted, and implied
its disparagement by an intonation rather than by explicit criticism.

“It’s queer, you know,” he continued, “that, just over there, on top of
that hill, there should be a handful of people who don’t give a damn for
anybody.”

The words thrilled her. They seemed the clue to her own revolts and
defiances, and she longed to have him tell her more.

“I don’t know much about them. Have they always been there?”

“Nobody seems to know exactly how long. Down at Creston they told me
that the first colonists are supposed to have been men who worked on the
railway that was built forty or fifty years ago between Springfield
and Nettleton. Some of them took to drink, or got into trouble with the
police, and went off--disappeared into the woods. A year or two later
there was a report that they were living up on the Mountain. Then I
suppose others joined them--and children were born. Now they say there
are over a hundred people up there. They seem to be quite outside the
jurisdiction of the valleys. No school, no church--and no sheriff ever
goes up to see what they’re about. But don’t people ever talk of them at
North Dormer?”

“I don’t know. They say they’re bad.”

He laughed. “Do they? We’ll go and see, shall we?”

She flushed at the suggestion, and turned her face to his. “You never
heard, I suppose--I come from there. They brought me down when I was
little.”

“You?” He raised himself on his elbow, looking at her with sudden
interest. “You’re from the Mountain? How curious! I suppose that’s why
you’re so different....”

Her happy blood bathed her to the forehead. He was praising her--and
praising her because she came from the Mountain!

“Am I... different?” she triumphed, with affected wonder.

“Oh, awfully!” He picked up her hand and laid a kiss on the sunburnt
knuckles.

“Come,” he said, “let’s be off.” He stood up and shook the grass from
his loose grey clothes. “What a good day! Where are you going to take me
tomorrow?”




VI


That evening after supper Charity sat alone in the kitchen and listened
to Mr. Royall and young Harney talking in the porch.

She had remained indoors after the table had been cleared and old Verena
had hobbled up to bed. The kitchen window was open, and Charity seated
herself near it, her idle hands on her knee. The evening was cool and
still. Beyond the black hills an amber west passed into pale green,
and then to a deep blue in which a great star hung. The soft hoot of a
little owl came through the dusk, and between its calls the men’s voices
rose and fell.

Mr. Royall’s was full of a sonorous satisfaction. It was a long time
since he had had anyone of Lucius Harney’s quality to talk to: Charity
divined that the young man symbolized all his ruined and unforgotten
past. When Miss Hatchard had been called to Springfield by the illness
of a widowed sister, and young Harney, by that time seriously embarked
on his task of drawing and measuring all the old houses between
Nettleton and the New Hampshire border, had suggested the possibility of
boarding at the red house in his cousin’s absence, Charity had trembled
lest Mr. Royall should refuse. There had been no question of lodging
the young man: there was no room for him. But it appeared that he could
