tremendously, he saw. Whatever was to come, she must 
stay out of it. Ellen wasn't going to be hoodwinked into 
listening to Ben. He knew her old contrariness and 
smiled over it to himself. It would be their bulwark now. 
Mary Neale went without a word, and when the door 
had closed after them and Larry had come back to his 
seat, Ellen stretched out both hands and gave them to his 
eager ones. 

" Larry," she said, " dear — oh, now I know how dear 



 

wftlf you are. I know all about it — about everything. I 
saw it last night when I thought and thought — and to-day 
when Hugh came. And I saw how patient you've 
been with me. But, Larry, what shall I do now? '' She 

k p hardly waited for the answer he hesitated for the wisdom 

mti to give. " I've wasted so much time," she went on, " try- 

mi ing to do what other people do. Because I thought that 

j! I was the way." 

" So've I, Ellen," he said sadly. " Fve wasted all my 

bsv life. Not doing what other people do, but being sulky 
and lazy and keeping out of the game. I give you my 
word I never knew the gates of the universe were wide 
open to every one of us. I never began to learn it till I 
saw what men do when the devil peers up over the rim of 
the world and claws at them. But you're a baby yet. 
You've got the years before you." 

" You see," said she, " I've grown up. It isn't only 
because Hugh's come home. It's everything. Larry, 
I've grown up." 

He thought he knew why she had waked. The sound 
of the guns had waked her. The great vibration that 
shook the earth itself had jarred the atoms in her as they 
had in him, and the shell of habit and unproved tradi- 
tion had cracked and was fallen, and they — the inside 
being of them — saw light and felt the air. It was not 
that they saw grotesquely, through this waving of crea- 
tion in the winds of destiny, that they looked to them- 
selves like gods in this flare of a burning world and knew 
themselves to be, for all time, different. It was because 
they found the forces of honesty and calm decency were 
withstanding the forces that make for downfall and decay 
that they had waked to the certainty that truth is, justice 
is, endurance to the death is as inevitable a reaction as the 
violence that works for death. The war had opened be- 



 

fore them the great book of life that lies at most timed 
guarded by silent spaces and cold approaches, and they 
saw the necessity of the moral code — which is, after all, 
the code of truth and beauty. What you think every 
day gets its reward in what you do on a day when your 
need is greatest. These two had sat in this room telling 
each other all these months how wonderful — and how 
irimple, too — it was that plain men were drowning in 
blood " over there '' that the world might live. And it 
made it quite impossible for them to want to do anything 
ever in all the processions of the years but to be them- 
selves as obedient and as true. And after all, they did 
not talk about it. 

" There's a lot of things you ought to know," said 
Ellen ; " but I danH tell you." How could she tell him 
that the flaring up of her old obstinacy and contrariness 
had saved her from the false fulfillment of dreadful rites, 
and that still she was her own to give or to keep for the 
earth to take her back untouched in its apointed time? 
" But," she added, lier mind returning tenderly to him 
and his patient love for her, " wherever I go, your flag'll 
go with me." 

" Ellen," said he, " you're not going to be headstrong 
and run away — or anything? Where are you going? " 

" Truly," said she, " I don't know." 

" Not with Hugh — if he begs you." 

" Why, no," said she, with a surprised little air that he 
could ask it. "I can't, can I? Think of the promises 
I made to Ben. I'm going to break most of them, not 
all. I sha'n't forget I made them. And about Hugh — 
well, it's no matter." 

"What's no matter?" asked Larry. 
