the best dressed American women in Paris are wearing them. 

VIII 

On the twentieth of July (1916) Le Figaro devoted 
an article to Madame Balli's Reconfort du Soldat, and 
stated that it was distributing about six hundred packages a week to soldiers in hospitals and eclope depots, 
and that during the month of January alone nine thousand six hundred packages were distributed both behind the lines and among the soldiers at the Front. 
This may go on for years or it may come to an abrupt 
end ; but, like all the Frenchwomen to whom I talked, 
and who when they plunged into work expected a 
short war, she is determined to do her part as long as 
the soldiers do theirs, even if the war marches with 
the term of her natural life. She not only has given 
a great amount of practical help, but has done her 
share in keeping up the morale of the men, who, buoyant by nature as they are, and passionately devoted to 
their country, must have many discouraged moments 
in their hospitals and depots. 

Once or twice when swamped with work — she is 
also a marraine (godmother) and writes regularly to 
her filleuls — Madame Balli has sent the weekly gifts 



 

by friends; but the protest was so decided, the men 
declaring that her personal sympathy meant more to 
them than cigarettes and soap, that she was forced to 
adjust her affairs in such a manner that no visit to a 
hospital at least should be missed. 

It is doubtful if any of these men who survive and 
live to tell tales of the Great War in their old age will 
ever omit to recall the gracious presence and lovely 
face of Madame Balli, who came so often to make 
them forget the sad monotony of their lives, even the 
pain in their mutilated limbs, the agony behind their 
disfigured faces, during those long months they spent 
in the hospitals of Paris. And although her beauty 
has always been a pleasure to the eye, perhaps it is 
now for the first time paying its great debt to Nature. 



II 

THE SILENT ARMY 



MADAME PAQUIN, the famous French dress- 
maker, told me casually an incident that 
epitomizes the mental inheritance of the women of a 
military nation once more plunged abruptly into war. 

Her home is in Neuilly, one of the beautiful suburbs 
of Paris, and for years when awake early in the 
morning it had been her habit to listen for the heavy 
creaking of the great wagons that passed her house 
on their way from the gardens and orchards of the 
open country to the markets of Paris. Sometimes she 
would arise and look at them, those immense heavy 
trucks loaded high above their walls with the luscious 
produce of the fertile soil of France. On the seats 
were always three or four sturdy men: the farmer, 
and the sons who would help him unload at the 
"Halles." 

All these men, of course, were reservists. Mobilization took place on Sunday. On Monday morning 
Madame Paquin, like many others in that anxious 
city, was tossing restlessly on her bed when she heard 
the familiar creaking of the market wagons which 


for so many years had done their share in feeding 
the hungry and fastidious people of Paris. Knowing that every able-bodied man had disappeared from 
his usual haunts within a few hours after the Mobilization Order was posted, she sprang out of bed and 
looked through her blinds. 

There in the dull gray mist of the early morning 
she saw the familiar procession. There were the big 
trucks drawn by the heavily built cart horses and 
piled high with the abundant but precisely picked and 
packed produce of the market gardens. Paris was to 
be fed as usual. People must eat, war or no war. In 
spite of the summons which had excited the 
brains and depressed the hearts of a continent those 
trucks were playing their part in human destiny, not 
even claiming the right to be five minutes late. The 
only difference was that the seats on this gloomy 
August morning of 1914 were occupied by large stolid 
peasant women, the wives and sisters and sweethearts 
of the men called to the colors. They had mobilized 
themselves as automatically as the Government had 
ordered out its army when the German war god deflowered our lady of peace. 

These women may have carried heavy hearts under 
their bright coifs and cotton blouses, but their weather- 
