
 

mysterious young man she was with. " YeVe not worked 
long in coal-mines, Mr. Smith ? " she remarked. 

Hal was a trifle disconcerted. " How did you find that 
out?" 

" Ye don't look it — ye don't talk it. Ye're not like 
anybody or anything around here. I don't know how to 
say it, but ye make me think more of the poetry-books." 

Flattered as Hal was by this naive confession, he did 
not want to talk of the mystery of himself. He took 
refuge in a question about the " poetry-books." " I've 
read some," said the girl ; " more than ye'd have thought, 
perhaps." This with a flash of her defiance. 

He asked more questions, and learned that she, like the 
Greek boy, " Andy," had come under the influence of that 
disturbing American institution, the public-school; she 
had learned to read, and the pretty young teacher had 
helped her, lending her books and magazines. Thus she 
had been given a key to a treasure-house, a magic carpet 
on which to travel over the world. These similes Mary 
herself used — for the Arabian Nights had been one of 
the. books that were loaned to her. On rainy days she 
would hide behind the sofa, reading at a spot where the 
light crept in — so that she might be safe from small 
brothers and sisters! 

Joe Smith had read these same books, it appeared ; and 
this seemed remarkable to Mary, for books cost money 
and were hard to get. She explained how she had searched 
the camp for new magic carpets, finding a " poetry-book " 
by Longfellow, and a book of American history, and a 
story called " David Copperfield," and last and strangest 
of all, another story called "Pride and Prejudice." A 
curious freak of fortune — the prim and sentimentally 
quivering Jane Austen in a coal-camp in a far Western 
wilderness ! An adventure for Jane, as well as for Mary ! 

What had Mary made of it, Hal wondered. Had she 
revelled, shop-girl fashion, in scenes of pallid ease ? He 



 

learned that what she had made of it was despair, This 
world outside, with its freedom and cleanness, its people 
living gracious and worth-while lives, was not for her ; she 
was chained to a scrub-pail in a coal-camp. Thkigs had 
got so much worse since the death of her mother, she said. 
Her voice had become dull and hard — Hal thought that 
he had never heard a young voice express such hopelessness. 

" You've never been anywhere but here ? " he asked. 

"I been in two other camps," she said — "first the 
Gordon, and then East Kun. But they're all alike." 

" But you've been down to the towns ? " 

" Only for a day, once or twice a year. Once I was in 
Sheridan, and in a church I heard a lady sing." 

She stopped for a moment, lost in this memory. Then 
suddenly her voice changed — and he could imagine in 
the darkness that she had tossed her head defiantly. " I'll 
not be entertainin' company with my troubles ! * Ye know 
how tiresome that is when ye hear it from somebody else 
— like my next-door neighbour, Mrs. Zamboni. D' ye 
know her ? " 

" No," said Hal. 

" The poor old lady has troubles enough, God knows. 
Her man's not much good — he's troubled with the drink; 
and she's got eleven childer, and that's too many for one 
woman. Don't ye think so ? " 

She asked this with a naivete which made Hal laugh. 
" Yes," he said, " I do." 

"Well, I think people'd help her more if she'd not 
complain so ! And half of it in the Slavish language, that 
a body can't understand ! " So Mary began to tell funny 
things about Mrs. Zamboni and her other polyglot neigh- 
bours, imitating their murdering of the Irish dialect. 
Hal thought her humour was naive and delightful, and 
he led her on to more cheerful gossip during the remainder 
of their walk. 



 

 But then, as they were on their way home, 
