from that of the average jail-inmate. Jimmie could do his 
kind of work just as well in jail as anywhere else ; and barring 
the torment of vermin, the diet of bread and thin coffee and ill- 
smelling greasy soup, and the worry about his helpless family 
outside, he really had a happy time making the acquaintance 
of hoboes and pickpockets, and explaining to them the revolu- 
tionary philosophy. A man who went in to remedy social in- 
justice all by himself could never get very far. It was only when 
he realised himself as a member of a class, and stood as a class 
and acted as a class, that he could accomplish a permanent result. 
Some of the workers had discovered this, and had set out to edu- 
cate their fellows. They brought the wondrous message, even ta 
those in jail; holding out to them the vision of a world made 
over in justice and kindness, the co-operative commonwealth 
of labour, in which every man should get what he produced, and 
no man could exploit his fellows. 







VII 

Three days passed, and then one afternoon Jimmie was 
summoned to see a visitor. He could guess who the visitor was, 
and he went with his heart in his throat, and looked through the 
dark mesh of wire, and saw Lizzie standing stout, motherly 
Lizzie, now very pale, and breathing hard, and with tears running 
in little streamlets down her cheeks. Poor Lizzie, with her 
three babies at home, and her plain, ordinary, non-revolutionary 
psychology, which made going to jail a humiliation instead of a 
test of manhood, a badge of distinction ! Jimmie felt a clutch 
in his own throat, and an impulse to tear down the beastly wire 
mesh and clasp the dear motherly soul in his arms. But all he 
could do was to screw his face into a dubious smile. Sure, he 
was having the time of his life in this jail ! He wouldn't have 
missed it for anything ! He had made a Socialist out of "Dead- 
eye Mike," and had got Pete Curley, a fancy "con" man, to 
promise to read "War, What For?" 

There was only one thing which had been troubling him, and 
that was, how his family was making out. They had had prac- 
tically nothing in the house, he knew, and poor Meissner could 
not feed four extra mouths. But Lizzie, also screwing her face 
into a smile, assured him that everything was all right at home, 
there was no need to worry. In the first place, Comrade Dr. 
Service had sent her a piece of paper with his name written on 
it ; it appeared that this was called a check, and the groceryman 
had exchanged it for a five dollar bill. And in the next place 
there was a domestic secret which Lizzie had to confide she had 
put by some money, without letting Jimmie know it. 

"But how?" cried Jimmie, in wonder for he had thought 
he knew all about his household and its expenses. 

So Lizzie explained the trick she had played. Jimmie had 
committed an extravagance, treating her to a new dress out of 
his increased earnings : a gorgeous contrivance of several colours, 
looking like silk, even if it wasn't. Lizzie had stated that the 
cost was fifteen dollars, and he, the dub, had believed it ! The 
truth was she had bought the dress in a second-hand shop for 
three dollars, and had put twelve dollars away for the time of 
the strike ! 

And Jimmie went back to his "tank" shaking his head and 
philosophising : "Gee ! Can you beat these women ?" 






THE strike was over when Jimmie came out of jail; it had 
been settled by the double-barrelled device of raising the 
wages of the men and putting their leaders behind bars. Jimmie 
presented himself at his old place of working, and the boss told 
him to go to hell; so Jimmie went to Hubbardtown, and stood 
in the long line of men waiting at the gate of the engine com- 
pany. Jimmie knew about black-lists, so when his time came 
to be questioned, he said his name was Joe Aronsky, and he had 
last worked in a machine-shop in Pittsburg; he had come to 
Hubbardtown because he had heard of high pay and good treat- 
ment. While he was answering these questions, he noticed a 
man sitting in the corner of the room studying his face, and 
he saw the boss turn and glance in that direction. The man 
shook his head, and the boss said : "Nothin' doinY' So Jimmie 
understood that the Hubbard Engine Company was taking 
measures to keep its shops clear of the agitators from Leesville. 

He spent a couple of days trying other places in his home 
town, but all in vain they had him spotted. At the brewery 
they were slower than elsewhere they took him on for two 
hours. Then they found out his record, and "fired" him; and 
Jimmie "kidded" the boss, saying that they were too late he 
had already given a Socialist leaflet to every man in the room ! 

On Jefferson Street, an out of the way part of the town, was 
a bicycle-shop kept by an old German named Kumme. One of 
