keeping her face averted.

We stood so, gazing down in silence at the snow-choked pass which now
cut us off from the world entire.

"After all," said I, "it pens in the huns as well as it cages us.  We
may get them yet."

The girl straightened up and turned toward me. Her features were
radiant, transfigured.

"Nous les aurons!" she cried, throwing her arm out toward the valley
with the superb gesture of some young goddess launching thunderbolts.




                                 *XIV*

                       *THE MYSTERIOUS MR. SMITH*


The distinguished company at the chalet had already gathered on the
veranda apparently to contemplate the flaming sunset when, separating
from Thusis in the woods behind the barn, I sauntered into view with rod
and creel.

Instantly I became a target for Teutonic eyes of the several sorts
peculiar to the hunnish race,—cold disapproving eyes, narrow
bad-tempered eyes, squinting eyes, gimlet eyes, pale pig-eyes,—all
intent on my approach.

"Hello!" cried King Constantine in his loud, bluff way, "have you had
any luck, O’Ryan?"

The fat Princess Pudelstoff began to pant cheerfully in anticipation of
finny food:

"I hope you’ve caught some trout," she said in a thick, good-natured
voice which the rolls of fat on her neck rendered husky and indistinct.
"I like to eat mine Meunière and Blaue-gesotten.  I like ’em breaded
and fried in butter.  I like plenty of melted butter."  She pried open
the creel cover as I passed.  "Where are the fish?" she asked with a
gulp of disappointment.

"I’m sorry, Princess——"

"Droly!" she exclaimed in English, turning to General Count von
Dungheim, "he ain’t caught a fish!  And me smackin’ my lips like I was
eatin’ onto a fat filet!  Oh my God!"

Astonished to hear such east-side accents spurting from the lips of the
Princess Pudelstoff, I politely explained that the stream was in flood,
and that trout wouldn’t take hold in high water.  In the midst of my
apology Baron von Bummelzug uttered a disagreeable laugh and said
something rude to Admiral Lauterlaus who stared at me insultingly as he
replied: "Skill is not to be expected in a Yankee.  Instead of a rod he
should have used a net. That’s the way our peasants fish for trout."

I turned red and looked hard at the Admiral. "There’s a net in the
barn," said I, "if you want to try your skill!" which infuriated that
formidable sea-warrior whose ancestry was purely peasant.  He glared at
me angrily and his bushy eyebrows worked up and down like the features
of a mechanical toy.

"I said our peasants fish with a net!" he began, a far, hollow roar
audible in his voice like the sound of the sea in a big shell.

"I heard you," said I.  "You’re welcome to use the net in your own
fashion.  Gentlemen fish otherwise."

I think everybody was astounded.  Only the pretty Countess Manntrapp
shot an amused glance at me.

The others were dreadfully shocked.  As for the Admiral he got to his
feet almost dazed with rage; but before he could expel the bellowing
fury which was congesting his features I lost my own temper and walked
over to him.

"Behave yourself!" I said sharply.  "I tolerate no bad manners under my
roof.  And if you show me any further disrespect you’ll have to leave my
house!"

I think he was too amazed to roar.  King Ferdinand waddled over to him
and plucked him by the arm, restraining him.  King Constantine burst
into a heavy laugh:

"Here, gentlemen!  This will never do!  It’s all a misunderstanding.  No
offense was intended, Mr. O’Ryan——"

"Monsieur Xenos," said I, "it is difficult, I fancy, for a Prussian
Admiral to avoid taking the offensive—except at sea."

And I walked into the house amid the most profound and paralyzed silence
that ever assailed my ears.

Smith, in the living-room, having heard it all, was doubled up with
laughter, but I was in no mood for mirth.

"Did you hear what Admiral Lauterlaus said to me!" I demanded, still
