
"I thought the story of the little song might interest you. For,
somehow, I feel--as I think you all feel--that perhaps the day may
come--may be near--when the hearts of our women, too, shall be given
to their soldiers--sons, brothers, fathers--who are 'sailin' away to
the wars.' But if that time comes--which God avert!--then I know that
every man here will do his duty.... And every woman.... And I know
that:

  'Tears that near blind you,
  Your pride shall dry!----'"

He paused a moment:

"Miss Soane has prepared no song to sing as an encore. In her behalf,
and in my own, I thank you for your appreciation. Be kind enough to
permit the exercises to proceed."

And the graduating exercises continued.

Barres waited for Dulcie. She came out among the first of those
departing, walking all alone in her reconstructed white dress, and
carrying his bouquet. When she caught sight of him, her face became
radiant and she made her way toward him through the crowd, seeking his
outstretched hand with hers, clinging to it in a passion of gratitude
and emotion that made her voice tremulous:

"My bouquet--it is so wonderful! I love every flower in it! Thank you
with all my heart. You are so kind to have come--so kind to me--so
k-kind----"

"It is I who should be grateful, Dulcie, for your charming little
song," he insisted. "It was fascinating and exquisitely done."

"Did you really like it?" she asked shyly.

"Indeed I did! And I quite fell in love with your voice, too--with
that trick you seem to possess of conveying a hint of tears through
some little grace-note now and then.... And there were tears hidden
in the words; and in the melody, too.... And to think that your mother
wrote it!"

"Yes."

After a short interval of silence he released her hand.

"I have a taxi for you," he said gaily. "We'll drive home in state."

The girl flushed again with surprise and gratitude:

"Are--are you coming, too?"

"Certainly I'm going to take you home. Don't you belong to me?" he
demanded laughingly.

"Yes," she said. But her forced little smile made the low-voiced
answer almost solemn.

"Well, then!" he said cheerfully. "Come along. What's mine I look
after. We'll have lunch together in the studio, if you are too proud
to pose for a poor artist this afternoon."

At this her sensitive face cleared and she laughed happily.

"The pride of a high-school graduate!" he commented, as he seated
himself beside her in the taxicab. "Can anything equal it?"

"Yes."

"What?"

"Her pride in your--friendship," she ventured.

Which unexpected reply touched and surprised him.

"You dear child!" he said; "I'm proud of your friendship, too. Nothing
ought to make a man prouder than winning a young girl's confidence."

"You are so kind," she sighed, touching the blossoms in her bouquet
with slender fingers that trembled a little. For she would have
offered him a flower from it had she found courage; but it seemed
presumptuous and she dropped her hand into her lap again.

       

Aristocrates opened the door for them: Selinda took her away.

Barres had ordered flowers for the table. In the middle of it a doll
stood, attired in academic cap and gown, the Stars and Stripes in one
hand, in the other a green flag bearing a gold harp.

When Dulcie came in she stopped short, enchanted at the sight of the
decorated table. But when Aristocrates opened the kitchen door and her
three cats came trotting in, she was overcome.

For each cat wore a red, white and blue cravat on which was pinned a
silk shamrock; and although Strindberg immediately keeled over on the
rug and madly attacked her cravat with her hind toes, the general
effect remained admirable.

