     Hindus, delegates representing Persia, Afghanistan, Algeria,
     Morocco, and Mongolia.

     The league is of Mongolian origin. Its leading spirit is a
     certain Prince Sanang, of whom little is known.

     Associated with this mischievous and rather mysterious
     Mongolian personage are three better known criminals, now
     fugitives from justice--Talaat, Enver, and Djemal. It is to
     Enver Pasha's talent for intrigue that the union between
     Moslems and Hindus, the most striking and dangerous feature of
     the movement, is chiefly due.

     Considerable funds are at the disposal of the league. These are
     partly supplied from Germany. Besides enjoying the support of
     the Germans, the league is also in close touch with Lenine, who
     very soon after his advent to power organised an Oriental
     Department in Moscow.

     The alliance between the league and the Russian Bolsheviki was
     brought about by the notorious German Socialist agent,
     "Parvus," who is now in Switzerland. Many weeks ago he
     conferred with the Soviet rulers in Moscow, whence he went to
     Afghanistan, hoping to reorganise the new Amir's army and
     establish lines of communication for propaganda in India.

     Evidence exists that the recent insurrection in Egypt, the
     sudden attack of the Afghans, and the rising in India,
     remarkable for co-operation between Moslems and Hindus, were
     connected with the activities of the league.

The Secretary looked up after he finished the reading.

"I don't see anything about Black Magic in this?" he remarked
flippantly.

Recklow's features became very grave.

"I think," he said, "that everybody--myself included--and, with all
respect, even yourself, sir,--and your honourable colleague,--and
perhaps even his Excellency your President,--should be on perpetual
guard over their minds, and the thoughts that range there, lest,
surreptitiously, stealthily, some taint of Yezidee infection lodge there
and take root--and spread--perhaps--throughout your new Republic."

The Secretary of War grinned. "They say I'm something of a socialist
already," he chuckled. "Do you think your magic Yezidees are
responsible?"

The President, troubled and pallid, gazed steadily at Recklow.

"Mine is a single-track mind," he remarked as though to himself.

Recklow said nothing. It is one kind of mind, after all. However,
single-track roads are now obsolete.

"A single-track mind," repeated the President. "And--I should not like
anything to happen to the switch. It would mean ditching--or a rusty
siding at best.... Please do all that is possible to get those four
Yezidees, Mr. Recklow."

Recklow said calmly: "Our only hope is in this young girl, Tressa Norne,
who is now Mrs. Cleves."

"My conscience!" piped the Secretary of the Navy. "What would happen to
us if these Yezidees should murder her?"

"God knows," replied John Recklow, unsmiling.

"Why not put her aboard our new dreadnought?" suggested the Secretary,
"and keep her cruising until you United States Secret Service fellows
get the rest of these infernal Yezidees and clap 'em into jail?"

"We can do nothing without her," said Recklow sombrely.

There was a painful silence. The President joined his finger tips and
stared palely into space.

"May I not say," he suggested, "that I think it a vital necessity that
these Yezidees be caught and destroyed before they do any damage to the
minds of myself and my cabinet?"

"God grant it, sir," said Recklow grimly.

"Mine," murmured the President, "is a single-track mind. I should be
very much annoyed if anybody tampered with the rails--very much annoyed
indeed, Mr. Recklow."

"They mustn't murder that girl," said the Secretary of the Navy. "Do you
need any Marines, Mr. Recklow? Why not ask your Government for a few?"

Recklow rose: "Mr. President," he said, "I shall not deny that my
Government is very deeply disturbed by this situation. In the beginning,
these eight Assassins, and Sanang, came here for the purpose of
attacking, overpowering, and enslaving the minds of the people of the
United States and of the South American Republics.

"But now, after four of their infamous colleagues have been destroyed,
the ferocious survivors, thoroughly alarmed, have turned their every
energy toward accomplishing the death of Mrs. Cleves! Why, sir, scarcely
