              "La Marée Rouge montera
               Et la bourgeoisie en crèvera!"

The vicious irony of the atrocious parody--words and music--died out
in the sunny silence: for a few moments the girl sat staring at the
scored page; then she leaned forward, and, taking the manuscript in
both hands, tore it into pieces.

She was still occupied in destroying the unclean thing when a servant
appeared, and in subdued voice announced Palla and Ilse.

They came in as Marya swept the tattered scraps of paper into an
incense-bowl, dropped a lighted match upon them, and set the ancient
bronze vessel on the sill of the open window.

"Some of my vileness I am burning," she said, coming forward and
kissing Ilse on both cheeks.

Then, looking Palla steadily in the eyes, she bent forward and touched
her lips with her own.

"Nechevo," she said; "the thing that dwelt within me for a time has
continued on its way to hell, I hope."

She took the pale girl by both hands: "Do you understand?"

And Palla kissed her.

When they were seated: "What religious order would be likely to accept
me?" she asked serenely. And answered her own question: "None would
tolerate me--no order with its rigid systems of inquiry and its
merciless investigations.... And yet--I wonder.... Perhaps, as a
lay-sister in some missionary order--where few care to serve--where
life resembles death as one twin the other.... I don't know: I wonder,
Palla."

Palla asked her in a low voice if she had seen the afternoon paper.
Marya did not reply at once; but presently over her face a hot
rose-glow spread and deepened. Then, after a silence:

"The paper mentioned me as Vanya's wife. Is that what you mean? Yes; I
told them that.... It made no difference, for they would have
discovered it anyway. And I scarcely know why I made Vanya lie about
it to you all;--why I wished people to think otherwise.... Because I
have been married to Vanya since the beginning.... And I can not
explain why I have not told you."

She touched a rosebud in the vase that stood beside her, broke the
stem absently, and sat examining it in silence. And, after a few
moments:

"As a child I was too imaginative.... We do not change--we women.
Married, unmarried, too wise, or too innocent, we remain what we were
when our mothers bore us.... Whatever we do, we never change within:
we remain, in our souls, what we first were. And unaltered we die....
In morgue or prison or Potter's Field, where lies a dead female thing
in a tattered skirt, there, hidden somewhere under rag and skin and
bone, lies a dead girl-child."

She laid the unopened rosebud on Palla's knees; her preoccupied gaze
wandered around that silent, sunlit place.

"I could have taken my pistol," she said softly, "and I could have
killed a few among those whose doctrines at last slew Vanya.... Or I
could have killed myself."

She turned and her remote gaze came back to fix itself on Palla.

"But, somehow, I think that Vanya would grieve.... And he has grieved
enough. Do you think so, Palla?"

"Yes."

Ilse said thoughtfully: "There is always enough death on earth. And to
live honestly, and love undauntedly, and serve humanity with a clean
heart is the most certain way to help the slaying of that thing which
murdered Vanya."

Palla gazed at Marya, profoundly preoccupied by the astounding
revelation that she had been Vanya's legal wife; and in her brown eyes
the stunned wonder of it still remained, nor could she seem to think
of anything except of that amazing fact.

When they stood up to take leave of Marya, the rosebud dropped from
Palla's lap, and Marya picked it up and offered it again.

"It should open," she said, her strange smile glimmering. "Cold water
and a little salt, my Palla--that is all rosebuds need--that is all we
women need--a little water to cool and freshen us; a little salt for
all the doubtful worldly knowledge we imbibe."

She took Palla's hands and bent her lips to them, then lifted her
tawny head:

"What do words matter? Slava, slava, under the moon! Words are
but symbols of needs--your need and Ilse's and mine--and Jack's
and Vanya's--and the master-word differs as differ our several
needs. And if I say Christ and Buddha and I are one, let me so
believe, if that be my need. Or if, from some high minarette, I
lift my voice proclaiming the unity of God!--or if I confess the
