
“I get you,” said Peter, eagerly. No words could portray his relief.
He had a real job now! He was going to be a sleuth, like Guffey
himself.

“Now,” said Guffey, “the first thing I want to know is, who’s
blabbing in this jail; we can’t do anything but they get tipped off.
I’ve got witnesses that I want kept hidden, and I don’t dare put
them here for fear of the Goober crowd. I want to know who are the
traitors. I want to know a lot of things that I’ll tell you from
time to time. I want you to get next to these Reds, and learn about
their ideas, so you can talk their lingo.

“Sure,” said Peter. He could not help smiling a little. He was
supposed to be a “Red” already, to have been one of their leading
conspirators. But Guffey had abandoned that pretence--or perhaps had
forgotten about it!

It was really an easy job that Peter had set before him. He did not
have to pretend to be anything different from what he was. He would
call himself a victim of circumstances, and would be honestly
indignant against those who had sought to use him in a frame-up
against Jim Goober. The rest would follow naturally. He would get
the confidence of the labor people, and Guffey would tell him what
to do next.

“We’ll put you in one of the cells of this jail,” said the chief
detective, “and we’ll pretend to give you a `third degree.’ You’ll
holler and make a fuss, and say you won’t tell, and finally we’ll
give up and kick you out. And then all you have to do is just hang
around. They’ll come after you, or I miss my guess.”

So the little comedy was arranged and played thru. Guffey took Peter
by the collar and led him out into the main part of the jail, and
locked him in one of a row of open cells. He grabbed Peter by the
wrist and pretended to twist it, and Peter pretended to protest. He
did not have to draw on his imagination; he knew how it felt, and
how he was supposed to act, and he acted. He sobbed and screamed,
and again and again he vowed that he had told the truth, that he
knew nothing else than what he had told, and that nothing could make
him tell any more. Guffey left him there until late the next
afternoon, and then came again, and took him by the collar, and led
him out to the steps of the jail, and gave him a parting kick.

Peter was free! What a wonderful sensation--freedom! God! Had there
ever been anything like it? He wanted to shout and howl with joy.
But instead he staggered along the street, and sank down upon a
stone coping, sobbing, with his head clasped in his hands, waiting
for something to happen. And sure enough, it happened. Perhaps an
hour passed, when he was touched lightly on the shoulder. “Comrade,”
 said a soft voice, and Peter, looking between his fingers, saw the
skirts of a girl. A folded slip of paper was pressed into his hand
and the soft voice said: “Come to this address.” The girl walked on,
and Peter’s heart leaped with excitement. Peter was a sleuth at
last!




Section 12


Peter waited until after dark, in order to indulge his sense of the
romantic; also he flattered his self-importance by looking carefully
about him as he walked down the street. He did not know just who
would be shadowing him, but Peter wanted to be sleuthy.

Also he had a bit of genuine anxiety. He had told the truth when he
said to Guffey that he didn’t know what a “Red” was; but since then
he had been making in quiries, and now he knew. A “Red” was a fellow
who sympathized with labor unions and with strikes; who wanted to
murder the rich and divide their property, and believed that the
quickest way to do the dividing was by means of dynamite. All “Reds”
 made bombs, and carried concealed weapons, and perhaps secret
poisons--who could tell? And now Peter was going among them, he was
going to become one of them! It was almost too interesting, for a
fellow who aimed above everything to be comfortable. Something in
him whispered, “Why not skip; get out of town and be done with it?”
 But then he thought of the rewards and honors that Guffey had
promised him. Also there was the spirit of curiosity; he might skip
at any time, but first he would like to know a bit more about being
a “dick.”

He came to the number which had been given him, a tiny bungalow in a
poor neighborhood, and rang the doorbell. It was answered by a girl,
and at a glance Peter saw that it was the girl who had spoken to
him. She did not wait for him to announce himself, but cried
impulsively, “Mr. Gudge! Oh, I’m so glad you’ve come!” She added,
“Comrade!”--just as if Peter were a well-known friend. And then,
“But are you a comrade?”

“How do you mean?” asked Peter.

“You’re not a Socialist? Well, we’ll make one of you.” She brought
him in and showed him to a chair, saying, “I know what they did to
you; and you stood out against them! Oh, you were wonderful!
Wonderful!”

Peter was at a loss what to say. There was in this girl’s voice a
note of affection, as well as of admiration; and Peter in his hard
