"Oh, very well. No doubt I'd think so myself if I 
hadn't happened to meet Isabel first, and if I were not 
too old for her anyway." 
Gwynne could think of no better remedy for demoralized nerves than a flirtation with a resourceful California 
girl, and if Dick annexed a living companion for his trying journey to England so much the better. 
 
Gathbroke's excitement subsided quickly. He was in 
no condition for sustained enthusiasm. He felt as if 
quite ten years had passed since he had half fallen in 
love with Alexina G-roome in a ball room that was now 
a charred heap in the sodden wreck of a city he barely 
could conjure in memory. ' 
Besides, he had half fallen in love so often. And 
she was too young. He had really been more drawn to 
that strange Miss Dwight ; upon whom, however, he had 
not yet called. 
He felt thankful that the girl was too young for his 
critical taste. He wanted nothing more at present in 
the way of emotions. 
CHAPTER XII 
OINCONA had been named in honor of Rincon Hill, 
 where Tom Abbott's grandmother had reigned in 
the sixties; a day, when in order to call on her amiable 
rival, Mrs. Ballinger, her stout carriage horses were 
obliged to plow through miles of sand hills, and to 
make innumerable detours to avoid the steep masses of 
rock, over which in her grandson's day cable car and 
trolley glided so lightly until that morning of April 
eighteen, nineteen hundred and six. 
When her husband, in common with other distin- 
guished citizens, bought an estate in the San Mateo Valley, she named it Rincona, to the secret wrath of other 
eminent ladies who had not thought of it in time. 
The house had as little pretensions to architectural 
beauty as others of its era, but it was a large compact 
structure of some thirty rooms, exclusive of the servants' 
quarters, and with as many outbuildings as a Danish 
farm. Long French windows opened upon a wide 
piazza, whose pillars had disappeared long since under 
a luxuriant growtjj of rose vines and wistaria. At its 
base was a bed of Parma violets, whose fragrance a westerly breeze wafted to the end of the avenue a quarter of 
a mile away. All about the house, breaking the smooth 
lawns, were beds and trees of flowers, at this time of the 
year a glowing exotic mass of color ; but in the park that 
made up the greater part of the estate exclusive of the 
farms, the grass under the superb oaks was merely 
clipped, the weeds and undergrowth removed. The oaks 
had been evenly shorn of their lower branches, which 
gave them a formal and somewhat arrogant expression, 
as of cardinals and kings lifting their skirts. 
Alexina hated the enormous rooms with their high 
frescoed ceilings and heavy Victorian furniture; but 
Maria Abbott loved and revered the old house, emblem 
that it was of a secure proud family that had defied that 
detestable (and disturbing) old phrase: "Three generations from shirt sleeves to shirt sleeves." The Abbotts, 
like the Ballingers and Groomes and Gearys and many 
others of that ilk, had not come to California in the fifties 
and sixties as adventurers, but with all that was needed 
to give them immediate prestige in the new community ; 
and, among those that still retained their estates in the 
San Mateo Valley, at least, there was as little prospect 
of their reversion to shirt sleeves as of their conversion 
to the red shirt of socialism. Their wealth might be 
moderate but it was solid and steadfast. 
The entertaining of the Abbotts, Yorbas, Hathaways, 
Montgomerys, Brannans, Trennahans, and others of what 
Alexina irreverently called the A. A., had always been 
ostentatiously simple, albeit a butler and a staff of maids 
had contributed to their excessive comfort. In the eighties, evening toilettes during the summer were considered immoral ; but by degrees, as time tooled in its irresistible modernities, they gradually fell into the habit of 
wearing out their winter party gowns at the evening 
diversions of the country season. Burlingame, that borough of concentrated opulence founded in the early nineties as a fashionable colony, began its career with a certain amount of simplicity; but its millions increased to 
 
tens of millions; and what in heaven's name, as Mrs. 
Clement Hunter, a leader and an individual, once remarked, is the use of having money if you don't dress 
and entertain as you would dream of dressing and entertaining if you didn't have a cent? 
Mrs. Hunter, who had formed an incongruous and 
somewhat hostile alliance with Mrs. Abbott, knew that 
her valuable friend, like others of that "small and early" 
band, resented the fact that their standards no longer 
counted outside of their own set. Mrs. Abbott had 
turned a haughty shoulder to Mrs. Hunter for a time, 
for she remembered her as, in their school days, the socially obscure Lidie McKann ; now, however, her husband 
turning all he touched to gold, she had, incredibly, become one of the most important women in San Francisco 
and Burlingame. 
"When Maria Abbott finally succumbed she assured herself that curiosity to see the more ambushed glitter of 
that meretricious faubourg had nothing to do with it ; it 
was easy to persuade herself that she hoped, being an indisputably smart woman herself, gradually to impose her 
simpler and more appropriate standards upon these people who sorely threatened the continued dominance of 
the old regime. 
Mrs. Hunter soon disabused her of any such notion, 
and during the early days of their acquaintance, after 
Mrs. Abbott came to one of her luncheons attired in a 
pique skirt and severe shirtwaist, impeccably cut and 
worn, but entirely out of place in an Italian palace, 
where forty fashionable women, some of whom had motored sixty miles to attend the function, were dressed as 
they would be at a Newport luncheon, Mrs. Hunter attended the next solemn affair at Rincona so overdressed 
and made up that the outraged Altarinos (as Alexina 
irreverently called them) were reduced to a horrified 
silence that was almost hysterical. 
But one morning Mrs. Abbott caught Mrs. Hunter digging in her private vegetable garden behind the palace, 
and wearing a garment that her second gardener's wife 
