plank. This was automaticdly rather than thoughtfully done; habit. His mind was busy with a 
resume of yesterday's unusual events. 
The young man desperately ill and the girl taking 
care of him! Of course, there could be only one 
ending to such a bout with liquor, and that ending 
had come perhaps suddenly but not surprisingly. 
But the girl stood outside the circle of Ah Ciun's 
knowledge —  rather profound — of human impulses. 
Somehow logic could not explain her. Why should 
she trouble herself over that yoimg fool, who was 
nothing to her; who, when he eventually sobered 
up, would not be able to recognize her, or if he 
did, as something phantasmagorical? 
Perhaps he should not apply the term "fool"; "unfortunate" might be the more accurate application. 
Besides, he was a Yale man. He might be unfortunate, but he would scarcely be a fool. The Yale 
spirit! Ah Cum smiled whimsically. After fifteen 
years, to find that peculiarly Occidental attribute — 
 
college loyalty — still alive in his heart! A Western 
idea that had survived; an idea that was merely the 
flower of youthful enthusiasm! 
With his hands still in his sleeves, his chin down 
in speculation over this phenomenon, he continued 
his patrol.   
"Hey, you!" 
Ah Cum stopped and turned. Framed in one 
of the square ports of the packet was a face which 
reminded Ah Cum of a Japanese theatrical mask. 
One side of the face was white with foamy lather 
and the other ruddy-cheeked and blue-jawed. 
Speak English?" boomed the voice. 
Yes; I speak English." 
Fine! I'll be wanting a guide. Where can 
I get one?" asked O'Higgin  
"I am one." 
"All right, m be with you in a jiffy." Quarter 
of an hour later O'Higgins stepped off the gangplank. 
He carried a small bag. "This your regular busi- 
ness?" 
"For the present. Will you be wanting irie 
alone?" asked Ah Cum. "I generally taV  e a 
party." 
"What'll it cost to have you all to myself   otflic 
day?" 
Ah Cum named the sum. He smiled invitingly. 
Here was one of those Americans who would
him breathless before sundown. The boomin .-   
and the energetic movements spoke plainly of 
hurry. 
"You're on," said O'Higgins. "Now, lead me 
to a hotel where I can get breakfast. Wait a mo- 
ment. IVe got an address here." 
O'Higgins emptied an inside pocket —  and purposely let the battered photograph fall to the ground. 
He pretended to be unaware of the mishap. Po- 
litely Ah Cum stooped and recovered the photograph. 
He rose slowly and extended it. An ancient smile 
lay on his lips. 
"You dropped this, sir." 
"Oh. Thanks." O'Higgins, bitten with disappointment, returned the photograph to his pocket. 
"Victoria; that's the hotel." 
"That's but a short distance from here, sir." 
"O'Higgins is the name." 
"Mr. O'Higgins. Let me take the satchel, sir.'' 
"It's light. I'll tote it myself. Say, ever see 
any one resembling that photograph I dropped?'' 
"So many come and go," said Ah Cum, shrugging. 
"Few stay more than a day. And there are other 
guides." 
"Uh-huh. Well, let's beat it to the hotel. I'm 
hungry." 
"This way, sir." 
"What's your name?" 
Ah Cum got out his black-bordered card and 
oflFered it. 
''Aw Come. That sounds kind of funny ' said 
O'Higgins. Smiling, the Chinaman gave the correct pronunciation. "I see. Ah Coom. What's 
the idea of the black border?" 
"My father recently died, sir.'' 
"But that style isn't Oriental." 
"I was educated in America." 
"Where?" 
"At Yale." 
"Well, well! This part of the world is jammed 
full of surprises. I met a Hindu a few weeks ago 
who was a Harvard man." 
"Will you be taking a pole-chair?" 
"If that's the racket. I naturally want to do 
it up in proper style." 
"Very well, sir. I'll be outside the hotel at 
nine-thirty." 
Ten minutes' walk brought them to the hotel. 
As O'Higgins signed the hotel raster, his keen 
glance took in the latest signatures. 
"Anywhere," he said in answer to the manager's 
query. "I'm not particular about rooms. Where's 
the dining room? And, say, can I have some 
eggs? This jam-tea breakfast gets my goat." 
"Come this way, Mr. O'Higgins," said the manager, amusedly. 
O'Higgins followed him into the dining room. 
That raster would be easy to get at; comforting 
