
" And what is your plan?" 

" I have had no time to make one yet." 

" Will you listen to mine?" 

"Do not I always listen to you with the 
greatest respect?" She was the charming 
woman again. " Mr. McLane told me that I 
was to follow your advice — I have an idea 
you have engineered this whole affair! — But 
if he hadn't — well, I have every reason to be 
hmnbly grateful to you. If this terrible tangle 
ever unravels I shall owe it to you." 

" Then listen to me now. What I said — 
that his actions prove that he cares for you as 
much as ever — is true. But — you might 
come upon him in a condition where he would 



 

not recognize you, or was morose from too 
much drink or too little  and for the moment 
he would hate you, either because you reminded 
him too forcibly of what he had been and was, 
or because it degraded him further to be seen 
by you in such a state. He could make himself excessively disagreeable sober. Drunk, 
panic stricken, reckless, I should think he might 
achieve a masterpiece in that line that would 
make you feel like ten cents. . • . This is my 
plan, ni go on at once and prepare him. 
Get him down to his home in Virginia on one 
pretence or another, sober him up by degrees, 
and then tell him all you have been through 
for his sake, and that as soon as you are free 
you will come to him. He'll be a little more 
like himself by that time and can stand having 
you look at him, . , . It'll be no easy task at 
first} and Pll have to taper him off to prevent 
any blow to his heart. There may be relapses, 
and the whole thing to do over; but I shall use 
the talisman of your name as soon as he is in a 
condition to understand, and shall succeed in 
the end. Once let the idea take hold of him 
that he can have you at last and it is only a 
question of time." 



 

She made no reply for a moment. She sat 
with her eyes on his as he spoke. At first they 
had opened widely, melted and flashed. But 
they narrowed slowly. As he finished she 
tiirned her profile toward him and he had never 
seen a cameo look harder. 

" That would be an easy way out," she said. 
" But it does not appeal to me. Nothing easy 
appeals to me these days. 1^11 fight my own 
battles and overcome my own obstacles. Besides, he's mine. He shall owe nothing to any 
one but to me. I'll find him and cure him 
myself." 

" But you'll have a hard time finding him. 
He disappears for weeks at a time. Even Tom 
Lacey might not be able to help you." 

" I'llfind him." 

" You may have to haunt the most abominable places." 

" You seem to forget that I have haunted a 
good many abominable places. And if they are 
good enough for him they are good enough 
for me." 

" New York has the worst set of roughs in the 
world. Our hoodlums are lambs beside them." 

" I have no fear of anything but not finding 
him in time." 



 

" But that is not the worst. You should not 
see him in that state. You might find him literally in the gutter. He might be a sight you 
never could forget. No matter what you made 
of him you never could obliterate such a hideous 
memory. And he might say things to you that 
your outraged pride would never forgive," 

" I can forget anything I choose. Nor could 
