"You do understand me, don't you?" she said gratefully. "There are so
many serious things in life to learn and to think of, and that is the
very last thing I should ever consider. . . . I am very, very glad I had
this talk with you. Now I am rested and I shall retire for a good long
sleep."
With which paradox she stood up, stifling a tiny yawn, and looked
smilingly at him, all the old sweet confidence in her eyes. Then,
suddenly mocking:
"Who suggested that you call me by my first name?" she asked.
"Some good angel or other. May I?"
"If you please; I rather like it. But I couldn't very well call you
anything except 'Captain Selwyn.'"
"On account of my age?"
"Your age!"--contemptuous in her confident equality.
"Oh, my wisdom, then? You probably reverence me too deeply."
"Probably not. I don't know; I couldn't do it--somehow--"
"Try it--unless you're afraid."
"I'm not afraid!"
"Yes, you are, if you don't take a dare."
"You dare me?"
"I do."
"Philip," she said, hesitating, adorable in her embarrassment. "No! No!
No! I can't do it that way in cold blood. It's got to be 'Captain
Selwyn'. . . for a while, anyway. . . . Good-night."
He took her outstretched hand, laughing; the usual little friendly shake
followed; then she turned gaily away, leaving him standing before the
whitening ashes.
He thought the fire was dead; but when he turned out the lamp an hour
later, under the ashes embers glowed in the darkness of the winter
morning.
CHAPTER IV
MID-LENT
"Mid-Lent, and the Enemy grins," remarked Selwyn as he started for
church with Nina and the children. Austin, knee-deep in a dozen Sunday
supplements, refused to stir; poor little Eileen was now convalescent
from grippe, but still unsteady on her legs; her maid had taken the
grippe, and now moaned all day: "Mon dieu! Mon dieu! Che fais mourir!"
Boots Lansing called to see Eileen, but she wouldn't come down, saying
her nose was too pink. Drina entertained Boots, and then Selwyn returned
and talked army talk with him until tea was served. Drina poured tea
very prettily; Nina had driven Austin to vespers. The family dined at
seven so Drina could sit up; special treat on account of Boots's
presence at table. Gerald was expected, but did not come.
The next morning, Selwyn went downtown at the usual hour and found
Gerald, pale and shaky, hanging over his desk and trying to dictate
letters to an uncomfortable stenographer.
So he dismissed the abashed girl for the moment, closed the door, and
sat down beside the young man.
"Go home, Gerald" he said with decision; "when Neergard comes in I'll
tell him you are not well. And, old fellow, don't ever come near the
office again when you're in this condition."
"I'm a perfect fool," faltered the boy, his voice trembling; "I don't
really care for that sort of thing, either; but you know how it is in
that set--"
"What set?"
"Oh, the Fanes--the Ruthv--" He stammered himself into silence.
"I see. What happened last night?"
"The usual; two tables full of it. There was a wheel, too. . . . I had
no intention--but you know yourself how it parches your throat--the
jollying and laughing and excitement. . . . I forgot all about what
you--what we talked over. . . . I'm ashamed and sorry; but I can stay
here and attend to things, of course--"
"I don't want Neergard to see you," repeated Selwyn.
"W-why," stammered the boy, "do I look as rocky as that?"
"Yes. See here, you are not afraid of me, are you?"
"No--"
"You don't think I'm one of those long-faced, blue-nosed butters-in, do
you? You have confidence in me, haven't you? You know I'm an average and
normally sinful man who has made plenty of mistakes and who understands
how others make them--you know that, don't you, old chap?"
"Y-es."
"Then you will listen, won't you, Gerald?"
The boy laid his arms on the desk and hid his face in them. Then he
nodded.
For ten minutes Selwyn talked to him with all the terse and colloquial
confidence of a comradeship founded upon respect for mutual fallibility.
No instruction, no admonition, no blame, no reproach--only an
affectionately logical review of matters as they stood--and as they
threatened to stand.
The boy, fortunately, was still pliable and susceptible, still unalarmed
and frank. It seemed that he had lost money again--this time to Jack
Ruthven; and Selwyn's teeth remained sternly interlocked as, bit by bit,
the story came out. But in the telling the boy was not quite as frank as
he might have been; and Selwyn supposed he was able to stand his loss
without seeking aid.
"Anyway," said Gerald in a muffled voice, "I've learned one lesson--that
a business man can't acquire the habits and keep the infernal hours that
suit people who can take all day to sleep it off."
"Right," said Selwyn.
"Besides, my income can't stand it," added Gerald naïvely.
"Neither could mine, old fellow. And, Gerald, cut out this card
business; it's the final refuge of the feebleminded. . . . You like it?
Oh, well, if you've got to play--if you've no better resource for
leisure, and if non-participation isolates you too completely from other
idiots--play the imbecile gentleman's game; which means a game where
nobody need worry over the stakes."
"But--they'd laugh at me!"
"I know; but Boots Lansing wouldn't--and you have considerable respect
for him."
Gerald nodded; he had immediately succumbed to Lansing like everybody
