blame for any thing, if he acted upon his older 
brother's suggestions. The only way to correct 
this, was to let each be punished for offences mu- 
tually committed, even tiiough Henry was far less 
to blame than Clarence. It was only by doing so, 



 

the parents felt, that Henry could be made to see 
that he must be held responsible for his own acts. 
This course soon effected all they desired. Cla- 
rence was usually alone in all flagrant violations 
of parental authority. 



CHAPTER Vni. 

A STRONG CONTRAST. 

Nearer than Mrs. Hartley had supposed, lived 
for many years an old but now almost forgotten 
friend — Florence Armitage ', or rather, Mrs. Archer. 

We will introduce her on the very night that 
Marien's birth-day party took place, by way of 
contrast. The house in which she lives is a small, 
comfortless one, in an obscure street not far from 
the residence of Mr. and Mrs. Hartley. Her father 
has become poor, and her husband, whose habits 
are more irregular than when a single man, receives 
a small salary as clerk, more than half of which he 
spends in self-indulgence ; the other half is eked 
out to his wife, who, on this pittance, is compelled 
to provide for five children. She has had six, but 
one is dead. 



 

It was a clear bright evening without, but there 
"was nothing cheerful in the dwelling of William 
Archer. The supper table was in the floor, and 
on it burned a poor light. The mother sal near 
the table, with an infant on her lap, mending a pair 
of dark stockings with coarse yarn of a lighter 
color. A little girl, three years of age, was swing- 
ing on her chair, and a boy two years older was 
drumming on the floor with two large sticks, ma- 
king a deafening noise. This noise Mrs. Archer 
bore as long as she could, when her patience be- 
coming exhausted, she cried out in a loud, fretful 
voice — 

" You Bill ! Stop that noise !" 

The boy paused for a single moment, and then 
resumed his amusement. 

" Did you hear me, Bill ? you heedless wretch !'' 
exclaimed the mother, after she had borne the 
sound for some time longer. 

There was silence for about a minute — and the 
noise began again. 

" If you don't stop that, Bill, FlI box your ears 
soundly," screamed the impatient mother. 

The boy stopped for the space of nearly two 
minutes this time ; then he went on again with his 
drumming. 


" Do yon want me to send you to bed without 
your supper ?" 

"No, I don't," replied the child. 

"Then hush that noise, or I shall certainly send 
you to bed. You set me almost crazy." 

Bill, as his motlier called him, laid himself back 
upon the floor, and commenced kicking up his heels. 
After having amused himself in this way for some 
time, his drum-sticks were again resorted to, and 
the room was once more filled with the distracting 
din he made. Mrs. Archer bore it as long as she 
could, and then she boxed the child's ears soundly. 

After the cries this operation extorted had died 
away, all was quiet enough for a quarter of an 
hour, when Mr. Archer came in to tea. 

Twelve years had changed him sadly. His 
brow was gloomy, his eyes sunken, and his lips 
closely drawn together, giving his countenance an 
expression of sternness. He looked at least twenty 
years older. He did not even cast his eyes upon 
his wife as he entered, but drew a chair to the 
table, and taking a newspaper from his pocket, be- 
gan reading it. 

"Bill, go and tell Jane to bring up tea," said 
Mrs. Archer. 

The child went out into the passage, and cried 
down to the cook, in a tone of authority — 



 

" Bring up tea, will you ?" 

No notice was taken of this by the parents. Jane 
came up with the tea, looking as sulky as possible. 

'' Here, take the baby," said Mrs. Archer, hand- 
ing Jane the child in a most ungracious manner. 
Jane took the child quite as ungraciously as it was 
tendered, and managed to keep it crying most of 
the time they were at supper. 

" Where is John ?" asked Mr. Archer, looking 
up at his wife when about half through v/ith his 
silent meal. 

'' Dear knows, for I don't ! He came in from 
school, but was off at once as usual. He is going 
to ruin as fast as ever a boy was." 

"Why do you let him run the streets in this 
way .?" 

" He's got beyond me. I don't pretend to try to 
manage him. I might just as well tell him to go 
as stay. It would be all the same to him. It's 
high lime you had taken him in hand, I can tell 
you. Florence is at her grandmother's, and I in- 
tended sending John after her an hour ago. But 
he hasn't shown himself." 

Mr. Archer did not reply ; he felt worried and 
angry. While they were yet at the table, John, a 
'ad of some eleven years old, came in, and threw 
his hat down in the corner. 



 

"Go and bang your hat up, sir," said his father. 
" Is that the place for it ?" 

John did as he was ordered. 

"Now, where have you been, sir?" was the 
fathers angry interrogation. 

" J've been playing." 

" What business have you to go off without ask- 
ing your mother ? I've a great mind to take off 
your jacket for you, sir. If ever I hear of this 
again, I'll give you such a lacing as you've never 
had in your life. Don't sit down to the table 
there ! Go, put on your hat again, and be off for 
your sister." 

" Where is she ?" 

" Where is she .'" mimicking the tones and man- 
ner of the boy. " At your grandmother's," said 
Mr. Archer. — " Go along after her, and be quick. 
She ought to have been home more than an hour 
ago." 

John went out slowly and sulkily. 

''' If that boy goes to ruin, you will have no one 
to blame but yourself," said Mr. Archer, ill-na- 
turedly. 

"I don't know how you are going to make that 
out," returned his wife in a voice quite as amiable 
as that in which he had spoken. 

"You have no ijovernment over him." 



 

"I have quite as much as yourself," retorted 
Mrs. Archer. 

" Humph ! You don't think so, do you ?" — he 
spoke in a sneering tone. 

' ' I think just what I say. If you paid the least 
attention to your children, they would grow up 
very differently. As it is, I have no comfort with 
them, and never hope to have any. I expect to 
see them go to ruin." 

"So I should think, by the way you let them 
run. You talk about my government over them, 
but I should like to know what I can do, when I 
am not with them an hour in the day. Whatever 
is tlic result, vou will have only yourself to 
blame." 

"That's just it. Instead of staying at home 
with your children, and trying to make something 
out of them, you are off every night the dear 
knows where, but after no good, of course." 

" Hold your tongue, will you ?" Mr. Archer gave 
his wife an angry scowl as he said this. 

The wife felt little inclination to contend further. 
There was a brutality in her husband's tone and 
manner that stunned her. She said nothing more. 

While the father and mother were engaged in a 
war of words, the little boy, before mentioned, was 
amusing himself by spinning his spoon around in 



 

his plate, which made a most annoying clatter, and 
served to add to the irritation felt by both Mr. and 
Mrs. Archer, although the cause was not noticed 
until their contention was over. 

"Do be quiet, child," said the mother, as the 
noise of the rattling spoon continued to fall upon 
her ear. 

She might as well not have spoken. If any 
change was produced by her words, it was an in- 
creased vigor in the movement of the spoon. 

She laid her hand upon the boy's head and said — 
"Don't make that noise, Bill — you distract me." 

The moment the pressure of the hand was re- 
moved, like a re-acting spring the movement went 
on again; the noise, if any thing, louder than ever. 
A vigorous box on the ear signified that poor JMrs. 
Archer's patience was exhausted. Almost simul- 
taneous with the loud scream of the child came 
the loud bang of the door. Her husband had pre- 
cipitately left the house. A state of sad, dreamy 
abstraction settled upon the mind of Mrs. Archer. 
Although Bill, as the litde fellow was called, fairly 
yelled out from passion and pain, she did not hear 
him. 

Jane, the cook, who was nursing the babe, wait- 
ed patiently for some time after Archer had left, to 
be called up from the kitchen. But minute after 



 

minute passed, and no summons came. It was 
nearly a quarter of an hour before she ascended to 
the dining-room. She found Mrs. Archer in a state 
of entire absent-mindedness, with her head resting 
on her hand — the little boy was fast asleep in his 
chair. 

The mother roused up on the entrance of the 
cook, and said — 

" Here, Jane, give me the baby, and take this 
child up and put iiim to bed before you clear off 
the table." The fair young face and glowing 
cheeks of the little boy, as Jane lifted him up, met 
the mother's eye. She sighed deeply, and again 
fell into her former dreamy state. 

In a little while John and Florence came in. 
Florence was a sweet-faced child, just nine years 
okl. Her disposition was mild, and she was very 
thoughtful — rendering her mother much service in 
her attentions to the younger children. Her first 
act was to go up to lier mother and kiss her, and 
then kiss the babe that lay upon her lap. 

'' Have you had a pleasant time, dear .' " asked 
Mrs. Archer. 

''O, yes, mother. I have had a nice time. — ' 
Grandma baked us a whole basket full of cakes, 
which I have brought home; and she let me help 
her. I cut them all out. Where is Willy and 



 

Mary ?' she added, looking around. ' They must 
have some cakes. Oh, dear ! Here's sis' fast asleep 
on the floor. Shall I wake her up, mother, and 
give her a cake ?" 

'' No, dear, I wouldn't wake her now. The cakes 
will taste just as good to her in the morning." 

" Where is Willy ?" 

 ' He's in bed. Jane took him up stairs." 

"Shall I hold the baby, while you undress 
Mary ." asked Florence, as she laid off her bonnet 
and shawl. 

" Yes, you may." 

"' Dear liitle baby !" murmured Florence, as she 
took the child from her mother's arms, and sat 
down with it upon a low stool. 

'I want some supper," said John, pouting out 
his lips, and looking as ugly and ill-naiured as 
possible. 

" There's some bread and butter for you. Sit 
down and eat that, and then take yourself off to 
bed," replied his mother. 

" I want some tea." 

" You'll not get any." 

'' You go and ask Jane to give me some." 

'' Take care, sir \ or you'll be sent off without a 
mouthful." 

With as bad a grace as possible, John sat down 



upon the corner of a chair, and commenced eating. 
The moment his mother left the room with Mary 
in her arms, his hand was in the sugar-bowl ; a 
portion of the contents of which were freely laid 
upon his bread and butter. 

" If I don't get tea, I'll have sugar," he said. 

He was in the act of helping himself from the 
sugar-bowl for the third time, when his mother 
came in. The consequence was that he got his 
ears soundly boxed, and was sent off to bed. 

Florence continued to nurse the bai)e, or rock it 
in the cradle, for an hour, when she became too 
sleepy to hold up her head. Kissing her mother 
affectionately, the child said good night, and went 
off, alone, to her room, where she undressed her- 
self and retired for the night. But no prayer was 
said — her mother had never taught her this best of 
infantile lessons. 

Mrs. Archer sat up sewing until nearly eleven 
o'clock, and then sought her pillow. As usual, her 
husband had not yet returned. It was past mid- 
night when he came home. 

Too many of the evenings that were passed in 
the family of Mr. and Mrs. Archer, were similar to 
tlie one we have described. The influence upon 
the children was, of course, bad. The evil quali- 
ties of mind they inherited, instead of being weak- 



 

eiied and subdued, were quickened into a premature 
activity. There was no strength of principle, and 
no order in the mother''s mind to counterbalance 
the indifference of the father. Had she been fined 
for the high and holy duties of a mother, she would 
have left a far different impression upon her chil- 
dren's minds than she had made. The good would 
have been developed, and the evil held in a state 
of quiescence. She would have stored up in the 
minds of her children good and true principles that 
\vould rematn there, and save them in the day when 
the trials of mature life came. 



CHAPTER IX. 



Five more years of patience, forbearance, and 
anxious solicitude passed, and Mrs. Hartley be- 
gan to see many good results of her labor, espe- 
cially when she contrasted the habits and manners 
of her own children with the habits and manners 
of the children of some of her friends. 

One of these friends, a Mrs. Fielding, had four 
children of naturally very good disposiiions. They 



 

were affectionate to one another, and seemed to 
have more than usual of a home feeling' about 
them. The mother's fireside circle might have 
been an earthly paradise, if she had been at all dis- 
posed to consult her children's good, instead of 
her own pleasure. But this she was not disposed 
to do. She was vain, and fond of company. — 
When she had provided a good nurse for her chil- 
dren, she thought that her duty was done — it never 
occurred to her that her children needed a com- 
panion, such as only she could be to them, as 
mucli as they needed a nurse to provide for their 
bodily comfort. 

This woman came in to see Mrs. Hartley one 
day, and found her sitting at the piano. 

" What does all this mean .'"' asked Mrs. Field- 
ing, in a gay tone. " You playing the piano ! I 
thought you had enough else to do." 

"' I'm only practising some new cotillions for the 
children." 

" What good will your practising them do the 
children, I wonder ?" 

"A good deal, I hope. We have a little family 
party among ourselves every Wednesday evening, 
when the children dance, and I play for them." 

" And you practise for this purpose during the 
day." 



 

"I practise just one hour every Wednesday for 
this very purpose, and no other." 

"You are a queer woman. Why don't you let 
Marien play while the other children dance?" 

" Because Marien likes to dance as well as the 
rest of them. And, more than that, she is the most 
graceful in her movements, and the most perfect in 
her steps, and I want the others to beneiit by her 
superior accomphshments." 

"Let their dancing master take care of their 
steps. It is his business, and he will do it much 
better." 

"The scliool will do little good, Mrs. Fielding, 
if it be not seconded by a well ordered home edu- 
cation. Of this I am well satisfied." 

"But it is no light task to make home another 
school-house." 

"'' Home need not, and should not be such a 
place. It should leave its younger members in 
more freedom than school affords. But, what is 
learned at school from duty, should be practised at 
home from affection. Children ought to be led 
into the delightful exercise of the knowledge they 
attain, simultaneously, if possible, with its attain- 
ments. This should be their reward. As soon as 
they have mastered the rudiments of language, and 
can read, entertaining and instructive books should 



 

be provided for them ; and, at every step in their 
progress, the means of bringing down into activity- 
all they learn, should be supplied to the utmost 
extent. It is for this reason that we have musical 
and dancing parties among ourselves every week, 
and I find it no task, but a real pleasure, to play 
for them, and, in order to keep up with the new 
music, to practise a few hours every week." 

" But how do you find time ? You, who are 
such a slave to your family !" 

" If every thing is done according to a regular 
system, we can easily find time for almost any 
thing." 

" I don't know. Tou beat me out. I do scarce- 
ly any thing in my family, it seems — and yet I am 
always hurried to death when I do that little, so 
that it isn't more than half done. As to practising 
on the piano, that is out of the question." 

Mrs. Hartley faintly sighed. 

''You have four sweet children," she said, after 
a pause ; — " I never saw better dispositions, natu- 
rally, in my life. You might do any thing with 
them you pleased." 

" What you say, a mother's partiality aside, is 

true," replied Mrs. Fielding, with a brightening 

face. " They are all good children. I only wish 

I was a better mother — that I was like you, Mrs. 


Hartley. J fear I am too fond of society ; but I 
can't help it." 

" Oh, don''t say that, Mrs. Fielding. Love for 
our children should be strong enough to make us 
correct any thing in ourselves that stands in the 
way of their good. A mother's duties ought to 
take precedence over every thing else." 

"I don't think a mother ought to be a slave to 
her children." 

" Willing servitude is not slavery. How can 
you use such a word in connexion with a mother .'  
Her devotion should be from a love that never 
wearies — never grows cold." 

" I don't know how that may be ; mine wearies 
often enough." 

''I feel discouraged sometimes," replied Mrs. 
Hartley. " But my love never abates. It grows 
stronger with every new difficulty that is pre- 
sented." 

'' You are one in a thousand, then ; that is all I 
can say. I know a good many mothers, and I 
know tliat they all complain bitterly about the 
trouble they have with their children." 

"They woukl have less trouble, if they loved 
them more." 

" How can you make that appear ?" 

" Love ever strives to benefit its object. A true 



 

love for children prompts the mother to seek with 
the most self-sacrificing assiduity, for the means of 
doing her offspring good." 

" Oh dear ! I'm sadly afraid I am not a true 
mother then. It's no use to disguise it — I cannot 
give up every comfort for my children ; and I don't 
think we are required to do it." 

" True love, Mrs. Fielding, sacrifices nothing, 
when it is in pursuit of its objects, for it desires 
nothing so ardently as the attainment of that ob- 
ject. I am not aware that I give up every comfort; 
I sometimes, it is true, deny myself a gratification, 
because, in seeking it, I must neglect my children, 
or interfere with their pleasures ; but I have never 
done this that I have not been more than repaid 
for all I thought I had lost." 

" Well, that is a comfort. I only wish I could 
say as much." 

' You would soon be able to say so, if you were 
to make sacrifices for your children from love to 
them." 

" I think I do love them." 

" I am sure of that, IMrs. Fielding. But, to speak 
plainly as one friend may venture to speak to an- 
other, perhaps you love yourself more." 

" Perhaps I do. But how is that to be deter- 
mined ." 



 

" Very easily. We love those most who occupy 
most of our thoughts, and for whose comfort and 
happiness we are most careful, whether it be our- 
selves or our children." 

Mrs. Fielding did not reply. Mentally she 
applied the rule, and was forced to acknowledge 
that she loved herself more than she did her chil- 
dren. 

The oldest boy of Mrs. Fielding was about the 
same age of Clarence. Having completed all their 
preparatory studies, the two boys were sent the 
same year to college. At the age of sixteen, they 
left their homes for the first time, to be absent, ex- 
cept at short intervals, for three years. James 
Fielding left home with reluctance. 

" I don't want to go, mother," he said the day 
before he was to start. 

"Why not, James?" she asked. 

" I would rather go to school here. I can learn 
just as much." 

" Yes, but think of the honor, my son, of pass- 
ing through college. It isn't every boy that has 
this privilege. It will make a man of you. I hope 
you will do credit to yourself and your parents. 
You must strive for the first honors. Your father 
took them before you." 

Very different was the parting counsel of Mrs. 



 

Hartley to her son. The question whetlier it 
would be best in the end to send their son to col- 
lege, was long and anxiously debated between the 
father and mother. Many reasons, for and against, 
were presented, and these were scanned minutely. 
The strongest objection felt by them was the fact 
that, from the congregating together of a large num- 
ber of young men at college, among whom would 
be many with loose principles and bad habits, there 
would be danger of moral contamination. For a 
time they inclined to the belief that it would be 
better not to send their son from home ; but their 
anxiety to secure for him the very best education 
the country afforded, at last determined them. 

Long and earnestly did Mrs. Hartley commune 
with her boy, on the evening before his departure. 

"Never forget, my son," she said, '' the end for 
which you should strive after knowledge. It is, 
that you may be better able, by your eilbrts as a 
man, to benefit society. A learned man, can al- 
ways perform higher uses than an ignorant man. 
And remember, that one so young and so litlle 
acquainted with the world as yourself, will be sub- 
jected to many severe temptations. But resist evil 
with a determined spirit. Beware of the first de- 
viation from right. Suffer not the smallest slain 
to come upon your garments. Let your mother 

 

receive you back as pure as when you went fori!', 
my son. 

"You will discover, soon after you enter col- 
lege, a spirit of insubordination — a disposition in 
many of the students to violate the laws of the in- 
stitution ; but do not join in with them. It is just 
as wrong for a student to violate the laws of col- 
lege, as it is for a citizen to violate the laws of his 
country. They are wholesome regulations, made 
for the good of the whole, and he who weakens 
their force does a wrong to the whole. Guard 
