as old as you are and a little older I lived among the mountains and upon them ; and after that, for many a year, they 
were just before my eyes every day, stretching away for 
more than one hundred miles, and piled up one above another, 
fifty times as big as any you ever saw ; these are only mole- 
hills to them. I loved them — oh how I love them still ! If 
I have one unsatisfied wish," said the old lady turning to 
Alice, " it is to see my Alps again ; but that will never be. 
Now Miss Ellen, it is not that I fancy when I get to the top 
of this hill that I am among my own mountains, but I can 
breathe better here than down in the plain. I feel more 
free ; and in the village I would not live for gold, unless that 
duty bade me." 

" But all alone so far from everybody," said Ellen. 

" I am never lonely ; and old as I am I don't mind a long 
walk or a rough road any more than your young feet do." 

" But isn't it very cold ?" said Ellen. 

" Yes, it is very cold ; — what of that ? I make a good 
blazing fire, and then I like to hear the wind whistle." 

" Yes, but you wouldn't like to have it whistling inside as 
well as out," said Alice. " I will come and do the listing: 
and caulking for you in a day or two. Oh you have it done 
without me ! I am sorry." 

" No need to be sorry dear — I am glad ; you don't look 
fit for any troublesome jobs." 

" I am fit enough," said Alice. " Don't put up the curtains ; I'll come and do it." 

" You must come with a stronger face then," said her old 
friend ; " have you wearied yourself with walking all this 
way ?" 

" I was a little weary," said Alice, " but your nice tea has 
made me up again." 

" I wish I could keep you all night," said Mrs. Vawse 
looking out, "but your father would be uneasy. I am 
afraid the storm will catch you before you get home ; and 
you aren't fit to breast it. Little Ellen too don't look as if 
she was made of iron. Can't you stay with me ?" 

" I must not — it wouldn't do," said Alice, who was hastily 







putting on her things ; " we'll soon run down the hill. But 
we are leaving you alone ; — where's Nancy ?" 

" She'll not come if there's a promise of a storm," said 
Mrs. Vawse ; "she often stays out a night." 

"And leaves you alone !" 

" I am never alone," said the old lady quietly ; " I have 
nothing to fear ; but I am uneasy about you dear. Mind 
my words ; don't try to go back the way you came ; take 
the other road ; it's easier ; and stop when you get to Mrs. 
Van Brunt's ; Mr. Van Brunt will take you the rest of the 
way in his little wagon." 

" Do you think it is needful ?" said Alice doubtfully. 

"I am sure it is best. Hasten down. Adieu mon en- 
fant." 

They kissed and embraced her and hurried out. 



CHAPTER XIX. 




The clouds hung thick and low ; the wind was less than, 
it had been. They took the path Mrs. Vawse had spoken of ; 
it was broader and easier than the other, winding more gently 
down the mountain ; it was sometimes indeed traveled by 
horses, though far too steep for any kind of carriage. Alice 
and Ellen ran along without giving much heed to anything 
but their footing, — down, down, — running and bounding, 
hand in hand, till want of breath obliged them to slacken 
their pace. 

" Do you think it will snow ? — soon ?" asked Ellen. 
" I think it will snow, — how soon I cannot tell. Have you 
had a pleasant afternoon ?" 
" Oh very !" 

" I always have when I go there. Now Ellen there is an 
example of contentment for you. If ever a woman loved 
husband and children and friends Mrs. Vawse loved hers ; I 
know this from those who knew her long ago ; and now look 
at her. Of them all she has none left but the orphan daughter of her youngest son, and you know a little what sort of a 
child that is." 

" She must be a very bad girl," said Ellen ; " you can't 
think what stories she told me about her grandmother." 

" Poor Nancy !" said Alice. " Mrs. Vawse has no money 
nor property of any kind, except what is in her house ; but 
there is not a more independent woman breathing. She does 
all sorts of things to support herself. Now for instance, 
Ellen, if anybody is sick within ten miles round, the family 
are too happy to get Mrs. Vawse for a nurse. She is an 
admirable one. Then she goes out tailoring at the farmers' 




houses ; she brings home wool and returns it spun into yarn ; 
she brings home yarn and knits it up into stockings and 
socks ; all sorts of odd jobs. I have seen her picking hops ; 
she isn't above doing anything, and yet she never forgets her 
own dignity. I think wherever she goes and whatever she 
is about, she is at all times one of the most truly ladylike 
persons I have ever seen. And everybod}'- respects her ; 
everybody likes to gain her good-will ; she is known all over 
the country ; and all the country are her friends." 

" They pay her for doing these things, don't they ?" 

" Certainly ; not often in money ; more commonly in various kinds of matters that she wants, — flour, and sugar, and 
Indian meal, and pork, and ham, and vegetables, and wool, — 
anything ; it is but a little of each that she wants. She has 
friends that would not permit her to earn another sixpence if 
they could help it, but she likes better to live as she does. 
And she is always as you saw her to-day — cheerful and 
happy, as a little girl." 

Ellen was turning over Alice's last words and thinking that 
little girls were not always the cheerfullest and happiest 
creatures in the world, when Alice suddenly exclaimed, " It 
is snowing ! Come Ellen, we must make haste now !" — and 
set off at a Quickened pace. Quick as they might, they had 
gone not a hundred yards when the whole air was filled with 
the falling flakes, and the wind which had lulled for a little 
now rose with greater violence and swept round the mountain 
furiously. The storm had come in good earnest and promised 
to be no trifling one. Alice and Ellen ran on, holding each 
other's hands and strengthening themselves against the blast, 
but their journey became every moment more difficult. The 
air was dark with the thick-falling snow ; the wind seemed to 
blow in every direction by turns, but chiefly against them, 
blinding their eyes with the snow and making it necessary to 
use no small effort to keep on their way. Ellen hardly knew 
where she went, but allowed herself to be pulled along by 
Alice, or as well pulled her along ; it was hard to say which 
hurried most. In the midst of this dashing on down the hill 
Alice all at once came to a sudden stop. 

"Where's the Captain?" said she. 

" I don't know," said Ellen, — " I haven't thought of him 
since we left Mrs. Vawse's." 







Alice turned her back to the wind and looked up the road 
they had come, — there was nothing but wind and snow there ; 
how furiously it blew ! Alice called, " Pussy ! — " 

"Shall we walk up the road a little way, or shall we stand 
and wait for him here ?" said Ellen, trembling half from 
exertion and half from a vague fear of she knew not what. 

Alice called a^ain ; — no answer, but a wild crust of wind 
and snow that drove past. 

"I can't go on and leave him," said Alice; "he might 
perish in the storm." And she began to walk slowly back, 
calling at intervals, " Pussy ! — kitty ! — pussy !" — and listening 
for an answer that came not. Ellen was very unwilling to 
tarry, and nowise inclined to prolong their journey by going 
backwards. She thought the storm grew darker and wilder 
every moment. 

" Perhaps Captain stayed up at Mrs. Vawse's," she said, 
" and didn't follow us down." 

" No," said Alice, — " I am sure he did. Hark ! — wasn't 
that he?" 

" I don't hear anything," said Ellen, after a pause of 
anxious listening. 

Alice went a few steps further. 

" I hear him !" she said ; — " I hear him ! poor kitty !" — 
and she set off at a quick pace up the hill. Ellen followed, 
but presently a burst of wind and snow brought them both 
to a stand. Alice faltered a little at this, in doubt whether 
to go up or down ; but then to their great joy Captain's far 
off cry was heard, and both Alice and Ellen strained their 
voices to cheer and direct him. In a few minutes he came 
in sight, trotting hurriedly along through the snow, and on 
reaching his mistress he sat down immediately on the ground 
without offering any caress ; a sure sign that he was tired. 
Alice stooped down and took him up in her arms. 

" Poor kitty !" she said, " you've done your part for 
to-day I think ; I'll do the rest. Ellen, dear, it's of no use 
to tire ourselves out at once ; we will go moderately. Keep 
nold of my cloak my child ; it takes both of my arms to hold 
this big cat. Now never mind the snow ; w r e can bear being 
blown about a little ; are you very tired ?'' 

" No," said Ellen, — " not very ; — I am a little tired ; but I 
don't care for that if we can only get home safe." 







" There's no difficulty about that I hope. Nay, there may 
be some difficulty, but we shall get there I think in good 
safety after awhile. I wish we were there now, for your sake 
my child. 'i 

" Oh never mind me," said Ellen gratefully ; " I am sorry 
for you Miss Alice ; you have the hardest time of it with that 
heavy load to carry ; I wish I could help you." 

" Thank you my dear, but nobody could do that ; I doubt 
if Captain would lie in any arms but mine." 

" Let me carry the basket then," said Ellen, — " do, Miss 
Alice." 

" No my dear, it hangs very well on my arm. Take it 
gently ; Mrs. Van Brunt's isn't very far off ; we shall feel the 
wind less when we turn." 

But the road seemed long. The storm did not increase in 
violence, truly there was no need of that, but the looked-for 
turninof was not soon found, and the o-atherin^ darkness 
warned them day was drawing towards a close. As they 
neared the bottom of the hill Alice made a pause. 

" There's a path that turns off from this and makes a 
shorter cut to Mrs. Van Brunt's, but it must be above here ; 
I must have missed it, though I have been on the watch constantly." 

She looked up and down. It would have been a sharp eye 
indeed that had detected any slight opening in the woods on 
either side of the path, which the driving snow-storm blended 
into one continuous wall of trees. They could be seen 
stretching darkly before and behind them ; but more than 
that, — where they stood near together and where scattered 
apart, — was all confusion, through that fast-falling shower of 
flakes. 

" Shall we go back and look for the path ?" said Ellen. 

" I am afraid we shouldn't find it if we did," said Alice ; 
" we should only lose our time and we have none to lose. 
I think we had better go straight forward." 

" Is it much further this way than the other path we have 
missed ?" 

" A good deal — all of half-a-mile. I am sorry ; but 
courage my child ! we shall know better than to go out in 
snowy weather next time, — on long expeditions at least." 

They had to shout to make each other hear, so drove the 







snow and wind through the trees and into their very faces and 
ears. They plodded on. It was plodding; the snow lay 
thick enough now to make their footing uneasy, and grew 
deeper every moment ; their shoes were full ; their feet and 
ankles were wet ; and their steps began to drag heavily over 
the ground. Ellen clung as close to Alice's cloak as their 
hurried traveling would permit ; sometimes one of Alice's 
hands was loosened for a moment to be passed round Ellen's 
shoulders, and a word of courage or comfort in the clear calm 
tone cheered her to renewed exertion. The night fell fast ; 
it was very darkling by the time they reached the bottom of 
the hill, and the road did not yet allow them to turn their 
faces towards Mrs. Van Brunt's. A wearisome piece of 
the way this was, leading them from the place they 
wished to reach. They could not go fast either ; they 
were too weary and the walking too heavy. Captain had the 
best of it ; snug and quiet he lay wrapped in Alice's cloak 
and fast asleep, little wotting how tired his mistress's arms 
were. 

The path at length brought them to the long desired turning ; but it was by this time so dark that the fences on each 
side of the road showed but dimly. They had not spoken 
for a while ; as they turned the corner a sigh of mingled 
weariness and satisfaction escaped from Ellen's lips. It 
reached Alice's ear. 

" What's the matter love ?" said the sweet voice. No 
trace of weariness was allowed to come into it. 

" I am so glad we have got here at last," said Ellen, looking up with another sigh, and removing her hand for an instant from its grasp on the cloak to Alice's arm. 

" My poor child ! I wish I could cany you too. Can you 
hold on a little longer ?" 

" yes, dear Miss Alice ; I can hold on." 

But Ellen's voice was not so well guarded. It was like 
her steps, a little unsteady. She presently spoke again. 

" Miss Alice are you afraid ?" 

" I am afraid of your getting sick my child, and a little 
afraid of it for myself ; — of nothing else. What is there to 
be afraid of?" 

"It is very dark," said Ellen ; " and the storm is so thick, 
— do you think you can find the way ?" 







" I know it perfectly ; it is nothing but to keep straight 
on ; and the fences would prevent us from getting out of the 
road. It is hard walking I know, but we shall get there by- 
and-by ; bear up as well as you can dear. I am sorry I 
can give you no help but words. Don't you think a nice 
bright fire will look comfortable after all this ?" 

" O dear yes !" answered Ellen rather sadly. 

"Are you afraid Ellen?" 

"Tso, Miss Alice — not much — I don't like its being so 
dark, I can't see where I am going." 

" The darkness makes our way longer and more tedious ; it 
will do us no other harm love. I wish I had a hand to give 
you, but this great cat must have both of mine. The darkness and the light are both alike to our Father ; we are in 
his hand ; we are safe enough dear Ellen." 

Ellen's hand left the cloak again for an instant to press 
Alice's arm in answer ; voice failed at the minute. Then 
clinging anew as close to her side as she could get they toiled 
patiently on. The wind had somewhat lessened of its violence, and besides it blew not now in their faces, but against 
their backs, helping them on. Still the snow continued to 
fall very fast, and already lay thick upon the ground ; every 
half hour increased the heaviness and painfulness of their 
march ; and darkness gathered till the very fences could no 
longer be seen. Jt was pitch dark ; to hold the middle of 
the road was impossible ; their only way was to keep along by 
one of the fences ; and for fear of hurting themselves against 
some outstanding post or stone it was necessary to travel 
quite gently. They were indeed in no condition to travel 
otherwise if light had not been wanting. Slowly and patiently, with painful care groping their way, they pushed on through 
the snow and the thick night. Alice could feel the earnestness of Ellen's grasp upon her clothes ; and her close pressing 
up to her made their progress still slower and more difficult 
than it would otherwise have been. 

"Miss Alice," — said Ellen. 

" What, my child ?" 

" I wish you would speak to me once in a while." 
Alice freed one of her hands and took hold of Ellen's. 
"I have been so busy picking my way along, I have 
neglected you, haven't I ?" 







" no, ma'am. But I like to hear the sound of your voice 
sometimes, it makes me feel better." 

" This is an odd kind of traveling, isn't it ?" said Alice 
cheerfully ; — " in .the dark, and feeling our way along ? This 
will be quite an adventure to talk about, won't it?" 

" Quite," said Ellen. 

" It is easier going this way, don't you find it so ? The 
wind helps us forward." 

"It helps me too much," said Ellen ; " I wish it wouldn't 
be quite so very kind. Why, Miss Alice, I have enough to 
do to hold myself together sometimes. It almost makes me 
run, though I am so very tired." 

" Well it is better than having it in our faces at any rate. 
Tired you are, J know, and must be. We shall want to rest 
all day to-morrow, shan't we ?" 

" Oh I don't know !" said Ellen sighing ; " I shall be 
glad when we begin. How long do you think it will be, Miss 
Alice, before we get to Mrs. Van Brunt's ?" 

" My dear child I cannot tell you. I have not the least 
notion whereabouts we are. I can see no way marks, and I 
cannot judge at all of the rate at which we have come. 

" But what if we should have passed it in this darkness ?" 
said Ellen. 

" No, I don't think that," said Alice, though a cold doubt 
struck her mind at Ellen's words ; — " I think we shall 
see the glimmer of Mrs. Van Brunt's friendly candle by- 
and-by." 

But more uneasily and more keenly now she strove to see 
that glimmer through the darkness ; strove till the darkness 
seemed to press painfully upon her eyeballs, and she almost 
doubted her being able to see any light if light there were ; 
it was all blank thick darkness still. She began to question 
anxiously with herself which side of the house was Mrs. Van 
Brunt's ordinary sitting-room ; — whether she should see the 
light from it before or after passing the house ; and now her 
glance was directed often behind her, that they' might be sure 
in any case of not missing their desired haven. In vain she 
looked forward or back ; it was all one ; no cheering glimmer 
of lamp or candle greeted her straining eyes. Hurriedly now 
from time to time the comforting words were spoken to Ellen, 







for to pursue the long stretch of way that led onward from 
Mrs. Van Brunt's to Miss Fortune's would be a very serious 
matter ; Alice wanted comfort herself. 

" Shall we get there soon, do you think, Miss Alice ?" said 
poor Ellen, whose wearied feet carried her painfully over 
the deepening snow. The tone of voice went to Alice's heart. 

" [ don't know, my darling, — I hope so," she anwered, but 
it was spoken rather patiently than cheerfully. " Fear 
nothing, dear Ellen ; remember who has the care of us ; 
darkness and light are both alike to him ; nothing will do us 
any real harm." 

" How tired you must be, dear Miss Alice, carrying pussy !" 
Ellen said with a sigh. 

For the first time Alice echoed the sigh ; but almost imme- 
diately Ellen exclaimed in a totally different tone, " There's a 
light ! — but it isn't a candle — it is moving about ; — what is 
it ? what is it, Miss Alice ?" 

They stopped and looked. A light there certainly was, 
dimly seen, moving at some little distance from the fence on 
the opposite side of the road. All of a sudden it disappeared. 

* What is it?" whispered Ellen fearfully. 

" I don't know, my love, yet ; wait — " 

They waited several minutes. 

" What could it be?" said Ellen. "It was certainly a 
light, — I saw it as plainly as ever I saw anything ; — what 
can it have done with itself — there it is again ! — going the 
other way !" 

Alice waited no longer, but screamed out, " Who's there ?" 
But the light paid no attention to her cry ; it traveled on. 
" Halloo !" called Alice again as loud as she could. 
" Halloo !" answered a rough deep voice. The light suddenly stopped. 

" That's he ! that's he !" exclaimed Ellen in an ecstacy 
and almost dancing, — " I know it, — it's Mr. Van Brunt ! it's 
Mr. Van Brunt ! — oh, Miss Alice ! " 

Struggling between crying and laughing Ellen could not 
stand it, but gave way to a good fit of crying. Alice felt the 
infection, but controlled herself, though her eyes watered as 
her heart sent up its grateful tribute ; as well as she could she 
answered the halloo. 







The light was seen advancing towards them. Presently it 
glimmered faintly behind the fence, showing a bit of the dark 
rails covered with snow, and they could dimly see the figure 
of a man getting over them. He crossed the road to where 
they stood. It was Mr. Van Brunt. 

" I am very glad to see you, Mr. Van Brunt," said Alice's 
sweet voice ; but it trembled a little. 

" Oh, Mr. Van Brunt !" sobbed Ellen. 

That gentleman, at first dumb with astonishment, lifted 
his lantern to survey them, and assure his eyes that his ears 
had not been mistaken. 

" Miss Alice ! — My goodness alive ! — How in the name of 
wonder ! — And my poor little lamb ! — But what on 'arth, 
ma'am ! you must be half dead. Come this way, — just come 
back a little bit, — why, where were you going, ma'am ?" 

" To your house, Mr. Van Brunt ; I have been looking for 
it with no little anxiety, I assure you." 

" Looking for it ! Why how on 'arth ! you wouldn't see 
the biggest house ever was built half a yard off such a plaguy 
night as this." 

" I thought I should see the light from the windows, Mr. 
Van Brunt " 

" The light from the windows ! Bless my soul ! the storm 
rattled so again the windows that mother made me pull the 
great shutters to. I won't have 'em shut again of a stormy 
night, that's a fact ; you'd ha' gone far enough afore you'd 
ha' seen the light through them shutters." 

" Then we had passed the house already, hadn't we ?" 

" Indeed had you, ma'am. I guess you saw my light, 
ha'n't you ?" 

" Yes, and glad enough we were to see it too." 

" I suppose so. It happened so to-night — now that is a 
queer thing — I minded that I hadn't untied my horse ; he's 
a trick of being untied at night and won't sleep well if he 
aint ; and mother wanted me to let him alone 'cause of the 
awful storm, but I couldn't go to my bed in peace, till I had 
seen him to his'n. So that's how my lantern came to be 
going to the barn in such an awk'ard night as this." 

They had reached the little gate, and Mr. Van Brunt with 
some difficulty pulled it open The snow lay thick upon the 







neat brick walk which Ellen had trod the first time with wet 
feet and dripping garments. A few steps further and they 
came to the same door that had opened then so hospitably to 
receive her. As the faint light of the lantern was thrown 
upon the old latch and door posts, Ellen felt at home ; and a 
sense of comfort sank down into her heart which she had not 
known for some time. 



CHAPTER XX. 

 

Mr. Van Brunt flung open the door and the two wet and 
weary travelers stepped after him into the same cheerful 
comfortable looking kitchen that had received Ellen once 
before. Just the same, tidy, clean swept up, a good fire, 
and the same old red-backed chairs standing round on the 
hearth in most cozy fashion. It seemed to Ellen a perfect 
storehouse of comfort ; the very walls had a kind face for 
her. There were no other faces however ; the chairs were all 
empty. Mr. Van Brunt put Alice in one and Ellen in another, and shouted, "Mother! — here!" — muttering that she 
had taken herself off with the light somewhere. Not very 
far ; for in half a minute answering the call Mrs. Van Brunt 
and the light came hurriedly in. 

" What's the matter, 'Brahm ? — who's this ? — why 'taint 
Miss Alice ! My gracious me ! — and all wet ! — oh, dear, 
dear ! poor lamb ! Why Miss Alice, dear, where have you 
been ? — and if that aint my little Ellen ! oh dear ! what a fix 
you are in ; — well darling, I'm glad to see you again a'most 
anyway." 

She crossed over to kiss Ellen as she said this ; but surprise was not more quickly alive than kindness and hospitality. 
She fell to work immediately to remove Alice's wet things, 
and to do whatever their joint prudence and experience might 
suggest to ward, off any ill effects from the fatigue and exposure the wanderers had suffered ; and while she was thus 
employed Mr. Van Brunt busied himself with Ellen, who 




was really in no condition to help herself. It was curious to 
see him carefully taking off Ellen's wet hood (not the blue 
one) and knocking it gently to get rid of the snow ; evidently thinking that ladies' things must have delicate handling. 
He tried the cloak next, but boggled sadly at the fastening of 
that, and at last was fain to call in help. 

" Here Nancy ! — where are you? step here and see if yon 
can undo this here thing, whatever you call it ; I believe my 
fingers are too big for it." 

It was Ellen's former acquaintance who came forward in 
obedience to this call. Ellen had not seen before that she 
was in the room. Nancy grinned a mischievous smile of recognition as she stooped to Ellen's throat and undid the fastening of the cloak, and then shortly enough bade her " get 
up, that she might take it off!" Ellen obeyed, but was very 
glad to sit down again. While Nancy went to the door to 
shake the cloak Mr. Van Brunt was gently pulling off Ellen's 
wet gloves, and on Nancy's return he directed her to take 
off the shoes, which were filled with snow. Nancy sat down 
on the floor before Ellen to obey this order ; and tired and exhausted as she was, Ellen felt the different manner in which 
her hands and feet were waited upon. 

"How did you get into this scrape?" said Nancy ; this 
was none of my doings anyhow. It'll never be dry weather 
Ellen where you are. I won't put on my Sunday-go-to-meeting clothes when I go a walking with you. You had ought 
to ha' been a duck or a goose, or something like that. — What's 
that for, Mr. Van Brunt !" 

This last query, pretty sharply spoken, was in answer to a 
light touch of that gentleman's hand upon Miss Nancy's ear, 
which came rather as a surprise. He deigned no reply. 

" You're a fine gentleman !" said Nancy tartly. 

" Have you done what I gave you to do?" said Mr. Van 
Brunt coolly. 

" Yes — there !" said Nancy, holding up Ellen's bare feet 
on one hand, while the fingers of the other secretly applied 
in ticklish fashion to the soles of them caused Ellen suddenly 
to start and scream. 

" Get up !" said Mr. Van Brunt ; Nancy didn't think best 
to disobey ; — " Mother, ha'n't you got nothing you want Nancy 
to do?" 







"Sally," said Mrs. Van Brunt, "you and Nancy go and 
fetch here a couple of pails of hot water, — right away." 

" Go, and mind what you are about," said Mr. Van Brunt ; 
" and after that keep out of this room and don't whisper again 
till I give you leave. Now Miss Ellen dear, how do you feel ?" 

Ellen said in words that she felt "nicely." But the eyes 
and the smile said a great deal more ; Ellen's heart was running over. 

" Oh she'll feel nicely directly, I'll be bound," said Mrs. 
Van Brunt ; " wait till she gets her feet soaked, and 
then! " 

" I do feel nicely now," said Ellen. And Alice smiled in 
answer to their inquiries, and said if she only knew her 
father was easy there would be nothing wanting to her happiness. 

The bathing of their feet was a great refreshment, and 
their kind hostess had got ready a plentiful supply of hot 
herb tea, with which both Alice and Ellen were well dosed. 
While they sat sipping this, toasting their feet before the fire, 
Mrs. Van Brunt and the girls meanwhile preparing their 
room, Mr. Van Brunt suddenly entered. He was cloaked and 
hatted and had a riding-whip in his hand. 

" Is there any word you'd like to get home Miss Alice ? 
I'm going to ride a good piece that way, and I can stop as 
good as not." 

" To-night, Mr. Van Brunt !" exclaimed Alice in astonishment. 

Mr. Van Brunt's silence seemed to say that to-night was 
the time and no other. 

" But the storm is too bad," urged Alice. " Pray don't go 
till to-morrow." 
