touched my feelings. Hartman spoke of the circumstances to a friend,
and that friend--betraying, I think, the confidence reposed in
him--related it to me, not knowing that we were the parties to which
the note had been paid. On that note he came near failing again."

"Indeed! And yet you have just sold him freely!"

"I have. But such are my feelings that I would risk five thousand
dollars to keep him up. I know him to be a man of strict honesty."

"There is no doubt of that," replied the son.

"You remember his niece, I suppose?" said old Mr. Edgar.

"Oh, very well."

"When Mr. Hartman's circumstances became reduced, she, of her own free
choice, relieved him of the burden of her support, and assumed the
arduous and toilsome duties of a governess in one of our wealthy
families, where she has ever since been. On the evening before the note
of which I spoke was due, she called to see her uncle, and found him in
trouble. For some time he concealed the cause but so earnest was she in
her affectionate entreaties to know why he was unhappy, that he told
her the reason. He was again embarrassed in his business, and, for want
of a few hundred dollars, which one, circumstanced as he was, could not
borrow, was in danger of being again broken up. To his astonishment,
Jessie announced the fact that she had the sum he wanted, saved from
her salary as governess. He at first refused to take it, but she would
listen to no denial."

"Noble girl!" exclaimed the young man.

"She must be one in a thousand," said Mr. Edgar.

"She is one in ten thousand!" replied the son, enthusiastically. "And
yet worth like hers is passed over for the tinsel of wealth. Do you
know in whose family she is governess?"

"I do not."

"I can tell you. She is in the family of Mr. Freeman."

"Ah!"

"Yes. You know they gave a party last night?"

"I do."

"Miss Hampton was not present."

"As much as might have been inferred."

"And yet there was no young lady in the room her equal in all that goes
to make up the character of a lovely woman."

"Well, my son," replied the old gentleman, "all I have to say is, that
I look upon this young lady as possessing excellencies of character far
outweighing all the endowments of wealth. Money! It may take to itself
wings in a day; but virtue like hers is as abiding as eternity. If your
heart is not otherwise interested, and you feel so inclined, win her if
you can. Another like her may never cross your path. With such a woman
as your wife, you need not tremble at the word adversity."

The young man did not reply. What his thoughts were, his actions
subsequently attested.

After the party, to the distant coldness with which Mrs. Freeman had
treated Jessie since she came into her house, were added certain signs
of dislike, quickly perceived by the maiden. In addressing her, Mrs.
Freeman exhibited, at times, a superciliousness that was particularly
offensive. But Jessie checked the indignant feelings that arose in her
bosom, and, in conscious rectitude of character, went on faithfully
discharging her duties. Since the timely aid she had been able to bring
her uncle, she had a new motive for effort, and went through her daily
task with a more cheerful spirit.

One day, about six months after the occurrence of the party which has
been mentioned, Jessie, a little to the surprise of Mrs. Freeman, gave
that lady notice that, at a certain time not far off, she would
terminate her engagement with her. The only reason she gave was, that
the necessity which took her from home no longer remained. At the time
mentioned, Jessie left, although Mrs. Freeman, urged by other members
of the family, who could better appreciate the young lady's worth,
offered a considerable increase of salary as an inducement to remain.

"What do you think?" exclaimed Fanny, about three weeks subsequently,
throwing open the parlour door, where the family had assembled just
before tea. "Jessie Hampton's married!"

"What!" ejaculated Mrs. Freeman. "Married?"

"Oh yes, sure enough," said Mr. Freeman, "I heard of it a little while
before I left my counting-room. And, more surprising still, she is
married to young Edgar."

"Oh, no!" responded Mrs. Freeman, incredulously. "It's some mistake.
Never! It cannot be."

"Oh, but it is a fact, mother," said Fanny, with ill-concealed chagrin.
"Lizzy Martin was her bridesmaid. They were married at Mrs. Carlton's
this morning, and the whole bridal party has gone off to Saratoga."

"He's got a good wife," remarked the brother of Mrs. Freeman, in his
quiet way. "I always liked that young man, and like him better than
ever now. I knew he was a fellow of good sense; but he has showed
himself to possess more of that sterling material than I thought."

Mr. Freeman also gave his opinion, and in doing so, expressed himself
pretty freely in regard to the treatment Jessie had received, while in
the house.

As for his wife, when the truth assumed an undoubted form, she sunk
into mortified silence, and Fanny felt even worse than her mother, and
for reasons that lay nearer her heart.

In a little while the bride took her old place in society, and many
who, in her seclusion, passed her coldly, or all unnoticed, met her now
with smiles and with warm congratulations. Of all the changes that
followed as a consequence of her marriage, there was none that filled
her with so much delight as the improved prospects of her uncle, Mr.
Hartman. Her husband became his fast friend, and sustained him through
every difficulty. One home held them both. How purely and brightly the
stream of Jessie's happiness flowed on, need not be told.

Virtue and integrity of character had met their just reward. In
adversity she was not cast down, and when prosperity again smiled she
was not unduly elated. In either relation to society, she was a
dispenser of blessings to those she loved.

It is a fact worthy of notice, that those who looked down upon Jessie,
and passed her unnoticed while she was only a governess, now referred
to the noble, self-sacrificing spirit that prompted her to act as she
had done, and spoke of her conduct with admiration.




THE NEW YEAR'S GIFT.


"JUST four weeks off," said a little boy, striking his hands together,
"and papa will be home!"

"Yes, four weeks more, and we shall see dear father. It will be the
happiest New Year's day we ever had; won't it, mother?" said the little
boy's sister, a bright smile playing over her face.

"I hope so," replied the mother. "Father has been away so long, his
coming home would make any day in the year a happy one."

"I wonder what he will bring me for a New Year's present?" said the boy.

"I know what I'll get," said the little sister.

"What?"

"A hundred kisses."

"Oh! I don't care much for kisses."

"But I do; and I'm sure of getting them."

"I wonder what mamma will get?"

"I know!" replied the sister, with an arch smile.

"What?"

"Just what I will." And the little girl looked at her mother, and
smiled still more archly.

"A hundred kisses, you mean?"

"We'll see."

The mother's hand rested from her work, and she looked at her children,
with a calm, yet happy face. Their words had caused her to realize, in
imagination, with more than usual distinctness, the fact of her
husband's return, which he had written would be on the first day of the
coming new year. He had been away for many months, and home had hardly
seemed like home during his absence.

"We mustn't think too much about it," said the mother, "or we will get
so impatient for dear father's return as to make ourselves unhappy. I
am sure we will all love him better than ever we did, when he does come
home!"

"I am sure I will," returned the little girl.

"Oh! I think I never loved him so well in my life as I have since he
has been away."

Thus talked the mother and her children of the return of one whose
presence was so dear to them all.

This brief conversation took place in a farm-house. In the room sat,
near the fire, a man whose appearance was any thing but pleasant to the
eyes. He was a labourer, who had been hired, some months previously, by
the farmer. He did not seem to hear what was said, yet he was listening
with reluctant attention. The mother and her children continued still
to talk of what was uppermost in their minds--the absent one, and his
expected return--until the man became restless, and at last got up and
went out.

"I don't wonder Mr. Foster went out of the room," said the boy, as the
person alluded to shut the door.

"Why, Edward?" asked his sister.

"Can't you think, Maggy?"

"No. What made him go out?"

"Because we said we were so glad papa was coming home on New Year's
day. I'm sure he must have thought of his home. They won't be so glad
to see him on New Year's day, as we are to see our dear, good father."

"Why do you say that, my son?" asked the mother.

"I'm sure they can't be so glad," said Edward. "I know I wouldn't be so
glad to see my father, if he was like Mr. Foster. Doesn't he spend
nearly all the money he gets in liquor? I've heard you say that his
poor wife and children hardly have enough to eat or to wear, although
he gets very good wages, and could make them comfortable if he would.
No, I'm sure they can't love him as we love our father, nor be as glad
to see him come home as we will be to see our father. And he knows it,
and that made him go out of the room. He didn't like to hear us
talking."

The boy was correct in his conclusions. The man Foster, of whom he
spoke, did feel troubled. He had children and a wife, and he was absent
from them, and had been absent for many months. On New Year's day he
was to go home; but many painful feelings mingled with the thought of
seeing his long-neglected and much-abused family. Since he had been
away, he had expended more than half his earnings upon himself, and yet
his appearance was worse than when he went from home, for, in exchange
for his money, he had received only poison.

It was evening. Without, the air was cold. The sky was clear, and the
moon and stars shone brightly. Foster walked a short distance from the
house, trying to drive from his mind the images that had been conjured
up by the words of the children and their mother; but he could not. His
own abused wife and neglected little ones were before him, in their
comfortless home, poorly clad, and pale and thin from want of healthy
and sufficient food. Did they think of him, and talk with so much
delight of his return? Alas! no. He brought no sunshine to their
cheerless abode.

"Wretch! wretch!" he said to himself, striking his hand hard against
his bosom. "A curse to them!--a curse to myself!"

For an hour the unhappy man stayed out in the chilly air; but he did
not feel the cold. Then he re-entered the house, but did not go into
the room where the happy mother sat with her children, but to the
lonely attic where he slept.

Twenty miles away lived the wife and three children of Foster. The
oldest boy was eleven years of age, and the youngest child, a little
girl, just five. Three small mounds, in a burying-ground near by where
the humble dwelling stood, marked the place where as many more
slept--more blessed than the living. The mother of these children was a
pale-faced woman, with a bent forth and an aspect of suffering. She had
been long acquainted with sorrow and trouble. Like hundreds and
thousands of others in our land, she had left, years before, the
pleasant home of her girlhood, to be the loving companion of one on
whose solemnly pledged faith she relied with the most unwavering
confidence. And, for a time, the trust was not in vain. The first
golden period of her married life was a happy time indeed! None could
have been more thoughtful of her comfort, nor more tender of her
feelings, than was her husband. But, alas! it was with him as with
hundreds and thousands of others. Not once did it cross his mind that
there was danger to him in the pleasant glass that was daily taken. The
bare suggestion he would have repelled as an insult. On the day of his
marriage, Henry Foster received from the father of his wife the
title-deeds of a snug little place containing thirty acres, which was
well stocked for a small farmer. He had, himself, laid by a few hundred
dollars. Thus he had a fair start in the world, and a most comfortable
assurance of happiness and prosperity. For several years every thing
went on pleasantly. The farm was a very garden spot, and had increased
from thirty to sixty acres by the purchase of contiguous lands. Then a
change became apparent. Foster took more interest than formerly in what
was going on in the village near by. He attended the various political
meetings held at the "Travellers' Rest," and was a prominent man on
training and election days. After a while, his wife began to look on
these days with a troubled feeling, for they generally sent him home in
a sad plight; and it took nearly a week for him to get settled down
again to his work. Thus the declension began, and its progress was too
sadly apparent to the eyes of Mrs. Foster, even before others, less
interested than herself, observed it. At the end of ten years from the
happy wedding day, the farm, now more like a wilderness than a
beautiful garden, was seized and sold for debt. There were no friends
to step in and go Foster's security, and thus save his property from
sacrifice. The father of his wife was dead, and his own friends, even
if they had not lost confidence in him, were unable to render any
assistance.

The rented farm upon which Foster went with his family, after being
sold out, was cultivated with no more industry than his own had been of
late years. The man had lost all ambition, and was yielding himself a
slave to the all-degrading appetite for drink. At first, his wife
opposed a gentle remonstrance; but he became impatient and angry at a
word, and she shrank back into herself, choosing rather to bear
silently the ills of poverty and degradation, which she saw were
rapidly approaching, than to run the risk of having unkindness, from
one so tenderly loved, added thereto.

Affliction came with trouble. Death took from the mother's arms, in a
single year, three children. The loss of one was accompanied by a most
painful, yet deeply warning circumstance. The father came home from the
village one evening, after having taken a larger quantity of liquor
than usual. While the mother was preparing supper, he took the babe
that lay fretting in the cradle, and hushed its frettings in his arms.
While holding it, overcome with what he had been drinking, he fell
asleep, and the infant rolled upon the floor, striking its head first.
It awoke and screamed for a minute or two, and then sank into a heavy
slumber, and did not awake until the next morning. Then it was so sick,
that a physician had to be called. In a week it died of brain fever,
occasioned, the doctor said, by the fall.

For a whole month not a drop of liquor passed the lips of the rebuked
and penitent father. Even in that short time the desert places of home
began to put forth leaves, and to give promise of sweet buds and
blossoms; and the grieving mother felt that out of this great sorrow
was to come forth joy. Alas! that even a hope so full of sadness should
be doomed to disappointment. In a moment of temptation her husband
fell, and fell into a lower deep. Then, with more rapid steps the
downward road was traversed. Five more years of sorrow sufficed to do
the work of suffering and degradation. There was another seizure for
debt, and the remnant of stock, with nearly all their furniture, was
taken and sold. The rented farm had to be given up; with this, the hope
of gaining even sufficient food for her little ones died in the
wretched mother's mind.

From a farmer on his own account, Foster now became a mere farm
labourer; with wages sufficient, however, to have made things
comfortable at home under the management of his frugal, industrious
wife, if all he earned had been brought home to her. But at least one
third, and finally one half, and sometimes more, went to swell the gain
of the tavern-keeper. Had it not been that a cow and a few chickens
were left to them at the last seizure of their things, pinching hunger
would have entered the comfortless home where the mother hid herself
with her children.

At last Foster became so good for nothing, that he could not obtain
employment as a farm hand anywhere in the neighbourhood, and was
obliged to go off to a distance to get work. This, to him, was not felt
to be a very great trial, for it removed him from the sight of his
half-fed, half-clothed children, and dejected, suffering wife; and he
could, therefore spend with more freedom, and fewer touches, of
compunction, the greater portion of his earnings in gratifying the
inordinate cravings of his vitiated appetite.

Thus, in general, stood affairs at the opening of our story. Let us now
take a nearer and more particular view. Let us approach, and enter the
cheerless abode of the man who, to feed an evil and debasing appetite,
could heartlessly turn away from his faithful wife and dependent little
ones, and leave them to the keenest suffering.

New Year's day, to which the farmer's wife and children were looking
forward with so much delight, was but little more than a week off, and
Mrs. Foster expected her husband home also. But with what different
feelings did she anticipate his arrival! He never brought a glad
welcome with his presence; although his wife, when he was absent,
always looked for and desired his return. He had been away over three
months; and was earning twenty dollars a month. But, he had only sent
home eighteen dollars during the whole time. This, we need hardly say,
was far from enough to meet the wants of his family. Had it not been
that George, who was but eleven years old, went every day to a factory
in the village and worked from morning until night, thus earning about
a dollar and a half a week, and that the mother took in sewing,
spinning, washing and ironing, and whatever she could get to do, they
must have wanted even enough to eat.

It was but six days to New Year's. Mrs. Foster had been washing nearly
the whole day,--work that she was really not able to do, and which
always so tired her out, that in the night following she could not
sleep from excessive fatigue,--she had been washing nearly all day, and
now, after cleaning up the floor, and putting the confused room into a
little order, she sat down to finish some work promised by the next
morning. It was nearly dark, and she was standing, with her sewing,
close up to the window, in order to see more distinctly in the fading
light, when there came a loud knock at the door. One of the children
opened it, and a man, whose face she knew too well, came in. He was the
owner of the poor tenement in which they lived.

"Have you heard from Foster since I was here last?" said the man, with
an unpleasant abruptness of manner.

"No sir, I have not," replied Mrs. Foster, in a low, timid voice, for
she felt afraid of the man.

"When do you expect him home?"

"He will be here at New Year's."

"Humph! Do you know whether he will bring any money?"

"I am sure I cannot tell; but I hope so."

"He'd better;"--the man spoke in a menacing tone--"for I don't intend
waiting any longer for my rent."

No reply was made to this.

"Will you tell your husband, when he returns, my good woman, what I
have just said?"

"I will," was meekly replied.

"Very well. If he doesn't come up to the notch then, I shall take my
course. It is simple and easy; so you had better be warned in time."
And the man walked out as abruptly as he came in. Mrs. Foster looked
after him from the window, where she had continued standing, and saw
him stop and look attentively at their cow, that stood waiting to be
milked, at the door. A faintness came over her heart, for she
understood now, better than before, the meaning of his threats.

An hour after dark George came home with his hand in a sling. He went
up, quickly, to where his mother was sitting by a table at work, and
dropping down in a chair, hid his face in her lap, without speaking,
but bursting into tears as he did so.

"Oh George! what is the matter?" exclaimed the mother in great alarm.
"What ails your hand?"

"It got mashed in the wheel," replied the boy, sobbing.

"Badly?" asked the mother, turning pale, and feeling sick and faint.

"It's hurt a good deal; but the doctor tied it up, and says it will get
well again; but I won't be able to go to work again in a good while."

And the lad, from sobbing, wept bitterly. The mother leaned her head
down upon her boy, and wept with him.

"I don't mind the hurt so much," said George, after he had recovered
himself; "but I won't be able to do any thing at the mill until it gets
well."

"Can't I go to work in his place, mamma?" spoke up, quickly, little
Emma, just in her tenth year. Mrs. Foster kissed the earnest face of
her child and said--

"No, dear; you are not old enough."

"I'm nine, and most as big as George. Yes, mamma, I'm big enough. Won't
you go and ask them to let me come and work in brother's place till he
gets well?"

The mother, her heart almost bursting with many conflicting emotions,
drew the child's head down upon her bosom, and held it tightly against
her heart.

The time of severer trial was evidently drawing near. Almost the last
resource was cut off, in the injury her boy had sustained. She had not
looked at his hand, nor did she comprehend the extent of damage it had
received. It was enough, and more than enough, that it was badly
hurt--so badly, that a physician had been required to dress it. How the
mother's heart did ache, as she thought of the pain her poor boy had
suffered, and might yet be doomed to suffer! And yet, amid this pain,
came intruding the thought, which she tried to repel as a selfish
thought, that he could work no more, and earn no more, for, perhaps, a
long, long time.

Yes, the period of severer trial had evidently come. She did not permit
herself even to hope that her husband when he returned would bring with
him enough money to pay the rent. She knew, too well, that he would
not; and she also knew, alas! too well that the man to whose tender
mercies they would then be exposed had no bowels of compassion.

Wet with many tears was the pillow upon which the mother's head reposed
that night. She was too weary in body and sorrowful in mind to sleep.

On the next morning a deep snow lay upon the ground. To some a sight of
the earth's pure white covering was pleasant, and they could look upon
the flakes still falling gracefully through the air with a feeling of
exhilaration. But they had food and fuel in store--they had warm
clothing--they had comfortable homes. There was no fear of cold and
hunger with them--no dread of being sent forth, shelterless, in the
chilling winter. It was different with Mrs. Foster when she looked from
her window at daylight.

George had been restless, and moaned a good deal through the night; but
now he slept soundly, and there was a bright flush upon his cheeks.
With what a feeling of tenderness and yearning pity did his mother bend
over him, and gaze into his fair face, fairer now than it had ever
looked to her. But she could not linger long over her sleeping boy.

With the daylight, unrefreshed as she was, came her "never ending,
still beginning" toil; and now she felt that she must toil harder and
longer, and without hope.

Though little Emma's offer to go and work in the mill in her brother's
place had passed from the thought of Mrs. Foster, yet the child had
been too much in earnest to forget it herself. Young as she was, the
very pressure of circumstances by which she was surrounded had made her
comprehend clearly the necessity that existed for George to go and work
daily in the mill. She knew that he earned a dollar and a half weekly;
and she understood very well, that without this income her mother would
be greatly distressed.

After she had eaten her breakfast of bread and milk, the child went up
stairs and got an old pair of stockings, which she drew on over her
shoes, that had long been so worn as to afford but little protection to
her feet; and then taking from a closet an old shawl, drew it over her
head. Thus attired, she waited at the head of the stairs until her
mother was out of the way, and then went quickly down. She managed to
leave the house without being seen by any one, and took her way,
through the deep and untracked snow, towards the mill, which was about
a quarter of a mile off. The air was bitter cold, and the storm still
continued; but the child plodded on, chilled to the very heart, as she
soon was, and, at length, almost frozen, reached the mill. The owner
had observed her approach from the window, and wondering who she was,
or what brought so small a child to the mill through the cold and
storm, went down to meet her.

"Bless me! little one!" he said, lifting her from the ground and
placing her within the door. "Who are you, and what do you want?"

"I'm George's sister, and I've come to work in his place till he gets
well," replied the child, as she stood, with shivering body and
chattering teeth, looking up earnestly into the man's face.

"George Foster's sister?"

"Yes, sir. His hand's hurt so he can't work, and I've come to work in
his place."

"You have! Who sent you, pray?"

"Nobody sent me."

"Does your mother know about your coming?"

"No, sir."

"Why do you want to work in George's place?"

"If I do, then you'll send mother a dollar and a half every week, won't
you?"

The owner of the mill was a kind-hearted man, and this little incident
touched his feelings.

"You are not big enough to work in the mill, my child," said he, kindly.

"I'm nine years old," replied Emma, quickly.

"Oh yes! I can work as well as anybody. Do let me come in George's
place! Won't you?"

Emma had not been gone very long before she was missed. Her mother had
become quite alarmed about her, when she heard sleigh-bells at the
door, and, looking out, saw the owner of the mill and her child.
Wondering what this could mean, she went out to meet them.

"This little runaway of yours," said the man, in a pleasant voice,
"came trudging over to the mill this morning, through the snow, and
wanted to take the place of George, who was so badly hurt yesterday, in
order that you might get, as she said, a dollar and a half every week."

"Why, Emma!" exclaimed her mother, as she lifted her from the sleigh.
"How could you do so? You are not old enough to work in your brother's
place."

"Besides," said the man, "there is no need of your doing so; for George
shall have his dollar and a half, the same as ever, until he is able to
go to work again. So then, my little one, set your heart at rest."

Emma understood this very well, and bounded away into the house to take
the good news to her brother, who was as much rejoiced as herself.
After inquiring about George, and repeating to Mrs. Foster what he had
said to Emma, he told her that he would pay the doctor for attending
the lad, so that the accident needn't prove a burden to her.

The heart of Mrs. Foster lifted itself, thankfully, as she went back
into the house.

"Don't scold her, mother," said George. "She thought she was doing
right."

This appeal, so earnestly made, quite broke down the feelings of Mrs.
Foster, and she went quickly into another room, and closing the door
after her, sat down by the bedside, and, burying her face in a pillow,
suffered her tears to flow freely. Scold the child! She felt more like
taking her in her arms, and hugging her passionately to her bosom.

To know that the small income her boy's labour had produced was not to
be cut off, proved a great relief to the mind of Mrs. Foster; but, in a
little while, her thoughts went back to the landlord's threat and the
real distress and hopelessness of their situation. To the period of her
husband's return she looked with no feeling of hope; but, rather, with
a painful certainty, that his appearance would be the signal for the
landlord to put his threat into execution.

Sadly the days went by, each one bringing nearer the time towards which
the unhappy woman now looked forward with a feeling of dread. That the
landlord would keep his promise, she did not, for an instant, doubt.
Without their cow, how could she, with all her exertions, feed her
children? No wonder that her heart was troubled.

At last the day before the opening year came.

"Papa will be home to-morrow," said Emma. "I wonder what he will bring
me for a New Year's gift."

"I wish he would bring me a book," said George.

"I'd like a pair of new shoes," remarked the little girl, more soberly,
looking down at her feet, upon which were tied, with coarse strings,
what were called shoes, but hardly retained their semblance. "And mamma
wants shoes, too," added the child. "Oh! I wish papa would bring her,
for a New Year's gift, a nice new pair of shoes."

The mother heard her children talking, and sighed to think how vain
were all their expectations.

"I wish we had a turkey for father's New Year's dinner," said Emma.

"And some mince pies!" spoke up little Hetty, the youngest, clapping
her hands. "Why don't we have mince pies, mamma?" she said, taking hold
of her mother's apron and looking up at her.

"Papa likes mince pies, I know; and so do I. Don't you like mince pies,
George?"

George, who was old enough to understand better than the rest of them
the true cause of the privations they suffered, saw that Hetty's
questions had brought tears to his mother's eyes, and, with a
thoughtfulness beyond his years, sought to turn the conversation into
another channel.

But the words of the children had brought to the mind of Mrs. Foster a
memory of other times,--of the many happy New Years she had enjoyed
with her husband, their board crowned with the blessings of the year.
Her dim eyes turned from her neglected little ones, and fell upon a
small ornament that stood upon the mantle. It was the New Year's gift
of her husband in better days. It reminded her too strongly of the
contrast between that time and the gloomy present. She went quickly
from the room, to weep unheard and alone.

New Year's morning at length broke clear and cold. Mrs. Foster was up
betimes. It was no holiday to her. Early in the day her husband was to
come home, and though she could not help looking and wishing for him to
come, yet the thought of him produced a pressure in her bosom. She felt
that his presence would only bring for her heart a deeper shadow.

The children had grown eager for him to come. The younger ones talked
of the presents he would bring them, while George thought of a book,
yet dared hardly hope to receive one. At last, Emma descried her father
far down the road, and announced, in a loud voice, his coming. The
heart of the mother throbbed quicker at the word. She went to the
window, where the children crowded, feeling troubled, and yet with
something of the old gladness about her heart. She strained her eyes to
see him, and yet dreaded to fix them upon him too intently, lest more
should be seen than she wished to see. He came nearer and nearer, and
she was yet at the window, her heart beating audibly. Could her eyes
deceive her, or was it indeed so? His form was erect and his step firm,
and, though his clothes were the same, they did not look so untidy.

"Thank God!" she ejaculated silently, yet fervently, as he came nearer
still--"he is sober."

Yes, he was sober.

"Henry!" she could not say another word, as she took his hand when he
came in. Her eyes were full of tears. He pressed her thin, small,
labour-worn hand tightly, and then turned and sat down. He, too, was
moved as well as she. But the children gathered around him, and seemed
gladder to see him than when he was last home. There was a reason for
this. Seeing the hand of George in a sling, he inquired the cause, and
when told of the accident, appeared deeply grieved, and said he should
not go back to the mill any more. The heart of his wife fluttered. Was
there a meaning deeper than a momentary impulse? At last little Hetty,
who had climbed upon his knee, said, "Where's my New Year's gift, papa?"

The father put his hand in his pocket and pulled out a small
picture-book, and gave it to the child who was wild with joy in a
moment. He had a larger book for Emma, and Robinson Crusoe for George.

"And what for mother?" asked Emma, looking earnestly at her father.
"Haven't you brought dear mother a New Year's gift, too?"

"Oh, yes," replied the father, "I've got something for her also." His
voice was a little unsteady as he said this. Then he put his hand into
his pocket again, and, after keeping it there for a moment or two, drew
out a large folded piece of paper that looked like a title-deed, and
handed it to his wife, who took it with a trembling hand. She opened
it, read a few words, and, bursting into tears, turned and went quickly
from the room. Hers were tears of joy--unutterable joy.

Was it then a title-deed of property that her husband had given her,
filling her heart with gladness at the thought of relief from toil, and
privation, and suffering? No, it was better than that, and brought a
fuller and more perfect joy. It was a New Year's gift such as she had
never dared hope to receive--the dearest gift in the power of her
husband to bestow. Already blotted with tears, it was tightly pressed
to her heaving bosom.

What was it? What could it be but the blessed temperance pledge,
