a little paradise?"
"Love makes every spot a paradise," said Ellis.
"Beg your pardon," replied the wife, with some change in her tone of
voice. "I'm no believer in that doctrine. I want something more than
love. External things are of account in the matter; and of very
considerable account."
"They have every thing very handsome, of course," said Ellis; who was
generally wise enough not to enter into a discussion with his wife on
subjects of this kind.
"Oh, perfect!" replied his wife, "perfect! I never saw a house
furnished with so much taste. I declare it has put me half out of
conceit with things at home. Oh, dear! how common every thing did look
when I returned."
"You must remember that our furniture has been in use for about six
years," said Ellis; "and, moreover, that it was less costly than your
friend's, in the beginning. Her husband and your's are in different
circumstances."
"I know all about that," was returned, with a toss of the head. "I know
that we are dreadfully poor, and can hardly get bread for our children."
"We are certainly not able to furnish as handsomely as Mr. and Mrs.
Beaumont. There is no denying that, Cara. Still, we are able to have
every real comfort of life; and therewith let us try to be content. To
desire what we cannot possess, will only make us unhappy."
"You needn't preach to me," retorted Mrs. Ellis, her face slightly
flushing. "When I want to hear a sermon, I'll go to church."
Mr. Ellis made no answer, but, lifting his babe from its mother's lap,
commenced tossing it in the air and singing a pleasant nursery ditty.
Caroline sat in a moody state of mind for some minutes, and then left
the room to give some directions about tea. On her return, Ellis said,
in as cheerful a voice as if no unpleasant incident had transpired,
"Oh! I had forgotten to say, Cara, that Mr. Hemming and his wife have
returned from Boston. They will be around to see us some evening this
week."
"Hum-m--well." This was the cold, moody response of Mrs. Ellis.
"Mr. Hemming says that his wife's health is much better than it was."
"Does he?" very coldly uttered.
"He seemed very cheerful."
Mrs. Ellis made no comment upon this remark of her husband, and the
latter said nothing more.
Tea was soon announced, and the husband and wife went, with their two
oldest children, to partake of their evening meal. A cloud still hung
over Caroline's features. Try as Ellis would to feel indifferent to his
wife's unhappy state of mind, his sensitiveness to the fact became more
and more painful every moment. The interest at first felt in his
children, gradually died away, and, by the time supper was over, he was
in a moody and fretted state, yet had he manfully striven to keep his
mind evenly balanced.
On returning to the sitting-room, the sight of the book he had brought
home caused Ellis to make a strong effort to regain his
self-possession. He had set his heart on reading that book to Cara,
because he was sure she would get interested therein; and he hoped, by
introducing this better class of reading, to awaken a healthier
appetite for mental food than she now possessed. So he occupied himself
with a newspaper, while his wife undressed the children and put them to
bed. It seemed to him a long time before she was ready to sit down with
her sewing at the table, upon which the soft, pleasant light of their
shaded lamp was falling. At last she came, with her small work-basket
in her mind. Topmost of all its contents was a French novel. When Ellis
saw this, there came doubts and misgivings across his heart.
"Cara," said he quickly, and in a tone of forced cheerfulness, taking
up, at the same time, his volume of Prescott,--"I brought this book
home on purpose to read aloud. I dipped into it, to-day, and found it
so exceedingly interesting, that I deferred the pleasure of its perusal
until I could share it with you."
Now, under all the circumstances, it cost Ellis considerable effort to
appear cheerful and interested, while saying this.
"What book is it?" returned Cara, in a chilling tone, while her eyes
were fixed upon her husband's face, with any thing but a look of love.
"The first volume of Prescott's History of Mexico, one of the most
charming"--
"Pho! I don't want to hear your dull old histories!" said Cara, with a
contemptuous toss of the head.
"Dull old histories!" retorted Ellis, whose patience was now gone.
"Dull old histories! You don't know what you are talking about. There's
more real interest in this book than in all the French novels that ever
were invented to turn silly women's heads."
Of course, Mrs. Ellis "fired up" at this. She was just at the right
point of ignition to blaze out at a single breath of reproof. We will
not repeat the cutting language she used to her husband. Enough, that,
in the midst of the storm that followed, Ellis started up, and bowing,
with mock ceremony, said--
"I wish you good evening, madam. And may I see you in a better humour
when we meet again."
A moment afterwards, and Caroline was alone with her own perturbed
feelings and unpleasant, self-rebuking thoughts. Still, she could not
help muttering, as a kind of justification of her own conduct--
"A perfect Hotspur! It's rather hard that a woman can't speak to her
husband, but he must fling himself off in this way. Why didn't he read
his history, if it was so very interesting, and let me alone. I don't
care about such things, and he knows it."
After this, Mrs. Ellis fell into a state of deep and gloomy abstraction
of mind. Many images of the past came up to view, and, among them, some
that it was by no means pleasant to look upon. This was not the first
time that her husband had gone off in a pet; but in no instance had he
come home with a mind as clear as when he left her. A deep sigh heaved
the wife's bosom as she remembered this; and, for some moments, she
suffered from keen self-reproaches. But, an accusing spirit quickly
obliterated this impression. In her heart she wrote many bitter things
against her husband, and magnified habits and peculiarities into
serious faults.
Poor, unhappy wife! How little did she comprehend the fact that her
husband's feet were near the brink of a precipice, and that a fearful
abyss of ruin was below; else would she have drawn him lovingly back,
instead of driving him onward to destruction.
CHAPTER V.
ELLIS, excited and angry, not only left his wife's presence, but the
house. Repulsed by one pole, he felt the quick attraction of another.
Not a moment did he hesitate, on gaining the street, but turned his
steps toward the room of Jerome, where a party of gay young men were to
assemble for purposes of conviviality.
We will not follow him thither, nor describe the manner of his
reception. We will not picture the scene of revelry, nor record the
coarse jests that some of the less thoughtful of the company ventured
to make on the appearance of Ellis in their midst--for, to most of his
friends, it was no secret that his wife's uncertain temper often caused
him to leave his home in search of more congenial companionship.
Enough, that at eleven o'clock, Ellis left the house of Jerome, much
excited by drink.
The pure, cool night air, as it bathed the heated temples of Henry
Ellis, so far sobered him by the time he reached his own door, that a
distant remembrance of what had occurred early in the evening was
present to his thoughts; and, still beyond this, a remembrance of how
he had been received on returning at a late hour in times gone by. His
hand was in his pocket, in search of his dead-latch key, when he
suddenly retreated from the door, muttering to himself--
"I'm not going to stand a curtain lecture! There now! I'll wait until
she's asleep."
Saying which, he drew a cigar and match-box from his pocket, and
lighting the former, placed it between his lips, and moved leisurely
down the street.
The meeting with Wilkinson has already been described.
Scarcely less startled was Ellis at the sudden apparition of Mrs.
Wilkinson than her husband had been. He remained only a few moments
after they retired. Then he turned his steps again homeward, with a
clearer head and heavier heart than when he refused to enter, in fear
of what he called a "curtain lecture."
Many painful thoughts flitted through his mind as he moved along with a
quick pace.
"I wish Cara understood me better, or that I had more patience with
her," he said to himself. "This getting angry with her, and going off
to drinking parties and taverns is a bad remedy for the evil, I will
confess. It is wrong in me, I know. Very wrong. But I can't bear to be
snapped, and snubbed up, and lectured in season and out of season. I'm
only flesh and blood. Oh dear! I'm afraid evil will come of it in the
end. Poor Wilkinson! What a shock the appearance of his wife must have
given him! It set every nerve in my body to quivering. And it was all
my fault that he wasn't at home with his watching wife and sick child.
Ah me! How one wrong follows another!"
Ellis had reached his own door. Taking out his night-key, he applied it
to the latch; but the door did not open. It had been locked.
"Locked out, ha!" he ejaculated quickly; and with a feeling of anger.
His hand was instantly on the bell-pull, and he jerked it three or four
times vigorously; the loud and continued ringing of the bell sounding
in his ears where he stood on the doorstep without. A little while he
waited, and then the ringing was renewed, and with a more prolonged
violence than at first. Then he listened, bending his ear close to the
door. But he could detect no movement in the house.
"Confound it!" came sharp and impatiently from his lips. "If I thought
this was designed, I'd--"
He checked himself, for just at that instant he saw a faint glimmer of
light through the glass over the door. Then he perceived the distant
shuffle of feet along the passage floor. There was a fumbling at the
key and bolts, and then the half-asleep and half-awake servant admitted
him.
"I didn't know you was out, sir," said the servant, "or I wouldn't have
locked the door when I went to bed."
Ellis made no reply, but entered and ascended to his chamber. Cara was
in bed and asleep, or apparently so. Her husband did not fail to
observe a certain unsteady motion of the lashes that lay over her
closed eyes; and he was not far wrong in his impression that she was
awake, and had heard his repeated ringing for admission. His belief
that such was the case did not lessen the angry feelings produced by
the fact of having the key of his own door turned upon him.
But slumber soon locked his senses into oblivion, and he did not awake
until the sun was an hour above the horizon.
The moment Mrs. Wilkinson emerged, with her husband, from the bar-room
of Parker's tavern, she fled along the street like a swift gliding
spirit, far outstripping in speed her thoroughly sobered and alarmed
husband, who hurried after her with rapid steps. The door of the house
had been left open when she came forth in the anguish of her wild alarm
to summon her husband, and she re-entered and flew up-stairs without
the pause of an instant. Wilkinson was but a moment or two later in
reaching the house, and in gaining their chamber. The sight that met
his eyes sent the blood coldly to his heart. The mother had already
snatched the child from the crib in which she had left her, and was
standing with her close to the lamp, the light from which fell strongly
upon her infantile face, that was fearfully distorted. The eyes were
open and rolled up, until the entire pupil was hidden. The lips were
white with their firm compression; and yet they had a quick nervous
motion.
"Oh, John! John! what is the matter?" cried Mrs. Wilkinson, as she
looked first upon the face of her child, and then into that of her
husband, with a most anxious and imploring glance. "Is she dying?"
"No, dear, I think not," returned Wilkinson, with a composure of voice
that belied the agitation of his feelings.
"Oh! what is the matter? Yes! Yes! I'm sure she's dying. Oh! run quick!
quick! for the doctor."
"First," said Wilkinson, who was becoming, every moment, more
self-possessed, and who now saw that the child, who was teething, had
been thrown into spasms, "let us do what we can for her. She is in
convulsions, and we must get her into a bath of hot water as quickly as
possible. I will call up Anna. Don't be alarmed," he added, in a
soothing voice: "there is no immediate danger."
"Are you sure, John? Are you sure? Oh! I'm afraid she is dying! My
precious, precious babe!" And the mother clasped her child passionately
to her bosom.
In the course of ten or fifteen minutes, a vessel of hot water was
ready, and into this the still writhing form of the convulsed child was
placed. Then Wilkinson hurried off for their physician. Half an hour
afterwards he returned with him. The good effects of the hot-bath were
already perceptible. The face of the child had resumed its placid
sweetness of expression, and there was but slight convulsive twitching
in the limbs. The doctor remained with them, applying, from time to
time, appropriate remedies, until all the painful signs which
occasioned so much alarm had vanished, and then left, promising to call
early on the next morning.
It was past one o'clock. The physician had left, and the domestics
retired to their own apartment. Mr. and Mrs. Wilkinson were alone with
their still unconscious child, that lay in a deep, unnatural slumber.
They were standing, side by side, and bending over the bed on which
little Ella lay. Wilkinson had drawn his arm around his wife, and she
had laid her head upon his shoulder. Each heard the beating of the
other's heart, as thus they stood, silent, yet with troubled thoughts
and oppressed feelings.
A tear fell upon the hand of Wilkinson, and the warm touch, coming as
it did in that moment of intense excitement, caused a quick thrill to
pass through his nerves; and he started involuntarily. Words of
confession and promises for the future were on his tongue; but, their
utterance, just at that moment, seemed untimely, and he merely answered
the mute appeal of tears with a fervent, heart-warm kiss, that, if the
power of his will could have gone with it, would have filled the heart
of his wife with joy unspeakable. Scarcely had his lips touched hers,
ere she started up, and flung her arms around his neck, sobbing--
"Oh, my husband! My husband!"
If she had designed to say more, utterance failed, or was checked; for
she hid her face on his bosom, and wept like a heart-broken child.
How sincere was Wilkinson's repentance for past errors in that solemn
hour! and how fervent was the promise of future amendment!
"I were worse than an evil spirit, to lay grief upon that gentle heart,
or to make of those loving eyes a fountain of tears!"
Such was the mental ejaculation of Wilkinson, and he meant all that he
said.
"God bless you, dearest!" he murmured in her ear.--"God bless you, and
take this shadow quickly from your heart! Believe me, Mary, that no act
of mine will ever dim its bright surface again."
Mrs. Wilkinson slowly raised her pale, tear-moistened face, and fixed,
for a few moments, her eyes in those of her husband's. There was more
of confidence and hope in them than pages of written language could
express. Then her face was again hid on his bosom; while his arm
clasped her slender form with a more earnest pressure.
CHAPTER VI.
MORNING found little Ella, though much exhausted by the severe struggle
through which she had passed, so far restored that her parents ceased
to feel that anxiety with which for hours, as they hung over her, their
hearts had been painfully oppressed.
It could not but be that a shadow would rest on the gentle face of Mrs.
Wilkinson, as she met her husband at the breakfast table; for it was
impossible to obliterate the memory of such a night of trial and alarm
as the one through which she had just passed. And yet, with a strong
effort, she strove to appear cheerful, and when she spoke to her
husband, it was with a forced smile and a tone of tenderness that
touched and subdued his feelings; for he well understood that, in a
certain sense, she was merely acting.
But few words passed between them during the brief morning meal. As the
hour was later than usual, Wilkinson found it necessary to hurry off to
his place of business; so, rising before his wife left the table, he
kissed her pale lips, and, without venturing to make a remark, left the
room.
The door had scarcely closed upon him, ere a tear stole out from the
sad eyes of Mrs. Wilkinson. A few moments she sat in statue-like
stillness, then there was a quick glancing of her eye upwards, while
the motion of her lips showed that she asked strength for herself, or
protection for one whom she loved better than herself.
It was a regular custom with Wilkinson to stop at a drinking-house on
his way to his store, and get a glass of brandy. This was an afternoon
as well as a morning custom, which had been continued so long that it
was now a habit. Yet he was not aware of this fact, and, if he had
thought about the custom, would have regarded it as one easily
abandoned. He had a glimpse of his error on the present occasion.
To do a thing by habit is to do it without reflection; and herein lies
the dangerous power of habit; for, when we act from confirmed habit, it
is without thought as to the good or evil to result from our action.
Thus had Wilkinson been acting for months as regards his regular glass
of brandy in the morning and afternoon, while passing from his dwelling
to his store. Not until now was he in the least conscious that habit
was gaining an undue power over him.
As the eyes of Wilkinson rested upon the form of a certain elegant
coloured glass lamp standing in front of a well-known drinking-house,
he was conscious of a desire for his accustomed draught of brandy and
water; but, at the same instant, there came a remembrance of the
painful occurrences of the evening previous, and he said to
himself--"One such lesson ought to make me hate brandy, and every thing
else that can rob me of a true regard for the happiness of Mary."
Yet, even as he said this, habit, disturbed in the stronghold of its
power, aroused itself, and furnished him with an argument that
instantly broke down his forming resolution. This argument was his loss
of rest, the consequent debility arising therefrom, and the actual need
of his system for something stimulating, in order to enable him to
enter properly upon the business of the day.
So habit triumphed. Wilkinson, without even pausing at the door,
entered the drinking-house and obtained his accustomed glass of brandy.
"I feel a hundred per cent. better," said he, as he emerged from the
bar-room and took his way to his store. "That was just what my system
wanted."
Yet, if he felt, for a little while, better as regarded his bodily
sensations, the act did not leave him more comfortable in mind. His
instinctive consciousness of having done wrong in yielding to the
desire for brandy, troubled him.
"I shall have to break up this habit entirely," he remarked to himself
during the morning, as his thought returned, again and again, to the
subject. "I don't believe I'm in any particular danger; but, then, it
troubles Mary; and I can't bear to see her troubled."
While he thus communed with himself, his friend Ellis dropped in.
"I meant to have called earlier," said Ellis, "to ask about your sick
child, but was prevented by a customer. She is better, I hope?"
"Oh, yes, much better, thank you."
"What was the matter?" inquired Ellis.
"She is teething, and was thrown into convulsions."
"Ah! yes. Well, I never was so startled in my life as by the appearance
of Mrs. Wilkinson. And the child is better?"
"When I came away this morning, I left her sleeping calmly and sweetly;
and, what is more, the points of two teeth had made their way through
the red and swollen gums."
"All right, then. But how is Mary?"
"Not very well, of course. How could she be, after such a night of
anxiety and alarm? The fact is, Harry, I was to blame for having left
her alone during the evening, knowing, as I did, that Ella was not very
well."
Ellis shrugged his shoulders, as he replied--"Not much excuse for you,
I must admit. I only wish the attraction at my home was as strong as it
is at yours: Parker's would not see me often. As for you, my old
friend, if I speak what I think, I must say that your inclination to go
out in the evening needs correcting. I spend most of my evenings from
home, because home is made unpleasant; you leave your wife, because a
love of conviviality and gay company entices you away. Such company I
know to be dangerous, and especially so for you. There now, as a
friend, I have talked out plainly. What do you think of it? Ain't I
right?"
"I don't know," replied Wilkinson, musingly. "Perhaps you are. I have
thought as much, sometimes, myself."
"I know I'm right," said Ellis, positively. "So take a friend's advice,
and never go out after sundown, except in company with your wife."
There was a change from gravity to mock seriousness in the voice of
Ellis as he closed this sentence. Wilkinson compressed his lips and
shook his head.
"Can't always be tied to my wife's apron-string. Oh, no! haven't come
to that."
"With such a wife, and your temperament, it is the best place for you,"
said Ellis, laughing.
"May be it is; but, for all that, I like good company too well to spend
all my time with her."
"Isn't she good company?"
"Oh, yes; but, then, variety is the very spice of life, you know."
"True enough. Well, we'll not quarrel about the matter. Come! let's go
and take a drink; I'm as dry as a fish."
"I don't care if I do," was the instinctive reply of Wilkinson, who
took up his hat as he spoke.
The two men left the store, and were, a little while after, taking a
lunch at a public house, and chatting over their brandy and water.
At the usual dinner hour, Wilkinson returned home. He did not fully
understand the expression of his wife's face, as she looked at him on
his entrance: it was a look of anxious inquiry. She sat with Ella upon
her lap: the child was sleeping.
"How is our little pet?" he asked, as he bent over, first kissing his
wife, and then touching his lips lightly to the babe's forehead.
"She's been in a heavy sleep for most of the time since morning,"
replied Mrs. Wilkinson, turning her face aside, so that her husband
could not see its changed expression.
Mr. Wilkinson's habitual use of brandy had long been a source of
trouble to his wife. In reviewing the painful incidents of the previous
evening, a hope had sprung up in her heart that the effect would be to
awaken his mind to a sense of his danger, cause him to reflect, and
lead to a change of habit. Alas! how like a fairy frost-work fabric
melted this hope away, as the strong breath of her husband fell upon
her face. She turned away and sighed--sighed in her spirit, but not
audibly; for, even in her pain and disappointment, active love prompted
to concealment, lest the shadow that came over her should repel the one
she so earnestly sought to win from his path of danger.
Ah, who can tell the effort it cost that true-hearted wife to call up
the smile with which, scarcely a moment afterwards, she looked into her
husband's face!
"It is no worse, if no better," was her sustaining thought; and she
leaned upon it, fragile reed as it was.
CHAPTER VII.
"COME home early, dear," said Mrs. Wilkinson, resting her hand upon her
husband, and looking into his face with a loving smile. "The time seems
so long when you are away!"
"Does it?" returned Wilkinson, and he kissed his wife. Yet, did not the
tenderness of tone with which he spoke, nor the act of love which
accompanied it, hide from the quick perception of Mary the fact that
her husband's thoughts were elsewhere.
"Oh, yes," she replied. "I count the hours when you are absent. You'll
be home early to tea?"
"Certainly I will. There now, let your heart be at rest."
And Wilkinson retired. This was after dinner, on the day that succeeded
the opening of our story.
As in the morning, he found it the most natural thing in the world to
call in at a certain drinking house and get his accustomed glass of
brandy. As he entered the door of the bar-room, a man named Carlton
stepped forward to meet him, with extended hand. He was an old
acquaintance, with whom Wilkinson had often passed an agreeable
hour,--one of your bar-room loungers, known as good fellows, who, while
they exhibit no apparent means of support, generally have money to
spend, and plenty of time on their hands.
"Glad to see you, Wilkinson; 'pon my soul! Where have you kept yourself
for this month of Sundays?"
Such was the familiar greeting of Carlton.
"And it does one's eyes good to look upon your pleasant face," returned
Wilkinson, as he grasped the other's hand. "Where have you kept
yourself?"
"Oh, I'm always on hand," said Carlton, gayly. "It's you who are shut
up, and hid away from the pure air and bright sunshine in a gloomy
store, delving like a mole in the dark. The fact is, old fellow! you
are killing yourself. Turning gray, as I live!"
And he touched, with his fingers, the locks of Wilkinson, in which a
few gray lines were visible.
"Bad! bad!" he went on, shaking his head. "And you are growing as thin
as a lath. When did you ride out?"
"Oh, not for two months past. I've been too closely occupied with
business."
"Business!" there was a slight air of contempt in Carlton's voice and
manner. "I hate to hear this everlasting cant, if I must so call it,
about business; as if there were nothing else in the world to think or
care about. Men bury themselves between four brick walls, and toil from
morning until night, like prison-slaves; and if you talk to them about
an hour's recreation for body and mind, all you can get out of them
is--'Business! business!' Pah! I'm out of all patience with it. Life
was made for enjoyment as well as toil. But come, what'll you drink?
I've preached to you until I'm as dry as a chip."
The two men stepped to the bar and drank. As they turned away, Carlton
drew his arm within that of Wilkinson, saying, as he did so--
"As it is an age since I saw you, I must prolong the pleasure of this
meeting. Your work is done for the day, of course."
"No, I can't just say that it is."
"Well, I can then. If you've been immuring yourself, as you have on
your own confession, for some two months, or more, an afternoon with
good company is indispensable. So, consider this a holiday, and think
no more of bags, boxes, cash-book, or ledger. I bought a splendid
trotter yesterday, and am going to try his speed. You are a first-rate
judge of horse-flesh, and I want your opinion. So, consider yourself
engaged for a flying trip to Mount Airy."
"You are a tempter," said Wilkinson, laughing.
"Oh, no. A friend, who will give health to your veins, and life to your
spirit."
"Let me see," said Wilkinson, now turning his thoughts upon his
business--"if there isn't something special that requires my attention.
Yes," he added, after thinking for a few moments--"a customer promised
to be in after dinner. He is from the country, and bought a good bill
last season. You will have to excuse me, Carlton. I'll go with you
to-morrow."
"Indeed, and I shall do no such thing," was promptly answered. "Let
your customers call in the morning--always the best time for business.
Men don't buy in the afternoon."
"My experience says differently."
"A fig for your experience! No, no, my good friend. You're booked for a
ride with me this very afternoon; so let your business and customers
take care of themselves. Health is better than dollars; and length of
days than great possessions. There's wisdom in miniature for you.
Wouldn't I make a capital preacher, ha?"
"But Carlton"--
"But me no buts, my hearty!" and Carlton slapped Wilkinson on the
shoulder as he spoke, in a familiar manner. "You're my prisoner for the
rest of the day. Do you understand that?"
"You've bought a fast trotter, have you?" said Wilkinson, after a brief
but hurried self-communion, the end of which was a determination to
take the afternoon for pleasure, and let his customer call in the
morning.
"I have; and the prettiest animal your eyes ever looked upon."
"Fleet as an arrow?"
"Ay; as the very wind. But you shall have a taste of his quality. So
come along. Time passes."
The two men left the tavern, and went to the stable where Carlton's new
horse was kept. The animal was soon in harness.
Four hours afterwards, the last rays of the setting sun came through
the windows of a room, in which were seated, at a table, Carlton and
Wilkinson. Liquor and glasses were on the table, and cards in the hands
of the men. Wilkinson appeared excited, but Carlton was calm and
self-possessed. The former had been drinking freely; but the latter
exhibited not the smallest sign of inebriation. A single five-dollar
bill lay beside Wilkinson; a dozen bills and two gold coins were beside
the other. They were playing for the last stake. Nervously did
Wilkinson lay card after card upon the table, while, with the most
perfect coolness, his adversary played his hand, a certainty of winning
apparent in every motion. And he did win.
"Curse my luck!" exclaimed Wilkinson, grinding his teeth together, as
the last five-dollar bill he had with him passed into the hands of his
very particular friend.
There was more than "luck" against him, if he had but known it.
"The fortune of war," smilingly replied the winner. "The race is not
always to the swift, nor the battle to the strong, you know. You played
well--very well; never better within my knowledge. But, as you say,
luck was against you. And, by the way, what a curious and uncertain
thing this luck is! I've seen men lose at every turn of the card, until
they had parted with thousands; and then, on a borrowed dollar,
perhaps, start again, and not only get every thing back, but break
their antagonists. This is an every-day occurrence, in fact."
Wilkinson had risen from the table, and was pacing the room in a
fretful, impatient manner. Suddenly he stopped. A light flashed over
his face. Then, sitting down, he snatched up a pen, and writing on a
slip of paper--"Due Andrew Carlton $20," signed it with his name.
Carlton saw every letter and word as they left the pen, and ere the
last flourish was made to the signature, had selected four five-dollar
bills from the pile beside him. Simultaneously with the motion of
Wilkinson's hand, in pushing to him this memorandum of debt, was the
motion of his hand in furnishing the sum required.
"Not the man to be frightened at a little adverse fortune, I see,"
remarked the cunning tempter. "Well, I do like a man who never can
acknowledge himself beaten. The timid and easily discouraged are soon
left far behind in the world's race--and they deserve to be."
Wilkinson did not reply. Another deal was made, and again the two men
bent over the table in their unequal contest.
In less than half an hour, the money obtained from Carlton had gone
back to him.
By this time twilight had fallen.
"Nearly eight o'clock, as I live!" muttered Wilkinson. He had drawn
forth his watch. "I had no idea of this. And we are ten miles from the
city!"
A thought of his anxiously waiting wife flitted across his mind. He
remembered her last pleading injunction for him to come home early, and
the promise he had given. Alas! like so many more of his promises to
her, made to be broken.
"Shall we return now; or order supper here?" said Carlton, in his bland
way.
"I must go back immediately," replied Wilkinson. "It is an hour later
than I supposed. I was to have been home early this evening."
"It is too late now to join your family at tea. They have given you out
before this. So, I think we'd better order supper here. The moon is
full, and it will be almost as clear as daylight; and much pleasanter
riding, for the dew will keep down the dust. What say you?"
The end was, Wilkinson yielded.
"Not down in the mouth, because of this little run of ill-luck?" said
Carlton, in a bantering way, as he saw a cloud settling over the face
of his victim.
Lights had been brought in, and the two men still remained seated by
the table at which they had been playing, awaiting the preparation of
supper.
"I'm never down in the mouth," replied Wilkinson, forcing a smile to
his countenance. "Better luck next time, has always been my motto."
"And it will carry you safely through the world. Try another glass of
brandy."
"No--I've taken enough already."
"It isn't every man who knows when he has enough," returned the other.
"I've often wished that I knew exactly the right gauge."
And, as Carlton spoke, he poured some brandy into a glass, and, adding
a little water, affected to take a deep draught thereof; but, though
the glass was held long to his mouth, only a small portion of the
contents passed his lips. In replacing the tumbler on the table, he
managed to give it a position behind the water-pitcher where the eye of
Wilkinson could not rest upon it. He need hardly have taken this
trouble, for his companion was too much absorbed in his own thoughts to
notice a matter like this.
"They're a long time in getting supper," remarked Carlton, in a
well-affected tone of impatience. "What is the time now?"
Wilkinson drew forth his watch, and, after glancing upon the face,
replied--
"Ten minutes after eight."
"We shall have it pretty soon now, I suppose. They don't understand the
double quick time movement out here."
As Carlton said this, his eyes rested, with more than a mere passing
interest, on the gold lever that Wilkinson, instead of returning to his
pocket, retained in one hand, while with the other he toyed with the
key and chain in a half-abstracted manner.
For the space of nearly a minute, neither of the men spoke, but the
thought of each was at the same point.
"That's a beautiful watch," at length Carlton ventured to say. There
was a well disguised indifference in his tones.
"It ought to be," was the reply of Wilkinson.
"What did it cost you?"
"One hundred and forty dollars."
"Is it a good time-keeper?"
"First-rate. It hasn't varied a minute in six months."
"Just such a watch as I would like to own. I've had terrible bad luck
with watches."
This was a kind of feeler.
No reply was made by Wilkinson, although an offer to sell trembled on
his tongue. He still kept the watch in his hand, and toyed with the key
and chain, as before, in an absent manner.
"Could you be tempted to sell?" finally asked Carlton.
"I don't know. Perhaps I might,"--said Wilkinson. He drew his breath
deeply as he spoke.
"Or, perhaps you would trade?" and Carlton now produced his gold lever.
"Mine is a very good watch, though not so valuable as yours. It keeps
fair time, however. I paid a hundred dollars for it three or four years
ago."
A mutual examination of watches took place.
"Well--what do you say to a trade?"
The servant appeared at this juncture, and announced supper. The two
watches were returned to their respective places of deposit, and the
two men proceeded to the dining-room. Here the traffic, just begun, was
renewed and completed. The watches were exchanged, and Wilkinson
received sixty dollars "boot."
"Shall I order the horse brought out?" asked Carlton, as they arose,
about half an hour afterwards, from the supper-table.
"Yes; if you please."
This was not said with much promptness of tone; a fact instantly noted
by the ear of Carlton.
"Well, I'm ready. Come--let's have a drink before we go!"
The two men stepped to the bar and drank. Then they lingered, each with
a lighted cigar, and finally withdrew--to proceed to the city? No. To
return to their room up-stairs, and renew their unequal contest. The
sixty dollars which Wilkinson had received were staked, and soon passed
over to his adversary. Rendered, now, desperate by his losses and the
brandy which inflamed his brain, he borrowed, once more, on his
due-bill--this time to the amount of several hundred dollars. His
ill-success continued.
It was nearly eleven o'clock, when Wilkinson started up from the table,
exclaiming, as he threw the cards upon the floor--
"Fool! fool! fool! One step more, and I am ruined. Carlton!" And he
fixed his eyes almost fiercely upon his companion.
"Carlton! I thought you my friend, but find, when it is almost too late
to profit by the discovery, that you are a tempter. Ay! and worse than
a tempter. Pure air and the bright sunshine! Is this your health for
mind and body? Oh! weak, weak, unstable one that I am! Poor Mary!" This
was said in a low, mournful, and scarcely audible voice. "Thus has my
promise to you vanished into thin air!"
As Wilkinson said this, he turned away and left the room. Carlton was
in no hurry to follow. When, at length, he came down, and made inquiry
for the one he had dealt by so treacherously, the man, who was shutting
the windows of the bar-room, and about locking up for the night,
replied that he had not seen him.
"Not seen him?" he asked, in a tone of surprise.
"No, sir. He didn't come in here."
The hostler was aroused from his sleeping position on a bench in the
corner, and directed by Carlton to bring out his buggy. During the time
he was away, the latter made a hurried search in and around the house.
Not finding the object thereof, he muttered, in an under tone, a few
wicked oaths; then, jumping into his vehicle, he put whip to his horse,
and dashed off towards the city. He had Wilkinson's due-bills in his
pocket for various sums, amounting, in all, to nearly two thousand
dollars!
CHAPTER VIII.
ALMOST motionless, with her sleeping babe upon her lap, sat Mrs.
Wilkinson for nearly half an hour after her husband left the house. She
saw nothing that was around her--heard nothing--felt nothing. Not even
the breathings of her sleeping infant reached her ear; nor was she
conscious of the pressure of its body against her own. Fixed in a
dreamy, inward gaze were her eyes; and her soul withdrew itself from
the portal at which, a little while before, it hearkened into the world
of nature. At last there came a motion of the eyelids--a quivering
motion--then they closed, slowly, over the blue orbs beneath; and soon
after a tear trembled out to the light from behind the barriers that
sought to retain them. A deep, fluttering sigh succeeded to this sign
of feeling. Then her lips parted, and she spoke audibly to herself.
"Oh, that I knew how to win him back from the path of danger! He does
not love his home; and yet how have I striven to make it attractive!
How much have I denied myself! and how much yielded to and thought of
him! He is always kind to me; and he--yes--I know he loves me; but--ah!"
The low voice trembled back sighing into silence. Still, for a long
time, the unhappy wife sat almost as motionless as if in sleep. Then,
as some thought grew active towards a purpose in her mind, she arose,
and laying Ella on the bed, began busying herself in some household
duties.
The afternoon passed slowly away, yet not for a moment was the thought
of her husband absent from the mind of Mrs. Wilkinson.
"What ought I to do? How shall I make his home sufficiently attractive?"
This was her over and over again repeated question; and her thoughts
bent themselves eagerly for some answer upon which her heart might rest
with even a small degree of hope.
The prolonged, intense anxiety and alarm of the previous night, added
to bodily fatigue and loss of rest, were not without their effect upon
Mrs. Wilkinson. Early in the day she suffered from lassitude and a
sense of exhaustion; and, after dinner, a slight headache was added;
this increased hourly, and by four o'clock was almost blinding in its
violence. Still, she tried to forget herself, and what she suffered in
thinking about and devising some means of saving her husband from the
dangers that lay hidden from his own view about his footsteps.
"If I could only add some new attraction to his home!" she murmured to
herself, over and over again.
Sometimes she would hold her temples with both her hands, in the vain
effort to still, by pressure, the throbbing arteries within, while she
continued to think of her husband.
As tea-time drew near, Mrs. Wilkinson left Ella in the care of a
domestic, and went into the kitchen to prepare some delicacy for the
evening meal of which she knew her husband was fond; this engaged her
for half an hour, and the effort increased the pain in her aching head.
The usual time at which Mr. Wilkinson came home arrived, and his wife,
who had returned to her chamber, sat with her babe on her bosom,
listening for the well-known welcome sound of her husband's footsteps
in the passage below. Time glided by, yet she waited and listened in
vain; and to the pleasant thoughts of the influence her love was to
throw around him on that very evening, to keep him at home, began to
succeed a fear, which made her heart faint, that he would not come home
at all; or, at least, not until a late hour.
The sun went down, and stealthily the sober twilight began to fall,
bringing with it shadows and forebodings for the heart of the anxious
wife.
How vainly she waited and watched! The twilight was lost in darkness,
and yet her eagerly listening ear failed to note the well-known sound
of her husband's footfall on the pavement, as she stood, listening at
the open window.
"Oh! what can keep him so long away!"
How often did these words come sighing from her lips, yet there was no
answer. Alas! how to the very winds were flung the pleasant hopes she
had cherished--cherished with a sense of fear and trembling--during the
afternoon.
Night closed in, and the time wore on steadily, minute by minute, and
hour by hour, until the poor wife was almost wild with suspense and
anxiety. The dainties she had so thoughtfully and lovingly prepared for
her husband remained untasted, and had now become cold and
unpalatable--were, in fact, forgotten. Food she had not, herself,
