and she desires, above all things, that I make it."
"Does she understand the ground of this proposed change?" asked Mr.
Melleville.
"Clearly."
"And is willing to meet privation--to step down into even a humbler
sphere, so that her husband be removed from the tempting influence of
the god of this world?"
"She is, Mr. Melleville. Ah! I only wish that I could look upon life
as she does. That I could see as clearly--that I could gather, as she
is gathering them in her daily walk, the riches that have no wings."
"Thank God for such a treasure, Edward! She is worth more than the
wealth of the Indies. With such an angel to walk by your side, you
need feel no evil."
"You will give me a situation, then, Mr. Melleville?"
"Yes, Edward," replied the old man.
"Then I will notify Mr. Jasper this afternoon, and enter your service
on the first of the coming month. My heart is lighter already. Good
day."
And Edward hurried off home.
During the afternoon he found no opportunity to speak to Mr. Jasper
on the subject first in his thoughts, as that individual wished him
to attend Mrs. Elder's funeral, and gather for him all possible
information about the child. It was late when he came back from
the burial-ground--so late that he concluded not to return, on that
evening, to the store. In the carriage in which he rode, was the
clergyman who officiated, and the orphan child who, though but half
comprehending her loss, was yet overwhelmed with sorrow. On their way
back, the clergyman asked to be left at his own dwelling; and this was
done. Claire was then alone with the child, who shrank close to him in
the carriage. He did not speak to her; nor did she do more than lift,
now and then, her large, soft, tear-suffused eyes to his face.
Arrived, at length, at the dwelling from which they had just borne
forth the dead, Claire gently lifted out the child, and entered the
house with her. Two persons only were within, the domestic and the
woman who, on the day previous, had spoken of taking to her own home
the little orphaned one. The former had on her shawl and bonnet, and
said that she was about going away.
"You will not leave this child here alone," said Edward.
"I will take her for the present," spoke up the other. "Would you like
to go home with me, Fanny?" addressing the child. "Come,"--and she
held out her hands.
But the child shrank closer to the side of Edward, and looked up into
his face with a silent appeal that his heart could not resist.
"Thank you, ma'am," he returned politely. "But we won't trouble you
to do that. I will take her to my own home for the present. Would you
like to go with me, dear?"
Fanny answered with a grateful look, as she lifted her beautiful eyes
again to his face.
And so, after the woman and the domestic had departed, Edward Claire
locked up the house, and taking the willing child by the hand, led her
away to his own humble dwelling.
Having turned himself resolutely away from evil, already were the
better impulses of his nature quickened into active life. A beautiful
humanity was rising up to fill the place so recently about to be
consecrated to the worship of a hideous selfishness.
CHAPTER VI.
Edward Claire was in no doubt as to the reception the motherless child
would receive from his kind-hearted wife. A word or two of explanation
enabled her to comprehend the feeling from which he had acted.
"You were right, Edward," said she in hearty approval. "I am glad
you brought her home. Come, dear," speaking to the wondering, partly
shrinking orphan, "let me take off your bonnet."
She kissed the child's sweet lips and then gazed for some moments into
her face, pleased, yet half surprised, at her remarkable beauty.
Little Fanny felt that she was among friends. The sad expression of
her face soon wore off, light came back to her eyes, and her prattling
tongue released itself from a long silence. An hour afterward, when
she was laid to sleep in a temporary bed, made for her on the floor,
her heavy eyelids fell quickly, with their long lashes upon her
cheeks, and she was soon in the world of dreams.
Then followed a long and serious conference between Edward and his
wife.
"I saw Mr. Melleville to-day," said the former.
"Did you? I am glad of that," was answered.
"He will give me a place."
"Glad again."
"But, Edith, as I supposed, he can only pay me a salary of four
hundred dollars."
"No matter," was the prompt reply; "it is better than five hundred
where you are."
"Can we live on it, Edith?" Edward spoke in a troubled voice.
"Why not? It is but to use a little more economy in our expenses--to
live on two dollars a week less than we now spend; and that will not
be very hard to do. Trust it to me, dear. I will bring the account
out even. And we will be just as happy. As happy? Oh, a thousand times
happier! A hundred dollars! How poorly will that compensate for broken
peace and a disquieted conscience. Edward, is it possible for you to
remain where you are, and be innocent?"
"I fear not, Edith," was the unhesitating reply. "And yet, dear, I
should be man enough, should have integrity enough, to resist the
temptations that might come in my way."
"Do not think of remaining where you are," said the young wife
earnestly. "If Mr. Melleville will pay you four hundred dollars a
year, take his offer and leave Mr. Jasper. It will be a gain rather
than a loss to us."
"A gain, Edith?"
"Yes, a gain in all that is worth having in life--peace of mind
flowing from a consciousness of right action. Will money buy this? No,
Edward. Highly as riches are esteemed--the one great good in life as
they are regarded--they never have given and never will give this
best of all blessings. How little, how very little of the world's
happiness, after all, flows from the possession of money. Did you ever
think of that, Edward?"
"Perhaps not."
"And yet, is it not worth a passing thought? Mr. and Mrs. Casswell are
rich--we are poor. Which do you think the happiest?"
"Oh, we are happiest, a thousand times," said Edward warmly. "I
would not exchange places with him, were he worth a million for every
thousand."
"Nor I with his wife," returned Edith. "So money, in their case, does
not give happiness. Now look at William Everhart and his wife. When
we were married they occupied two rooms, at a low rent, as we now do.
Their income was just what ours has been. Well, they enjoyed life. We
visited them frequently, and they often called to see us. But for a
little ambition on the part of both to make some show, they would have
possessed a large share of that inestimable blessing, contentment.
After a while, William's salary was raised to one thousand dollars.
Then they must have a whole house to themselves, as if their two nice
rooms were not as large and comfortable, and as well suited to their
real wants as before. They must, also, have showy furniture for their
friends to look at. Were they any happier for this change?--for this
marked improvement in their external condition? We have talked this
over before, Edward. No, they were not. In fact, they were not so
comfortable. With added means had come a whole train of clamorous
wants, that even the doubled salary could not supply."
"Everhart gets fifteen hundred a year, now," remarked Claire.
"That will account, then," said Edith, smiling, "for Emma's unsettled
state of mind when I last saw her. New wants have been created; and
they have disturbed the former tranquillity."
"All are not so foolish as they have been. I think we might bear an
increased income without the drawbacks that have attended theirs."
"If it had been best for us, my husband, God would have provided it.
It is in his loving-kindness that he has opened the way so opportunely
for you to leave the path of doubt and danger for one of confidence
and safety; and, in doing it, he has really increased your salary."
"Increased it, Edith! Why do you say that?"
"Will we not be happier for the change?" asked Edith, smiling.
"I believe so."
"Then, surely, the salary is increased by so much of heartfelt
pleasure. Why do you desire an increase rather than a diminution of
income?"
"In order to procure more of the comforts of life," was answered.
"Comfort for the body, and satisfaction for the mind?"
"Yes."
"Could our bodies really enjoy more than they now enjoy? They are
warmly clothed, fully fed, and are in good health. Is it not so?"
"It is."
"Then, if by taking Mr. Melleville's offer, you lose nothing for the
body, and gain largely for the mind, is not your income increased?"
"Ah, Edith!" said Claire, fondly, "you are a wonderful reasoner. Who
will gainsay such arguments?"
"Do I not argue fairly? Are not my positions sound, and my deductions
clearly brought forth?"
"If I could always see and feel as I do now," said Claire, in a low,
pleased tone of voice, "how smoothly would life glide onward. Money is
not every thing. Ah! how fully that is seen. There are possessions not
to be bought with gold."
"And they are mental possessions--states of the mind, Edward," spoke
up Edith quickly. "Riches that never fade, nor fail; that take to
themselves no wings. Oh, let us gather of these abundantly, as we walk
on our way through life."
"Heaven has indeed blessed me." Such was the heartfelt admission
of Edward Claire, made in the silence of his own thoughts. "With
a different wife--a lover of the world and its poor vanities--how
imminent would have been my danger! Alas! scarcely any thing less
than a miracle would have saved me. I shudder as I realize the fearful
danger through which I have just passed. I thank God for so good a
wife."
The first inquiry made by Jasper, when he met Edward on the next
morning, was in relation to what he had seen at the funeral, and,
particularly, as to the disposition that had been made of the child.
"I took her home with me," was replied, in answer to a direct
question.
"You did!" Jasper seemed taken by surprise. "How came that, Edward?"
"When I returned from the cemetery, I found the domestic ready to
leave the house. Of course the poor child could not remain there
alone; so I took her home with me for the night."
"How did your wife like that?" asked Jasper, with something in his
tone that showed a personal interest in the reply.
"Very well. I did just what she would have done under the
circumstances."
"You have only one child, I believe?" said Jasper, after a pause of
some moments.
"That is all."
"Only three in family?"
"Only three."
"How would you like to increase it? Suppose you keep this child of
Elder's, now she is with you. I have been looking a little into
the affairs of the estate, and find that there are two houses,
unincumbered, that are rented each for two hundred and fifty dollars a
year. Of course, you will receive a reasonable sum for taking care
of the child. What do you say to it? As executor, I will pay you five
dollars a week for boarding and clothing her until she is twelve years
of age. After that, a new arrangement can be made."
"I can't give an answer until I consult my wife," said Claire, in
reply to so unexpected a proposition.
"Urge her to accept the offer, Edward. Just think what it will add to
your income. I'm sure it won't cost you one-half the sum, weekly, that
I have specified, to find the child in every thing."
"Perhaps not. But all will depend on my wife. We are living, now,
in two rooms, and keep no domestic. An addition of one to our family
might so increase her care and labour as to make a servant necessary.
Then we should have to have an additional room; the rent of which and
the wages and board of the servant would amount to nearly as much as
we would receive from you on account of the child."
"Yes, I see that," returned Jasper. And he mused for some moments. He
was particularly anxious that Claire should take the orphan, for then
all the trouble of looking after and caring for her would be taken
from him, and that would be a good deal gained.
"I'll tell you what, Edward," he added. "If you will take her, I will
call the sum six dollars a week--or three hundred a year. That will
make the matter perfectly easy. If your wife does not seem at first
inclined, talk to her seriously. This addition to your income will be
a great help. To show her that I am perfectly in earnest, and that
you can depend on receiving the sum specified, I will draw up a little
agreement, which, if all parties are satisfied, can be signed at
once."
Claire promised to talk the matter over with his wife at dinner-time.
The morning did not pass without varied assaults upon the young man's
recent good resolutions. Several times he had customers in from
whom it would have been easy to get more than a fair profit, but he
steadily adhered to what he believed to be right, notwithstanding
Jasper once or twice expressed dissatisfaction at his not having
made better sales, and particularly at his failing to sell a piece
of cloth, because he would not pledge his word as to its colour and
quality--neither of which were good.
The proposition of Jasper for him to make, in his family, a place
for the orphan, caused Claire to postpone the announcement of his
intention to leave his service, until after he had seen and conferred
with his wife.
At the usual dinner-hour, Claire returned home. His mind had become
by this time somewhat disturbed. The long-cherished love of money,
subdued for a brief season, was becoming active again. Here were six
dollars to be added, weekly, to his income, provided his wife approved
the arrangement,--and it was to come through Jasper. The more he
thought of this increase, the more his natural cupidity was stirred,
and the less willing he felt to give up the proposed one hundred
dollars in his salary. If he persisted in leaving Jasper, there would,
in all probability, be a breach between them, and this would, he felt
certain, prevent an arrangement that he liked better and better the
more he thought about it. He was in this state of mind when he arrived
at home.
On pushing open the door of their sitting-room, the attention of
Claire was arrested by the animated expression of his wife's face. She
raised her finger to enjoin silence. Tripping lightly to his side, she
drew her arm within his, and whispered--
"Come into the chamber, dear--tread softly--there, isn't that
sweet?--isn't it lovely?"
The sight was lovely indeed. A pillow had been thrown on the floor,
and upon this lay sleeping, arm in arm, the two children. Pressed
close together were their rosy checks; and the sunny curls of Fanny
Elder were mixed, like gleams of sunshine, amid the darker ringlets
that covered profusely the head of little Edith.
"Did you ever see any thing so beautiful?" said the delighted mother.
"What a picture it would make!" remarked Edward, who was charmed with
the sight.
"Oh, lovely! How I would like just such a picture!
"She is a beautiful child," said Edward.
"Very," was the hearty response. "Very--and so sweet-tempered and
winning in her ways. Do you know, I am already attached to her. And
little Edie is so delighted. They have played all the morning like
kittens; and a little while ago lay down, just as you see them--tired
out, I suppose--and fell off to sleep. It must have been hard for the
mother to part with that child--hard, very hard."
And Mrs. Claire sighed.
"You will scarcely be willing to give her up, if she remains here
long," said Edward.
"I don't know how I should feel to part from her, even now. Oh, isn't
it sad to think that she has no living soul to love or care for her in
the world."
"Mr. Jasper is her guardian, you know."
"Yes; and such a guardian!"
"I should not like to have my child dependent on his tender mercies,
certainly. But he will have little to do with her beyond paying the
bills for her maintenance. He will place her in some family to board;
and her present comfort and future well-being will depend very much
upon the character of the persons who have charge of her."
Edith sighed.
"I wish," said she, after a pause, "that we were able to take her. But
we are not."
And she sighed again.
"Mr. Jasper will pay six dollars a week to any one who will take the
entire care of her until she is twelve years of age."
"Will he?" A sudden light had gleamed over the face of Mrs. Claire.
"Yes; he said so this morning."
"Then, why may not we take her? I am willing," was Edith's quick
suggestion.
"It is a great care and responsibility," said Edward.
"I shall not feel it so. When the heart prompts, duty becomes a
pleasure. O yes, dear, let us take the child by all means."
"Can we make room for her?"
"Why not? Her little bed, in a corner of our chamber, will in noway
incommode us; and through the day she will be a companion for Edie.
If you could only have seen how sweetly they played together! Edie has
not been half the trouble to-day that she usually is."
"It will rest altogether with you, Edith," said Claire, seriously. "In
fact, Mr. Jasper proposed that we should take Fanny. I did not give
him much encouragement, however."
"Have you any objection, dear?" asked Edith.
"None. The sum to be paid weekly will more than cover the additional
cost of housekeeping. If you are prepared for the extra duties that
must come, I have nothing to urge against the arrangement."
"If extra duties are involved, I will perform them as a labour of
love. Without the sum to be paid for the child's maintenance, I would
have been ready to take her in and let her share our home. She is now
in the special guardianship of the Father of the fatherless, and he
will provide for her, no matter who become the almoners of his bounty.
This is my faith, Edward, and in this faith I would have freely acted
even without the provision that has been made."
"Let it be then, as you wish, Edith."
"How providential this increase of our income, Edward!" said his wife,
soon afterward, while the subject of taking Fanny into their little
household was yet the burden of their conversation. "We shall gain
here all, and more than all that will be lost in giving up your
situation with Mr. Jasper. Did I not say to you that good would come
of this guardianship; and is there not, even now, a foreshadowing of
things to come?"
"Perhaps there is," replied Edward thoughtfully. "But my eye of faith
is not so clear as yours."
"Let me see for you then, dear," said Edith, in a tender voice. "I
am an earnest confider in the good purposes of our Heavenly Father. I
trust in them, as a ship trusts in its well-grounded anchor. That,
in summing up the events of our life, when the time of our departure
comes, we shall see clearly that each has been wisely ordered or
provided for by One who is infinitely good and wise, I never for an
instant doubt. Oh, if you could only see with me, eye to eye, Edward!
But you will, love, you will--that my heart assures me. It may be some
time yet--but it will come."
"May it come right speedily!" was the fervent response of Edward
Claire.
CHAPTER VII.
"Well, Edward, what does your wife say?" Such was the inquiry of
Jasper, immediately on the return of his clerk from dinner.
"There will be no difficulty, so far as she is concerned," the young
man answered.
"None, did you say, Edward?"
"None. She is willing to take the child, under the arrangement you
propose."
"That is, for three hundred dollars a year, to find her in every
thing?"
"Yes; until she is twelve years of age."
"So I understand it. After that, as the expense of her clothing and
education will increase, we can make a new arrangement. Very well. I'm
glad you have decided to take the child. It won't cost you six dollars
a week, for the present, I am sure: so the additional income will be
quite a help to you."
"I don't know how that will be. At any rate, we are willing to take
the child into our family."
"Suppose then, Edward, we mutually sign this little agreement to that
effect, which I have drawn up."
And Jasper took a paper from his desk, which he handed to Edward.
"I've no objection," said the latter, after he had read it over. "It
binds me to the maintenance of the child until she is twelve years of
age, and you to the payment therefor of three hundred dollars a year,
in quarterly payments of seventy-five dollars each."
"Yes, that is the simple statement of the matter. You see, I have
prepared duplicates: one for you, and one for myself. I will sign them
first."
And Jasper took a pen and placed upon each of the documents his
sign-manual.
Claire did the same; and a clerk witnessed the signatures. Each, then,
took a copy. Thus, quickly and fully, was the matter arranged.
This fact of giving to the contract a legal form, was, under the
circumstances, the very thing Claire most desired. He had already
begun to see difficulties ahead, so soon as he announced his intention
of leaving Jasper's service; particularly, as no reason that he could
give would satisfy the merchant--difficulties growing out of this new
relation as the personal guardian of little Fanny Elder. The signing
of a regular contract for the payment of a certain sum of money,
quarterly, for the child's maintenance, gave him a legal right to
collect that sum, should Jasper, from any change of feeling, be
disposed at some future time to give him trouble. This was something
gained.
It was with exceeding reluctance that Claire forced himself, during
the afternoon, to announce his intention to leave Mr. Jasper. Had
he not promised Mr. Melleville and his wife to do this, it would
certainly have been postponed for the present; perhaps altogether.
But his word was passed to both of them, and he felt that to defer the
matter would be wrong. So, an opportunity offering, he said--
"I believe, Mr. Jasper, that I shall have to leave you."
"Leave me, Edward!" Mr. Jasper was taken altogether by surprise. "What
is the meaning of this? You have expressed no dissatisfaction. What is
wrong?"
The position of Edward was a trying one. He could not state the true
reasons for wishing to leave his present situation, without giving
great offence, and making, perhaps, an enemy. This he wished, if
possible, to avoid. A few days before he would not have scrupled at
the broadest equivocation, or even at a direct falsehood. But there
had been a birth of better principles in his mind, and he was in the
desire to let them govern his conduct. As he did not answer promptly
the question of Jasper as to his reasons for wishing to leave him, the
latter said--
"This seems to be some sudden purpose, Edward. Are you going to
receive a higher salary?"
Still Edward did not reply; but looked worried and irresolute. Taking
it for granted that no motive but a pecuniary one could have prompted
this desire for change, Jasper continued--
"I have been satisfied with you, Edward. You seem to understand
me, and to comprehend my mode of doing business. I have found you
industrious, prompt, and cheerful in performing your duties. These are
qualities not always to be obtained. I do not, therefore, wish to part
with you. If a hundred, or even a hundred and fifty dollars a year,
will be any consideration, your salary is increased from to-day."
This, to Edward, was unexpected. He felt more bewildered and
irresolute than at first. So important an advance in his income, set
against a reduction of the present amount, was a strong temptation,
and he felt his old desires for money arraying themselves in his mind.
"I will think over your offer," said he. "I did not expect this. In
the morning I will be prepared to decide."
"Very well, Edward. If you remain, your salary will be increased to
six hundred and fifty dollars."
To Claire had now come another hour of darkness. The little strength,
just born of higher principles, was to be sorely tried. Gold was
in one scale, and the heavenly riches that are without wings in the
other. Which was to overbalance?
The moment Claire entered the presence of his wife, on returning home
that evening, she saw that a change had taken place--an unfavourable
change; and a shadow fell upon her pure spirit.
"I spoke to Mr. Jasper about leaving him," he remarked, soon after he
came in.
"What did he say?" inquired Edith.
"He does not wish me to go."
"I do not wonder at that. But, of course, he is governed merely by a
selfish regard to his own interests."
"He offers to increase my salary to six hundred and fifty dollars,"
said Edward, in a voice that left his wife in no doubt as to the
effect which this had produced.
"A thousand dollars a year, Edward," was the serious answer, "would
be a poor compensation for such services as he requires. Loss of
self-respect, loss of honour, loss of the immortal soul, are all
involved. Think of this, my dear husband! and do not for a moment
hesitate."
But Edward did hesitate. This unexpected offer of so important an
increase in his salary had excited his love of money, temporarily
quiescent. He saw in such an increase a great temporal good; and
this obscured his perception of a higher good, which, a little while
before, had been so clear.
"I am not so sure, Edith," said he, "that all these sad consequences
are necessarily involved. I am under no obligation to deal unfairly
with his customers. My duty will be done, when I sell to them all I
can at a fair profit. If he choose to take an excess of profit in his
own dealing, that is his affair. I need not be partaker in his guilt."
"Edward!" returned his wife, laying her hand upon his arm, and
speaking in a low, impressive voice--"Do you really believe that you
can give satisfaction to Mr. Jasper in all things, and yet keep your
conscience void of offence before God and man? Think of his character
and requirements--think of the kind of service you have, in too many
instances, rendered him--and then say whether it will be possible to
satisfy him without putting in jeopardy all that a man should hold
dear--all that is worth living for? Oh, Edward! do not let this offer
blind you for a moment to the real truth."
"Then you would have me reject the offer?"
"Without an instant's hesitation, Edward."
"It is a tempting one. And then, look at the other side, Edith. Only
four hundred dollars a year, instead of six hundred and fifty."
"I feel it as no temptation. The latter sum, in the present case,
is by far the better salary, for it will give us higher sources of
enjoyment. What are millions of dollars, and a disquiet mind, compared
to a few hundreds, and sweet peace? If you remain with Jasper, an
unhappy spirit will surely steal into our dwelling--if you take, for
the present, your old place with Mr. Melleville, how brightly will
each morning's sun shine in upon us, and how calmly will the blessed
evening draw around her curtains of repose!"
Edith had always possessed great influence over her husband. He loved
her very tenderly; and was ever loth to do any thing to which she made
opposition. She was no creature of mere impulse--of weak caprices--of
captious, yet unbending will. If she opposed her husband in any thing,
it was on the ground of its non-agreement with just principles; and
she always sustained her positions with the clearest and most direct
modes of argumentation. Not with elaborate reasonings, but rather in
the declaration of things self-evident--the quick perceptions of a
pure, truth-loving mind. How inestimable the blessing of such a wife!
"No doubt you have the better reason on your side, Edith," replied her
husband, his manner very much subdued. "But it is difficult for me to
unclasp my hand to let fall therefrom the natural good which I can see
and estimate, for the seemingly unreal and unsubstantial good that, to
your purer vision, looms up so imposingly."
"Unreal--unsubstantial--Edward!" said Edith, in reply to this. "Are
states of mind unreal?"
"I have not always found them so," was answered.
"Is happiness, or misery, unreal? Oh, are they not our most palpable
realizations? It is not mere wealth that is sought for as an end--that
is not the natural good for which the many are striving. It is the
mental enjoyment that possession promises--the state of mind that
would be gained through gold as a means. Is it not so? Think."
"Yes--that is, undoubtedly, the case."
"But, is it possible for money to give peace and true enjoyment, if,
in the spirit, even though not in the letter, violence is done to
the laws of both God and man? Can ill-gotten gain produce heavenly
beatitudes?--and there are none others. The heart never grows truly
warm and joyous except when light from above streams through the
darkened vapours with which earth-fires have surrounded it. Oh, my
husband! Turn yourself away from this world's false allurements, and
seek with me the true riches. Whatever may be your lot in life--I care
not how poor and humble--I shall walk erect and cheerful by your side
if you have been able to keep a conscience void of offence; but if
this be not so, and you bring to me gold and treasure without stint,
my head will lie bowed upon my bosom, and my heart throb in low,
grief-burdened pulsations. False lights, believe me, Edward, are hung
out by the world, and they lure life's mariner on to dangerous coasts.
Let us remain on a smooth and sunny sea, while we can, and not tempt
the troubled and uncertain wave, unless duty requires the venture.
Then, with virtue at the helm, and the light of God's love in the sky,
we will find a sure haven at last."
"It shall be as you wish, Edith," said Claire, as he gazed with
admiring affection into the bright and glowing face of his wife, that
was lovely in her beautiful enthusiasm.
"No--no, Edward! Don't say as I wish," was her quick reply. "I
cannot bear that you should act merely under my influence as an
external pressure. If I have seemed to use persuasion, it has not been
to force you over to my way of thinking. But, cannot you see that I am
right? Does not your reason approve of what I say?"
"It does, Edith. I can see, as well as feel, that you are right. But,
the offer of a present good is a strong temptation. I speak freely."
"And I thank you for doing so. Oh! never conceal from me your inmost
thoughts. You say that you can see as well as feel that I am right?"
"Yes; I freely acknowledge that."
"Your reason approves what I have said?"
"Fully."
"This tells you that it will be better for you in the end to accept
of four hundred dollars from Mr. Melleville, than to remain with Mr.
Jasper at six hundred and fifty?"
"It does, Edith."
"Then, my husband, let the reason which God has given to you as a
guide, direct you now in the right way. Do not act under influence
from me--for then the act will not be freely your own--but, as a truly
rational, and, therefore, a wise man, choose now the way in which an
enlightened reason tells you that you ought to walk."
"I have chosen, Edith," was the young man's low, but firm reply.
"How?" The wife spoke with a sudden, trembling eagerness, and held her
breath for an answer.
"I will leave my present place, and return to Mr. Melleville."
"God be thanked!" came sobbing from the lips of Edith, as she threw
herself in unrestrained joy upon the bosom of her husband.
CHAPTER VIII.
"I don't just understand this," said Jasper to himself, after the
interview with his clerk described in another chapter. "I thought him
perfectly satisfied. He didn't say he was offered a higher salary. Ah!
guess I've got it now. It's only a bit of a ruse on his part to get
me to increase his wages. I didn't think of this before. Well, it has
succeeded; and, in truth, he's worth all I've offered him. Shrewd,
quick, and sharp; he's a young man just to my mind. Should he grow
restless again, I must tempt him with the idea of a partnership at
some future period. If business goes on increasing, I shall want
some one with me whom I can trust and depend on more fully than on a
clerk."
Thus, in the mind of Jasper, all was settled; and he was fully
prepared, on the next morning, when he met Edward to hear from him
that he would remain in his service. A different decision took him
altogether by surprise.
"Where are you going?" he asked. Edward hesitated a moment ere
replying.
"Back to Mr. Melleville's."
"To Melleville's! Will he give you more salary than I have agreed to
pay?"
"No," was the answer; "but I have reasons for wishing to accept the
place he offers me."
"Well, just as you please," said Jasper, coldly. "Every one must suit
himself."
And, with the air of a person offended, he turned himself from the
young man. Soon after he went out, and did not come back for two or
three hours. When he re-entered the store there was an angry flash in
his eyes, which rested somewhat sternly upon Claire.
"Let me say a word with you, Edward."
There happened to be no customer in to engage the clerk's attention,
and he retired, with his employer, to the back part of the store.
Jasper then turned and confronted him with a stern aspect.
"Well, young man!" said he sharply, "it seems that you have been
making rather free with my good name, of late; representing me as a
cheat and a swindler."
For a few moments the mind of Claire was strongly excited and in a
perfect maze of confusion. The blood mounted to his face, and he felt
a rising and choking sensation in his throat. Wisely he forbore
any answer until he had regained his self-possession. Then, with a
coolness that surprised even himself, he said--
"That's a broad accusation, Mr. Jasper. Will you go with me to your
authority?"
Jasper was not just prepared for a response like this; and he cooled
down, instantly, several degrees.
"My authority is quite satisfactory," he returned, still manifesting
angry feeling. "That you have been slandering me is plain; and, also,
betraying the confidential transactions of the house. It is full time
we parted--full time. I didn't dream that I was warming an adder to
sting me?"
"I must insist, Mr. Jasper," said Claire firmly, "that you give me
your authority for all this. Let me stand face to face with the man
who has so broadly accused me."
"Then you deny it all?"
"I shall neither affirm nor deny any thing. You have angrily accused
me of having done you a great wrong. All I ask is your authority, and
the right to stand face to face with that authority. This is no light
matter, Mr. Jasper."
"Well said, young man. It is no light matter, as you will, perhaps,
know to your sorrow in the end. Don't suppose, for a moment, that I
shall either forget or forgive this outrage. Leave me because I cheat
in my business!" An expression of unmitigated contempt was on his
face. "Poh! What hypocrisy! I know you! And let Mr. Melleville beware.
He, I more than suspect, is at the bottom of this. But he'll rue the
day he crossed my path--he will!"
And Jasper ground his teeth in anger.
By this time, Claire had become entirely self-possessed. He was both
surprised and troubled; yet concealed, as far as possible, the real
state of his feelings.
"So far as Mr. Melleville is concerned," said he, "I wish you to
understand, that I applied to him for the situation."
"Exactly! That is in agreement with what I heard. I was such a rogue
that you could not live with me and keep a clear conscience--so you
sought for a place with an honest man."
Claire dropped his eyes to the floor, and stood musing for some
considerable time. When he raised them, he looked steadily at his
employer and said--
"Mr. Jasper, I never made use of the words you have repeated."
"If not the very words, those of a like signification?"
"To whom? There is no need of concealment, Mr. Jasper." Claire was
feeling less and less anxious for the result of this conference every
moment. "Speak out freely, and you will find me ready to do the
same. There had been some underhand work here--or some betrayal of an
ill-advised confidence. The former, I am most ready to believe. In a
word, sir, and to bring this at once to an issue--your informant in
this matter is Henry Parker, who lives with Mr. Melleville."
The change instantly perceptible in the manner of Jasper showed that
Edward's suspicion was right. He had, all at once, remembered that,
during his conversation with Melleville, this young man was near.
"I see how it is," he continued. "An eavesdropper has reported, with
his own comments and exaggerations, a strictly confidential interview.
Such being the case, I will state the plain truth of the matter. Are
you prepared to hear it?"
"Oh, certainly," replied Jasper, with a covert sneer in his voice.
"I'm prepared to hear any thing."
"Very well. What I have to say is now wrung from me. I did not wish to
leave you in anger. I did not wish to draw upon me your ill-will. But,
what is unavoidable must be borne. It is true, Mr. Jasper, as you
have been informed, that I am not satisfied with your way of doing
business."
"How long since, pray?" asked Jasper, with ill-disguised contempt.
"I did not like it in the beginning, but gradually suffered myself to
think that all was fair in trade, until I found I was no better than a
common cheat! Happily, I have been able to make a sudden pause in the
way I was going. From this time, I will serve no man who expects me to
overreach a customer in dealing. So soon as my mind was fully made
up to leave your employment, I called to see my old friend, Mr.
Melleville; stated to him, frankly and fully, what I thought and felt;
and asked him if he could not make room for me in his store. Parker
doubtless overheard a part of what we were saying, and reported it to
you. I would, let me say in passing, much rather hold my relation to
this unpleasant business than his. Mr. Melleville offered me my old
salary--four hundred dollars--and I agreed to enter his service."
"Four hundred dollars!" Jasper said this in unfeigned surprise.
"Yes, sir; that is all he can afford to pay, and of course all I will
receive."
"And I offered you six hundred and fifty."
"True."
"Edward, you are the most consummate fool I ever heard of."
"Time will show that," was the undisturbed reply. "I have made my
election thoughtfully, and am prepared to meet the result."
"You'll repent of this; mark my word for it."
"I may regret your ill-will, Mr. Jasper; but never repent this step.
I'm only thankful that I possessed sufficient resolution to take it."
"When are you going?"
"Not before the end of this month, unless you wish it otherwise. I
would like to give you full time to supply my place."
"You can go at once, if it so please you. In fact, after what has just
passed, I don't see how you can remain, or I tolerate your presence."
"I am ready for this, Mr. Jasper," coolly replied the young man.
"How much is due you?" was inquired, after a brief silence.
"Twenty-five dollars, I believe," answered Claire.
Jasper threw open a ledger that lay on the desk, and, turning to the
young man's account, ran his eyes up the two columns of figures, and
then struck a balance.
"Just twenty-seven dollars," said he, after a second examination of
the figures. "And here's the money," he added, as he took some bills
from the desk and counted out the sum just mentioned. "Now sign me a
receipt in full to date, and that ends the matter."
The receipt was promptly signed.
"And now," sneered Jasper, bowing with mock deference, "I wish you
joy of your better place. You will, in all probability, hear from me
again. I haven't much faith in your over-righteous people; and will
do myself the justice to make some very careful examinations into your
doings since you entered my service. If all is right, well; if not, it
won't be good for you. I'm not the man to forgive ingratitude, injury,
and insult--of all three of which you have been guilty."
"We will not bandy words on that subject, Mr. Jasper," said Claire--"I
simply deny that I have been guilty of either of the faults you
allege. As for an investigation into my business conduct, that you can
do as early and as thoroughly as you please. I shall feel no anxiety
for the result."
Jasper did not reply. For a few moments the young man stood as if
expecting some remark; none being made, he turned away, gathered
together a few articles that were his own private property, tied
them into a bundle and marked his name thereon. Then bowing to the
merchant, he retired--oppressed from recent painful excitement, yet
glad, in his inmost feelings, that a connection so dangerous as that
with Jasper had been dissolved--dissolved even at the cost of making
an enemy.
CHAPTER IX.
As no event of particularly marked interest occurred with those whose
histories we are writing, during the next few years, we will pass over
that time without a record. Some changes of more or less importance
have taken place, in the natural progress of things; but these will
become apparent as we pursue the narrative.
