The word was as a spark to a powder-magazine. Prudence 
was never a cardinal virtue of the Kentucky boy. George 
turned, and, with one indignant blow, knocked Legree flat 
upon his face; and, as he stood over him, blazing with wrath 





and defiance, he would have formed no bad personification, of 
his great namesake triumphing over the dragon. 

Some men, however, are decidedly bettered by being 
knocked down. If a man lays them fairly flat in the dust, 
they seem immediately to conceive a respect for him ; and 
Legree was one of this sort. As he rose, therefore, and 
brushed the dust from his clothes, he eyed the slowly- 
retreating wagon with some evident consideration ; nor did 
he open his mouth till it was out of sight. 

Beyond the boundaries of the plantation George had 
noticed a dry, sandy knoll, shaded by a few trees ; there they 
made the grave. 

" Shall we take off the cloak, mas'r?" said the negroes, 
when the grave was ready. 

" No, no ; bury it with him. It's all I can give you now, 
poor Tom, and you shall have it." 

They laid him in ; and the men shovelled away silently. 
They banked it up, and laid green turf over it. 

" You may go, boys," said George, slipping a quarter into 
the hand of each. They lingered about, however. 

" If young mas'r would please buy us " said one. 

" We'd serve him so faithful! " said the other. 

"Hard times here, mas'r!" said the first. "Do, mas'r, 
buy us, please ! " 

" I can't ! I can't," said George, with difficulty, motioning them off; "it's impossible ! " 

The poor fellows looked dejected, and walked off" in silence. 

"Witness, eternal God," said George, kneeling on the 
grave of his poor friend, " oh, witness that, from this hour, 
I will do what one man can to drive out this curse of slavery 
from my land ! " 

There is no monument to mark the last resting-place of 
our friend. He needs none. His Lord knows where he lies, 
and will raise him up immortal, to appear with him when 
he shall appear in his glory. 

Pity him not ! Such a life and death is not for pity. 
Not in the riches of omnipotence is the chief glory of God, 
but in self-denying, suffering love. And blessed are the 
men whom he calls to fellowship with him, bearing their 
cross after him with patience. Of such it is written, 
"Blessed are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted." 







CHAPTER XLH. 

AN AUTHENTIC GHOST STORY. 

FOB some remarkable reason, ghostly legends were un- 
commonly rife, about this time, among the servants on 
Legree's place. 

It was whisperingly asserted that footsteps, in the dead of 
night, had been heard descending the garret-stairs, and 
patrolling the house. In vain the doors of the upper entry 
had been locked ; the ghost either carried a duplicate key in 
its pocket, or availed itself of a ghost's immemorial privilege 
of coming through the keyhole, and promenaded as before, 
with a freedom that was alarming. 

Authorities were somewhat divided as to the outward form 
of the spirit, owing to a custom quite prevalent among 
negroes and, for aught we know, among whites too of 
invariably shutting the eyes, and covering up heads under 
blankets, petticoats, or whatever else might come in use 
for a shelter, on these occasions. Of course, as everybody 
knows, when the bodily eyes are thus out of the lists, the 
spiritual eyes are uncommonly vivacious and perspicacious ; 
and therefore there were abundance of full-length portraits 
of the ghost, abundantly sworn and testified to, which, as is 
often the case with portraits, agreed with each other in 
no particular, except the common family peculiarity of the 
ghost tribe the wearing of a white sheet. The poor souls 
were not versed in ancient history, and did not know that 
Shakspeare had authenticated this costume, by telling how 

" the sheeted dead 
Did squeak and gibber in the streets of Rome ;" 

and therefore their all hitting upon this is a striking fact 
in pneumatology, which we recommend to the attention of 
spiritual media generally. 





Be it as it may, we have private reasons for knowing that 
a tall figure in a white sheet did walk, at the most approved 
ghostly hours, around the Legree premises pass out the 
doors, glide about the house disappear at intervals, and, 
reappearing, pass up the silent stair-way, into that fatal 
garret ; and that, in the morning, the entry doors were all 
found shut and locked as firm as ever. 

Legree could not help overhearing this whispering ; and 
it was all the more exciting to him from the pains that were 
taken to conceal it from him. He drank more brandy than 
usual ; held up his head briskly, and swore louder than ever 
in the day-time ; but he had bad dreams, and the visions of 
his head on his bed were anything but agreeable. The night 
after Tom's body had been carried away he rode to the 
next town for a carouse, and had a high one. Got home 
late and tired ; locked his door, took out the key, and went 
to bed. 

After all, let a man take what pains he may to hush it 
down, a human soul is an awful, ghostly, unquiet possession 
for a bad man to have. Who knows the metes and bounds 
of it? Who knows all its awful perhapses those shudderings 
and tremblings, which it can no more live down than it can 
outlive its own eternity ! What a fool is he who locks his 
door to keep out spirits, who has in his own bosom a spirit 
he dares not meet alone whose voice, smothered far down, 
and piled over with mountains of earthliness, is yet like the 
forewarning trumpet of doom ! 

But Legree locked his door and set a chair against it ; he 
set a night-lamp at the head of his bed ; and he put his 
pistols there. He examined the catches and fastenings of 
the windows, and then swore "he didn't care for the 
devil and his angels," and went to sleep. 

Well, he slept, for he was tired slept soundly. But, 
finally, there came over his sleep a shadow a horror an 
apprehension of something dreadful hanging over him. It 
was his mother's shroud, he thought; but Gassy had it, 
holding it up, and showing it to him. He heard a confused 
noise of screams and groanings ; and with it all, he knew he 
was asleep, and he struggled to wake himself. He was half 
awake. He was sure something was coming into his room. 
He knew the door was opening, but he could not stir hand 





or foot. At last he turned, with a start ; the door was open, 
and he saw a hand putting out his light. 

It was a cloudy, misty, moonlight, and there he saw it ! 
something white, gliding in ! He heard the still rustle of its 
ghostly garments. It stood still by his bed : a cold hand 
touched his; a voice said three times, in a low, fearful 
whisper, " Come ! come ! come !" And while he lay sweating 
with terror, he knew not when or how, the thing was gone. 
He sprang out of bed, and pulled at the door. It was shut 
and locked, and the man fell down in a swoon. 

After this, Legree became a harder drinker than ever 
before. He no longer drank cautiously, prudently, but 
imprudently and recklessly. 

There were reports around the country, soon after, that he 
was sick and dying. Excess had brought on that frightful 
disease that seems to throw the lurid shadows of a coming 
retribution back into the present life. None could bear the 
horrors of that sick room, when he raved and screamed, and 
spoke of sights which almost stopped the blood of those who 
heard him ; and, at his dying bed, stood a stern, white, inexorable figure, saying, " Come ! come ! come ! " 

By a singular coincidence, on the very night that this 
vision appeared to Legree, the house-door was found open in 
the morning, and some of the negroes had seen two white 
figures gliding down the avenue towards the highroad. 

It was near sun-rise when Gassy and Emmeline paused, 
for a moment, in a little knot of trees near the town. 

Cassy was dressed after the manner of the Creole Spanish 
ladies wholly in black. A small black bonnet on her head, 
covered by a veil thick with embroidery, concealed her face. 
It had been agreed that, in their escape, she was to personate 
the character of a Creole lady, and Emmeline that of her 
servant. 

Brought up, from early life, in connexion with the highest 
society, the language, movements, and air of Cassy, were all 
in agreement with this idea; and she had still enough 
remaining with her of a once splendid wardrobe, and sets 
of jewels, to enable her to personate the thing to 
advantage. 

She stopped in the outskirts of the town, where she had 
noticed trunks for sale, and purchased a handsome one* 





This she requested the man to send along with her. And, 
accordingly, thus escorted by a boy wheeling her trunk, and 
Emmeline behind her, carrying her carpet-bag and sundry 
bundles, she made her appearance at the small tavern, like a 
lady of consideration. 

The first person that struck her, after her arrival, was 
George Shelby, who was staying there, awaiting the next 
boat. 

Cassy had remarked the young man from her loophole in 
the garret, and seen him bear away the body of Tom, and 
observed, with secret exultation, his rencontre with Legree. 
Subsequently, she had gathered, from the conversations she 
had overheard among the negroes, as she glided about in her 
ghostly disguise after night-fall, who he was, and in what 
relation he stood to Tom. She, therefore, felt an immediate 
accession of confidence when she found that he was, like 
herself, awaiting the next boat. 

Cassy's air and manner, address, and evident command of 
money, prevented any rising disposition to suspicion in 
the hotel. People never inquire too closely into those who 
are fair on the main point of paying well a thing which 
Cassy had foreseen when she provided herself with money. 

In the edge of the evening, a boat was heard coming 
along, and George Shelby handed Cassy aboard, with the 
politeness which comes naturally to every Kentuckian, and 
exerted himself to provide her with a good state-room. 

Cassy kept her room and bed, on pretext of illness, during 
the whole time they were on Red Biver ; and was waited on 
with obsequious devotion by her attendant. 

When they arrived at the Mississippi Biver, George, 
having learned that the course of the strange lady was 
upward, like his own, proposed to take a state-room for her 
on the same boat with himself good-naturedly compas- 
sionating her feeble health, and desirous to do what he could 
to assist her. 

Behold, therefore, the whole party safely transferred to 
the good steamer Cincinnati, and sweeping up the river 
under a powerful head of steam. 

Cassy's health was much better. She sat upon the guards, 
came to the table, and was remarked upon in the boat as a 
lady that must have been very handsome. 





From the moment that George got the first glimpse of 
her face, he was troubled with one of those fleeting and 
indefinite likenesses which almost everybody can remember, 
and has been, at times, perplexed with. He could not keep 
himself from looking at her, and watching her perpetually. 
At table, or sitting at her state-room door, still she would 
encounter the young man's eye fixed on her, and politely 
withdrawn, when she showed, by her countenance, that she 
was sensible of the observation. 

Gassy became uneasy. She began to think that he suspected something ; and finally resolved to throw herself 
entirely on his generosity, and intrusted him with her whole 
history. 

George was heartily disposed to sympathise with any one 
who had escaped from Legree's plantation a place that he 
could not remember or speak of with patience ; and, with 
the courageous disregard of consequences which is characteristic of his age and state, he assured her that he would do all 
in his power to protect and bring them through. 

The next state-room to Gassy 's was occupied by a French 
lady, named De Thoux, who was accompanied by a fine little 
daughter, a child of some twelve summers. 

This lady, having gathered from George's conversation 
that he was from Kentucky, seemed evidently disposed to 
cultivate his acquaintance ; in which design she was seconded 
by the graces of her little girl, who was about as pretty a 
plaything as ever diverted the weariness of a fortnight's trip 
on a steamboat. 

George's chair was often placed at her state-room door ; 
and Gassy, as she sat upon the guards, could hear their 
conversation. 

Madame de Thoux was very minute in her inquiries as to 
Kentucky, where she said she had resided in a former period 
of her life. George discovered, to his surprise, that her 
former residence must have been in his own vicinity ; and 
her inquiries showed a knowledge of people and things in 
his region that was perfectly surprising to him. 

" Do you know," said Madame Thoux to him one day, 
"of any man in your neighbourhood of the name of 
Harris ? " 

" There is an old fellow of that name lives not far from 





my father's place," said George. " We never have had much 
intercourse with him, though." 

" He is a large slave-owner, I believe ? " said Madame de 
Thoux, with a manner which seemed to betray more interest 
than she was exactly willing to show. 

" He is," said George, looking rather surprised at her 
manner. 

"Did you ever know of his having perhaps you may 
have heard of his having a mulatto boy, named George ? " 

" Oh, certainly Greorge Harris I know him well ; he 
married a servant of my mother's, but has escaped now to 
Canada." 

" He has ? " said Madame de Thoux, quickly. " Thank 
God!" 

George looked a surprised inquiry, but said nothing. 

Madame de Thoux leaned her head on her hand, and burst 
into tears. " He is my brother ! " she said. 

"Madame!" said George, with a strong accent of surprise. 

" Yes," said Madame de Thoux, lifting her head proudly, 
and wiping her tears ; " Mr. Shelby, George Harris is my 
brother ! " 

" I am perfectly astonished," said George, pushing back 
his chair a pace or two, and looking at Madame de Thoux. 

" I was sold to the South when he was a boy," said she. 
" I was bought by a good and generous man. He took me 
with him to the West Indies, set me free, and married me. 
It is but lately that he died, and I was coming up to 
Kentucky to see if I could find and redeem my brother." 

" I have heard him speak of a sister Emily, that was sold 
South," said George. 

" Tes, indeed ! I am the one," said Madame de Thoux. 
" Tell me what sort of a " 

" A very fine young man," said George, " notwithstanding 
the curse of slavery that lay on him. He sustained a 
first-rate character, both for intelligence and principle. 
I know, you see," he said, " because he married in our 
family." 

" What sort of a girl ? " said Madame de Thoux, eagerly. 

"A treasure!" said George. "A beautiful, intelligent, 
amiable girl. Very pious. My mother had brought her up, 
and trained her as carefully, almost, as a daughter. She 





could read and write, embroider and sew beautifully, and was 
a beautiful singer." 

" Was she born in your house ? " said Madame de Thoux. 

" No. Father bought her once, in one of his trips to 
New Orleans, and brought her up as a present to mother. 
She was about eight or nine years old, then. Father would 
never tell mother what he gave for her; but, the other 
day, on looking over his old papers, we came across the bill 
of sale. He paid an extravagant sum for her, to be sure I 
suppose, on account of her extraordinary beauty." 

George sat with his back to Cassy, and did not see the 
absorbed expression of her countenance as he was giving 
these details. 

At this point in the story she touched his arm, and, with 
a face perfectly white with interest, said, " Do you know the 
names of the people he bought her of ? " 

" A man of the name of Simmons, I think, was the prin- 
cipal in the transaction at least, I think that was the name 
on the bill of sale." 

" O my God ! " said Cassy, and fell insensible on the floor 
of the cabin. 



George as wide-awake now, and so was Madame de 
Thoux. Though neither of them could conjecture what was 
the cause of Cassy's fainting still they made all the tumult 
which is proper in such cases George upsetting a wash- 
pitcher, and breaking two tumblers, in the warmth of his 
humanity ; and various ladies in the cabin, hearing that 
somebody had fainted, crowded the state-room door, and 
kept out all the air they possibly could ; so that, on the 
whole, everything was done that could be expected ! . 

Poor Cassy, when she recovered, turned her face to the 
wall, and wept and sobbed like a child perhaps, mother, 
you can tell what she was thinking of ! Perhaps you cannot ; 
but she felt as sure, in that hour, that God had had mercy 
on her, and that she should see her daughter as she did 
months afterwards when but we anticipate. 







CHAPTEE XLIII. 

RESULTS. 

THE rest of our story is soon told. George Shelby, inter- 
ested, as any other young man might be, by the romance of 
the incident, no less than by feelings of humanity, was at 
the pains to send to Gassy the bill of sale of Eliza, whose 
date and name all corresponded with her own knowledge of 
facts, and left no doubt upon her mind as to the identity 
of her child. It remained now only for her to trace out 
the path of the fugitives. 

Madame de Thoux and she, thus drawn together by the 
singular coincidence of their fortunes, proceeded immediately 
to Canada, and began a tour of inquiry among the stations, 
where the numerous fugitives from slavery are located. At 
Amherstberg they found the missionary with whom George 
and Eliza had taken shelter on their first arrival in Canada, 
and through him were enabled to trace the family to 
Montreal. 

Greorge and Eliza had now been five years free. George 
had found constant occupation in the shop of a worthy 
machinist, where he had been earning a competent support 
for his family, which, in the mean time, had been increased 
by the addition of another daughter. 

Little Harry, a fine bright boy, had been put to a good 
school, and was making rapid proficiency in knowledge. 

The worthy pastor of the station in Amherstberg, where 
George had first landed, was so much interested in the 
statements of Madame de Thoux and Cassy, that he yielded 
to the solicitations of the former to accompany them to 
Montreal in their search she bearing all the expense of the 
expedition. 

The scene now changes to a small, neat tenement, in the 
outskirts of Montreal; the time, evening. A cheerful fire 
blazes on the hearth; a tea-table, covered with a snowy 





cloth, stands prepared for the evening meal. In one corner 
of the room was a table covered with a green cloth, where 
was an open writing-desk, pens, paper, and over it a shelf of 
well-selected books. 

This was George's study. The same zeal for self-improve- 
ment which led him to steal the much -coveted arts of 
reading and writing, amid all the toils and discouragements 
of his early life, still led him to devote all his leisure time to 
self-cultivation. 

At this present time he is seated at the table, making 
notes from a volume of the family library he has been 
reading. 

" Come, George," says Eliza, " you've been gone all day. 
Do put down that book, and let's talk, while I'm getting 
tea do." 

And little Eliza seconds the effort by toddling up to her 
father, and trying to pull the book out of his hand, and 
instal herself on his knee as a substitute. 

" Oh, you little witch ! " says George, yielding as, in such 
circumstances, man always must. 

"That's right," says Eliza, as she begins to cut a loaf of 
bread. A little older she looks ; her form a little fuller ; her 
hair more matronly than of yore ; but evidently contented 
and happy as woman need be. 

" Harry, my boy, how did you come on in that sum to- 
day?" says George, as he laid his hand on his son's head. 

Harry has lost his long curls ; but he can never lose those 
eyes and eyelashes, and that fine, bold brow, that flushes 
with triumph, as he answers, " I did it, every bit of it, my self , 
father, and nobody helped me." 

"That's right," says his father; " depend on yourself, my 
son. You have a better chance than ever your poor lather 
had." 

At this moment there is a rap at the door, and Eliza goes 
and opens it. The delighted, " Why this you ? " calls up 
her husband, and the good pastor of Amherstberg is wel- 
comed. There are two women with him, and Eliza asks 
them to sit down. 

Now, if the truth must be told, the honest pastor had 
arranged a little programme, according to which this affair 
was to develop itself; and, on the way up, all had very 





cautiously and prudently exhorted each other not to let 
things out, except according to previous arrangement. 

What was the good man's consternation, therefore, just as 
he had motioned to the ladies to be seated, and was taking 
out his pocket-handkerchief to wipe his mouth, so as to proceed to his introductory speech in good order, when 
Madame de Thoux upset the whole plan by throwing her 
arms around George's neck, and letting all out at once, by 
saying, " O George ! don't you know me ? I am your 
sister Emily ! " 

Gassy had seated herself more composedly, and would have 
carried on her part very well, had not little Eliza suddenly 
appeared before her in exact shape and form, every outline 
and curl, just as her daughter was when she saw her last. 
The little thing peered up in her face, and Gassy caught 
her up in her arms, pressed her to her bosom, saying, 
what at the moment she really believed, " Darling, I'm your 
mother!" 

In fact, it was a troublesome matter to do up exactly in 
proper order ; but the good pastor at last succeeded in getting 
everybody quiet, and delivering the speech with which he 
had intended to open the exercises, and in which, at last, he 
succeeded so wen, that his whole audience were sobbing 
about him in a manner that ought to satisfy any orator, 
ancient or modern. 

They knelt together, and the good man prayed for there 
are some feelings so agitated and tumultuous, that they can 
find rest only by being poured into the bosom of almighty 
Love and then, rising up, the new-found family embraced 
each other, with a holy trust in Him who, from such peril 
and dangers, and by such unknown ways, had brought them 
together.. 

The note-book of a missionary among the Canadian fugi- 
tives contains truth stranger than fiction. How can it be 
otherwise, when a system prevails which whirls families and 
scatters their members, as the wind whirls and scatters the 
leaves of autumn ? These shores of refuge, like the eternal 
shore, often unite again, in glad communion, hearts that for 
long years have mourned each other as lost. And affecting 
beyond expression is the earnestness with which every new 
arrival among them is met, if perchance it may bring tidings 





of mother, sister, child, or wife, still lost to view in the 
shadows of slavery. 

Deeds of heroism are wrought here more than those of 
romance, when, defying torture and braving death itself, the 
fugitive voluntarily threads his way back to the terrors and 
perils of that dark land, that he may bring out his sister, or 
mother, or wife. 

One young man, of whom a missionary has told us, twice 
re-captured, and suffering shameful stripes for his heroism, 
had escaped again ; and in a letter which we heard read, tells 
his friends that he is going back a third time, that he may, at 
last, bring away his sister. My good sir, is this man a hero 
or a criminal ? Would not you do as much for your sister ? 
And can you blame him ? 

But to return to our friends, whom we left wiping their 
eyes and recovering themselves from too great and sudden a 
joy. They are now seated around the social board, and are 
getting decidedly companionable ; only that Cassy who keeps 
little Eliza on her lap, occasionally squeezes the little thing 
in a manner that rather astonishes her, and obstinately re- 
fuses to have her mouth stuffed with cake to the extent the 
little one desires, alleging, what the child rather wonders 
at, that she has got something better than cake, and doesn't 
want it. 

And, indeed, in two or three days such a change has 
passed over Cassy that our readers would scarcely know her. 
The despairing, haggard expression of her face had given 
way to one of gentle trust. She seemed to sink at once into 
the bosom of the family, and take the little ones into her 
heart, as something for which it long had waited. Indeed, 
her love seemed to flow more naturally to the little Eliza than 
to her own daughter, for she was the exact image and body 
of the child whom she had lost. The little one was a flowery 
bond between mother and daughter, through whom grew up 
acquaintanceship and affection. Eliza's steady, consistent 
piety, regulated by the constant reading of the sacred word, 
made her a proper guide for the shattered and wearied mind 
of her mother. Cassy yielded at once, and with her whole 
soul, to every good influence, and became a devout and 
tender Christian. 

After a day or two, Madame de Thoux told her brother 





more particularly of her affairs. The death of her husband 
had left her an ample fortune, which she generously offered 
to share with the family. When she asked George what way 
she could best apply it for him, he answered, " Give me an 
education, Emily ; that has always been my heart's desire. 
Then I can do all the rest." 

On mature deliberation, it was decided that the whole 
family should go, for some years, to France, whither they 
sailed, carrying Emmeline with them. 

The good looks of the latter won the affection of the first 
mate of the vessel, and shortly after entering the port, she 
became his wife. 

George remained four years at a French university, and 
applying himself with an unintermitted zeal, obtained a very 
thorough education. 

Political troubles in France at last led the family again to 
seek an asylum in this country. 

George's feelings and views, as an educated man, may be 
best expressed in a letter to one of his friends : 

" I feel somewhat at a loss as to my future course. True, 
as you have said to me, I might mingle in the circles of the 
whites in this country, my shade of colour is so slight, and 
that of my wife and family scarce perceptible. Well, 
perhaps on sufferance, I might. But, to tell you the truth, 


" My sympathies are not for my father's race, but for my 
mother's. To him I was no more than a fine dog or horse ; 
to my poor heart-broken mother I was a child ; and, though 
I never saw her after the cruel sale that separated us till she 
died, yet I know she always loved me dearly. I know it by 
my own heart. When I think of all she suffered, of my own 
early sufferings, of the distresses and struggles of my heroic 
wife, of my sister, sold in the New Orleans slave-market 
though I hope to have no unchristian sentiments, yet I 
may be excused for saying, I have no wish to pass for an 
American, or to identify myself with them. 

" It is with the oppressed, enslaved African race that I 
cast in my lot ; and if I wished anything, I would wish 
myself two shades darker, rather than one lighter. 

" The desire and yearning of my soul is for an African 
nationality. I want a people that shall have a tangible, 





separate existence of its own ; and where am I to look for 
it ? Not in Hayti ; for in Hayti they had nothing to start 
with. A stream cannot rise above its fountain. The race 
that formed the character of the Haytiens was a worn-out, 
