on the whole, that it might be a good speculation. As a further specimen
of the free-and-easy facetiousness which seems to be a trait in this
production, see, on p. 58, where the Latin motto Facilis descensus
Averni sed revocare, &c., receives the following quite free and truly
Western translation, which, he good-naturedly says, is given for the
benefit of those who do not understand Latin,—“It is easy to go to the
devil, but the devil to get back.”

Some uncharitable people might, perhaps, say that the preachers of such
doctrines are as likely as anybody to have an experimental knowledge on
this point. The idea of this jovial old father instructing a class of
black “Sams” and young “Topsys” in the mysteries of the Assembly’s
Catechism is truly picturesque!

That Mr. Smylie’s opinions on the subject of slavery have been amply
supported and carried out by leading clergymen in every denomination, we
might give volumes of quotations to show.

A second head, however, is yet to be considered, with regard to the
influence of the Southern church and clergy.

It is well known that the Southern political community have taken their
stand upon the position that the institution of slavery shall not be
open to discussion. In many of the slave states stringent laws exist,
subjecting to fine and imprisonment, and even death, any who speak or
publish anything upon the subject, except in its favor. They have not
only done this with regard to citizens of slave states, but they have
shown the strongest disposition to do it with regard to citizens of free
states; and when these discussions could not be repelled by regular law,
they have encouraged the use of illegal measures. In the published
letters and speeches of Horace Mann the following examples are given (p.
467). In 1831 the Legislature of Georgia offered five thousand dollars
to any one who would arrest and bring to trial and conviction, in
Georgia, a citizen of Massachusetts, named William Lloyd Garrison. This
law was approved by W. Lumpkin, Governor, Dec. 26, 1831. At a meeting of
slave-holders held at Sterling, in the same state, September 4, 1835, it
was formally recommended to the governor to offer, by proclamation, five
thousand dollars reward for the apprehension of any one of ten persons,
citizens, with one exception, of New York and Massachusetts, whose names
were given. The Milledgeville (Ga.) Federal Union of February 1st,
1836, contained an offer of ten thousand dollars for the arrest and
kidnapping of the Rev. A. A. Phelps, of New York. The committee of
vigilance of the parish of East Feliciana offered, in the Louisville
Journal of Oct. 15, 1835, fifty thousand dollars to any person who
would deliver into their hands Arthur Tappan, of New York. At a public
meeting at Mount Meigs, Alabama, Aug. 13, 1836, the Hon. Bedford Ginress
in the chair, a reward of fifty thousand dollars was offered for the
apprehension of the same Arthur Tappan, or of Le Roy Sunderland, a
Methodist clergyman of New York. Of course, as none of these persons
could be seized except in violation of the laws of the state where they
were citizens, this was offering a public reward for an act of felony.
Throughout all the Southern States associations were formed, called
committees of vigilance, for the taking of measures for suppressing
abolition opinions, and for the punishment by Lynch law of suspected
persons. At Charleston, South Carolina, a mob of this description forced
open the post-office, and made a general inspection, at their pleasure,
of its contents; and whatever publication they found there which they
considered to be of a dangerous and anti-slavery tendency, they made a
public bonfire of, in the street. A large public meeting was held, a few
days afterwards, to complete the preparation for excluding anti-slavery
principles from publication, and for ferreting out persons suspected of
abolitionism, that they might be subjected to Lynch law. Similar popular
meetings were held through the Southern and Western States. At one of
these, held in Clinton, Mississippi, in the year 1835, the following
resolutions were passed:

  Resolved, That slavery through the South and West is not felt as
  an evil, moral or political, but it is recognized in reference to
  the actual, and not to any Utopian condition of our slaves, as a
  blessing both to master and slave.

  Resolved, That it is our decided opinion that any individual who
  dares to circulate, with a view to effectuate the designs of the
  abolitionists, any of the incendiary tracts or newspapers now in a
  course of transmission to this country, is justly worthy, in the
  sight of God and man, of immediate death; and we doubt not that such
  would be the punishment of any such offender in any part of the
  State of Mississippi where he may be found.

  Resolved, That the clergy of the State of Mississippi be hereby
  recommended at once to take a stand upon this subject; and that
  their further silence in relation thereto, at this crisis, will, in
  our opinion, be subject to serious censure.

The treatment to which persons were exposed, when taken up by any of
these vigilance committees, as suspected of anti-slavery sentiments, may
be gathered from the following account. The writer has a distinct
recollection of the circumstances at the present time, as the victim of
this injustice was a member of the seminary then under the care of her
father.

  Amos Dresser, now a missionary in Jamaica, was a theological student
  at Lane Seminary, near Cincinnati. In the vacation (August 1835) he
  undertook to sell Bibles in the State of Tennessee, with a view to
  raise means further to continue his studios. Whilst there, he fell
  under suspicion of being an abolitionist, was arrested by the
  vigilance committee whilst attending a religious meeting in the
  neighborhood of Nashville, the capital of the state, and, after an
  afternoon and evening’s inquisition, condemned to receive twenty
  lashes on his naked body. The sentence was executed on him, between
  eleven and twelve o’clock on Saturday night, in the presence of most
  of the committee, and of an infuriated and blaspheming mob. The
  vigilance committee (an unlawful association) consisted of sixty
  persons. Of these, twenty-seven were members of churches; one, a
  religious teacher; another, the Elder who but a few days before,
  in the Presbyterian church, handed Mr. Dresser the bread and wine at
  the communion of the Lord’s supper.

It will readily be seen that the principle involved in such proceedings
as these involves more than the question of slavery. The question was,
in fact, this,—whether it is so important to hold African slaves that it
is proper to deprive free Americans of the liberty of conscience, and
liberty of speech, and liberty of the press, in order to do it. It is
easy to see that very serious changes would be made in the government of
a country by the admission of this principle: because it is quite plain
that, if all these principles of our free government may be given up for
one thing, they may for another, and that its ultimate tendency is to
destroy entirely that freedom of opinion and thought which is considered
to be the distinguishing excellence of American institutions.

The question now is, Did the church join with the world in thinking the
institution of slavery so important and desirable as to lead them to
look with approbation upon Lynch law, and the sacrifice of the rights of
free inquiry? We answer the reader by submitting the following facts and
quotations.

At the large meeting which we have described above, in Charleston, South
Carolina, the Charleston Courier informs us “that the clergy of all
denominations attended in a body, lending their sanction to the
proceedings, and adding by their presence to the impressive character of
the scene.” There can be no doubt that the presence of the clergy of all
denominations, in a body, at a meeting held for such a purpose, was an
impressive scene, truly!

At this meeting it was Resolved,

  That the thanks of this meeting are due to the reverend gentlemen of
  the clergy in this city, who have so promptly and so effectually
  responded to public sentiment, by suspending their schools in which
  the free colored population were taught; and that this meeting
  deem it a patriotic action, worthy of all praise, and proper to be
  imitated by other teachers of similar schools throughout the state.

The question here arises, whether their Lord, at the day of judgment,
will comment on their actions in a similar strain.

The alarm of the Virginia slave-holders was not less; nor were the
clergy in the city of Richmond, the capital, less prompt than the clergy
in Charleston to respond to “public sentiment.” Accordingly, on the 29th
of July, they assembled together, and Resolved, unanimously,

  That we earnestly deprecate the unwarrantable and highly improper
  interference of the people of any other state with the domestic
  relations of master and slave.

  That the example of our Lord Jesus Christ and his apostles, in not
  interfering with the question of slavery, but uniformly recognizing
  the relations of master and servant, and giving full and
  affectionate instruction to both, is worthy of the imitation of all
  ministers of the gospel.

  That we will not patronize nor receive any pamphlet or newspaper of
  the anti-slavery societies, and that we will discountenance the
  circulation of all such papers in the community.

The Rev. J. C. Postell, a Methodist minister of South Carolina,
concludes a very violent letter to the editor of Zion’s Watchman, a
Methodist anti-slavery paper published in New York, in the following
manner. The reader will see that this taunt is an allusion to the offer
of fifty thousand dollars for his body at the South which we have given
before.

  But, if you desire to educate the slaves, I will tell you how to
  raise the money without editing Zion’s Watchman. You and old
  Arthur Tappan come out to the South this winter, and they will raise
  one hundred thousand dollars for you. New Orleans, itself, will be
  pledged for it. Desiring no further acquaintance with you, and never
  expecting to see you but once in time or eternity, that is at the
  judgment, I subscribe myself the friend of the Bible, and the
  opposer of abolitionists,

                                                        J. C. POSTELL.

  Orangeburgh, July 21st, 1836.

The Rev. Thomas S. Witherspoon, a member of the Presbyterian Church,
writing to the editor of the Emancipator, says:

  I draw my warrant from the Scriptures of the Old and New Testament,
  to hold the slave in bondage. The principle of holding the heathen
  in bondage is recognized by God. * * * When the tardy process of the
  law is too long in redressing our grievances, we of the South have
  adopted the summary remedy of Judge Lynch—and really I think it one
  of the most wholesome and salutary remedies for the malady of
  Northern fanaticism that can be applied, and no doubt my worthy
  friend, the Editor of the Emancipator and Human Rights, would feel
  the better of its enforcement, provided he had a Southern
  administrator. I go to the Bible for my warrant in all moral
  matters. * * Let your emissaries dare venture to cross the Potomac,
  and I cannot promise you that their fate will be less than Haman’s.
  Then beware how you goad an insulted but magnanimous people to deeds
  of desperation!

The Rev. Robert N. Anderson, also a member of the Presbyterian Church,
says, in a letter to the Sessions of the Presbyterian Congregations
within the bounds of the West Hanover Presbytery:

  At the approaching stated meeting of our Presbytery, I design to
  offer a preamble and string of resolutions on the subject of the use
  of wine in the Lord’s Supper: and also a preamble and string of
  resolutions on the subject of the treasonable and abominably wicked
  interference of the Northern and Eastern fanatics with our political
  and civil rights, our property and our domestic concerns. You are
  aware that our clergy, whether with or without reason, are more
  suspected by the public than the clergy of other denominations. Now,
  dear Christian brethren, I humbly express it as my earnest wish,
  that you quit yourselves like men. If there be any stray goat of a
  minister among you, tainted with the bloodhound principles of
  abolitionism, let him be ferreted out, silenced, excommunicated, and
  left to the public to dispose of him in other respects.

                                Your affectionate brother in the Lord,
                                                  ROBERT N. ANDERSON.

The Rev. William S. Plummer, D.D., of Richmond, a member of the
Old-school Presbyterian Church, is another instance of the same sort. He
was absent from Richmond at the time the clergy in that city purged
themselves, in a body, from the charge of being favorably disposed to
abolition. On his return, he lost no time in communicating to the
“Chairman of the Committee of Correspondence” his agreement with his
clerical brethren. The passages quoted occur in his letter to the
chairman:

  I have carefully watched this matter from its earliest existence,
  and everything I have seen or heard of its character, both from its
  patrons and its enemies, has confirmed me, beyond repentance, in the
  belief, that, let the character of abolitionists be what it may in
  the sight of the Judge of all the earth, this is the most
  meddlesome, impudent, reckless, fierce, and wicked excitement I ever
  saw.

  If abolitionists will set the country in a blaze, it is but fair
  that they should receive the first warming at the fire.

                  *       *       *       *       *

  Lastly. Abolitionists are like infidels, wholly unaddicted to
  martyrdom for opinion’s sake. Let them understand that they will be
  caught [Lynched] if they come among us, and they will take good
  heed to keep out of our way. There is not one man among them who has
  any more idea of shedding his blood in this cause than he has of
  making war on the Grand Turk.

The Rev. Dr. Hill, of Virginia, said, in the New School Assembly:

  The abolitionists have made the servitude of the slave harder. If I
  could tell you some of the dirty tricks which these abolitionists
  have played, you would not wonder. Some of them have been Lynched,
  and it served them right.

These things sufficiently show the estimate which the Southern clergy
and church have formed and expressed as to the relative value of slavery
and the right of free inquiry. It shows, also, that they consider
slavery as so important that they can tolerate and encourage acts of
lawless violence, and risk all the dangers of encouraging mob law, for
its sake. These passages and considerations sufficiently show the stand
which the Southern church takes upon this subject.

For many of these opinions, shocking as they may appear, some apology
may be found in that blinding power of custom and all those deadly
educational influences which always attend the system of slavery, and
which must necessarily produce a certain obtuseness of the moral sense
in the mind of any man who is educated from childhood under them.

There is also, in the habits of mind formed under a system which is
supported by continual resort to force and violence, a necessary
deadening of sensibility to the evils of force and violence, as applied
to other subjects. The whole style of civilization which is formed under
such an institution has been not unaptly denominated by a popular writer
“the bowie-knife style;” and we must not be surprised at its producing a
peculiarly martial cast of religious character, and ideas very much at
variance with the spirit of the gospel. A religious man, born and
educated at the South, has all these difficulties to contend with, in
elevating himself to the true spirit of the gospel.

It was said by one that, after the Reformation, the best of men, being
educated under a system of despotism and force, and accustomed from
childhood to have force, and not argument, made the test of opinion,
came to look upon all controversies very much in a Smithfield light,—the
question being not as to the propriety of burning heretics, but as to
which party ought to be burned.

The system of slavery is a simple retrogression of society to the worst
abuses of the middle ages. We must not therefore be surprised to find
the opinions and practices of the middle ages, as to civil and religious
toleration, prevailing.

However much we may reprobate and deplore those unworthy views of God
and religion which are implied in such declarations as are here
recorded,—however blasphemous and absurd they may appear,—still, it is
apparent that their authors uttered them with sincerity: and this is the
most melancholy feature of the case. They are as sincere as Paul when he
breathed out threatenings and slaughter, and when he thought within
himself that he ought to do many things contrary to the name of Jesus.
They are as sincere as the Brahmin or Hindoo, conscientiously supporting
a religion of cruelty and blood. They are as sincere as many
enlightened, scholarlike and Christian men in modern Europe, who, born
and bred under systems of civil and religious despotism, and having them
entwined with all their dearest associations of home and country, and
having all their habits of thought and feeling biased by them, do most
conscientiously defend them.

There is something in conscientious conviction, even in case of the
worst kind of opinions, which is not without a certain degree of
respectability. That the religion expressed by the declarations which we
have quoted is as truly Antichrist as the religion of the Church of
Rome, it is presumed no sensible person out of the sphere of American
influences will deny. That there may be very sincere Christians under
this system of religion, with all its false principles and all its
disadvantageous influences, liberality must concede. The Church of Rome
has had its Fenelon, its Thomas â Kempis; and the Southern Church, which
has adopted these principles, has had men who have risen above the level
of their system. At the time of the Reformation, and now, the Church of
Rome had in its bosom thousands of praying, devoted, humble Christians,
which, like flowers in the clefts of rocks, could be counted by no eye,
save God’s alone. And so, amid the rifts and glaciers of this horrible
spiritual and temporal despotism, we hope are blooming flowers of
Paradise, patient, prayerful, and self-denying Christians; and it is the
deepest grief, in attacking the dreadful system under which they have
been born and brought up, that violence must be done to their cherished
feelings and associations. In another and better world, perhaps, they
may appreciate the motives of those who do this.

But now another consideration comes to the mind. These Southern
Christians have been united in ecclesiastical relations with Christians
of the northern and free states, meeting with them, by their
representatives, yearly, in their various ecclesiastical assemblies. One
might hope, in case of such a union, that those debasing views of
Christianity, and that deadness of public sentiment, which were the
inevitable result of an education under the slave system, might have
been qualified by intercourse with Christians in free states, who,
having grown up under free institutions, would naturally be supposed to
feel the utmost abhorrence of such sentiments. One would have supposed
that the church and clergy of the free states would naturally have used
the most strenuous endeavors, by all the means in their power, to
convince their brethren of errors so dishonorable to Christianity, and
tending to such dreadful practical results. One would have supposed
also, that, failing to convince their brethren, they would have felt it
due to Christianity to clear themselves from all complicity with these
sentiments, by the most solemn, earnest and reiterated protests.

Let us now inquire what has, in fact, been the course of the Northern
church on this subject.

Previous to making this inquiry, let us review the declarations that
have been made in the Southern church, and see what principles have been
established by them.

1. That slavery is an innocent and lawful relation, as much as that of
parent and child, husband and wife, or any other lawful relation of
society. (Harmony Pres., S. C.)

2. That it is consistent with the most fraternal regard for the good of
the slave. (Charleston Union Pres., S. C.)

3. That masters ought not to be disciplined for selling slaves without
their consent. (New-school Pres. Church, Petersburg, Va.)

4. That the right to buy, sell, and hold men for purposes of gain, was
given by express permission of God. (James Smylie and his Presbyteries.)

5. That the laws which forbid the education of the slave are right, and
meet the approbation of the reflecting part of the Christian community.
(Ibid.)

6. That the fact of slavery is not a question of morals at all, but is
purely one of political economy. (Charleston Baptist Association.)

7. The right of masters to dispose of the time of their slaves has been
distinctly recognized by the Creator of all things. (Ibid.)

8. That slavery, as it exists in these United States, is not a moral
evil. (Georgia Conference, Methodist.)

9. That, without a new revelation from heaven, no man is entitled to
pronounce slavery wrong.

10. That the separation of slaves by sale should be regarded as
separation by death, and the parties allowed to marry again. (Shiloh
Baptist Ass., and Savannah River Ass.)

11. That the testimony of colored members of the churches shall not be
taken against a white person. (Methodist Church.)

In addition, it has been plainly avowed, by the expressed principles and
practice of Christians of various denominations, that they regard it
right and proper to put down all inquiry upon this subject by Lynch law.

One would have imagined that these principles were sufficiently
extraordinary, as coming from the professors of the religion of Christ,
to have excited a good deal of attention in their Northern brethren. It
also must be seen that, as principles, they are principles of very
extensive application, underlying the whole foundations of religion and
morality. If not true, they were certainly heresies of no ordinary
magnitude, involving no ordinary results. Let us now return to our
inquiry as to the course of the Northern church in relation to them.

-----

Footnote 24:

  Birney’s pamphlet




                              CHAPTER II.


In the first place, have any of these opinions ever been treated in the
church as heresies, and the teachers of them been subjected to the
censures with which it is thought proper to visit heresy?

After a somewhat extended examination upon the subject, the writer has
been able to discover but one instance of this sort. It may be possible
that such cases have existed in other denominations, which have escaped
inquiry.

A clergyman in the Cincinnati N. S. Presbytery maintained the doctrine
that slaveholding was justified by the Bible, and for persistence in
teaching this sentiment was suspended by that presbytery. He appealed to
Synod, and the decision was confirmed by the Cincinnati Synod. The New
School General Assembly, however, reversed this decision of the
presbytery, and restored the standing of the clergyman. The presbytery,
on its part, refused to receive him back, and he was received into the
Old School Church.

The Presbyterian Church has probably exceeded all other churches of the
United States in its zeal for doctrinal opinions. This church has been
shaken and agitated to its very foundation with questions of heresy;
but, except in this individual case, it is not known that any of these
principles which have been asserted by Southern Presbyterian bodies and
individuals have ever been discussed in its General Assembly as matters
of heresy.

About the time that Smylie’s pamphlet came out, the Presbyterian Church
was convulsed with the trial of the Rev. Albert Barnes for certain
alleged heresies. These heresies related to the federal headship of
Adam, the propriety of imputing his sin to all his posterity, and the
question whether men have any ability of any kind to obey the
commandments of God.

For advancing certain sentiments on these topics, Mr. Barnes was
silenced by the vote of the synod to which he belonged, and his trial in
the General Assembly on these points was the all-engrossing topic in the
Presbyterian Church for some time. The Rev. Dr. L. Beecher went through
a trial with reference to similar opinions. During all this time, no
notice was taken of the heresy, if such it be, that the right to buy,
sell, and hold men for purposes of gain, was expressly given by God;
although that heresy was publicly promulgated in the same Presbyterian
Church, by Mr. Smylie, and the presbyteries with which he was connected.

If it be accounted for by saying that the question of slavery is a
question of practical morals, and not of dogmatic theology, we are
then reminded that questions of morals of far less magnitude have been
discussed with absorbing interest.

The Old School Presbyterian Church, in whose communion the greater part
of the slave-holding Presbyterians of the South are found, has never
felt called upon to discipline its members for upholding a system which
denies legal marriage to all slaves. Yet this church was agitated to its
very foundation by the discussion of a question of morals which an
impartial observer would probably consider of far less magnitude,
namely, whether a man might lawfully marry his deceased wife’s sister.
For the time, all the strength and attention of the church seemed
concentrated upon this important subject. The trial went from Presbytery
to Synod, and from Synod to General Assembly; and ended with deposing a
very respectable minister for this crime.

Rev. Robert P. Breckenridge, D.D., a member of the Old School Assembly,
has thus described the state of the slave population as to their
marriage relations: “The system of slavery denies to a whole class of
human beings the sacredness of marriage and of home, compelling them to
live in a state of concubinage; for in the eye of the law no colored
slave-man is the husband of any wife in particular, nor any slave-woman
the wife of any husband in particular; no slave-man is the father of any
children in particular, and no slave-child is the child of any parent in
particular.”

Now, had this church considered the fact that three million men and
women were, by the laws of the land, obliged to live in this manner, as
of equally serious consequence, it is evident, from the ingenuity,
argument, vehemence, Biblical research, and untiring zeal, which they
bestowed on Mr. McQueen’s trial, that they could have made a very strong
case with regard to this also.

The history of the united action of denominations which included
churches both in the slave and free states is a melancholy
exemplification, to a reflecting mind, of that gradual deterioration of
the moral sense which results from admitting any compromise, however
slight, with an acknowledged sin. The best minds in the world cannot
bear such a familiarity without injury to the moral sense. The facts of
the slave system and of the slave laws, when presented to disinterested
judges in Europe, have excited a universal outburst of horror; yet, in
assemblies composed of the wisest and best clergymen of America, these
things have been discussed from year to year, and yet brought no results
that have, in the slightest degree, lessened the evil. The reason is
this. A portion of the members of these bodies had pledged themselves to
sustain the system, and peremptorily to refuse and put down all
discussion of it; and the other part of the body did not consider this
stand so taken as being of sufficiently vital consequence to authorize
separation.

Nobody will doubt that, had the Southern members taken such a stand
against the divinity of our Lord, the division would have been immediate
and unanimous; but yet the Southern members do maintain the right to buy
and sell, lease, hire and mortgage, multitudes of men and women, whom,
with the same breath, they declared to be members of their churches and
true Christians. The Bible declares of all such that they are temples of
the Holy Ghost; that they are members of Christ’s body, of his flesh and
bones. Is not the doctrine that men may lawfully sell the members of
Christ, his body, his flesh and bones, for purposes of gain, as really a
heresy as the denial of the divinity of Christ; and is it not a dishonor
to Him who is over all, God blessed forever, to tolerate this dreadful
opinion, with its more dreadful consequences, while the smallest
heresies concerning the imputation of Adam’s sin are pursued with eager
vehemence? If the history of the action of all the bodies thus united
can be traced downwards, we shall find that, by reason of this tolerance
of an admitted sin, the anti-slavery testimony has every year grown
weaker and weaker. If we look over the history of all denominations, we
shall see that at first they used very stringent language with relation
to slavery. This is particularly the case with the Methodist and
Presbyterian bodies, and for that reason we select these two as
examples. The Methodist Society especially, as organized by John Wesley,
was an anti-slavery society, and the Book of Discipline contained the
most positive statutes against slave-holding. The history of the
successive resolutions of the conference of this church is very
striking. In 1780, before the church was regularly organized in the
United States, they resolved as follows:

  The conference acknowledges that slavery is contrary to the laws of
  God, man and nature, and hurtful to society; contrary to the
  dictates of conscience and true religion; and doing what we would
  not others should do unto us.

In 1784, when the church was fully organized, rules were adopted
prescribing the times at which members who were already slave-holders
should emancipate their slaves. These rules were succeeded by the
following:

  Every person concerned, who will not comply with these rules, shall
  have liberty quietly to withdraw from our society within the twelve
  months following the notice being given him, as aforesaid; otherwise
  the assistants shall exclude him from the society.

  No person holding slaves shall in future be admitted into society,
  or to the Lord’s Supper, till he previously comply with these rules
  concerning slavery.

  Those who buy, sell, or give [slaves] away, unless on purpose to
  free them, shall be expelled immediately.

In 1801:

  We declare that we are more than ever convinced of the great evil of
  African slavery, which still exists in these United States.

  Every member of the society who sells a slave shall, immediately
  after full proof, be excluded from the society, &c.

  The Annual Conferences are directed to draw up addresses, for the
  gradual emancipation of the slaves, to the legislature. Proper
  committees shall be appointed by the Annual Conferences, out of the
  most respectable of our friends, for the conducting of the business;
  and the presiding elders, deacons, and travelling preachers, shall
  procure as many proper signatures as possible to the addresses; and
  give all the assistance in their power, in every respect, to aid the
  committees, and to further the blessed undertaking. Let this be
  continued from year to year, till the desired end be accomplished.

In 1836 let us notice the change. The General Conference held its annual
session in Cincinnati, and resolved as follows:

  Resolved, By the delegates of the Annual Conferences in General
  Conference assembled, That they are decidedly opposed to modern
  abolitionism, and wholly disclaim any right, wish, or intention,
  to interfere in the civil and political relation between master and
  slave, as it exists in the slave-holding states of this Union.

These resolutions were passed by a very large majority. An address was
received from the Wesleyan Methodist Conference in England,
affectionately remonstrating on the subject of slavery. The Conference
refused to publish it. In the pastoral address to the churches are these
passages:

  It cannot be unknown to you that the question of slavery in the
  United States, by the constitutional compact which binds us together
  as a nation, is left to be regulated by the several state
  legislatures themselves; and thereby is put beyond the control of
  the general government, as well as that of all ecclesiastical
  bodies; it being manifest that in the slave-holding states
  themselves the entire responsibility of its existence, or
  non-existence, rests with those state legislatures. * * * * These
  facts, which are only mentioned here as a reason for the friendly
  admonition which we wish to give you, constrain us, as your pastors,
  who are called to watch over your souls as they must give account,
  to exhort you to abstain from all abolition movements and
  associations, and to refrain from patronizing any of their
  publications, &c. * *

The subordinate conferences showed the same spirit.

In 1836 the New York Annual Conference resolved that no one should be
elected a deacon or elder in the church, unless he would give a pledge
to the church that he would refrain from discussing this subject.[25]

In 1838 the conference resolved:

  As the sense of this conference, that any of its members, or
  probationers, who shall patronize Zion’s Watchman, either by
  writing in commendation of its character, by circulating it,
  recommending it to our people, or procuring subscribers, or by
  collecting or remitting moneys, shall be deemed guilty of
  indiscretion, and dealt with accordingly.

It will be recollected that Zion’s Watchman was edited by Le Roy
Sunderland, for whose abduction the State of Alabama had offered fifty
thousand dollars.

In 1840, the General Conference at Baltimore passed the resolution that
we have already quoted, forbidding preachers to allow colored persons to
give testimony in their churches. It has been computed that about eighty
thousand people were deprived of the right of testimony by this act.
This Methodist Church subsequently broke into a Northern and Southern
Conference. The Southern Conference is avowedly all pro-slavery, and the
Northern Conference has still in its communion slave-holding conferences
and members.

Of the Northern conferences, one of the largest, the Baltimore, passed
the following:

  Resolved, That this conference disclaims having any fellowship
  with abolitionism. On the contrary, while it is determined to
  maintain its well-known and long-established position, by keeping
  the travelling preachers composing its own body free from slavery,
  it is also determined not to hold connection with any ecclesiastical
  body that shall make non-slaveholding a condition of membership in
  the church; but to stand by and maintain the discipline as it is.

The following extract is made from an address of the Philadelphia Annual
Conference to the societies under its care, dated Wilmington Del., April
7, 1847:

  If the plan of separation gives us the pastoral care of you, it
  remains to inquire whether we have done anything, as a conference,
  or as men, to forfeit your confidence and affection. We are not
  advised that even in the great excitement which has distressed you
  for some months past, any one has impeached our moral conduct, or
  charged us with unsoundness in doctrine, or corruption or tyranny in
  the administration of discipline. But we learn that the simple cause
  of the unhappy excitement among you is, that some suspect us, or
  affect to suspect us, of being abolitionists. Yet no particular act
  of the conference, or any particular member thereof, is adduced, as
  the ground of the erroneous and injurious suspicion. We would ask
  you, brethren, whether the conduct of our ministry among you for
  sixty years past ought not to be sufficient to protect us from this
  charge. Whether the question we have been accustomed, for a few
  years past, to put to candidates for admission among us, namely,
  Are you an abolitionist? and, without each one answered in the
  negative, he was not received, ought not to protect us from the
  charge. Whether the action of the last conference on this particular
  matter ought not to satisfy any fair and candid mind that we are
  not, and do not desire to be, abolitionists. * * * We cannot see how
  we can be regarded as abolitionists, without the ministers of the
  Methodist Episcopal Church South being considered in the same light.

                  *       *       *       *       *

  Wishing you all heavenly benedictions, we are, dear brethren, yours,
  in Christ Jesus,

                        J. P. DURBIN,    }
                        J. KENNADAY,     }
                     IGNATIUS T. COOPER, } Comm.
                     WILLIAM H. GILDER,  }
                       JOSEPH CASTLE,    }

These facts sufficiently define the position of the Methodist Church.
The history is melancholy, but instructive. The history of the
Presbyterian Church is also of interest.

In 1793, the following note to the eighth commandment was inserted in
the Book of Discipline, as expressing the doctrine of the church upon
slave-holding:

  1 Tim. 1:10. The law is made for MAN-STEALERS. This crime among the
  Jews exposed the perpetrators of it to capital punishment, Exodus
  21:15; and the apostle here classes them with sinners of the first
  rank. The word he uses, in its original import, comprehends all who
  are concerned in bringing any of the human race into slavery, or in
