"From two to ten years in the penitentiary," was readily answered.
"They'll give him five. I reckon."
"No--not more than two. It will be hard to prove malicious intention."
"I don't know that. I've heard him curse the girl and threaten her many
a time. Haven't you?"
"Yes"--"Yes"--"I have, often," ran round the bar-room.
"You'd better hang me at once," said Slade, affecting to laugh.
At this moment, the door behind Slade opened, and I saw his wife's
anxious face thrust in for a moment. She said something to her husband,
who uttered a low ejaculation of surprise, and went out quickly.
"What's the matter now?" asked one of another.
"I shouldn't wonder if little Mary Morgan was dead," was suggested.
"I heard her say dead," remarked one who was standing near the bar.
"What's the matter, Frank?" inquired several voices, as the landlord's
son came in through the door out of which his father had passed.
"Mary Morgan is dead," answered the boy.
"Poor child! Poor child!" sighed one, in genuine regret at the not
unlooked for intelligence. "Her trouble is over."
And there was not one present, but Harvey Green, who did not utter some
word of pity or sympathy. He shrugged his shoulders, and looked as much
of contempt and indifference as he thought it prudent to express.
"See here, boys," spoke out one of the company, "can't we do something
for poor Mrs. Morgan? Can't we make up a purse for her?"
"That's it," was quickly responded; "I'm good for three dollars; and
there they are," drawing out the money and laying it upon the counter.
"And here are five to go with them," said I, quickly stepping forward,
and placing a five-dollar bill along side of the first contribution.
"Here are five more," added a third individual. And so it went on,
until thirty dollars were paid down for the benefit of Mrs. Morgan.
"Into whose hands shall this be placed?" was next asked.
"Let me suggest Mrs. Slade," said I. "To my certain knowledge, she has
been with Mrs. Morgan to-night. I know that she feels in her a true
woman's interest."
"Just the person," was answered. "Frank, tell your mother we would like
to see her. Ask her to step into the sitting-room."
In a few moments the boy came back, and said that his mother would see
us in the next room, into which we all passed. Mrs. Slade stood near
the table, on which burned a lamp. I noticed that her eyes were red,
and that there was on her countenance a troubled and sorrowful
expression.
"We have just heard," said one of the company, "that little Mary Morgan
is dead."
"Yes--it is too true," answered Mrs. Slade, mournfully. "I have just
left there. Poor child! she has passed from an evil world."
"Evil it has indeed been to her," was remarked.
"You may well say that. And yet, amid all the evil, she been an angel
of mercy. Her last thought in dying was of her miserable father. For
him, at any time, she would have laid down her life willingly."
"Her mother must be nearly broken-hearted. Mary is the last of her
children."
"And yet the child's death may prove a blessing to her."
"How so?"
"Her father promised Mary, just at the last moment--solemnly promised
her--that, henceforth, he would never taste liquor. That was all her
trouble. That was the thorn in her dying pillow. But he plucked it out,
and she went to sleep, lying against his heart. Oh, gentlemen! it was
the most touching sight I ever saw."
All present seemed deeply moved.
"They are very poor and wretched." was said.
"Poor and miserable enough," answered Mrs.' Slade.
"We have just been taking up a collection for Mrs. Morgan. Here is the
money, Mrs. Slade--thirty dollars--we place it in your hands for her
benefit. Do with it, for her, as you may see best."
"Oh, gentlemen!" What a quick gleam went over the face of Mrs. Slade.
"I thank you, from my heart, in the name of that unhappy one, for this
act of true benevolence. To you the sacrifice has been small, to her
the benefit will be great indeed. A new life will, I trust be commenced
by her husband, and this timely aid will be something to rest upon,
until he can get into better employment than he now has. Oh, gentlemen!
let me urge on you, one and all, to make common cause in favor of Joe
Morgan. His purposes are good now, he means to keep his promise to his
dying child--means to reform his life. Let good impulses that led to
that act of relief further prompt you to watch over him and, if you see
him about going astray, to lead him kindly back into the right path.
Never--oh' never encourage him to drink, but rather take the glass from
his hand, if his own appetite lead him aside and by all the persuasive
influence you possess, induce him to go out from the place of
temptation.
"Pardon my boldness in saying so much" added Mrs. Slade, recollecting
herself and coloring deeply as she did so "My feelings have led me
away."
And she took the money from the table where it had been placed, and
retired toward the door.
"You have spoken well madam" was answered "And we thank you for
reminding us of our duty."
"One word more--and forgive the earnest heart from which it
comes"--said Mrs. Slade in a voice that trembled on the words she
uttered "I cannot help speaking, gentlemen! Think if some of you be not
entering the road wherein Joe Morgan has so long been walking. Save him
in heaven's name! but see that ye do not yourselves become castaways!"
As she said this she glided through the door and it closed after her.
"I don't know what her husband would say to that," was remarked after a
few moments of surprised silence.
"I don't care what HE would say, but I'll tell you what I will say"
spoke out a man whom I had several times noticed as a rather a free
tippler "The old lady has given us capital advice, and I mean to take
it, for one. I'm going to try to save Joe Morgan, and--myself too. I've
already entered the road she referred to; but I'm going to turn back.
So good-night to you all; and if Simon Slade gets no more of my
sixpences, he may thank his wife for it--God bless her!"
And the man drew his hat with a jerk over his forehead, and left
immediately.
This seemed the signal for dispersion, and all retired--not by way of
the bar-room, but out into the hall, and through the door leading upon
the porch that ran along in front of the house. Soon after the bar was
closed, and a dead silence reigned throughout the house. I saw no more
of Slade that night. Early in the morning, I left Cedarville; the
landlord looked very sober when he bade me good-bye through the
stage-door, and wished me a pleasant journey.
NIGHT THE FIFTH.
SOME OF THE CONSEQUENCES OF TAVERN-KEEPING.
Nearly five years glided away before business again called me to
Cedarville. I knew little of what passed there in the interval, except
that Simon Slade had actually been indicted for manslaughter, in
causing the death of Morgan's child. He did not stand a trial, however,
Judge Lyman having used his influence, successfully, in getting the
indictment quashed. The judge, some people said, interested himself in
Slade more than was just seemly--especially, as he had, on several
occasions, in the discharge of his official duties, displayed what
seemed an over-righteous indignation against individuals arraigned for
petty offences. The impression made upon me by Judge Lyman had not been
favorable. He seemed a cold, selfish, scheming man of the world. That
he was an unscrupulous politician, was plain to me, in a single
evening's observation of his sayings and doings among the common herd
of a village bar-room.
As the stage rolled, with a gay flourish of our driver's bugle, into
the village, I noted here and there familiar objects, and marked the
varied evidences of change. Our way was past the elegant residence and
grounds of Judge Hammond, the most beautiful and highly cultivated in
Cedarville. At least, such it was regarded at the time of my previous
visit. But, the moment my eyes rested upon the dwelling and its various
surroundings, I perceived an altered aspect. Was it the simple work of
time? or, had familiarity with other and more elegantly arranged
suburban homes, marred this in my eyes by involuntary contrast? Or had
the hand of cultivation really been stayed, and the marring fingers of
neglect suffered undisturbed to trace on every thing disfiguring
characters?
Such questions were in my thoughts, when I saw a man in the large
portico of the dwelling, the ample columns of which, capped in rich
Corinthian, gave the edifice the aspect of a Grecian temple. He stood
leaning against one of the columns--his hat off, and his long gray hair
thrown back and resting lightly on his neck and shoulders. His head was
bent down upon his breast, and he seemed in deep abstraction. Just as
the coach swept by, he looked up, and in the changed features I
recognized Judge Hammond. His complexion was still florid, but his face
had grown thin, and his eyes were sunken. Trouble was written in every
lineament. Trouble? How inadequately does the word express my meaning!
Ah! at a single glance, what a volume of suffering was opened to the
gazer's eye. Not lightly had the foot of time rested there, as if
treading on odorous flowers, but heavily, and with iron-shod heel. This
I saw at a glance; and then, only the image of the man was present to
my inner vision, for the swiftly rolling stage-coach had borne me
onward past the altered home of the wealthiest denizen of Cedarville.
In a few minutes our driver reined up before the "Sickle and Sheaf,"
and as I stepped to the ground, a rotund, coarse, red-faced man, whom I
failed to recognize as Simon Slade until he spoke, grasped my hand, and
pronounced my name. I could not but contrast, in thought, his
appearance with what it was when I first saw him, some six years
previously; nor help saying to myself:
"So much for tavern-keeping!"
As marked a change was visible everywhere in and around the "Sickle and
Sheaf." It, too, had grown larger by additions of wings and rooms; but
it had also grown coarser in growing larger. When built, all the doors
were painted white, and the shutters green, giving to the house a neat,
even tasteful appearance. But the white and green had given place to a
dark, dirty brown, that to my eyes was particularly unattractive. The
bar-room had been extended, and now a polished brass rod, or railing,
embellished the counter, and sundry ornamental attractions had been
given to the shelving behind the bar--such as mirrors, gilding, etc.
Pictures, too, were hung upon the walls, or more accurately speaking;
coarse colored lithographs, the subjects of which, if not really
obscene, were flashing, or vulgar. In the sitting-room, next to the
bar, I noticed little change of objects, but much in their condition.
The carpet, chairs, and tables were the same in fact, but far from
being the same in appearance. The room had a close, greasy odor, and
looked as if it had not been thoroughly swept and dusted for a week.
A smart young Irishman was in the bar, and handed me the book in which
passenger's names were registered. After I had recorded mine, he
directed my trunk to be carried to the room designated as the one I was
to occupy. I followed the porter, who conducted me to the chamber which
had been mine at previous visits. Here, too, were evidences of change;
but not for the better. Then the room was as sweet and clean as it
could be; the sheets and pillow-cases as white as snow, and the
furniture shining with polish. Now all was dusty and dingy, the air
foul, and the bed-linen scarcely whiter than tow. No curtain made
softer the light as it came through the window; nor would the shutters
entirely keep out the glare, for several of the slats were broken. A
feeling of disgust came over me, at the close smell and foul appearance
of everything; so, after washing my hands and face, and brushing the
dust from my clothes, I went down stairs. The sitting-room was scarcely
more attractive than my chamber; so I went out upon the porch and took
a chair. Several loungers were here; hearty, strong-looking, but lazy
fellows, who, if they had anything to do, liked idling better than
working. One of them leaned his chair back against the wall of the
house, and was swinging his legs with a half circular motion, and
humming "Old Folks at Home." Another sat astride of a chair, with his
face turned toward, and his chin resting upon, the back. He was in too
lazy a condition of body and mind for motion or singing. A third had
slidden down in his chair, until he sat on his back, while his feet
were elevated above his head, and rested against one of the pillars
that supported the porch; while a fourth lay stretched out on a bench,
sleeping, his hat over his face to protect him from buzzing and biting
flies.
Though all but the sleeping man eyed me inquisitively, as I took my
place among them, not one changed his position. The rolling of
eye-balls cost but little exertion; and with that effort they were
contented.
"Hallo! who's that?" one of these loungers suddenly exclaimed, as a man
went swiftly by in a light sulky; and he started up, and gazed down the
road, seeking to penetrate the cloud of dust which the fleet rider had
swept up with hoofs and wheels.
"I didn't see." The sleeping man aroused himself, rubbed his eyes, and
gazed along the road.
"Who was it, Matthew?" The Irish bar-keeper now stood in the door.
"Willy Hammond," was answered by Matthew.
"Indeed! Is that his new three hundred dollar horse?"
"Yes."
"My! but he's a screamer!"
"Isn't he! Most as fast as his young master."
"Hardly," said one of the men, laughing. "I don't think anything in
creation can beat Hammond. He goes it with a perfect rush."
"Doesn't he! Well; you may say what you please of him, he's as
good-hearted a fellow as ever walked; and generous to a fault."
"His old dad will agree with you in the last remark," said Matthew.
"No doubt of that, for he has to stand the bills," was answered.
"Yes, whether he will or no, for I rather think Willy has, somehow or
other, got the upper hand of him."
"In what way?"
"It's Hammond and Son, over at the mill and distillery."
"I know; but what of that!"
"Willy was made the business man--ostensibly--in order, as the old man
thought, to get him to feel the responsibility of the new position, and
thus tame him down."
"Tame HIM down! Oh, dear! It will take more than business to do that.
The curb was applied too late."
"As the old gentleman has already discovered, I'm thinking, to his
sorrow."
"He never comes here any more; does he, Matthew?"
"Who?"
"Judge Hammond."
"Oh, dear, no. He and Slade had all sorts of a quarrel about a year
ago, and he's never darkened our doors since."
"It was something about Willy and--." The speaker did not mention any
name, but winked knowingly and tossed his head toward the entrance of
the house, to indicate some member of Slade's family.
"I believe so."
"D'ye think Willy really likes her?"
Matthew shrugged his shoulders, but made no answer.
"She's a nice girl," was remarked in an under tone, "and good enough
for Hammond's son any day; though, if she were my daughter, I'd rather
see her in Jericho than fond of his company."
"He'll have plenty of money to give her. She can live like a queen."
"For how long?"
"Hush!" came from the lips of Matthew. "There she is now."
I looked up, and saw at a short distance from the house, and
approaching, a young lady, in whose sweet, modest face, I at once
recognized Flora Slade, Five years had developed her into a beautiful
woman. In her alone, of all that appertained to Simon Slade, there was
no deterioration. Her eyes were as mild and pure as when first I met
her at gentle sixteen, and her father said "My daughter," with such a
mingling of pride and affection in his tone. She passed near where I
was sitting, and entered the house. A closer view showed me some marks
of thought and suffering; but they only heightened the attraction of
her face. I failed not to observe the air of respect with which all
returned her slight nod and smile of recognition.
"She's a nice girl, and no mistake--the flower of this flock," was
said, as soon as she passed into the house.
"Too good for Willy Hammond, in my opinion," said Matthew. "Clever and
generous as people call him."
"Just my opinion," was responded. "She's as pure and good, almost, as
an angel; and he?--I can tell you what--he's not the clean thing. He
knows a little too much of the world--on its bad side, I mean."
The appearance of Slade put an end to this conversation. A second
observation of his person and countenance did not remove the first
unfavorable impression. His face had grown decidedly bad in expression,
as well as gross and sensual. The odor of his breath, as he took a
chair close to where I was sitting, was that of one who drank
habitually and freely; and the red, swimming eyes evidenced, too
surely, a rapid progress toward the sad condition of a confirmed
inebriate. There was, too, a certain thickness of speech, that gave
another corroborating sign of evil progress.
"Have you seen anything of Frank this afternoon?" he inquired of
Matthew, after we had passed a few words.
"Nothing," was the bar-keeper's answer.
"I saw him with Tom Wilkins as I came over," said one of the men who
was sitting in the porch.
"What was he doing with Tom Wilkins?" said Slade, in a fretted tone of
voice. "He doesn't seem very choice in his company."
"They were gunning."
"Gunning!"
"Yes. They both had fowling-pieces. I wasn't near enough to ask where
they were going."
This information disturbed Slade a good deal. After muttering to
himself a little while, he started up and went into the house.
"And I could have told him a little more, had I been so inclined," said
the individual who mentioned the fact that Frank was with Tom Wilkins.
"What more?" inquired Matthew.
"There was a buggy in the case; and a champagne basket. What the latter
contained you can easily guess."
"Whose buggy?"
"I don't know anything about the buggy; but if 'Lightfoot' doesn't sink
in value a hundred dollars or so before sundown, call me a false
prophet."
"Oh, no," said Matthew, incredulously. "Frank wouldn't do an outrageous
thing like that. Lightfoot won't be in a condition to drive for a month
to come."
"I don't care. She's out now; and the way she was putting it down when
I saw her, would have made a locomotive look cloudy."
"Where did he get her?" was inquired.
"She's been in the six-acre field, over by Mason's Bridge, for the last
week or so," Matthew answered. "Well; all I have to say," he added, "is
that Frank ought to be slung up and well horse-whipped. I never saw
such a young rascal. He cares for no good, and fears no evil. He's the
worst boy I ever saw."
"It would hardly do for you to call him a boy to his face," said one of
the men, laughing.
"I don't have much to say to him in any way," replied Matthew, "for I
know very well that if we ever do get into a regular quarrel, there'll
be a hard time of it. The same house will not hold us afterward--that's
certain. So I steer clear of the young reprobate."
"I wonder his father don't put him to some business," was remarked.
"The idle life he now leads will be his ruin."
"He was behind the bar for a year or two."
"Yes; and was smart at mixing a glass--but--"
"Was himself becoming too good a customer?"
"Precisely. He got drunk as a fool before reaching his fifteenth year."
"Good gracious!" I exclaimed, involuntarily.
"It's true, sir," said the last speaker, turning to me, "I never saw
anything like it. And this wasn't all bar-room talk, which, as you may
know, isn't the most refined and virtuous in the world. I wouldn't like
my son to hear much of it. Frank was always an eager listener to
everything that was said, and in a very short time became an adept in
slang and profanity. I'm no saint myself; but it's often made my blood
run cold to hear him swear."
"I pity his mother," said I; for my thought turned naturally to Mrs.
Slade.
"You may well do that," was answered. "I doubt if Cedarville holds a
sadder heart. It was a dark day for her, let me tell you, when Simon
Slade sold his mill and built this tavern. She was opposed to it at the
beginning."
"I have inferred as much."
"I know it," said the man. "My wife has been intimate with her for
years. Indeed, they have always been like sisters. I remember very well
her coming to our house, about the time the mill was sold, and crying
about it as if her heart would break. She saw nothing but sorrow and
trouble ahead. Tavern-keeping she had always regarded as a low
business, and the change from a respectable miller to a lazy
tavern-keeper, as she expressed it, was presented to her mind as
something disgraceful. I remember, very well, trying to argue the point
with her--assuming that it was quite as respectable to keep tavern as
to do anything else; but I might as well have talked to the wind. She
was always a pleasant, hopeful, cheerful woman before that time, but,
really, I don't think I've seen a true smile on her face since."
"That was a great deal for a man to lose," said I.
"What?" he inquired, not clearly understanding me.
"The cheerfull face of his wife."
"The face was but an index of her heart," said he.
"So much the worse."
"True enough for that. Yes, it was a great deal to lose.
"What has he gained that will make up for this?"
The man shrugged his shoulders.
"What has he gained?" I repeated. "Can you figure it up?"
"He's a richer man, for one thing."
"Happier?"
There was another shrug of the shoulders. "I wouldn't like to say that."
"How much richer?"
"Oh, a great deal. Somebody was saying, only yesterday, that he
couldn't be worth less than thirty thousand dollars."
"Indeed? So much."
"Yes."
"How has he managed to accumulate so rapidly?"
"His bar has a large run of custom. And, you know, that pays
wonderfully."
"He must have sold a great deal of liquor in six years."
"And he has. I don't think I'm wrong in saying that in the six years
which have gone by since the 'Sickle and Sheaf' was opened, more liquor
has been drank than in the previous twenty years."
"Say forty," remarked a man who had been a listener to what we said.
"Let it be forty then," was the according answer.
"How comes this?" I inquired. "You had a tavern here before the 'Sickle
and Sheaf' was opened."
"I know we had, and several places besides, where liquor was sold. But,
everybody far and near knew Simon Slade the miller, and everybody liked
him. He was a good miller, and a cheerful, social, chatty sort of man
putting everybody in a good humor who came near him. So it became the
talk everywhere, when he built this house, which he fitted up nicer
than anything that had been seen in these parts. Judge Hammond, Judge
Lyman, Lawyer Wilson, and all the big bugs of the place at once
patronized the new tavern, and of course, everybody else did the same.
So, you can easily see how he got such a run."
"It was thought, in the beginning," said I, "that the new tavern was
going to do wonders for Cedarville."
"Yes," answered the man laughing, "and so it has."
"In what respect?"
"Oh, in many. It has made some men richer, and some poorer."
"Who has it made poorer?"
"Dozens of people. You may always take it for granted, when you see a
tavern-keeper who has a good run at his bar, getting rich, that a great
many people are getting poor."
"How so?" I wished to hear in what way the man who was himself, as was
plain to see, a good customer at somebody's bar, reasoned on the
subject.
"He does not add to the general wealth. He produces nothing. He takes
money from his customers, but gives them no article of value in
return--nothing that can be called property, personal or real. He is
just so much richer and they just so much poorer for the exchange. Is
it not so?"
I readily assented to the position as true, and then said--
"Who, in particular, is poorer?"
"Judge Hammond, for one."
"Indeed! I thought the advance in his property, in consequence of the
building of this tavern, was so great, that he was reaping a rich
pecuniary harvest."
"There was a slight advance in property along the street after the
'Sickle and Sheaf' was opened, and Judge Hammond was benefited thereby.
Interested parties made a good deal of noise about it; but it didn't
amount to much, I believe."
"What has caused the judge to grow poorer?"
"The opening of this tavern, as I just said."
"In what way did it affect him?"
"He was among Slade's warmest supporters, as soon as he felt the
advance in the price of building lots, called him one of the most
enterprising men in Cedarville--a real benefactor to the place--and all
that stuff. To set a good example of patronage, he came over every day
and took his glass of brandy, and encouraged everybody else that he
could influence to do the same. Among those who followed his example
was his son Willy. There was not, let me tell you, in all the country
for twenty miles around, a finer young man than Willy, nor one of so
much promise, when this man-trap"--he let his voice fall, and glanced
around, as he thus designated Slade's tavern--"was opened; and now,
there is not one dashing more recklessly along the road to ruin. When
too late, his father saw that his son was corrupted, and that the
company he kept was of a dangerous character. Two reasons led him to
purchase Slade's old mill, and turn it into a factory and a distillery.
Of course, he had to make a heavy outlay for additional buildings,
machinery, and distilling apparatus. The reasons influencing him were
the prospect of realizing a large amount of money, especially in
distilling, and the hope of saving Willy, by getting him closely
engaged and interested in business. To accomplish, more certainly, the
latter end, he unwisely transferred to his son, as his own capital,
twenty thousand dollars, and then formed with him a regular
copartnership--giving Willy an active business control.
"But the experiment, sir," added the man, emphatically, "has proved a
failure. I heard yesterday, that both mill and distillery were to be
shut up, and offered for sale."
"They did not prove as money-making as was anticipated?"
"No, not under Willy Hammond's management. He had made too many bad
acquaintances--men who clung to him because he had plenty of money at
his command, and spent it as freely as water. One-half of his time he
was away from the mill, and while there, didn't half attend to
business. I've heard it said--and I don't much doubt its truth--that
he's squandered his twenty thousand dollars, and a great deal more
besides."
"How is that possible?"
"Well; people talk, and not always at random. There's been a man
staying here, most of his time, for the last four or five years, named
Green. He does not do anything, and don't seem to have any friends in
the neighborhood. Nobody knows where he came from, and he is not at all
communicative on that head himself. Well, this man became acquainted
with young Hammond after Willy got to visiting the bar here, and
attached himself to him at once. They have, to all appearance, been
fast friends ever since; riding about, or going off on gunning or
fishing excursions almost every day, and secluding themselves somewhere
nearly every evening. That man, Green, sir, it is whispered, is a
gambler; and I believe it. Granted, and there is no longer a mystery as
to what Willy does with his own and his father's money."
I readily assented to this view of the case.
"And so assuming that Green is a gambler," said I, "he has grown
richer, in consequence of the opening of a new and more attractive
tavern in Cedarville."
"Yes, and Cedarville is so much the poorer for all his gains; for I've
never heard of his buying a foot of ground, or in any way encouraging
productive industry. He's only a blood-sucker."
"It is worse than the mere abstraction of money," I remarked; "he
corrupts his victims, at the same time that he robs them."
"True."
"Willy Hammond may not be his only victim," I suggested.
"Nor is he, in my opinion. I've been coming to this bar, nightly, for a
good many years--a sorry confession for a man to make, I must own," he
added, with a slight tinge of shame; "but so it is. Well, as I was
saying, I've been coming to this bar, nightly, for a good many years,
and I generally see all that is going on around me. Among the regular
visitors are at least half a dozen young men, belonging to our best
families--who have been raised with care, and well educated. That their
presence here is unknown to their friends, I am quite certain--or, at
least, unknown and unsuspected by some of them. They do not drink a
great deal yet; but all try a glass or two. Toward nine o'clock, often
at an earlier hour, you will see one and another of them go quietly out
of the bar, through the sitting-room, preceded, or soon followed, by
Green and Slade. At any hour of the night, up to one or two, and
sometimes three o'clock, you can see light streaming through the rent
in a curtain drawn before a particular window, which I know to be in
the room of Harvey Green. These are facts, sir; and you can draw your
own conclusion. I think it a very serious matter."
"Why does Slade go out with these young men?" I inquired. "Do you think
he gambles also?"
"If he isn't a kind of a stool-pigeon for Harvey Green, then I'm
mistaken again."
"Hardly. He cannot, already, have become so utterly unprincipled."
"It's a bad school, sir, this tavern-keeping," said the man.
"I readily grant you that."
"And it's nearly seven years since he commenced to take lessons. A
great deal may be learned, sir, of good or evil, in seven years,
especially if any interest be taken in the studies."
"True."
"And it's true in this case, you may depend upon it. Simon Slade is not
the man he was, seven years ago. Anybody with half an eye can see that.
He's grown selfish, grasping, unscrupulous, and passionate. There could
hardly be a greater difference between men than exists between Simon
Slade the tavern-keeper, and Simon Slade the miller."
"And intemperate, also?" I suggested.
"He's beginning to take a little too much," was answered.
"In that case, he'll scarcely be as well off five years hence as he is
now."
"He's at the top of the wheel, some of us think."
"What has led to this opinion?"
"He's beginning to neglect his house, for one thing."
"A bad sign."
"And there is another sign. Heretofore, he has always been on hand,
with the cash, when desirable property went off, under forced sale, at
a bargain. In the last three or four months, several great sacrifices
have been made, but Simon Slade showed no inclination to buy. Put this
fact against another,--week before last, he sold a house and lot in the
town for five hundred dollars less than he paid for them, a year
ago--and for just that sum less than their true value."
"How came that?" I inquired.
"Ah! there's the question! He wanted money; though for what purpose he
has not intimated to any one, as far as I can learn."
"What do you think of it?"
"Just this. He and Green have been hunting together in times past; but
the professed gambler's instincts are too strong to let him spare even
his friend in evil. They have commenced playing one against the other."
"Ah! you think so?"
"I do; and if I conjecture rightly, Simon Slade will be a poorer man,
in a year from this time, than he is now."
Here our conversation was interrupted. Some one asked my talkative
friend to go and take a drink, and he, nothing loath, left me without
ceremony.
Very differently served was the supper I partook of on that evening,
from the one set before me on the occasion of my first visit to the
"Sickle and Sheaf." The table-cloth was not merely soiled, but
offensively dirty; the plates, cups, and saucers, dingy and sticky; the
knives and forks unpolished; and the food of a character to satisfy the
appetite with a very few mouthfuls. Two greasy-looking Irish girls
waited on the table, at which neither landlord nor landlady presided. I
was really hungry when the supper-bell rang; but the craving of my
stomach soon ceased in the atmosphere of the dining-room, and I was the
first to leave the table.
Soon after the lamps were lighted, company began to assemble in the
spacious bar-room, where were comfortable seats, with tables,
newspapers, backgammon boards, dominoes, etc. The first act of nearly
every one who came in was to call for a glass of liquor; and sometimes
the same individual drank two or three times in the course of half an
hour, on the invitation of new comers who were convivially inclined.
Most of those who came in were strangers to me. I was looking from face
to face to see if any of the old company were present, when one
countenance struck me as familiar. I was studying it, in order, if
possible, to identify the person, when some one addressed him as
"Judge."
Changed as the face was, I now recognized it as that of Judge Lyman.
Five years had marred that face terribly. It seemed twice the former
size; and all its bright expression was gone. The thickened and
protruding eyelids half closed the leaden eyes, and the swollen lips
and cheeks gave to his countenance a look of all predominating
sensuality. True manliness had bowed itself in debasing submission to
the bestial. He talked loudly, and with a pompous dogmatism--mainly on
political subjects--but talked only from memory; for any one could see,
that thought came into but feeble activity. And yet, derationalized, so
to speak, as he was, through drink, he had been chosen a representative
in Congress, at the previous election, on the anti-temperance ticket,
and by a very handsome majority. He was the rum candidate; and the rum
interest, aided by the easily swayed "indifferents," swept aside the
claims of law, order, temperance, and good morals; and the district
from which he was chosen as a National Legislator sent him up to the
National Councils, and said in the act--"Look upon him we have chosen
as our representative, and see in him a type of our principles, our
quality, and our condition, as a community."
Judge Lyman, around whom a little circle soon gathered, was very severe
on the temperance party, which, for two years, had opposed his
election, and which, at the last struggle, showed itself to be a
rapidly growing organization. During the canvass, a paper was published
by this party, in which his personal habits, character, and moral
principles were discussed in the freest manner, and certainly not in a
way to elevate him in the estimation of men whose opinion was of any
value.
It was not much to be wondered at, that he assumed to think temperance
issues at the polls were false issues; and that when temperance men
sought to tamper with elections, the liberties of the people were in
danger; nor that he pronounced the whole body of temperance men as
selfish schemers and canting hypocrites.
"The next thing we will have," he exclaimed, warming with his theme,
and speaking so loud that his voice sounded throughout the room, and
arrested every one's attention, "will be laws to fine any man who takes
a chew of tobacco, or lights a cigar. Touch the liberties of the people
in the smallest particular, and all guarantees are gone. The Stamp Act,
against which our noble forefathers rebelled, was a light measure of
oppression to that contemplated by these worse than fanatics."
"You are right there, judge; right for once in your life, if you (hic)
were never right before!" exclaimed a battered-looking specimen of
humanity, who stood near the speaker, slapping Judge Lyman on the
shoulder familiarly as he spoke. "There's no telling what they will do.
There's (hic) my old uncle Josh Wilson, who's been keeper of the
Poor-house these ten years. Well, they're going to turn him out, if
ever they get the upper hand in Bolton county."
"If? That word involves a great deal, Harry!" said Lyman. "We mus'n't
let them get the upper hand. Every man has a duty to perform to his
country in this matter, and every one must do his duty. But what have
they got against your Uncle Joshua? What has he been doing to offend
this righteous party?"
"They've nothing against him, (hic) I believe. Only, they say, they're
not going to have a Poor-house in the county at all."
"What! Going to turn the poor wretches out to starve?" said one.
"Oh no! (hic)," and the fellow grinned, half shrewdly and half
maliciously, as he answered--"no, not that. But, when they carry the
day, there'll be no need of Poor-houses. At least, that's their
talk--and I guess maybe there's something in it, for I never knew a man
to go to the Poor-house, who hadn't (hic) rum to blame for his poverty.
But, you see, I'm interested in this matter. I go for keeping up the
Poor-house (hic); for I guess I'm travelling that road, and I shouldn't
like to get to the last milestone (hic) and find no snug quarters--no
Uncle Josh. You're safe for one vote, any how, old chap, on next
election day!" And the man's broad hand slapped the member's shoulder
again. "Huzza for the rummies! That's (hic) the ticket! Harry Grimes
never deserts his friends. True as steel!"
"You're a trump!" returned Judge Lyman, with low familiarity. "Never
fear about the Poor-house and Uncle Josh. They're all safe."
"But look here, judge," resumed the man. "It isn't only the Poor-house,
the jail is to go next."
"Indeed!"
"Yes, that's their talk; and I guess they ain't far out of the way,
neither. What takes men to jail? You can tell us something about that,
judge, for you've jugged a good many in your time. Didn't pretty much
all of 'em drink rum (hic)?"
But the judge answered nothing.
"Silence (hic) gives consent," resumed Grimes. "And they say more; once
give 'em the upper hand--and they're confident of beating us--and the
Courthouse will be to let. As for judges and lawyers, they'll starve,
or go into some better business. So you see, (hic) judge, your
liberties are in danger. But fight hard, old fellow; and if you must
die, (hic) die game!"
How well Judge Lyman relished this mode of presenting the case, was not
very apparent; he was too good a politician and office-seeker, to show
any feeling on the subject, and thus endanger a vote. Harry Grimes'
vote counted one, and a single vote sometimes gained or lost an
election.
"One of their gags," he said, laughing. "But I'm too old a stager not
to see the flimsiness of such pretensions. Poverty and crime have their
origin in the corrupt heart, and their foundations are laid long and
long before the first step is taken on the road to inebriety. It is
easy to promise results; for only the few look at causes, and trace
them to their effects."
"Rum and ruin (hic). Are they not cause and effect?" asked Grimes.
"Sometimes they are," was the half extorted answer.
"Oh, Green, is that you?" exclaimed the judge, as Harvey Green came in
with a soft cat-like step. He was, evidently, glad of a chance to get
rid of his familiar friend and elector.
I turned my eyes upon the man, and read his face closely. It was
unchanged. The same cold, sinister eye; the same chiselled mouth, so
firm now, and now yielding so elastically; the same smile "from the
teeth outward"--the same lines that revealed his heart's deep, dark
selfishness. If he had indulged in drink during the five intervening
years, it had not corrupted his blood, nor added thereto a single
degree of heat.
"Have you seen anything of Hammond this evening?" asked Judge Lyman.
"I saw him an hour or two ago," answered Green.
"How does he like his new horse?"
"He's delighted with him."
"What was the price?"
"Three hundred dollars."
"Indeed!"
The judge had already arisen, and he and Green were now walking side by
side across the bar-room floor.
"I want to speak a word with you," I heard Lyman say.
And then the two went out together. I saw no more of them during the
evening.
Not long afterward, Willy Hammond came in. Ah! there was a sad change
here; a change that in no way belied the words of Matthew the
bar-keeper. He went up to the bar, and I heard him ask for Judge Lyman.
The answer was in so low a voice that it did not reach my ear.
With a quick, nervous motion, Hammond threw his hand toward a row of
decanters on the shelf behind the bar-keeper, who immediately set one
of them containing brandy before him. From this he poured a tumbler
half full, and drank it off at a single draught, unmixed with water.
He then asked some further question, which I could not hear,
manifesting, as it appeared, considerable excitement of mind. In
answering him, Matthew glanced his eyes upward, as if indicating some
room in the house. The young man then retired, hurriedly, through the
sitting-room.
"What's the matter with Willy Hammond tonight?" asked some one of the
bar-keeper. "Who's he after in such a hurry?"
"He wants to see Judge Lyman," replied Matthew.
"Oh!"
"I guess they're after no good," was remarked.
"Not much, I'm afraid."
Two young men, well dressed, and with faces marked by intelligence,
came in at the moment, drank at the bar, chatted a little while
familiarly with the bar-keeper, and then quietly disappeared through
the door leading into the sitting-room. I met the eyes of the man with
whom I had talked during the afternoon, and his knowing wink brought to
mind his suggestion, that in one of the upper rooms gambling went on
