' Of course I do ; but I like your company too well 
to get rid of you so easy." 
 
" The Lord is with the innocent," replied Bobby ; 
" and something tells me that I shall not stay in this 
place a great while." 
" Going to run away ? " asked Tom, with interest, 
and suddenly dropping his malicious look. 
" I know I am innocent of any crime ; and I know 
that .the Lord will not let me stay here a great while." 
" What do you mean to do, Bob ? ' 
Bobby made no reply ; he felt that he had had 
more confidence in Tom than he deserved, and he 
determined to keep his own counsel in future. He 
had a purpose in view. His innocence gave him 
courage ; and perhaps he did not feel that sense of 
necessity for submission to the laws of the land 
which age and experience give. He prayed earnest- 
ly for deliverance from the place in which he was 
confined. He felt that he did not deserve to be 
there ; and though it was a very comfortable place, 
and the boys fared as well as he wished to fare, still 
it seemed to him like a prison. He was unjustly de- 
tained ; and he not only prayed to be delivered, but 
he resolved to work out his own deliverance at the 
first opportunity. 
Knowing that whatever he had would be taken 
from him, he resolved by some means to keep posses- 
sion of the twenty dollars he had about him. He 
had always kept his moiiey in a secret place in his 
jacket to guard against accident, and the officers who 
had searched him had not discovered it. But now 
his clothes would be changed. He thought of these 
things before his arrival ; so, when he reached the 
entrance, and got out of the wagon, to open the gate, 
by order of the officer, he slipped his twenty dollars 
into a hole in the wall. 
It so happened that there was not a suit of clothes 
in the store room of the institution which would fit 
him ; and he was permitted to wear his own dress till 
another should be made. After his name and de- 
scription had been entered, and the superintendent 
had read him a lecture upon his future duties, he was 
permitted to join the other boys, who were at work on 
the farm. He was sent with half a dozen others to 
pick up stones in a neighboring field. No officer was 
with them, and Bobby was struck with the apparent 
freedom of the institution, and he so expressed him- 
self to his companions. 
" Not so much freedom as you think for," said one, 
in reply. 
"I should think the fellows would clear out." 
" Not so easy a matter. There is a standing re- 
ward of five dollars to any one who brings back a 
runaway." 
" They must catch him first." 
" No fellow ever got away yet. They always 
caught him before he got ten miles from the place." 
This was an important suggestion to Bobby, who 
already had a definite purpose in his mind. Like a 
skilful general, he had surveyed the ground on his 
arrival, and was at once prepared to execute his de- 
sign. 
In his conversation with the boys, he obtained the 
history of several who had attempted to escape, and 
found that even those who got a fair start were taken 
on some public road. He perceived that they were 
not good generals, and he determined to profit by 
their mistake. 
A short distance from the institution was what ap- 
peared to be a very extensive wood. Beyond this, 
many miles distant, he could see the ocean glittering 
like a sheet of ice under the setting sun. 
He carefully observed the hills, and obtained the 
bearings of various prominent objects in the vicinity, 
which would aid him in his flight. The boys gave 
him all the information in their power about the 
localities of the country. They seemed to feel that 
he was possessed of a superior spirit, and that he 
would not long remain among them ; but, whatever 
they thought, they kept their own counsel. 
Bobby behaved well, and was so intelligent and 
prompt that he obtained the confidence of the super- 
intendent, who began to employ him about the house, 
and in his own family. He was sent of errands in 
the neighborhood, and conducted himself so much to 
the satisfaction of his guardians that he was not re- 
quired to work in the field after the second day of his 
residence on the farm. 
One afternoon he was told that his clothes were 
ready, and that he might put them on the next morn- 
ing. This was a disagreeable announcement ; for 
Bobby saw that, with the uniform of the institution 
upon his back, his chance of escape would be very 
slight. But about sunset, he was sent by the super- 
intendent's lady to deliver a note at a house in the 
vicinity. 
 
"Now or never ! " said Bobby to himself, after he 
had left the house. " Now's my time." 
As he passed the gate, he secured his money, and 
placed it in the secret receptacle of his jacket. After 
he had delivered the letter, he took the road and 
hastened off in the direction of the wood. His heart 
beat wildly at the prospect of once more meeting his 
mother, after nearly four weeks' absence. Annie Lee 
would welcome him ; she would not believe that he 
was a thief. 
He had been four days an inmate of the Reform 
School, and nothing but the hope of soon attaining 
his liberty had kept his spirits from drooping. He 
had not for a moment despaired of getting away. 
He reached the entrance to the wood, and taking a 
cart path, began to penetrate its hidden depths. The 
night darkened upon him ; he heard the owl screech 
his dismal note, and the whip-poor-will chant his 
cheery song. A certain sense of security now per- 
vaded his mind, for the darkness concealed him from 
the world, and he had placed six good miles between 
him and the prison, as he considered it. 
He walked on, however, till he came to what 
seemed to be the end of the wood, and he hoped to 
reach the blue ocean he had seen in the distance be- 
fore morning. Leaving the forest, he emerged into 
the open country. There was here and there a house 
before him ; but the aspect of the country seemed 
strangely familiar to him. He could not understand 
it. He had never been in this part of the country 
before ; yet there was a great house with two barns 
by the side of it, which he was positive he had seen 
before. 
He walked across the field a little farther, when, to 
his astonishment and dismay, he beheld the lofty tur- 
rets of the State Reform School. He had been walk- 
ing in a circle, and had come out of the forest near 
the place where he had entered it. 
Bobby, as the reader has found out by this time, 
was a philosopher as well as a hero ; and instead of 
despairing or wasting his precious time in vain re- 
grets at his mistake, he laughed a little to himself at 
the blunder, and turned back into the woods again. 
"Now or never!" muttered he. "It will never 
do to give it up so." 
For an hour he walked on, with his eyes fixed on 
 
a great bright star in the sky. Then he found that 
the cart path crooked round, and he discovered where 
he had made his blunder. Leaving the road, he 
made his way in a straight line, still guided by the 
star, till he came to a large sheet of water. 
The sheet of water was an effectual barrier to his 
farther progress ; indeed, he was so tired he did not 
feel able to walk any more. He deemed himself 
safe from immediate pursuit in this secluded place. 
He needed rest, and he foresaw that the next few 
days would be burdened with fatigue and hardship 
which he must be prepared to meet. 
Bobby was not nice about trifles, and his habits 
were such that he had no fear of taking cold. His 
comfortable bed in the little black house was prefer- 
able to the cold ground, even with the primeval forest 
for a chamber ; but circumstances alter cases, and he 
did not waste any vain regrets about the necessity of 
his position. After finding a secluded spot in the 
wood, he raked the dry leaves together for a bed, 
and offering his simple but fervent prayer to the 
Great Guardian above, he lav clown to rest. The 
owl screamed his dismal note, and the whip-poor-will 
still repeated his monotonous song ; but they were 
good company in the solitude of the dark forest. 
He could not go to sleep for a time, so strange and 
exciting were the circumstances of his position. He 
thought of a thousand things, but he could not think 
himself to sleep, as he was wont to do. At last 
nature, worn out by fatigue and anxiety, conquered 
the circumstances, and he slept. 
 
CHAPTER XIX. 
IN WHICH BOBBY HAS A NARROW ESCAPE, AND 
GOES TO SEA WITH SAM RAY. 
NATURE was kind to the little pilgrim in his ex- 
tremity, and kept his senses sealed in grateful slum- 
ber till the birds had sung their matin song, and the 
sun had risen high in the heavens. 
Bobby woke with a start, and sprang to his feet. 
For a moment he did not realize where he was, or re- 
member the exciting incidents of the previous even- 
ing. He felt refreshed by his deep slumber, and 
came out of it as vigorous as though he had slept in 
his bed at home. Rubbing his eyes, he stared about 
him at the tall pines whose foliage canopied his bed, 
and his identity was soon restored to him. He was 
Bobby Bright but Bobby Bright in trouble. He 
was not the little merchant, but the little fugitive 
fleeing from the prison to which he had been doomed. 
It did not take him long to make his toilet, which 
was the only advantage of his primitive style of lodg- 
ing. His first object was to examine his position, 
and ascertain in what direction he should continue 
his flight. He could not go ahead, as he had intend- 
ed, for the sheet of water was an impassable barrier. 
Leaving the dense forest, he came to a marsh, beyond 
which was the wide creek he had seen in the night. 
It was salt water, and he reasoned that it could not 
extend a great way inland. His only course was to 
follow it till he found means of crossing it. 
Following the direction of the creek, he kept near 
the margin of the wood till he came to a public road. 
He had some doubts about trusting himself out of the 
forest, even for a single moment ; so he seated himself 
upon a rock to argue the point. If any one should 
happen to come along, he was almost sure of furnish- 
ing a clew to his future movements, if not of being 
immediately captured. 
This was a very strong argument, but there was a 
stronger one upon the other side. He had eaten 
nothing since dinner on the preceding day, and he 
began to feel faint for the want of food. On the 
 
other side of the creek he saw a pasture which looked 
as though it might afford him. a few berries ; and he 
was on the point of taking to the road, when he heard 
the rumbling of a wagon in the distance. 
His heart beat with apprehension. Perhaps it was 
some officer of the institution in search of him. At 
any rate it was some one who had come from the 
vicinity of the Reform School, and who had probably 
heard of his escape. As it came nearer, he heard the 
jingling of bells ; it was the baker. How he longed 
for a loaf of his bread, or some of the precious ginger- 
bread he carried in his cart ! Hunger tempted him 
to run the risk of exposure. He had money ; he 
could buy cakes and bread ; and perhaps the baker had 
a kind heart, and would befriend him in his distress. 
The wagon was close at hand. 
" Now or never," thought he ; but this time it was 
not now. The risk was too great. If he failed now, 
two years of captivity were before him ; and as for 
the hunger, he could grin and bear it for a while. 
" Now or never : " but this time it was escape now 
or never ; and he permitted the baker to pass without 
hailing him. 
 
He waited half an hour, and then determined to 
take the road till he had crossed the creek. The 
danger was great, but the pangs of hunger urged him 
on. He was sure there were berries in the pasture, 
and with a timid step, carefully watching before and 
behind to insure himself against surprise, he crossed 
the bridge. But then a new difficulty presented it- 
self. There was a house within ten rods of the 
bridge, which he must pass, and to do so would ex- 
pose him to the most imminent peril. He was on 
the point of retreating, when a man came out of the 
house, and approached him. What should he do ? 
It was a trying moment. If he ran, the act would 
expose him to suspicion. If he went forward, the 
man might have already received a description of him, 
and arrest him. 
He chose the latter course. The instinct of his 
being was to do every thing in a straightforward 
manner, and this probably prompted his decision. 
" Good morning, sir," said he boldly to the man. 
" Good morning. Where are you travelling ? ' 
This was a hard question. He did not know where 
he was travelling ; besides, even in his present diffi- 
cult position, he could not readily resort to a lie. 
 
.. 
Down here a piece," he replied. 
" Travelled far to-day ? " 
" Not far. Good morning, sir ; ' and Bobby re- 
sumed his walk. 
" I say, boy, suppose you tell me where you are 
going ; " and the man came close to him, and deliber- 
ately surveyed him from head to foot. 
" I can hardly tell you," replied Bobby, summon- 
ing courage for the occasion. 
" Well, I suppose not," added the man, with a 
meaning smile. 
Bobby felt his strength desert him as he realized 
that he was suspected of being a runaway from the 
Reform School. That smile on the man's face was 
the knell of hope ; and for a moment he felt a flood 
of misery roll over his soul. But the natural elastici- 
ty of his spirits soon came to his relief, and he re- 
solved not to give up the ship, even if he had to fight 
for it. 
" I am in a hurry ; so I shall have to leave you." 
" Not just yet, young man. Perhaps, as you don't 
know where you are going, you may remember what 
your name is," continued the man, good naturedly. 
There was a temptation to give a false name ; but 
as it was so strongly beaten into our hero that the 
truth is better than a falsehood, he held his peace. 
" Excuse me, sir, but I can't stop to talk now." 
" In a hurry ? Well, I dare say you are. I sup- 
pose there is no doubt but you are Master Robert 
Bright' 
" Not the least, sir ; I haven't denied it yet, and I 
am not ashamed of my name," replied Bobby, with a 
good deal of spirit. 
"That's honest; I like that." 
" ' Honesty is the best policy,' " added Bobby. 
" That's cool for a rogue, any how. You ought to 
thought of that afore." 
" I did." 
" And stole the money ? ' : 
" I didn't. I never stole a penny in my life. 
" Come, I like that." 
" It is the truth." 
" But they won't believe it over to the Reform 
School," laughed the man. 
" They will one of these days, perhaps." 
'' You are a smart youngster ; but I don't know as 
 
I can make five dollars any easier than by taking you 
back where you come from." 
" Yes, you can," replied Bobby, promptly. 
" Can I ? " 
"Yes." 
"How?" 
" By letting me go." 
" Eh ; you talk flush. I suppose you mean to give 
me your note, payable when the Kennebec dries up." 
" Cash on the nail," replied Bobby. " You look 
like a man with a heart in your bosom." Bobby 
stole this passage from " The Wayfarer." 
" I reckon I have. The time hasn't come yet when 
Sam Ray could see a fellow-creature in distress and 
w 
not help him out. But to help a thief off ' : 
" We will argue that matter," interposed Bobby. " I 
can prove to you beyond a doubt that I am innocent 
of the crime charged upon me." 
" You don't look like a bad boy, I must say." 
" But, Mr. Hay, I'm hungry ; I haven't eaten a 
mouthful since yestcrd.iv noon." 
"Thunder! You don't say so!" exclaimed Sam 
Ray. " I never could bear to see a man hungry, much 
 
more a boy ; so come along to my house and get some- 
thing to eat, and we will talk about the other matter 
afterwards." 
Sam Ray took Bobby to the little old house in 
which he dwelt ; and in a short time his wife, who 
expressed her sympathy for the little fugitive in the 
warmest terms, had placed an abundant repast upon 
the table. Our hero did ample justice to it, and when 
he had finished he felt like a new creature. 
" Now, Mr. Ray, let me tell you my story," said 
Bobby. 
" I don't know as it's any use. Now you have eat 
my bread and butter, I don't feel like being mean to 
you. If any body else wants to carry you back, they 
may ; I won't." 
" But you shall hear me ; " and Bobby proceeded 
to deliver his " plain, unvarnished tale." 
When he had progressed but a little way in the nar- 
rative, the noise of an approaching vehicle was heard. 
Sam looked out of the window, as almost every body 
does in the country when a carriage passes. 
" By thunder ! It's the Reform School wagon ! ' : 
exclaimed he. " This way, boy ! " and the good- 
 
hearted man thrust him into his chamber, bidding him 
get under the bed. 
The carriage stopped at the house ; but Sam evaded 
a direct reply, and the superintendent for it was he 
proceeded on his search. 
" Heaven bless you, Mr. Ray ! " exclaimed Bobby 
when he came out of the chamber, as the tears of 
gratitude coursed down his cheeks. 
" O, you will find Sam Ray all right," said he, 
warmly pressing Bobby's proffered hand. "I ain't 
quite a heathen, though some folks round here 
think so." 
" You are an angel ! ' 
"Not exactly," laughed Sam. 
Our hero finished his story, and confirmed it by 
exhibiting his account book and some other papers 
which he had retained. Sam Ray was satisfied, and 
vowed that if ever he saw Tom Spicer he would cer- 
tainly " lick " him for his sake. 
" Now, sonny, I like you ; I will be sworn you are 
a good fellow ; and I mean to help you off. So just 
come along with me. I make my living by browsing 
round, hunting and fishing a little, and doing an odd 
job now and then. You see, I have got a good boat 
down the creek, and I shall just put you aboard and 
take you any where you have a mind to go." 
" May Heaven reward you ! " cried Bobby, almost 
overcome by this sudden and unexpected kindness. 
" O, I don't want no reward ; only when you get to 
be a great man and I am dead sure you will be a 
great man just think now and then of Sam Ray, 
and it's all right." 
" I shall remember you with gratitude as long as I 
live." 
Sam Ray took his gun on his shoulder, and Bob- 
by the box of provision which Mrs. Ray had put up, 
and they left the house. At the bridge they got into 
a little skiff, and Sam took the oars. After they had 
passed a bend in the creek which concealed them from 
the road, Bobby felt secure from further molestation. 
Sam pulled about two miles down the creek, where 
it widened into a broad bay, near the head of which 
was anchored a small schooner. 
" Now, my hearty, nothing short of Uncle Sam's 
whole navy can get you away from me," said Sam, as 
he pulled alongside the schooner. 
 
"You have been very kind to me." 
" All right, sonny. Now tumble aboard." 
Bobby jumped upon the deck of the little craft, 
and Sam followed him, after making fast the skiff to 
the schooner's moorings. 
In a few minutes the little vessel was standing down 
the bay with " a fresh wind and a flowing sheet." 
Bobby, who had never been in a sail boat before, was 
delighted, and in no measured terms expressed his 
admiration of the working of the trim little craft. 
" Now, sonny, where shall we go ? " asked Sam, as 
they emerged from the bay into the broad ocean. 
" I don't know," replied Bobby. " I want to get 
back to Boston." 
" Perhaps I can put you aboard of some coaster 
bound there." 
" That will do nicely." 
" I will head towards Boston, and if I don't over- 
haul any thing, I will take you there myself." 
" Is this boat big enough to go so far ? ' 
" She'll stand any thing short of a West India hur- 
ricane. You ain't afeerd, are you? ' 
" O, no ; I like it." 
The big waves now tossed the little vessel up and 
down like a feather, and the huge seas broke upon the 
bow, deluging her deck with floods of water. Bobby 
had unlimited confidence in Sam Ray, and felt as much 
at home as though he had been " cradled upon the briny 
deep." There was an excitement in the scene which 
accorded with his nature, and the perils which he had 
so painfully pictured on the preceding night were all 
born into the most lively joys. 
They ate their dinners from the provision box ; Sam 
lighted his pipe, and many a tale he told of adven- 
ture by sea and land. Bobby felt happy, and almost 
dreaded the idea of parting with his rough but good- 
hearted friend. They were now far out at sea, and 
the night was coming on. 
" Now, sonny, you had better turn in and take a 
snooze ; you didn't rest much last night." 
" I am not sleepy ; but there is one thing I will do ; " 
and Bobby drew from his secret receptacle his roll of 
bills. 
" Put them up, sonny," said Sam. 
" I want to make you a present of ten dollars." 
" You can't do it." 
 
" Nay, but to please me." 
" No, sir ! " 
" Well, then, let me send it to your good wife." 
" You can't do that, nuther," replied Sam, gazing 
earnestly at a lumber-laden schooner ahead of him. 
"You must; your good heart made you lose five 
dollars, and I insist upon making it up to you." 
" You can't do it." 
" I shall feel bad if you don't take it. You see I 
have twenty dollars here, and I would like to give 
you the whole of it." 
"Not a cent, sonny. I ain't a heathen. That 
schooner ahead is bound for Boston, I reckon." 
" I shall be sorry to part with you, Mr. Ray." 
" Just my sentiment. I hain't seen a youngster 
afore for many a day that I took a fancy to, and I hate 
to let you go." 
" We shall meet again." 
" I hope so." 
" Please to take this money." 
" No ; " and Sam shook his head so resolutely that 
Bobby gave up the point. 
As Sam had conjectured, the lumber schooner was 
 
bound to Boston. Her captain readily agreed to take 
our hero on board, and he sadly bade adieu to his 
kind friend. 
" Good by, Mr. Ray," said Bobby, as the schooner 
filled away. " Take this to remember me by." 
It was his jackknife ; but Sam did not discover the 
ten dollar bill, which was shut beneath the blade, till 
it was too late to return it. 
Bobby did not cease to wave his hat to Sam till his 
little craft disappeared in the darkness. 
THE ADVENTURES OF BOBBY IJRICJIIT. 
CHAPTER XX. 
IN WHICH THE CLOUDS BLOW OVER, AND BOBBY 
IS HIMSELF AGAIN. 
FORTUNATELY for Bobby, the wind began to blow 
very heavily soon after he went on board of the lum- 
ber schooner, so that the captain was too much en- 
gaged in working his vessel to ask many questions. 
He was short handed, and though our hero was not 
much of a sailor, he made himself useful to the best 
of his ability. Though the wind was heavy, it was 
not fair ; and it was not till the third morning after 
his parting with Sam Ray that the schooner arrived 
off Boston Light. The captain then informed him 
that, as the tide, did not favor him, he might not get 
up to the city for twenty-four hours ; and, if he was 
in a hurry, he would put him on board a pilot boat 
which he saw standing up the channel. 
"Thank you, captain; you are very kind, but 
 
it would give you a great deal of trouble," said 
Bobby. 
"None at all. We must wait here till the tide 
turns ; so we have nothing better to do." 
" I should be very glad to get up this morning." 
" You shall, then ; ' and the captain ordered two 
men to get out the jolly boat. 
" I will pay my passage now, if you please." 
"That is paid." 
"Paid?" 
" I should say you had worked your passage. You 
have done very well, and I shall not charge you any 
thing." 
" I expected to pay my passage, captain ; but if 
you think I have done enough to pay it, why, I have 
nothing to say, only that I am very much obliged to 
you." 
" You ought to be a sailor, young man ; you were 
cut out for one." 
" I like the sea, though I never saw it till a few 
weeks since. But I suppose my mother would not 
let me go to sea." 
" I suppose not ; mothers are always afraid of salt 
water.' 
By this time the jolly boat was alongside ; and 
bidding the captain adieu, he jumped into it, and the 
men pulled him to the pilot boat, which had come up 
into the wind at the captain's hail. Bobby was kind- 
ly received on board, and in a couple of hours landed 
at the wharf in Boston. 
With a beating heart he made his way up into 
"Washington Street. He felt strangely; his cheeks 
seemed to tingle, for he was aware that the imputation 
of dishonesty was fastened upon him. He could not 
doubt but that the story of his alleged crime had 
reached the city, and perhaps gone to his friends in 
Riverdale. How his poor mother must have wept to 
think her son was a thief! No; she never could 
have thought that. She knew he would not steal, if 
no one else did. And Annie Lee would she ever 
smile upon him again ? Would she welcome him to 
her father's house so gladly as she had done in the 
past ? He could bring nothing to establish his inno- 
cence but his previous character. Would not Mr. 
Bayard frown upon him? Would not even Ellen be 
tempted to forget the service he had rendered her ? 
Bobby had thought of all these things before on 
his cold, clamp bed in the forest, in the watches of the 
tempestuous night on board the schooner. But now, 
when he was almost in the presence of those he loved 
and respected, they had more force, arid they nearly 
overwhelmed him. 
" I am innocent," he repeated to himself, ' ; and 
why need I fear ? My good Father in heaven will 
not let me be wronged." 
Yet he could not overcome his anxiety ; and when 
he reached the store of Mr. Bayard, he passed by, 
dreading to i'ace the friend who had been so kind to 
him. He could not bear even to be suspected of a 
crime by him. 
" Now or never," said he, as he turned round. " I 
will know my fate at once, and then make the best 
of it." 
Mustering all his courage, he entered the store. 
Mr. Timmins was not there ; so he was spared the 
infliction of any ill-natured remark from him. 
" Hallo, Bobby ! " exclaimed the gentlemanly 
salesman, whose acquaintance he had made on his 
first visit. 
" Good morning, Mr. Bigelow," replied Bobby 
with as much boldness as he could command. 
" I didn't know as I should ever see you again. 
You have been o-one a lonir while." 
"Longer than usual," ansv.ered Bobby, with a 
blush ; for he considered the remark of the salt - 
man as an allusion to his imprisonment. '' Is Mr. 
Bayard in ? '' 
" lie is in his office." 
Bobby's feet would hardly obey the mandate of his 
will, and with a faltering step he entered the private 
room of the bookseller. Mr. Bayard was absorb d 
in the perusal of the morning paper, and did not ob- 
serve his entrance. With his heart up in his throat, 
and almost choking him, he stood for several minutes 
upon the threshold. He almost feared to speak, 
dreading the severe frown with which lie expected 
to be received. Suspense, however, was more pain- 
ful than condemnation, and he brought his resolulion 
up to the point. 
" Mr. Bayard," said he, in faltering tones. 
" Bobby ! " exclaimed the bookseller, dropping his 
paper upon the floor, and jumping upon his feet as 
though an electric current had passed through his 
frame. 
 
Grasping our hero's hand, he shook it with so 
much energy that, under any other circumstances, 
Bobby would have thought it hurt him. He did not 
think so now. 
" My poor Bobby ! I am delighted to see you ! ' 
continued Mr. Bayard. 
Bobby burst into tears, and sobbed like a child, as 
he was. The unexpected kindness of this reception 
completely overwhelmed him. 
'' Don't cry, Bobby ; I know all about it ; " and the 
tender-hearted bookseller wiped away his tears.  ' It 
was a stroke of misfortune ; but it is all right now." 
But Bobby could not help crying, and the more 
Mr. Bayard attempted to console him, the more he 
wept. 
" I am innocent, Mr. Bayard," he sobbed. 
" I know you are, Bobby ; and all the world knows 
you are." 
" I am ruined now; I shall never dare to hold my 
head up again." 
" Nonsense, Bobby ; you will hold your head the 
higher. You have behaved like a hero." 
" I ran away from the State Reform School, sir. 
 
I was innocent, and I would rather have died than 
staid there." 
" I know all about it, my young friend. Now dry 
your tears, and we will talk it all over." 
Bobby blowed and sputtered a little more ; but 
finally he composed himself, and took a chair by Mr. 
Bayard's side. The bookseller then drew from his 
pocket a ponderous document, with a big official seal 
upon it, and exhibited it to our hero. 
" Do you see this, Bobby ? It is your free and 
unconditional pardon." 
" Sir ! Why " 
" It will all end well, you may depend." 
Bobby was amazed. His pardon? But it would 
not restore his former good name. He felt that he 
was branded as a felon. It was not mercy, but justice, 
that he wanted. 
" Truth is mighty, and will prevail," continued Mr. 
Bayard ; and this document restores your reputation." 
" I can hardly believe that." 
" Can't you ? Hear my story then. When I read 
in one of the Maine papers the account of your misfortune, I felt that you had been grossly wronged. 
You were coupled with that Tom Spicer, who is the 
most consummate little villain I ever saw, and I understood your situation. - Ah, Bobby, your only mistake was in having any thing to do with that fellow." 
" I left him at Brunswick because he began to be- 
have badly; but he joined me again at Augusta. He 
had spent nearly all his money, and did not know what to do. I pitied him, and meant to do something to help him out of the scrape." 
" Generous as ever ! I have heard all about this 
before." 
" Indeed ; who told you ? ' 
" Tom Spicer himself." 
" Tom : " asked Bobby, completely mystified. 
" Yes, Tom ; you see, when I heard about your 
trouble, Squire Lee and myself ' 
" Squire Lee ? Does he know about it ? ' 
" He does ; and you may depend upon it, he thinks 
more highly of you than ever before. He and I im- 
mediately went down to Augusta to inquire into the 
matter. V\ T e called upon the governor of the state, 
who said that he had seen you, and bought a book 
of you." 
" Of me ! " exclaimed Bobby, startled to think he 
had sold a book to a governor. 
" Yes ; you called at his house ; probably you did 
not know that he was the chief magistrate of the 
state. At any rate, he was very much pleased with 
you, and sorry to hear of your misfortune. Well, we 
followed your route to Brunswick, where we ascer- 
tained how Tom had conducted. In a week he es- 
tablished a very bad reputation there ; but nothing 
could be found to implicate you. The squire testified 
to your uniform good behavior, and especially to your 
devotion to your mother. In short, we procured 
your pardon, and hastened with it to the State Re- 
form School. 
" On our arrival, we learned, to our surprise and 
regret, that you had escaped from the institution on 
the preceding evening. Every effort was made to 
retake you, but without success. Ah, Bobby, you 
managed that well." 
" They didn't look in the right place," replied 
Bobby, with a smile, for he began to feel happy 
again. 
By the permission of the superintendent, Squire 
Lee and myself examined Tom Spicer. He is a great 
rascal. Perhaps he thought we would get him out ; 
so he made a clean breast of it, and confessed that 
you had no hand in the robbery, and that you knew 
