thoughts just now.”

“And if you did, fairy, they would not make you any prettier or better
than you are.”

“I wonder if they do you any good, uncle?” she quickly replied; but her
companion made no answer; he only smiled.

Let me write here what John Greylston’s tongue refused to say. Those
thoughts, indeed, had done him good; they were tender, self-upbraiding,
loving thoughts, mingled, all the while, with touching memories,
mournful glimpses of the past--the days of his sore bereavement, when
the coffin-lid was first shut down over Ellen Day’s sweet face, and
he was smitten to the earth with anguish. Then Margaret’s sympathy and
love, so beautiful in its strength, and unselfishness, so unwearying and
sublime in its sacrifices, became to him a stay and comfort. And had she
not, for his sake, uncomplainingly given up the best years of her life,
as it seemed? Had her love ever faltered? Had it ever wavered in its
sweet endeavours to make him happy? These memories, these thoughts,
closed round John Greylston like a circle of rebuking angels. Not for
the first time were they with him when Annie found him beneath the old
pines. Ever since that morning of violent and unjust anger they had
been struggling in his heart, growing stronger, it seemed, every hour
in their reproachful tenderness. Those loving, silent attentions to his
wishes John Greylston had noted, and they rankled like sharp thorns
in his soul. He was not worthy of them; this he knew. How he loathed
himself for his sharp and angry words! He had it in his heart to tell
his sister this, but an overpowering shame held him back.

“If I only knew how Madge felt towards me,” he said many times to
himself, “then I could speak; but I have been such a brute. She can
do nothing else but repulse me;” and this threw around him that
chill reserve which kept Margaret’s generous and forgiving heart at a
distance.

Even every-day life has its wonders, and perhaps not one of the least
was that this brother and sister, so long fellow-pilgrims, so long
readers of each other’s hearts, should for a little while be kept
asunder by mutual blindness. Yet the hand which is to chase the mists
from their darkened eyes, even now is raised, what though it be but
small? God in his wisdom and mercy will cause its strength to be
sufficient.

When John Greylston gave his niece no answer, she looked intently in his
face and said,

“You will not tell me what you have been thinking about; but I can
guess, Uncle John. I know the reason you did not take Aunt Margaret to
the rock to see the sunset.”

“Do you?” he asked, startled from his composure, his face flushing
deeply.

“Yes; for I would not rest until aunty told me the whole story, and I
just came out to talk to you about it. Now, Uncle John, don’t frown,
and draw away your hand; just listen to me a little while; I am sure you
will be glad.” Then she repeated, in her pretty, girlish way, touching
in its earnestness, all Miss Greylston had told her. “Oh, if you had
only heard her say those sweet things, I know you would not keep vexed
one minute longer! Aunt Margaret told me that she did not blame you
at all, only herself; that she loved you dearly, and she is so sorry
because you seem cold and angry yet, for she wants so very, very much
to beg your forgiveness, and tell you all this, dear Uncle John, if you
would only--”

“Annie,” he suddenly interrupted, drawing her closely to his bosom;
“Annie, you precious child, in telling me all this you have taken a
great weight off of my heart. You have done your old uncle a world of
good. God bless you a thousand times! If I had known this at once; if
I had been sure, from the first, of Margaret’s forgiveness for my cruel
words, how quickly I would have sought it. My dear, noble sister!”
 The tears filled John Greylston’s dark blue eyes, but his smile was so
exceedingly tender and beautiful, that Annie drew closer to his side.

“Oh, that lovely smile!” she cried, “how it lights your face; and now
you look so good and forgiving, dearer and better even than a king.
Uncle John, kiss me again; my heart is so glad! shall I run now and tell
Aunt Margaret all this sweet news?”

“No, no, darling little peace-maker, stay here; I will go to her
myself;” and he hurried away.

Annie Bermond sat alone upon the hill, musingly platting the long grass
together, but she heeded not the work of her fingers. Her face was
bright with joy, her heart full of happiness. Dear child! in one brief
hour she had learned the blessedness of that birthright which is for
all God’s sons and daughters, if they will but claim it. I mean the
privilege of doing good, of being useful.

Miss Greylston sat by the parlour window, just where she could see who
crossed the lawn. She was waiting with a kind of nervous impatience for
Annie. She heard a footstep, but it was only Liddy going down to the
dairy. Then Reuben went by on his way to the meadow, and all was silent
again. Where was Annie?--but now quick feet sounded upon the crisp
and faded leaves. Miss Margaret looked out, and saw her brother
coming,--then she was sure Annie had in some way missed him, and
she drew back from the window keenly disappointed, not even a faint
suspicion of the blessed truth crossing her mind. As John Greylston
entered the hall, a sudden and irresistible desire prompted Margaret to
go and tell him all the loving and forgiving thoughts of her heart, no
matter what his mood should be. So she threw down her work, and went
quickly towards the parlour door. And the brother and sister met, just
on the threshold.

“John--John,” she said, falteringly, “I must speak to you; I cannot bear
this any longer.”

“Nor can I, Margaret.”

Miss Greylston looked up in her brother’s face; it was beaming with love
and tenderness. Then she knew the hour of reconciliation had come, and
with a quick, glad cry, she sprang into his arms and laid her head down
upon his shoulder.

“Can you ever forgive me, Madge?”

She made no reply--words had melted into tears, but they were eloquent,
and for a little while it was quite still in the parlour.

“You shall blame yourself no longer, Margaret. All along you have
behaved like a sweet Christian woman as you are, but I have been an old
fool, unreasonable and cross from the very beginning. Can you really
forgive me all those harsh words, for which I hated myself not ten hours
after they were said? Can you, indeed, forgive and forget these? Tell me
so again.”

“John,” she said, raising her tearful face from his shoulder, “I do
forgive you most completely, with my whole heart, and, O! I wanted so to
tell you this two days ago, but your coldness kept me back. I was afraid
your anger was not over, and that you would repel me.”

“Ah, that coldness was but shame--deep and painful shame. I was
needlessly harsh with you, and moments of reflection only served to
fasten on me the belief that I had lost all claim to your love, that you
could not forgive me. Yes! I did misjudge you, Madge, I know, but when I
looked back upon the past, and all your faithful love for me, I saw you
as I had ever seen you, the best of sisters, and then my shameful
and ungrateful conduct rose up clearly before me. I felt so utterly
unworthy.”

Miss Greylston laid her finger upon her brother’s lips. “Nor will I
listen to you blaming yourself so heavily any longer. John, you had
cause to be angry with me; I was unreasonably urgent about the trees,”
 and she sighed; “I forgot to be gentle and patient; so you see I am to
blame as well as yourself.”

“But I forgot even common kindness and courtesy;” he said gravely. “What
demon was in my heart, Margaret, I do not know. Avarice, I am afraid,
was at the bottom of all this, for rich as I am, I somehow felt very
obstinate about running into any more expense or trouble about the road;
and then, you remember, I never could love inanimate things as you do.
But from this time forth I will try--and the pines”--

“Let the pines go down, my dear brother, I see now how unreasonable I
have been,” suddenly interrupted Miss Greylston; “and indeed these few
days past I could not look at them with any pleasure; they only reminded
me of our separation. Cut them down: I will not say one word.”

“Now, what a very woman you are, Madge! Just when you have gained your
will, you want to turn about; but, love, the trees shall not come down.
I will give them to you; and you cannot refuse my peace-offering; and
never, whilst John Greylston lives, shall an axe touch those pines,
unless you say so, Margaret.”

He laughed when he said this, but her tears were falling fast.

“Next month will be November; then comes our birth-day; we will be fifty
years old, Margaret. Time is hurrying on with us; he has given me gray
locks, and laid some wrinkles on your dear face; but that is nothing if
our hearts are untouched. O, for so many long years, ever since my Ellen
was snatched from me,”--and here John Greylston paused a moment--“you
have been to me a sweet, faithful comforter. Madge, dear twin sister,
your love has always been a treasure to me; but you well know for many
years past it has been my only earthly treasure. Henceforth, God
helping me, I will seek to restrain my evil temper. I will be more
watchful; if sometimes I fail, Margaret, will you not love me, and bear
with me?”

Was there any need for that question? Miss Margaret only answered by
clasping her brother’s hand more closely in her own. As they stood there
in the autumn sunlight, united so lovingly, hand in hand, each silently
prayed that thus it might be with them always; not only through life’s
autumn, but in that winter so surely for them approaching, and which
would give place to the fair and beautiful spring of the better land.

Annie Bermond’s bright face looked in timidly at the open door.

“Come here, darling, come and stand right beside your old uncle and
aunt, and let us thank you with all our hearts for the good you have
done us. Don’t cry any more, Margaret. Why, fairy, what is the matter
with you?” for Annie’s tears were falling fast upon his hand.

“I hardly know, Uncle John; I never felt so glad in my life before, but
I cannot help crying. Oh, it is so sweet to think the cloud has gone.”

“And whose dear hand, under God’s blessing, drove the cloud away, but
yours, my child?”

Annie was silent; she only clung the tighter to her uncle’s arm, and
Miss Greylston said, with a beaming smile,

“Now, Annie, we see the good purpose God had in sending you here to-day.
You have done for us the blessed work of a peace-maker.”

Annie had always been dear to her uncle and aunt, but from that
golden autumn day, she became, if such a thing could be, dearer than
ever--bound to them by an exceedingly sweet tie.

Years went by. One snowy evening, a merry Christmas party was gathered
together in the wide parlour at Greylston Cottage,--nearly all the
nephews and nieces were there. Mrs. Lennox, the “Sophy” of earlier
days, with her husband; Richard Bermond and his pretty little wife were
amongst the number; and Annie, dear, bright Annie--her fair face only
the fairer and sweeter for time--sat, talking in a corner with young
Walter Selwyn. John Greylston went slowly to the window, and pushed
aside the curtains, and as he stood there looking out somewhat gravely
in the bleak and wintry night, he felt a soft hand touch him, and he
turned and found Annie Bermond by his side.

“You looked so lonely, my dear uncle.”

“And that is the reason you deserted Walter?” he said, laughing. “Well,
I will soon send you back to him. But, look out here first, Annie, and
tell me what you see;” and she laid her face close to the window-pane,
and, after a minute’s silence, said,

“I see the ground white with snow, the sky gleaming with stars, and the
dear old pines, tall and stately as ever.”

“Yes, the pines; that is what I meant, my child. Ah, they have been my
silent monitors ever since that day; you remember it, Annie! Bless you,
child! how much good you did us then.”

But Annie was silently crying beside him. John Greylton wiped his eyes,
and then he called his sister Margaret to the window.

“Annie and I have been looking at the old pines, and you can guess what
we were thinking about. As for myself,” he added, “I never see those
trees without feeling saddened and rebuked. I never recall that season
of error, without the deepest shame and grief. And still the old pines
stand. Well, Madge, one day they will shade our graves; and of late I
have thought that day would dawn very soon.”

Annie Bermond let the curtain fall very slowly forward, and buried
her face in her hands; but the two old pilgrims by her side, John and
Margaret Greylston, looked at each other with a smile of hope and joy.
They had long been “good and faithful servants,” and now they awaited
the coming of “the Master,” with a calm, sweet patience, knowing it
would be well with them, when He would call them hence.

The pines creaked mournfully in the winter wind, and the stars looked
down upon bleak wastes, and snow-shrouded meadows; yet the red blaze
heaped blithely on the hearth, taking in, in its fair light, the merry
circle sitting side by side, and the thoughtful little group standing so
quietly by the window. And even now the picture fades, and is gone. The
curtain falls--the story of John and Margaret Greylston is ended.




THE WORLD WOULD BE THE BETTER FOR IT.



     IF men cared less for wealth and fame,
       And less for battle-fields and glory;
     If, writ in human hearts, a name
       Seemed better than in song and story;
     If men, instead of nursing pride,
       Would learn to hate and to abhor it--
         If more relied
         On Love to guide,
     The world would be the better for it.

     If men dealt less in stocks and lands,
       And more in bonds and deeds fraternal;
     If Love’s work had more willing hands
       To link this world to the supernal;
     If men stored up Love’s oil and wine,
       And on bruised human hearts would pour it;
         If “yours” and “mine”
          Would once combine,
     The world would be the better for it.

     If more would act the play of Life,
       And fewer spoil it in rehearsal;
     If Bigotry would sheathe its knife
       Till Good became more universal;
     If Custom, gray with ages grown,
       Had fewer blind men to adore it--
         If talent shone
         In truth alone,
     The world would be the better for it.

     If men were wise in little things--
       Affecting less in all their dealings--
     If hearts had fewer rusted strings
       To isolate their kindly feelings;
     If men, when Wrong beats down the Right,
       Would strike together and restore it--
         If Right made Might
         In every fight,
     The world would be the better for it.




TWO SIDES TO A STORY.



“HAVE you seen much of your new neighbours, yet?” asked Mrs. Morris, as
she stepped in to have an hour’s social chat with her old friend, Mrs.
Freeman.

“Very little,” was the reply. “Occasionally I have seen the lady walking
in her garden, and have sometimes watched the sports of the children on
the side-walk, but this is all. It is not like the country, you
know. One may live here for years, and not become acquainted with the
next-door neighbours.”

“Some may do so,” replied Mrs. Morris, “but, for my part, I always like
to know something of those around me. It is not always desirable to make
the acquaintance of near neighbours, but by a little observation it
is very easy to gain an insight into their characters and position in
society. The family which has moved into the house next to yours, for
instance, lived near to me for nearly two years, and although I never
spoke to one of them, I can tell you of some strange transactions which
took place in their house.”

“Indeed!” replied Mrs. Freeman, with little manifestation of interest or
curiosity; but Mrs. Morris was too eager to communicate her information
to notice her friend’s manner, and lowering her voice to a confidential
tone, continued:--

“There is an old lady in their family whom they abuse in the most
shocking manner. She is very rich, and they by threats and ill-treatment
extort large sums of money from her.”

“A singular way of inducing any one to bestow favours,” replied Mrs.
Freeman, dryly. “Why does not the old lady leave there?”

“Bless your heart, my dear friend, she cannot get an opportunity! They
never suffer her to leave the house unattended. Once or twice, indeed,
she succeeded in getting into the street, but they discovered her in a
moment, and actually forced her into the house. You smile incredulously,
but if you had been an eye-witness of their proceedings, as I have, or
had heard the screams of the poor creature, and the heavy blows which
they inflict, you would be convinced of the truth of what I tell you.”

“I do not doubt the truth of your story in the least, my dear Mrs.
Morris. I only think that in this case, as in most others, there must
be two sides to the story. It is almost incredible that such barbarous
treatment could continue for any great length of time without discovery
and exposure.”

“Oh, as to that, people are not fond of getting themselves into trouble
by meddling with their neighbours’ affairs. I am very cautious about
it myself. I would not have mentioned this matter to any one but an old
friend like yourself. It seemed best to put you on your guard.”

“Thank you,” was the smiling reply. “It is hardly probable that I shall
be called upon to make any acquaintance with my new neighbours but if I
am, I certainly shall not forget your caution.”

Satisfied that she had succeeded, at least partially, in awakening the
suspicions of her friend, Mrs. Morris took her departure, while Mrs.
Freeman, quite undisturbed by her communications, continued her usual
quiet round of domestic duties, thinking less of the affairs of her
neighbours than of those of her own household.

Occasionally she saw the old lady whom Mrs. Morris had mentioned walking
in the adjoining garden, sometimes alone, and sometimes accompanied
by the lady of the house, or one of the children. There was nothing
striking in her appearance. She looked cheerful and contented, and
showed no signs of confinement or abuse. Once, when Mrs. Freeman was in
her garden, she had looked over the fence, and praised the beauty of her
flowers, and when a bunch was presented to her, had received them with
that almost childish delight which aged people often manifest.

Weeks passed on, and the remarks of Mrs. Morris were almost forgotten,
when Mrs. Freeman was aroused one night by loud cries, apparently
proceeding from the adjoining house; and on listening intently could
plainly distinguish the sound of heavy blows, and also the voice of the
old lady in question, as if in earnest expostulation and entreaty.

Mrs. Freeman aroused her husband, and together they listened in anxiety
and alarm. For nearly an hour the sounds continued, but at length
all was again quiet. It was long, however, before they could compose
themselves to rest. It was certainly strange and unaccountable, and
there was something so inhuman in the thought of abusing an aged woman
that their hearts revolted at the idea.

Still Mrs. Freeman maintained, as was her wont, that there must be two
sides to the story; and after vainly endeavouring to imagine what the
other side could be, she fell asleep, and was undisturbed until morning.

All seemed quiet the next day, and Mrs. Freeman had somewhat recovered
from the alarm of the previous night, when she was again visited by her
friend, Mrs. Morris. As usual, she had confidential communications to
make, and particularly wished the advice of Mrs. Freeman in a matter
which she declared weighed heavily upon her mind; and being assured that
they should be undisturbed, began at once to impart the weighty secret.

“You remember Mrs. Dawson, who went with her husband to Europe, a year
or two ago?”

“Certainly I do,” was the reply. “I was well acquainted with her.”

“Do you recollect a girl who had lived with her for several years? I
think her name was Mary Berkly.”

“Quite well. Mrs. Dawson placed great confidence in her, and wished to
take her abroad, but Mary was engaged to an honest carpenter, in good
business, and wisely preferred a comfortable house in her own country.”

“She had other reasons, I suspect,” replied Mrs. Morris, mysteriously,
“but you will hear. This Mary Berkly, or as she is now called,
Mary White, lives not far from my present residence. Her husband is
comfortably off, and his wife is not obliged to work, excepting in her
own family, but still she will occasionally, as a favour, do up a few
muslins for particular persons. You know she was famous for her skill
in those things. The other day, having a few pieces which I was
particularly anxious to have look nice, I called upon her to see if she
would wash them for me. She was not at home, but her little niece, who
lives with her, a child of four years old, said that Aunt Mary would be
in directly, and asked me to walk into the parlour. I did so, and the
little thing stood by my side chattering away like a magpie. In reply
to my questions as to whether she liked to live with her aunt, what she
amused herself with, &c., &c., she entered into a long account of
her various playthings, and ended by saying that she would show me a
beautiful new doll which her good uncle had given her, if I would please
to unlock the door of a closet near where I was sitting, as she could
not turn the key.

“To please the child I unlocked the door. She threw it wide open, and
to my astonishment I saw that it was filled with valuable silver plate,
china, and other articles of similar kind, some of which I particularly
remembered having seen at Mrs. Dawson’s.”

“Perhaps she gave them to Mary,” suggested Mrs. Freeman. “She was quite
attached to her.”

“Impossible!” exclaimed Mrs. Morris. “Valuable silver plate is not often
given to servants. But I have not yet finished. Just as the child had
found the doll Mrs. White entered, and on seeing the closet-door open,
said sternly to the child,

“‘Rosy, you did very wrong to open that door without my leave. I shall
not let you take your doll again for a week;’ and looking very red and
confused, she hastily closed it, and turned the key. Now, to my mind,
these are suspicious circumstances, particularly as I recollect that Mr.
and Mrs. Dawson were robbed of silver plate shortly before they went to
Europe, and no trace could be found of the thieves.”

“True,” replied Mrs. Freeman, thoughtfully; “I recollect the robbery
very well. Still I cannot believe that Mary had anything to do with it.
I was always pleased with her modest manner, and thought her an honest,
capable girl.”

“She is very smooth-faced, I know,” answered Mrs. Morris, “but
appearances are certainly against her. I am confident that the articles
I saw belonged to Mrs. Dawson.”

“There may be another side to the story, however,” remarked her friend;
“but why not mention your suspicions to Mrs. Dawson? You know she has
returned, and is boarding in the upper part of the city. I have her
address, somewhere.”

“I know where she lives; but would you really advise me to meddle with
the affair? I shall make enemies of Mr. and Mrs. White, if they hear of
it, and I like to have the good-will of all, both, rich and poor.”

“I do not believe that Mary would take anything wrongfully,” replied
Mrs. Freeman; “but if my suspicions were as fully aroused as yours seem
to be, I presume I should mention what I saw to Mrs. Dawson, if it
were only for the sake of hearing the other side of the story, and thus
removing such unpleasant doubts from my mind. And, indeed, if you really
think that the articles which you saw were stolen, it becomes your duty
to inform the owners thereof, or you become, in a measure, a partaker of
the theft.”

“That is true,” said Mrs. Morris, rising, “and in that way I might
ultimately gain the ill-will of Mrs. Dawson; therefore I think I will go
at once and tell her my suspicions.”

“Which, I am convinced, you will find erroneous,” replied Mrs. Freeman.

“We shall see,” was the answer of her friend, accompanied by an ominous
shake of the head; and promising to call upon Mrs. Freeman on her
return, she took leave.

During her absence, the alarming cries from the next house were again
heard; and presently the old lady appeared on the side-walk, apparently
in great agitation and alarm, and gazing wildly about her, as if seeking
a place of refuge; but she was instantly seized in the forcible manner
Mrs. Morris had described, and carried into the house.

“This is dreadful!” exclaimed Mrs. Freeman. “What excuse can there
be for such treatment?” and for a moment her heart was filled with
indignation toward her supposed barbarous neighbours; but a little
reflection caused her still to suspend her judgment, and endeavour to
learn both sides of the story.

As she sat ruminating on this singular occurrence, and considering what
was her duty in regard to it, she was aroused by the entrance of Mrs.
Morris, who, with an air of vexation and disappointment, threw herself
upon the nearest chair, exclaiming,

“A pretty piece of work I have been about! It is all owing to your
advice, Mrs. Freeman. If it had not been for you I should not have made
such a fool of myself.”

“Why, what has happened to you?” asked Mrs. Freeman, anxiously. “What
advice have I given you which has caused trouble?”

“You recommended my calling upon Mrs. Dawson, did you not?”

“Certainly: I thought it the easiest way to relieve your mind from
painful suspicions. What did she say?”

“Say! I wish you could have seen the look she gave me when I told her
what I saw at Mrs. White’s. You know her haughty manner? She thanked me
for the trouble I had taken on her account, and begged leave to assure
me that she had perfect confidence in the honesty of Mrs. White. The
articles which had caused me so much unnecessary anxiety were intrusted
to her care when they went to Europe, and it had not yet been convenient
to reclaim them. I cannot tell you how contemptuously she spoke. I never
felt so mortified in my life.”

“There is no occasion for feeling so, if your intentions were good,”
 answered Mrs. Freeman; “and certainly it must be a relief to you to hear
the other side of the story. Nothing less would have convinced you of
Mrs. White’s honesty.”

Mrs. Morris was prevented from replying by the sudden and violent
ringing of the bell, and an instant after the door was thrown open, and
the old lady, whose supposed unhappy condition had called forth their
sympathies, rushed into the room.

“Oh, save me! save me!” she exclaimed, frantically. “I am
pursued,--protect me, for the love of Heaven!”

“Poor creature!” said Mrs. Morris. “You see that I was not mistaken in
this story, at least. There can be no two sides to this.”

“Depend upon it there is,” replied Mrs. Freeman; but she courteously
invited her visiter to be seated, and begged to know what had occasioned
her so much alarm.

The poor lady told a plausible and piteous tale of ill-treatment, and,
indeed, actual abuse. Mrs. Morris listened with a ready ear, and loudly
expressed her horror and indignation. Mrs. Freeman was more guarded.
There was something in the old lady’s appearance and manners that
excited an undefinable feeling of fear and aversion. Mrs. Freeman
felt much perplexed as to the course she ought to pursue, and looked
anxiously at the clock to see if the time for her husband’s return was
near.

It still wanted nearly two hours, and after a little more consideration
she decided to go herself into the next door, ask for an interview with
the lady of the house, frankly state what had taken place, and demand
an explanation. This resolution she communicated in a low voice to Mrs.
Morris, who opposed it as imprudent and ill-judged.

“Of course they will deny the charge,” she argued, “and by letting them
know where the poor creature has taken shelter, you will again expose
her to their cruelty. Besides, you will get yourself into trouble. My
advice to you is to keep quiet until your husband returns, and then to
assist the poor lady secretly to go to her friends in the country, who
she says will gladly receive her.”

“But I am anxious to hear both sides of the story before I decide to
assist her,” replied Mrs. Freeman.

“Nonsense!” exclaimed her friend. “Even you must see that there cannot
be two sides to this story. There is no possible excuse for cruelty, and
to an inoffensive, aged woman.”

While they were thus consulting together, their visiter regarded them
with a troubled look, and a fierce gleaming eye, which did not, escape
Mrs. Freeman’s observation; and just as Mrs. Morris finished speaking,
the maniac sprang upon her, like a tiger on his prey, and, seizing her
by the throat, demanded what new mischief was plotting against her.

The screams of the terrified women drew the attention of the son of
the old lady, who had just discovered her absence, and was hastening in
search of her. At once suspecting the truth, he rushed without ceremony
into his neighbour’s house, and speedily rescued Mrs. Morris from her
unpleasant and somewhat dangerous situation. After conveying his mother
to her own room, and consigning her to strict custody, he returned, and
respectfully apologized to Mrs. Freeman for what had taken place.

“His poor mother,” he said, “had for several years been subject to
occasional fits of insanity. Generally she had appeared harmless,
excepting as regarded herself. Unless prevented by force, she would
sometimes beat her own flesh in a shocking manner, uttering at the same
time loud cries and complaints of the abuse of those whom she supposed
to be tormenting her.

“In her lucid intervals she had so earnestly besought them not to place
her in the asylum for the insane, but to continue to bear with her under
their own roof, that they had found it impossible to refuse their solemn
promise to comply with her wishes.

“For themselves, their love for her rendered them willing to bear
with her infirmities, but it should be their earnest care that their
neighbours should not again be disturbed.”

Mrs. Freeman kindly expressed her sympathy and forgiveness for the alarm
which she had experienced, and the gentleman took leave.

Poor Mrs. Morris had remained perfectly silent since her release; but
as the door closed on their visiter, and her friend kindly turned to
inquire how she found herself, she recovered her speech, and exclaimed,
energetically,

“I will never, never say again that there are not two sides to a story.
If I am ever tempted to believe one side without waiting to hear the
other, I shall surely feel again the hands of that old witch upon my
throat.”

“Old witch!” repeated Mrs. Freeman. “Surely she demands our sympathy as
much as when we thought her suffering under ill-treatment. It is indeed
a sad thing to be bereft of reason. But this will be a useful lesson to
both of us: for I will readily acknowledge that in this instance I
was sometimes tempted to forget that there are always ‘two sides to a
story.’”




LITTLE KINDNESSES.



NOT long since, it was announced that a large fortune had been left to a
citizen of the United States by a foreigner, who, some years before, had
“become ill” while travelling in this country, and whose sick-bed was
watched with the utmost care and kindness by the citizen referred to.
The stranger recovered, continued his journey, and finally returned to
his own country. The conduct of the American at a moment so critical,
and when, without relatives or friends, the invalid was languishing in a
strange land, was not forgotten. He remembered it in his thoughtful and
meditative moments, and when about to prepare for another world, his
gratitude was manifested in a truly signal manner. A year or two ago, an
individual in this city was labouring under great pecuniary difficulty.
He was unexpectedly called upon for a considerable sum of money; and,
although his means were abundant, they were not at that time immediately
available. Puzzled and perplexed, he hesitated as to his best course,
when, by the merest chance, he met an old acquaintance, and incidentally
mentioned the facts of the case. The other referred to an act of
kindness that he had experienced years before, said that he had never
forgotten it, and that nothing would afford him more pleasure than
to extend the relief that was required, and thus show, his grateful
appreciation of the courtesy of former years! The kindness alluded to
was a mere trifle, comparatively speaking, and its recollection had
passed entirely from the memory of the individual who had performed it.
Not so, however, with the obliged. He had never forgotten it, and
the result proved, in the most conclusive manner, that he was deeply
grateful.

We have mentioned the two incidents with the object of inculcating the
general policy of courtesy and kindness, of sympathy and assistance, in
our daily intercourse with our fellow-creatures. It is the true
course under all circumstances. “Little kindnesses” sometimes make an
impression that “lingers and lasts” for years. This is especially the
case with the sensitive, the generous, and the high-minded. And how much
may be accomplished by this duty of courtesy and humanity! How the paths
of life may be smoothed and softened! How the present may be cheered,
and the future rendered bright and beautiful!

There are, it is true, some selfish spirits, who can neither
appreciate nor reciprocate a courteous or a generous act. They are for
themselves--“now and for ever”--if we may employ such a phrase--and
appear never to be satisfied. You can never do enough for them. Nay,
the deeper the obligation, the colder the heart. They grow jealous,
distrustful, and finally begin to hate their benefactors. But these, we
trust, are “the exceptions,” not “the rule.” Many a heart has been won,
many a friendship has been secured, many a position has been acquired,
through the exercise of such little kindnesses and courtesies as are
natural to the generous in spirit and the noble of soul--to all,
indeed, who delight, not only in promoting their own prosperity, but
in contributing to the welfare of every member of the human family. Who
cannot remember some incident of his own life, in which an individual,
then and perhaps now a stranger--one who has not been seen for years,
and never may be seen again on this side the grave, manifested the true,
the genuine, the gentle spirit of a gentleman and a Christian, in
some mere trifle--some little but impulsive and spontaneous act,
which nevertheless developed the whole heart, and displayed the
real character! Distance and time may separate, and our pursuits and
vocations may be in paths distinct, dissimilar, and far apart. Yet,
there are moments--quiet, calm, and contemplative, when memory will
wander back to the incidents referred to, and we will feel a secret bond
of affinity, friendship, and brotherhood. The name will be mentioned
with respect if not affection, and a desire will be experienced to
repay, in some way or on some occasion, the generous courtesy of the
by-gone time. It is so easy to be civil and obliging, to be kindly and
humane! We not only thus assist the comfort of others, but we promote
our own mental enjoyment. Life, moreover, is full of chance’s and
