"Bad luck to the ould thing, then!" -- was his sense of the
matter.
"You needn't wish that," said Winthrop.
"Then, yer honour, I wouldn't wish anything better to meself,
if I could ha' helped it. If meself had been in the box, I
couldn't ha' taken it more tinder, till we began to go, and
then, plase yer honour, I hadn't no hoult of anything at all
at all."
"Take hold now, then," said Winthrop, "and set this up
straight; and then see if you can get a sixpenny worth of rope
anywhere."
The man went off, and Winthrop gathered up his stray
possessions from the street and the gutter and with some
difficulty got them in their places again; and then stood
mounting guard over the wheelbarrow and baggage until the
coming of the rope; thinking perhaps how little he had to take
care of and how strange it was there should be any difficulty
in his doing it.
More care, or an evener way, brought them at last, without
further mishap, to Diamond St., and along Diamond St. to Mr.
Forriner's house and store. Both in the same building; large
and handsome enough, at least as large and handsome as its
neighbours; the store taking the front of the ground floor.
Mr. Forriner stood in the doorway taking a look at the day,
which probably he thought promised him little custom; for his
face was very much the colour of the weather.
Winthrop stopped the wheelbarrow before the house; went up and
named his name.
"Winthrop Landholm!" -- the touch of Mr. Forriner's hand said
nothing at all unless it were in the negative; -- "how d'ye do,
sir. Come to make a visit in Mannahatta?"
"No, sir. I have come here to stay."
"Ah! -- hum. Sister well?"
"Very well, sir."
"Left home yesterday?"
"No sir -- three days ago."
"Ah? where have you been?"
"In bed, sir -- caught cold in the rain Tuesday."
"Tuesday! -- yes, it did rain considerable all along Tuesday.
Where were you?"
"By the way, sir."
"Just got here, eh? -- bad time."
"I could not wait for a good one."
"What are you calculating to do here?"
"Study law, sir."
"Law! -- hum. Do you expect to make money by that?"
"If I don't, I am afraid I shall not make money by anything,"
said Winthrop.
"Hum! -- I guess there aint much money made by the law," said
Mr. Forriner taking a pinch of snuff. "It's a good trade to
starve by. How long have you to study?"
"All the time I have to live, sir."
"Eh? -- and how do you expect to live in the meantime?"
"I shall manage to live as long as I study."
"Well I hope you will -- I hope you will," said Mr. Forriner.
"You'll come in and take breakfast with us?"
"If you will allow me, sir."
"You haven't had breakfast yet?"
"No sir, nor supper."
"Well, I guess wife's got enough for you. If that's your box
you'd better get the man to help you in with it. You can set
it down here behind the door."
"Is it the right place, sir?" inquired Michael as Winthrop
came out to him.
"No" said Winthrop. "But you may help me in with the trunk."
Michael was satisfied that he had the right money, and
departed; and Winthrop followed Mr. Forriner through a narrow
entry cut off from the store, to a little back room, which was
the first of the domestic premises. Here stood a table, and
Mrs. Forriner; a hard-featured lady, in a muslin cap likewise
hard-featured; there was a "not-give-in" look, very marked, in
both, cap and lady. A look that Winthrop recognized at once,
and which her husband seemed to have recognized a great while.
"Mrs. Forriner!" said that gentleman to his nephew. "My dear,
this is Cousin Winthrop Landholm -- Orphah's son."
"How do you do, sir?" said Mrs. Forriner's eyes and cap; her
tongue moved not.
"Just come in town," pursued her husband; "and has come to
take breakfast with us."
"Have you come in to stay, cousin? or are you going back again
to the North?"
"I am not going back at present -- I am going to stay," said
Winthrop.
The lady was standing up, waiting the instant arrival of
breakfast, or not enough at ease in her mind to sit down. The
table and room and furniture, though plain enough and even
mean in their character, had notwithstanding a sufficient look
of homely comfort.
"You didn't like it up there where you were?" she went on,
changing the places of things on the table with a dissatisfied
air.
"Up where, ma'am?"
"O this is not Rufus, -- this is Winthrop, my dear," said Mr.
Forriner. "Cousin Winthrop has just come down from -- I forget
-- from home. What does brother Landholm call his place,
cousin?"
"We sometimes call it after our mountain, 'Wut-a-qut-o.'"
How sweet the syllables seemed in Winthrop's lips!
"What?" put in the lady.
Winthrop repeated.
"I should never remember it. -- Then this is another cousin?"
she remarked to Mr. Forriner; -- "and not the one that was here
before?"
"No, my dear. It is Rufus that is in the country up North
somewhere -- Cousin Winthrop is coming here to be a lawyer, he
tells me."
"Will you sit up, cousin?" said the lady somewhat dryly, after
a minute's pause, as her handmaid set a Britannia metal tea-
pot on the board. The meaning of the request being that he
should move his chair up to the table, Winthrop did so; for to
do the family justice he had sat down some time before.
"How will your mother do without you at home?" inquired Mrs.
Forriner, when she had successfully apportioned the milk and
sugar in the cups.
"I have not been at home for three years past."
"Has she other sons with her?"
"Not another so old as myself."
"It's pretty hard on her, aint it, to have her two eldest go
off?"
"Where have you been these three years?" put in Uncle
Forriner.
"At Shagarack, sir."
"Ah! -- Brother Landholm is bringing up all his sons to be
civilians, it seems."
Winthrop was not very clear what his questioner meant; but as
it was probable Mr. Forriner himself was in the same condition
of darkness, he refrained from asking.
"What's at Shagarack?" said Mrs. Forriner.
"A College, my dear."
"College! -- Have you just come to the city, cousin?"
"He caught cold in the rain last Tuesday and has been lying by
ever since, and only got in town this morning."
"Have you got a place to stay?"
"Not yet, ma'am. I have been but two hours here."
"Well, you had better see to that the first thing, and come
here and take dinner -- that'll give you a chance. You'll
easily find what you want."
"Not this morning, I think, unless it is to be found very near
by," said Winthrop; "for my feet would hardly carry me a
hundred yards."
"You see, he's weak yet," put in Mr. Forriner.
"Didn't you walk here, cousin?" said the lady.
"Unfortunately, I did, ma'am; for I have not strength to walk
anywhere else."
"O well, you can go up stairs and lie down and get some rest;
you'll be better by afternoon I dare say. Will you have
another cup of tea?"
But Winthrop declined it.
"He don't look right smart," said Mr. Forriner. "I reckon
he'll have to go to bed for a while. Cousin, if you'll come up
stairs, I'll shew you a place where you can sleep."
They went up accordingly.
"Mr. Forriner --" called his wife from the bottom of the stairs
when he and Winthrop had reached the top -- "Mr. Forriner! --
the end room -- put him in the end room."
"Yes -- it isn't very big, but you won't mind that to take a
nap in," said Mr. Forriner, opening the door and ushering
Winthrop in.
Where he left him; and what secrets Winthrop's pillow knew
were known to none but his pillow. But the morning was not all
lost in sleep; and home's fair images did come most sweet
about him before sleep came at all.
He was called to dinner, but chose sleep rather, and slept
well all the afternoon. Towards evening he roused himself, and
though feeling very little strength to boast of, he dressed
himself and went out.
The day had changed. A warmer temperature had thawed off the
thin sleet, and the pavements were drying. The rain-cloud of
the morning was broken up and scattering hither and thither,
and through the clefts of it the sun came blinking in upon the
world. The light was pleasant upon the wet streets and the
long stacks of building and the rolling clouds; and the change
in the air was most soothing and mild after the morning's
harsh breath. Winthrop tasted and felt it as he walked up the
street; but how can the outer world be enjoyed by a man to
whom the world is all outer? It only quickened his sense of
the necessity there was he should find another climate for his
mind to live in. But his body was in no state to carry him
about to make discoveries. He must care for that in the first
place. After some inquiries and wandering about, he at last
made his way into Bank St. and found an eating-house, very
near the scene of his morning's disaster. Winthrop had very
few shillings to be extravagant with; he laid down two of them
in exchange for a small mutton chop and some bread; and then,
somewhat heartened, set out upon his travels again, crossing
over to the west side of the city. He felt glad, as he went,
that his mother -- and his little sister -- did not know at that
moment how utterly alone and foundationless he and his
undertaking were standing in the place he had chosen for the
scene of his labours and the home of his future life. Yet he
corrected himself. Not 'foundationless,' while his strong will
stood unmoved and untouched by circumstance. Let that not be
conquered, it would surely be conqueror, in the long run; and
he determined it should have as long a run as was necessary.
He could not help the coming to his mind, as he slowly walked
up Beaver St., of his mother's recipe against disappointment,
and the conversation had about it years before; and the words,
"Whatsoever he doeth shall prosper," as Rufus's voice had
given them, came back fresh and with a moment's singular doubt
and yearning touching their faithfulness. Himself, in that
flash of light, he saw to be weak, and not strong. What if it
should be so indeed? "Whatsoever he doeth -- SHALL PROSPER."
Upon the uncertainty of human things, upon the tumult of human
difficulties and resolves, the words came like a strange
breath of peace, from somewhere unknown, but felt to be a
region of health and strength. Yet the qualifications to take
the promise were not in Winthrop's hand; to seek them seemed
to be a one side of his purpose; he left them on one side, and
went on.
He was bending his steps towards the meeting of Beaver and
Little South Sts., the sole point of light which he knew in
the city. It seemed to him that rather less of the sun's cheer
got into Diamond St. than anywhere else. Bank St. was a
heartsome place in comparison. He made his way slowly up
Beaver St. looking for Little South, and passing what to him
were a great many streets without finding that one. As he drew
near still another, his eye was taken with a man standing on
the sidewalk before the corner house; a tall, personable,
clean-looking man; who on his part looked first steadily at
Winthrop and then came down to meet him, laughing and holding
out his hand before he got near.
"How do you do?" was his first cordial salutation. -- "It's Mr.
Landholm! -- I knew it! -- I knew you, from your likeness to
your brother. We've been looking for you. Come in, come in!
How is your brother, Mr. Landholm?"
Winthrop was taken by surprise and could hardly say.
"I knew you as far off as I could see you -- I said to myself,
'That's Mr. Landholm!' I am very glad to see you, sir. You've
just got here?"
"This morning. But what right have I to be expected?"
"O we knew you were coming. Your room's ready for you -- empty
and waiting, and we've been waiting and lonesome too, ever
since Mr. William went away. How is Mr. William, Mr.
Landholm?"
"Well, sir, and full of kindly remembrances of you."
"Ah, he's not forgotten here," said Mr. Inchbald. "He won't be
forgotten anywhere. Here's my sister, Mr. Landholm, -- my
sister, Mrs. Nettley. -- Now, my dear sir, before we sit down,
tell me, -- you haven't any other place to stay?"
"I have not, Mr. Inchbald, indeed."
"Then come up and see what we have to give you, before we
strike a bargain. Doll -- won't you give us a cup of tea by the
time we come down? Mr. Landholm will be the better of the
refreshment. You have had a tiresome journey this weather, Mr.
Landholm?"
As they mounted the stairs he listened to Winthrop's account
of his illness, and looked at him when they got to the top,
with a grave face of concern it was pleasant to meet. They had
come up to the very top; the house was a small and
insignificant wooden one, of two stories.
"This is your room," said Mr. Inchbald, opening the door of
the front attic, -- "this is the room your brother had; it's
not much, and there's not much in it; but now my dear friend,
till you find something better, will you keep possession of
it? and give us the pleasure of having you? -- and one thing
more, will you speak of pay when you are perfectly at leisure
to think of it, and not before, or never, just as it happens;
-- will you?"
"I'll take you at your word, sir; and you shall take me at
mine, when the time comes."
"That I'll do," said Mr. Inchbald. "And now it's a bargain.
Shake hands, -- and come let's go down and have some tea. --
Doll, I hope your tea is good to-night, for Mr. Landholm is
far from well. Sit down -- I wish your brother had the other
place."
That tea was a refreshment. It was served in the little back
room of the first floor, which had very much the seeming of
being Mrs. Nettley's cooking room too. The appointments were
on no higher scale of pretension than Mrs. Forriner's, yet
they gave a far higher impression of the people that used
them; why, belongs to the private mystery of cups and saucers
and chairs, which have an odd obstinate way of their own of
telling the truth. "Doll" was the very contrast to the lady of
the other tea-table. A little woman, rather fleshy, in a close
cap and neat spare gown, with a face which seemed a compound
of benevolent good-will, and anxious care lest everybody
should not get the full benefit of it. It had known care of
another kind too. If her brother had, his jovial, healthy,
hearty face gave no sign.
After tea Winthrop went back to Diamond St.
"We didn't wait for you," said Mr. Forriner as he came in, --
"for we thought you didn't intend probably to be back to tea."
"What success have you had?" inquired his better half.
"I have had tea, ma'am," said Winthrop.
"Have you found any place?"
"Or the place found me."
"You have got one! -- Where is it?"
"In Beaver St. -- the place where my brother used to be."
"What's the name?" said Mr. Forriner.
"Inchbald."
"What is he?" asked Mrs. Forriner.
"An Englishman -- a miniature painter by profession."
"I wonder if he makes his living at that?" said Mrs. Forriner.
"What do you have to pay?" said her husband.
"A fair rent, sir. And now I will pay my thanks for storage
and take away my trunk."
"To-night?" said Mr. Forriner.
"Well, cousin, we shall be glad to see you sometimes," said
Mrs. Forriner.
"At what times, ma'am?" said Winthrop.
He spoke with a straightforward simplicity which a little
daunted her.
"O," she said colouring, "come when you have an hour to spare
-- any time when you have nothing better to do."
"I will come then," he said smiling.
CHAPTER XVII.
Now he weighs time,
Even to the utmost grain.
KING HENRY V.
"Mannahatta, Dec. -- 1813.
"My dear friends at home,
"I am as well and as happy as I can be anywhere away from you.
That to be sure is but a modicum of happiness and good
condition -- very far from the full perfection which I have
known is possible; but you will all be contented, will you
not, to hear that I have so much, and that I have no more? I
don't know -- I think of your dear circle at home -- and though
I cannot wish the heaven over your heads to be a whit less
bright, I cannot help wishing that you may miss one
constellation. You can't have any more than that from poor
human nature -- selfish in the midst of its best generosity.
And yet, mother and Winifred, your faces rise up to shame me;
and I must correct my speech and say man's nature; I do
believe that some at least of your side of the world are made
of better stuff than mine.
"'All are not such.'
"But you want to hear of me rather than of yourselves, and I
come back to where I began.
"I went to see Mr. De Wort the day after I reached here. I
like him very well. He received me politely, and very
handsomely waived the customary fee ($250) and admitted me to
the privileges of his office upon working terms. So I am
working now, for him and for myself, as diligently as I ever
worked in my life -- in a fair way to be a lawyer, Winnie. By
day engrossing deeds and copying long-winded papers, about the
quarrels and wrongs of Mr. A. and Mr. B. -- and at night
digging into parchment-covered books, a dryer and barrener
soil than any near Wut-a-qut-o or on the old mountain itself,
and which must nevertheless be digged into for certain dry and
musty fruits of knowledge to be fetched out of them. I am too
busy to get the blues, but when I go out to take an exercise
walk now and then at dusk or dawn, I do wish I could transport
myself to the neighbourhood of that same mountain, and handle
the axe till I had filled mother's fireplace, or take a turn
in the barn at father's wheat or flax. I should accomplish a
good deal before you were up; but I wouldn't go away without
looking in at you.
"I am in the same house where Rufus lived when he was in
Mannahatta, with his friend Mr. Inchbald; and a kinder friend
I do not wish for. He is an Englishman -- a fine-looking and
fine-hearted fellow -- ready to do everything for me, and
putting me upon terms almost too easy for my comfort. He is a
miniature painter, by profession, but I fear does not make
much of a living. That does not hinder his being as generous
as if he had thousands to dispose of. His heart does not take
counsel with his purse, nor with anything but his heart. He
lives with a widowed sister who keeps his house; and she is as
kind in her way as he is in his, though the ways are
different. I am as much at home here as I can be. I have
Rufus's old room; it is a very pleasant one, and if there is
not much furniture, neither do I want much. It holds my bed
and my books; and my wardrobe at present does not require very
extensive accommodations; and when I am in the middle of one
of those said parchment-covered tomes, it signifies very
little indeed what is outside of them or of me, at the moment.
So you may think of me as having all I desire, so far as I
myself am concerned; for my license and my use of it, must be
worked and waited for. I shall not be a great lawyer, dear
Winnie, under three years at least.
"For you all, I desire so much that my heart almost shuts up
its store and says nothing. So much that for a long time, it
may be, I can have no means of helping you to enjoy. Dear
father and mother, I hope I have not on the whole lessened
your means of enjoyment by striking out this path for myself.
I trust it will in the end be found to be the best for us all.
I have acted under the pressure of an impulse that seemed
strong as life. I could do no other than as I have done. Yet I
can hardly bear to think of you at home sometimes. Dear Winnie
and Asahel, our images rise up and lie down with me. Asahel
must study hard every minute of time he can get. And Winnie,
you must study too every minute that it does not tire you, and
when mother does not want you. And write to me. That will do
you good, and it will do me good too.
"Give my love to Karen.
"Yours all, faithfully,
"Winthrop Landholm.
"P. S. -- I have seen nobody yet but Mr. Herder."
When Winthrop went to put this letter in the post, he drew out
the following:
"To Winthrop Landholm, Esq.:
At Mr. George Inchbald's,
"Cor. Beaver and Little South Sts., Mannahatta.
"I am so tired, Governor, with the world and myself to-night,
that I purpose resting myself at your expense, -- in other
words, to pour over all my roiled feelings from my own heart
into yours, hoping benevolently to find my own thereby
cleared. What will be the case with yours, I don't like to
stop to think; but incline to the opinion, which I have for
many years held, that nothing can roil it. You are infinitely
better than I, Governor; you deserve to be very much happier;
and I hope you are. The truth is, for I may as well come to
it, -- I am half sick of my work. I can see your face from
here, and know just what its want of expression expresses. But
stop. You are not in my place, and don't know anything about
it. You are qualifying yourself for one of the first literary
professions -- and it is one of the greatest matters of joy to
me to think that you are. You are bidding fair to stand, where
no doubt you will stand, at the head of society. Nothing is
beyond your powers; and your powers will stop short of nothing
within their reach. I know you, and hug myself (not having you
at hand) every day to think what sort of a brother I have got.
"Governor, I have something in me too, and I am just now in a
place not calculated to develope or cultivate the finer part
of a man's nature. My associates, without an exception, are
boors and donkeys, not unfrequently combining the agreeable
properties of both in one anomalous animal yclept a clown.
With them my days, for the greater part, are spent; and my
nights in a series of calculations almost equally
extinguishing to any brightness of mind or spirit. The
consequence is I feel my light put out! -- not hid under a
bushel, but absolutely quenched in its proper existence. I
felt so when I began to write this letter; but by dint of
looking steadily for so long a time towards you, I perceive a
reflection of light and warmth coming back upon me and
beginning to take effect upon my own tinder, whereby I gather
that it is capable of being ignited again. Seriously,
Winthrop, I am sick of this. This was not what we left home
for. I suppose in time, and with business enough, one might
make money in this way, but money is not our object in life.
It cannot satisfy me, and I trust not you. What shall I do? I
must finish this piece of work -- that will keep me in the
wilds and fastnesses of this beautiful region (for it is a
superb country, Winthrop; nature goes far here to make up for
the want of all other discoursers whatever. I have sometimes
felt as if she would make a poet of me, would I, nold I,) the
finishing of my work here will detain me in the North at least
till June or July of the coming summer; perhaps August. And
then it is intimated to me my services would be acceptable out
West -- somewhere near Sawcusto. I have a great mind to come to
Mannahatta -- perhaps take a tutorship till something better
offers -- Herder said I would have no sort of difficulty in
getting one, or at least he said what amounted to that -- and
perhaps, eventually, enter the political line. I am undecided,
except in my disapprobation and dislike of what and where I
now am. I have half an inclination to study law with you. It
is hard to do anything with Fortune's wheel when one is at the
very bottom; and the jade seems to act as if you were a drag
upon her. And it is hard that you and I should be at opposite
sides of the world while we are both tugging at said wheel. I
sometimes think we could work to more advantage nearer
together; we could work with somewhat more comfort. I am in
exile here. Write me as soon as you can.
"My pleasantest thoughts are of you. Herder is as good as he
can be, and you are his favourite; you will presently have the
best literary society, through his means. You don't speak of
Haye. Don't you go there? You had better, Winthrop; -- you may
find a short cut to the top of Fortune's wheel through the
front door of his house. At any rate, there are two very
pretty girls there and a number of other pleasant things, with
which you will do well to make yourself acquainted, come
thereafter what may. I wrote to them at home a week or two
ago.
W. Landholm.
"P. S. Isn't Inchbald a good fellow?"
The next post went out with the answer.
"To William Landholm, Esq., North Lyttleton, Sassafras Co.
"My dear Rufus,
"Stick to your choice. Go West, and do not come here. Do not
be discouraged by the fact of making money. And don't try to
turn Fortune's wheel by force, for it will break your arms.
"Yours ever,
"Winthrop Landholm."
Winthrop did not tell them at home that he was giving lessons
in the classics several hours daily, in order to live while he
was carrying on his own studies; nor that, to keep the burden
of his kind hosts, as well as his own burden, from growing any
heavier, he had refused to eat with them; and was keeping
himself in the most frugal manner, partly by the help of a
chop-house, and partly by the countenance and support of a
very humble little tin coffee-pot and saucepan in his own
attic at home. Mr. Haye's front door he had never entered, and
was more than indifferent where or what it led to.
"Why for do you not come to your friend, Mr. Haye, ever?" said
Mr. Herder to him one day.
"I am short of time, Mr. Herder."
"Time! -- But you come to see me?"
"I have time for that."
"I am glad of it," said the naturalist, "for there is no
person I like to see better come into my room; but ozer people
would like to see you come in too."
"I am not sure of that, Mr. Herder."
"I am sure," said his friend looking kindly at him. "You are
working too much."
"I can't do that, sir."
"Come wiz me to Mr. Haye to-night!"
"No sir, thank you."
"What for do you say that?"
"Because it is kind in you to ask me," said Winthrop smiling.
"You will not let nobody be of no use to you," said the
naturalist.
Winthrop replied by a question about a new specimen; and the
whole world of animate nature was presently buried in the
bowels of the earth, or in the depths of philosophy, which
comes to about the same thing.
But it fell out that same day that Winthrop, going into the
chop-house to fit himself for hard work with a somewhat better
dinner than usual, planted himself just opposite a table which
five minutes after was taken by Mr. Haye. It happened then
that after the usual solitary and selfish wont of such places,
the meals were near over before either of the gentlemen found
out he had ever seen the other. But in the course of Mr.
Haye's second glass of wine, his eye took a satisfied fit of
roving over the company; and presently discovered something it
had seen before in the figure and face opposite to him and in
the eye which was somewhat carelessly running over the columns
of a newspaper. Glass in hand Mr. Haye rose, and the next
instant Winthrop felt a hand on his shoulder.
"Mr. Landholm -- isn't it? I thought so. Why, I've been on the
point of coming to look after you this last fortnight past,
Mr. Landholm, but business held me so tight by the button --
I'm very glad to meet you -- Will you join me? --"
"Thank you, sir -- I must not; for business holds me by the
hand at this moment."
"A glass of wine?"
"Thank you sir, again."
"You will not?"
"No, sir. I have no acquaintance in that quarter, and do not
wish to be introduced."
"But my dear Mr. Landholm! -- are you serious?"
"Always, sir."
"Most extraordinary! -- But can't you be persuaded? I think you
are wrong."
"I must abide the consequences, I am afraid."
"Well, stay! -- Will you come to my house to-night and let me
give you some other introductions?"
"I cannot refuse that, sir."
"Then come up to tea. How's your father? --"
So Winthrop was in for it, and went about his afternoon
business with the feeling that none would be done in the
evening. Which did not make him more diligent, because it
could not.
Mr. Haye's house was near the lower end of the Parade, and one
of the best in the city. It was a very handsome room in which
Winthrop found the family; as luxuriously fitted up as the
fashion of those times permitted; and the little group
gathered there did certainly look as if all the business of
the world was done without them, and a good part of it for
them; so undoubtedly easy and comfortable was the flow of
their laces and the sweep of their silk gowns; so questionless
of toil or endurance was the position of each little figure
upon soft cushions, and the play of pretty fingers with
delicate do-nothing bobbins and thread. Rose was literally
playing with hers, for the true business of the hour seemed to
be a gentleman who sat at her feet on an ottoman, and who was
introduced to Winthrop as Mr. Satterthwaite. Elizabeth
according to her fashion sat a little apart and seemed to be
earnestly intent upon some sort of fine net manufacture. They
three were all.
Winthrop's reception was after the former manner; from Rose
extremely and sweetly free and cordial; from Elizabeth grave
and matter-of-fact. She went back to her net-work; and Rose
presently found Mr. Satterthwaite very interesting again, and
went back to him, so far as looks and talk were concerned.
Winthrop could but conclude that he was not interesting, for
neither of the ladies certainly found him so. He had an
excellent chance to make up his mind about the whole party;
for none of them gave him any thing else to do with it.
Rose was a piece of loveliness, to the eye, such as one would
not see in many a summer day; with all the sweet flush of
youth and health she was not ill-named. Fresh as a rose,
fresh-coloured, bright, blooming; sweet too, one would say,
for a very pretty smile seemed ever at home on the lips; -- to
see her but once, she would be noted and remembered as a most
rare picture of humanity. But Winthrop had seen her more than
once. His eye passed on.
Her cousin had changed for the better; though it might be only
the change which years make in a girl at that age, rather than
any real difference of character. She had grown handsomer. The
cheek was well rounded out now, and had a clear healthy tinge,
though not at all Rose's white and red. Elizabeth's colour
only came when there was a call for it and then it came
promptly. And she was not very apt to smile; when she did, it
was more often with a careless or scornful turn, or full and
bright with a sense of the ludicrous; never a loving or
benevolent smile, such as those that constantly graced Rose's
pretty lip. Her mouth kept its old cut of grave independence,
Winthrop saw at a glance; and her eye, when by chance she
lifted it and it met his, was the very same mixture of
coolness and fire that it had been of old; the fire for
herself, the coolness for all the rest of the world.
She looked down again at her netting immediately, but the look
had probably reminded her that nobody in her father's house
was playing the hostess at the moment. A disagreeable reminder
it is likely, for she worked away at her netting more
vigorously than ever, and it was two or three minutes before
her eyes left it again to take note of what Rose and Mr.
Satterthwaite were thinking about. Her look amused Winthrop,
it was so plain an expression of impatient indignation that
they did not do what they left her to do. But seeing they were
a hopeless case, after another minute or two of pulling at her
netting, she changed her seat for one on his side of the room.
Winthrop gave her no help, and she followed up her duty move
with a duty commonplace.
"How do you like Mannahatta, Mr. Landholm?"
"I have hardly asked myself the question, Miss Haye."
"Does that mean you don't know?"
"I cannot say that. I like it as a place of business."
"And not as a place of pleasure?"
"No. Except in so far as the pushing on of business may be
pleasure."
"You are drawing a distinction in one breath which you
confound in the next," said Elizabeth.
"I didn't know that you would detect it," he said with a half
smile.
"Detect what?"
"The distinction between business and pleasure."
"Do you think I don't know the difference?"
"You cannot know the difference, without knowing the things to
be compared."
"The things to be compared! --" said she, with a good look at
him out of her dark eyes. "And which of them do you think I
don't know?"
"I supposed you were too busy to have much time for pleasure,"
he said quietly.
"It is possible to be busy in more ways than one," said
Elizabeth, after a minute of not knowing how to take him up.
"That is just what I was thinking."
"What are you busy about, Mr. Landholm, in this place of
business?"
"I am only learning my trade," he answered.
"A trade! -- May I ask what?" she said, with another surprised
and inquisitive look.
"A sort of cobbling trade, Miss Elizabeth -- the trade of the
law."
"What does the law cobble?"
"People's name and estate."
"Cobble?" said Elizabeth. "What is the meaning of 'cobble?'"
"I don't recollect," said Winthrop. "What meaning do you give
it, Miss Haye?"
"I thought it was a poor kind of mending."
"I am afraid there is some of that work done in the
profession," said Winthrop smiling. "Occasionally. But it is
the profession and not the law that is chargeable, for the
most part."
"I wouldn't be a lawyer if that were not so," said Elizabeth.
"I wouldn't be a cobbler of anything."
"To be anything else might depend on a person's faculties."
"I don't care," said Elizabeth, -- "I would not be. If I could
not mend, I would let alone. I wouldn't cobble."
"What if one could neither mend nor let alone?"
"One would have less power over himself than I have, or than
you have, Mr. Landholm."
"One thing at least doesn't need cobbling," he said with a
smile.
"I never heard such a belittling character of the profession,"
she went on. "Your mother would have given it a very different
one, Mr. Landholm. She would have told you, 'Open thy mouth,
judge' -- what is it? -- 'and plead the cause of the poor.'"
Whether it were the unexpected bringing up of his mother's
name, or the remembrance of her spirit, something procured
Miss Elizabeth a quick little bright smile of answer, very
different from anything she had had from Winthrop before. So
different, that her eyes went down to her work for several
minutes, and she forgot everything else in a sort of wonder at
the change and at the beauty of expression his face could put
on.
"I didn't find those words myself," she added presently; -- "a
foolish man was shewing me the other day what he said was my
verse in some chapter of Proverbs; and it happened to be
that."
But Winthrop's answer went to something in her former speech,
for it was made with a little breath of a sigh.
"I think Wut-a-qut-o is a pleasanter place than this, Miss
Haye."
"O, so do I! -- at least -- I don't know that it signifies much
to me what sort of a place I am in. If I can only have the
things I want around me, I don't think I care much."
"How many things do you want to be comfortable?"
"O, -- books, -- and the conveniences of life; and one or two
friends that one cares about."
"Cut off two of those preliminaries, -- and which one would you
keep for comfort, Miss Elizabeth?"
"Couldn't do without either of 'em. What's become of my Merry-
go-round, Mr. Winthrop?"
"It lies in the upper loft of the barn, with all the seams
open."
"Why?"
"You remember, nobody was to use it but me."
A curious recollection of the time when it was given and of
the feeling, half condescending, half haughty, with which it
had been given, came over Elizabeth; and for a moment or two
she was a little confused. Whether Winthrop recollected it too
or whether he had a mischievous mind that she should, he said
presently,
"And what's become of your horse, Miss Elizabeth?"
"He's very well," she said. "At least -- I don't know I am sure
how he is, for he is up in the country."
Winthrop rose at the instant to greet Mr. Herder, and
Elizabeth did not know whether the smile on his lips was for
him or at her.
