yesterday looking for you." 

" He won't find me." 

" I hope not, my boy ; though I don't know as I 
should have meddled in the matter, if Julia hadn't 
teased me. I couldn't resist her. She is the best 
lit Lie girl in the world ; and you are a lucky fellow 
to have such a friend." 

" I am ; she is an angel ; " and when Harry began 
to think of Julia, he could not think of any thing 
else, and the conversation was suspended. 





It was a long while before either of them spokfl 
gain, and then John advised Harry to crawl into the 
wagon, and lie down on the load. Notwithstanding 
his agreeable thoughts, our hero yawned now and 
then, and concluded to adopt the suggestion of the 
driver. He found a very comfortable bed on the 
bales, softened by heaps of mattings, which were to 
be used in packing the miscellaneous articles of the 
return freight. 

John Lane took things very easily ; and as the 
horses jogged slowly along, he relieved the monotony 
of the journey by singing sundry old-fashioned psalm 
tunes, which had not then gone out of use. He was 
a good singer ; and Harry was so pleased with the 
music, and so unaccustomed to the heavy jolt of the 
wagon, that he could not go to sleep at once. 

" While shepherds watched their Hocks by night, 
All seated on the ground, 
The angel of the Lord came down, 
And glory shone around." 

Again Mid again John's full and sonorous voice rolled 
out these familiar lines, till Harry was fairly lulled 
to sleep by the harmonious measures. The angel o« 



 

the Lord had come down for the fortieth time, after 
the manner of the ancient psalmody, and for the 
fortieth time Harry had thought of his angel, when 
he dropped off to dream of the "glory that shone 
around." 

Harry slept soundly after he got a little used to 
the rough motion of the wagon, and it was sunrise 
before he woke. 

" Well, Harry, how do you feel now ? " asked 
John, as he emerged from his lodging apartment. 

" Better ; I feel as bright as a new pin. Where 
are we ? " 

" We have come about twelve miles. Pretty soon 
we shall stop to bait the team and get some break- 
fast." 

" I have got some breakfast in my basket. Julia 
gave me enough to last a week. I shan't starve, at 
any rate." 

" No one would ever be hungry in this world, : i 
every body were like Julia. But you shall break fat 
with me at the tavern." 

" It won't be safe — will it ? " 

" O, yes ; nobody will know you here." 


" Well, I have got some money to pay for anj 
Ibing I have." 

" Keep your money, Harry ; you will want it all 
when you get to Boston." 

After going a few miles farther, they stopped at 
a tavern, where the horses were fed, and Harry ate 
such a breakfast as pauper never ate before. John 
would not let him pay for it, declaring that Julia's 
friends were his friends. 

The remaining portion of the journey was effected 
without any incident worthy of narrating, and they 
reached the city about noon. Of course the first 
sight of Boston astonished Harry. His conceptions 
of a city were entirely at fault ; and though it was 
not a very large city twenty-five years ago, it ftj 
exceeded his expectations. 

Harry had a mission before him, and he did not 
permit his curiosity to interfere with that. John 
drove down town to deliver his load ; and Harry 
went with him, improving every opportunity to ob- 
tain work. When the wagon stopped, he went boldly 
into the stores in the vicinity to inquire if thej 
"wanted to hire a hand." 



 

Now, Harry was not exactly in a .ondition to pTO 
iuce a very favorable impression upon those to whorr 
he applied for work. His clothes were never very 
((enteal, nor very artistically cut aud made ; and they 
were threadbare, and patched at the knees and el- 
bows. A patch is no disgrace to a man or boy, it is 
true ; but if a little more care had been taken > 
e.dapt the color and kind of fabric in Harry's patches 
to the original garment, his general appearance would 
undoubtedly have been much improved. Whether 
these patches really affected his ultimate success I 
cannot say — only that they were an inconvenience 
at the outset. 

£t was late in the afternoon before John Lane had 
nnloaded his merchandise and picked up his return 
freight. Thus far Harry had been unsuccessful ; no 
one wanted a boy ; or if they did, they did not want 
such a boy as Harry appeared to be. His country 
garb, with the five broad patches, seemed to interfere 
with the working out of his manifest destii y. Yet 
he was not disheartened. Spruce clerks and ill-man- 
nered boys laughed at him ; but he did not despond. 

" Try again," exclaimed he, as often as he was toi<» 
hat his services were not required. 




When the wagon reached "Washington Street^ 
Harry wanted to walk, for the better prosecution of 
his object ; and John gave him directions so that he 
could find Major Phillips's stable, where he intended 
eo put up for the night. 

Harry trotted along among the gay and gentee. 
people that thronged the sidewalk ; but he was bo 
earnest about his mission, that he could not stop to 
look at their fine clothes, nor even at the pictures, 
the gewgaws, and gimcracks that tempted him from 
the windows. 

" ' Boy wanted ' " Harry read on a paper in the 
window of a jeweller's shop. " Now's my time ; " 
and, without pausing to consider the chances that 
were against him, he entered the store. 

" You want a boy — don't you ? " asked he of a 
young man behind the counter. 

" We do," replied the person addressed, looking 
at the applicant with a broad grin on his face. 

" I should like to hire out," continued Harry, with 
an earnestness that would have secured the attention 
T>f any man but an idiot. 

" Do you ? Your name is Joseph — isn't it ? " 




" No, sir ; my name is Harry West." 

" O, I thought it was Joseph. The Book vys tn 
oad a coat of many colors, though I bel ; evo it don't 
Bay any thing about the trousers," sneered the shop- 
keeper. 

" Never mind the coat or the trousers. If ycu 
want to hire a boy, I will do the best I can fcr you," 
replied Harry, willing to appreciate the joke of the 
other, if he could get a place. 

" You won't answer for us ; you come from thg 
country." 

" I did." 

""What did you come to Boston for?" 

" After work." 

" You had better go back, and let yourself to 
gome farmer. You will make a good scarecrow to 
hang up in the field No crow would ever come neai 
you, I'll warrant." 

Harry's blood boiled with indignation at this gra- 
tuitous insult. His cheeks reddened, and he looked 
about him for the means of inflicting summary ven- 
geance upon the poltroon who so wantonly trifled 
with his glowing aspirations. 





"Move on, boy; we don't want you," added tin 
man 

" You are a " 



I will not write what Harry said. It was a vulgar 
erithet, coupled with a numerous oath for so small 
a boy to utter. The shopkeeper sprang out from hia 
counter ; but Harry retreated, and escaped him, 
though not till he had repeated the vulgar and pro- 
fane expression. 

But be was sorry for what he had said before he 
had gone ten paces. 

" What would the little angel say, if she had 
heard that ? " Harry asked himself. " Twon't do ; 
Intuit try again." 







CHAPTER XII. 

ID WHICH HARRY SUDDENLY GETS RICH, AND HA* 
A CONVERSATION WITH ANOTHER HARRY. 

By the time he reached the stable, Harry would 
have given almost any thing to have recalled the hasty 
expressions he had used. He had acquired the low 
and vulgar habit of using profane language at the 
poorhouse. He was conscious that it was not only 
wicked to do so,, but that it was very offensive to 
many persons who did not make much pretension to 
piety, or even morality ; and, in summing up his 
faults in the woods, he had included this habit as one 
o f the worst. 

She hoped he was a good boy — Julia Bryant, the 
little angel, hoped so. Her blood would have frozen 
in her veins if she had listened to the irreverent 
words he had uttered in the shop. He had broken 
his resolution, broken his promise to the little ar.gel. 



on the first day he had been in the city. It was 
bad beginning; but instead of permitting this fiist 
failure to do right to discourage him, he determined 
to persevere — to try again. 

A good life, a lofty character, with all the trials 
and sacrifices which it demands, is worth working 
for ; and those who mean to grow better than they aie 
will often be obliged to " try again." The spirit may 
be willing to do well, but the flesh is weak, and we 
are all exposed to temptation. We may make our 
good resolutions — and it is very easy to make them 
but when we fail to keep them — it is sometimes 
very hard to keep them — we must not be discour- 
aged, but do as Harry did — try again. The strong 
Spirit may conquer the weak Flesh. 

'* Well, Harry, how did you make out ? " asked 
John Lane, when Harry joined him at the stable. 

" I didn't make aut at all. Nobody seems to want 
a boy like me." 

" O, well, you will find a place. Don't be dig. 
couraged." 

" I am not. To-morrow I shall try again." 

" I don't know what I shall do with you to-nighl 




Every bed in the tavern up the street, where I step, 
is full. I shall sleep with another teamster." 

" Never mind me ; I can sleep in the wagon. I 
have slept in worse places than that." 

" I will fix a place for you, then." 

After they had prepared his bed, Harry drew out 
his basket, and proceeded to eat his supper. He then 
took a walk down Washington Street with John, 
went to an auction, and otherwise amused himself 
till after nine o'clock, when he returned to the 
stable. 

After John had left him, as he was walking towards 
the wagon, with the intention of retiring for the 
night, his foot struck against something which at- 
tracted his attention. He kicked it once or twice, to 
determine what it was, and then picked it up. 

" By gracious ! " he exclaimed ; " it is a pocket 
book. My fortune is made ; " and without stopping 
tc consider the matter any further, he scrambled into 
the wagon. 

His heart jumped with excitement, fcr his viviu 
imagination had already led him to the conclusion 
mat it was stuffed full of rroney. It might contain 





ft hundred dollars, perhaps five hundred ; and these 
sums were about as far as his ideas could reach. 

He could buy a suit of new clothes, a new cap, 
new shoes, and be as spruce as any of the boys he 
had seen about the city. Then he could go to a 
boarding house, and live like a prince, till he could 
get a place that suited him ; for Harry, however rich 
he might be, did not think of living without labor of 
some kind. He could dress himself up in fine broad- 
cloth, present himself at the jeweller's shop where 
they wanted a boy, and then see whether he would 
make a good scarecrow. 

Then his thoughts reverted to the cabin, where he 
had slept two nights, and, of course, to the little 
angel, who had supplied the commissary department 
during his sojourn in the woods. He could dress 
himself up with the money in the pocket book, and, 
after a while, when he got a place, take the stage for 
Rockville. Wouldn't she be astonished to see him 
then, in fine broadcloth ! Wouldn't she walk with 
him over to the spot where he had killed the black 
enake ! Wouldn't she be proud to tell her father that 
this was the boy she had fed in the woods I 




What would she say to him? He had promised to 
write to her when he got settled, and tell her how he 
got along, and whether he was good or not. What 
should he say ? How glad she would be to near f hat 
he was getting along so finely ! 

" Stop ! " said he to himself. " "What have I been 
thinking about ? This pocket book isn't mine." 

I am sorry to say it, but Harry really felt sad whtn 
the thought occurred to him. He had been building 
very pretty air castles on this money, and this reflec- 
tion suddenly tumbled them all down — new clothes, 
new cap, boarding house, visit to Rockville — all in 
a heap. 

" But I found it," Harry reasoned with himself. 

Something within him spoke out, saying, — 

" You stole it, Harry." 

" No, I didn't ; I found it." 

" If you don't return it to the ow ler, you will be 
a thief," continued the voice within. 

"Nobody will know that I found it. I dare gaj 
the owner does not want it half so much as I do," 

" No matter for that, Harry ; if you keep it yog 
will be a thief." 



He could not compromise with that voice withiij. 
It was the real Harry, within the other Harry, that 
spoke, and he was a very obstinate fellow, positively 
refusing to let him keep the pocket book, at any 
rate. 

" What am I about ? She hoped I would be a 
good boy, and the evil one is catching me as fast as 
he can," resumed Harry. 

" Be a good boy," added the other Harry. 

" I mean to be, if I can." 

" The little angel will be very sad when she finds 
out that you are a thief." 

" I don't mean to be a thief. But this pocket book 
will make me rich. She never will know any thing 
about it." 

" If she does not, there is One above who will 
know, and his angels will frown upon you, and 
stamp your crime upon your face. Then you will go 
about like Cain, with a mark upon you." 

" Pooh ! " said the outer Harry, who was sorely 
tempted by the treasure within his grasp. 

" You will not dare to look the little angel in the 
face, if you steal this money. She will know you 



we not good, then. Honest folks always hold their 
heads up, and are never ashamed to face any per- 
son." 

" I won't keep it ! " replied the struggling, tempt- 
ed Flesh. " Why did I think of such a thing ? : ' 

He felt strong then, for the Spirit had triumphed 
oyer the Flesh. The foe within had been beaten 
back, at least for the moment ; and as he laid his 
head upon the old coat that was to serve him for a 
pillow, he thought of Julia Bryant. He thought he 
saw her sweet face, and there was an angelic smile 
upon it. 

My young readers will remember, after Jesus had 
been tempted, and said, " Get thee behind me, Satan," 
that, " behold, angels came and ministered unto him." 
They came and ministered to Harry after he had cast 
out the evil thought ; they come and minister to all 
who resist temptation. They come in the heart, and 
minister with the healing balm of an approving con- 
science. 

Placing the pocket book under his head, with the 
intention of finding the owner in the morning, he 
tyent to sleep. The fatigue and excitement -)f the 

day softened liis pillow, and not once did he open 
hi* eyes till the toils of another day had commenced 
around him. I question whether he would have 
sk-pt so soundly if he had decided to keep Ihe 
pocket book. 

But the tempter was not banished. He had onlj 
been conquered for the moment — subdued only to 
attack him again. The first thought of the treasure, 
in the morning, was to covet it. Again he allowed 
his fancy to picture the comforts and the luxuries 
which it would purchase. 

" No one will know it," he added. " Why 
shouldn't I keep it ? " 

" God will know it ; you will know it yourself," 
said the other Harry, more faithful and conscientious 
than the outside Harry, who, it must be confessed, 
was sometimes disposed to be the " Old Harry." 

" No use of being too good. I will keep it." 

" She hoped you would b© a good boy," added tha 
monitor within. 

" I will — that is, when I can afford it." 

" Be good now, or you never will." 

One hundred dollars ! — perhaps five hundred ! H 




was a fortune. The temptation was very great. But 
the little angel — the act would forever banish him 
from her presence. He would never dare to look at 
her again, or even to write the letter he had prom- 
ised. 

" Be true to yourself, Harry. Good first, and rich 
next." 

" I will," exclaimed Harry, in an earnest whisper; 
and again the tempter was cast out. 

Once more the fine air castles began to pile them- 
selves up before him, standing on the coveted treas 
ure ; but he resolutely pitched them down, and ban- 
ished them from his mind. 

"Where did you lose it?" said a voice near the 
wagon. 

"I don't know. I didn't miss it till this morning; 
and I have been to every place where I was last 
night ; so I think I must have lost it here, when I 
put my horse up," replied another. 

The first speaker was one of the ostlers ; and the 
moment Harry heard the other voice he s.art^d as 
though a rattlesnake had rattled in his path. "-Yas i' 
possible ? As the speaker proceeded, he wa» sati* 




Bed beyond thi possibility of a doubt that the voice
belonged to Squire Walker. 

" Was there much money in it ? " asked the ostler. 

" About a hundred and fifty dollars ; and there 
were notes and other papers of great value," replied 
Squire Walker. 

"Well, I haven't seen or heard any thing about it." 

" I remember taking it out of my great-coat pocket, 
and putting it into a pocket inside of my vest, when 
I got out of the wagon." 

" I don't think you lost it here. Some of us 
would have found it, if you had." 

Here was a dilemma for Harry. He had deter- 
mined to restore the pocket book ; but he could not 
do so without exposing himself. Besides, if there 
had been any temptation to keep the treasure before, 
it was ten times as great now that he knew it be- 
longed to his enemy. It would be no sin to keep 
it fiom Squire Walker. 

" It would be stealing," said the voice within. 

" But if I give it to him, he will carry me back tf 
Jacob Wire's. I'll be — I'll be hanged if I do." 

" She hopes vou will be a good boy." 




There was no resisting this appeal ; and again the 
demon was put down, and the triumph added another 
laurel to the moral crown of the little hero. 

" It will be a dear journey to me," continued 
Squire Walker. " I was looking all day yesterday 
alter a boy that ran away from the poorhouse, and 
came to the city for him. I had better let him go." 

" Did you find him ? " 

" No. I brought that money down to put in the 
bank. It is gone, I suppose. Confound the boy ! " 

Harry waited no longer ; but while his heart beat 
like the machinery in the great factory at Rockville, 
he tumbled out of his nest, and slid down the bale 
of goods to the pavement. 

" Ah, Master Harry West ! you are here — arc 
you ? " exclaimed Squire Walker, springing forward 
to catch him. 

Harry dodged, and kept out of his reach. 

" Catch him ! " shouted the squire to the ostler. 

" Wait a minute, Squire Walker," said Harry. " I 
won't go back to Jacob Wire's, any how. Just heal 
what I have got to say ; and then, if you want to 
take me, you may, if you can." 




It was evident, even to the squire, that Harry had 
something of importance to say; and he in\oluntarily 
paused to hear it. 

" I have found your pocket book, squire, and * 

" Give it to me, and I won't touch you," cried the 
overseer, eagerly. 

It was clear that the loss of his pocket book had 
produced a salutary impression on the squire's mind. 

He loved money, and the punishment was more than 
he could bear. 

" I was walking along here, last night, when I 
struck my foot against something. I picked it up, 
and found it was a pocket book. I haven't opened 
it. Here it is;" and Harry handed him his lost 
treasure. 

" By gracious ! " exclaimed he, after he had assured 
himself that the contents of the pocket book had not 
been disturbed. " That is more than ever I expected 
of you, Master Harry West." 

" I mean to be honest," replied Harry, proudly. 

" Perhaps you do. I told you, Harry, I wouldn't 
touch you ; and I won't," continued the squire. 
" You may go.' 




Tl e overscpi- was amazed. He had come to Bos- 
Ion with the intentijn of catching Haxry, cost what 
it might, — he meant to charge the expense to> the 
town ; but the recovery of his money had warmed 
his heart, and banished the malice he cherished to- 
wards the boy. 

Squire Walker volunteered some excellent advice 
for the guidance of the little pilgrim, who, he face- 
tiously observed, had now no one to look after his 
manners and morals — manners first, and morals 
afterwards. He must be very careful and prudent, 
and he wished him well. Harry, however, took this 
wholesome counsel as from whom it came, and was 
not very deeply impressed by it. 

John Lane came to the stable soon after, and con- 
gratulated our hero upon the termination of the 
persecution from Redfield, and, when his horses were 
hitched on, bade him good by, with many heart j 
wishes for his future success. 






CHAPTER XIII. 

IN WHICH HARRY BECOMES A STABLE BOY, AWL 
HEARS BAD NEWS FROM ROCKVILLE. 

Harry was exceedingly rejoiced at the remarkable 
turn his affairs had taken. It is true, he had lost 
the treasure upon which his fancy had built so many 
fine castles ; but he did not regret the loss, since it 
had purchased his exemption from the Redfleld per- 
secution. He had conquered his enemy — which waa 
a great victory — by being honest and upright ; and 
he had conquered himself — which was a greater 
victory — by listening to the voice within him. He 
had resisted temptation, and the victory made him 
strong. 

Our hero had won a triumph, but the battle field 
was still spread out before him. There were l.hou» 
lands of enemies lurking in his path, ready to fall 
apon and despoil him of his priceless treasure — his 
integrity. 




" She hoped he would he a good hoy." He tiad 
done his duty — he had heen true in the face cf 
temptation. He wanted to write to Julia then, and 
tell her of his triumph — that, when tempted, he had 
thought of her, and won the victory. 

The world was before him ; it had no place for 
idlers, and he must get work. The contents of the 
basket were not yet exhausted, and he took it to a 
retired corner to eat his breakfast. While he waa 
thus engaged, Joe Flint, the ostler, happened to see 
him. 

' That is cold comfort," said he. " Why don'; 
you go to the tavern, and have your breakfast like 
a gentleman ? " 
