"Then she shall have some," replied Katy, "for I will go home and get
some more;" and she left the building and hastened home for a further
supply of the popular merchandise.

"O mother! I have sold out all my candy, and I want a lot more!"
exclaimed she, as she rushed into the room, full of excitement and
enthusiasm.

"Be calm, child; you will throw yourself into a fever," replied Mrs.
Redburn. "You must learn to take things more easily."

"O dear! I have only twenty sticks left. I wish I had a hundred, for I
am sure I could sell them."

"Perhaps it is fortunate you have no more."

"But I must make some more to-night for to-morrow."

"Don't drive round so, Katy. Be reasonable, and don't think too much of
your success."

But Katy could not stop to argue the matter, though, as she walked
along the street, she thought of what her mother had said, and tried to
calm the excitement that agitated her. It was hard work to keep from
running every step of the way; but her mother's advice must be heeded,
and to some extent she succeeded in controlling her violent impulses.
As it was, she reached the piano-forte manufactory quite out of breath,
and rushed into the workroom as though she had come on an errand of
vital importance to its occupants.

It required but a few minutes to dispose of her small stock of candy.
The workmen all hoped she would come again, and she departed highly
elated at her success.

"There, mother, I have sold all the candy. What do you think of that?"
said she, as she entered her mother's room, and threw off her bonnet
and shawl.

"You have done very well, I had no idea that you could sell more than
twenty or thirty sticks in a day."

"It's a great day's work, mother; and if I can sell half as much in a
day, I shall be satisfied. Don't you think I shall be able to support
you?"

"At this rate you can do much more; but, Katy, I tremble for you."

"Why, mother?"

"You get so excited, and run so, I am afraid it will make you sick."

"O, no, it won't, mother. I feel as strong as a horse. I am not tired
in the least."

"You don't feel so now, because you are so excited by your success."

"I shall get used to it in a little while."

"I hope so, if you mean to follow this business."

"If I mean to? Why mother, what else could I do to make so much money?
See here;" and she poured the money she had taken upon the bed-quilt
before her mother. "One dollar and thirty-six cents, mother! Only think
of it! But I won't jump so another day; I will take it easy."

"I wish you would."

"I will try very hard; but you can't think how happy I feel! Dear me! I
am wasting my time, when I have to make the candy for to-morrow."

"But, Katy, you must not do any more to-night. You will certainly be
sick."

"I must make it, mother."

"Your hands are very sore now."

"They are better; and I don't feel tired a bit."

"I will tell you what you may do, if you must make the candy to-night.
When you have got the molasses boiled, you may ask Mrs. Colvin, the
washerwoman, to come in and pull it for you; for you are not strong
enough to do it yourself."

"I should not like to ask her. She's a poor woman, and it would be just
the same as begging to ask her to give me her work."

"You don't understand me, Katy. She goes out to work whenever she can
get a chance. Her price is ten cents an hour. You can engage her for
one or two hours, and pay her for her labor. This is the only way you
can get along with this business."

"I will do that. It won't take more than an hour."

Mrs. Colvin was accordingly engaged, though at first she positively
refused to be paid for her services; but when Katy told her she should
want her for one or two hours every day, she consented to the
arrangement. Early in the evening the candy was all made, and Katy's
day's work was finished. Notwithstanding her repeated declaration that
she was not tired, the bed "felt good" to her, and she slept all the
more soundly for the hard work and the good deeds she had done.



CHAPTER XII.

KATY PAYS HER DEBTS, AND TOMMY GOES TO SEA.

Katy's second day's sales, though not so large as those of the first
day, were entirely satisfactory. The profits, after paying for the
"stock" and for the services of Mrs. Colvin, were nearly a dollar, and
her heart beat with renewed hope at this continued success. Her grand
idea hardly seemed like an experiment now, for she had proved that she
could make good candy, and that people were willing to buy the article.
She met with about the same treatment from those to whom she offered
her wares; one spoke kindly, and purchased by wholesale, and another
spoke gruffly, and would not buy even a single stick. Here she was
driven out of doors, and there she was petted, and made large sales.

So far as Katy's person and manners were concerned, she was admirably
adapted to the business she had chosen. She was rather small in stature
for one of her age, but she was very well formed, and her movements
were agile and graceful. Her face was not as pretty as it might have
been, but her expression was artless and winning. Her light brown hair
hung in curls upon her shoulders, and contributed not a little to make
up the deficiency in what the painters and sculptors would call a
finely chiseled face.

If she had been dressed in silk, and lace, and embroidery, I doubt not
people would have called her pretty, though in my opinion it does not
make much difference whether she was pretty or not; for, after all, the
best way to judge of a person's beauty is by the old standard,
"Handsome is that handsome does." But I have said thus much about
Katy's face and form in order to explain the secret of her great
success as a candy merchant. Hundreds of persons would buy a stick of
candy of a little girl with a pretty face and a graceful form, who
would not do so of one less attractive. Though she was well favored in
this respect, I believe it was her gentle, polite manners, her sweet
voice, made sweet by a loving heart, that contributed most to her
success. But above all the accidents of a good form, graceful
movements, brown ringlets, and a pleasing address, she prospered in
trade because she was in earnest, and persevered in all her efforts. A
person cannot succeed in business by being merely good looking, though
this may sometimes be of much assistance. It is patience, perseverance,
energy, and above all, integrity and uprightness, that lead to the true
success.

Encouraged by her prosperity, Katy continued to sell candy with about
the same result as had cheered her heart on the first two days. Her
profits, however, were not so great as on those two days, and did not
average above seventy-five cents a day or four dollars and a half a
week. This was doing exceedingly well, and she had every reason to be
grateful for her good fortune.

At the end of three weeks, rent day came round again, and Dr. Flynch
called for the money. To his utter astonishment, it was ready for him,
and he departed without a single ill-natured word, though this was,
perhaps, because he had a wholesome regard for the opinion of Mrs.
Gordon. Two weeks later Katy found that her savings were sufficient to
enable her to pay the month's rent for which Mrs. Gordon had given a
receipt, and also the dollar which Grace had loaned her. These debts
had pressed heavily on her mind. She knew that they were regarded as
free gifts and her pride prompted her to remove what she considered a
stain upon her character. Till they were paid, she felt like a beggar.

Taking her money one day, she paid a visit to Temple Street. Michael
opened the door and received her with a smile. Knowing she was in favor
with his mistress, he conducted her to the sitting-room, where the
portraits hung. Those roguish eyes of the lady, who somewhat resembled
her mother, were fixed on her again. She was sure that her mother did
not look like that picture then, but she was equally sure that she had,
some time or other cast just such a glance at her. The expression of
the lady found something like its  counterpart in her memory. Now, her
mother was sick and sad; she seldom smiled. But some time she must have
been a young girl, and then she must have looked like that portrait.
She felt just like asking Mrs. Gordon if that was her portrait, but she
did not dare to do such a thing. While she was attentively watching the
roguish lady's face, her kind friend entered the room, followed by
Grace.

"How do you do, Katy?" said the former, with a benevolent smile.

"Quite well, I thank you, ma'am. I hope you will excuse me for coming
again," replied she.

"I am very glad you have come."

"I was thinking of you the other day, and wishing I might see you,"
added Grace, "for the Mayor told us a very pretty story about you."

"He was very good to me; and I never shall forget him or you," answered
Katy, warmly.

"I suppose you have come to get another receipt; but I told Dr. Flynch
not to disturb you," said Mrs. Gordon.

"O, no ma'am--I didn't come for that. You were too kind to me before,
and I have come now to pay you for that month's rent."

"Indeed?"

"Yes, ma'am; we have been able to earn money enough, and I am very glad
that I can pay it," replied Katy, taking the four dollars from her
pocket. "Here it is."

"No, my child; you shall keep it. I will not take it."

Katy's cheeks flushed, for she did not feel poor and proud then. She
felt rich; that is she was proud of being able to pay all she owed, and
she did not like to be thought capable of accepting a gift--of being
the recipient of charity. But she knew the hearts of her kind friends,
and left unspoken the words of indignation that trembled on her tongue.
"Please to take the money, ma'am," said she her cheeks still red with
shame.

"No, my child; you are a good girl; I will not take your money."

"I shall feel very bad if you don't, and it will make my mother very
unhappy."

"Nay, Katy, you must not be too proud."

"I am not too proud to ask or to accept a favor, but please don't make
me feel like a beggar."

"You are a very strange child," said Mrs. Gordon.

"Indeed you are," added Grace

"I shall not feel right if you don't take this money. You know I
promised to pay you at the time you gave me the receipt."

"I did not suppose you would, that is, I did not think you would be
able to pay it. Your mother has got well, then?"

"No, ma'am; she is better, but she does not sit up any yet."

"Then how did you get this money?"

"I earned it."

"You!"

"Yes, ma'am; selling candy."

"Is it possible? The mayor told me you were a little candy merchant,
but I did not suppose you carried on such an extensive trade."

"I make a great deal of money; almost five dollars a week; and now I am
able, I hope you will let me pay you."

"If you insist upon it, I shall, though I had much rather you would
keep the money."

"Thank you, ma'am. I shall feel much better when it is paid."

Mrs. Gordon reluctantly received the four dollars. It was a very small
sum to her, though a very large one to Katy. She saw that the little
candy merchant's pride was of the right kind, and she was not disposed
to give her any unnecessary mortification, though she resolved that
neither Katy nor her mother should ever want a friend in their need.

"I owe you one dollar, also," continued Katy, advancing to the side of
Grace.

"Well, I declare!" laughed Grace. "If that isn't a good one!"

"I promised to pay you; and you know I would not take the money as a
gift," replied Katy.

"I am aware that you would not, and you are the promptest paymistress I
ever knew."

"With the dollar you lent me, I bought the molasses to make the first
lot of candy I sold. Your dollar has done a great deal of good."

"I am glad it has; but I don't want to take it."

"Won't you let me feel like myself?"

"Certainly I will," laughed Grace.

"Then let me pay my debts, and not feel just like a beggar."

"You are the queerest child I ever saw!" exclaimed Grace, as she took
the dollar. "I am going to keep this dollar for you, and perhaps some
time you will not be so proud as you are now, though I hope you will
always have all the money you want."

"I think I shall, if my trade continues to be good," replied Katy, who,
now that all her debts had been paid, felt a heavy load removed from
her heart.

"You must bring your candy up here. The mayor says it is very good. I
have a sweet tooth, and I will buy lots of it," added Grace.

"I will bring you up some to-morrow," replied Katy, moving towards the
door, and casting a last glance at the mischievous lady in the picture.

"The mayor told me to ask you to call and see him again," said Mrs.
Gordon. "He is very much interested in you."

"He is very kind;" and she bade them good-by.

Katy felt highly honored by the notice the mayor had taken of her. Like
Master Simon Sneed, she felt almost like calling him her friend the
mayor; but she resolved to call upon him on her way home. He received
her very kindly, told her what a mistake she had made in giving the
pawnbroker his note, who had never delivered it to the marshal, and
promised to buy lots of candy when she came with her tray.

When she returned home she found a message there from Tommy Howard,
requesting to see her that afternoon. She did not feel like spending
any more time in idleness, when she had so much candy to sell; but
Tommy's request was not to be neglected; and, taking her tray, she
called at his house as she passed up to the court.

Tommy had been talking for a year about going to sea, and had been for
some time on the lookout for a chance as a cabin-boy or a reefer. He
had told her his plans, how he intended to be a good sailor and work
his way up to be captain of some fine ship. She suspected, therefore,
that he had found a chance to go to sea, and wanted to tell her all
about it.

She found him at home, waiting her expected visit; but a feeling of
sadness came over her when she saw his manly face, and thought how
badly she should feel if he should go off on the ocean, and, perhaps,
be drowned in its vast depths. He had been her friend and protector.
Johnny Grippen hardly dared to look at her since the flogging he had
given him; and Katy thought, perhaps, if he went away, that she should
have no one to defend her.

"I am going to-morrow, Katy," said he, after he had given her a seat by
the window.

"To sea?" asked Katy, gloomily.

"Yes; I have got a first-rate ship, and she sails to-morrow."

"I am so sorry you are going!"

"O, never mind it, Katy; I shall be back one of these days. I wanted to
tell you if Johnny Grippen gives you any impudence, to let me know and
I'll lick him when I come back."

"I guess he won't."

"He may; if he does, you had better tell his father."

"But where are you going, Tommy?"

"To Liverpool."

Katy started. Her grandfather lived there. After a moment's thought she
conceived a plan which made her heart bound with emotion. She could
send word to her grandfather, by Tommy, that she and her mother were in
Boston, and then he would send over after them, and they could live in
his fine house, and she should be as happy as a queen. Then she and her
mother might be passengers in Tommy's ship--and wouldn't they have
great times on the passage! And as her grandfather was a merchant, and
owned ships, she might be able to do something for Tommy.

Under the seal of secrecy she related to her young sailor friend all
the particulars of her mother's history; and he wrote down the names
she gave him. Tommy promised to hunt all over Liverpool till he found
her grandfather; and to insure him a good reception, Katy wrote a short
letter to him, in which she stated the principal facts in the case.

"Now, good-by, Tommy," said she, wiping away a tear; "I shall think of
you every day, and pray for you too. I hope there won't be any storms
to sink your ship."

"We shan't mind the storms. Good-by, Katy."

She felt very badly all the rest of the day, and her sales were smaller
than usual, for her energy was diminished in proportion to the sadness
of her heart.



CHAPTER XIII.

KATY EMPLOYS AN ASSISTANT.

As winter approached, Katy realized that the demand for molasses candy
was on the increase, and she found it necessary to make a much larger
quantity. Mrs. Colvin still rendered her assistance "for a
consideration," and the supply was thus made to correspond with the
demand.

Mrs. Redburn's health which had begun to improve with the advent of
their prosperity, now enabled her to sit up nearly the whole day, and
to render much aid in the household affairs, and especially in the
manufacturing of the candy. The good fortune that had attended Katy's
efforts brought many additional comforts to their humble dwelling;
indeed, they had everything that they needed, and everything that any
poor person would have required. But the fond mother had never been
able to reconcile herself to the business which Katy followed. She
dreaded every day lest the temptations to which it constantly exposed
her might lead her astray. She loved her daughter with all her heart,
and she would rather have died in poverty and want than have had her
corrupted. She had every reason to believe that Katy was the pure and
innocent child she had always been; but she feared, as she grew older,
that some harm might befall her. She would rather bury her than see her
become a bad person, and she hoped soon to be able to resume her own
labors, and let Katy abandon her dangerous business.

Mrs. Redburn often talked with her about the perils that lay in her
path; but Katy spoke like one who was fortified by good resolutions and
a strong will. She declared that she knew what dangers were in her way,
and that she could resist all the temptations that beset her. Whatever
views the mother had, there seemed to be no opportunity to carry them
out, for by Katy's labors they were fed, clothed, and housed. She was
her mother's only support, and the candy trade, perilous as it was,
could not be given up.

Katy did not desire to abandon the business she had built up, for she
was proud of her achievement. She was resolved to be good and true, and
to her it did not seem half so perilous as to others. She had even
indulged some thoughts of enlarging her business. Why could she not
have a shop, and sell candy on a counter as well as in the street? She
mentioned this idea to her mother, who was sure the shop could not
succeed, for she was aware that her daughter's winning manners were
more than half her stock in trade, and that her large sales resulted
from carrying the candy to hundreds of people who did not want it
enough to go after it. Therefore Katy gave up the shop at once, but she
did not abandon the idea of enlarging her business, though she did not
exactly see how it could be done. One day an accident solved the
problem for her, and at that time commenced a new era in the candy
trade.

One pleasant morning in November, as she walked up the court, she met
Ann Grippen, a sister of Johnny who stopped to talk with her. The
Grippen family consisted of eleven persons. The father was a day
laborer, and as his wages were small, and he had a great many mouths to
feed, they were, of course, miserably poor. The older children showed
no ability or disposition to help their parents but spent most of their
time in strolling about the streets. Johnny was a fair specimen of the
boys, as Ann was of the girls. She might have been seen almost any day
with a well-worn basket on her arm, exploring the streets and wharves
in search of chips, for Johnny was too vicious to do the work which
more properly belonged to him.

"You sell lots of candy now--don't you?" said Ann.

"Yes, a great deal," replied Katy, who was not disposed to spend her
time idly, and in the company of one whose reputation in the
neighborhood was not very good.

"Stop a minute--won't you? I want to speak to you."

"I will; but be as quick as you can, for I am in a hurry."

"Don't you think I could sell candy?" continued Ann.

"I dare say you could. Why don't you try, if you want to?"

"But I haven't got no candy; and mother can't make it, as you can. If
you are a mind to let me have some, I will sell it for you, and you may
give me what you like."

The idea struck the little merchant very favorably. There were a great
many girls just like Ann Grippen, who were wasting their time about the
streets, and learning to be wicked. Why couldn't she employ them to
sell candy?

"I will try you," replied Katy.

"Well, I'm all ready to begin."

"Not yet," said the little candy merchant, with a smile.

"Yes, I am."

"Your face and hands are very dirty."

"What odds will that make?" asked Ann, rather indignantly.

"Do you suppose anybody would eat a stick of candy after you had
touched it with those dirty fingers? Your customers would be afraid of
being poisoned."

"I s'pose I can wash 'em," replied Ann, who seemed still to regard it
as a very unnecessary operation.

"It would be a good plan; and while you are about it you must not
forget your face."

"I ain't a-going to touch the candy with my face," added Ann,
triumphantly.

"Very true; but if people saw you with such a dirty face, they would be
afraid your candy was not very clean."

"Any way you like. I will wash my face and hands both, if that's all."

"But that isn't all. Your dress is very dirty and very ragged."

"I can't afford to dress like a lady," said Ann, who had some of her
brother's disposition, and under any other circumstances would have
resented Katy's plain home thrusts.

"You needn't dress like a lady; but the neater and cleaner you are, the
more candy you will sell."

"I will fix up as much as I can."

"Very well; if you will come to my house to-morrow morning, I will let
you have some candy."

"How much will you give me for selling it?" asked Ann.

"I can't tell now; I will think about it, and let you know when you
come."

Katy went her way, turning over and over in her mind the scheme which
Ann's application had suggested to her. She might employ a dozen girls,
or even more than that, and pay them so much a dozen for selling the
candy. She might then stop going out to sell herself, and thus gratify
her mother. She could even go to school, and still attend to her
business.

When she returned home at noon, she proposed the plan to her mother.
Mrs. Redburn was much pleased with it, though she suggested many
difficulties in the way of its success. The girls might not be honest;
but if they were not, they could be discharged. Many of them were
vicious; they would steal or be saucy, so that people would not permit
them to enter their stores and offices, and the business would thus be
brought into disrepute. Katy determined to employ the best girls she
could find, and to tell them all that they must behave like ladies.

The next morning Ann Grippen appeared with her face and hands tolerably
clean, and wearing a dress which by a liberal construction could be
called decent. She brought a dirty, rusty old tray, which was the best
she could obtain; yet in spite of all these disadvantages, the little
candy merchant looked upon it as a hopeful case.

"Now, Ann, you must be very civil to everybody you meet," said Katy, as
she covered the rusty tray with a sheet of clean white paper.

"I hope I know how to behave myself," replied Ann, rather crustily.

"I dare say you do;" and she might have hinted that there was some
difference between knowing how to do a thing and doing it. "I was only
going to tell you how to sell candy. If you don't want me to tell you,
I won't."

"I should like to have you tell me, but I guess I know how to behave."

"You must be very civil to everybody, even when they don't speak very
pleasant to you."

"I don't know about that," replied Ann, doubtfully, for it was contrary
to the Grippen philosophy to be very civil to any one, much less to
those who were not civil to them.

"When any one buys any candy of you, you must always say, 'Thank you';
and then the next time you meet the person he will buy again."

"How much you going to give me for selling?" demanded Ann, abruptly
cutting short the instructions.

"Mother thinks you ought to have four cents a dozen."

"Four cents? My mother says I ought to have half, and I ain't going to
sell your candy for no four cents a dozen."

"Very well; you needn't if you don't wish to do so;" and Katy removed
the sheet of white paper she had placed over the dirty tray.

"You ought to give me half I get," added Ann, rather softened by Katy's
firmness and decision.

"Four cents is enough. I often sell a hundred sticks in a day."

"Well, I don't care; I will try it once."

"If we find we can afford to pay any more than four cents, we will do
so."

Katy covered the tray again, and arranged two dozen sticks on it in an
attractive manner. After giving Ann some further instructions in the
art of selling candy, she permitted her to depart on her mission. She
was not very  confident in regard to her success for Ann was too coarse
and ill-mannered for a good sales-woman. She hoped for the best,
however, and after preparing her own tray, she went out to attend to
business as usual. In the court she saw Master Simon Sneed, who was
sitting on his father's doorstep. She noticed that he looked sad and
downhearted; and when he spoke to her the tones of his voice indicated
the same depression of spirits.

"Have you seen the Mayor lately, Katy?" asked Simon, as he approached.

"Not very lately."

"I should like to see him," added he, raising his eyes to her.

"Why don't you call upon him? You know where he lives--don't you?"

"Yes, but----"

Master Simon paused, as though he did not like to explain the reason.
Katy waited for him to proceed, but as he did not, she remarked that he
looked very sad, and she hoped nothing had happened.

"Something has happened," replied he, gloomily.

"Nothing bad, I hope."

"I have left my place at Sands & Co.'s.

"Left it? Why, how can they possibly get along without you?" exclaimed
Katy.

"It is their own fault; and though I say it who should not say it, they
will never find another young man who will do as much for them as I
have done."

"I shouldn't think they would have let you go."

"Nor I; but some men never know when they are well used."

"How did it happed?"

"I asked them for an increase of salary, and told them I could stay no
longer unless they did so. And what do you think they did?"

"I don't know; I should suppose they would have raised your salary."

"No, Katy," added Simon, bitterly. "Mr. Sands told me I might go; he
wouldn't have me at any rate. Wasn't that cool? Well, well; if they
don't know their own interest, they must bear the consequences. If they
fail, or lose all their trade, they can't blame me for it. Now I have
nothing to do; and I was just thinking whether my friend the mayor
couldn't help me into a situation."

"I dare say he can. Why don't you call and see him at once?"

"I don't like to do so. He sees so many persons that I really don't
think he would recollect me. I must get something to do, though; for my
father is sick, and winter is coming on."

"How much salary did you get, Master Simon?" asked Katy, who highly
approved his determination not to be a burden upon his father.

"Two dollars and a half a week."

"Is that all!"

"Yes; they ought to have given me ten. Even that was better than
nothing."

"I was thinking of something, Master Simon," said Katy, after a pause.

"What, Katy?"

"I make four or five dollars a week."

"Is it possible!"

"If you have a mind to sell candy, I will furnish you all you want, so
that you can make at least three dollars a week."

The lip of Master Simon slowly curled, till his face bore an expression
of sovereign contempt. He rose from his seat, and fixed his eyes rather
sternly upon the little candy merchant, who began to think she had made
a bad mistake, though all the time she had intended to do a kind act.

"What have I done, Katy, that you should insult me? Do you think I have
sunk so low as to peddle candy about the streets?" said he,
contemptuously.

"Do you think I have sunk very low, Master Simon?" asked Katy, with a
pleasant smile on her face.

"Your business is very low," he replied, more gently.

"Is that business low by which I honestly make money enough to support
my sick mother and myself?"

"It would be low for me; my ideas run a little higher than that,"
answered Simon, rather disposed to apologize for his hard words; for
Katy's smile had conquered him, as a smile oftener will conquer than a
hard word.

"You know best; but if I can do anything for you, Master Simon, I shall
be very glad to do so."

"Thank you, Katy; you mean right, but never speak to me about selling
candy again. I think you can help me."

"Then I will."

"I will see you again when I get my plan arranged. In the meantime, if
you happen to meet my friend the mayor, just speak a good word for me."

"I will;" and Katy left him.



