doctrine about de doings of de unregenerate,—it’s quite clear he’s
wrong dar.’

‘Who cares?’ said Candace,—‘generate or unregenerate, it’s all one to
me. I believe a man dat acts as he does. Him as stands up for de
poor,—him as pleads for de weak,—he’s my man. I’ll believe straight
through anyting he’s a mind to put at me.’

At this juncture, Mary’s fair face appearing at the door put a stop to
the discussion.

‘Bress you, Miss Mary! comin’ here like a fresh June rose! it makes
a body’s eyes dance in deir head! Come right in! I got Cato up from de
lot, ’cause he’s rader poorly dis mornin’; his cough makes me a sight
o’ concern; he’s allers a-pullin’ off his jacket de wrong time, or
doin’ sometin’ I tell him not to,—and it just keeps him hack, hack,
hackin’, all de time.’

During this speech, Cato stood meekly bowing, feeling that he was
being apologized for in the best possible manner; for long years of
instruction had fixed the idea in his mind, that he was an ignorant
sinner, who had not the smallest notion how to conduct himself in this
world, and that, if it were not for his wife’s distinguishing grace, he
would long since have been in the shades of oblivion.

‘Missis is spinnin’ up in de north chamber,’ said Candace; ‘but I’ll
run up and fetch her down.’

Candace, who was about the size of a puncheon, was fond of this
familiar manner of representing her mode of ascending the stairs; but
Mary, suppressing a smile, said, ‘Oh, no, Candace; don’t for the world
disturb her. I know just where she is.’ And before Candace could stop
her, Mary’s light foot was on the top step of the staircase that led up
from the kitchen.

The north room was a large chamber, overlooking a splendid reach of
sea-prospect. A moving panorama of blue water and gliding sails was
unrolled before its three windows, so that stepping into the room gave
one an instant and breezy sense of expansion. Mrs. Marvyn was standing
at the large wheel, spinning wool,—a reel and basket of spools on her
side. Her large brown eyes had an eager joy in them when Mary entered;
but they seemed to calm down again, and she received her only with that
placid, sincere air which was her habit. Everything about this woman
showed an ardent soul, repressed by timidity and by a certain dumbness
in the faculties of outward expression; but her eyes had, at times,
that earnest, appealing language which is so pathetic in the silence of
inferior animals. One sometimes sees such eyes, and wonders whether the
story they intimate will ever be spoken in mortal language.

Mary began eagerly detailing to her all that had interested her since
they last met: the party,—her acquaintance with Burr,—his visit to the
cottage,—his inquiries into her education and reading,—and, finally,
the proposal that they should study French together.

‘My dear,’ said Mrs. Marvyn, ‘let us begin at once;—such an opportunity
is not to be lost. I studied a little with James, when he was last at
home.’

‘With James?’ said Mary, with an air of timid surprise.

‘Yes,—the dear boy has become, what I never expected, quite a student.
He employs all his spare time now in reading and studying;—the second
mate is a Frenchman, and James has got so that he can both speak and
read. He is studying Spanish, too.’

Ever since the last conversation, with her mother on the subject of
James, Mary had felt a sort of guilty constraint when any one spoke
of him; instead of answering frankly, as she once did when anything
brought his name up, she fell at once into a grave, embarrassed silence.

Mrs. Marvyn was so constantly thinking of him, that it was difficult
to begin on any topic that did not in some manner or other knit itself
into the one ever present in her thoughts. None of the peculiar
developments of the female nature have a more exquisite vitality than
the sentiment of a frail, delicate, repressed, timid woman, for a
strong, manly, generous son. There is her ideal expressed; there is the
out-speaking and out-acting of all she trembles to think, yet burns to
say or do; here is the hero that shall speak for her, the heart into
which she has poured hers, and that shall give to her tremulous and
hidden aspirations a strong and victorious expression. ‘I have gotten
a man from the Lord,’ she says to herself; and each outburst of
his manliness, his vigour, his self-confidence, his superb vitality,
fills her with a strange, wondering pleasure, and she has a secret
tenderness and pride even in his wilfulness and waywardness. ‘What a
creature he is!’ she says, when he flouts at sober argument and pitches
all received opinions hither and thither in the wild capriciousness
of youthful paradox. She looks grave and reproving; but he reads the
concealed triumph in her eyes,—he knows that in her heart she is full
of admiration all the time. First love of womanhood is something
wonderful and mysterious,—but in this second love it rises again,
idealized and refined: she loves the father and herself united and made
one in this young heir of life and hope.

Such was Mrs. Marvyn’s still intense, passionate love for her son.
Not a tone of his manly voice, not a flash of his dark eyes, not one
of the deep, shadowy dimples that came and went as he laughed, not a
ring of his glossy black hair, that was not studied, got by heart, and
dwelt on in the inner shrine of her thoughts: he was the romance of
her life. His strong, daring nature carried her with it beyond those
narrow, daily bounds where her soul was weary of treading; and just
as his voyages had given to the trite prose of her ménage a poetry
of strange, foreign perfumes, of quaint objects of interest, speaking
of many a far-off shore, so his mind and life were a constant channel
of outreach through which her soul held converse with the active and
stirring world. Mrs. Marvyn had known all the story of her son’s love;
and to no other woman would she have been willing to resign him: but
her love to Mary was so deep, that she thought of his union with
her more as gaining a daughter than as losing a son. She would not
speak of the subject: she knew the feelings of Mary’s mother; and the
name of James fell so often from her lips, simply because it was so
ever-present in her heart that it could not be helped.

Before Mary left, it was arranged that they should study together, and
that the lessons should be given alternately at each other’s houses;
and with this understanding they parted.




CHAPTER XVIII.


THE Doctor sat at his study-table. It was evening, and the slant beams
of the setting sun shot their golden arrows through the healthy purple
clusters of lilacs that veiled the windows. There had been a shower
that filled them with drops of rain, which every now and then tattooed
with a slender rat-tat on the window-sill, as a breeze would shake the
leaves and bear in perfume on its wings. Sweet, fragrance-laden airs
tripped stirringly to and fro about the study-table, making gentle
confusions, fluttering papers on moral ability, agitating treatises
on the great end of creation, mixing up subtile distinctions between
amiable instincts and true holiness, and, in short, conducting
themselves like very unappreciative and unphilosophical little breezes.

[Illustration: A Doubt about the “Evidences.”

Page 177.

Sampson Low, Son & Co. Augt. 23rd, 1859.]

The Doctor patiently smoothed back and rearranged, while opposite to
him sat Mary, bending over some copying she was doing for him. One
stray sunbeam fell on her light-brown hair, tinging it to gold; her
long, drooping lashes lay over the wax-like pink of her cheeks, as she
wrote on.

‘Mary,’ said the Doctor, pushing the papers from him.

‘Sir,’ she answered, looking up, the blood just perceptibly rising in
her cheeks.

‘Do you ever have any periods in which your evidences seem not
altogether clear?’

Nothing could show more forcibly the grave, earnest character of
thought in New England at this time than the fact that this use of the
term ‘evidences’ had become universally significant and understood
as relating to one’s right of citizenship in a celestial, invisible
commonwealth.

So Mary understood it, and it was with a deepened flush she answered
gently, ‘No, sir.’

‘What! never any doubts?’ said the Doctor.

‘I am sorry,’ said Mary, apologetically; ‘but I do not see how I can
have; I never could.’

‘Ah!’ said the Doctor, musingly, ‘would I could say so! There are
times, indeed, when I hope I have an interest in the precious Redeemer,
and behold an infinite loveliness and beauty in Him, apart from
anything I expect or hope. But even then how deceitful is the human
heart! how insensibly might a mere selfish love take the place of that
disinterested complacency which regards Him for what He is in Himself,
apart from what He is to us! Say, my dear friend, does not this thought
sometimes make you tremble?’

Poor Mary was truth itself, and this question distressed her; she
must answer the truth. The fact was, that it had never come into her
blessed little heart to tremble, for she was one of those children of
the bride-chamber who cannot mourn, because the bridegroom is ever
with them; but then, when she saw the man for whom her reverence was
almost like that for her God thus distrustful, thus lowly, she could
not but feel that her too calm repose might, after all, be the shallow,
treacherous calm of an ignorant, ill-grounded spirit, and therefore,
with a deep blush and a faltering voice, she said,—

‘Indeed, I am afraid something must be wrong with me. I cannot have
any fears,—I never could; I try sometimes, but the thought of God’s
goodness comes all around me, and I am so happy before I think of it!’

‘Such exercises, my dear friend, I have also had,’ said the Doctor;
‘but before I rest on them as evidences, I feel constrained to make
the following inquiries:—Is this gratitude that swells my bosom the
result of a mere natural sensibility? Does it arise in a particular
manner because God has done me good? or do I love God for what He is,
as well as for what He has done? and for what He has done for others,
as well as for what He has done for me? Love to God, which is built
on nothing but good received, is not incompatible with a disposition
so horrid as even to curse God to His face. If God is not to be loved
except when He does good, then in affliction we are free. If doing
us good is all that renders God lovely to us, then not doing us good
divests Him of His glory, and dispenses us from obligation to love
Him. But there must be, undoubtedly, some permanent reason why God is
to be loved by all: and if not doing us good divests Him of His glory
so as to free us from our obligation to love, it equally frees the
universe; so that, in fact, the universe of happiness if ours be not
included, reflects no glory on its Author.’

The Doctor had practised his subtile mental analysis till his
instruments were so fine-pointed and keen-edged that he scarce ever
allowed a flower of sacred emotion to spring in his soul without
picking it to pieces to see if its genera and species were correct.
Love, gratitude, reverence, benevolence,—which all moved in mighty
tides in his soul—were all compelled to pause midway while he rubbed up
his optical instruments to see whether they were rising in right order.
Mary, on the contrary, had the blessed gift of womanhood,—that vivid
life in the soul and sentiment which resists the chills of analysis,
as a healthful human heart resists cold; yet still, all humbly, she
thought this perhaps was a defect in herself, and therefore, having
confessed, in a depreciating tone, her habits of unanalysed faith and
love, she added,—

‘But, my dear sir, you are my best friend. I trust you will be faithful
to me. If I am deceiving myself, undeceive me; you cannot be too severe
with me.’

‘Alas!’ said the Doctor, ‘I fear that I may be only a blind leader of
the blind. What, after all, if I be only a miserable self-deceiver?
What if some thought of self has come in to poison all my prayers and
strivings? It is true, I think,—yes, I think,’ said the Doctor,
speaking very slowly and with intense earnestness,—‘I think, that,
if I knew at this moment that my name never would be written among
those of the elect, I could still see God to be infinitely amiable
and glorious, and could feel sure that He could not do me wrong,
and that it was infinitely becoming and right that He should dispose
of me according to His sovereign pleasure. I think so;—but still my
deceitful heart!—after all, I might find it rising in rebellion. Say,
my dear friend, are you sure, that, should you discover yourself to be
for ever condemned by His justice, you would not find your heart rising
up against Him?’

‘Against Him?’ said Mary, with a tremulous, sorrowful expression on
her face,—‘against my Heavenly Father?’

Her face flushed and faded; her eyes kindled eagerly, as if she had
something to say, and then grew misty with tears. At last she said,—

‘Thank you, my dear, faithful friend! I will think about this;
perhaps I may have been deceived. How very difficult it must be to
know one’s self perfectly!’

Mary went into her own little room, and sat leaning for a long time
with her elbow on the window-seat, watching the pale shells of the
apple-blossoms as they sailed and fluttered downward into the grass,
and listened to a chippering conversation in which the birds in the
nest above were settling up their small housekeeping accounts for the
day.

After a while, she took her pen and wrote the following, which the
Doctor found the next morning lying on his study-table:—

    ‘MY DEAR, HONOURED FRIEND,—How can I sufficiently thank
    you for your faithfulness with me? All you say to me seems
    true and excellent; and yet, my dear sir, permit me to
    try to express to you some of the many thoughts to which
    our conversation this evening has given rise. To love
    God because He is good to me you seem to think is not a
    right kind of love; and yet every moment of my life I have
    experienced His goodness. When recollection brings back
    the past, where can I look that I see not His goodness?
    What moment of my life presents not instances of merciful
    kindness to me, as well as to every creature, more and
    greater than I can express, than my mind is able to take in?
    How, then, can I help loving God because He is good to me?
    Were I not an object of God’s mercy and goodness, I cannot
    have any conception what would be my feeling. Imagination
    never yet placed me in a situation not to experience the
    goodness of God in some way or other; and if I do love Him,
    how can it be but because He is good, and to me good? Do not
    God’s children love Him because He first loved them?

    ‘If I called nothing goodness which did not happen to
    suit my inclination, and could not believe the Deity to
    be gracious and merciful except when the course of events
    was so ordered as to agree with my humour, so far from
    imagining that I had any love to God, I must conclude
    myself wholly destitute of anything good. A love founded
    on nothing but good received is not, you say, incompatible
    with a disposition so horrid as even to curse God. I am not
    sensible that I ever in my life imagined anything but
    good could come from the hand of God. From a Being infinite
    in goodness everything must be good, though we do not
    always comprehend how it is so. Are not afflictions good?
    Does He not even in judgment remember mercy? Sensible that
    “afflictions are but blessings in disguise,” I would bless
    the hand that, with infinite kindness, wounds only to heal,
    and love and adore the goodness of God equally in suffering
    as in rejoicing.

    ‘The disinterested love to God, which you think is alone the
    genuine love, I see not how we can be certain we possess,
    when our love of happiness and our love of God are so
    inseparably connected. The joys arising from a consciousness
    that God is a benefactor to me and my friends (and when I
    think of God every creature is my friend), if arising from
    a selfish motive, it does not seem to me possible could be
    changed into hate, even supposing God my enemy, whilst I
    regarded Him as a Being infinitely just as well as good. If
    God is my enemy, it must be because I deserve He should be
    such; and it does not seem to me possible that I should
    hate Him, even if I knew He would always be so.

    ‘In what you say of willingness to suffer eternal
    punishment, I don’t know that I understand what the feeling
    is. Is it wickedness in me that I do not feel a willingness
    to be left to eternal sin? Can any one joyfully acquiesce
    in being thus left? When I pray for a new heart and a right
    spirit, must I be willing to be denied, and rejoice that my
    prayer is not heard? Could any real Christian rejoice in
    this? But he fears it not,—he knows it will never be,—he
    therefore can cheerfully leave it with God; and so can I.

    ‘Such, my dear friend, are my thoughts, poor and unworthy;
    yet they seem to me as certain as my life, or as anything I
    see. Am I unduly confident? I ask your prayers that I may be
    guided aright.

                                 ‘Your affectionate friend,
                                                       ‘MARY.’

There are in this world two kinds of natures,—those that have wings,
and those that have feet,—the winged and the walking spirits. The
walking are the logicians; the winged are the instinctive and poetic.
Natures that must always walk find many a bog, many a thicket, many a
tangled brake, which God’s happy little winged birds flit over by one
noiseless flight. Nay, when a man has toiled till his feet weigh too
heavily with the mud of earth to enable him to walk another step, these
little birds will often cleave the air in a right line towards the
bosom of God, and show the way where he could never have found it.

The Doctor paused in his ponderous and heavy reasonings to read this
real woman’s letter; and being a loving man, he felt as if he could
have kissed the hem of her garment who wrote it. He recorded it in his
journal, and after it this significant passage from the Canticles:—

‘I charge you, O ye daughters of Jerusalem, by the roes, and by the
hinds of the field, that ye stir not up nor awake this lovely one till
she please.’

Mrs. Scudder’s motherly eye noticed, with satisfaction, these quiet
communings. ‘Let it alone,’ she said to herself; ‘before she knows it,
she will find herself wholly under his influence.’ Mrs. Scudder was a
wise woman.




CHAPTER XIX.


IN the course of a day or two, a handsome carriage drew up in front
of Mrs. Scudder’s cottage, and a brilliant party alighted. They were
Colonel and Madame de Frontignac, the Abbé Léfon, and Colonel Burr.
Mrs. Scudder and her daughter, being prepared for the call, sat in
afternoon dignity and tranquillity, in the best room, with their
knitting-work.

Madame de Frontignac had divined, with the lightning-like tact
which belongs to women in the positive, and to French women in the
superlative degree, that there was something in the cottage-girl, whom
she had passingly seen at the party, which powerfully affected the man
whom she loved with all the jealous intensity of a strong nature, and
hence she embraced eagerly the opportunity to see her,—yes, to see her,
to study her, to dart her keen French wit through her, and detect the
secret of her charm, that she, too, might practise it.

Madame de Frontignac was one of those women whose beauty is so striking
and imposing, that they seem to kindle up, even in the most prosaic
apartment, an atmosphere of enchantment. All the pomp and splendour of
high life, the wit, the refinements, the nameless graces and luxuries
of courts, seemed to breathe in invisible airs around her, and she made
a Faubourg St. Germain of the darkest room into which she entered.
Mary thought, when she came in, that she had never seen anything so
splendid. She was dressed in a black velvet riding-habit, buttoned to
the throat with coral; her riding-hat drooped with its long plumes
so as to cast a shadow over her animated face, out of which her dark
eyes shone like jewels, and her pomegranate cheeks glowed with the
rich shaded radiance of one of Rembrandt’s pictures. Something quaint
and foreign, something poetic and strange, marked each turn of her
figure, each article of her dress, down to the sculptured hand on which
glittered singular and costly rings,—and the riding-glove, embroidered
with seed-pearls, that fell carelessly beside her on the floor.

In Antwerp one sees a picture in which Rubens, who felt more than
any other artist the glory of the physical life, has embodied his
conception of the Madonna, in opposition to the faded, cold ideals of
the Middle Ages, from which he revolted with such a bound. His Mary
is a superb Oriental sultana, with lustrous dark eyes, redundant form,
jewelled turban, standing leaning on the balustrade of a princely
terrace, and bearing on her hand, not the silver dove, but a gorgeous
paroquet. The two styles, in this instance, were both in the same room;
and as Burr sat looking from one to the other, he felt, for a moment,
as one would who should put a sketch of Overbeck’s beside a splendid
painting of Titian’s.

For a few moments, everything in the room seemed faded and cold, in
contrast with the tropical atmosphere of this regal beauty. Burr
watched Mary with a keen eye, to see if she were dazzled and overawed.
He saw nothing but the most innocent surprise and delight. All the
slumbering poetry within her seemed to awaken at the presence of her
beautiful neighbour,—as when one, for the first time, stands before
the great revelations of Art. Mary’s cheek glowed, her eyes seemed to
grow deep with the enthusiasm of admiration, and, after a few moments,
it seemed as if her delicate face and figure reflected the glowing
loveliness of her visitor, just as the virgin snows of the Alps become
incarnadine as they stand opposite the glorious radiance of a sunset
sky.

Madame de Frontignac was accustomed to the effect of her charms; but
there was so much love in the admiration now directed towards her,
that her own warm nature was touched, and she threw out the glow of
her feelings with a magnetic power. Mary never felt the cold, habitual
reserve of her education so suddenly melt, never felt herself so
naturally falling into language of confidence and endearment with a
stranger; and as her face, so delicate and spiritual, grew bright with
love, Madame de Frontignac thought she had never seen anything so
beautiful, and stretching out her hands towards her, she exclaimed, in
her own language,—

‘Mais, mon Dieu! mon enfant, que tu es belle!’

Mary’s deep blush, at her ignorance of the language in which her
visitor spoke, recalled her to herself;—she laughed a clear, silvery
laugh, and laid her jewelled little hand on Mary’s with a caressing
movement.

‘He shall not teach you French, ma toute belle,’ she said,
indicating the Abbé, by a pretty, wilful gesture; ‘I will teach
you;—and you shall teach me English. Oh I shall try so hard to
learn!’ she said.

There was something inexpressibly pretty and quaint in the childish
lisp with which she pronounced English. Mary was completely won over.
She could have fallen into the arms of this wondrously beautiful fairy
princess, expecting to be carried away by her to Dreamland.

Meanwhile, Mrs. Scudder was gravely discoursing with Colonel Burr and
M. de Frontignac; and the Abbé, a small and gentlemanly personage, with
clear black eye, delicately-cut features, and powdered hair, appeared
to be absorbed in his efforts to follow the current of a conversation
imperfectly understood. Burr, the while, though seeming to be entirely
and politely absorbed in the conversation he was conducting, lost not
a glimpse of the picturesque aside which was being enacted between the
two fair ones whom he had thus brought together. He smiled quietly when
he saw the effect Madame de Frontignac produced on Mary.

‘After all, the child has flesh and blood!’ he thought, ‘and may feel
that there are more things in heaven and earth than she has dreamed of
yet. A few French ideas won’t hurt her.’

The arrangements about lessons being completed, the party returned to
the carriage. Madame de Frontignac was enthusiastic in Mary’s praise.

‘Cependant,’ she said, leaning back, thoughtfully, after having
exhausted herself in superlatives,—‘cependant elle est dévote,—et à
dix-neuf comment cela se peut-il?’

‘It is the effect of her austere education,’ said Burr. ‘It is not
possible for you to conceive how young people are trained in the
religious families of this country.’

‘But yet,’ said Madame, ‘it gives her a grace altogether peculiar;
something in her looks went to my heart. I could find it very easy to
love her, because she is really good.’

‘The Queen of Hearts should know all that is possible in loving,’ said
Burr.

Somehow, of late, the compliments which fell so readily from those
graceful lips had brought with them an unsatisfying pain. Until a woman
really loves, flattery and compliment are often like her native air;
but when that deeper feeling has once awakened in her, her instincts
become marvellously acute to detect the false from the true. Madame de
Frontignac longed for one strong, unguarded, real, earnest word from
the man who had stolen from her her whole being. She was beginning to
feel in some dim wise what an untold treasure she was daily giving for
tinsel and dross. She leaned back in the carriage, with a restless,
burning cheek, and wondered why she was born to be so miserable. The
thought of Mary’s saintly face and tender eyes rose before her as the
moon rises on the eyes of some hot and fevered invalid, inspiring vague
yearnings after an unknown, unattainable peace.

Could some friendly power once have made her at that time clairvoyant
and shown her the reality of the man whom she was seeing through
the prismatic glass of her own enkindled ideality! Could she have
seen the calculating quietness in which, during the intervals of a
restless and sleepless ambition, he played upon her heart-strings, as
one uses a musical instrument to beguile a passing hour,—how his only
embarrassment was the fear that the feelings he was pleased to excite
might become too warm and too strong, while as yet his relations to her
husband were such as to make it dangerous to arouse his jealousy! And
if he could have seen that pure ideal conception of himself which alone
gave him power in the heart of this woman,—that spotless, glorified
image of a hero without fear, without reproach,—would he have felt a
moment’s shame and abasement at its utter falsehood?

The poet says that the Evil Spirit stood abashed when he saw virtue in
an angel form! How would a man, then, stand, who meets face to face
his own glorified, spotless ideal, made living by the boundless faith
of some believing heart? The best must needs lay his hand on his mouth
at this apparition; but woe to him who feels no redeeming power in the
sacredness of this believing dream,—who with calculating shrewdness
uses this most touching miracle of love only to corrupt and destroy
the loving! For him there is no sacrifice for sin, no place for
repentance. His very mother might shrink in her grave to have him laid
beside her.

Madame de Frontignac had the high, honourable nature of the old blood
of France, and a touch of its romance. She was strung heroically, and
educated according to the notions of her caste and church, purely and
religiously. True it is, that one can scarcely call that education
which teaches woman everything except herself,—except the things
that relate to her own peculiar womanly destiny, and, on plea of the
holiness of ignorance, sends her without one word of just counsel
into the temptations of life. Incredible as it may seem, Virginie
de Frontignac had never read a romance or work of fiction of which
love was the staple; the régime of the convent in this regard was
inexorable; at eighteen she was more thoroughly a child than most
American girls at thirteen. On entrance into life, she was at first so
dazzled and bewildered by the mere contrast of fashionable excitement
with the quietness of the scenes in which she had hitherto grown up,
that she had no time for reading or thought,—all was one intoxicating
frolic of existence, one dazzling, bewildering dream.

He whose eye had measured her for his victim verified, if ever man
did, the proverbial expression of the iron hand under the velvet
glove. Under all his gentle suavities there was a fixed, inflexible
will, a calm self-restraint, and a composed philosophical measurement
of others, that fitted him to bear despotic rule over an impulsive,
unguarded nature. The position, at once accorded to him, of her
instructor in the English language and literature, gave him a thousand
daily opportunities to touch and stimulate all that class of finer
faculties, so restless and so perilous, and which a good man approaches
always with a certain awe. It is said that he once asserted that he
never beguiled a woman who did not come half-way to meet him,—an
observation much the same as a serpent might make in regard to his
birds.

The visit of the morning was followed by several others. Madame
de Frontignac seemed to conceive for Mary one of those passionate
attachments which women often conceive for anything fair and
sympathizing, at those periods when their whole inner being is made
vital by the approaches of a grand passion. It took only a few visits
to make her as familiar as a child at the cottage; and the whole air
of the Faubourg St. Germain seemed to melt away from her, as, with
the pliability peculiar to her nation, she blended herself with the
quiet pursuits of the family. Sometimes, in simple straw hat and white
wrapper, she would lie down in the grass under the apple-trees, or join
Mary in an expedition to the barn for hen’s eggs, or a run along the
sea-beach for shells; and her childish eagerness and delight on these
occasions used to arouse the unqualified astonishment of Mrs. Katy
Scudder.

The Doctor she regarded with a naïve astonishment, slightly
tinctured with apprehension. She knew he was very religious, and
stretched her comprehension to imagine what he might be like. She
thought of Bossuet’s sermons walking about under a Protestant coat,
and felt vaguely alarmed and sinful in his presence, as she used to
when entering under the shadows of a cathedral. In her the religious
sentiment, though vague, was strong. Nothing in the character of Burr
had ever awakened so much disapprobation as his occasional sneers at
religion. On such occasions she always reproved him with warmth, but
excused him in her heart, because he was brought up a heretic. She held
a special theological conversation with the Abbé, whether salvation
were possible to one outside of the True Church,—and had added to her
daily prayer a particular invocation to the Virgin for him.

The French lessons with her assistance proceeded prosperously. She
became an inmate in Mrs. Marvyn’s family also. The brown-eyed,
sensitive woman loved her as a new poem; she felt enchanted by her;
and the prosaic details of her household seemed touched to poetic life
by her innocent interest and admiration. The young Madame insisted on
being taught to spin at the great wheel; and a very pretty picture she
made of it, too, with her earnest gravity of endeavour, her deepening
cheek, her graceful form, with some strange foreign scarf or jewelry
waving and flashing in odd contrast with her work.

‘Do you know,’ she said, one day, while thus employed in the north
room at Mrs. Marvyn’s,—‘do you know Burr told me that princesses used
to spin? He read me a beautiful story from the “Odyssey,” about how
Penelope cheated her lovers with her spinning, while she was waiting
for her husband to come home;—he was gone to sea, Mary,—her true
love,—you understand.’

She turned on Mary a wicked glance, so full of intelligence that the
snowdrop grew red as the inside of a sea-shell.

‘Mon enfant! thou hast a thought deep in here!’ she said to Mary,
one day, as they sat together in the grass under the apple-trees.

‘Why, what?’ said Mary, with a startled and guilty look.

‘Why, what? petite!’ said the fairy princess, whimsically mimicking
her accent. ‘Ah! ah! ma belle! you think I have no eyes;—Virginie
sees deep in here!’ she said, laying her hand playfully on Mary’s
heart. ‘Ah, petite!’ she said, gravely, and almost sorrowfully, ‘if
you love him, wait for him,—don’t marry another! It is dreadful not
to have one’s heart go with one’s duty.’

‘I shall never marry anybody,’ said Mary.

‘Nevare marrie anybodie!’ said the lady, imitating her accents in tones
much like those of a bobolink. ‘Ah! ah! my little saint, you cannot
always live on nothing but the prayers, though prayers are verie good.
But, ma chère,’ she added, in a low tone, ‘don’t you ever marry that
good man in there; priests should not marry.’

‘Ours are not priests,—they are ministers,’ said Mary. ‘But why do you
speak of him?—he is like my father.’

‘Virginie sees something!’ said the lady, shaking her head gravely;
‘she sees he loves little Mary.’

‘Of course he does!’

‘Of-course-he-does?—ah, yes; and by-and-by comes the mamma, and she
takes this little hand, and she says, “Come, Mary!” and then she gives
it to him; and then the poor jeune homme, when he comes back, finds
not a bird in his poor little nest. Oh, c’est ennuyeux cela!’ she
said, throwing herself back in the grass till the clover heads and
buttercups closed over her.

‘I do assure you, dear Madame!’—

‘I do assure you, dear Mary, Virginie knows. So lock up her words in
your little heart; you will want them some day.’

There was a pause of some moments, while the lady was watching the
course of a cricket through the clover. At last, lifting her head, she
spoke very gravely,—

‘My little cat! it is dreadful to be married to a good man, and
want to be good, and want to love him, and yet never like to have him
take your hand, and be more glad when he is away than when he is at
home; and then to think how different it would all be, if it was only
somebody else. That will be the way with you, if you let them lead you
into this; so don’t you do it, mon enfant.’

A thought seemed to cross Mary’s mind, as she turned to Madame de
Frontignac, and said, earnestly,—

‘If a good man were my husband, I would never think of another,—I
wouldn’t let myself.’

‘How could you help it, mignonne? Can you stop your thinking?’

Mary said, after a moment’s blush,—

‘I can try!’

‘Ah, yes! But to try all one’s life,—oh, Mary, that is too hard! Never
do it, darling!’

And then Madame de Frontignac broke out into a carolling little French
song, which started all the birds around into a general orchestral
accompaniment.

This conversation occurred just before Madame de Frontignac started for
Philadelphia, whither her husband had been summoned as an agent in some
of the ambitious intrigues of Burr.

It was with a sigh of regret that she parted from her friends at the
cottage. She made them a hasty good-bye call,—alighting from a splendid
barouche with two white horses, and filling their simple best room with
the light of her presence for a last half-hour. When she bade good-bye
to Mary, she folded her warmly to her heart, and her long lashes
drooped heavily with tears.

After her absence, the lessons were still pursued with the gentle,
quiet little Abbé, who seemed the most patient and assiduous of
teachers; but, in both houses, there was that vague ennui, that sense
of want, which follows the fading of one of life’s beautiful dreams! We
bid her adieu for a season;—we may see her again.




CHAPTER XX.


THE summer passed over the cottage, noiselessly, as our summers pass.
There were white clouds walking in saintly troops over blue mirrors
of sea,—there were purple mornings, choral with bird-singing,—there
were golden evenings, with long, eastward shadows. Apple-blossoms died
quietly in the deep orchard-grass, and tiny apples waxed and rounded
and ripened and gained stripes of gold and carmine; and the blue eggs
broke into young robins, that grew from gaping, yellow-mouthed youth
to fledged and outflying maturity. Came autumn, with its long Indian
summer, and winter, with its flinty, sparkling snows, under which all
