time she had occasion to appear in the room, and her single attempt
to excuse herself on account of not understanding the cook stove,
was met by:

"Do hush, will you! I'm out of all patience!"

As to the latter part of the sentence, that was a needless waste of
words. The condition of mind she described was fully apparent.

About three o'clock in the afternoon, just as Mrs. Smith had found a
temporary relief from a troubled mind and a most intolerable
headache, in sleep, a tap on the chamber door awoke her, there stood
Nancy, all equipped for going out.

"I find I won't suit you, ma'am," said Nancy, "and so you must look
out for another girl."

Having said this, she turned away and took her departure, leaving
Mrs. Smith in a state of mind, as it is said, "more easily imagined
than described."

"O dear! what shall I do!" at length broke from her lips, as she
burst into tears, and burying her face in the pillow, sobbed aloud.
Already she had repented of her fretfulness and fault-finding
temper, as displayed towards Rachel, and could she have made a truce
with pride, or silenced its whispers, would have sent for her
well-tried domestic, and endeavored to make all fair with her again.
But, under the circumstances, this was now impossible. While yet
undetermined how to act, the street bell rung, and she was compelled
to attend the door, as she was now alone in the house. She found, on
opening it, a rough-looking country girl, who asked if she were the
lady who wanted a chamber maid. Any kind of help was better than
none at all, and so Mrs. Smith asked the young woman to walk in. In
treating with her in regard to her qualifications for the situation
she applied for, she discovered that she knew "almost nothing at all
about any thing." The stipulation that she was to be a
doer-of-all-work-in-general, until a cook could be obtained, was
readily agreed to, and then she was shown to her room in the attic,
where she prepared herself for entering upon her duties.

"Will you please, ma'am, show me what you want me to do?" asked the
new help, presenting herself before Mrs. Smith.

"Go into the kitchen, Ellen, and see that the fire is made. I'll be
down there presently."

To be compelled to see after a new and ignorant servant, and direct
her in every thing, just at, so trying a season of the year, and
while her mind was "all out of sorts," was a severe task for poor
Mrs. Smith. She found that Ellen, as she had too good reason for
believing, was totally unacquainted with kitchen work. She did not
even know how to kindle a coal fire; nor could she manage the stove
after Mrs. Smith had made the fire for her. All this did not in any
way tend to make her less unhappy or more patient than before. On
retiring for the night, she had a high fever, which continued
unabated until morning, when her husband found her really ill; so
much so as to make the attendance of a doctor necessary.

A change in the air had taken place during the night, and the
temperature had fallen many degrees. This aided the efforts of the
physician, and enabled him so to adapt his remedies as to speedily
break the fever. But the ignorance and awkwardness of Ellen,
apparent in her attempts to arrange her bed and chamber, so worried
her mind, that she was near relapsing into her former feverish and
excited state. The attendance of an elder maiden sister was just in
time. All care was taken from her thoughts, and she had a chance of
recovering a more healthy tone of mind and body. During the next
week, she knew little or nothing of how matters were progressing out
of her own chamber. A new cook had been hired, of whom she was
pleased to hear good accounts, although she had not seen her, and
Ellen, under the mild and judicious instruction of her sister, had
learned to make up a bed neatly, to sweep, and dust in true style,
and to perform all the little etceteras of chamber-work greatly to
her satisfaction. She was, likewise, good tempered, willing, and to
all appearances strictly trust-worthy.

One morning, about a week after she had become too ill to keep up,
she found herself so far recovered as to be able to go down stairs
to breakfast. Every thing upon the table she found arranged in the
neatest style. The food was well cooked, especially some tender rice
cakes, of which she was very fond.

"Really, these are delicious!" said she, as the finely flavored
cakes almost melted in her mouth. "And this coffee is just the
thing! How fortunate we have been to obtain so good a cook! I was
afraid we should never be able to replace Rachel. But even she is
equalled, if not surpassed."

"Still she does not surpass Rachel," said Mr. Smith, a little
gravely. "Rachel was a treasure."

"Indeed she was. And I have been sorry enough I ever let her go,"
returned Mrs. Smith.

At that moment a new cook entered with a plate of warm cakes.

"Rachel!" ejaculated Mrs. Smith, letting her knife and fork fall.
"How do you do? I am glad to see you! Welcome home again!"

As she spoke quickly and earnestly, she held out her hand, and
grasped that of her old domestic warmly. Rachel could not speak, but
as she left the room she put her apron to her eyes. Hers were
not the only ones dim with rising moisture.

For at least a year to come, both Mrs. Smith and her excellent cook
will have no cause to complain of each other. How they will get
along during the last week of next August, we cannot say, but hope
the lesson they have both received will teach them to bear and
forbear.




CHAPTER XXIII.

WORDS.


"THE foolish thing!" said my aunt Rachel, speaking warmly, "to get
hurt at a mere word. It's a little hard that people can't open their
lips but somebody is offended."

"Words are things!" said I, smiling.

"Very light things! A person must be tender, indeed, that is hurt by
a word."

"The very lightest thing may hurt, if it falls on a tender place."

"I don't like people who have these tender places," said aunt
Rachel. "I never get hurt at what is said to me. No--never! To be
ever picking and mincing, and chopping off your words--to be afraid
to say this or that--for fear somebody will be offended! I can't
abide it!"

"People who have these tender places can't help it, I suppose. This
being so, ought we not to regard their weakness?" said I. "Pain,
either of body or mind, is hard to bear, and we should not inflict
it causelessly."

"People who are so wonderfully sensitive," replied aunt Rachel,
growing warmer, "ought to shut themselves up at home, and not come
among sensible, good tempered persons. As far as I am concerned, I
can tell them, one and all, that I am not going to pick out every
hard word from a sentence as carefully as I would seeds from a
raisin. Let them crack them with their teeth, if they are afraid to
swallow them whole."

Now, for all that aunt Rachel went on after this strain, she was a
kind, good soul, in the main, and I could see, was sorry for having
hurt the feelings of Mary Lane. But she didn't like to acknowledge
that she was in the wrong; that would detract too much from the
self-complacency with which she regarded herself. Knowing her
character very well, I thought it best not to continue the little
argument about the importance of words, and so changed the subject.
But, every now and then, aunt Rachel would return to it, each time
softening a little towards Mary. At last she said:

"I'm sure it was a little thing. A very little thing. She might have
known that nothing unkind was intended on my part."

"There are some subjects, aunt," I replied, "to which we cannot bear
the slightest allusion. And a sudden reference to them is very apt
to throw us off of our guard. What you said to Mary, has, in all
probability, touched some weakness of character, or probed some
wound that time has been able to heal. I have always thought her a
sensible, good natured girl."

"And so have I. But I really cannot think that she has shown her
good sense or good nature in the present case. It is a very bad
failing this, of being over sensitive; and exceedingly annoying to
one's friends."

"It is, I know; but still, all of us have a weak point, and when
that is assailed, we are very apt to betray our feelings."

"Well, I say now, as I have always said--I don't like to have any
thing to do with people who have these weak points. This being hurt
by a word, as if words were blows, is something that does not come
within the range of my sympathies."

"And yet, aunt," said I, "all have weak points. Even you are not
entirely free from them."

"Me!" aunt Rachel bridled.

"Yes; and if even as light a thing as a word were to fall upon them,
you would suffer pain."

"Pray, ma'am," said, aunt Rachel, with much dignity of manner; she
was chafed by my words, light as they were; "inform me where these
weaknesses, of which you are pleased to speak, lie?"

"Oh, no; you must excuse me. That would be very much out of place.
But I only stated a general fact that appertains to all of us."

Aunt Rachel looked very grave. I had laid the weight of words upon a
weakness of her character, and it had given her pain. That weakness
was a peculiarly good opinion of herself. I had made no allegation
against her; and there was none in my mind. My words simply
expressed the general truth that we all have weaknesses, and
included her in their application. But she imagined that I referred
to some particular defect or fault, and mail-proof as she was
against words, they had wounded her.

For a day or two, aunt Rachel remained more sober than was her wont.
I knew the cause, but did not attempt to remove from her mind an
impression my words had made. One day, about a week after, I said to
her:

"Aunt Rachel, I saw Mary Lane's mother this morning."

"Ah?" The old lady looked up at me enquiringly.

"I don't wonder your words hurt the poor girl," I added.

"Why? What did I say?" quickly asked aunt Rachel.

"You said that she was a jilt."

"But I was only in jest, and she knew it. I did not really mean any
thing. I'm surprised that Mary should be so foolish."

"You will not be surprised when you know all," was my answer.

"All? What all? I'm sure I wasn't in earnest. I didn't mean to hurt
the poor girl's feelings."

My aunt looked very much troubled.

"No one blames you, aunt Rachel," said I. "Mary knows you didn't
intend wounding her."

"But why should she take a little word so much to heart? It must
have had more truth in it than I supposed."

"Did you know that Mary refused an offer of marriage from Walter
Green, last week?"

"Why, no! It can't be possible! Refused Walter Green?"

"Yes."

"They've been intimate for a long time."

"I know."

"She certainly encouraged him."

"I think it more than probable."

"Is it possible, then, that she did really jilt the young man?"
exclaimed aunt Rachel.

"This has been said of her," I replied. "But, as far as I can learn,
she was really attached to him, and suffered great pain in rejecting
his offer. Wisely she regarded marriage as the most important event
of her life, and refused to make so solemn a contract with one in
whose principles she had not the fullest confidence."

"But she ought not to have encouraged Walter, if she did not intend
marrying him," said aunt Rachel, with some warmth.

"She encouraged him so long as she thought well of him. A closer
view revealed points of character hidden by distance. When she saw
these, her feelings were already deeply involved. But, like a true
woman, she turned from the proffered hand, even though, while in
doing so, her heart palpitated with pain. There is nothing false
about Mary Lane. She could no more trifle with a lover than she
could commit a crime. Think, then, how almost impossible it would be
for her to hear herself called, under existing circumstances, even
in sport, a jilt, without being hurt. Words sometimes have power to
hurt more than blows. Do you not see this now, aunt Rachel?"

"Oh, yes, yes. I see it; and I saw it before," said the old lady.
"And, in future, I will be more careful of my words. It is pretty
late in life to learn this lesson--but we are never too late to
learn. Poor Mary! It grieves me to think that I should have hurt her
so much."

Yes, words often have in them a smarting force, and we cannot be too
guarded how we use them. "Think twice before you speak once," is a
trite, but wise saying. We teach it to our children very carefully,
but are too apt to forget that it has not lost its application to
ourselves.




CHAPTER XXIV.

MAY BE SO.


"NEXT time you go out, you'll buy me a wagon, won't you, mother?"
said my little boy to me, one day.

I didn't want to say "no," and destroy his happy feelings; and I was
not prepared to say "yes;" and so I gave the evasive reply so often
used under such circumstances, "May be so," and which was meant
rather as a negative than an affirmative. The child was satisfied;
for he gave my words the meaning he wished them to have. In a little
while after, I had forgotten all about it. Not so my boy. To him the
"May be so" was "yes," and he set his heart, confidently, on
receiving the wagon the next time I should go out. This happened on
the afternoon of that very day. It was towards evening when I
returned. The moment I rung the bell at my own door, I heard his
pattering feet and gleeful voice in the entry.

"Where's my wagon?" said he, as I entered, a shade of disappointment
falling suddenly upon his excited, happy face.

"What wagon, dear?" I asked.

"My wagon. The wagon you promised to buy me."

"I didn't promise to buy a wagon, my son."

"Oh, yes you did, mother! You promised me this morning."

Tears were already in his eye, and his face wore a look of
distressing disappointment.

"I promised to buy you a wagon? I am sure I remember nothing about
it," I replied confidently. "What in the world put that into your
head?"

"Didn't I ask you?" said the child, the tears now overflowing his
cheeks.

"Yes, I believe you did ask me something about a wagon; but I didn't
promise to buy you one."

"Oh, yes you did, mother. You said may be so."

"But 'may be so' doesn't mean yes."

At this the little fellow uttered a distressing cry. His heart was
almost broken by disappointment. He had interpreted my words
according to his own wishes, and not according to their real
meaning.

Unprepared for an occurrence of this kind, I was not in the mood to
sympathise with my child fully. To be met thus, at the moment of my
return home, disturbed me.

"I didn't promise to buy you a wagon; and you must stop crying about
it," said I, seeing that he had given way to his feelings, and was
crying in a loud voice.

But he cried on. I went up stairs to lay off my things, and he
followed, still crying.

"You must hush, now," said I, more positively. "I cannot permit
this. I never promised to buy you a wagon."

"You said may be so," sobbed the child.

"May be so, and yes, are two different things. If I had said that I
would buy you a wagon, then there would have been some reason in
your disappointment; but I said no such thing."

He had paused to listen; but, as I ceased speaking, his crying was
renewed.

"You must stop this now. There is no use in it, and I will not have
it," said I, resolutely.

My boy choked down for a few moments at this, and half stifled his
grief; but o'ermastering him, it flowed on again as wildly as ever.
I felt impatient.

"Stop this moment, I say!" And I took hold of his arm firmly. My
will is strong, and when a little excited, it often leads me beyond
where I would go in moments of reflection. My boy knew this by
experience. By my manner of speaking he saw that I was in earnest,
and that, if he did not obey me, punishment would follow. So, with
what must have been a powerful effort for one so young, he stifled
the utterance of his grief. But, the storm within raged none the
less violently, and I could see his little frame quiver as he strove
to repress the rising sobs.

Turning away from me, he went and sat down on a low seat in a corner
of the room. I saw his form in the glass as I stood before it to
arrange my hair, after laying aside my bonnet; and for the first
time my feelings were touched. There was an abandonment in his whole
attitude; an air of grief about him that affected me with pity and
tenderness.

"Poor child!" I sighed. "His heart is almost broken. I ought to have
said yes or no; and then all would have been settled."

"Come," said I, after a few moments, reaching my hand towards the
child--"let us go down and look out for father. He will be home
soon."

I spoke kindly and cheerfully. But he neither moved, looked up, nor
gave the smallest sign that he heard me.

"Oh, well," said I, with some impatience in my voice--"it doesn't
matter at all. If you'd rather sit there than come down into the
parlor and look out for dear father, you can please yourself."

And turning away as I spoke, I left the chamber, and went down
stairs. Seating myself at the window, I looked forth and endeavored
to feel unconcerned and cheerful. But, this was beyond my power. I
saw nothing but the form of my grieving child, and could think of
nothing but his sorrow and disappointment.

"Nancy," said I to one of my domestics, who happened to come into
the parlor to ask me some question, "I wish you would run down to
the toy store in the next block, and buy Neddy a wagon. His heart is
almost broken about one."

The girl, always willing, when kindly spoke to, ran off to obey my
wishes, and in a little while came back with the article wanted.

"Now," said I, "go up into my room and tell Neddy that I've got
something for him. Don't mention the wagon; I want to take him by
surprise."

Nancy went bounding up the stairs, and I placed the wagon in the
centre of the room where it would meet the child's eyes on the
moment of his entrance, and then sat down to await his coming, and
enjoy his surprise and delight.

After the lapse of about a minute, I heard Nancy coming down slowly.

"Neddy's asleep," said she, looking in at the door.

"Asleep!" I felt greatly disappointed.

"Yes, ma'am. He was on the floor asleep. I took him up, and laid him
in your bed."

"Then he's over his troubles," said I, attempting to find a relief
for my feelings in this utterance. But no such relief came.

Taking the wagon in my hand, I went up to the chamber where he lay,
and bent over him. The signs of grief were still upon his innocent
face, and every now and then a faint sigh or sob gave evidence that
even sleep had not yet hushed entirely, the storm which had swept
over him.

"Neddy!" I spoke to him in a voice of tenderness, hoping that my
words might reach his ear, "Neddy, dear, I've bought you a wagon."

But his senses were locked. Taking him up, I undressed him, and
then, after kissing his lips, brow, and cheeks, laid him in his
little bed, and placed the wagon on the pillow beside him.

Even until the late hour at which I retired on that evening, were my
feelings oppressed by the incident I have described. My "May be so,"
uttered in order to avoid giving the direct answer my child wanted,
had occasioned him far more pain than a positive refusal of his
request could have done.

"I will be more careful in future," said I, as I lay thinking about
the occurrence, "how I create false hopes. My yea shall be yea, and
my nay nay. Of these cometh not evil."

In the morning when I awoke, I found Neddy in possession of his
wagon. He was running with it around the room, as happy as if a tear
had never been upon his cheek. I looked at him for many minutes
without speaking. At last, seeing that I was awake, he bounded up to
the bedside, and, kissing me, said:

"Thank you, dear mother, for buying me this wagon! You are a good
mother!"

I must own to having felt some doubts on the subject of Neddy's
compliment at the time. Since this little experience, I have been
more careful how I answer the petitions of my children; and avoid
the "May be so," "I'll see about it," and other such evasive answers
that come so readily to the lips. The good result I have experienced
in many instances.




CHAPTER XXV.

"THE POOR CHILD DIED."


MY baby, nine months old, had some fever, and seemed very unwell.
One neighbor said:

"You'd better send for the doctor."

Another suggested that it had, no doubt, eaten something that
disagreed with it, and that a little antimonial wine would enable it
to throw it off; another advised a few grains of calomel, and
another a dose of rheubarb. But I said:

"No. I'll wait a little while, and see if it won't get better."

"You should give him medicine in time. Many a person dies from not
taking medicine in time;" said a lady who expressed more than usual
concern for the well-being of my baby. She had a very sick child
herself.

"Many more die," I replied, "from taking medicine too soon. I
believe that one half of the diseases in the world are produced by
medicines, and that the other half are often made worse by their
injudicious administration."

"You'd better send for the doctor," urged the lady.

"No. I'll wait until the morning, and then, if he's no better, or
should be worse, I'll call in our physician. Children often appear
very sick one hour, and are comparatively well again in the next."

"It's a great risk," said the lady, gravely. "A very great risk. I
called in the doctor the moment my dear little Eddy began to droop
about. And it's well I did. He's near death's door as it is; and
without medical aid I would certainly have lost him before this.
He's only been sick a week, and you know yourself how low he is
reduced. Where do you think he would have been without medicine? The
disease has taken a terrible hold of him. Why, the doctor has bled
him twice; and his little chest is raw all over from a blister. He
has been cupped and leeched. We have had mustard plasters upon his
arms and the calves of his legs. I don't know how many grains of
calomel he has taken; and it has salivated him dreadfully. Oh! such
a sore mouth! Poor child! He suffers dreadfully. Besides, he has
taken some kind of powder almost every hour. They are dreadfully
nauseous; and we have to hold him, every time, and pour them down
his throat. Oh, dear! It makes my heart sick. Now, with all this,
the disease hangs on almost as bad as ever. Suppose we hadn't sent
for the doctor at first? Can't you see what would have been the
consequence? It is very wrong to put off calling in a physician upon
the first symptoms of a disease."

"Pardon me, Mrs. Lee, for saying so," was my reply, "but I cannot
help thinking that, if you had not called the doctor, your child
would have been quite well to-day."

Mrs. Lee--that was the lady's name--uttered an exclamation of
surprise and disapproval of my remark.

"But, cannot you see, yourself; that it is not the disease that has
reduced your child so low. The bleeding, blistering, cupping,
leeching, and calomel administrations, would have done all this, had
your child been perfectly well when it went into the doctor's
hands."

"But the disease would have killed him inevitably. If it requires
all this to break it, don't you see that it must have taken a most
fatal hold on the poor child's system."

"No, Mrs. Lee, I cannot see any such thing," was my reply. "The
medicine probably fixed the disease, that would, if left alone, have
retired of itself. What does the doctor say ails the child?"

"He does not seem to know. There seems to be a complication of
diseases."

"Produced by the treatment, no doubt. If there had been scarlet
fever, or small pox, or croup, active and energetic treatment would,
probably, have been required, and the doctor would have known what
he was about in administering his remedies. But, in a slight
indisposition, like that from which your child suffered, it is, in
my opinion, always better to give no medicine for a time. Drugs
thrown into the tender system of a child, will always produce
disease of some kind, more or less severe; and where slight
disorders already exist, they are apt to give them a dangerous hold
upon the body, or, uniting with them, cause a most serious, and, at
times, fatal illness."

But Mrs. Lee shook her head. She thought the doctors knew best. They
had great confidence in their family physician. He had doctored them
through many dangerous attacks, and had always brought them through
safely. As to the new-fangled notions about giving little or no
medicine, she had no confidence in them. Medicine was necessary at
times, and she always gave her children medicine at least two, or
three times a year, whether they were sick or well. Prevention, in
her eyes, was better than cure. And where there was actual sickness,
she was in favor of vigorous treatment. One good dose of medicine
would do more good than a hundred little ones; with much more to the
same effect.

On the next morning, my dear baby, who was just as sick for a few
hours as Mrs. Lee's child was at first, was as well as ever.

Not long after breakfast, I was sent for by Mrs. Lee. Her poor child
was much worse. The servant said that she was sure it was dying. I
changed my dress hurriedly, and went over to the house of my
neighbor.

Shall I describe the painful object that met my sight? It was three
days since I had seen the little sufferer; but, oh! how it had
changed in that brief time. Its face was sunken, its eyes far back
in their sockets, and its forehead marked with lines of suffering.
The whole of its breast was raw from the blister, and its mouth,
lying open, showed, with painful distinctness, the dreadful injury
wrought by the mercury thrown, with such a liberal hand, into its
delicate system. All the life seemed to have withdrawn itself from
the skin; for the vital forces, in the centre of its body, were
acting but feebly.

The doctor came in while I was there. He said but little. It was
plain that he was entirely at fault, and that he saw no hope of a
favorable issue. All his, "active treatment" had tended to break
down the child, rather than cure the disease from which it at first
suffered. There was a great deal of heat about the child's head, and
he said something about having it shaved for a blister.

"Wouldn't ice do better, doctor?" I felt constrained to suggest. He
turned upon me quickly and seemed annoyed.

"No, madam!" he replied with dignity.

I said no more, for I felt how vain my words would be. The blister,
however, was not ordered; but, in its stead, mustard plasters were
directed to be placed over the feet and legs to the knees, and a
solution of iodine, or iron, I don't now remember which, prescribed,
to be given every half hour.

I went home, some time after the doctor left, feeling sick at heart.
"They are murdering that child," I could not help saying to myself.
My own dear babe I found full of health and life; and I hugged it to
my breast with a feeling of thankfulness.

Before the day closed, Mrs. Lee's poor child died. Was it a cause of
wonder?




CHAPTER XXVI.

THE RIVAL BONNETS.


I HAVE a pleasant story to relate of a couple of fashionables of our
city, which will serve to diversify these "Confessions," and amuse
the reader. To the incidents, true in the main, I have taken the
liberty of adding some slight variations of my own.

A lady of some note in society, named Mrs. Claudine, received a very
beautiful bonnet from New York, a little in advance of others, and
being one of the rival leaders in the fashionable world, felt some
self-complacency at the thought of appearing abroad in the elegant
head-gear, and thereby getting the reputation of leading the
fashion.

Notwithstanding Mrs. Claudine's efforts to keep the matter a secret,
and thus be able to create a surprise when she appeared at church on
the next Sunday, the fact that she had received the bonnet leaked
out, and there was some excitement about it. Among those who heard
of the new bonnet, was a Mrs. Ballman, who had written to a friend
to get for her the very article obtained first by Mrs. Claudine.
From some cause or other a delay had occurred, and to her chagrin
she learned that a rival had the new fashion, and would get the
eclat that she so much coveted. The disappointment, to one whose
pleasures in life are so circumscribed as those of a real
fashionable lady, was severe indeed. She did not sleep more than a
few hours on the night after she received the mortifying
intelligence.

The year before, Mrs. Claudine had led the fashion in some article
of dress, and to see her carry off the palm in bonnets on this
occasion, when she had striven so hard to be in advance, was more
than Mrs. Bellman could endure. The result of a night's thinking on
the subject was a determination to pursue a very extraordinary
course, the nature of which will be seen. By telegraph Mrs. Bellman
communicated with her friend in New York, desiring her to send on by
the evening of the next day, which was Saturday, the bonnet she had
ordered, if four prices had to be paid as an inducement to get the
milliner to use extra exertions in getting it up. In due time,
notice came back that the bonnet would be sent on by express on
Saturday, much to the joy of Mrs. Ballman, who from the interest she
felt in carrying out her intentions, had entirely recovered from the
painful disappointment at first experienced.

Saturday brought the bonnet, and a beautiful one it was. A few
natural sighs were expended over the elegant affair, and then other
feelings came in to chase away regrets at not having been first to
secure the article.

On the day previous, Friday, Mrs. Ballman called upon a fashionable
milliner, and held with her the following conversation.

"You have heard of Mrs. Claudine's new bonnet, I presume?"

"Yes, madam," replied the milliner.

"Do you think it will take?" asked Mrs. Ballman.

"I do."

"You have not the pattern?"

"Oh, yes. I received one a week ago."

"You did!"

"Yes. But some one must introduce it. As Mrs. Claudine is about
doing this there is little doubt of its becoming the fashion, for
the style is striking as well as tasteful."
