"Perhaps he thinks I want a good deal," said Mr. Linden. "Well--in
consideration of the width of the shore, I think I will go. Is not that
your advice, Miss Faith? What are the pros and cons,--if you were to
state them fairly?"
"Well," said Faith, "you will have a pleasant ride, or walk,
down--whichever you like;--I think it is very pleasant. You can go in
the water, if you like, which everybody does; there's a beautiful
shore; and I suppose that would be pleasant. You'll see all that is
pretty about the place while the people are digging clams and preparing
supper; and then you'll have supper; and then we shall come home; and I
think it is all pleasant, except that there will be too many people. I
like it best with just a few."
"As if we were to go down there to-night in the moonlight.--Now Miss
Faith--what is the other side?"
"Just that--the too many people. There isn't a chance to enjoy anything
quietly. I can enjoy the people too, sometimes, but not the other
things at the same time so well. Perhaps you can, Mr. Linden."
"I can sometimes enjoy the other things at the same time--better."
Faith again looked a little puzzled, but answered with a simple
"Then I dare say you will like it."
"What I am puzzled about," said he smiling, "is, how you are to shew me
the shore. Miss Danforth--why is that bread-plate so attractive to me,
while I am like the reverse end of the magnet to it?"
"But my dear," said Mrs. Derrick, for the bread-plate was
suggestive,--"ain't you going along with the Squire's party?"
"I said we would come after, mother."
"The Squire only said there was room on the shore," added Miss Danforth.
"Is the shore wide enough for us to drive down there? or must we walk?"
asked Mr. Linden.
"But you'll eat supper with them, of course," said Mrs. Derrick.
"Of course, mother. The wagon must go, Mr. Linden. There's room enough
for anything."
Mr. Linden made no comment upon that, and finished his tea in
comparative silence. Then went forth, as was his custom, to the
post-office, and--as was not his custom--returned very soon. Mrs.
Derrick and Miss Danforth had gone out to see a neighbour, and Faith
sat alone in the twilight parlour. It was very twilight there, but he
walked in and stood waiting for his eyes to discover what there might
be.
"There is nobody here but me, Mr. Linden," said a very soft and clear
voice. "Do you want anything?"
"I wanted to see you--and am foiled by the darkness. Are you tired,
Miss Faith?"
"Never. I wasn't sitting in the dark for that."
"Would you object to coming into the light?"
"Not at all," said Faith laughing. "Which way?"
"There is to be a fine illumination to-night, which I should like to
have you see."
"An illumination! Where is it? Shall I want my bonnet?"
"You will be better illuminated without it,--but you may perhaps take
cold."
"How do you make your scholars understand you?" said Faith. "I am sure
I must need illuminating.--So much, that I had better leave my bonnet,
Mr. Linden?"
"I think you may--if you will take some light substitute. Why my
scholars are my scholars, Miss Faith."
"What then?" said Faith stopping short.
"Why then I am their teacher."
"I half wish I was a scholar too," said Faith with a tone which filled
up the other 'half'--"I don't know much, Mr. Linden."
"About illuminations? I will promise you some light upon that point."
With which encouragement, Faith fetched the scarf which was to do duty
for a bonnet if desired, and they set out.
"Now Miss Faith," said her companion as he closed the gate, "if you
will shew me the road, I will shew you the shore.--Which will not at
all interfere with your shewing it to me to-morrow."
"The shore!" said Faith. "To-night? Are you in earnest?"
"Very much in earnest. You prefer some other road?"
"No indeed--it's beautiful, and I like it very much. Cindy," she said
to that damsel whom they opportunely passed at the entrance of the
lane--"you tell my mother I am gone to take a walk." And so they passed
on.
The way was down a lane breaking from the high road of the village,
just by Mrs. Derrick's house. It was a quiet country lane; passing
between fields of grass or grain, with few trees near at hand. Here and
there a house, small and unnotable like the trees. Over all the country
the moon, near full though not high, threw a gentle light; revealing to
the fancy a less picturesque landscape than the sun would have shewn;
for there were no strong lines or points to be made more striking by
her partial touches, and its greatest beauty lay in the details which
she could not light up. The soft and rich colours of grain and grass,
the waving tints of broken ground and hillside, were lost now; the
flowers in the hedges had shrunk into obscurity; the thrifty and
well-to-do order of every field and haystack, could hardly be noted
even by one who knew it was there. Only the white soft glimmer on a
wide pleasant land; the faint lighting of one side of trees and fences,
the broader salutation to a house-front, and the deeper shadow which
sometimes told of a piece of woodland or a slight hilly elevation.
Then all that was passed; and the road descended a little steep to
where it crossed, by a wooden bridge, a small stream or bed of a creek.
Here the moon, now getting up in the sky, did greater execution; the
little winding piece of water glittered in silver patches, and its
sedgy borders were softly touched out; with the darker outlines of two
or three fishing-boats.
And so on, towards the shore. Now the salt smell met and mingled with
the perfume of woods and flowers, and the road grew more and more
sandy. But still the fields waved with Indian-corn, were sweet with
hay, or furrowed with potatoes. Then the outlines of sundry frame
bathing-houses appeared in the distance, and near them the road came to
an end.
The shore was improved by the moonlight,--its great rocks, slippery
with sea-weed, glittered with a wet sheen. The Sound wore its diamonds
royally, and each tiny wave broke in a jewelled light upon the sand.
Far in the distance the dim shore of Long Island lay like a black line
upon the water; and sloops and schooners sailed softly on their course,
or tacked across the rippling waves, a fleet of "Black spirits and
white."
"What do you think of the illumination, Miss Faith?" said her
companion, when they had sat still for five minutes.
"What do you think of it, I think I should say. Mr. Linden, I have
shewed you the shore!"
"You!"--
"Who else?
"Were you ever here before by moonlight?"
"I don't know--No, I think not. Were you ever here before at all?"
"Is it owing to you that I am here now?"
"You couldn't have got here without me," said Faith, stooping to turn
over some of the glittering pebbles at her feet;--"and I couldn't have
got here without you. I am willing to allow that we are square, Mr.
Linden. I must!--for you will turn a corner faster than I can catch
you."
"If you really suppose that first proposition to be true," said Mr.
Linden raising his eyebrows, "why of course there is no more to be
said. Miss Faith, how would you like to be sailing about in one of
those phantom ships?"
"I should like it very well," said Faith, "in a good time. I went to
Pequot in one once. It was very pleasant. Why do you call them
phantoms?"
"Look at that one standing off across the moonlight towards the other
shore,--gliding along so silently with her black sails all set,--does
she look real?--You cannot even hear the creaking of a rope."
Faith looked, and drew an interrupted deep breath. She had lived in a
world of realities. Perhaps this was the first 'phantom' that had ever
suggested itself--or been suggested--to her imagination. Possibly
something of the same thought crossed her mind; for she drew her breath
again a little short as she spoke.
"Yes!--it's beautiful!--But I live in such a different world, Mr.
Linden,--I never thought of such a thing before."
He smiled--pleasantly and thoughtfully. "How came you to see the
sunrise colours the other day, Miss Faith?"
"O I see them always. And that puts me in mind of something I have been
wanting to say to you every day all the week! and I could never find a
chance. You asked me that morning, Mr. Linden, if I was true to my
name, finding enough in a cloudy sky. What did you mean? What did you
mean by being true to my name'?"
"I shall have to use your name a little freely, to tell you," he said.
"It is faith's privilege to be independent of circumstances. Faith
always finds something wherein to rejoice. If the sky be clear,
   'Far into distant worlds she pries,
   And brings eternal glories near.'
If cloudy, faith uses her glass as a prism, and in one little ray of
light finds all the colours of the rainbow."
"I don't know what a prism is," said Faith somewhat sadly.
"A prism, in strictness, is a piece of glass cut in a particular way,
so that the colourless sunbeams which pass through it are divided into
their many-coloured members. But other things act as prisms,--the
rain-drops in a shower--the lustres upon your church chandelier. You
have seen the colours there?"
"Well, how do they do that?"
"I must take some other time to tell you,--it would be too long a
matter to-night. And I doubt whether you ought to sit here any longer."
"But this Faith don't do as you say," she said, as she slowly and
rather unwillingly rose from her seat. "And I don't understand how any
faith can."
"This Faith must study the Bible then, and do what that says." The
tone was encouraging though the voice was grave.
He was not answered; and the homeward walk was begun. But Faith stopped
and turned again to look before she had gone three paces.
"I am in no hurry," Mr. Linden said,--"take your own time--only do not
take cold."
Faith turned away silently again, and began trudging along the sandy
road which led back to the lane. The moonlight shewed the way better
now. Passing on, as they neared home one house after another shewed its
glimmer of light and gave forth its cheerful sound of voices. From one,
however, the sound was not cheerful. It was Squire Deacon's.
"Well, you'll see to-morrow, Cilly--if the sky don't fall,--you'll see.
Folks thinks the water down to the shore's mighty deep--'way over their
heads--till they've made its acquaintance; and then they find out they
can wade round in it 'most anywheres."--
"What's the matter with the Squire?" said Faith with a slight laugh, as
these strange statements reached her ears.
"I should think--to use his own phraseology--he must be 'over his head'
somewhere," replied Mr. Linden.
Whereat Faith's laugh deepened, but the low sweet tone of it only
sounded an instant.
"My dear!" said Mrs. Derrick, running out as they entered the gate,
"ain't you very imprudent? Wasn't she very imprudent, Mr. Linden?"
"Very prudent, ma'am, for she wore a shawl."
"And didn't want that, mother," said Faith.
CHAPTER IV.
The illumination lasted through the night--until
   "Night's candles were burnt out, and jocund day
   Stood tip-toe on the misty mountain tops."
Very jocund she looked, with her light pink veils wreathing about the
horizon, and the dancing white clouds which hurried up as the sun rose,
driven by a fresh wind. Mr. Linden declared, when he came in to
breakfast, that the day promised to equal the preceding night.
"And whoever wants more," he added, "must wait; for I think it will not
surpass it."
With which, Mr. Linden stirred his coffee, and told Miss Danforth with
a little look of defiance, "it was particularly good--she had better
try a cup."
Miss Danforth instituted a fierce inquiry as to the direction of the
preceding evening's walk; to which Faith gave an unsatisfactory answer.
"Did you ever look at coffee in connexion with the fatigues of life?"
pursued Mr. Linden.
"I shall, probably, in future," said Miss Danforth. "Now Mr. Linden, I
ask you; you're a nice man to give a straight answer;--where did you
and Faith go?"
"I am glad I am a nice man," said Mr. Linden, "but I can scarce give a
straight answer to that question."
"Why not, for pity's sake?"
"It must needs travel a crooked road."
"Did you?"
"It has left a meandering sort of recollection in my mind."
"Where did it lead to?"
"It led to another."
"What I want to know is," said Miss Danforth, "where did you find
yourselves when you were furthest from home."
"Let me shew you," said he. "Suppose your plate to be a rock, and this
tumbler of radishes a tree, and the table-cloth grass,--the moon over
your head, crickets under your feet. Miss Faith walks round the rock, I
follow her,--and we both follow the road. On the way, the still night
air is enlivened with owls, grasshoppers, family secrets. Our attention
is thus divided between the moon and sublunary affairs. Miss
Faith--what shall I give you?"
Miss Danforth's curiosity seemed for once willing to be satisfied with
fun; and Faith's hunger was in the same predicament.
"But child," said Mrs. Derrick, who had bent her attention upon the
diagram at the other end of the table, "I don't recollect any such
place!"
"Mother!" said Faith,--and her gravity gave way hopelessly.
"Squire Deacon sends his best compliments of the season," said Cindy
opening the door a while later, "and he says they'll be to take supper
precisely at four. I'm free to confess he don't look much sweeter than
common," added Cindy.
"Pray Miss Faith," said Mr. Linden as they left the table, "what is the
precise depth of water down at the shore?"
Faith had very near broke down again, for she laughed and blushed, a
good deal more than her wont; and at last replied that "it depended on
how far people went in--she never went very far herself."
"I was naturally curious," said he.
After a dinner somewhat more hasty than usual, Mr. Linden and two of
the ladies set off for the shore. The blackberry jam, or some other
hindering cause, kept Mrs. Derrick at home.
The country by daylight looked rich and smooth. At not a very great
distance a slight hilly elevation bounded the horizon line, which
nearer seen would have been found bristling with stern grey rock,
itself a ridge of rock, one of the ribs of the rigid soil. But where
the lane led down to the water, fair fields and crops extended on every
side, spotted very picturesquely with clumps of woodland. All looked
genial in the summer light. If the distant rocks spoke a stubborn soil,
the fine growth between said that man had overcome it; and the fine
order everywhere apparent said too that the victory had been effectual
for man's comfort and prosperity. The stone walls, in some places thin
and open, told of times when they had been hurriedly put up; moss on
the rail fences said the rails had been long doing duty; within them no
fields failed of their crops, and no crops wanted hoeing or weeding. No
straw lay scattered about the ricks; no barrack roofs were tumbling
down; no gate-posts stood sideways; no barnyards shewed rickety
outhouses or desolate mangers. No cattle were poor, and seemingly, no
people. It was a pretty ride the party had, in the little wagon, behind
an old horse that knew every inch of the way and trotted on as if he
were a part of it.
"How do you like Pattaquasset, Mr. Linden?" said Faith, leaning forward
to reach him where he sat alone on the front seat.
"I like it--well," he answered a little musingly.
They came to the bridge and stream; and now they could see that Awasee
River did not fill its sometime channel, but flowed in a bottom of
alluvial soil, rich in bright-coloured marsh grass, which stretched up
the country between two of those clumps of woodland they had seen from
a distance. A little further on, just where the sandy road branched off
to the shore, there stood a farm house, with a conglomerate of barns
and outhouses, all painted to match, in bright yellow picked out with
red.
"Do you see that settlement of farm-houses?" said Faith, leaning
forward again,--"of all sizes, in uniform?"
"Is it the fashion here to put 'earmarks' on buildings?" he answered
with a smile.
"Mr. Linden! You should ask Mr. Simlins that. I see his wagon
there--he'll be down at the shore very likely. He's a character. He
lives a mile and a half further on, just where the road turns off to
Mrs. Somers'."
"Simlins!" was the only reply.
"He's a good sort of man, but he's funny."
"What is a good sort of man, Miss Faith?"
The old horse was walking quietly along the sandy road, and the smell
of the salt water was becoming pleasantly perceptible.
"I suppose I mean by it," said Faith thoughtfully, "a man who is not
very good, but who is on the good side of things."
"I don't call that a good sort," said Mr. Linden,--then looking round
with a little smile he said, "You ought to say 'sort o' good.'"
Faith looked serious and as if she felt half rebuked.
"But," she said, "you would not call that a bad sort?"
"Then you mean that he is in the same road with what you call the
best people, only not so far advanced?"
"No," said Faith doubtfully, "I don't mean so much as that.--I don't
think Mr. Simlins is in the same road with you."
"How many best roads are there to the same place? As for instance--does
it matter which of these two I take to the shore?"
"Only one leads to the shore," said Faith.
"Yet they seem to lie near together at the outset. The same is true of
the 'other shore.'"
Faith sat back in her place with a face exceedingly unlike a young lady
who was going to a merry-making.
But they were near the shore now; not only the salt smell proclaimed
it, but they could see the various bathing and other houses collected
at the place, and the flag which floated high from the flag-staff,
telling all who were not concerned that it was a gala day. A piece of
ground immediately surrounding these buildings was fenced in; as they
neared the gate, it was opened for them, and a tall farmer-looking man,
whose straw hat shaded a sensible face, nodded as they passed.
"That is Mr. Simlins!" said Faith.
Mr. Simlins seemed for the present to be king of the castle. Horses
there were, and wagons, standing here and there, and one or two oldish
faces looked out from the windows of one long shanty; but the rest of
the birds had flown--into the water! It was the time of low tide, and
the long strips of rippling water which lay one beyond the other, were
separated by sand banks nearly as long. In these little tide lakes were
the bathers,--the more timid near shore, taking almost a sand bath; the
more adventurous going further and further out, till the last party
bathed beyond the last sand bank. Not dressed in the latest Cape May
fashion, nor the latest fashion of any kind; for each had brought some
dress too old to be hurt with salt water. Calico frocks, of every hue
and pattern,--caps, hand kerchiefs, sun-bonnets,--gave additional force
to the cries and shouts and screams which were wafted inshore.
But when they began to come in!--and when the bathing dresses were hung
on the fence to dry!--and when mermaid visions appeared at the
windows!--who shall describe the scene then? Over all, a blue smoke now
began to curl and float, rising from the stove-pipe of the eating-house.
Mr. Linden had driven up to one of the fence posts, and fastening his
horse stood a while watching the show, till the bathers began to draw
in from the water. Then helped the ladies out.
"Which of these baskets contains my tea, Miss Faith?" he said. "I feel
a particular interest in that basket."
"Perhaps your tea is in some other basket," said Faith; "but both of
these must come into the eating-house. O, thank you, Mr. Linden!"
The eating-house was a long shanty, built for the express purpose of
feasting picnic and other parties. At one end of it, within the house,
was a well of excellent water; at the other end a door opened into a
cooking-house, which held a stove; and through the length of the
apartment a narrow table of boards was erected, ready to be covered
with any description and any succession of table-cloths. In this room
Mr. Linden with Faith's help deposited her baskets; while Miss Danforth
looked on. At the door of the shanty coming out they met Mr. Simlins.
Faith made the introductions.
"Happy to have your acquaintance," said Mr. Simlins. "This is a piece
of Pattaquasset, sir, that we all of us rather cord'ally like. You
haven't seen it before?"
"Yes, I don't wonder you like it," said Mr. Linden. "The sea-shore is
no novelty to me, sir--such a shore party is."
"I hope you'll enjoy it, as the rest of us do. We all do as we like,
Mr. Linden--I hope you'll use the grounds as your own. We have the flag
flying, sir, and it ratifies liberty to all who amuse themselves under
it."
Mr. Linden looked up at the stars and stripes, with an acknowledging
smile for the benefits thereby conferred.
"Faith! Faith Derrick!" called out half a dozen mermaids from the
bathing house; and Faith was obliged to go,--while her companions
walked up the green slope, and entered into a deep discussion of the
crops and the weather.
A while after, when Faith was busy about the supper table--twenty young
voices chiming around her, another voice that she did not know spoke
close at her elbow.
"Miss Faith--I am Reuben Taylor. Mr. Linden told me to come to you and
make myself useful. Is there any thing I can do?--would you like some
round clams?--Father's out there in the boat."
The earnest eyes said how gladly he would do 'any thing.'
"Who is your father?" said Faith, a little surprised.
"My father's a fisherman."
"The very thing!" said Faith--"if you'll help me roast 'em, Reuben. I
guess nobody else'll want to do it, but I'd just as lieve. Can you have
'em here quickly? and I'll see and have the stove ready."
"O I'll fetch 'em--and roast 'em too, Miss Faith. I'm used to it," he
added, with a half bashful half admiring glance at her face.
Faith had the fire ready by the time Reuben returned with the clams.
The kettle was on to boil, and nothing else was wanted of the fire, as
it happened, by anybody; least of all to roast clams, that necessarily
making a kitchen prisoner of the roaster; so Faith and her new
coadjutor had the field--i.e. the cooking house--all to themselves.
Miss Danforth was to leave Pattaquasset in a day or two, and was busy
talking to everybody. Readily the clams opened their shells on the hot
stove-top; savourily the odour of steaming clam juice spread itself
abroad; but Faith and Reuben were 'in' for it, and nobody else cared to
be in.
So when Miss Cecilia Deacon had finished her toilet, which was somewhat
of the longest, as it had been one of the latest, she found nobody but
her brother to apply to on the score of her hostess duties.
"Sam!" said the young lady pinching her brother's arm,--"I haven't been
introduced to Mr. Linden."
"He'll keep," was the encouraging reply.
"Yes, but supper won't. See, Sam!--I haven't been introduced to him,
and I must."
The Squire nodded his head politely, and began to whistle.
"Come!--you Sam--you've got to, and in a hurry. I can't find Faith, or
I'd make her."
"Well--I can't find him," said the Squire pettishly. "I haven't got
neither of 'em in my pocket--nor the crown of my hat," he added, taking
off that useful article of dress for the express purpose of looking
into it. "My deliberate judgment is to have supper."
"Don't be a goose, Sam! What's the use of asking him, if you didn't
mean to conduct yourself?"
"Didn't ask him."
"Who did?"
"I didn't hear anybody," was the Squire's reply.
"Don't you mean to introduce me, Sam Deacon?" said his sister in a
tone which was rather over the verge of patience.
"Jem Williams!" said the Squire, calling up a spruce embodiment of blue
cloth, brass buttons, and pink cravat,--"I say! here's Cilly off the
hooks to get hold of the new teacher. Whereabouts do you s'pose he is?"
"Really Squire!" said Jem Williams, with a silly little laugh, "I
couldn't testify! Reckon he knows Miss Cilly 'd keep hold on him ef
she got a chance!"
"Sha'n't speak to you in a month, Jem!" said the lady with a toss of
her head and some heightening of the really pretty colour in her
cheeks. "You may fix it as you've a mind to, among you, and let anybody
that likes bring him in to supper! I'm going in, out of the way,
myself."
Whither she went, on the spur, as good as her word; nor shewed her
pretty face again outside.
Meanwhile Reuben and Faith had worked on through their basket of clams,
and now the last were sputtering on the stove. The work had been done
almost in silence, for though the excitement now and then made Reuben
break into a low whistle of some tune or other, he always checked
himself the next moment with a very apologetic look. For the rest, if
he had not done all the work himself, it certainly was not his fault.
Now, watching quietly the opening shells of that last dozen of clams,
Reuben remarked,
"I hope Mr. Linden won't forget about supper!"
"Why what about it?" said Faith. "Why should he forget? or what if he
does?"
The last sentence seemed to puzzle Reuben.
"I don't know, ma'am," he said,--"it's better before everybody eats it
up."
"Who's going to eat it up?" said Faith. "Where is he?"
"He went down on the sands with me," said Reuben, "but he didn't come
up again. Maybe he has now. He liked it down there, real well."
Faith went to the shutter window and flung it open, and looked to see
whether or no the missing gentleman had returned to the shore. It was a
fair view that lay spread before her. The low beams of the sun gave a
cool afternoon look to everything; the sloop sails shone and gleamed in
the distance; down by the muscle rocks one little boat lay rocking on
the advancing tide, which was fast covering the sand banks and
connecting the strips of water; and the freshening breeze curled the
little waves as they came dancing in, and brought a low sweet murmur to
the shore. One or two gulls sailed floatingly about, and a brown
mink--perceiving that the company had retreated to higher ground--came
out and aired himself on one of the rocks.
But Faith saw none of these things,--for in swinging open her shutter
(which the wind caught and clapped up against the house) she so nearly
swung it against Mr. Linden that her first look was a startled one.
"Miss Faith!" he said, turning round, "what can you possibly be about!"
"I beg your pardon, Mr. Linden!"--said Faith.
"Is that all you are about?"
"You were anxious about your supper, Mr. Linden--Are you ready for it?"
"Much more ready than anxious, Miss Faith."
"How do you like the shore to-day?" said Faith, dropping her voice, and
giving a glance of her eye to the fair, cool sunlight colours on the
water and shore and shipping--fresh as the very sea-breeze itself, and
glittering as the water's thousand mirrors could make them.
He turned and looked again, drawing in the breeze with a deep breath
that more than answered her question.
"How do you like this?" he said, handing her through the window a
little miniature tree of red sea-weed. Then, while she examined it, he
repeated,--
   "'When descends on the Atlantic
   The gigantic
   Storm-wind of the equinox,
   Landward in his wrath he scourges
   The toiling surges,
   Laden with sea-weed from the rocks;
   "'From Bermuda's reefs; from edges
   Of sunken ledges,
   In some far-off, bright Azore;
   From Bahama, and the dashing,
   Silver-flashing
   Surges of San Salvador;
   "'From the tumbling surf that buries
   The Orkneyan skerries,
   Answering the hoarse Hebrides;
   And from wrecks of ships, and drifting
   Spars, uplifting
   On the desolate, rainy seas;--
   "'Ever drifting, drifting, drifting
   On the shifting
   Currents of the restless main;
   Till in shelter d coves, and reaches
   Of sandy beaches,
   All have found repose again.'"
Faith's eye was upon the sprig of sea-weed while these verses were
repeating,--then she looked up at the speaker with an intenseness in
which oddly mingled some strong feeling of sorrow or regret.
"It's beautiful!"--she said,--"beautiful!--both the one and the other.
But there are a great many things there I don't understand,"--she added
once more with a smile. "If there was time--but there isn't.--Mr.
Linden, Reuben and I have been roasting clams."
"Yes, Miss Faith," he said answering the smile and stepping nearer the
window. "So one of my senses informed me. Do you know what that is in
your hand?"
"It's sea-weed, isn't it?"
"Yes. And moreover--Miss Faith, that is part of your marine Flora. Now
what about the clams?"
"My what?" said Faith. "First tell me, please, what you said."
"Your marine Flora."
"What is that?"
"The particular department of life in the sea, of which this is a
specimen."
Faith looked puzzled, and amused.
"You don't mean to enlighten me more than you can help," she said. "But
why do you call it Flora? you used that word before. And oh Mr.
Linden--You can't tell me now, for supper's all ready."
His eyes looked amused too, and laying a clover head on the window, he
said,
"That is part of your land Flora,"--then pushed the shutter to rather
quick, but softly; and Faith heard the reason thereof as follows.
"Wal sir--ef this be you, I've looked all over for you."
"How was it that you overlooked me then, sir?" was Mr. Linden's reply.
"Don't jes know," laughed Jem Williams,--"but Miss Cilly Deacon wants
you the worst kind."
"And where shall I go to receive her commands?" said Mr. Linden.
Faith heard their retreating steps, and turning to take off her apron
saw the dish of hot clams still on the stove, and that Reuben had
removed himself outside the door, quite beyond the conversation but not
beyond call. He stood looking thoughtfully out towards the muscle rocks.
"Oh Reuben! there you are. Come!" said Faith; "you're going in with me.
You're going to have some supper to-night, whoever else does. You
open the door, and I'll take in this dish. You keep by me, Reuben."
"Please let me take the dish, then, Miss Faith,--I can open the door
first."
But Faith had her own way, and followed by Reuben carried the clams
into the supper room, where some of the company were already seated,
and others stood waiting. Squire Deacon had not only given the desired
introduction, but had (self-denyingly) placed Mr. Linden next Miss
Cilly at the table,--where he stood.
"Here's a contribution," said Faith,--"if somebody 'll make a place for
it. Thank you, Mr. Deacon. Now Reuben,--come here."
And refusing more than one offer of a place at the table, Faith made
her way down to the 'well end' where there was room for two--at a
remote distance from the tea and coffee.
What else was there not, upon that table!
"Won't you take a seat, Mr. Linden?" said Miss Cecilia. "I hope you've
got room there. Jerushy, can't you shove down a little? I hope my
coffee-pot's not disagreeable."
"I hope not!" said Mr. Linden, surveying the coffee-pot. "How long does
it take to declare itself, Miss Deacon?"
"O it won't do anything, but spout coffee," said the young lady,--"if
you don't mind that. Won't you be helped to what you like, Mr. Linden?
I hope you have enjoyed our shore party this afternoon."
"Thank you"--said Mr. Linden, feeling perhaps that it was not their
party he had enjoyed,--"there has been a combination of pleasant
things. As far as I could judge the bathers enjoyed their particular
expedition."
"O yes, it was delightful--invigorating. Mr. Simlins, I think Mr.
Linden will like a piece of that cherry-pie with his clams. Do you take
cheese, Mr. Linden? Is your coffee agreeable? There is the cold tongue
by you, Jerushy.--I hope you like Pattaquasset."
"Ask Mr Linden whether Pattaquasset ain't a good place for handsome
gals," said Mr. Simlins, as he handed over the piece of cherry-pie. "He
knows by this time. I say there's a con-catenation of beauty now here
this afternoon. If you look from the top to the bottom of the table,
now, ain't it true, sir?"
Mr. Linden certainly looked from the top to the bottom of the table,
and then setting the plate of cherry-pie as far from his clams as he
could, he said,
"Miss Deacon--let me help you,--tell me where these cups belong, and I
will convey them to their destination."
"I thought they'd shove down somehow," said the young lady. "Jerushy,
do pass the coffee! They're for anybody down there who'll take
coffee. Tea'll be along presently," added Miss Cecilia, raising her
voice a little to give the information. "Don't you trouble yourself,
Mr. Linden."
But Mr. Linden secured one, and carrying it down to Faith, requested
her to stir it and taste it, and not give him the trouble of coming
back with the sugar-bowl.
"What will you have?" he said while she obeyed his directions. "Here
are all the pies that can be thought of except the musical one recorded
in history."
"And so," said Faith with a laughing flash of her usually soft eye,
"you immediately give me a desire for the one not here! It's like you,
Mr. Linden. No, thank you--I'll have none of these. I believe Reuben
has a desire for some of the clams he and I have roasted."
"I'm afraid I cannot get them away from Squire Deacon!" he said, "but
I'll try."
The Squire however held fast to the dish, and rising from his place
midway at the table, insisted upon taking it to Faith himself.
"Miss Faith," he said, "you have ruined my supper by sitting down here.
My appetite has quite forsaken me," (whereupon Jem Williams observed,
"that warn't strange.")--"and the worst is," added the Squire, "I can't
maintain the constant supervision of your plate which my feelings
prompt. I am too far off"--he concluded in a melancholy tone.
"I say, Squire!" said Jem Williams, "you bain't mor'n as far agin as
he"--with a nod towards the upper end of the table.
Squire Deacon lowered, but for the present his feelings were restrained.
"Mr. Simlins," said Endecott, when he had resumed his seat, "I ask
you--as one who knows the country--whereabouts does the concatenation
you spoke of reach a climax?"
"The star you look at is always the brightest," said the farmer.
"However, I think the clams is the best thing at table--or near the
best," with a slight glance towards Squire Deacon and the dish at the
'well end.'"I've a legendary attachment to beauty, sir; my father
married the three prettiest wives in the country."
"I say, Squire," said Jem Williams, "Mr. Simlins says you'r' hot."
"Hot?" said Squire Deacon, flushing up very much, and setting down the
clams,--"that dish is. I'm as cool as all these cucumbers accumulated
into a heap."
"Hope you'll stay where you are, then," said Mr. Simlins. "I'm cool
too. Don't come near me, or we shall be in a state of concentration."
Mr. Linden remarked that that was an excellent point when reached.
"What point?" said Squire Deacon, who had returned to his seat with the
strong impression that everybody was laughing at him, under the special
guidance of the new teacher. "You know mighty little of the points
round here, I tell you."
"The point of concentration is found in various places, sir," said Mr.
Linden: "though I grant you it is rare."
"What do you know about Pattaquasset points?" repeated the Squire,--"or
Pattaquasset people--or Pattaquasset water either, for that matter?
Just you go down here when the tide's in--and afore you know where you
are you'll find yourself wading round over your head."
"No sir--never," said Mr. Linden with great assurance.
"Why not? how're you goin' to help it?" said Squire Deacon.
"When I reach that point," said Mr. Linden, "I shall swim."
And Faith heard Reuben Taylor's smothered laugh of great gratification.
"Hope you haven't spoiled your own supper, Squire," said Mr. Simlins,
"by your complacency in carrying about them hot clams. Have somethin'
this way?"
While this question was getting its answer, Faith sat back in her chair
and looked up and down the length of the table. It presented a
distinguished 'after-supper' view, but the demands of the company had
not yet ceased. Mr. Simlins was still discussing cheese and politics;
Jem Williams was deep in cherry pie; plum cake was not out of favour
with the ladies. The Squire was hard at work at his supper, which had
been diversely and wickedly interrupted. He was making up for lost time
now; while his sister, much disengaged, was bending her questions and
smiles on Mr. Linden. Faith tried to see Mr. Linden, but she couldn't;
he was leaning back from the table; and her eyes went out of doors. It
was too fair and sweet there to be cooped up from it. The sun had just
set. Faith could not see the water; the windows of the eating house
looked landward; but the air which came in at them said where it had
come from, and breathed the salt freshness of the sea into her face.
But presently every chair was pushed back. And now there was no more
silence nor quiet The busy swarm poured out of the supper room; the men
to lounge or tackle their horses, the women to gather up the bathing
dresses from the fence, to look round, laugh, and go in again to pack
up the dishes. It would seem that this last might be a work of time,
each had to find her own through such a maze of confusion. There was a
spoon of Miss Cecilia's providing, in a cup of Mrs. Derrick's, beside a
plate of Mrs. David's, and before a half-eaten cherry pie which had
been compounded in the distant home and by the fair fingers of Miss
Jerusha Fax. However, most people know their own at least; and as on
the present occasion nobody had any particular desire to meddle with
what was not her own, the difficulty was got through with. The baskets
and hampers were packed again and stowed in their respective wagons;
and everybody was bidding good bye to everybody. Noisy thanks and
praises fell liberally to the share of Miss Cecilia and her brother,
and the afternoon was declared to have been "splendid."
CHAPTER V.
For some weeks the little town of Pattaquasset held on its peaceful way
as usual. Early summer passed into harvest, and harvest gave way to the
first blush of autumn, and still the Mong flowed quietly along, and the
kildeers sang fearlessly. For even tenor and happy spirits, the new
teacher and his scholars were not unlike the smooth river and its
feathered visiters. Whatever the boys were taught, they certainly
learned to be happy; and Mr. Linden's popularity knew no bounds in his
own domain. Neither did it end there: those fair members of the
Pattaquasset society who thought early walks good for their health,
felt their sleepy eyes well paid for keeping open when they met Mr.
Linden. Those who were fond of evening expeditions, declared that his
figure in the twilight was 'quite a picture,' and made them feel 'so
safe,'--a great slander, by the way, on Pattaquasset. Mr. Simlins was
his firm friend, and many another--known and unknown. Squire Deacon, I
regret to say, was an exception.
Squire Deacon declared (confidentially) that he never had thought the
new teacher fit for his business, no how. As far as he could hear,
Mr. Linden had never taught school before, and in that case what could
you expect? "Moreover," said the Squire, "I am creditably informed,
that the first day he kep' school here, he begun by asking the boys
who made them!--as if that had anything to do with geography. Of
course it's nat'ral for a man to ask what he knows he can answer if the
boys don't," added Squire Deacon in the way of kind explanation.
Whereupon, Jonathan Fax, the Squire's right hand man, requested to be
informed, "why ef a man was poor didn't he dress as though he felt
so,--and why ef he warn't rich did he act as though he war?" And thus
by degrees, there was quite an opposition party in Pattaquasset--if
that could be opposition which the object of it never opposed. By
degrees too, the murmurs became more audible.
"Faith, child," said Mrs. Derrick in a cautions whisper, coining out
where Faith sat on the porch, bathed in the late September light:
"Faith, child, where's our Linden tree?" (Mrs. Derrick thought she had
concealed her meaning now, if anybody did overhear.)
Faith started, more than so gentle a question seemed to call for.
"He's gone down to the post-office, mother."
Her mother stood still and thought.
"Child," she said, "I never thought we had any fools in our town
before."
"I didn't know there were so many," said Faith. "What new, mother?"
"Child," she said, "you know more than I about some things--what do you
s'pose fools can do? Isn't he a whole tree of knowledge?"
"There is no fear of him, mother!" Faith said with a smile, which if
the subject of it valued any faith in the world but his own it would
have gratified him to see. "They can't touch him. They may vex him."
