stood by Faith's side, whom her eyes were now reading, or at least
endeavouring to spell out.

"Not to-day, Miss Essie, thank you."

"Thank me? you ought to apologize to me." Miss Essie took a chair in
that place, where she could "rake" the whole table. "Here will be Sophy
and me horribly disappointed. We had counted on you. Sophy is all
alone. You know, Faith, the doctor is laid up?"

"We heard of it,"--Faith answered, not very easily.

"Well, do you know he says he is going South?"

"I heard so," said Faith. Miss Essie could not make much of the rising
colour in her cheeks, it came and went so easily!

"What takes him off just now in such haste?--business?"

Faith looked up and gave her inquisitor a full clear look, such as
curiosity never cares for, while she answered with quiet dignity, "He
did not tell me, Miss Essie."

"It's a pity Dr. Harrison's just going now that you're just come," said
the lady of the black eyes, shifting her ground. "You used to be such
friends."

"What is a friend?" said Mr. Linden--"By the way, Miss Essie, you
should make these cresses an excuse for at least eating salt with us,
and so prove your title to the name."

"Dear me!" said the lady taking a handful,--"I thought a friend was
something more--more etherial than that!"

"Than what, if you please?"

"A person who eats your salt!--I don't love cresses. I am not one of
Nebuchadnezzar's family. Where did you get the fashion? It's French.
Dr. Harrison eats them. Did he teach it to you, Faith?"

"I think I had that honour," said Mr. Linden.

"I dare say you gave more lessons than were given in school," said Miss
Essie significantly. "What else did you learn of him, Faith?"

Faith gave the lady only a glance of her soft eye, but her face and her
very throat were charged with varying colour. Her attention went from
cresses to cowslips.

"I am saucy!" said the lady.--"Mr. Linden, are you coming back to the
bona fide school here? there'll be a great many glad."

A very involuntary lesson to Miss Essie herself came longingly to Mr.
Linden's lips, but except from the slight play and compression of the
same she had not the benefit of it. He spoke as usual.

"She has never learned the art of self-defence, Miss Essie, therefore I
pray you attack me. No, I am not coming back to the school--and to say
truth, I think there would be some people sorry--as well as glad--if I
did."

"Your bad scholars?"--said the lady, not intent upon her question.

"No--my good friends."

"I should be glad," said Miss Essie. "Who are your friends that would
be sorry? Dr. Harrison, for instance?"

"The friends who like my present work better."

"And you are going to be a clergyman?" said Miss Essie, leaning her
elbow on the table and 'studying' Mr. Linden, perhaps some other things
too, with her eyes. He smiled under the scrutiny, but merely bowed to
her question.

"It's dreadful hard work!--" said Miss Essie.

"Dreadful?--Miss Essie, you have not studied the subject."

"No," said she laughing,--"I said 'dreadful hard.' And so it is, I
think."

"'There be some sports are painful, but their labour delight in them
sets off'--is not that equally true of some work?" said Mr. Linden,
making one or two quiet additions to the breakfast on Faith's plate.
Which means of assistance Faith inadvertently disregarded and pushed
her plate away.

"Do you suppose anybody delights in them?" said Miss Essie. "I can't
understand it--but perhaps they do. A minister is very much looked up
to. But one thing is certain--of all things the hardest, it is to be a
minister's wife!"

"Of all things! He must be a poor sort of a minister who lets his
wife have a harder life than his own."

"He can't help it--" said Miss Essie, walking her black eyes about. "Of
course he don't wish it--but women always do have a harder time than
men, and a minister's wife particularly."

"It's a comfort to think he don't wish it," said Mr. Linden with a sort
of resigned gravity.

"Well it would not be much comfort to me," said Miss Essie. "When a
woman marries, she naturally expects her husband to belong to her;--but
a minister belongs to everybody else!"

"I see I have not studied the subject," said Mr. Linden. "Miss Essie,
you are giving me most important information. Is this so inevitable
that I ought in conscience to warn the lady beforehand?"

Miss Essie smiled graciously. "It would be no use,--she wouldn't
believe you. I might warn her. I have seen it."

"What have you seen?"

"Why that!--that a woman who marries a minister needn't expect to have
any more of her husband than his clothes to mend."

"Melancholy statement!" said Mr. Linden.

"It's of no use to tell it to a man!" said Miss Essie. "But I have seen
it."

"Not in my house."

"I shall see it in your house, if you ever let me in there--but it will
be too late to warn then. Very likely you will not see it."

Faith sat with one hand shielding her face from this speaker, though by
that means it was more fully revealed to the other. Her other hand, and
her eyes as far as possible, were lost in the bunch of cowslips; her
colour had long ceased to be varying. She sat still as a mouse.

"No, I shall not see it. To what end would your warnings be directed,
if they could reach her in time?"

"To keep her from taking such a trying position."

"Oh--" said Mr. Linden. "Have you no feeling for me, Miss Essie? It is
very plain why you scrupled to eat salt with me this morning!"

"I'll eat salt with you as a single man," said Miss Essie,--"but if you
are going to be a minister, be generous, and let your wife go! Any
other woman will tell you so."

"Let her go where? With me?--that is just what I intend."

"Yes," said Miss Essie,--"and then--you'll never know it--but she will
sit alone up stairs and sew while you are writing your sermons, and
she'll sit down stairs and sew while you're riding about the country or
walking about the town; and she'll go out alone of your errands when
you have a cold that keeps you at home; and the only time she hears you
speak will be when you speak in the pulpit! And if you ask her whether
she is happy, she will say yes!--"

Despite all her desperate contusion, the one visible corner of Faith's
mouth shewed rebellion against order. Mr. Linden laughed with most
unterrified amusement.

"If she says that, it will be so, Miss Essie--my wife will be a most
uncompromising truth-teller. But in your picture I am the one to be
pitied. Will she never sit on the same floor with me under any
circumstances?"

"More than you deserve!" said Miss Essie. "You to be pitied, indeed!
You know the man has the stir, and the talk, and the going from place
to place, and the being looked up to, and the having everybody at his
feet; and what has she?"

Mr. Linden did not answer, even with his eyes, which were looking down;
and the smile which came at Miss Essie's last words, was clearly not
meant for her. His wife would have something--so it said and
asserted,--and his wife was not an indefinite, imaginary person,--it
said that too. And she was worth all that could be laid at her feet.
How much he had to lay there--what homage his homage was--even of
this the face gave unconscious token. Miss Essie looked, and read it or
at least felt it, much more than she could well have put into words.
Then taking in review Faith's bowed head, she turned and spoke in quite
a different tone.

"There is no use in talking to people, Mrs. Derrick. After all, mayn't
I have Faith?"

"To spend the day? Oh no, Miss Essie!--she's not strong enough," said
Mrs. Derrick, rising from the table and beginning to put the cups
together. Faith left the party and went to the fire, which in the
advanced state of the May morning needed no tending.

"Yet she must spend the day somewhere," said Miss Essie wheeling round.
"Faith!--what are you going to do with yourself?"

"Nothing, Miss Essie,"--came softly from the fire-mender. But as her
hand moved to and fro with the tongs, the sparkle of the diamonds
caught Miss Essie's eye.

"Child!--how did you get that?"--she exclaimed, springing to her side
and arresting the tongs. Faith's low "I don't know, ma'am"--was
inimitable. It was well neither lady had sight of Mr. Linden's face.

"It's very beautiful!" said Miss Essie, controlling herself into some
order, and poring over the little hand she had made captive. "I never
saw a greater beauty of a ring--never. Do you know what it means,
Faith?" She dropped her voice and tapped significantly the finger.

Faith answered like a person put to the question,--"Yes."

"Do you?" said Miss Essie in the same low aside and half laughing. "I
am so glad. I always thought it. But this is splendid, Faith. You
don't know how handsome it is. It is easy to know where this came from.
I needn't ask."

"I must ask you both to sit down," said Mr. Linden,--"Faith is not
strong enough for much standing, Miss Essie."

"I can't sit down--I'm going away," said the lady. "I'll tell Sophy she
may expect you the first day you can go out for so long,"--she went on
renewing her half whisper to Faith. "Does she know of this?"--touching
the diamonds which Miss Essie had not yet let go.

"No, Miss Essie--" Faith stood in great confusion. Mr. Linden left the
table, and gently disengaging her from Miss Essie placed her in the
great chair, and stood resting one hand on the back of it.

"Miss Essie," he said, "Faith belongs to me--and therefore if I take
care of her strength in a somewhat summary way, you will forgive me."

Miss Essie paused and looked at him in most bewildering confusion. He
had spoken and she had heard, very clearly.

"I don't believe it!"--she said with an attempt at jocularity in which
there mingled somehow, inexplicably, a quality that was not pleasure.
"Faith!--no double-dealing. Two is too much."

"Or even the suggestion of two," Mr. Linden said.

"Do you mean," said Miss Essie looking at him with a semi-comical
endeavour to cover up discomfiture and other things--"do you mean to
say that I have made nothing here but an abominable mistake?"

"I should give it a different adjective."

Miss Essie made a despairing gesture. "Oh!--I might well say it's no
use talking to people! Will you ever for give me, Mr. Linden, for all
the mischief I have tried to do you? I didn't know both parties were
within hearing of me, you know, sir?--"

"Miss Essie, I hope you may always be as successful."

Perhaps Miss Essie wondered, as she glanced at Faith, whether she had
done any "mischief" or no; but she ventured no sort of repartee, being
altogether in an uncomfortable and somewhat awed state of mind. She
made hurried adieus to Mrs. Derrick, more formal and extremely civil
leave-taking of Mr. Linden, parted in a sort of astonished wise with
Faith and the diamonds which evidently bewildered her yet, and made
what was also evidently an escape out of the house. While Mr. Linden
attended the lady to the door, Faith softly and swiftly passed behind
them and made her escape too, up stairs. She was gone before he turned.

It was perhaps an hour after this, when Cindy entered Faith's room and
gave her a note. "I'm free to confess," said Cindy, "that Mr. Linden
gave it to me, but who writ it I don't know." But Faith did. It ran
thus:--



"Mademoiselle--With great impatience I have waited for my Sunbeam to
break through the gloomy clouds of doubt which surround me--but I
perceive the 'warning' has taken effect!

In keeping with this is the state of the outer world, which is even
rainy!--so that my purpose to take said Sunbeam out to drive is for the
present thwarted.

Conceive of my state of mind!

In vain I repeat to myself the comforting truth, that my Sunbeam is
shining somewhere, if not on me,--there are circumstances where
philosophical truths lose all their power.

I remember that the 'warning' contained some notable mistakes,--as for
instance, that I should ever--my pen refuses to write the words!--or I
do. As well might it be said that I should----. Mademoiselle, you must
perceive the obvious bearing of these two upon each other.

If your interest in the writer has carried you so far, perhaps he may
indulge the hope that at some future time it may carry you
further--even to the head of the stairs--where it is needless to say
you will be received with open arms.

It is also needless to sign this--it could come from but one person!"



Some two minutes after, Faith's room door opened, and a very flashing
bright sunbeam came out upon the place indicated, only a little
peachblossom tinge in her cheeks witnessing to any consciousness. She
was met according to promise--then held off and looked at with
serio-comic eyes.

"What a cruel child you are!" Mr. Linden said.

"What do you want, Endecott?" said Faith trying to be serious.

"How can you have the heart to sit up stairs and sew while I am down
stairs in my study?"

Faith instantly came so close, taking the nearest refuge, that he could
not very well see her face; but that she was laughing still he knew.

"Endecott!--don't talk so. I didn't know where you were."

"Will it be in this sort of weather that you will 'go out to do
errands' and leave me at home?"

"Endecott!--If you don't want anything more of me," said Faith lifting
up a face which was an array of peach-blossoms,--"I'll go back again."

"Will you?--" with a little tightening of his hold, and signification
of his approval of peachblossoms. "Faith, you are a lovely child! Will
it distress you very much if I go off and ride about the country alone?"

But now,--seeing she could not get away,--she stood graver; and the
answer was very gentle, almost tender--"No."

"Then you will not confess that you were frightened out of your wits at
the picture?" said Mr. Linden smiling, though with an answering change
of tone.

"Did you think I was?"

"No--you are too much of a woman for that, even if you had believed it
true."

"Then you were not frightened?--" she said with some comicality.

"I? desperately!--my note did not give you any idea of the state of my
mind! Imagine me sitting down stairs and saying to myself--(words
naturally suggested by the state of the weather)--

   'O how this spring of love resembleth
   Th' uncertain glories of an April day,
   Which now shews all the beauties of the sun,
   And by and by a cloud takes all away!'"


One of the soft flashes of Faith's eye came first to answer him; and
then she remarked very coolly, (N.B. her face was not so,) "I think it
will clear at noon, Endecott."

"Do you?" he said looking towards the window with a counterfeit
surprise that was in comical antithesis to his last words,--"does it
rain still!"

Faith's eye came back quick from the window to him, and then, for the
first time in many a long day, her old mellow sweet laugh rolled over
the subject, dismissing make-believes and figures of speech in its
clear matter-of-fact rejoicing.

"My dear little Mignonette!" Mr. Linden said, "that does my very heart
good. You are really getting better, in spite of lessons and warnings,
and all other hindrances. Do you want to know what I have truly been
thinking of since you came up stairs? Shall we exchange thoughts?"

"Please give me yours," she answered.

"They sprang from Miss Essie's question. Faith, when she asked me what
my wife would have, I could not tell her--I could not answer it to
myself afterwards very definitely. Only so far--she will have all I
have to give." His hand was smoothing and arranging her hair as he
spoke--his look one that nobody but Faith ever had from Mr. Linden. She
had looked up once and seen it; and then she stood before him, so still
and silent as if she might have had nothing to say; but every line of
her brow, her moved lip, her attitude, the very power of her silence,
contradicted that, and testified as well to the grace of a grave and
most exquisite humility which clothed her from head to foot. Mr. Linden
was as silent as she, watching her; but then he drew her off to the low
couch in the wide old-fashioned entry window, and seated her there in a
very bath of spring air and struggling sunbeams.

"I suppose it is useless to say 'Please give me yours'," he said
smiling. "Mignonette, we have had no reading to-day--do you like this
time and place?--and shall it be with you or to you?"

"It will be both, won't it?" said Faith; and she went for her Bible.



CHAPTER XXX.



The day was struggling into clearness by the time dinner was over.
Patches of blue sky looked down through grey, vapoury, scattering
clouds; while now and then a few rain drops fell to keep up the
character of the morning, and broad warm genial sunbeams fell between
them. It was not fair yet for a drive; and Mr. Linden went out on some
errands of business, leaving Faith with a charge to sleep and rest and
be ready against his return.

He was but a little while gone when Jem Waters made his appearance and
asked for Faith. Mr. Simlins had been ill--that Faith knew--but Jem
brought a sad report of how ill he had been, and a message that he was
"tired of not seeing Faith and wished she would let Jem fetch her down.
She might go back again as soon as she'd a mind to." He wanted to see
her "real bad," according to Jem; for he had ordered the best wagon on
the premises to be cleaned and harnessed up, and the best buffalo robe
put in, and charged Jem to bring Miss Faith "if she could anyways
come." And there was Jem and the wagon.

Faith demurred; she had not had her sleep and didn't know, or rather
did know, how the proceeding would be looked upon; but she also fancied
more meaning in the summons than Jem had been commissioned to make
known. And perhaps another little wee feminine thought came in to help
her decision.

"Mother," she said, "I shall go. You need not say anything about it
unless you are asked. It isn't far to Mr. Simlins--I shall be home in
time for my ride." So, quickly ready, Jem drove her down.

Mr. Simlins she found sitting up, in a nondescript invalid's attire of
an old cloak and a summer waistcoat; and warm as the day was, with a
little fire burning, which was not unnecessary to correct the damp of
the unused sitting-room. He was, as he said, "fallen away considerable,
and with no more strength than a spring chicken," but for the rest
looked as usual. And so spoke.

"Well,--why haint you been to see me before?"

"I have been sick, sir."

"Sick?" said he, his voice softening unconsciously towards her sweet
tones. "Sit there and let me see.--I believe you have. But you aint fur
from well now!" He had some reason, for the face he had turned to the
sunlight bore all the quiet lines of happiness, and its somewhat faint
colour was replaced under his scrutiny by a conscious deep rose.

"Don't you know," said he settling himself back in his chair,--"I don't
think I see the sun and moon when I don't see you? Or the moon,
anyways--you aint but the half of my Zodiack."

"What did you want to see the moon for, Mr. Simlins?" said Faith
willing to interrupt him.

"Well--you see, I've been a kind of a latudinarian too," said Mr.
Simlins doubtfully.--"It pulls a man's mind down; as well as his
flesh--and I got tired of thinkin' to-day and concluded I'd send for
you to stop it." His look confessed more than his words. Faith had
little need to ask what he had been thinking about.

"What shall I do to stop it, sir?"

"Well, you can read--can't you?--or talk to me."

There was a strange uneasy wandering of his eye, and a corresponding
unwonted simplicity and directness in his talk. Faith noted both and
silently went for a Bible she saw lying on a table. She brought it to
Mr. Simlins' side and opened its pages slowly, questioning with herself
where she should read. Some association of a long past conversation
perhaps was present with her, for though she paused over one and
another of several passages, she could fix upon none but the parable of
the unfruitful tree.

"Do you mean that for me?" said the farmer a minute after she had done.

"Yes sir--and no, dear Mr. Simlins!" said Faith looking up.

"Why is it 'yes' and 'no'? how be I like that?"--he growled, but with a
certain softening and lowering of his growl.

"The good trees all do the work they were made for. God calls for the
same from us," Faith said gently.

"I know what you're thinkin' of," said he;--"but haint I done it? Who
ever heerd a man say I had wronged him? or that I have been
hard-hearted either? I never was."

It was curious how he let his thoughts out to her; but the very gentle,
pure and true face beside him provoked neither controversy nor
mistrust, nor pride. He spoke to her as if she had only been a child.
Like a child, with such sympathy and simplicity, she answered him.

"Mr. Simlins, the Bible says that 'the fruits of righteousness are by
Jesus Christ.'--Do you know him?--are you in his service?"

"I don't know as I understand you," said he.

"I can't make you understand it, sir."

"Why can't you? who can?" said he quickly.

"It is written, Mr. Simlins,--'They shall be all taught of God.'"--She
shewed him the place. "And it is written, 'Come, and let us go up to
the mountain of the Lord, and to the house of the God of Jacob; and he
will teach us of his ways, and we will walk in his paths.'--That is
it. If you are willing to walk in his paths, he will shew them to you."
Faith looked eagerly at the farmer, and he looked at her. Neither heart
was hid from the other.

"But supposin' I was willin'--which I be, so fur's I know--I don't know
what they be no more'n a child. How am I goin' to find 'em out?"

Faith's eyes filled quick as she turned over the leaves again;--was it
by sympathy alone that occasion came for the rough hand to pass once or
twice hastily across those that were looking at her? Without speaking,
Faith shewed him the words,--"If any man will do his will, he shall
know of the doctrine."

"That is the question, dear Mr. Simlins. On that 'if' it all hangs."
The farmer took the book into his own hands and sat looking steadily at
the words.

"Well," said he putting it back on her lap--"supposin' the 'if' 's all
right--Go ahead, Faith."

"Then the way is clear for you to do that; and it's all easy. But the
first thing is here--the invitation of Jesus himself."

"'Come unto me all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give
you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn of me; for I am meek and
lowly in heart, and ye shall find rest unto your souls. For my yoke is
easy, and my burden is light.'"

"You see," she went on very gently,--"he bids you learn of him--so he
is ready to teach you. If you are only willing to take his yoke upon
you,--to be his servant and own it,--he will shew you what to do, step
by step, and help you in every one."

"I don't see where's the beginning of the way yet," said the farmer.

"That," said Faith. "Be the servant of Jesus Christ and own it; and
then go to him for all you want. He is good for all."

There was a pause.

"I s'pose you've been goin' on in that way a good while."

"A good while--yes,"--Faith almost whispered.

"Well, when you are goin' to him sometimes, ask somethin' for me,--will
you?"

He had bent over, leaning on his knees, to speak it in a lower growl
than ordinary. Faith bowed her head at first, unwilling to speak; but
tears somehow started, and the drops followed each other, as she sat
gazing into the black fireplace,--she could not help it--till a perfect
shower of weeping brought her face into her hands and stirred her not
very strong frame. It stirred the farmer, robust as he was in spite of
illness; he shifted his chair most uneasily, and finally laid down his
head on his folded arms on the table. Faith was the first to speak.

"Mr. Simlins, who takes care of you?"

"Ugh!" (a most unintelligible grunt,) "they all do it by turns--Jenny
and all of 'em."

"What have you had for dinner to-day?"

"Didn't want anything!" He sat up and brushed his cloak sleeve across
his forehead.

"Mr. Simlins, I shall send you down something from home and you must
eat it."

"The doctor said I was to take wine--but I haint thought of it to-day."

"Where is it?"

He nodded his head in the direction of the cupboard. Faith went
rummaging, poured him out a glass and brought it.

"You see," said he after he had taken it--"I've been pretty well pulled
down--I didn't know--one time--which side of the fence I was goin'
over--and I didn't see the ground on the other side. I don't know why I
should be ashamed to say I was afeard!"--There was a strong, stern,
truth-telling about this speech that thrilled his hearer. She sat down
again.

"You had best take some yourself," he said. "Do Faith!"

"No sir--I'm going. I must go," she answered rising to make ready.

It was strange how the door could have opened and she not heard
it--neither she nor Mr. Simlins in fact,--perhaps because their minds
were so far away. That the incoming steps were unheard was not so
strange, nor new, but the first thing of which Faith was conscious was
the soft touch of a hand on either side of her face--she was a
prisoner. Faith's instant spring to one side brought her face to face
with everybody. Mr. Simlins looked from one to the other, and his first
remark was characteristically addressed to Faith.

"Why you didn't tell me that!"

"Has she told you everything but that?" said Mr. Linden smiling, and
giving the farmer's hand good token of his presence.

"Where under the sun did you come from?" said the farmer returning his
grasp with interest, and looking at Mr. Linden as if indeed one of the
lights of the solar system had been out before his arrival. Faith sat
down mutely and as quietly as possible behind Mr. Linden.

"From under the sun very literally just now--before that from under a
shower. I have been down to Quapaw, then home to Mrs. Derrick's, then
here. Mr. Simlins, I am sorry to see that you are nursing yourself
instead of me. What is the matter?"

"I'd as lieves be doin' this, of the two," said the farmer with a stray
smile. "There aint much the matter. How long have you been in this
meridian?"

"Two days." And stepping from before Faith, Mr. Linden asked her "if
she had come there in a dream?"

"Do you ever see such good-lookin' things in your dreams?" said the
farmer. "My visual pictures are all broken down fences, or Jem or Jenny
doin' somethin' they haint ought to do. How long're you goin' to stay
in Pattaquasset, Dominie?"

"Some time, I hope. Not quite so long as the first time, but longer
than I have been since that. Do you know, Mr. Simlins, your coat collar
is a little bit turned in?--and why don't you give the sunshine a
better welcome?--you two sick people together want some one to make a
stir for you." Which office Mr. Linden took upon himself--lightly
disengaging the collar, and then going to the window to draw up the
shade and throw back the shutters, stopping on his way back to
straighten the table cover, and followed by a full gush of sunlight
from the window.

"It is so glorious this afternoon!" he said. And standing silent a
moment in that brilliant band of light-looking out at the world all
glittering and sparkling in the sun, Mr. Linden repeated,--"'Unto you
that fear my name, shall the Sun of Righteousness arise, with healing
in his wings.'--What a promise that is!"

"Where did you get those words?"--said Mr. Simlins, after the sunlight
and the silence had given them their full effect.

"From the Bible--God's book of promises. Do you want to see the place?"

Mr. Simlins turned down a corner of the leaf and laid the book, still
open, on the table. Then looked at Mr. Linden with a mixture of
pleasure and humour in his eyes. "Are you any nearer bein' a minister
than you was a year ago?"

"Nearer in one way. But I cannot lay claim to the title you gave me for
another year yet, Mr. Simlins."

"You're Say and Seal as much as ever. What more fixin' have you got to
do?"

"A little finishing," said Mr. Linden with a smile.

And he got up and went for Faith's shawl and gloves which were on the
table. Mr. Simlins watched the shawling and gloving with attention.

"You can tell Jem he won't be wanted again, Faith," he said. "I guess
you'll see him at the gate." Mr. Linden smiled, but some other thought
was on his mind,--the face that he turned to Mr. Simlins shewed concern
that was both grave and kind.

"What can I do for you?" he said.

"This aint the prettiest place in Pattaquasset; but maybe you'll come
and see me sometimes--till I can get out my self," Mr. Simlins said
considerately.

"You may be sure I will. And will you let me pray with you now, before
I go?"

The farmer hesitated--or was silent--one instant, then with a sort of
subdued abruptness said,

"I'm ready!"--

They knelt there in the sunlight; but when the prayer was over Mr.
Simlins felt half puzzled to know for whose sake it had been proposed.
For with the telling of his doubts and hindrances and wants--things
which he had told to no one, there mingled so much of the speaker's own
interest,--which could not be content to leave him but in Christ's
hands.

There was not a word spoken after that for a minute,--Mr. Linden stood
by the low mantelpiece resting his face on his hand. The farmer, busy
with the feelings which the prayer had raised, sat with downcast eyes.
And Faith was motionless with a deep and manifold sense of happiness,
the labyrinth of which herself could not soon have threaded out. The
silence and stillness of his two companions drew the farmer's eyes up;
he read first, with an eager eye that nobody saw, the sweet gravity on
one half hidden face, and the deep pure joy written in all the lines of
the other; and secret and strong, though half unknown to himself, the
whole tide of his heart turned that way. If not before, then at least,
something like Ruth's resolution came up within him;--"thy people shall
be my people, and thy God my God!" Mr. Linden was the first one that
moved.

"Are you ready, dear child?"

The farmer's eyes were on her too, even while he wrung Mr. Linden's
hand. But he only said before he let it go,--"Give a glass of wine to
her when she gets home."
