young girl, and have been led into grievous sin; but I did not mean
to do wrong,--I have been trying to do right; pray for me, that I may
overcome as you did. Pray our dear Lord to send you with us on this
pilgrimage, and save us from all wicked and brutal men who would do us
harm. As the Lord delivered you in sorest straits, keeping soul and
body pure as a lily, ah, pray Him to keep me! I love you dearly,--watch
over me and guide me."

In those days of the Church, such addresses to the glorified saints
had become common among all Christians. They were not regarded as
worship, any more than a similar outpouring of confidence to a beloved
and revered friend yet in the body. Among the hymns of Savonarola is
one addressed to Saint Mary Magdalen, whom he regarded with an especial
veneration. The great truth, that God is not the God of the dead, but
of the living, that all live to Him, was in those ages with the truly
religious a part of spiritual consciousness. The saints of the Church
Triumphant, having become one with Christ as He is one with the Father,
were regarded as invested with a portion of his divinity, and as the
ministering agency through which his mediatorial government on earth
was conducted; and it was thought to be in the power of the sympathetic
heart to attract them by the outflow of its affections, so that their
presence often overshadowed the walks of daily life with a cloud of
healing and protecting sweetness.

If the enthusiasm of devotion in regard to these invisible friends
became extravagant and took the language due to God alone, it was no
more than the fervid Italian nature was always doing with regard to
visible objects of affection. Love with an Italian always tends to
become worship, and some of the language of the poets addressed to
earthly loves rises into intensities of expression due only to the One,
Sovereign, Eternal Beauty. One sees even in the writings of Cicero
that this passionate adoring kind of love is not confined to modern
times. When he loses the daughter in whom his heart is garnered up, he
finds no comfort except in building a temple to her memory,--a blind
outreaching towards the saint-worship of modern times.

Agnes rose from her devotions, and went with downcast eyes, her lips
still repeating prayers, to the font of holy water, which was in a dim
shadowy corner, where a painted window cast a gold and violet twilight.
Suddenly there was a rustle of garments in the dimness, and a jeweled
hand essayed to pass holy water to her on the tip of its finger. This
mark of Christian fraternity, common in those times, Agnes almost
mechanically accepted, touching her slender finger to the one extended,
and making the sign of the cross, while she raised her eyes to see who
stood there. Gradually the haze cleared from her mind, and she awoke to
the consciousness that it was the cavalier! He moved to come towards
her, with a bright smile on his face; but suddenly she became pale as
one who has seen a spectre, and, pushing from her with both hands, she
said faintly, "Go, go!" and turned and sped up the aisle silently as a
sunbeam, joining her grandmother, who was coming from the confessional
with a gloomy and sullen brow.

Old Elsie had been enjoined to unite with her grandchild in this
scheme of a pilgrimage, and received the direction with as much
internal contumacy as would a thriving church-member of Wall Street
a proposition to attend a protracted meeting in the height of the
business season. Not but that pilgrimages were holy and gracious
works,--she was too good a Christian not to admit that,--but why must
holy and gracious works be thrust on her in particular? There were
saints enough who liked such things; and people could get to heaven
without,--if not with a very abundant entrance, still in a modest
way,--and Elsie's ambition for position and treasure in the spiritual
world was of a very moderate cast.

"Well, now, I hope you are satisfied," she said to Agnes, as she
pulled her along with no very gentle hand; "you've got me sent off on
a pilgrimage,--and my old bones must be rattling up and down all the
hills between here and Rome,--and who's to see to the oranges?--they'll
all be stolen, every one."

"Grandmother"--began Agnes in a pleading voice.

"Oh, you hush up! I know what you're going to say. 'The good Lord will
take care of them.' I wish He may. He has his hands full, with all the
people that go cawing and psalm-singing like so many crows, and leave
all their affairs to Him!"

Agnes walked along disconsolate, with her eyes full of tears, which
coursed one another down her pale cheeks.

"There's Antonio," pursued Elsie, "would perhaps look after things
a little. He is a good fellow, and only yesterday was asking if he
couldn't do something for us. It's you he does it for,--but little you
care who loves you, or what they do for you!"

At this moment they met old Jocunda, whom we have before introduced
to the reader as portress of the Convent. She had on her arm a large
square basket, which she was storing for its practical uses.

"Well, well, Saint Agnes be praised, I have found you at last," she
said. "I was wanting to speak about some of your blood-oranges for
conserving. An order has come down from our dear gracious lady, the
Queen, to prepare a lot for her own blessed eating, and you may be sure
I would get none of anybody but you. But what's this, my little heart,
my little lamb?--crying?--tears in those sweet eyes? What's the matter
now?"

"Matter enough for me!" said Elsie. "It's a weary world we live in. A
body can't turn any way and not meet with trouble. If a body brings
up a girl one way, why, every fellow is after her, and one has no
peace; and if a body brings her up another way, she gets her head in
the clouds, and there's no good of her in this world. Now look at
that girl,--doesn't everybody say it's time she were married?--but
no marrying for her! Nothing will do but we must off to Rome on a
pilgrimage,--and what's the good of that, I want to know? If it's
praying that's to be done, the dear saints know she's at it from
morning till night,--and lately she's up and down three or four times a
night with some prayer or other."

"Well, well," said Jocunda, "who started this idea?"

"Oh, Father Francesco and she got it up between them, and nothing will
do but I must go, too."

"Well, now, after all, my dear," said Jocunda, "do you know, I made a
pilgrimage once, and it isn't so bad. One gets a good deal by it, first
and last. Everybody drops something into your hand as you go, and one
gets treated as if one were somebody a little above the common; and
then in Rome one has a princess or a duchess or some noble lady who
washes one's feet, and gives one a good supper, and perhaps a new suit
of clothes, and all that,--and ten to one there comes a pretty little
sum of money to boot, if one plays one's cards well. A pilgrimage isn't
bad, after all; one sees a world of fine things, and something new
every day."

"But who is to look after our garden and dress our trees?"

"Ah, now, there's Antonio, and old Meta his mother," said Jocunda,
with a knowing wink at Agnes. "I fancy there are friends there that
would lend a hand to keep things together against the little one comes
home. If one is going to be married, a pilgrimage brings good luck in
the family. All the saints take it kindly that one comes so far to see
them, and are more ready to do a good turn for one when one needs it.
The blessed saints are like other folks, they like to be treated with
proper attention."

This view of pilgrimages from the material standpoint had more effect
on the mind of Elsie than the most elaborate appeals of Father
Francesco. She began to acquiesce, though with a reluctant air.

Jocunda, seeing her words had made some impression, pursued her
advantage on the spiritual ground.

"To be sure," she added, "I don't know how it is with you; but I know
that I have, one way and another, rolled up quite an account of sins
in my life. When I was tramping up and down with my old man through the
country,--now in this castle and then in that camp, and now and then
in at the sacking of a city or village, or something of the kind,--the
saints forgive us!--it does seem as if one got into things that were
not of the best sort, in such times. It's true, it's been wiped out
over and over by the priest; but then a pilgrimage is a good thing to
make all sure, in case one's good works should fall short of one's sins
at last. I can tell you, a pilgrimage is a good round weight to throw
into the scale; and when it comes to heaven and hell, you know, my
dear, why, one cannot be too careful."

"Well, that may be true enough," said Elsie, "though as to my sins, I
have tried to keep them regularly squared up and balanced as I went
along. I have always been regular at confession, and never failed a jot
or tittle in what the holy father told me. But there may be something
in what you say; one can't be too sure; and so I'll e'en school my old
bones into taking this tramp."

That evening, as Agnes was sitting in the garden at sunset, her
grandmother bustling in and out, talking, groaning, and hurrying in
her preparations for the anticipated undertaking, suddenly there was a
rustling in the branches overhead, and a bouquet of rosebuds fell at
her feet. Agnes picked it up, and saw a scrip of paper coiled among the
flowers. In a moment, remembering the apparition of the cavalier in the
church in the morning, she doubted not from whom it came. So dreadful
had been the effect of the scene at the confessional, that the thought
of the near presence of her lover brought only terror. She turned pale;
her hands shook. She shut her eyes, and prayed that she might not be
left to read the paper; and then, summoning all her resolution, she
threw the bouquet with force over the wall. It dropped down, down, down
the gloomy, shadowy abyss, and was lost in the damp caverns below.

The cavalier stood without the wall, waiting for some responsive
signal in reply to his missive. It had never occurred to him that Agnes
would not even read it, and he stood confounded when he saw it thrown
back with such apparent rudeness. He remembered her pale, terrified
look on seeing him in the morning. It was not indifference or dislike,
but mortal fear, that had been shown in that pale face.

"These wretches are practicing on her," he said, in wrath, "filling her
head with frightful images, and torturing her sensitive conscience till
she sees sin in the most natural and innocent feelings."

He had learned from Father Antonio the intention of Agnes to go on a
pilgrimage, and he longed to see and talk with her, that he might offer
her his protection against dangers which he understood far better than
she. It had never even occurred to him that the door for all possible
communication would be thus suddenly barred in his face.

"Very well," he said to himself, with a darkening brow, "let them have
it their own way here. She must pass through my dominions before she
can reach Rome, and I will find a place where I can be heard, without
priest or grandmother to let or hinder. She is mine, and I will care
for her."

But poor Agnes had the woman's share of the misery to bear, in the
fear and self-reproach and distress which every movement of this kind
cost her. The involuntary thrill at seeing her lover, at hearing from
him, the conscious struggle which it cost her to throw back his gift,
were all noted by her accusing conscience as so many sins. The next
day she sought again her confessor, and began an entrance on those
darker and more chilly paths of penance, by which, according to the
opinion of her times, the peculiarly elect of the Lord were supposed
to be best trained. Hitherto her religion had been the cheerful and
natural expression of her tender and devout nature, according to the
more beautiful and engaging devotional forms of her Church. During the
year when her confessor had been, unconsciously to himself, led by her
instead of leading, her spiritual food had been its beautiful old hymns
and prayers, which she found no weariness in often repeating. But now
an unnatural conflict was begun in her mind, directed by a spiritual
guide in whom every natural and normal movement of the soul had given
way before a succession of morbid and unhealthful experiences. From
that day Agnes wore upon her heart one of those sharp instruments of
torture which in those items were supposed to be a means of inward
grace,--a cross with seven steel points for the seven sorrows of Mary.
She fasted with a severity which alarmed her grandmother, who in her
inmost heart cursed the day that ever she had placed her in the way of
saintship.

"All this will just end in spoiling her beauty,--making her as thin as
a shadow," said Elsie; "and she was good enough before."

But it did not spoil her beauty, it only changed its character. The
roundness and bloom melted away, but there came in their stead that
solemn, transparent clearness of countenance, that spiritual light and
radiance, which the old Florentine painters gave to their Madonnas.

It is singular how all religious exercises and appliances take the
character of the nature that uses them. The pain and penance, which so
many in her day bore as a cowardly expedient for averting divine wrath,
seemed, as she viewed them, a humble way of becoming associated in the
sufferings of her Redeemer. "Jesu dulcis memoria," was the thought
that carried a redeeming sweetness with every pain. Could she thus, by
suffering with her Lord, gain power like Him to save,--a power which
should save that soul so dear and so endangered! "Ah," she thought, "I
would give my life-blood, drop by drop, if only it might avail for his
salvation!"




CHAPTER XX

FLORENCE AND HER PROPHET


It was drawing towards evening, as two travelers, approaching Florence
from the south, checked their course on the summit of one of the circle
of hills which command a view of the city, and seemed to look down upon
it with admiration. One of these was our old friend Father Antonio,
and the other the cavalier. The former was mounted on an ambling mule,
whose easy pace suited well with his meditative habits; while the other
reined in a high-mettled steed, who, though now somewhat jaded under
the fatigue of a long journey, showed by a series of little lively
motions of his ears and tail, and by pawing the ground impatiently,
that he had the inexhaustible stock of spirits which goes with good
blood.

"There she lies, my Florence," said the monk, stretching his hands out
with enthusiasm. "Is she not indeed a sheltered lily growing fair among
the hollows of the mountains? Little she may be, sir, compared to old
Rome; but every inch of her is a gem,--every inch!"

And, in truth, the scene was worthy of the artist's enthusiasm. All
the overhanging hills that encircle the city with their silvery
olive-gardens and their pearl-white villas were now lighted up with
evening glory. The old gray walls of the convents of San Miniato and
the Monte Oliveto were touched with yellow; and even the black obelisks
of the cypresses in their cemeteries had here and there streaks and
dots of gold, fluttering like bright birds among their gloomy branches.
The distant snow-peaks of the Apennines, which even in spring long
wear their icy mantles, were shimmering and changing like an opal ring
with tints of violet, green, blue, and rose, blended in inexpressible
softness by that dreamy haze which forms the peculiar feature of
Italian skies.

In this loving embrace of mountains lay the city, divided by the Arno
as by a line of rosy crystal barred by the graceful arches of its
bridges. Amid the crowd of palaces and spires and towers rose central
and conspicuous the great Duomo, just crowned with that magnificent
dome which was then considered a novelty and a marvel in architecture,
and which Michel Angelo looked longingly back upon when he was going
to Rome to build that more wondrous orb of Saint Peter's. White and
stately by its side shot up the airy shaft of the Campanile; and the
violet vapor swathing the whole city in a tender indistinctness, these
two striking objects, rising by their magnitude far above it, seemed to
stand alone in a sort of airy grandeur.

And now the bells of the churches were sounding the Ave Maria, filling
the air with sweet and solemn vibrations, as if angels were passing
to and fro overhead, harping as they went; and ever and anon the
great bell of the Campanile came pulsing in with a throb of sound of
a quality so different that one hushed one's breath to hear. It might
be fancied to be the voice of one of those kingly archangels that one
sees drawn by the old Florentine religious artists,--a voice grave and
unearthly, and with a plaintive undertone of divine mystery.

The monk and the cavalier bent low in their saddles, and seemed to join
devoutly in the worship of the hour.

One need not wonder at the enthusiasm of the returning pilgrim of
those days for the city of his love, who feels the charm that lingers
around that beautiful place even in modern times. Never was there a
spot to which the heart could insensibly grow with a more home-like
affection,--never one more thoroughly consecrated in every stone by
the sacred touch of genius.

A republic, in the midst of contending elements, the history of
Florence, in the Middle Ages, was a history of what shoots and blossoms
the Italian nature might send forth, when rooted in the rich soil
of liberty. It was a city of poets and artists. Its statesmen, its
merchants, its common artisans, and the very monks in its convents,
were all pervaded by one spirit. The men of Florence in its best
days were men of a large, grave, earnest mould. What the Puritans
of New England wrought out with severest earnestness in their
reasonings and their lives, these early Puritans of Italy embodied
in poetry, sculpture, and painting. They built their Cathedral and
their Campanile, as the Jews of old built their Temple, with awe and
religious fear, that they might thus express by costly and imperishable
monuments their sense of God's majesty and beauty. The modern traveler
who visits the churches and convents of Florence, or the museums
where are preserved the fading remains of its early religious Art, if
he be a person of any sensibility, cannot fail to be affected with
the intense gravity and earnestness which pervade them. They seem
less to be paintings for the embellishment of life than eloquent
picture-writing by which burning religious souls sought to preach the
truths of the invisible world to the eye of the multitude. Through all
the deficiencies of perspective, coloring, and outline incident to the
childhood and early youth of Art, one feels the passionate purpose
of some lofty soul to express ideas of patience, self-sacrifice,
adoration, and aspiration far transcending the limits of mortal
capability.

The angels and celestial beings of these grave old painters are as
different from the fat little pink Cupids or lovely laughing children
of Titian and Correggio as are the sermons of President Edwards from
the love-songs of Tom Moore. These old seers of the pencil give you
grave, radiant beings, strong as man, fine as woman, sweeping downward
in lines of floating undulation, and seeming by the ease with which
they remain poised in the air to feel none of that earthly attraction
which draws material bodies earthward. Whether they wear the morning
star on their forehead or bear the lily or the sword in their hand,
there is still that suggestion of mystery and power about them, that
air of dignity and repose, that speak the children of a nobler race
than ours. One could well believe such a being might pass in his serene
poised majesty of motion through the walls of a gross material dwelling
without deranging one graceful fold of his swaying robe or unclasping
the hands folded quietly on his bosom. Well has a modern master of art
and style said of these old artists, "Many pictures are ostentatious
exhibitions of the artist's power of speech, the clear and vigorous
elocution of useless and senseless words; while the earlier efforts of
Giotto and Cimabue are the burning messages of prophecy delivered by
the stammering lips of infants."

But at the time of which we write, Florence had passed through her
ages of primitive religious and republican simplicity, and was fast
hastening to her downfall. The genius, energy, and prophetic enthusiasm
of Savonarola had made, it is true, a desperate rally on the verge of
the precipice; but no one man has ever power to turn back the downward
slide of a whole generation.

When Father Antonio left Sorrento in company with the cavalier, it
was the intention of the latter to go with him only so far as their
respective routes should lie together. The band under the command of
Agostino was posted in a ruined fortress in one of those airily perched
old mountain-towns which form so picturesque and characteristic a
feature of the Italian landscape. But before they reached this spot,
the simple, poetic, guileless monk, with his fresh artistic nature,
had so won upon his traveling companion that a most enthusiastic
friendship had sprung up between them, and Agostino could not find it
in his heart at once to separate from him. Tempest-tossed and homeless,
burning with a sense of wrong, alienated from the faith of his fathers
through his intellect and moral sense, yet clinging to it with his
memory and imagination, he found in the tender devotional fervor of
the artist monk a reconciling and healing power. He shared, too, in
no small degree, the feelings which now possessed the breast of his
companion for the great reformer whose purpose seemed to meditate
nothing less than the restoration of the Church of Italy to the
primitive apostolic simplicity. He longed to see him,--to listen to the
eloquence of which he had heard so much. Then, too, he had thoughts
that but vaguely shaped themselves in his mind. This noble man, so
brave and courageous, menaced by the forces of a cruel tyranny, might
he not need the protection of a good sword? He recollected, too, that
he had an uncle high in the favor of the King of France, to whom he had
written a full account of his own situation. Might he not be of use in
urging this uncle to induce the French King to throw before Savonarola
the shield of his protection? At all events, he entered Florence this
evening with the burning zeal of a young neophyte who hopes to effect
something himself for a glorious and sacred cause embodied in a leader
who commands his deepest veneration.

"My son," said Father Antonio, as they raised their heads after the
evening prayer, "I am at this time like a man who, having long been
away from his home, fears, on returning, that he shall hear some evil
tidings of those he hath left. I long, yet dread, to go to my dear
Father Girolamo and the beloved brothers in our house. There is a
presage that lies heavy on my heart, so that I cannot shake it off.
Look at our glorious old Duomo;--doth she not sit there among the
houses and palaces as a queen-mother among nations,--worthy, in her
greatness and beauty, to represent the Church of the New Jerusalem, the
Bride of the Lord? Ah, I have seen it thronged and pressed with the
multitude who came to crave the bread of life from our master!"

"Courage, my friend!" said Agostino; "it cannot be that Florence
will suffer her pride and glory to be trodden down. Let us hasten
on, for the shades of evening are coming fast, and there is a keen
wind sweeping down from your snowy mountains." And the two soon found
themselves plunging into the shadows of the streets, threading their
devious way to the convent.

At length they drew up before a dark wall, where the Father Antonio
rung a bell.

A door was immediately opened, a cowled head appeared, and a cautious
voice asked,--

"Who is there?"

"Ah, is that you, good Brother Angelo?" said Father Antonio, cheerily.

"And is it you, dear Brother Antonio? Come in! come in!" was the
cordial response, as the two passed into the court; "truly, it will
make all our hearts leap to see you."

"And, Brother Angelo, how is our dear father? I have been so anxious
about him!"

"Oh, fear not!--he sustains himself in God, and is full of sweetness to
us all."

"But do the people stand by him, Angelo, and the Signoria?"

"He has strong friends as yet, but his enemies are like ravening
wolves. The Pope hath set on the Franciscans, and they hunt him as
dogs do a good stag. But whom have you here with you?" added the monk,
raising his torch and regarding the knight.

"Fear him not; he is a brave knight and good Christian, who comes to
offer his sword to our father and seek his counsels."

"He shall be welcome," said the porter, cheerfully. "We will have you
into the refectory forthwith, for you must be hungry."

The young cavalier, following the flickering torch of his conductor,
had only a dim notion of long cloistered corridors, out of which now
and then, as the light flared by, came a golden gleam from some quaint
old painting, where the pure angel forms of Angelico stood in the
gravity of an immortal youth, or the Madonna, like a bending lily,
awaited the message of Heaven; but when they entered the refectory, a
cheerful voice addressed them, and Father Antonio was clasped in the
embrace of the father so much beloved.

"Welcome, welcome, my dear son!" said that rich voice which had
thrilled so many thousand Italian hearts with its music. "So you are
come back to the fold again. How goes the good work of the Lord?"

"Well, everywhere," said Father Antonio, and then, recollecting his
young friend, he suddenly turned and said,--

"Let me present to you one son who comes to seek your
instructions,--the young Signor Agostino, of the noble house of
Sarelli."

The Superior turned to Agostino with a movement full of a generous
frankness, and warmly extended his hand, at the same time fixing upon
him the mesmeric glance of a pair of large, deep blue eyes, which
might, on slight observation, have been mistaken for black, so great
was their depth and brilliancy.

Agostino surveyed his new acquaintance with that mingling of ingenuous
respect and curiosity with which an ardent young man would regard
the most distinguished leader of his age, and felt drawn to him by a
certain atmosphere of vital cordiality such as one can feel better than
describe.

"You have ridden far to-day, my son,--you must be weary," said the
Superior, affably; "but here you must feel yourself at home; command
us in anything we can do for you. The brothers will attend to those
refreshments which are needed after so long a journey; and when you
have rested and supped, we shall hope to see you a little more quietly."

So saying, he signed to one or two brothers who stood by, and,
commending the travelers to their care, left the apartment.

In a few moments a table was spread with a plain and wholesome repast,
to which the two travelers sat down with appetites sharpened by their
long journey.

During the supper, the brothers of the convent, among whom Father
Antonio had always been a favorite, crowded around him in a state of
eager excitement.

"You should have been here the last week," said one; "such a turmoil as
we have been in!"

"Yes," said another, "the Pope hath set on the Franciscans, who, you
know, are always ready enough to take up with anything against our
order, and they have been pursuing our father like so many hounds."

"There hath been a whirlwind of preaching here and there," said a
third, "in the Duomo, and Santa Croce, and San Lorenzo; and they have
battled to and fro, and all the city is full of it."

"Tell him about yesterday, about the ordeal," shouted an eager voice.

Two or three voices took up the story at once, and began to tell it,
all the others correcting, contradicting, or adding incidents. From
the confused fragments here and there Agostino gathered that there
had been on the day before a popular spectacle in the grand piazza,
in which, according to an old superstition of the Middle Ages, Fra
Girolamo Savonarola and his opponents were expected to prove the truth
of their words by passing unhurt through the fire; that two immense
piles of combustibles had been constructed with a narrow passage
between, and the whole magistracy of the city convened, with a throng
of the populace, eager for the excitement of the spectacle; that the
day had been spent in discussions, and scruples, and preliminaries; and
that, finally, in the afternoon, a violent storm of rain arising had
dispersed the multitude and put a stop to the whole exhibition.

"But the people are not satisfied," said Father Angelo; "and there are
enough mischief-makers among them to throw all the blame on our father."

"Yes," said one, "they say he wanted to burn the Holy Sacrament,
because he was going to take it with him into the fire."

"As if it could burn!" said another voice.

"It would to all human appearance, I suppose," said a third.

"Any way," said a fourth, "there is some mischief brewing; for here is
our friend Prospero Rondinelli just come in, who says, when he came
past the Duomo, he saw people gathering, and heard them threatening us:
there were as many as two hundred, he thought."

"We ought to tell Father Girolamo," exclaimed several voices.

"Oh, he will not be disturbed!" said Father Angelo. Since these
affairs, he hath been in prayer in the chapter-room before the blessed
Angelico's picture of the Cross. When we would talk with him of these
things, he waves us away, and says only, 'I am weary; go and tell
Jesus.'"

"He bade me come to him after supper," said Father Antonio. "I will
talk with him."

"Do so,--that is right," said two or three eager voices as the monk and
Agostino, having finished their repast, arose to be conducted to the
presence of the father.




CHAPTER XXI

THE ATTACK ON SAN MARCO


They found him in a large and dimly lighted apartment, sitting absorbed
in pensive contemplation before a picture of the Crucifixion by Fra
Angelico, which, whatever might be its naïve faults of drawing and
perspective, had an intense earnestness of feeling, and, though faded
and dimmed by the lapse of centuries, still stirs in some faint wise
even the practiced dilettanti of our day.

The face upon the cross, with its majestic patience, seemed to shed a
blessing down on the company of saints of all ages who were grouped by
their representative men at the foot. Saint Dominic, Saint Ambrose,
Saint Augustin, Saint Jerome, Saint Francis, and Saint Benedict were
depicted as standing before the Great Sacrifice in company with
the Twelve Apostles, the two Maries, and the fainting mother of
Jesus,--thus expressing the unity of the Church Universal in that
great victory of sorrow and glory. The painting was enclosed above by
a semicircular bordering composed of medallion heads of the Prophets,
and below was a similar medallion border of the principal saints and
worthies of the Dominican order. In our day such pictures are visited
by tourists with red guide-books in their hands, who survey them in the
intervals of careless conversation; but they were painted by the simple
artist on his knees, weeping and praying as he worked, and the sight
of them was accepted by like simple-hearted Christians as a perpetual
sacrament of the eye, by which they received Christ into their souls.

So absorbed was the father in the contemplation of this picture, that
he did not hear the approaching footsteps of the knight and monk. When
at last they came so near as almost to touch him, he suddenly looked
up, and it became apparent that his eyes were full of tears.

He rose, and, pointing with a mute gesture toward the painting, said,--

"There is more in that than in all Michel Angelo Buonarotti hath done
yet, though he be a God-fearing youth,--more than in all the heathen
marbles in Lorenzo's gardens. But sit down with me here. I have to come
here often, where I can refresh my courage."

The monk and knight seated themselves, the latter with his attention
riveted on the remarkable man before him. The head and face of
Savonarola are familiar to us by many paintings and medallions, which,
however, fail to impart what must have been that effect of his personal
presence which so drew all hearts to him in his day. The knight saw
a man of middle age, of elastic, well-knit figure, and a flexibility
and grace of motion which seemed to make every nerve, even to his
finger-ends, vital with the expression of his soul. The close-shaven
crown and the plain white Dominican robe gave a severe and statuesque
simplicity to the lines of his figure. His head and face, like those
of most of the men of genius whom modern Italy has produced, were so
strongly cast in the antique mould as to leave no doubt of the identity
of modern Italian blood with that of the great men of ancient Italy.
His low, broad forehead, prominent Roman nose, well-cut, yet fully
outlined lips, and strong, finely moulded jaw and chin, all spoke the
old Roman vigor and energy, while the flexible delicacy of all the
muscles of his face and figure gave an inexpressible fascination to
his appearance. Every emotion and changing thought seemed to flutter
and tremble over his countenance as the shadow of leaves over sunny
water. His eye had a wonderful dilating power, and when he was excited
seemed to shower sparks; and his voice possessed a surprising scale of
delicate and melodious inflections, which could take him in a moment
through the whole range of human feeling, whether playful and tender or
denunciatory and terrible. Yet, when in repose among his friends, there
was an almost childlike simplicity and artlessness of manner which drew
the heart by an irresistible attraction. At this moment it was easy to
see by his pale cheek and the furrowed lines of his face that he had
been passing through severe struggles; but his mind seemed stayed on
some invisible centre, in a solemn and mournful calm.

"Come, tell me something of the good works of the Lord in our Italy,
brother," he said, with a smile which was almost playful in its
brightness. "You have been through all the lowly places of the land,
carrying our Lord's bread to the poor, and repairing and beautifying
shrines and altars by the noble gift that is in you."

"Yes, father," said the monk; "and I have found that there are many
sheep of the Lord that feed quietly among the mountains of Italy, and
love nothing so much as to hear of the dear Shepherd who laid down His
life for them."

"Even so, even so," said the Superior, with animation; "and it is the
thought of these sweet hearts that comforts me when my soul is among
lions. The foundation standeth sure,--the Lord knoweth them that are
his."

"And it is good and encouraging," said Father Antonio, "to see the
zeal of the poor, who will give their last penny for the altar of the
Lord, and who flock so to hear the word and take the sacraments. I have
had precious seasons of preaching and confessing, and have worked in
blessedness many days restoring and beautifying the holy pictures and
statues whereby these little ones have been comforted. What with the
wranglings of princes and the factions and disturbances in our poor
Italy, there be many who suffer in want and loss of all things, so that
no refuge remains to them but the altars of our Jesus, and none cares
for them but He."

"Brother," said the Superior, "there be thousands of flowers fairer
than man ever saw that grow up in waste places and in deep dells
and shades of mountains; but God bears each one in his heart, and
delighteth Himself in silence with them: and so doth He with these
poor, simple, unknown souls. The True Church is not a flaunting queen
who goes boldly forth among men displaying her beauties, but a veiled
bride, a dove that is in the cleft of the rocks, whose voice is known
only to the Beloved. Ah! when shall the great marriage-feast come, when
all shall behold her glorified? I had hoped to see the day here in
Italy: but now"--

The father stopped, and seemed to lapse into unconscious musing,--his
large eye growing fixed and mysterious in its expression.

"The brothers have been telling me somewhat of the tribulations you
have been through," said Father Antonio, who thought he saw a good
opening to introduce the subject nearest his heart.

"No more of that!--no more!" said the Superior, turning away his head
with an expression of pain and weariness, "rather let us look up. What
think you, brother, are all these doing now?" he said, pointing
to the saints in the picture. "They are all alive and well, and see
clearly through our darkness." Then, rising up, he added, solemnly,
"Whatever man may say or do, it is enough for me to feel that my
dearest Lord and his blessed Mother and all the holy archangels, the
martyrs and prophets and apostles, are with me. The end is coming."

"But, dearest father," said Antonio, "think you the Lord will suffer
the wicked to prevail?"

"It may be for a time," said Savonarola. "As for me, I am in His hands
only as an instrument. He is master of the forge and handles the
hammer, and when He has done using it He casts it from Him. Thus He
did with Jeremiah, whom He permitted to be stoned to death when his
preaching mission was accomplished; and thus He may do with this
hammer when He has done using it."

At this moment a monk rushed into the room with a face expressive of
the utmost terror, and called out,--

"Father, what shall we do? The mob are surrounding the convent! Hark!
hear them at the doors!"

In truth, a wild, confused roar of mingled shrieks, cries, and blows
came in through the open door of the apartment; and the pattering sound
