enthusiastic, they almost make you think as they do. I think there is
great power in enthusiasm."
"Is Mr. Rhys enthusiastic?"
"O I don't know, my dear,--I don't know what you would call it; I am
not a philosopher; but he is very fond of ferns himself. He is a very
fine man. He is a great deal too good to go and throw himself away."
"Is that what he is going to do?"
"Why yes, my dear; that is what I should call it. It is a great deal
more than that. I never can remember the place; but it is the most
dreadful place, I do suppose, that ever was heard of. I never heard of
such a place. They do every horrible thing there--my dear, the accounts
make your blood creep. I think Mr. Rhys is a great deal too valuable a
man to be lost there, among such a set of creatures--they are more like
devils than men. And Eleanor," said Miss Broadus, looking round to see
that nobody was within hearing of her communication,--"you have no idea
what a pleasant man he is. I asked him to tea with Juliana and me--you
know one must be kind and neighbourly at any rate--and he has no
friends here; I sometimes wonder if he has any anywhere; but he came to
tea, and he was as agreeable as possible. He was really excellent
company, and very well behaved. I think Juliana quite fell in love with
him; but I tell her it's no use; she never would go off to that
dreadful place with him."
And Miss Broadus laughed a laugh of simple amusement; Miss Juliana
being, though younger than herself, still very near the age of an old
lady. They kept the light-hearted simplicity of young years, however,
in a remarkable degree; and so had contrived to dispense with wrinkles
on their fresh old faces.
"Where is that place, Miss Broadus?"
"My dear, I never can remember the name of it. They do say the country
is beautiful, and the fruit, and all that; it is described to be a
beautiful place, where, as Heber's hymn says, 'only man is vile.' But
he is as vile as he can be, there. And I am sure Mr. Rhys would be a
great loss at Wiglands. My dear, how pleasant it would be, I said to
Juliana this morning, how pleasant it would be, if Mr. Rhys were only
in the Church, and could help good Dr. Cairnes. 'Tisn't likely they
will let him live long out there, if he goes."
"When is he going?"
"O I don't know when, my dear; he is waiting for something. And I never
can remember the name of the place; if a word has many syllables I
cannot keep them together in my memory; only I know the vegetables
there grow to an enormous size, and as if that wasn't enough, men
devour each other. It seems like an abusing the gifts of providence,
don't it? But there is nothing they do not abuse. I am afraid they will
abuse poor Mr. Rhys. And his boys would miss him very much, and I am
sure we all should. I have got quite acquainted with him, seeing him
here; and now Juliana has taken a fancy to ask him to our cottage--and
I have come to quite like him. What a different looking man he is from
Mr. Carlisle--now look at them talking together!--"
"Where did you learn all this, Miss Broadus? did Mr. Rhys tell you?"
"No, my dear; he never will talk about it or about himself. He lent me
a pamphlet or something.--Mr. Rhys is the tallest--but Mr. Carlisle is
a splendid looking man,--don't you think so, Eleanor?"
Miss Broadus's energetic whisper Eleanor thought fit to ignore, though
she did not fail to note the contrast which a moment's colloquy between
the two men presented. There was little in common between them; between
the marked features and grave keen expression of the one face, and the
cool, bright, somewhat supercilious eye and smile of the other. There
was power in both faces, Eleanor thought, of different kinds; and power
is attractive. Her eye was held till they parted from each other. Two
very different walks in life claimed the two men; so much Eleanor could
see. For some time after she was obliged to attend exclusively to that
walk of life which Mr. Carlisle represented, and to look at the views
he brought forward for her notice.
They were not so engrossing, however, that Eleanor entirely forgot the
earlier conversation of the afternoon or the question which had
troubled her. The evening had been baffling. She had not had a word
with Mr. Rhys, and he had disappeared long since from the party. So had
Dr. Cairnes. There was no more chance of talk upon that subject
to-night; and Eleanor feeling very feeble still, thought best to cut
short Mr. Carlisle's enjoyment of other subjects for the evening. She
left the company, and slowly passed through the house, from room to
room, to get to her own. In the course of this progress she came to the
library. There, seated at one of the tables and bending over a volume,
was Mr. Rhys. He jumped up as she passed through, and came forward with
extended hand and a word of kindly inquiry. His "good night" was so
genial, his clasp of her hand so frank and friendly, that instead of
going on, Eleanor stood still.
"Are you studying?"
"Your father has kindly given me liberty to avail myself of his
treasures here. My time is very scanty--I was tempted to seize the
moment that offered itself. It is a very precious privilege to me, and
one which I shall not abuse."
"Pray do not speak of abusing," said Eleanor; "nobody minds the books
here; I am glad they are good to anybody else.--I am interrupting you."
"Not at all!" said he, bringing up a great chair for her,--"or only
agreeably. Pray sit down--you are not fit to stand."
Eleanor however remained standing, and hesitating, for a moment.
"I wish you would tell me a little more about what we were talking of,"
she said with some effort.
"Do you feel your want of the helmet?" he said gravely.
"I feel that I haven't it," said Eleanor.
"What is it that you are conscious of wanting?"
She hesitated; it was a home question; and very unaccustomed to speak
of her secret thoughts and feelings to any one, especially on religious
subjects, which however had never occupied her before, Eleanor was
hardly ready to answer. Yet in the tones of the question there was a
certain quiet assurance and simplicity before which she yielded.
"I felt--a little while ago--when I was sick--that I was not exactly
safe."
Eleanor spoke, hesitating between every few words, looking down, and
falling her voice at the end. So she did not see the keen intentness of
the look that was fixed upon her.
"You felt that there was something wanting between you and God?"
"I believe so."
His accent was as deliberately clear as her's was hesitating. Every
word went into Eleanor's soul.
"Then you can understand now, that when one can say, joyfully, 'I know
that my Redeemer liveth';--when he is no vague abstraction, but felt to
be a Redeemer;--when one can say assuredly, he is my Redeemer; I
know he has bought back my soul from sin and from the punishment of
sin, which is death; I feel I am forgiven; and I know he liveth--my
Redeemer--and according to his promise lives to deliver me from every
evil and will preserve me unto his heavenly kingdom;--do you see, now,
that one who can say this has on his head the covering of an infinite
protection--an infinite shelter from both danger and fear?--a helmet,
placed on his head by his Lord's own hand, and of such heavenly temper
that no blows can break through it."
Eleanor was a little time silent, with downcast eyes.
"You do not mean to say, that this protection is against all evil; do
you? sickness and pain are evils are they not?"
"Not to him."
"Not to him?"
"No. The evil of them is gone. They can do him no harm; if they come,
they will do good. He that wears this helmet has absolutely no evil to
fear. All things shall work good to him. There shall no evil happen to
the just. Blessed be the Lord, who only doeth wondrous things!"
Eleanor stood silenced, humbled, convinced; till she recollected she
must not stand there so, and she lifted her eyes to bid good-night.
Then the face she met gave a new turn to her thoughts. It was a changed
face; such a light of pure joy and deep triumph shone over it, not
hiding nor hindering the loving care with which those penetrating eyes
were reading herself. It gave Eleanor a strange compression of heart;
it told her more than his words had done; it shewed her the very
reality of which he spoke. Eleanor went away overwhelmed.
"Mr. Rhys is a happy man!" she said to herself;--"happy, happy! I
wish,--I wish, I were as happy as he!"
CHAPTER IV.
IN THE SADDLE.
  "She has two eyes, so soft and brown,
  Take care!
  She gives a side-glance and looks down,
  Beware! beware!"
A few days more saw Eleanor restored to all the strength and beauty of
health which she had been accustomed to consider her natural
possession. And then--it is likely to be so--she was so happy in what
mind and body had, that she forgot her wish for what the spirit had
not. Or almost forgot it. Eleanor lived a very full life. It was no
dull languid existence that she dragged on from day to day; time
counted out none but golden pennies into her hand. Every minute was
filled with business or play, both heartily entered into, and pursued
with all the energy of a very energetic nature. Study, when she touched
it, was sweet to her; but Eleanor did not study much. Nature was an
enchanted palace of light and perfume. Bodily exertion, riding and
walking, was as pleasant to her as it is to a bird to use its wings.
Family intercourse, and neighbourly society, were nothing but pleasure.
Benevolent kindness, if it came in her way, was a labour of love; and a
hundred home occupations were greatly delighted in. They were not
generally of an exalted character; Eleanor's training and associations
had not led her into any very dignified path of human action; she had
led only a butterfly's life of content and pleasure, and her character
was not at all matured; but the capabilities were there; and the energy
and will that might have done greater things, wrought beautiful
embroidery, made endless fancy work, ordered well such part of the
household economy as was committed to her, carried her bright smile
into every circle, and made Eleanor's foot familiar with all the
country where she could go alone, and her pony's trot well known in
every lane and roadway where she could go with his company.
All these enjoyments of her life were taken with new relish and zeal
after her weeks of illness had laid her aside from them. Eleanor's
world was brighter than ever. And round about all of these various
enjoyments now, circling them with a kind of halo of expectancy or
possibility, was the consciousness of a prospect that Eleanor knew was
opening before her--a brilliant life-possession that she saw Fortune
offering to her with a gracious hand. Would Eleanor take it? That
Eleanor did not quite know. Meanwhile her eyes could not help looking
that way; and her feet, consciously or unconsciously, now and then made
a step towards it.
She and her mother were sitting at work one morning--that is to say,
Eleanor was drawing and Mrs. Powle cutting tissue paper in some very
elaborate way, for some unknown use or purpose; when Julia dashed in.
She threw a bunch of bright blue flowers on the table before her sister.
"There," she said--"do you know what that is?"
"Why certainly," said Eleanor. "It is borage."
"Well, do you know what it means?"
"What it means? No. What does any flower mean?"
"I'll tell you what this means"--said Julia.
"I, borage Bring courage."
"That is what people used to think it meant."
"How do you know that."
"Mr. Rhys says so. This borage grew in Mrs. Williams's garden; and I
dare say she believes it."
"Who is Mrs. Williams?"
"Why!--she's the old woman where Mr. Rhys lives; he lives in her
cottage; that's where he has his school. He has a nice little room in
her cottage, and there's nobody else in the cottage but Mrs. Williams."
"Do, Julia, carry your flowers off, and do not be so hoydenish," said
Mrs. Powle.
"We have not seen Mr. Rhys here in a great while, mamma," said Eleanor.
"I wonder what has become of him."
"I'll tell you," said Julia--"he has become not well. I know Mr. Rhys
is sick, because he is so pale and weak. And I know he is weak, because
he cannot walk as he used to do. We used to walk all over the hills;
and he says he can't go now."
"Mamma, it would be right to send down and see what is the matter with
him. There must be something. It is a long time--mamma, I think it is
weeks--since he was at the Lodge."
"Your father will send, I dare say," said Mrs. Powle, cutting her
tissue paper.
"Mamma, did you hear," said Eleanor as Julia ran off, "that Mr. Rhys
was going to leave Wiglands and bury himself in some dreadful place,
somewhere?"
"I heard so."
"What place is it?"
"I can't tell, I am sure. It is somewhere in the South Seas, I
believe--that region of horrors."
"Is it true he is going there, mamma?"
"I am sure I can't tell. Miss Broadus says so; and she says, I believe,
he told her so himself. If he did, I suppose it is true."
"Mamma, I think Mr. Rhys is a great deal too fine a man to go and lose
his life in such a place. Miss Broadus says it is horrible. Do you know
anything about it?"
"I have no taste for horrors," said Mrs. Powle.
"I think it is a great pity," Eleanor repeated. "I am sorry. There is
enough in England for such a man to do, without going to the South
Seas. I wonder how anybody can leave England!"
Mrs. Powle looked up at her daughter and laughed. Eleanor had suspended
her drawing and was sending a loving gaze out of the open window, where
nature and summer were revelling in their conjoined riches. Art shewed
her hand too, stealthily, having drawn out of the way of the others
whatever might encumber the revel. Across a wide stretch of wooded and
cultivated country, the eye caught the umbrageous heights on the
further side of the valley of the Ryth. Eleanor's gaze was fixed. Mrs.
Powle's glance was sly.
"I should like to ask your opinion of another place," she
said,--"which, being in England, is not horrible. You see that bit of
brown mason-work, high away there, peeping out above the trees in the
distance?--You know what house that is?"
"Certainly."
"What is it?"
"It is the Priory. The new Priory, it ought to be called; I am sure the
old one is down there in the valley yet--beneath it." But Eleanor's
colour rose.
"What do you think of that place?"
"Considering that the old priory and its grounds belong to it, I think
it must be one of the loveliest places in England."
"I should like to see it in your possession--" Mrs. Powle remarked,
going on with her tissue paper.
Eleanor also went on assiduously with her drawing, and her colour
remained a rich tint. But she went on frankly with her words too.
"I am not sure, mamma, that I like the owner of it well enough to
receive such a valuable gift from him."
"He likes you, quite well enough to bestow it on you, without asking
any questions," said Mrs. Powle. "He hardly thinks it is worth having,
unless you have it too."
"That is inconvenient," said Eleanor.
"It strikes me the other way," said her mother.
"How do you know this, which you affirm so securely, mamma?"
"How should I know it? The person in question told me himself."
"Told you in so many words?"
"No, in a great many more," said Mrs. Powle laughing. "I have merely
presented a statement. He had a great deal more to do than that."
The tissue paper rustled quietly for some time after this, and
Eleanor's pencil could be heard making quick marks. Neither lady
interrupted the other.
"Well, Eleanor,--how does it seem to you?" began the elder lady, in a
tone of quiet satisfaction.
"Inconvenient, mamma,--as I said."
"How?"
But Eleanor did not say how.
"Mr. Carlisle will be here for his answer this evening."
"I like him very well, mamma," said Eleanor, after another pause,--"but
I do not like him enough."
"Nonsense! You would like to be Lady Rythdale, wouldn't you?"
The silence which followed this was longer than that which had been
before. Knife and pencil pursued their work, but Mrs. Powle glancing up
furtively from her tissue paper saw that Eleanor's brow was knitted and
that her pencil was moving under the influence of something besides
Art. So she let her alone for a long time. And Eleanor's fancy saw a
vision of fairy beauty and baronial dignity before her. They lay in the
wide domains and stately appendages of Rythdale Priory. How could she
help seeing it? The vision floated before her with point after point of
entrancing loveliness, old history, present luxury, hereditary rank and
splendour, and modern power. It was like nothing in Eleanor's own home.
Her father, though a comfortable country gentleman, boasted nothing and
had nothing to boast in the way of ancestry, beyond a respectable
descent of several generations. His means, though ample enough for
comfort and reasonable indulgence, could make no pretensions to more.
And Ivy Lodge was indeed a pleasant home, and every field and hedgerow
belonging to it was lovely to Eleanor; but the broad manors of Rythdale
Priory for extent would swallow up many such, and for beauty and
dignity were as a damask rose to a bit of eglantine. Would Eleanor be
Lady Rythdale?
"He will be here this evening for his answer, Eleanor--" Mrs. Powle
remarked in a quiet voice the second time.
"Then you must give it to him, mamma."
"I shall do nothing of the kind. You must see him yourself. I will have
no such shifting of your work upon my shoulders."
"I do not wish to see him to-night, mamma."
"I choose that you should. Don't talk any nonsense to me, Eleanor."
"But, mamma, if I am to give the answer, I am not ready with any answer
to give."
"Tell Mr. Carlisle so; and he will draw his own conclusions, and make
you sign them."
"I do not want to be made to sign anything."
"Do it of free-will then," said Mrs. Powle laughing. "It is coming,
Eleanor--one way or the other. If I were you, I would do it gracefully.
Is it a hard thing to be Lady Rythdale?"
Eleanor did not say, and nothing further passed on the subject; till as
both parties were leaving the room together, Mrs. Powle said
significantly,
"You must give your own answer, Eleanor, and to-night. I will have no
skulking."
It was beyond Mrs. Powle's power, however, to prevent skulking of a
certain sort. Eleanor did not hide herself in her room, but she left it
late in the afternoon, when she knew the company consisted of more than
one, and entered a tolerably well filled drawing-room. Mrs. Powle had
not wished to have it so, but these things do not arrange themselves
for our wishes. Miss Broadus was there, and Dr. Cairnes, and friends
who had come to make him and his sister a visit; and one or two other
neighbours. Eleanor came in without making much use of her eyes, and
sheltered herself immediately under the wing of Miss Broadus, who was
the first person she fell in with. Two pairs of eyes saw her entrance;
with oddly enough the same thought and comment. "She will make a lovely
Lady Rythdale." All the baronesses of that house had been famous for
their beauty, and the heir of the house remarked to himself that this
would prove not the least lovely of the race. However, Eleanor did not
even feel sure that he was there, he kept at such a distance; and she
engaged Miss Broadus in a conversation that seemed of interminable
resources. The sole thing that Eleanor was conscious of concerning it,
was its lasting quality; and to maintain that was her only care.
Would Eleanor be Lady Rythdale? she had made up her mind to nothing,
except, that it would be very difficult for her to say either yes or
no. Naturally enough, she dreaded the being obliged to say anything;
and was ready to seize every expedient to stave off the moment of
emergency. As long as she was talking to Miss Broadus, she was safe;
but conversations cannot last always, even when they flow in a stream
so full and copious as that in which the words always poured from that
lady's lips. Eleanor saw signs at last that the fountain was getting
exhausted; and as the next resort proposed a game of chess. Now a game
of chess was the special delight of Miss Broadus; and as it was the
detestation of her sister, Miss Juliana, the delight was seldom
realized. The two sisters were harmonious in everything except a few
tastes, and perhaps their want of harmony in those points gave their
life the variety it needed. At any rate, such an offer as Eleanor's was
rarely refused by the elder sister; and the two ladies were soon deep
in their business. One really, the other seemingly. Though indeed it is
true that Eleanor was heartily engaged to prevent the game coming to a
termination, and therefore played in good earnest, not for conquest but
for time. This had gone on a good while, before she was aware that a
footstep was drawing near the chess table, and then that Mr. Carlisle,
stood beside her chair.
"Now don't you come to help!" said Miss Broadus, with a thoughtful
face and a piece between her finger and thumb.
"Why not?"
"I know!" said Miss Broadus, never taking her eyes from the board which
held them as by a charm,--"I can play a sort of a game; but if you take
part against me, I shall be vanquished directly."
"Why should I take part against you?"
Miss Broadus at that laughed a good-humoured little simple laugh.
"Well"--she said, "it's the course of events, I suppose. I never find
anybody taking my part now-a-days. There! I am afraid you have made me
place that piece wrong, Mr. Carlisle. I wish you would be still. I
cannot fight against two such clever people."
"Do you find Miss Powle clever?"
"I didn't know she was, so much, before," said Miss Broadus, "but she
has been playing like a witch this evening. There Eleanor--you are in
check."
Eleanor was equal to that emergency, and relieved her king from danger
with a very skilful move. She could keep her wits, though her cheek was
high-coloured and her hand had a secret desire to be nervous. Eleanor
would not let it; and Mr. Carlisle admired the very pretty fingers
which paused quietly upon the chess-men.
"Do not forget a proper regard for the interests of the church, Miss
Broadus," he remarked.
"Why, I never do!" said Miss Broadus. "What do you mean? Oh, my
bishop!--Thank you, Mr. Carlisle."
Eleanor did not thank him, for the bishop's move shut up her play in a
corner. She did her best, but her king's resources were cut off; and
after a little shuffling she was obliged to surrender at discretion.
Miss Broadus arose, pleased, and reiterating her thanks to Mr.
Carlisle, and walked away; as conscious that her presence was no more
needed in that quarter.
"Will you play with me?" said Mr. Carlisle, taking the chair Miss
Broadus had quitted.
"Yes," said Eleanor, glad of anything to stave off what she dreaded;
"but I am not--"
"I am no match for you," she was going to say. She stopped suddenly and
coloured more deeply.
"What are you not?" asked the gentleman, slowly setting his pawns.
"I am not a very good player. I shall hardly give you amusement."
"I am not sorry for that--supposing it true. I do not like to see women
good chess-players."
"Pray why do you not like it?"
"Chess is a game of planning--scheming--contriving--calculating. Women
ought not to be adepts in those arts. I hate women that are."
He glanced up as he spoke, at the fair, frank lines of the face
opposite him. No art to scheme was shewn in them; there might be
resolution; he liked that. He liked it too that the fringe of the eyes
drooped over them, and that the tint of the cheek was so very rich.
"But they say, no one can equal a woman in scheming and planning, if
she takes to it," said Eleanor.
"Try your skill," said he. "It is your move."
The game began, and Eleanor tried to make good play; but she could not
bring to it the same coolness or the same acumen that had fought with
Miss Broadus. The well-formed, well-knit hand with the coat sleeve
belonging to it, which was all of her adversary that came under her
observation, distracted Eleanor's thoughts; she could not forget whose
it was. Very different from the weak flexile fingers of Miss Broadus,
with their hesitating movement and doubtful pauses, these did their
work and disappeared; with no doubt or hesitancy of action, and with
agile firmness in every line of muscle and play. Eleanor shewed very
poor skill for her part, at planning and contriving on this occasion;
and she had a feeling that her opponent might have ended the game many
a time if he had chosen it. Still the game did not end. It was a very
silent one.
"You are playing with me, Mr. Carlisle," she said at length.
"What are you doing with me?"
"Making no fight at all; but that is because I cannot. Why don't you
conquer me and end the game?"
"How can I?"
"I am sure I don't know; but I believe you do. It is all a muddle to
me; and not a very interesting piece of confusion to you, I should
think."
He did not answer that, but moved a piece; Eleanor made the answering
move; and the next step created a lock. The game could go no further.
Eleanor began to put up the pieces, feeling worsted in more ways than
one. She had not dared to raise her eyes higher than that coat-sleeve;
and she knew at the same time that she herself had been thoroughly
overlooked. Those same fingers came now helping her to lay the
chess-men in the box, ordering them better than she did.
"I want to shew you some cottages I have been building beyond Rythdale
tower," said the owner of the fingers. "Will you ride with me to-morrow
to look at them?"
He waited for her answer, which Eleanor hesitated to give. But she
could not say no, and finally she gave a low yes. Her yes was so low,
it was significant; Eleanor knew it; but Mr. Carlisle went on in the
same tone.
"At what hour? At eleven?"
"That will do," said Eleanor, after hesitating again.
"Thank you."
He went on, taking the chess-men from her fingers as fast as she
gathered them up, and bestowing them in the box after a leisurely
manner; then rose and bowed and took his departure. Eleanor saw that he
did not hold any communication with her mother on his way out; and in
dread of Mrs. Powle's visitation of curiosity upon herself, she too
made as quick and as quiet an escape as possible to her own room. There
locked the door and walked the floor to think.
In effect she had given her answer, by agreeing to ride; she knew it.
She knew that Mr. Carlisle had taken it so, even by the slight freedom
with which his fingers touched hers in taking the chess-men from them.
It was a very little thing; and yet Eleanor could never recall the
willing contact of those fingers, repeated and repeated, without a
thrill of feeling that she had committed herself; that she had given
the end of the clue into Mr. Carlisle's hand, which duly wound up would
land her safe enough, mistress of Rythdale Priory. And was she
unwilling to be that? No--not exactly. And did she dislike Rythdale
Priory's master, or future master? No, not at all; nevertheless,
Eleanor did not feel quite willing to have him hers just yet; she was
not ready for that; and she chafed at feeling that the end of that clue
was in the hand of her chess-playing antagonist, and alternatives
pretty well out of her power. An alternative Eleanor would have liked.
She would have liked the play to have gone on for some time longer,
leaving her her liberty in all kinds; liberty to make up her mind at
leisure, among other things. She was not just now eager to be mistress
of anything but herself.
Eleanor watched for her mother's coming, but Mrs. Powle was wiser. She
had marked the air of both parties on quitting the drawing-room; and
though doubtless she would have liked a little word revelation of what
she desired to know, she was content to leave things in train. She
judged that Mr. Carlisle could manage his own affairs, and went to bed
well satisfied; while Eleanor, finding that her mother was not coming,
at last laid herself also down to rest, with a mixed feeling of
pleasure and pain in her heart, but vexation towering above all. It
would have been vexation still better grown, if she had known the hint
her mother had given Mr. Carlisle, when that evening he had applied to
her for what news she had for him? Mrs. Powle referred him very
smilingly to Eleanor to learn it; at the same time telling him that
Eleanor had been allowed to run wild--like her sister Julia--till now
she was a little wilful and needed taming.
She looked the character sufficiently well when she came down the next
morning. The colour on her cheek was raised yet, and rich; and
Eleanor's beautiful lips did not unbend to their brilliant mischievous
smile. She was somewhat quick and nervous too about her household
arrangements and orders, which yet Eleanor did not neglect. It was time
then to dress for her ride; and Eleanor dressed, not hurriedly but
carefully, between pleasure and irritation. By what impulse she could
not have told, she pulled the feather from her riding cap. It was a
long, jaunty black feather, that somewhat shaded and softened her face
in riding with its floating play. Her cap now, and her whole dress, was
simplicity itself; but if Eleanor had meant to cheat Mr. Carlisle of
some pleasure, she had misjudged and lost her aim; the close little
unadorned cap but shewed the better her beautiful hair and a face and
features which nobody that loved them could wish even shaded from view.
Mrs. Powle had maintained a discreet silence all the morning;
nevertheless Eleanor was still afraid that she might come to ask
questions, and not enduring to answer them, as soon as her toilet was
finished she fled from her room into the garden. This garden, into
which the old schoolroom opened, was Eleanor's particular property. No
other of the family were ever to be found in it. She had arranged its
gay curves and angles, and worked in it and kept it in great part
herself. The dew still hung on the leaves; the air of a glorious summer
morning was sweet with the varied fragrance of the flowers. Eleanor's
heart sprung for the dear old liberty she and the garden had had
together; she went lingeringly and thoughtfully among her petunias and
carnations, remembering how joyous that liberty had been; and yet--she
was not willing to say the word that would secure it to her. She roved
about among the walks, picking carnations in one hand and gathering up
her habit with the other. So her little sister found her.
"Why Eleanor!--are you going to ride with Mr. Carlisle?"
"Yes."
"Well he has come--he is waiting for you. He has brought the most
splendid black horse for you that you ever saw; papa says she is
magnificent."
"I ordered my pony"--said Eleanor.
"Well the pony is there, and so is the black horse. O such a beauty,
Eleanor! Come."
Eleanor would not go through the house, to see her mother and father by
the way. Instinctively she sheered off by the shrubbery paths, which
turning and winding at last brought her out upon the front lawn. On the
whole a more marked entrance upon the scene the young lady could not
have contrived. From the green setting of the shrubbery her excellent
figure came out to view, in its dark riding drapery; and carnations in
one hand, her habit in the other, she was a pleasant object to several
pairs of eyes that were watching her; Julia having done them the kind
office to say which way she was coming.
Of them all, however, Eleanor only saw Mr. Carlisle, who was on the
ground to meet her. Perhaps he had as great an objection to eyes as she
had; for his removal of his cap in greeting was as cool as if she had
been a stranger; and so were his words.
"I have brought Black Maggie for you--will you do me the honour to try
her?"
Eleanor did not say she would not, and did not say anything. Hesitation
and embarrassment were the two pleasant feelings which possessed her
and forbade her to speak. She stood before the superb animal, which
shewed blood in every line of its head and beautiful frame; and looked
at it, and looked at the ground. Mr. Carlisle gently removed the
carnations from her hand, taking them into his own, then gave her the
reins of Black Maggie and put her into the saddle. In another minute
they were off, and out of the reach of observation. But Eleanor had
felt again, even in that instant or giving into her fingers the reins
which he had taken from the groom, the same thing that she had felt
last night--the expression of something new between them. She was in a
very divided state of mind. She had not told him he might take that
tone with her.
"There are two ways to the head of the valley," said the subject of her
thoughts. "Shall we take the circuit by the old priory, or go by the
moor?"
"By the moor," said Eleanor.
There, for miles, was a level plain road; they could ride any pace, and
she could stave off talking. Accordingly, as soon as they got quit of
human habitations, Eleanor gave Black Maggie secretly to understand
that she might go as fast as she liked. Black Maggie apparently
relished the intimation, for she sprang forward at a rate Eleanor by
experience knew nothing of. She had never been quite so well mounted
before. As swiftly and as easily as if Black Maggie's feet had been
wings, they flew over the common. The air was fresh, the motion was
quite sufficient to make it breezy; Eleanor felt exhilarated. All the
more because she felt rebellious, and the stopping Mr. Carlisle's mouth
was at least a gratification, though she could not leave him behind. He
had not mounted her better than himself. Fly as Black Maggie would, her
brown companion was precisely at her side. Eleanor had a constant sense
of that; but however, the ride was so capital, the moor so wild, the
summer air so delicious, that by degrees she began to grow soothed and
come down from rebellion to good humour. By and by, Black Maggie got
excited. It was with nothing but her own spirits and motion; quite
enough though to make hoofs still more emulous of wings. Now she flew
indeed. Eleanor's bridle rein was not sufficient to hold her in, or
make any impression. She could hardly see how they went.
"Is not this too much for you?" the voice of Mr. Carlisle said quietly.
"Rather--but I can't check her," said Eleanor; vexed to make the
admission, and vexed again when a word or two from the rider at her
side, who at the same moment leaned forward and touched Maggie's
bridle, brought the wild creature instantly not only from her mad
gallop but back to a very demure and easy trot. So demure, that there
was no longer any bar to conversation; but then Eleanor reflected she
could not gallop always, and they were almost off the plain road of the
moor. How beautiful the moor had been to her that morning! Now Eleanor
looked at Black Maggie's ears.
"How do you like her?" said Mr. Carlisle.
"Charming! She is perfection. She is delightful."
"She must learn to know her mistress," he rejoined, leaning forward
again and drawing Maggie's reins through his fingers. "Take her up a
little shorter--and speak to her the next time she does not obey you."
The flush rose to Eleanor's cheeks, and over her brow, and reddened her
very temples. She made no sort of answer, yet she knew silence was
answer, and that her blood was speaking for her. It was pretty
speaking, but extremely inconvenient. And what business had Mr.
Carlisle to take things for granted in that way? Eleanor began to feel
rebellious again.
"Do you always ride with so loose a rein?" began Mr. Carlisle again.
"I don't know--I never think about it. My pony is perfectly safe."
"So is Maggie--as to her feet; but in general, it is well to let
everything under you feel your hand."
"That is what you do, I have no doubt," thought Eleanor, and bit her
lip. She would have started into another gallop; but they were entering
upon a narrow and rough way where gallopping was inadmissible. It
descended gradually and winding among rocks and broken ground, to a
lower level, the upper part of the valley of the Ryth; a beautiful
clear little stream flowing brightly in a rich meadow ground, with
gently shelving, softly broken sides; the initiation of the wilder
scenery further down the valley. Here were the cottages Mr. Carlisle
had spoken of. They looked very picturesque and very inviting too;
standing on either side the stream, across which a rude rustic bridge
was thrown. Each cottage had its paling enclosure, and built of grey
rough stone, with deep sloping roofs and bright little casements, they
looked the very ideal of humble homes. No smoke rose from the chimneys,
and nobody was visible without or within.
"I want some help of you here," said Mr. Carlisle. "Do you like the
situation?"
"Most beautiful!" said Eleanor heartily. "And the houses are just the
thing."
"Will you dismount and look a little closer? We will cross the bridge
first."
They drew bridle before one of the cottages. Eleanor had all the mind
in the world to have thrown herself from Black Maggie's back, as she
was accustomed to do from her own pony; but she did not dare. Yesterday
she would have dared; to-day there was a slight indefinable change in
the manner of Mr. Carlisle towards herself, which cast a spell over
her. He stood beside Black Maggie, the carnations making a rosy spot in
the buttonhole of his white jacket, while he gave some order to the
groom--Eleanor did not hear what, for her mind was on something else;
then turned to her and took her down, that same indescribable quality
of manner and handling saying to all her senses that he regarded the
horse and the lady with the same ownership. Eleanor felt proud, and
vexed, and ashamed, and pleased; her mind divided between different
feelings; but Mr. Carlisle directed her attention now to the cottages.
It was impossible not to admire and be pleased with them. The exterior
was exceedingly homelike and pretty; within, there was yet more to
excite admiration. Nicely arranged, neatly and thoroughly furnished,
even to little details, they looked most desirable homes for any
persons of humble means, even though the tastes had not been equally
humble. From one to another Mr. Carlisle took Eleanor; displaying his
arrangements to a very silent observer; for though she thought all this
admiration, she hardly said anything. Between irritation, and pleasure,
and a pretty well-grown shyness, she felt very tongue-tied. At last,
after shewing her the view from the lattice of a nice little cottage
kitchen, Mr. Carlisle asked for her judgment upon what had been done.
"It is thoroughly excellent," said Eleanor. "They leave nothing to
wish. I have never seen such nice cottages. There is nobody in them
yet?"
"Is there any improvement to be made?"
"None to be desired, I think," said Eleanor. "They are just perfect
little homes. They only want the people now."
"And that is where I want your help. Do you think of any good families,
or poor people you approve of, that you would like to put in some of
these?"
Eleanor's thought flew instantly to two or three such families among
her poor friends; for she was a good deal of a Lady Bountiful, as far
as moderate means and large sympathy could go; and knew many of the
lower classes in her neighbourhood; but again she struggled with two
feelings, for the question had been put not in tone of compliment but
with a manner of simple consultation. She flushed and hesitated, until
it was put again.
"I know several, I think, that you would not dislike to have here, and
that would be very glad to come, Mr. Carlisle."
"Who are they?"
"One is Mrs. Benson, who lives on nothing with her family of eight
children, and brings them up well."
Mr. Carlisle took out his note-book.
"Another is Joe Shepherd and his wife; but they are an old couple;
perhaps you do not want old people here?"
He looked up from his note-book with a little smile, which brought the
blood tingling to Eleanor's brow again, and effectually drove away all
her ideas. She was very vexed with herself; she was never used to be so
troubled with blushing. She turned away.
"Suppose you sit down," said he, taking her hands and placing her in a
chair by the window. "You must have some refreshment, I think, before
we go any further." He left the cottage, and Eleanor looked out of the
open casement, biting her lips. The air came in with such a sweet
breath from the heathery moor, it seemed to blow vexation away. Yet
Eleanor was vexed. Here she was making admissions with every breath,
when she would fain have not made any. She wanted her old liberty, and
to dispose of it at her leisure if at all; and at least not to have it
taken from her. But here was Mr. Carlisle at her elbow again, and one
of his servants bringing dishes and glasses. The meats were spread on
the little table before which Eleanor sat, and Mr. Carlisle took
another chair.
"We will honour the house for once," he said smiling; "the future shall
be as the occupants deserve. Is this one to belong to some of your
protégés?"
"I have not the gift of foresight," said Eleanor.
"You have another sort of gift which will do quite as well. If you have
any choice, choose the houses in which Joe Shepherd, and Mrs. Benson,
and anybody else, shall thank you--and I will order the doors marked.
Which do you prefer?"
Eleanor was forced to speak. "I think this is one of the pleasantest
situations," she said flushing deeply again; "but the house highest up
the valley--"
"What of it?" said Mr. Carlisle, smiling at her.
"That would be best for Joe Shepherd, because of his business. It is
nearer the common."
"Joe Shepherd shall have it. Now will you do me the favour to eat
that," said he putting a piece of cold game on her plate. "Do not look
at it, but eat it. Your day's labour is by no means over."
It was easier to eat than to do nothing; and easier to look at her
plate than where her carnations gleamed on that white breast-ground. So
Eleanor eat obediently.
"The day is so uncommonly fine, how would you like to walk down the
valley as far as the old priory, and let the horses meet us there?"
"I am willing"--said Eleanor. Which she was, only because she was
