"I think it be a palace of beauty," she said,--"for Jesus is here."
Daisy looked, a little wondering but entirely respectful; the whole
aspect of Juanita commanded that.
"Does my little lady know, that the presence of the King makes a poor
house fine?"
"I don't quite know what you mean," said Daisy humbly.
"Does my little lady know that the Lord Jesus loves his people?"
"Yes," said Daisy,--"I know it."
"But she know not much. When a poor heart say any time, 'Lord, I am all
thine!'--then the Lord comes to that heart and he makes it the house of
a King--for he comes there himself. And where Jesus is,--all is glory!
Do not my little lady read that in the Bible?"
"I don't remember"--said Daisy.
The woman got up, went into the cottage, and brought out a large print
Testament which she put into Daisy's hands, open at the fourteenth
chapter of John. Daisy read with curious interest the words to which she
was directed.
"Jesus answered and said unto him, If a man love me, he will keep my
words: and my Father will love him, and we will come unto him and make
our abode with him."
Daisy looked at the promise, with her heart beating under troublesome
doubts; when the voice of Juanita broke in upon them by saying,
tenderly,
"Does my little lady keep the Lord's words?"
Down went the book, and the tears rushed into Daisy's eyes.
"Don't call me so," she cried,--"I am Daisy Randolph;--and I do want to
keep his words!--and--I don't know how."
"What troubles my love?" said the woman, in low tones of a voice that
was always sweet. "Do not she know what the words of the Lord be?"
"Yes,"--said Daisy, hardly able to make herself understood,--"but--"
"Then do 'em," said Juanita. "The way is straight. What he say, do."
"But suppose----" said Daisy.
"Suppose what? What do my love suppose?"
"Wouldn't it make it right, if it would do a great deal of good?"
This confused sentence Juanita pondered over.
"What does my love mean?"
"If it would do a great deal of good--wouldn't that make it right to do
something?"
"Right to do something that the Lord say not do?"
"Yes."
"If you love Jesus, you not talk so," said Juanita sorrowfully. But that
made Daisy give way altogether.
"O I do love him!--I do love him!" she cried;--"but I don't know what to
do." And tears came in a torrent. Juanita was watchful and thoughtful.
When Daisy had very soon checked herself, she said in the same low,
gentle way in which she had before spoken, "What do the Lord say--to do
that some good thing,--or to keep his words?"
"To keep his words."
"Then keep 'em--and the Lord will do the good thing himself; that same
or another. He can do what he please; and he tell you, only keep his
words. He want you to shew you love him--and he tell you how."
Daisy sat quite still to let the tears pass away and the struggle in her
heart grow calm; then when she could safely she looked up. She met
Juanita's eye. It was fixed on her.
"Is the way straight now?" she asked. Daisy nodded, with a little bit of
a smile on her poor little lips.
"But there is trouble in the way?" said Juanita.
"Yes," said Daisy, and the old woman saw the eyes redden again.
"Has the little one a good friend at home to help?"
Daisy shook her head.
"Then let Jesus help. My little lady keep the Lord's words, and the
sweet Lord Jesus will keep her." And rising to her feet and clasping her
hands, where she stood, Juanita poured forth a prayer. It was for her
little visiter. It was full of love. It was full of confidence too; and
of such clear simplicity as if, like Stephen, she had seen the heavens
open. But the loving strength of it won Daisy's heart; and when the
prayer was finished she came close to the old woman and threw her arms
round her as she stood, and wept with her face hid in Juanita's dress.
Yet the prayer had comforted her too, greatly. And though Daisy was very
shy of intimacies with strangers, she liked to feel Juanita's hand on
her shoulder; and after the paroxysm of tears was past, she still stood
quietly by her, without attempting to increase the distance between
them; till she saw Sam coming down the lane with the pony.
"Good bye," said Daisy, "there's the boy."
"My lady will come to see old Juanita again?"
"I am Daisy Randolph. I'll come,"--said the child, looking lovingly up.
Then she went down the slope to Sam.
"The blacksmith couldn't shoe him, Miss Daisy--he hadn't a shoe to fit.
He took off the old shoe--so Miss Daisy please not drive him hard home."
Daisy wanted nothing of the kind. To get home soon was no pleasure; so
she let Loupe take his own pace, anything short of walking; and it was
getting dusk when they reached Melbourne. Daisy was not glad to be
there. It was Friday night; the next day would be Saturday.
Mrs. Randolph came out into the hall to see that nothing was the matter,
and then went back into the drawing-room. Daisy got her dress changed,
and came there too, where the family were waiting for tea. She came in
softly and sat down by herself at a table somewhat removed from the
others, who were all busily talking and laughing. But presently Capt.
Drummond drew near and sat down at her side.
"Have you had a good drive, Daisy?"
"Yes, Capt. Drummond."
"We missed our history to-day, but I have been making preparations.
Shall we go into the Saxon Heptarchy to-morrow--you and I--and see if we
can get the kingdom settled?"
"If you please. I should like it very much."
"What is the matter with you, Daisy?"
Daisy lifted her wise little face, which indeed looked as if it were
heavy with something beside wisdom, towards her friend; she was not
ready with an answer.
"You aren't going to die on the field of battle yet, Daisy?" he said
half lightly, and half he knew not why. It brought a rush of colour to
the child's face; the self-possession must have been great which kept
her from giving way to further expression of feeling. She answered with
curious calmness,
"I don't think I shall, Capt. Drummond."
The Captain saw it was a bad time to get anything from her, and he moved
away. Preston came the next minute.
"Why Daisy," he whispered, drawing his chair close, "where have you been
all day? No getting a sight of you. What have you been about?"
"I have been to Crum Elbow this afternoon."
"Yes, and how late you stayed. Why did you?"
"Loupe lost a shoe. I had to wait for Sam to go to the blacksmith's with
him."
"Really. Did you wait in the road?"
"No. I had a place to wait."
"I dare say you are as hungry as a bear," said Preston. "Now here comes
tea--and waffles, Daisy; you shall have some waffles and cream. That
will make you feel better."
"Cream isn't good with waffles," said Daisy.
"Yes it is. Cream is good with everything. You shall try. I know! I am
always cross myself when I am hungry."
"I am not hungry, Preston; and I don't think I am cross."
"What are you, then? Come, Daisy,--here is a cup of tea, and here is a
waffle. First the sugar--there,--then the cream. So."
"You have spoiled it, Preston."
"Eat it--and confess you are hungry and cross too."
Daisy could have laughed, only she was too sore-hearted, and would
surely have cried. She fell to eating the creamed waffle.
"Is it good?"
"Very good!"
"Confess you are hungry and cross, Daisy."
"I am not cross. And Preston, please!--don't!" Daisy's fork fell; but
she took it up again.
"What is the matter, then, Daisy?"
Daisy did not answer; she went on eating as diligently as she could.
"Is it that foolish business of the song?" whispered Preston. "Is that
the trouble, Daisy?"
"Please don't, Preston!"--
"Well I won't, till you have had another waffle. Sugar and cream,
Daisy?"
"Yes."
"That's brave! Now eat it up--and tell me, Daisy, is that the trouble
with you?"
He spoke affectionately, as he almost always did to her; and Daisy did
not throw him off.
"You don't understand it, Preston," she said.
"Daisy, I told you my uncle and aunt would not like that sort of thing."
Daisy was silent, and Preston wondered at her. Mrs. Gary drew near at
this moment, and placed herself opposite Daisy's tea-cup, using her eyes
in the first place.
"What are you talking about?" said she.
"About Daisy's singing, ma'am."
"That's the very thing," said Mrs. Gary, "that I wanted to speak about.
Daisy, my dear, I hope you are going to sing it properly to your mother
the next time she bids you?"
Daisy was silent.
"I wanted to tell you, my dear," said Mrs. Gary impressively, "what a
poor appearance your refusal made, the other evening. You could not see
it for yourself; but it made you seem awkward, and foolish, and
ill-bred. I am sure everybody would have laughed, if it had not been for
politeness towards your mother; for the spectacle was ludicrous,
thoroughly. You like to make a graceful appearance, don't you?"
Daisy answered in a low voice,--"Yes, ma'am; when I can."
"Well you can, my dear, for your behaviour is generally graceful, and
unexceptionable; only the other night it was very rough and uncouth. I
expected you to put your finger in your mouth the next thing, and stand
as if you had never seen anybody. And Daisy Randolph!--the heiress of
Melbourne and Cranford!"--
The heiress of Melbourne and Cranford lifted to her aunt's face a look
strangely in contrast with the look bent on her; so much worldly wisdom
was in the one, so much want of it in the other. Yet those steady grey
eyes were not without a wisdom, of their own; and Mrs. Gary met them
with a puzzled feeling of it.
"Do you understand me, Daisy, my dear?"
"Yes, ma'am."
"Do you see that it is desirable never to look ridiculous, and well-bred
persons never do?"
"Yes, aunt Gary."
"Then I am sure you won't do it again. It would mortify me for your
father and mother."
Mrs. Gary walked away. Daisy looked thoughtful.
"Will you do it, Daisy?" whispered Preston.
"What?"
"Will you sing the song for them next time? You will, won't you?"
"I'll do what I can"--said Daisy. But it was said so soberly, that
Preston was doubtful of her. However he, like Capt. Drummond, had got to
the end of his resources for that time; and seeing his uncle approach,
Preston left his seat.
Mr. Randolph took it and drew Daisy from her own to a place in his arms.
He sat then silent a good while, or talking to other people; only
holding her close and tenderly. Truth to tell, Mr. Randolph was a little
troubled about the course things were taking; and Daisy and her father
were a grave pair that evening.
Daisy felt his arms were a pleasant shield between her and all the
world; if they might only keep round her! And then she thought of
Juanita's prayer, and of the invisible shield, of a stronger and more
loving arm, that the Lord Jesus puts between his children and all real
harm.
At last Mr. Randolph bent down his head and brought his lips to Daisy's,
asking her if she had had a nice time that afternoon.
"Very, papa!" said Daisy gratefully; and then added after a little
hesitation, "Papa, do you know old Juanita?--Mrs. St. Leonard's woman,
that Mr. St. Leonard built a little house for?"
"I do not know her. I believe I have heard of her."
"Papa, would you let me go into her house? She has some beautiful
shells that I should like to see."
"How do you know?"
"I saw them, papa, through the doorway of her house, I waited there
while Sam went with Loupe to the blacksmith's."
"And you did not go in?"
"No, sir--you said I must not, you know."
"I believe Juanita is a safe person, Daisy. You may go in, if ever you
have another opportunity."
"Thank you, papa."
"What are you going to do with the hundred dollars?" said Mr. Randolph,
putting his head down and speaking softly.
Daisy waited a minute, checked the swelling of her heart, forbade her
tears, steadied her voice to speak; and then said, "I sha'n't have them,
papa."
"Why not?"
"I can't fulfil the conditions." Daisy spoke again after waiting a
minute.
"Don't you mean to sing?"
Every time Daisy waited.--"I can't, papa."
"Your mother will require it."
Silence, only Mr. Randolph saw that the child's breath went and came
under excitement.
"Daisy, she will require it."
"Yes, papa"--was said rather faintly.
"And I think you must do it."
No response from Daisy; and no sign of yielding.
"How do you expect to get over it?"
"Papa, won't you help me?" was the child's agonized cry. She hid her
face in her father's breast.
"I have tried to help you. I will give you what will turn your fancied
wrong deed into a good one. It is certainly right to do charitable
things on Sunday."
There was silence, and it promised to last some time. Mr. Randolph would
not hurry her: and Daisy was thinking, "If ye love me, keep my
commandments." "If ye love me"--
"Papa,"--said she at last, very slowly, and pausing between her
words,--"would you be satisfied,--if I should disobey you--for a hundred
dollars?"
This time it was Mr. Randolph that did not answer, and the longer he
waited the more the answer did not come. He put Daisy gently off his
knee and rose at last without speaking. Daisy went out upon the verandah
and sat down on the step; and there the stars seemed to say to her--"If
a man love me, he will keep my words." They were shining very bright; so
was that saying to Daisy. She sat looking at them, forgetting all the
people in the drawing-room; and though troubled enough, she was not
utterly unhappy. The reason was, she loved her King.
Somebody came behind her and took hold of her shoulders. "My dear little
Daisy!" said the voice of Preston, "I wish you were an India-rubber
ball, that I might chuck you up to the sky and down again a few times!"
"Why? I don't think it would be nice."
"Why?--why because you want shaking; you are growing dull,--yes,
absolutely you are getting heavy! you, little Daisy! of all people in
the world. It won't do."
"I don't think such an exercise would benefit me," said Daisy.
"I'd find something else then. Daisy, Daisy," said he, shaking her
shoulders gently, "this religious foolery is spoiling you. Don't you
go and make yourself stupid. Why I don't know you. What is all this
ridiculous stuff? You aren't yourself."
"What do you want me to do, Preston?" said Daisy standing before him,
not without a certain childish dignity. It was lost on him.
"I want you to be my own little Daisy," said he coaxingly. "Come!--say
you will, and give up these outlandish notions you have got from some
old woman or other. What is it they want you to do?--sing?--Come,
promise you will. Promise me!"
"I will sing any day but Sunday."
"Sunday? Now Daisy! I'm ashamed of you. Why I never heard such nonsense.
Nobody has such notions but low people. It isn't sensible. Give it up,
Daisy, or I shall not know how to love you."
"Good night, Preston"--
"Daisy, Daisy! come and kiss me and be good."
"Good night"--repeated Daisy without turning; and she walked off.
It half broke June's heart that night to see that the child's eyes were
quietly dropping tears all the while she was getting undressed.
Preston's last threat had cut very close. But Daisy said not a word; and
when, long after June had left her, she got into bed and lay down, it
was not Preston's words but the reminder of the stars that was with her
and making harmony among all her troubled thoughts--"If a man love me,
he will keep my words."
CHAPTER XIV.
In spite of the burden that lay on Daisy's heart, she and Capt. Drummond
had a good time the next morning over the Saxon Heptarchy. They went
down to the shore for it, at Daisy's desire, where they would be
undisturbed; and the morning was hardly long enough. The Captain had
provided himself with a shallow tray filled with modelling clay; which
he had got from an artist friend living a few miles further up the
river. On this the plan of England was nicely marked out, and by the
help of one or two maps which he cut up for the occasion, the Captain
divided off the seven kingdoms greatly to Daisy's satisfaction and
enlightenment. Then, how they went on with the history! introduced
Christianity, enthroned Egbert, and defeated the Danes under Alfred.
They read from, the book, and fought it all out on the clay plan, as
they went along. At Alfred they stopped a good while, to consider the
state of the world in the little island of Britain at that time. The
good king's care for his people, his love for study and encouragement of
learning; his writing fables for the people; his wax candles to mark
time; his building with brick and stone; his founding the English navy,
and victories with the same; no less than his valour and endurance in
every time of trial; all these things Capt. Drummond whose father had
been an Englishman, duly enlarged upon, and Daisy heard them with greedy
ears. Truth to tell, the Captain had read up a little for the occasion,
being a good deal moved with sympathy for his little friend, who he saw
was going through a time of some trial. Nothing was to be seen of that
just now, indeed, other than the peculiarly soft and grave expression
which Daisy's face had worn all this week; and which kept reminding the
Captain to be sorry for her.
They got through with Alfred at last--by the way, the Captain had
effaced the dividing lines of the seven kingdoms and brought all to one
in Egbert's time--and now they went on with Alfred's successors. A place
was found on the sand for Denmark and Norway to shew themselves; and
Sweyn and Canute came over; and there was no bating to the interest with
which the game of human life went on. In short, Daisy and the Captain
having tucked themselves away in a nook of the beach and the tenth and
eleventh centuries, were lost to all the rest of the world and to the
present time; till a servant at last found them with the information
that the luncheon bell had rung, and Mrs. Randolph was ready to go out
with the Captain. And William the Conqueror had just landed at Hastings!
"Never mind, Daisy," said the Captain; "we'll go on with it, the next
chance we get."
Daisy thanked him earnestly, but the thought that Sunday must come and
go first, threw a shadow over her thanks. The Captain saw it; and walked
home thinking curiously about the "field of battle"--not Hastings.
Daisy did not go in to luncheon. She did not like meeting all the people
who felt so gay, while she felt so much trouble. Nor did she like being
with her mother, whose manner all the week had constantly reminded Daisy
of what Daisy never forgot. The rest of Saturday passed soberly away.
There was a cloud in the air.
And the cloud was high and dark Sunday morning, though it was as fair a
summer day as might be seen. Some tears escaped stealthily from Daisy's
eyes, as she knelt in the little church beside her mother; but the
prayers were deep and sweet and strong to her, very much. Sadly sorry
was Daisy when they were ended. The rest of the service was little to
her. Mr. Pyne did not preach like Mr. Dinwiddie; and she left the church
with a downcast heart, thinking that so much of the morning was past.
The rest of the day Daisy kept by herself, in her own room; trying to
get some comfort in reading and praying. For the dread of the evening
was strong upon her; every movement of her mother spoke displeasure and
determination. Daisy felt her heart beating gradually quicker and
quicker, as the hours of the day wore on.
"Ye ain't well, Miss Daisy,"--said June, who had come in as usual
without being heard.
"Yes I am, June," said Daisy. But she had started when the woman spoke,
and June saw that now a tear sprang.
"Did you eat a good lunch, Miss Daisy?"
"I don't know, June. I guess I didn't eat much."
"Let me bring you something!"--said the woman coaxingly--"some
strawberries, with some good cream to 'em."
"No--I can't, June--I don't want them. What o'clock is it?"
"It is just on to five, Miss Daisy."
Five! Daisy suddenly recollected her scholar, whom she had directed to
come to her at this hour. Jumping up she seized her hat and rushed off
down stairs and through the shrubbery, leaving June lost in wonder and
concern.
At a Belvidere, some distance from the house and nearer the gate, Daisy
had chosen to meet her pupil; and she had given orders at the Lodge to
have her guided thither when she should come. And there she was; Daisy
could see the red head of hair before she got to the place herself.
Hephzibah looked very much as she did on weekdays; her dress partially
covered with a little shawl; her bonnet she had thrown off; and if the
hair had been coaxed into any state of smoothness before leaving home,
it was all gone now.
"How do you do, Hephzibah?" said Daisy. "I am glad to see you."
Hephzibah smiled, but unless that meant a civil answer, she gave none.
Daisy sat down beside her.
"Do you know how to read, Hephzibah?"
The child first shook her shaggy head--then nodded it. What that meant,
Daisy was somewhat at a loss.
"Do you know your letters?"
Hephzibah nodded.
"What is that letter?"
Daisy had not forgotten to bring a reading book, and now put Hephzibah
through the alphabet, which she seemed to know perfectly, calling each
letter by its right name. Daisy then asked if she could read words; and
getting an assenting nod again, she tried her in that. But here
Hephzibah's education was defective; she could read indeed, after a
fashion; but it was a slow and stumbling fashion; and Daisy and she were
a good while getting through a page. Daisy shut the book up.
"Now Hephzibah," said she, "do you know anything about what is in the
Bible?"
Hephzibah shook her head in a manner the reverse of encouraging.
"Did you never read the Bible, nor have any one read it to you?"
Another shake.
Daisy thereupon began to tell her little neighbour the grand story which
concerned them both so nearly, making it as clear and simple as she
could. Hephzibah's eyes were fixed on her intently all the while; and
Daisy, greatly interested herself, wondered if any of the interest had
reached Hephzibah's heart, and made the gaze of her eyes so unwavering.
They expressed nothing. Daisy hoped, and went on, till at a pause
Hephzibah gave utterance to the first words (of her own) that she had
spoken during the interview. They came out very suddenly, like an
unexpected jet of water from an unused fountain.
"Mother says, you're the fus'ratest little girl she ever see!"
Daisy was extremely confounded. The thread of her discourse was so
thoroughly broken indeed, that she could not directly begin it again;
and in the minute of waiting she saw how low the sun was. She dismissed
Hephzibah. telling her to be at the Belvidere the same hour next
Sunday.
As the shaggy little red head moved away through the bushes, Daisy
watched it, wondering whether she had done the least bit of good. Then
another thought made her heart beat, and she turned again to see how low
the sun was. Instead of the sun she saw Gary McFarlane.
"Who is that, Daisy?" said he, looking after the disappearing red head.
"A poor little girl--" said Daisy.
"So I should think,--very poor!--looks so indeed! How came she here?"
"She came by my orders, Mr. McFarlane."
"By your orders! What have you got there, Daisy? Let's see! As sure as
I'm alive!--a spelling book. Keeping school, Daisy? Don't say no!"
Daisy did not say no, nor anything. She had taken care not to let Gary
get hold of her Bible; the rest she must manage as she could.
"This is benevolence!" went on the young man. "Teaching a spelling
lesson in a Belvidere with the thermometer at 90° in the shade? What
sinners all the rest of us are! I declare, Daisy, you make me feel bad."
"I should not think it, Mr. McFarlane."
"Daisy, you have à plomb enough for a princess, and gravity enough for
a Puritan! I should like to see you when you are grown up,--only then I
shall be an old man, and it will be of no consequence. What do you
expect to do with that little red head?--now do tell me."
"She don't know anything, Mr. McFarlane."
"No more don't I! Come Daisy--have pity on me. You never saw anybody
more ignorant than I am. There are half a dozen things at this moment
which I don't know--and which you can tell me. Come, will you?"
"I must go in, Mr. McFarlane."
"But tell me first. Come, Daisy! I want to know why is it so much
more wicked to sing a song than to make somebody else singsong?--for
that's the way they all do the spelling book, I know. Hey, Daisy?"
"How did you know anything about it, Mr. McFarlane?"
"Come, Daisy,--explain. I am all in a fog--or else you are. This
spelling book seems to me a very wicked thing on Sunday."
"I will take it, if you please, Mr. McFarlane."
"Not if I know it! I want my ignorance instructed, Daisy. I am persuaded
you are the best person to enlighten me--but if not, I shall try this
spelling book on Mrs. Randolph. I regard it as a great curiosity, and an
important question in metaphysics."
Poor Daisy! She did not know what to do; conscious that Gary was
laughing at her all the while, and most unwilling that the story of the
spelling book should get to Mrs. Randolph's ears. She stood hesitating
and troubled, when her eye caught sight of Preston near. Springing to
him she cried, "O Preston, get my little book from Mr. McFarlane--he
won't give it to me."
There began then a race of the most uproarious sort between the two
young men--springing, turning, darting round among the trees and bushes,
shouting to and laughing at each other. Daisy another time would have
been amused; now she was almost frightened, lest all this boisterous
work should draw attention. At last, however, Preston got the spelling
book, or Gary let himself be overtaken and gave it up.
"It's mischief, Preston!" he said;--"deep mischief--occult mischief. I
give you warning."
"What is it, Daisy?" said Preston. "What is it all about?"
"Never mind. Oh Preston! don't ask anything, but let me have it!"
"There it is then; but Daisy," he said affectionately, catching her in
his arms,--"you are going to sing to-night, aren't you?"
"Don't Preston--don't! let me go," cried Daisy struggling to escape from
him; and she ran away as soon as he let her, hardly able to keep back
her tears. She felt it very hard. Preston and Gary, and her mother and
her father,--all against her in different ways. Daisy kneeled down by
her window-sill in her own room, to try to get comfort and strength;
though she was in too great tumult to pray connectedly. Her little heart
was beating sadly. But there was no doubt at all in Daisy's mind as to
what she should do.--"If a man love me, he will keep my words." She
never questioned now about doing that.
The dreaded tea bell rang, and she went down; but utterly unable to eat
or drink through agitation. Nobody seemed to notice her particularly,
and she wandered out upon the verandah; and waited there. There
presently her father's arms came round her before she was aware.
"What are you going to do, Daisy?"
"Nothing, papa," she whispered.
"Are you not going to sing?"
"Papa, I can't!" cried Daisy dropping her face against his arm. Her
father raised it again and drawing her opposite one of the windows,
looked into the dark-ringed eyes and white face.
"You are not well," said he. "You are not fit to be up; and my orders to
you, Daisy, are to go immediately to bed. I'll send you some medicine by
and by. Good night!"
He kissed her, and Daisy needed no second bidding. She sprang away,
getting into the house by another door; and lost no time. Her fear was
that her mother might send for her before she could get undressed. But
no summons came; June was speedy, thinking and saying it was a very good
thing for Daisy to do; and then she went off and left her alone with the
moonlight. Daisy was in no hurry then. She knelt by her beloved window,
where the scent of the honeysuckle was strong in the dewy air; and with
a less throbbing heart prayed her prayer. But she was not at ease yet;
it was very uncertain in her mind how her mother would take this order
of her father's; and what would come after, if she was willing to let it
pass. So Daisy could not go to sleep, but lay wide awake and fearing in
the moonlight, and listening to every sound in the house that came to
her ears.
The moonlight shone in peacefully, and Daisy lying there and growing
gradually calmer, began to wonder in herself that there should be so
much difficulty made about anybody's doing right. If she had been set on
some wrong thing, it would have made but a very little disturbance--if
any; but now, when she was only trying to do right, the whole house was
roused to prevent her. Was it so in those strange old times that the
eleventh chapter of Hebrews told of?--when men, and women, were stoned,
and sawn asunder, and slain with the sword, and wandered like wild
animals in sheepskins and goatskins and in dens and caves of the earth?
all for the name of Jesus. But if they suffered once, they were happy
now. Better anything, at all events, than to deny that name!
The evening seemed excessively long to Daisy, lying there on her bed
awake, and listening with strained ears for any sound near her room. She
heard none; the hours passed, though so very slowly, as they do when all
the minutes are watched; and Daisy heard nothing but dim distant noises,
and grew pretty quiet. She had heard nothing else, when turning her head
from the moonlight window she caught the sight of a white figure at her
bedside; and by the noble form and stately proportions Daisy knew
instantly whose figure it was. Those soft flowing draperies had been
before her eyes all day. A pang shot through the child, that seemed to
go from the crown of her head to the soles of her feet.
"Are you awake, Daisy?"
"Yes, mamma," she said feebly.
"Get up. I want to speak to you."
Daisy got off the bed, and the white figure in the little night dress
stood opposite the other white figure, robed in muslin and laces that
fell around it like a cloud.
"Why did you come to bed?"
"Papa--papa ordered me."
"It's all the same. If you had not come to bed, Daisy if you had been
well,--would you have sung when I ordered you to-night?"
Daisy hesitated, and then said in a whisper:
"No, mamma--not that."
"Think before you answer me, for I shall not ask twice. Will you promise
to sing the gypsy song, because I command you, next Sunday in the
evening? Answer, Daisy."
Very low it was, for Daisy trembled so that she did not know how she
could speak at all, but the answer came,--
"I can't, mamma."
Mrs. Randolph stepped to the bell and rang it. Almost at the same
instant June entered, bearing a cup in her hand.
"What is that?" said Mrs. Randolph.
"Master sent Miss Daisy some medicine."
"Set it down. I have got some here better for her. June, take Daisy's
hands."
"Oh mamma, no!" exclaimed Daisy. "Oh please send June away!"
The slight gesture of command to June which answered this, was as
imperious as it was slight. It was characteristically like Mrs.
Randolph; graceful and absolute. June obeyed it, as old instinct told
her to do; though sorely against her will. She had held hands before,
though not Daisy's; and she knew very well the look of the little whip
with which her mistress stepped back into the room, having gone to her
own for it. In a Southern home that whip had been wont to live in Mrs.
Randolph's pocket. June's heart groaned within her.
The whip was small but it had been made for use, not for play; and there
was no play in Mrs. Randolph's use of it. This was not like her father's
ferule, which Daisy could bear in silence, if tears would come; her
mother's handling forced cries from her; though smothered and kept under
in a way that shewed the child's self-command.
"What have you to say to me?" Mrs. Randolph responded, without waiting
for the answer. But Daisy had none to give. At length her mother paused.
"Will you do what I bid you?"
Daisy was unable to speak for tears--and perhaps for fear. The wrinkles
on June's brow were strangely folded together with agitation; but nobody
saw them.
"Will you sing for me next Sunday?" repeated Mrs. Randolph.
There was a struggle in the child's heart, as great almost as a child's
heart can bear. The answer came, when it came, tremblingly--
"I can't, mamma."
"You cannot?" said Mrs. Randolph.
"I can't, mamma."
The chastisement which followed was so severe, that June was moved out
of all the habits of her life, to interfere in another's cause. The
white skinned race were no mark for trouble in June's mind; least of
them all, her little charge. And if white skin was no more delicate in
reality than dark skin, it answered to the lash much more speakingly.
"Missus, you'll kill her!" June said, using in her agitation a carefully
disused form of speech; for June was a freedwoman. A slight turn of the
whip brought the lash sharply across her wrist, with the equally sharp
words, "Mind your own business!"
A thrill went through the woman, like an electric spark firing a whole
life-train of feeling and memory; but the lines of her face never moved,
and not the stirring of a muscle told what the touch had reached,
besides a few nerves. She had done her charge no good by her
officiousness, as June presently saw with grief. It was not till Mrs.
Randolph had thoroughly satisfied her displeasure at being thwarted, and
not until Daisy was utterly exhausted, that Mrs. Randolph stayed her
hand.
"I will see what you will say to me next Sunday!" she remarked calmly.
And she left the room.
It was not that Mrs. Randolph did not love her daughter, in her way; for
in her way she was fond of Daisy; but the habit of bearing no opposition
to her authority was life-strong, and probably intensified in the
present instance by perceiving that her husband was disposed to shield
the offender. The only person in whose favour the rule ever relaxed, was
Ransom.
June was left with a divided mind, between the dumb indignation which
had never known speech, and an almost equally speechless concern. Daisy
as soon as she was free had made her way to the window; there the child
was, on her knees, her head on her window sill, and weeping as if her
very heart were melting and flowing away drop by drop. And June stood
like a dark statue, looking at her; the wrinkles in her forehead scarce
testifying to the work going on under it. She wanted first of all to see
Daisy in bed; but it seemed hopeless to speak to her; and there the
little round head lay on the window-sill, and the moonbeams poured in
lovingly over it. June stood still and never stirred.
It was a long while before Daisy's sobs began to grow fainter, and June
ventured to put in her word and got Daisy to lay herself on the bed
again. Then June went off after another sort of medicine of her own
devising, despising the drops which Mr. Randolph had given her. Without
making a confidant of the housekeeper, she contrived to get from her
the materials to make Daisy a cup of arrowroot with wine and spices.
June knew well how to be a cook when she pleased; and what she brought
to Daisy was, she knew, as good as a cook could make it. She found the
child lying white and still on the bed, and not asleep, nor dead, which
June had almost feared at first sight of her. She didn't want the
arrowroot; she said.
"Miss Daisy, s'pose you take it?" said June. "It won't do you no
hurt--maybe it'll put you to sleep."
Daisy was perhaps too weak to resist. She rose half up and eat the
arrowroot, slowly, and without a word. It did put a little strength into
her, as June had said. But when she gave back the cup and let herself
fall again upon her pillow, Daisy said,
"June, I'd like to die."
"O why, Miss Daisy?" said June.
"Jesus knows that I love him now; and I'd like--" said the child
steadying her voice--"I'd like--to be in heaven!"
"O no, Miss Daisy--not yet; you've got a great deal to do in the world
first."
"Jesus knows I love him--" repeated the child.
"Miss Daisy, he knowed it before--he's the Lord."
"Yes, but--he wants people to shew they love him, June."
"Do, don't! Miss Daisy," said June half crying. "Can't ye go to sleep?
Do, now!"
It was but three minutes more, and Daisy had complied with her request.
June watched and saw that the sleep was real; went about the room on her
noiseless feet; came back to Daisy's bed, and finally went off for her
own pillow, with which she lay down on the matting at the foot of the
bed, and there passed the remainder of the night.
CHAPTER XV.
The sun was shining bright the next morning, and Daisy sat on one of the
seats under the trees, half in sunshine, half in shadow. It was after
breakfast, and she had been scarcely seen or heard that morning before.
Ransom, came up.
"Daisy, do you want to go fishing?"
"No, I think not."
"You don't! What are you going to do?"
"I am not going to do anything."
"I don't believe it. What ails you? Mother said I was to ask you--and
there you sit like a wet feather. I am glad I am not a girl, however!"
Ransom went off, and a very faint colour rose in Daisy's cheek.
"Are you not well, Daisy?" said Mr. Randolph, who had also drawn near.
"I am well, papa."
"You don't look so. What's the matter, that you don't go a fishing, when
Ransom has the consideration to ask you?"
Daisy's tranquillity was very nearly overset. But she maintained it, and
only answered without the change of a muscle, "I have not the
inclination, papa." Indeed her face was too quiet; and Mr. Randolph
putting that with its colourless hue, and the very sweet upward look her
eyes had first given him, was not satisfied. He went away to the
breakfast room.
"Felicia," said he low, bending down by his wife,--"did you have any
words with Daisy last night?"
"Has she told you about it?" said Mrs. Randolph.
"Told me what? What is there to tell?"
"Nothing, on my part," answered the lady nonchalantly. "Daisy may tell
you what she pleases."
"Felicia," said Mr. Randolph looking much vexed, "that child has borne
too much already. She is ill."
"It is her own fault. I told you, Mr. Randolph, I would as lief not have
a child as not have her mind me. She shall do what I bid her, if she
dies for it."
"It won't come to that," said Mrs. Gary. Mr. Randolph turned on his
heel.
Meantime, another person who had seen with sorrow Daisy's pale face, and
had half a guess as to the cause of it, came up to her side and sat
down.
"Daisy, what is to be done to-day?"
"I don't know, Capt. Drummond."
"You don't feel like storming the heights, this morning?"
Again, to him also, the glance of Daisy's eye was so very sweet and so
very wistful, that the captain was determined in a purpose he had half
had in his mind.
"What do you say to a long expedition, Daisy?"
"I don't feel like driving, Capt. Drummond."
"No, but suppose I drive,--and we will leave Loupe at home for to-day. I
want to go as far as Schroeder's Hill, to look after trilobites; and I
do not want anybody with me but you. Shall we go?"
"What are those things, Capt. Drummond?"
"Trilobites?"
"Yes. What are they?"
"Curious things, Daisy! They are a kind of fish that are found on land."
"Fish on land! But then they can't be fish, Capt. Drummond?"
"Suppose we go and see," said the captain; "and then if we find any, we
shall know more about them than we do now."
"But how do you catch them?"
"With my hands, I suppose."
"With your hands, Capt. Drummond?"
"Really I don't know any other way,--unless your hands will help. Come!
shall we go and try?"
Daisy slowly rose up, very mystified, but with a little light of
interest and curiosity breaking on her face. The Captain moved off on
his part to get ready, well satisfied that he was doing a good thing.
It went to the Captain's heart nevertheless, for he had a kind one, to
see all the way how pale and quiet Daisy's face was. She asked him no
more about trilobites, she did not talk about anything; the subjects the
Captain started were soon let drop. And not because she was too ill to
talk, for Daisy's eye was thoughtfully clear and steady, and the Captain
had no doubt but she was busy enough in her own mind with things she did
not bring out. What sort of things? he was very curious to know. For he
