fall overboard," said Noddy, who actually shuddered as he recalled the
fearful stories he had heard about these savage fish.

"I'm not afraid. I'm just as safe here as I should be on board the
Roebuck. I've seen sharks before, and got used to them. I like to watch
them."

At that moment the boat struck upon something in the water, which might
have been a log, or one of the ravenous monsters, whose back fins could
be seen above the water, as they lay in wait for their prey. It was some
heavy body, and it instantly checked the progress of the boat, and the
sudden stoppage precipitated the poor girl over the bow into the sea.
Noddy's blood seemed to freeze in his veins as he realized the horrible
situation of Mollie in the water, surrounded by sharks. He expected to
see her fair form severed in twain by the fierce creatures. He could
swim like a duck, and his first impulse was to leap overboard, and save
the poor girl or perish with her in the attempt.

A shout from the schooner laden with the agony of mortal anguish saluted
his ears as Mollie struck the water. It was the voice of Captain
McClintock, who had come on deck, and had witnessed the fearful
catastrophe. The voice went to Noddy's soul. He saw the slight form of
Mollie as she rose to the surface, and began to struggle towards the
boat. The cabin-boy sculled with all his might for an instant, which
brought the boat up to the spot; but he was horrified to see that she
was followed by a monstrous shark. Noddy seized the boat-hook, and
sprang forward just as the greedy fish was turning over upon his side,
with open mouth, to snap up his prey.

Noddy, aware that the decisive moment for action had come, and feeling,
as by instinct, that a miscalculation on his part would be fatal to poor
Mollie, poised his weapon, and made a vigorous lunge at the savage fish.
By accident, rather than by design, the boat-hook struck the shark in
the eye; and with a fearful struggle he disappeared beneath the
surface. Grasping the extended arm of Mollie, he dragged her into the
boat before another of the monsters could attack her.

"O, Noddy!" gasped she, as she sank down upon the bottom of the boat,
overcome by terror, rather than by her exertions,--for she had been
scarcely a moment in the water.

"You are safe now, Mollie. Don't be afraid," said Noddy, in soothing
tones, though his own utterance was choked by the fearful emotions he
had endured.

"Our Father, who art in heaven, I thank thee that thou hast preserved my
life, and saved me from the terrible shark," said Mollie, as she clasped
her hands and looked up to the sky.

It was a prayer from the heart, and the good Father seemed to be nearer
to Noddy than ever before. He felt that some other hand than his own had
directed the weapon which had vanquished the shark.

"O, Noddy, you have saved me," cried Mollie, as she rose from her knees,
upon which she had thrown herself before she uttered her simple but
devout prayer.

"I am so glad you are safe, Mollie! But was it me that saved you?" asked
Noddy, as he pointed up to the sky, with a sincere feeling that he had
had very little to do with her preservation, though he was so deeply
impressed by the event that he could not utter the sacred name of the
Power which in that awful moment seemed to surround him, and to be in
his very heart.

"It was God who preserved me," said she, looking reverently upward
again; "but he did it through you; and I may thank you, too, for what
you have done. O, Noddy, you have been my best earthly friend; for what
would my poor father have done if the shark had killed me?"

Noddy sculled towards the Roebuck, for he knew that Captain McClintock
was anxiously awaiting their return. When the boat touched the
accommodation ladder, the anxious father sprang on board, not knowing
even then that his daughter was entirely safe. He had seen Noddy draw
her into the boat, but he feared she had lost a leg or an arm, for he
was aware that the harbor swarmed with the largest and fiercest of the
merciless "sea-pirates."

"My poor child!" exclaimed he, as he clasped her in his arms, dreading
even then to know the worst.

"Dear father!" replied she.

"Are you hurt?"

"Not at all."

"Were there any sharks out there?"

"I guess there were!" replied she, significantly.

"One of them had just heeled over to snap at her," added Noddy. "I never
was so frightened in my life."

"Good Heaven!" gasped the captain.

"I gave myself up for lost," said Mollie, shuddering, as she recalled
that fearful moment.

"Well, what prevented him from taking hold of you?" asked Captain
McClintock, who had not been near enough to discern precisely what had
taken place in the boat.

"Noddy saved me, father. He jammed the boat-hook right into the shark's
head. In another instant the creature would have had me in his mouth. O,
father, it was such an awful death to think of--to be bitten by a
shark!"

"Horrible!" groaned the father. "Noddy, your hand! You and I shall be
friends to the last day of my life."

"Thank you, sir," replied the heroic boy, as he took the proffered hand.
"I did the best I could; but I was so scared! I was afraid the shark
would catch her in spite of me."

"God bless you, Noddy! But come on board, and we will talk it over."

Captain McClintock handed Mollie, still dripping with water, to Mr.
Watts, who had been an interested spectator of the touching scene in the
boat; and she was borne to the cabin amid the congratulations of the
crew, with whom she was a great favorite.




CHAPTER XIV.

THE YELLOW FEVER.


Mollie went to her state-room, and changed her clothes; and she did not
come out till she had kneeled down and poured forth another prayer of
thanksgiving for her safety from the horrible monster that would have
devoured her. Her father kissed her again, as she returned to the cabin.
He was as grateful as she was, and he took no pains to conceal the
emotions which agitated him.

"Now tell me all about it, Mollie," said he. "How happened you to fall
overboard?"

"I was careless, father. Noddy was persuading me to sit down at the
moment when I went overboard," replied she.

"I was afraid of the sharks as soon as I knew what they were; and I was
thinking what an awful thing it would be if she should fall overboard,"
added Noddy.

"If I had minded you, Noddy, I shouldn't have been in danger."

The story was told by the two little adventurers, each correcting or
helping out the other, till the whole truth was obtained. It was evident
to the captain and the mate, that Noddy had behaved with vigor and
decision, and that, if he had been less prompt and energetic, poor
Mollie must have become the victim of the ravenous shark.

"You have saved her life, Noddy; that's plain enough," said Captain
McClintock, as he rose and went to his state-room.

"You were smart, my boy, and you deserve a great deal of credit," added
Mr. Watts.

"I don't mind that; I was too glad to get her out of the water to think
of anything else."

"Well, Noddy, you did good work that time, and you have won a great deal
of honor by it."

"You shall win something better than that, Noddy," said the captain, as
he returned to the cabin with a little bag in his hand. "Here are ten
gold pieces, my boy--one hundred dollars."

He handed Noddy the bright coins; but the little hero's face flushed,
and he looked as discontented as though he had been robbed of the honor
of his exploit.

"You shall win a hundred dollars by the operation," continued the
captain.

"Thank you, sir, but I don't want any money for that," replied Noddy,
whose pride revolted at the idea, however tempting the money looked to
him.

"Take it, Noddy. You have done a good piece of work, and you ought to
win something for it," added the captain.

"I don't want to win any money for a job like that, Captain McClintock.
I am already well paid for what I have done. I can't take any money for
it. I feel too good already; and I am afraid if I take your gold I
should spoil it all."

"You are as proud as a lord, Noddy."

"I'm sure, if we had lost Miss Mollie, I should have missed her as much
as anybody, except her father. I shouldn't feel right to be paid for
doing such a thing as knocking a shark in the head. I hated the monster
bad enough to kill him, if he hadn't been going to do any mischief."

"Then you won't take this money, Noddy?" continued the captain.

"I'd rather not, sir. I shouldn't feel right if I did."

"And I shouldn't feel right if you didn't. You don't quite understand
the case, Noddy."

"I think I do, sir."

"No, you don't. Let me tell you about it. You have done something which
fills me with gratitude to you. I want to do something to express that
gratitude. I don't know that I can do it in any other way just now than
by making you a little present. I don't mean to pay you."

"It looks like that."

"No it don't look a bit like it. Do you think I value my daughter's life
at no more than a hundred dollars?"

"I know you do, captain."

"If I expected to pay you for what you have done, I should give you
every dollar I have in the world, and every dollar which my property
would bring if it were sold; and then I should feel that you had not
half got your due."

"I don't care about any money, sir," persisted Noddy.

"Let me make you a present, then. It would make me feel better to do
something for you."

"I'm sure I would do anything to accommodate you."

"Then take the money."

Noddy took it very reluctantly, and felt just as though he was stealing
it. Mr. Watts joined with the captain in arguing the matter, and he
finally felt a little better satisfied about it. When he realized that
he was the honest possessor of so large a sum, he felt like a rich man,
and could not help thinking of the pleasure it would afford him to pour
all these gold coins into Bertha's lap, and tell how he had won them.

Mollie had something to say about the matter, and of course she took her
father's side of the question; and the captain concluded the debate by
assuring Noddy, if his daughter had to die, he would give more than a
hundred dollars to save her from the maw of a shark, that she might die
less horribly by drowning. On the whole, the cabin-boy was pretty well
satisfied that he had won the money honestly, and he carefully bestowed
it with his clothing in his berth.

Early in the morning Mr. Watts went on shore with a boat's crew, to
commence bringing off the water casks. It required the whole forenoon to
remove the old casks, and stow the new ones in the hold. About eleven
o'clock the mate complained of a chilly sensation, and a pain in his
back, which was followed up by a severe headache. He was soon compelled
to leave his work, and take to his berth in the cabin. The next boat
from the shore brought off a surgeon, who promptly pronounced the
disease the yellow fever.

Before the Roebuck could get off, two of the sailors were attacked by
the terrible malady. The only safety for the rest was in immediate
flight; and the schooner got under way, and stood out to sea. The doctor
had left ample directions for the treatment of the disease, but the
medicines appeared to do no good. Mr. Watts was delirious before night.
The two men in the forecastle were no better, and the prospect on board
the vessel was as gloomy as it could be.

Mollie stood by the sufferer in the cabin, in spite of the protest of
her father. She knew what the fever was; but she seemed to be endued
with a courage which was more than human. She nursed the sick man
tenderly, and her simple prayer for his recovery ascended every hour
during the long night. One of the men forward died before morning, and
was committed to the deep by his terrified messmates, without even a
form of prayer over his plague-stricken remains.

Towards night, on the second day out of Barbadoes, Mr. Watts breathed
his last. By the light of the lanterns, his cold form was placed on a
plank extended over the rail. Mollie would not permit him to be buried
in his watery grave without a prayer, and Captain McClintock read one.
Many tears were shed over him, as his body slid off into the sea. Noddy
and Mollie wept bitterly, for they felt that they had lost a good
friend.

There was only one more patient on board, and he seemed to be improving;
but before the morning sun rose, red and glaring on the silent ocean,
there were three more. Captain McClintock was one of them. There was
none to take care of him but Mollie and Noddy; and both of them,
regardless of the demands of their own bodies, kept vigil by his couch.
More faithful nurses a sick man never had. They applied the remedies
which had been used before.

On the following day two more of the crew were committed to their ocean
graves, and despair reigned throughout the vessel. The captain grew
worse every hour, and poor Mollie was often compelled to leave the
bedside that he might not see her weeping over him. He soon became
delirious, and did not even know her.

"O, Noddy," exclaimed she, when she fully realized the situation of her
father, "I shall soon be alone."

"Don't give up, Mollie," replied the cabin-boy sadly.

"I have prayed till I fear my prayers are no longer heard," sobbed she.

"Yes, they are, Mollie. Don't stop praying," said Noddy, who knew that
the poor girl had derived a great deal of hope and comfort from her
prayers.

He had seen her kneel down when she was almost overcome by the horrors
which surrounded them, and rise as calm and hopeful as though she had
received a message direct from on high. Perhaps he had no real faith in
her prayers, but he saw what strength she derived from them. Certainly
they had not warded off the pestilence, which was still seeking new
victims on board. But they were the life of Mollie's struggling
existence; and it was with the utmost sincerity that he had counselled
her to continue them.

"My father will die!" groaned the poor girl. "Nothing can save him now."

"No, he won't die. He isn't very bad yet, Mollie."

"O, yes, he is. He does not speak to me; he does not know me."

"He is doing very well, Mollie. Don't give it up yet."

"I feel that he will soon leave me."

"No, he won't, Mollie. I know he will get well," said Noddy, with the
most determined emphasis.

"How do you know?"

"I feel that he will. He isn't half so bad as Mr. Watts was. Cheer up,
and he will be all right in a few days."

"But think how terrible it would be for my poor father to die, away here
in the middle of the ocean," continued Mollie, weeping most bitterly, as
she thought of the future.

"But he will not die; I am just as sure that he will get well, as I am
that I am alive now."

Noddy had no reason whatever for this strong assertion, and he made it
only to comfort his friend. It was not made in vain, for the afflicted
daughter was willing to cling to any hope, however slight, and the
confident words of the boy made an impression upon her. The morrow came,
and the captain was decidedly better; but from the forecastle came the
gloomy report that two more of the men had been struck down by the
disease.

There were but three seamen left who were able to do duty, and Mr.
Lincoln, the second mate, was nearly exhausted by watching and anxiety.
Fortunately, the weather had been fine, and the Roebuck had been under
all sail, with a fair wind. Noddy had obtained a little sleep during the
second night of the captain's illness, and he went on deck to report to
the mate for duty. He was competent to steer the vessel in a light
breeze, and he was permitted to relieve the man at the wheel.

He stood his trick of two hours, and then went below, to ascertain the
condition of the captain. As he descended the ladder, he discovered the
form of Mollie extended on one of the lockers. Her face was flushed, and
she was breathing heavily. Noddy was appalled at this sight, for he knew
too well what these indications meant.

"What is the matter, Mollie?" asked he, hardly able to speak the words
from the violence of his emotion.

"It is my turn now, Noddy," replied she, in faint tones. "Who will pray
for me?"

"I will, Mollie; but what ails you?"

"I am burning up with heat, and perishing with cold. My back feels as if
it was broken, and the pain darts up through my neck into my head. I
know very well what it means. You will take care of my poor
father--won't you, Noddy?"

"To be sure I will. You must turn in, Mollie, and let me take care of
you, too," said he, trying to be as calm as the terrible situation
required of him.

He assisted the stricken maiden to her state-room, and placed her in her
berth. Taking from the medicine chest the now familiar remedy, he gave
her the potion, and tenderly ministered to all her wants. She was very
sick, for she had struggled with the destroying malady for hours before
she yielded to its insidious advances.

"Thank you, Noddy. I feel better now, and I shall soon be happy. Go now
and see to my father; don't let him want for anything."

"I will not, Mollie; I will take first-rate care of him," answered
Noddy, as he smoothed down the clothing around her neck.

"My father is the captain of the ship, you know," added she, with a
smile. "He is a great man; bigger than any shark you ever saw."

Her mind had begun to wander already; and her patient nurse could hardly
keep down his tears, as he gazed at her flushed cheeks, and smoothed
down the curls upon her neck. She was beautiful to him--too beautiful to
die there in mid ocean, with none but rude men to shed great tears over
her silent form. How he wished that Bertha was there, to watch over that
frail little form, and ward off the grim tyrant that was struggling to
possess it! She would not fear the pangs of the pestilence; she would be
an angel in the little state-room, and bring down peace and hope, if not
life, to the lovely sufferer.

Noddy felt as he had never felt before, not even when the dread monster
of the deep had almost snapped up the slight form before him. All the
good lessons he had ever learned in his life came to him with a force
they had never possessed in the sunny hour of prosperity. He wanted to
pray. He felt the need of a strength not his own. Mollie could not pray
now. Her mind was darkened by the shadows of disease. He went out into
the cabin. It looked as cheerless, and cold, and gloomy, as the inside
of a tomb. But God was there; and though Noddy could not speak the
words of his prayer, his heart breathed a spirit which the infinite
Father could understand. He prayed, as he had promised the sick girl he
would, and the strength which prayer had given to her was given to him.

"Here is work for me," said he, as he approached the door of the
captain's state-room. "But I am able to do it. I will never give up this
work."

He did not know what he was to win by this work of love, amid trials and
tribulation. He had struggled with the disposition to despond; he had
worked like a hero to keep his spirits up; and that which he was called
upon to do with his hands was small and trivial compared with that which
was done by his mind and heart. He had conquered fear and despair.

Thus prepared to battle with the giant ills which surrounded him, he
entered Captain McClintock's room.




CHAPTER XV.

THE DEMON OF THE CUP.


"Is that you, Noddy?" asked the captain, faintly.

"Yes, sir. How do you feel, captain?"

"I think I'm a little better. I wish you would ask Mollie to come in; I
want to see her."

"Does your head ache now, sir?" asked Noddy, who did not like to tell
him that his daughter had just been taken with the fever.

"Not so bad as it did. Just speak to Mollie."

"I think you are ever so much better, sir. You will be out in a day or
two."

"Do you think so, Noddy?"

"Yes, sir; I'm certain you will," answered the boy, who knew that faith
was life in the present instance.

"I'm glad you think so. I certainly feel a great deal better," replied
the captain, as though he was already cheered by the inspiration of
hope.

"You must be careful, and keep still; and you will be all right in a
week, at the most."

"I hope so; for I couldn't help thinking, when I was taken down, what a
bitter thing it would be to poor Mollie if I should die so far from home
and friends."

"You have got over the worst of it now, captain."

"Is Mollie out in the cabin?" asked the sufferer, persistently returning
to the subject near his heart.

"No, sir; she is not, just now."

"Has she gone on deck?"

"No, sir."

"Where is she, Noddy?" demanded he, earnestly, as he attempted to raise
himself up in his cot.

"Don't stir, captain; it will make you worse, if you do."

"Tell me where Mollie is at once, or I shall jump out of my berth. Is
she--is she--"

"She is in her room, captain. Don't be worried about her," replied
Noddy, who was afraid that the truth would have a bad effect upon the
devoted father. "She laid down a little while ago."

"Is she dead?" gasped the captain, with a mighty effort to utter the
appalling word.

"O, no, sir! She was taken sick a little while ago."

"O, mercy!" groaned the sick man. "I know it all now."

"It's no use to deny it, sir. She has got the fever."

"And I lay here helpless!"

"She said she felt a little better when I came out. I gave her the
medicine, and did everything for her."

"I must go to her."

"You will worry her to death, if you do, captain. She is more troubled
about you than she is about herself. If you lay still, so I can report
that you are doing well, it will be the best thing in the world for her.
It will do her more good than the medicine."

"Tell her I am well, Noddy!"

"It won't do to tell her too much; she won't believe anything, if I do,"
said Noddy, sorely troubled about the moral management of the cases.

"Tell her I am well, Noddy; and I will go and sit by her," replied the
sufferer, who was no more able to get out of his bed than he was to cure
the fearful disease.

"I can't do anything, captain, if you don't keep still in your bed. She
is a little out just now; but I think she will do very well, if you only
let her alone."

Captain McClintock was in an agony of suspense; but Noddy succeeded in
consoling him so that he promised to remain quietly in his bed. As
physician and nurse, as well as friend and comforter, the cabin-boy
found his hands full; but he had a heart big enough for the occasion;
and all day and all night he went from one patient to another,
ministering to their wants with as much skill and judgment as though he
had been trained in a sick room.

Mollie grow worse as the hours wore heavily away; but this was to be
expected, and the patient nurse was not discouraged by the progressive
indications of the disease. Towards morning the captain went to sleep;
but it required all the faithful boy's energies to keep Mollie in her
bed, as she raved with the heated brain of the malady.

In the morning one of the seamen was reported out of danger, and the
others in a hopeful condition. Noddy was completely exhausted by his
labors and his solicitude. Mr. Lincoln saw that he could endure no more;
and as he had obtained a few hours' sleep on deck during the night, he
insisted that the weary boy should have some rest, while he took care of
the sick. Noddy crawled into his berth, and not even his anxiety for
poor Mollie could keep him awake any longer. He slept heavily, and the
considerate mate did not wake him till dinner-time, when he sprang from
his berth and hastened to the couch of the sick girl.

Another day passed, and Mollie began to exhibit some hopeful symptoms.
Her father was still improving. The patients in the forecastle were also
getting better. Noddy felt that no more of the Roebuck's people were to
be cast into the sea. Hope gave him new life. He was rested and
refreshed by the bright prospect quite as much as by the sleep which the
kindness of Mr. Lincoln enabled him to obtain.

The schooner still sped on her course with favoring breezes; while
Noddy, patient and hopeful, performed the various duties which the fell
disease imposed upon him. He had not regarded the danger of taking the
fever himself. He had no thought now for any one but poor Mollie, who
was daily improving. One by one the crew, who had been stricken down
with the malady, returned to the deck; but it was a long time before
they were able to do their full measure of duty. In a week after Mollie
was taken sick, her father was able to sit a portion of the day by her
side; and a few days later, she was able to sit up for a few moments.

The terrible scourge had wasted itself; but the chief mate and three of
the crew had fallen victims to the sad visitation. Yellow fever patients
convalesce very slowly; and it was a fortnight before Captain McClintock
was able to go on deck; but at the same time, Mollie, weak and
attenuated by her sufferings, was helped up the ladder by her devoted
friend and nurse. The cloud had passed away from the vessel, and
everybody on board was as happy as though disease and death had never
invaded those wooden walls. But the happiness was toned to the
circumstances. Hearts had been purified by suffering. Neither the
officers nor the men swore; they spoke to each other in gentle tones, as
though the tribulations through which they had passed had softened their
hearts, and bound them together in a holier than earthly affection.

As Mr. Watts and three sailors had died, the vessel was short-handed,
but not crippled; and the captain decided to prosecute his voyage
without putting into any port for assistance. Mr. Lincoln was appointed
chief mate, and a second mate was selected from the forecastle.
Everything went along as before the storm burst upon the devoted vessel.

"How happy I am, Noddy!" exclaimed Mollie, as they sat on deck one
afternoon, when she had nearly recovered her strength. "My father was
saved, and I am saved. How grateful I am!"

"So am I, Mollie," replied Noddy.

"And how much we both owe to you! Wasn't it strange you didn't take the
fever?"

"I think it was."

"Were you not afraid of it?"

"I didn't think anything about it, any way; but I feel just as though I
had gone through with the fever, or something else."

"Why?"

"I don't know; everything looks odd and strange to me. I don't feel like
the same fellow."

Mollie persisted in her desire to know how the cabin-boy felt, and Noddy
found it exceedingly difficult to describe his feelings. Much of the
religious impressions which he had derived from the days of tribulation
still clung to him. His views of life and death had changed. Many of
Bertha's teachings, which he could not understand before, were very
plain to him now. He did not believe it would be possible for him to do
anything wrong again. Hopes and fears had been his incentives to duty
before; principle had grown up in his soul now. The experience of years
seemed to be crowded into the few short days when gloom and death
reigned in the vessel.

The Roebuck sped on her way, generally favored with good weather and
fair winds. She was a stanch vessel, and behaved well in the few storms
she encountered. She doubled Cape Horn without subjecting her crew to
any severe hardships, and sped on her way to more genial climes. For
several weeks after his recovery, Captain McClintock kept very steady,
and Mollie hoped that the "evil days" had passed by. It was a vain hope;
for when the schooner entered the Pacific, his excesses were again
apparent. He went on from bad to worse, till he was sober hardly a
single hour of the day. In vain did Mollie plead with him; in vain she
reminded him of the time when they had both lain at death's door; in
vain she assured him that she feared the bottle more than the fever. He
was infatuated by the demon of the cup, and seemed to have no moral
power left.

The Roebuck was approaching the thick clusters of islands that stud the
Pacific; and it was important that the vessel should be skilfully
navigated. Mr. Lincoln was a good seaman, but he was not a navigator;
that is, he was not competent to find the latitude and longitude, and
lay down the ship's position on the chart. The captain was seldom in
condition to make an observation, and the schooner was in peril of being
dashed to pieces on the rocks. The mate was fully alive to the
difficulties of his position; and he told Mollie what must be the
consequences of her father's continued neglect. The sea in which they
were then sailing was full of islands and coral reefs. There were
indications of a storm, and he could not save the vessel without knowing
where she was.

"Noddy," said the troubled maiden, after Mr. Lincoln had explained the
situation to her, "I want you to help me."

"I'm ready," replied he, with his usual promptness.

"We are going to ruin. My poor father is in a terrible state, and I am
going to do something."

"What can you do?"

"You shall help me, but I will bear all the blame."

"You would not do anything wrong, and I am willing to bear the blame
with you."

"Never mind that; we are going to do what's right, and we will not say a
word about the blame. Now come with me," she continued, leading the way
to the cabin.

"I am willing to do anything that is right, wherever the blame falls."

"We must save the vessel, for the mate says she is in great danger.
There is a storm coming, and Mr. Lincoln don't know where we are. Father
hasn't taken an observation for four days."

"Well, are you going to take one?" asked Noddy, who was rather
bewildered by Mollie's statement of the perils of the vessel.

"No; but I intend that father shall to-morrow."

"What are you going to do?"

She opened the pantry door, and took from the shelf a bottle of gin.

"Take this, Noddy, and throw it overboard," said she, handing him the
bottle.

"I'll do that;" and he went to the bull's eye, in Molli's state-room,
and dropped it into the sea.

"That's only a part of the work," said she, as she opened one of the
lockers in the cabin, which was stowed full of liquors.

She passed them out, two at a time, and Noddy dropped them all into the
ocean. Captain McClintock was lying in his state-room, in a helpless
state of intoxication, so that there was no fear of interruption from
him. Every bottle of wine, ale, and liquor which the cabin contained was
thrown overboard. Noddy thought that the sharks, which swallow
everything that falls overboard, would all get "tight;" but he hoped
they would break the bottles before they swallowed them. The work was
done, and everything which could intoxicate was gone; at least
everything which Mollie and the cabin-boy could find. They did not tell
Mr. Lincoln what they had done, for they did not wish to make him a
party to the transaction.

They were satisfied with their work. The vessel would be saved if the
storm held off twelve hours longer. The captain rose early the next
morning, and Noddy, from his berth, saw him go to the pantry for his
