the girls ; and the heavy tread of a man was heard 
on the deck above them. 

Ethan and Lawry had only time to crawl into 
one of the berths, where Mrs. Light covered them 
with bed-clothes, before Flint came down into the 
cabin. 

" See here ; we haven't been to supper, and we 
want some," said the ruffian, as he descended the 
steps. 

" What are you goin' to do with us ? " demanded 
Mrs. Light. 

" Don't be scart ; we won't hurt you," replied 
Flint. 

" But where you goin' ? " 

" Up to Whitehall. When we get there, you can 
go where you please. Now, get us some supper ; 
the best there is on board — beefsteak and coffee." 

" Well, I suppose I can get you some supper ; 
but I don't like such carryin's on," replied Mrs. 
Light. 

Flint left the cabin, after he had given his order. 
On his way forward he looked into the saloon, and 



 

discovered that their prisoner was missing. Search 
was immediately instituted ; but Mrs. Light, as in- 
structed by Ethan, declared that he had got loose, 
and swam ashore ; she had seen him through the 
stern lights. The rascals finally accepted this ex- 
planation, after searching on deck for him. 

Mrs. Light went to the kitchen to get supper for 
the rogues, while the girls set the table. The cook 
presently returned to the cabin, and told Ethan 
where each of the robbers was stationed ; but being 
unarmed, there seemed to be no way of making an 
attack upon them where the ruffians could not rally 
to the support of each other. 

" We must settle this business down here, Lawry," 
said Ethan, when they had come out of their hiding- 
places. 

" They will have to come to supper one at a 
time," added the little captain. 

" Exactly so ; and this will be the safest place 
to do the job. We want a rope," added the en- 
gineer, with a business-like air. 

" I'll fetch you a rope," said Mrs. Light. 

" Do ; bring me the small heave-line, on the 
guard by the saloon doors." 







The cook went on deck, and after a visit to the 
kitchen, returned to the cabin with the line indi- 
cated under her apron. In about half an hour sup- 
per was ready for the villains, and one of the girls 
informed Baker, who was still on duty in the engine- 
room, that it was waiting for them. The engineer 
called Flint, and told him, as the boat was out in 
the middle of the lake, the engine would need noth- 
ing done to it, and directed him to stand at the 
door, so that the fireman below should not attempt 
to defeat their plans. He then went to the cabin 
for his supper. 

Ethan and Lawry had concealed themselves be- 
hind the curtains of a tier of berths, directly in the 
rear of the chair where Baker was to sit at the 
table. In his hand Ethan held the heave-line, at 
one end of which Lawry had made a hangman's 
noose. Mrs. Light and the girls had been instructed 
to rattle the chairs, make as much noise as they 
could, and otherwise engage the attention of the 
robber, as soon as he sat down to the table. 

Baker came down the stairs, and one of the girls 
began to rattle the chairs, Mrs. Light to move a 



 

pile of plates, and the other girl to arrange the 
dishes on the table. 

" Will you have some coffee ? " demanded Mrs. 
Light, without giving him time to notice anything 
in the cabin. 

" Of course I will," growled Baker. 

" Shall I give you some beefsteak ? " asked one- 
of the girls. 

." I'll help myself." 

" If you want some fried eggs I'll get some for 
you," added the cook, rattling the dishes again. 

Baker was not permitted to say whether he would 
have any fried eggs or not, for at that moment 
Ethan crept from his concealment, whatever noise 
lie made being drowned by the clatter of the dishes 
and the rattling of the chairs. Stealing up behind 
Baker, who was intent only on beefsteak and coffee, 
he slipped the hangman's noose over his head, and 
hauled it tight. The robber attempted to spring to 
his feet, but Ethan hauled him over backwards on the 
floor. At the same time Lawry tlirew the end of 
the line over a deck beam, extended across the sky- 
light, and began to " haul in the slack." 




 



The villain attempted to cry out ; but the sound 
only gurgled in his throat. He grasped the rope 
with both hands ; but the choking already received 
had taken away his strength, and he was unable to 
taake any successful resistance. While Lawry kept 
the rope so taut that Baker could not move, Ethan 
tied his hands behind him, though the man's strug- 
gles were fierce, and the engineer was obliged to 
Use a rolling-pin, supplied by Mrs. Light, before 
the conquest was complete. The rufEan was se- 
curely bound and gagged ; but the cook and the 
girls had nearly fainted while the struggle was go- 
ing on. 

Baker, thus gagged and bound, was rolled into 
one of the lower berths. He had been nearly 
choked to death by the rope, and several hard 
knocks he had received on the head had rendered 
him partially insensible, so that he was not in con- 
dition to make any further resistance. Ethan had 
taken possession of his pistol, and, as a matter of 
precaution, threatened to blow out his brains if he 
made any noise. , 

" Massy sake ! " groaned Mrs. Light, when the 



 

work was accomplished. " I never did see ! You've 
taken my breath all away ! " 

" Don't make a noise," said Ethan. 

" I couldn't have struck that man as you did,'! 
added Lawry. 

" If you had been through what I have, out west, 
it would come easier to you," replied the engineer, 
glancing at the berth where the prisoner had been 
concealed by the curtains. " We must go through 
the whole of it once more." 

One of the girls was then sent to call Flint, and 
directed to assure him that such was the order of 
Baker, who had gone to the wheel-house for a mo- 
ment, and would immediately return to the engine- 
room. The deck hand was too much in a hurry for 
his supper to question the order, and went directly 
to the cabin. The noise made by Mrs. Light and 
the girls prevented him from hearing the heavy 
breathings of Baker, and he was an easier victim 
than his companion in crime had been. He was 
choked, gagged, bound, and his pistol taken from 
him. By this time these two ruffians, if they could 
think at all, could not help believing that the way 
of the transgressor is hard. 



 



From regard to the feelings of Lawry, Ethan de- 
cided that Ben should not be subjected to this harsh 
treatment. He was still in the wheel-house, not sus- 
pecting that his nefarious scheme had been wholly 
defeated. 

The work was accomplished, and the pilot and 
engineer went on deck. Ethan repaired to his post 
and stopped the engine. Ben half a dozen times 
demanded, through the speaking-tube, what the mat- 
ter was ; but receiving no answer, he came down 
himself to ascertain the cause of the sudden stoppage 
of the boat. 



 



CHAPTER XX. 

THE LITTLE CAPTAIN AND HIS MOTTO. 

As Ben Wilford, fearful tliat some accident to the 
machinery would defeat his criminal enterprise, en- 
tered the engine-room on one side, Laivry left it at 
the other. As the little captain went forward, he 
heard a noise in the forecastle, and saw that the 
companion-way was closed and fastened. Releasing 
the firemen and deck hands confined there, he di- 
rected them to follow him to the Mheel-house, where 
he explained to them what had happened. 

" What are you stopping for ? " demanded Ben 
Wilford, before he discovered that Baker was not 
present. 

" I think it is about time to go back, now," 
replied Ethan, holding one of the pistols in his 
hand. 

" How came you here, Ethan ? " exclaimed Ben, 






starting back with astonishment when he saw who 
was in charge of the engine. 

" I run this machine, and this is the right place for 
me," replied Ethan, coolly. 

" Where's Baker ? " 

"He's safe; if you mean the man you left in 
charge of the engine." 

Ben was bewildered by the present aspect of af- 
fairs. It was clear that there had been a miscarriage 
somewhere ; but he was unable to tell how or where 
the scheme had failed. Before he could decide what 
step to take next. Captain Lawry rang the bell to go 
ahead. 

" Who rang the bell ? " asked Ben. , 
" Captain Lawry." 
" Is he on board ? " 

" He is," replied Ethan, as he started the engine. 
" Ben Wilford, you have got about to the end of your 
rope." 

"What do you mean?" 

" You have done a job which will send you to Sing 
Sing for the next ten years." 

"No, I haven't," said Ben, backing out of the 
engine-room. 



 

" Stop where you are," interposed Ethan, peremp- 
torily, as he raised his pistol. 

" Two can play at that game," added Ben. 

" Two can ; but two won't. Drop your hands, or 
I'll fire ! " 

Ben obeyed ; he had felt that the game was up 
the moment he saw Ethan at his post, and he had 
not the courage to draw his pistol upon one who had 
shot two Indians in one day. 

" Sit down there," continued Ethan, pointing to 
the bench in the engine-room, and the culprit took 
his seat with fear and trembling. 

" What shall I do ? " groaned the wretched young 
man, as he thought of the consequence of his crime. 

"Jump overboard and drown yourself. That would 
save your friends a great deal of trouble," replied 
Ethan. " Give up your pistol ! " 

Ben gave it up, and began to plead with Ethan to 
let him escape, declaring that it would kill his moth- 
er, and Lawry never would get over it, if he was 
sent to the penitentiary. Though the engineer dread- 
ed the day when his friend would be compelled to 
testify in court against his own brother, he would 







not yield to the culprit's entreaties, and did not 
intend that he should escape the penalty of his 
crime. 

When the Woodville reached her wharf, having 
been absent but little more than an hour, Mr. Sher- 
wood and the ladies were on the wharf. While Ethan 
was working the engine with the bar, Ben slipped 
out of the room. The engineer saw him, and gave 
the alarm ; but he could not leave his post at that 
moment. As soon as the boat was moored, search 
was made; but Ben could not be found. He cer- 
tainly was not on board. 

Mr. Sherwood was astonished when he was told 
what had occurred. He sent his coachman after the 
sheriff at once, and directed that the search for Ben 
Wilford should be renewed. The state-room was 
found locked, as he had left it, and the gold undis- 
turbed. Mrs. Light and the girls, the firemen and 
the deck hands, had their own stories to tell, to all 
of which Mr. Sherwood listened very patiently. 

" You have done well, Lawry," said he. " You 
have saved my gold." 

" It was Ethan, sir, that did the business. I don't 



 



believe I could have done anything alone," replied 
the little captain, 

" Lawiy did his share," added Ethan, with due 
modesty. 

" I'm sure they both fit like wildcats in the cabin," 
said Mrs. Light. " I was e'ena'most scart to death." 

When the sheriff came, he took Baker and Flint 
into custody, and sent the constable who had come 
with him to find Ben Wilford* The two robbers in 
the cabin were in bad condition. The choking they 
had received had been a terrible shock to their nerves, 
which, with the hard knocks given by Ethan with 
the cook's rolling-pin, had entirely used them up, 
and there was neither fight nor bravado in them. 
Flint said they had been induced to engage in the 
enterprise by Ben Wilford ; that they intended to 
proceed to the vicinity of Whitehall in the Woodville, 
where the instigator of the affair had declared his 
purpose to burn the boat. From this point they 
were going to the West, disposing of the gold in 
small sums as they proceeded. 

The two robbers were marched off by the sheriff ; 
but nothing was heard of Ben for two hours, when 
 



 



the boy who ran the ferry-boat, returning from Point- 
ville, informed Mrs. Wilford that he had gone over 
with him. The constable followed, as soon as he 
heard in what direction the fugitive had gone. He 
was not taken that night, and the search was renewed 
the next day, but with no better result. It was after- 
wards ascertained that he had crossed the country 
to the railroad, and taken a night train. Having 
worked his way to New York, he shipped in a vesseJ 
bound to the East Indies. 

It cannot be denied that Lawry and his mother, 
and even Mr. Sherwood, were glad of his escape, 
though he was more guilty than the two men who 
had been captured and were afterwards tried and sent 
to Sing Sing. The little captain and the engineer 
of the Woodville were warmly congratulated upon 
the safety of the steamer, when it was known that 
Ben intended to burn her in revenge for having been 
made a " nobody ;" but Mr. Sherwood declared that, 
if the boat had been destroyed, he would have built 
another, and presented her to Lawry and Ethan, 
for he was too much interested in the steamboat 
experiment to have it abandoned. 



 

Mrs. Wilford trembled when she learned that the 
robbers had been armed with pistols. Many laughed 
as they listened to the account of the choking opera- 
tion in the cabin, and everybody was satisfied with 
the result. 

Lawry and Ethan were too much excited to sleep 
that night, though they turned in at ten o'clock. At 
midnight the fireman on duty called them, and the 
steamer soon started for Whitehall with Mr. Sher- 
wood and his gold, where she arrived in season for the 
morning train. As the party did not start till nine 
o'clock, the exhausted pilot and engineer obtained a 
couple of hours' sleep, while the steamer lay at the 
wharf, which enabled them to get through the day 
without sinking under its fatigues. 

The following day was Sunday ; and though Lawry 
and Ethan went to church in the forenoon, as both 
of them were in the habit of doing, the day was 
literally a day of rest to them, and there was a great 
deal of "tall sleeping" done. On Monday morning, 
at six o'clock, the boat went to Ticonderoga, arriv- 
ing in good season to keep her engagement. 

Our limits do not permit us to follow Captain 







Lawry and the beautiful little steamer any farther. 
The young pilot has redeemed the fairy craft from the 
bottom of the lake, and overcome all obstacles in his 
path to prosperity. He was not again disturbed by 
the envy and jealousy of his brother. He was sad 
when he thought of his father in prison, and Ben an 
exile, banished by his misdeeds ; but their errors 
only made him the stronger in the faith he had 
chosen, that fidelity to principle is the safest and 
happiest course, under all circumstances. 

Lawry had all the business he could do with the 
Woodville. On the following week, another pilot 
and another engineer were obtained, and the price 
raised to sixty dollars a day, in conformity with the 
suggestion of Mr. Sherwood. This was especially 
necessary, as, during the bright moonlight evenings, 
in the latter part of the month, the Woodville was 
employed every night in taking out parties. The 
boat lay hardly an hour at a time at the wharf. The 
money came in so fast that Mrs. Wilford was bewil- 
dered at the riches which were flowing in upon 
them. By the advice of Mr. Sherwood the money 
was invested in government stocks ; but he resolutely 



 

refused to accept payment for what he had advanced 
on the place or for the boat. 

Early one evenmg, after Lawry had landed Mr. 
Sherwood's party at Port Rock, he started for Bur- 
lington, where he had an engagement on the following 
day. Half a mile above the wharf, he came up with 
a schooner, which on examination proved to be the 
Missisque. It was a dead calm, and her new main- 
sail hung motionless from the gaff. The little captain 
had not seen her skipper since the day on which the 
old sail had been blown from the bolt-ropes by the 
squall ; and he ran the Woodville alongside of her, 
in order " to pass the time of day " with him. 

" How are you, Captain John ? " shouted the 
young pilot. 

" Why, Lawry ! How are you ? " replied the skip- 
per of the sloop. 

" What are you doing here ? " continued Lawry, 
as the captain stepped on board. 

" Waitin' for a breeze of wind. I had a good 
freight promised to me if I got to Burlington by 
to-morrow mornin', but I guess I shan't quite 
fetch it." 





 



" Rounds, heave a stern line to the sloop, and 
make fast to her," added Lawry to his mate. 

" O, thank ye, Lawry," replied the grateful skipper. 

" You and your wife must take supper with me." 

Before the steamer started, with the sloop in tow, 
Mrs. Captain John came on board ; and nothing 
could exceed the astonishment of the worthy couple 
as they gazed at the magnificence of the sumptuous 
little craft. 

" Well, Lawry, I always knowed you was smart," 
said Captain John. 

"If I didn't get that mainsail down," laughed 
Lawry. 

" O, never mind the mainsail, Lawry," added the 
skipper, blushing. " I was a leetle riled that time, 
and it wan't your fault." 

" I think the green-apple pies made the mischief. 
Mrs. Light makes very nice ones, and we will have 
some for supper," continued Lawy, as he conducted 
his guests to the cabin, where they sat down at the 
table. 

Captain John and his wife were bewildered at 
the splendors which surrounded them, and at the 



 

grandeur of Captain Lawry ; but they passed a pleas- 
ant evening on board till ten o'clock, when the 
Woodville cast off her " tow " in Burlington Bay. 

The upright piano, the gift of Miss Fanny, had 
been placed in the saloon, and its sweet strains 
added to the enjoyment of every party that employed 
the steamer. Ethan French, now relieved of part of 
his duties by the employment of a second engineer, 
was never in better humor than when Fanny Jane, 
seated at this instrument, sang the songs she had 
sung to Wahena and himself on the lake island in 
Minnesota. 

In September, the business of the Woodville, as 
an excursion boat, began to fall off, and by the 
middle of the month it was at an end. The season 
had been very profitable, and Lawry's account book 
showed that the boat had been employed forty-one 
days, besides nine evenings, the net profits of which 
were nearly fifteen hundred dollars, all of which M'as 
in the bank, or invested in government securities. 

While Captain Lawry was considering the practi- 
cability of running the Woodville between certain 
places on the lake as a passenger boat, he was 



 



startled by receiving a huge government envelope, 
containing a liberal offer for the use of his steamer as 
a despatch boat on southern rivers. An army officer, 
of high rank, who had been a member of one of the 
excursion parties in August, had been delighted with 
the performance of the little craft, and had spoken to 
Captain Lawry on this subject ; but the matter had 
been quite forgotten when the offer came. Mr. 
Sherwood and Mrs. Wilford were consulted, and an 
affirmative answer returned. Ethan was delighted 
at the prospect of going south, for he desired to 
visit the scene of hostilities, and, if possible, to be 
employed in active operations. 

The Woodville went in October, and returned in 
April, when the war was finished. Of Captain 
Lawry' s voyage out and back, and his adventures far 
up in the enemy's country, we have no space to 
speak ; but the steamer and her little commander 
gave perfect satisfaction to all concerned. 

In June, when the Woodville had been thoroughly 
repaired and painted, after her hard service at the 
South, there was a demand for her as an excursion 
boat ; and it continued through the season. With 



 

one of Mr. Sherwood's parties, in July, there was an 
eminent member of the state government, who was 
greatly pleased with Lawry's past history, as well as 
with his agreeable manners, and his close attention 
to his business. Through this gentleman, an effort, 
warmly seconded by Mr. Randall, the bank director, 
was made to obtain the pardon of John Wilford. It 
was successful, and the ferryman returned to his home 
a wiser and a better man. 

He was astonished at the operations of his son, 
and surprised at the prosperity which had attended 
his family during his absence. The cottage had been 
enlarged, repaired, painted, and partly refurnished. 
It was a new home to him ; and, profiting by the 
experience of the past, he resumed his labor as a 
ferryman, striving to be contented with his lot. 

Ethan French does not tire of his pet, the engine 
of the Woodville, though it must be acknowledged 
that he has a divided heart when Fanny Jane is on 
board. 

Mrs. Wilford, her confidence in her " smart boy " 
fully justified, and rejoicing in the prosperity which 
attends him, is still happy and contented in doing a 







m Other's whole duty to her large family of little ones, 
hoping that all of them will " turn out" as well as 
her second son. 

During the Woodville's second business season, 
she was employed by a party of wealthy gentlemen, 
for a week, in going round the lake. She had de- 
scended the Richelieu to St. Johns, from which the 
party ran up to Montreal for a day, returning to the 
boat in the evening. Though the time for which the 
boat was engaged was not up till the next evening, 
some of the gentlemen were very anxious to be in 
Burlington on the following morning, and insisted 
that the steamer should immediately proceed up the 
river on her return. It was a very dark and foggy 
night, and Lawry declined to start, declaring that he 
could not run with safety to the boat and passengers. 

The party continued to insist upon their point, 
adding that if he was a competent pilot there could 
be no difficulty in complying with their wishes. 
They were gentlemen of wealth and influence, and 
the little captain did not like to disoblige them. 
He argued the question with them, and pointed to 
the motto in the wheel-house. They laughed at hini 



 

and his motto. There was to be a "trot" between 
two celebrated horses, at Burlington, and they were 
too anxious to witness the race to be entirely rea- 
sonable. 

Captain Lawry was firm, and the gentlemen were 
angry and indignant. While they were debating the 
question in excited tones, another steamer left the 
wharf, bound up the river. Her departure seemed to 
spoil the young pilot's argument. The party tried to 
hail the steamer in the fog, wishing Lawry to put 
them on board of her; bnt her people did not hear 
their demand, or would not stop for them, and the 
