"It is just the place for your son," replied Mr. Lowington.

"But it is for criminals."

"Very true."

"Robert is not a criminal."

"If he is not now, he soon will be, if he continues in his present
course. If I had him on shipboard, I could make a man of him."

"Then I wish you had him on shipboard."

"Perhaps I may yet," replied the principal, with a smile. "I did not
purchase the Academy with the intention of becoming a pedagogue, in the
ordinary sense of the word. I have no intention of remaining in it."

"I hope you will."

"I have been thinking of fitting up a vessel like the school ship, that
rich men's sons may have the benefit of such an institution without the
necessity of committing a crime. I could do more for the boys in a month
on board ship than I could in a year at Brockway."

This was the first mention which Mr. Lowington made of his plan, though
he had been considering it for several weeks. Mr. Shuffles hoped that
this idea of a nautical academy would be reduced to practice; for he now
felt that it was just what his son needed. The project was discussed
during the rest of the trip.

The history of the scheme, from its inception, need not be followed in
detail. Many persons were consulted in regard to it; there were plenty
to approve, and plenty to disapprove; but in October the keel of a four
hundred ton ship was laid down. The object of this marine institution
was thoroughly explained, and before the ship was ready for launching
there were applications for every berth on board of her.

The idea was exceedingly popular among the boys, all of whom were
anxious to be students on board, especially as it was already hinted
that the ship would visit Europe. To parents it held out for their sons
all the benefits of a sea voyage, with few of its disadvantages. It
would furnish healthy exercise and a vigorous constitution to its
pupils.

In March of the following year the ship was at anchor in Brockway
harbor, ready to receive her juvenile crew.




CHAPTER II.

THE YOUNG AMERICA.


With Mr. Lowington, the Academy Ship, which was the name he usually
applied to the idea he had matured, and thus far carried into effect,
was not a speculation; he did not intend to see how much money could be
made by the scheme. It was an experiment in the education of rich men's
sons, for only rich men could pay for scholarships in such an expensive
institution.

The Brockway Academy was to be continued, under the management of a
board of trustees. An accomplished teacher had been selected by Mr.
Lowington, and the school, under its present administration, was in a
highly prosperous condition. Only ten of its pupils had been transferred
to the Academy Ship, for it required no little nerve on the part of
parents to send their sons to school on the broad ocean, to battle with
the elements, to endure the storms of the Atlantic, and to undergo the
hardships which tender mothers supposed to be inseparably connected with
a life on shipboard.

For six months Mr. Lowington had studied upon his plan, and it was
hardly matured when the new ship came to anchor in Brockway harbor.
During this period he had visited the principal cities of the Northern
States, those of the southern section being closed against his
operations by the war of the rebellion then raging at the height of its
fury. He had interested his friends in his bold enterprise, and boys
with, whom the experiment was to be inaugurated were gathered from all
parts of the country.

The securing of the requisite number of pupils was the first success,
and what he had regarded as the most difficult part of the enterprise.
More than half of them had been obtained before it was deemed prudent to
lay the keel of the ship. The details of the plan had been carefully
considered during the winter, and when the ship was moored at Brockway,
the organization of the school, its rules and regulations had all been
written out. The boys began to arrive about the first of March, and by
the first of April all of them, eighty-seven in number, were on board.

Mr. Lowington was naturally very anxious for the success of his
experiment, and for months he had labored with unceasing diligence in
perfecting his plan, and carrying it into operation. In this occupation
he had found the activity he needed; and he may not be blamed for
believing, all the time, that he was laboring for his country and his
race.

If it has been inferred from what has been said of Mr. Lowington, of his
domestic afflictions, and of his views on the subject of discipline,
that he was an austere, cold, and unsympathizing man, a wrong impression
has been conveyed. The boys of the Brockway Academy, when they came to
know him, loved him as much as they respected him. He was not the man
needlessly to abridge the harmless enjoyment of youth, or to repress its
innocent hilarity. He watched the sports of the students with interest
and pleasure, and encouraged them by all the means in his power. He was
fond of humor, enjoyed a harmless joke, and had a keen appreciation of
juvenile wit. He was a good companion for the boys, and when they
understood him, he was always welcome to the play-ground.

The new ship had been duly christened Young America at the launching, by
Miss Josey Martyn--a name which was rapturously applauded by the boys.
She was one hundred and eighteen feet in length, and of about four
hundred tons burden. She had been built as strong as wood, iron, and
copper could make her. For a ship, she was small, which permitted her to
be light sparred, so that her juvenile crew could handle her with the
more ease. She had a flush deck; that is, it was unbroken from stem to
stern. There was no cabin, poop, camboose, or other house on deck, and
the eye had a clean range over the whole length of her. There was a
skylight between the fore and the main mast, and another between the
main and mizzen masts, to afford light and air to the apartments below.
There were three openings in the deck by which entrance could be
obtained to the interior of the ship: the fore hatch, the main hatch,
and the companion-way, the two former being used by the crew, and the
latter by the officers.

The between-decks, which is the space included between the upper and the
lower deck, was fitted up for the accommodation of the officers and
crew. Descending by the companion-way--which in the Young America
extended athwartships--on the right, at the foot of the stairs, was the
officers' cabin, occupying the part of the ship nearest to the stern.
This apartment was twenty-eight feet long, by fifteen in breadth at the
widest part, with four state rooms on each side. The mizzen mast passed
up through the middle of it. This cabin was richly but plainly fitted
up, and was furnished well enough for a drawing-room on shore. It was
for the use of the juvenile officers of the ship, fifteen in number, who
were to hold their positions as rewards of merit. The captain had a room
to himself, while each of the other apartments was to accommodate two
officers.

On the left of the companion-way, descending the stairs, was the "old
folks' cabin," as it was called by the students. It was in the locality
corresponding to that occupied by the ward room of a man-of-war. Though
the after cabin is the place of honor on board a ship, Mr. Lowington had
selected the ward room for himself and the teachers, in preference to
the after cabin, because it was next to the steerage, which was occupied
by the larger portion of the pupils, and because the form of the ship
did not contract the dimensions of the state rooms. This cabin was
twenty-two feet long and fifteen feet wide, with no waste room, as in
the after cabin, caused by the rounding in of the ship's counter. On the
sides were five state rooms, besides a pantry for the steward, and a
dispensary for the surgeon.

The forward room on the starboard side was occupied by Mr. Lowington
alone; the next on the same side by the chaplain and doctor; and each of
the three on the port side by two of the teachers. This cabin was
elegantly finished and furnished, and the professors were delighted with
its cheerful and pleasant aspect.

From the main cabin, as that of the "faculty" was called, were two
doors, opening into the steerage, fifty-two feet in length by fifteen
feet in width of clear space between the berths, which diminished to
nine feet abreast of the foremast. This apartment was eight feet high,
and was lighted in part by a large skylight midway between the fore and
main mast, and partly by bull's eyes in the side of the ship. There were
seventy-two berths, placed in twelve rooms, opening from passage-ways,
which extended athwartships from the main steerage, and were lighted by
the bull's eyes. There were no doors to these dormitories, each of which
contained six berths, in two tiers of three each. It was intended that
the six boys occupying one of these rooms should form a mess. Between
the gangways, or passages, were mess tables, which could be swung up
against the partition when not in use.

The steerage was neatly and tastefully fitted up, and furnished, though
not so elegantly as the cabins. It was to be the school room, as well as
the parlor and dining room of the boys, and it would compare favorably
with such apartments in well-ordered academies on shore. There was
plenty of shelves, pouches, and lockers, under the lower berths, and
beneath the bull's eyes at the head of the main gangways, for clothing
and books, and each boy had a place for every article which regulations
allowed him to possess.

Forward of the foremast there were two large state rooms; that on the
starboard side having four berths, for the boatswain, carpenter,
sailmaker, and head steward; and the one on the port side with six, for
the two cooks and the four under stewards, all of whom were men skilful
and experienced in their several departments. Forward of these was the
kitchen, from which opened the lamp room, a triangular closet in the bow
of the ship. Mr. Lowington had taken the idea of locating the cooking
apartment in the extreme forward part of the vessel from the Victoria
and Albert, the steam yacht of the Queen of England.

The hold beneath the berth deck contained the water tanks, bread room,
chain lockers, and a multitude of store rooms for provisions, clothing,
and supplies of every description needed on board during a long voyage.

The Young America was to be officered and manned by the students. They
were to work the ship, to make and take in sail, to reef, steer, and
wash down decks, as well as study and recite their lessons. They were to
go aloft, stand watch, man the capstan, pull the boats; in short, to do
everything required of seamen on board a ship. Mr. Lowington was to lure
them into the belief, while they were hauling tacks and sheets, halyards
and braces, that they were not at work, but at play. The labor required
of them was an essential element in the plan, by which the boys were to
obtain, the necessary physical exercise, and the discipline they so much
needed.

By the first of April the last of the students had reported to the
principal on board, and the professors, as the boys insisted upon
calling them, had taken possession of their state rooms. Though some of
the pupils had been on board nearly a month, the organization of the
ship had not been commenced; but classes had been formed in some of the
studies, by the teachers, and the pupils recited every day. The
boatswain had instructed the boys in rowing, and some temporary
regulations had been adopted for the eating and sleeping departments.
But not a boy had been allowed to go aloft, and nothing more than
ordinary school discipline had been attempted.

The boys, as boys always are, were impatient at this delay. They wanted
to be bounding over the ocean--to be on their way to some foreign port.
They were anxious to work, to climb the rigging, and stand at the wheel.
As yet they knew very little of the purposes of the principal, and had
but a faint perception of the life they were to lead in the Academy
Ship. It was understood that the officers were to be selected for their
merit, and that the ship, some time or other, was to cross the ocean;
but beyond this, all was darkness and uncertainty.

"To-morrow will be the first day of April," said George Wilton, as he
walked the deck of the Young America with Richard Carnes, a dignified
young gentleman of seventeen. "Mr. Lowington said we should go to work
on that day."

"If he said so, then of course we shall go to work," replied Carnes.

"I'm tired of waiting," added Wilton. "I think this is a stupid kind of
life. We are not even tied to a bell rope here."

"You will get discipline enough as soon as the crew are organized."

"I suppose we shall. Do you think we shall go to sea to-morrow?"

"Go to sea to-morrow!" exclaimed Carnes.

"Shuffles said so."

"How can we go to sea to-morrow? The crew don't know the mainmast from a
handspike. They couldn't do anything with the ship now; they don't know
the ropes."

"You do, Carnes."

"Well, I know something about a ship," replied the dignified young
gentleman, who had made one voyage up the Mediterranean with his uncle.

"I was pretty sure we should get out into blue water by to-morrow."

"Nonsense!"

"Shuffles said so."

"He is mistaken."

"What are we going to do?"

"I don't know? I'm content to wait till orders come."

"I don't want to wait any longer," added Wilton.

"What are you talking about, fellows?" asked Shuffles, joining them, as
they walked forward.

"Didn't you say we were going to sea to-morrow, Shuffles?" asked Wilton.

"Of course we are."

"Who says so?" demanded Carnes.

"All the fellows say so."

"It can't be true."

"Why not? We are not going to stay here forever."

"In my opinion, we shall stay here some weeks, if not some months,"
added Carnes.

"What for?"

"To pursue our studies, in the first place, and to learn our duty as
seamen, in the second."

"I don't believe I shall stay here a great while longer," said Shuffles,
with evident disgust. "There's no fun lying here."

"You can't help yourself," added Wilton.

"Perhaps I can't, but I can try," said Shuffles, as he glanced towards
the shore.

"All hands ahoy!" shouted Peaks, the boatswain, as his shrill whistle
rang through the ship.

The boys had been taught the meaning of this call, and they gathered in
the waist, eager to know what was to be required of them.

Mr. Lowington stood on the raised hatch over the main scuttle, where all
the students could see him. It was evident that he had some announcement
to make, especially as the following day had been assigned for
organizing the ship's company. The boys were silent, and their faces
betrayed the curiosity which they felt.

"Young gentleman," the principal began, "this ship will go into
commission to-morrow."

"Don't know what you mean, sir," said Paul Kendall as Mr. Lowington
paused to observe the effect of his announcement.

"I did not suppose that many of you would understand the expression. In
the navy, a ship is said to go into commission when the captain takes
his place on board, and the crew are organized for duty. When this
takes place, the ensign is hoisted. To-morrow, at twelve o'clock, we
shall display the colors at the peak. With us, going into commission
will only mean the organization of our school. From that time, we shall
observe the discipline of a man-of-war, so far as the ship and crew are
concerned."

"Shall we go to sea then?" asked Wilton.

"I think not," replied Mr. Lowington, laughing. "We shall not leave the
harbor till every officer and seaman knows his duty. You shall have
enough to do to-morrow, young gentlemen."

"When shall we be able to go to sea?"

"I don't know. There are many ropes in the ship, and you have a great
deal to learn before I shall be willing to trust you with the anchor at
the cat-head."

"What is the cat-head, sir?" asked Kendall

"Do you wish to go to sea without knowing what the cat-head is?" replied
the principal. "You shall know in due time. To-morrow we shall select
the officers, fifteen in number, who are to occupy the after cabin."

This announcement created a decided sensation among the eighty-seven
boys gathered in the waist, for the subject had been full of interest to
them. The after cabin had thus far been a sealed book; the door was
locked, and they had not even seen the inside of the apartment. They
were curious to visit this cabin, and to know who were to occupy it.

"After the organization of the school, it is my intention to give these
offices to those who obtain the highest number of merit marks, which
will be given for good conduct, good lessons, and progress in
seamanship. The best boy, who is at the same time the best scholar and
the best seaman, shall be captain. We have no marks now by which to make
the selection, and I intend to have you elect him the first time,
reserving to myself the right to veto your choice if it is obviously an
improper one."

As Mr. Lowington uttered this last remark, he glanced, perhaps
unconsciously, at Shuffles, who stood directly in front of him.

"Young gentlemen, the ballot will take place to-morrow morning, at nine
o'clock. I have given you this notice, that you may be able to consider
the matter and, if you choose, to make nominations for the several
offices," continued the principal.

"What are the offices, sir?"

"The first and most important one, of course, is the captain. The others
are four lieutenants, four masters, two pursers, and four midshipmen."

"What are they to do?" asked Kendall.

"I will not explain their duties now; it would require too much time. I
mentioned them in the order of their importance. Now, young gentlemen,
you should select your candidates for these offices by merit, not by
favor. I am aware that a few of you have been to sea, but probably none
of you are competent to handle a ship; and your choice should be based
mainly on good character and good conduct. I hope I shall be able to
approve the choice you may make. You are dismissed now."

"Three cheers for the principal!" shouted one of the boys.

"Silence, young gentleman! Let me say now, that no expressions of
approbation or disapprobation are to be allowed."

The boys separated into groups, and immediately gave their attention to
the important subject suggested to them by Mr. Lowington. It must be
acknowledged that violent symptoms of "log-rolling" began to be
exhibited. There were fifty, if not eighty-seven young men who wished to
be captain, and sit at the head of the table in the after cabin. Some of
them went down into the steerage, and in five minutes there was a
confused jabbering in every part of the ship.

"For whom shall you vote, Wilton?" asked Shuffles in a group of half a
dozen which had gathered around one of the mess tables.

"I don't know? whom do you go for?" replied Wilton.

"I rather think I shall go for Bob Shuffles. In my opinion, he is the
best fellow on board," replied the owner of that name.

"That's modest," laughed Wilton.

"Do you know of any fellow that would make a better captain than I
should?"

"You don't know the first thing about a ship."

"What odds does that make? I can learn as fast as anybody else."

"Do you expect every fellow to vote for himself?" asked Howe, another of
the group.

"Of course I don't; I expect them to vote for me," answered Shuffles,
with great good-nature.

"You are rather cheeky, Shuffles."

"What's the use of mincing the matter? Here we are, half a dozen of the
best fellows in the ship. We can't all be captain; but one of us can be
just as well as not."

"That's so," added Howe, approvingly. "But who shall that one be?"

"I am the one, without a doubt," said Shuffles.

"I don't see it," interposed Monroe, shaking his head; and he was the
young gentleman who had assisted the aspirant for the captaincy to rob
Mr. Lowington's favorite peach tree.

"What have you got to say about it, Ike Monroe? Do you expect us to go
for you?"

"I didn't say so."

"That's what you meant."

"I've just as much right to the place as you have, Bob Shuffles."

"Do you think you could make the fellows stand round as I can? But hold
on; fellows, don't let us fight about it. We are just the best six
fellows on board, and if we have a mind to do so, we can have this thing
all our own way," continued Shuffles.

"I don't see how," said Philip Sanborn.

"Don't you know how the politicians manage these things?"

"I don't."

"I'll tell you, then."

"But the principal said we must go according to merit, and elect the
fellows who were the best fitted for the offices," interposed Howe.

"Exactly so; that's just what we are going to do. I'm going to be
captain; can you tell me of any better fellow for the place?" demanded
Shuffles, who, putting aside the jesting manner in which he had
commenced the discussion, now assumed an earnest and impudent tone.

"Didn't you hear what Lowington said when he wound up his speech?" asked
Wilton.

"What?"

"About vetoing our choice if it was not a proper one."

"What of it?" asked Shuffles, innocently.

"Don't you think he would veto you?"

"Me! Not he! Lowington knows that I'm smart; I was too smart for him
once, and he knows it. He won't veto me. We have been the best of
friends lately."

"I don't believe he'll have a chance to veto you," said Wilton.

"What do you mean?"

"I don't believe you will be elected."

"I know I shall, if we manage it right. Let us look at it," continued
Shuffles, as he took a pencil from his pocket. "Got a piece of paper?"

Monroe gave him a piece of paper, and the wire-puller began to make his
calculations.

"Eighty-seven votes," said he, writing the number on the paper.
"Necessary to a choice, forty-four. Here are six votes to start with."

"For whom?" asked Monroe.

"For me, for captain, first, and for each of the others for whatever
place he wants; say for Wilton for first lieutenant; Howe for second,
Sanborn for third, Monroe for fourth, and Adler for first master. What
do you say to that, fellows?"

As with the political "slate," there was some difference of opinion in
regard to the minor officers, even after Shuffles' claim to the
captaincy had been conceded But this disposition of the spoils was
finally agreed to.

"Now we want thirty-eight more votes," Shuffles proceeded.

"Just so; and you might as well attempt to jump over the main royal yard
as to get them," added Adler, who, having been assigned to the office
lowest in rank, was least satisfied with the "slate."

"Hold on; we haven't done yet. There are nine more offices. Now we will
pick out some good fellow that will work for us, for each of these
places; then we will promise him six votes if he will go our ticket, and
do what he can for us."

"That will give us only fifteen votes," said Adler.

"I think that will be doing very well to start with. Then you five
fellows can electioneer for me, and I'll do the same for you."

"I think we have made one mistake," added Sanborn. "Most of the fellows
will go for Carnes for captain. He is an old salt, and has more
influence than any other student in the ship. We ought to offer him some
place."

"Make him purser, if you like," said Shuffles, contemptuously.

"That won't go down. Make him first lieutenant."

"And shove me out?" demanded Wilton, indignantly. "I don't see it!"

"Nor I," added Shuffles. "I won't vote for Carnes, any how. He's a snob
and a flunky."

It was useless to resist the fiat of the chief wire-puller; the ticket
remained as it had been originally prepared; and the young gentlemen
proceeded to distribute the rest of the offices.




CHAPTER III.

THE ENSIGN AT THE PEAK.


The students on board of the Young America were between the ages of
fourteen and seventeen. By the regulations, no boy under fourteen or
over seventeen could be admitted, and they averaged about fifteen. They
had, therefore, reached the years of discretion. Among them were a great
many who were disposed to be wild boys, and not a few who had found it
difficult to remain in similar institutions on shore. They were not
criminal or depraved, but simply wild; with a tendency to break through
reasonable restraint; with a taste for mad pranks, and a contempt for
authority.

Of this class, who were a trial and a torment to the teachers of the
ordinary high schools and academies, the larger proportion would have
scorned to steal, or commit any wanton outrage upon the persons or
property of others. There were many high-minded, noble-hearted young
men, who could not tamely submit to authority, and were prone to
insubordination, and who only needed the right kind of discipline to
make them earnest and faithful men and useful citizens. There were few,
if any, dunces or blockheads among them, for a life on shipboard had no
attractions for such boys. They were, almost without an exception,
wide-awake, bold, daring fellows, who had a taste for stirring events;
fellows who wanted to climb the Rocky Mountains, visit the North Pole,
and explore the Mammoth Cave. They were full of fun and mischief and it
would have been easy at any time to get up a party among them to march
the principal's cow into the parlor of the Academy; to climb to the
belfry on a winter's night, and fill the inverted bell with water, where
it would freeze solid before morning; or to convey the occupants of the
hen-coop to the recitation room.

It was Mr. Lowington's task to repress the mischief in these boys, to
keep them occupied with work and play, and to develop their moral and
mental capacities. He had doubtless taken a heavy load upon himself but
he felt that he was to labor for his race and his country. At least one
half of his students were too wild to attend the ordinary public or
private schools, or to profit by them if admitted. With such material,
his work could not be a sinecure. But he had a taste for it, and he gave
his whole heart and soul to the performance of his duties.

When the students were gathered on board the Young America, they were
mostly strangers to him, though he had communicated personally or by
letter with the parents of all of them. He had read and listened to the
stories of their pranks and peccadilloes, but when they came together,
he hardly knew one from another, and was not prejudiced against any
individual by the terrible accounts of him related by parents,
guardians, or teachers. He purposed to give them the opportunity to
select their own officers at first, in order to win a more cheerful
obedience from them, and because the students knew each other better
than he knew them.

After the announcement of the principal that the voting would commence
on the following morning, nothing else was talked of on board. The
qualifications of various members of the school were discussed by groups
of excited voters; and we must do them the justice to say that most of
them considered the matter unselfishly and with a single eye to the
public good. Perhaps it is a little remarkable that not a single
student, outside of the little group of wire-pullers that gathered in
the steerage, thought of Shuffles for the position of captain; and the
"log-rollers" were likely to have up-hill work in electing themselves to
the six principal offices. But they went to work, and labored very
diligently till bed-time in carrying their point.

While none thought of Shuffles in connection with the highest position,
many mentioned the dignified young gentleman, who had made one voyage up
the Mediterranean--Richard Carnes. He had been on board a fortnight, and
had won and retained the respect of all his companions.

Before the little band of wire-pullers in the steerage had made up the
"slate" to suit their minds, the crowd on deck had agreed upon Richard
Carnes for captain, and were busy in discussing the qualifications of
others for the subordinate offices, when the log-rollers separated, and
went to work upon their mission.

"How are you going to vote for captain, Kendall?" said Wilton, stopping
up to the young gentleman who had proposed so many questions to the
principal, and who had been so honest in confessing his ignorance of
nautical matters.

"For Carnes, of course."

"Humph! I wouldn't vote for him," sneered the wire-puller.

"Why not?"

"He's too stiff; he'll put on airs, and be a tyrant over us."

"No, he won't."

"You see if he don't. I say, Kendall, are you up for any office?"
continued Wilton, with a certain appearance of slyness which the
straightforward young gentleman did not exactly like.

"Am I?"

"Yes, you. Wouldn't you like a room in the after cabin?"

"Perhaps I would," answered Kendall, thoughtfully; and the place was
certainly very inviting to him.

"They say the after cabin is a perfect little palace."

"I dare say it is."

"You can just as well go in there, if you like."

"I don't see how that can be. I don't think I'm fit to be an officer. I
am from Cincinnati, and I never saw a ship till I came east three weeks
ago."

"None of the fellows know anything about a ship. All of us will have to
learn."

"Carnes knows all about one."

"No, he don't. He made one voyage, and knows just enough to talk salt.
He's a good fellow enough, but he isn't fit for captain. If you want to
be an officer, Kendall, and have a berth in the after cabin, you can,
just as well as not."

"Well, I would like such a place; I can't deny it; but I don't think the
fellows will go for me."

"They will, if you say so."

"If I say so! I'm not going to ask them to vote for me," replied
Kendall, warmly; for he was no politician and had a vein of modesty in
his composition.

"You needn't say a word to any one. If you will go for our ticket, it
will be all right. Half a dozen of us have talked this matter over, and
we have concluded that you would be the best fellow for second master."

"Have you?" asked Kendall, who could not help being gratified to learn
that even half a dozen of his companions had thought him worthy to be an
officer of so high a rank as second master. "I'm very much obliged to
you."

"All you have to do, is to go for our ticket."

"What do you mean by your ticket?" demanded Kendall, who was rather
confused by the technical terms of the wire-puller.

Wilton explained that his little party had selected a candidate for each
of the offices; and if all the fellows agreed to it, there would be
fifteen votes for their ticket, to begin with.

"Well, what is your ticket?" demanded Kendall, impatiently. "If they are
all good fellows, I will go for them. Of course you mean to vote for
Carnes for captain."

"Not exactly," replied Wilton, with evident disgust. "We shall put up a
better fellow than he is for captain."

"Why, all the boys are going for him," added Kendall, astonished to find
there were any who did not believe in Carnes.

"No, they are not."
