explain. I have suffered much in the past month, and there 
may be a keener pang in store for me. To think of Lily 
bright and happy without me, can be borne; but to know 
she is lying in the cold grave, shut away from the home and 
 
friends she delighted in, mouldering in unconsciousness, 
while the whole earth is beautiful and joyous, is terrible." 
" G-od may deal tenderly with us," she returned, a confi- 
dent faith lingering in her tones. She could not believe 
Lily would die. Whether it was because of the suddenness 
of the event, so difficult for the mind to take in, or a higher 
and more triumphant faith, she scarcely knew. As Mr. 
Auchester listened, he felt comforted, strengthened. His 
regard for her grew into reverence. 
Another day passed, and another. Lily was still alive, 
but unconscious. A third with the same dreadful suspense, 
the same agonizing fear. O, what prayers went up to 
heaven for the dear girl, so precious to them all, in spite 
of her waywardness. Mr. Auchester came every day to 
hear. Still, he did not indulge in any fallacious hope in 
regard to Lily. In truth, if he could have at that moment 
knelt beside her, and asked back her love, it may be that he 
would not have done it. Forgiveness, tenderness, sympathy, 
these would have been his offerings ; but love once outraged 
and trampled upon, held its own way with a kind of royal 
pride. 
At length came a gleam of hope. The daily telegrams 
had been necessarily brief; so a letter was quite a luxury to 
Daisy. There had been, in the first hours of restored con- 
sciousness, imminent danger of fever ; but, this happily avert- 
ed, Richard spoke hopefully of the case. Mabel was quite 
worn down with anxiety ; and as he expected to return the 
next day, he asked Daisy to come up in the morning, and re- 
main, until some further improvement took place, with Lily. 
Mrs. Hall or Martin would accompany her to New York. 
Lily had been riding with Mr. Joslyn on the morning of 
the accident. Her horse, usually gentle enough, had started 
suddenly, reared, and thrown her at the instant. The smooth 
surface of the rock on which her head had struck pro- 
duced outwardly a severe bruise, and internally an injury, 
from which the gravest consequences were at first appre- 
 
bended. As Richard spoke of the hopeless days and nights 
they had all endured, when Lily's life seemed hanging on the 
slenderest thread, Daisy's heart throbbed with the deepest 
emotion. 
The tidings were grateful to Mr. Auchester. During his 
evening call, Daisy gave him the letter to read, and deli- 
cately busied herself with some trifle, that she might not 
observe how it afiected him. 
" If you will allow me the pleasure of escorting you in 
the morning, I shall be most happy," he said, when he had 
finished. 
Daisy signified her willingness. 
" Poor Lily ! " and he sighed. " May she be wiser and 
happier in time to come. I suppose you have no idea how 
long you may remain at Rothelan ? " 
" Some weeks, doubtless. You see Dr. Bertrand does not 
anticipate a very rapid recovery." 
" Will you write to me occasionally, Daisy ? I have no 
other mode of hearing." 
" With pleasure ; " and Daisy's face brightened. 
He remarked it. " Don't misunderstand me, please," he 
began, gravely. " While I confess to you that I cannot at 
present dismiss all interest in Lily, do not care to, in fact, 
you must accept the situation as it is. I shall go to Europe 
shortly. Thus sundered by the ocean as well as our own 
wills, it is hardly likely that we shall ever meet again. It 
must be my continual study to forget. I am glad human 
nature is so constituted." 
" Ulric ! " she exclaimed, almost the first time she 
had used his Christian name, " you tempt me to make my 
favor conditional. Why should you and Lily, who could 
be so happy together, shadow each other's lives in this 
fashion ? " 
" I am not convinced that we could render each other 
happy," he returned, coldly. 
" And yet you love Lily ? " 
" The time has passed when I could den} such a thing to 
you, my sweet questioner. But my love is not all that is 
needed for complete happiness." 
" And if Lily repented, regretted that painful past, loved 
you what then ? " 
His eyes drooped under her fearless gaze. 
" Daisy, you are wild ! " he said, vehemently. " Your 
love for us both leads you astray." 
" No, it is rather your blindness. If one word from Lily 
can restore peace, will you not grant her another opportu- 
nity ? O, I beseech you, for her sake, for your own ! " 
He was deeply moved by her earnestness. 
"Lily will not say even that one word. Forgive me, 
Daisy, if I cannot bring my mind to sue where I have been 
trifled with, not once, but many times." 
" I shall never ask you to sue to her. She gave the 
offence, and unless she repents truly, I have no desire to see 
you take up the old life. But in the days that are to come, 
when Lily will have long hours for remembrance, her heart 
may soften. She may discover how much she did love, how 
much she still loves you. She may be ready to make any 
concession." 
" Well ? " 
" May I send for you then, if she wishes it ? " 
" Daisy ! " His voice had a quivering sound, as if it came 
over a sob. - 
" You will grant me this," she pleaded. " Your happiness 
is so dear to me that I think you may trust me not to ship- 
wreck it. I shall have better opportunities than any one 
else of learning the state of Lily's heart. I ask you only to 
accept your own happiness." 
" O, child," he said, "you hardly know what you are un- 
dertaking. I cannot believe. It will never, never be." 
" But if it should come ! If in those hours of solitude 
Lily's heart should send up a yearning prayer for what she 
has so heedlessly cast away, you will be pitiful, you will 
answer ! " 
There was a long silence. His breath came rapidly. His 
whole frame trembled in the powerful contest. The clinched 
fingers, white and almost bloodless, indented deeply into his 
hand ; yet he felt no pain. 
" Daisy," he said, at length, in a slow, faltering voice, 
" you have conquered. I put my heart, my very life in your 
keeping. I dare not hope, but I will wait. Yet remember, 
it must be Lily's desire solely. 'No influence must be brought 
to bear upon her. If of her own free will she expresses sor- 
row, regrets the past, and can so far put aside pride as to 
acknowledge this to me, I will come. If not, do not grieve 
unnecessarily for me. I shall bear all the rest with the cour- 
age of a man, and never again pain you by an unworthy 
weakness. O, my darling friend, how much you have been 
to me ! " 
They clasped hands silently at their parting. And on the 
morrow his deferential tenderness had in it the highest 
respect, the most perfect confidence. Daisy little guessed, 
when she left him at the New York depot, how long he stood 
watching after the cars were in motion. 
CHAPTER XXXII. 
There are inscriptions on our hearts which are never to be seen except it 
dead low tide. BULWER. 
I thought I held in my hot hand my life crushed up : I could have tost 
The crumpled riddle from me, and laughed loud to think what I had lost. 
A bitter strength was in my mind ; like Samson, when she scorned him blind. 
OWEN MEREDITH. 
IT was a lovely autumn day, and Daisy found no incident 
to disturb her journey. She had hardly risen from her seat 
when they arrived at the station, before she caught sight of 
Richard's face, as it passed the car window. And then she 
was welcomed with a smile that said so much. 
" You asked Martin to bring you to the depot, I hope ? " 
he said, as he was handing her into the carriage. 
" No, for a better attendant offered. How is Lily ? " 
'' Very comfortable. If fever doesn't set in, she will do 
nicely. But the anxiety has told a good deal upon. Bel, 
though I suppose baby made it worse for her. Alice has 
thriven beautifully. I am so glad you could come." 
" You have all been so kind to me that it is a pleasure to 
find myself useful." 
It was gratitude that spoke then, he thought, and a desire 
to render favor for favor. Then they talked of the accident, 
and how it had fared with Lily. Richard was pleased to see 
her looking so bright and well, and though the old pang 
smote his heart, he put it resolutely away, and was cheerful. 
She, glad to find him so like the Richard she best loved, and 
not being pained by coldness, forgot the brief hours that had 
been so terrible to her. 
 
Mabel's welcome was fond and sisterly. Baby Alice had 
grown almost out of recollection, but soon made friends. The 
change in Lily was greater than Daisy had dreamed of. At 
the first glance she did indeed seem dead. Besides the gray 
pallor, her face had a wan, pinched look ; the lips, always so 
brilliant and laughing, were rigid and ashen-hued ; and every 
feature contracted, as if with intense suffering. 
There would not be much to do.' To sit and watch that no 
change might take place without due observation, give her a 
little nourishment or medicine, keep the room dark and 
quiet, were all the instructions Daisy received. Except that 
for herself she was to spend two hours out of doors every 
day, and be occasionally relieved by Mabel, so the confine- 
ment should not become tiresome. 
She could not decide at first whether Lily recognized her 
or not. The poor child slept almost continually, or looked 
about with vacant, staring eyes, and seldom uttered a word. 
Daisy was, if possible, more shocked than by the announce- 
ment of the accident. Richard left them that afternoon, 
promising to be up in a few days, or if any change for the 
worse occurred, he was to be sent for immediately. 
For a week there was not much perceptible improvement 
in Lily. Yet nature was silently and powerfully awakening 
the dormant strength and energy. She began to talk a lit- 
tle, evince a desire for certain dishes of food, and show her 
pleasure when any one entered the room. Richard made 
them all joyful by pronouncing her recovery certain. Daisy, 
watchful and tranquil, kept her place without a sign of fa- 
tigue. Once in three or four days she wrote to Mr. Auches- 
ter; but the subject so near both hearts was never touched 
upon. 
When her amendment became positive, Lily's youth and 
good constitution made it rapid. They were astonished to 
see how she gained daily. The deathly paleness vanished ; 
her eyes grew lustrous ; the old dazzling smile came back ; 
and little petulances, so like Lily, announced a return of 
her proper self. 
 
Mr. Jostyn was most devoted. Choice fruits were sent 
over, such as could only have been obtained by a journey to 
the city, Daisy well knew. Rarest flowers, calls, not only 
from him, but from his mother and sisters, who evinced the 
warmest interest in Lily. It gave Daisy a strange, painful 
presentiment. She learned from Mabel that he had been 
Lily's constant attendant since her return from the Catskills. 
" It has troubled me much," Mabel said ; " but Philip 
judged wisely, that thwarting her would only make her the 
more resolute, and perhaps lead her to accept Mr. Joslyn. 
He insists that she really loves Mr. Auchester." 
Daisy experienced a sudden impulse to confide her secret 
to Mabel. But she knew that under some circumstances it 
ought never to pass her lips, and refrained. 
And then one day an unaccountable change came over 
Lily. She appeared well as usual in the morning, but by 
noon had grown strangely restless. Daisy questioned her 
gently, but received most unsatisfactory replies, and for the 
remainder of the day, Lily bestowed the merest monosyllables 
upon her attendant. There was, withal, a visible impatience, 
mixed with a sort of sullen resolve to bear alone whatever 
oppressed her. It pained Daisy, and gave her no little un- 
easiness, when she found that Lily had a fever for several 
hours, and not the slightest desire for her supper. 
" If you would try some of these grapes," suggested 
Daisy; "or a piece of the pine-apple, which is a great rarity 
at this season." 
" I wish you would take it all away," said Lily, fretfully. 
" I'm -not worth that trouble to any one. And if you'll stay 
down stairs, and let me be quiet, I think I can go to sleep." 
Poor Daisy ! For the last two hours she had been read- 
ing, and scarcely stirred, lest Lily might feel herself watched. 
But in spite of the quiet, even at nine in the evening, Lily's 
voice had a wakeful sound, and her eyes were heavy, with 
purple shadows underneath. Something had gone wrong. 
Daisy vainly tried to find a cause for oftence. 
Richard came up the next morning. After asking Lily a 
few questions, he sought Daisy. 
"Were there any visitors in yesterday to see Lily ?" he 
inquired. 
" No." 
" She sat up too long, or talked too much. I find her 
feverish, and in a very irritable state." 
" Not from either of those causes," replied Daisy. " She 
only sat up once yesterday, hardly an hour, and was un- 
usually quiet. Yet I noticed she had some fever." 
" Strange ! " was Richard's grave remark. " She has the 
appearance of being strongly excited or annoyed. Has she 
worried about anything ? " 
" Not outwardly. I tried to learn the cause of her dis- 
quietude, but in vain." 
'' See if you can win it from her. I am afraid it will re- 
tard her recovery." 
Then their eyes met, and both colored with a conscious 
knowledge, though each was wrong as to the cause in the 
other. 
" Never mind," he continued, hurriedly. " Don't distress 
yourself. If Lily will indulge in unreasonable moods without 
the slightest cause, she ought to bear the penalty alone. I 
am sorry for her, but the fault is not in the slightest degree 
yours. Have Bel and the baby up here frequently, and don't 
seem to notice her." 
Even if Daisy had been so minded, she could have learned 
nothing from Lily, who was, if possible, more reticent, and 
certainly more miserable, every hour. Her fever increased. 
Late on the following day Mr. Joslyn brought a beautiful 
bouquet. He kept Daisy for some time in the hall, talking to 
her. As soon as released, she ran up stairs. 
" Are they not lovely ? " and she held them before Lily. 
"A Cape jasmine, and some orange blossoms. Will the 
odor be too strong if I leave them in here a while ? " 
" I don't want them ! Take them away ! And I wish 
 
Mr. Joslyn wouldn't bring any more," said Lily, with flushed 
face and contracted brow. 
" Well," was Daisy's quiet rejoinder. Placing them in 
the adjoining apartment, she lingered a while. When she 
returned Lily was in tears. 
"Have I distressed you?" she asked, in a tender tone. 
"No." 
Lily winked away the tears resolutely, and crowded down 
a great sob, that seemed like a ball of fire in her throat. 
Then she suddenly turned her face, and said, in a half- 
smothered, passionate manner, 
" O, I don't know what to do ! I am so wretched ! Why 
couldn't I have died in that fearful time ! They had no hope 
for me, and I shouldn't have suffered any pang of separation. 
But to live this dreary, dreary life ! " 
" Why should it be dreary, Lily ? " 
" I can't reason ; I never could. I only know it is." 
" When you are well enough to go out, you will feel dif- 
ferently about it." 
" I don't want to go out. If I could stay here forever, 
and see no one but you, and Bel, and Richard, it wouldn't be 
so hard ! " 
" Dear Lily, God has seen fit to bring you through a great 
peril, and surely He will send nothing that will not be for 
your good." 
" Do you believe He sends everything ? Doesn't it seem 
rather as if He sometimes let people go plunging into all 
sorts of wrong and trouble, until ' they stick fast in the mire, 
where no ground is'? And then everything becomes so 
dreary, so dreary ! " 
" They cried unto the Lord, in the days of the Psalmist." 
" If that was all, I could find it in my heart to cry con- 
tinually. But I don't know how to turn in this world. 
Everywhere a face meets me. I cannot hide away from it. 
And because I have been so wrong, and find myself all tan- 
gled up in such a web, if I could go out of life quietly " 
 
Daisy's heart beat with high hope. She made an effort to 
steady her voice, and said, slowly, 
" God has some work for you still to do some happiness 
for you yet to enjoy. With Him all things are possible." 
" But I can't undo anything. I was so wild, so utterly 
thoughtless ! I don't know what possessed me, unless it was 
an evil spirit. But I did not mean " and her voice failed 
through weeping. 
Daisy kissed her tenderly. 
" Has Mr. Joslyn been here every day ? " she asked, at 
length. 
" Yes." 
Daisy hesitated a little, not feeling quite sure of her 
ground. 
" He sent the flowers. I heard him talking to you. And 
he has sent many things. O, I wish I had never seen him!". 
Daisy scarcely knew what comment to make. 
" What has he said about the accident ? " 
" He feels sadly distressed. He told me, one morning, he 
knew the blame ought all to rest upon him. No one rejoices 
more at your recovery." 
" He is so good ! But it wasn't his fault. May I tell you, 
Daisy ? Perhaps I shall feel better after I have talked it 
over. I don't know how I came to tell him that the affair 
with with Mr. Auchester was ended. Instead of keeping 
him away, I let him come. I thought I could prevent his 
caring very much about me. But I suspect that had begun 
long before. I did stop him several times from saying any- 
thing pointed, and tried to act so that he would see the inti- 
macy, on my part, was for mere pleasure. The morning of 
' our ride he was real serious. I evaded him carelessly ; but 
presently he laid his hand on my horse's neck, and said, de- 
terminedly, ' Miss Lily, I won't be put off in this fashion 
any longer ! You shall tell me ' I knew what was com- 
ing, and hit Bess a hard cut with the whip. She started 
violently. I thought I had the reins in my hand I don't 
 
know how it ever came, but it was a fragment of iny dress 
instead. I tried to grasp the bridle, but Bess threw me like 
a flash. I suppose she was as much frightened as I. If 
the rock had not been there, I might have escaped seri- 
ous injury. As it is, I have made you all a great deal of 
trouble." 
" And you do not love Mr. Joslyn," Daisy said, greatly 
relieved. 
" Love him ? O, no ! I sometimes wish I did. He is 
so generous, so warm-hearted ! He hasn't a mean or selfish 
thought, and his wife would reign a very queen. I am 
afraid they all like me too well. I did resolve, a few days 
ago, to  please him, but I cannot ; " and Lily shivered 
violently. 
" Why ? " Daisy was observing her narrowly. 
" Because I cannot make myself love him. Is it not 
curious that the heart should decide against a person who 
is in every respect worthy, who would take pleasure in 
devoting to one his whole life ? Why not love one good 
man as well as another ? Yet I know I should make him 
wretched." 
" O, it would be wrong, wicked, to hold out hope to him," 
Daisy exclaimed, vehemently. 
" I know it. For even if I promised, I don't think I ever 
could marry him. But to disappoint him so bitterly ! And 
yet I suppose I must get wefl, and go through with it all 
tell him how little I meant, how selfish and heartless I have 
been. It seems as if good and honorable people will despise 
me henceforth. I hate myself! It is all 'blackness of 
darkness.' " 
" ' So when they cried unto the Lord in their trouble, he 
delivered them out of their distress,' " repeated Daisy. 
" What a comfort you are ! After all, it is best to meet 
the result of one's wrong-doing fairly and without evasion. 
And I have been very wrong." 
" Dear Lily, when we have confessed this, God will give 
us strength for the rest, and peace, and happiness." 
 
" No ; I shall never be happy again. I don't mean on 
account of any one particular event," and Lily colored 
violently, " but life changes so much. Every bright thing 
fades away, and leaves you only a cold, gray shadow. May- 
be it is the autumn and the mournful winds that make me 
feel so dreary ; but I know there can never be another spring 
to my life." 
" There is a ripe and glowing summer yet to come. One 
shadow can never stretch through all time." 
" I think I must be content to sit in the shade, without 
spring or sunshine. Forgive me, darling, for all the trouble 
I have caused you. I will try and be a better girl." 
Lily turned away her face, and Daisy felt it -would be 
unwise to continue the conversation. Although she ex- 
pressed no special regret for the lost love, Daisy gathered 
that it was still strong upon her. She had little fear of the 
final result. And now that the ice had been broken, she 
could gradually lead Lily to a better state of mind. There 
was a visible improvement in her on the following morning. 
She went out to the sitting-room, admired Mr. Joslyn's 
flowers, and seemed resolved to be rarely good-humored 
with everything. But though she discussed the gentleman 
freely, and regretted her behavior towards him with sincere 
earnestness, she seemed resolutely resolved to date her un- 
happiness no farther back than that. She did not shun any 
mention of their stay at the Catskills, but refrained from 
alluding to the relation that had existed between herself 
and Mr. Auchester. In vain Daisy tried to lead the con- 
versation to this point. She fully understood the delicacy 
of her position, that while attempting to mediate between 
them, she must in no wise compromise Mr. Auchester's sen- 
sitive pride. 
Accident brought about the result at last. Lily was gain- 
ing rapidly again. Richard desired her to be very careful, 
for the least over-exertion brought on a most distressing 
headache and a recurrence of the fever. Lily was really 
glad to be excused from visitors ; in her present mood she 
wanted no one but Daisy. She walked about her two rooms, 
but had not yet ventured down stairs at the commencement 
of the fourth week. 
She was dressed in a pretty wrapper, and lying on the 
lounge in the sitting-room, still pale and somewhat thin, but 
not, as she expressed it, " altogether frightful." Daisy had 
curled her hair, which Philip declared the greatest improve- 
ment that could have been made. After reading aloud to 
her the psalms for the day, Daisy took up a little dress she 
was embroidering for Alice, and to please Lily, sang some 
old ballads. This morning it was " Lord Jamie Douglas." 
She noted the scornful yet approving smile that crossed 
Lily's face at the verse, 
" I whispered in at my lord's window, 
Yet never a word would lie answer me. 
Fare ye well, then, Jamie Douglas ; 
I care as little as ye care for me." 
But at the last, where true love triumphs over all, Lily 
turned away her face, and presently fell into a light slumber. 
Daisy bethought herself of a letter to Mr. Auchester that 
she had been prevented from writing the day before. Open- 
ing her desk that stood on the table, she went rapidly over 
two pages. Then she began to wonder whether she should 
ever be able to send him the fruit of her faith in Lily. All 
this time he had waited patiently, asking no questions ; but 
soon his departure would put it out of her power to do any- 
thing for them. Indeed, could she do anything ? 
Lily stirred, opened her eyes, and closed them again. 
The girls were at opposite sides of the room, the little wood 
fire on the hearth shining out between them. The atmos- 
phere without was soft, mellow, and hazy, the sun partially 
obscured by drifting clouds, only breaking forth now and 
then, with a rosy orange hue. 
Lily's tone was more careless than curious as she asked, - 
" What are you writing ? " 
 
" A letter," answered Daisy, with a slight flush and hesi- 
tation. 
"How odd! Is it to Dick? I expect he misses you 
sadly." 
" No ; it is to Mr. Auchester." 
Lily gave a violent start, and flushed redly. 
'' He is going to Europe shortly," Daisy went on, keeping 
her voice steadier than the throbbing at her heart. " He 
has accepted a governmental appointment, and will be ab- 
sent three years at least." 
" You have seen him," Lily assumed, faintly. 
" Yes ; he had been over twice before the day of the 
accident, and after that came regularly. He was very 
anxious about you, and asked me to write as frequently as I 
could." 
" Shall you write to him while he is abroad ? " 
" Perhaps." Daisy made an effort to keep her face tran- 
quil. 
There was a long, long pause. Daisy bit the end of her 
pen-holder, and considered what to say next. 
Lily spoke. Her voice was low, as if there had been a 
great struggle, and she was hardly sure of it. 
" I can think how it will end. I am glad you will both be 
happy. You are the only woman in the world good enough 
for him." 
" O Lily ! you are quite mistaken. There can never be 
any sentiment warmer than friendship between us." 
" Why, Daisy ? Is it quite impossible for you to love 
again ? " 
" You do not consider whether Mr. Auchester's affection 
can be transferred at a moment's notice." 
" There would be nothing to transfer," she answered, bit- 
terly. " His fancy for me has perished. I question whether 
it ever amounted to positive love." 
Lily ! " 
" Yes," Lily raised herself a trifle in her excitement, 
 
" he thought he loved me, but events proved he had a much 
higher regard for his own will." 
" And you ! " 
" I couldn't endure being tyrannized over like a baby." 
" And so. you bestow this tyrant on me ? " Daisy could 
not forbear smiling. 
"I mean " and Lily flushed hotly "I don't know 
that I can make you understand ; but Mr. Auchester is a 
really superior man grand in many things, capable of 
loving with devoted earnestness. He would make some 
woman entirely happy. I want to do him full justice. But 
all the sharp points in our natures were forever coming in 
contact. And so you can see how he needed some one bet- 
ter and nobler, who would study to please him to whom 
his wishes would be positive delights. I'm not sure but he 
would be very indulgent in that case. Instead of derogating 
from this woman, I acknowledge she would be very much 
my superior." 
" I question if he would love her as well. It is not, after 
all, so much what is fit for us as what satisfies us ; and I 
think, in the majority of cases, one's own heart decides 
rightly. But if you understood so perfectly what was 
needed, why did you not conform more to his will ? " 
" Because it isn't in me. I can't be good. I shall always 
be a trouble to myself and every one else. I shall always 
rush through brambles and thorns for something that looks 
bright beyond, and find it only a Dead-Sea apple." 
" Yes, if you depend solely on yourself. But God means 
we shall look to him in the great straits of life, ask him for 
strength. He stands ready to lead us out of by and forbid- 
den places." 
Lily's eyes filled with tears. " You are so sweet," she 
said ; " so good. And yet somehow God gave you a great 
deal of sorrow. Isn't it so all through life ? Don't the 
fragrance and beauty drop out just as one reaches forth a 
hand to gather the flowers, and one finds withered leaves 
 
instead ? And to go on weary, waiting, hungering for wh.it 
will never come ! " 
Daisy smiled over the perversity and inconsequent reason- 
ing. She knew there were many places on the green and 
sunny shore of peace that Lily dared not linger over, but 
glided lightly by, as one does on broken ice, and that her 
heart was longing for the ark from whence it had flown. 
" Lily," she said, " why do you not go back, and confess 
you have been wrong ? You had in your hand all that any 
woman can have ; you blindly threw it away. You taxed 
Mr. Auchester's love, and faith, and patience to the utmost, 
and in one fatal moment it gave way. Is it wise to sit over 
the ruins, and make them stumbling blocks for all the future 
years ? You cannot deny to yourself that you loved him. 
And in some solitary hours, in some spasm of the better 
nature struggling within you, your heart will refuse the pot- 
tage, and cry out for its lost birthright." 
" You think me altogether to blame," replied Lily, warmly. 
" He was often unjust and unreasonable for a mere trifle. 
And if he knew me at all, he must have known that in my 
heart I cared for no one but him. Was it pleasant, think 
you, to be continually watched and suspected ? taken to task 
for a word or a laugh  Ulric Auchester's jealousy is a very 
tiger." 
" You must confess, Lily, he bore many things patiently. 
What proof did you ever give him of your love ? How could 
he trust, when he knew the beacon liked to dazzle with false 
lights ? When you showered favors, that he had sued for, on 
newer faces, and gave him some little fragment, why should 
he have been content ? You are sorry that your heedlessness 
has caused and will cause Mr. Joslyn so much suffering ; but 
have you no thought for the man who had a right to build 
all his future on your love ? Think, Lily, he should have 
been your prince your pride and joy. Do you believe, if 
you had loved as he desired, he would have proved dis- 
trustful ? " 
Lily was silent. The voice that she had never been wholly 
able to stifle smote her heart bitterly. 
" Well," said she, wearily, " it is all over. No matter 
whose the fault, it is done, past recall. The -sooner we for- 
get, the better for both." 
" No ; there is a wiser course." 
" What ? " Lily glanced up eagerly. Their eyes met, and 
she read it all without a word. Burying her face in the 
pillow, her whole frame shook with the effort she made to 
repress her emotion. She murmured, brokenly, 
" No ; I couldn't, I couldn't, Daisy. And then he doesn't 
care for me now. It is right and just that he should despise 
me. He will find some one better." 
" I think the woman a man loves truly is always the best 
to him. And if her love proved stronger than her pride; 
if sorrow was deeper than anger ; if she was brave enough 
to repent, confess " 
" Daisy, he wouldn't forgive me ! He spoke to me the 
morning he went away. I saw his will in his eyes, and his 
resolve to be complete master, if anything. It roused all 
the defiant blood in my nature made me wild. I couldn't 
have felt sorry then if his glance had killed me. O, you 
little know him if you think he would ever humble himself 
that much again ! His pride is a very giant ! " 
" Lily ! " the voice was solemnly tender, "I have 
only to write one word in my letter ; I have only to say, 
" Come,' and he will be here to listen to forgive, if you 
ask it." 
Lily choked down her sobs. Now and then one bitter, 
burning cry tore its way up, and was smothered by sternest 
resolution. A cold shiver seemed freezing her. Happiness 
within her reach ! Love at her very door and such love ! 
The weary desolation of the future, that so terrified her 
when she glanced out upon its midnight blackness, ex- 
changed for peace, for blissful rest ! 
" What did he say : " Her voice quivered with anguish. 
 
" My darling, what he said to me is a matter of confidence 
between us alone, which I cannot betray. I can only tell 
you that if you want him he will come. And there is but 
one condition^" 
She went on with her letter. Lily's face was hidden ; 
but Daisy saw the convulsive movements, heard the sobs. 
She wondered how she could write so calmly when her heart 
throbbed with a wild tumult of hope and fear. 
" Lily," she asked, presently, " shall I send ? " 
Lily's heart beat audibly. Without moving, she said, low 
and huskily, 
" No." 
Then Daisy folded her letter, sealed it, and took it down 
to be sent with Philip's. When she returned, she raised the 
tearful face, and kissed it again and again. 
" My dearest," she said, " since you have decided, you 
must be brave to bear the cross you have assumed. For 
your own sake, for all our sakes, you must not make your- 
self ill and miserable. There are many happy days yet in 
store." 
Happy ! What a mockery it seemed ! This man, who 
should have been the crown and glory of her life, learning 
slowly to forget her to think her unworthy, incapable of 
high and generous regard ! How the thought stung her ! 
She did love him. How his nobleness shamed her ! Never, 
never to see him again ! never to be held to his heart ! to 
hear his voice, and yet to live ! 
 
CHAPTEK XXXIII. 
Come back with me to the first of all; 
Let us learn and love it over again 
Let us forget and then recall, 
Break the rosary in a pearly rain, 
And gather what we let fall. 
ROBERT BROWNING. 
IT would be difficult to describe the mood that led Lily 
to reject this last overture of Mr. Auchester's. There 
was a little wounded feeling that Daisy should have been so 
preferred in his confidence, and that she should refuse to 
repeat what had passed between them. Yet when Lily 
came to reconsider this point, she blushed for her unworthy 
thoughts. 
Pride was still strong within her. Could she make the 
thorough acknowledgment he would demand? Her nature 
was strongly self-centred one of those which refuse utterly 
at first to be purified by suffering ; which, when evasion is no 
longer possible, bear on in stoical silence and contempt. It 
seemed to her now that Mr. Auchester might have taken 
some kinder way to win her back, as if the grandest and 
kindest thing in the whole world was not the simple truth. 
A sense of shame had much to do with her resolution. 
Looking over the past summer, she could not find any place 
where he had given the provocation. As Daisy said, she had 
tried his patience until it resolved itself into distrust of her 
love. She had been wayward, trifling, fond of power, eager 
for admiration, when, if his would have sufficed, she might 
have had it in lavish abundance. How many times she had 
put him off with a little, cold caress, when he had bean ready 
 
to lay his whole heart at her feet. Not because she did not 
love him indeed, she could hardly understand the madness 
now. He was not a humble man, like Mr. Joslyn. He would 
grant favors, but he could not be ruled or forced into any 
step. His manhood, so glorious in its power and integrity, 
could be depended upon to the uttermost. She had always 
admired this resolute strength, even when most earnestly 
contesting it. Yet how could she confess herself altogether 
in the wrong, and have him smile over her with the stately 
consciousness of right ! 
Daisy watched the conflict with a sort of breathless calm 
just as we sit still in the luminous light of some great hope, 
knowing it is ours, yet hardly daring to believe. With a 
girl less true and sound at heart than Lily, she might have 
had some doubts, or even if solitude had not been so strongly 
in Mr. Auchester's favor. It seemed cruel to stand aloof 
from the struggle ; yet she knew if Lily fought this battle 
alone, and conquered self effectually, it would be the begin- 
ning of a new life for her. One by one the strongholds 
behind which she had intrenched herself were giving way. 
She grew more uniformly gentle, and by degrees came to a 
higher standard of thought and belief. Her affection had in 
it a vein of sad, yearning tenderness, that one can scarcely 
refrain from answering with fears. 
A mental contest of this kind could not pass without leav- 
ing some marks of the fire. Philip began to grow extremely 
anxious. 
" I cannot bear to see her so wan and sad-eyed. This 
lovely Indian-summer weather would brace her up, and bring 
some roses to her cheeks. I have half a mind to take her 
out, without waiting for Richard's fiat." 
Lily looked wistfully through the golden air, over the hills, 
to the purple river, and then said, almost sadly, 
