you couldn't have done what you did for Jenny. I'm sure I feel very
grateful to you."
"Now you know me as I am, Mrs. Kent; but I tell you most solemnly, that
I mean to be good always after this. I am sorry for my wicked deeds,
and I am willing to be punished for what I have done. I shall always
bless poor Jenny for saving me from error and sin--if I am saved."
"What are you going to do, Fanny?"
"I am going back to Woodville to-morrow morning. I will give up all the
money I have, confess my fault, and let them do with me as they think
best."
"You can tell them I will pay back all the money you spent for me, just
as soon as I can."
"Mr. Grant is very rich, and he will not ask you to do that. He is very
kind, too."
"But I must do it, and I shall have no peace till it is done,"
protested the poor woman. "I'll tell you what I will do. I will give
you a note for the money."
Mrs. Kent was in earnest. She was sorely troubled by the fact that she
had even innocently received any of the stolen money. In the evening
she wrote the note, which was made payable to Mr. Grant, and insisted
that Fanny should take it. They talked of nothing but the guilt of the
runaway, though rather of the means of making reparation for the wrong,
than of the consequences of the wrong acts. Mrs. Kent was fully
convinced that Fanny was sincerely penitent; that her intercourse with
Jenny had ushered her into a new life. She was even willing to believe,
before they retired that night, that it was all for the best; that He
who brings good out of evil, would bring a blessing out of the wrong
which Fanny had done.
The next morning the wanderer bade farewell to Mrs. Kent, and took the
train for Woodville.
CHAPTER XI.
PENITENCE AND PARDON.
Fanny arrived at the station near Woodville by the early train from the
city. On the way, she had been thinking of her own guilt, and
considering what she should do and say when she stood in the presence
of her injured friends. She was not studying how to conceal or palliate
her offence, but how she could best tell the whole truth. She gave
herself no credit for any good deed she had done during her absence;
she did not flatter herself that she had been benevolent and kind in
using the stolen money as she had used it; she did not believe that her
tender vigil at the bedside of the dying girl made her less guilty.
She felt that she deserved a severe punishment, and that it would do
her good to suffer for what she had done. She was even willing to be
sent to prison, to be disgraced, and banished from the happy home at
Woodville, whose hospitality she had abused. She felt that the penalty
of her errors, whatever it might be, would do her good. She was filled
with contrition and shame as she left the station; she hung her head,
and did not dare to look the people she met in the face. The Fanny who
went from Woodville a few days before had returned an entirely
different being.
Slowly and gloomily she walked down the road that led to the residence
of Mr. Grant. It seemed as though she had been absent a year, and
everything looked strange to her, though the change was all in herself.
All the currents of her former life had ceased to flow; the movements
of the wheel of events had been abruptly suspended. What gladdened her
before did not gladden her now, and what had once been a joy was now a
sorrow. She felt as though she had been transferred from the old world,
in which she had rejoiced in mischief and wrong, to a new world, whose
hopes and joys had not yet been revealed to her.
She approached the cottage of Mr. Long, the constable, who had probably
been engaged in the search for her since her departure. She went up to
the door and knocked. Mr. Long had just finished his breakfast, and she
was shown into the little parlor.
"So you have got back, Fanny Grant," said he, very coldly and sternly,
as he entered the room where she stood waiting for him.
"I have," she replied, just raising her eyes from the floor.
"Where have you been?"
"In New York city."
"Where did you stay?"
"At the house of a poor woman in the upper part of the city."
"I thought so; or I should have found you. You have been a very bad
girl, Fanny."
"I know it, sir. You may send me to prison now, for I deserve the worst
you can do to me," replied Fanny, choking with her emotions.
"You ought to be sent there. What did you come here for?"
"I stole the money, and I suppose you were sent to catch me. I am
willing to be sent to prison."
"You are very obliging," sneered the constable. "We don't generally ask
people whether they are willing or not when we send them to prison."
"I give myself up to you; and you can do with me what you think best."
"I know I can."
"You didn't catch me. I come here of myself; that is what I meant by
saying that I was willing to be sent to prison."
"What have you done with the money you stole?" asked the constable, who
was very much astonished at the singular conduct of Fanny.
"I have spent most of it."
"I suppose so," replied Mr. Long, who deemed it his duty to be stern
and unsympathizing. "How did you spend it?"
"I will tell Mr. Grant all about it," answered Fanny, who did not care
to repeat her story to such a person as the constable; and she felt
that he would be fully justified in disbelieving her statements.
"Perhaps you will tell me, if I wish you to do so."
"I will, but I would rather tell Mr. Grant first, for it is a long
story, and you will think it is a very strange one."
"No doubt it is," said the constable, perplexed by the replies of the
culprit, and doubtful what course he should pursue.
"I suppose Mr. Grant has not got home yet," added Fanny. "You can put
me in prison till he gets back; or I will solemnly promise you I will
not run away."
"Your promises are not worth much. Mr. Grant has got home. He came home
just as soon as he heard that you had gone off. You have given him a
heap of trouble, and you must settle the case with him. I will take you
over to the house, and I promise you I won't lose sight of you again."
"I will not attempt to get away," replied Fanny, meekly.
"I won't trust you," said Mr. Long, putting on his hat.
"I don't ask you to trust me."
"Come with me," he added, taking her by the arm.
"You need not hold me; I will not run away," said Fanny, as she left
the house with the constable, who seemed determined to hold on to her
as though she were some desperate ruffian, instead of a weak and
self-convicted girl.
"You won't get away from me, you may depend upon it," continued Mr.
Long, as they walked towards the mansion of Mr. Grant.
The constable seemed to be actuated by the vanity to make people
believe that he had made a capture, and he did not release his grasp
upon his prisoner till they reached their destination. They met several
people, who stopped and stared at them, and evidently thought the
constable had done a great thing. Mr. Long rang the bell at the front
door. The man-servant, who admitted them, started with astonishment
when he saw Fanny. They were shown to the library, and informed that
Mr. Grant was at breakfast.
"You can sit down in that chair," said the constable, pointing to a
seat. "If you attempt to get away, I shall put the handcuffs on you."
"I don't want to get away. I came back of my own accord," replied
Fanny, astonished rather than indignant at the absurd behavior of the
constable.
"You are bad enough to do almost anything."
"I hope I am not so bad as I was."
"Perhaps you do hope so; but we shall see."
"Can you tell me where Kate Magner is now?" asked Fanny, as Mr. Long
relapsed into silence and pompous dignity.
"She is at home, I suppose. She wasn't quite bad enough for you, it
seems."
"I hope she was not punished for what she did, for it was all my
fault."
"That's a fact. You have told the truth for once."
"I mean always to tell the truth now, Mr. Long," said Fanny.
"When you have done it a while, perhaps we can believe you. The Magner
girl told the whole story, and delivered up the money you gave her;
that saved her."
"I am glad she was not punished."
"She was punished."
"Then I am sorry, for it was I who led her away."
"We all know that. Now, be still; Mr. Grant is coming," said the
constable.
Mr. Grant entered the library, and walked towards the chair where Fanny
sat, taking no notice of the constable. He paused before her, looking
very sad, but very stern. Fanny's bosom was bounding with emotion. She
trembled; her heart was rising up into her throat, and choking her. She
raised her eyes from the floor and glanced at him,--only one glance at
that sad, stern face,--and then burst into tears. She did not mean to
weep; did not mean to do anything which could appeal to the sympathy of
her kind friend and benefactor, but she could not help it.
"I have brought her up to you, Mr. Grant," said the constable.
"Where did you find her?"
Mr. Long would have preferred to let Mr. Grant believe that he had
caught her himself; but the question was so direct that he could only
give a direct answer.
"She came to my house this morning."
"Very well, Mr. Long; I will not trouble you to remain any longer,"
added Mr. Grant.
"I hope you will not let her get away from you, sir," said the
constable, who thought his official position was slighted by this
intimation; and he was curious to hear what the culprit had to say for
herself.
"I will not try to get away, Mr. Grant," interposed Fanny.
"There is no fear of her getting away, even if she is disposed to do
so."
Mr. Long found himself obliged to leave, his office ignored, and his
curiosity ungratified.
"Where have you been, Fanny Jane?" asked Mr. Grant, when the constable
had gone, his tones being the counterpart of his stern, sad face.
"In New York," replied Fanny, still sobbing.
"What have you done with the money you took from the drawer in the
closet?"
"I spent most of it."
"For what did you spend it?"
"I have come back to tell the whole truth, Mr. Grant. I have been very
wicked and ungrateful to you. I am very sorry for what I have done; I
don't ask you to forgive me, for I know you can't. I am willing to be
punished as you think best, for I deserve the worst you can do to me."
Mr. Grant was a tender-hearted man. Perhaps his own children had
suffered from the gentleness of his nature; if they had, the injury had
been more than compensated for in the blessings imparted by his
tenderness. He was more than astonished at the attitude of the returned
wanderer. Fanny had never before been known to be in such a frame of
mind. The sternness of his expression passed away; there was nothing
but the sadness left. Probably he doubted the sincerity of the
culprit's contrition; at least he did not realize the depth and
earnestness of it.
"I will hear whatever you wish to say," replied he, seating himself in
his easy chair.
"I have been so wicked that I know you will find it hard to believe me;
but I mean to tell the whole truth," sobbed Fanny.
"I hope you do. You may wait till you are better able to speak. The
letter you sent to Mrs. Green informed us where you were, but we were
unable to find you."
"I came home as soon as I could; and I did not wish you to find me till
I had done what I had to do," answered Fanny, drying her tears.
She then commenced the narrative of her adventures from the time she
had parted with Miss Fanny. She told how she had let the cat out of the
drawer, and how she had found where the money was actually concealed;
she related very minutely every incident that had occurred up to the
time she had seen Mr. O'Shane and Mrs. Kent in front of the house in
New York. At this point Mr. Grant became intensely interested in the
story, and when Fanny said that she had paid the poor woman's rent with
one hundred dollars of the stolen money, a slight smile gathered upon
his sad face.
Then she related the particulars of her interview with the sick girl,
mentioning even the hymns she had sung to her. She described as well as
she could the impression made upon her by the beautiful and patient
sufferer; the sense of her own guilt and wickedness, which had then and
there dawned upon her; and the oppressive burden she had borne in her
soul when she went down into the city, which did not permit her to
enjoy the pleasures of the great metropolis for which she had stolen
the money, and run away from her home. Fanny was eloquent, but the
simple truth was her only inspiration.
Mr. Grant evidently understood the frame of mind which she described,
and when she came to her final interview with the dying girl, he could
hardly repress a tear in his own eyes. Fanny omitted nothing, but told
every incident, and repeated all she could remember of the conversation
of poor Jenny,--and hardly a word of it was forgotten,--confirming her
statement by exhibiting the anchor on her bosom, and the paper given
her by the dying saint.
Mr. Grant read the paper, and the tears came to his eyes in spite of
his efforts to suppress them.
"For her sake, Fanny, I forgive you," said he.
"I do not deserve to be forgiven, sir," sobbed Fanny.
"I could not resist such an appeal as this," answered Mr. Grant,
glancing at the paper again.
"I would have come home then, when poor Jenny was gone, but I thought I
ought to stay and do what I could for the poor woman;" and Fanny
continued her narrative, describing everything that took place at Mrs.
Kent's till her departure, including her visit to Dr. Porter's, the
funeral, and her confession to the bereaved mother.
"Mrs. Kent felt very bad when I told her that I had stolen the money;
and she promised to pay you all I had spent for her. She gave me this
note for you," continued Fanny, handing him the paper.
Mr. Grant glanced at it, and put it in his pocket.
"Fanny, if your penitence is sincere, as I hope and believe it is, I
shall be thankful that this event has happened," said he. "I should
have been glad of an opportunity to do what you have done with my
money. It would have been wrong for you to steal it, even to relieve
the distress of so needy and deserving a person as the soldier's wife;
but you have put it to a good use. It is impossible for me to doubt
your story, but I wish to confirm it. When you have had your breakfast,
you may go to the city with me, and we will visit Mrs. Kent."
"I have told the whole truth, Mr. Grant; and I am willing to do
anything you say. I did not ask or expect to be forgiven."
"I could have forgiven you, even without the request of the dying
girl."
"I do not deserve it. I expected to be sent to prison," sobbed the
penitent.
"I never thought of sending you to prison, or to any such place. I say
I forgive you, but I shall be compelled to send you to your uncle's in
Minnesota."
"I am willing to go," replied Fanny, who, a week before, would have
deemed this a greater hardship than being sent to prison.
Fanny went to her breakfast. Mrs. Green and the servants were
surprised, not to say disgusted, to see Mr. Grant treat her with so
much tenderness.
CHAPTER XII.
THE NEW HOME.
When Fanny had finished her breakfast, she put on her best clothes, and
started for New York with Mr. Grant, who, perhaps, was more desirous of
assisting the mother of Jenny than of confirming the story to which he
had just listened with so much interest and sympathy. We need not say
that the narrative of the returned wanderer was found to be true in
every respect, or that Mr. Grant destroyed the poor woman's note of
hand, by which she promised to pay the sums Fanny had expended in her
behalf.
Mrs. Kent, while she condemned and regretted the misdeeds of Fanny, was
enthusiastic in the praise she bestowed upon her kindness to the dying
girl, and of her tenderness and devotion in those last trying hours.
Mr. Grant could not doubt that a great change had come over Fanny; that
she earnestly intended to lead a true and good life. Whether she would
persevere, and in any degree realize her present high aspirations,
remained yet to be demonstrated; but he was hopeful. The solemn and
impressive scene through which she had passed had left deep impressions
upon her mind and heart, which he hoped would prove as lasting as they
were strong.
Mr. Grant called with Fanny to see Dr. Porter; and the benevolent
physician gladdened his heart by the warm commendations he lavished
upon Fanny; and, without knowing of her misdeeds, he declared she was a
treasure in whom her friends ought continually to rejoice. It was not
necessary that he should know what evil she had done, for he might
never see her again, and Mr. Grant's business with him related solely
to the future comfort of the soldier's family. The doctor had done
everything that could be done for Mrs. Kent, and his family were so
deeply interested in the poor woman that she was not likely to suffer
in the future. Mr. Grant promised to see him again, and coöperate with
him in doing what might be needed for her comfort and happiness.
Mr. Grant and Fanny returned to Woodville by the noon train. The
penitent girl felt that she had been forgiven, and the kindness of her
friend made her all the more determined to be faithful to the
resolutions she had made. She had not hoped to escape the punishment
she merited, and had not been prepared for the tender words which had
been addressed to her when it was evident that her penitence was real.
"Fanny," said Mr. Grant, as they entered the library, on her return, "I
shall, as I said before, be obliged to send you to your uncle in
Minnesota."
"I am willing to go, sir," replied she, humbly.
"I understand you have frequently declared that you would not go."
"I have, but I am sorry I said anything of the kind."
"But I do not intend to send you there as a punishment for what you
have done. I freely forgive you."
"You are very kind to me, Mr. Grant, and I will do anything you wish
without complaining."
"I am glad to see so excellent a spirit in you, which makes me sorry to
send you away at this time. If your conduct had warranted it before, I
might have made different arrangements; but it is too late now. I have
written to your uncle, informing him that you would be with him next
week. I promised him and your aunt, when I brought you here, that you
should be returned to them in two years; and that time has now expired.
We shall be absent in Europe about six months; when we return, if your
uncle is willing, I should be very glad to have you come back to
Woodville. I hope you will like your aunt better than you used to like
her."
"I shall, sir."
Mr. Grant did not think it necessary to indulge in any long lectures.
He had forgiven Fanny, and he hoped her future conduct would justify
his clemency. Mrs. Green and the servants saw that she was a different
being. She was no longer rough, disobedient, and impertinent, for she
entered at once upon her effort to be kind and obliging to all in the
house. In the afternoon Mr. Grant went up to Hudson, where he had left
Bertha and Fanny. When he had gone, the reformed girl paid a visit to
Ben the boatman, still confined to his bed with the rheumatism. She
surprised him by offering to read to him from the Bible--an offer which
he gladly accepted.
The next day she went to school, carrying a note to the teacher, which
Mr. Grant had written for her. She expected to be reproached and
reproved here, but the teacher did not allude to her past conduct,
prompted in this course by the note; her companions were astonished and
awed by her quiet dignity, and even Kate Magner said less than might
have been expected. Fanny told her what had happened after the
separation at Pennville, and solemnly assured her that she intended
always to be a good girl in the future.
Fanny spent Saturday afternoon with Ben, seated by his bedside till
dark, reading and singing to him, giving him his medicine, and
supplying all his wants. She told him the story of her wanderings in
New York, of the death and the funeral of Jenny, all of which the
kindness and tenderness of Fanny to himself made real. He commended her
good resolutions, and hoped that, in her new home in the West, she
would be able to carry them out.
On Monday the family returned from Hudson, and Fanny repeated her story
to Bertha and her sister. They were moved to tears by her narrative. It
had seemed to them that nothing short of a miracle could reform the
wayward girl; but the miracle had been wrought, as was fully proved
during the remainder of Fanny's stay at Woodville. It did not seem
possible that the gentle and obliging girl, who was a blessing to all
in the house, had ever been the grief and the sorrow of her friends, a
thorn and a torment to all who came in contact with her.
When the time for Fanny to leave for Minnesota arrived, it was hard for
the family to part with her. Miss Fanny begged that the arrangements
might be altered; that she might be permitted to remain at Woodville,
or even to go to Europe with them; but her father thought it best that
the original plan should be carried out; he believed that it would be
better for Fanny herself. There were many tears shed when they parted.
Miss Fanny was sorry to lose her protégée just as her teachings,
quickened into life by her visit to the city, were beginning to bear
their fruits.
Mr. Grant had decided to attend the young traveller to her new home,
for he was unwilling to trust her to the care of any chance friend who
might undertake the charge of her, fearful lest the good impressions
which were beginning to take root in her soul might be weakened during
the long journey. They travelled leisurely, and at the end of a week
reached Mankato, at the great bend of the Minnesota River, in the
southern part of the state.
John Grant, Fanny's uncle, lived at a settlement near the southern line
of the state, about seventy miles from Mankato; and thither Mr. Grant
and Fanny proceeded in a wagon, hired for the purpose. They were warmly
welcomed by the settlers, who seldom saw any one from the busy walks of
civilization. Mr. Grant remained but one day, which he used mainly in
informing the future guardians of Fanny in regard to her moral, mental,
and spiritual needs. He told them of the change which had come over
her, and hoped they would do all they could to foster and encourage the
growth of her good principles. When he had faithfully discharged his
duty to his late charge, he took an affectionate leave of her, and
departed for his home, returning to Mankato in the wagon by which he
had come.
Fanny now entered upon her new life, and had an opportunity to take a
survey of her future home. The settlement consisted of about fifty
persons, most of whom had emigrated from states east of the
Mississippi. Among them were a few Germans, Swedes, and Norwegians. The
country was a perfect garden by nature, and the rich, deep soil
produced the most abundant crops. The settlement was located on one of
those beautiful lakes for which Minnesota is distinguished, whose
bright, clear waters abound in fish. The lake was eight miles in
length, with an average width of about three miles. From it flowed a
small stream, and after receiving other tributaries, discharged its
waters into the Watonwan, which in its turn entered the Minnesota.
John Grant was one of the most important persons at the settlement. He
had cleared up a large farm on the border of the lake, and, with more
means at the beginning than most of his neighbors, had realized a high
degree of prosperity. As he had no children of his own, he was glad to
have Fanny as a member of his family, especially since he had learned
of the improvement in her conduct.
About one third of the population of the settlement were children, and
a school had been established for their benefit. The instructor, Mr.
Osborne, a young man, brother of one of the settlers, had lost his
right leg and his left arm by a terrible railroad accident. He was a
graduate of an Ohio college, and had been engaged in preparing himself
for the ministry when the calamity occurred which rendered him unfit
for the active duties of life. From choice rather than from necessity,
he remained with his brother at the settlement, being both teacher and
preacher.
Fanny immediately entered his school, and devoted herself with great
earnestness to her studies. She soon became a favorite of Mr. Osborne,
who had learned a portion of her history, and felt a strong interest in
her welfare. She was a good scholar, and her progress was entirely
satisfactory to her teacher.
In the home of her uncle, Fanny found, on her arrival, a boy of her own
age. His name was Ethan French; and he had come from Illinois with Mr.
Grant to work on the farm. He had no parents living, and was expected
to remain with his employer till he was twenty-one. He was an uncouth
fellow, and though he could read, write, and cipher, he seemed to be as
uncultivated and bearish as the wild Indians that roamed through the
country. Fanny tried to be his friend, and never neglected an
opportunity to do him a kindness; but the more she tried to serve him,
the more the distance between them seemed to be increased.
"I don't want nothin' to do with gals," was a favorite maxim with
Ethan; and Fanny found it impossible to be very sociable with him. He
did not repel or resent her well-meant advances; but he edged off, and
got out of the way as fast as he could.
Fanny had made up her mind, before she came to her uncle's home, to be
contented and happy there; and she was surprised to find that she liked
her new residence very much. Her aunt was by no means the person her
former experience had taught her to believe she was. Fanny was docile
and obedient, and Mrs. Grant was no longer unjust and tyrannical. They
agreed together remarkably well, and during the short period they were
permitted to be together, no hard thoughts existed, and no harsh words
passed between them.
Though Fanny had not been accustomed to work at Woodville, she readily
adapted herself to her new station. There were no servants at the
settlement; people did their own work; and Fanny, true to the good
principles she had chosen, did all she could to assist her aunt.
Let it not be supposed that Fanny had no temptations; that the new life
upon which she had entered was free from peril and struggles. She was
tempted from within and without; tempted to be unjust, unkind, wilful,
and disobedient. We cannot even say that she did not sometimes yield to
those temptations; but she prayed for strength to resist them. She
labored to be true to her high purpose. The anchor which she always
wore on her breast frequently reminded her of her short-comings--frequently
recalled the memories of the dying angel who had spoken peace to her
troubled soul.
"HOPE AND HAVE," she often said to herself; and the words were
a talisman to keep her in the path of duty. Continually she kept before
her what she hoped to be, and continually she labored to attain the
high and beautiful ideal of a true life.
She was happy in her new home, and her friends were happy in her
presence there; but not long was this happiness to continue, for even
then was gathering in the distance the storm which was to overwhelm
them with woe and desolation. An experience of the most awful and
trying character was in store for Fanny, for which her growth in grace
and goodness was the best, and indeed the only preparation.
By treaty and purchase the United States government had obtained vast
tracts of the lands of the various sub-tribes of the Sioux and Dakotah
Indians. By the original treaty the natives had reserved for their own
use the country on both sides of the Minnesota River, including a tract
one hundred and fifty miles in length by twenty in breadth. When the
Senate of the United States came to act upon the treaty, it was made a
condition of the approval that this reservation should also be ceded to
the whites. The Indians assented to the condition, but no lands being
appropriated for their use, as agreed, they had moved upon the
reservation, and their right to it was recognized.
A portion of this reservation was subsequently acquired by purchase,
but the Indians continued to occupy the rest of it. By the various
treaties, the Indians were paid certain sums of money every year, and
supplied with quantities of goods, such as blankets, clothing, tools,
and arms. But the money was not paid, nor the goods delivered, when
due. The Indians were cheated by traders, and the debts due the latter
were taken from the money to be paid the former. The neglect of the
government,--fully occupied in suppressing the rebellion at the
South,--and the immense frauds practised upon the simple natives,
roused their indignation, and stirred up a hatred which culminated in
the most terrible Indian massacre recorded in the annals of our
country.
CHAPTER XIII.
THE INDIAN MASSACRE.
Though there were no Indians residing very near the Lake Settlement,
they frequently visited the place, and the settlers were on familiar
terms with them. At the house of John Grant they were always treated
with kindness and a generous hospitality. Among those who sometimes
came was a chief called Lean Bear. Fanny was much interested in these
denizens of the forest, and she exerted herself to please them, and
particularly the chief of the Red Irons, as his tribe was called. She
sang to him, brought him milk and bread, and treated him like a great
man. He was a brawny fellow, morose and savage, and though he smiled
slightly, he did not seem to appreciate her kindness.
About the 15th of August, when Fanny had been at the settlement less
than two months, Mr. Grant started for one of the Indian Agencies, on
the Minnesota River, for the purpose of procuring supplies of the
traders in that vicinity. He went with a wagon and a span of horses,
intending to be absent ten days.
One morning, when he had been gone a week, Mrs. Grant was milking the
cows, of which they kept twenty. Ethan was helping her, and Fanny, not
yet a proficient in the art, was doing what she could to assist.
Doubtless she was rather bungling in the operation, for the cow was not
as patient as usual.
"Seems like you gals from the east don't know much," laughed Ethan.
"You are on the wrong side of the creetur."
"So I am! I thought there was something wrong, for the cow don't stand
quiet," replied Fanny.
"No wonder; cows allers wants things did accordin' to rule," added
Ethan.
"I didn't mind that I was on the wrong side."
"What do the gals do out east that they don't know how to milk?"
"They don't milk there."
"They don't do nothin'--do they?"
"Not much; at least, they didn't at Woodville."
"Well, gals isn't good for much, nohow," said Ethan, philosophically,
as he commenced milking another cow.
"They can do some things as well as boys."
"Perhaps they kin; but you couldn't milk a cow till you kim out hyer."
"I could not."
"Hokee!" suddenly exclaimed Ethan. "What's all that mean?"
"What, Ethan?"
"Don't you see all them hosses up to the house? Hokee! Them's Injins,
as sure's you live!"
Fanny looked, and saw about twenty Indians ride up to the house and
dismount. The sight did not alarm her, though it was rather early in
the morning for such a visit.
"D'ye see all them Injins, Miss Grant?" said Ethan to his mistress.
"Dear me! What can they want at this time in the morning? I must go
into the house, and see to them, for they'll steal like all possessed."
Mrs. Grant put her milk-pail in a safe place, and hastened to the
house, which she reached before any of the savages had secured their
horses. Five or six of the visitors entered by the front door, and the
rest assembled in a group, a short distance from the dwelling.
"I wonder what them redskins wants here so airly in the mornin'," mused
Ethan, when Mrs. Grant had gone. "I wonder ef they know there ain't no
one to home but women folks and boys."
"Suppose they do know,--what then?" asked Fanny.
"Nothin'; only I reckon they kim to steal sunthin'."
"They wouldn't steal from aunt Grant."
"Wouldn't they, though!" exclaimed Ethan, incredulously.
"She has been very kind to them."
"They'd steal from their own mothers," added Ethan, as he finished
milking another cow, and moved towards a third.
As he crossed the yard he stopped to look at the horses, and to see
what had become of the riders.
"Hokee!" cried he, using his favorite expression when excited.
"What's the matter, Ethan?" asked Fanny.
"As true as you live, one of them hosses is 'Whiteskin,'" replied he,
alluding to one of Mr. Grant's animals.
"One of the Indian horses?"
"Yes; as true as you live! I kin see the old scar on his flank."
"Where could the Indians get him?"
"That's what I want to know," continued Ethan, now so much excited that
he could not think of his milking. "Creation hokee!" he added--his
usual expression when extraordinarily excited.
"What is it?"
"Creation hokee!" repeated Ethan.
"What do you see, Ethan?" demanded Fanny, who was now so much
interested that she abandoned her occupation.
"There's the t'other hoss!" replied Ethan. "They've got both on 'em."
"Where could they get them?" said Fanny, who regarded the fact
indicated by her companion as sufficiently ominous to excite her alarm.
"That's what I'd like to hev some 'un tell me. Fanny, I tell you
sunthin' hes happened."
At this moment a shrill and terrible scream was heard in the direction
of the house, followed by the sharp crack of a rifle. Ethan and Fanny,
appalled by the sounds, looked towards the house. They saw Mrs. Grant
rush from the back door, and then fall upon the ground. Two or three
Indians followed her, in one of whom Fanny recognized Lean Bear, the
stalwart chief she had endeavored to conciliate. He bent over the
prostrate form of the woman, was seen to strike several blows with his
tomahawk, and then to use his terrible scalping-knife.
At the sound of the rifle, which seemed to be a signal for the purpose,
the savages who had grouped together outside of the house rushed in,
yelling and hooting like demons.
"Creation hokee!" gasped Ethan, his face as nearly white as its
sun-browned hue would permit.
Fanny's blood was chilled in her veins; she could not speak, and her
limbs seemed to be paralyzed. And now in the distance harsh and
discordant sounds rose on the still morning air. They came from the
direction of the other portions of the settlement. The shrill screams
of women, the hoarse cries of men, and the unearthly yells of the
savages, mingled in horrible confusion. It was evident to the appalled
listeners that a fearful Indian massacre had commenced. They had seen
Mrs. Grant fall; had seen the fierce Lean Bear tomahawk and scalp her.
It was madness to stand still in the midst of so much peril, but both
Ethan and Fanny seemed to be chained to the spot where they stood,
fascinated, as it were, by the anguished cries of agony and death that
were borne to their revolting senses by the airs of that summer
morning. The savages were at that moment busy in ransacking and
plundering the house, but Fanny realized that she might be the next
victim; that the tomahawk of the terrible Lean Bear might be glaring
above her head in a few moments more. She trembled like an aspen leaf
in the extremity of her terror, as she heard the terrific cries uttered
by the mangled, mutilated, dying men, women, and children, far enough
off to be but faintly heard, yet near enough to be horribly distinct.
"It's time sunthin' was did," said Ethan, with quivering lips.
"What can we do?" asked Fanny, in a husky whisper.
"We must git out of sight fust. Come along with me, Fanny," added
Ethan, as he led the way into the barn.
"They will find us here," said Fanny.
"P'rhaps they will; but there ain't nowhere else to go to."
"Why not run away as fast as we can?"
"We kin run, but I reckon bullets will travel faster 'n we kin."
Ethan went up a ladder to the top of the hay-mow, and Fanny followed
him. He carried up with him a small hay-fork, with which he went
vigorously to work in burrowing out a hole in the hay. Fanny assisted
him with her hands, and in a few moments they had made an aperture deep
enough to accommodate them. This hiding-place had been made in the back
part of the mow, next to the side of the barn, where there were wide
cracks between the boards, through which they could receive air enough
to prevent them from being stifled.
"Now, you get in, Fanny, and I'll fix the hay so I kin tumble it all
down on top on us, and bury us up."
"Suppose they should set the barn afire," suggested Fanny.
"Then they will; we must take our chances, such as they be. We hain't
got much chance nohow."
Fanny stepped down into the hole; Ethan followed her, and pulled the
mass of hay over so that it fell upon them. They were four or five feet
below the surface of the hay.
"I would rather be killed by a bullet than burned to death in the
fire," said Fanny, with a shudder, when her companion had adjusted the
hay so as to afford them the best possible means of concealment.
"P'rhaps they wouldn't kill you with a bullet. Them redskins is awful
creeturs. They might hack you all to pieces with their knives and
tomahawks," whispered Ethan.
"It's horrible!" added Fanny, quivering with emotion.
"I've hearn tell that there was some trouble with the redskins up on to
the reserves; and I knowed sunthin' had happened when I see them two
hosses. I was kind o' skeery when the varmints rid up to the house."
"Do you suppose they have killed my uncle?" asked Fanny, sick at heart.
"I s'pose they hev," answered Ethan, gloomily. "I reckon we'd better
keep still, and not say nothin'. Some o' the redskins may be lookin'
for us. They're pesky cunnin'."
This was good advice, and Fanny needed no persuasion to induce her to
follow it. Through the cracks in the side of the barn she could see a
few houses of the settlement; and through these apertures came also the
hideous sounds which denoted the progress of the massacre. Great piles
of curling smoke were rising from the burning buildings of the devoted
settlers, and the work of murder and pillage still continued, as the
relentless savages passed from place to place in the execution of their
diabolical mission.
The greater part of the detachment which had halted at the house of Mr.
Grant had now departed, though the sounds which came from the dwelling
indicated that the rest were still there. Lean Bear knew the members of
Mr. Grant's household. With his own hand he had slain the woman who had
so often fed him, and ministered to his necessities, thus belying the
traditional character of his race; and it was not probable that he
would abandon his object without a diligent search for the missing
members of the family.
Fanny was safe for the present moment, but the next instant might doom
her to a violent death, to cruel torture, or to a captivity more to be
dreaded than either death or torture. She trembled with mortal fear,
and dreaded the revelations of each new second of time with an
intensity of horror which cannot be understood or described.
"They are comin' out of the house," said Ethan, in a tremulous whisper.
"There's seven on 'em."
"Are they coming this way?"
"No; they are lookin' round arter us. They are going down to the lake."
"I hope they won't come here."
"But they will kim here, as sure as you live."
"Do you ever pray, Ethan?" asked Fanny, impressively.
"Not much," replied he, evasively.
"Let us pray to God. He can help us, and He will, if we ask Him in the
right spirit."
"I dunno how," added Ethan.
"I will pray for both of us. The Indians can't hear us now, but God
can."
Fanny, in a whisper, uttered a brief and heart-felt prayer for
protection and safety from the savage monsters who were thirsting for
their blood. She prayed earnestly, and never before had her
supplications come so directly from her heart. She pleaded for herself
and for her companion, and the good Father seemed to be very near to
her as she poured forth her simple petition.
"Thy will, not ours, be done," she murmured, as she thought that it
might not be the purpose of "Him who doeth all things well" to save
them from the tomahawk of the Indians. If it was not His will that they
should pass in safety through this ordeal of blood, she asked that they
might be happy in death, or submissive to whatever fate was in store
for them.
Ethan listened to the prayer, and seemed to join earnestly in the
petitions it contained. With his more devout companion, he felt that
God was able to save them, to blunt the edges of the weapons raised to
destroy them, or to transform their savage and bitter foes into the
warmest and truest of friends.
"I feel better," said Fanny, after a moment of silence at the
conclusion of the prayer.
"So do I," replied Ethan, whose altered look and more resolute tones
confirmed his words. "I feel like I could fight some o' them Injins."
"We can do nothing by resistance."
"I dunno; if they don't burn the house, I reckon I know whar to find
some shootin' fixin's."
"Where?"
"Mr. Grant sort o' hid his rifle and things, for fear some un might
steal 'em, I s'pose. I know where they be; and I reckon them redskins
won't find 'em."
"Let us not think of resistance. There must be hundreds of Indians at
the settlement."
"'Sh!" said Ethan, impressively. "They're comin'."
The light step of the moccasoned feet of the savages was now distinctly
heard in the barn. Their guttural jargon grated harshly on the ears of
the fugitives in their concealment, as they tremblingly waited the
issue.
CHAPTER XIV.
