dog-cheap, too. All my other tenants are grumbling to think you don’t
have to pay any more for such superior accommodations. I’ve about
made up my mind that I must ask you twenty-five dollars a quarter,
hereafter.”

All this was said very pleasantly, but the pill was none the less
bitter.

“It seems to me, Mr. Colman,” remarked the cooper soberly, “you have
chosen rather a singular time for raising the rent.”

“Why singular, my good sir?” inquired the landlord, urbanely.

“You know of course, that this is a time of general business depression;
my own trade in particular has suffered greatly. For a month past, I
have not been able to find any work.”

Colman’s face lost something of its graciousness.

“And I fear I sha’n’t be able to pay my quarter’s rent to-morrow.”

“Indeed!” said the landlord coldly. “Perhaps you can make it up within
two or three dollars?”

“I can’t pay a dollar towards it,” said the cooper. “It’s the first
time, in five years that I’ve lived here, that this thing has happened
to me. I’ve always been prompt before.”

“You should have economized as you found times growing harder,” said
Colman, harshly. “It is hardly honest to live in a house when you know
you can’t pay the rent.”

“You sha’n’t lose it Mr. Colman,” said the cooper, earnestly. “No one
ever yet lost anything by me. Only give me time, and I will pay you
all.”

The landlord shook his head.

“You ought to cut your coat according to your cloth,” he responded.
“Much as it will go against my feelings, under the circumstances I am
compelled by a prudent regard to my own interests to warn you that, in
case your rent is not ready to-morrow, I shall be obliged to trouble
you to find another tenement; and furthermore, the rent of this will be
raised five dollars a quarter.”

“I can’t pay it, Mr. Colman,” said the cooper; “I may as well say that
now; and it’s no use my agreeing to pay more rent. I pay all I can
afford now.”

“Very well, you know the alternative. But it is a disagreeable subject.
We won’t talk of it now; I shall be round to-morrow morning. How’s your
excellent sister; as cheerful as ever?”

“Quite as much so as usual,” answered the cooper, dryly.

“But there’s one favor I should like to ask, if you will allow us to
remain here a few days till I can look about me a little.”

“I would with the greatest pleasure in the world,” was the reply, “but
there’s another family very anxious to take the house, and they wish to
come in immediately. Therefore I shall be obliged to ask you to move out
to-morrow. In fact that is the very thing I came here this evening to
speak about, as I thought you might not wish to pay the increased rent.”

“We are much obliged to you,” said the cooper, with a tinge of
bitterness unusual to him. “If we are to be turned out of doors, it is
pleasant to have a few hours’ notice of it.”

“Turned out of doors, my good friend! What disagreeable expressions you
employ! It is merely a matter of business. I have an article to dispose
of. There are two bidders; yourself and another person. The latter is
willing to pay a larger sum. Of course I give him the preference. Don’t
you see how it is?”

“I believe I do,” replied the cooper. “Of course, it’s a regular
proceeding; but you must excuse me if I think of it in another light,
when I reflect that to-morrow at this time my family and myself may be
without a shelter.”

“My dear sir, positively you are looking on the dark side of things. It
is actually sinful to distrust Providence as you seem to do. You’re a
little disappointed, that’s all. Just take to-night to sleep on it, and
I’ve no doubt you’ll think better of it and of me. But positively I have
stayed longer than I intended. Good night, my friends. I’ll look in upon
you in the morning. And by the by, as it is so near the time, allow me
to wish you a Happy New Year.”

The door closed upon the landlord, leaving behind two anxious hearts.

“It looks well in him to wish that,” said the cooper, gloomily. “A great
deal he is doing to make it so. I don’t know how it seems to others, but
for my part I never say them words to any one unless I really wish ‘em
well, and am willing to do something to make ‘em so. I should feel as if
I was a hypocrite if I acted anyways different.”

Mary did not respond to this. In her own gentle heart she could not
help feeling a silent repugnance, mingled, it may be, with a shade of
contempt, for the man who had just left them. It was an uncomfortable
feeling, and she strove to get rid of it.

“Is there any tenement vacant in this neighborhood?” she asked.

“Yes, there’s the one at the corner, belonging to Mr. Harrison.”

“It is a better one than this.”

“Yes, but Harrison only asks the same that we have been paying. He is
not so exorbitant as Colman.”

“Couldn’t we get that?”

“I am afraid, if he knew that we had failed to pay our rent here, he
would object.”

“But he knows you are honest, and that nothing but the hard times would
have brought you to such a pass.”

“It may be, Mary. At any rate you have lightened my heart a little. I
feel as if there was some hope left.”

“We ought always to feel so, Timothy. There was one thing that Mr.
Colman said that didn’t sound so well, coming from his lips; but it’s
true, for all that.”

“What do you mean, Mary?”

“I mean that about not distrusting Providence. Many a time have I
been comforted by reading the verse, ‘Never have I seen the righteous
forsaken, or his seed begging bread.’ As long as we try to do what is
right, Timothy, God will not suffer us to want.”

“You are right, Mary. He is our ever-present help in time of need.
Let us put away all anxious cares, fully confiding in his gracious
promises.”

They retired to rest thoughtfully, but not sadly.

The fire upon the hearth flickered, and died out at length. The last
sands of the old year were running out, and the new morning ushered in
its successor.



CHAPTER IV. THE NEW YEAR’S PRESENT.



“HAPPY New Year!” was Jack’s salutation to Aunt Rachel, as, with an
unhappy expression of countenance, she entered the sitting-room.

“Happy, indeed!” she repeated, dismally. “There’s great chance of its
being so, I should think. We don’t any of us know what the year may
bring forth. We may all be dead before the next New Year.”

“If that’s the case,” said Jack, “we’ll be jolly as long as it lasts.”

“I don’t know what you mean by such a vulgar word,” said Aunt Rachel,
disdainfully. “I’ve heard of drunkards and such kind of people being
jolly; but, thank Providence, I haven’t got to that yet.”

“If that was the only way to be jolly,” said Jack, stoutly, “then I’d
be a drunkard; I wouldn’t carry round such a long face as you do, Aunt
Rachel, for any money.”

“It’s enough to make all of us have long faces, when you are brazen
enough to own that you mean to be a drunkard.”

“I didn’t say any such thing,” said Jack, indignantly.

“Perhaps I have ears,” remarked Aunt Rachel, sententiously, “and perhaps
I have not. It’s a new thing for a nephew to tell his aunt that she
lies. They didn’t use to allow such things when I was young.--But the
world’s going to rack and ruin, and I shouldn’t much wonder if the
people are right that says it’s comin’ to an end.”

Here Mrs. Crump happily interposed, by asking Jack to go round to the
grocery, in the next street, and buy a pint of milk.

Jack took his cap and started, with alacrity, glad to leave the dismal
presence of Aunt Rachel.

He had scarcely opened the door when he started back in surprise,
exclaiming, “By hokey, if there isn’t a basket on the steps!”

“A basket!” repeated Mrs. Crump, in surprise. “Can it be a New Year’s
present? Bring it in, Jack.”

It was brought in immediately, and the cover being lifted there appeared
a female child, of apparently a year old. All uttered exclamations of
surprise, each in itself characteristic.

“What a dear, innocent little thing!” said Mrs. Crump, with true
maternal instinct.

“Ain’t it a pretty ‘un?” said Jack, admiringly.

“Poor thing!” said the cooper, compassionately.

“It’s a world of iniquity!” remarked Rachel, lifting up her eyes,
dismally. “There isn’t any one you can trust. I didn’t think a brother
of mine would have such a sin brought to his door.”

“Good heavens, Rachel!” said the honest cooper, in amazement, “what can
you mean?”

“It isn’t for me to explain,” said Rachel, shaking her head; “only it’s
strange that it should have been brought to this house, that’s all I
say.”

“Perhaps it was meant for you, Aunt Rachel,” said Jack, with thoughtless
fun.

“Me!” exclaimed Rachel, rising to her feet, while her face betrayed the
utmost horror at the suggestion. She fell back in her seat, and made a
violent effort to faint.

“What have I said?” asked Jack, a little frightened at the effect of his
words. “Aunt Rachel takes one up so.”

“He didn’t mean anything,” said Mrs. Crump. “How could you suspect such
a thing? But here’s a letter. It looks as if there was something in it.
Here, Timothy, it is directed to you.”

Mr. Cooper opened the letter, and read as follows:--

“For reasons which it is unnecessary to state, the guardians of this
child find it expedient to (sic) intrust it to others to be brought up.
The good opinion which they have formed of you, has led them to select
you for that charge. No further explanation is necessary, except that
it is by no means their object to make this a service of charity. They
therefore (sic) inclose a certificate of deposits on the Broadway Bank,
of three hundred dollars, the same having been made in your name. Each
year, while the child remains in your charge, the same sum will in like
manner be placed to your credit at the same bank It may be as well to
state, farther, that all attempts to fathom whatever of mystery may
attach to this affair, will prove useless.”

This letter was read in silent amazement.

The certificate of deposits, which had fallen to the floor, was handed
to Timothy by his wife.

Amazement was followed by a feeling of gratitude and relief.

“What could be more fortunate?” exclaimed Mrs. Crump. “Surely, Timothy,
our faith has been rewarded.”

“God has listened to our cry,” said the cooper, devoutly; “and, in the
hour of our need, He has remembered us.”

“Isn’t it prime?” said Jack, gleefully; “three hundred dollars! Ain’t we
rich, Aunt Rachel?”

“Like as not,” observed Rachel, “the certificate isn’t genuine. It
doesn’t look natural it should be. I’ve heard of counterfeits before.
I shouldn’t be surprised at all if Timothy got taken up for presenting
it.”

“I’ll risk that,” said Mr. Crump, who did not look very much depressed
by this suggestion.

“Now you’ll be able to pay the rent, Timothy,” said Mrs. Crump,
cheerfully.

“Yes; and it’s the last quarter I shall pay to Mr. Colman, if I can help
it.”

“Why, where are you going?” inquired Jack.

“To the corner house belonging to Mr. Harrison, that is, if it is not
already engaged. I think I will go and see about it at once. If Mr.
Colman should come in while I am gone, tell him I will be back directly;
I don’t wish you to tell him of the change in our circumstances.”

The cooper found Mr. Harrison at home.

“I called to inquire,” commenced the cooper, “whether you had let that
house of yours on the corner of the street.”

“Not as yet,” was the reply.

“What rent do you ask?”

“Twenty dollars a quarter,” said Mr. Harrison; “that I consider
reasonable.”

“It is satisfactory to me,” was the cooper’s reply, “and, if you have no
objections to me as a tenant, I will engage it at once.”

“Far from having any objections, Mr. Crump,” was the courteous reply, “I
shall be glad to secure so good a tenant. Will you go over and look at
the house?”

“Not now, sir; I am somewhat in haste. When can we move in?”

“To-day, if you like.”

His errand satisfactorily accomplished, the cooper returned home.
Meanwhile the landlord had called.

He was a little surprised to find that Mrs. Crump, instead of looking
depressed, looked cheerful, rather than otherwise.

“I was not aware you had a child so young,” he remarked, looking at the
baby.

“It isn’t mine,” said Mrs. Crump, briefly.

“The child of a neighbor, I suppose,” thought Colman.

Meanwhile he scrutinized closely, without appearing to do so, the
furniture in the room.

At this point Mr. Crump opened the outer door.

“Good-morning,” said Colman, affably. “A fine morning.”

“Quite so,” answered his tenant, shortly.

“I have called, Mr. Crump, to know if you are ready with your quarter’s
rent.”

“I think I told you, last night, how I was situated. Of course I am
sorry----”

“So am I,” said the landlord, “for I may be obliged to have recourse to
unpleasant measures.”

“You mean that we must leave the house!”

“Of course, you cannot expect to remain in it if you are unable to pay
the rent. Of course,” added Colman, making an inventory with his
eyes, of the furniture, “you will leave behind a sufficient amount of
furniture to cover your bill----”

“Surely, you would not deprive us of our furniture!”

“Is there any hardship in requiring payment of honest debts?”

“There are cases of that description. However, I will not put you to
that trouble. I am ready to pay you your dues.”

“You have the money?” said Colman, hastily.

“I have, and something over; as you will see by this document. Can you
give me the two hundred and eighty dollars over?”

It would be difficult to picture the amazement of Colman. “Surely, you
told me a different story last night,” he said.

“Last night and this morning are different times. Then I could not pay
you; now, luckily, I am able. If you cannot change this amount, and will
accompany me to the bank, I will place the money in your hands.”

“My dear sir, I am not at all in haste,” said the landlord, with a
return of his former affability. “Any time within a week will do. I
hope, by the way, you will continue to occupy this house.”

“As I have already engaged Mr. Harrison’s house, at the corner of the
street, I shall be unable to remain. Besides, I do not want to interfere
with the family who are so desirous of moving in.”

Mr. Colman was silenced. He regretted, too late, the hasty course which
had lost him a good tenant. The family referred to had no existence;
and, it may be remarked, the house remained vacant for several months,
when he was glad to rent it at the old price.



CHAPTER V. A LUCKY RESCUE.



THE opportune arrival of the child inaugurated a season of comparative
prosperity in the home of Timothy Crump. To persons accustomed to live
in their frugal way, three hundred dollars seemed a fortune. Nor, as
might have happened in some cases, did this unexpected windfall tempt
the cooper or his wife to extravagances.

“Let us save something against a rainy day,” said Mrs. Crump.

“We can, if I get work soon,” answered her husband. “This little one
will add but little to our expenses, and there is no reason why we
should not save up at least half of it.”

“There’s no knowing when you will get work, Timothy,” said Rachel, in
her usual cheerful way; “it isn’t well to crow before you’re out of the
woods.”

“Very true, Rachel. It isn’t your failing to look too much at the sunny
side of the picture.”

“I’m ready to look at it when I can see it anywhere,” said his sister,
in the same enlivening way.

“Don’t you see it in the unexpected good fortune which came with this
child?” asked Timothy.

“I’ve no doubt it seems bright enough, now,” said Rachel, gloomily, “but
a young child’s a great deal of trouble.”

“Do you speak from experience, Aunt Rachel?” inquired Jack, demurely.

“Yes;” said his aunt, slowly; “if all babies were as cross as you were
when you were an infant, three hundred dollars wouldn’t begin to pay for
the trouble of having one round.”

Mr. Crump and his wife laughed at this sally at Jack’s expense, but
the latter had his wits about him sufficiently to answer, “I’ve always
heard, Aunt Rachel, that the crosser a child is the pleasanter he will
grow up. What a very pleasant baby you must have been!”

“Jack!” said his mother, reprovingly; but his father, who looked upon it
as a good joke, remarked, good-humoredly, “He’s got you there, Rachel.”

The latter, however, took it as a serious matter, and observed that,
when she was young, children were not allowed to speak so to their
elders. “But, I don’t know as I can blame ‘em much,” she continued,
wiping her eyes with the corner of her apron, “when their own parents
encourage ‘em in it.”

Timothy was warned, by experience, that silence was his best (sic)
defence. Since anything he might say would only be likely to make
matters worse.

Aunt Rachel sank into a fit of deep despondency, and did not say another
word till dinner time. She sat down to the table with a profound sigh,
as if there was little in life worth living for. Notwithstanding this,
it was observed that she had a good appetite. Indeed, Rachel seemed to
thrive on her gloomy views of life and human nature. She was, it must
be acknowledged, perfectly consistent in all her conduct, as far as this
peculiarity was concerned. Whenever she took up a newspaper, she always
looked first to the space appropriated to deaths, and next in order to
the column of accidents, casualties, etc., and her spirits were visibly
exhilarated when she encountered a familiar name in either list.

Mr. Crump continued to look out for work, but it was with a more
cheerful spirit. He did not now feel as if the comfort of his family
depended absolutely upon his immediate success. Used economically, the
money he had by him would last nine months, and during that time it was
impossible that he should not find something to do. It was this sense
of security--of possessing something upon which he could fall back--that
enabled him to keep up good heart. It is too generally the case that
people are content to live as if they were sure of constantly retaining
their health and never losing their employment. When a reverse does come
they are at once plunged into discouragement, and feel that something
must be done immediately. There is only one way to fend off such an
embarrassment, and that is to resolve, whatever may be the amount of
the income, to lay aside some part to serve as a reliance in time of
trouble. A little economy--though it involves privation--will be well
repaid by the feeling of security thus engendered.

Mr. Crump was not compelled to remain inactive as long as he feared. Not
that his line of business revived,--that still remained depressed,--but
another path was opened to him for a time.

Returning home late one evening, the cooper saw a man steal out from
a doorway, and assault a gentleman whose dress and general appearance
indicated probable wealth. Seizing him by the throat, the villain
effectually prevented him from calling the police, and was engaged in
rifling his pockets when the cooper arrived at the scene. A sudden blow
on the side of the head admonished the robber that he had more than one
to deal with.

“Leave this man instantly,” said the cooper, sternly, “or I will deliver
you into the hands of the police.”

The villain hesitated, but fear prevailed, and springing to his feet, he
hastily made off under cover of the darkness.

“I hope you have received no injury,” said Timothy, respectfully,
turning towards the stranger he had rescued.

“No, my worthy friend, thanks to your timely assistance. The rascal
nearly succeeded, however.”

“I hope you have lost nothing, sir.”

“Nothing, fortunately. You can form an idea of the value of your
interference, when I say that I have fifteen hundred dollars with me,
all of which I should undoubtedly have lost.”

“I am glad,” said the cooper, “that I was able to do you such essential
service. It was by the merest chance that I came this way.”

“Will you add to my indebtedness by accompanying me with that trusty
club of yours? I have some little distance yet to go, and the amount
of money I have with me makes me feel desirous of taking every possible
precaution.”

“Willingly,” said the cooper.

“But I am forgetting,” said the gentleman, “that you yourself will be
obliged to return alone.”

“I do not carry enough money to make me fear an attack,” said Mr. Crump,
laughing. “Money brings care I have always heard, and now I realize it.”

“Yet most people are willing to take their chance of that,” said the
merchant.

“You are right, sir, nor can I call myself an exception. Still I should
be satisfied with the certainty of constant employment.”

“I hope you have that, at least.”

“I have had until recently.”

“Then, at present, you are unemployed?”

“Yes, sir.”

“What is your business?”

“That of a cooper.”

“I must see what I can do for you. Can you call at my office to-morrow,
say at twelve o’clock?”

“I shall be glad to do so, sir.”

“I believe I have a card with me. Yes, here is one. And this is my
house. Thank you for your company, my good friend. I shall see you
to-morrow.”

They stood before a handsome dwelling-house, from whose windows, draped
by heavy crimson curtains, a soft light proceeded. The cooper could hear
the ringing of childish voices welcoming home their father, whose
life, unknown to them, had been in such peril, and he could not but be
grateful to Providence that he had been the means of frustrating the
designs of the villain who would have robbed him, and perhaps done him
farther injury.

He determined to say nothing to his wife of the night’s adventure until
after his meeting appointed for the next day. Then if any advantage
accrued to him from it, he would tell the whole at once.

When he reached home, Mrs. Crump was sewing beside the fire. Aunt
Rachel sat with her hands folded in her lap, with an air of martyr-like
resignation to the woes of life.

“I’ve brought you home a paper, Aunt Rachel,” said the cooper,
cheerfully. “You may find something interesting in it.”

“I sha’n’t be able to read it this evening,” said Rachel, mournfully.
“My eyes have troubled me lately. I feel that it is more than probable
that I am growing blind. But I trust I shall not live to be a burden to
you. Your prospects are dark enough without that.”

“Don’t trouble yourself with any fears of that sort, Rachel,” said the
cooper, cheerily. “I think I know what will enable you to use your eyes
as well as ever.”

“What?” asked Rachel, with melancholy curiosity.

“A pair of spectacles,” said her brother, incautiously.

“Spectacles!” retorted Rachel, indignantly. “It will be a good many
years before I am old enough to wear spectacles. I didn’t expect to be
insulted by my own brother. But it’s one of my trials.”

“I didn’t mean to hurt your feelings, Rachel,” said the cooper,
perplexed.

“Good night,” said Rachel, rising and taking a small lamp from the
table.

“Come, Rachel, don’t go yet. It is early.”

“After what you have said to me, Timothy, my self-respect will not
permit me to stay.”

Rachel swept out of the room with something more than her customary
melancholy.

“I wish Rachel war’n’t quite so contrary,” said the cooper. “She turns
upon a body so sudden, it’s hard to know how to take her. How’s the
little girl, Mary?”

“She’s been asleep ever since six o’clock.”

“I hope you don’t find her very much trouble. That all comes upon you,
while we have the benefit of the money.”

“I don’t think of that, Timothy. She is a sweet child, and I love her
almost as much as if she were my own. As for Jack, he perfectly idolizes
her.”

“And how does Aunt Rachel look upon her?”

“I am afraid she will never be a favorite with Rachel.”

“Rachel never took to children much. It isn’t her way. Now, Mary, while
you are sewing, I will read you the news.”



CHAPTER VI. WHAT THE ENVELOPE CONTAINED.



THE card which had been handed to Timothy Crump contained the name
of Thomas Merriam,----Wall Street. Punctually at twelve, the cooper
reported himself at the counting-room, and received a cordial welcome
from the merchant.

“I am glad to see you,” he said. “I will come to business at once, as
I am particularly engaged this morning. Is there any way in which I can
serve you?”

“Not unless you can procure me a situation, sir.”

“I think you told me you were a cooper.”

“Yes sir.”

“Does this yield you a good support?”

“In good times it pays me two dollars a day. Lately it has been
depressed, and for a time paid me but a dollar and a half.”

“When do you anticipate its revival?”

“That is uncertain. It may be some months first.”

“And, in the mean time, you are willing to undertake some other
employment?”

“Yes, sir. I have no objection to any honest employment.”

Mr. Merriam reflected a moment.

“Just at present,” he said, “I have nothing to offer except the post of
porter. If that will suit you, you can enter upon the duties to-morrow.”

“I shall be very glad to take it, sir. Anything is better than
idleness.”

“Your compensation shall be the same that you have been accustomed to
earn by your trade,--two dollars a day.”

“I only received that in the best times,” said Timothy, conscientiously.

“Your services will be worth it. I will expect you, then, to-morrow
morning at eight. You are married, I suppose?”

“Yes, sir. I am blessed with a good wife.”

“I am glad of that. Stay a moment.”

The merchant went to his desk, and presently returned with a scaled
envelope.

“Give that to your wife,” he said.

The interview terminated, and the cooper went home, quite elated by his
success. His present engagement would enable him to bridge over the dull
time, and save him from incurring debt, of which he had a just horror.

“Just in time,” said Mrs. Crump. “We’ve got an apple-pudding to-day.”

“You haven’t forgotten what I like, Mary.”

“There’s no knowing how long you will be able to afford puddings,” said
Aunt Rachel. “To my mind it’s extravagant to have meat and pudding both,
when a month hence you may be in the poor-house.”

“Then,” said Jack, “I wouldn’t eat any.”

“Oh, if you grudge me the little I eat,” said his aunt, in severe
sorrow, “I will go without.”

“Tut, Rachel, nobody grudges you anything here,” said her brother, “and
as to the poor-house, I’ve got some good news to tell you that will put
that thought out of your heads.”

“What is it?” asked Mrs. Crump, looking up brightly.

“I have found employment.”

“Not at your trade?”

“No, but at something else, which will pay equally well, till trade
revives.”

Here he told the story of the chance by which he was enabled to serve
Mr. Merriam, and of the engagement to which it had led.

“You are, indeed, fortunate,” said Mrs. Crump. “Two dollars a day, and
we’ve got nearly the whole of the money that came with this dear child.
How rich we shall be!”

“Well, Rachel, where are your congratulations?” asked the cooper of his
sister, who, in subdued sorrow, was eating her second slice of pudding.

“I don’t see anything so very fortunate in being engaged as a porter,”
 said Rachel, lugubriously. “I heard of a porter, once, who had a great
box fall upon him and crush him; and another, who committed suicide.”

The cooper laughed.
