
"No," said Tom, coolly. "There isn't a fence. There are logs in some
places, and in some there aren't."

"Oh, what a bother you are! Well, any way it's all the same, and I'm not
a bit afraid of stable horses. I can manage any of them, from Mr. Burt's
iron-gray colt down," which was true enough. Gypsy was used to riding,
and perfectly fearless.

"But Joy hasn't ridden much, and I should never forgive myself if any
accident happened to her while her father is gone."

"Joy can ride Billy. There isn't a cow in Yorkbury safer."

Mrs. Breynton sipped her tea and thought about it.

"I want to go horsebacking, too," put in Winnie, glaring savagely at
Gypsy over his bread and milk. "I'm five years old."

"And jerked six whole buttons off your jacket this very day," said
Gypsy, eyeing certain gaps of which there were always more or less to be
seen in Winnie's attire in spite of his mother's care. "A boy who jerks
buttons like that couldn't go 'horsebacking.' You wouldn't have one left
by the time you came home,—look out, you'll have your milk over. You
tipped it over times enough this morning for one day."

"You will have your milk over; don't stand the mug up on the
napkin-ring,—no, nor on that crust of bread, either," repeated his
mother, and everybody looked up anxiously, and edged away a little from
Winnie's immediate vicinity. This young gentleman had a pleasing little
custom of deluging the united family at meal-time, at least once
regularly every day, with milk and bread-crumbs; maternal and paternal
injunctions, threats, and punishments notwithstanding, he contrived
every day some perfectly novel, ingenious, and totally unexpected method
of accomplishing the same; uniting, in his efforts, the strategy of a
Napoleon, with the unruffled composure of a Grant.

"I don't know but what I'll see what father thinks about it," Mrs.
Breynton went on, thoughtfully. "If he should be willing—"

"Good, good!" cried Gypsy, clapping her hands. "Father's in the library.
Winnie, you run up and ask him if we can't go up Rattlesnake."

"Well," said Winnie, "when I just get through eatin'. I'm goin' to make
him let me horseback as much as you or anybody else."

Winnie finished his toast with imperturbable deliberation, pushed back
his chair, and jumped up.



Splash! went a shower of milk all over him, his mother, the table, and
the carpet. Everybody jumped. Winnie gasped and stood dripping.

"Oh-oh! how did he do it? Why, Winnie Breynton!"

For there hung the mug from his waist, empty, upside down, tied to his
bib.

"In a hard knot, if you'll believe it! I never saw such a child in all
my life! Why, Winnie!"

The utter blankness of astonishment that crept over Winnie's face when
he looked down and saw the mug hanging, Mr. Darley might have made a
small fortune out of; but the pen of a Cicero could not attempt it. It
appeared to be one of those cases when "the heart feels most though the
lips move not."

"What did you do such a thing for? What could possess you?"

"Oh," said Winnie, very red in the face, "it's there, is it? I was a
steamboat, and the mug was my stove-pipe, 'n' then I forgot. I want a
clean apron. I don't want any milk to-morrer."

This was in the early summer. The holidays had come and gone, and the
winter and the spring. Coasting, skating, and snowballing had given
place to driving hoop, picking flowers, boating, and dignified
promenades on the fashionable pavement down town; furs and bright woolen
hoods, tippets, mittens, and rubber-boots were exchanged for calico
dresses, comfortable, brown, bare hands, and jaunty straw hats with
feathers on them. On the whole, it had been a pleasant winter: times
there had been when Gypsy heartily wished Joy had never come, when Joy
heartily wished she were at home; certain little jealousies there had
been, selfish thoughts, unkind acts, angry words; but many penitent
hours as well, some confessions, the one to the other, that nobody else
heard, and a certain faint, growing interest in each other. Strictly
speaking, they did not very much love each other yet, but they were
not far from it. "I am getting used to Joy," said Gypsy. "I like Gypsy
ever so much better than I did once," Joy wrote to her father. One thing
they had learned that winter. Every generous deed, every thoughtful
word, narrowed the distance between them; each one wiped out the ugly
memory of some past impatience, some past unkindness. And now something
was about to happen that should bring them nearer to each other than
anything had done yet.

That June night on which they sat at the tea-table discussing the
excursion up Rattlesnake was the beginning of it. When Winnie was
sufficiently mopped up to admit of his locomotion about the house with
any safety to the carpets, he was dispatched to the library on the
errand to his father. What with various wire-pullings of Gypsy's, and
arguments from Tom, the result was that Mr. Breynton gave his consent to
the plan, on condition that the young people would submit to his
accompanying them.

"That's perfectly splend," cried Gypsy; "all the better for having you.
Only, my best beloved of fathers, you mustn't keep saying, 'Gypsy,
Gypsy, be careful,' you know, every time my horse jumps, because if you
should, I'm very much afraid."



"Afraid of what?"

"That Gypsy wouldn't be careful," said the young lady, folding her hands
demurely. Her father attempted to call her a sauce-box but Gypsy jumped
upon his knee, and pulled his whiskers till he cried out for mercy, and
gave her a kiss instead.

There was an undercurrent of reality in the fun, however. Mr. Breynton's
over-anxiety—fussiness, some people would have called it—his
children were perfectly conscious of; children are apt to be the first
to discover their parents' faults and weaknesses. Gypsy loved her father
dearly, but she somehow always felt as if he must be managed.

So it came about that on a certain royal June day, a merry party started
for a horseback ride up Rattlesnake mountain.

"I've a good mind to take my waterproof," said Joy, as they were
starting; "we may not be back till late, and you know how cold it grows
by the river after dark."

"Nonsense!" laughed Gypsy; "why, the thermometer's 80° already."

Nevertheless, Joy went back and got the waterproof. She afterwards had
occasion to be very glad of it.

The party consisted of Mr. Breynton, Tom, Joy, Gypsy, Mr. and Mrs.
Hallam (this was the Mrs. Hallam who had once been Gypsy's teacher),
Sarah Rowe, and her brother Francis, who was home from college on
account of ill health, he said. Tom always coughed and arched his
eyebrows in a very peculiar way when this was mentioned, but Gypsy could
never find out what he did it for.

The day, as I said, was royal. The sky, the river, the delicate golden
green of the young leaves and grass, the lights and shadows on the
distant mountains, all were mellowed in together like one of Church's
pictures, and there was one of those spicy winds that Gypsy always
described by saying that "the angels had been showering great bottles of
fresh cologne-water into them."

The young people felt these things in a sort of dreamy, unconscious way,
but they were too busy and too merry to notice them in detail.

Joy was mounted safely on demure Billy, and Gypsy rode—not Mr. Burt's
iron-gray, for Tom claimed that—but a free, though manageable pony,
with just the arch of the neck, toss of the mane, and coquettish lifting
of the feet that she particularly fancied. The rest were variously
mounted: Francis Rowe rode a fiery colt that his father had just bought,
and the like of which was not to be seen in Yorkbury.

Up—up, winding on and away, through odors of fragrant pines and unseen
flowers, under the soft, green shadows, through the yellow lights. How
beautiful—how beautiful it was!

"Who'll race with me?" inquired Mr. Francis Rowe suddenly. "I call it an
uncommon bore, this doing nothing but looking at the trees. I say,
Breynton, the slope's easy here for a quarter of a mile; come ahead."

"No, thank you; I don't approve of racing up mountains."

Tom might have said he didn't approve of being beaten; the iron-gray was
no match for the colt, and he knew it.

"Who'll race?" persisted Mr. Francis, impatiently; "isn't there
anybody?"

"I will," said Gypsy, seriously enough.

"You!" said Tom; "why, the colt would leave that bay mare out of sight
before you could say Jack Robinson."

"Oh, I don't expect to beat. Of course that's out of the question. But I
should like the run; where's the goal, Francis?"

"That turn in the road where the tall fir-tree is, with those dead
limbs; you see?"

"Yes. We'll trot, of course. All ready."

"Be very careful, Gypsy," called her father, nervously; "I'm really
almost afraid to have you go. You might come to the precipice sooner,
than you expect, and then the horse may shy."

"I'll be careful father; come, Nelly, gently—whe-ee!"

Suddenly reflecting that it was not supposed to be lady-like to whistle,
Gypsy drew her lips into a demure pucker, touched Nelly with the tassel
of her whip, and flew away up the hill on a brisk trot. Mr. Francis
condescendingly checked the full speed of the colt, and they rode on
pretty nearly side by side.

"I'm afraid, in justice to my horse, I must really come in first," began
Mr. Francis, loosening his rein as they neared the fir-tree.

"Oh, of course," said Gypsy, with a twinkle in her eyes; "I didn't
undertake to beat."

Now Nelly had a trick with which Gypsy was perfectly familiar, of
breaking into a run at an instant's notice, if she were pinched in a
certain spot on her neck. Suddenly, while the colt was springing on in
his fleet trot, and Mr. Francis supposed Gypsy was a full eight feet
behind, he was utterly confounded to see her flying past him on a
bounding gallop, her hair tossing in the wind, her cheeks scarlet, her
eyes triumphant.

But right in the middle of the road, between them and the fir-tree, was
something neither of them had seen;—a huge tree just fallen, with its
high, prickly branches on.

"Jerusalem!" said Mr. Francis, under his breath as the colt pricked up
his ears ominously.

"Oh, good! here's a jump," cried Gypsy, and over it she went at a bound.
The colt reared and shied, and planting his dainty forefeet firmly on
the ground, refused to stir an inch. Gypsy whirled around and stood
triumphant under the fir-tree, her eyes snapping merrily.

"Why, how did this ever happen?" cried the rest, as they came laughing
up.

"I say, there's some witchcraft about this business," remarked Mr.
Francis, quite bewildered; "wait till I've cleared off these branches,
and we'll try that over again."

"Very well," said Gypsy, in a perfect whirl of excitement and delight,
as she always was, with anything in the shape of reins in her hand. But
just then she looked back and saw Joy toiling on slowly behind the
others; Billy with his head hanging and his spirits quite gone. Gypsy
stopped a moment as if in thought, and then rode slowly down the hill.

"I'm having a horrid time," said Joy disconsolately, as she came up;
"Billy is as stupid as a mule, and won't go."

"I'm real sorry," said Gypsy, slowly; "you might have Nelly. We'll
change awhile."

"No," said Joy, "I'm afraid of Nelly. Besides, you wouldn't like Billy
any better than I do. It's dreadfully stupid back here alone, though. I
wish I hadn't come."

"Francis," called Gypsy, "I guess I won't race, I'm going to ride with
Joy awhile."

"Why, you needn't do that!" said Joy, rather ashamed of her complaining.
But Gypsy did do it; and though her face had clouded for the moment, a
sunbeam broke over it then that lasted the rest of the day.

The day passed very much like other picnics. They stopped in a broad,
level place on the summit of the mountain, tied the horses where they
could graze on the long, tufted wood-grass, unpacked the dinner baskets,
and devoted themselves to biscuit and cold tongue, tarts, lemonade and
current wine, through the lazy, golden nooning.

It was voted that they should not attempt the long, hot ride down the
mountain-side until the blaze of the afternoon sun should be somewhat
cooled. So, after dinner they went their several ways, finding amusement
for the sultry hours. Mr. Breynton and Tom went off on a hunt after a
good place to water the horses; Francis Rowe betook himself to a cigar;
Sarah curled herself up on the soft moss with her sack for a pillow, and
went to sleep; Mr. and Mrs. Hallam sat under the trees and read Tennyson
to each other.

"How terribly stupid that must be," said Gypsy, looking on in supreme
disgust; "let's you and I go off. I know a place where there used to be
some splendid foxberry blossoms, lot's of 'em, real pretty; they looked
just as if they were snipped out of pearls with a pair of sharp
scissors."

"I wouldn't go out of sight of us all," called Mr. Breynton, as the two
girls roamed away together among the trees.

"But you are most out of sight now," said Joy, presently.

"Oh, he didn't say we mustn't," answered Gypsy. "He didn't mean we
mustn't, either. Father always worries so."

It would have been well for Gypsy if her father's wish had been to her
what her mother's was—as binding as a command. "Just think," observed
Gypsy, as they strolled on through the fallen leaves and redcup mosses,
"just think of their sitting still and reading poetry on a picnic! I
can't get over it. Miss Melville didn't used to do such stupid things.
It's just 'cause she's married."

"How do you know but you'll do just the same some day?"

"Catch me! I'm not going to be married at all."

"Not going to be married! Why, I am, and I'm going to have a white
velvet dress too."

"Well, you may. But I wouldn't for a whole trunkful of white velvet
dresses—no, I wouldn't for two dozen trunkfuls. I'm not going to stay
home and keep house, and look sober, with my hair done up behind. I'd
rather be an old maid, and have a pony and run round in the woods."

"Why, I never saw such a girl!" exclaimed Joy, opening her small eyes
wide; "I wouldn't be an old maid for anything. I'm going to be married
in St. Paul's, and I'm going to have my dress all caught up with orange
buds, and spangles on my veil. Therése and I, we planned it all out one
night—Therése used to be my French nurse, you know."

For answer, Gypsy threw herself down suddenly on the velvet moss, her
eyes turned up to the far, hazy sky, showing in patches through a lace
work of thousands of leaves.

"Joy," she said, breaking a silence, and speaking in a curious, earnest
tone Gypsy seldom used, "I do really, though, sometimes go off alone
where there are some trees, and wonder."

"Wonder what?"

"What in this world I was ever made for. I suppose there's got to be a
reason."

"A reason!" said Joy, blankly.

"There's got to be something done, for all I see. God doesn't make
people live on and on and die, for nothing. One can't be a little girl
all one's life, climbing trees and making snowballs," said Gypsy, half
dreamily, half impatiently, jumping up and walking on.



So they wandered away and away, deeper into the heart of the forest,
through moss and tufted grasses, and tangles of mountain flowers,
chatting as girls will, in their silly, merry way, with now and then a
flash of graver thought like this of Gypsy's.

"You're sure you know the way back," said Joy, presently.

"Oh, yes; I've been over it forty times. We've turned about a good many
times, but I don't think we've gone very far from the top of the
mountain."

So, deeper, and further, and on, where the breath of the pines was
sweet; where hidden blossoms were folding their cups for the night, and
the shadows in the thickets were growing gray.

"Gypsy!" said Joy, suddenly, "we're certainly going down hill!"

"So we are," said Gypsy, thoughtfully; "it's getting dark, too. They'll
be ready to start for home. I guess we'll go back now."

They turned then, and began rapidly to retrace their steps, over
brambles and stones and fallen trees; through thickets, and up
projecting rocks—very rapidly.

"It is growing dark," said Gypsy, half under her breath; "why didn't we
find it out before?"

"Gypsy," said Joy, after a silence, "do you remember that knot of white
birches? I don't."

Gypsy stopped and looked around.

"N-no, I don't know as I do. But I dare say we saw them and forgot.
Let's walk a little faster."

They walked a little faster. They walked quite as fast as they could go.

"See that great pile of rock," said Joy, presently, her voice trembling
a little; "I know we didn't come by that before. It looks as if there
were a precipice off there."

Gypsy made no answer. She was looking keenly around, her eyes falling on
every rock, stump, tree, and flower, in search of the tiny, trodden path
by which they had left the summit of the mountain. But there was no
path. Only the bramble, and the grass, and the tangled thickets.

It was now very dark.

"I guess this is the way," spoke up Gypsy, cheerfully—"here. Take hold
of my hand, Joy, and we'll run. I think I know where the path is. We had
turned off from it a little bit."

Joy took her hand, and they ran on together. It grew darker, and grew
darker. They could scarcely see the sky now, and the brambles grew high
and thick and strange.

Suddenly Gypsy stopped, knee-deep in a jungle of blackberry bushes.

"Joy, I'm—afraid I don't—know the—way."




CHAPTER X

WE ARE LOST


The two girls, still clasping hands, looked into each other's eyes.
Gypsy was very pale.

"Then we are lost!"

"Yes."

Joy broke into a sort of sobbing cry. Gypsy squeezed her hand very
tightly, with quivering lips.

"It's all my fault. I thought I knew. Oh, Joy, I'm so sorry!"

She expected Joy to burst forth in a torrent of reproaches; once it
would have been so; but for some reason, Joy did not say an angry word.
She only sobbed away quietly, clutching at Gypsy's hand as if she were
very much frightened. She was frightened thoroughly. The scene was
enough to terrify a far less timid child than Joy.

It was now quite dark. Over in the west a faint, ghostly gleam of light
still lingered, seen dimly through the trees; but it only made the utter
blackness of the great forest-shadows more horrible. The huge trunks of
the pines and maples towered up, up—they could scarcely see how far,
grim, and gloomy and silent; here and there a dead branch thrust itself
out against the sky, in that hideous likeness to a fleshless hand which
night and darkness always lend to them. Even Gypsy, though she had been
in the woods many times at night before, shuddered as she stood looking
up. A queer thought came to her, of an old fable she had sometime read
in Tom's mythology; a fable of some huge Titans, angry and fierce, who
tried to climb into heaven; there was just that look about the trees. It
was very still. The birds were in their nests, their singing done. From
far away in some distant swamp came the monotonous, mournful chant of
the frogs—a dreary sound enough, heard in a safe and warm and lighted
home; unspeakably ugly if one is lost in a desolate forest.

Now and then a startled squirrel dropped from bough to bough; or there
was the stealthy, sickening rustle of an unseen snake among the fallen
leaves. From somewhere, too, where precipices that they could not find
dashed downwards into damp gullies, cold, clinging mists were rising.

"To stay here all night!" sobbed Joy, "Oh Gypsy, Gypsy!"

Gypsy was a brave, sensible girl, and after that first moment of horror
when she stood looking up at the trees, her courage and her wits came
back to her.

"I don't believe we shall have to stay here all night," speaking in a
decided, womanly way, a little of the way her mother had in a
difficulty.

"They are all over the mountain hunting for us now. They'll find us
before long, I know. Besides, if they didn't, we could sit down in a dry
place somewhere, and wait till morning; there wouldn't anything hurt us.
Oh, you brought your waterproof—good! Put it on and button it up
tight."

Joy had the cloak folded over her arm. She did passively as Gypsy told
her. When it was all buttoned, she suddenly remembered that Gypsy wore
only her thin, nankeen sack, and she offered to share it with her.

"No," said Gypsy, "I don't want it. Wrap it around your throat as warm
as you can. I got you into this scrape, and now I'm going to take care
of you. Now let's halloa."

And halloa they did, to the best of their ability; Joy in her feeble,
frightened way, Gypsy in loud shouts, and strong, like a boy's. But
there was no answer. They called again and again; they stopped after
each cry, with breath held in, and head bent to listen. Nothing was to
be heard but the frogs and the squirrels and the gliding snakes.

Joy broke out into fresh sobs.

"Well, it's no use to stand here any longer," said Gypsy; "let's run
on."

"Run where? You don't know which way. What shall we do, what shall we
do?"

"We'll go this way—we haven't tried it at all. I shouldn't wonder a
bit if the path were right over there where it looks so black. Besides,
we shall hear them calling for us."

Ah, if there had been anybody to tell them! In precisely the other
direction, the picnic party, roused and frightened, were searching every
thicket, and shouting their names at every ravine. Each step the girls
took now sent them so much further away from help.

While they were running on, still hand in hand, Joy heard the most
remarkable sound. It was a laugh from Gypsy—actually a soft, merry
laugh, breaking out like music on the night air, in the dreary place.

"Why, Gypsy Breynton! What can you find to laugh at, I should like to
know?" said Joy, provoked enough to stop crying at very short notice.

"Oh, dear, I really can't help it," apologized Gypsy, choking down the
offending mirth; "but I was thinking—I couldn't help it, Joy, now,
possibly—how mad Francis Rowe will be to think he's got to stop and
help hunt us up!"

"I wonder what that black thing is ahead of us," said Joy, presently.
They were still running on together, but their hands were not joined
just at that moment. Joy was a little in advance.

"I'm sure I don't know," said Gypsy, eyeing it intently. The words were
scarcely off from her lips before she cried out with a loud cry, and
sprang forward, clutching at Joy's dress.

She was too late.

Joy tripped over a mass of briars, fell, rolled heavily—not over upon
the ground, but off. Off into horrible, utter darkness. Down, with
outstretched hands and one long shriek.

Gypsy stood as if someone had charmed her into a marble statue, her
hands thrown above her head, her eyes peering into the blank darkness
below.

She stood so for one instant only; then she did what only wild,
impulsive Gypsy would have done. She went directly down after Joy,
clinging with her hands and feet to the side of the cliff; slipping,
rolling, getting to her feet again, tearing her clothes, her hands, her
arms—down like a ball, bounding, bouncing, blinded, bewildered.

If it had been four hundred feet, there is no doubt she would have gone
just the same. It proved to be only ten, and she landed somewhere on a
patch of soft grass, except for her scratches and a bruise or two, quite
unhurt.

Something lay here beside her, flat upon the ground. It was Joy. She lay
perfectly still.

A horrible fear came over Gypsy. She crept up on her hands and knees,
trying to see her lace through the dark, and just then Joy moaned
faintly. Gypsy's heart gave a great thump. In that moment, in the moment
of that horrible fear and that great relief, Gypsy knew for the first
time that she loved Joy, and how much.

"It's my ankle," moaned Joy; "it must be broken—I know it's broken."

It was not broken, but very badly sprained.

"Can you stand on it?" asked Gypsy, her face almost as pale as Joy's.

Joy tried to get to her feet, but fell heavily, with a cry of pain.

Gypsy looked around her with dismay. Above, the ten feet of rock shot
steeply; across the gully towered a high, dark wall; at each end,
shelving stones were piled upon each other. They had fallen into a sort
of unroofed cave,—a hollow, shut in completely and impassably.
Impassably to Joy; there could be no doubt about that. To leave her
there alone was out of the question. There was but one thing to be done;
there was no alternative.

"We must stay here all night," said Gypsy, slowly. She had scarcely
finished her sentence when she sprang up, her lips parted and white.

"Joy, see, see! what is that?"

"What? Where?" asked Joy between her sobs.

"There! isn't that smoke?"

A distinct, crackling sound answered her, as of something fiercely
licking up the dead leaves and twigs,—a fearful sound to hear in a
great forest. At the same instant a white cloud of smoke puffed down
almost into their faces. Before they had time to stir or cry out, a
great jet of yellow flame shot up on the edge of the cliff, glared far
into the shadow of the forest, lighted up the ravine with an awful
brightness.

The mountain was on fire.

Gypsy sat for the instant without speaking or moving. She seemed to
herself to have no words to say, no power of motion. She knew far better
than Joy what those five words meant. A dim remembrance came to
her—and it was horrible that it should come to her just then—of
something she had seen when she was a very little girl, and never
forgotten, and never would forget. A mountain burning for weeks, and a
woman lost on it; all the town turned out in an agony of search; the
fires out one day, and a slow procession winding down the blank, charred
slope, bearing something closely covered, that no one looked upon.

She sprang up in an agony of terror.

"Oh, Joy, can't you walk? We shall die here! We shall be burned to
death!"

At that moment a flaming branch fell hissing into a little pool at the
bottom of the gully. It passed so near them that it singed a lock of
Gypsy's hair.

Joy crawled to her feet, fell, crawled up again, fell again.

Gypsy seized her in both arms, and dragged her across the gully. Joy was
taller than herself, and nearly as heavy. How she did it she never knew.
Terror gave her a flash of that sort of strength which we sometimes find
among the insane.

She laid Joy down in a corner of the ravine the furthest removed from
the fire; she could not have carried her another inch. Above and all
around towered and frowned the rocks; there was not so much as a crevice
opening between them; there was not a spot that Joy could climb. Across,
the great tongues of flame tossed themselves into the air, and glared
awfully against the sky, which was dark with hurrying clouds. The
underbrush was all on fire; two huge pine trees were ablaze, their
branches shooting off hotly now and then like rockets.

When those trees fell they would fall into the ravine.

Gypsy sat down and covered her face.

Little did Mr. Francis Rowe think what he had done, when, strolling
along by the ravine at twilight, he threw down his half-burnt cigar:
threw it down and walked away whistling, and has probably never thought
of it from that day to this.

Gypsy sat there with her hands before her face, and she sat very still.
She understood in that moment what was coming to her and to Joy. Yes, to
her as well as to Joy; for she would not leave Joy to die alone. It
would be an easy thing for her to climb the cliffs; she was agile,
fearless, as used to the mountains as a young chamois, and the ascent,
as I said, though steep, was not high. Once out of that gully where
death was certain, she would have at least a chance of life. The fire if
not checked would spread rapidly, would chase her down the mountain. But
that she could escape it she thought was probable, if not sure. And life
was so sweet, so dear. And her mother—poor mother, waiting at home,
and looking and longing for her!

Gypsy gave a great gulp; there was such a pain in her throat it seemed
as if it would strangle her. But should she leave Joy, crippled and
helpless, to die alone in this horrible place? Should she do it? No, it
was through her careless fault that they had been brought into it. She
would stay with Joy.

"I don't see as we can do anything," she said, raising her head.

"Shall we be burned to death?" shrieked Joy. "Gypsy, Gypsy, shall we be
burned to death?"

A huge, hot branch flew into the gully while she spoke, hissing as the
other had done, into the pool. The glare shot deeper and redder into the
forest, and the great trees writhed in the flames like human things.

The two girls caught each other's hands. To die—to die so horribly!
One moment to be sitting there, well and strong, so full of warm, young
life; the next to lie buried in a hideous tangle of fallen, flaming
trunks, their bodies consuming to a little heap of ashes that the wind
would blow away to-morrow morning; their souls—where?

"I wish I'd said my prayers every day," sobbed Joy, weakly. "I wish I'd
been a good girl!"

"Let's say them now, Joy. Let's ask Him to stop the fire. If He can't,
maybe He'll let us go to heaven anyway."

So Gypsy knelt down on the rocks that were becoming hot now to the
touch, and began the first words that came to her:—"Our Father which
art in Heaven," and faltered in them, sobbing, and began again, and went
through somehow to the end.

After that, they were still a moment.

"Joy," said Gypsy then, faintly, "I've been real ugly to you since
you've been at our house."

"I've scolded you, too, a lot, and made fun of your things. I wish I
hadn't."

"If we could only get out of here, I'd never be cross to you as long as
ever I live, and I wish you'd please to forgive me."

"I will if—if you'll forgive me, you know. Oh, Gypsy, it's growing so
hot over here!"

"Kiss me, Joy."

They kissed each other through their sobs.

"Mother's in the parlor now, watching for us, and Tom and—"

Gypsy's sentence was never finished. There was a great blazing and
crackling, and one of the trees fell, swooping down with a crash. It
fell across the ravine, lying there, a bridge of flame, and lighting
the underbrush upon the opposite side. One tree stood yet. That would
fall, when it fell, directly into the corner of the gully where the
girls were crouched up against the rocks. And then Joy remembered what
in her terror she had not thought of before.

"Gypsy, you can climb! don't stay here with me. What are you staying
for?"

"You needn't talk about that," said Gypsy, with faltering voice; "if it
hadn't been for me you wouldn't be here. I'm not going to sneak off and
leave you,—not any such thing!"

Whether Gypsy would have kept this resolve—and very like Gypsy it was,
to make it—when the flames were actually upon her; whether, indeed,
she ought to have kept it, are questions open to discussion. Something
happened just then that saved the trouble of deciding. It was nothing
but a clap of thunder, to be sure, but I wonder if you have any idea how
