


 

wall of the castle by a narrow passage-way, while 
Parisina's window opened directly upon the moat. 

When we ascended again to the court of the 
castle, the custodian, abetted by his wife, would have 
interested us in two memorable wells there, between 
which, he said, Hugo was beheaded ; and unabashed 
by the small success of this fable, he pointed out two 
windows in converging angles overhead, from one of 
which the Marquis, looking into the other, discov- 
ered the guilt of the lovers. The windows are now 
walled up, but are neatly represented to the credu- 
lous eye by a fresco of lattices. 

Valery mentions another claim upon the interest 
of the tourist which this castle may make, in the fact 
that it once sheltered John Calvin, who was pro- 
tected by the Marchioness Rene*e, wife of Hercules 
II. ; and my Servitore di Piazza (the one who knows 
how to read and write) gives the following account 
of the matter, in speaking of the domestic chapel 
which Renee had built in the castle : " This lady 
was learned in belles-lettres and in the schismatic 
doctrines which at that time were insinuating them- 
selves throughout France and Germany, and with 
which Calvin, Luther, and other proselytes, agitated 
the people, and threatened war to the Catholic re- 
ligion. Nationally fond of innovation, and averse to 
the court of Rome on account of the dissensions be- 
tween her father and Pope Julius II., Rene*e began 
to receive the teachings of Calvin, with whom she 
maintained correspondence. Indeed, Calvin him- 
self, under the name of Huppeville, visited her in 



 

Ferrara, in 1536, and ended by corrupting her mind 
and seducing her into his own errors, which pro- 
duced discord between her and her religious hus- 
band, and resulted in his placing her in temporary 
seclusion, in order to attempt her conversion. Hence, 
the chapel is faced with marble, paneled in relief, 
and studied to avoid giving place to saints or images, 
which were disapproved by the almost Anabaptist 
doctrines of Calvin, then fatally imbibed by the 
princess." 

We would willingly, as Prostestants, have visited 
this wicked chapel; but we were prevented from 
seeing it, as well as the famous frescoes of Dosso 
Dossi in the Hall of Aurora, by the fact that the 
prefect was giving a little dinner (pranzetto) in that 
part of the castle. W,e were not so greatly disap- 
pointed in reality as we made believe ; but our servi- 
tore di piazza (the unlettered one) was almost moved 
to lesa maestd with vexation. He had been full of 
scorching patriotism the whole morning ; but now 
electing the unhappy and apologetic custodian rep- 
resentative of Piedmontese tyranny, he bitterly as- 
sailed the government of the king. In the times of 
His Holiness the Legates had made it their pleasure 
and duty to show the whole castle to strangers. But 
now strangers must be sent away without seeing its 
chief beauties, because, forsooth, the prefect was giv- 
ing a little dinner. Presence of the Devil ! 



 



VII.

IN our visits to the different churches in Ferrara 
we noticed devotion in classes of people who are 
devout nowhere else in Italy. Not only came solid- 
looking business men to say their prayers, but gay 
young dandies, who knelt and repeated their orisons 
and then rose and went seriously out. In Venice 
they would have posted themselves against a pillar, 
sucked the heads of their sticks, and made eyes at 
the young ladies kneeling near them. This degree 
of religion was all the more remarkable in Ferrara, 
because that city had been so many years under 
the Pope, and His Holiness contrives commonly to 
prevent the appearance of religion in young men 
throughout his dominions. 

Valery speaks of the delightful society which he 
met in the gray old town ; and it is said that Ferrara 
has an unusual share of culture in her wealthy class, 
which is large. With such memories of learning 
and literary splendor as belong to her, it would be 
strange if she did not in some form keep alive the 
sacred flame. But, though there may be refinement 
and erudition in Ferrara, she has given no great 
name to modern Italian literature. Her men of 
letters seem to be of that race of grubs singularly 
abundant in Italy, men who dig out of archives and 
libraries some topic of special and momentary interest 
and print it, unstudied and uphilosophized. Their 
books are material, not literature, and it is marvelous 



 

how many of them are published. A writer on any 
given subject can heap together from them a mass 
of fact and anecdote invaluable in its way ; but it 
is a mass without life or light, and must be vivified 
by him who uses it before it can serve the world, 
which does not care for its dead local value. It re- 
mains to be seen whether the free speech and free 
press of Italy can reawaken the intellectual activity 
of the cities which once gave the land so many 
literary capitals. 

What numbers of people used to write verses in 
Ferrara ! By operation of the principle which causes 
things concerning whatever subject you happen to be 
interested in to turn up in every direction, I found 
a volume of these dead-and-gone immortals at a book- 
stall, one day, in Venice. It is a curiously yellow 
and uncomfortable volume of the year 1703, printed 
all in italics. I suppose there are two hundred odd 
rhymers selected from in that book, and how droll 
the most of them are, with their unmistakable traces 
of descent from Ariosto, Tasso, and Guarini ! What 
acres of enameled meadow there are in those pages ! 
Brooks enough to turn all the mills in the world 
go purling through them. I should say some thou- 
sands of nymphs are constantly engaged in weaving 
garlands there, and the swains keep such a piping 
on those familiar notes, Amore, dolore, crudele and 
miele. Poor little poets ! they knew no other tunes. 
Do not now weak voices twitter from a hundred 
books, in unconscious imitation of the hour's great 



 

VIII. 

I THINK some of the pleasantest people in Italy are 
the army gentlemen. There is the race's gentleness 
in their ways, in spite of their ferocious trade, and 
an American freedom of style. They brag in a 
manner that makes one feel at home immediately; 
and met in travel, they are ready to render any little 
kindness. 

The other year at Reggio ' (which is not far from 
Modena) we stopped to dine at a restaurant where 
the whole garrison had its coat off and was playing 
billiards, with the exception of one or two officers, 
who were dining. These rose and bowed as we 
entered their room, and when the waiter pretended 
that such and such dishes were out (in Italy the 
waiter, for some mysterious reason, always pretends 
that the best dishes are out), they bullied him for the 
honor of Italy, and made him bring them to us. 
Indeed, I am afraid his life was sadly harassed by 
those brave men. We were in deep despair at find- 
ing no French bread, and the waiter swore with the 
utmost pathos that there was none ; but as soon as 
his back was turned, a tightly laced little captain rose 
and began to forage for the bread. He opened every 
drawer and cupboard in the room, and finding none* 
invaded another room, captured several loaves from 
the plates laid there, and brought them back in 
triumph, presenting them to us amid the applause 
of his comrades. The dismay of the waiter, on his 
return, was ineffable. 



I 

 

Three officers, who dined with us at the table 
cFhdte of the Stella d'Oro in Ferrara (and excellent 
dinners were those we ate there), were visibly anxious 
to address us, and began not uncivilly, but still in 
order that we should hear, to speculate on our 
nationality among themselves. It appeared that we 
were Germans ; for one of these officers, who had 
formerly been in the Austrian service at Vienna, 
recognized the word bitter in our remarks on the 
beccafichi. As I did not care to put these fine fel- 
lows to the trouble of hating us for others' faults, I 
made bold to say that we were not Germans, and to 
add that bitter was also an English word. Ah ! yes, 
to be sure, one of them admitted ; when he was with 
the Sardinian army in the Crimea, he had frequently 
heard the word used by the English soldiers. He 
nodded confirmation of what he said to his comrades ; 
and then was good enough to display what English 
he knew. It was barely sufficient to impress his 
comrades ; but it led the way to a good deal of talk 
in Italian. 

" I suppose you gentlemen are all Piedmontese ? " 
I said. 

" Not at all," said our Crimean. " I am from 
Como ; this gentleman, il signor Conte, (il signor 
Conte bowed,) is of Piacenza ; and our friend across 
the table is Genoese. The army is doing a great deal 
to unify Italy. We are all Italians now, and you 
see we speak Italian, and not our dialects, to- 
gether." 

My cheap remark that it was a fine thing to see 



 

them all united under one flag, after so many ages 
of mutual hate and bloodshed, turned the talk upon 
the origin of the Italian flag ; and that led our 
Crimean to ask what was the origin of the English 
colors. 

" I scarcely know," I said. " We are Americans." 

Our friends at once grew more cordial. " Oh, 
American*!" They had great pleasure of it. Did 
we think Signor Leencolen would be reflected ? 

I supposed that he had been elected that day, 
I said. 

Ah ! this was the election day, then. Cmpeito ! 

At this the Genoese frowned superior intelligence, 
and the Crimean gazing admiringly upon him, said 
he had been nine months at Nuova York, and that 
he had a brother living there. The poor Crimean 
boastfully added that he himself had a cousin in 
America, and that the Americans generally spoke 
Spanish. The count from Piacenza wore an air of 
pathetic discomfiture, and tried to invent a trans- 
atlantic relative, as I think, but failed. 

I am persuaded that none of these warriors really 
had kinsmen in America, but that they all pretended 
to have them, out of politeness to us, and that they 
believed each other. It was very kind of them, and 
we were so grateful that we put no embarrassing 
questions. Indeed, the conversation presently took 
another course, and grew to include the whole table. 

There was an extremely pretty Italian present 
with her newly wedded husband, who turned out to 
be a retired officer. He fraternized at once with our 



 

soldiers, and when we left the table they all rose and 
made military obeisances. Having asked leave to 
light their cigars, they were smoking the sweet 
young bride blowing a fairy cloud from her rosy lips 
with the rest. " Indeed," I heard an Italian lady 
once remark, " why should men pretend to deny us 
the privilege of smoking ? It is so pleasant and 
innocent." It is but just to the Italians to say that 
they do not always deny it; and there is, without 
doubt, a certain grace and charm in a pretty fuma- 
trice. I suppose it is a habit not so pleasing in an 
ugly or middle-aged woman. 



IV. 

THROUGH BOLOGNA TO GENOA. 
I. 

WE had intended to stay only one day at Ferrara, 
but just at that time the storms predicted on the 
Adriatic and Mediterranean coasts, by Mathieu de la 
Drome, had been raging all over Italy, and the rail- 
way communications were broken in every direction. 
The magnificent work through and under the Apen- 
nines, between Bologna and Florence, had been 
washed away by the mountain torrents in a dozen 
places, and the roads over the plains of the Romagna 
had been sapped by the flood, and rendered useless, 
where not actually laid under water. 

On the day of our intended departure we left the 
hotel, with other travellers, gayly incredulous of the 
landlord's fear that no train would start for Bologna. 
At the station we found a crowd of people waiting 
and hoping, but there was a sickly cast of doubt in 
some faces, and the labeled employe's of the railway 
wore looks of ominous importance. Of course the 
crowd did not lose its temper. It sought information 
of the officials running to and fro with telegrams, in 
a spirit of national sweetness, and consoled itself 



 

with saying, as Italy has said under all circumstances 
of difficulty for centuries : Ci vuol pazienza ! At last 
a blank silence fell upon it, as the Capo-Stazione 
advanced toward a well-dressed man in the crowd, 
and spoke to him quietly. The well-dressed man 
lifted his forefinger and waved it back and forth before 
his face : 

The Well-dressed Man. Dunque, non si parte 
piu ? (No departures, then ?) 

The Capo-Stazione (waving his forefinger in like 
manner.) Non si parte piu. (Like a mournful 
echo.) 

We knew quite as well from this pantomime of 
negation as from the dialogue our sad fate, and sub- 
mitted to it. Some adventurous spirit demanded 
whether any trains would go on the morrow. The 
Capo-Stazione, with an air of one who would not 
presume to fathom the designs of Providence, re- 
sponded: "Who, knows? To-day, certainly not. 
To-morrow, perhaps. But " and vanished. 

It may give an idea of the Italian way of doing 
things to say that, as we understood, this break in 
the line was only a few miles in extent, that trains 
could have approached both to and from Bologna, 
and that a little enterprise on the part of the company 
could have passed travellers from one side to the 
other with very small trouble or delay. But the 
railway company was as much daunted by the in- 
undation as a peasant going to market, and for two 
months after the accident no trains carried passengers 
from one city to the- other. No doubt, however, the 



 

line was under process of very solid repair mean- 
while. 

For the present the only means of getting to 
Bologna was by carriage on the old highway, and 
accordingly we took passage thither in the omnibus 
of the Stella d'Oro. 

There was little to interest us in the country over 
which we rode. It is perfectly flat, and I suppose 
the reader knows what quantities of hemp and flax 
are raised there. The land seems poorer than in 
Lombardy, and the farm-houses and peasants' cottages 
are small and mean, though the peasants themselves, 
when we met them, looked well fed, and were cer- 
tainly well clad. The landscape lay soaking in a 
dreary drizzle the whole way, and the town of Cento, 
when we reached it, seemed miserably conscious of 
being too wet and dirty to go in-doors, and was 
loitering about in the rain. Our arrival gave the 
poor little place a sensation, for I think such a thing 
s an omnibus had not been seen there since the 
railway of Bologna and Ferrara was built. We went 
into the principal caffd to lunch, a caffe much too 
large for Cento, with immense red-leather cushioned 
sofas, and a cold, forlorn air of half-starved gentility, 
a clean, high-roofed caffe and a breezy, and thither 
the youthful nobility and gentry of the place followed 
us, and ordered a cup of coffee, that they might sit 
down and give us the pleasure of their distinguished 
company. They put on their very finest manners, 
and took their most captivating attitudes for the 
ladies' sake ; and the gentlemen of our party fancied 



 

that it was for them these young men began to dis- 
cuss the Roman question. How loud they were, 
and how earnest! And how often they consulted 
the newspapers of the caffS ! (Older newspapers I 
never saw off a canal-boat.) I may tire some time 
of the artless vanity of the young Italians, so in- 
nocent, so amiable, so transparent, but I think I 
never shall. 

The great painter Guercino was born at Cento, 
and they have a noble and beautiful statue of him 
in the piazza, which the town caused to be erected 
from contributions by all the citizens. Formerly his 
house was kept for a show to the public ; it was full 
of the pictures of the painter and many mementos 
of him ; but recently the paintings have been taken 
to the gallery, and the house is now closed. The 
gallery is, consequently, one of the richest second- 
rate galleries in Italy, and one may spend much 
longer time in it than we gave, with great profit. 
There are some most interesting heads of Christ',' 
painted, as Guercino always painted the Saviour, with 
a great degree of humanity in the face. It is an 
excellent countenance, and full of sweet dignity, but 
quite different from the conventional face of Christ. 



AT night we were again in Bologna, of which we 
had not seen the gloomy arcades for two years. It 
must be a dreary town at all times : in a rain it is 
horrible ; and I think the whole race of arcaded cities, 



 

Treviso, Padua, and Bologna, are dull, blind, and 
comfortless. The effect of the buildings vaulted 
above the sidewalks is that of a continuous cellar- 
way ; your view of the street is constantly interrupted 
by the heavy brick pillars that support the arches ; the 
arcades are not even picturesque. Liking always to 
leave Bologna as quickly as possible, and, on this 
occasion, learning that there was no hope of crossing 
the Apennines to Florence, we made haste to take 
the first train for Genoa, meaning to proceed thence 
directly to Naples by steamer. 

It was a motley company that sat down in Hotel 
Brun the morning after our arrival in Bologna to a 
breakfast of murky coffee and furry beefsteaks, as- 
sociated with sleek, greasy, lukewarm fried potatoes. 
I am sure that if each of our weather-bound pilgrims 
had told his story, we had been as well entertained 
as those at Canterbury. However, no one thought 
fit to give his narrative but a garrulous old Hebrew 
from London, who told us how he had been made 
to pay fifteen guineas for a carriage to cross the 
Apennines, and had been obliged to walk part of the 
way at that price. He was evidently proud, now 
the money was gone, of having been cheated of so 
much; and in him we saw that there was at least 
one human being more odious than a purse-proud 
Englishman namely, a purse-proud English Jew. 
He gave his noble name after a while, as something 
too precious to be kept from the company, when 
recommending one of the travellers to go to the Hotel 
d'Angleterre in Rome : " The best 'otel out of Eng- 



 

land. You may mention my name, if you like 
Mr. Jonas." The recipient of this favor noted down 
the talismanic words in his pocket-book, and Mr. 
Jonas, conscious of having conferred a benefit on his 
race, became more odious to it than ever. An Eng- 
lishman is of a composition so uncomfortably original 
that no one can copy him, though many may carica- 
ture. I saw an American in London once who 
thought himself an Englishman because he wore leg- 
of-mutton whiskers, declaimed against universal suf- 
frage and republics, and had an appetite for high 
game. He was a hateful animal, surely, but he was 
not the British lion ; and this poor Hebrew at Bologna 
was not a whit more successful in his imitation of 
the illustrious brute, though he talked, like him, of 
nothing but hotels, and routes of travel, and hack- 
men and porters, and seemed to have nothing to do 
in Italy but get through it as quickly and abusively 
as possible. 

We were very glad, I say, to part from all this at 
Bologna and take the noon train for Genoa. In our 
car there were none but Italians, and the exchange of 
" La Perseveranza " of Milan for " IlPopolo " of Tu- 
rin with one of them quickly opened the way for con- 
versation and acquaintance. (En passant : I know 
of no journal in the United States whose articles are 
better than those of the " Perseveranza," and it was 
gratifying to an American to read in this ablest jour- 
nal of Italy nothing but applause and encouragement 
of the national side in our late war.) My new-made 
friend turned out to be a Milanese. He was a phy- 



 

sician, and had served as a surgeon in the late war of 
Italian independence ; but was now placed in a hospital 
in Milan. There was a gentle little blonde with him, 
and at Piacenza, where we stopped for lunch, " You 
see," said he, indicating the lady, " we are newly 
married," which was, indeed, plain enough to any 
one who looked at their joyous faces, and observed 
how great disposition that little blonde had to nestle 
on the young man's broad shoulder. " I have a 
week's leave from my place," he went on, " and this 
is our wedding journey. We were to have gone to 
Florence, but it seems we are fated not to see that 
famous city." 

He spoke of it as immensely far off, and herein 
greatly amused us Americans, who had outgrown 
distances. 

" So we are going to Genoa instead, for two or 
three days." " Oh, have you ever been at Genoa ? " 
broke in the bride. " What magnificent palaces ! 
And then the bay, and the villas in the environs ! 
There is the Villa Pallavicini, with beautiful gardens, 
where an artificial shower breaks out from the bushes, 
and sprinkles the people who pass. Such fun ! " and 
she continued to describe vividly a city of which she 
had only heard from her husband ; and it was easy 
to see that she walked in paradise wherever he led 
her. 

They say that Italian husbands and wives do not 
long remain fond of each other, but it was impossi- 
ble in the presence of these happy people not to be- 



 

lieve in the eternity of their love, and it was hard to 
keep from " dropping into poetry " on account of 
them. Their bliss infected every body in the car, 
and in spite of the weariness of our journey, and the 
vexation of the misadventures which had succeeded 
one another unsparingly ever since we left home, we 
found ourselves far on the way to Genoa before we 
thought to grumble at the distance. There was with 
us, besides the bridal party, a lady travelling from 
Bologna to Turin, who had learned English in Lon- 
don, and spoke it much better than most Londoners. 
It is surprising how thoroughly Italians master a lan- 
guage so alien to their own as ours, and how frequently 
you find them acquainted with English. From 
Russia the mania for this tongue has spread all over 
the Continent, and in Italy English seems to be 
prized first among the virtues. 

As we drew near Genoa, the moon came out on 
purpose to show us the superb city, and we strove 
eagerly for a first glimpse of the proud capital where 
Columbus was born. To tell the truth, the glimpse 
was but slight and false, for railways always enter 
cities by some mean level, from which any pictur- 
esque view is impossible. 

Near the station in Genoa, however, is the weak 
and ugly monument which the municipality has lately 
raised to Columbus. The moon made the best of 
this, which stands in a wide open space, and con- 
trived, with an Italian skill in the arrangement of 
light, to produce an effect of undeniable splendor. 



 

On the morrow, we found out by the careless candor 
of the daylight what a uselessly big head Columbus 
had, and how the sculptor had not very happily 
thought proper to represent him with his sea-legs on. 



V. 

UP AND DOWN GENOA. 

I HAD my note-book with me on this journey, and 
pledged myself to make notes in it. And, indeed, I 
did really do something of the kind, though the re- 
sult of my labors is by no means so voluminous as I 
would like it to be, now when the work of wishing 
there were more notes is so easy. We spent but one 
day in Genoa, and I find such a marvelous succinct 
record of this in my book that I am tempted to give 
it here, after the fashion of that Historical Heavy- 
weight who writes the Life of " Frederick the Great." 

" Genoa, November 13. Breakfast d la fourchette 
excellently and cheaply. I buy a hat. We go to 
seek the Consul, and, after finding every thing else 
for two hours, find him. Genoa is the most magnifi- 
cent city I ever saw ; and the new monument to 
Columbus about the weakest possible monument. 
Walk through the city with Consul ; Doge's palace ; 
cathedral ; girl turning somersaults in the street ; 
blind madman on the cathedral steps. We leave for 
Naples at twelve midnight." 

As for the breakfast, it was eaten at one of the 
many good caffe" in Genoa, and perhaps some statis- 



 

tician will like to know that for a beefsteak and pota- 
toes, with a half-bottle of Ligurian wine, we paid a 
franc. For this money we had also the society of an 
unoccupied waiter, who leaned against a marble col- 
umn and looked on, with that gentle, half-compassion- 
ate interest in our appetites, which seems native to 
the tribe of waiters. A slight dash of surprise is 
in this professional manner ; and there is a faint 
smile on the solemn, professional countenance, which 
is perhaps prompted by too intimate knowledge of the 
mysteries of the kitchen and the habits of the cook. 
The man who passes his life among beefsteaks can- 
not be expected to love them, or to regard without 
wonder the avidity with which others devour them. 
I imagine that service in restaurants must beget 
simple and natural tastes in eating, and that the 
jaded men who minister there to our pampered ap- 
petites demand only for themselves 

"A scrip with herbs and fruits supplied, 
And water from the spring." 

Turning from this thought to the purchase of my 
hat, I do not believe that literary art can interest the 
reader in that purely personal transaction, though I 
have no doubt that a great deal might be said about 
buying hats as a principle. I prefer, therefore, to 
pass to our search for the Consul. 

A former Consul at , whom I know, has told 

me a good many stories about the pieces of popu- 
lar mind which he received at different times from 
the travelling public, in reproof of his difficulty of 
discovery ; and I think it must be one of the most 



jealously guarded rights of American citizens in for- 
eign lands to declare the national representative hard 
to find, if there is no other complaint to lodge against 
him. It seems to be, in peculiar degree, a quality of 
consulship at , to be found remote and inac- 
cessible. My friend says that even at New York, 
before setting out for his post, when inquiring into 
the history of his predecessors, he heard that they 
were one and all hard to find ; and he relates that on 
the steamer, going over, there was a low fellow who 
set the table in a roar by a vulgar anecdote to this 
effect : 

" There was once a consul at , who indi- 
cated his office-hours by the legend on his door, 'In 
from ten to one.' An old ship-captain, who kept 
coming for about a week without finding the Consul, 
at last furiously wrote, in the terms of wager, under 
this legend, ' Ten to one you 're out ! ' 

My friend also states that one day a visitor of his 
remarked : " I 'm rather surprised to find you in. As 
a general rule, I never do find consuls in." Habitu- 
ally, his fellow-countrymen entertained him with ac- 
counts of their misadventures in reaching him. It 
was useless to represent to them that his house was 
in the most convenient locality in , where, in- 
deed, no stranger can walk twenty rods from his hotel 
without losing himself; that their guide was an ass, 
or their courier a rogue. They listened to him po- 
litely, but they never pardoned him in the least ; and 
neither will I forgive the Consul at Genoa. I had 
no earthly consular business with him, but a private 



 

favor to ask. It was Sunday, and I could not reason- 
