pelle-t-il ce bite Id, Miss Holly? " and poor 
Miss Holly stammers and blushes, and is sure 



she has it right now, till she and the shat are 
sent off in disgrace. 

There are two other teachers, Miss Ayre 
and Chaplain Goss. Chaplain Goss attends 
prayers and Mathematics ; he wears green 
spectacles, and has a cough ; the girls plague 
him half out of his life, and when he wants to 
make them mind, he snaps his fingers at them : 
I do believe he knows that Algebra by heart, 
though, anyway. You ought to have seen him 
look at me this morning, when I said x was 
equal to 3, and it ought to have been some 
thing else, I 'm sure I don't know what. My ! 
you would have thought I was a chicken just 
out of the shell, running round with horrid little 
half-grown feathers on. 

Miss Ayre teaches Latin, Botany, and all those 
sorts of things. She talks 

on a funny little squeak ; 

she 's as thin as a pin and as cross as a bear. 

She always acts as if she were trying to make 

up for Mrs. McMunn, and she scolds when 

Mrs. McMunn laughs at the girls. 



Mrs. McMunn teaches History, and the big 
girls who are finishing up on Mental Philoso 
phy and Butler. What is Butler, some sort 
of a geography? She 's very pleasant, if she 
only would take down that waterfall. 

Oh, I forgot Mr. Schleiermacher, the music- 
teacher. He has a moustache and a diamond 
ring, and the girls put on their best dresses 
days when they take a music-lesson. I asked 
Maude Clare one day what she did it for, and 
she said her other was torn. 

And now I ve come to Maude Clare my 
beautiful, darling, precious Maude Clare. Isn't 
it a lovely name? and doesn't it sound just 
exactly like a novel? She says her mother 
found it in a book somewhere, and that it was 
the name of an heiress who was carried off by 
the Indians, and she had ever so many lovers, 
and they all came after her and brought her 
back ; I believe she married one of them with 
a rich uncle, and they went to Europe for their 
wedding tour. I think it must be a splendid story. 
Maude Clare says she had such passionate eyes. 



Maude Clare is splendid. She is as hand 
some as she can be, and so stylish why, you 
haven't any idea! She has more things just 
for this fall than I have in two years. 

Jacqueline Delancey doesn't think Maude is 
pretty, but that is just because she is pretty 
herself. I don't like Jacqueline Delancey. I 
saw her in the coach and I knew I should n t. 
She is afraid of things, and screams. Then she 
has little bits of hands and is always showing 
them off. Then she runs down Maude Clare. 

I like to watch Maude Clare dress. She 
moves her hands about in such a pretty way. 
She looks at my things sometimes out of the 
corners of her eyes, but she never laughs at 
them, the way Jack Delancey does, and that 's 
one reason why I like her. I don't mind being 
laughed at a bit, but then I 'd rather not. 

Maude Clare and I are going to be friends 
all our lives long, and she thinks ever so much 
of me, and I think ever so much of her. I like 
to braid her hair for her. She has seen ever so 
many gentlemen, and they all thought a great 



deal of her, and she tells me about them 
and she doesn't tell another soul. 

She and I are never going to marry, because 
we never could love our husbands as much as 
we do each other. Besides, I 'd a great deal 
rather have her than a husband, and besides, I 
wouldn't be married anyway. I think it 's 
horrid. Maude Clare and I always go to walk 
together, and I sit by her at table. 

I 'd give the world if we were room-mates, 
but Mrs. McMunn won't let us change now. 
Maude Clare rooms with poor Miss Holly on 
the second floor, and I 'm up here with Jane 
Bruce. Jane Bruce is very good, I guess, but 
she 's homely and she doesn't talk. She 's in 
mourning, but I never asked her for whom. I 
don't see much of her anyway, for we go right 
to sleep at night, and I 'm always in Maude 
Clare 's room out of study-hours. Maude likes 
to have me go down there because she says 
the stairs are crooked, and she doesn't like to 
climb up. 

Jo Courtis is another girl I know a little 

Her name is Josephine, but the girls call her 
Jo. She came from the West somewhere, and 
she talks very loud, and says funny things. 
When they don't call her Jo they call her 
Courtis, and she does seem like a boy. But 
then I sort of like her. 

There 's a lame girl named Phcebe Hand, 
who rooms on the first floor. She 's pale, and 
always looks frightened. I haven't seen much 
of her. There are a good many others, but 
most of them are in Jack Delancey 's set, and I 
don't go with them. 

Mrs. Holt is the housekeeper, and she 's cross. 
Nancy and Dolly are the Irish girls, and Nancy 
gave me some cold rice-pudding last night. 

I study Algebra and French and Latin; 
next term I 'm going to take Roman History. 
I only take one music-lesson a week, as you 
said, so I only have to give an hour a day to 
practising. I told Mr. Schleiermacher that you 
wanted me to give most of my time to my 
lessons, because that was what I came to school 
for. 




I don't think I have to study very hard. 

I was so homesick I thought I should go 
crazy Tuesday night, but Wednesday the sun 
shone, and Maude Clare made me laugh. I 
am having a splendid time, and think boarding- 
school 's the nicest thing in the world. 

Please pull father 's whiskers for me, and give 
Winnie a squeeze. I wrote to Tom yesterday. 

I haven't forgotten what I promised you up 
in my room in the dark. I 've gone to work 
and had a regular talk with you every night 
since I ve been here. Last night I 'd been eat 
ing peanuts all study-hours, and didn't want to 
a bit; but I did. I don't mean to eat any 
peanuts to-night. 

Your letter was magnificent. I 'm sorry 
Sarah Rowe has the measles. Do write very 
soon again to 

Your horrid little GYPSY. 

P. S. Maude Clare says Jacqueline Delan- 
cey is no lady, because she tries to show off her 

diamond ring ; it was only her father who gave 



it to her, but she wears it on her first finger, 
and tries to make people think she is engaged. 
Maude Clare is very particular, and wouldn't 
do an unladylike thing for a good deal. She 
means to make her father give her a diamond 
next Christmas. 

P. S. No. 2. The girls won't believe I wear 
my own hair, so I have to take it down and 
run round with it hanging, to let them see. 





YPSY was standing one morning at her window, watch 
ing that crescent of yellow 
maples, when Jacqueline Delancey called her. 
Those maples, by the way, were well worth 
watching. The light fell under them from the 
east, where the sun climbed the little hill, cut 
ting the outline of each separate leaf in flame. 
The wind and the frost had begun to twist off 
their rich, ripe stems, and the air was filled with 
them ; down on the grass, where the hoar-frost 
was heavy, they blazed like jewels. The swell 
of the curve was marked and rounded out by 
three blood-red trees, and the whole stood out 
sharply against a deep October sky. Gypsy 
always brought her books to this window, and 
did, I am inclined to think, quite as much look 




ing as studying. She spent much of her play 
time at this window, and sometimes forgot 
here even Maude Clare. It held a spell for 
her. 



But Jacqueline Delancey was calling. 

" Gypsy ! Gypsy Breynton ! Courtis, where 
is she? Has anybody seen her? Miss Breyn 
ton ! Gypsy ! " 

" Here ! " cried Gypsy, turning away with an 
impatient start from the window; the maples 
and Miss Delancey did not suit exactly. 
"Here I am. What 's up?" 

Jacqueline Delancey climbed the last stair, 
flew along the passage and through Gypsy 's 
opened door, with her breath gone. She 
tapped her throat with her pretty hands it 
was a fine opportunity to show them and sat 
down panting. 

" Well, you seem to be in a hurry," said 
Gypsy, eyeing her not very hospitably. 
" Don't sit on the bed, please. I don't like 
my bed tumbled. Take a chair by the fire?" 

Miss Delancey concluded that it was time to 
stop panting, took the chair, and observed in a 
very impressive manner that she had something 
to tell her. 

"Tell away," said Gypsy. 



" What do you suppose Maude Clare 's name 
is?" 

"Maude Clare, to be sure," said mystified 
Gypsy. 

" It 's Maude Clare as far as it goes, but that 
isn't the whole." 

" Not the whole ! " 

" No, I guess it isn't ! She has another 
name, and she 's ashamed of it I 'm sure I 
don't blame her, for the matter of that," said 
Miss Delancey, making a gigantic effort to look 
sarcastic, with about the success that a wax 
doll would have under similar circumstances. 
"But to think of her being ashamed of it, and 
trying to hide it from people, and that 's your 
paragon of a Miss Maude Clare ! " 

" I don't believe it ! " said Gypsy, more 
warmly than politely. 

" Oh, you needn't believe it unless you 
choose ; it doesn't concern me. I thought 
you 'd like to know it, that 's all, and I heard 
Mademoiselle call her by it, in Racine this 
morning you ought to have seen Maude 



look ! so, if you won't take my word, you 
may take hers." 

"What is the name?" 

" Go and ask her yourself," said Miss De- 
lancey, triumphantly. 

Gypsy hurried away to Maude Clare, and 
indignantly told the story as " Jack Delancey 's 
latest." 

Maude Clare coloured. 

" Why you don't " began Gypsy. 

" Well, I suppose I do ; but I should like to 
know what business it is of Jacqueline Delan 
cey 's if I choose to call myself Zerubbabel ! " 

" Then Maude Clare isn't your real name ? " 

" Of course. You don't suppose I 'd say so 
if it weren't ! " 

" But you have another, and it isn't pretty, 
and so you leave it off," said Gypsy, in a maze. 
Maude Clare nodded and looked cross. Gypsy 
asked what it was. 

" Smith" said Maude Clare, faintly. 

Jacqueline Delancey had made a point, and, 
as this young lady very seldom did make a 




point, she whittled it to its sharpest, and stuck 
it into Maude Clare then and thenceforward 
whenever occasion offered. 

No one word was oftener on her lips, with 
cough and laugh and sneer, and double enten- 
dre, in season and out of season, than this poor 
little word of five letters, which made Maude 
Clare 's pretty brows blacken like a thunder 
cloud, and Maude Clare 's keen tongue (of 
which Miss Delancey was secretly in fear, hav 
ing felt its edge more than once) keep silence. 
Partly for the joke of the thing, partly from 
unconscious imitation, the rest of the girls fell 
into the way, as long as Maude Clare remained 
at the Golden Crescent, of pronouncing the 
unfortunate name as Maude Clare 's rival did, 
and of writing it as they pronounced it, - 
Maude Clare Smith, with a pause of mock 
respect at the dash that was indescribable. 

Boarding-school was not pure Paradise, after 

all. Gypsy found this out in due time. She 

enjoyed the fun and chatter and novelty, 

" wearing long dresses and drawing her own 




checks," having no errands to do, and Mrs. 
McMunn 's waterfall to laugh at. She soon 
found herself for some unaccountable reason 
which she spent her whole year at the Crescent 
trying to find out everybody 's pet and 
favourite ; and her lessons, to put it moderately, 
could not be said to be so severe a strain upon 
her intellect as to endanger health or reason. 
As for home, why, she missed it, to be sure,, 
but the holidays were coming sometime. Then 
she never felt very far away from her mother ; 
beginning, as she did in the morning, to 
treasure up things for that talk with her at 
night ; very often the talk was put into a letter, 
but, written or spoken, Gypsy felt it a reality. 

But still over her merry days there fell now 
and then a little shade. 

Maude Clare had plenty of money. So had 
Jacqueline ; so had the rest. It was an ex 
pensive school, and attracted the notice of 
wealthy parents. Gypsy and a small minority 
of three or four must economise, sometimes 
closely. The girls were for the most part too 



ladylike to taunt her with this, but they 
reminded her of it, by no means infrequently; 
sometimes unnecessarily, always painfully. 

One day a little knot of them gathered in 
Josephine Courtis room, discussing each other 's 
pretty things. Josephine 's winter cloak had 
just come from home by express. 

" It 's early for it, to be sure," she said, shak 
ing out the heavy folds, " but I can't go the 
buttons on my sacque ; they look as if they 
were handed down from Mrs. Japhet." 

" Why, I 'm sure they were only a summer 
style," said Gypsy. 

"Oh, well; it 's all the same Dutch," an 
swered Josephine in her brusque way, holding 
up the cloak for inspection and admiration. 
Josephine 's " loud " no other word expresses 
it Western taste was always questionable. 
Gypsy did not like the striking cuir-coloured 
cassock, with its heavy, dead-black finish of 
velvet; and while the rest admired, she said 
nothing. 

" What are you going to have for a bonnet?"



Jo?" asked Jacqueline, in a tone which plainly 
said that she should like to be asked what she 
was going to have. As Jo did not ask, how 
ever, Miss Delancey had to volunteer the 
information. 

" Green velvet with quilted white satin let 
in. Quilted white is all the rage." 

" Such showy things are not my taste," ob 
served Maude Clare, who made it a point never 
to agree with Jacqueline under any circum 
stances, whatever the subject. 

" Nor mine," said Gypsy. 

" Of course, Gypsy always agrees with Miss 
Smith," remarked Jacqueline, by way of 
retribution. 

" High crowns, you know," said a New York 
girl, with the air of one quite willing to instruct 
Boston and all other little villages. 

" A?, if we didn't know that ! Of course 
nobody would be seen without a high crown." 

Gypsy thought of those " little pieces," with 
which she was going to " poke it up." She 
felt just the,* that to be obliged to wear a low 



crown would be an affliction greater than sh 
could bear. I hardly think it was cowardly; 
it was only natural. 

After a little chatter about balmorals and 
skating-boots, Alexander 's gloves, thread iace 
barbes, the price of ermine, the exact length of 
dinner-dresses, and the relative merits of water 
falls and coils, somebody said something about 
furs. Jo Courtis had a faint prospect of Hud 
son Bay Sables. 

Everybody looked at Jo respectfully. 

" Mother doesn't like to see sables on 
school-girls," observed Maude Clare, " but she 
means to keep me in very nice mink till I 
graduate." 

As Maude Clare was generally conceded, 
outside of Jacqueline Delancey 's " set," to be 
the most distingue-looking girl in school, every 
body looked at her with an expression of relief. 

" I wouldn't be seen in anything short of 
mink," said Maude Clare, impressively; "every 
thing cheaper than that is so common." 

Gypsy 's face flushed a little, where she sat 
so 



over in the corner behind her friend, flushed 
for the instant, as if she had received some 
sudden degradation. 

For her furs the pretty muff and collar, 
her mother 's Christmas present, which had 
matched and finished off her gray cassock so 
tastefully her furs were only squirrel. 

" I 'm going to have Astrakhan," said Jacque 
line (she had intended to have mink until this 
very minute) ; " that 's the latest, and they say 
another year mink will be all out." 

" That 's fortunate, for I 'm sure I shouldn't 
want yours just like mine," observed Maude 
Clare, with her peculiar smile. 

Gypsy, over in her corner, was thinking. 
If squirrel were "so common," and Maude 
Clare herself had said it, what should she 
do? At least she could go without; her 
mother would say it was a risk, when she had 
been used to them so many winters; but her 
mother would not know. 

Perhaps this, however natural, was a little 

cowardly. Was it not? However that might 



be, Jacqueline hit the unspoken thought with 
an unexpected thrust, 

" I don't see but I shall have to go without 
tny till holidays ; I wouldn't trust anybody 
else to chose Astrakhan for me, and Mrs. M. 
won't let me go to Boston ; she *s been as cross 
as a bear since she caught me in the cars 
with Ben Sizer. I 'm ashamed to go without, 
though ; it looks so poverty-stricken." 

"Which would you rather do, Maude, go 
without or wear squirrel?" asked Gypsy in an 
undertone, fingering Maude Clare 's tassel trim 
ming Maude always had rich trimmings 
in an uneasy, absent way. But Jacqueline 
heard the question. 

" I wouldn't be seen in squirrel a^how, H 
said she, with a little disdainful gesture of her 
pretty hands. 

Jane Bruce had been sitting by the window, 
so quietly that no one had noticed her. Con 
sequently every one started a little in surprise 
when she spoke suddenly and decidedly, 

Well, I would, if I couldn't afford anything 



nicer Of course, I 'd rather have an expensive 
and stylish thing; so would anybody; but I 
should feel degraded, I 'm sure I should, if I 
endangered my health all winter long rather 
than carry a squirrel muff ! " 

The girls had a liking, such as it was, for 
Jane Bruce ; she had a way of doing errands 
without grumbling, and curing their neuralgia, 
and being sorry for their headaches, a very 
quiet sort of way, to be sure, that nobody 
thought much about; but at any rate, they did 
not laugh at what she said. 

"Well, well," said Jo Courtis, "Jane doesn't 
care for the pomp and vanities, anyway, which 
makes a difference; do you, Jane?" 

The question was thoughtless, just like Jo. 
Gypsy glanced from her room-mate 's mourning 
dress to her face, on which a slight sadness had 
settled. Her good sense told her that Jane was 
right. It told her, moreover, that Gypsy 
Breynton was a little ashamed of herself. So 
she spoke up in her honest way, 

"Anybody want my sentiments on squirrel 



furs? Don t? What a pity! For you see, 
you 'll have to see me in them all winter. It 's 
either that, or worrying mother for fear I shall 
catch my death ; so you 'd better make up your 
minds to it. Jane, where 's the algebra lesson?" 

Jane was gone, as she was very apt to be ; 
and nobody thought any more about her. 

Not long after this, another matter came up, 
which troubled Gypsy more than anything of 
the kind had done before. 

One day three or four of the girls appeared 
with three or four little gold stars, all just alike, 
and all affixed by a tiny gold chain to their 
pins. They were inscribed with some mysteri 
ous hieroglyphics, which no one could decipher 
without coming to an impertinent nearness. 

"Why, what is it?" 

"Did you ever? 

" Where did they get them? " 

"What do they mean? " 

"What on earth do they keep it such a 
dreadful secret for?" 

So the whispers and the wonder buzzed 



around for a week, but the wearers kept their 
lips shut, and nobody was any the wiser. At 
last one day it was reported that the gold 
stars were the badges of a Secret Society, the 
Chapter of the Golden Crescent, solemnly 
founded in the trunk closet on the fifteenth 
of November, and solemnly to be handed 
down to posterity as long as time and Mrs. 
McMunn 's should endure. 

"Why, how splendid" said Gypsy. I 
doubt if Gypsy will ever outgrow her penchant 
for boy 's plays. 

Jo Courtis, Jacqueline Delancey, Mary Blunt, 
Lou Armstrong, and the Colchetts were the 
original members. There was a breathless sus 
pense in official circles. Would the illustri 
ous band enlarge itself? Who would be 
chosen next? 

One day Maude Clare walked into Shake 
speare, with the gold star hanging from her 
handsome lapis-lazuli pin. Maude Clare tried 
not to look important, and succeeded in looking 
it to perfection. 



As soon as the recitation was over, Gypsy 
flew after her, and begged leave to examine the 
badge. Upon one side was a cabalistic design, 




which might have been a toasting-fork, or a 
gravestone, or several other things. 

" Or a teaspoon, perhaps?" suggested Gypsy. 

"That 's telling," said Maude Clare. Upon 
the other side were the letters, 
handsomely engraved in German text. 



" E. S.? E. S.? What on earth does E. S 
stand for?" 

" Guess." 

" Well Everlasting Sinners? * 

" Guess again." 

Gypsy couldn't guess. 

" Evergreen Sisters." 

" Oh." 

" That is to say, that 's our public name. 
There is a private meaning, of course; we re 
on our oath not to tell that." 

Gypsy fingered the pretty trinket with wist 
ful eyes, but said nothing. 

In the afternoon Maude Clare came into 
her room with a very mysterious air; Jane 
Bruce, seeing that she was not wanted, went 
out. 

"You are elected, my dear," said Maude 
Clare, solemnly. 

"Elected?" 

" An Evergreen Sister. I am appointed a 
committee of one to notify you." 

Gypsy rose demurely from her chair, and 




