rescued by the Splash. We told him what our persecutor intended to do
with the steamer, and a council was immediately called to decide upon
our proper course.

"What shall we do?" asked our general. "That's the question."

"I don't see that we can do anything," answered Bob Hale.

"Perhaps it will be best for us to keep still, and let things take
their course," added Vallington.

"But Mr. Parasyte will carry off our tents and provisions," I
interposed. "Can't we conceal our hams and other eatables."

"There comes the steamer!" shouted one of the boys.

"There isn't time now to do anything," continued Vallington. "I will
do the best I can for you, fellows."

Some proposed one thing, and some another; but it was plain that, in
the multitude of advisers, nothing could be adopted which promised to
help our prospects; and it was finally voted to leave the course of
action entirely to our general, who had thus far proved himself worthy
of confidence. He was to be guided entirely by circumstances; and he
assured us he would be prompt to take advantage of any favorable
event.

"Now, fellows, I want you all to keep together," said Vallington.
"Don't one of you wander away from the rest. Leave all the talking to
me--don't say a word to any one who comes in the steamer."

Our whole company promised to obey these instructions to the letter,
and to be in readiness for any movement which might be ordered. The
steamer ran up to the rude pier, and made fast her bow-line to a
tree.




CHAPTER XX.

IN WHICH ERNEST TAKES THE WHEEL OF THE ADIENO.


We watched with intense interest the proceedings of the men who came
off in the steamer. After the exhibition of meanness on the part of
Mr. Parasyte, it seemed that the rebellion was more serious than any
of us had supposed. We made up our minds, with Bob Hale, that it would
be impossible for us ever to be reconciled to him again. We felt as
though the Rubicon had been passed, and what had commenced as a mere
frolic was likely to end as a very grave affair. Though the boys
talked solemnly at first about their rights, and had "struck" to
vindicate a principle, they had no idea of the seriousness of their
proceedings.

I shall not pretend to justify all that was done by our boys, or even
to acknowledge that "breaking away," under any circumstances, is
justifiable; but I do say, that such a man as the principal of the
Parkville Liberal Institute was not a fit person to instruct and
discipline young men. He was grossly unjust and partial; he was a
tyrant at heart, though for policy's sake he veiled his purposes; he
was low-minded and narrow in his views; and I am happy to say that he
was not a fair specimen of the teachers of our land.

If the boys were wrong, he was so to a much greater degree, and his
position and his influence made him responsible for the mischief he
had driven the boys to perpetrate. It would have been better for them,
as a body, to submit until redress could be obtained in a better
way--as by the circular addressed to their parents, which was even
then in the hands of the printer. I palliate, I do not justify, the
conduct of the students.

Matters had begun to assume a graver aspect. Mr. Parasyte had come
with a steamer, and with about a dozen men, as nearly as we could
judge, to accomplish some purpose not yet apparent to us. We were
curious to know whether we were to be driven like sheep on board of
the Adieno, or whether our persecutor intended to resort to strategy.
He had sent off his toadies to take our boats away; but he had started
them while we were upon Cleaver Island, and before we had laid in our
stock of provisions. This plan had failed. We were not long left in
doubt.

Mr. Parasyte stepped on shore, followed by nine men, and then by the
ten deserters from our camp. The men had sticks, bits of rope, and
other articles in their hands. This looked like force, and we could
not help glancing anxiously at Vallington, to ascertain, if we might,
whether he intended to fight or to run away. We had no clubs or other
weapons, but the pile of sticks which we had gathered for fuel was
near. I saw the general glance at it; but I concluded that he did not
intend to give battle, unless it was in self-defence.

As soon as the party under the lead of Mr. Parasyte had landed, the
man who was left on board as boat-keeper hauled in the plank, by Mr.
Parasyte's order, apparently to prevent the students from going on her
deck. I could not but smile at this precaution, for the Adieno lay in
such a position that the removal of the plank was no hinderance to
agile boys like the students, and we could go on board when we chose.

Vallington stood on a stump near the path leading from the pier to the
interior of the island, and his forces were gathered behind him,
leaving the road open for the passage of the invaders.

Mr. Parasyte marched solemnly up the path, closely followed by the men
and boys of his party. He looked uglier than I had ever seen him look
before. By this time he must have been convinced that the Institute
was ruined; that such a host of rebels could never be reduced to
subjection; and he appeared to be acting out of the malice of his
heart. But even then something was due to appearances, and he halted
opposite the stump on which our general stood.

"Vallington!" said he, sharply and crustily.

"Sir."

"If you choose to go on board of that steamer, return to the
Institute, and submit to the punishment you deserve, it is not too
late for you to do so," continued Mr. Parasyte.

"Do you allude to me alone?"

"To all of you. I understand you to speak for the whole party."

"We shall be happy to do so," replied our general; and I am sure he
spoke the sentiment of all the students.

"I am glad to see you are returning to reason," added the principal;
but there was a look upon his face which showed how much pleasure he
expected to derive from the proposed punishment.

"May I ask whether we are to be punished equally?" asked Vallington.

"You are to be punished in proportion to your offences--the
ringleaders more, of course, than those who were simply led away by
the influence of their leaders."

"And we are to be punished only for this breaking away?"

Mr. Parasyte bit his lips. It is possible he had a hope of restoring
the Institute to its former condition.

"I don't understand you," said he.

"Is Thornton to be regarded as guilty only of breaking away, with the
rest of us?"

"Thornton's affair is to be settled by itself," replied Mr. Parasyte.

"Then I have nothing more to say, sir," added Vallington, with
becoming dignity.

I interposed, and begged him not to consider me, but to make terms if
he could, and permit me to settle my own affair. Bob Hale and Tom Rush
protested; but no protest was needed to keep Vallington true to his
purpose.

"You reject my terms, Vallington," said Mr. Parasyte.

"I do, sir."

"I wish to do what I can to end this unhappy disturbance, and I am
willing to say that the punishment shall be very mild--if you will
return to your duty."

"You have treated one of our number with shameful injustice, Mr.
Parasyte. We can prove, and have proved, that he was not guilty of the
charge brought against him. If you will do him justice, and through
him all the rest of us, we will submit to such punishment as you think
proper for breaking away."

"Thornton!" exclaimed Mr. Parasyte, with a malignant sneer. "Do you
expect me to receive the forced confession of Poodles and Pearl?"

"The confession was not forced, sir."

"Come here, Poodles," said the principal, sharply.

Poodles stepped forward.

"Did you make this confession?" demanded Mr. Parasyte, sternly.

"I did--but I was afraid the fellows would kill me if I didn't do it,"
whined the toady.

"Do you hear that?"

"I hear it, and do not wonder at anything he says," replied
Vallington.

Pearl told the same story; but our general protested that no
compulsion had been used by the students; that two boys who were
charged with deception were not to be believed in preference to eighty
others. Vallington proposed that the case should be heard over again,
and Poodles required to perform the examples. The principal was
indignant, and refused all compromise.

"Thornton is not only guilty, but this very day he attempted to drown
me in the lake," said he. "Do you think I can forgive him, without--"

"We don't ask you to forgive him, and he does not ask it. We only wish
you to give him a fair trial."

"I will hear no more about it!" replied Mr. Parasyte, impatiently.
"Will you return or not?"

"We will not."

"Very well. I wish every one here to understand that I have given you
an opportunity to return to your duty. You will not, and the
consequences be upon yourselves."

Mr. Parasyte walked up the path, followed by his party. As Pearl and
Poodles passed us, a suggestion was made that we seize upon them, and
punish them for the falsehoods they had uttered, and the meanness of
which they had been guilty; but this proposition was promptly
negatived by Vallington. We wondered what the invaders intended to do,
and whether our general purposed to let them proceed without
opposition. He stood calm and apparently unmoved on the stump,
watching the enemy.

The principal halted his forces at the point where our provisions and
cooking utensils were kept. Every eatable, and every utensil, even to
the wooden forks and spoons we had made, were seized and conveyed to
the steamer. It was now clear that the enemy did not mean to use
force, unless we attacked them. Mr. Parasyte intended to deprive us of
our food, and starve us into subjection. But he was not satisfied yet;
and when his party had deposited their burden on the deck of the
steamer, and the plank had again been hauled in, he marched them by us
once more.

"We shall soon see how long you will be willing to stay here," said
our tyrant, as he walked by the stump. "As Thornton said to the man in
charge of the boats at Cannondale, this morning, I suppose I have a
right to my own property, wherever I find it."

"We paid for the provisions with our own money," replied Vallington.

Mr. Parasyte made no reply, but continued on his way up the hill
towards the tents. These also he meant to take from us; and then, or
in the course of the day, he probably expected us to surrender,
without conditions. The prospect did not look pleasant, for we were to
be without food or shelter on the island. I was thinking how to save
the Splash from capture, and I was about to suggest to Vallington that
it would be better for me to put off in her, when our general spoke
for himself.

The invaders were busily employed in striking the tents, and rolling
up the canvas, about forty rods from where we stood. In a few moments
they would be ready to put them on board of the steamer.

"Fellows," said Vallington, in a low and decided tone, "our time has
come! We will take possession of that steamer. I have no idea of being
starved into subjection. When I give the word, rush on board the best
way you can."

"There's a man on her deck," said one of the boys; and we were all
appalled at the boldness of the venture.

"Never mind him. Commodore Thornton, you will go to the wheel-house at
once, and take the helm."

"Who will be engineer?" asked Tom Rush.

"I will be that myself. Bob Hale, you will run the Splash out from
the shore, and come on board when we are clear of the pier; take two
good fellows with you. Are you all ready?"

"All ready!" replied the boys; and the voices of some trembled.

"Forward then!" shouted Vallington; and he leaped from the stump, and
ran down to the wharf, followed by the whole company.

Bob Hale got into the Splash with two boys, and pushed her off. The
rest of us leaped over the bulwarks, scrambled up to the hurricane
deck, or rushed in at the gangway. Vallington cast off the bow-line
himself, just as I reached the wheel-house.

"Back her!" I shouted; and the word was passed through the boys to
Vallington, who had now gone to the engine-room.

We were not a moment too quick, for just as the steamer began to back
from the pier, the invaders, laden with canvas and poles, appeared on
the wharf.






CHAPTER XXI.

IN WHICH ERNEST CONTINUES TO ACT AS PILOT OF THE STEAMER.


When I reached the deck of the Adieno I met the person who was in
charge of the steamer. It was the lame man who had disputed my right
to the Splash in the morning, and to whom we had given two dollars. He
looked astonished at the sudden movement of the students, but he
offered no resistance; and, without waiting to hear what he had to
say, I ran up the ladder to the wheel-house, leaving Tom Rush to
settle all questions in dispute with him.

My heart bounded with excitement as we carried out our desperate
enterprise, and I gave Henry Vallington credit for more daring and
courage than I had ever supposed him to possess. He seemed to me just
then to be a general indeed, and to be better fitted to fight his way
through an enemy's country than to become a parson.

"Back her!" I shouted, almost beside myself with excitement, as I saw
Mr. Parasyte and his heavily-laden followers rushing down to the pier.

My words were repeated by the boys on the forward deck, and Vallington
hastened to the engine-room. I heard the hissing steam as it rushed
through the cylinders, and without knowing what was going to happen
next,--whether or not the boiler would explode, and the deck be torn
up beneath me,--I waited in feverish anxiety for the result. Then I
heard the splash of the wheels; the crank turned, rumbled, and jarred
on its centre, but went over, and continued to turn. The Adieno moved,
and the motion sent a thrill through my whole being. It was fortunate
for us that she lay at the pier in such a position as to require no
special skill in handling her. The open lake was astern of her, with
clear sailing for two miles.

I was not a steamboat man; I had never even steered any craft with a
wheel, and I did not feel at all at home. But I had often been up and
down the lake in this very steamer, and being of an inquiring mind, I
had carefully watched the steersman. It had always looked easy enough
to me, and I always believed I could do it as well as anybody else. I
tried to keep cool, and I think I looked cool to others; but I was
extremely nervous. I did not exactly know which way to turn the wheel.

When I found there were no obstructions astern of the steamer, I
brought the flagstaff on the bow into range with the end of the
pier,--or rather I found them in range,--and with these to guide me, I
soon learned by experience which way to turn the wheel; and the moment
I got the hang of the thing, I had confidence enough to offer my
services to pilot any steamer all over the lake. The paddles kept
slapping the water, and the boat continued to back until she was a
quarter of a mile from the land, when I thought it was time to come
about, and go forward instead of backward. There were two bell-pulls
on the wheel-frame, and at a venture I pulled one of them. I did not
know whether Vallington understood the bells or not; but there was
only one thing to be done in this instance, and he did it--he stopped
the machinery.

After pausing a moment for the steamer to lose her sternway, I rang
the other bell, intending to have her go ahead; but the engineer did
not heed my summons. A moment afterwards Vallington appeared on the
forward deck, wiping from his brow the perspiration, which indicated
that the engine-room was a hot place, or that his mental struggles
were very severe.

"What was that last bell for?" he asked, hailing me in the
wheel-house.

"To go ahead," I replied.

"You haven't got the hang of the bells, commodore," said he, with a
smile; "but come down, and we will talk the matter over, and find out
what we are going to do."

I went down to the forward deck, quite as anxious as any one else to
know what was to be done, for it seemed to me that we had "drawn an
elephant" as a prize. When I reached the deck, Vallington was writing
with his pencil, and handed me the paper as I joined him.

"Here are your directions, Mr. Pilot," said he.

"I know the lake, but I never had any experience in a steamer," I
replied, in self-defence, as I read the paper, on which was written:--

"One bell--ahead, slowly.

Two bells--stop.

Three bells--back.

Four bells--ahead, full speed."

"There are two bell-pulls in the wheel-house," I added.

"You pulled the right one the first time; the other is for the men to
shift the chain-box," he replied. "Now, fellows, what shall we do? is
the next question."

Nobody seemed to know what we were to do; and all were quite willing
to leave the question with our bold general.

"Where is the lame man who had charge of the steamer?" he asked.

"I have fixed him," answered Tom Rush, with a significant smile.

"How have you fixed him?"

"I told him we should throw him overboard if he didn't keep quiet,
and gave him three dollars I picked up among the fellows."

Tom was fit to be a member of the diplomatic corps--bully and bribe in
the same breath! Probably the lame man, who was only a deck hand,
employed but for that day, was not disposed to make any very active
opposition to our plans. At any rate, he sat on the chain-box as
contented as though everything was going on regularly on board of the
boat. Mr. Parasyte had pressed all hands into his service, even to the
captain and engineer, in bringing off the provisions and tents. I
suppose that it never occurred to the principal, or to the officers of
the boat, that a crowd of boys would attempt such a desperate
enterprise as the capture of the Adieno, or they would have taken some
precautions to avoid such an event. It is not strange that they did
not think of such a thing, for if it had been proposed to me
beforehand, I should as soon have thought of carrying off the island
as the steamer.

Mr. Parasyte, the captain, and engineer stood on the edge of the pier.
The principal looked astonished and overwhelmed; the captain was
gesticulating violently to us; and the rest of the party looked like
so many statues. There was no remedy for their misfortune; they had no
boat, and could do nothing. Mr. Parasyte now had the same pleasant
prospect which he had spread out before us--that of staying on Pine
Island without food till some one came to his assistance. We hoped he
enjoyed it; and in the mean time we turned our attention to our own
immediate future.

"Fellows, I am afraid we have got into a bad scrape," said Vallington,
again wiping his heated brow; and we could not help seeing that he did
not feel just right in view of what he had done.

"All right; we will take our chances," replied one of the students;
and this was the prevailing sentiment.

"Although I think we were right in the beginning, I am afraid we are
overdoing the matter. But what could we do?" continued our general,
with energy. "We couldn't stay on that island and be starved out. We
paid for the provisions with our own money, and they had no right to
take them from us."

"No!" shouted the boys, indignantly.

"Now we have the steamer; what shall we do with her?"

"Let us go on a cruise," suggested Fred Mason.

"I did not take possession of the boat with the intention of making
any use of her only to get away from the island while it was possible
to do so," replied Vallington.

"O, let's have some fun in her, now we have got her," added Mason.

"We are drifting over to Cannondale pretty rapidly, general," I
interposed. "We must go ahead, or we shall run ashore."

"I don't exactly know what to do, or where to go," continued our
perplexed leader.

"We must go ahead now, and settle that question by and by," I added.

"Can you steer her, commodore?" he asked.

"Certainly I can. I understand the wheel now, and I know all about the
lake. If you can manage the engine, I can take care of the steering."

"My brother is an engineer on a Hudson River boat, and I have spent
many a day with him in the engine-room. I think I understand the
engine pretty well," he replied.

"Let us go ahead then," said one of the impatient fellows.

"We will start her again, commodore; and I wish you would take her to
some place where we can lie to, and decide upon our future course."

"I will do so, general; but I don't think it will hurt those on the
island to wait a while," I answered.

"Very well; we will go where you pilot us, commodore," added
Vallington, as he returned to the engine-room.

Three of the students were sent down into the fire-room, after being
instructed in their duty by the general, who was careful to tell them
not to put too much wood in the furnaces. By this time the Splash had
come alongside, and was made fast to the stern. I invited Bob Hale and
Tom Rush to occupy the wheel-house with me, and I took my place at the
spokes.

"What are we going to do?" asked Bob, who had not been present at the
conference on the forward deck.

"That is not decided," replied Tom. "We are going to lie to
somewhere, and talk the matter over."

"I don't know about this steaming it on the lake," added Bob, shaking
his head. "Suppose the boat should burst her boiler--where should we
be?"

"No danger of that; Vallington knows all about engines, and the
commodore knows how to steer," said Tom, lightly.

I struck one bell, after looking at the paper which Vallington had
given me, to make sure that I was right. In response to my signal, the
wheels began to turn, and the Adieno went "ahead slowly." I soon
brought her to bear on the helm, and finding I had the boat under
perfect control, I ventured to strike the four bells, which indicated
that she was to "go ahead, full speed."

The steam was rather low in the boilers, and "full speed" I found was
not very rapid. The boat steered easily, and minded her helm so
promptly, that I soon became quite fascinated with my occupation.
There was something very exhilarating in the fact that I was directing
the course of what to me was an immense craft; and every time I moved
the wheel, and saw the bow veer in obedience to her helm, it afforded
me a thrill of delight, and I wholly forgot the enormity of the
enterprise in which our party were engaged. I was so pleased with my
employment that I came very near devoting my life to the business of
piloting a steamboat.

I steered the Adieno to the northward, until she had passed clear of
Pine Island, when I put her head to the west, intending to run for a
couple of islands six miles down the lake, called "The Sisters."




CHAPTER XXII.

IN WHICH ERNEST PILOTS THE ADIENO TO "THE SISTERS."


"There comes the Champion!" exclaimed Bob Hale, pointing to the
steamer that regularly made her trip round the lake every day, as she
came out from behind a point of land on the north shore, beyond which
she made a landing.

"We must give her a wide berth," I replied.

"Why so? Her people will not know that it isn't all right with the
Adieno."

"We are in no immediate danger; but suppose the captain of this boat
should find means to get to Cannondale before the Champion does, he
might engage her to go in pursuit of us."

"That would be jolly!" said Tom Rush. "We should have a glorious
race!"

"But the chances are against us in a race," I replied, confounded by
the temerity of Tom in thinking of such a thing as contending with the
steamboat men on their own ground.

"Not a bit of it, Ernest. The Adieno is the faster boat of the
two--that has been tried a dozen times," added Tom, as much excited as
though the race had actually commenced.

"We must not attempt to beard the lion in his den."

"Why not? We might as well be hung for an old sheep as a lamb. We are
in a scrape, and even Vallington thinks it is a bad one by this time.
The more advantage we gain, the better terms we can make."

"I don't know about it, Tom. I feel as though we had carried this
thing about far enough, and the sooner we get out of the scrape, the
better it will be for us."

"Those are my sentiments. My father is part owner in this boat, and I
think he will not enjoy the idea of our going off on a cruise in her,"
added Bob Hale.

"Pooh! we won't hurt her," replied Tom.

"We don't intend to hurt her; but we are following a business just now
that we don't know much about."

"Don't you know the lake, and don't Vallington know all about the
engine?"

"Neither of us has had any experience."

"That's so," added Bob. "In my opinion breaking away is about played
out. We have made up our minds that we can't have anything more to do
with Mr. Parasyte, and we may as well return to Parkville, and go to
work in a more reasonable way. We can send the circulars to our
parents, and dig out of the difficulty the best way we can."

"I agree to that," I answered. Not that I cared for myself, for my
"breaking away" was a much more serious matter than that of my
fellow-students; but I thought it better for them to get out of the
mud before they sank any deeper into the mire.

"I am willing to do as the rest of the fellows do; but I don't want to
be whipped round a stump when there is no need of it," continued Tom.
"If the Champion chases us, I go for keeping out of the way till we
can retire from the field without any broken heads."

"So far I shall agree with you, Tom," I replied. "I am not in favor of
surrendering, to be kicked and cuffed by these steamboat men, who are
not exactly lambs in their dispositions."

"What's the use of talking?" interposed Bob Hale. "The Champion is not
after us, and it does not appear that she will be."

"It appears so to me," I answered. "I have no idea that the captain of
the Adieno will stay on Pine Island all day. I found a way to get
ashore this morning, and I think he will be able to do so."

"Perhaps he will."

"I am perfectly satisfied that he will reach the shore by one o'clock,
if he has not already done so. No doubt he thinks his boat will be
smashed to pieces, or blown up, if he does not recover her soon. He
isn't going to sit down and bite his finger nails."

"He may not be able to get the Champion," replied Bob Hale, who
evidently did not wish to believe that there would be a contest for
superiority between the two steamers.

"I don't profess to be a prophet, Bob, but I can see through a
millstone when the hole is big enough. I will tell you just how I
think it will be. The captain of the Adieno will make a raft, and
get to Cannondale. Then he will take the Champion for Parkville,
arriving about half past one. The boat does not start on her trip down
the lake till five o'clock, and that will give her three hours and a
half to spare. You may take my word for it, that time will be used in
chasing us."

"Very likely you are right, Ernest; we shall see. It is twelve o'clock
now, and we haven't much time to consider what we shall do," said Bob
Hale, looking very serious; and it was evident now, if it had not been
before, that he had strong objections to any steamboat enterprises.

"It's nearly dinner time," added Tom; "and I must go and see about the
provender."

Bob Hale went below to have a talk with Vallington, and the commissary
left for the kitchen, to provide our noon rations. I was left alone in
the wheel-house. I enjoyed my occupation very much; but the talk of
my friends had filled me with doubts and fears, so that my situation
was not so delightful as before. I could not help asking myself what
was to come out of this scrape, and it seemed to me that it could
result in nothing but defeat and disaster.

The Adieno was approaching The Sisters, at one of which there was a
pier, like that at Pine Island, which had been erected for the use of
the scows employed in the transportation of the wood cut on the
island. I knew that the water around it was deep enough for the
steamer, for I had seen her land there. Between the two islands there
was a channel not more than twenty rods wide, by which alone the wood
pier could be reached.

The channel had barely depth enough in the middle to permit the
passage of the Adieno; but as it was perfectly straight, and the water
high in the lake, I considered myself competent to take her through.
The boat minded her helm very prettily, and there was no current in
the channel to interfere with my calculations, so that I did not
regard the place as very difficult navigation. I had been through the
channel twenty times in the Splash. The pier ran out from the island
to the deep water, so that I had only to run the bow up to it, and
make fast to the ring. The steamer would be safe here, and, being
concealed between the islands, could only be seen from one point above
and one below; and here we could have our dinner, and hold our
important consultation without the danger of interruption.

I had another and stronger motive for entering this channel, and
without which, perhaps, I might not have had the confidence to run
even the slight risk which the navigation of the passage involved. It
was so fully ground into my bones that the Champion would be after us
about three o'clock, or as soon as she had landed her passengers at
Parkville, that I wished to be fully prepared for any emergency. To
the north of the "North Sister," and to the south of the "South
Sister," the water was shoal for a mile in each direction, while the
channel between the islands seemed to have been kept open by the
strong south-west and north-east winds, as they forced the waters
through. At any rate, there was a channel with five feet of water in
it, though I was not entirely certain in regard to the explanation of
the fact.

The Champion was a larger boat, drawing one foot more water aft than
the Adieno, and therefore could not pass through the channel, or come
within half a mile of the wood pier. My idea was, that in this
position we could not be approached by our anticipated pursuer, as we
lay moored at the wharf. If chased, I might be able to gain on the
Champion by running through The Sisters Channel, which would enable me
to come out two or three miles ahead of her on the opposite side, as
she would be obliged to go a mile, north or south, to get round the
shoal water.

I was so pleased with the calculation I had made, that I could not
help wishing I was employed in a better cause than in fighting the
battle of a parcel of runaway students,--it would have been so
exciting to play the game of strategy in real earnest, and in a good
cause. I plumed myself just then on being a great navigator, and a
shrewd calculator, and I wished to test my plans. It so happened,
however, that they were tested, as the sequel will show.

The Adieno approached the narrow channel, which was just as clearly
defined in my mind as though the bottom of the lake had been laid bare
to me; for I had always been obliged to keep in the deep water even
when I went through in the Splash. As the wind, though not so strong
as it had been in the morning, still came fresh from the north-west, I
hugged the weather side of the channel, and, with the boat at full
speed, went on my course. I was just on the point of ringing one bell
to slow down, when the steamer's wheels suddenly stopped.

"What are you about, Thornton?" shouted Vallington, rushing out of the
engine-room to the forward deck, both excited and angry.
