if possible, you have made a good citizen for the state, 
a man whose honor you can depend on. You will not 
.have to be taxed for his support in the poorhouse. 
But Vennard looks only at to-day. He wants the 
work done so he can see the immediate profits. I don't 
know that heaven or earth could convert him to any 
other way of thinking. So the men must study self- 
interest. Since it is necessary for them to have employ- 
ment, they must abide by his laws. They are in no 
position to dictate." 
"It's a burning, bitter shame," broke in Dane, with 
the scornful indignation of a generous man. 
" But one must take the world as he finds it ; " and 
Adams shrugged his shoulders. He had many good 
impulses, but he would never have made a philan- 
thropist. 
They halted at the corner, where their paths diverged. 
" Leave these men to settle their squabbles, Dane, and 
think of the engine. There's a fortune for some one in 
that," Adams said, as a parting rejoinder. 
But Stephen Dane was in no mood for such thought. 
He felt angry and sick at heart, with a sense of black 
injustice all around him. Why did power and wealth 
ever come to such men as Thomas Vennard? Was 
there a God who kept watch of these matters, checking 
them off when they reached a certain point ? 
He had been to church the Sunday before with Joe, 
in all the glory of her new bonnet. A little Episcopa- 
lian Chapel, and in their reading of the Psalter these 
words had stirred him strangely : 
" I myself have seen the ungodly in great power, 
and flourishing like a green bay tree. 
" I went by, and lo, he was gone." 
Thomas Vennard, so strongly intrenched, could not 
be easily removed. Dane little knew how he was 
destined to think of this again. 
 
IV. 
BY THE KlVER. 
IF Joe failed to understand Stephen, and misinter- 
preted his desire for her improvement, she was not 
ignorant of fi keener sensation of happiness than any 
she had hitherto known ; and at the same moment a 
new capability for pain dawned upon her. Stephen 
came so near to her in some matters, was so widely 
sundered in others. And whatever took him from her. 
the tavern, the garden-plot he cultivated this sum- 
mer, his books, or a call at intervals from Mr. Adams 
were all regarded with a vague, dull jealousy. He 
was better-tempered than in his first essay after knowl- 
edge. His heart had grown broader, his patience of a 
finer quality. His first impulse had been to leave 
Tregony, and carve out a new life for himself, distinct 
from her's and his father's. Some subtile tie held him 
back. Naturally, I think, the man had a very affec- 
tionate heart. 
So he staid, and tried to raise them out of this slough 
he meaut to leave behind. It was hard work. Archy 
Dane found more comfort in the tavern than in his son's 
society. Joe was prouder of her new finery than any 
mental improvement. She had no ambition, but all a 
woman's tender, longing desire foolish also, if you 
will to be loved. And when Stephen was tender, it 
seemed as if the blessing was not so far distant. More 
than that she did not understand in him. That he 
might be rich some day never entered her head. That 
he might gain some higher station was equally improb- 
able to her. In fact, why should he want it? Were 
not these common-place people around them happy 
enough? They were all she cared to know about. 
Not so with Stephen Dane. His brain had been 
fired with new "thoughts; and, though only half com- 
prehended, he meant to work them up into something 
higher than this dogging on year after year. He wanted 
something sharp, incisive. Pain, even, and failure, 
were better than stagnation. And, somewhere in the 
distance, life looked noble and chivalric, the vulgarities 
cleared off, the meannesses drowned out by an overflow 
of soul. For a man had something within him, call it 
instinct, or even ambition. 
It was hard work. No one that would understand 
these daring thoughts, even if he had the courage to 
confess them. Not even Adams. He could see how 
Dane might like to invent, or improve on a machine. 
So much steel, and iron, and steam was a child to him. 
He gave it the love of husband and father. He would 
 
spend his life for it. It was a mania with the man ; 
and though he occasionally ran foul of some "ism," he 
was not sufficiently interested in it to spend much time 
or thought combating it. The greatest elevation the 
world wanted, in his eyes, was in machinery. As to 
morals and virtues, it always had done well enough, and 
always would. So there was a point where contact 
between the two men ceased. 
Perhaps the grace, beauty, and culture of a lost gen- 
eration woke to existence in Stephen Dane. Some whim 
of blood, having long lain dormant, was exerting itself. 
He saw a possibility in the steam-engine ; but beyond 
it, a broader and grander one, a sphere of refinement, 
an ease, a certain elegance, such as little Hope Vennard 
shook out of every fold of her dress. Her father was 
narrow and hard, but it did not cling to her. And 
when he had won a place in the world, when he had 
acquired the ease, the education, he meant to have, the 
home with its books, and pictures, and fascinating re- 
pose, this was what he could not tell ; this was 
what made the great gulf between him and Joe. 
He went on with sturdy courage. He had too much 
hard work on hand to stick fast in the tangled depths 
where John Gilbert floundered. And though his soul 
was vexed with the selfishness, injustice, and crime that 
stalked about rampant, he knew his beginning must be 
small : Joe, his father, and himself. After that, a wider 
They studied the engine daily, he and Adams. He 
had much natural quickness of understanding, penetra- 
tion, and that subtile knowledge connecting cause with 
effect. Here Adams was slower. Yet they both seemed 
as far from the discovery as Mr. Vennard. 
The affair with Forbes had created quite an excite- 
ment. When the man's anger had cooled somewhat, 
and stern necessity stared him blankly in the face, he 
had humbled himself sufficiently to solicit back his old 
place. Mr. Vennard was immovable. No entreaties 
could soften him. It was a rule he had never broken, 
and never would. The men knew one discharge was 
final. And so Forbes, with the passion of desperation, 
joined the disaffected, drank bad rum, and made threat- 
ening speeches. Thomas Vennard did not care. Quiet 
Tregony would have dreamed of the judgment-day as 
soon as of a murderer lying in wait ; so the threats 
were treated as idle bravado, and remembered at a 
later day, when they proved well nigh fatal. 
One July afternoon Stephen Dane went into the 
engine-room for some particular screws he wanted. It 
was used as a sort of general receptacle rather than a 
work-room. Here lay prostrate fly-wheels of- different 
sizes, walking-beams for fast river-boats, cross-heads 
and piston-rods, lighter machinery for manufacturing 
purposes, waiting for some hand to put them together 
in their proper order, and the breath of steam to endow 
them with life. A dim atmosphere, smoky and dusty, 
C 
yet bronzed to a certain beauty by the broad sheets of 
sunlight that flowed in at the windows, grimy a'nd cob- 
webbed as they were. It always appeared so strangely 
still in here to Stephen ; and yet he could hear the roar 
of the fires below, the clang of hammers, the continu- 
ous rattle of bars and chains in transit. Here was the 
engine that had defied Thomas Vennard., If it had 
been human and Stephen Dane gave a sort of grim 
smile. Being iron, it was not susceptible to the master's 
frowns, neither could it be discharged. 
He leaned his elbow on the eccentric-rod, and peered 
down into its black depths. What secret did it hold? 
These wheels and valves, this burnished steel, and sil- 
very-gray iron. What power was mighty enough to 
extort a confession? Was there a fortune in it, as 
Adams had said? He needed the fortune sorely. 
Money would do so much for him give him leisure 
and cultivation, time and material for experiments. 
What torture could he apply to this great dumb thing? 
And unconsciously he ground his teeth and clenched his 
hands. How many times he and Adams had inspected 
it ! There was a drawing in his pocket he had brought 
to show the foreman, who was absent to-day from sud- 
den illness. He took it out, and went over it with his 
pencil, comparing, computing. He had hit upon some- 
thing at length, a slight difference; but it might be of 
momentous import to them. If Adams were but here I
He did not see the cool, keen eye that glanced in 
upon him, the compressed lips and significant nod, as 
the paper and pencil became visible. A sort of evil, 
tyrannical look, that meant to be doubly paid for this 
patience. No, for a sudden moment of inspiration came 
to Stephen Dane. I think Thomas Vennard understood 
as much, watching the working of the face. The dull, 
earthy look faded out of it. The eyes grew luminous. 
The fingers could hardly keep pace with the thoughts. 
Whenever Stephen Dane lived over this period, it 
seemed to him like a flash, a breath. Five minutes, at 
the utmost, he would have said, from the time he en- 
tered the room, intent upon the screws, until a slow, 
metallic voice startled him. 
"I'll take that now, Dane, if you are through 
with it." 
The hot blood rushed to Stephen Dane's face as he 
beheld Mr. Vennard. He was utterly speechless. 
"Do you hear me?" sternly, and thrusting out his 
hand until the bony fingers almost settled themselves 
upon the paper. 
Dane drew back, all the man within him roused. He 
knew he had come to an issue with the master, the very 
thing he had hitherto tried to avoid. But now it must 
be met. 
"I wanted some screws," he began, in a wandering, 
uncertain manner, as if but half awake. 
" And I want that paper. Give it to me, and we'll call 
it square. An hour of my time. It belongs to me." 
 
Both men glanced at it. The eager light in Ven- 
nard's eyes startled Stephen Dane. If that little plan 
was worth anything, it was of value to him. 
" An hour ! " he said. " I have not been here an hour." 
" Do you mean to tell me that I lie ? I passed that 
door one hour ago, and you were here." 
Vennard's overreaching defeated itself by violence. 
Every fibre of independence in Stephen Dane's nature 
was roused. 
"No, Mr. Vennard," he said, with a cool spirit that 
exasperated the other. I had no such thought. It 
seems the briefest moment to me, and yet you may be 
right. I am willing to lose the time." 
It was to be a hand-to-hand fight. Bullying would 
gain nothing here. 
The two men eyed each other closely. Dane saw 
that his race in the Ellicott Works was run ; Vennard 
read that he had a powerful adversary. 
"I want that paper. Dane, if you have a grain of com- 
mon honesty, honor we don't expect from such men, 
you will see that I had a right to the time. And 
this improvement is mine. You have no business with 
anything pertaining to it." 
He overshot the mark widely that time. How easily 
a little passion leads a man astray ! 
"Except what my own brains give me." 
"I say you have wo -right. Try one experiment, if 
you dare, and I will restrain you by an injunction." 
" Some proof may be required for your priority. 
And some men" there was a peculiar emphasis on 
this that stung the master " might see a point of 
honor and right where you did not." 
Vennai'd's face turned livid with rage. The man- 
hood in Stephen Dane asserted itself proudly. He 
stood erect and strong. 
" This comes of familiarity ; " and Vennard ground his 
heel into the floor with a savage force. "I've seen you 
and Adams conniving together, and all I have to tell 
him is, that he won't interfere with any more men in 
this place ! I want every man to mind his own busi- 
ness here. And if I can't be master " 
"Not of souls, nor brains." 
" Brains ! A workman has no business with 'em ! 
Who wants him to think or to order? I can do that. 
All that is required of you is to work. That's what I 
hire you for. You've no right to come in here and 
make drawings. It's just as much robbery as if you 
put your hand in my pocket ! " 
A swarthy flush of passion crept over. Stephen Dane's 
face. 
"A man has a right to his own thoughts. You dis- 
dain to hire his brains, I believe." 
"I tell you, when he comes into this place, he's mine. 
My money buys every moment of his time and. energy. 
His thoughts should be on my work ; and if they are 
not, I say he defrauds me that he is a thief." 
 
The two men glared at each other. 
" Very well," Dane said, slowly. " My time ended 
this noon. An hour or two extra I will throw in, lest 
I may have unwittingly defrauded you some time. 
Now we are quits. The world' is wide, and there are 
more places in it than Tregony." 
Thomas Vennard caught his breath in utter amaze- 
ment. He had heard men bluster and swear ; he had 
seen them cower in sullen rage ; but this one did 
neither. Those fearless eyes why, if he should look 
long enough, they might even master him. And dis- 
charging himself! Taking the very words out of his 
mouth I 
He opened his pocket-book, and, snatching a bill 
therefrom, handed it to Stephen Dane. 
" There's your wages until to-night. Give me that 
paper." 
Instead Dane handed him a dollar in change. 
W I want no more than belongs to me," he said, 
proudly. " I have not robbed you of anything. There 
is your engine you have the means and the time to 
perfect it. Do it, if you can. And if some other man 
is before you, the law will protect him." 
"Dane, you shall rue this to the latest day of your 
life. If your improvement had been worth anything, 
I might have done something for you. As it is, I am 
your enemy." He hissed it through his dull, purple 
lips. "You'll find out what that means. No one ever 
yet thwarted me who didn't smart for it. I have 
money, and that gives a man a long arm. I can reach 
you in other places than Tregony. You'll see, blind, 
ignorant fool that you are ! " 
Stephen Dane gained a victory over himself when he 
made no reply. Recriminations were useless, and the 
threat seemed idle. He had a morbid antipathy to 
brawls and quarrels. He looked Mr. Vennard steadily 
in the eye a moment. That hard, narrow, sordid face ! 
Then he turned, and went down. 
Not into the large shop, but by a worn side stairway, 
that took him to the very spot where he had once stood 
with little Hope Vennard in his arms where she had 
kissed him. Would she ever know the bitterness of 
her father's tyranny? If she should love where he 
hated ! Ah, and a quick shiver passed over Stephen. 
He marched through the yard, hardly realizing the 
events of the last ten minutes. How strange the world 
looked ! 
An hour ago he was wild for leisure. Now there 
was plenty of it. He had nothing more to do in 
Tregony. 
And then he asked himself where there was anything 
for him to do. Leisure was a rich man's luxury, and 
he why, this ten dollars was about all he had in the 
world. He had always brought his money home, and 
put it in a little tin box in the cupboard. Every one 
went to it. The household expenses, the clothing, and 
 
his father's rum, came out of it. Frequently it was 
all gone before Saturday night. For the last month 
or two, he had meant to institute a new system ; but 
Joe had grown sulky when he undertook to explain 
economy. 
" If you know so well, why don't you manage your- 
self?" she had retorted, crossly. "May be you think 
I'm not honest." 
W O, no, Joe! " he had answered, with sudden pain. 
He had a great, tender, womanish heart, and pitied this 
poor girl strangely now. And so the subject had been 
dropped. 
He went out of the Foundery yard, as I have said. 
A magnificent summer day, a sky of royal beauty, an 
air of fragrance. Leaving the smoke and din behind, 
he struck off for the woods, a tnile, perhaps, below the 
Foundery. He wanted to be all alone, to think, to 
look the problem straight in the face. 
O, the heavenly rest and quiet, of those dense trees ! 
O, the coolness, the tenderness, with which they 
stretched out their long green arms. Soft mosses 
under foot, or the path cushioned with the fallen leaves 
of many autumns, so steeped in summer moisture that 
they gave no rustle to the tread. Long wreaths of wild 
vines hanging from tree to tree with clusters of pale 
green berries. Here a gnarled old trunk was covered 
with a glossy-leaved parasite ; there its gray bark was 
moss-grown, or fallen into phosphorescent decay. It 
was so still on this day, broken occasionally by the song 
of a bird, but that not frequently. The place of all 
others for a man to be alone with God and his own 
soul. 
He wandered slowly through it to a little point that 
jutted out into the river. Seating himself on a rock, 
he glanced over at the other shore. A golden shimmer 
in the air brooded tenderly on the opposite hills. 
Vistas of light and shade, mown meadows like a smooth 
sea, and clumps of trees stretching out indefinitely until 
they joined the blue horizon. The river flowing 
placidly .with its murmurous rustle, trembling in the 
soft dun haze, the liquid light filling the midsummer 
air, lulled him into peaceful repose. O, if one could 
be Nature's child, take root in this soft mould, and grow 
up into a vigorous tree, with no blights or gnarls, no 
shocks to warp or stunt. Drinking in summer dews 
and showers, warming with baths of golden sunlight, 
spreading out green branches above, and tough, sinewy 
roots below, until one came to be a giant, and braved 
any blast. No thought for the morrow. No care for 
to-day. Yes, tree and shrub, and rock and river, knew 
what it was to live the life God had made for them. 
Did they enjoy it? 
He glanced down the shadowy shore. Cardinal 
flowers hung out their scarlet flags ; the sagittaria lifted 
its blue spire from amongst arrowy leaves a knight 
sallying forth to deeds of prowess. Through the 
 
shallow water at the edge darted myriads of tireless in- 
sects ; here a soft, pink snail came creeping -up a wet, 
slimy stone, thrusting out slender horns, and dragging 
his cumbrous house after him. Worms crept in and 
out of the damp sand, enjoying their sluggish life with 
so pure a zest that he almost envied them. God took 
care of them. There was a God for sinless Nature. 
And what for himself ? A quick, sharp pang struck 
his heart again. There was a fierce struggle before 
him how to begin? 
First, he must leave Tregony. Walk, work his way 
somehow until he came to a new place, where -he could 
dare toil again. But Joe and his father? 
They must be left behind for the present. Perhaps 
for all time. They could go on quietly here, he pro- 
viding for them. And being free to live his own life 
without any drawbacks, to think, to study, to follow 
out the ideas struggling through his brain with such 
mighty throes, he might come to some higher point at 
the last some clear sailing. 
Then he thought of Thomas Vennard. Everything 
about him turning to gold. A mean, grasping, ava- 
ricious man, and yet prospered in everything he under- 
took. Did God mean it to be so ? Did He make some 
men lucky, and smile to see others forever grinding at 
fortune's wheel ? Did it matter whether a man was up- 
right, honest, and generous? These unlucky men near- 
ly always were. Somewhere matters had gone wrong, 
but who was mighty enough to right them? Who 
could take the power out of these unjust hands, and 
change selfish hearts into noble ones? 
If he only had a little money, five hundred dollars, 
say, he could start fair, and turn his back upon fate. 
Five hundred ! A paltry sum to Vennard, but a for- 
tune for him. It stood for all the blessings that could 
crown his life. Leisure for his hungry brain, a pleasant 
home, companionship such as he thirsted for, books, 
experiments, success. In this slow way, with the 
burdens he must carry, it would be years before he 
could save it. 
He took the precious roll of drawings out of his 
pocket. Cylinders, valves, rods an odd lot of dia- 
grams. Adams had discovered genius in it. He felt 
certain now that he could make it work. Give him a 
chance for his life, without this cursed mill-stone of 
poverty hanging forever to his neck, and he would 
make it a fair thing. But this black ghost could he 
never get rid of it? What if he began to grind his 
fellow-men make them stepping-stones to his own 
advancement. Why, it was done every day. And 
then he smiled with a sort of hard scorn. 
The sun, going westward, threw his side of the 
shore into a dense shade, but made the other a mass of 
rosy gold. So lovely it appeared, so enticing with its 
tremulous glitter, that he forgot his care, the sharp 
pain and hunger tugging at his heart, shut his eyes, 
 
and leaning back against the mossy bole of a tree, gave 
himself up to dreams. 
What was it he heard in a dim sort of way, floating 
through his brain? The cry of some homeward bird 
calling to his mate? That would not be so sharp with 
pain. How deathly still all the air was in answer ! 
It made him shiver. 
He rose presently, and took a few steps forward. 
Why, what was that? A heavy, sullen plash in the 
water. Almost at his very feet, he thought at first. 
He clambered out on the farthest rock, and strained his 
eyes around the point. The shore was so indented 
with little nooks, so broken to vision by the trees 
growing, in some places, to the very water's edge, and 
overhanging it. But he saw the eddies far up, dimpling 
out towards the middle of the river, and slowly floating 
down. If God was looking out of that clear summer 
sky, what did He see? 
Stephen Dane took his way along the river's edge, 
swinging around the trees, striding over the stones, and 
occasionally giving a lurch into the water. Some 
strange impulse urged him on. When he reached the 
spot, the waves had not yet subsided into quiet. The 
bank was higher here, a sort of bluif ; the river deeper, 
and so shaded that he could not see clearly to the 
bottom if there had been anything to see, which 
there was not. Probably a loosened stone had rolled 
down. 
He turned now to take the shortest cut out of the 
woods. The trees were less dense, the grass quite 
ra'nk. It had been freshly trampled, and, O God ! 
what was this? He stooped down to examine the 
sharp edge of a stone. A clot of blood, and humau 
skin, a wisp of coarse brown hair matted in it ! 
There are some strange moments in life. Stephen 
Dane, without knowing why he did it, wrenched this 
stone from its foundation, rolled it over, keeping his 
eyes away from this terrible sign of crime, and gave it 
a vigorous push into the river. Then he fitted a 
smaller one in its place, covering up the spiders, 
worms, and lion-ants, that were hurrying in every direc- 
tion. Some curious spell held him in a giant's grasp. 
He glanced furtively through the trees, he took a 
lingering survey of the place, and then cautiously 
threaded his way out. The shadows grew weird and 
spectral. He stepped lightly, and drew strange, half- 
repressed breaths. Then he stumbled over the root of 
a tree, and kicked something that was not a stone. 
He passed it first, returned, groped about until he 
found it. A memorandum and note book with dark 
leather covers. On the first page was written in a stiff, 
but legible hand, " Thomas Vennard, Tregony, 18 ." 
He struck his forehead in a wild, startled way. lie 
looked through the dim branches with staring eyeballs, 
transfixed by a horrible thought that seemed to cleave 
through his brain. Did the lifeless body of Thomas 
 
Yennard, the man he had so lately envied, lie over 
yonder in the river? The cold sweat started at every 
pore. His limbs trembled violently. His teeth chat- 
tered. A faint, sickening sensation stole over him. 
He here with the murdered man's property in his 
hands ! Some awful fascination compelled him to 
clutch it tightly, when he would have thrown it from 
him. Then he staggered on, reeling like a drunken 
man. 
A step startled him. Coming in this direction, too. 
By the straggling sunlight, whose last beams gave an 
orange-red glow, he recognized the figure, the sham- 
bling gait. O Heaven I was his father's very life put 
into his hands ! 
THEN Archy Dane met his son, his thin, gray 
 face grew deathly white. His knees smote 
together, his hands fell limp and helpless by his side, 
and his lips twitched nervously. 
" Stephen ! " he exclaimed, in a faint, sickly voice, 
more of terror than surprise. His lank jaws fell as if 
stricken with palsy. 
"Were you looking for me, father?" 
It was a strange question, as Stephen himself knew, 
after he had put it, but it had come first into his mind. 
" No I " The voice was broken with aguish 
trembling. 
"It's growing dark in the woods." 
" Yes." No movement followed this. Only the two 
men breathing hoarse and fearfully. 
" Joe will have supper ready by the time we reach 
home." 
" Go on, boy," he said roughly, albeit in a tremulous 
tone. 
 
Stephen Dane was shocked with the crime that had 
been so foully committed there by the river's edge. 
This man's hands were red with blood, his soul black 
with a stain, only God could wipe off. His own father I 
Had he been sent to save him ? 
Perhaps because his own heart had been so bitter 
a while ago, he experienced a deep pity for this poor old 
man. Yet his lips must be sealed now and forever. 
"Well," he returned, "don't wait out late." 
Presently he looked back, and saw the bent figure 
groping around in the falling darkness. Then he only 
heard a faint rustle, and could see nothing. But he 
knew two bony hands were hunting over the moss 
and dead leaves, for something he carried in his 
pocket. 
He skulked along a back lane nearer the river. 
How lonely it was in this amethyst glow ! How the 
long hills drooped with purple shadows, their outlines 
lost in soft indistinctness. Gray half lights upon the 
bolder rocks, faint touches of red along the shore, 
where filmy threads of vapor began to curl. The 
hollow blue of the upper sky seemed a haven in which 
these fleets of gold might come to anchor in an un- 
troubled sea of rest. Where was there any rest for 
him? 
The bright reflection had entirely disappeared behind 
the hills when Stephen reached home. Supper had 
been waiting upon the table a long time. The johnny- 
cake stood back from the fire, its crisp, golden tint 
degenerated into brown. Joe was cross with the 
delay. 
"You've got to goin' off to the tavern again," she 
flung out angrily. "It's enough to try the patience 
of a saint. Supper 's been waitin' this hour." 
"No, I haven't been to the tavern." 
The hollow voice startled her. She looked intently 
at Stephen. He felt that his face was fearfully 
haggard. 
" What's the matter ? And where's father ? " 
" How should I know ? We won't wait for him." 
" The johnny-cake was so nice ! It's a'most baked 
to death now ; " and Joe's voice was rather conciliatory. 
"No matter." 
' " One of those meetin's again, Stephen ? " 
No " absently. 
" They're goin' to cut the timber off the P'int, and 
build a new mill." 
" They ? Who ? " Stephen started as if struck by an 
unseen hand. 
" Company, I b'lieve. Jake Fawcett's wife told me. 
They want Mr. Vennard to go look at it first. Cu'ris 
that nothin' can't be done a'thout he has a finger in 
the pie." 
Stephen was too much excited to notice Joe's elisions. 
He choked down a mouthful of the johnny-cake. For 
all taste it had to him, it might as well have been 
 
compounded of chaff. This errand was what had called 
Mr. Vennard to that fatal spot. But his father 
How solve the mystery? 
"You're stupid to-night, Stephen," Joe said, angrily. 
" One might as well talk to a stick." 
" Am I ? " His voice had a dreary patience in it, as 
if he had begun to wait for something that would never 
come. He sipped his tea with long breaths between. 
When Joe was not looking he flung portions of his 
supper to the wistful-eyed dog. Presently he rose. 
" I do wish father 'd come. Goin' out again ? " 
"No." 
Then Joe, having failed in all her efforts at conversa- 
tion, lapsed into sullen silence. Stephen seated himself 
on the window-ledge, and looked down the lane. 
Nothing came of his watching. Gray night closed 
them in. One by one the stars were set in pale, 
penetrable wreaths of fleecy clouds. The surge of the 
river floated upon the night air, bringing wafts of dewy 
fragrance. Joe went out to gossip with a neighbor. 
In that strange, still night, Stephen's thoughts whirled 
in wildest chaos. It was his misery that nothing could 
be done. No plans laid. No precautions taken. Some 
times he resolved to go away without any explanation, 
but he shivered at the suspicion it might arouse. Had 
any one heard the words that had passed between him 
and Mr. Vennard? There was a long afternoon 
to account for. And here in his pocket was the 
memorandum-book. What must he do with that ? If 
found in this house, father or son must answer for the 
deed. 
He lighted a candle, and went up to his room, fas- 
tening the door behind him. Then he drew forth the 
book and opened it. Full of daily jottings in pencil, 
one or two receipts, a plan for boiler and steam-chest, 
and some bank bills, laid out straight, with a crisp, 
fresh look, although not new. Six fifties and ten 
twenties five hundred dollars ! 
This was what had tempted his old father. This 
was what he had gone back to search for. A few 
hours agone Stephen had been wishing for just this. 
It would give him the means to perfect his engine, start 
him on the road to fortune. Ah, if it were only his, 
with no stain of blood upon it !
He put the money back, and shut the book. What 
should he do with it? hold it there in the flame until 
it was all consumed? Or, better still, take it down 
stairs and lay it upon the coals ? Destroy this sure and 
fatal evidence. 
But the money ? 
He had not robbed; he had not but a shiver 
choked off the words. Still, why should the money be 
wasted ? More than this had Thomas Vennard wrung 
out of his workmen. Mrs. Vennard and the child 
would have an' abundance. Little sunny-haired Hope ! 
Yes, it would do so much for him ; give him the 
 
knowledge for which he was madly thirsting ; save them 
all, perhaps ; take them out of this homblc, grovelling 
life. It had come to him by one of those blind chances 
of fate. Was it best to destroy it ? 
He stood there a long while, with a devil at his el- 
bow. To send it back in any manner would be certain 
detection. Was he not answerable for his father's life? 
No, it could not be returned. 
His tall figure swayed to and fro in the intense ex- 
citement ; his knees smote weakly together ; his fingers 
trembled and clutched at each other, as if for support. 
His eyes stared wildly about, and he stood there mo- 
ment after moment, scarcely breathing. 
Joe's step sounded on the threshold. He darted 
one quick glance around. There was a chink in the 
chimney, by the rafter. He thrust it in, muttering, 
" For to-night only." 
He opened the door, and went stumbling down stairs, 
candle in hand, but keeping his face averted from Joe. 
Everything about him seemed so unreal ! This yellow 
flicker of light ; that ghostly pine table, to-day sand- 
scrubbed to new whiteness by Joe ; the blank space of 
the doorway, and the shadowy windows. A kind of 
dazed, dreamy terror was stealing over him, a terror 
that stupefied. He walked in obedience to some me- 
chanical law, not because he willed. He seemed to 
have no sentience, to be a sort of breathing machine, 
guided by blind instinct. 
"Are you sick, Stephen?" ^ . 
Joe's tone had in it a thread of "curious awe. 
"No. I believe I'll go and look after father," 
He reached down his old hat, and walked slowly to 
the end of the lane. He fancied that he must be losing 
his reason, so slowly did every thought come, and with 
such a great effort . What was lying in the depths of 
the river? A stone, with a clot of human flesh and 
blood. Anything else ? Would it float up to the sur- 
face some day, and tell its own hideous tale? Would 
there be any marks, fingers at the throat, or a grip that 
might disprove accident? 
And what had Archy Dane betrayed over his cups ? 
He was not greatly given to being close-mouthed. No 
steps coming along the road. The town clocks rang out 
ten on the balmy summer air. In this deathly stillness 
Stephen could hear his heart beat. What was this un- 
utterable glory of earth and sky to him? In a mood 
of feeble passion he wondered why he had been created ! 
What was life, even after the threescore and ten years 
had been reached ? And yet he felt a power growing 
up in his heart with great giant strides. It was not all 
dull clay. A fierce power struggling for utterance. 
Somewhere a spark like a diamond, that, held in cer- 
tain lights, shot out arrowy, golden rays. Was that a 
man's soul? Would he ever come to full stature, then? 
He had seen theoi'ies applied to cold, inanimate iron 
that warmed it into life, gave it a vitality, so to 
 
speak, that astonished the world. All this money might 
have done for him. 
And then he thought of the blear-eyed man down at 
the tavern. He could not go there to-night. If, in a 
weak, unconscious moment, Archy Dane had loosened 
his hold on the slippery neck of his secret, and trusted 
it to the gaping, gossiping crew, what then? 
The moments lengthened out intolerably. The chirp 
of insects in the neighboring- thicket grew faint and 
drowsy. The stars overhead sailed through fleecy 
