much more open and specific in avowing an immediate dependence upon
help higher than man's, in doing the work before him. Mr. Lincoln was
naturally inclined to religious feelings. His habit of considering all
the affairs of life from the religious point of view, at the tribunal
of the laws of God, is clearly traceable in his private history and
even in his political campaigns. He was not obtrusive nor unreasonable
however in avowals of this feeling. It would have been out of place
to request the prayers of his fellow citizens during the debates
with Douglas, almost as much as to ask the prayers of the jury while
arguing a case. But while placed at the head of his nation, during the
vastest peril of its existence--while occupying the most prominent,
the most powerful, the most responsible, the most difficult, and the
most dangerous position upon the whole round world--while at the very
front of the very vanguard of humanity in the great battle which was
deciding whether good or evil should overcome--in such a position, no
avowals of the need of Divine aid, no repetition of the consciousness
of that need, no requests for the sympathy and the help of all good
men's prayers, could be too frequent or too free. This profound sense
of human weakness and of God's strength, and a distinct sentiment of
mournful foreboding, give the whole coloring to the brief address in
which he bade good bye to his neighbors at Springfield, at setting out
for Washington in 1861.

This habit of religious feeling, and the avowal of it, remained a very
marked one during all Mr. Lincoln's Presidency. Subordinate to this,
the acts of his official life, his written and spoken utterances, and
his personal conduct, were mainly marked by solicitous and extreme
sense of duty, unfailing resolution, unerring tact and wisdom, and
a kindness and patience entirely unparalleled in the history of
governments. These traits were often hidden by his quaint modes of
expression, by the wonderful flow of humorous anecdotes which he
so constantly used in arguing, in answering, in evading, or for
entertainment; and by his confirmed habit of arguing all questions
against himself, against his own views, before coming to a conclusion.
These externals often concealed him, often occasioned him to be
misunderstood, distrusted, and opposed. It was only as time passed on,
and his public acts gradually formed themselves into his history, that
it was possible for those broad and massive characteristics to be seen
in a just perspective. Now however, they are visible throughout all
his life, whether traced in anecdote, in speech, in state papers, in
cabinet debates, in intercourse with the representatives of bodies of
the people, or in executive orders and acts.

Of all these traits, Mr. Lincoln's kindness was unquestionably the
rarest, the most wonderful. It may be doubted whether any human being
ever lived whose whole nature was so perfectly sweet with the readiness
to do kind actions; so perfectly free from even the capacity of
revenge. He could not even leave a pig in distress. He once on circuit,
drove past a pig, stuck fast in a mud hole. Having on a suit of new
clothes, he felt unable to afford them for the pig, but after going two
miles, he could not stand it, turned and drove back, made a platform
of rails, helped out the pig, spoiled his new clothes, and then went
contentedly about his business. He used to help his poor clients
with money--a ridiculous thing in a lawyer. He was quite as helpless
about traitors and deserters and criminals, as about pigs; even when
pardoning or non-retaliation was actually doing harm. The beseechings
and tears of women, the sight of a little child, even a skilful picture
of the sorrow of a scoundrel's friends, was almost certain to gain
whatever favor they sought. It really sometimes seemed as if he was
tenderer of individual lives than of multitudes of them, so nearly
impossible was it for him to pronounce sentence of death or to forbear
the gift of life. His doorkeeper had standing orders never to delay
from one day to another any message asking for the saving of life. He
undoubtedly did harm by giving life to deserters, and thus weakening
army discipline. He heard a child cry in his anteroom one day, and
calling his usher, had the woman that carried the child shown in. She
had been waiting three days, by some mischance. Her husband was to be
shot. She stated her case; the pardon was at once granted; she came
out of the office praying and weeping; and the old usher, touching her
shawl, told her who had really saved her husband's life. "Madam," said
he, "the baby did it."

One of his generals once urgently remonstrated with him for rendering
desertion safe, though it was seriously weakening the army. "Mr.
General," said Mr. Lincoln, "there are already too many weeping widows
in the United States. For God's sake don't ask me to add to the number,
for I won't do it." Even to put a stop to the unutterable horrors which
were slowly murdering our brave men in the rebel prisons, he could not
retaliate. He said, "I can never, never starve men like that. Whatever
others may say or do, I never can, and I never will, be accessory to
such treatment of human beings." Once, after the massacre at Fort
Pillow, he pledged himself in a public speech that there should be a
retaliation. But that pledge he could not keep, and he did not.

His perfectly sweet kindness of feeling was as inexhaustible towards
the rebels as such, as towards dumb beasts, or the poor and unfortunate
of his own loyal people, and it was shown as clearly in his state
papers and speeches as in any private act or word. That sentiment, and
one other--the unconditional determination to adhere to the doctrines
of the Declaration of Independence and to do his sworn official
duty--colored the series of speeches which he made on his way to
Washington. At Philadelphia, where he was especially impressed with
associations about the old Independence Hall, he said, speaking of that
edifice, and standing within the old Hall itself:

"All the political sentiments I entertain have been drawn, so far as I
have been able to draw them, from the sentiments which originated in
and were given to the world from this hall. I have never had a feeling,
politically, that did not spring from the sentiments embodied in the
Declaration of Independence."

Then he referred to the doctrine of freedom in that instrument; and he
said:

"But if this country can not be saved without giving up that principle,
I was about to say I would rather be assassinated in this spot than
surrender it. * * * I have said nothing but what I am willing to live
by, and if it be the pleasure of Almighty God, to die by."

These references to assassination and death, were no casual flourishes
of oratory. They were deliberate defiances of the fate which had
already been denounced against the speaker, in public and in private,
which continued to be threatened during all the rest of his life,
and which finally actually befel him, but the fear of which never
made him turn pale nor waver in his duty. He began as soon as he was
nominated, to receive anonymous letters from the South threatening him
with death. They became so frequent that he kept a separate file of
them. They continued to come, up to the year of his death. The first
one or two, he said, made him "a little uncomfortable;" but afterwards
he only filed them. The train on which he left home for the East, was
to have been thrown off the track. A hand grenade was hidden in one
of the cars. An association was known to exist at Baltimore for the
express purpose of killing him. When therefore he spoke as he did at
Philadelphia, it was doubtless with a feeling that some one concerned
in these plans was probably hearing him, and understanding him. It was,
no doubt, at the same time a sort of vow, taken upon himself under the
feelings aroused by the birth-place of the Declaration which he had
so often and so well defended. Whether a challenge, a vow, or a mere
statement of principle, he kept his word. He lived by it, and he died
by it.

The same mixture of firmness and kindness appears in the First
Inaugural, and in this document there is also another most
characteristic element;--circumspect adherence to the Constitution as
he understood it, and most remarkable care and skill in the language
used to interpret law, or to announce his own conclusions or purposes.
Lover of freedom as he was, and believer in the rights of man, he
had already been invariably careful not to demand from the masses of
men whom he sought to influence, more than they could be expected
to give. Now, he went even further. He expressly and clearly avowed
his intention to execute all that he had sworn, even the laws most
distasteful to any freeman. In speaking of the crisis of the moment,
and after setting forth his doctrine of national sovereignty and an
unbroken Union, he promised to maintain it as far as he could, and
added:

"Doing this I deem to be only a simple duty on my part; and I shall
perform it so far as practicable, unless my rightful masters, the
American people, shall withhold the requisite means, or in some
authoritative manner direct the contrary."

Then, as if to avert ill feeling if possible:

"I trust this will not be regarded as a menace, but only as the
declared purpose of the Union, that it will constitutionally defend and
maintain itself."

Then, with careful adherence to the mildest terms possible--could
anything be a more peaceful assertion of national right than the simple
"hold, occupy and possess"?--he says what the nation will do:

"In doing this there need be no bloodshed or violence, and there shall
be none, unless it be forced upon the national authority. The power
confided to me will be used to hold, occupy and possess the property
and places belonging to the government, and to collect the duties and
imposts; but beyond what may be necessary for these objects, there will
be no invasion, no using of force against or among the people anywhere."

The remainder of the Inaugural is just such a kindly, homely, earnest,
sincere, straight-forward appeal to the South, as he might have made
in a country court-house in Illinois, "taking off his coat, leaning
upon the rail of the jury box, and singling out a leading juryman and
addressing him in a conversational tone." Having stated the case,
and once more barely repeated that it was "his duty to administer
the present government as it came to his hands, and to transmit it
unimpaired by him to his successor," he then quietly but powerfully
appeals to his own two life-long trusts, God Almighty, and the free
people of America. He asks:

"Why should there not be a patient confidence in the ultimate justice
of the people? Is there any better or equal hope in the world? In our
present differences, is either party without faith of being in the
right? If the Almighty Ruler of nations, with his eternal truth and
justice, be on your side of the North, or on yours of the South, that
truth and that justice will surely prevail, by the judgment of the
great tribunal of the American people."

And the final paragraphs are sad and heavy with his unutterable
longings and yearnings for peace; so that the words, plain and simple
as they are, are full of deep and melancholy music:

"You can have no conflict without being yourselves the aggressors. You
have no oath registered in heaven to destroy the government, while I
shall have the most solemn one, to 'preserve, protect and defend' it.

I am loth to close. We are not enemies, but friends. We must not be
enemies. Though passion may have strained, it must not break our
bonds of affection. The mystic cord of memory, stretching from every
battle-field and patriot grave to every living heart and hearthstone
all over this broad land, will yet swell the chorus of the Union, when
again touched, as surely they will be, by the better angels of our
nature."

As the war went on, the same unwavering decision, the same caution and
kindness marked the whole action of the Executive. Especially were
these traits exhibited in his dealings with the main question at issue,
that of slavery.

On this point he bore a pressure such as it is safe to say no mortal
son of earth ever bore before or since. The interests of the great
laboring, suffering classes that go to make up human nature, were all
at this period of history condensed into one narrow channel, like that
below Niagara where the waters of all the great lakes are heaped up in
ridges, and seem, in Scripture language, to "utter their voices and
lift up their hands on high." Like the course of those heavy waters
the great cause weltered into a place where its course resembled that
sullen whirlpool below the falls where the awful waters go round
and round in blindly, dizzy masses, and seem with dumb tossings and
dark agonies to seek in vain for a clear, open channel. In this dread
vortex, from time to time are seen whirling helplessly the bodies of
drowned men, fragments of wrecked boats splintered and shattered, and
trees torn to ghastly skeletons, which from time to time dart up from
the whirling abyss with a sort of mad, impatient despair.

So we can all remember when the war had struggled on a year or
two--when a hundred thousand men, the life and light and joy of as many
families, who entered it warm with hope and high in aspiration, were
all lying cold and low, and yet without the least apparent progress
towards a result--when the resistance only seemed to have become wider,
deeper, more concentrated, better organized, by all that awful waste
of the best treasures of the nation; then was the starless night--the
horror of the valley of the shadow of death. Above, darkness filled
with whisperings, and jibes, and sneers of traitor fiends; on one side
a pit, on the other a quagmire, and in the gloom all faces gathered
blackness, and even friends and partisans looked strangely on each
other. Confidence began to be shaken. Each separate party blamed the
other as they wandered in the darkness. It was one of the strange
coincidences which show the eternal freshness of Scripture language in
relation to human events, that the church lesson from the Old Testament
which was read in the churches the Sunday after the attack on Sumter,
was the prediction of exactly such a conflict:

"Prepare war, wake up the mighty men, let all the men of war draw near;
let them come up:

Beat your plough-shares into swords, and your pruning-hooks into
spears: let the weak say, I am strong.

Assemble yourselves, and come, all ye heathen, and gather yourselves
together round about: thither cause thy mighty ones to come down, O
Lord.

Put ye in the sickle, for the harvest is ripe: the press is full, the
fats overflow; for their wickedness is great.

Multitudes, multitudes in the valley of decision: for the day of the
Lord is near in the valley of decision.

The sun and the moon shall be darkened, and the stars shall withdraw
their shining. The Lord also shall roar out of Zion, and utter his
voice from Jerusalem; and the heavens and the earth shall shake: but
the Lord will be the hope of his people, and the strength of the
children of Israel. So shall ye know that I am the Lord your God."

The repeated defeats, disasters, and distresses that had come upon the
Union cause stirred the conscience of all the religious portion of the
community. They remembered the parallels in the Old Testament where
the armies of Israel were turned back before the heathen, because they
cherished within themselves some accursed thing--they began to ask
whether the Achan who had stolen the wedge of gold and Babylonish vest
in our midst was not in truth the cause why God would not go forth
with our armies! and the pressure upon Lincoln to end the strife by
declaring emancipation, became every day more stringent; at the same
time the pressure of every opposing party became equally intense, and
Lincoln by his peculiar nature and habits, must listen to all, and
take time to ponder and weigh all. In consequence there was a time when
he pleased nobody. Each party was incensed at the degree of attention
he gave to the other. He might say, in the language of the old prophet,
at this time, "Woe is me, my mother, that thou hast borne me a man of
strife, and a man of contention to the whole earth! I have neither
lent on usury, nor men have lent to me on usury; yet every one of
them doth curse me." He was, like the great Master whom he humbly
followed, despised and rejected of men, a man of sorrows and acquainted
with grief; we hid, as it were, our faces from him, he was despised,
and we esteemed him not. Like the poor, dumb, suffering, down-trodden
classes for whom he stood, he had no prestige of personal advantages,
or of that culture which comes from generations of wealth and ease.
His method of thought and expression had not the stamp of any old
aristocratic tradition. He was a sign upon the earth--the sign and the
leader of a new order of events in which the power and the prestige
should be in the hands of the plain, simple common people, and not in
those of privileged orders. But the time had not yet come, and now was
their hour of humiliation, and while in England the poor operatives
of Manchester bravely and manfully bore starvation caused by want of
cotton, rather than ask their government to break the blockade and
get it for them; while the poor silk weavers of Lyons, and the poorer
classes all over Europe trembled, and hoped, and sympathised with the
struggling cause and its unfashionable leader--all the great, gay,
successful, fashionable world went the other way. Punch had his jolly
caricatures of Lincoln's long, thin face, and anxious perplexities,
and the caricatures of Paris were none the less merry. Even in America
there was a time when some of his most powerful friends doubted his
fitness for his position, and criticisms filled the columns of every
newspaper. In Washington, every fop and every fool felt at liberty to
make a jest at the expense of his want of dignity, and his personal
awkwardness. He was freely called an ape, a satyr, a stupid blockhead,
for even the ass can kick safely and joyfully at a lion in a net. Even
his cabinet and best friends said nothing for him, and kept an ominous
and gloomy silence.

Lincoln knew all this, and turned it over in the calm recesses of his
mind, with a quiet endurance, gilded at times by a gleam of the grim,
solemn humor peculiar to himself. "I cannot make generals," he said
once, "I would if I could." At another, to an important man who had
been pressing some of his own particular wisdom upon him, "Perhaps
you'd like to try to run the machine yourself." Somebody gave him a
series of powerful criticisms which a distinguished writer had just
poured forth on him. "I read them all through," he said quaintly, "and
then I said to myself, Well, Abraham Lincoln, are you a man, or are you
a dog?"

No man in the great agony suffered more or deeper, but it was with
a dry, weary, patient pain, that many mistook for insensibility.
"Whichever way it ends," he said to the writer, on one occasion, "I
have the impression that I shan't last long after it's over."

After the dreadful repulse at Fredericksburg, he is reported to have
said, "If there is a man out of hell that suffers more than I do,
I pity him." In those dark days, his heavy eyes and worn and weary
air told how our reverses wore upon him, and yet there was a never
failing fund of patience at bottom that sometimes rose to the surface
in bubbles of quaint sayings or a story that forced a laugh even from
himself. The humor of Lincoln was the oil that lubricated the otherwise
dry and wiry machinery of his mind. The power of looking at men and
things with reference to their humorous side, enabled him to bear
without irritation many things in the political joltings and jarrings
of his lot, which would have driven a more nervous man frantic. It
is certainly a great advantage to be so made that one can laugh at
times when crying will do no good, and Lincoln not only had his own
laugh in the darkest days, but the wherewithal to bring a laugh from
a weary neighbor. His jests and stories helped off many a sorry hour,
and freshened the heart of his hearer for another pull in the galling
harness.

He saw through other men who thought all the while they were
instructing or enlightening him, with a sort of dry, amused patience.
He allowed the most tedious talker to prose to him, the most shallow
and inflated to advise him, reserving only to himself the right to a
quiet chuckle far down in the depths of his private consciousness. Thus
all sorts of men and all sorts of deputations saw him, had their talks,
bestowed on him all their tediousness, and gave him the benefit of
their opinions; not a creature was denied access, not a soul so lowly
but might have their chance to bore the soul of this more lowly servant
of the people. His own little, private, quiet, harmless laugh was his
small comfort under all these inflictions. Sometimes the absolute
confidence with which all contending sides urged their opinions and
measures upon him, seemed to strike him with a solemn sense of the
ludicrous. Thus when Dr. Cheever, at the head of a committee of
clergymen, had been making a vigorous, authoritative appeal to him
in Old Testament language, to end all difficulties by emancipation,
Lincoln seemed to meditate gravely, and at last answered slowly, "Well,
gentlemen, it is not very often that one is favored with a delegation
direct from the Almighty!"

Washington, at this time, was one great hospital of wounded soldiers;
the churches, the public buildings all filled with the maimed, the sick
and suffering, and Lincoln's only diversion from the perplexity of
state was the oversight of these miseries. "Where do you dine?" said
one to him in our hearing. "Well, I don't dine, I just browse round
a little, now and then." There was something irresistibly quaint and
pathetic in the odd, rustic tone in which this was spoken.

Even the Emancipation Proclamation--that one flag stone in the wide
morass of despondency on which the wearied man at last set firm
foothold, did not at first seem to be a first step into the land of
promise.

It was uttered too soon to please some parties, too late to please
others. In England it was received in the face of much military ill
success, with the scoffing epigram that the President had proclaimed
liberty in the states where he had no power, and retained slavery in
those where he had. It is true there was to this the sensible and just
reply that he only gained the right to emancipate by this war power,
and that of course this did not exist in states that were not at war;
but when was ever a smart saying stopped in its course by the slow
considerations and explanations of truth?

The battle of Gettysburg was the first argument that began to convince
mankind that Mr. Lincoln was right. It has been well said, that in this
world nothing succeeds but success. Bonaparte professed his belief
that Providence always went with the strongest battalions, and therein
he expressed about the average opinion of this world. Vicksburg and
Gettysburg changed the whole face of the nation--they were the first
stations outside of the valley of the shadow of death.

The nation took new courage--even the weary clamorers for peace at any
price, began to shout on the right side, and to hope that peace might
come through northern victory, and so it did come, they did not care
how.

Whereas a few months before, Lincoln was universally depreciated,
doubted, scoffed and scorned, now he found himself re-elected to the
Presidential chair, by an overwhelming majority. It was in fact almost
an election by acclamation. When the votes were being counted in New
York late at night, and this victory became apparent, the vast surging
assembly at the motion of one individual, uncovered their heads and
sang a solemn Doxology--an affecting incident which goes far to show
what sort of feelings lay at the bottom of this vast movement, and how
profoundly the people felt that this re-election of Lincoln was a vital
step in their onward progress.

At this hour the nation put the broad seal of its approbation on all
his past course. At this moment she pledged herself to follow him and
him alone to the end.

Perhaps never was man re-elected who used fewer of popular arts--made
fewer direct efforts. He was indeed desirous to retain the place, for
though he estimated himself quite humbly, still he was of opinion that
on the whole his was as safe a hand as any, and he had watched the
navigation so far as to come to love the hard helm, at which he had
stood so painfully. In his usual quaint way he expressed his idea by a
backwoods image. Alluding to the frequent fordings of turbulent streams
that are the lot of the western traveller, he said, "It is'nt best to
swap horses in the middle of a creek."

There was something almost preternatural in the calmness with which
Lincoln accepted the news of his re-election. The first impulse seemed
to be to disclaim all triumph over the opposing party, and to soberly
gird up his loins to go on with his work to the end.

His last inaugural has been called by one of the London newspapers "the
noblest political document known to history."

It was characterized by a solemn religious tone, so peculiarly free
from earthly passion, that it seems to us now, who look back on it in
the light of what has followed, as if his soul had already parted from
earthly things, and felt the powers of the world to come. It was not
the formal state-paper of the chief of a party in an hour of victory,
so much as the solemn soliloquy of a great soul reviewing its course
under a vast responsibility, and appealing from all earthly judgments
to the tribunal of Infinite Justice. It was a solemn clearing of his
soul for the great sacrament of death:

"Fellow Countrymen--At this second appearing to take the oath of the
Presidential office, there is less occasion for an extended address
than there was at the first. Then a statement somewhat in detail of
a course to be pursued seemed very fitting and proper. Now, at the
expiration of four years, during which public declarations have been
constantly called forth on every point and phase of the great contest
which still absorbs the attention and engrosses the energies of the
nation, little that is new could be presented.

The progress of our arms, upon which all else chiefly depends is as
well known to the public as to myself, and it is, I trust, reasonably
satisfactory and encouraging to all. With high hope for the future, no
prediction in regard to it is ventured.

On the occasion corresponding to this four years ago, all thoughts
were anxiously directed to an impending civil war. All dreaded
it; all sought to avoid it. While the inaugural address was being
delivered from this place, devoted altogether to saving the Union
without war, insurgent agents were in the city seeking to destroy it
without war--seeking to dissolve the Union and divide the effects by
negotiation. Both parties deprecated war, but one of them would make
war rather than let the nation survive, and the other would accept war
rather than let it perish, and the war came.

One-eighth of the whole population were colored slaves, not distributed
generally over the Union, but localized in the Southern part of it.
These slaves constituted a peculiar and powerful interest. All knew
that this interest was somehow the cause of the war. To strengthen,
perpetuate and extend this interest, was the object for which the
insurgents would rend the Union even by war, while the Government
claimed no right to do more than to restrict the territorial
enlargement of it.

Neither party expected for the war the magnitude or the duration which
it has already attained. Neither anticipated that the cause of the
conflict might cease with, or even before the conflict itself should
cease. Each looked for an easier triumph, and a result less fundamental
and astounding.

Both read the same Bible and prayed to the same God, and each invoke
his aid against the other. It may seem strange that any men should dare
to ask a just God's assistance in wringing their bread from the sweat
of other men's faces, but let us judge not, that we be not judged.
The prayers of both could not be answered. That of neither has been
answered fully. The Almighty has his own purposes. 'Woe unto the world
because of offences, for it must needs be that offences come: but woe
to that man by whom the offence cometh.' If we shall suppose that
American slavery is one of these offences, which in the providence of
God must needs come, but which having continued through his appointed
time, He now wills to remove, and that he gives to both North and South
this terrible war as the woe due to those by whom the offence came,
shall we discern therein any departure from those divine attributes
which the believers in a living God always ascribe to Him? Fondly do we
hope, fervently do we pray, that this mighty scourge of war may soon
pass away. Yet, if God wills that it continue until all the wealth
piled by the bondman's two hundred and fifty years of unrequited toil
shall be sunk, and until every drop of blood drawn with the lash shall
be paid with another drawn with the sword, as was said three thousand
years ago; so, still it must be said, 'The judgments of the Lord are
true and righteous altogether.'

With malice toward none, with charity for all, with firmness in the
right, as God gives us to see the right, let us strive on to finish
the work we are in, to bind up the nation's wounds, to care for him
who shall have borne the battle and for his widow and orphans, to do
all which may achieve and cherish a just and a lasting peace among
ourselves and with all nations."

The words of Lincoln seemed to grow more clear and more remarkable as
they approached the end. Perhaps in no language, ancient or modern, are
any number of words found more touching and eloquent than his speech
of November 19, 1863, at the Gettysburg celebration. He wrote it in a
few moments, while on the way to the celebration, on being told that he
would be expected to make some remarks, and after Mr. Everett's oration
he rose and read it. It was as follows:

"Fourscore and seven years ago, our fathers brought forth on this
continent a new nation, conceived in liberty, and dedicated to the
proposition that all men are created equal. Now, we are engaged in
a great civil war, testing whether that nation, or any nation, so
conceived and dedicated, can long endure. We are met on a great
battle-field of that war. We have come to dedicate a portion of that
field as a final resting-place for those who here gave their lives that
the nation might live. It is altogether fitting and proper that we
should do this.

But in a larger sense, we cannot dedicate, we cannot consecrate,
we cannot hallow, this ground. The brave men, living and dead, who
struggled here, have consecrated it far above our poor power to add
or detract. The world will little note, nor long remember what we say
here, but it can never forget what they did here. It is for us, the
living, rather to be dedicated here to the unfinished work which they
who fought here have thus far so nobly advanced. It is rather for
us to be here dedicated to the great task remaining before us, that
from these honored dead, we take increased devotion to that cause for
which they gave the last full measure of devotion; that we here highly
resolve that these dead shall not have died in vain; that this nation,
under God, shall have a new birth of freedom; and that government of
the people, by the people, and for the people, shall not perish
from the earth."

The audience had admired Mr. Everett's long address. At Mr. Lincoln's
few words, they cheered and sobbed and wept. When Mr. Lincoln had
ended, he turned and congratulated Mr. Everett on having succeeded so
well. Mr. Everett replied, with a truthful and real compliment, "Ah,
Mr. Lincoln, how gladly I would exchange all my hundred pages, to have
been the author of your twenty lines!"

Probably no ruler ever made a more profoundly and peculiarly
Christian impression on the mind of the world than Lincoln. In
his religious faith two leading ideas were prominent from first to
last--man's helplessness, both as to strength and wisdom, and God's
helpfulness in both. When he left Springfield to assume the Presidency,
he said to his townsmen:

"A duty devolves on me which is perhaps greater than that which has
devolved on any other man since the days of Washington. He never would
have succeeded but for the aid of divine Providence, on which he at
all times relied, and I feel that I cannot succeed without the same
Divine aid which sustained him. On the same Almighty Being I place my
reliance for support, and I hope that you, my friends, will pray that I
may receive that Divine assistance, without which I cannot succeed, but
with which success is certain."

Abraham Lincoln's whole course showed that he possessed that faith
without which, St. Paul says, it is impossible to please God, for
"he that cometh to God must believe that He IS, and that He is a
rewarder of those who diligently seek him."

And now our Christian pilgrim having passed through the valley of the
shadow of death, and slain and vanquished giants and dragons, at last
had a little taste, a few days sojourn, in the land of Beulah.

Cheer after cheer rose up and shook the land as by one great stroke
after another the awful convulsions of the conflict terminated in full,
perfect, final victory.

Never did mortal man on this earth have a triumph more dramatic and
astounding than Lincoln's victorious entry into Richmond. Years before,
when a humble lawyer in Illinois, a man without prestige of person or
manners or education, he had espoused what the world called the losing
side, and been content to take the up-hill, laborious road. He had seen
his rival, adorned with every external advantage of person, manners,
eloquence and oratory, sweeping all prizes away from him, and far
distancing him in the race of political ambition.

In those days, while confessing that he had felt the promptings of
ambition, and the disappointment of ill success, there was one manly
and noble sentiment that ought to be printed in letters of gold, as the
motto of every rising young man. Speaking of the distinction at which
Douglas was aiming, he said:

"SO REACHED AS THAT THE OPPRESSED OF MY SPECIES MIGHT HAVE EQUAL REASON
TO REJOICE WITH ME, I SHOULD VALUE IT MORE THAN THE PROUDEST CROWN THAT
COULD DECK THE BROW OF A MONARCH."

At this moment of his life he could look back and see far behind
him the grave of the once brilliant Douglas, who died worn out and
worn down with disappointed ambition, while he, twice elected to
the Presidency, was now standing the observed of all the world, in
a triumph that has no like in history. And it was a triumph made
memorable and peculiar by the ecstacies and hallelujahs of those very
oppressed with whose care years before he had weighted and burdened
his progress. It was one of those earthly scenes which grandly
foreshadow that great final triumph predicted in prophecy, when the
Lord God shall wipe away all tears from all faces, and the rebuke
of his people shall he utterly take away. A cotemporary witness has
described Lincoln, calm and simple, leading his little boy by the hand,
while the liberated blacks hailed him with hymns and prayers, mingling
his name at each moment with ascriptions of praise and glory to Jesus
the Great Liberator, whose day at last had come. Who can say of what
ages of mournful praying and beseeching, what uplifting of poor, dumb
hands that hour was the outcome? Years before, a clergyman of Virginia
visiting the black insurrectionist, Nat Turner, in his cell before
execution, gives the following wonderful picture of him: "In rags, in
chains, covered with blood and bruises, he yet is inspired by such a
force of enthusiasm, as he lifts his chained hands to heaven, as really
filled my soul with awe. It is impossible to make him feel that he
is guilty. He evidently believes that he was called of God to do the
work he did. When I pointed out to him that it could not be, because
he was taken, condemned, and about to be executed, he answered with
enthusiasm, 'Was not Jesus Christ crucified? My cause will succeed
yet!'"

Years passed, and the prophetic visions of Nat Turner were fulfilled
on the soil of Virginia. It did indeed rain blood; the very leaves of
the trees dripped blood; but the work was done, the yoke was broken,
and the oppressed went free. An old negress who stood and saw the
confederate prisoners being carried for safe keeping into the former
slave pens, said grimly, "Well, de Lord am slow, but He am sure!"

As the final scenes of his life drew on, it seemed as if a heavenly
influence overshadowed the great martyr, and wrought in him exactly
the spirit that a man would wish to be found in when he is called to
the eternal world. His last expressions and recorded political actions
looked towards peace and forgiveness. On the day before his death
he joyfully ordered the discontinuance of the draft. His very last
official act was to give orders that two of the chief leaders of the
rebellion, then expected in disguise at a sea port, on their flight to
Europe, should not be arrested, but permitted to embark; so that he was
thinking only of saving the lives of rebels, when they were thinking of
taking his. If he had tried of set purpose to clear his soul for God's
presence, and to put the rebels and their assassin champion in the
wrong before that final tribunal, he could not have done better.

Mr. Lincoln seems to have had during his course a marked presentiment
of the fate which had from the first been threatening him, and which
the increasing pile of letters marked "Assassination," gave him
constant reason to remember. In more than one instance he had in
his public speeches professed a solemn willingness to die for his
principles. The great tax which his labors and responsibilities made
on his vitality, was perhaps one reason for his frequently saying that
he felt that he should not live to go through with it. He observed
to Mr. Lovejoy, during that gentleman's last illness, in February,
1864, "This war is eating my life out; I have a strong impression
that I shall not live to see the end." In July following, he said to
a correspondent of the Boston Journal, "I feel a presentiment that I
shall not outlast the rebellion. When it is over, my work will be done."

Concerning the last painful history, there have been a thousand
conflicting stories. From the mass of evidence the following
brief account has been prepared, which sufficiently outlines the
circumstances:

Who were the persons concerned in the assassination of President
Lincoln, has never been judicially proved. Perhaps it never will be.
The indictment against the conspirators named the following parties.
David E. Herold, George A. Atzerodt, Lewis Payne, Michael O'Laughlin,
Edward Spangler, Samuel Arnold, Mary E. Surratt, Samuel A. Mudd, John
H. Surratt, John Wilkes Booth, Jefferson Davis, George N. Sanders,
Beverly Tucker, Jacob Thompson, William C. Cleary, Clement C. Clay,
George Harper, and George Young; and it added, "and others unknown."
The assassin was John Wilkes Booth. And whether or no Jefferson Davis
and his fellows in the rebel government were actually aiding and
abetting in this particular crime, it has not been unjust nor unnatural
to suspect them of it. For Mr. Davis certainly accredited Thompson,
Sanders, Clay, and Tucker, as his official agents in Canada. These men
in their turn, and acting in harmony with their instructions and the
purposes of their government, gave a commission to that John A. Kennedy
who was detected in attempting to kindle an extensive fire in the city
of New York, and consulted with him about his proposed plans. This was
the substance of Kennedy's own confession, and he and his accomplices
did kindle fires in four of the New York hotels. It is completely
proved, again, that Davis paid sundry sums, in all $35,000 in gold, to
incendiaries hired by his government to burn hospitals and steamboats
at the West, and that Thompson paid money to a person engaged in Dr.
Blackburn's attempt to spread yellow fever in our cities.

But more: when one Alston wrote to Davis, offering his services to try
to "rid my country of some of her deadliest enemies, by striking at the
very heart's blood of those who seek to enchain her in slavery"--adding
the very significant remark, "I consider nothing dishonorable having
such a tendency," Mr. Davis caused this proposition not to be refused,
nor passed over in silence, nor indignantly exposed; but to be
"respectfully referred, by direction of the President, to the honorable
Secretary of War." Still more: it has been proved that in 1863, John
Wilkes Booth declared that "Abraham Lincoln must be killed." The rebel
