    While I am very anxious that any great disaster or capture of our
    own men may be avoided, I know that these points are less likely to
    escape your attention than they would be mine. If there be anything
    wanting which is within my power to give, do not fail to let me
    know it. And now, with a brave army and a just cause, may God
    sustain you.

                           Yours very truly,
                                                           A. LINCOLN."


                                   "HEADQUARTERS ARMY OF THE U.S.,    }
                                     CULPEPPER C.H., VA., May 1, 1864.}

    "MR. PRESIDENT: Your very kind letter of yesterday is just
    received. The confidence you express for the future, and
    satisfaction for the past, in my military administration, is
    acknowledged with pride. It shall be my earnest endeavor that you
    and the country shall not be disappointed. From my first entry into
    the volunteer service of the country to the present day, I have
    never had cause of complaint, and have never expressed or implied
    a complaint against the administration or the secretary of war for
    throwing any embarrassment in the way of my vigorously prosecuting
    what appeared to be my duty. Indeed, since the promotion which
    placed me in command of all the armies, and in view of the great
    responsibility and importance of success, I have been astonished
    at the readiness with which everything asked for has been yielded,
    without even an explanation being asked. Should my success be less
    than I desire and expect, the least I can say is, the fault is not
    with you.

                   Very truly your obedient servant,

                                     U.S. GRANT, Lieutenant General."

This reply, so characteristic of the man, is noble in itself, and
sublime in contrast with the views of some other generals. "The fault
is not with you." Not thus spoke others even before they had failed.

On the 3d of May, General Meade was ordered to cross the Rapidan, and
on the following day the passage was effected without opposition.
The army entered that desolate region called The Wilderness, and the
soldiers, borrowing speech from the Odyssey, might have exclaimed,--

  "We went, Ulysses (such was thy command),
  Through the lone thicket and the desert land."




CHAPTER XXVII.

    Wherein Captain Galligasken follows the Campaign of the Army of
    the Potomac, and the illustrious Soldier announces that he shall
    fight it out on that Line, if it takes all Summer.


The river was safely crossed, and the anxiety which the lieutenant
general had felt in regard to this movement was removed. It was an
entire success. The army train consisted of four thousand wagons, and
it required no little accurate calculation to dispose of it with the
available roads, without subjecting any portion of it to the liability
of capture. Formed in single line, the procession of teams, allowing
forty feet to each, would extend about thirty miles, or nearly half way
to Richmond. It would require a man of great ability to conduct such
a train even ten miles, in a time of profound peace, without throwing
it into confusion. The nicest system and the closest coöperation were
necessary, in order to keep it in a place of safety, and to prevent
its movements from being impeded. Of course this train could not be
extended on a single line. It was a part of the calculation of the
commanding general to keep this immense procession in a place of
safety, and yet have it when and where it was wanted.

But the wagons were only a small part of Grant's solicitude. His army
was composed of about one hundred and thirty thousand men--equal to the
population of a large city. To have marched this vast body on a holiday
excursion from the Rapidan to the James, with no hostile foe to dispute
its passage, would be regarded as a stupendous undertaking even for
a skilful person. Wellington once observed that there were very few
generals in Europe who could march an army of a hundred thousand men
through Hyde Park gate without throwing them into confusion. But this
vast army on its southern march was to be kept well in hand, and all
its movements and positions known to one man. It was to be swung round,
marched and countermarched, as a child handles a toy. It required a man
of genius to control this cumbrous machine, independently of fighting
battles with it. In the hands of an incompetent man, its very numbers
would have been its greatest element of weakness.

Not only was Grant directing the movements of this vast army, but he
controlled another, hundreds of miles away, nearly as large, and a
dozen more of minor magnitude. Civilians who have never witnessed the
movements of an army on a large scale can have no adequate idea of the
skill required to handle its columns; but it is patent to many of the
knowing ones that some of our generals failed for the want of this very
ability to move in harmony such vast bodies of men. I gaze with wonder
and admiration at the ease and facility with which Grant carried in his
mind the details of such a stupendous organization, and moved its parts
as the mainspring moves all the wheels of a watch. A man with this
ability alone is a miracle of power.

It was the plan of the lieutenant general to flank the army of Lee, and
place his forces between the rebels and Richmond, though the success
of the campaign was by no means made to depend upon this movement. It
would compel the Confederates to abandon their elaborate intrenchments,
upon which they had labored for months, either to assault the moving
column or to fall back upon the capital. Lee did not allow himself to
be flanked, but, abandoning his works, attempted to cut through the
national line, while it was yet involved in the intricacies of The
Wilderness.

Grant had not intended to fight a battle in this unfavorable spot,
though he was ready at all times for the assault. The region was a
tangled thicket, where the artillery could not be effectually used,
and where it was impossible to manoeuvre an army. When he found his
subtle foe approaching in force, he made his dispositions for the
conflict. The battle commenced at noon, and raged with tremendous
fury till night. It was fought with reckless valor on both sides. The
rebels were repeatedly massed in heavy columns, and hurled against the
Union lines. The tide of battle surged to and fro till the darkness
interrupted the fierce strife. No decided advantage was gained on
either side, and the two armies, exhausted by the struggle, slept upon
their arms.

At dawn the next morning, May 6, the national line was again formed. It
was five miles in length, with Sedgwick, commanding the Sixth Corps, on
the right, Hancock, with the Second Corps, on the left, while Warren,
with the Fifth, and Burnside, with the Ninth Corps, were in the centre.
By the arrival of Longstreet, the rebels were reënforced, and Lee began
his "hammering" process on the right of the national line, which had
been directed to make a general attack. The awful tragedy of the day
before was repeated, and both lines at times swayed back and forth.
Hancock drove the force in front of him a mile and a half to the rear,
capturing many prisoners and five stands of colors; but the advantage
was soon lost. From morning till night again, with only an occasional
lull, the lines surged like the great waves of ocean--now broken and
scattered, but then mounting again with new vigor, and rolling on as
though death had no terrors, and life had no pains. Again the sun went
down on a field unwon by either contestant in the savage strife. Not a
particle of practical advantage was gained by Grant or Lee. The Union
army had fought on the defensive, and had repulsed the assault; so far
it had been successful. The rebel army had fought on the offensive,
intending to drive the national forces back upon the Rapidan, and break
up the campaign at the onset. In this it had failed. Furthermore, Grant
had succeeded in driving Lee out of his intrenchments.

The loss on both sides exceeded twenty thousand men. The Union loss was
much greater than that of the rebels, for the latter were familiar with
every foot of the wild region in which the battle was fought, and were
thus enabled to take advantage of what were the greatest obstacles in
the path of the national troops. The army of the Potomac had reached
a crisis in its progress when it had been the rule to retreat and
recruit. Indeed, Lee believed he had inflicted injury enough upon his
foe to compel him, according to the traditions of the past, to retire
and cover Washington. But to his amazement, not to say his horror, he
ascertained that Burnside and Sedgwick were in motion, not for the
Rapidan, but for Spottsylvania.

Throughout the loyal land, and, we may well believe, the homes of
treason also, the most intense anxiety for the result prevailed. The
faithful, north of the Potomac, had been educated by the experience
of three years to be prepared for disasters in Virginia, and a
splendidly-conducted retreat would not greatly have astonished, however
much it would have grieved and disappointed them, expecting, as they
did, better things of the new general-in-chief. Washington was in a
state of the most exciting anxiety and suspense, in which the president
and the officers of the War Department shared. Many sat up all night to
hear tidings from the bloody battle-field.

Grant, even more thoroughly in earnest than ever before, had given
orders, at the outposts of the city's defences, to arrest every man
fleeing from the battle-field, and to put in irons every officer who
"straggled." Among those who were thus ignominiously shackled were
four colonels. Of course these beggarly cowards brought tidings of
defeat and disaster, and it was feared in Washington, as it was hoped
in Richmond, that the grand army of the Potomac was again in retreat,
was again retracing its steps to a safe position on the Potomac.
Fear and suspense reigned, not only in the capital, but in all the
loyal land. Grant was the last hope of the people, and if he had
failed,--he who had beaten down Vicksburg, and scattered the foe at
Chattanooga,--the cause would be almost hopeless.

Grant forwarded no sensational despatches, but at the earliest
opportunity he sent a truthful statement of the results of his
operations. If all that had been hoped of the army was not achieved,
the news was satisfactory. The national forces at least held their own;
they were not retreating, as General Lee believed and had telegraphed
to Richmond. The nation breathed easier, especially when President
Lincoln declared by proclamation that "enough was known of the army
operations within the last five days to claim our especial gratitude to
God." Additional troops were sent forward to fill up the fearful gaps
which had been made in the lines by the carnage of battle.

On Saturday, the lieutenant general, so far from being checked or
disheartened by his position, felt that he had the advantage of
the enemy, and coolly proceeded to carry out his original purpose
of flanking the rebel army. He commenced moving his forces to
Spottsylvania Court House, fifteen miles from The Wilderness; but the
thundering roll of that mighty wagon train was heard by Lee. It assured
him that a new movement was in progress, and he quickly discovered its
nature. Then commenced a race for the objective point of both. There
was considerable skirmishing during this day, but no heavy battle.

Both armies were moving in parallel lines for Spottsylvania Court
House, and on several occasions they jostled each other so as to
produce smart engagements; but there was no general battle. The
advance of the two armies reached their destination at the same time,
and the rebels immediately took possession of the strong earthworks
which had been previously constructed. Warren, in command of the Fifth
Corps, attacked at once; but the enemy was so well protected by his
intrenchment that the assault failed. But, reenforced in the afternoon,
the attack was repeated, and the foe was driven out of his works, the
nationals capturing fifteen hundred prisoners. During the day every
corps of the army had been engaged.

Monday was spent in strengthening the position and in preparation for
the fight, though there was much skirmishing going on all day. While
General Sedgwick was superintending the posting of the guns in front
of his corps, a bullet struck him in the face, and he fell, dying
immediately. He was a noble man, and a severe loss to the army. On this
day also was sent out Phil Sheridan, on that bold raid in which he
inflicted so much injury on the rebels, sweeping around Richmond, and
menacing its safety. On this expedition he encountered and fought the
most celebrated cavalryman of the rebel army,--General Stuart,--who was
mortally wounded in the action, and his forces routed.

On Tuesday the general attack upon the rebel line was made. The thunder
of five hundred cannons opened the battle, which raged through the long
day. Each of the opposing generals had almost uniformly divined the
purposes of the other, and there were no important mistakes on either
side to be taken advantage of. Both armies fought with the fury of
desperation, the rebels having the tremendous advantage of a line of
strong works to cover their operations. The front line of intrenchments
was captured, but the enemy had others behind it. Though two thousand
prisoners were taken, no decided advantage was gained, save that the
"hammering" the rebels had received made its due impression.

On Wednesday there was no general conflict, though so closely were
the two armies brought together, that frequent skirmishes could not
be avoided. On this day, Grant sent a hopeful despatch to Washington,
announcing the result of his operations thus far. It was the end of
the sixth day of continuous heavy fighting. He believed that the
enemy's loss had been greater than his own. He had taken five thousand
prisoners in battle, and had lost but few except "stragglers." At the
end of this communication he appended that thrilling sentence which has
so often been repeated as an eloquent interpretation of the character
and persistency of the man: "I PROPOSE TO FIGHT IT OUT ON THIS
LINE, IF IT TAKES ALL SUMMER."

My friend Pollard becomes particularly unamiable at this critical
passage in the history of "The Lost Cause," and declares that "Grant
was not shamed. The Moloch of the North had not yet been sated."
This romancing writer was dissatisfied with poor' Grant, because he
would not go back to the Rapidan. McClellan was a good fellow, in his
estimation, for he did not keep "hammering," and after he had fought
a drawn battle, like that at Antietam, he did not vex the chivalrous
Lee by running after him when he "retired." "Grant was not shamed,"
as McClellan used to be after he had fought a battle. Doubtless Grant
ought to have been "shamed," and gone back like a good boy, and not
have been so ridiculous as to propose to fight it out on that line, if
it took all summer. That "Moloch of the North" was an awful fellow,
bound to be "sated" only when the Rebellion fell through.

My dearly-beloved friend Pollard is also vexed at the generalship of
Grant, and prates about "the fierce and brutal consumption of human
life." I am inclined to think he believes in the checker-board theory
of carrying on war; but the sum total of Grant's sins was, that he did
not retreat, and give Lee time to recruit and strengthen his position.
My friend persistently forgets that these hard knocks in the end used
up the rebel army, and introduced him, as a writer, to his subject,
"The Lost Cause." Though the end does not always justify the means,
it did in this instance, fully and unequivocally. Though the national
army had in these six days lost thirty-five thousand men, in killed,
wounded, and missing, the destruction in the rebel ranks could not
have been greatly less, in spite of the advantages under which it was
engaged. If Grant had retired, and left Lee to recuperate the pluck
of his army by proclaiming his victory, and to recruit his exhausted
forces, the results of these tremendous battles would have been lost
to the loyal cause. As it was, they ground in upon the spirits of
the rebel army, and produced their proper share of the effect which
finally resulted in the overthrow of the Rebellion. Pollard knows very
well if Grant had turned back, the Confederacy would have obtained a
new lease of life; and he frets because the illustrious soldier would
not oblige Lee in this respect.

On Thursday, Hancock made a sudden attack, surprising the rebels,
capturing one entire division, two brigades of another, and thirty
guns, the number of prisoners being between three and four thousand.
This was a decided success. Generals Johnson and G.H. Stuart were
captured. Hancock extended his hand to Stuart, whom he had known
before, exclaiming, "How are you, Stuart?" But the rebel was haughty
and "airy," and replied, "I am General Stuart, of the Confederate army,
and under present circumstances I decline to take your hand." "Under
any other circumstances I should not have offered it," added Hancock,
with coolness and dignity.

The enemy made a desperate effort to recover what he had lost, and
the battle became general again; but no permanent advantage was
secured. Lee retired to his inner line of intrenchments, which he
had strengthened so that a direct assault was not practicable. For a
week, while the roads were rendered unfit for use by heavy rains, the
two armies confronted each other. Grant watched for an opportunity to
turn the enemy's position, but his wily foe as often discovered his
purpose. It was manifest that no brilliant results were to be achieved
at Spottsylvania, and Grant made up his mind to "fick it again." A
new flank movement was begun, and the lieutenant general safely moved
his army "on to Richmond," across the North Anna River, where its
passage was disputed by the rebels; but they were driven back, and the
nationals crossed the stream, posting themselves in a strong position.

In the mean time, Grant had changed his base of supplies from
Fredericksburg to White House, on the Pamunkey. Sheridan had returned
from his raid, and was rendering efficient service in protecting the
supplies with his cavalry, and in reconnoitring the positions of the
enemy. Lee, who had been over all this ground before, in the memorable
campaign with McClellan, and knew from experience what strong places
the region contained, was found to be even more securely placed than
before. Grant therefore decided not to attack him in his intrenchments,
but, under cover of a feint, recrossed the North Anna, marched along
its banks till he reached the Pamunkey, of which the former river is a
branch, crossing it near Hanover Court House, only sixteen miles from
Richmond.

The rebels still kept up with the movement, occupying their
intrenchments made to cover Richmond. They were posted on the
Chickahominy, which Grant was obliged to cross if he reached the
city. He decided to make the attempt to break the enemy's line at
Cold Harbor, where roads were available from White House and to the
rebel capital. The attack was made, and one of the severest battles
of the campaign followed. Sheridan had taken possession of the place,
and the enemy attempted to drive him out. The Sixth Corps went to his
assistance, and the spot was held. Two days later, four o'clock in the
morning, a general assault was made. The first line of the rebel works
was carried by Hancock, but he was forced back with heavy losses. The
conflict raged with unabated fury till half past one in the afternoon,
when the weary combatants rested from the strife. Grant fortified his
line, but it was impossible to carry the rebel strongholds.

The battle was fought on the third day of June. The enemy had
successfully repulsed the attack, and practically demonstrated that
the door of Richmond was not open in that direction. Grant was not
dismayed, nor even "shamed;" nor was the "Moloch of the North sated."
"On to Richmond" was still the beating of his heart, and still he
fought it out on this line. If nothing could be done, it would be
useless to stay in the swamps, where disease and death lurked for their
victims. Grant promptly decided to "fick it again," and commenced the
difficult movement of transporting his vast army to the south side of
the James.




CHAPTER XXVIII.

    Wherein Captain Galligasken describes in brief Detail the Siege of
    Petersburg and Richmond, and attends the illustrious Soldier to the
    End of the Campaign at Appomattox Court House.


In my limited space, it would be impossible for me to do anything more
than indicate the principal movements of the army. The details are so
cumbrous and complicated that they would require a whole volume, and
they are not necessary to my purpose in illustrating the character of
General Grant.

Doubtless General Lee was aware of the movements of the Union army,
for a body of troops, numbering over a hundred thousand, could hardly
have been spirited through a hostile region without some tidings of its
operations reaching him. But the transfer was made so skilfully and
expeditiously that it was practically a surprise. Probably Lee expected
to find Grant battering away at his intrenchments at some point between
the Chickahominy and the James; but he must have been astonished when
he heard of him fifty-five miles distant, menacing his lines on the
south side of Richmond.

General Butler, with the army of the James, was at Bermuda Hundred, on
the river. He had been directed to capture Petersburg while it was
feebly defended. He had made the attempt, but it had failed. He had
strongly fortified his position, and kept a rebel force in front of
him, thus in part answering the ends for which he had been sent to the
south side.

General Lee, finding that Grant was menacing Richmond from a new
quarter, hurried his army through the city to confront him in his
new position. On the arrival of Grant at Butler's encampment, he
immediately sent out another force for the capture of Petersburg, which
was an exceedingly important point, covering the railroad connections
with the south. The rebels in the intrenchments in front of Butler
hastened to the defence of the exposed city, and the vacated works were
occupied by Union troops, but they were eventually driven back. The
army was drawn up around Petersburg, where the enemy was very strongly
intrenched in three lines of works. A vigorous and determined assault
was made, but without gaining anything more than a temporary advantage.
Burnside got near enough with his black brigades to throw a few shells
into Petersburg, but after a bloody conflict he was forced back. The
effort was faithfully made, and continued through three days; but the
works were invulnerable.

At this point Grant fixed his gripe upon the two cities of Richmond and
Petersburg. By his hard fighting he had secured favorable positions to
commence his siege operations, which were vigorously followed up till
the final event.

Phil Sheridan had been sent off on another raid to destroy the Virginia
Central Railroad, and to unite with Hunter, by whom Sigel had been
superseded, after his defeat by Breckinridge. He succeeded fully in the
first part of his purpose, but could not find Hunter, who had been sent
down through the Shenandoah Valley to strike Lynchburg. Twelve miles
from Staunton, he encountered Jones's command, fought, and defeated
it, taking fifteen hundred prisoners. Hunter united the expeditions of
Crook and Averill with his own, and marched upon Lynchburg; but Lee had
reënforced its garrison, and he was compelled to retreat, which he did
by the way of West Virginia, thus placing his troops out of the field
at a time when they were very much needed. This army had been relied
upon by Grant to keep back a rebel approach up the Shenandoah Valley
towards Washington, while he had coiled the army of the Potomac around
Lee's forces south of the James, so that there was no danger of the
main body again menacing the national capital.

It makes me even now groan in spirit to recall the failures of Grant's
subordinates who were removed from the immediate sphere of his
influence; but when I think how charitable the lieutenant general was
to them, it is not meet that I should complain. These short comings
were galling and vexatious to him, imperilling the mighty plans he
had so laboriously built up; but he behaved like a Christian in every
disappointment and trial.

Several cavalry raids were organized, which inflicted severe injuries
upon the enemy's communications south of Petersburg. The celebrated
mine was sprung on the 30th of July, which blew up one of the most
important of the rebel forts, involving a battery and the greater part
of a regiment in its destruction; but the result, which had promised
so well, realized nothing but disaster. As soon as Lee discovered that
Hunter was retreating through West Virginia, he sent Jubal Early,
with a picked force of twenty-five thousand men, down the Shenandoah
Valley, to threaten Washington, and to capture it, if practicable,
hoping thus to distract the attention of Grant, and cause him to relax
the "anaconda" gripe in which he held the rebel army. This army swept
fiercely down the valley, and driving the small Union force in the
vicinity before it, crossed the Potomac. Strong bodies of cavalry,
under Mosby, rushed through Maryland, plundering Hagerstown and
Frederick City, robbing the stores, and extorting money from the people
to save their houses from being burned. They destroyed a portion of the
Baltimore and Ohio Railroad, and threatened Baltimore and Washington.

General Wallace gathered a force of eight thousand men, and attempted
to dispute the passage of Early's army; but as the enemy were three to
his one, he was compelled to fall back, though he fought a sharp battle
before doing so. Washington and Baltimore were now greatly alarmed, and
the citizens were called to arms. The enemy came within five miles of
the capital. Grant sent the Sixth Corps, under Wright, and a portion
of the Nineteenth, which had just arrived from New Orleans, for its
protection. There was some heavy skirmishing near the capital, but the
rebels soon retired. Wright was ordered to follow them; and, having
overtaken Early, a smart engagement ensued, in which the enemy was
defeated.

The Shenandoah region gave the lieutenant general a great deal of
trouble. He found that Early had no intention of returning to Richmond,
but had established himself in the valley; was gathering the rich
harvests there, and sending large supplies to the rebel capital. He
visited Hunter in person, and gave him particular instructions to
follow Early, and to destroy all supplies; but finding Hunter willing
to be relieved, he soon after assigned Sheridan to the Middle Military
Division, which included all this section, and all the troops in
Washington and its vicinity. The bold cavalryman was not only the most
dashing officer in the army, but one of the best and most skilful
generals. He soon brought order and harmony out of the confusion and
complications which had so disturbed the general-in-chief. Grant
cautioned him at first to avoid a general engagement, fearful, in case
of defeat, of exposing Maryland, Pennsylvania, and the capital to new
incursions.

Sheridan was full of fight, and saw his way clearly to a national
victory; but he was too good a soldier to disobey his orders. Grant was
willing to give the desired permission, but, not fully understanding
the situation, or the views of his subordinate, he made a second visit
to the Middle Division, and had an interview with Sheridan at his
headquarters, near Harper's Ferry. High as his opinion had before been
of the dashing soldier, the lieutenant general seems to have received a
new revelation of his character and purposes on this occasion, as his
enlarged sphere brought out his capacities; and he found it necessary
to give him only that brief and singularly expressive order, "Go in!"
Grant adds that he never found it necessary to visit Sheridan again
before giving him orders.

Sheridan "went in"! He promptly attacked Early, fought him all day, and
beat him thoroughly. The enemy lost five guns, fifteen battle flags,
and five thousand prisoners. Not satisfied with this splendid result,
he pursued the defeated foe up the valley, till the latter made a
stand at Fisher's Hill. Here Sheridan "went in" again, routed Early,
drove him from his position, scattering portions of his force among
the mountains. Leisurely returning, he posted himself at Cedar Creek
to rest his troops after their hard marching and fighting. Here, while
Sheridan was absent at Winchester, his army was surprised and badly
beaten. The guns were captured, portions of the force routed, and the
whole compelled to retreat.

Sheridan was twenty miles from the scene of action; but hearing the
distant booming of the guns, he mounted his good horse, and dashed away
at a furious speed, and, in the midst of the rout, appeared upon the
lost field, his charger reeking with foam. Dashing along the broken
lines, then in retreat, he swung his hat in air, shouting furiously
to the troops, "Face the other way, boys! We are going back." The
stragglers began to rally at this startling presence on the field; and
pushing to the main body, he electrified the army with his glorious
spirit. "Boys, this would not have happened if I had been here," he
called; "we are going back." Dashing here and there like a meteor among
the troops, he re-formed the lines, and made his dispositions for a
renewal of the battle. Before the arrangements were quite completed the
rebels came down upon the lines again for a fresh and overwhelming
assault. This time the onslaught was boldly and successfully resisted;
and Sheridan, taking advantage of a momentary reeling of the enemy,
charged upon them with infantry and cavalry, broke their lines, and
thoroughly routed them. All that the rebels had was captured, including
the guns and camp equipage which they had taken in the morning.

Sheridan, by his personal presence, by his magnetic influence, and
by his unsurpassed military skill, had wrested victory from defeat.
The one man had fought the battle, and had won it. For his brilliant
achievement, he was made a major general in the regular army, in the
place of General McClellan, who resigned to go into politics. Grant
ordered one hundred guns to be fired from each of the armies around
Petersburg in honor of Sheridan's victory. "Turning what bade fair to
be a disaster into a glorious victory," said the lieutenant general,
"stamps Sheridan--what I have always thought him--one of the ablest of
generals."

Sheridan's victory also stamps Grant as the ablest of generals; for in
the selection of his pet he displayed a knowledge of human character
and a keen perception of the adaptation of means to ends, the want of
which had caused so many other generals to fail. My friend Pollard
is made especially mad by this episode in the Shenandoah Valley. He
is particularly disgusted with the singular story of "the sudden
apparition of General Sheridan on a black horse flecked with foam,"
though in the same chapter in which he alludes to the incident, he
tells a story himself which would have made Baron Munchausen tremble
for his reputation.

Sheridan's exploits in the valley, and his destruction of the rebel
supplies, put an end to Confederate operations in that quarter.
Washington was not menaced again, and the Sixth Corps was sent back
to Petersburg to resume its place in the line of investment. The army
of the Potomac was still battering away with its siege works at the
rebel fortifications. It had extended its line around Petersburg, and
destroyed twenty miles of the Weldon Railroad. There was no rest for
the troops in the trenches. Every day brought its labors and its battle
on a larger or a smaller scale. The sharp-shooters were picking off
any man who showed his head above the breastworks. It was ceaseless
toil and ceaseless vigilance. Grant was everywhere, on the watch for an
opportunity to take advantage of any favoring circumstances. The winter
came, and the lieutenant general did not desert the army to engage in
the festivities or the excitements of the capital. He still kept his
gaze firmly fixed on the prize which would end the Rebellion.

While the general-in-chief had been "hammering" away at the rebel
army in Virginia, Sherman, under his direction, had been striking
heavy blows at the South. He had fought and flanked his way down to
Atlanta, carrying dismay and desolation before his victorious banners.
The series of disasters which attended the operations of Johnston
caused his removal from the command, Hood taking his place. The "great
flanker" punished him even worse than his predecessor, and Hood went
into Tennessee, with an army of fifty thousand men, to overwhelm
Thomas; but this veteran almost wiped him out, and drove him to the
south, with the loss of half his force and more than half his guns and
munitions. Farragut thundered into Mobile Bay with his squadron, and,
having defeated or sunk the rebel fleet, captured all the forts which
covered Mobile. During the winter, Fort Fisher fell, and Wilmington
dropped quietly into the hands of the Union forces. To crown the
disasters of the Confederacy, Sherman made his grand march to the sea,
mowing a wide swath on his passage, and leaving desolation and ruin in
his path.

The Confederacy was on its last legs in the spring of 1865, though Lee
still held his lines at Petersburg and Richmond. Jeff. Davis was still
confident, though his general declared that he was no longer able to
make a good fight. Some attempts to negotiate a peace were made, but
they failed because the rebels still wanted terms which a conqueror
might have asked. Grant had long ago demonstrated that the Confederacy
was nothing but a "shell," and it had been broken in a hundred places.
Still the rebels held out wherever they had a foot of ground whereon
to stand. Still they prated about the "last ditch," and looked
confidently, even up to the time of the final disaster, to foreign
interference, or to some miraculous interposition of circumstances.

Sherman continued his march, captured Savannah, caused the evacuation
of Charleston, and occupied Columbia. Johnston was gathering an army in
North Carolina for the purpose of overwhelming him. Grant feared that
Lee would desert Richmond, and seek to join the forces of Johnston.
Indeed, he had been partly moved by this consideration in the selection
of the south side of the James as his field of operations. Richmond,
without the rebel army which for four long years had been defending it,
would be a showy, but not a substantial prize.

President Lincoln went down to City Point, and visited the national
army in its several positions, as well to inform himself practically
of the situation as to encourage the soldiers who had so long and so
valiantly struggled for the salvation of the nation. The preparations
for the final campaign were completed, and the army was to move on the
29th of March; but four days before this time arrived, Lee made his
last struggle to escape the gripe of Grant's anaconda, and to realize
the indefinite circumstance which was to clear up the horizon of
Southern prospects. He massed his troops, and made an impetuous assault
on Fort Steadman. The attack was so sudden and violent, that for the
moment it was a success, and the rebels were in full possession of the
redoubt. But the Union guns were immediately pointed at the work, and a
terrible fire poured in upon the enemy. The infantry charged upon the
rebels in the fort, now cut off from their retreat, and two thousand of
them were compelled to surrender. President Lincoln had been invited
to review the troops; but from a hill he was permitted to behold
the recapture of the fort, which suited him better, as a spectacle.
A general attack was ordered, and the Union line dashed gallantly
forward, capturing the enemy's picket line, which they were unable to
recover.

About this time Sherman, whose army was at Goldsboro', made a hasty
visit to City Point, where he had a consultation with the president,
Grant, Meade, and Sheridan, and plans were matured to prevent a
junction between Lee and Johnston. The lieutenant general's "hammering"
process was now bringing forth its proper fruit in the rebel ranks.
Deserters and stragglers from them were thicker than snow-flakes at
Christmas. They had learned what Grant was. They had found that he was
a fighting general, and they were not willing to be sacrificed to the
Moloch of the South, battling for what was already a "Lost Cause." It
was confidently believed that Lee was more intent upon the problem of
retiring with his army than on that of longer protecting Richmond. His
movement upon Fort Steadman was doubtless intended to facilitate his
escape.

Grant had no idea of permitting his wily foe to "retire." He was more
desirous of capturing the rebel army than of taking Richmond. On the
29th of March--the day appointed for the grand movement--Sheridan was
sent out to Dinwiddie Court House, south-west of Petersburg. The left
of the main army had been advanced so that Grant's line extended from
the Appomattox, below Petersburg, to Dinwiddie. Grant himself was at
Gravelly Run, between Sheridan and the left of the main body, watching
coolly, but with the most intense anxiety, the development of his
programme. Sheridan, in spite of the heavy rains which had rendered
the roads impassable for wagons, floundered through the mud with his
cavalry to Five Forks, where the enemy was in force. Warren, with the
Fifth Corps, extended his lines nearly up to the same point.

Sheridan "went in" with his usual impetuosity, and seized Five Forks.
The enemy made a desperate attack upon Warren, and forced him back for
a time, though he soon recovered from the shock and held his own. The
enemy then turned upon Sheridan, occupying an isolated position, and
compelled him slowly to fall back; and he retreated upon Dinwiddie,
instead of upon the main line, thus compelling the rebels in their
pursuit to extend their line--a piece of strategy which called forth
the warmest commendations of his commander. Grant, solicitous for his
safety, sent two divisions of the Fifth Corps to Sheridan, who with
this aid attacked the rebels on his front, and drove them back to Five
Forks again.

At this point the Confederates were in heavy force; but Sheridan made
his dispositions with remarkable skill, hurried up the Fifth Corps, and
with his cavalry executed a brilliant manoeuvre, by which the battle
was won, the rebels routed, and six thousand prisoners captured. By
this bold and skilful movement, so admirably executed by Sheridan, the
right of the rebel line was turned. In support of this operation on the
left, Grant ordered a heavy bombardment to be kept up during the entire
night of April 1, the day on which Sheridan had fought this decisive
action, and at four o'clock the next morning (Sunday) a combined
assault was made with perfect success, which was followed up till the
enemy broke from his lines, and fled from the lost field, following the
road along the south bank of the Appomattox.

Richmond and Petersburg were lost to the rebels!

No tidings of these terrific conflicts had reached Richmond. The people
still believed, as Jeff. Davis had taught them, that Richmond could
hold out for twenty years before any force operating against it. Lee
sent a message to the obstinate "president" of the Confederacy that
the battle was lost, and that the army must flee from its strongholds.
The despatch was handed to Davis while he was at church. He read it,
hastily rose, and went out. He was ghastly pale, and his face revealed
the disaster to all who saw it. He was alarmed for his personal safety,
and perhaps trembled in view of the halter that hung to the allegorical
"sour apple tree," which had been celebrated in song all over the
loyal land. Taking a train to the south, he left Richmond, which he
was to enter again only as an indicted traitor. That night the city
was evacuated in hot haste and set on fire by its late defenders,
disappointed and desperate at the grand finale of Rebellion. General
Weitzel entered and took possession the next morning. The flag of the
redeemed Union waved triumphantly over the capital of Virginia.

Grant was not looking after Richmond just now. I do not know that he
made any mention of the place in his documents, but in his despatch
to Sherman, on the 5th of April, he says, "Rebel armies are now the
only strategic points to strike at." Acting on this view, he ordered
the most vigorous pursuit of Lee. Sheridan was sent forward with his
cavalry, and the Sixth Corps, now temporarily under his command. He
continued to "hammer" whenever an opportunity offered. At Sailor's
Creek he struck the enemy a heavy blow, which resulted in the capture
of sixteen guns, four hundred wagons, and seven thousand prisoners.

The pursuit then became a hunt. Lee had lost his supplies, or had
been cut off from them. On his arrival at Amelia Court House, he was
compelled to halt, to rest his men, and gather up food for their
support from the country. This delay afforded the Union cavalry time to
get ahead of him and destroy the Danville Railroad, his chosen means of
