more of fortune than fame, it would have appeared small, 
I felt, too, that I had made a friend, and that was a conso- 
lation. I agreed to his propositions unhesitatingly, uay 
heart growing lighter with every breath. 

But what was there so singular about the book? Was 
the yearning of a high> passionate spirit for that grand ex- 
istence haunting most pure souls, a thing to astonish ordi- 
nary minds? What if the way was long and dark? what 
if failure did happen, was that improbable? or success, did 
that sound unreal? There comes a time to some few blest 
souls when they stand untrembling on the mountain tops. 
If it were not so, existence would be an utter failure. 

The next day I reached Baltimore. There was great 
rejoicing in the happy household, for a little blue-eyed 
stranger had been added to their number a sweetj darl- 
ing girl, who had been received with the most rapturous 
emotion. 

"You almost vexed me by your delay," Anne said^ with 
her glad smile, that half contradicted her assertion. " I 
knew you would be surprised, and I could hardly wait. 
But, my dear, how thin and worn you are, quite unlike 
your usual self. You shall have nothing but rest and 
pleasure for the next month." 

A most delightful prospect, truly. I thanked Heaven 
for this sweet friend, for these yet unbroken links in my 
chain. Anne's welcome was so cordial, and she bright and 
winsome with the old shy grace still clinging about her. 
The dearest and most perfect happiness had come to her, 
and no one could prove more worthy. 

There was a small business matter awaiting me. Mr. 
St. John had secured three thousand dollars from the 
wreck of my fortune, and placed it in the hands of Mr. 
Otis. His connection as my guardian had of course ceased. 



 

Besides these details, there was a letter very cordially 
worded, containing a message from Mrs. Lawrence, and 
inviting me to Laurelwood any time that I felt disposed 
to make them a visit. 

In what mood Mr. St. John had penned these words I 
should never be able to tell. Of course I should not go. 

"And Mr. Otis has an excellent investment for your 
money," Anne said. " I shouldn't wonder if you became 
a rich woman by and by, though it seems very little 
now." 

" By the time I am old, and compelled to retire from 
active service;" and I smiled. 

"I can hardly endure the thought of your being so far 
away. I've been wondering, dear, how it would answer to 
keep you here. You could have music pupils, you know, 
and probably do as well as at school." 

" I have made a positive engagement for another year. 
Besides, I like the school very well." 

"But you are certainly worked too hard." 

"My darling, don't distress yourself about me," I re- 
plied, with a kiss, for her tender regard touched me to the 
heart's core. Had any one else ever loved me as well ? 

My month passed most delightfully. How many times 
I longed to give her my secret in return for her confidence, 
I can hardly say; but I doubted my own ability to achieve 
a thorough success. And if I did fail, better that it should 
be hidden from all pitying eyes. I was too proud to ac- 
knowledge a defeat. 

Anne's baby was a source of unbounded satisfaction. 
Her sisters, fast growing into womanhood, held it in the 
highest esteem. Mr. Otis appeared to have taken upon 
himself a new dignity. He was slowly coming up to the 
heights of complete and ripened manhood. I remem- 
bered my first impressions of him with a feeling akin to 



 

wonder that I could not have discerned his worth sooner. 
To me he was the kindest of friends, unobtrusively solicit- 
ous for my welfare. 

But youth is the season of quick judgments and over 
hasty conclusions. And though my experience had been 
brief, I was better able to distinguish between fine gold 
and alloy. Already the rumor had reached Anne that 
Aylmer Channing and his wife were not in a felicitous 
state. The lady was high-spirited and rather inclined to 
jealousy, while Aylmer still made himself as fascinating in 
society. It was well fate had interposed and saved Anne 
from the dreary state of a neglected wife. As for myself, 
I still thought of my episode with a shiver. How weak I 
must have been to yield to such folly. Perhaps Mr. St. 
John was right in his estimate of me; but O, was there 
no love in the world that could afford to be generous, to 
forgive freely ? 

It seemed quite natural to go back to school, though 
Anne was earnest in her entreaties that this should be the 
last year. Unconsciously a new hope began to animate 
me. If I could gain my old position, and it seemed al- 
most possible, I should not hesitate to encounter old 
friends. Yet I felt a little bitter to think how soon one 
drops out of memory. Two years before I had been the 
centre of an -admiring circle; now I suppose this homage 
was paid to a new star. I was no longer in the ranks. 
"Well, I had not made one appeal. I had taken fate at her 
very worst, and meant to fight my own way up again, or 
remain in obscurity. 

And yet I confess a strange feeling of depression stole 
over me. My tasks began to prove wearisome. I lived 
in a constant fever of expectation that was not hope, and 
began to realize how much I was counting on a, slender 
reed. If it should fail, what was left ? 



 

The number of new pupils was quite large, and most of 
them, it appeared to me, were exceedingly dull. Magda- 
lene Whitney had come back ; this was her last year. 
Some wonderful change had befallen her; not merely in 
disposition, but face and air were softer, sweeter. The 
girls had always teased her a good deal because she flashed 
into flame so easily, but now she shunned them. She 
seemed to desire solitude, and not infrequently I found 
her in the music-room when there was no practising. 

One day I remember she turned suddenly upon me. 

"Miss Adriance," she said," why do you watch me so?" 

It was the easiest to tell the truth. 

"Because I am interested in you," I answered. 

"Why?" The deep eyes seemed to pierce me through. 

"I don't know that I can explain. You stand so much 
alone, you are so different from other girls." 

"The difference will not repay your close study;" and 
her scarlet lips curled with the most superb scorn. 

I made no reply. Why should I care about her, since 
she evidently desired no one's sympathy ? 

Going to the music-room quite late one afternoon, I dis- 
turbed her reverie. She appeared confused at first, then 
bowed coldly, and passed me. Something dropped from 
the folds of her dress. I picked up a note with a broken 
seal, but bearing no superscription. I took it to my own 
apartment, and as I laid it on the table the seal caught my 
eye fairly. "A. C.," with a quaint device that I knew 
well. I started in the utmost surprise. 

The rules of correspondence were very strict, but I knew 
the system of smuggling letters was brought to a state of 
high perfection among school-girls. My duty was to hand 
this over to Mrs. Ellingwood, who would not scruple to 
read its contents. I had a more than passing interest in 
it, if it was as I suspected. I took the note out of its en- 



 

closure, therefore, and glanced at the heading, "My 
clearest Magdalene," in Aylmer Channing's light, grace- 
ful chirography. I conld not mistake it. 

I had not thought the man a deliberate villain before. 
With a girl of Magdalene's nature, the acquaintance could 
not be one of calm friendship, though that would be little 
to his taste. In his search for something new and piquant, 
I could see just how she had attracted him. Her spirit 
and daring, her fiery, passionate nature, her strange, sug- 
gestive face, had roused him from the tame duties of married 
life. I question if fidelity was possible to him. Some fatal 
desire for change swayed him with an irresistible impulse. 

The next morning I summoned Magdalene to my room, 
as I had resolved upon my course. There was an appre- 
hensive look in her eyes, and a nervousness quite unlike 
her usual demeanor. 

" Does this note belong to you ? " I asked. " I found it 
in the music-room soon after you had left." 

"It does." I watched the eager working of the fingers, 
but I still retained it in rny hand. 

"I thought such things were forbidden here," I resumed, 
carelessly. 

" Then you have read it ; you had no right ; " and her 
face was dark with intense passion. 

"Perhaps you would prefer Mrs. Ellingwood's scru- 
tiny?" 

"O, you can give it to her," was the scornful reply. "I 
could defy you both, if I chose." 

"Miss Whitney, I prefer to keep your secret. To be 
reprimanded can do you no possible good; besides, I have 
a deeper interest in the affair. Will you tell me where 
you met Mr. Channing?" 

She turned pale at the mention of the name. After a 
long pause, she said, slowly, 
 



 

"I cannot tell you anything. I would gather suffer than 
break a promise, and a most solemn one binds me." 

Then she folded her hands, and stood calmly waiting, 
her face settling into impassible lines. 

"Is he your lover?" 

The only answer was a faint flush. 

"I have not read your letter," I went on. "I knew the 
seal, because I had some acquaintance with this Mr. Chan- 
ning, and was once engaged to him." 

" Then you hate me, as a matter of course ! " with a bit- 
ter sneer. 

"As little as I care for him. But he has no right to ask 
any woman's love, or to win it. He is already married." 

A most indifferent and incredulous smile crossed her 
face. 

"It is best that you should be convinced," I said. " His 
cousin was my guardian. I have a friend living in Balti- 
more who is distantly related to him, ami through either 
party I could procure you positive proofs. But it would 
be better for you to write to him once again, and tell him 
from whom you had the story, and that Miss Adriance is 
one of the teachers in this place. There is the letter." 

She bowed as she took it, and left the room without an- 
other word. 

I wondered whether she would have sufficient courage 
for such a step. That she should take pains to shun me 
was in no wise remarkable, and I made no further effort 
to g un her confidence. Indeed, my own affairs occupied 
much of my thoughts. Every day was bringing me nearer 
the test of failure or triumph. It was so strange to bear 
it in this utter solitude no one to uphold me with a 
smile. 

Yet I believe I was a good deal surprised when the an- 
nouncement was fairly made. It was the beginning of 



 

December. A week later I received a parcel by express. 
I hurried it up to my room with a strange, faint sensation, 
as if the throbbing of my heart would strangle me. With 
what eager haste I tore off the wrappings! There, in its 
bright cover and clear type, was my treasure, the work of 
hours and moods that had run through the cycle of human 
joys, delights, fears, and almost despair. I was in a trance, 
a far-off world of my own ; these faces around me were like 
some distant visions, these tasks a chain that dragged my 
body to earth, but did not touch my soul. 

I must confess to an almost wild delight in its first pe- 
rusal, for the fact of authorship had been hardly realized 
as yet. In my solitary life it was such a great event. It 
became love and hope, the solace that happier women find 
in their homes and children. It was a part of myself, 
henceforth indissoluble. 

Lest I should fly to the heights of rapture, the publish- 
ers thought fit to moderate my expectations. Business 
was very dull, indeed ; they had hesitated about issuing it 
at such an unfavorable time, but I might rely upon them 
to do their best, only I must not be too sanguine, or too 
deeply disappointed in case it was not a success. 

When the first excitement had subsided, and I came 
back to common life, the whole atmosphere appeared dull 
and tame. My tense nerves relaxed, my busy brain yielded 
to a sort of stupor. I could not bring myself to care for 
anything; I seemed old and worn, jwist the pleasures of 
youth and hope. A dreariness took complete possession 
of me. I had made my great effort, like a gamesti r who 
plays his last card, and not won. 



 



CHAPTER 

" The homes we had hoped to rest in 

Were open to sin and strife; 
The dreams that our youth was blessed in 
"Were not for the wear of life." 

FRANCES BROWS. 

u Miss WHITNEY is alarmingly ill," was said to me one 
Saturday, as I came in from a walk. 

I noticed that she had grown paler and thinner with the 
hard work and holiday excitement, and perhaps another 
cause. I had been so engrossed with my own thoughts 
that I had not paid much attention to one who evidently 
kept at a distance. 

"Is it fever?"! asked. 

"No; hemorrhage of the lungs. The doctor has been 
with her for nearly two hours. He has but just gone." 

I sought Mrs. Ellingwood immediately. She was much 
discomposed. 

"A very unfortunate occurrence," she exclaimed, "for 
which her violent temper is much to blame. The child 
has no sense or reason, and I verily believe she would have 
been glad to die on our hands. I never saw so strange a 
being." 

I went to the infirmary. On a cot lay Magdalene, still 
deathly pale, and looking more ghastly by the abundance 
of black hair tumbled about the pillow. She raised her 
eyes faintly. 

I bent over and kissed her. With a slow motion, she 
slipped her hand in mine, and the unexpected token filled 



 

me with surprise. There were four patients besides her, 
and as she was no favorite, I knew she would have the 
least care, so I offered to remain with her that night, to 
which the nurse gladly assented. 

For several days there was little change in her, then she 
began to give evidence of rapid improvement. I proposed 
to Mrs. Ellingwood that she should be removed to my 
room, as the utmost quiet was indispensable. The lady 
stared in surprise. 

" You are willing to take a great deal of trouble, Miss 
Adriance." 

" She will recover so much faster," I returned, quietly. 

As I had never allowed any intimacy with the pupils, 
she could suspect me of no treasonable design. I think 
she was rather glad to assent; so, after a little discussion, 
Magdalene was brought to my room and consigned to rny 
supervision. She could sit up and help herself in many 
ways. 

The deep eyes thanked me with wordless gratitude. I 
knew then that I had found the way to her heart. 

" Why do you care about me, Miss Adriance ? " she 
asked one evening, when I found her still in her easy 
chair, after supper. 

"I can hardly tell," I answered, with a smile, " except 
from the fact of your being so nearly friendless." 

"My own fault, I suppose. I am not an angel in tem- 
per ; and the girls seem so shallow and insipid, most of 
them, or else deceitfully wicked. I ought never to have 
been placed in the world. No one suits me, and I please 
no one." 

" Perhaps you have never tried." 

" Miss Adriance," after a long silence, " how patient you 
are." 

" It did not used to be reckoned one of my virtues." 



 

And then I thought how Mr. St. John had called me un- 
reasonable and impatient, and found no grace in me. 

" Do yon care to know how " 

Slie made so long a pause that I said presently, in the 
gentlest of tones, 

" Tell me what you like, Magdalene. I want you to 
feel quite at ease with me." 

"About that letter. I wrote as you suggested, Miss 
Adriance. I was so confident that you were wrong. Ah, 
I can never tell you how I loved him. Remember that 
from babyhood no one has ever cared for me. I have been 
handed from one friend to another, until at last a cousin 
of my mother's proposed to educate me for a teacher. He 
is in California making a fortune, and this was merely a 
qualm of duty. Last summer I met /mn, Mr. Channing." 
She uttered the name with a great effort. " Did you ever 
love him ?" 

"No," I said, honestly, "but I was fascinated with his 
grace and beauty, and allowed myself to drift into an en- 
gagement. I saw a great deal of him, and learned my 
mistake in time." 

"Well, I loved \\\m. A year ago I would have ridiculed 
the idea of a broken heart, and what is it but a broken, 
hopeless life ! It isn't hard to die, then. I met him by 
accident, and most of our acquaintance was unknown to 
any one. His passion roused and inspired me. I came to 
a new and glorious existence, just as if I had passed all my 
days in a dungeon, and some kindly hand had brought me 
out to light. Where it would have ended Heaven only 
knows. After this year I was to belong to him. The 
promise had but one meaning for me marriage. I re- 
turned to school envying no queen upon her throne. I 
was wildly, madly happy, until that day. And even then 
I did not doubt him. I wrote in the pride of my perfect 



 

faith. Then I waiter! for an answer. Miss Adriance, did 
you ever wait for anything ?" 

I smiled faintly. 

" I don't believe you know what it means. I was so 
sure at first. I couldn't count days nor' hours. I did not 
attempt to make excuses for delay, but as I said, just 
waited. And that is all." 

She leaned her pale brow against the pillow, fatigued by 
her long talk. I smoothed the heavy hair and chafed the 
cold, small hands. Was that all to this life? Alas, I 
feared so. What could I say to comfort her? 

"Never mind about me," she went on presently. "I 
wish they had let me die ; but since it was not to be, I 
shall get better. I do not want to be sent home. The 
place would be torture to me now, and there is no tender 
care for which I need long." 

"My dear child, you must be quiet," I said, softly. 
"You are over exerting." 

"One word more," and the wistful eyes sought to fathom 
mine. " Miss Adriance, will you love me a little ? I'm 
humble no\v." 

"My darling;" and I gave her fondest kisses for answer. 

I think a resolute will helped Magdalene very much. 
She was soon able to go down stairs, and took her place 
in some of the classes. Yet I had a misgiving that it was 
not a sound restoration. She still shared my room, and 
we became strange, warm friends. Once she won from me 
the whole story of my acquaintance with Aylmer, then his 
name was dropped forever. Her love had been powerful 
in its strength and intensity. I felt as if I wanted Aylmer 
Channing to come and look upon his victim, and learn a 
lesson for all time as if the man was capable of a deep 
and la ting impression ! 

When she was a little stronger I placed my book in her 



 

way, and took a peculiar delight in the interest she mani- 
fested. It had created no marked sensation ; and I was 
not enough in the world to understand the import of the 
few notices that I saw. Perhaps it touched Magdalene 
the more keenly from its sadness and truth. She literally 
devoured it. This was sweetest incense, and soothed my 
despairing heart. Should I confess to her how great a 
failure I had made? 

Mrs. Ellingwood insisted that Magdalene was well 
enough to take her place in the school dormitory. I had 
some fear, but a slight cold was the only immediate con- 
sequence. When she began to cough, I expostulated a 
little. Alas! it was too late. One morning I found her 
vainly trying to thrust out of sight a handkerchief stained 
with her very life blood. 

"MagdaJene!" I uttered in an agony of apprehension. 

"Hush. I did not mean you to know. I think I am 
coming to the last. What does it matter ? When I asked 
for bread I received a stone. My heart has been starving. 
Will God pity me a little, and give me rest ? " 

How rarely I had thought of Him ! 

"I don't want to go away. When I come to the worst 
I want you to stay with me. It will not be long." 

" Child," I exclaimed, in terror, " you must have imme- 
diate attention !" 

"I saw the doctor yesterday. He assured Mrs. Elling- 
wood that I had only to guard against excitement and 
over exertion, and should be quite well by summer. That 
means I shall be asleep under the daisies. God knows 
best. I shall be glad to go away from all the toil and 
trouble. Don't wish anything else for me, Miss Adriance. 
I am quite content." 

Something about her awed me. She had changed so 
much, grown absolutely dignified and commanding. For 



 

several days I debated upon what course I should pursue; 
then a second attack decided the matter. By accident she 
was borne to my room, and there I watched her for nearly 
a month. In that time there came a deep and holy love 
between us. As if she had learned the secret of life at last, 
the faith that gains an abundant entrance into heaven. 

During those watchful hours I told the dying girl my 
secret. Her eyes lighted up with a strange gleam of joy. 

" You will be blest," she said, " in your power to carry 
joy to weary souls that faint on the highways. God must 
reward you for all you have been to me." 

I smiled over these tender visions of her last days. It 
was too late for them to come true, but it was all that her 
love could give. And one midnight her weary soul flut- 
tered up to the keeping of angels, leaving only a little 
death-cold clay in my arms. Seventeen brief years, and 
the sweetest draught of all turned bitter upon her lips. 
God help us to keep the faith, and not question too closely 
why these things are so, 

The event made a great sensation. A death of this kind 
always fills one with awe, as if it could hardly be time for 
one to die in the very bloom of youth. Mrs. Ellingwood 
regretted that she had not sent her home immediately after 
the first attack. 

But the break closed presently, and we all went on with 
our duties. Spring was filling up the hollows with the 
murmurous sound of unchained brooks. The brown hill- 
sides changed to a faint glimmering green and drowsed 
sleepily in the sunshine. The pipe of birds sounded sweet 
in the early morn, and the air was fresh with dewy fra- 
grance. What was it to me? I was sick and tired of the 
endless round. Of what avail was it for miserable souls to 
live at all ! 

My book had been a failure. The hope that I should 




one day stand proudly in the place I had chosen for my- 
self reach the temple of fame with full hands, and lay my 
gift upon the altar was slowly perishing. And now I 
told myself the truth I could not endure the miserable, 
aimless life I was leading; but what else was there for me ? 
To content myself with commonplace duties and events 
was sure mental starvation. I seemed to be isolated, as if 
there were a mark upon me, which, others seeing, might 
avoid. 

I was twenty-two. That was early in life to have the 
worst of the battle. To sit on this monotonous bank, 
watching the ebb and flow of life, and never going beyond 
the dreary-looking shore on either side, was intolerable. 

I was fast becoming irritable, but how could I resist this 
constant feeling of rebellion ? I could not shut my eyes to 
the fact that I was out of place; that there was nothing to 
call forth the energies within me that were absolutely 
starving for want of proper nourishment and use. 

I cannot make circumstances; I cannot even rule them. 
I cannot understand life. Why are people created only 
for misery? It does not sweeten their tempers or improve 
their hearts, so far as my experience goes. Faith thrives 
best in the genial warmth of happiness. 

The old cry of the Psalmist rises to my lips, " O that I 
had wings like a dove, for then I would flee away and bo 
at rest." 



Still I kept on with my duties, and saw the change that 
I dreaded approaching nearer and nearer. Anne was as 
anxious as ever for my visit, and there was no reason why 
I should not go, but I shrank from it with a curious in- 
tensity. Torpid as my brain seemed, it had some torturing, 
sensitive nerves. The sight of her peace and happiness 



 

would not soothe this wayward mood. Sometimes I 
thought of a journey; but where could I go alone? I 
had no ambition to guide me, no desires. 

It is strange that in some seasons of life one seems to 
have several distinct individualities. With one I performed 
each task mechanically. Another seemed drifting about 
with every passing tide, while a third weakly rebelled, and 
yet had not sufficient force to marshal the others, or reduce 
them to obedience. 

I wondered how many times Mrs. Ellingwood would go 
through the form of a new engagement. Of course I 
should stay all my life if she wanted me. Then I packed 
my clothes, put everything in order, and said a few fare- 
wells. The brightest vision of all was Magdalene at rest in 
her grave. 

I had no desire to pause in New York, but went direct 
to Baltimore. I found Anne alone, but bright and happy ; 
her serene eyes marvellous wells of content. Every event 
and sight that day is stamped so vividly upon my mind! 
Her cool, white dress, and a pale pink rose on her bosom^ 
her baby smiling and winsome, the house with its usual 
neat adornment. Everywhere repose and peace. 

I had just time to change my dress for the late supper 
awaiting me, but I could not eat. I sipped my tea lan- 
guidly, and then took a long draught of cold water, that 
proved reviving. 

" Your hands are hot and feverish," Anne said presently, 
" and your temples throb visibly. Are you quite certain 
it is only fatigue ? " 

"Foolish fatigue at that," I answered, almost sharply, as 
a keen, cruel sense of disappointment stole over me. I 
had meant to come to her in such triumph this time. I. 
was she who was calm and strong, and I a rudderless bark, 
tossed about by every stray wave. 



 

"My darling, have you come to any dark days?" 

The sweet voice unnerved me. A choking spasm con- 
stricted my throat. 

" Am I not your sister, your dearest friend ? Can I not 
dispel the cloud ? " 

" One comes to the dregs of life occasionally, even if 
one is not utterly adrift." 
