
"It is four or five years since we met."

"But haven't you heard from her?"

"Once, and only once. After she left me, and went back to her father, I
tried to see her occasionally, for I have never lost my affection and
respect for her. I annoyed Mr. Collingsby, her father, trying to obtain
money of him. Three years ago the family moved away from St. Louis,
partly, if not wholly, I know, to avoid me, and to take my wife away
from the scene of all her misery."

"Where did they go?"

"To Chicago, where Mr. Collingsby was largely interested in railroad
enterprises."

"Is the family still there?"

"I do not know."

"They are," added Mr. Gray.

"But my wife is not there," said my father. "Some one told me, a year
ago, he had met her in Europe, where she intended to travel for three
years with her brother and his wife. Really, Philip, I know nothing
more about her. I wish I could lead you to her."

I was indeed very sad when I thought that years might elapse before I
could see her who had given me being.

"I will make some inquiries, Phil, in regard to the Collingsbys," said
Mr. Lamar.

"Are you satisfied, sir, that I am what I say I am?" I asked.

"I have no doubt you are, though perhaps your case is not absolutely
beyond cavil. The old man who died might have found the body of the
child, and taken the clothes and trinkets from it; but that is not
probable."

"But I can produce a man who has known me from my childhood," I replied.

"You can, but you have not," added he, with a smile.

"I will produce him if necessary. I hope you will see Mr. Gracewood
when he arrives."

"I will, if possible. But, Farringford, was there no mark or scar of
any kind on the child which will enable you to identify him?"

"I know of none. Perhaps his mother does," answered my father. "But I
tell you I am satisfied. I ask for no proof. I know his face now. It
all comes back to me like a forgotten dream."

"Very well; but, Farringford, you have something to live for now,"
added Mr. Lamar.

"I have, indeed," replied the trembling sufferer, as he glanced fondly
at me. "I will try to do better."

"When you feel able to do anything, we shall be glad to help you to a
situation where you can do something to support your boy," said Mr.
Gray.

"I can take care of myself, gentlemen. I am getting three dollars a
week now, and I hope soon to obtain more," I interposed.

"Three dollars a week will hardly support you."

"I shall be able to get along upon that sum for the present. Mrs.
Greenough is very kind to me."

The two gentleman said all they could to inspire my poor father with
hope and strength, and then departed. I was very much obliged to them
for the interest and sympathy they had manifested, and promised to call
upon them when I needed any assistance.

"I am amazed, Philip," said my father, when our friends had gone.

"I knew that you were my father when we met in the evening at the
Planters' Hotel," I replied. "You remember that you told me you had
lost a child on the upper Missouri."

"I did; I was thinking then what a terrible curse whiskey had been to
me. You looked like a bright, active boy, and I desired to warn you, by
my own sad experience, never to follow in the path I had trodden. I did
not suspect that I was talking to my own son; but all the more would I
warn you now."

"You thrilled my very soul, father, with your words, and I shall never
forget them. I shall pray to God to save both you and me from the
horrors of intemperance."

"Philip, I have resolved most solemnly, a hundred times, to drink no
more; but I did not keep my promise even twenty-four hours."

"Is your mind so weak as that?"

"Mind! I have no mind, my son. I haven't a particle of strength, either
of body or mind."

"You must look to God for strength," said Mrs. Greenough, who had
listened in silence to our conversation.

"I have, madam; but he does not hear the prayer of such a wretch as I
am."

"You wrong him, Mr. Farringford," replied the widow, solemnly. "He
hears the prayers of the weakest and the humblest. You have no strength
of your own; seek strength of him. My husband was reduced as low as you
are. For ten years of his life he was a miserable drunkard; but he was
always kind to me. Hundreds of times he promised to drink no more, but
as often broke his promise. I became interested in religion, and then
I understood why he had always failed. I prayed with my husband, and
for him. He was moved, and wept like a child. Then he prayed with me,
and the strength of purpose he needed came from God. He was saved, but
he never ceased to pray. He redeemed himself, and never drank another
drop. Before he died, he had paid for this house, besides supporting us
very handsomely for ten years."

"That is hopeful, madam; but I am afraid I am too far gone. I have no
wife to pray with me," said my father, gloomily.

"I will pray with you."

Throwing herself upon her knees before a chair, she poured forth her
petition for the salvation of the drunkard with an unction that moved
both him and me. I heard my father sob, in his weakness and imbecility.
He was as a little child, and was moved and influenced like one.

"You must pray yourself, Mr. Farringford," said she, when she had
finished. "You must feel the need of help, and then seek it earnestly
and devoutly."

"I thank you, madam, for all your kindness. I will try to do better.
I will try to pray," said he. "Could you give me some more of the
medicine I took last night and this morning? It helped me very much."

"Certainly I can. I will do everything in the world for you, if you
will only stay here and try to get well."

She left the room, and went into the kitchen to prepare the soothing
drinks which the excited nerves of the patient demanded.

"I will reform, Philip. I will follow this good lady's advice. Give me
your hand, my son," said my father.

"O, if you only would, father! This world would be full of happiness
for us then. We could find my mother, and be reunited forever."

"God helping me, I will never drink another drop of liquor," said he,
solemnly lifting up his eyes, as I held his trembling hand.

Mrs. Greenough opportunely returned with the medicines, and with a
folded paper in her hand. As my father took his potion, she opened the
paper, which was a temperance pledge, on which was subscribed the name
of "Amos Greenough."

"This is the pledge my husband signed, with trembling hand, ten years
before his death. It was salvation to him here--and hereafter. Will you
add your name to it, Mr. Farringford?" said Mrs. Greenough.

"I will."

"Not unless you are solemnly resolved, with the help of God, to keep
your promise," she added. "Not unless you are willing to work, and
struggle, and pray for your own salvation."

  [Illustration: PHILS FATHER SIGNS THE PLEDGE. Page 193.]

"I am willing; and I feel a hope, even now, madam, that God has heard
your prayer for a poor wretch like me."

"Sign, then; and God bless you, and enable you to keep this solemn
covenant with him."

She took the writing materials from the bureau, and my father, with
trembling hand, wrote his name upon the pledge.

"May God enable me to keep it!" said he, fervently, as he completed the
flourish beneath the signature.

"Amen!" ejaculated Mrs. Greenough. "May you be as faithful as he was
whose name is on the paper with you."

"Stimulated by his example, and by your kindness, I trust I shall be,"
said my father.

Mrs. Greenough then provided a light supper for him, of which he
partook, and very soon retired. I told my kind landlady that I had
recovered my money, and should now be able to pay my father's board for
a time. She had not thought of that matter, and would be glad to take
care of him for nothing if she could only save him. As I went to bed I
could not but congratulate myself upon finding such a kind and devoted
friend as she had proved to be.




  CHAPTER XVII.

  IN WHICH PHIL MEETS THE LAST OF THE ROCKWOODS.


The next day my father was quite sick; but Mrs. Greenough was an angel
at his bedside, and I went to my work as usual. I was filled with hope
that the wanderer might yet be reclaimed. Though I longed intensely
to see my mother, I think if I had known she was in the city I should
not have sought to find her, for I desired to carry to her the joyful
news of the salvation of my father. When I could say that he was no
longer a drunkard, I should be glad to meet her with this intelligence
upon my lips. But she was wandering in distant lands. Plenty and
luxury surrounded her, while I was struggling to earn my daily bread,
and to take care of my father. The fact that she was in affluence was
consoling to me, and I was the more willing to cling to my father in
his infirmities.

When I went to work that morning I was introduced to a plane and a
plank--to test my ability, I supposed, for the men had not yet finished
shingling the roof. A plank partition was to be put up in order to make
a counting-room in one corner of the storehouse. I had never in my life
seen a plane till I came to St. Louis; but I had carefully observed the
instrument and its uses. Conant told me how to handle it with ease and
effect, and instructed me in setting the iron, so as to make it cut
more or less deeply, according to the work to be done.

It was hard work, harder than boarding or shingling; but I made it
unnecessarily severe for the first hour, and though it was a cool day,
the sweat poured off me in big drops. I had not yet got the hang of the
thing; but when Conant came from the roof for a bundle of shingles,
he looked in to see how I succeeded. A little more instruction from
him put me on the right track, and I worked much easier; in a word,
I learned to use the plane. After removing the rough side from the
plank, it was a relief to handle the smoothing-plane, and I polished
off the wood to my own satisfaction and that of my employer.

In the afternoon I was sent upon the roof again to lay shingles, and
we finished that part of the job before night. At six o'clock all the
hands were paid off for their week's work. I felt considerable interest
in this performance. I had worked three days, and at the price agreed
upon I was entitled to a dollar and a half.

"I shall not want you any longer, Blair," said Mr. Clinch to the young
fellow of whom Conant had spoken so disparagingly to me. "I owe you six
dollars; here is the amount."

"You don't want me any longer?" replied Blair, as he took his wages.

"No."

"Why not?"

"You don't suit me. I can't afford to pay you six dollars a week for
what you do," answered the employer, bluntly. "You don't understand the
business, and you don't try to learn it. That boy there does twice as
much work in a day as you do."

I did not think it right to hear any more of this conversation, and
moved away. Though I was pleased with the compliment, I was sorry to
have it bestowed upon me at the expense or to the disparagement of
another. I walked around the building, but I was soon sent for to
receive my wages.

"Phil, you have done remarkably well," said Mr. Clinch; "and I want to
use you well. You handle a plane well for one who never saw one before,
and I think you were born to be a carpenter."

"Thank you, sir," I replied. "You give me all the credit I deserve."

"And I give you a dollar a day for your work, for you have done twice
as much as I expected of you," he added, handing me three dollars.
"I supposed you would be in the way at first, and I only took you to
oblige Captain Davis."

"I have done the best I knew how, and shall always do so; but I don't
ask any more than you agreed to give me. I am entitled to only half of
this."

"Yes, you are. I agreed to give you more if you were worth it. Conant
says you have done a man's work most of the time. Of course you can't
do that on the average. But you will be worth about a dollar a day to
me, now that I have discharged Morgan Blair."

"Thank you, sir; you are very kind."

"Kind! Nonsense! I am only doing the fair thing by you. When I think
you are worth more than a dollar a day, I shall give it to you. On the
other hand, I shall discharge you when I don't want you, or when you
are lazy or clumsy. I always speak my mind."

I saw that he did, to Blair as well as to me, and I was very thankful
for having obtained so good an employer. I was determined to merit his
good will by doing my duty faithfully to him.

I went home, and found my father more comfortable than in the morning;
but he was still very sick, and unable to leave his bed. In the evening
I went out to purchase a suit of clothes, which I so much needed. I
obtained a complete outfit, which would enable me to attend church the
next day, looking like other young men of my age, in the humbler walks
of life. Mrs. Greenough had been very particular in urging me to be
prepared for church and Sunday school, and had even offered to lend me
money to purchase the needed articles. I told her I had never been to
church in my life, and I was very glad of the opportunity.

When my bundle was ready I turned to leave the store. A young man,
whose form and dress looked familiar to me,--though I did not see his
face, for he was looking at the goods in a glass case,--followed me
into the street.

"Phil," said he; and I recognized the voice of Morgan Blair, the young
man who had been discharged that afternoon by Mr. Clinch.

I paused to see what he wanted, though I was not very anxious to make
his acquaintance after what I knew of him.

"What is it?" I asked.

"I want to see you about a matter that interests me," he added.

"What is that?"

"They say you came from way up the Missouri River. Is that so?"

"That's so."

"Conant said you did. I want to know something about the country up
there, and I suppose you can tell me."

"What do you want to know?"

"I have an uncle up there somewhere, and I want to find him if I can."

"Do you know in what region he is located?" I inquired.

"I do not; that is what I want to ascertain. Conant told me you came
from that country, and I meant to talk with you about it; but you put
my pipe out, and I was discharged to-day. I saw you go into that store,
and I thought I would wait for you."

"What do you mean by putting your pipe out?"

"Didn't you put my pipe out?"

"I didn't even know that you smoked."

"You are rather green, but you have just come from the country. I meant
that you caused me to be discharged."

"I did?"

"You heard Clinch say that I did not do half as much work as you did?"

"Yes; I heard that; but it was not my fault."

"I didn't do any more than I could help, and you put in all you knew
how. If you hadn't come, Clinch never would have suspected that I
wasn't doing enough for a boy. I don't believe in breaking your back
for six dollars a week. But never mind that now. When can I see you and
talk over this other matter with you?"

"I can tell you now all I know," I replied.

"I think I shall go up the Missouri, if I have any chance of finding my
uncle."

"You can't go up this season. No steamers leave so late as this. When
did you see your uncle?"

"I never saw him, and I shouldn't know him if I met him to-night. He
has been up in the woods for twenty years, I believe."

"What is his name?"

"Rockwood."

"Rockwood!" I exclaimed, startled by his answer.

"Yes; my mother was his sister."

"What was his other name?"

"Matthew. He left Illinois before I was born; but my mother heard from
him about ten years ago. Somebody--I don't know who it was--saw him
at a wood-yard, and he sent word by this person that he was alive and
well, but did not think he should ever come back to Illinois. His name
was Matthew Rockwood. Did you ever hear of such a man?"

"I have, and I knew him well."

"You don't say so!" replied he, astonished in his turn. "Where is the
place?"

"On the Missouri, between Bear and Fish Creeks."

"Well, I don't know any better now than I did before. What was the old
man doing?"

"He has been hunting, trapping, and selling wood; but he is not living
now."

"Dead--is he?"

"Yes; he died last spring."

"You don't say it!"

"There was some trouble with the Indians in that region, and he was
shot in a skirmish with them."

"The last of them is gone, then," added Blair.

"Matt Rockwood had a brother--did he not?"

"He did have--but he is dead; and my mother died two years ago. And so
uncle Matt is dead too?"

"Yes."

"The man that told my mother about him thought he must be making money
out there, for he sold a great deal of wood to the steamers. Do you
know anything about it?"

"I know all about it."

"You lived near him, then?"

"I lived with him. To tell the whole story in a few words, I was
brought up by Matt Rockwood, and I was at his side when he was killed
by the Indians. But here is my boarding-house, and I don't care about
going any farther."

"But I want to know more about my uncle."

"Come in, then."

I conducted him up stairs to Mrs. Greenough's kitchen; and, after
ascertaining that my father was still very comfortable, I seated
myself with Morgan Blair.

"It is a little odd that I should stumble upon you," said he.

"Rather," I replied; and it seemed to be another of my mishaps, for in
him had appeared an heir to Matt Rockwood's little property, which had
come into my possession.

I told him all about his uncle; how he had lived and how he had died.

"Did he have any property?" asked Blair.

"Why do you ask?"

"Why do I ask? Well, that's a good one! My father and mother are both
dead, and I suppose I am the last of the Rockwoods. I am now out of
business, with less than ten dollars in the world; and why do I ask
whether my uncle had any property?"

"He had his farm--a quarter section of land," I added.

"How much is it worth?"

"Perhaps it is worth as much as it would cost you to go up there and
back."

"That's hopeful."

"There were a couple of horses, a lot of hogs, a log house and barn,
and the farming tools."

"Well, what are they worth?"

"They are worth considerable to a person who wishes to live up there."

"But I don't wish to live up there."

"Then they are worth whatever you can sell them for. Kit Cruncher has
the farm; but I think you will find that squatter sovereignty prevails
up there; and a man in possession, without any claim, is better off
than a man with a title, but not in possession."

"Then I have no chance, you think?"

"On the contrary, I know that Kit Cruncher is an honest man, and if you
prove your claim, he will either pay you the fair value of the place,
or give it up to you."

"But didn't my uncle have any money?"

"Yes; he left about nine hundred dollars in gold," I replied.

"Whew!" exclaimed Blair, opening his eyes.




  CHAPTER XVIII.

  IN WHICH PHIL CALLS UPON MR. LAMAR, AND DOES NOT FIND HIM.


I had heard nothing from Mr. Gracewood since my arrival in St. Louis.
He had in his possession all the moneyed property which had come to me
from the estate of Matt Rockwood. I had placed no little dependence
upon the fifteen hundred in gold, which I regarded as my inheritance;
and now an heir appeared, who certainly had a better legal claim than I
had.

"Nine hundred dollars!" exclaimed Morgan Blair again, and with as much
satisfaction as though this large sum was already in his own hands.

"And after his death we sold off wood and produce enough to amount to
over seven hundred dollars more."

"Better and better," added Blair. "Go on, Phil; perhaps you can make
it up to two thousand."

"I can't very easily make it any more," I replied.

"Well, I'm satisfied as it is. Now, can you tell me where this money
is?"

"A friend of mine has fifteen hundred dollars in gold, and I have his
note for it."

"Exactly so; and perhaps you won't object to handing the note over to
me, and telling me where I can find your friend."

"I must say that I do object."

"You do?"

"Certainly I do."

"But I am the last of the Rockwoods. Don't you think I look like my
uncle Matt?"

"I don't see it."

"Nor I; but my mother said I did. Be that as it may, you must see that
this money belongs to me, and not to you."

"I don't even see that."

"Don't be mean about it, Phil."

"I don't intend to be. I have told you the whole truth, and now I don't
care about talking any more on the subject."

"That's rather cool. You have my money, and you won't give it to me."

"Certainly not; I don't know anything about you. I never even heard old
Matt say he had a sister."

"That's nothing to do with me. He did have one, and I am her son."

"It's no use to say anything more about it. When Mr. Gracewood, who has
the money, arrives, I will speak to him about it."

"But I can't wait."

"You must wait."

"Couldn't you let me have a little of it?" persisted he.

"No, I could not. You haven't proved your claim yet."

"I will prove it."

"When you have done so, the money shall be paid."

"But I must go to Vandalia to obtain the proof; and I haven't money
enough to pay my expenses."

"I can't help that."

"Haven't you any money?"

"I have, and I intend to keep it for my own use."

"But the money is mine. I am the last of the Rockwoods. I know you have
nearly a hundred dollars; or you had before you went into that shop.
That money is mine, and when you spend a dollar of it you steal it.
That's what's the matter."

"I think you have said enough about it, and we will end up the matter
here," I replied, disgusted with his impudence, and wondering how he
knew that I had nearly a hundred dollars.

I refused to say anything more, and he threatened me with the terrors
of the law, and even with his individual vengeance. He teased me to
let him have fifty dollars on account, and declared he would have me
arrested if I did not comply. Finally I put on my cap, and he followed
me into the street, for I found I could get rid of him in no other way.
As soon as he was outside of the door, I made a flank movement upon
him, and returned to the house, shutting him out as I entered. He did
not trouble me any more that night, but I expected to see him again
soon.

I was inclined to believe that he was what he represented himself to
be, for I did not see how he could know anything about Matt Rockwood.
It was very singular that he had stumbled upon me so blindly, and I
regarded my fortune as already lost. I was sorry that Matt's heir had
appeared, for I had considered how convenient this large sum of money
would be when I began to look for my mother. I had thought, as soon as
my father's reformation was in a measure assured, of going to Chicago
to see my grandfather, Mr. Collingsby. My wages, even at six dollars a
week, would no more than pay my father's and my own board. But I was
fully determined to be honest; and, if the fifteen hundred dollars
belonged to Morgan Blair, he should have it, as soon as he satisfied
me that he was the "last of the Rockwoods," even without any legal
forms. The next day my father was a little better, and sat up a portion
of the time. Mrs. Greenough nursed him most tenderly, and insisted
that I should go to Sunday school and to church in the forenoon. I
dressed myself in my new clothes, and when my father saw me he smiled,
and seemed to be proud of his boy. I went to Sunday school at the
church which my landlady attended; and I realized all my pleasant
anticipations of the occasion. I was put into a class of boys of my own
age, and listened attentively to the instructions of my teacher, who, I
afterwards learned to my surprise, was one of the wealthiest merchants
in the city, though he was very plain in his manners and in his dress.

What was so new and strange, and withal so exceedingly pleasant to
me, is familiar to all my readers, and I need not describe it. Mr.
Phillips, my teacher, had an attentive scholar in me, and immediately
took an interest in me. He promised to call and see me some evening,
and presented me a class book for use in the school and at home. I
was astonished at his kindness and condescension, when Mrs. Greenough
told me who and what he was. The services in the church were not less
novel and interesting to me; and I am sure that I was deeply impressed
by the prayers, the singing, and the sermon. In the afternoon I staid
at home with my father, and Mrs. Greenough went to church. I read the
Bible and the library book I had obtained at the Sunday school to him,
and he was as much interested as I was. In the evening I went to the
prayer-meeting; and when I retired I felt more like being good and true
than ever before.

On Monday I was at the plane and plank again, and when night came I
was never so tired in my life, not even when I had tramped through the
woods for a day and a night. I did not go out; but Mr. Lamar and Mr.
Gray called to inquire for my father. As I had told them all about my
relations with Matt Rockwood, and that I had the money he had left, I
ventured to ask their advice in regard to the claimant who had appeared
in the person of Morgan Blair.

"Don't pay him a dollar," said Mr. Lamar, who was a very prudent man,
as I had learned before.

"I have no doubt he is the nephew of Matt Rockwood," I replied.

"If he is, he must prove his claim. Do nothing, Phil, without the
advice of your friends, especially Mr. Gracewood."

"As he has the money, I shall not be likely to do anything."

"The fellow may be an impostor," suggested Mr. Gray.

"I think that is impossible. He came to me simply to inquire about the
country on the upper Missouri, and said he had an uncle up there. Then
he gave me the name of Matthew Rockwood. If he were an impostor, he
could not have done that."

"Perhaps it is all right as you say; but don't pay him anything till we
have the evidence," added Mr. Lamar.

My friends left me, and the door had hardly closed behind them before
Morgan Blair called to see me. He pressed me to let him have fifty
dollars to enable him to go to Vandalia; but I continued to refuse, and
as before he waxed angry and threatened me.

"It's no use, Blair. I shall not let you have a dollar. I have
consulted Mr. Lamar and Mr. Gray, and I act under their advice. If you
want to do anything about it, go and see them."

"I don't know them, and don't want to know them. My business is with
you, and I will follow you till you give me that money. It belongs to
me, and I ought to have it."

"You can do as you think best; but following me won't do any good. If
you will wait till Mr. Gracewood comes, he will be able to settle the
question. He was with us when your uncle was killed. Perhaps Matt spoke
to him about his sister."

"Do you doubt my word?"

"No; but if I should pay this money to you, Matt's brother might come
after it."

"I tell you he is dead."

"That must be proved."

"I suppose I shall have to prove that I'm not dead myself, by and by."

"If you can prove the rest as easily, as you can prove that, you will
be all right. When I hear from Mr. Gracewood I will let you know."

"I can't wait."

"Very well; then go to work at once in the right way."

