Miss J essie smiled at this. “ I fancy we all find 
it so.” 
“ Carriage ready,” sang Charlie through the hall. 
Everybody kissed Kathie, and begged her to come 
again. Eob was bundled up like a mummy, he said, 
and away they all started, Charlie driving. Mrs. 
Darrell put in a basket containing something nice for 
Aunt Eutli. 
 
They talked of their visit at supper- time. Fred 
thought it altogether too had that he couldn’t have 
gone, — real mean, in fact. 
“ But I ’ll tell you everything we did and all we 
saw,” Kathie made answer. “ I suppose they didn’t 
ask you because there wasn’t any little girls noi 
boys to play with.” 
“ I ’m not so very little,” said Fred, with much 
dignity. 
Rob managed to get along pretty well, and by the 
end of another Aveek believed himself able for al- 
most anything. His sickness had made him rather 
more thoughtful and gentle, and he resolved seriously 
that he Avould set about conquering some of the 
giants. He held himself in lower esteem than here- 
tofore, and was more willing to find some good in 
Kathie. 
One day a beautiful little note came for Rob and 
Kathie in a French envelope, and with an embossed 
“ H,” quite large and handsome. Kathie, being home 
the earliest, had the first sight. 
“ I do wonder what it is ! ” she said, turning it 
over in her fingers, and debating whether she could 
wait for Rob to come before she broke the seal. 
 
“ An invitation, I suppose,” said her mother. 
“O, I didn’t think of that! ‘D.’ That might 
stand for Dorrance, hut Sophie had a birthday party 
in the fall.” 
“ And D stands for Darrell, too,” exclaimed Aunt 
Euth. 
“ Yes, but — ” And then Kathie wondered whether 
they really would invite her to a party at the 
Darrells’. 
“ I think I will not open it until Eob comes,” she 
said, presently. 
Aunt Euth smiled, and Kathie knew she was 
pleased with her resolve. 
It seemed as if Eob would never return. He had 
met Dick Grayson and gone home with him, so it was 
dark, and Kathie was setting the table, when he made 
his appearance. She produced the note in triumph. 
“Why didn’t you see what it was ? Guess I 
shouldn’t have waited.” 
“ I thought it would be a pleasure to you.” 
Eob was going to laugh, then he checked him- 
self. 
“ It was real sweet in you, Kathie, so open it now. 
I ’m dying with curiosity.” 
The daintiest little invitation to Charlie. Darrell’s 
birthday party on next Tuesday evening. It was 
Miss Jessie’s writing, of course, fine and elegant. 
“Wasn’t he mum about it to-day, though ? And 
won’t it be splendid ! ” 
“ Can’t I go this time ? ” asked little Fred. 
“ Oh Freddy, we ’re sorry ; but it ’s a big children’s 
party. I ’ll be sure to tell you all they do, and 
some time, perhaps, you can go.” 
“ But it ’s too bad ” ; and Fred began to cry. 
“ It is real hard,” said Kathie, in tender yet 
cheery tones. “Brave boys don’t cry over disap- 
pointments ; they would always be babies if they 
did, and you don’t mean to be a baby, do you ? ” 
“ No-o,” said Fred, over a big sob ; “ but could 
n’t you ask Charlie Darrell to invite me ? ” 
“Not this time, Freddy dear; but if Miss Jessie 
ever asks me to come again, I ’ll beg her to let 
me bring you along. You ’ll have a funny tune 
talking to the parrot. It will make you laugh to 
see him wink.” 
“ How does he go ? ” 
Kathie made a droll face and rolled her eyes 
around sleepily, until Fred laughed. 
 
“Now I must have that new suit of clothes,” 
began Eob ; “ my old trousers are dreadful shabby.” 
Kathie remembered noticing the knees the Satur- 
day they were at Mrs. Darrell’s, and feeling rather 
mortified as she contrasted them with Charlie’s 
every-day ones, which were so much better; she 
felt the force of Eob’s demand instantly. 
“ Yes,” his mother said, “ you do need a new 
suit badly ; and you may as well have it now as 
a few weeks later.” 
Eob was delighted with her ready acquiescence. 
But the next day, when Kathie heard the girls 
planning what they were to wear, and several new 
dresses described, her own heart grew a trifle 
anxious. 
“Mamma,” she exclaimed that afternoon, as she 
was sewing away very industriously, “ could you 
afford to buy me a new dress too ? ” 
Mrs. Alston did not reply immediately. 
“ I suppose you couldn’t ” ; and Kathie’s voice 
as well as her face fell a little. 
“ I really can’t afford to get Eob’s clothes. His 
being sick has spent me a good deal of time when I 
might have worked ; then the extra fire consumed 
so much coal that I must get another ton next 
week. There ’s the doctors hill also.” 
“O mamma, if we weren’t quite so poor I ” 
Katliie’s lip quivered, and before she was aware 
a tear dropped. 
“ My darling,” her mother said, “ I am so sorry 
to disappoint you. I think Bob needs his clothes 
the most ; and I shall order them at Mr. Brown’s 
and pay for them as I can. I haven’t the money 
to spare now to buy you a dress ; and your scarlet 
one still looks very nice. The white one, I suppose, 
is altogether too small.” 
“ And there ’s that great tear in the skirt, you 
know. Yes, I ’d rather wear the scarlet.” 
It was a severe trial to Kathie. The scarlet 
dress had been her only nice one all winter ; and 
Lottie Thorne, who had quantities of pretty clothes, 
had declared that she must have a new dress or 
she would not go ; she would be ashamed to be 
seen in any of her old ones at such a place as the 
Darrells’. 
What if she didn’t go ? A great pang seized 
her heart. Oh, she wanted to so much ! Miss 
Jessie had treated her as if she were the greatest 
 
lady in the land ; and if it didn’t make any dif- 
ference to her, why should she mind ? But would 
she be happy when she saw the rest looking so 
gay and pretty ? 
Kathie had many anxious moments on the subject. 
She knew she ought to be content, and she tried 
hard ; yet, in spite of her efforts, wishes and un- 
comfortable feelings would rush over her heart. 
Sometimes she felt that it would be better to give 
it up, then she thought she should be quite ashamed 
to say to Miss Jessie that she stayed at home because 
she had no new dress to wear. She wouldn’t call 
that very brave ; and Kathie seemed to have a 
consciousness that it was a very mean kind of pride. 
She hoped no one would ask her what she meant 
to wear, and she managed to evade a confession of 
her poverty until Monday. Then Lottie Thorne was 
seized with a teasing fit and bantered her ungener- 
ously. 
“ She means to outshine us all, so she won’t tell. 
White satin, I suppose, and lace and diamonds. 
You ’ll be the star of the evening.” 
“ But you have a new dress, Kathie,” said one of 
the girls. “Tell her and stop her talking.” 
 
Kathie choked down a big lump in her throat, 
and felt as if she must cry. 
“ I haven’t any new dress at all,” she said, des- 
perately. 
“ You don’t mean to wear that old scarlet thing ? ” 
was the next disdainful question. 
“ If I go I shall have to, for I can’t have any 
other.” 
Kathie summoned all her courage to utter that, 
and then she resolved to stay at home. Rob made 
his appearance on the scene just then, so the girls 
desisted from their tormenting. 
“ Come, Kathie,” he said, rather gruffly, “ let ’s go 
home.” 
Such an invitation was very unusual from Rob, 
and Kathie was glad to get away, even if the shelter 
of his wing did look rather threatening. 
“ You ’re a little fool, Kathie,” he began, angrily. 
“ What did you want to tell them for, and have them 
all laughing at you ? ” 
“ I couldn’t help it, Rob ” ; and there was a great 
tremble in Kathie’s voice. “ Besides, it was the 
truth, and I think we ought not to be ashamed of 
that. But — I believe I won’t go.” 
 
“ Yes, you must ; Charlie would be awfully disap- 
pointed if you did n’t, and then he doesn’t care half 
so much for fine things as you girls.” 
That was rather cruel. “ I ’m sure I wouldn’t 
care if the rest didn’t make fun of me ” ; and Kathie 
failed to choke off the sob this time. 
Rob was silent, for conscience gave him a hard 
pinch. He remembered how glad Kathie had been 
about his new clothes, and how pleased she always 
was to see him enjoy himself. And here he had 
talked crossly to her and had been angry when she 
was not at all at fault. 
“ Kathie,” his voice had a softened inflection, as if 
he was almost crying, and he slipped his arm around 
her waist very gently, — “ Kathie, I don’t seem to 
have much luck making war on my giants. I re- 
solved, when I was sick, that I would never be cross 
or rough to you again, and I ’ve been both. I ’m 
sorry. I wish you had the new clothes instead of 
me. I don’t deserve them anyhow.” 
“ Oh Rob dear, my dress is good and pretty, only 
I ’ve worn it for nice all winter, and I suppose it 
doesn’t look real party-like. I ’m glad you came 
along just then, for it made the girls stop teasing 
 
“ Lottie Thorne is a hateful little thing] I guess 
I wouldn’t be so ready to show her sums and all ! ” 
Rob returned, decisively. 
“ That ’s giants, Rob.” 
“ Well, there’s no use in my trying to be good.” 
“ Yes, it is best for us all to try. If we don’t suc- 
ceed, there is a good endeavor which shows that we 
thought about it.” 
“ Dreadfully discouraging, though.” 
Katliie glanced up with her bright smile, yet some- 
thing like tears were still shining in her eyes. 
“ I believe you are the best little girl in the world, 
as Charlie Darrell says.” 
That was some comfort to Kathie. For the re- 
mainder of the afternoon Rob was quiet and helpful, 
and did not go out to play, but read stories to Freddy. 
When Kathie had gone to put him to bed after sup- 
per, Rob said, huskily, and in a rapid tone, as if he 
was afraid he shouldn’t get through in time. “ Moth- 
er, if I had given up my clothes could Kathie have 
had a new dress ? ” 
“ You needed the clothes, Rob, even if you were 
not going to the party.” 
“ But — I’m sorry about Kathie. The girls are all 
making such a row over their new dresses.” 
 
There was a silence of a moment, half an hour it 
seemed to Bob, then lie said, almost heart-broken, 
“ Don’t you care a bit, mother ? Didn’t you like 
to have pretty things when you were a little girl ? ” 
“ Can you keep a secret, Bob ? ” Aunt Buth asked. 
“ Oh yes. What is it ? ” and he was all animation. 
Aunt Buth told him something in a very low tone, 
and if you could have seen his face ! It looked like 
an April sky after a shower. 
“ Oh, I ’m so glad ! It ’s just splendid ! If T could 
see it ! Couldn’t I, mother, just a moment ? ” 
Mrs. Alston opened the parlor and unlocked a 
bureau-drawer. 
“ Hush, Bob,” she said, in a whisper, as he was 
beginning exclamations. 
“ But it ’s so beautiful ! I ’m just as happy now 
as I can be. I can hardly wait for to-morrow night.” 
“ But you ’re not to hint it. Aunt Buth made it 
nearly all to-day. We didn’t think of it until this 
morning.” 
They heard Kathie coming down stairs, so they 
shut up the drawer and went back. Bob studied his 
lessons industriously, but every once in a while a great 
bound of joy rushed over his heart, and he could 
 
hardly help jumping up and hurrahing around the 
room. 
The next morning Mrs. Alston told Kathie to get 
ready early for school and she would buy her a new 
pair of shoes on the way, as she had several errands 
to do. 
“ Mamma, I ’ve decided not to go to the party,” 
Kathie said, bravely. 
“ Why ? ” and her mother appeared much sur- 
prised. 
“ Because I ’m afraid I shouldn’t feel real happy. 
All the girls are going to dress so much. They think 
because Charlie Darrell’s family are rich — ” 
“ But you see rich and poor have been invited. 
Miss Jessie knew that we could not afford to dress 
very handsomely. I think she and Charlie would 
be a good deal disappointed, and Bob also.” 
“ Mamma, it is real hard to be laughed at, even 
when you know that you are doing just right. We 
couldn’t afford the dress, and I ’ve kept myself from 
wishing for it ; but yesterday the girls teased me, and 
I concluded that I would stay at home. I shall not 
mind. I ’d rather go on some Saturday, if Miss 
Jessie should ask me.” 
 
" Wouldn’t you do it to please me ? ” 
“ Mamma ! ” Kathie’s voice was very entreating. 
Mrs. Alston made no reply, and after a pause 
Kathie said, in a slow, quiet tone, “ Yes, mamma.” 
“ Very well ; I think you will be happy. And here 
we are at the shoe-store.” 
To Kathie’s surprise her mother asked for bronzed 
boots. And there was the daintiest little pair that 
fitted her to a charm. 
“ I don’t need them quite so nice ; do I, mamma ? ” 
“Aunt Ruth wanted you to have them as a gift 
from her.” 
“ Cinderella’s glass slippers almost,” she said, with a 
smile. 
Nobody teased Kathie that day, and everything 
went on smoothly. Rob stopped on the way home for 
his clothes and found them royal, but it was very 
hard work to keep his mother’s secret. They had an 
early supper, and then Aunt Ruth curled Kathie’s 
golden hair in a lovely fashion. Next she tried on 
her pretty boots. 
“ Oh, I feel as if I were Karen in the little red 
shoes, and could dance forever,” she said, gayly, mak- 
ing a lively pirouette around the room. 
 
“ Now Aunt Ruth must be the fairy godmother 
and touch you with her wand,’ Rob exclaimed, laugh- 
ing, and when he was once fairly started he couldn’t 
stop. He looked so mysterious and comical that 
Kathie said, “ What is the matter, Rob ? ” 
“ I can’t help it” ; and there was a suppressed con- 
vulsion. 
Kathie viewed him in silent astonishment. Mrs. 
Alston left the room and presently returned with 
something that rustled, and she gave a quick turn. 
“ Now for the pumpkin and the mice ! ” and Rob 
couldn’t resist a shout on the war-whoop style. 
Aunt Ruth held up the dress, but Kathie could not 
utter a word. 
" Why, you little goose, don’t you see what it is ? 
Not satin, but elegant blue silk ! You yjill be the 
queen of the ball ! ” 
Kathie’s eyes filled with tears. Children some- 
times cry from pure gladness. 
“ Oh mamma, is it for me ? Where did it come from ? 
Why, I think I am Cinderella.” 
“ I ’m going to tell you just where it came from, for 
we could not afford to buy anything so handsome and 
expensive. Aunt Ruth had the dress when she was 
 
a young girl, and the thought of it entered her mind a 
few days ago, so we concluded we would surprise you. 
Rob was let into the secret last night.” 
O 
“ Put it on quick, mother ! ” exclaimed Rob ; “ I 
want to see how she looks.” 
They had her dressed in a few moments, and Rob 
was recalled. He and Freddy went into ecstasies. 
She did look very lovely, for her cheeks were like 
roses, and the sweet expression of her face added a 
charm. 
“ There won’t be as pretty a girl in the room,” 
announced Rob, confidently. 
“ Hush, Rob. You must not make her vain.” 
“ I don’t believe anything could spoil Kathie. 
She ’s the best and dearest little girl in the whole 
world ! ” and Rob gave her a crushing hug. 
Then Freddy took his turn, which was smothering, 
but Kathie bore it with the utmost patience. 
“ I ’m so glad and so happy, Aunt Ruth ! It seems 
just as if I was in fairy-land ! Why, I can’t believe 
it all. I ’m almost afraid that it will come back to 
my old delaine dress when the clock strikes twelve.” 
“ I guess not,” said Aunt Ruth, smilingly. “ I think 
you deserved something nice. But now you must 
 
get your rubber boots and your cloak, for the time is 
going fast.” 
“ I think I can trust you to behave modestly, 
Kathie,” her mother said, with tender gravity. 
“ Oh mamma, I don’t feel a bit proud.” 
“ For all you ’re handsome,” appended Eob. 
“ And dressed in blue silk,” shouted Fred. 
She kissed them all round and promised to bring 
Fred something nice. A very happy little girl was 
Kathie Alston, and Eob was delighted to the utter- 
most. She made him tell her how he came to find 
out about the dress, and her heart beat faster as she 
thought that he had cared so much. 
“ Your Highness is at the^palace gate,” announced 
Eob, with a great flourish. “ The king’s son for yon, 
Cinderella.” 
 
CHAPTER IX. 
CHARLIE’S PARTY. 
The Darrell mansion was lighted up brilliantly. 
It seemed to Kathie quite like entering fairy-land. 
Some brackets had been hung in the spacious hall, 
and Miss Jessie had arranged flowers upon them, 
trailing vines that looked so pretty drooping against 
the wall. There was quite a number of guests in 
the parlor, Kathie saw as she passed through. The 
girls were taken to Miss Jessie’s room, and the boys 
to a spare chamber, as their host fancied they might 
like to beautify a little also. 
There was Miss Jessie bright and smiling in the 
simplest of white dresses, with a blue sash and a 
blue ribbon in her hair, and a cluster of geranium 
leaves at her throat. 
“ Kathie Alston ! ” she exclaimed, stooping to kiss 
her. “ Charlie began to wonder if you were coming.” 
Then she helped take off her cloak, and Kathie 
thought she looked a little surprised at her dress. 
 
It brought an uncomfortable flush to her cheek. 
Did Miss Jessie consider it too fine? 
Kathie gave her curls a shake, and they came out 
all right. Then she went down stairs in a great 
whirl of excitement, hardly knowing who she was, 
and made a pause at the parlor door. Charlie was 
standing there and a cousin of his, a young lady 
about Miss Jessie’s age, and she introduced the guests 
into the room. Now she said, “ Miss Kathie Alston.” . 
It seemed as if everybody looked towards her at 
once. Kathie had never known anything so dreadful 
in all her life. This time she blushed crimson and 
wished she was in her old scarlet dress, with the easy 
home feeling she usually enjoyed. 
“ Oh Kathie, how sweet you do look ! ” Charlie said, 
involuntarily. 
Kathie thought she was surely going to faint ; her 
head swam round, and the lights dazzled everywhere. 
“ O Kathie Alston,” exclaimed a familiar voice, 
“ where did you get that lovely dress ? And you 
said you were going to wear your scarlet delaine. 
You told a story about it!” 
Kathie was just ready to cry, and she wished from 
the bottom of her heart that she had worn her old one 
 
“ I didn’t know anything about it until to-night,’ 
she said, in a choking voice. 
“ Was it a present ?” 
“ Yes, from Aunt Ruth, and my boots too.” 
Having thus confessed her sins, she glanced at 
Lottie Thorne in a most deprecating manner. Some 
one put an arm around her neck. It was Mary 
Cox, and the next instant she had kissed Kathie’s 
burning cheeks. 
“ You are the sweetest and loveliest girl in the 
whole room,” she exclaimed, in her warm, extravagant 
fashion. “ I ’d give a kingdom if my hair curled 
like yours.” For Mary’s hair was black and straight 
as an Indian’s. 
Kathie took refuge beside Mary, who was always 
talking and laughing. Then she ventured to look 
round at the other girls. Lottie wore a lavender and 
white checked silk, trimmed with pretty pendent 
gimp. Sophie Dorrance had on her regular party 
dress, — pink tarlatan, ruffled, — and there seemed a 
perfect sea of bright, shimmering things. 
They were all a trifle awkward at first. Miss 
Jessie came down and started some play. They 
stood in a ring with her in the centre. She said, 
“ Muldi Mustapha does so in the palace at Ispahan,’ 
and put one arm in motion ; then another ; afterward 
one foot ; and then every head was nodded, and they 
all looked funny enough. Whenever a new thing 
was said, she repeated the whole sentence, and the 
catch in it was when she said merely “ and so,” 
without the rest. Presently she uttered “ and so.” 
Up and down went every head hut hers, and then 
there was a general laugh. 
“ Everybody will have to go in the ring,” ex- 
claimed Charlie. 
“ I ’ll try it again,” she said, good-naturedly ; “ hut 
this time you must he sharp.” 
They all thought they would he, hut half, at least, 
were caught. Of course there was another shout. 
There was a great deal of fun over it. Kathie 
forgot all about her dress, and began to he very 
happy. They played until nearly every one had 
been caught, then Miss Jessie went to the piano, and 
two of the hoys sang a comic song. After that they 
were fairly in motion. They had a game of pawns 
until they collected a pile of forfeits, when they went 
to work to redeem them. The first belonged to Dick 
Grayson, and it was held over Kathies head. Dick 
 
was to “ stand in the well.” He called upon Kathie 
to help him out, and then she called Charlie. So 
they went on, enjoying their fun amazingly, — pillow 
and key, still quaker, consequences, and lots of laugh- 
able games. Indeed, there were two forfeits still re- 
maining when they were summoned to supper. 
Kathie had been everybody’s favorite. She was 
kissed for the prettiest numberless times, called out 
for all the plays, and in constant demand. Lottie 
thought it was her elegant dress, and began to envy 
her ; but the truth lay in Kathie’s being so thoroughly 
sweet and ready to please. She quite forgot about 
herself, and those who are always trying to make 
others happy are generally happy themselves. 
Charlie took her out to supper. Dick Grayson 
made an imaginary attack upon him, and threatened 
to carry her off to some corner. Miss Jessie was at 
the head of the table, and Cousin Emily at the lower 
end. Very prettily arranged it was, with vases of 
flowers, and dishes of apples piled into pyramids, the 
little interstices filled with motto-papers ; cakes, 
candies, and cream for the lighter part, and sand- 
wiches for those who had played themselves hungry. 
There were Mr. and Mrs. Darrell and grandma, smiling 
at the children’s merriment. What a delightful 
time they were having ! Kathie laughed until it 
seemed as if she could hardly stand up. Everybody 
was so very good-natured and enjoyable. 
After supper Miss Jessie went to the piano, and 
the children had several quadrilles. It was twelve 
o’clock before any one thought about it ; then a 
number of the children were sent for, and the rest 
began to prepare for departure. The large family 
carriage was put in requisition, and quite a host 
taken the first time, but Charlie begged Kob and 
Kathie to wait. 
“Have you enjoyed yourself?” Miss Jessie asked, 
glancing into her smiling face. 
“O, so much ! Miss Jessie, I think it ’s such a 
nice thing to be rich. You can make so many 
people happy.” 
Kathie was so earnest that she could not help 
being equally frank. 
“ And it is nice to be able to enjoy pleasure. 
Nothing satisfies a person so well as to know that 
his or her efforts have been appreciated.” 
“ Then you ought to have a good deal of satisfac- 
tion,” said Kob, with a bright smile, “ for I don’t 
think there ever was such a splendid party, and 
there hasn’t a single accident happened. It ’s been 
jolly all the way through ” ; then Rob blushed a little, 
and ended rather bashfully with, “ I ’m only a boy, 
Miss Jessie.” 
“ And I ’m used to boys’ compliments, though 
Charlie is not very lavish in that respect.” 
“ I don’t believe boys ever are,” said Charlie. 
“ They leave that for girls,” suggested Rob. 
“ How about that, Kathie ? ” asked Miss Jessie. 
“ I guess boys do not always say what they feel, 
but girls like to have everything nice and pleasant, 
and — ” Kathie made a long pause, coloring deeply. 
“ Express their gratification more freely,” said 
Miss Jessie, coming to her assistance. 
The carriage returned, and Kathie went for her 
wraps. “ I ’ve had such a lovely, lovely time,” she 
said again. “ I hope every one has been just as 
happy.” 
“ You have a large heart, Kathie. I am sure you 
deserve a great deal of good fortune. I hope you 
will get it some day.” 
“ We ought to send Fred some candies,” Charlie 
said, as Kathie and his sister came down stairs. 
 
Kathie had been thinking of this, but did not know 
exactly how to bring it about. 
" I ’ll do up a parcel ” ; and in a few moments 
Miss Jessie had it ready, — to be given to Freddy 
with her love. 
“ And tell your Aunt Ruth that I ’m coming the 
first pleasant day to take her out driving,” she con- 
tinued. 
Kathie thanked her with her bright eyes and 
sweetest smile. 
There were several in the carriage beside Rob and 
Kathie, and they talked of the party till one by one 
was dropped out, and last of all the Alston children. 
Mamma was sitting up and Aunt Ruth lying on 
the lounge. The one little lamp turned low looked 
oddly enough after the brilliance of the evening. 
“ And so Cinderella comes back to her chimney- 
corner,” she said, gayly, kissing them both. “ Dear 
godmother, I never was so happy in my life. But 
first I felt too grand in my dress. I had to forget 
about that.” 
“ I ’m so glad you had it ! ” exclaimed Rob. “ I 
saw ever so many of the girls staring at it. I guess 
Lottie Thorne was surprised enough. She thinks 
herself so grand ! ” 
 
" But she was real sweet to me,” said Katliie. 
“ Sweet ! I ’d like to know what there was to 
make her sour, unless she felt so because your dress 
was the handsomest. Mother, Kathie was the pret- 
tiest girl there, and up in all the plays. It was just 
royal ! I wish some one else would give a party. 
And now I ’m off for bed. Good night.” Rob 
made a very tremendous bow, nearly standing on 
his head. 
The next morning Freddy was delighted with his 
share of the feast. Kathie told him all she could 
remember, — how they had a menagerie, and every one 
could see just whatever animal he or she called for. 
“ But they didn’t have real lions and elephants, 
— did they ? ” asked Fred, with big eyes. 
“ It was a looking-glass in another room, and you 
were taken in there and shown yourself. So if you 
asked to see a monkey, as several of them did, it was 
rather funny.” 
“ What did you ask for, Rob ? ” 
“ Oh, I was let into the joke. Charlie and I were 
the porters, and kept the doors.” 
Then Kathie told about the other plays and all the 
amusing things that occurred. 
 
" Tlie Darrells are not a bit proud,’ Rob said, in 
a pleased and satisfied tone ; “ they never show off 
anything as if they thought it was so much better 
than what you had at home. You would surely be 
surprised.” 
“ A very foolish and ill-bred thing for any one to 
do,’ said Mrs. Alston. 
“ Lottie Thorne ’s always at it. Last night she 
had to tell half a dozen times at least what her 
mother had, making it out a little better than Mrs. 
Darrell’s.” 
“ But Lottie is real pleasant,” said Kathie, anxious 
to give her all her due. 
“ When you let her have her own way and listen 
to all her stories. Mother, I sometimes think Kathie 
hasn’t a bit of spirit. Lottie plagues her and makes 
fun of her, and is real hateful, and then Kathie helps 
her out of the drag.” 
“ I should say Kathie had just the right kind of 
spirit,” Mrs. Alston replied. 
“ But she ’s always sorry when she has been 
cross.” 
“ So she says ; but I don’t believe it is true sor- 
row. She does the same thing right over again. 
 
And I hate people who brag and make such a fuss 
over their own things. Miss Jessie does n’t.” 
“ Miss Jessie is a lady, and that one can be, rich 
or poor,” Aunt Ruth said. 
Miss Jessie fulfilled her promise a few days after 
this. The keen March winds had dried up the roads 
so that it was very good travelling. Aunt Ruth 
had a long, pleasant ride. . It seemed quite like 
old times. 
And then one day she called upon a little busi- 
ness, when a sudden shower came up, and she had to 
take off her hat and wait awhile. 
“ Mamma,” Kathie said, in a whisper, “ couldn’t 
we ask Miss Jessie to stay to tea ? We have a nice 
cake and some cold meat, and we could fix the table 
real prettily; and when Rob comes home he will 
be so pleased.” 
Rob was off playing, as usual ; yet since his sick- 
ness he had made quite an improvement in many 
things. To his mother this was deeply gratifying. 
But Kathie was a comfort to her daily and hourly. 
“ Why, yes,” she said, slowly ; then added, with 
a smile, “You don’t feel troubled about the old 
carpet now ? ” 
 
“Miss Jessie doesn’t mind; and when we give 
the best we can — ” 
“ Those who love us accept the offering just as 
it is given.” 
So Katliie invited Miss Jessie. She smiled a 
little, and said, “ That is hardly worth while ; the 
shower will be over presently.” 
“ But I ’d like to have you so very much.” 
“ Would you ? ” 
The pleading eyes were most eloquent. 
“ Very well,” Miss Jessie said, with a sweet smile. 
Katliie left her to talk to Aunt Ruth a few mo- 
ments while she went to mamma. 
“ If you would like to make some biscuits, Katliie, 
they will bake very quickly,” Mrs. Alston said. 
Katliie was delighted. Now and then she made 
biscuits and cake, and always had excellent luck. 
There was a. small storeroom off of the kitchen, 
where they could work when the weather was not 
too cold. Katliie tied on a large apron, prepared all 
her materials, and in a short time had a panful of 
nice round biscuits that raised up like pound-cake. 
Then she helped her mother set the table. She 
couldn’t but feel secretly glad that they had pretty 
 
China, and silver forks, and some nice napkins. Mrs. 
Alston had not thought it necessary to give up all 
the refinements of life simply because they had met 
with a reverse of fortune. She had endeavored to so 
train her children that they would behave properly 
in any society, and had been most particular that 
they should not be awkward or ill-bred at the table. 
“Now, Kathie, you may go back to the parlor,” her 
mother said. “ I ’ve just put the tea to draw, and 
Eob will be in soon.” 
Miss Jessie had been entertaining Freddy as well 
as Aunt Kuth. Indeed, now she had him on her lap, 
telling him how the horse once ran away with her. 
“ But wasn’t you afraid ?” asked Fred. “ I should 
think girls would always be.” 
Miss Jessie laughed merrily at this. 
“Not very much. We had a long straight road 
before us, and Hero wasn’t vicious. Now we have 
a horse that no one but papa drives, and his name is 
Firefly.” 
“ Oh,” exclaimed Fred, “ one day Charlie and I 
were horses, and we rode Kathie home on Charlie’s 
nice sled. My name was Firefly. I hope Santa 
Claus will bring me a sled next Christmas.” 
 
“ What did he bring you last Christmas ? ” 
“ O, nothing much. Mamma said lie was very 
poor, but I think he went to your house first and 
left that pretty sled. And I wanted a drum, but he 
didn’t even leave that.” 
