thie. 
Some of them were very amusing indeed. Eob had 
a million of dollars, with which he bought a quart 
of peanuts ; and one little girl had twenty dollars, 
with which she bought a crying baby. And they 
went to nearly every corner of the world, while 
some of them were mere children and others hun- 
dreds of years old. 
It was quite late after this was through, and 
they began to disperse. 
" We 've all had such a delightful time," said 
Kathie. " I 've enjoyed everything and laughed 
until I actually ache all over. What fun it has 
been ! " 
" I 'm so glad ! " replied Annie. " Of course it 
wasn't anything like your party." 
" That was everybody's party," said Eob, " and I 
think this has been fully as nice, according." 
"And you are sure you have enjoyed yourself ? ' ; 
"Oh, famously!" 
Annie was delighted with this praise, and took 
great comfort in repeating it to her mother. 
" There couldn't have been anything that would 
have made me as happy," she said. 
"And I 've always wanted a party," rejoined 
Lucy. " Oh, it 's been splendid, but I 'in tired and 
sleepy." 
" And your clean floor 's a sight with watermelon 
seeds and cake-crumbs," exclaimed Patty Brown, 
who had come in to help. 
"We 'll sweep them up and not mind for once," 
said Mrs. Gardiner. " It 's time we were all in 
bed." 
Kathie had to stop and tell Uncle Eobert a little 
about the party, and Eob confessed that he had 
enjoyed himself first-rate. 
On Saturday, to the great delight of the children, 
Mr. Meredith made his appearance. The day be- 
fore he had seen Mrs. Alston, and Aunt Euth was 
doing finely. Mrs. Alston sent much love to them 
 
all, and a little note to Kathie, which the child 
enjoyed greatly. 
They had so many new things to show him. 
First he must go and see Fred's rabbits, which he 
pronounced exceedingly pretty. 
" Are you making a collection of such purely orna- 
mental creatures ? ' he asked, with a smile. 
" I 've collected two," said Fred, proudly ; " and 
a house, but Eob made that, only I helped him 
some!' 
"I know a man in New York who has some 
cunning little guinea-pigs that he would like to 
sell. Now, if you could get a house for them, I 
might send them down." 
"Oh," exclaimed Kathie, "wouldn't they be 
lovely ! " 
" How much will they cost ? I don't have but 
ten cents a week," Freddy said, slowly. 
" I believe I will send them to you on condition 
that you take very good care of them." 
" Won't I have lots of things ! " and Freddy 
danced round with joy. " I 'll be sure to feed 
them every day." 
"And I have a bird," said Kathie, "the sweet- 
est little fellow alive, and lie sings beautiful- 
" I heard him the first thing as I entered the 
house. Do you train him to give your visitors 
such a welcome ? ' 
Kathie laughed. "I hung him in Aunt Euth's 
room because it seemed so lonesome in there. 
Miss Jessie gave him to me." 
" Are you as much in love as ever ? ' 
Kathie looked puzzled a moment, then a bright 
light broke over her face. " Do you call that being 
in love ? ' she asked. 
" Yes, I thought it quite a positive case." 
" I do love her very, very much ; and Uncle Eob- 
ert likes her too." 
A peculiar look came into Mr. Meredith's eyes. 
Kathie wondered what it could mean, but it was 
quite beyond her youthful capacity. 
Just before sunset they took a drive, and stopped 
for Miss Jessie, bringing her over to supper, and 
they had quite a gay time. Kathie was compli- 
mented upon her success in pouring tea, and they 
all concluded that she made quite a notable house- 
keeper. 
 
" Yet I can't help but think, in nearly everything, 
that we should be so much happier if mamma were 
only here." 
Amid her quiet watches and long, uneventful 
hours her little daughter's love was a great com- 
fort to Mrs. Alston. Kathie never wearied of 
writing letters ; and she filled them with the 
simple details of every-day life, so that it seemed 
almost like looking in upon them. 
Kathie was very sorry to have Mr. Meredith 
return so soon ; but he said it was only a flying 
visit, to see if she had cried herself into a shadow, 
and when she came to New York they would have 
rare times indeed. His brother's family were to 
move in town the first of November, and there 
would be Ada, very glad to see her also. 
Eob paid his debt to Kathie very promptly ; but 
in two days he borrowed again. She longed very 
much to give him the trifling sum, and when he was 
compelled to go through the same process the next 
week, she said, thoughtfully, " Eob, suppose I ask 
uncle if I can't give it to you ? I don't believe he 
would care." 
" No," returned Rob, " you must not .say a word 
about it. I mean to be real economical next week, 
and I know that I can get up straight ; but it seems 
hard to have only twenty-five cents a week. Why, 
there 's one boy- -Lu Simonds who spent a dollar 
yesterday. I wouldn't mind if we were poor." 
" But we are not rich, you know. It is all Uncle 
Robert's money." 
" All the boys know that he has plenty. I hate to 
be thought mean and stingy ! " 
" What do the boys have to buy ? " 
The question was so sudden that Rob colored in 
spite of his effort at indifference. 
"O, there are a good many little things. Girls 
cannot understand very well." 
" I think I can," said Kathie, with the kindest- 
hearted pertinacity, " if you only would tell me ! " 
" Well, suppose some time Lucy Gardiner or Mary 
Cox did something real nice for you ; would you not 
want to to make some kind of return ? ' 
" Why, yes," replied Kathie, with alacrity. 
" Well, that 's just the way of it. Some of the 
boys are clever to me, and I hate to be shabby in 
return." 
" But there are a good many things that one can 
 
do " without money, Kathie was about to say ; then 
she checked herself, feeling that after all there might 
be a little in her brother's perplexity that she could 
not understand. She was so frank and honest that 
she could not readily take in any specious reasoning. 
But when Eob wanted to borrow another quarter 
before the week had ended, she thought there must 
be some difficulty, and was a little worried herself. 
What could she do to help him out of it ? Would 
it be very wrong to give him half a dollar, and not 
tell Uncle Robert ? She might put it down in her 
book of expenses as simply a gift. 
That course didn't look right and true to her. 
She had learned the lesson which seemed so difficult 
for Rob to acquire, that it was so much easier to tell 
anything in the beginning. This kind of burden 
grew so rapidly, and what appeared only a very small 
matter at first became like a mountain after a while. 
So one crisp, bright morning, as she and Uncle 
Robert were taking a pleasant drive, she summoned 
up courage to open the subject very delicately, she 
thought. Uncle Robert had been mentioning two or 
three charming little gifts that it was in her power 
to bestow. 
 
" Don't you think/' said Kathie, soberly, " that 
you are too - - too good indulgent, I mean, to me ? " 
" Have you been forfeiting my confidence, and does 
your conscience trouble you ? ' : 
But there was such a merry twinkle in his eye 
that Katliie saw he wasn't a bit afraid. 
" I shall have to balance your accounts to see if 
you have been embezzling." 
" No," returned Katliie. " I haven't done any- 
thing, I was only thinking ' 
At this Uncle Eobert laughed outright, and Katliie 
joined him when she caught the merry sound. 
" It wasn't of myself, or not altogether. I was 
thinking that I could spend money any time, and 
Eob had such a very little." 
This seemed real ungrateful to Kathie. A year 
ago a dollar a month, all her own, would have been 
a fortune to her. 
" Has Eob been complaining ? ' : 
" No " ; and Kathie colored slightly, wondering if 
what Eob had said could be justly termed com- 
plaining. 
"Do you think he ought to have more to waste 
upon candies, or nuts, or boyish indulgences ? You 
 
know he is not required to buy so much as a pencil, 
or any needful article, no matter how slight." 
" Uncle Eobert," she said, slowly, " what do you 
suppose boys buy generally ? " 
"A great deal of useless trash. They certainly 
have enough to eat and drink at home, but the 
temptation of spending before other boys is very 
great. I am inclined to think that Eob would be 
very lavish and wasteful if he had plenty, yet I want 
him to have a few lessons in the art of spending 
money. However, I fancy his allowance is large 
enough for the present." 
There was no hope, then, in this quarter. She 
couldn't help feeling a little sorry. 
" You look disappointed, Kathie." 
" Do I ? " and she tried to smile. 
" Kathie," Uncle Eobert began, kindly, " was this 
altogether an idea of your own, or did it arise from 
something that has been said to you ? " 
Poor Kathie ! she had made a sad mess of it. If 
she told the truth Eob would be in trouble, and she 
could not answer wrongly. 
"If you please, Uncle Eobert, I would rather 
not " and Kathie's lip quivered a little. 
"My child, you are not compelled to tell me. 
While it is pleasant to have all your confidence, I 
still wish you to feel quite free." 
" You have all mine!' Then she turned away her 
face that he might not see the tears that seemed 
to flood her eyes without dropping. But he knew 
they were there, Kathie ! 
They were silent for several moments, and when 
Kathie felt her voice steady and clear she said, softly, 
" Uncle Robert, please forget all about this. I ought 
not to have said a word. You are very good to us 
both." 
But Uncle Eobert felt that there had been a little 
rough place, and though he was anxious to know, he 
very wisely forbore to question her further, as he 
thought it just as necessary for children to honor one 
another's confidence as for grown people. And then 
Kathie was such a sweet little darling that he would 
not have subjected her to any pain. 
 
CHAPTEE VI. 
GETTING OUT OF DEBT. 
UNCLE EGBERT cast about for several days to dis- 
cover some feasible plan for learning the state of his 
nephew's finances, but none seemed to present itself, 
and his patience was abundant. He had suggested that 
Eob should keep accounts, but Eob couldn't bother. 
It came out very oddly, though. The month of 
October began on Monday, and Eob received his 
allowance in the morning. He was half a dollar in 
arrears, so he gave his money to Kathie, rather re- 
luctantly, it must be confessed, yet he tried to say 
cheerfully, " I mean to be real economical this week, 
if I possibly can." 
In the evening Uncle Eobert announced that there 
were some articles in the pound, though he was 
pleased to find the number quite small. Kathie had 
two, Eob seven, and Freddy ten. Kathie very 
promptly paid her amount, and Freddy handed over 
his. 
" I 'm afraid I can't redeem mine to-night," said 
Bob, in an off-hand manner, much entertained with 
the click that his knife made as he opened and shut 
it. 
" ]STo trust," returned his uncle, laughingly. " I 
know you had some money this morning." 
He colored and could not resist looking at Kathie, 
who blushed as well. 
" Kathie, you haven't borrowed his money, have 
you ? " 
" No," she said, rather faintly. 
Uncle Kobert looked as if he wanted an explana- 
tion. Bob could not brave out the steady gaze. 
" I owed her," he said. " I had borrowed some the 
week before." 
" And do you owe her anything now ? " 
The question was asked very pleasantly, but it 
made Bob cross. The whole thing would have to 
come out. He almost imagined that Kathie had 
been telling. 
" Yes," he answered, very reluctantly. 
" How much ? " 
" Twenty-five cents." 
" I 'll lend you some," offered Freddy, kindly. 
 
" No, my boy. As a general thing it is not good 
policy to borrow even to pay debts. Take your play- 
things up stairs. I think you can see by the hall 
lamp. And it is about your bedtime." 
" Won't you go too, Kathie ? " with a very wistful 
look. 
Kathie sprang up and relieved his small hands of 
a part of their burden. 
" Now for it," thought Eob, secretly kicking the leg 
of the table. 
" Eob," his uncle began, quietly, " how did you 
come to get so much in debt during the month ? ' : 
" I don't know," impatiently. 
" If you had kept accounts as I asked you, you 
could tell easily. It would be a guide for your next 
month's expenses, for on glancing it over you might 
omit the foolish and unnecessary items. I wish you 
to do it next month." 
' If I can't spend a cent as I want to, I might as 
well be without," was the angry reply. 
* As I do not know how you have spent it, I can 
make no objections at present. But if you prefer 
you can relinquish it." 
" The other boys have lots of money." 
 
" Who are they ? " 
Why, Dick Grayson and Lu Simoncls and 
Walter Ray." 
" Do they spend it in the same manner ? " 
" Why yes. " 
This was not exactly true. Dick Grayson was an 
exception. 
" Then you must know what it goes for, Rob ? " 
Rob hung his head, and determined upon an 
obstinate silence. 
" Have you bought books, paper, or pencils ? ' : 
" No," after a long pause. 
"Rob," said his uncle, with a peculiar smile, "I 
mean you to answer my question if you stay here all 
night. It will be no harder now than an hour hence. 
If it is anything you are ashamed of, tell it out brave- 
ly and have done with it ; if not, why hesitate ? ' 
" The other boys do the same," he replied, crossly. 
" Now we are talking of what you did. How 
have you come to spend fifty cents more than your 
allowance ? ' 
Rob was silent. His uncle took up a book to 
make the lengthening moments seem less awkward. 
Presently Kathie entered, fancying the matter had 
been amicably settled in her absence. Uncle Eobcrt 
kissed her with grave tenderness. " My darling," he 
whispered, " I am going to dismiss you for this even- 
ing. Amuse yourself in the best manner that you 
can." 
Kathie went out quietly, wishing with all her 
heart that she could bring Eob to her way of think- 
ing ; but Eob much preferred his own will. 
To a third person the silence would have become 
absolutely laughable. The clock struck nine, at 
length, and Eob was growing sleepy from the en- 
forced quiet. He supposed he would have to toll. 
It was hard that he never could have any fun like 
other boys, but that he must always be treated like a 
baby, as if he didn't know anything, or have any 
wants ; and every pulse swelled with indignation. 
This government was worse than his mother's. 
He made a desperate effort. Eising, he went 
almost past his uncle, and, without looking at him, 
said, in no very amiable tone, " I 'll tell you how 
it was ; the boys treated me and I hated to be mean, 
so I couldn't help but treat in return." 
Then he would have left the room, but Uncle Eob- 
ort clasped his arm gently. " I supposed that it was 
something like this," he returned, in a clear, encour- 
aging manner ; " sit down and let us talk it all over. 
What were the treats ? ' 
But Eob had made his effort, and now relapsed 
into sullenness. " Soda-water and creams," he said, 
after another pause, " and nuts and oranges." 
" Because you were hungry or thirsty ? " 
" Well, the other boys do it." 
" My dear boy, I wish you felt in a better mood. 
This is one of the temptations that I knew would 
befall you. I consider it a foolish and useless prac- 
tice, and one that leads to a great deal of harm ; but 
boys and men are always exposed to it at some time 
during their lives, and perhaps it is less difficult to 
break when one is young. Now, do all the boys 
treat, or only a part of them, Charlie Darrell, for 
instance, or Dick Grayson, and those who are really 
high-toned and studious ? ' 
Lu Simonds was one of the worst boys in school, 
and yet one of the best-natured. His father was rich 
and indulgent, and Lu thought it looked rather grand 
to spend lots of money, even if he rarely had a 
correct lesson. Several of these boys had taken a 
great fancy to Eob. He was so gay and amusing 
t?' 
 
so ready for any kind of fun. Yet the association 
was rather dangerous for a boy of his temperament, 
and he had a secret consciousness that Uncle Eobert 
would not altogether approve of his companions. 
" Is it the best and noblest boys in school who do 
this, Rob ? " 
" They 're well enough, I suppose." 
" I am afraid they are not ; and this treating is a 
bad habit that I want you to correct. I would much 
rather have you do it for yourself than from any 
compulsion." 
Eob made no answer. 
" Possibly you may think me strict about it, or 
' grannified ' as boys say ; but I want to feel that 
when the time comes you can be safely trusted away 
from home for your mother's sake. I want to see 
you a brave, honest, truthful boy. You must do 
what is right without thinking what this one or that 
one will say. It is a hard thing, I know. Boys 
make mistakes and so do men, but I firmly believe 
that if the boys were trained to have more strength, 
the men would not fall into so many errors. Have 
you anything more to tell me about it ? ' 
was not a bit penitent. He was sorry and 
ashamed at being forced, as it were, to confess, but he 
thought it very hard to be called to an account for 
every little thing. 
" I 've told you all," he said, shortly. 
Uncle Eobert had meant to forgive the debt and 
let him start fair again, but the tone was so very 
unpromising that he changed his mind. 
" And what do you propose to do ? " 
" Oh, I 'll pay Kathie ; I told her I would," he 
answered, loftily. 
" And then resolve not to borrow any more for 
pleasure. We all have to learn these things by ex- 
perience." 
" Good night," said Bob, coldly, leaving the room. 
Uncle Eobert sighed. This was so different from 
Kathie's frankness and love. Freddy was less stub- 
born, though he did not retain any impression per- 
manently, yet much of this was due to his childish- 
ness. Eob had some fine, sturdy qualities if the 
right ones could only keep the ascendency and rule. 
In his own room he felt that he could do as he 
liked, so he flung his coat on the first chair and 
\ 
kicked his slippers half across the room. As that 
did not restore his mental equilibrium, he gave vent 
 
to a flood of angry tears. A boy of almost fifteen to 
be treated like a baby ! Uncle Eobert might keep 
his money, and Kathie hers, he wouldn't touch 
another penny if- -if he was starving, he pretty 
nearly said. Then he wondered how they would feel 
if he ran away and went to sea. He used to think 
that would be a gay life, and anything would be 
better than this tyranny. I am sorry to say that 
he hurried through with his prayers, for he did not 
exactly dare to -go to sleep without repeating them, 
and he soon sobbed himself to forgetfulness. 
He was rather quiet the next morning and cross to 
Freddy, but his anger unwittingly gave him courage 
for one good move. After school the boys had a 
game of ball, and of course they played until they 
were tired and hungry. Just beyond the green there 
was a confectionery, the place of temptation for them. 
It had a small saloon attached, where one could 
obtain almost any kind of refreshments. 
" Come," exclaimed Lu Simonds, " let 's go in and 
have some oysters. They 'll taste good after this 
hard work. I 'll stand treat." 
Two of the boys started with alacrity, but Eob 
hung back. 
" Come, Alston, don't be fussy ! " 
" No, I cannot." 
" Why, that 's funny ! You 're not often counted 
out when the good things are going round." 
Rob's face was scarlet. 
" I shall have to be after this," he said. 
"Why? Do they disagree with you? Or have 
you grown delicate ? " 
Eob turned fairly round, though he little guessed 
what a brave deed he was about to undertake. 
: Boys," and there was a great lump in his throat 
that almost choked him, - - " I can't treat any more 
myself, and I 'm not shabby enough to take anything 
that I can't return." 
" Has the governor shut down on you ? " asked Lu. 
" Yes." 
" Come along, it will not make a bit of difference. 
Only it 's mighty hard for you, and awful mean, I 
say." 
'' And he has lots of tin ! He 's a precious miser, 
Alston, but maybe he will leave you a big pile in the 
end," said the elegant Walter. 
" Good night, boys " ; and with that Eob turned 
away abruptly. 
GETTING OUT OF DEBT. Ill 
" I hope they 're satisfied," he muttered, with tears 
of mortification in his eyes, the they meaning Kathie 
and Uncle Eobert. " No, I 'll never take a cent 
again, and I was bound that the boys should know 
just why. It 's real mean and hateful." 
Eob was a little glum for several days, it must be 
confessed. They all treated him exactly the same at 
home, as if, indeed, they saw no difference in him. 
The boys renewed their invitations, and offered him 
anything that chanced to be going round, but he 
steadily refused. He did not notice that every time 
it came easier. 
And so the next Monday morning when he received 
his quarter, he turned it over to Kathie at once. He 
was still too sore to have any discussion about it, but 
he was thawing out a little. 
As he was going in the school-room he met Mr. 
Crittenden. A rather stern-faced yet not unkindly 
man, holding the boys in check more by awe than 
love. 
" Good morning, Master Alston," he said, pleasantly. 
" I was glad to find a marked improvement in your 
recitations last week. I began to think you were 
falling off rather fast. You ought to be a good 
scholar, for you look like a boy who has work in 
him." 
Eob had been in that desperate state where hard 
study was a relief, and yet now he did feel pleased to 
be thus complimented. It made him resolve to study 
this week. He had fallen into careless habits, or 
rather his habits of application had never been very 
remarkable. 
He wanted very much to tell Uncle Kobert, and he 
really could not keep it from Kathie. She was so 
delighted that she repeated it immediately. Uncle 
Eobert did not mean to ask for any confidence, yet he 
was deeply pained by its being withheld. A stranger 
would hardly have noticed the reserve, but these little 
things are keenly felt by those who love. 
Ah, children, do you ever think how often you give 
pain to your best and dearest friends in this man- 
ner ? Household confidence and freedom are so sweet 
that coldness and reserve seem grievous in the place. 
And though this pride may appear a grand armor to 
the one who is wearing it in some fit of anger or dis- 
dain, remember how it would be regretted if death 
* o 
should come between ! What if you should never be 
able to express your love again, and find the lips that 
might have kissed yours cold and still ! 
 
The news from New York was still very favorable. 
Mrs. Alston expected to return in the course of a 
week or two, and though they had become quite 
used to her absence, they were delighted with the 
prospect of having her back. Aunt Euth was con- 
fined to her bed yet, as Dr. Markham did not think 
it safe for her to attempt sitting up. 
" I wonder if she will want me ? " Kathie asked, 
thoughtfully. " I only wish she could come home 
with mamma." 
" I shall miss you very much if it is considered 
best for you to go. You are a great comfort, little 
girl." 
" Am I ? * and Kathie kissed him fondly, but 
there was a peculiar wistfulness in her soft eyes. 
" Uncle Eobert," she said, some time afterward, 
" don't you think we might forgive Bob the rest of 
the debt ? I am afraid he isn't very happy, and then 
he doesn't have a penny for anything." 
" I 'm not sure, Pussy, but that it will be best to 
let Eob fight out his battle alone, as he seems to 
desire no interference. I think he will come around 
right in the end." 
This gratified Kathie extremely. The fall was 
very pleasant, and they had many nice drives and 
rambles through the woods. Uncle Robert procured 
some large rustic baskets, and helped Kathie to fill 
them with flowers and mosses. Two were to be kept 
in Aunt Ruth's room. 
" And we might have a jar of ivy standing here ; 
it will run up beside the 'window and look very 
pretty." 
" do," exclaimed Kathie, eagerly. " I want this 
place to look just as lovely as it can when Aunt 
Ruth comes back." 
So they found a large urn-shaped jar and put in 
not only the ivy, but some scarlet geranium and tufts 
of tropical grass. 
"Why, the room begins to look like a conserva- 
tory ! " declared Kathie, with joy. 
"There are so many entertaining things that one 
might do, my little worker. I was thinking how 
nice it would be to have a collection of autumn 
leaves." 
" Oh, can't we ? " asked Kathie, pleadingly. " I 've 
saved ever so many." 
" They want to be pressed very nicely, and var^ 
nished with the thinnest coating we can give them. 
 
Then we might get a portfolio and arrange them on 
the pages. In this manner one can look at them 
without tumbling them over, and they will last a 
long while." 
Even Eob was interested in the collection, and 
brought them home some very beautiful specimens. 
On Saturday morning they all went to the woods and 
had a gay time gathering nuts and leaves. Kob was 
quite like himself and in the best of spirits. 
In the afternoon several girls came over to see 
Kathie. Uncle Eobert asked his nephew if he did 
not want to help him varnish the leaves, and Eob 
went at it with much interest. They had a very 
brilliant collection in mingled scarlet, gold, crimson, 
and brown. They were laid on a smooth board to 
dry, and were to be left there over Sunday. After- 
ward Eob washed his hands and changed his clothes, 
and then he did not know exactly what to do with 
himself. Uncle Eobert found him sauntering around 
the library. 
" Eob," he said, cheerily, " you have not had any 
money for so long that I believe I shall give you 
your allowance to-day." 
Eob drew back rather haughtily. He had resolved 
all along that lie would not take any more money, 
but lie remembered that he still owed seven cents, 
so there was quite a- struggle between pride and 
justice. 
" I owe you seven cents for the mislaid articles/' 
he answered, huskily, " and - I don't want the rest." 
" Why, Eob ! Do you get along better without 
money ? " 
Eob's lip quivered a little, and he averted his 
eyes for a moment; but one of those sudden and 
irrepressible impulses seized him, and he glanced 
up in spite of himself. 
" Eob," said his uncle, in a very winning tone, 
" let us forgive and forget, and be good friends." 
Somehow Eob couldn't help thinking of the first 
night of joy at his uncle's return, and his stubborn 
courage gave way. He winked very hard to keep 
the tears out of his eyes. 
" My boy, you have been fighting a rather severe 
battle alone " ; and his uncle's hand was laid softly 
upon his shoulder, and how it was he could never 
exactly tell, but he hid his face in the little nook 
made by the protecting arm, and actually cried. 
" Eob," his uncle began, in a low tone, " I have 
 
suffered too by being shut out of your confidence 
for the last two weeks. Suppose we try again. I 
did not mean to be as severe to you as you have 
been to yourself." 
And so they clasped hands in token of reconcilia- 
tion, but it was some moments before Eob was calm. 
" I suppose it did seem hard, but I have a fancy 
that the discipline has been productive of some good. 
The first week you were at school your record was 
perfect, and it has not been since, until the past fort- 
night. But I want you to try the money again. I 
think it better that a boy should be able to face 
temptation than always be kept out of it." 
Eob was thinking. The first week it had been a 
sore trial, and every day he had felt angry and mor- 
tified, but of late he had hardly remarked it. He 
had not gone quite so much with Luther Simonds's 
party, and he believed that was the reason his de- 
portment had been better, and his scholarship more 
perfect. 
" You don't say a word, Eob. Do you not care to 
be friends ? ' 
" O Uncle Eobert, it wasn't that. Yes, I 'm very 
it 
glad " ; and his voice choked up again. 
"Then we will begin anew. The old debt shall 
be forgiven, and we will start fair." 
There was something so frank and cheery in his 
uncle's tone that Eob's heart warmed to a very 
tender love. 
" I didn't mean not to take any more money be- 
cause I was better without it, but " 
" Because you felt too proud." 
"How did you know ?" and Eob glanced up eagerly. 
His uncle smiled. "That was no great mystery. 
After one has studied people for a good many years 
one can guess pretty correctly." 
" I didn't like to be thought the worst boy in the 
world," said Eob, " though I 'm bad enough " ; which 
was quite an admission for him. 
" No one entertained such an idea." 
" I wish I could be good, but I don't believe I ever 
can. It doesn't come natural to me as it does to 
Kathie." 
"We all have to try, I believe. In two weeks 
you have made some improvement." 
" Uncle Eobert, it wasn't for the sake of being 
good " ; and there was a strand of penitence in the 
boy's tone. 
 
"But you might try next time for the sake of 
being good." 
Eob sighed. Instead of being a martyr and a 
hero, as he had fancied himself, many of his motives 
looked very poor and unworthy. 
"Now suppose we finish the afternoon and our 
talk by going to drive," proposed his uncle, who 
thought that a change of scene might conduce to 
a still further confidence. 
In this he was right. By degrees Eob went over 
his late experience with much clearer eyes. He even 
admitted that the system of treating was not a good 
one, for, beside spending the money foolishly, it 
made some of the poorer ones feel very uncomfort- 
able because they could not join in the indulgence. 
"I don't believe I shall ever do it again," he said, 
thoughtfully. 
Eob was not one to make great professions of 
penitence and forget them the next day. He was 
thoughtless and careless, to be sure, but there were 
some good, strong elements in his character. As a 
boy, he would never be the favorite with girls that 
Charlie Darrell was, yet he might mature into as 
noble and good a man. 
Uncle Kobert was striving earnestly to do his duty 
by all these dear ones that he had taken in charge. 
