mingled with the eternal pulse of the distant ocean, will you 
sting him with the scorpion of content? Rather let him fight 
his way out if he have the will and the stamina, and if he 
perish by the wayside, wash your hands clean, oh Priest and 
Levite, flinging the last drops over his grave, that the unquiet 
spirit may be laid. 

With Victor's larger income, some changes had appeared in 
the little cottage. The floor was still uncarpeted, and the 
chairs and other ordinary appointments remained the same. 
But the napery was finer, the common glass was exchanged, 
the old, time-worn ware gave place to simple white china. 
There was always a bouquet at his corner, and a vase in each 
window. The little courtyard in front no longer depended on 
neighbors for voluntary offerings, but bloomed abundantly in 
choicest fragrance. Roses, from the palest tint to the most 
glowing velvety crimson ; thrifty, healthy mignonette with its 
mass of cool greenery and uncomprehended bloom ; choice 
geraniums, and spikes of tube-roses for late summer sweetness. 

And Anah Hurst dared to make fugitive excursions to the 
lost land of her youth, led thither by her son's soul. How 
much beauty, and pleasure, and sweet comfort was it necessary 
to give up in order to enter the kingdom of Heaven ? It had 
been a troubled question with her a long while. Now and 
then the old cloud crossed her brow. 

"You don't think it wrong?" Victor would say, when he 
found her musing on the shady porch-bench, with the ques 
tioning look in her eyes. 

"It is so delightful! I sit and watch their beauty, and 
wonder if they were made for a snare, when one ought to be 
thinking of human things instead : of the world lying in 
wickedness without, of the perishing souls that go up to judg 
ment without a prayer." 

" I think you pray for them all ;" more softly than was his 



 

wont. "Do you suppose God grudges us this bit of beauty, 
when He has sown so much broadcast in the world ? You 
make Him narrow and cruel." 

Then she would look at them still, with a mist in her soft 
eyes, and wonder, as many do, who bring their faith within 
the straitest bounds, what the Saviour meant when He 
enjoined His disciples to give up houses and lands, wife and 
children, and follow Him with scrip and staff. The man lying 
yonder, helpless as an infant, had done it, and where was his 
reward ? 

Forgotten already ! Yes, it was too sadly true. A new 
man had taken his place ; a man of loud pretensions, and a 
peculiar self-aggrandizement that you find in some natures. 
A man likely to reap what others had sown, and bring in his 
sheaves with much complacency ; but who believed in good 
dinners as well. In a month he gained more credit than John 
Hurst had done in years. His clerical brethren began to make 
much of him, and wonder that they had not discovered poor 
brother Hurst's inefficiency before. 

But the souls up in heaven, to whom he had preached as 
the Saviour did to the thief upon the cross, through many a 
weary midnight, what answered they? Is there not some divine 
law of compensation ? Truly said St. Paul, " If the dead rise 
not again, we are of all men most miserable." 

Victor, hearing some of these things, carefully kept them 
from his mother ; chafing secretly at her reluctance to enjoy the 
good gifts of life while souls without were still in need. Her 
heart was so tender and pitiful to all in want, whether it came 
through their own improvidence, or more serious misfortunes. 

But being shut out of the old world of labor, her heart, so 
long active, must have something on which to expend its 
energies and tenderness. For John Hurst, at present, there 
was nothing beyond purely physical wants. If reason came 
back to him for a few moments, he was more likely to babble 
of childhood's green fields than any later interest. Since her 



 

son had allowed her to gain entrance within his sacred and 
secret world, she thought, prayed, and smiled over him, begin 
ning to dream strange, wild dreams, and anon checking her 
self, and bringing out the old work-basket, for "the poor ye 
have always with you." 

Paul Latour's disappointment had been deeper than one 
would have fancied from his volatile nature. He dropped into 
the little cottage now and then, and rather shocked Mrs. 
Hurst with his bits of free, daring philosophy that he flung up 
rocket-wise. Perhaps it was as well that Victor should not 
have such eyes to assist him in his first views of the world. 

An encounter in a photographic gallery supplied him with 
part of the interest which his soul so craved, since it could not 
have nature to study. 

Alfred Lowndes was working himself up to a small local 
reputation with little genius for a foundation, and much indus 
try and actual truth. Now and then he translated some bit of 
wood and water, a few fallen scarlet-brown leaves, shrivelled by 
the October frosts, faded grasses that had once been rank, nod 
ding their yellow heads on brown stems, with a late dragon 
fly perched high a-top, a moss-grown stump with abundant 
lichens, and the straggling roots washed clean by the pebbly 
stream. The faithfulness in it would be good, but the higher 
and divine power called "inspiration," seldom racked his 
brains with torturing dreams of beauty. 

But one afternoon Victor gained courage to blunder into a 
half-explanation. 

Would Lowndes give him some lessons? He was quite 
able to pay for the trouble. 

"So you've a fancy that way, eh'? Well, it's hard work !" 
sighing like an old pilgrim. 

" It would be a kind of play to me ;" with an odd smile. 
What did Lowndes' limp, white hands know of hard work ? 

The artist gave a little inward humph of contempt at the 
conceit of the brawny machinist, who would be much more 



 

at home amid bars of iron and steel than fine gradations of 
color. 

Still, when it came to that, he could make the lessons very 
little trouble, and Alfred Lowndes' genius was not of the 
generous,- prodigal type, neither was he rich enough to afford 
to despise money. One afternoon each week Victor spent in 
the little den partitioned off from the work and the reception- 
room, and as Lowndes had but few suggestions to make 
besides the merest business, to Victor it was a kind of dreamy 
holiday-time, when he could forget the world without. 

This was another thing that fretted Baxter, who insisted 
strenuously upon steadiness. 

" It gives a man a bad reputation, Hurst," he said, a good 
deal vexed. " What can you want of an afternoon every 
week ?" 

"That's my own affair ;" his nerves stiffening as if he had 
some unseen enemy to beat back. "If I choose to lose the 
time it does not cost any one else a penny." 

" But we're pretty busy now, and one likes to depend upon 
his man. It makes bad work." 

And Baxter would have discharged him upon the spot, 
only he knew well that Hurst, with his lost time, did as much 
as any man in the shop, and did it well. 

"What a pity that he can't be content !" glancing at him 
from a distance, and studying the lithe, strong figure. "And 
if he's ambitious he might have a place of his own, some day. 
If he hadn't been a parson's son " but there the wide dif 
ference between Victor Hurst and his father puzzled the 
narrow brain. 

So Victor stole off to tJJb studio and spent the hours there 
that would go too fast, always too fast. There was so much 
drudgery to learn about colors that he used often to get dis 
couraged ; and somehow, the fineness of detail wearied him 
exceedingly. To potter for hours over some small turn of a 
tree, or a bit of shaggy bark browned and seamed by many 



 

a storm, tried his patience sorely. Often he stayed until the 
last red ray of sunlight would drop out of the narrow window 
and all the air seem full of purple motes. 

He learned something besides this paltry daubing, and 
about as useless. One day he was introduced to Miss Marcia 
Lowndes. 

He had been brought in contact with very few women. 
Through boyhood he had shunned them, and the odd little 
talk with Sylvia Redmond was about the only episode of the 
kind in his life. 

Miss Marcia Lowndes might have been "the fiction of 
twenty-five, founded upon the fact of forty." She and her 
brother were types of tolerably successful mediocrity. New 
England school teachers at first, they had, with Yankee thrift 
and perseverance, contrived to make their way. So, when 
Alfred Lowndes found a fair business opening at Weareham, 
he wrote for his sister, and they set up their Lares and Penates 
in the smoky town. 

"I've made quite a hit here," he declared by way of wel 
coming her. "My method of finishing photographs takes 
wonderfully it's quite new. Then, I've sold one picture." 

The height of his ambition was to go abroad, and he seemed 
in a fair way of achieving this distinction. 

As for Miss Lowndes, she had quite a position of her own. 
In the early days she had been a rabid disciple of phrenology, 
brushed her flossy-flaxen hair straight back from the rather 
high, narrow forehead, and prated of perceptives, reflectives, 
and brain power. Since then she had written a book and 
numerous essays for second-rate periodicals, strongly imbued 
with misty transcendentalism and Ifceak dilutions of Carlyle, 
and followed Emerson's "inner impulses," according to her 
own light. 

You could see that in her face; but now it was "framed 
in," as she would have expressed it, by the fluffy hair, wnose 
silver threads were scarcely discernable from the original, the 




brows and lashes being of the same indistinct color. Prob 
ably with the roundness and red and white of youth she had 
been pretty, but now her nose was sharp, her vague, wander 
ing eyes of no particular color, and her chin, always too long 
for beauty, had not improved with the general angularity of 
years. There was about her a touch of fine ladyism, that rus 
tled like a new silk gown ; and when she looked at you 
through her gold-bowed glasses, and talked impressively of 
the inner centre, and the development of soul according to the 
higher laws of nature, you felt that she might indeed be a 
latter-day disciple. 

Stumbling up the narrow stairs one day, Victor found her 
in the studio instead of his master. In the work-room, a tall, 
lanky boy was pottering with chemicals and washing paper. 
Business was rather dull just now, and customers seldom 
dropped in after the morning. 

Miss Lowndes had taken quite an interest in this pupil of 
her brother's. On the whole, there was a trifle of romance 
about his history that went to prove her pet theory, that genius, 
like beauty, was no respecter of position, and seldom came at 
the beck of sordid gold. 

He flushed at finding a woman in this "den," and stopped 
short. 

"Really splendid," was her mental ejaculation. "A kind 
of Titan, with a Greek contour, and and the bright hair of 
those sunny islands bathed by the glowing sea. There cer 
tainly is the divine essence in his face." 

" My brother was called away on some business. You are 
his pupil, Mr. Hurst, I presume ?" and as she inclined her 
head graciously, the fluffy hair fell into her eyes. " He left a 
message on a card. How could I have been so careless ?" bus 
tling about, with her rather fussy motions. "Oh, here it is. 
And I must apologize ; but I was so interested in these studies. 
I have a passionate love for all pertaining to art." 

Victor flushed and took the card awkwardly. 



 

"And you, too, are ascending the hill difficultly, as many of 
us have to, by slow and toilsome steps. But all true develop 
ment, Mr. Hurst, must come from the inner centre. We sec 
it in nature everywhere. Even the simple grain of corn teaches 
us this grand fact." 

She paused, quite out of breath, and taking up her sandal-L 
wood fan, rjegan to fill the waves of air with pungent odor. 

"And how long a grain of art lies dormant in the brain !" 
with a most benignant approval of his silence or her eloquence, 
which, it would have been hard to tell. " How slow the mys 
terious processes by which it is unfolded ! Minerva sprang full- 
statured from the brain of a god, but we unfortunates of a 
later day have to develop according to circumstances, often 
hard and unfavorable." 

"Yes," Victor said, briefly, the washed-out eyes seeming to 
expect a reply. 

"You have known the struggles of a longing, aspiring soul 
in its search for the true and the beautiful ; you have watched 
for the divine inspiration through many a weary hour, happy 
to have the serene influence folded about you at last. To those 
who are not born blind and deaf, Mr. Hurst, she speaks in 
every leaf, in every waft of air from orient shores ; and happy 
he who can prison her on canvas, or reproduce her in verse. 
I sometimes tell Alfred that I envy him. Yet, why should I 
not be content with my own gifts, except that human nature is 
insatiable !" 

The fanning went on more vigorously. Victor began to 
hunt about the little room for his belongings. He could not 
waste his precious moments listening to this flighty non 
sense. 

" I have been looking over your studies. I suppose I ought 
not to have taken the liberty ; but I am so extravagantly fond of 
art. This head of Tantalus is wonderfully fine !" 

It was a rough sketch, done in crayon and chalk with a great 
deal of vigor. 



 

Lowndes was rather in the habit of snubbing his pupil in 
these matters. He always took high pre-Raphaelitic ground. 

"These things," with a sniff of disdain making his short 
nose positively stubby "these things used to do very well, but 
people, or rather taste, has outgrown them, and asks for pure 
nature. The closer you can get to her the better if you ever 
mean to do anything." 

Which closeness meant fidelity to a hedge-bush, if it had not 
a line of beauty in it, or the lace on a child's apron. 

Though Alfred Lowndes rather liked the prestige of being 
master, the improvement of his pupil was of but small moment 
to him. These strong, unhandsome faces, with their wordless 
rage, passion, and despair, never touched him, since prettiness 
was his aim, and not the grandeur of beauty ; while the small 
prettiness of detail was what Victor Hurst would never be able 
to reproduce. His life-poem must be an epic, not a fireside 
ballad. 

Her appreciation stirred him in spite of the silly rhodomon- 
tade that had gone before, so little comprehended by him that 
he hardly knew how to judge it. 

"I liked it," he answered, timidly, yet with the honesty of 
his nature. " It seems as if more of my soul goes into such 
work." 

Alfred had said before he went out, " The fellow has scarcely 
an atom of true genuis, but it pleases him to paint ; and I 
suppose he would think it mean in me to refuse a helping 
hand." 

When Miss Lowndes took up a hobby she was always very 
enthusiastic over it, and she possessed a more generous nature 
than her brother. Besides, she had a great passion for gather 
ing little circles about her. With her lost years and faded face 
she could hardly hope for lovers ; but foolish and flighty as she 
was, she did make friends, and occasionally admirers. She 
had seen many notabilities, and always turned her personal 
knowledge to a good account. 



 

The manliness and physical power of Victor won her more 
than the power of his genius. He was handsome. The tall, 
symmetrical figure, the eyes that could flash so superbly, the 
perfect tints of health, and the rich, mellow voice pleased her 
woman's fancy. Studying him a little more closely, she saw 
that his foot was shapely, and his hand, not the brawny hand 
of a blacksmith. He certainly would be imposing in society. 
So in return for his wasted hour, she made him promise to 
come to Rose Cottage, as she called it. 

" For I must have a little beauty, and this town is so ex 
ceedingly ugly. So I have made a little nest, and shall be glad 
to see you. You may meet some people whom you will like, 
for I always manage to surround myself with congenial 
spirits." 

So fan, and laced-handkerchief, and the rustling manner 
floated down stairs with Miss Lowndes ; and for once, instead 
of painting, Victor Hurst fell into a reverie. 



CHAPTER XII. 

Two or three dainty, delicate notes came to Victor Hurst 
before he could summon sufficient resolution to accept an 
invitation few any special purpose. He had strolled down to 
Rose Cottage twice ; the first time, hearing gay voices, he had 
not ventured in, and the second, Miss Lowndes sat alone in 
the vine-wreathed porch. 

She sprang up with a girl's eagerness. "So glad, so de 
lighted to see him. Why had he not come to her little reunion ? 
For, indeed, they were not grand enough to be called parties. " 

He stammered out some excuse his father having been 
worse than usual. 

" How very sad !" and Miss Lowndes sighed. 

He was awkward and ill at ease ; and half wished he had 
not ventured. 

"What are you doing now?" Perhaps Miss Lowndes' 
social success was partly due to the fact that she always led her 
guests to talk of themselves instead of burdening them with 
her pains and anxieties. 

"Nothing;" in his blunt, brief way. " I sometimes think 
that perhaps I have made a mistake. There is no ques 
tion about your brother having a genius for painting, Miss 
Lowndes ?" 

He seemed to ask it in a humble, eager fashion. In his 
mind he was studying out his own problem. 

"No, I should think not;" with a pleased little laugh, 
rather thin and hysterical. "You heard, of course, that he 
had sold another picture? And he has two orders lor out-of- 
*loor photographic views that will be .very profitable. " 

"He is in luck." 



 

Victor Hurst tried to crowd down the demon of envy, rising 
in his breast. He was very human, and no angelic hero. 

"Yes. Dear Alfred! He deserves it, though: he has 
worked very hard. And I may tell you as a secret please 
don't mention it to him that we are quite certain to go abroad 
in the fall." 

Victor made an effort to draw his breath regularly. 

"And you ?" 

"Oh, I shall go, of course. To tell the truth, I have been 
waiting for him. It has been the great ambition of my life, 
Mr. Hurst, to see Rome, the once mighty queen of nations ; 
the Alps ; Switzerland, with its pellucid lakes, and the blue 
Mediterranean ; to spend long days in picture-galleries, and 
hunting over old ruins " 

She gave a gasp for breath she always did when she talked 
rapidly. 

' ' I shall write a book of travels, and probably correspond 
for several papers while I am gone. There is so much to see 
abroad, and when one has a soul easily moved by these 
grand touches of beauty, the enthusiasm is little less than 
inspiration." 

How these two people seemed to prosper and advance. 
Everything flowed in to them. 

"It is the one thing you need, Mr. Hurst. When it comes 
to that, no one's education is really finished until he has lived 
abroad. But you are so devoted to your dear father." 

Victor thought of the narrow chance that had intervened. 

"As a people, we are too new and crude.  We need toning 
down, softening, refining ; and the leisure of foreign lands 
gives us opportunity for this. But what were we talking of 
oh, my brother's genius." 

She made another long detour over .the hills and vales of 
fancy, while Victor was thinking in his plain, matter-of-fact 
way, whether he had the constituent elements of success within 
his soul, and if so, how they were to be worked out. Day by 

 



 

day he was awakening to the fact that another had begun life 
wrongly for him. He could never find happiness nor content 
in the shop yonder ; and yet, what if he made a more fatal mis 
take himself? He and Alfred Lowndes were so very dissimilar ; 
if one had genius, the other must be some distance from it. 

And what was he to do then ? Give up his plans, his love ? 

She flattered and soothed, after the fashion of shallow, and 
rather tender-hearted women, and he returned home in a bet 
ter humor with himself, promising to attend her next reunion. 

Fortunately for his self-complacency, Alfred was called 
away ; for although there was an outward friendliness between 
the two, some fine, inexplicable difference would keep them 
from being even ordinarily sympathetic. 

Victor was rather glad to please Miss Lowndes. He found 
her in white, with an abundance of flying ends of ribbon, and 
hair dropping in her pale eyes with every motion ; but she 
welcomed him warmly, and soon made him feel at home. 

Rose Cottage abounded in small shams, as cheap beauty is 
ever apt to do ; and yet, why grumble since it has become the 
fashion to preach economy and beauty together. If the vases 
were not Bohemian and Malachite, the flowers looked prettily 
in them, and the different colors showed cheerfully in the 
lamp-light. What mattered the cheap Brussels under foot, 
the plain muslin curtains tied back with ribbon, and many 
another thing that Miss Lowndes had arranged in the pleni 
tude of her complacency? Why destroy all these illusions 
with the stem voice of reality, that decrees your lace shall be 
of the best or none at all, your glass and china fine, or else 
no friends shall be invited to gaze upon it ? 

In spite of being a stranger, Victor did enjoy the evening. 
The guests, like the appointments, were not of the highest order, 
but they had a certain, refinement and cultivation, very fascinat 
ing to him who could only gauge them by the simple events 
of his own life, and the still lower round in which his destiny 
had been cast Men who discussed Goethe and Schiller, Kant 



 

and Swedenborg, and Shlegel, who had stories to tell of Paris 
salons, or Roman studios, or who, coming nearer home, 
touched upon abstract theories, or vital questions that roused 
him to a sense of new life, and made him hate more than 
ever to drone out his days in a workshop. Not from any 
purely personal -Sfense of pride, but a deeper craving for the 
spiritual existence that so mocked him with airy, delicate 
visions. 

The women were not so entertaining to him, their round of 
subjects being much narrower, and he was quite delighted to 
steal away to a corner where two pale, gaunt-eyed men were 
discussing the old problem of social equality. Was it strange 
that he should drink in heresies for truth ? 

But how to get out of the groove was what puzzled him. 
What could he do but the one thing, money being an absolute 
necessity ! 

And so his mother saw him growing moody and restless 
again. The trees and flowers, bits of rock and stream, and 
the puzzle of light and shade lost its charm. He could make 
nothing look like the grand picture out of doors. Beside 
that, the daubing was vile, miserable stuff. 

"Vet to give it up seemed like relinquishing all that made 
life endurable. To be thrust down to that bare, bald, bread- 
and-butter existence, with its monotonous labor from morning 
till night did God ask it of any human soul ? Was it not 
rather some horrible cruelty of man, some device to grind and 
torture his neighbor when he had a chance? 

He went down the river a fortnight afterward, as Miss 
Lowndes' escort to a grand musical entertainment in one of 
the loveliest groves in the surrounding country. An out-door 
concert with the freedom of a picnic attached. He had been 
fighting his own soul so hardly of late that he felt pushed to 
the last gasp, and was glad of a little rest. 

Who would have guessed it from his handsome face, where 
the moodiness left only the stamp of a haughty spirit? Miss 



 

Lowndes entertained him in her usual weak, effusive style, but 
he had lost interest in Wilhelm Meister, and for his soul could 
not have told what the distinctive features of a Claude paint 
ing were, and wherein it differed from the Dutch masters. 

There was music in abundance. Paul Latour had stirred 
his soul with a single voice ; to-day, this orchestra trailing the 
winding melody of French horn, flute, and viol, with all the 
blare of noisier instruments until the fragrant woodland air was 
one pulsating sea of melody, never roused him at all. 

Leaving the women to their gossip and criticisms, he stole 
away to a thicket and threw himself on a mossy bank. From 
this little loop-hole he watched the gay crowd surging to and 
fro, for now the orchestra had disbanded for a brief while. 
The brilliant panorama of handsome women, for in this sum 
mer glamor of leafy shade and sifting sunshine, hair, and cheek, 
and eye caught a softened splendor. 

Two men approached slowly. The taller of the two was a 
fine, portly man, of aristocratic bearing, and a face still hand 
some in spite of the marks of good living and worldliness. 
Victor shut his eyes with a haunting pain, as if he must re 
member where he had seen it before. The turn of the head, 
the peculiar and curious grace of a fine manner, and even 
the smile seemed strangely familiar. 

The other was smaller and slighter, stooped a trifle and had 
the serious air of a scholar, and the careless dress of one who 
studied the world and its ways but little, and heeded them less 
yet. A sweet, pleasant countenance, though not one that 
impressed you strongly at first. 

"What foolishness, Milnor," the taller exclaimed with a 
careless laugh. " Let me drive you over to see Mrs. Gilliat 
instead. I should think by this time you had enough of 
unfortunate proteges to let unfledged geniuses alone." 

Victor caught the name Gilliat. And then there rushed 
over him the remembrance of a night a year ago the episode 
he had half-forgotten. Had this name any connection with it? 



 

" I promised to see him, at least." 

"To please a foolish woman. Milnor, you hardly improve 
with age," giving a gay, genial laugh, in which there could not 
be a thought of offence. "You are as famous a radical as 
ever. " 

' ' And you are a born aristocrat." 

Mr. Gilliat bowed courteously ; princely, it seemed to Victor 
Hurst. There was a fascination in watching the man. 

"I plead guilty to the charge, but you cannot accuse me of 
having grafted foreign manners on native birth." 

" No^ you had it always, as a boy, I recollect. But the 
world changes a little, Gilliat. " 

"Does it?" with a good-humored smile. " For the worse 
I think. Our race of noblemen and ladies is dying out Coarse 
braggarts, with loud voices and manners that smack of trade, 
are taking the place of the former, and blatant women, sharp 
and shrill, prate of rights and wrongs and discuss subjects in 
market-places that would not have been named among them 
twenty years ago. " 

"You judge from a few isolated cases, Gilliat. I think, in 
spite of the great cry, that our women are as noble as ever. 
That they prove themselves competent to fill high places is not 
to their disfavor, in my view." 

"There may be a few instances where they prove themselves 
competent, but these are women of birth and breeding. But 
this leaven coming up from the lower orders " 

"Will leaven the whole lump. Is that what you are afraid 
of? Let it come, I say. Let us have the strength, the 
endurance, the vigor and health with the refinement of what 
you call high birth. What is it after all but an accident ?" 

" More than that, my friend. It is a life of culture, leisure, 
surroundings that appeal to the noblest and most delicate 
emotions of the human soul, a freedom from wearing cares 
that debase the brain and render it coarse, stolid, from the gross 
heat that makes the blood low and sluggish in a man's veins. 




And you can never raise your 'people' so high but that some 
of the old desires will crop out." 

"We have had many noble men, from the people, as you 
call them. Poets, painters, statesmen, wise and efficient 
rulers." 

"And in how many cases can you trace the ambition back 
to this birth that you so decry, poverty being the accident ?" 

"Well then, let us make a bridge for these brave souls who 
even dare to breast the broad stream of fate. Give them a 
helping hand." 

Gilliat shrugged his shoulders with infinite grace, and a 
mocking smile played around his lips. 

"For the few worthy you help who? The scum and re 
fuse, the men and women who have their birthright for shops 
and factories. It is a great mistake, Milnor, that men like 
you with fine instincts think their duty lies in bringing up these 
masses ; a mistake that you sensible reformers will one day rue 
bitterly. Look how our country is flooded now. Every peri 
