Candy might." 
" No, she won't." 
" How do you know ? " 
" Because mother said so. She won't do 
anything." 
" Then she'll have to get a girl to do things, 
I suppose." 
" But Maria, that is just what mother wants 
she shouldn't do ; because she'd have to pay 
for it." 
 
" Who would have to pay for it?" 
" Mamma." 
" Why would she ? " 
" She said so." 
" I don't see why she would, I am sure. 
If aunt Erminia hires a girl, she'll pay for 
her." 
" But that will come out of what aunt Erminia pays to mamma ; and what aunt 
Erminia pays to mamma is what we have got 
to live upon." 
"Who said so?" 
" Mamma said so." Matilda answered with 
her lip trembling; for the bringing facts all 
down to hard detail, was difficult to bear. 
Well I do think," exclaimed Maria, " if I 
had a sister sick and not able to help herself, 
I would not be so mean ! " 
Matilda sat still and cried and said noth- 
ing. 
" Who is going to do all the work then, 
Tilly ? " 
There would have been something comical, 
 
if it had not been sad, in the way the little 
girl looked up and said, " You and I." 
" I guess we will!" said Maria with open- 
ing eyes. " You and I ! Take care of the 
house, and wash the dishes, and cook the din- 
ner, and everything! You know we couldn't, 
Matilda; and what's more, 7 know we 
won't." 
" Yes, mamma wishes it. We must ; and 
so we can, Maria." 
" I can't," said Maria, taking down her 
school cloak. 
" But Maria ! we must. Marnma will be 
more sick if we do not ; you heard what aunt 
Candy said at breakfast, that she is fearfully 
nervous; and if she hears that there is a 
hired girl in the house, it will worry her dread- 
fully." 
" It will be aunt Candy's fault then," said 
Maria, fastening her cloak. " I never heard 
of anybody so mean in all my life! never." 
" But that don't help anything, Maria. 
And you and I must do what mamma said. 
You know we shall have little enough to 
live on, as it is, and if you take the pay of 
a hired girl out of it, there will be so little 
left." 
" I've got my twenty-five dollars, that I can 
get summer dresses with ; I am glad I haven't 
spent it," said Maria. " Corne, Tilly ; I'm 
going home." 
" But Maria, you have not said what you 
ought to say yet." 
What ought I to say ? " 
" I will help and do my part. We can 
manage it. Come, Maria, say that you 
will." 
" Your part," said Maria. " What do you 
suppose your part would come to ? What 
can such a child as you do ? " 
" Maria, now is the time to shew whether 
you are really one of the Band of workers." 
" I am, of course. I joined it." 
" That would not make you one of them, 
if you don't do what they promised to do." 
"When did I ever promise to be aunt 
 
Candy's servant girl ? " said Maria fiercely 
I should like to know." 
But ' we are the servants of Christ,' " said 
Matilda softly, her eyes glistening through 
What then?" 
" We promised to try to do whatever would 
honour him." 
" I don't know what all this affair has to 
do with it," said Maria. " You say we 
promised ; you didn't ? " 
Yes, I did." 
" You didn't join the Band ? " 
Yes, I did." 
"When?" 
" A few days after you did." 
Why didn't you tell me? Did you tell 
Mr. Richmond?" 
Yes." 
" I think it is mean, that you did not tell 
me." 
" I am telling you now. But now, Maria, 
you know what you promised." 
 
" I did not promise this sort of thing at all, 
Tilly." 
" Yes, don't you know ? ' we stand ready 
to do his will.' That's in the covenant." 
" But this is not his will," insisted Maria. 
" This is aunt Erminia's meanness." 
" But it certainly is his will that we should 
do what mamma says, and please her ; and 
this is the work he has given us to do." 
Maria's answer this time was to sit down 
and cry for her part. Matilda did not join 
her, but stood by, patiently waiting. Maria 
cried and sobbed for several minutes; then 
she started up and set off homewards at a 
furious rate. Matilda gathered together her 
books and followed her sister; trying to comfort herself with the thought that this was 
certainly the work given them to do, and that 
she would try and make the best of it. 
The dinner was sorrowful enough. Maria 
indeed eat it as if remembering it was the 
last dinner for some time to come that she 
would find ready prepared for her. But 
 
Anne and Letty were broken down with 
grief ; and Mrs. Candy's endeavours to comfort them were either not the right sort, or 
fell upon unready ears. Clarissa was composed as usual. 
" You were late from school, Maria and 
Matilda," their aunt remarked ; finding Anne 
and Letty unmanageable. " What was the 
reason ? " 
" Tilly was talking to me," Maria 
said. 
" You could talk on the way home, I should 
think. I dislike to have dinner eaten by 
stages ; first one set coming, and then another. 
I am going to ask you to be punctual for the 
future. Do not be in a hurry, Maria ; there 
is time enough, now you are here, to eat 
moderately." 
" I am hungry. I don't want to eat 
moderately, aunt Erminia." 
" As much as you wish ; but you can be 
moderate in manner, cannot you, even if not 
in quantity ? " 
" Nobody ever told me I eat too much, before," said Maria. 
" There are a great many things that you 
have never been told, I suppose ? " said 
Clarissa, lifting her handsome eyes quietly. 
" I don't care about your telling me either," 
said Maria. 
" My dear, that is not polite," interposed 
her aunt. " I am sorry to hear you speak so. 
Would you not like to have Issa, or any 
one, tell you things that you would be the 
better for ? You would not wish to remain 
just as you are, to the end of your days? " 
" It don't hurt anybody but me," said 
Maria. 
" I beg your pardon. Everything that is 
not graceful and well-mannered, on the part 
of people in whose company we are, hurts me 
and Clarissa. It hurts me to have you bolt 
down your food as you were doing just now 
if I am sitting at the same table with you 
And it hurts me to have you speak rudely. 
I hope you will mend in all these things." 
"It will not hurt you to have us say 
good-bye," sa5d Anne rising. " I will do 
that now, if you please. Letty, I will leave 
you to take care of these things, and I 
will finish the packing. We must be quick, 
too." 
The farewell greetings with her aunt and 
cousin were soon spoken ; and Maria and Matilda tore upstairs after their sister, to pour 
out tears and complaints together during the 
remaining moments of her being at home. 
Matilda's tears however were quiet and her 
words very few. 
" Ain't she too bad ! " exclaimed Maria. 
" You must try and hold your own the best 
you can," said Anne ; " until mamma gets 
up again. Poor children! I am afraid she 
will be too much for you." 
"But, Anne, did you think aunt Candy 
was like that ? " said Maria. " She wasn't 
like that at first." 
" I guess she was. All she wanted was a 
chance. Now she's got it. Try and bear it 
 
the best you can, till marnma is well. She 
cannot be worried now." 
"Is mamma very sick, Anne?" Matilda 
ventured. 
N-o," said Anne, " but she might be, Tiliy, 
if she was worried. The doctor says she is 
very nervous, and must be kept quiet. She 
has been worrying so long, you see. So 
you must try and not do anything to fret 
her." 
The prospect was sad. When the omni- 
bus came to take Anne and Letty to the sta- 
tion, and when the last kisses and hugs were 
over, and the omnibus bounced away, carrying with it all they had at the moment, the 
two girls left at home felt forlorn enough. 
The only thing to be done was to rush upstairs to their room and cry their hearts out. 
And that was done thoroughly. 
But by and by, Matilda's thoughts, in their 
very extreme need of comfort, began to take 
up the words again which she had once found 
so good: " Cast thy burden upon the Lord; 
 
he shall sustain thee." She left her sobbing, 
dried her eyes, sat down by the window, and 
found the place in her Bible, that her eyes 
might have the comfort of seeing and reading 
the words there. The Lord's words: Tilly 
knew they were true. But Maria sobbed on. 
At last her little sister called her. 
"What is it?" said she. 
" Come here, and I will shew you some- 
thing good." 
"Good? what?" said Maria, approach- 
ing the window. " O, words in the Bible! " 
" Read, Maria." 
" I have read them before," said the other 
sullenly, after she had glanced at the place. 
" But they are true, Maria." 
Well they don't help me." 
"But they help we," said Matilda. "It's 
Jesus' promise to help." 
" I don't believe it is for such things as 
this." 
"Why not?" said Matilda, a sudden chili 
coming over her heart. " It says just, ' Cast 
 
thy burden' it might be any burden; it 
does not signify what it is, Maria." 
" Yes, it does ; it is not for such little 
things," said Maria. " It is for great religious people and their affairs. Oh dear! oh 
dear!" 
Sorely troubled now at having her supports 
knocked away from under her, Matilda eagerly sought further, if perchance she might find 
something that Maria could not question. 
Her Bible had a few references in the margin ; consulting these, she presently found 
what she had need of; but a feeling of want 
of sympathy between them forbade her to 
shew the new words to her sister. Matilda 
pored over them with great rest of heart; 
gave thanks for them; and might have used 
with truth David's language "Thy words 
were found, and I did eat them." The words 
were these : 
" Be careful for nothing ; but in everything, 
by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, 
let your requests be made known unto God 
 
And the peace of God that passeth understanding shall keep your hearts and rninds 
through Christ Jesus." 
Matilda's eyes were dry and her voice was 
clear, when she reminded her sister that it 
was time to get tea. Maria was accustomed 
to do this frequently, and made no objection 
now. So the two went down together. 
Passing the parlour door, however, it opened, 
and Mrs. Candy called Matilda in. 
" I want to speak a word to you, Tilly," 
she said. " Did you go out last evening ? " 
" Yes ; I did, aunt Erminia." 
" You went to church ? " 
Matilda assented ; but though she had 
bowed her head, it seemed to be more erect 
than before. 
" And I had told you not to go, had I not? 
You understood that? " 
A silent assent was again all that the child 
gave. 
" I am accustomed to be obeyed," said Mrs. 
Candy. " That is my way. It may not be 
 
your mother's way ; but all the same, I am 
mistress here while she is sick ; mistress over 
you as well as the rest. You must obey me 
like all the rest. Will you ? " 
What was meant by " all the rest" Matilda 
marvelled, seeing that nobody else but Maria 
and her own daughter were left in the house. 
This time she gave no sign of answering ; she 
only stood and listened. 
" Will you obey me, Tilly ? " 
Matilda was not sure whether she would. 
In her mind it depended on circumstances. 
She would obey, conditionally. But she 
would not compromise her dignity by words 
about it. She was silent. 
tt I must be obeyed," Mrs. Candy went on, 
with mild tones, although a displeased face. 
" If not willingly, then unwillingly. I shall 
punish you, Matilda, if you disobey me ; and 
so severely that you will find it best not to do 
it again. But I should be very sorry to have 
you drive me to such disagreeable doings. 
We should both be sorry together. It is 
 
much oest not to let things come to such 
extremity." 
Matilda coloured high, but except that and 
the slight gesture of her head, she yet gave no 
reply. 
" That is enough upon that subject," the 
lady went on. " Only, I should be glad to 
have you tell me that you will try to please 
me." 
" I wish to please everybody as far as I 
can," Matilda said at last. 
" Then you will please me ? " 
" I hope so." 
" She hopes so, Issa," said Mrs. Candy, 
turning her head round towards where her 
daughter sat. 
" American children, mamma," was Clarissa's comment. 
" There is another thing, Matilda," Mrs. 
Candy resumed after a slight pause. " Your 
mother has told me that Maria is competent to do the work of the house until 
she gets well. Is she ? and will Maria, d 
 
you think, try to please me as much as you 
do?" 
" Yes, ma'am. I think she can she and 
I, We will do it," Matilda answered more 
readily. 
" She and you ! What can you do ? " 
I can help a little." 
" Well then, that is settled ; and I need not 
look out for a girl ? " 
" O, no, aunt Candy. She and I can do 
it." 
" But mind, I must have things in order, 
and well done. It is my sister's choice, that 
Maria should do it. But it is not mine, unless I can have everything in good order. 
You may tell Maria so, and let her understand what it is she is undertaking. I am to 
have no dusty stairs, and no half set tables. 
If she wants instruction in anything, I am 
willing to give it; but I cannot have disorder. 
Now you may go and tell her ; and tell her 
to have tea ready in half an hour." 
What did she want of you ? " Maria 
asked, when Matilda rejoined her downstairs. 
" She wanted to talk to me about my going 
out last evening." 
" Oh ! Was she in a great fuss about it ? " 
" And Maria, she wants tea to be ready in 
half an hour." 
" I'll have it ready sooner than that," said 
Maria bustling about. 
" But you must not. She wants it in 
half an hour; you must not have it ready 
before." 
" Why not?" said Maria stopping short. 
" Why, she wants it then. She has a right 
to have tea when she likes." 
But Matilda sighed as she spoke, for her 
aunt's likings were becoming a heavy burden 
to her, in the present and in the future. The 
two girls went gently round, setting the table, 
cutting the bread, putting out the sweetmeat, 
getting the tea-pot ready for the tea; then 
they stood together over the stove, waiting for 
the time to make it. 
" There's one comfort," Matilda said with 
another sigh ; " we can do it all for 
Christ." 
" What ? " said Maria starting. 
" It is work he has given us to do, you 
know, Maria ; and we have promised to do 
everything we can to please him. So we can 
do this to please him." 
" I don't see how," said Maria. " This isn't 
Band work ; do you think it is ? " 
" It isn't Sunday school work. But, Maria, 
you know, ' we are the servants of Christ.' 
Now he has given us this work to do." 
" That's just talking nonsense," said Maria. 
" There is no religion in pots and kettles." 
Matilda had to think her way out of that 
statement. 
" Maria, in the covenant, you know, we say 
' we stand ready to do his will ; ' and you 
know it is his will that we should have these 
things to do." 
I don't ! " said Maria. " That's a fact." 
" Then how comes it that we have them ? " 
 
"Just because mamma is sick, and aunt 
Erminia is too mean to live! " 
" You should not speak so," said Matilda. 
* How comes mamma to be sick ? and how 
comes it that we have got no money to hire a 
girl?" 
" Because that man in New York was 
wicked, and ran away with mamma's money." 
" Maria," said Matilda solemnly, " I don't 
see what you meant by joining the Band." 
" I meant more than you did ! " said Maria 
flaming out. " Such children as you are too 
young to join it." 
" We are not too young to be Christians." 
" You are too young to join the church and 
be baptized." 
Why ? " said Matilda. 
" O, you are too young to understand. Anybody that knows will tell you so. And if 
you are not fit to be baptized and join the 
church, you are not fit to join the Band. Now 
I can make the tea." 
 
Matilda looked hard at the tea-pot, as it 
stood on the stove while the tea was brewing ; 
but she let her sister alone after that. When 
the meal was over and the dishes washed and 
everything done, she and Maria went up to 
their own room and Maria at once went to 
bed. Her little sister opened her Bible and 
read, over and over, the words that had comforted her. They were words from God ; 
promises and commands straight from heaven. 
Matilda took them so, and studied earnestly 
how she might do what they bade her. " Cast 
her burden on the Lord," how was she to 
do that ? Clearly, she was not to keep it on 
her own heart, she thought ; she must trust 
that the Lord would take care of anything 
put into his hands. The words were very 
good. And the other words " Be careful for 
nothing" that was the same thing differently expressed ; and Matilda felt very glad it 
had been written for her in both places and 
in both ways ; and that she was ordered " in 
everything " to " make her requests known 
 
to God." She might not have dared, perhaps, in some little troubles that only con- 
cerned a child and were not important to 
anybody else ; but now there could be no 
doubt; she might, and she must. She was 
very glad. But, " with thanksgiving ? " how 
could that be always ? Now, for instance ? 
Things were more disagreeable and sorrowful 
than in all her life she had ever known them ; 
" give thanks " ? must she ? now ? And how 
could she ? Matilda studied over it a good 
while. Finally took to praying over it. 
Asked to be taught how she could give 
thanks when she was sorry. And getting 
quite tired, at last went to bed, where Maria 
was already fast asleep. 
There is no denying that Matilda was sorry 
to wake up the next morning. But awake 
she found herself, and broad awake too, and 
the light outside the window admonished her 
she had no time then to lie and think. She 
roused Maria immediately, and herself began 
dressing without a moment's delay. 
 
" 0, what's the hurry ! " said Maria yawning and stretching herself. " I'm sleepy." 
" But it isn't early, Maria." 
" Well I don't want it to be early." 
" Yes, you do, Maria ; you forget. We have 
a great deal on our hands. Make haste, 
please, and get up. Do, Maria ! " 
" What have we got to do so much ? " said 
Maria, with yawn the second. 
" Everything. You are so sleepy, you have 
forgotten." 
" Yes. I have forgotten," said Maria closing her eyes. 
" O Maria, please do get up ! I'm almost 
dressed ; and I can't do the whole, you know. 
Won't you get up ? " 
What's the matter, Tilly ? " said her sis- 
ter, rolling over, and opening her eyes quietly 
at Matilda. 
" I am going down, Maria, in two minutes ; 
and I cannot do everything, you know." 
"Clarissa'll help." 
" If you expect that, Maria, you will be disappointed. I wish you would come right 
down and make the fire." 
Maria lay still. Matilda finished her dressing, and then knelt down by the window. 
The burden upon her seemed rather heavy, 
and she went to her only source of help. 
Maria lay and looked at the little kneeling 
figure, so still there by the window ; glanced 
at the growing light outside the window, then 
at her scattered articles of clothing, lying 
where she had thrown them or dropped them 
last night ; and at last rolled herself out of 
bed and was dressing in earnest when Matilda 
rose up to go downstairs. 
" O now you'll soon be ready ! " she exclaimed. " Make haste, Maria ; and come 
down to the kitchen. The fire is the first 
thing." 
Then the little feet went with a light tread 
down the stairs, that she might disturb nobody, and paused in the hall. The light 
struggling in through the fanlights over the 
door ; the air close ; a smell of kerosene in the 
parlour; chairs and table in a state of disarrangement ; the litter of Clarissa's work on 
the carpet ; the parlour stove cold. Little 
Matilda wished to herself that some other 
hands were there, not hers, to do all that must 
be done. But clearly Maria would never get 
through with it. She stood looking a minute ; 
then plunged into the work. She opened the 
shutters and the curtains, and threw up the 
windows. Then picked up the litter. Then 
she saw that the services of a broom were 
needed ; and Matilda fetched the broom and 
brushed out the parlour and the hall. It tired 
her arms ; she was not used to it. Dusting 
the furniture was more in her line ; and then 
Matilda came to the conclusion that if a fire 
was to be kindled in time this morning, it 
must be done by herself; Maria would be 
fully occupied in the kitchen. So downstairs 
she went for billets of wood for kindling. 
There was Maria, in trouble. 
" This stove won't draw, Tilly." 
What is the matter ? " 
Why that. It won't draw. It just 
smokes." 
" It always does draw, Maria." 
" Well, it won't to-day." 
" Did you put kindling enough in ? " 
" There's nothing but kindling! and 
smoke." 
" Why, you've got the damper turned," said 
Matilda, coming up to look ; " see, that's the 
matter. It won't light with the damper 
turned." 
" Stupid ! " Maria muttered ; and Matilda 
went off to make her own fire. Happily 
that did not smoke. The parlour and hall 
were all in nice order ; the books put in place, 
and everything ready for the comfort of people when they should come to enjoy it; and 
Matilda went to join her sister in the kitchen. 
The fire was going there too, and the kitchen 
warm, and Maria stood with her hands folded, 
in front of the stove. 
" I don't know what to get for breakfast," 
she said. 
" Is the other room ready ? " 
" T set the table," said Maria; " but what 
is to go on it, I don't know." 
Matilda went in to look at the state of 
things ; presently called her sister. 
" Maria, you didn't sweep the carpet." 
" No. Of course I didn't. Rooms don't 
want to be swept every day." 
" This one does. Look at the muss under 
the table." 
" Only some crumbs " said Maria. 
" And a bone. Letty was in a hurry yes- 
terday, I guess. Aunt Candy won't like it, 
Maria ; it won't do." 
" I don't care whether she likes it." 
" But don't you care whether she scolds ? 
because I do. And the room is not nice, 
Maria. Mother wouldn't have it so." 
" Well, you may sweep it, if you like." 
" I cannot. I am tired. You must make 
it nice, Maria, won't you ? and I'll see about 
the breakfast." 
" The table's all set ! " Maria remonstrated. 
" It won't take long to do it over, Maria. 
But what have we got for breakfast ? " 
" Nothing that I know." 
" Did you look in the cellar ? " 
No. 
" Why, where did you look ? " said Matilda 
laughing. " Come let us go down and see 
what is there." 
In the large, clean, light cellar there were 
hanging shelves which served the purposes of 
a larder. The girls peered into the various 
stores collected on them. 
" Here's a dish of cold potatoes," said 
Maria. 
That will do for one thing," said Matilda. 
Cold ? " 
" Why, no ! fried, Maria." 
" I can't fry potatoes." 
" Why, yes, you can, Maria ; you have, 
seen mamma do it hundreds of times." 
"Here's the cold beefsteak that was left 
yesterday." 
" Cold beefsteak isn't good," said Matilda. 
" Can't we warm it?" 
"How?" 
" I don't know ; might put it in the oven , 
it would get hot there. There's a good 
oven." 
" I don't think mamma ever warms cold 
beefsteak," said Matilda, looking puzzled. 
" What does she do with it? she don't 
throw it away. How do you know she 
doesn't warm it? you wouldn't know, when 
you saw it on the table, whether it was just 
fresh cooked, or only warmed up. How could 
you tell ? " 
" Well," said Matilda dubiously, " you 
can try. I wish I could ask somebody." 
" I shall not ask anybody upstairs," said 
Maria. " Come you take the potatoes and 
I will carry the beefsteak. Then we will 
make 'the coffee and have breakfast. I'm as 
hungry as I can be." 
" So am I," said Matilda. And she sighed 
a little, for she was tired as well as hungry. 
Maria set the dish of beefsteak in the oven to 
 
get hot, and Matilda made the coffee. She 
knew quite well how to do that. Then she 
came to the table where Maria was preparing 
the potatoes to fry. Maria's knife was going 
chop, chop, very fast. 
" O Maria ! you should have peeled them," 
Matilda exclaimed in dismay. 
" Peeled ! " said Maria stopping short. 
" Certainly. Why you knew that, Maria. 
Potatoe parings are not good to eat." 
" It takes ages to peel such little potatoes," 
said Maria. 
" But you cannot eat them without being 
peeled," said Matilda. 
" Yes, you can ; it won't make any dif- 
ference. I will fry them so brown, nobody 
will know whether they have skins on or 
not." 
Matilda doubted very much the feasibility 
of this plan ; but she left Maria, and went 
off to make sure that the fires in the other 
rooms were burning right and everything in 
proper trim. Then she sat down in a rocking 
chair in the eating room, to rest ; wishing very 
earnestly that there was somebody to help 
who knew more about business than either 
she or Maria. How were they to get along? 
And she had promised her mother. And yet 
more, Matilda felt sure that just this work 
had been given to her and Maria to do by 
the Lord himself. Therefore they could do 
it for him. Therefore, all the more, Matilda 
wanted to do it in the very nicest and best 
way possible. She wished she had attended 
when she had seen her mother cooking different things ; now she might have known exctly how to manage. And that reminded 
her, Maria's beef and potatoes must be 
done. She ran into the kitchen. 
" There !" said Maria. " Can you see the 
skins now ? " 
" They are brown enough," said Matilda. 
But Maria, they'll be very hard ! " 
" Never you mind ! " said Maria compla- 
cently. 
" Have you looked at your beefsteak ? " 
 
" No ; but it must be hot before now." 
Maria opened the oven door, and then with 
an exclamation seized a cloth and drew out 
the dish of meat. The dish took their attention first. It was as brown as Maria's potatoes. It had gone into the oven white. 
" It is spoiled," said Matilda. 
" Who would have thought the oven was 
so hot ! " said Maria. " Won't it come all 
right with washing ? " 
" You might as well wash your beefsteak," 
said Matilda turning away. 
If the dish had gone in white, the meat 
had also gone in juicy ; and if the one was 
brown, the other was a chip. 
" This will not do for breakfast," said 
Maria lugubriously. 
" It is like your potatoes," said Matilda, 
with the ineffable little turn of her head. 
"Don't, Matilda! What shall we do? 
the coffee is ready." 
" We shall have a brown breakfast," said 
Matilda. " The coffee will be the lightest 
 
coloured thing on the table." And the two 
girls relieved themselves with laughing. 
" But, Matilda ! what shall we do ? We 
must have something to eat." 
" We can boil some eggs," said Matilda. 
" Aunt Erminia likes eggs ; and the coffee 
will be good, and the bread. And the potatoes will do to look at." 
So it was arranged ; and the bell was rung 
for breakfast only five minutes after the time. 
And all was in order. 
Even Mrs. Candy's good eyes found no 
fault. And breakfast went forward better 
than Matilda had dared to hope. 
" You have done your potatoes too much, 
Maria," Mrs. Candy remarked. 
" Yes, ma'am," Maria said meekly. 
