kenzie will return on the third of January, spending 
some three or four days in New York, so you will 
have a chance to see Jessie and Mr. Meredith." 
" It is altogether enchanting, like the things that 
used to happen when I half believed in fairies. But 
can I really go ? " 
 
" Your mother thinks so. It will keep you out of 
school for a week, but you must study the harder 
afterward. And it is such an excellent opportunity." 
" I don't know what to say. Where is mamma ? " 
" She went out with Mrs. Grayson to visit a family 
in great distress." 
It seemed to Kathie as if there ought not to be any 
pain or sorrow in the world when she was so entirely 
happy. Then she had to read her letter over again. 
Only six weeks since Aunt Euth was married, and 
yet it appeared half a lifetime. And to go to Wash- 
ington ! to see the Capitol, the great mansions, the 
President himself, perhaps. Oh ! wasn't it the least 
little bit of a dream ? 
A friend of the General would escort Kathie from 
Jersey City, if it was inconvenient for Uncle Robert 
to take the journey. He was to leave on the morn- 
ing of the twenty-third, and would meet them at the 
depot or the hotel where he was staying. So, if Ka- 
thie would write back immediately, the matter could 
be put in train at once. 
They made all arrangements that evening, and she 
wrote her letter in a most delightful mood. 
" I declare it is too bad ! " said one of the girls the 
 
next day. " Here we are going to have a Christmas 
fair and two surprise-parties, and charades at Hattie 
Norman's. How are we to get along without you ? " 
Kathie glanced up and met Emma Lauriston's eyes. 
Both remembered a time when they were quite elated 
in the prospect of " getting along " without her. But 
Kathie's sunny nature held no grudges. She was 
only too glad to be good friends with all the girls, to 
bring her gifts, if she had any, to bear upon the little 
every-day living which, after all, is the great wheel 
that turns the world. 
" Everything lovely does come to you, but I am 
sure you deserve it," Emma whispered, softly. 
" I wonder if you will go to any receptions ? and, 
oh ! what will you wear ? ' : 
Kathie laughed. 
" I suppose I shall see everything that can be seen 
in that brief while " ; but she couldn't help thinking 
that the dearest sight of all would be Aunt Euth. 
It required some courage to keep strictly to the 
lessons after that. Bruce wrote her a letter in which 
he said he did not envy any one in the world, but he 
thought he would just as lief be Kathie Alston for 
ten or twelve days, beginning at Christmas, as a 
great overgrown boy at a military academy. 
 
He had accepted and liked his new mother very 
cordially. Of his own he had a very slight remem- 
brance, and to boys without homes or mothers a 
gentle, considerate love like this is very tender and 
sweet. 
" It is too bad that he cannot go as well," Kathie 
said to Uncle Robert. " I have so many nice times 
that I do begin to feel conscience smitten when I 
think of all who are crowded out." 
So, at last, Kathie's small trunk was packed and 
directed, and Uncle Eobert took her down to the 
city. As she had to start early, he decided that it 
would be better for them to stay at the hotel, for 
convenience in the morning. So they hunted up Mr. 
Winterdyne, and found him a very pleasant, agreeable 
gentleman, past forty. He had seen General Mac- 
kenzie and his wife only the week before, and had 
heard all about this little niece, and would be very 
glad to take charge of her during the rather tiresome 
journey. 
She was up betimes, as fresh and sweet as a 
rose. The morning was cold and gray, so her happy 
face was like a gleam of sunshine. Uncle Robert 
said good-by at the gateway, and Mr. Winterdyne 
 
drew her arm through his, quite as if she had been a 
young lady. He seated her carefully near the win- 
dow, hung up his satchel and umbrella, chatting 
pleasantly so that she might not feel strange. And 
then they steamed slowly out of the depot and were 
on their way. 
" We shall have a storm before noon, I think," 
Mr. Winterdyne said, presently. " It threatens 
snow.' : 
" Do you suppose it will delay us ? " Kathie asked, 
that she had started she could think only of the 
journey's end. 
" no, I guess not. The weather may moderate, 
and in that case it is more likely to be rain, as we go 
farther south." 
He talked to Kathie quite a while, naming the 
towns they passed and giving bits of their history. 
Then two gentlemen came through the car and en- 
gaged him in a business conversation. 
" Your daughter, Winterdyne ? " asked one of them. 
" No. General Mackenzie's niece. I am taking 
her to Washington. Miss Alston." 
Kathie gave a timid little bow to the pleasant eyes 
that smiled upon her. 
 
" Have you ever been in Washington before ? " he 
asked. 
Kathie answered in the negative. 
" Quite commonplace again, eh, Winterdyne ? The 
camps and barracks arid armies have vanished. We 
can hardly believe now that we have lived through 
such a terrible struggle. But many a brave fellow 
never came back again. Eomances and tragedies 
were common in those days." 
" Yes." 
" Did you ever know Ned Meredith ? " 
" I think not." 
Kathie started in quick surprise at the name. 
" The poor fellow had a hard time of it, was 
wounded and barely lived. A right pretty girl came 
on and married him, and I guess that pulled him 
through as much as anything. I took dinner witli 
them a few days ago, and they are as happy as bees 
in clover. There were some brave little women as 
well. So you have a taste for romances ? " and he 
smiled over at Kathie again. 
" It was all reality to me, to us," she said. " My 
uncle was there at the time, and Mrs. Meredith is a 
very dear friend." 
 
" Oh ! " and he studied her again. " I think I re- 
member you by a picture. Isn't it Kathie Alston ? 
and was not your uncle a Mr. Conover? Why, I 
feel quite well acquainted. 
Kathie listened to the story of the marriage again, 
and some incidents of coolness and bravery on Mr. 
Meredith's part that somehow touched her heart and 
made her feel prouder than ever of him. 
At Trenton the new friends shook hands and 
parted. 
" It is beginning to snow," said Mr. Winterdyne. 
" Are you comfortable ? would you like to look over 
any of these books ? " 
Presently they reached Philadelphia, and Kathie 
was very much interested in the strange sights. Mr. 
Winterdyne took her out on the platform a few mo- 
ments, for a little rest and a breath of fresh air, he 
said. Then they whirled on and on again, but the 
snow seemed to gain and the wind blew it in eddy- 
ing gusts. It spoiled the prospect, as they could see 
nothing beyond dim outlines. 
Kathie read a little, for she did not wish to annov 
her kind escort by claiming too much of his attention. 
The motion of the cars and the silence made her quite 
drowsy, and she could not help nodding. 
 
It was rather late when they reached their desti- 
nation, owing to the unavoidable delay of the storm. 
Kathie felt somewhat frightened amid the din and 
hurry and strange faces that stared at her at every 
turn. Mr. Winterdyne pushed his way through the 
crowd, anxiously looking for his friend. 
" Ah, here you are ! ' exclaimed a familiar voice. 
" My dear Kathie ! " 
The clasp and the smile were so fervent that they 
at once restored her spirits, for she was beginning to 
feel homesick. General Mackenzie drew her close 
with sheltering tenderness. 
" I have a carriage in waiting. Won't you come 
home with us, Winterdyne, and take a cup of tea ? 
I am more than obliged for all your kindness. It 
has been a dreary day for a journey." 
" Thank you, but I am late now to meet an engage- 
ment. Miss Kathie proved a very agreeable travel- 
ling companion, and I am happy to have done you 
ever so slight a service. Good night. I expect to 
see you both again." 
They soon rattled homeward. It was so delightful 
to be in a warm, cheerful room and have dear Aunt 
Euth's kisses of welcome, to slip out of her water- 
 
proof and lay aside her hat. She felt stiff and 
cramped, to be sure, but a few hours would rest 
her, and by morning she would be her olden self. 
It seemed, somehow, as if Aunt Ruth had changed. 
She was quite a stately lady, indeed, and looked very 
stylish in her black silk that trailed around her slen- 
der figure, and the soft lace at her neck and wrists. 
But the dear face was as sweet as ever. 
" O Aunt Euth," Kathie exclaimed, " have you been 
very, very happy ? You look so." 
" Of course she has, my little girl. Did you think 
an old gray-beard like me had lost the art of mak- 
ing people satisfied and content ? Why, I dare say I 
shall charm you so that you will never want to go 
back to Cedarwood. You don't half know how dan- 
gerous I am." 
Kathie laughed genially. How proud Aunt Euth 
must be of him, so manly and tender, and to have 
him all for her own ! 
" But you must not be starved, little Kathie," he 
said, ringing the bell. " Eailroad fare is not the most 
satisfactory of all feasting. We will have a cosey 
little tea to ourselves." 
Aunt Euth emptied the side-table and spread a 
 
snowy cloth over it. In a few moments the servant 
entered with a tray and arranged a dainty meal. 
Aunt Ruth poured the tea, and the General tempted 
Kathie with every delicacy, taking a taste himself to 
assure her that it was as good as it looked. They 
talked of the dear ones at Cedarwood, of letters and 
pleasures and kind remembrances, until Kathie began 
to feel weary and sleepy. 
Aunt Ruth had to make her a bed in the sitting- 
room, but the sofa was roomy, and fenced in with 
chairs to keep the blankets from slipping. 
" I thought you would feel more at home here with 
me in the next room, than in one of the distant 
chambers by yourself." 
" I shouldn't want to go very far from you in this 
strange country," said Kathie, with her good-night 
kiss.
 
CHAPTEE III. 
HOLIDAY JOYS. 
KATHIE'S feelings for the first few days reminded 
her of her early visit to New York. There were so 
many strange sights and strange faces, ladies talking 
to her upon the one hand and gentlemen upon the 
other. She understood quickly how General Mac- 
kenzie was loved and honored. No wonder Ada had 
felt so proud of his notice that first evening at the 
opera. How had she been so fearless ? 
She did not know that it was her own simple, 
truthful heart, so much sweeter and more attractive 
;haii all the world-polish that one can put on. For, 
although there may be much gilding and furbishing 
up and dazzling show that loudly demand the at- 
tention of passers by, the quieter grace and love- 
liness are not altogether forgotten. When the whole 
mass of mineral is crushed and fused, and the baser 
metals find their kindred attractions, a little quick- 
silver, you know, takes hold of the gold that has lain 
quietly amid all the smoke and bubbling, patiently 
biding its time. 
There was so much going and so much sight-seeing 
that Kathie declared her brain was like a rubbish 
room, and that it would take weeks to get it into 
order. There were the country's palaces and halls, 
which, lacking the storied beauty of London and 
Paris, had still some brave and touching associations 
of their own. To her inexperienced eyes they were 
still magnificent. 
A dozen times a day she said, " If Eob were only 
here," especially when they were going through the 
Treasury Department. General Mackenzie was the 
most charming guide imaginable. He seemed to 
know the history of everything, even that of many 
curiosities in the Patent Office, which somehow inter- 
ested Kathie wonderfully. But she liked best of all 
to linger in the rotunda of the capitol. The great 
dome so high above her, the panels with their pic- 
tures, always chained her with a peculiar charm. 
There was the " Landing of the Pilgrims," with beau- 
tiful Eose Standish listening with wondering girlish- 
ness to the hoary patriarch giving thanks for the safe 
 
ending of their perilous journey. How odd it seemed 
to think of now as only a few days' sail ! 
And there was the White House with its sturdy 
President. But Kathie couldn't help thinking of 
the other one, called to lay down his life for his 
country's sake just as the morn of peace had begun 
to dawn. And all the place seemed sacred to her for 
the many precious souls of heroes and martyrs who 
had risen up in the hour of need and done their duty 
nobly. 
There was a gay holiday side to it as well. To be 
sure, a great many of the members had gone to rejoin 
their families, but the streets were still thronged. 
The storm was succeeded by several bright, sunshiny 
days and a milder atmosphere. General Mackenzie 
drove to all the points of interest outside of Wash- 
ington, and described the appearance of it when it 
was a grand camping-ground bristling with tents 
and hospitals. 
Mr. Winterdyne did not forget Kathie, but looked 
in upon her several times, once bringing her some 
exquisite hot-house flowers. Then she went out to a 
number of grand dinners with Aunt Ruth and the 
General, and altogether it was quite a gala time. 
 
 
" Now you must see it in summer," General Mac- 
kenzie said. " Some time we will make another pil- 
grimage." 
The visit seemed both long and short to Kathie. 
The time had passed rapidly and every sense had 
been crowded to repletion, and yet it was only a 
night or two ago that Mr. Winterdyne had handed 
her out of the dimly lighted cars to her uncle's cordial 
welcome. Now she was being handed in again. 
The homeward journey was much more pleasant. 
No snowy shroud draped towns and villages and 
rivers. The crisp, keen air was wonderfully clear, 
and every distant tree or hill was outlined against 
the blue sky as if painted there. 
They spent the night in Philadelphia, to Kathie's 
great delight, and took the following morning to 
ramble round, not arriving at Mr. Meredith's until 
dusk of the next day. 
Jessie welcomed them both with smiles and kisses. 
" We thought you were never coming," she said. 
'* We had quite a little feast yesterday in honor of 
you, but to-day it inclines to fragments." 
" And I have been altogether superseded," declared 
Mr. Meredith. " The stars and bars and titles have 
won your heart, Kathie." 
 
" No, it isn't that " ; with an ingenuous blush. 
" And we talked of you while in Washington, and all 
the old times ; and O, I met a friend of yours when I 
went on, a Mr. Miller, who was present at your marriage." 
" Yes, he was here a few evenings since and told 
us. Kathie, you are quite a heroine." 
" I don't know what for," she said, simply. 
Mr. Meredith could have answered easily, but he 
did not wish to disturb the soft bloom of the peach 
before its midsummer ripening. It was her sweet 
unconsciousness of self, the bright, ready grace in 
ministering, that gave a beauty to the trifles of her 
daily life, and the spiritual correspondence back of 
it all. 
" And you have had a nice time ? " 
"It has been more than nice," returned Kathie; 
" delightful, and just crowded full of enjoyment." 
" Let them come up stairs and take off their wrap- 
pings," said matronly Jessie. " And Edward, if you 
will just call to Bridget, so that she can have things 
ready." 
Mr. Meredith made a most ridiculous face, as if to 
Kathie's sympathy. 
Jessie ran lightly up the stairs. The front room 
was a guest-chamber par excellence, and the folding- 
doors between this and her own room were thrown 
open. They looked so neat and pretty, with carpets 
of a soft rose-color and drab, and all the toilet mats 
embroidered with the same shades. The white cur- 
tains at the windows were plain muslin, with a bit 
of rose-color in the hems, while the ground-glass 
vases and scent-bottles were in purest white as well. 
" Why, it looks like a fairy palace," declared Ka- 
thie. " And O, here are some flowers ! " 
"You wouldn't believe what a pretty conservatory 
I have down in the back parlor. I could not give up 
every nook to furniture. And here is my sewing- 
room.' 
A little nest off of Jessie's apartment, just as cosey 
as it could be, with a pretty willow workstand and a 
sewing-machine. There were some brackets and pic- 
tures against the walls, the latter Jessie's handiwork. 
Aunt Ruth and Kathie had to inspect and admire 
everything. And here was another tiny vase of 
flowers. 
" I don't wart to fall into the mistake of putting 
every pretty article in iny parlor for chance visitors 
 
to inspect. I desire little bits of beauty for myself; 
and as I sit and sew here, and listen to birdie singing 
or see a stray flower blossom, I feel as if life was an 
every-day glory, and not detached fragments of pleas- 
ure that you have hard work to piece together, and 
are in a continual fever lest the joinings will show." 
" You are taking it up in the right way," said Aunt 
Ruth, with her sweet smile. " If we could all come 
to understand that the interior part of life, holding 
home and love, was so much more satisfying than 
outside show." 
" Are you never coming down ? The General and 
I are half starved to death. We shall have to reor- 
ganize the regiment and appoint a new quarter- 
master." 
They all marched down to the front basement, 
which served as dining-room. And even here Jes- 
sie's cunning hand was plainly visible. Bridget was 
quiet and tidy, and though her serving might not 
have had the grace of a French waiter, it was more 
lady-like than one might expect from a coarse-handed 
emigrant who had run wild and lived in the fields. 
The journey and its wonders had to be told over, 
and Kathie's thorough delight made it very enter 
 
taining. They sat a long while over their dessert, tor 
there seemed no hurry, as is often the case. 
" I have at last persuaded Bridget to eat her dinner 
as soon as she brings on the dessert. Sometimes she 
even goes so far as to wash up the dishes when we 
have company, and now she thinks it so much nicer 
than dawdling and hanging about," Jessie said to 
Aunt Euth. 
" Have you had much trouble ? " 
Jessie laughed. " Bridget gave me notice at the 
end of the first fortnight. She had never lived in a 
house where there wasn't a chambermaid, and she 
couldn't do so much work ; but I believe she thinks 
now that there is very little to do." 
" Jessie will soon be qualified to write ' What I 
know about Housekeeping, ' said Mr. Meredith, 
laughingly. 
"It will be very much needed," returned Aunt 
Euth. 
The gentlemen stayed down to smoke a little 
while, and Jessie took her guests back to the parlor. 
Kathie was tired and sleepy, and laid her hea<i in 
Aunt Euth's lap while the two ladies talked, "n- 
deed, she was really glad to go to bed. 
 
They spent most of the next day resting up. Mr. 
Meredith came home early and took them to the 
Park for a drive, and then went out with the Gen- 
eral in the evening. 
" I wish you would tell me about Ada," Kathie 
said. " I should like to go and call upon her if " 
" If what ? " Jessie asked, curiously. 
" If she would like it." 
" I think she would feel a good deal hurt if you 
did not. I am very sorry to see Ada take her re- 
verse of fortune in so sore and hard a manner." 
" But it must be a very sad thing." 
" It is, indeed. It would be exceedingly trying to 
me, and I am not so dependent upon outside sur- 
roundings. But Ada refuses utterly to be comforted. 
She will not even accept the pleasures she might 
have. She does not exert herself to make home 
happy, and persuades herself that she is cut off from 
everything beyond." 
" But what does she do ? " asked Kathie. 
" She reads a little, practises her music some, and 
spends a good deal of her time in crying. You see, 
nothing really interests her. She had expected to 
devote her whole winter to dressing and society. It 
is a great pity that she went to Saratoga last summer." 
"Her friends haven't all given her up! That 
would be too cruel." 
" I dare say there are many who would still be 
cordial, but she is very proud. I am not sure, Ka- 
thie, that learning to take is not just as necessary a 
lesson in this world as learning to give. To accept 
the pleasures friends are willing to put in our way, 
even if we cannot return in kind." 
" Yes,' Kathie said, thinking it over. " It makes 
you feel so happy when a person accepts anything 
cordially." 
" She is pale and thin and nervous to the last de- 
gree. Edward begged her to come up here for a visit, 
and took us both to a concert ; but she would not 
stay, and, if she had, I should have been puzzled how 
to entertain her. She has not the slightest resource, 
and will not make any effort. Mrs. Meredith has so 
much upon her hands that she cannot be looking 
after Ada as if she were a little child. What a pity 
to bring up a girl so entirely helpless ! ' 
" Don't you suppose that Mr. Meredith will be rich 
again some day ? " Kathie asked. 
 
" It will be years before they can go back again 
to the old style. Ada will be a faded invalid, good 
for nothing at all, unless she rallies soon. O Kathie, 
I am thankful every day for the full, fresh, country 
life I have had, and I do believe I enjoy all manner 
of refined pleasures with as great a zest as any one. 
Why, I went to a magnificent party on Christmas 
eve a grand Fifth Avenue affair, - - and felt won- 
derfully at home, even if I had not been polished by 
Saratoga." 
Kathie laughed gayly at that. 
" The Merediths were invited as well, but Mrs. 
Meredith said they could not return anything of the 
kind, so they would not go. It was a very dear 
friend of Edward's, and he would not hear of our 
declining." 
" But you liked it." 
" Yes, a good deal, as one likes a curious entertain- 
ment. There was a great crowd, and every now and 
then some lovely train was stepped on and half ru- 
ined. There were flowers and pictures and an elegant 
supper, with one of the finest bands in the city for 
music. The ladies talked languidly, danced languid- 
ly, walked about as if they were half tired to death. 
 
With all the beauty there was nothing fresh and stir- 
ring that took hold of your heart and made you feel 
as if you had had a good time. I was glad to get out 
without damaging my beautiful dress that Edward 
made me spend over two hundred dollars upon." 
" Oh ! " exclaimed Kathie, with a long breath. 
" And that was absolutely nothing in the way of 
cost. I really don't think it paid, except that I have 
the dress. But last week we were invited to the 
same house to a small dinner. There were eleven 
guests, very charming, educated people. One lady 
sang in the most exquisite manner, and another read. 
I had for cavalier a gentleman fresh from China, who 
entertained me delightfully, and I felt afterward as 
if I had actually been somewhere." 
Kathie's eyes kindled at this. 
" So I have resolved in my life to have all the real 
enjoyment that I can. The shams and make-believes 
I shall let go." 
" But I thought they used to be very happy at 
Mrs. Meredith's." 
" So they did. Their pleasures were very expen- 
sive, though, and now all plainer ones look common. 
But if you would like to go, perhaps you had better 
 
get ready, and I will take you. Afterward we can 
ramble around and look at some pictures." 
Aunt Euth did not mind being left at home, so 
Jessie and her guest started out, taking the horse-cars 
for some distance. 
" The house is very pretty," said Kathie, ascending 
the high stone stoop. It didn't look as if they were 
very much reduced. 
Inside Kathie recognized some of the old furniture 
and pictures, though she missed the elegance of the 
other drawing-room. Mrs. Meredith came in rather 
flurried, but handsome in attire. 
" O Miss Kathie," she exclaimed, cordially, " how 
do you do ? Why, this is quite a surprise. How 
glad Ada will be to see you. I will send up word to 
her immediately." 
Katy was a long time in answering and a long 
time in doing her errand. And in the mean while 
Mrs. Meredith had gone through with some of her 
troubles. Florence had been sick all night with 
croup, the water-pipes had burst, they had been 
without a cook three days, and now had a misera- 
ble specimen, and the heater was so poor that you 
must either freeze up stairs or down stairs. 
 
" I have never been accustomed to such inefficient 
help,' she said, loftily. " First-class girls will not go 
out for low wages, but I begin to think thirty dollars 
a month would be cheaper for a good cook than twelve 
for a poor one." 
The door was opened slightly. 
" Would Miss Alston please to walk up stairs ? 
Miss Ada had a headache, and couldn't come down." 
" Katy, how many times have I told you not to 
open a door without knocking ! " exclaimed Mrs. 
Meredith, angrily. " You never can beat anything 
into their stupid brains." 
Indignant Katy slammed the door in much the 
same temper as her mistress. Then she was sum- 
moned again, and commanded to show the visitor to 
Miss Ada's room. 
She only went as far as the nursery door. " It is 
the front room up stairs," she said, sullenly. 
Kathie found it by herself, and tapped lightly. 
" Come," answered a faint voice. 
Kathie entered the room like a radiant little pic- 
ture. Her wine-colored suit, ermine muff and tippet, 
and white felt hat trimmed with velvet and feather 
the shade of her dress, were indescribably pretty and 
 
becoming. Her loose light curls were gathered in a 
knot at the back, with a few stray shorter ones around 
her face. Her eyes were bright, her cheeks blooming 
with a soft, peachy tint, and her skin pearly clear. 
A very pretty girl indeed ; but sweetest of all was 
the earnest, tender, soulful expression. Yet Ada was 
absolutely filled with envy, glad as she was to see 
her. 
The furniture and appointments of the room were 
pretty enough, but it had a comfortless look. The 
remnant of yesterday's fire was in the grate, while 
the fender was filled with ashes and bits of torn 
paper. The closet door was open, betraying the dis- 
order within. Over the cushioned easy-chair was 
thrown yesterday's dress and skirt, and at a little 
distance stood her walking-boots. The top of the 
bureau was in the utmost disorder. Collars, hand- 
kerchiefs, ribbons, and a plate of breakfast fragments, 
while from the side of the glass depended a net, a 
braid of hair, and two straggling, fuzzy curls. How 
different from the elegance in which Ada used to 
pride herself ! 
The girls kissed in unaffected cordiality. Kathie's 
generous heart was full of tenderest pity, the noble 
 
kind that wounds not by pretentious showing, and 
anything so warm and bright seemed grateful to Ada 
just then. 
" I am sorry to find you ill," Kathie said, gently. 
" I have such wretched headaches ! And the house 
has been as cold as a barn all the morning. Katy 
has not found time to make up my fire yet, nor put 
my room in order. How dreadful it looks ! Can you 
find a chair ? ' : Ada was wrapped in a shawl and 
pillowed up in bed. She glanced around in dismay. 
" Never mind," returned Kathie, pleasantly. " I 
am used to helping myself." 
" How well you do look ! It isn't strictly aristo- 
cratic to have so much color, but it brightens up a 
chilly day like this. And I feel so miserable ! 
Kathie, you don't know what it is to be poor and to 
be deprived of all your comforts." 
" Yes, I do," said Kathie, consolingly. " We were 
poor once, you know." "Much poorer than this," 
she felt like adding. 
" But you had never been rich. You could not 
miss the ease and luxury as you would now." 
" Mamma had," was her quiet response. 
" I am sure I don't know what people do. I can- 
 
not do anything. I went out to walk a little yester- 
day afternoon, but it tired me so. I haven't a bit 
of strength. If this forlorn winter were only over ! 
You have been to Washington, haven't you ? ' 
" Yes." Kathie was thinking it had been a very 
charming winter. 
" And your Aunt Euth is married. I did not sup- 
pose she ever would be. General Mackenzie is really 
your uncle. Did he introduce you to the elegant 
people he knows ? But I forgot you are not in 
society," with an air that only Ada could have used. 
" We went everywhere almost ; and I saw gen- 
erals and senators and beautiful ladies and the Presi- 
dent, and such hosts of things." 
" What a pity your Aunt Euth is lame ! " Ada said, 
by way of bringing a skeleton to the feast. 
" It isn't much. It scarcely shows now. And she 
has grown so lovely." It came out involuntarily, 
and Kathie colored warmly. 
"Society does so much for one," returned Ada, 
with womanly assumption. "And it was so hard 
for me to give it up just when I had begun. I had 
such lovely times last summer. dear ! ' Ada 
wiped away a few tears. 
 
" I can never tell you how sorry I was ! " and 
Katliie gathered Ada in her arms, kissing the pale 
cheek 
" It was a terrible blow. In another year I should 
have been married, but now it has ruined everything. 
I feel sometimes as if I didn't care to live." 
Kathie studied her in astonishment. " But you 
have your mother and father and - 
" As if troublesome children could do any one any 
good ! " she exclaimed, pettishly. " Mamma has her 
hands full, and papa never has time for anything. 
Sometimes I do not see him for days together. Now 
and then some of the girls I used to like drop in, but 
they are always full of their own enjoyments. You 
see it would not have been so bad if I had actually 
been in society. I should have gone on having some 
nice invitations. But no one will ever hear about 
me now." 
Kathie was sadly perplexed. How could she com- 
fort Ada ? " But there are a great many pleasant 
things," she began again, slowly. "You have your 
piano, and you used to be so fond of singing." 
" I can't sing to myself, --at least there is no enjoy- 
ment in that. I didn't think I should ever want to 
 
change places with you, Kathie Alston ; but I believe 
I would be glad to now." 
" It may all come back," exclaimed Kathie, brightly. 
" I shall be old, and people won't like me then. I 
dare say I shall be an old maid." 
Worrying about that when one was only sixteen 
was rather ludicrous, Kathie thought. 
Presently Jessie came up. Did not Kathie want to 
go with her to call upon Dr. Markham ? 
" I suppose it will be a good deal pleasanter than 
staying here," said Ada. 
" And if you will come and spend to-morrow with 
us we shall be glad. If you cannot stay all night, 
Uncle Edward shall bring you home in the evening." 
After a deal of fidgeting and consideration Ada 
partly consented; if it was not too cold, and if her 
head did not ache. So Kathie uttered a rather sad 
good-by. 
 
CHAPTER IV. 
GLIMPSES OF GOLD AND GLIMPSES OF GRAY. 
" I AM glad you thought of Dr. Markham," said 
Kathie, as they were once more in the street. 
" Had you forgotten him ? ' 
" no. But I do not believe that I should have 
remembered him at this particular moment, and I am 
very happy to do it." 
Her bright smile confessed the truth. 
" Mrs. Meredith wanted me to stay to lunch, but I 
thought it best not. Isn't it odd that somehow I 
cannot feel as if she were my sister by law even, 
