
"Yes, sir. I thought Moscow was on the Volga, but Beckwith said it was
not," replied De Forrest.

"I knew it was not, and told him so," protested Beckwith.

"But still you went with him?"

"The captain spoke English a little, and told us we could take the
train to Moscow. We didn't like to wait in that station till five
o'clock the next morning."

"A train left Tver at about eleven that forenoon, and I supposed, if
you were left, that you would come down in that."

"We didn't know it."

At this moment Captain Ekovetz came into the office, and through him
it was ascertained that the runaways were captured while they were
going on board of a steamer about to start for Kazan, and had their
tickets, for which the police compelled the seller to refund the
money. De Forrest attempted to explain, but his statement was rather
improbable--quite as much so as the rest of his story.

"How long have you been here?" inquired the doctor.

"Three days, sir."

"As prisoners?"

"We staid at the Hotel Odessa, but the police and the servants watched
us all the time."

"This isn't a good country to run away in," laughed the doctor.

"We had no idea of running away, sir."

"Getting left is about the same thing. But we will move on, for we have
not much time to spare."

Droskies were taken, and the captain directed them to drive to Minin's
Tower. It is on a bluff, where the old town stood, including a part of
the Kremlin, and commands a fine view of the river and the fairgrounds,
on the tongue of land between the Volga and the Oka. The party entered
the Cathedral of the Transformation, where Minin is buried.

"Who was Minin?" asked Lincoln, as they stood by the obelisk erected to
his memory.

"You remember Mr. Mapps told you about the false Dimitris, and that,
in the confusion and anarchy brought about by them, the crown was
offered to Vladislas, son of the King of Poland, for the Poles were
really the masters of the country. The Russians had been beaten by
them in many battles, for the former had no suitable leader. When
everything seemed to be lost, Kosma Minin, a butcher of this town,
obscure and uneducated, but possessed of good judgment, brave, honest,
and unselfish, roused his fellow-citizens to a sense of their peril.
His words and his example induced the people to take up arms, and
appropriate all their fortunes for the deliverance of the nation from
its oppressors. This spirit of patriotic devotion extended to other
places, and Prince Pojarski, was soon able to take the field at the
head of a large force. Minin seconded all the efforts of the prince,
and by this sudden uprising the Poles were driven from the country.
The movement was followed by the election to the throne of Michael
Romanoff. The bronze statues which you saw in Moscow, opposite the
bazaar, represents Minin urging Pojarski to deliver Moscow from the
Poles."

The tourists returned to the droskies, and the doctor directed his
driver by pointing in the direction of the fair grounds.

"This does not look much as it does during the fair," said the surgeon,
as they drove across the bridge of boats. "The rivers are crowded
with boats of every description, from all parts of the vast empire.
The Oka here is literally filled with them, so that there is hardly a
channel for the passage of others. These craft are quite a study, for
they comprise an immense variety, and it is said that the floating
population of this vicinity during the fair is about fifty thousand.
This bridge is quite as crowded as London Bridge during business hours,
and mounted Cossacks are stationed upon it to keep it from being
obstructed. These soldiers are also on duty in the crowded streets, to
preserve order. The mud here is sometimes a foot deep--at least it was
when I visited the fair several years ago. Even the paved streets are
ploughed and furrowed by the wheels of heavily-loaded vehicles."

"It is a hard road to travel now," added Lincoln; for the vehicle
jolted so that it was not easy for the passengers to keep their seats.

"Most of the goods for the fair come in boats, and have to be hauled to
the shops in wagons, making bad work of the roads. When not muddy, it
is very dusty."

The party entered the grounds of the fair, the doctor instructing
his driver by signs. The entire space between the Volga and the Oka
is laid out in streets and squares. There are ten miles of wharf on
the two rivers. There are about four hundred steamers on the Volga,
many of which were built in England, Belgium, and other countries,
and have been brought to the river through the various canals, or in
pieces, and put together again; but Russia can build her own steamers
now. The streets are lined with shops, most of the buildings being
of brick, a few of stone. Some of the open spaces are covered with
booths and tents. The stores are generally quite small, not more than
twenty by fifteen feet. In the rear of them are living-apartments for
the merchants and their employees. In the centre of the fair are the
headquarters of the governor; but the ground floor of the building is
devoted to a bazaar for the sale of fancy articles and manufactured
goods, and a band of music usually plays here. Concerts are also given
in the square by a military band. Near the official residence are
theatres and exhibitions of every description.

The Great Fair is the harvest time of beggars, and thousands of them
visit it, some of them coming from great distances. The lame, the halt,
and the blind come, and very many of them are impostors, who pretend to
have bodily ailments, or who have produced sores on their persons by
artificial means, to excite the sympathies of the benevolent.

The number of persons in attendance on the fair is estimated by the
amount of bread consumed, and the bakers are required to make daily
returns to the governor of the quantity sold. By this means it is
ascertained that the fair is visited, during the season of eight weeks,
by from one hundred and fifty thousand to three hundred thousand
persons. The amount of business transacted by sale and purchase, is
about one hundred million dollars.

There is as much variety in the shops as in different parts of a
large city. Certain sections are devoted to the wholesale trade, and
others to the retail. Many of the shops are filled with large bundles
and bales, while others glisten with ornamental articles. Some of
the avenues hardly differ in appearance from Broadway in New York,
except in the uniformity of the buildings. The windows are filled with
displays of jewelry, fancy goods, toys, dry goods, clocks, and watches,
furs, silks, and, indeed, everything that one would see in a great
city. Some shops are devoted exclusively to furs, and the assortment
is large and fine. Dried fish is a great article of commerce here. The
value of the sturgeon fisheries on the Volga is estimated at two and
a half million rubles, while thirty thousand casks of caviar have
been sent up from Astrakhan in one year. The productions of Asia are
largely represented at the fair, the most important of which is the
tea of China. The Chinese quarter is fitted up in Celestial style,
with verandas and pagodas; but very few Chinese attend the fair of
late years. Fifteen million pounds of the finest tea are brought into
Russia, most of it to this bazaar. It is transported to Perm by boats,
sledges, and camels, and thence by the Kama and Volga to Nijni.

Along the rivers are the coarser articles of merchandise--iron
in bars and sheets, and manufactured into kettles and household
utensils, millstones, vast quantities of wheat, rolls of leather from
Kazan, boxes of candles from Asia, copper and platinum from the Ural
Mountains, and bells of all sizes, hung so that their tone can be
tested.

Perhaps the most interesting feature of the fair to an American or
Englishman is the people that gather there, especially the Asiatics.
But the variety is by no means as great as the visitor will expect to
find after reading the descriptions of them which have been published.
There are plenty of Persians and Tartars in full costume, the former
with knives and pistols in their belts, placed there for ornament
rather than use. A few grave Chinamen may also be seen; but the great
majority of the people are Russians. Unless one wishes to make it study
of it, a few hours are enough to enable the stranger to see the fair.

A canal extends through the ground, as a protection against fire,
and no smoking is allowed in the streets, on penalty of twenty-five
rubles, and the rule is enforced by the Cossacks on duty. Under the
streets there is a system of sewers for the draining of the land and
the carrying off of refuse matter. A stream of water is made to flow
through them several times a day, to remove the deposits there. In
the streets there are, at regular intervals, small white towers over
staircases to descend into the sewers, where are small apartments for
men, in which alone they are allowed to smoke. These improvements have
cost large sums of money, and the merchants are taxed to the amount of
forty thousand dollars a year to pay the expenses.

The tourists drove through the principal avenues of the deserted
grounds, and the doctor told them what he had seen there during his
former visit when the fair was held. During the ride De Forrest and
Beckwith were not much interested in the sights to be seen, or in the
descriptions of the surgeon. They realized that the explanation of
their absence was not accepted by the surgeon, and probably would not
be better received by the principal.

"We have made a mess of it," said Beckwith. "I didn't believe in the
scrape at all."

"You wouldn't have come with me, if you had not," replied the purser.

"We haven't been to Kazan, or down the Volga, and we haven't even seen
Moscow, as the rest of the fellows have."

"We are going there to-night."

"Yes; but we leave in two or three hours after we arrive. We shall go
on board at Cronstadt, and not be allowed any liberty again. That's all
we shall make by running away."

"Perhaps not. You may go back to the ship, but I shall not," replied De
Forrest, doggedly.

"What will you do?"

"I told you what I wouldn't do, and that is just the same as telling
you what I will do. As you seem to be dissatisfied with what you have
done, you can do as you please," growled the purser.

"I don't think we have made anything so far by the course we have
taken," added Beckwith.

"Of course we haven't; we were tripped up."

"We may be tripped up again. These Russian policemen don't make
anything of stopping a fellow."

"We ran right into a trap here in Nijni. The doctor and his party got
here before we did, and were looking for us. We shall do well enough if
we take another track."

"But where do you mean to go?"

"If you are going to back out, I won't say anything about it."

"I'm not going to back out. I will go with you to the end of the earth."

"All right. That sounds like something. We will go right through from
Moscow to Warsaw. You know that German Cours-Buch we found at the
hotel yesterday?"

"Yes; but I couldn't make anything of it."

"I laid out a route, and wrote it down on a piece of paper."

"But how will you get away? The doctor will keep watch of us all the
time now," suggested Beckwith. "Besides, the other divisions of the
squadron are coming to Moscow, and the principal may be there by the
time we arrive."

"No matter if he is; we can easily manage it. You follow my lead, and I
will bring you out all right."

By this time the droskies arrived at the railroad station, where
the travellers dined, and obtained their tickets for Moscow. As the
students paid their own fare, they were permitted to take first or
second class cars, as they preferred. Following the example of the
surgeon, most of them went first class, and when they came to take
their seats it was found that only Scott and Beckwith had elected to go
by the second class. There were very few passengers, and as the doctor
gave the conductor a ruble, he disposed of the party so that there were
only two or three in a compartment, which afforded them plenty of room
to lie down and sleep. As a specimen of the Russian letter, we give a
copy of the surgeon's ticket:--

  [Illustration]

It is translated:

       Nijni Novgorod.
          Moscow.
  1st Class      12 R. 30 C.

The train arrived at Moscow at nine the next morning, and the tourists
went to the Hotel de Hambourg. The third division of the squadron had
come, and the second was to leave that day. Mr. Lowington and Mr.
Fluxion were both at the hotel, and as soon as De Forrest saw the
doctor shaking hands with the principal, he decided that he would not
wait to be introduced to him. Nodding to Beckwith, he led the way
through one of the long halls of the hotel, and found a staircase which
led down to an arch under the house. On the other side of it was the
dining room, which they entered. This room was on the ground floor,
and the windows were open. No one was in sight, and they stepped out
through one of them into the street.

  [Illustration: MOSCOW PHOTOGRAPHS.

                 1. DROSKY DRIVER.
                 2. THE METROPOLITAN OF MOSCOW.
                 3. TOWER OF IVAN VILLIKOF.
                 4. CATHEDRAL OF ST. BASIL.]

"Where are you going, De Forrest?" asked Beckwith, nervously.

"I thought we had better keep out of the principal's sight," replied
the purser, as he led the way up the Rue Lubianka. "Here is another
hotel," he added, as they came to the corner on which is the house kept
by Mr. Billot.

"But we can't do anything here, without a word of the language."

"We will go into the hotel;" and De Forrest entered, followed by his
companion.

"Good morning, young gentlemen," said the proprietor, in good English.

"Good morning, sir," replied De Forrest; "can you give us a room?"

"O yes."

"And send breakfast to the room?"

"Certainly."

"That suits our case," said De Forrest; and a servant was sent up
stairs with them.

The apartment to which they were shown was on the second floor, with
windows opening into the Rue Lubianka, so that the runaways could
observe the movements of the party. Presently the landlord called to
see them, and asked if the room suited them. Then he inquired who and
what all the young men in uniform were whom he had seen during the past
week, and De Forrest explained the whole matter to his satisfaction.

"But why don't they come to my hotel?" asked Mr. Billot.

"I don't know, sir; it must have been a mistake on the part of the
principal."

"A very great mistake," added the landlord, laughing.

"We preferred to come here, but very likely the principal will blame us
for it; so, if you please, don't mention to any one that we are here."

"I will not."

"Thank you."

The landlord was vexed to have his house passed by, and, afraid that he
should lose his two customers if he mentioned them, he was content to
keep still. Breakfast was sent up to the runaways, at an extra charge.
They staid in their room all day, not daring to leave it lest they
should be seen by some of their shipmates. If they had been condemned
to such an imprisonment on board of the ship, even for running away,
they would have called it tyranny. They looked through the apertures at
the sides of the curtains, and saw the second division depart for St.
Petersburg, and the third starting for the Kremlin. They dined in their
room at five, and at half past eight in the evening, when the party
at the other hotel had gone to the Petrofski Gardens, they paid their
bill, and took a drosky for the Kief Railway station. The lady who sold
the tickets spoke French, so that they had no difficulty there. At noon
the next day they arrived at Orel, from which they departed at half
past one for Dunaburg, on the line from St. Petersburg to Warsaw. They
reached this town at six o'clock on the evening of the next day, and
were obliged to wait till two o'clock the next morning for a train, by
which they proceeded to Warsaw. They had been three days on the road,
and had slept three nights on the train, travelling eleven hundred
miles, and paying fifty rubles each for the fares, besides six more
for meals. They were tired out, and utterly disgusted with railroad
travelling. Taking a carriage at Praga, a suburb of Warsaw, where the
station is located, they crossed the high bridge over the Vistula, and
were left at the Hotel de l'Europe. They were shown to a room twenty
feet square, for which the charge was two rubles a day.

In the restaurant on the lower floor, where the waiters spoke German
as well as Polish, they found themselves seated near a party who were
conversing in English. It consisted of a gentleman and two ladies, one
of the latter being but about seventeen years old. They were dressed
in black, and the younger was very pretty,--so pretty that De Forrest
could not help looking at her, as opportunity favored him. But the
young lady seemed as much inclined to look at the runaways, and their
eyes often met. The party spoke in a low tone, and were evidently
talking about the young officers. Presently the gentleman rose from his
chair and approached them.

"I beg your pardon," said he; "but I think we have met before."

"Indeed! I was not aware of it; though I am very glad to see any one
who speaks the English language," replied De Forrest.

"You belong to the school ship, if I mistake not. We went on board of
her at Christiansand; you had just arrived from America, and we had
come in the Orlando from Hull."

"Yes, sir; I remember that steamer, and the party that came on board
the ship."

"My name is Kinnaird."

"I am happy to see you, Mr. Kinnaird. My name is De Forrest, and my
friend is Mr. Beckwith."

"Now permit me to present you to the ladies, who were much interested
in your ship, and especially in her young officers," added the polite
gentleman, as he conducted them to the table his party had taken. "Mrs.
Kinnaird, my wife."

De Forrest and Beckwith made their best bows.

"Miss Julia Gurney, my wife's sister," added Mr. Kinnaird.

"I am delighted to make your acquaintance, Miss Gurney," answered De
Forrest, as he bowed to the pretty young lady.

"I was so pleased with the ship in which you sail, and the nice-looking
young officers, that I have been wishing I might meet them again," said
Miss Gurney.

For half an hour they talked about the ship and the other vessels, and
each party told where they had been.

"And you are one of those fine young officers," said the young lady,
suddenly, laughing her satisfaction as she spoke.

"I am," replied De Forrest, though he had some doubts on this point.

"And where is your ship now?"

"At Cronstadt. The squadron will go to Königsberg or Danzig next; then
to Stettin or Swinemünde. The students will make a trip to Berlin and
Dresden."

"O, then I shall see them again," exclaimed Miss Gurney. "But don't you
sail with the others?"

"Yes, yes; but you see we make journeys on shore. We all went to
Moscow, and some of us down the Volga to Kazan."

"How delightful! I wish I was a boy! If I were I would be a sailor, and
join your ship. It must be elegant?"

"O yes--yes; very," replied De Forrest, glancing at his shipmate, who
could hardly keep from laughing.

"I think I should like it so well, that I wouldn't go on shore. It is
so stupid to be dragged through all these old palaces, and churches,
and tombs, though I like to look at the pictures."

De Forrest was fascinated by the beauty and sprightliness of Miss
Gurney. Her innocence and simplicity imparted a candor to her speech
which pleased him, and, fatigued as he was, he was sorry to lose sight
of her when the party retired to their rooms. Then her image went with
him, and followed him into his dreams. He met her again in the morning,
and the runaways were invited to accompany the party to Villenoy,
and to see the sights of the capital of Poland. In a few days they
left for Bromberg, and though Beckwith protested, De Forrest insisted
upon accompanying them. Then he could not resist his inclination to
go with the party to Königsberg, where Mr. Kinnaird desired to see
a friend; but he hoped the squadron would not come there. It did
not go to Königsberg, because the water was not deep enough, but it
anchored at Pillau, the port of the city, twenty-six miles distant.
While the runaways were dining with their new friends at the Hôtel de
Prusse, feeling perfectly secure because they had heard nothing of
the squadron, the officers and students marched through the room to
another, where dinner had been prepared for them.

"O, I am so delighted to see them!" exclaimed Julia. "How glad you must
be, Mr. De Forrest!"

"Yes--yes--very glad," stammered the purser. "Will you excuse us for a
few moments? I want to speak to some of them."

"O, certainly! How delighted you must be!" chattered the pretty Miss
Gurney.

Before they had time to retire, the principal confronted them, and
prevented their escape.

  [Illustration: DE FORREST AND JULIA. PAGE 294.]




CHAPTER XVI.

SOMETHING ABOUT PRUSSIA AND GERMANY.


Dr. Winstock grasped the hand of the principal when they met in Moscow,
and briefly reported the incidents of his trip down the Volga, with the
little party.

"Of course you knew that De Forrest and Beckwith left us at Tver?"
added the doctor.

"Yes; Mr. Agneau informed me, and, poor man, he was very much worried
about the absentees," replied Mr. Lowington.

"I concluded they had gone down the Volga to Nijni. I asked the police
to detain them, and they did so. On my return from Kazan, I found them
in custody, and not at all satisfied with the results of their runaway
excursion. I brought them up with me, so that they are all right now.
They claimed to have been left by the train at Tver by accident."

"I suppose they tried that plan because they thought it succeeded in
Norway and Sweden; but I did not punish those because they made a full
confession, and seemed to be sorry for what they had done. Where are
the runaways?"

"They are here, sir. I saw them come into the hotel with the others."

The word was passed along for De Forrest and Beckwith, but they were
not there to answer. A dozen had seen them come into the house, and a
party who were standing at the door were sure they had not gone out.
They could not be found, and the doctor was even more chagrined than
the chaplain had been.

"Never mind, doctor; I shall not run after them. Running away has been
so common that I have ceased to worry about it," said the principal.
"They will come back when their money is all gone, if not before."

"Probably they intend to see Moscow," added the surgeon; "and they may
appear before the fourth division returns."

The Volga party returned to St. Petersburg with the second division,
and the next afternoon were on board of their vessel, attending to
their studies, for the students on board were kept at work, because it
is easier to be busy than to be idle.

On the 25th day of June, all hands had returned, having seen all of
Russia it was practicable to see, and the squadron went seaward, bound
for Königsberg. The officers below Beckwith and De Forrest were moved
up two grades, to fill the vacancies caused by the absence of the
runaways, and the two highest in rank in the steerage were sent into
the cabin. On the passage there were two examinations in seamanship, in
which Cantwell obtained very high marks. On the voyage, which lasted
four days,--for there was very little wind,--the captain performed his
duty to the entire satisfaction of the principal, and without being
obliged to ask for instructions.

On Tuesday afternoon the squadron anchored off Pillau, a town of four
thousand inhabitants, having a strong fortress at the entrance of the
Haff, a nearly landlocked bay, at the head of which Königsberg is
situated.

"All hands, attend lecture," called the boatswain, after breakfast the
next morning, and while the signal was flying on the ship.

The students gathered in the steerage, where the professor of geography
and history had hung up a map of Prussia on the foremast, which he had
colored to suit the occasion, so as to show the rapid enlargement of
the country by annexation.

"Young gentlemen," Mr. Mapps began, "Prussia is now one of the most
powerful states of Europe. We may say of her as of the United States,
'Westward the course of empire takes its way,' for Prussia had a
small beginning in the eastern part of its present territory, and now
extends westward beyond the Rhine. Contrary to my usual custom, I
shall commence with the history of the country. At the present time,
Prussia is divided into eleven provinces, the most eastern of which is
Prussia Proper--the part in which we now are. The region was originally
inhabited by the Lithuanians, who were conquered by the Goths. They
were compelled to embrace Christianity by the Poles in the eleventh
century; but the conquerors were soon repelled, and in their turn
defeated, the barbarians holding a part of Poland for a time. In the
thirteenth century they were the terror of the adjoining countries, and
repelled an army sent against them by Germany. The Teutonic Knights
finally conquered Prussia."

"What were they, sir?" asked a student.

"They were a powerful military order, formed during the crusades, who
fought for the Holy Sepulchre in Palestine. After the siege of Acre, a
charitable society for the care of the wounded and sick was organized
by the people of Lübec and Bremen, which was made into an order of
knighthood similar to the Templars. Only nobles were admitted to its
membership, and the Grand Master lived in Jerusalem at first, then in
Venice, and afterwards in Germany. After the crusades, they regarded
themselves as called to convert the heathen, which benignant work
they did, by first conquering the pagan territory. The order became
immensely rich and powerful, holding the territory from the Oder to the
Gulf of Finland, and deriving from it an immense revenue. They were
constantly at war with Poland, which, with their extravagant demands
upon the people, turned the nobility and the people against them. The
oppressed called upon the King of Poland for assistance, and a war of
twelve years followed, in which the order lost West Prussia, holding
the rest by paying tribute to the conquerors. The knights were deprived
of much of their power and wealth, though they still retained vast
possessions. The Grand Master became a kind of spiritual potentate
in Germany, and collected his revenues till 1805, when they went to
the Emperor of Austria. In 1809 Napoleon abolished the order, and its
territories reverted to the sovereigns in whose dominions they were
located.

"The nucleus of the present kingdom of Prussia was the margraviate of
Brandenburg, of which Berlin is near the centre. By the extinction of
the family of its ruler, it was inherited by Sigismond, Emperor of
Germany, who sold it to Frederick VI., Burgrave of Nuremburg, in 1417.
He was of the house of Hohenzollern, from which the present King of
Prussia is descended, and with the territory the electoral dignity was
conferred upon him. His successors ruled the electorate for over two
hundred years, one of whom signed the protest at Spires, from which the
Protestants obtained their name.

"Poland held Prussia after it had conquered the Teutonic Knights, and
in 1525 gave the sovereignty of the country to Albert of Brandenburg;
but it was not till 1656 that Prussia was declared independent by
treaty. In 1618 John Sigismund, Elector of Brandenburg, acquired the
Duchy of Prussia, in the right of his wife, who was the daughter of
Duke Albert II. By the Thirty Years' War the united country was reduced
to misery and desolation, when, in 1640, Frederick William, commonly
called the Great Elector, succeeded to the government. He annexed
considerable territory to his dominion, and added greatly to its power
and influence. His son Frederick, the third elector of that name,
by the consent of Leopold, Emperor of Germany, obtained by a bribe,
tendered through the imperial confessor, raised his domain into a
kingdom, and placed the crown upon his own head at Königsberg, in 1701,
taking the title of Frederick I. This was the origin of the kingdom of
Prussia. Frederick I. extended his domain, which has been the policy
of all his successors. He was succeeded by his son, Frederick William
I., who reigned twenty-seven years, and left a well-disciplined army,
and six millions of dollars in cash in the treasury, to enable his son
Frederick II. to commence business. This son was the renowned Frederick
the Great. He used his capital stock to the best advantage for himself,
wrested Silesia from Austria, and took part in the partition of
Poland. He reigned forty-six years, and at his death had increased his
territory from forty-eight thousand to seventy-seven thousand square
miles.

"Prussia now ranked as one of the great powers of Europe. Frederick
the Great left for his successor an army of two hundred and twenty
thousand men, and treasure to the value of fifty million dollars.
He was succeeded by his nephew, Frederick William II., in 1786, who
added forty thousand square miles to his kingdom by engaging in the
second and third partitions of Poland. In 1797 he was followed by his
son Frederick William III., who was the father of the present King
of Prussia. He lacked the decision necessary to carry his kingdom
safely through the troubles of his time. His armies were defeated by
Napoleon, and for six years the conqueror held him in subjection, and
deprived him of half his domain. The Prussian soldiers under Blucher,
however, took an important part in the overthrow of the Emperor of the
French, and in the Congress of Vienna, when the affairs of Europe were
readjusted, his territory was restored, and even increased, so that
the kingdom, at his death, consisted of one hundred and seven thousand
square miles. In 1840 he was followed by his son Frederick William IV.
In 1848 an insurrection broke out in Berlin, the result of which was
a considerable modification of the absolutism of the government. A
constitution was adopted, and repeatedly altered and amended. But the
king had the best of it in the end, and Prussia was finally pacified.
In 1857 the king was attacked by disease of the mind, and his brother
William became regent, and in 1861 succeeded him as king, under the
title of William I. He is decidedly absolute in his tendencies, and
claims to hold his crown by the grace of God, and not by the will of
the people.

"In speaking of Denmark, I told you in what manner the war of 1866,
between Prussia and Austria, was produced. In the terrible battle of
Sadowa, Austria was completely humiliated. Prussia dictated her own
terms of peace, and annexed a territory nearly equal in size to the
state of Maine, including Hanover, Schleswig-Holstein, Hesse Cassel,
Nassau, and other German states. The population of Prussia, with these
additions, is nearly twenty-three millions. The real engineer of
Prussia's magnificent fortunes is not the king, but Bismarck--Count
Otto von Bismarck-Shönhausen. He was born in 1814, was liberally
educated, and elected a member of the Constituent Assembly in 1848. He
served as minister or ambassador to Russia, France, and the Diet at
Frankfort, and was appointed minister of foreign affairs and chief of
the ministers in 1862.

"Prussia is a constitutional monarchy, and the crown is hereditary
in the male line, in the Hohenzollern family. The executive and part
of the legislative power are vested in the king, who is of age at
eighteen. The legislature is composed of a House of Lords and a Chamber
of Deputies. A bill passing both branches and being approved by the
king becomes a law. Bills may originate with the king or either of
the chambers. A bill vetoed by the king, or rejected by either house,
cannot be moved again during the same session. The upper house is
composed of the princes of the royal family who are of age, and a few
other princes; the heads of certain noble families, life peers chosen
by the king from rich land-owners, great manufacturers, and celebrated
men, eight noblemen chosen by the eight former provinces of Prussia;
representatives of universities, the burgomasters of towns having over
fifty thousand inhabitants; and any number of members nominated by the
king for life, or for a limited period. The lower house consists of
four hundred and thirty-two members, chosen indirectly by the people.

"The royal family of Prussia are Protestants, but all denominations of
Christians have equal rights and privileges. Nearly two thirds of the
people are Protestants, and about one third Catholics. Education is
universal, and compulsory. Every town must maintain schools, and all
parents are obliged to send their children to them. A small tuition fee
is charged,--about two or three cents a week,--but this is not exacted
when the parents are too poor to pay it. The compulsion applies only
to the elementary schools; but the higher schools are open to the poor
at a very small charge. There are eleven grades of schools, from the
elementary up to the university, including normal, industrial, and
veterinary, schools for agriculture, mining, and architecture.

"The military system under which Prussia has obtained such tremendous
successes in war was established in 1814, on the principle that every
man capable of bearing arms should be instructed in military tactics,
and actually serve in the army for a specified period. No substitutes
are allowed, and there are very few exemptions, and these only of
the most obvious character. Every man is enrolled as soon as he is
twenty, and must serve seven years, the first three in the regular
army, and the other four in the reserve. At the end of this term he
belongs to the Landwehr, or militia, for nine years, during which time
he is liable to be put into the regular army in case of war. At the
expiration of this period he is thirty-six years of age, and then he
is enrolled in the Landsturm, until he is fifty; but this body are
not sent out of the country, and are called into service only in case
of invasion. For thirty years of his life, therefore, the Prussian is
a soldier. The military organizations, such as companies, regiments,
brigades, divisions, corps d'armée, are always kept up; the officers
are ever ready, and in case of war it is only necessary to call in the
men. It requires only two weeks to organize the reserves and Landwehr.
On a peace footing, the army consists of about four hundred thousand;
on a war footing, double this number.

"Nearly the whole of Prussia is in the great plain of Northern Europe.
It contains no high mountains, the most important range being the
Harz, the highest elevation of which is thirty-five hundred feet. The
acquisition of Schleswig-Holstein and Hanover has added largely to the
extent of Prussian sea-coast. There are but few good harbors on the
Baltic, for the water is shoal, and full of sand-banks. There are many
