
"Whvdo their mothers let them come here?" 
muses Frank aloud. " Why, because it's so safe, 
Cousin Lucy. At home, you know, they'd have to 
be playing upon the sills of fourth-floor windows, and 
here they're out of the way and can't hurt them- 
selves. Why, Cousin Lucy, this is their park, — 
their Public Garden, their Bois de Boulogne, their 
Cascine. And look at their gloomy httle faces ! 
Aren't they taking their pleasure in the spirit of the 
very highest fashion ? I was at Newport last sum- 
mer, and saw the famous driving on the Avenue in 
those pony phaetons, dog-carts, and tubs, and three- 
story carriages with a pair of footmen perching like 
storks upon each gable, and I assure you that all 
those ornate and costly phantasms (it seems to me 
now like a sad, sweet vision) had just the expression 
of these poor children. We're taking a day's pleas- 
ure ourselves, cousin, but nobody would know it from 
our looks. And has nothing but whooping-cough 
happened since I've been gone ? " 

" Yes, we seem to be so cut ofiF from every-day 
associations that I've imagined myself a sort of tour- 
ist, and I've been to that Catholic church over yon- 
der, in hopes of seeing the Murillos and Raphaels ; 
but I found it locked up, and so I trudged back with- 
out a sight of the masterpieces. But what's the rea- 
son that all the shops hereabouts have nothing but 




luxuries for sale? The windows are perfect tropics 
of oranges, and lemons, and belated bananas, and to- 
bacco, and peanuts." 

" Well, the poor really seem to use more of those 
luxuries than anybody else. I don't blame them. I 
shouldn't care for the necessaries of life myself, if I 
found them so hard to get." 

"When I came back here," says Cousin Lucy, 
without heeding these flippant and heartless words, 
" I found an old gentleman who has something to do 
with the boats, and he sat down, as if it were a part 
of his business, and told me nearly the whole history 
of his life. Isn't it nice of them, keeping an Autobi- 
ographer ? It makes the time pass so swiftly when 
you're waiting. This old gentleman was born — 
who'd ever think it? — up there in Pearl Street, 
where those pitiless big granite stores are now ; and, 
I don't know why, but the idea of any human baby 
being born in Pearl Street seemed to me one of the 
saddest things I'd ever heard of." 

Here Cousin Lucy went to the rescue of the nurse 
and the baby, who had got into one of their period- 
ical difficulties, and her interlocutor turned to Aunt 
Melissa. 

" I think, Franklin," says Aunt Melissa, " that it 
was wrong to let that nurse come and bring the 
baby." 

" Yes, I know. Aunty, you have those old-estab- 
lished ideas, and they're very right," answers her 
nephew ; " but just consider how much she enjoys 
it, and how vastly the baby adds to the pleasure of 
this charming excursion ! " 



 

Aunt Melissa made no reply, but sat looking 
thoughtfully out upon the bay. " I presume you 
think the excursion is a failure," she said, after a 
while ; " but I've been enjoying every minute of the 
time here. Of course, I've never seen the open sea, 
and I don't know about it, but I feel here just as if 
I were spending a day at the seaside." 

" well," said her nephew, " I shouldn't call this 
exactly a watering-place. It lacks the splendor and 
gayety of Newport, in a certain degree, and it hasn't 
the illustrious seclusion of Nahant. The surf isn't 
very fine, nor the beach particularly adapted to bath- 
ing ; and yet, I must confess, the outlook from here 
is as lovely as anything one need have." 

And to tell the truth, it was very pretty and in- 
teresting. The landward environment was as com- 
monplace and mean as it could be : a yardful of dis- 
mal sheds for coaJ and lumber, and shanties for 
offices, with each office its safe and its desk, its 
whittled arm-chair and its spittoon, its fly that shooed 
not, but buzzed desperately against the grimy pane, 
which, if it had really had that boasted microscopic 
eye, it never would have mistaken for the unblem- 
ished daylight. Outside of this yard was the usual 
wharfish neighborhood, with its turmoil of trucks and 
carts and fleet express-wagons, its building up and 
pulling down, its discomfort and clamor of every sort, 
and its shops for the sale, not only of those luxuries 
which Lucy had mentioned, but of such domestic re- 
freshments as lemon-pie and hulled-com. 

When, however, you turned your thoughts and 



eyes away from this aspect of it, and looked out upon 
the water, the neighborhood gloriously retrieved it- 
self. There its poverty and vulgarity ceased ; there 
its beauty and grace abounded. A light breeze ruf- 
fled the face of the bay, and the innumerable little 
sail-boats that dotted it took the sim and wind upon 
their wings, which they dipped almost into the spar- 
kle of the water, and flew lightly hither and thither 
like gulls that loved the brine too well to rise wholly 
from it ; larger ships, farther or nearer, puffed or 
shrank their sails as they came and went on the er- 
rands of commerce, but always moved as if bent 
upon some dreamy affair of pleasure ; the steam- 
boats that shot vehemently across their tranquil 
courses seemed only gayer and vivider visions, but 
not more substantial ; yonder, a black sea-going 
steamer passed out between the far-off islands, and 
at last left in the sky above those reveries of fortifica- 
tion, a whiff of sombre smoke, dark and unreal as a 
memory of battle ; to the right, on some line of rail- 
road, long-plumed trains arrived and departed like 
pictures passed through the slide of a magic-lantern ; 
even a pile-driver, at work in the same direction, 
seemed to have no malice in the blows which, after 
a loud clucking, it dealt the pile, and one understood 
that it was mere conventional violence like that of 
a Punch to his baby. 

" Why, what a lotus-eating life this is ! " said 
Frank, at last. "Aunt Melissa, I don't wonder 
you think it's like the seaside. It's a great deal bet- 
ter than»the seaside. And now, just as we've en- 




tered into the spirit of it, the time's up for the ' Rose 
Standish' to come and bear us from its delights. 
When will the boat be in? " he asked of the Auto- 
biographer, whom Lucy had pointed out to him. 

" Well, she's ben in half an hour, now. There she 
lays, just outside the - John Romer.' " 

There, to be sure, she lay, and those pleasure- 
takers had been so lost in the rapture of waiting and 
the beauty of the scene as never to have noticed her 
arrival. 



II. — The AfTERNooN. 

It is noticeable how many people there are in the 
world that seem bent always upon the same purpose 
of amusement or business as one's self. If you keep 
quietly about your accustomed affairs, there are all 
your neighbors and acquaintance hard at it too ; if 
you go on a journey, choose what train you will, the 
cars are filled with travellers in your direction. You 
take a day's pleasure, and everybody abandons his 
usual occupation to crowd upon your boat, whether 
it is to Gloucester, or Nahant, or to Nantasket Beach 
you go. It is very hard to believe that, from what- 
ever channel of life you abstract yourself, still the 
great sum of it presses forward as before : that busi- 
ness is carried on though you are idle, that men 
amuse themselves though you toil, that every train 
is as crowded as that you travel on, that the theatre 
or the church fills its boxes or pews without you per- 
fectly well. I suppose it would not be quite agree- 
able to believe all this; the opposite illusion is far 
more flattering ; for if each one of us did not take 
the world with him now at every turn, should he not 
have to leave it behind him when he died ? And 
that, it must be owned, would not be agreeable, nor 
is the fact quite conceivable, though ever so many 
myriads in so many milli"n years ])proved it. 



 

When our friends first went aboard the "Rose 
Standish"that day they were almost the sole passen- 
gers, and they had a feeling of ownership and privacy 
which was pleasant enough in its way, hut which 
they lost afterwards ; though to lose it was also pleas- 
ant, for enjoyment no more likes to be solitary than 
sin does, which is notoriously gregarious, and I dare 
say would hardly exist if it could not be committed 
in company. The preacher, indeed, little knows the 
comfortable sensation we have in being called fellow- 
sinners, and what an effective shield for his guilt 
each makes of his neighbor's hard-heartedness. 

Cousin Frank never felt how strange was a lonely 
transgression till that day, when in the silence of the 
little cabin he took the bottle of claret from the hand- 
bag, and prepared to moisten the family lunch with it. 
"I think, Aunt Melissa," he said, "we had better 
lunch now, for it's a quarter past two, and we shall 
not get to the beach before four. Let's improvise a 
beach of these chairs, and that water-urn yonder can 
stand for the breakers. Now, this is truly like New- 
port and Nahant," he added, after the little arrange- 
ment was complete ; and he was about to strip away 
the bottle's jacket of .brown paper, when a lady much 
wrapped up came in, and, reclining upon one of the 
opposite seats, began to take them all in with a severe 
serenity of gaze that made them feel for a moment 
like a party of low foreigners, — like a set of German 
atheists, say. Frank kept on the bottle's paper jacket, 
and as the single tumbler of the party circled from 
mouth to mouth, each of them tried to give the 




honest drink the false air of a medicinal potion oi 
some sort; and to see Aunt Melissa sipping it, no 
one could have put his hand on his heart and sworn 
it was not elderberry wine, at the worst. In spite 
of these efforts, they all knew that they had suffered 
a hopeless loss of repute ; yet after the loss was 
confessed, I am not sure that they were not the gayer 
and happier through this " freedom of a broken law." 
At any rate, the lunch passed off very merrily, and 
when they had put back the fragments of the feast 
into the bags, they went forward to the bow of the 
boat, to get good places for seeing the various people 
as they came aboard, and for an outlook upon the 
bay when the boat should start. 

I suppose that these were not very remarkable 
people, and that nothing but the indomitable interest 
our friends took in the human race could have 
enabled them to feel any concern in their com- 
panions. It was, no doubt, just such a company as 
goes down to Nantasket Beach every pleasant day in 
summer. Certain ones among them were distin- 
guishable as sojourners at the beach, by an air of 
familiarity with the business of getting there, an 
indifference to the prospect, and an indefinable touch 
of superiority. These read their newspapers in 
quiet corners, or, if they were not of the newspaper 
sex, made themselves comfortable in the cabins, and 
looked about them at the other passengers with 
looks of lazy surprise, and just a hint of scorn for 
their interest in the boat's departure. Our day's 
pleasurers took it that the lady whose steady gaze 




had reduced them, when at lunch, to such a low ebb 
of shabbiness, was a regular boarder, at the least, in 
one of the beach hotels. A few other passengers 
were, like themselves, mere idlers for a day, and 
were eager to see all that the boat or the voyage 
offered of novelty. There were clerks and men who 
had book-keeping written in a neat mercantile hand 
upon their faces, and who had evidently been given 
that afternoon for a breathing-time ; and there were 
strangers who were goins; down to the beach for the 
sake of the charming view of the harbor which the 
trip afforded. Here and there were people who 
were not to be classed with any certainty, — as a pale 
young man, handsome in his undesirable way, who 
looked like a steamboat pantry boy not yet risen to 
bo bar-tender, but rapidly rising, and who sat care- 
fully balanced upon the railing of the boat, chatting 
with two young girls, who heard his broad sallies with 
continual snickers, and interchanged saucy comments 
with that prompt up-and-coming manner which is so 
large a part of non-humorous humor, as Mr. Lowell 
calls it, and now and then pulled and pushed each 
other. It was a scene worth study, for in no other 
country could anything so bad have been without 
being vastly worse ; but here it was evident that 
there was nothing worse than you saw ; and, indeed, 
these persons formed a sort of reHef to the other 
passengers, who were nearly all monotonously well- 
behaved. Amongst a few there seemed to be 
acquaintance, but the far greater part were unknown 
to one another, and there were no words wasted by 




any one. I believe the English traveller who has. 
taxed our nation with inquisitiveness for half a cen- 
tury is at last beginning to find out that we do not 
ask questions because we have the still more vicious 
custom of not opening our mouths at all when with 
strangers. 

It was a good hour after our friends got aboai'd 
before the boat left her moorings, and then it was 
not without some secret dreads of sea-sickness that 
Aunt Melissa saw the seething brine widen between 
her and the familiar wharf-house, where she now 
seemed to have spent so large a part of her life. 
But the multitude 'of really charming and interesting 
objects that presently fell imder her eye soon dis- 
tracted her from those gloomy thoughts. 

There is always a shabbiness about the wharves 
of seaports ; but I must own that as soon as you get 
a reasonable distance from them in Boston, they turn 
wholly beautiful. They no longer present that impos- 
ing array of mighty ships which they could show in 
the days of Consul Plancus, when the commerce of 
the world sought chiefly our port, yet the docks are 
still filled with the modester kinds of shipping, and if 
there is not that wilderness of spars and rigging which 
you see at New York, let us believe that there is an 
aspect of selection and refinement in the scene, so 
that one should describe it, not as a forest, but, less 
conventionally, as a gentleman's park of masts. The 
steamships of many coastwise freight lines gloom, 
with their black, capacious hulks, among the lighter 
sailing-craft, and among the white, green-shuttered 



 

passenger-boats ; and behind them those desperate 
and grimy sheds assume a picturesqueness, their sag- 
ging roofs and crooked gables harmonizing agreeably 
with the shipping; and then growing up from all 
rises the mellow-tinted brick-built city, roof, and 
spire, and dome, — a fair and noble sight, indeed 
and one not surpassed for a certain quiet and cleanly 
beauty by any that I know. 

Our friends lingered long upon this pretty pros- 
pect, and, as inland people of light heart and easy 
fancy will, the ladies made imagined voyages in each 
of the more notable vessels they passed, — all cheap 
and safe trips, occupying half a second apiece. Then 
they came forward to the bow, that they might not 
lose any part of the harbor's beauty and variety, and 
informed themselves of the names of each of the 
fortressed islands as they passed, and forgot them, 
being passed, so that to this day Aunt Melissa has 
the Fort Warren rebel prisoners languishing in Fort 
Independence. But they made sure of the air of 
soft repose that hung about each, of that exquisite 
military neatness which distinguishes them, and which 
went to Aunt Melissa's housekeeping heart, of the 
green, thick turf covering the escarpments, of the 
great guns loafing on the crests of the ramparts and 
looking out over the water sleepily, of the sentries 
pacing slowly up and down with their gleaming 
muskets. 

" I never see one of those fellows," says Cousin 
Frank, "without setting him to the music of that 
saddest and subtlest of Heine's poems. You know 
it, Lucy ; " and he repeats : — 




" Mein Herz, mein Herz is traaiig, 
Doch lustig leuchtet der Mai ; 
Icb stebe gelehnt an der Linde, 
Hoch auf der alten Bastei. 



" Am alten grauen Thurme 

Ein Schilderhauschen steht ; 
£in rothgerSckter Bursche 
Dort auf und nieder geht. 

" £r spielt mit seiner Flinte, 
Sie funkelt im Sonnenroth, 
Er priisentirt, and schultert, — 
Ich nollt', er schiisse mich todt." 



" O ! " says Cousin Lucy, either because the 
poignant melancholy of the sentiment has suddenly 
pierced her, or because she does not quite under- 
stand the German, — you never can tell about 
women. While Frank smiles down upon her in 
this amiable doubt, their party is approached by the 
tipsy man who has been making the excursion so 
merry for the other passengers, in spite of the fact 
that there is very much to make one sad in him. 
He is an old man, sweltering in rusty black, a two 
days' gray beard, and a narrow-brimmed, livid silk 
hat, set well back upon the nape of his neck. He 
explains to our friends, as he does to every one 
whose acquaintance he makes, that he was in former 
days a seafaring man, and that he has brought his 
two little grandsons here to show them something 
about a ship ; and the poor old soul helplessly satur- 
ates his phrase with the rankest profanity. The 
boys are somewhat amused by their grandsire's state, 
being no doubt fanuhar with it ; but a very grim- 



 

looking old lady who sits against the pilot-house, and 
keeps a sharp eye upon all three, and who is also 
doubtless familiar with the unhappy spectacle, seems 
not to find it a joke. Her stout matronly umbrella 
trembles in her hand when her husband draws near, 
and her eye flashes ; but he gives her as wide a 
berth as he can, returning her glare with a propi- 
tiatory drunken smile and a wink to the passengers to 
let them into the fun. In fact, he is foil of humor 
in his tipsy way, and one after another falls the prey 
of his free sarcasm, which does not spare the boat or 
any feature of the excursion. He holds for a long 
time, by swiftly successive stories of his seafaring 
days, a veiy quiet gentleman, who dares neither 
laugh too loudly nor show indifference for fear of 
rouging that terrible wit at his expense, and finds his 
account in looking down at his boots. 

" Well, sir," says the deplorable old sinner, " we 
was forty days out from Liverpool, with a cargo of 
salt and iron, and we got caught on the Banks in a 
calm. ' Cap'n,' says I, - I 'us sec'n' mate, — ' 's 
they any man aboard this ship knows how to pray ? ' 
' No,' says the cap'n ; ' blast yer prayers ! ] ' Well,' 
says I, ' cap'n, I'm no hand at all to pray, but I'm 
goin' to see if prayin' won't git us out 'n this.' And 
I down on my knees, and I made a first-class prayer ; 
and a breeze sprung up in a minute and carried us 
smack into Boston." 

At this bit of truculent burlesque the quiet man 
made a bold push, and walked away with a some- 
what sickened face, and as no one now intervened 



between them, the inebriate laid a familiar hand 
upon Cousin Frank's collar, and said with a wink at 
his late listener : " Looks like a lerigious man, don't 
he ? I guess I give him a good dose, if he does 
think himself the head-deacon, of this boat." And 
he went on to state his ideas of religion, from which 
it seemed that he was a person of the most advanced 
thinking, and believed in nothing worth mentioning. 

It is perhaps no worse for an Infidel to be drunk 
than a Christian, but my friend foimd this tipsy blas- 
phemer's case so revolting, that he went to the 
hand-bag, took out the empty claret-bottle, and seek- 
ing a solitary comer of the boat, cast the bottle into 
the water, and felt a thrill of uncommon self-approval 
as this scapegoat of all the wine at his grocer's 
bobbed off upon the little waves. " Besides, it saves 
carrying the bottle home," he thought, not without 
a half-conscious reserve, that if his penitence were 
ever too much for him, he could easily abandon it. 
And without the reflection that the gate is always 
open behind him, who could consent to enter upon 
any course of perfect behavior ? If good resolutions 
could not be broken, who would ever have the cour- 
age to form them ? Would it not be intolerable to 
be made as good as we ought to be ? Then, admir- 
able reader, thank Heaven even for your lapses, 
since it is so wholesome and saving to be well 
ashamed of yourself, from time to time. 

" What an outrage," said Cousin Frank, in the 
glow of virtue, as he rejoined the ladies, " that that 
tipsy, rascal should be allowed to go on with his 




ribaldry. He seems to pervade the whole boat, and 
to subject everybody to his sway. He's a perfect 
despot to us helpless sober people, — I wouldn't 
openly disagree with him on any account. We 
ought to send a Round Robin to the captain, and 
ask him to put that rehgious liberal in irons during 
the rest of the voyage." 

In the mean time, however, the object of his 
indignation had used up all the conversible material 
in that, part of the boat, and had deviously started 
for the other end. The elderly woman with the 
umbrella rose and followed him, somewhat wearily, 
and with a sadness that appeared more in her move- 
ment than in her face ; and as the two went down 
the cabin, did the comical affair look, after all, some- 
thing like tragedy ? My reader, who expects a little 
novelty in tragedy, and not these stale and common 
effects, will never think so. 

" You'll not pretend, Frank," says Lucy, " that 
in such an intellectual place as Boston a crowd as 
large as this can be got together, and no distin- 
guished literary people in it. I know there are some 
notables aboard : do point them out to me. Pretty 
near everybody has a literary look." 

" Why, that's what we call our Boston look. 
Cousin Lucy. You needn't have written anything 
to have it, — it's as general as tubercular consump- 
tion, and is the effect of our universal culture and 
habits of reading. I heard a New-Yorker say once 
that if you went into a comer grocery in Boston to 
buy a codfish, the man would ask you how you. 



liked ' Lucille,' whilst he was tying it up. No, no ; 
you mustn't be taken in by that literary look ; I'm 
afraid the real hterary men don't always have it. 
But I do see a literary man aboard yonder," he 
added, craning his neck to one side, and then fur- 
tively pointing, — " the most literary man I ever 
knew, one of the most literary men that ever lived. 
His whole existence is really bound up in books ; he 
never talks of anything else, and never thinks of 
anything else, I believe. Look at him, — what kind 
and pleasant eyes he's got ! There, he sees me ! " 
cries Cousin Frank, with a pleasurable excitement. 
" How d'ye do ? " he calls out. 

" O Cousin Frank, introduce us," sighs Lucy. 

" Not I ! He wouldn't thank me. He doesn't 
care for pretty girls outside of books ; he'd be afraid 
of 'em ; he's the bashfullest man alive, and all his 
heroines are fifty years old, at the least. But before 
I go any further, tell me solemnly, Lucy, you're not 
interviewing me ? You're not going to write it to 
a New York newspaper ? No ? Well, I think it's 
best to ask, always. Our friend there — he's every- 
body's friend, if you mean nobody's enemy, by that, 
not .even his own — is really what I say, — the most 
literary man I ever knew. He loves all epochs and 
phases of literature, but his passion is the Charles 
Lamb period and all Lamb's friends. He loves 
them as if they were living men ; and Lamb would 
have loved him if he could have known him. He 
speaks rapidly, and rather indistinctly, and when 
you meet him and say Good day, and you suppose he 
 



 

answers with something about the weather, ten to 
one he 's asking you what you think of Hazlitt's 
essays on Shakespeare, or Leigh Hunt's Itahan Po- 
ets, or Lamb's roast pig, or Barry Cornwall's songs. 
He couldn't get by a bookstall without stopping — 
for half an hour, at any rate. He knows just when 
all the new books in town are to be published, and 
when each bookseller is to get his invoice of old 
English books. He has no particular address, but 
if you leave your card for him at any bookstore in 
Boston, he 's sure to get it within two days ; and in 
the summer-time you're apt to meet him on these 
excursions. Of course, he writes about books, and 
very tastefully and modestly ; there's hardly any of 
the brand-new immortal English poets, who die oiF 
so rapidly, but has had a good word from him ; but 
his heart is with the older fellows, from Chaucer 
down ; and, after the Charles Lamb epoch, I don't 
know whether he loves better the Elizabethan age 
or that of Queen Anne. Think of him making me 
stop the other day at a bookstall, and read through 
an essay out of the " Spectator ! " I did it all for 
love of him, though money couldn't have persuaded 
me that I had time ; and I'm always telling him lies, 
and pretending to be as well acquainted as he is with 
authors I hardly know by name, — he seems so 
fondly to expect it. He's really almost a disem- 
bodied spirit as concerns most mundane interests; 
his soul is in literature, as a lover's in his mistress's 
beauty ; and in the next world, where, as the Swe- 
denborgians believe, spirits seen at a distance appear 




like the things they most resemhle in disposition, as 
doves, hawks, goats, lambs, swine, and so on, I'm 
sure that I shall see his true and kindly soul in the 
guise of a noble old Folio, quaintly lettered across 
his back in old English text, Tom. J." 

While our friends talked and looked about them, 
a sudden change had come over the brightness and 
warmth of the day ; the blue heaven had turned a 
chilly gray, and the water looked harsh and cold. 
Now, too, they noted that they were drawing near a 
wooden pier built into the water, and that they had 
been winding about in a crooked channel between 
muddy shallows, and that their course was overrun 
with long, disheveled sea-weed. The shawls had 
been unstrapped, and the ladies made comfortable in 
them. 

" Ho for the beach ! " cried Cousin Frank, with a 
vehement show of enthusiasm. " Now, then. Aunt 
Melissa, prepare for the great enjoyment of the day. 
In a few moments we shall be of the elves 

' That on the sand with printless foot 
Do chase the ebbing Neptune, and do fly him 
When he comes back.' 

Come ! we shall have three hours on the beach, and 
that will bring us well into the cool of the evening, 
and we, can return by the last boat." 

"As to the cool of the evening," said Aunt 
Melissa, " I don't know. It's quite cool enough for 
comfort at present, and I'm sure that anything more 
wouldn't be wholesome. What's become of our 
beautiful weather ? " she asked, deeply plotting tc 
gain time. 



 

 " It 's one of our Boston peculiarities, not to say 
merits," answered Frank, "which you must have 
noticed already, that we can get rid of a fine day 
sooner than any other region. While you're saying 
how lovely it is, a subtle change is wrought, and 
under skies still blue and a sun still warm the keen 
spirit of the east wind pierces every nerve, and all 
the fine weather within you is chilled and extin- 
guished. The gray atmosphere follows, but the day 
first languishes in yourself. But for this, life in 
Boston would be insupportably perfect, if this is 
indeed a drawback. You'd find Bostonians to de- 
fend it, I dare say. But this isn't a regular east 
wind to-day ; it's merely our nearness to the sea." 

" I think, Franklin," said Aunt Melissa, " that we 
won't go down to the beach this afternoon," as if 
she had been there yesterday, and would go to-mor- 
row. " It 's too late in the day ; and it wouldn't be 
good for the child, I'm sure." 

" Well, aunty, it was you determined us to wait 
for the boat, and it 's your right to say whether we 
shall leave it or not. I'm very willing not to go 
ashore. I always find that, after working up to an 
object with great efibrt, it 's surpassingly sweet to 
leave it unaccompHshed at last. Then it remains 
forever in the region of the ideal, amongst thq songs 
that never were sung, the pictures that never were 
painted. Why, in fact, should we force this pleas- 
ure ? We've eaten our lunch, we've lost the warm 
heart of the day ; why should we poorly drag over 
to that damp and sullen beach, where we should find 



 

three hours very long, when by going back now we 
can keep intact that glorious image of a day by the 
sea which we've been cherishing all summer ? You're 
right, Aunt Melissa ; we won't go ashore ; we will 
stay here, and respect our illusions." 

At heart, perhaps, Lucy did not quite like this 
retreat ; it was not in harmony with the youthful 
spirit of her sex, but she' reflected that she could 
come again, — beneficent cheat of Another Time, 
how much thou sparest us in our over-worked, over- 
enjoyed world ! — she was very comfortable where 
jshe was, in a seat commanding a perfect view for the 
