
Mrs. Taylor and her son appeared, and they were warmly greeted by the
interested spectators. The business proceeded in due form, and Mr.
Simonton astonished Squire Gilfilian by asking for a postponement until
the next Tuesday. The reasons for this request were considered, and they
were deemed sufficient; but Squire Gilfilian stoutly objected, because a
certain witness would be obliged to remain in Camden three days. Judge
Hamblin consulted with Squire Simonton, and it was agreed to proceed
with the examination. Mrs. Taylor trembled and wept when this decision
was reached, and a smile of triumph played upon the lips of Squire
Gilfilian. Captain Chinks tried to be indifferent, but he was evidently
pleased with the result. The case was commenced, and Squire Gilfilian,
Captain Chinks, and the ill-visaged man gave their evidence as they had
stated it in the office of the lawyer. It appeared that Robert Taylor
had left the letter on the squire's desk. The five hundred dollar bill
was produced and identified by Mr. Slipwing, and it was shown that this
bill had been paid to the squire by Mrs. Taylor. No evidence was
introduced to show that the boy had returned to the office after Captain
Chinks left, but it seemed impossible to escape the conclusion that he
had done so. Mrs. Taylor now appeared as a defendant, and could not be
compelled to testify. At this point in the proceedings, Squire Simonton
renewed his request that the further examination of the defendants be
postponed till the next Tuesday, when he hoped to bring forward an
important witness in the case. Captain Chinks, in spite of his assumed
indifference, was uneasy at this statement. The request was granted; Mr.
Walker and the mayor of Bangor offered themselves as bail for the
defendants, and they were released from custody.

The case certainly looked very black for Mrs. Taylor and her son. The
kind friends who appeared to assist them were staggered at the evidence,
and feared it would be impossible to save him from conviction. They
could only hope for the best, and hope against what appeared to be an
absolute certainty. Judge Hamblin was confounded, but he was so averse
to believing the brave boy was guilty, that he suspected there was a
conspiracy. After the postponement of the examination, he asked Squire
Gilfilian to let him see the five hundred dollar bill.

"Mrs. Taylor, have you looked at this bill?" he asked, as he showed it
to the troubled woman.

"No, sir; I have not," she replied.

"Won't you look at it? Do you remember the bill you paid Mr. Gilfilian?"

"I didn't look at it much."

"How long did you have the bill in your possession?"

"Not long, sir."

"Did you examine it?"

"Not much; I looked it over a little."

Mrs. Taylor turned over the note in her hands, and examined it very
carefully.

"Does that one look like it?" asked the judge, anxiously.



"You don't suppose we have changed the bill--do you?" demanded Squire
Gilfilian, rather indignantly.

"Certainly not, Mr. Gilfilian," replied the judge. "At least I don't
suppose you have any knowledge of such a trick. But there may be some
mistake. The witness who identifies this bill is taking charge of the
defence of the Buckingham Bank robbers. Perhaps he is one of them
himself, and it is even possible that he sent you no money in the
letter."

"I have no desire to convict the boy, if he is not guilty," added Mr.
Gilfilian.

"Certainly not; I do not suppose the contrary, but I would like to hear
what the boy's mother says about this bill. Now, Mrs. Taylor," continued
the judge, turning to the troubled woman, "does that bill look like the
one you paid Mr. Gilfilian?"

"Yes, sir; very much like it," answered she, sadly.

"Do you think it is the one?"

"I think it is, sir."

"Look at it very carefully, if you please."

"I have looked at it; and I'm sure this is the one," said Mrs. Taylor.

Squire Gilfilian looked triumphantly at the judge, who was more amazed
than ever. He knew the workings of crime well enough to see the bearing
of poor Mrs. Taylor's present conduct. If guilty she would not have
acknowledged the identity of the bill. She would have encouraged the
lawyers to save herself and her son, by following out the suggestion
that the letter had contained no bill.

"Then where did you get this bill, Mrs. Taylor?" asked the judge.

"I can't tell at present, sir," replied the poor mother, as she glanced
at her son.

Mr. Simonton explained that, for some reason inexplicable to him, the
woman positively refused to explain where the bill came from. The judge
was still more confounded; though, after the straightforward and
damaging answers she had given in regard to the identity of the bill, he
could not believe she was guilty, even while it was impossible to see
how she could be innocent. The parties left the office, and everybody
talked about the examination for the rest of the day.

Ezekiel Taylor did not attend the examination, for he was engaged in an
examination on his own account. He improved the opportunity while
Bobtail and his mother were absent in searching for the contraband
merchandise. He had already consumed the bottle of brandy given him by
Captain Chinks, and was anxious to find the goods, in order to obtain
another. He ransacked the house from cellar to garret, without finding
anything which looked like a case of brandy. He was bitterly
disappointed, but he continued his search in the vicinity of the house,
and along the shore. He spent the whole day in this fruitless
occupation.

Judge Hamblin walked to the Bay View House, after the close of the
proceedings, and Little Bobtail went with him. The bewildered legal
gentleman questioned the boy closely, but his replies were always square
and prompt. He knew nothing whatever about the letter after he left it
on the desk in the office.

"Are you going to see Colonel Montague?" whispered Mrs. Taylor, who had
followed her son to the hotel.

"I should like to tell him about the case, but I don't see that he can
do anything for us. These folks have done everything," replied Bobtail,
gloomily.

"You said you were going, but I don't ask you to go."

"Two gentlemen here want the boat. They said they wished for a sail, and
didn't care about fishing. If they had just as lief go to Belfast as
anywhere else, I'll run up there. It's a tip-top breeze to go and come."

"Do as you think best, but don't tell him I sent you," added Mrs.
Taylor, as she walked towards home.

Bobtail thought she was over sensitive about calling upon her old
employer, but was willing to humor her, and promised to tell Colonel
Montague, if he saw him, that his mother had not sent him.

"Now, where's Captain Bobtail?" shouted a gentleman, coming out of the
hotel.

"Here I am, sir."

"You were to take us out to sail if you got out of that scrape, my boy."

"I'm not out of it, sir; but I can take you out to sail," replied the
skipper of the Skylark.

"We are all ready, and Mr. Philbrook has put up a basket of stores for
us; for we were going to take another boat if you couldn't go."

"The boat is all ready, sir. Where do you wish to go?"

"Don't care a fig where we go. All we want is a good sail."

"How long do you want to be out, sir?"

"O, till night."

"What do you say to a run up to Belfast?"

"Capital! But can you go as far as that in one day, or what is left of
the day?"

"I can run up there with this wind, and the tide in our favor, in about
three hours. It is blowing pretty fresh."

"I see it is."

"And the wind is west. The tide will turn about the time we get there,
and the wind is fair both ways, or nearly all the way. If the wind
holds, I can get you back before nine o'clock, and give you an hour or
two in Belfast."

"All right, my lad. We don't care whether we get back by nine o'clock or
not,--just as lief make a night of it as not," added the gentleman, who
spoke for both.

"You can sleep tip-top in the cabin; but I will get you back by nine, if
the wind don't die out. I can't warrant you against that."

"Belfast it is, my lad. Now, how much do you ask a day for your boat?"

"Seven dollars, sir, for the boat and crew; eight if we cook for you,"
replied Bobtail, who had decided to advance the price, as he stated, in
order to pay for the few groceries and other stores.

"Cook?" queried the gentleman.

"If you take a fish dinner and supper on board, I charge a dollar more.
I can give you tea and coffee, fried fish, and fried potatoes. If you
want meats, I must charge for them, too."

"Good, Captain Bobtail. We will have fish for dinner and supper, and pay
you eight dollars," laughed the gentleman, amused at the business-like
talk of the boy.

"But can we stop to catch fish?" asked his companion.

"We have time enough," answered the skipper.

"Then catch the fish by all means, for they are twice as good just out
of the water."

Little Bobtail procured a small can of milk, and a bucket of fresh clams
for bait. The yacht was amply supplied with water and stores, and the
party hastened to the steps at the Portland steamer wharf. A boy in a
boat pulled them off to the Skylark.

"Loose the mainsail, Monkey," shouted Bobtail, as the boat approached
the yacht.

"Ay, ay," replied the Darwinian, with enthusiasm; for he was glad to
vary the monotony of his situation as boat-keeper.

"Your crew is well named, Captain Bobtail," laughed one of the
gentlemen.

"Yes, sir. Monkey is a queer-looking fellow, but he is just as good as
they make them," replied Bobtail, as he leaped upon the deck of the
Skylark.

The gentlemen were delighted with the yacht, and explored her above and
below, while the skipper and his crew were hoisting the mainsail and
weighing the anchor. In a few moments Bobtail took his place at the
helm; the fresh breeze struck the mainsail as the skipper hauled in the
sheet, and the Skylark heeled over, gathered headway, and went off like
an arrow shot from a bow.

"See here, Captain Bobtail; you won't upset us--will you?" said one of
his passengers as the yacht heeled down, when she caught the breeze.

"O, no, sir. I mean to keep her right side up," replied the skipper.

"I have no doubt you mean to do so; but can you do it?"

"To be sure I can."

"She tipped pretty badly then."

"That was nothing. She will go over ever so much farther than that
without putting her scuppers under. She had not got her bearings then.
Now hoist the jib, Monkey," shouted Bobtail.

"Hold on, Captain Bobtail!" said one of the gentlemen. "Don't you think
you have sail enough on? It blows fresher than I thought it did."

"It's just a whole sail breeze. She will carry her jib without winking,
and go along as steady as a lady on the sidewalk," laughed Bobtail, who
concluded that his passengers were not accustomed to boats, especially
when the wind blew.

"We are going ten miles an hour now," suggested the second gentleman.

"Not seven, sir. We will try the jib; and if you don't like it, we can
take it in again."

Monkey had hoisted the jib, and it was flapping and pounding
furiously,--making a noise which was rather trying to the nerves of the
gentlemen. The skipper seized the lee sheet, and luffing up the boat,
flattened down the sail to its proper place, for he was obliged to run a
short distance to the northward in order to clear some vessels at
anchor. Having passed these, the sheets were started, and the Skylark
went off before the wind. The sea was not heavy so far in shore, but it
was exciting sailing, and the passengers kept silence, watching the
swift motion of the yacht. In a short time they were accustomed to the
situation, and began to talk, though in rather subdued tones at first.
They seemed to regard the skipper with a feeling of awe, and realized
that their lives were in his keeping. They knew little or nothing about
a boat, and did not feel quite at home with such lively sailing. The
confident manner of the young skipper, his perfect command of the
situation, his pleasant speech and laugh, reassured them. When the yacht
had passed North-east Point the course was changed to the north-east,
and the sheets hauled in, so that the Skylark had the wind a little
abaft the beam. This was her best point in sailing, and she soon
exhibited her best speed. She heeled over so that her scuppers often
went under. Bobtail kept her just far enough from the land to get the
full force of the wind, but not far enough to be shaken up by the waves,
which beat heavily on La Salle Island, east of them.

"This is lively--isn't it, Howe?" said one of the gentlemen.

"It is the smartest sailing I ever saw," replied Mr. Howe. "You seem to
know what you are about, Captain Bobtail."

"I think I do, sir," answered the skipper. "I have been in a boat ever
since I was born, and I can't remember the time when I couldn't sail
one."

"I would give a hundred dollar bill if I could sail a boat as well as
you can," said Mr. Jones.

"So would I," added Mr. Howe.

"I will tell you all I know about it for nothing," laughed the skipper.
"I don't pretend to know much, but somehow I always get along. Won't you
take the helm, sir, and try your hand at it?"

"No, not now; I should rather begin when it is not quite so lively,"
replied Mr. Jones.

"It is easy enough. She will almost steer herself. All you have to do is
to run for that point of land, about eight miles ahead."

"Eight miles--is it?" asked Mr. Howe, consulting his watch.

"About eight from here. It is just ten from the point astern of us."

"It is exactly twelve o'clock now. Let us see how long it takes us to go
eight miles."

"I can tell you now, sir," laughed Bobtail. "It will take us just
forty-eight minutes."

"Good, my lad! I will time you. If it takes forty-nine, you are no
prophet."

"I don't expect to tell within a minute; but I guess I'll steer myself,
if you are going to whittle me down as close as that."

Bobtail began to be very exact in his steering and sailing. He started
the sheets a couple of inches, and watched the point ahead very closely.
Ten miles an hour was fast sailing for a boat of the size of the
Skylark; but he knew she would do it if she was well handled. The two
gentlemen kept looking at their watches, and as the distance diminished
they declared she would make the point in half an hour; but distances
are very delusive on the water, and when half an hour had elapsed, they
thought that five minutes more would bring the boat up with the
headland. Bobtail watched his sails, and "steered small." In forty
minutes he found that he should make the point a little too soon, and he
let out the jib-sheet a little, so that the sail did not draw full.

"Forty-five minutes!" exclaimed Mr. Jones, "and we are off the point."

"But we are not up with it, sir," replied Bobtail, hauling in the
jib-sheet again.

"You are cutting it fine, Captain Bobtail," added Mr. Howe.

"Of course I meant abreast of the point, and when it lies just abeam, we
shall be up with it. Here we are, sir!"

"Forty-eight minutes to a second!" ejaculated Mr. Jones, as he showed
his watch to the skipper.

"Lower the jib, Monkey!" shouted Bobtail.

"I did not think you could hit it so closely as that," said Mr. Howe.

"Well, sir, I couldn't if you hadn't told me the time every few
minutes," laughed Bobtail. "I bamboozled you."

"How?"

"I should have made the point in three quarters of an hour if I hadn't
let out the jib-sheet. I lost the three minutes on purpose."

"But why do you lower the jib here?" asked Mr. Jones.

"We will try the fish here. Ready with the anchor, Monkey!"

"All ready," replied the Darwinian.

Bobtail threw the yacht up into the wind, and as soon as she had lost
her headway, he gave the order to let go the anchor. Monkey had got out
the fishing gear and opened the clams on the passage up, so that the
passengers threw over their lines immediately. They did not have a bite
for some time, and Monkey threw over a line. It had hardly run out
before he had a fish, and pulled in a good-sized cod.

"How's that?" said Mr. Howe. "I haven't had a nibble yet."

"Perhaps you don't fish right, sir," suggested Monkey, with one of his
apish grins, as he took the gentleman's line, and found that the sinker
was not within twenty feet of the bottom. "That's what's the matter,
sir. Drop the line down till the sinker touches bottom; then pull up
about a fathom."

The two passengers, following these instructions, began to pull in cod
and haddock very rapidly, and Monkey had all he could do to bait their
hooks, and take off their fish.




CHAPTER XIV.

THE DISCHARGE.


"Look here, Howe!" exclaimed Mr. Jones, tugging with all his might at
his line; "I'm pulling up the bottom of Penobscot Bay, as true as you
live!"

"Don't do that, sir," shouted Bobtail, merrily. "We shall get aground if
you do."

"What is it?" asked Mr. Howe.

"I don't know," replied Mr. Jones, still hauling away at his line, to
which some immense dead weight seemed to be attached. "It must be a
whale."

"No, sir; pull away," said Monkey, laughing; "you have got hold of your
grandmother."

"My grandmother!"

"Yes, sir; pull away, and you will see her in a minute."

After much tugging, for the fish was not at all "gamey," he hauled up
the strangest looking fish he had ever seen, though Bobtail and Monkey
were entirely familiar with the specimen. The hook, drawing upon his
mouth, so distended it, that its appearance was not unlike the face of
an old woman with a cap on. The fish was a large scate, not less than
three feet across the back. The gentlemen had never seen one before, and
he was hauled upon the deck to enable them to examine him.

Half an hour's fishing satisfied the passengers, as there was a tub full
of cod and haddock to show for their success. After the gentlemen had
fully satisfied their curiosity, the scate was thrown overboard. The
anchor was weighed, the jib hoisted, and the Skylark continued on her
voyage to Belfast. Monkey dressed a couple of the nicest cod, and then
washed down the deck. The Darwinian was then required to take the helm,
and Bobtail, sacrificing his dignity as the skipper of the craft, went
below and assumed the duties of cook and steward. He pared and sliced a
large quantity of potatoes, for Mr. Jones had declared that he was
already as hungry as a bear. These he fried, and put them in the oven to
keep them hot. The fish was cooked, and coffee made. The table had been
set at odd moments, and in less than an hour dinner was ready. Bobtail
was invited to dine with the passengers, and he was warmly commended for
his culinary skill.

"That's the best dinner I've eaten in the State of Maine," said Mr.
Jones, with enthusiasm.

"We can get up a pretty good dinner on board of the Skylark," added the
proud skipper. "The cook isn't much on puddings and pies, but on the
heavy grub he can do as well as the next man."

"I've drank worse coffee than yours at a first-class hotel in New York,"
said Mr. Howe.

"I can give you a chowder for supper, if you like," added the cook.

"I like the fried fish best."

"Perhaps we can give you something different."

The skipper and the passengers went on deck. Bobtail relieved the crew
at the helm, and sent him below to eat his dinner, and clear away the
dishes. The gentlemen lighted their cigars, and declared that they felt
perfectly happy. The Skylark was now going up Belfast Bay, close-hauled,
but still laying her course.

"Now, how long have we been?" asked Mr. Jones, taking out his watch.
"Just three hours."

"But we spent half an hour of it in fishing," suggested the skipper.

"Exactly so, and we have made the run in two hours and a half."

Monkey was called on deck, the jib taken in, and the Skylark ran
alongside a wharf, where she was secured. It was agreed to sail for
Camden on the return at six o'clock, and the passengers left the yacht
to explore the town. The skipper washed and "slicked up" as well as he
could. Putting on his bobtail coat, he went ashore, to call upon Colonel
Montague. After some inquiry he found the house; and it was easily
identified, for it was the finest one in the city. The visitor found the
owner of the Penobscot smoking his cigar under the shade of a tree,
where rustic chairs had been placed. He was alone, and gave the young
skipper a hearty greeting.

"I'm glad to see you, Captain Bobtail," said he, warmly, shaking the
hand of the boy. "I did not expect a visit from you quite so soon, but
I'm none the less glad to see you."

"I brought a couple of gentlemen up in the Skylark, and thought I would
call upon you while they were looking over the place."

"I'm glad you did. Grace and Mrs. Montague will be very glad to see you.
I will call them."

"Not yet, if you please, sir. I want to tell you what a scrape I got
into first; and then I don't know that you will want them to see me,"
replied Bobtail, blushing.

"A scrape?"

"Yes, sir."

"I hope you haven't been doing anything wrong."

"They say I have, but I have not. I am as innocent as you are, sir. I
thought I would come up and tell you about it, as I was here. Mother did
not send me."

"She did not?"

"No, sir; she was rather opposed to my saying anything to you about the
scrape."

"Sit down, Captain Bobtail, and tell me all about it," said the colonel,
in kindly tones, though there was an anxious expression on his face.

Little Bobtail told the whole story about the letter and the five
hundred dollar bill.

"And your mother paid this same bill to Mr. Gilfilian?" asked Colonel
Montague, very much troubled.

"Yes, sir. The squire wanted to know where she got the bill, and she
won't tell," added Bobtail.

"She won't tell!" echoed the colonel; and there was an expression of
relief in his face.

"She won't give even the slightest hint; and because she wouldn't
explain it, Squire Gilfilian caused her to be arrested. They said that
both of us will be sent to the state prison for stealing this money."

"That's bad."

"I know it is, sir; but I didn't take the letter; and I know mother came
honestly by the money."

"I know she did, too," added the colonel. "When does this examination
take place?"

"It was postponed till next Tuesday, at ten o'clock."

"Very well, Captain Bobtail. I know where your mother obtained the
money."

"You, sir!" exclaimed Bobtail.

"I do; and I will be in Camden next Tuesday to tell all I know about
it."

"Thank you, sir; you are very kind."

"Of course I shall not let your mother be convicted of stealing. I know
nothing about the letter; and therefore I can do nothing for you,
Captain Bobtail."

"If you clear my mother you will clear me. If we can only tell where the
money came from, we shall be all right."

"Don't give yourself any uneasiness at all about it. I will certainly be
present at the examination."

"But are you sure you know where my mother got the bill, sir?" asked
Bobtail.

"Certainly, I do; and she came honestly by it. But as this is her
affair, I don't feel at liberty to say anything about it yet."

Little Bobtail was confounded by this sudden solution of the mystery. If
Colonel Montague knew where his mother had obtained the bill, it was
plain enough to him that he had given it to her himself. He could not,
for the life of him, see why this gentleman, wealthy and liberal though
he was, should give her such an immense sum of money. It was a very
perplexing problem, and he could not solve it. His kind friend conducted
him to the house. Grace was so glad to see him, that she actually kissed
him this time; and Bobtail felt as though he had tumbled into a
cream-pot. Mrs. Montague was very demonstrative, and the Hon. Mr.
Montague was more dignified, but hardly less cordial.

"Now you must stay with us all night, and all to-morrow, and all next
week," said Grace.

"I can't," laughed Bobtail. "I brought two gentlemen up in the Skylark,
and I must sail them back to-night."

"Plague take the two gentlemen!" said Grace, pettishly. "Let them go
back in the stage or the steamer."

"I promised to take them back to-night; and I must keep my promise, you
know, if the sky falls," pleaded the young skipper.

"Of course he must, Grace," added her father. "But he will come up some
other time, and stay a month."

Little Bobtail spent an hour in the elegant mansion, whose luxuriously
furnished apartments filled him with wonder and astonishment, for he had
never seen anything half so fine. He promised faithfully to come some
other time, and stay longer. Grace walked with him down to the wharf.
The Skylark's passengers were on board, and ready to start, and in a few
moments the yacht was under way. Grace waved her handkerchief to the
gallant skipper, as the Skylark pulled away.

"Who is that young lady?" asked Mr. Jones, as Bobtail returned the
salute.

"That's the one that fell off the rocks at Blank Island," replied the
skipper.

"And the one you saved! Why didn't you say so before, so that we could
have a good look at her?"

"I didn't think of it."

"She is a rich man's daughter."

"Yes, sir; her father is as rich as mud."

"And one of these days, Captain Bobtail, you will marry her, just as it
is laid down in the novels," laughed Mr. Howe.

"I guess not;" and Bobtail blushed at the presumptuous idea. "She will
not marry any poor fellow like me, you'd better believe. She will fish
for bigger game than I am."

"She seems to like you very well."

"O, well, that's nothing; she's only a girl, and I'm only a boy," added
the skipper.

Much to his relief, the topic was changed. The return trip was quite as
pleasant as the other had been, and at nine o'clock the Skylark landed
her passengers at the steamboat wharf, in good order and condition, and
very much delighted with the excursion. The skipper received the eight
dollars for the trip, and paid off his crew. It was Saturday night, and
Monkey wanted to buy some provisions and groceries for his mother with
the money he had earned; but he proposed to return before ten, and sleep
on board, as usual. Bobtail told him he had better spend Sunday at home,
for he could not pay him when the yacht did not go out. The Darwinian
was willing to sleep on board without pay.

"Did you see Colonel Montague, Robert?" asked Mrs. Taylor, as he went
into the house.

"Yes, I saw him; and he promised to be at the examination next Tuesday."

"What did he say?"

"He said he knew where you got the money, and that it would be all
right; but I told him you didn't send me to him."

"What else did he say?" inquired Mrs. Taylor, anxiously.

"That's about all. He took me into the house, and treated me like a
lord. That's the handsomest house I ever went into;" and Bobtail
described the glories and the beauties of the mansion.

"Of course, after what you have done, they feel very grateful to you."

"I suppose so; but, mother, I can't keep that confounded bill out of my
head," continued Bobtail. "I conclude, if Colonel Montague knows where
you got it, he gave it to you himself."

"He must explain that himself."

"Of course he gave it to you. You saw him on board of the Penobscot, the
day before I was taken up."

"You had better not say anything more about it, Robert."

"But why should he give you such a pile of money?" persisted the boy.

"I didn't say he gave it to me."

"I know he did."

"Well, the less you say about it, the better."

"If that is the bill which that Slipwing sent in the letter, I should
like to know where Colonel Montague got it."

"I don't know anything at all about that," replied Mrs. Taylor.

The conversation was interrupted by the entrance of Ezekiel. He was
sober, because he could obtain no liquor. He had spent the day in
searching for the contraband cargo. He had been upon Negro Island, and
explored North-east Point, and all the surrounding country, but he could
find no vestige of the cases. He wanted to talk with Bobtail, and he
was very gentle and conciliating in his tones and manner. After beating
about the bush for a long time, he so far disregarded the instructions
of Captain Chinks, as to ask him what he had done with the cargo of the
Skylark.

"I see you have been talking with Captain Chinks," said Bobtail. "When
any one claims the boat, I am willing to talk with him, but I can't say
a word before that time;" and the young skipper abruptly left the house,
and went on board of the yacht.

He had scarcely seated himself in the standing-room before a gentleman
from the hotel came alongside in a boat, and wanted to engage the yacht
for the next day.

"To-morrow will be Sunday," replied the skipper.

