"For what?" 
" For assault and battery on old Jacobs. The 
constable 's waiting for you." 
An expression of blank amazement came into his 
face: 
"It 's impossible; I can t go. See what a figure 
I cut !" and he looked into a glass at the great red 
and purple scar on his cheek. 
" Can t be helped," I returned. " So come along, 
and get the thing done as quickly as possible. I 'll 
go round with you and stand bail. The constable is 
waiting." 
 
There was no escape. He had to go to the alder 
man 's and give the required bail. As we came 
back, and drew near " The Retreat," I noticed a 
quiet-looking man with a grave, pleasant face stand 
ing near the door. He was about going in as we 
came up, but held back for a moment as he saw us 
turn to enter, letting us pass in, and then following. 
He stood for a little while near the door, his bright 
gray eyes ranging about as if in search of some one. 
Jacobs was still sitting in the chair where we had 
placed him, but now awake, silent and serious. The 
man on seeing him stepped quickly across the room, 
and laying a hand firmly on the old pressman 's 
shoulder, said in a kind but earnest voice, " It 's not 
too late yet, Jacobs." 
And as he spoke he took a card from his pocket 
and held it in his fingers. 
" Tisn 't any use, Charley ;" and the old man 
shook his head. There was a mournful undertone 
in his voice that I had never before heard. " I'm 
past cure," he added, his head dropping forward in 
a helpless kind of way. " I'm in the street now, 
Charley. Pitched me out last night, bag and bag 
gage ; though as to the baggage," he added, a slight 
touch of the old humor in his voice, " that didn 't 
count for much." 
" Yes ; I heard about it a little while ago," an 
swered the man, " and I said, * Now 's his last chance. 
He 's got to the end of the lane and must turn back 
or die. I guess you 'll turn back, my friend. 
 
There 's good stuff in you yet. The best pressman 
in the city is wanted. They want him in Harvey 
street, and down in Sixth street, and over in Sansom 
street. There are half a dozen places waiting for 
him. And then we want him. He 's been long 
enough a standing monument of the evil of intem 
perance, and now we want him as a monument of 
what the TEMPERANCE BLESSING can do. I want 
you to help me, friend Jacobs. And God wants you. 
He has sent me to offer you another chance. Here ! 
sign this pledge, and all will be well." 
" Tisn 't any use, Charley," he answered, but in a 
voice that betrayed a rising hope. "I'm too low 
down. Couldn 't stand up square to anything. God 
help me !" 
And the old man broke down. 
" That 's just it," was returned in a voice of tender 
encouragement. " God will help you, and no other 
can. I heard about you a little while ago, and God 
put it into my heart to come right round here. I 
was going somewhere else, and tried to think I must 
go, but something said to me, No, no ! Old Andy 
Jacobs is on his last legs, and if he isn 't saved now, 
it 's all over with him ! So, you see, I'm here as one 
sent to you from God. Don 't be afraid to trust him. 
Sign this pledge, and that 's stopping, you know 
stopping stock still and planting your feet down. 
I 'll keep by you, and if you feel weak, you shall 
lean on me. Then you 'll turn about and go the 
other way, and I 'll stand by and help you along 
 
until you can walk by yourself. I know all about 
it. I know what 's to be done." 
" If you think it any use, Charley " Jacobs looked 
up into the face of the man wistfully. 
" Of use ! I 've seen many of them come up out 
of deeper pits than the one into which you have 
fallen, Andy Jacobs, and their feet are now on solid 
rock! Here!" and he laid the card down upon 
a table and handed Jacobs a pencil ; " write your 
name just there." 
" What does it say?" asked the old man. 
" I 'll read it ;" and the pledge was read aloud in 
our bar-room. Here is a copy of a similar pledge 
now before me : 
TEMPERANCE BLESSING || 
do solemnly promise to abstain from the use or sale of all Spirituous or Malt 
Liquors, Wine or Cider, and that I will not provide them as an article of entertain 
ment ; neither will I offer them to my associates, or provide them for persons in 
my employ. I also pledge myself that I will, under all suitable circumstances, 
discountenance their use as a beverage, 
GOD BEING MY HELPER. 
Dated this. day of 187 
Jacobs took the pencil and with a shaking hand 
wrote his name on the card. A breathless silence 
fell on the room. Lloyd and I and all that were 
present were too deeply impressed by the scene to 
 
utter a light or disapproving word. I do not know 
that I ever felt more solemn in my life. I was glad 
for the degraded old man that there was hope of his 
being held back even for a little while, but I had no 
faith in any permanent reformation. 
" The best day 's work you have done for a long 
time," said the man, cheerfully. " And now let me 
give you a certificate, and if you are ever tempted to 
take a glass, or a friend no, an enemy asks you 
to drink, look at it and say No ! " 
He then filled up the blank of another card and 
handed it to Jacobs. I give a copy of that also : 
"PERSEVERANCE, FORTITUDE AND FIDELITY." 
THIS is TO CERTIFY, 
That MR. ANDREW JACOBS 
Signed the PLEDGE of the Temperance Blessing 
On June 10, 18 . 
Attest: CHARLES HERITAGE. 
Then he took the old man, and said, 
" Come." 
" I haven t any place to go to, Charley," replied 
Jacobs, rising slowly and heavily, and putting one 
hand to his head as if it pained him. 
I noticed this movement of his hand, and glanced 
at Lloyd, who must have noticed it also, for a look 
of uneasiness passed across his face. There was no 
knowing what might come of the blow Jacobs had 
received. 
 
" I 'll find you a place," was answered in an assur 
ing voice. " It 's all right now. So come along." 
And they went out together. 
"And that 's brother Heritage! God bless him!" 
fell from the lips of a man who stood leaning on the 
bar-railing. 
" The man of the Temperance Blessing ? " re 
marked another. 
" Yes ; the man who in less than four years has 
got over three thousand persons to sign his Tem 
perance Blessing pledge." 
" He won t make much out of old Jacobs," growled 
Lloyd. " No such good luck for us." 
" He 's managed a great deal worse cases than that," 
said the other. 
" Don 't believe it," growled back Lloyd. 
" I happen to know," was answered. " Some of 
you remember Phil Oldham ? Well, he got so low 
at last that he was sent to the almshouse. He 
would have died of cold and starvation in the street 
if the guardians of the poor hadn 't taken care of him. 
A year ago last spring he came out of his winter 
quarters over the Schuylkill and tried to keep sober, 
but it wasn 't a week before he was down in the 
gutter again. He couldn 't stand alone, and there 
was no one to help and encourage him in the right 
way, so he fell, in spite of his good resolutions." 
A number of men had come in to drink during 
the past fifteen or twenty minutes, and they were all 
more or less interested in what had occurred and in 
the conversation which was growing out of it. 
Most of them knew Jacobs very well. They now 
gathered in a close group about the man who was 
speaking. Among them were two or three hard 
drinkers men who had become slaves to appetite, 
who were almost helpless in the morning until a 
dram steadied their nerves. Wilson the bookbinder 
was one of these. He was going to ruin fast. 
The man went on : 
" I had a long talk with Phil Oldham yesterday 
or, I should say, rather, Philip Oldham, for that 's 
the way it reads on the sign over his door. I never 
saw brother Heritage, as some of them call him, 
until just now, and I said * God bless him ! for Philip 
Oldham 's sake. I got the whole story, and it al 
most made me cry sometimes. There 's nothing 
just like it in any book I ever read." 
"What story?" asked one. 
" Phil Oldham 's story," he replied. 
" Has he reformed ?" 
" I should think so. Has a nice little store full 
of goods," was answered. 
" Tell us about him, won t you ? Reformed ! 
That is news ! Why, I remember Phil as the 
hardest case going." 
" It isn 't a short story," said the man, " but it 
didn 't seem long to me in the telling." 
"Let 's have it!" "Fire away!" came from one 
and another. 
" Gentlemen," called Lloyd, who didn 't like the 
 
course things were taking, and who wanted to get in 
some interruption, and so prevent, if possible, further 
talk in that direction. 
The company turned to him. 
" Take a drink all round, gentlemen, and then have 
the story." 
A few came toward the bar, but the man who had 
been speaking said, in a clear, decided voice, 
" You can t have the drinks and the story too. 
It 's only a flank movement to get me out of the way. 
I 've seen it done a hundred times. So if you re 
going to drink all round, I'm off." 
" Stop, stop !" cried two or three. " Let 's have 
the story." 
" All right ; we 'll have that first. The drinks will 
keep," was added, and the company closed about the 
man again. 
" Not if I know myself," said Lloyd, angrily, as 
he set back the decanters he had placed on the bar. 
" Now or never !" 
CHAPTER XXI. 
THE tide was setting against us, and I yielded 
passively, as I had learned to do on such occa 
sions. Lloyd fretted and fumed and swore fruitless 
ly. Let me recall as accurately as possible the true 
story told in our bar-room that morning. I grew in 
terested in it in spite of myself, and did not wonder 
that many were touched or deeply moved by the 
narrative. The man resumed : 
I'm going to tell you Phil Oldham 's story just as 
he told it to me. You may think it 's Phil himself 
talking. This is what he said : 
" I was dead beat at last clear down. My poor 
wife, who stuck to me while there was any hope, had 
left me and gone to her friends. My children were 
scattered about here and there. I was a helpless 
vagabond, with only one distinct consciousness, and 
that an ever-present, irrepressible desire for liquor. To 
get that I was ready to stoop to anything to beg, to 
sponge on others, even to steal had the opportunity 
come in my way, but not to work, for I had lost 
that control of head and hand which work requires. 
" My days, as I look back to them now, were 
passed as in a suffering, uneasy, troubled dream, 
with only one thing palpable and clear an intense, 
unsatisfied craving for strong drink. I had no home. 
I could not pay for lodgings, and there was no one 
who cared enough for me to see that I had a place 
in which to lay my miserable body. If I fell asleep 
in a saloon, I was rudely shaken up and turned out 
of doors, often with some cruel trick played off upon 
me. No one cared for me no one seemed even to 
pity me. All men turned away from me with dis 
gust. And yet, somehow, I managed to get, by so 
liciting one and another, by false pretences or down 
right lying, a few pennies every day with which to 
buy liquor. Food I got by begging when I felt 
hungry, but hunger didn 't trouble me so much, a 
little satisfied that it was drink, drink, drink, that I 
craved with an appetite nothing could appease. I 
slept at night as I could, creeping in here and there, 
often finding myself in the station-house when morn 
ing broke. 
" Last winter a year I was picked up in the street 
half dead with cold and sent to the almshouse, 
where I stayed until spring. When I came out, I 
tried feebly to get on my feet again, but I had no 
employment, no home, no one to care for me. I was 
walking along the street wondering what was to be 
come of me, and in my poor way trying to hold on 
to good resolution, when I met an old acquaintance. 
" Hallo, Phil ! Is this you ? he said, with rough 
familiarity, grasping my hand. I thought you were 
dead long ago ; and he eyed me all over. Rather 
seedy-looking," he added. 
 
" ( Yes, I replied. It 's rough with me. When a 
poor devil gets going down hill, there isn 't much 
chance for him. 
" Come, let 's have a drink, he said ; I know 
you re dry. 
"There was a tavern just opposite. He moved in 
that direction as he spoke, and I went with him as 
passively as a boat towed by a steamer when the en 
gine moves. I drank, and it was all over with me 
again. That night I slept in the entry of a printing- 
office on Seventh street, hidden under the stairway. 
In the morning I was stiff, aching with rheumatism, 
thirsty and wretched. I crawled out, and going into 
the press-room, begged for something with which to 
get my breakfast. Two of the men gave me ten 
cents each. I got only liquor, reserving part of my 
money for lunch-time, when I could get some soup 
or hash as well as beer. I loafed about all day aim 
less and miserable. I felt myself going down help 
lessly and hopelessly, and the people who knew me 
seemed more inclined to push me down lower than 
to help me up higher. I got from one and another 
during the day over sixty cents, and I spent all but 
ten cents in drink ; that I reserved for a morning 
dram, when I knew my craving would be the worst. 
I slept in the entry and under the stairway where I 
had found shelter on the night before. 
"On the third day after I came from the alms- 
house I was not so successful in raising money. 
Everybody seemed gruff, out of humor and quick 
 
to deny me. I spent my ten cents early in the morn 
ing to get steadied up ; after that I could get nothing. 
I went here and there, asking this one and that for 
the loan or gift of a trifle, but up to one o clock had 
not been able to quench the craving thirst that grew 
stronger and stronger every moment. At last, in a 
desperate way, I went into a tavern down town, and 
going up to the bar, called for a glass of whisky. 
The man eyed me suspiciously as he set down a 
decanter. I took it and filled a glass half full, then 
adding a slight dash of water, poured down the fiery 
fluid. Ugh ! It was a dose, tasting more like a 
mixture of benzine and soap-suds than anything I 
can describe. It burnt all the way down. 
" What was I to do next ? I had not a cent with 
which to bless myself. But I must get off somehow. 
I thrust my hand first into one pocket and then into 
another, with as much make-believe expectation of 
finding money there as I could put on, the tavern- 
keeper eyeing me all the while in an evil way that 
caused me to feel afraid of him. 
" It 's here somewhere, I said, going from one 
pocket to another in a nervous way. 
" You 'd better find it pretty quick, the man said, 
roughly, and with a threat in his voice, at the same 
time coming round from the bar. I instinctively 
backed away toward the door ; we were alone, and I 
saw no pity in his face. I still kept going through 
my pockets, protesting all the while that there must 
be money in them somewhere. He cursed me as a 
 
cheat and a swindler. I turned in fear and ran for 
the door, getting it open before he could reach me. 
As I was passing through he kicked me with a force 
that threw me half across the pavement and over on 
my face. 
" I was not much hurt, but a good deal frightened. 
A crowd came about me as I gathered myself up, 
but no one took my part or expressed any sympathy. 
Vicious boys and girls, white and black, began pull 
ing me one way and another, calling me names and 
throwing dirt and garbage upon me, while the tavern- 
keeper stood in the door laughing and encouraging 
them. Hearing the noise, a policeman came up, but, 
instead of dispersing the crowd and protecting me, 
ordered me to make tracks or he 'd put me in the 
lock-up. I got off as best I could, some of the 
crowd following and hooting. 
" My poor knees trembled as I hurried up Sixth 
street. I felt weak and ready to fall. On reaching 
the square, I went in and sat down. Oh, I cannot 
tell you how heartsick I was. I knew into what 
depths of suffering and degradation I had gone down 
before the almshouse opened its doors for me, and 
thither my steps were again tending, and there was 
none to hold me back none to save me. 
" As I sat in this wretched frame of mind, wishing 
I were dead, a man whom I had known in better 
days came loitering through the square. He saw 
and knew me. Stopping, he said, 
" Why, Phil Oldham ! and he reached out his 
 
hand. I took it, glad to be recognized and spoken 
to kindly. How are you, old friend ? he asked. 
" Not much to brag of," I replied. Used to be 
some account, but when the tide turns against a man, 
his friends turn too. It 's a hard world to live in. 
" Guess you re right there, he answered, falling 
in with my mood. What are you doing now ? he 
inquired. 
" Nothing," I replied. Got run down been 
sick half dead with rheumatism. Couldn 't come 
up to time, and so got out of work. It 's easy going 
down hill when you once get started, and most men 
stand ready to give you a push. 
" That 's so," was returned. I know all about it. 
You re all cleaned out, I suppose ? 
" Not a penny to bless myself with. 
" And dry as a fish, no doubt? he said, smiling. 
" Haven t had a good square drink to-day," I re 
plied. Look ! and I held out my hand that he 
might see it tremble. 
" Come, then," and he moved on, I following. 
We had no occasion to search for a tavern : drink- 
ing-saloons were all about us. We could not turn 
in any direction without seeing one or more. 
" After drinking with me twice, my old acquaint 
ance gave me a dollar and said good-bye. 
" I felt rich and in high spirits for a little while. 
Two strong glasses of ale set me on my feet, toned 
me up, satisfied the craving which since morning 
had almost driven me beside myself. 
 
 
"I was never able to tell what became of that 
dollar. I found myself, near daylight on the next 
morning, lying on an ash-heap in an alley into which 
I must have staggered and fallen on the night before. 
I had a faint recollection of having had a fuss with a 
bar-keeper about change. I have no doubt now 
that I never got back any change for that dollar after 
offering it in pay for a drink, or, if any change at all, 
only a small part of what I should have received. 
" And here let me say that there is a great deal 
of sharp practice in this matter of change. I have 
gone into a saloon with five or ten dollars in my 
pocket, and after staying half an hour or an hour 
come out with only a dollar or two left. Of course 
I drank enough to get my head confused, and then I 
was game for any scamp of a bar-keeper who wished 
to swindle me. Let me tell you how this is some 
times done. Take a Saturday night, for instance, 
after men have been paid off. Business in certain 
taverns is brisker then than usual. Customers are 
flush and feel generous, drinking and treating and 
having a good time all round. The bar-keepers are 
busy, drawing beer and ale, mixing punches and 
toddies, taking money and giving change. A man, 
after drinking with a friend or two, hands over, it 
may be, a two- or a five-dollar bill. The bar-keeper, 
who knows his customer, flings the bill into a drawer, 
hurriedly picks up the change and pushes it over the 
bar, then goes quickly as far off as he can get to 
attend to somebody else. On counting over the 
 
change it is found to be half a dollar short. The 
man waits until he can come at the bar-keeper 
again, who is too busy to look at or attend to him. 
When the matter is brought to his attention, he 
bluffs the customer off, or, if he be a cool-headed 
fellow, courteously tells him it is impossible, he 
must have dropped the change on the floor. 
" Or a man half drunk hands over a bill. The 
bar-keeper says, In a moment, and goes to another 
customer without giving the change. A friend comes 
up, and the man turns away to talk with him and 
forgets about his change. If, after a while, he thinks 
of it and returns, the bar-keeper tells him rudely 
or blandly, as seems best, that he gave it to him 
long ago. Sometimes there 's a flare up, but in most 
cases the matter ends there. 
" Well, as I was saying, I was never able to tell 
what became of that dollar, but some bar-keeper 
knew, without doubt. For about a month longer I 
went on in this way, until I was lower down than 
ever, and began to have symptoms of that utter 
nervous prostration that ends in mania. I could not 
get liquor enough to keep me up. Beer and ale had 
not sufficient strength, and I drank whisky at the 
cheapest places, so as to get the most for the little 
money I could raise. 
" One evening about seven o clock, after a day of 
terrible suffering from unappeased thirst, an old ac 
quaintance whom I met in the street gave me ten 
cents. He refused at first, saying that he would not 
 
give me money for drink. But I told him I had 
eaten nothing since morning and was dying for food. 
Doubt mingled with pity in his eyes as he gave me 
the money. 
" I must husband this. I must make it go as far 
as possible. So I went to one of the cheap whisky- 
mills and called for a three-cent glass. It was hor 
rible stuff, fiery and strong. I poured it down, un 
mixed with water, and went out quickly, for I was 
sure it would not stay, nor did it. My diseased, 
over-taxed, sensitive stomach threw the nauseous 
potion out. I went back and drank another glass, 
and stood for a moment to note my feeling. The 
poor stomach rebelled again. I went out and did as 
before. My third trial was successful. The liquor 
held its own against the baffled organ. 
"I knew that it was pretty much over with me 
now. There was not strength enough in that single 
glass to keep me up. My mind was pretty clear. 
I saw the awful gulf that opened at my feet, and 
knew that unless God helped me I must go down. 
Unless God helped me ! Yes, my poor despairing 
heart had a deep sense at that time of the only hope, 
of the only arm, that could save. Never before 
had I felt it as I then did. 
" I wandered aimlessly up Sixth street until I 
came to Chestnut, where I stood for a little while, 
and then turned down. As I came opposite the 
State-house I saw in one of the windows a trans 
parent sign bearing the words, 
 
TEMPERANCE BLESSING. 
FREE TO ALL. 
" The Temperance Blessing! I said to myself as 
I stood still, looking at the letters glowing in a soft 
warm light ; * what is that ? Men and women were 
entering the State-house door, and through the win 
dow above the transparency I could see the heads of 
many people. The Temperance Blessing," I repeated to myself over and over, and then there came 
upon me an impulse to go in. So I followed. The 
court-room at the right was full of people, the num 
ber so large that many had to stand. I was a loath 
some object, and men moved away from me, but I 
crowded in and got a seat back near the wall. 
" On the railed platform or bench on the western 
side of the room were about a dozen little girls. At 
the desk in front stood a man past the middle age, 
with iron-gray hair and a mild, kind face. He held 
some slips of paper in his hand, and was saying that 
the evening 's exercises would be opened by singing 
the Temperance Blessing hymn. He then dis 
tributed the slips of paper containing this hymn 
through the audience. When everything was ready, 
a lady started the tune, and all sang with as much 
freedom and earnestness as if they -had been in 
church. I give you the first verse of the hymn : 
Temperance ! source of every blessing, 
Safeguard of the old and young, 
 
Let those now thy joy possessing 
Praise thy virtues trumpet-tongued. 
From a dire career of madness 
We were plucked like brands from fire ; 
Joy now dwells where once was sadness : 
We have conquered fierce desire. 
" It was years since I had been to church. How 
the singing, in a tune once familiar almost as my 
mother 's voice, took me away back ! How it melted 
me down ! How it overcame me ! Old tender, sa 
cred and religious impressions returned. I was 
strangely moved while the singing went on. At its 
close the chairman of the meeting, whom I have 
mentioned, said, to my surprise, Let us pray. I had 
not looked for that. Some stood up ; most of those 
present merely bowed their heads where they sat, 
but I got down upon my knees : I couldn 't help it ; 
and when the chairman prayed for a blessing on the 
assembly, and for especial help from God for any 
poor drunkard that might be there, I groaned in 
spirit, God help me ! Somehow, after that prayer, 
I felt as if I were going to be helped, as if God had 
led me there, and surely it was so ! 
"After the prayer was over the chairman said, 
Now we will have a temperance song from one of 
our little friends. At this one of the girls I have 
mentioned stood up and sang something that sounded 
very sweet. Her innocent face took my heart back 
to the children that once made music in my home. 
I felt strange and tender. 
Then the chairman talked for a while about the 
 
Blessing as the meeting held there every Tuesday 
evening was called, and told of many who had 
signed the pledge of the Blessing and were now 
sober and happy. He read the number of the last 
signature on the pledge-book : it was two thousand 
five hundred and twenty-seven ! I felt oppressed 
and in a maze, but there was just enough of excite 
ment in the scene to keep me up. He said that the 
pledge-book was now open, and would lie open all 
the evening, that if any wished to sign, to make in 
that hall where national independence was first de 
clared a declaration of personal independence, the 
opportunity was here given. Come now, or at any 
time during the evening," he urged. The moment 
you feel an impulse to do so, come forward. The 
sight will gladden our hearts. Come over on our 
side and help us, and we will help you."
" After this one of the girls recited in a clear, well- 
trained voice, and with admirable effect, a poem bear 
ing on temperance. At its close two or three men 
went forward and signed the pledge. I was strongly 
impelled to go, but did not rise from my seat. 
 What good would it do ? I said to myself. There 's 
no one to help me ; no one to take me by the hand ; 
no one to hold me up. I have no home ; where can 
I go ? What can I do ? A feeling of dumb despair 
came over me, and I felt helpless and hopeless. For 
some time after that I hardly heard what was going 
on. But after a while I saw that a man was on the 
floor speaking. I listened, and he told how he had 
 
once been away down almost as low as I was, how 
he had seen the Temperance Blessing sign one 
night, just as I had seen it, and how he had come in 
just as I had come, and how he had signed the 
pledge, and how brother Heritage, pointing to the 
chairman as he spoke, had taken him by the hand, 
and stood by him until he was able to stand alone. 
How eagerly I listened to every word ! 
" When he had done speaking, the chairman called 
one of the little girls by name, and said, Now give 
us that song you learned last week. 
" The child stood up. She was not over ten years 
of age. I felt my heart give a strong beat as I 
looked into her dear young face, she was so like one 
of my own children. I wiped my dim eyes and 
strained them toward her. Oh what a tide of old 
feelings came rushing back upon me ! But I knew 
it was not my Lucy. She had gone to a better 
world long ago. 
" Out on the hushed air of the room stole the 
sweet voice, tender, sad and pleading, in the words, 
Father, come home ! 
" It seemed like the voice of my own child calling 
to me. Home ! Come home ! God help me ! I 
had no home ! 
" The song went on, the singer pleading with the 
imaginary father to come home, and I sat listening 
as if to the voice of my own child. 
" If there is any poor wanderer here to-night, said 
the chairman as the song ceased, * let him come home 
 
now home to the Blessing. He will find it an 
ark of safety and a haven of rest. 
" I made an effort to rise, but something seemed 
to hold me down. Almost with a cry I started to 
my feet and moved blindly forward, saying in my 
thought, I will go home ! I will be free, God help 
ing me ! One and another gave way as I moved. 
The chairman 's quick eyes saw me, and he came 
forward to meet and led me to the table where the 
pledge-book lay. 
" My hand shook as I lifted the pen ; my sight 
was so blurred that I could hardly see the page be 
fore me. But I set the pen down resolutely, and 
wrote as best I could my name. A card certifying 
that I had signed the pledge of the Temperance 
Blessing was then put into my hand. 
" I can t recall much of what was said and done 
after that. There was speaking and singing and 
talking by the chairman, while every now and then 
some one came up and signed the pledge, but it all 
passed as if I were dreaming. The singing of the 
Doxology, Praise God from whom all blessings 
flow, by the whole assemblage at the close of the 
meeting, roused me to a clearer and a better state of 
mind. 
" The little card certificate was in my hand. I was 
holding on to it tightly, very much with the feeling, 
I think, of a man overboard with the end of a slender 
rope in his hand that he feels may snap at any mo 
ment, while the angry waves roar about him. In 
 
this little card I felt lay, somehow, my last and only 
hope. 
" I sat still as the people went slowly out. When 
I left that room, where was I to go ? What was to 
become of me ? I had signed a pledge not to drink 
again. Could I, without food, without a physician, 
without a place in which to lay my head, hope for 
anything? I felt the chill of utter despair come 
creeping over me, and then I cried, turning as best I 
could my poor heart to the Saviour who died for 
me the Saviour I had, when a little boy at my 
mother 's knee, so loved to read about Lord, save 
me, or I perish ! There never went up a cry to God 
from a lower depth of despairing helplessness than 
the one my heart sent up that night. Even as I 
prayed I felt a hand laid on my shoulder, and there 
was something in the touch that gave me hope. 
" Brother Oldham. It was the chairman 's voice. 
How tender and interested it was ! Brother Oldham ! 
How did he know my name ? I did not rise, but 
sat trembling, for my poor unstimulated nerves were 
fast giving way. 
" Where do you live ? he asked. 
"  I have no home," I almost sobbed. I was 
breaking down. 
" Then I must find you one," he answered, 
cheerily. Come ! 
" I got up and followed. How differently things 
looked in the street as we came out! How or in 
what they were changed I could not tell, but 
 
somehow I had to them, or they to me, a new rela 
tion. They spoke to me in a language I had not 
heard for a long, long time. 
" We walked for several squares, the chairman of 
the Blessing talking all the while hopefully, and 
saying that I 'd find plenty of friends to stand by and 
help me if I kept true to my pledge, and I answering 
over and over again, 
" God helping me, I will ! Weak, broken, almost 
gone, I was now desperately in earnest. I said to 
myself, I will stand or die ! 
" My God-sent friend went with me to a house 
down in Seventh street, where I was taken in and 
kept for a few days. At first I was refused admis 
sion. But my friend would take no denial. He 
pleaded for me as if I had been a son or a brother. 
I heard him say, God has sent him to your door, 
a lost sheep of his fold just ready to perish; you 
dare not refuse to take him in. It may be the salva 
tion of a soul precious in his sight. 
" And so he prevailed. I had a warm bath, a clean 
shirt and a clean bed to lie down upon, a strong cup 
of coffee and something to eat. My filthy garments 
were all taken away, and my friend said, as he left 
me for the night, after having brought in a physician 
to give me something to take the place of liquor in 
my worn-out nervous system, and so keep me if 
possible from mania, In the morning I will bring 
you some better clothing. 
"What a night that was! I was afraid to lose 
