Knowing well Pietro’s malice, he dreaded the chances of his capturing
him.

“He stays there. He does not go away,” said Phil.

“It will do him no good, Phil. He is like a cat watching a canary bird
beyond his reach. I don’t think he will catch you to-day.”

“He may go in the cars, too,” suggested Phil.

“That is true. On the whole, Phil, when you get to Newark, I advise
you to walk into the country. Don’t stay in the city. He might find you
there.”

“I will do what you say, Paolo. It will be better.”

They soon reached the Jersey shore. The railroad station was close by.
They went thither at once, and Phil bought a ticket for Newark.

“How soon will the cars start?” inquired Paul of a railway official.

“In five minutes,” was the answer.

“Then, Phil, I advise you to get into the cars at once. Take a seat
on the opposite side, though there is no chance of your being seen by
Pietro, who will get here too late. Still, it is best to be on the safe
side. I will stay near the ferry and watch Pietro when he lands. Perhaps
I will have a little conversation with him.”

“I will go, Paolo.”

“Well, good-by, Phil, and good luck,” said Paul, cheerfully. “If you
ever come to New York, come to see me.”

“Yes, Paolo, I will be sure to come.”

“And, Phil, though I don’t think you will ever fall into the power
of that old brute again (I am sure you won’t if you take good care of
yourself), still, if he does get you back again, come to me the first
chance you get, and I will see what I can do for you.”

“Thank you, Paolo. I will remember your kindness always,” said the
little fiddler, gratefully.

“That is all right, Phil. Good-by!”

“Good-by!” said Phil, and, shaking the hand of his new friend, he
ascended the steps, and took a seat on the opposite side, as Paul had
recommended.

“I am sorry to part with Phil,” said Paul to himself. “He’s a fine
little chap, and I like him. If ever that old brute gets hold of him
again, he shan’t keep him long. Now, Signor Pietro, I’ll go back and see
you on your arrival.”

Phil was right in supposing that Pietro would take passage on the next
boat. He waited impatiently on the drop till it touched, and sprang on
board. He cursed the interval of delay, fearing that it would give Phil
a chance to get away. However, there was no help for this. Time and tide
wait for no man, but it often happens that we are compelled to wait for
them. But at length the boat touched the Jersey shore, and Pietro
sprang out and hurried to the gates, looking eagerly on all sides for a
possible glimpse of the boy he sought. He did not see him, for the cars
were already on their way, but his eyes lighted up with satisfaction as
they lighted on Paul, whom he recognized as the companion of Phil. He
had seen him talking to the little fiddler. Probably he would know where
he had gone. He walked up to Paul, who was standing near, and, touching
his cap, said: “Excuse me, signore, but have you seen my little
brother?”

“Your little brother?” repeated Paul, deliberately.

“Si, signore, a little boy with a fiddle. He was so high;” and Pietro
indicated the height of Phil correctly by his hand.

“There was a boy came over in the boat with me,” said Paul.

“Yes, yes; he is the one, signore,” said Pietro, eagerly.

“And he is your brother?”

“Si, signore.”

“That’s a lie,” thought Paul, “I should know it even if Phil had
not told me. Phil is a handsome little chap. He wouldn’t have such a
villainous-looking brother as you.”

“Can you tell me where he has gone?” asked Pietro, eagerly.

“Didn’t he tell you where he was going?” asked Paul, in turn.

“I think he means to run away,” said Pietro. “Did you see where he
went?”

“Why should he want to run away?” asked Paul, who enjoyed tantalizing
Pietro, who he saw was chafing with impatience. “Did you not treat him
well?”

“He is a little rascal,” said Pietro. “He is treated well, but he is a
thief.”

“And you are his brother,” repeated Paul, significantly.

“Did you see where he went?” asked Pietro, getting angry. “I want to
take him back to his father.”

“How should I know?” returned Paul, coolly. “Do you think I have nothing
to do but to look after your brother?”

“Why didn’t you tell me that before?” said Pietro, incensed.

“Don’t get mad,” said Paul, indifferently; “it won’t do you any good.
Perhaps, if you look round, you will see your brother. I’ll tell him you
want him if I see him.”

Pietro looked at Paul suspiciously. It struck him that the latter might
be making a fool of him, but Paul looked so utterly indifferent that
he could judge nothing from his appearance. He concluded that Phil was
wandering about somewhere in Jersey City.

It did not occur to him that he might have taken the cars for some
more distant place. At any rate, there seemed no chance of getting any
information out of Paul. So he adjusted his hand-organ and walked up the
street leading from the ferry, looking sharply on either side, hoping to
catch a glimpse of the runaway; but, of course, in vain.

“I don’t think you’ll find Phil to-day, Signor Pietro,” said Paul to
himself, as he watched his receding form. “Now, as there is nothing more
to be done here, I will go back to business.”



CHAPTER XIX

PIETRO’S PURSUIT

The distance from New York to Newark is but ten miles. Phil had been
there once before with an older boy. He was at no loss, therefore, as to
the proper place to get out. He stepped from the cars and found himself
in a large depot. He went out of a side door, and began to wander about
the streets of Newark. Now, for the first time, he felt that he was
working for himself, and the feeling was an agreeable one. True, he did
not yet feel wholly secure. Pietro might possibly follow in the next
train. He inquired at the station when the next train would arrive.

“In an hour,” was the reply.

It would be an hour, therefore, before Pietro could reach Newark.

He decided to walk on without stopping till he reached the outskirts
of the city, and not venture back till nightfall, when there would be
little or no danger.

Accordingly he plodded on for an hour and a half, till he came where the
houses were few and scattered at intervals. In a business point of view
this was not good policy, but safety was to be consulted first of all.
He halted at length before a grocery store, in front of which he saw a
small group of men standing. His music was listened to with attention,
but when he came to pass his cap round afterward the result was small.
In fact, to be precise, the collection amounted to but eight cents.

“How’s business, boy?” asked a young man who stood at the door in his
shirt-sleeves, and was evidently employed in the grocery.

“That is all I have taken,” said Phil, showing the eight cents.

“Did you come from New York this morning?”

“Yes.”

“Then you haven’t got enough to pay for your ticket yet?”

Phil shrugged his shoulders.

“I don’t believe you’ll make your fortune out here.”

Phil was of precisely the same opinion, but kept silent.

“You would have done better to stay in New York.”

To this also Phil mentally assented, but there were imperative reasons,
as we know, for leaving the great city.

It was already half-past twelve, and Phil began, after his walk, to
feel the cravings of appetite. He accordingly went into the grocery and
bought some crackers and cheese, which he sat down by the stove and ate.

“Are you going farther?” asked the same young man who had questioned him
before.

“I shall go back to Newark to-night,” said Phil.

“Let me try your violin.”

“Can you play?” asked Phil, doubtfully, for he feared that an
unpracticed player might injure the instrument.

“Yes, I can play. I’ve got a fiddle at home myself.”

Our hero surrendered his fiddle to the young man, who played passably.

“You’ve got a pretty good fiddle,” he said. “I think it’s better than
mine. Can you play any dancing tunes?”

Phil knew one or two, and played them.

“If you were not going back to Newark, I should like to have you play
with me this evening. I don’t have anybody to practice with.”

“I would not know where to sleep,” said Phil, hesitatingly.

“Oh, we’ve got beds enough in our house. Will you stay?”

Phil reflected that he had no place to sleep in Newark except such as he
might hire, and decided to accept the offer of his new friend.

“This is my night off from the store,” he said. “I haven’t got to come
back after supper. Just stay around here till six o’clock. Then I’ll
take you home and give you some supper, and then we’ll play this
evening.”

Phil had no objection to this arrangement. In fact, it promised to be an
agreeable one for him. As he was sure of a supper, a bed and breakfast,
there was no particular necessity for him to earn anything more
that day. However, he went out for an hour or two, and succeeded in
collecting twenty-five cents. He realized, however, that it was not so
easy to pick up pennies in the country as in the city--partly because
population is sparser and partly because, though there is less privation
in the country, there is also less money.

A little before six Phil’s new friend, whose name he ascertained was
Edwin Grover, washed his hands, and, putting on his coat, said “Come
along, Phil.”

Phil, who had been sitting near the stove, prepared to accompany him.

“We haven’t got far to go,” said Edwin, who was eighteen. “I am glad of
that, for the sooner I get to the supper table the better.”

After five minutes’ walk they stopped at a comfortable two-story house
near the roadside.

“That’s where I put up,” said Edwin.

He opened the door and entered, followed by Phil, who felt a little
bashful, knowing that he was not expected.

“Have you got an extra plate, mother?” asked Edwin. “This is a professor
of the violin, who is going to help me make some music this evening.”

“He is welcome,” said Mrs. Grover, cheerfully, “We can make room for
him. He is an Italian, I suppose. What is your name?”

“Filippo.”

“I will call you Philip. I suppose that is the English name. Will you
lay down your violin and draw up to the fire?”

“I am not cold,” said Phil.

“He is not cold, he is hungry, as Ollendorf says,” said Edwin, who had
written a few French exercises according to Ollendorf’s system. “Is
supper almost ready?”

“It will be ready at once. There is your father coming in at the front
gate, and Henry with him.”

Mr. Grover entered, and Phil made the acquaintance of the rest of the
family. He soon came to feel that he was a welcome guest, and shared
in the family supper, which was well cooked and palatable. Then Edwin
brought out his fiddle, and the two played various tunes. Phil caught
one or two new dancing tunes from his new friend, and in return taught
him an Italian air. Three or four people from a neighboring family
came in, and a little impromptu dance was got up. So the evening passed
pleasantly, and at half-past ten they went to bed, Phil sleeping in a
little room adjoining that in which the brothers Edwin and Harry slept.

After breakfast the next morning Phil left the house, with a cordial
invitation to call again when he happened to be passing.

Before proceeding with his adventures, we must go back to Pietro.

He, as we know, failed to elicit any information from Paul likely
to guide him in his pursuit of Phil. He was disappointed. Still,
he reflected that Phil had but a quarter of an hour’s start of
him--scarcely that, indeed--and if he stopped to play anywhere, he would
doubtless easily find him. There was danger, of course, that he would
turn off somewhere, and Pietro judged it best to inquire whether such a
boy had passed.

Seeing two boys playing in the street, he inquired: “Have you seen
anything of my little brother?”

“What does he look like?” inquired one.

“He is not quite so large as you. He had a fiddle with him.”

“No, I haven’t seen him. Have you, Dick?”

“Yes,” said the other, “there was a boy went along with a fiddle.”

This was true, but, as we know, it was not Phil.

“Did you see where he went?” demanded Pietro, eagerly.

“Straight ahead,” was the reply.

Lured by the delusive hope these words awakened, Pietro went on. He did
not stop to play on his organ. He was too intent on finding Phil. At
length, at a little distance before him, he saw a figure about the size
of Phil, playing on the violin. He hurried forward elated, but when
within a few yards he discovered to his disappointment that it was not
Phil, but a little fiddler of about his size. He was in the employ of a
different padrone. He was doubtless the one the boy had seen.

Disappointed, Pietro now turned back, and bent his steps to the ferry.
But he saw nothing of Phil on the way.

“I would like to beat him, the little wretch!” he said to himself,
angrily. “If I had not been too late for the boat, I would have easily
caught him.”

It never occurred to Pietro that Phil might have taken the cars for a
more distant point, as he actually did. The only thing he could think
of, for he was not willing to give up the pursuit, was to go back. He
remained in Jersey City all day, wandering about the streets, peering
here and there; but he did not find Phil, for a very good reason.

The padrone awaited his report at night with some impatience. Phil was
one of the smartest boys he had, and he had no mind to lose him.

“Did you find him, Pietro?” he asked as soon as his nephew entered his
presence.

“I saw him,” said Pietro.

“Then why did you not bring him back?”

Pietro explained the reason. His uncle listened attentively.

“Pietro, you are a fool,” he said, at length.

“Why am I a fool?” asked Pietro, sullenly.

“Because you sought Filippo where he is not.”

“Where is he?”

“He did not stop in Jersey City. He went farther. He knew that you were
on his track. Did you ask at the station if such a boy bought a ticket?”

“I did not think of it.”

“Then you were a fool.”

“What do you want me to do?”

“To-morrow you must go to Newark. That is the first large town. I must
have Filippo back.”

“I will go,” said Pietro, briefly.

He was mortified at the name applied to him by his uncle, as well as by
the fact of Phil’s having thus far outwitted him. He secretly determined
that when he did get him into his power he would revenge himself for all
the trouble to which he had been put, and there was little doubt that he
would keep his word.



CHAPTER XX

PIETRO’S DISAPPOINTMENT

Though Phil had not taken in much money during the first day of
independence, he had more than paid his expenses. He started on the
second day with a good breakfast, and good spirits. He determined to
walk back to Newark, where he might expect to collect more money than in
the suburbs. If he should meet Pietro he determined not to yield without
a struggle. But he felt better now than at first, and less afraid of the
padrone.

Nine o’clock found him again in Newark. He soon came to a halt, and
began to play. A few paused to listen, but their interest in music did
not extend so far as to affect their pockets. Phil passed around his hat
in vain. He found himself likely to go unrewarded for his labors. But
just then he noticed a carriage with open door, waiting in front of
a fashionable dry-goods store. Two ladies had just come out and taken
their seats preparatory to driving off, when Phil stepped up bareheaded
and held his cap. He was an unusually attractive boy, and as he smiled
one of the ladies, who was particularly fond of children, noticed him.

“What a handsome boy!” she said to her companion.

“Some pennies for music,” said Phil.

“How old are you?” asked the lady.

“Twelve years.”

“Just the age of my Johnny. If I give you some money what will you do
with it?”

“I will buy dinner,” said Phil.

“I never give to vagrants,” said the second lady, a spinster of
uncertain age, who did not share her niece’s partiality for children.

“It isn’t his fault if he is a vagrant, Aunt Maria,” said the younger
lady.

“I have no doubt he is a thief,” continued Aunt Maria, with acerbity.

“I am not a thief,” said Phil, indignantly, for he understood very well
the imputation, and he replaced his cap on his head.

“I don’t believe you are,” said the first lady; “here, take this,” and
she put in his hand twenty-five cents.

“Thank you, signora,” said Phil, with a grateful smile.

“That money is thrown away,” said the elderly lady; “you are very
indiscriminate in your charity, Eleanor.”

“It is better to give too much than too little, Aunt Maria, isn’t it?”

“You shouldn’t give to unworthy objects.”

“How do you know this boy is an unworthy object?”

“He is a young vagrant.”

“Can he help it? It is the way he makes his living.”

The discussion continued, but Phil did not stop to hear it. He had
received more than he expected, and now felt ready to continue his
business. One thing was fortunate, and relieved him from the anxiety
which he had formerly labored under. He was not obliged to obtain a
certain sum in order to escape a beating at night. He had no master
to account to. He was his own employer, as long as he kept out of the
clutches of the padrone.

Phil continued to roam about the streets very much after the old
fashion, playing here and there as he thought it expedient. By noon he
had picked up seventy-five cents, and felt very well satisfied with his
success. But if, as we are told, the hour that is darkest is just before
day, it also happens sometimes that danger lies in wait for prosperity,
and danger menaced our young hero, though he did not know it. To explain
this, we must go back a little.

When Pietro prepared to leave the lodging-house in the morning, the
padrone called loudly to him.

“Pietro,” said he, “you must find Filippo today.”

“Where shall I go?” asked Pietro.

“Go to Newark. Filippo went there, no doubt, while you, stupid that
you are, went looking for him in Jersey City. You have been in Newark
before?”

“Yes, signore padrone.”

“Very good; then you need no directions.”

“If I do not find him in Newark, where shall I go?”

“He is in Newark,” said the padrone, confidently. “He will not leave
it.”

He judged that Phil would consider himself safe there, and would prefer
to remain in a city rather than go into the country.

“I will do my best,” said Pietro.

“I expect you to bring him back to-night.”

“I should like to do so,” said Pietro, and he spoke the truth. Apart
from his natural tendency to play the tyrant over smaller boys, he felt
a personal grudge against Phil for eluding him the day before, and so
subjecting him to the trouble of another day’s pursuit, besides the
mortification of incurring a reprimand from his uncle. Never did agent
accept a commission more readily than Pietro accepted that of catching
and bringing Filippo to the padrone.

Leaving the lodging-house he walked down to the ferry at the foot
of Cortlandt Street, and took the first train for Newark. It was ten
o’clock before he reached the city. He had nothing in particular to
guide him, but made up his mind to wander about all day, inquiring from
time to time if anyone had seen his little brother, describing Phil.
After a while his inquiries were answered in the affirmative, and he
gradually got on the track of our hero.

At twelve o’clock Phil went into a restaurant, and invested thirty cents
in a dinner. As the prices were low, he obtained for this sum all he
desired. Ten minutes afterward, as he was walking leisurely along with
that feeling of tranquil enjoyment which a full stomach is apt to give,
Pietro turned the corner behind him. No sooner did the organ-grinder
catch sight of his prey, than a fierce joy lighted up his eyes, and he
quickened his pace.

“Ah, scelerato, I have you now,” he exclaimed to himself. “To-night you
shall feel the stick.”

But opportunely for himself Phil looked behind him. When he saw Pietro
at but a few rods’ distance his heart stood still with sudden fright,
and for an instant his feet were rooted to the ground. Then the thought
of escape came to him, and he began to run, not too soon.

“Stop!” called out Pietro. “Stop, or I will kill you!”

But Phil did not comprehend the advantage of surrendering himself to
Pietro. He understood too well how he would be treated, if he returned
a prisoner. Instead of obeying the call, he only sped on the faster. Now
between the pursuer and the pursued there was a difference of six years,
Pietro being eighteen, while Phil was but twelve. This, of course, was
in Pietro’s favor. On the other hand, the pursuer was encumbered by a
hand-organ, which retarded his progress, while Phil had only a violin,
which did not delay him at all. This made their speed about equal,
and gave Phil a chance to escape, unless he should meet with some
interruption.

“Stop!” called Pietro, furiously, beginning to realize that the victory
was not yet won.

Phil looked over his shoulder, and, seeing that Pietro was no nearer,
took fresh courage. He darted round a corner, with his pursuer half a
dozen rods behind him. They were not in the most frequented parts of
the city, but in a quarter occupied by two-story wooden houses. Seeing
a front door open, Phil, with a sudden impulse, ran hastily in, closing
the door behind him.

A woman with her sleeves rolled up, who appeared to have taken her arms
from the tub, hearing his step, came out from the back room.

“What do ye want?” she demanded, suspiciously.

“Save me!” cried Phil, out of breath. “Someone is chasing me. He is bad.
He will beat me.”

The woman’s sympathies were quickly enlisted. She had a warm heart, and
was always ready to give aid to the oppressed.

“Whist, darlint, run upstairs, and hide under the bed. I’ll send him off
wid a flea in his ear, whoever he is.”

Phil was quick to take the hint. He ran upstairs, and concealed himself
as directed. While he was doing it, the lower door, which he had shut,
was opened by Pietro. He was about to rush into the house, but the
muscular form of Phil’s friend stood in his way.

“Out wid ye!” said she, flourishing a broom, which she had snatched up.
“Is that the way you inter a dacint woman’s house, ye spalpeen!”

“I want my brother,” said Pietro, drawing back a little before the
amazon who disputed his passage.

“Go and find him, thin!” said Bridget McGuire, “and kape out of my
house.”

“But he is here,” said Pietro, angrily; “I saw him come in.”

“Then, one of the family is enough,” said Bridget. “I don’t want
another. Lave here wid you!”

“Give me my brother, then!” said Pietro, provoked.

“I don’t know anything of your brother. If he looks like you, he’s a
beauty, sure,” returned Mrs. McGuire.

“Will you let me look for him?”

“Faith and I won’t. You may call him if you plase.”

Pietro knew that this would do very little good, but there seemed
nothing else to do.

“Filippo!” he called; “come here. The padrone has sent for you.”

“What was ye sayin’?” demanded Bridget not comprehending the Italian.

“I told my brother to come.”

“Then you can go out and wait for him,” said she. “I don’t want you in
the house.”

Pietro was very angry. He suspected that Phil was in the rear room, and
was anxious to search for him. But Bridget McGuire was in the way--no
light, delicate woman, but at least forty pounds heavier than Pietro.
Moreover, she was armed with a broom, and seemed quite ready to use it.
Phil was fortunate in obtaining so able a protector. Pietro looked at
her, and had a vague thought of running by her, and dragging Phil out if
he found him. But Bridget was planted so squarely in his path that this
course did not seem very practicable.

“Will you give me my brother?” demanded Pietro, forced to use words
where he would willingly have used blows.

“I haven’t got your brother.”

“He is in this house.”

“Thin he may stay here, but you shan’t,” said Bridget, and she made a
sudden demonstration with the broom, of so threatening a character
that Pietro hastily backed out of the house, and the door was instantly
bolted in his face.



CHAPTER XXI

THE SIEGE

When the enemy had fairly been driven out of the house Mrs. McGuire
went upstairs in search of Phil. Our hero had come out from his place of
concealment, and stood at the window.

“Where is Pietro?” he asked, as his hostess appeared in the chamber.

“I druv him out of the house,” said Bridget, triumphantly.

“Then he won’t come up here?” interrogated Phil.

“It’s I that would like to see him thry it,” said Mrs. McGuire, shaking
her head in a very positive manner, “I’d break my broom over his back
first.”

Phil breathed freer. He saw that he was rescued from immediate danger.

“Where is he now?”

“He’s outside watching for you. He’ll have to wait till you come out.”

“May I stay here till he goes?”

“Sure, and you may,” said the warm-hearted Irishwoman. “You’re as
welcome as flowers in May. Are you hungry?”

“No, thank you,” said Phil. “I have eaten my dinner.”

“Won’t you try a bit of bread and cold mate now?” she asked, hospitably.

“You are very kind,” said Phil, gratefully, “but I am not hungry. I only
want to get away from Pietro.”

“Is that the haythen’s name? Sure I niver heard it before.”

“It is Peter in English.”

“And has he got the name of the blessed St. Peter, thin? Sure, St. Peter
would be mightily ashamed of him. And is he your brother, do you say?”

“No,” said Phil.

“He said he was; but I thought it was a wicked lie when he said it. He’s
too bad, sure, to be a brother of yours. But I must go down to my work.
My clothes are in the tub, and the water will get cold.”

“Will you be kind enough to tell me when he goes away?” asked Phil.

“Sure I will. Rest aisy, darlint. He shan’t get hold of you.”

Pietro’s disappointment may be imagined when he found that the victim
whom he had already considered in his grasp was snatched from him in
the very moment of his triumph. He felt nearly as much incensed at Mrs.
McGuire as at Phil, but against the former he had no remedy. Over the
stalwart Irishwoman neither he nor the padrone had any jurisdiction,
and he was compelled to own himself ignominiously repulsed and baffled.
Still all was not lost. Phil must come out of the house some time, and
when he did he would capture him. When that happy moment arrived he
resolved to inflict a little punishment on our hero on his own account,
in anticipation of that which awaited him from his uncle, the padrone.
He therefore took his position in front of the house, and maintained a
careful watch, that Phil might not escape unobserved.

So half an hour passed. He could hear no noise inside the house, nor
did Phil show himself at any of the windows. Pietro was disturbed by a
sudden suspicion. What if, while he was watching, Phil had escaped by
the back door, and was already at a distance!

This would be quite possible, for as he stood he could only watch the
front of the house. The rear was hidden from his view. Made uneasy by
this thought, he shifted his ground, and crept stealthily round on the
side, in the hope of catching a view of Phil, or perhaps hearing some
conversation between him and his Amazonian protector by which he might
set at rest his suddenly formed suspicions.

He was wrong, however. Phil was still upstairs. He was disposed to be
cautious, and did not mean to leave his present place of security until
he should be apprised by his hostess that Pietro had gone.

Bridget McGuire kept on with her washing. She had been once to the front
room, and, looking through the blinds, had ascertained that Pietro was
still there.

“He’ll have to wait long enough,” she said to herself, “the haythen!
It’s hard he’ll find it to get the better of Bridget McGuire.”

She was still at her tub when through the opposite window on the side
of the house she caught sight of Pietro creeping stealthily along, as we
