“She always loved that kind o’ flowers. He fetched ‘em for her every
morning, and she always kissed him. They was from away north somers--she
kep’ school when she fust come. Goodness knows what’s to become o’ that
po’ boy. No father, no mother, no kin folks of no kind. Nobody to go
to, nobody that k’yers for him--and all of us is so put to it for to get
along and families so large.”
Hawkins understood. All eyes were turned inquiringly upon him. He said:
“Friends, I am not very well provided for, myself, but still I would not
turn my back on a homeless orphan. If he will go with me I will give him
a home, and loving regard--I will do for him as I would have another do
for a child of my own in misfortune.”
One after another the people stepped forward and wrung the stranger’s
hand with cordial good will, and their eyes looked all that their hands
could not express or their lips speak.
“Said like a true man,” said one.
“You was a stranger to me a minute ago, but you ain’t now,” said
another.
“It’s bread cast upon the waters--it’ll return after many days,” said
the old lady whom we have heard speak before.
“You got to camp in my house as long as you hang out here,” said one.
“If tha hain’t room for you and yourn my tribe’ll turn out and camp in
the hay loft.”
A few minutes afterward, while the preparations for the funeral were
being concluded, Mr. Hawkins arrived at his wagon leading his little
waif by the hand, and told his wife all that had happened, and asked her
if he had done right in giving to her and to himself this new care? She
said:
“If you’ve done wrong, Si Hawkins, it’s a wrong that will shine brighter
at the judgment day than the rights that many a man has done before you.
And there isn’t any compliment you can pay me equal to doing a thing
like this and finishing it up, just taking it for granted that I’ll be
willing to it. Willing? Come to me; you poor motherless boy, and let me
take your grief and help you carry it.”
When the child awoke in the morning, it was as if from a troubled dream.
But slowly the confusion in his mind took form, and he remembered his
great loss; the beloved form in the coffin; his talk with a generous
stranger who offered him a home; the funeral, where the stranger’s wife
held him by the hand at the grave, and cried with him and comforted
him; and he remembered how this, new mother tucked him in his bed in the
neighboring farm house, and coaxed him to talk about his troubles, and
then heard him say his prayers and kissed him good night, and left him
with the soreness in his heart almost healed and his bruised spirit at
rest.
And now the new mother came again, and helped him to dress, and combed
his hair, and drew his mind away by degrees from the dismal yesterday,
by telling him about the wonderful journey he was going to take and the
strange things he was going to see. And after breakfast they two went
alone to the grave, and his heart went out to his new friend and his
untaught eloquence poured the praises of his buried idol into her ears
without let or hindrance. Together they planted roses by the headboard
and strewed wild flowers upon the grave; and then together they went
away, hand in hand, and left the dead to the long sleep that heals all
heart-aches and ends all sorrows.
CHAPTER III.
Whatever the lagging dragging journey may have been to the rest of
the emigrants, it was a wonder and delight to the children, a world
of enchantment; and they believed it to be peopled with the mysterious
dwarfs and giants and goblins that figured in the tales the negro slaves
were in the habit of telling them nightly by the shuddering light of the
kitchen fire.
At the end of nearly a week of travel, the party went into camp near
a shabby village which was caving, house by house, into the hungry
Mississippi. The river astonished the children beyond measure. Its
mile-breadth of water seemed an ocean to them, in the shadowy twilight,
and the vague riband of trees on the further shore, the verge of a
continent which surely none but they had ever seen before.
“Uncle Dan’l” (colored,) aged 40; his wife, “aunt Jinny,” aged 30,
“Young Miss” Emily Hawkins, “Young Mars” Washington Hawkins and “Young
Mars” Clay, the new member of the family, ranged themselves on a log,
after supper, and contemplated the marvelous river and discussed it. The
moon rose and sailed aloft through a maze of shredded cloud-wreaths; the
sombre river just perceptibly brightened under the veiled light; a deep
silence pervaded the air and was emphasized, at intervals, rather than
broken, by the hooting of an owl, the baying of a dog, or the muffled
crash of a carving bank in the distance.
The little company assembled on the log were all children (at least in
simplicity and broad and comprehensive ignorance,) and the remarks they
made about the river were in keeping with the character; and so awed
were they by the grandeur and the solemnity of the scene before them,
and by their belief that the air was filled with invisible spirits and
that the faint zephyrs were caused by their passing wings, that all
their talk took to itself a tinge of the supernatural, and their voices
were subdued to a low and reverent tone. Suddenly Uncle Dan’l exclaimed:
“Chil’en, dah’s sum fin a comin!”
All crowded close together and every heart beat faster.
Uncle Dan’l pointed down the river with his bony finger.
A deep coughing sound troubled the stillness, way toward a wooded cape
that jetted into the stream a mile distant. All in an instant a fierce
eye of fire shot out from behind the cape and sent a long brilliant
pathway quivering athwart the dusky water. The coughing grew louder and
louder, the glaring eye grew larger and still larger, glared wilder and
still wilder. A huge shape developed itself out of the gloom, and from
its tall duplicate horns dense volumes of smoke, starred and spangled
with sparks, poured out and went tumbling away into the farther
darkness. Nearer and nearer the thing came, till its long sides began
to glow with spots of light which mirrored themselves in the river and
attended the monster like a torchlight procession.
“What is it! Oh, what is it, Uncle Dan’l!”
With deep solemnity the answer came:
“It’s de Almighty! Git down on yo’ knees!”
It was not necessary to say it twice. They were all kneeling, in
a moment. And then while the mysterious coughing rose stronger and
stronger and the threatening glare reached farther and wider, the
negro’s voice lifted up its supplications:
“O Lord’, we’s ben mighty wicked, an’ we knows dat we ‘zerve to go to
de bad place, but good Lord, deah Lord, we ain’t ready yit, we ain’t
ready--let dese po’ chilen hab one mo’ chance, jes’ one mo’ chance. Take
de ole niggah if you’s got to hab somebody.--Good Lord, good deah Lord,
we don’t know whah you’s a gwyne to, we don’t know who you’s got yo’ eye
on, but we knows by de way you’s a comin’, we knows by de way you’s a
tiltin’ along in yo’ charyot o’ fiah dat some po’ sinner’s a gwyne
to ketch it. But good Lord, dose chilen don’t b’long heah, dey’s f’m
Obedstown whah dey don’t know nuffin, an’ you knows, yo’ own sef, dat
dey ain’t ‘sponsible. An’ deah Lord, good Lord, it ain’t like yo’ mercy,
it ain’t like yo’ pity, it ain’t like yo’ long-sufferin’ lovin’ kindness
for to take dis kind o’ ‘vantage o’ sick little chil’en as dose is when
dey’s so many ornery grown folks chuck full o’ cussedness dat wants
roastin’ down dah. Oh, Lord, spah de little chil’en, don’t tar de little
chil’en away f’m dey frens, jes’ let ‘em off jes’ dis once, and take it
out’n de ole niggah. HEAH I IS, LORD, HEAH I IS! De ole niggah’s ready,
Lord, de ole----”
The flaming and churning steamer was right abreast the party, and not
twenty steps away. The awful thunder of a mud-valve suddenly burst
forth, drowning the prayer, and as suddenly Uncle Dan’l snatched a child
under each arm and scoured into the woods with the rest of the pack at
his heels. And then, ashamed of himself, he halted in the deep darkness
and shouted, (but rather feebly:)
“Heah I is, Lord, heah I is!”
There was a moment of throbbing suspense, and then, to the surprise and
the comfort of the party, it was plain that the august presence had gone
by, for its dreadful noises were receding. Uncle Dan’l headed a cautious
reconnaissance in the direction of the log. Sure enough “the Lord”
 was just turning a point a short distance up the river, and while they
looked the lights winked out and the coughing diminished by degrees and
presently ceased altogether.
“H’wsh! Well now dey’s some folks says dey ain’t no ‘ficiency in prah.
Dis Chile would like to know whah we’d a ben now if it warn’t fo’ dat
prah? Dat’s it. Dat’s it!”
“Uncle Dan’l, do you reckon it was the prayer that saved us?” said Clay.
“Does I reckon? Don’t I know it! Whah was yo’ eyes? Warn’t de Lord jes’
a cumin’ chow! chow! CHOW! an’ a goin’ on turrible--an’ do de Lord carry
on dat way ‘dout dey’s sumfin don’t suit him? An’ warn’t he a lookin’
right at dis gang heah, an’ warn’t he jes’ a reachin’ for ‘em? An’
d’you spec’ he gwyne to let ‘em off ‘dout somebody ast him to do it? No
indeedy!”
“Do you reckon he saw, us, Uncle Dan’l?
“De law sakes, Chile, didn’t I see him a lookin’ at us?”.
“Did you feel scared, Uncle Dan’l?”
“No sah! When a man is ‘gaged in prah, he ain’t fraid o’ nuffin--dey
can’t nuffin tetch him.”
“Well what did you run for?”
“Well, I--I--mars Clay, when a man is under de influence ob de sperit,
he do-no, what he’s ‘bout--no sah; dat man do-no what he’s ‘bout. You
mout take an’ tah de head off’n dat man an’ he wouldn’t scasely fine
it out. Date’s de Hebrew chil’en dat went frough de fiah; dey was burnt
considable--ob coase dey was; but dey didn’t know nuffin ‘bout it--heal
right up agin; if dey’d ben gals dey’d missed dey long haah, (hair,)
maybe, but dey wouldn’t felt de burn.”
“I don’t know but what they were girls. I think they were.”
“Now mars Clay, you knows bettern dat. Sometimes a body can’t tell
whedder you’s a sayin’ what you means or whedder you’s a sayin’ what you
don’t mean, ‘case you says ‘em bofe de same way.”
“But how should I know whether they were boys or girls?”
“Goodness sakes, mars Clay, don’t de Good Book say? ‘Sides, don’t it
call ‘em de HE-brew chil’en? If dey was gals wouldn’t dey be de SHE-brew
chil’en? Some people dat kin read don’t ‘pear to take no notice when dey
do read.”
“Well, Uncle Dan’l, I think that-----My! here comes another one up the
river! There can’t be two!”
“We gone dis time--we done gone dis time, sho’! Dey ain’t two, mars
Clay--days de same one. De Lord kin ‘pear eberywhah in a second.
Goodness, how do fiah and de smoke do belch up! Dat mean business,
honey. He comin’ now like he fo’got sumfin. Come ‘long, chil’en, time
you’s gwyne to roos’. Go ‘long wid you--ole Uncle Daniel gwyne out in de
woods to rastle in prah--de ole nigger gwyne to do what he kin to sabe
you agin.”
He did go to the woods and pray; but he went so far that he doubted,
himself, if the Lord heard him when He went by.
CHAPTER IV.
--Seventhly, Before his Voyage, He should make his peace with God,
satisfie his Creditors if he be in debt; Pray earnestly to God to
prosper him in his Voyage, and to keep him from danger, and, if he
be ‘sui juris’ he should make his last will, and wisely order all his
affairs, since many that go far abroad, return not home. (This good and
Christian Counsel is given by Martinus Zeilerus in his Apodemical Canons
before his Itinerary of Spain and Portugal.) Early in the morning Squire
Hawkins took passage in a small steamboat, with his family and his two
slaves, and presently the bell rang, the stage-plank was hauled in, and
the vessel proceeded up the river. The children and the slaves were not
much more at ease after finding out that this monster was a creature of
human contrivance than they were the night before when they thought it
the Lord of heaven and earth. They started, in fright, every time the
gauge-cocks sent out an angry hiss, and they quaked from head to foot
when the mud-valves thundered. The shivering of the boat under the
beating of the wheels was sheer misery to them.
But of course familiarity with these things soon took away their
terrors, and then the voyage at once became a glorious adventure, a
royal progress through the very heart and home of romance, a realization
of their rosiest wonder-dreams. They sat by the hour in the shade of
the pilot house on the hurricane deck and looked out over the curving
expanses of the river sparkling in the sunlight. Sometimes the boat
fought the mid-stream current, with a verdant world on either hand, and
remote from both; sometimes she closed in under a point, where the dead
water and the helping eddies were, and shaved the bank so closely that
the decks were swept by the jungle of over-hanging willows and littered
with a spoil of leaves; departing from these “points” she regularly
crossed the river every five miles, avoiding the “bight” of the great
binds and thus escaping the strong current; sometimes she went out
and skirted a high “bluff” sand-bar in the middle of the stream, and
occasionally followed it up a little too far and touched upon the shoal
water at its head--and then the intelligent craft refused to run herself
aground, but “smelt” the bar, and straightway the foamy streak that
streamed away from her bows vanished, a great foamless wave rolled
forward and passed her under way, and in this instant she leaned far
over on her side, shied from the bar and fled square away from the
danger like a frightened thing--and the pilot was lucky if he managed
to “straighten her up” before she drove her nose into the opposite bank;
sometimes she approached a solid wall of tall trees as if she meant to
break through it, but all of a sudden a little crack would open just
enough to admit her, and away she would go plowing through the “chute”
 with just barely room enough between the island on one side and the
main land on the other; in this sluggish water she seemed to go like a
racehorse; now and then small log cabins appeared in little clearings,
with the never-failing frowsy women and girls in soiled and faded
linsey-woolsey leaning in the doors or against woodpiles and rail
fences, gazing sleepily at the passing show; sometimes she found shoal
water, going out at the head of those “chutes” or crossing the river,
and then a deck-hand stood on the bow and hove the lead, while the boat
slowed down and moved cautiously; sometimes she stopped a moment at a
landing and took on some freight or a passenger while a crowd of slouchy
white men and negroes stood on the bank and looked sleepily on with
their hands in their pantaloons pockets,--of course--for they never took
them out except to stretch, and when they did this they squirmed about
and reached their fists up into the air and lifted themselves on tip-toe
in an ecstasy of enjoyment.
When the sun went down it turned all the broad river to a national
banner laid in gleaming bars of gold and purple and crimson; and in time
these glories faded out in the twilight and left the fairy archipelagoes
reflecting their fringing foliage in the steely mirror of the stream.
At night the boat forged on through the deep solitudes of the river,
hardly ever discovering a light to testify to a human presence--mile
after mile and league after league the vast bends were guarded by
unbroken walls of forest that had never been disturbed by the voice or
the foot-fall of man or felt the edge of his sacrilegious axe.
An hour after supper the moon came up, and Clay and Washington ascended
to the hurricane deck to revel again in their new realm of enchantment.
They ran races up and down the deck; climbed about the bell; made
friends with the passenger-dogs chained under the lifeboat; tried to
make friends with a passenger-bear fastened to the verge-staff but were
not encouraged;
“skinned the cat” on the hog-chains; in a word, exhausted the
amusement-possibilities of the deck. Then they looked wistfully up at
the pilot house, and finally, little by little, Clay ventured up there,
followed diffidently by Washington. The pilot turned presently to “get
his stern-marks,” saw the lads and invited them in. Now their happiness
was complete. This cosy little house, built entirely of glass and
commanding a marvelous prospect in every direction was a magician’s
throne to them and their enjoyment of the place was simply boundless.
They sat them down on a high bench and looked miles ahead and saw the
wooded capes fold back and reveal the bends beyond; and they looked
miles to the rear and saw the silvery highway diminish its breadth by
degrees and close itself together in the distance. Presently the pilot
said:
“By George, yonder comes the Amaranth!”
A spark appeared, close to the water, several miles down the river. The
pilot took his glass and looked at it steadily for a moment, and said,
chiefly to himself:
“It can’t be the Blue Wing. She couldn’t pick us up this way. It’s the
Amaranth, sure!”
He bent over a speaking tube and said:
“Who’s on watch down there?”
A hollow, unhuman voice rumbled up through the tube in answer:
“I am. Second engineer.”
“Good! You want to stir your stumps, now, Harry--the Amaranth’s just
turned the point--and she’s just a--humping herself, too!”
The pilot took hold of a rope that stretched out forward, jerked it
twice, and two mellow strokes of the big bell responded. A voice out on
the deck shouted:
“Stand by, down there, with that labboard lead!”
“No, I don’t want the lead,” said the pilot, “I want you. Roust out the
old man--tell him the Amaranth’s coming. And go and call Jim--tell him.”
“Aye-aye, sir!”
The “old man” was the captain--he is always called so, on steamboats and
ships; “Jim” was the other pilot. Within two minutes both of these men
were flying up the pilothouse stairway, three steps at a jump. Jim was
in his shirt sleeves,--with his coat and vest on his arm. He said:
“I was just turning in. Where’s the glass”
He took it and looked:
“Don’t appear to be any night-hawk on the jack-staff--it’s the Amaranth,
dead sure!”
The captain took a good long look, and only said:
“Damnation!”
George Davis, the pilot on watch, shouted to the night-watchman on deck:
“How’s she loaded?”
“Two inches by the head, sir.”
“‘T ain’t enough!”
The captain shouted, now:
“Call the mate. Tell him to call all hands and get a lot of that sugar
forrard--put her ten inches by the head. Lively, now!”
“Aye-aye, sir.”
A riot of shouting and trampling floated up from below, presently, and
the uneasy steering of the boat soon showed that she was getting “down
by the head.”
The three men in the pilot house began to talk in short, sharp
sentences, low and earnestly. As their excitement rose, their voices
went down. As fast as one of them put down the spy-glass another took
it up--but always with a studied air of calmness. Each time the verdict
was:
“She’s a gaining!”
The captain spoke through the tube:
“What steam are you carrying?”
“A hundred and forty-two, sir! But she’s getting hotter and hotter all
the time.”
The boat was straining and groaning and quivering like a monster in
pain. Both pilots were at work now, one on each side of the wheel, with
their coats and vests off, their bosoms and collars wide open and the
perspiration flowing down heir faces. They were holding the boat so
close to the shore that the willows swept the guards almost from stem to
stern.
“Stand by!” whispered George.
“All ready!” said Jim, under his breath.
“Let her come!”
The boat sprang away from the bank like a deer, and darted in a long
diagonal toward the other shore. She closed in again and thrashed her
fierce way along the willows as before. The captain put down the glass:
“Lord how she walks up on us! I do hate to be beat!”
“Jim,” said George, looking straight ahead, watching the slightest
yawing of the boat and promptly meeting it with the wheel, “how’ll it do
to try Murderer’s Chute?”
“Well, it’s--it’s taking chances. How was the cottonwood stump on the
false point below Boardman’s Island this morning?”
“Water just touching the roots.”
“Well it’s pretty close work. That gives six feet scant in the head of
Murderer’s Chute. We can just barely rub through if we hit it exactly
right. But it’s worth trying. She don’t dare tackle it!”--meaning the
Amaranth.
In another instant the Boreas plunged into what seemed a crooked creek,
and the Amaranth’s approaching lights were shut out in a moment. Not
a whisper was uttered, now, but the three men stared ahead into the
shadows and two of them spun the wheel back and forth with anxious
watchfulness while the steamer tore along. The chute seemed to come to
an end every fifty yards, but always opened out in time. Now the head
of it was at hand. George tapped the big bell three times, two leadsmen
sprang to their posts, and in a moment their weird cries rose on the
night air and were caught up and repeated by two men on the upper deck:
“No-o bottom!”
“De-e-p four!”
“Half three!”
“Quarter three!”
“Mark under wa-a-ter three!”
“Half twain!”
“Quarter twain!-----”
Davis pulled a couple of ropes--there was a jingling of small bells far
below, the boat’s speed slackened, and the pent steam began to whistle
and the gauge-cocks to scream:
“By the mark twain!”
“Quar--ter--her--er--less twain!”
“Eight and a half!”
“Eight feet!”
“Seven-ana-half!”
Another jingling of little bells and the wheels ceased turning
altogether. The whistling of the steam was something frightful now--it
almost drowned all other noises.
“Stand by to meet her!”
George had the wheel hard down and was standing on a spoke.
“All ready!”
The boat hesitated--seemed to hold her breath, as did the captain and
pilots--and then she began to fall away to starboard and every eye
lighted:
“Now then!--meet her! meet her! Snatch her!”
The wheel flew to port so fast that the spokes blended into a
spider-web--the swing of the boat subsided--she steadied herself----
“Seven feet!”
“Sev--six and a half!”
“Six feet! Six f----”
Bang! She hit the bottom! George shouted through the tube:
“Spread her wide open! Whale it at her!”
Pow-wow-chow! The escape-pipes belched snowy pillars of steam aloft, the
boat ground and surged and trembled--and slid over into----
“M-a-r-k twain!”
“Quarter-her----”
“Tap! tap! tap!” (to signify “Lay in the leads”)
And away she went, flying up the willow shore, with the whole silver sea
of the Mississippi stretching abroad on every hand.
No Amaranth in sight!
“Ha-ha, boys, we took a couple of tricks that time!” said the captain.
And just at that moment a red glare appeared in the head of the chute
and the Amaranth came springing after them!
“Well, I swear!”
“Jim, what is the meaning of that?”
“I’ll tell you what’s the meaning of it. That hail we had at Napoleon
was Wash Hastings, wanting to come to Cairo--and we didn’t stop. He’s
in that pilot house, now, showing those mud turtles how to hunt for easy
water.”
“That’s it! I thought it wasn’t any slouch that was running that middle
bar in Hog-eye Bend. If it’s Wash Hastings--well, what he don’t know
about the river ain’t worth knowing--a regular gold-leaf, kid-glove,
diamond breastpin pilot Wash Hastings is. We won’t take any tricks off
of him, old man!”
“I wish I’d a stopped for him, that’s all.”
The Amaranth was within three hundred yards of the Boreas, and still
gaining. The “old man” spoke through the tube:
“What is she-carrying now?”
“A hundred and sixty-five, sir!”
“How’s your wood?”
“Pine all out-cypress half gone-eating up cotton-wood like pie!”
“Break into that rosin on the main deck-pile it in, the boat can pay for
it!”
Soon the boat was plunging and quivering and screaming more madly than
ever. But the Amaranth’s head was almost abreast the Boreas’s stern:
“How’s your steam, now, Harry?”
“Hundred and eighty-two, sir!”
“Break up the casks of bacon in the forrard hold! Pile it in! Levy on
that turpentine in the fantail-drench every stick of wood with it!”
The boat was a moving earthquake by this time:
“How is she now?”
“A hundred and ninety-six and still a-swelling!--water, below the middle
gauge-cocks!--carrying every pound she can stand!--nigger roosting on
the safety-valve!”
“Good! How’s your draft?”
“Bully! Every time a nigger heaves a stick of wood into the furnace he
goes out the chimney, with it!”
The Amaranth drew steadily up till her jack-staff breasted the Boreas’s
wheel-house--climbed along inch by inch till her chimneys breasted
it--crept along, further and further, till the boats were wheel to
wheel--and then they closed up with a heavy jolt and locked together
tight and fast in the middle of the big river under the flooding
moonlight! A roar and a hurrah went up from the crowded decks of
both steamers--all hands rushed to the guards to look and shout
and gesticulate--the weight careened the vessels over toward each
other--officers flew hither and thither cursing and storming, trying
to drive the people amidships--both captains were leaning over their
railings shaking their fists, swearing and threatening--black volumes
of smoke rolled up and canopied the scene,--delivering a rain of sparks
upon the vessels--two pistol shots rang out, and both captains dodged
unhurt and the packed masses of passengers surged back and fell apart
while the shrieks of women and children soared above the intolerable
din----
And then there was a booming roar, a thundering crash, and the riddled
Amaranth dropped loose from her hold and drifted helplessly away!
Instantly the fire-doors of the Boreas were thrown open and the men
began dashing buckets of water into the furnaces--for it would have been
death and destruction to stop the engines with such a head of steam on.
As soon as possible the Boreas dropped down to the floating wreck and
took off the dead, the wounded and the unhurt--at least all that could
be got at, for the whole forward half of the boat was a shapeless ruin,
with the great chimneys lying crossed on top of it, and underneath were
a dozen victims imprisoned alive and wailing for help. While men with
axes worked with might and main to free these poor fellows, the Boreas’s
boats went about, picking up stragglers from the river.
And now a new horror presented itself. The wreck took fire from the
dismantled furnaces! Never did men work with a heartier will than did
those stalwart braves with the axes. But it was of no use. The fire
ate its way steadily, despising the bucket brigade that fought it. It
scorched the clothes, it singed the hair of the axemen--it drove them
back, foot by foot--inch by inch--they wavered, struck a final blow
in the teeth of the enemy, and surrendered. And as they fell back they
heard prisoned voices saying:
“Don’t leave us! Don’t desert us! Don’t, don’t do it!”
And one poor fellow said:
“I am Henry Worley, striker of the Amaranth! My mother lives in St.
Louis. Tell her a lie for a poor devil’s sake, please. Say I was killed
in an instant and never knew what hurt me--though God knows I’ve neither
scratch nor bruise this moment! It’s hard to burn up in a coop like this
with the whole wide world so near. Good-bye boys--we’ve all got to come
to it at last, anyway!”
The Boreas stood away out of danger, and the ruined steamer went
drifting down the stream an island of wreathing and climbing flame that
vomited clouds of smoke from time to time, and glared more fiercely
and sent its luminous tongues higher and higher after each emission. A
shriek at intervals told of a captive that had met his doom. The wreck
lodged upon a sandbar, and when the Boreas turned the next point on her
upward journey it was still burning with scarcely abated fury.
When the boys came down into the main saloon of the Boreas, they saw a
pitiful sight and heard a world of pitiful sounds. Eleven poor creatures
lay dead and forty more lay moaning, or pleading or screaming, while
a score of Good Samaritans moved among them doing what they could to
relieve their sufferings; bathing their chinless faces and bodies with
linseed oil and lime water and covering the places with bulging masses
of raw cotton that gave to every face and form a dreadful and unhuman
aspect.
A little wee French midshipman of fourteen lay fearfully injured, but
never uttered a sound till a physician of Memphis was about to dress his
hurts. Then he said:
“Can I get well? You need not be afraid to tell me.”
“No--I--I am afraid you can not.”
“Then do not waste your time with me--help those that can get well.”
“But----”
“Help those that can get well! It is, not for me to be a girl. I carry
the blood of eleven generations of soldiers in my veins!”
The physician--himself a man who had seen service in the navy in his
time--touched his hat to this little hero, and passed on.
The head engineer of the Amaranth, a grand specimen of physical manhood,
struggled to his feet a ghastly spectacle and strode toward his brother,
the second engineer, who was unhurt. He said:
“You were on watch. You were boss. You would not listen to me when I
begged you to reduce your steam. Take that!--take it to my wife and tell
her it comes from me by the hand of my murderer! Take it--and take my
curse with it to blister your heart a hundred years--and may you live so
long!”
And he tore a ring from his finger, stripping flesh and skin with it,
threw it down and fell dead!
But these things must not be dwelt upon. The Boreas landed her dreadful
cargo at the next large town and delivered it over to a multitude of
eager hands and warm southern hearts--a cargo amounting by this time to
39 wounded persons and 22 dead bodies. And with these she delivered a
list of 96 missing persons that had drowned or otherwise perished at the
scene of the disaster.
A jury of inquest was impaneled, and after due deliberation and inquiry
they returned the inevitable American verdict which has been so familiar
to our ears all the days of our lives--“NOBODY TO BLAME.”
**[The incidents of the explosion are not invented. They happened just
as they are told.--The Authors.]
CHAPTER V.
Il veut faire secher de la neige au four et la vendre pour du sel blanc.
When the Boreas backed away from the land to continue her voyage up the
river, the Hawkinses were richer by twenty-four hours of experience in
the contemplation of human suffering and in learning through honest hard
work how to relieve it. And they were richer in another way also. In the
early turmoil an hour after the explosion, a little black-eyed girl of
five years, frightened and crying bitterly, was struggling through the
throng in the Boreas’ saloon calling her mother and father, but no one
answered. Something in the face of Mr. Hawkins attracted her and she
came and looked up at him; was satisfied, and took refuge with him. He
petted her, listened to her troubles, and said he would find her friends
for her. Then he put her in a state-room with his children and told
them to be kind to her (the adults of his party were all busy with the
wounded) and straightway began his search.
It was fruitless. But all day he and his wife made inquiries, and hoped
against hope. All that they could learn was that the child and her
parents came on board at New Orleans, where they had just arrived in a
vessel from Cuba; that they looked like people from the Atlantic States;
that the family name was Van Brunt and the child’s name Laura. This
was all. The parents had not been seen since the explosion. The child’s
manners were those of a little lady, and her clothes were daintier and
finer than any Mrs. Hawkins had ever seen before.
As the hours dragged on the child lost heart, and cried so piteously
for her mother that it seemed to the Hawkinses that the moanings and the
wailings of the mutilated men and women in the saloon did not so
strain at their heart-strings as the sufferings of this little desolate
creature. They tried hard to comfort her; and in trying, learned to love
her; they could not help it, seeing how she clung, to them and put her
arms about their necks and found no solace but in their kind eyes and
comforting words: There was a question in both their hearts--a question
that rose up and asserted itself with more and more pertinacity as
the hours wore on--but both hesitated to give it voice--both kept
silence--and--waited. But a time came at last when the matter would bear
delay no longer. The boat had landed, and the dead and the wounded were
being conveyed to the shore. The tired child was asleep in the arms of
Mrs. Hawkins. Mr. Hawkins came into their presence and stood without
speaking. His eyes met his wife’s; then both looked at the child--and as
they looked it stirred in its sleep and nestled closer; an expression
of contentment and peace settled upon its face that touched the
mother-heart; and when the eyes of husband and wife met again, the
question was asked and answered.
When the Boreas had journeyed some four hundred miles from the time the
Hawkinses joined her, a long rank of steamboats was sighted, packed side
by side at a wharf like sardines, in a box, and above and beyond them
rose the domes and steeples and general architectural confusion of a
city--a city with an imposing umbrella of black smoke spread over it.
This was St. Louis. The children of the Hawkins family were playing
about the hurricane deck, and the father and mother were sitting in the
lee of the pilot house essaying to keep order and not greatly grieved
that they were not succeeding.
“They’re worth all the trouble they are, Nancy.”
“Yes, and more, Si.”
“I believe you! You wouldn’t sell one of them at a good round figure?”
“Not for all the money in the bank, Si.”
“My own sentiments every time. It is true we are not rich--but still you
are not sorry---you haven’t any misgivings about the additions?”
“No. God will provide”
“Amen. And so you wouldn’t even part with Clay? Or Laura!”
“Not for anything in the world. I love them just the same as I love my
own: They pet me and spoil me even more than the others do, I think. I
reckon we’ll get along, Si.”
“Oh yes, it will all come out right, old mother. I wouldn’t be afraid
to adopt a thousand children if I wanted to, for there’s that Tennessee
Land, you know--enough to make an army of them rich. A whole army,
Nancy! You and I will never see the day, but these little chaps will.
Indeed they will. One of these days it will be the rich Miss Emily
Hawkins--and the wealthy Miss Laura Van Brunt Hawkins--and the Hon.
George Washington Hawkins, millionaire--and Gov. Henry Clay Hawkins,
millionaire! That is the way the world will word it! Don’t let’s ever
fret about the children, Nancy--never in the world. They’re all right.
Nancy, there’s oceans and oceans of money in that land--mark my words!”
The children had stopped playing, for the moment, and drawn near to
listen. Hawkins said:
“Washington, my boy, what will you do when you get to be one of the
richest men in the world?”
“I don’t know, father. Sometimes I think I’ll have a balloon and go
up in the air; and sometimes I think I’ll have ever so many books; and
sometimes I think I’ll have ever so many weathercocks and water-wheels;
or have a machine like that one you and Colonel Sellers bought; and
sometimes I think I’ll have--well, somehow I don’t know--somehow I ain’t
certain; maybe I’ll get a steamboat first.”
“The same old chap!--always just a little bit divided about things.--And
what will you do when you get to be one of the richest men in the world,
Clay?”
“I don’t know, sir. My mother--my other mother that’s gone away--she
always told me to work along and not be much expecting to get rich, and
then I wouldn’t be disappointed if I didn’t get rich. And so I reckon
it’s better for me to wait till I get rich, and then by that time maybe
I’ll know what I’ll want--but I don’t now, sir.”
“Careful old head!--Governor Henry Clay Hawkins!--that’s what you’ll be,
Clay, one of these days. Wise old head! weighty old head! Go on, now,
and play--all of you. It’s a prime lot, Nancy; as the Obedstown folk say
about their hogs.”
A smaller steamboat received the Hawkinses and their fortunes, and bore
them a hundred and thirty miles still higher up the Mississippi, and
landed them at a little tumble-down village on the Missouri shore in the
twilight of a mellow October day.
The next morning they harnessed up their team and for two days they
wended slowly into the interior through almost roadless and uninhabited
forest solitudes. And when for the last time they pitched their tents,
metaphorically speaking, it was at the goal of their hopes, their new
home.
By the muddy roadside stood a new log cabin, one story high--the store;
clustered in the neighborhood were ten or twelve more cabins, some new,
some old.
In the sad light of the departing day the place looked homeless enough.
Two or three coatless young men sat in front of the store on a dry-goods
box, and whittled it with their knives, kicked it with their vast boots,
and shot tobacco-juice at various marks. Several ragged negroes leaned
comfortably against the posts of the awning and contemplated the arrival
of the wayfarers with lazy curiosity. All these people presently managed
to drag themselves to the vicinity of the Hawkins’ wagon, and there they
took up permanent positions, hands in pockets and resting on one leg;
and thus anchored they proceeded to look and enjoy. Vagrant dogs came
wagging around and making inquiries of Hawkins’s dog, which were not
satisfactory and they made war on him in concert. This would have
interested the citizens but it was too many on one to amount to anything
as a fight, and so they commanded the peace and the foreign dog coiled
his tail and took sanctuary under the wagon. Slatternly negro girls
and women slouched along with pails deftly balanced on their heads, and
joined the group and stared. Little half dressed white boys, and little
negro boys with nothing whatever on but tow-linen shirts with a fine
southern exposure, came from various directions and stood with their
hands locked together behind them and aided in the inspection. The rest
of the population were laying down their employments and getting
ready to come, when a man burst through the assemblage and seized the
new-comers by the hands in a frenzy of welcome, and exclaimed--indeed
almost shouted:
“Well who could have believed it! Now is it you sure enough--turn
around! hold up your heads! I want to look at you good! Well, well,
well, it does seem most too good to be true, I declare! Lord, I’m so
glad to see you! Does a body’s whole soul good to look at you! Shake
hands again! Keep on shaking hands! Goodness gracious alive. What will
my wife say?--Oh yes indeed, it’s so!--married only last week--lovely,
perfectly lovely creature, the noblest woman that ever--you’ll like
her, Nancy! Like her? Lord bless me you’ll love her--you’ll dote on
her--you’ll be twins! Well, well, well, let me look at you again! Same
old--why bless my life it was only jest this very morning that my wife
says, ‘Colonel’--she will call me Colonel spite of everything I can
do--she says ‘Colonel, something tells me somebody’s coming!’ and
sure enough here you are, the last people on earth a body could have
expected. Why she’ll think she’s a prophetess--and hanged if I don’t
think so too--and you know there ain’t any country but what a prophet’s
an honor to, as the proverb says. Lord bless me and here’s the children,
too! Washington, Emily, don’t you know me? Come, give us a kiss. Won’t
I fix you, though!--ponies, cows, dogs, everything you can think of
that’ll delight a child’s heart--and--Why how’s this? Little strangers?
Well you won’t be any strangers here, I can tell you. Bless your souls
we’ll make you think you never was at home before--‘deed and ‘deed we
will, I can tell you! Come, now, bundle right along with me. You can’t
glorify any hearth stone but mine in this camp, you know--can’t eat
anybody’s bread but mine--can’t do anything but just make yourselves
perfectly at home and comfortable, and spread yourselves out and rest!
You hear me! Here--Jim, Tom, Pete, Jake, fly around! Take that team to
my place--put the wagon in my lot--put the horses under the shed, and
get out hay and oats and fill them up! Ain’t any hay and oats? Well get
some--have it charged to me--come, spin around, now! Now, Hawkins, the
procession’s ready; mark time, by the left flank, forward-march!”
And the Colonel took the lead, with Laura astride his neck, and the
newly-inspired and very grateful immigrants picked up their tired limbs
with quite a spring in them and dropped into his wake.
Presently they were ranged about an old-time fire-place whose blazing
logs sent out rather an unnecessary amount of heat, but that was no
matter--supper was needed, and to have it, it had to be cooked. This
apartment was the family bedroom, parlor, library and kitchen, all in
one. The matronly little wife of the Colonel moved hither and thither
and in and out with her pots and pans in her hands, happiness in her
heart and a world of admiration of her husband in her eyes.
And when at last she had spread the cloth and loaded it with hot corn
bread, fried chickens, bacon, buttermilk, coffee, and all manner of
country luxuries, Col. Sellers modified his harangue and for a moment
throttled it down to the orthodox pitch for a blessing, and then
instantly burst forth again as from a parenthesis and clattered on with
might and main till every stomach in the party was laden with all
it could carry. And when the new-comers ascended the ladder to their
comfortable feather beds on the second floor--to wit the garret--Mrs.
Hawkins was obliged to say:
“Hang the fellow, I do believe he has gone wilder than ever, but still
a body can’t help liking him if they would--and what is more, they don’t
ever want to try when they see his eyes and hear him talk.”
Within a week or two the Hawkinses were comfortably domiciled in a new
log house, and were beginning to feel at home. The children were put to
school; at least it was what passed for a school in those days: a place
where tender young humanity devoted itself for eight or ten hours a day
to learning incomprehensible rubbish by heart out of books and reciting
it by rote, like parrots; so that a finished education consisted simply
