and made him take me riding again, and when 
he was kind enough to give in to my wish, I de- 
liberately went out on that plank when he told 
me not to go, and the result was I came near 
being drowned, and poor Hugh must have had a 
struggle to get me out in that current. I suppose 
he is over there now talking with Edith Chase ! 
she is an affected, silly girl, but I suppose Hugh 
doe's not understand her as well as I do. How- 
 
ever, perhaps she is better than I am ! I am 
dreadful, I know ; and so homely, too ! I look 
just like an, Indian. Edith is considered pretty. 
To be sure I think she looks just like a white 
cat ; but then, some people think white cats are 
pretty. Well, her looks are nothing to me. I 
don't care anything about it ! " And in truth of 
this assertion, Bessie crouched down among the 
cushions of the lounge, and had what girls call 
" a good cry." 
About an hour afterwards she heard a step on 
the gravel walk in front of the house, and the 
sound of a latch-key in the front-door ; in another 
minute Hugh came up the stairs on the way to 
his room. "Hugh! Hugh!" called out a voice 
in the darkness. 
" Is that you, Bessie ? What are you doing 
here?" said her cousin, lighting a burner in the 
chandelier. " Why, you have been crying ! Does 
your head ache ? Do you feel faint ? " 
" My head is better, Hugh ; but I am wicked," 
murmured Bessie from the heap of cushions. 
 
" Wicked ! What do you mean, Brownie ? " 
" Just what I say. I am always in trouble 
myself and drawing you in too. You would be 
a great deal better without me, Hugh. I shall 
be glad when you go to New York." 
" Glad, Bessie ! " 
" I mean it will be better for you," murmured 
Bessie. 
" And how about yourself? " 
" Oh, I shall never be good at all ; I shall stay 
at home and be wicked, I suppose," said Bessie, 
with the sound of tears in her voice. Hugh did 
not reply, but he put out his hand and stroked 
the dark curls gently. After a moment or two 
Bessie suddenly recovered her spirits. " How 
was Miss Chase," she asked gayly. 
"Lovely as a lily," said Hugh, laughing; "I 
told her so, too." 
" Was Graham Marr there ? " 
" Yes ; I left him with Sibyl." 
" Did he quote poetry ? " 
" I presume so, in the intervals of the musio. 
Gid was there, too." 
 
"At the door of the supper-room, T suppose ? " 
"Yes, he was looking at the salad when I came 
away." 
" That reminds me ; why did you leave so 
early, Hugh ? " 
" I believe, after all, I am a little tired ; I 
strained my wrist slightly in the brook." 
" Let me get some arnica for you ; do, Hugh." 
" Oh, no ! the strain is very slight. It will be 
all over in a day or two." 
" Was there really any clanger, Hugh ? " 
" Yes ; I think it right that you should know 
it, because you may be tempted to do the same 
thing again. The water was deep there, and the 
brook swollen by the last rains ; the current was 
very strong, and there is a fall just below. But 
your greatest danger was from the sharp jagged 
rocks ; when I plunged after you I cannot ex- 
press how alarmed I was ! " 
Bessie covered her face with her hands. " It 
was all owing to my obstinate wilfulness," she 
said in a low tone. " Oh, Hugh ! can you forgive 
me?" 
 
" Do not think of it any more." said her cousin, 
" but come clown and give me some music.' , 
" What ! In this old wrapper, Hugh ? " 
" There speaks feminine vanity. As though I 
knew a wrapper from a dress ? " 
So Bessie went down to the sitting-room, and, 
taking the cover off her harp, sat down in her 
old wrapper to play for Hugh. When she was 
in the mood she brought very spirited music out 
of the silver strings, but to-night she played soft 
airs, and minor chords, weaviug in among them 
Hugh's favorite plaintive melodies, with her now 
wild improvisations between. At last she rose 
and replaced the harp-cover. " It is late ; I 
must go," she said. " They will be coming home 
before long. Of course you won't say anything 
about our ride, Hugh. It would only frighten 
Aunt Faith. But I have decided not to go 
again; what happened to-night seems like a 
warning." 
"Superstitious, Bessie ? " 
" No ; I am only trying to stop before I drag 
 
you into any more danger. Think how much 
trouble I have given you, too ! And, oh, Hugh! 
you had to pay that farmer," added Bessie, as the 
idea came to her for the first time. 
" Run upstairs, Brownie ; it is late." 
" I shall not run, Hugh. I know very well 
you had to pay him that ten dollars, and I have 
robbed you of your last cent," said Bessie tragi- 
cally. 
" Oh, what a dismal face ! Run, before Aunt 
Faith comes." 
" And the picture you were going to buy," 
said Bessie, with tearful eyes. 
" Foolish child ! as if I cared for the picture ; 
When I am rich I shall buy a whole gallery. Now 
run; I positively hear their voices at the gate." 
As Bessie went away with a full heart, Aunt 
Faith, Sibyl, and Graham Marr came up the 
garden-walk and entered the house. " You 
came away early, Hugh," said Aunt Faith; 
" do you feel well ? " 
" I am tired, aunt ; that is all. 
 
" It was a pleasant party," continued Aunt 
Faith ; " did you not think so, Sibyl ? " 
" I enjoyed it ! " said Sibyl quietly. 
" It was a rare feast," said Graham ; " one 
seldom meets such a combination of aesthetic 
talent in Westerton." 
" Mr. Leslie was not there, however," said 
Hugh. 
"Ah, — no. But ministers are not generally 
cultivated musicians," said Graham, in his slow 
way. " They have not the time to, — ah, — to 
muse upon the mystery of harmony." 
" Mr. Leslie is a fine musician," said Hugh 
bluntly; "I have seldom heard so fine a bari- 
tone, — so rich and manly." 
Now Graham sang tenor, — a very delicate 
tenor, and naturally he could not sympathize with 
Hugh's fancy for a rich baritone. As he rose to 
take leave, Sibyl said, " I wish you would bring 
over your music, Mr. Marr, and sing for us. 
We were all charmed with that little German 
song you sung this evening ; it was so full of 
pathos." 
 
" Bathos ! " whispered Hugh to Aunt Faith, 
as Sibyl accompanied the poet into the hall. 
"How can Sibyl endure that calf! " 
"As Pete Trone said, 'de gustibus? and so 
forth, Hugh," said Sibyl's voice from the hall as 
she closed the door behind Graham. 
" Well, Sibyl ; I did not intend you to hear 
the epithet, but I cannot with sincerity take it 
back," said Hugh. 
" I like calves," said Sibyl, " they have beau- 
tiful eyes ! Good-night ! " 
" I never can make Sibyl out ! " said Hugh, as 
his sister disappeared. " She never lo.ses her 
temper, and truth always comes out with the 
temper, you know. Well, Aunt Faith, I have 
been a very bad boy all day. Will you pardon 
all my misdeeds ? " 
" If you are penitent," said Aunt Faith, 
smiling. Then, more seriousbv, " You will not 
forget what I said to you this morning, Hugh ? " 
" No, aunt; I shall not forget. Your words 
sank deeper than you knew," said Hugh gravely, 
in the summer heat. Hugh hung up a ham- 
I mock in the second story hall, between 
the north and. south windows, so as to 
catch every wandering zephyr ; and, aimed with 
a book, he betook himself to this airy retreat for 
the purpose of study. At least that was his an- 
nouncement at the breakfast-table " For the 
purpose of sleep ! " suggested Sibyl. u Day- 
dreaming!" said Bessie. "Lazying!" said Tom, 
coining a word for the occasion with true Amer- 
ican versatility. 
 
" Very well, fellow-citizens, laugh on," said 
Hugh ; " these are the last strawberries of the 
season, and I have no inclination to discuss any- 
thing at present but their sweetness. But I will 
venture to assert that at six o'clock this evening: 
I shall have imbibed more knowledge in that very 
hammock then any of you in your prosy chairs." 
" I shall go and see Miss Skede about my 
white dresses," said Sibyl, rising. 
" Not this warm morning," exclaimed Bessie. 
" The very time. I could not have chosen a 
better day. Miss Skede has no imagination ; she 
can never lift herself beyond the present. If I 
,had gone to her in June, she would have made 
my dresses heavy, in spite of all my orders and 
descriptions. Even yesterday, for instance, she 
would have been unable to conceive anything 
more than half-way effects ; but to-day it is so 
warm that the heat may inspire her, and I hope 
to get out of her something as flowing and deli- 
cate as a summer cloud." 
" I see now, Sibyl, where all j^our poetry 
goes," said Hugh, laughing ; " the puffs and 
ruffles get it all ! " 
" Fortunately Graham has enough for two," 
said Bessie, looking up with a malicious smile. 
But Sibyl's temper was never ruffled: "I like 
Graham, as you know, Bessie. You, also, have 
your likes and dislikes, but I do not tease you 
about tnem." 
" That is true, Sibyl," said Bessie, warmly ; 
"you certainly have the best disposition in the 
family. I wish I had half your amiability." 
Soon after breakfast, Tom and Gem went out 
into the garden, and sat down under the shade 
of the great elm-tree. The three dogs were not 
long in discovering their place of retreat, an ] 
invited themselves to join the party with their 
usual assurance, — Turk stretching himself on 
the ground alongside, Grip under a currant-bush, 
and Pete Trone occupying himself in tilling the 
soil. 
" What are you going to do to-day, Tom ? " 
said Gem, as she adorned Turk's shaggy back 
with flowers.
 
" Well, I don't exactly know," replied Tom ; 
" the B. B.'s are coming, and we've thought a 
little of building a house up a tree." 
" What for ? " said Gem rather languidly, — 
for when the thermometer stands in the eighties, 
the idea of building becomes oppressive. 
" What for ! " repeated Tom indignantly ; 
" that's just like a girl ! For fun, of course. 
Wbac else, do you suppose? But you needn't 
have anything to do with it. You can go right 
into the house this very minute, if you like." 
" I don't want to go into the house ; you 
know that very well, Tom Morris. I always 
like to see the B. B.'s, and I think a house in a 
tree will be splendid ! " said Gem quickly. 
" Won't it, though ! We're going to take 
the big cak over there, and hoist up all the 
boards, and nails, and things. There's a place 
in the main branches where we can build a real 
room, big enough for all of us, if we squeeze 
tight. We're going to have a floor, and roof, 
and sides, and a hole in the bottom to climb in, — 
a sort of sally-port, you know. It will be a 
regular fort, and I rather guess those south-end 
fellows will wink out of the wrong sides of their 
eyes when they see it." 
" Won't it be rather warm up there ? " sug- 
gested Gem. 
" I never saw such a baby ! " exclaimed Tom. 
" Warm ? of course it will be, and what then ? 
The monitors were warm, I reckon, but you 
never caught our soldiers whining about it. The 
B. B.'s will stand up to their work like men, and 
they'll stay in that house when it's built, even 
if they melt down to their very backbones ! " 
" I wonder what Pete is doing ? " said Gem, 
after a pause, wisely making a diversion in the 
conversation. 
" Oh ! burying bones, I suppose," said Tom ; 
" he's always at it. I believe he'd dig a hole in 
an iron floor if he was chained up on it. Hallo, 
Pete ! stop that ! You're making too much 
dust. Do you hear me, sir ? Very well ! you'd 
— a — bet " When Tom got as far as 
 
" bet," pronounced in an awful voice, Pete knew 
that a stick was forthcoming. He accordingly 
paused in his digging, his little black nose covered 
with yellow earth, and his eyes fixed mournfully 
on the half-finished hole. " Let us go and dig 
up some of his bones and show them to him," 
said Tom ; " it always makes him feel so ashamed ! 
I know where they are ; he has his favorite 
places, and I've often seen him toiling up and 
down from one to the other, as important as the 
man that goes round with the panorama and 
jaws at the people." 
" What an expression ! " said Gem, with an air 
of superiority ; " you boys are so common ! " 
" And you girls are so soft ! " said Tom. " I'd 
rather be a boy than a girl, any day. Come, 
now ! " 
But Gem was not inclined to argue this point, 
so they carried out their bone-hunting project, 
much to the discomfiture of Pete Trone, Esq., 
who followed behind as if fascinated, watched 
the disinterment of each relic with mortified 
interest, and, when the last was brought into 
view, drooped his head and tail, and sought 
refuse in the corn-field where he relieved his 
feelings by burrowing wildly in twenty different 
places. 
" There come the B. B.'s ! " exclaimed Gem, 
interrupting Tom in a search for artichokes; 
" eight of them, as sure as you live ! " 
" What an expression, " said Tom, imitating 
his sister's voice ; " you girls are so common ! " 
But the approach of the visitors made a truce a 
matter of necessity, and soon the project of the 
tree-house engrossed the entire attention. 
Boards were brought from the little tool-house, 
saws were in demand, and Gem was deputed to 
confiscate all the hammers and nails in the house 
for the use of the builders ; the work went 
bravely on, and b^noon the walls of the fortifi- 
cation were up, and the roof well advanced 
towards completion. A ladder brought from 
the barn, took the workmen half-way up the 
trunk ; but the old tree was lofty, and a long 
 
space intervened between the end of the ladder 
avid the lowest branches, which must of necessity- 
be ascended in that squirming manner peculiar 
to boys, wherein they delight to bark their shins, 
tear their trowsers, and blister their hands in the 
pursuit of glory. Gem, of course, could not 
hope to emulate the B. B.'s in this mode of pro- 
gression towards the fortification, but she brought 
nails and carried boards with great energy. 
When there was no call for her services, she 
watched with intense interest the B. B. who 
happened to be squirming up. If there was no 
B. B. squirming up, there was sure to be one 
squirming down, for a principal part of the time 
seemed to be devoted to journeys below and aloft, 
besides elaborate contrivances for slinging boards 
and tools to the climbers' backs ; indeed, to a 
looker-on, this seemed to be the chief interest of 
the fortification. 
At last it was done, all but the floor ; Tom 
said it did not matter about that, as the boys 
could easily stand on the branches. Word was 
given to ascend, and, one by one, all the B. B.'s 
squirmed up the tree and took their places in- 
side ; nothing was to be seen but their feet, 
huddled together on the branches. It took ten 
minutes for all the band to assemble on hi^h, 
but in less than two, down they squirmed again. 
" What is the matter ? " said Gem in astonish- 
ment ; she had not expected to see the B. B.'s 
for hours, absorbed as they would be in their 
leafy abode. 
" We're going to take up the dogs," said Tom, 
who came first; " we're going to sling 'em up in 
a basket. It will be such fun, and they'll like 
it first-rate." 
" Oh, don't, Tom ! " exclaimed Gem ; " Turk 
is too big, Grip will be sure to fall out, and it 
will make Pete Trone seasick." 
But no attention was paid to her remonstrances, 
and the- B. B.'s inspired to new exertions, made 
numerous journeys up and down, rigging a 
pulley and making various preparations for the 
aerial voyage. W'heu all was ready there was a 
 
discussion as to which dog should go. Turk was 
too big, no basket would hold him ; and Grip, 
Tom said, had "no common sense," and would 
not appreciate the situation. Pete Trone was 
evidently the man for the place, and he jumped 
gayly into the basket at Tom's command, with- 
out any suspicion of danger ; and when he found 
himself hanging in mid-air, he did not flinch, but 
settled down resolutely on his haunches, looking 
over the side with one eye as much as to say, 
" Who's afraid ? " 
" Didn't I tell you? " said Tom enthusiastically. 
" I knew Pete would come out strong. It will 
take a good while to get him up there. I say, 
boys, let's sing ' Up in a Balloon.' It will be 
appropriate to the occasion." 
So all the B. B.'s joined in the chorus with so 
much power that Aunt Faith came to the back 
door to listen. 
" Tom ! Tom ! " she called, when the song was 
finished ; " what are you doing ? " 
"It's only the B. B.'s, Aunt Faith. We're 
hoisting Pete Trone up into the tree," shouted 
Tom. 
" Dinner will be ready in a few moments ; 
you had better come in and rest. You must be 
very warm," said Aunt Faith from the shaded 
piazza. 
When the basket reached the air-shanty, the 
B. B.'s who were there to receive it, suddenly 
remembered that there was no floor, and Pete, 
although a dog of varied accomplishments, could 
hardly be expected to keep his footing on the 
branches. So there was nothing to be done but 
let him down again, which was accordingly 
effected with great care, Pete sitting composedly 
in the 'basket without moving a muscle, and 
jumping out w T hen he reached the ground with 
conscious importance wagging in his tail. It 
was one o'clock, and the B. B.'s, after promising 
to return, adjourned for dinner ; Tom and Gem 
bathed their burning faces, and joined the family 
circle in the cool dining-room. 
"You are as bad as a fire-ball, Tom," said 
 
Hugh, looking at his red face ; "what have you 
been doing ? " 
" Splendid fun ! "We've been building a house 
in a tree." And forthwith Tom launched into a 
full description of the fortification. 
" ' Oh for a lodge in some vast wilderness, some 
boundless contiguity of shade ! ' That was the 
motive which actuated the Band of Brothers, I 
suppose," said Hugh. 
" The B. B.'s don't know anything about 
poetry," said Tom, with scorn ; " they've got 
other things to attend to, I can tell you." 
" They're coming again this afternoon," said 
Gem, " to talk over what we shall do on Fourth 
of July." 
" To be sure ; the Birthday of Freedom is 
close upon us," said Hugh ; 4t whatever you do, 
my countrymen, let it be worthy of the occasion." 
" We've got two or three plans," began Gem, 
but Tom interrupted her ; " Don't breathe a word. 
It will spoil all, Gem." 
" I hope it is not dangerous," said patient 
Aunt Faith, who associated the Birthday of In- 
dependence with visions of boys disfigured for 
life with gunpowder, and girls running madly 
towards the house with their muslin dresses 
blazing. 
"None of the plans are dangerous, Aunt 
Faith," said Tom ; " but we don't want anybody 
to know anything about them beforehand ; 
especially Hugh." 
" I smell a rat, — I see him floating in the 
air, — but I shall yet be able to nip him in the 
bud," quoted Hugh, with pointed emphasis. 
" Now don't, Hugh ! just promise that you 
won't cross the back terrace until after the 
Fourth," pleaded Gem. " It will be twice the 
fun for you, too, if you don't know anything 
about it beforehand." After some delay the two 
conspirators wrenched the required promise from 
their cousin, who pretended to be deeply curious 
about the plot, and heroically unselfish in aban- 
doning his designs upon it. 
At three o'clock the meeting was held under 
 
the elm-tree on the terrace ; the B. B.'s reinforced 
to the number of twelve were there, and Tom 
and Gem did the honors with cordial hospitality. 
Many plans were brought forward for the consid- 
eration of the patriots, but objections were found 
to one and all ; at length Gem disappeared and 
after a long delay, returned carrying some books 
under her arm. " I have thought of something," 
she said, taking a seat under the tree ; " we will 
have the battle of Bunker Hill and the life of 
General Israel Putnam." The word " battle " 
stimulated the B. B.'s, who were lying about on 
the grass, worn out with their efforts to arrange 
a programme. *' Bunker Hill forever ! " said one, 
tossing up his hat. Tom said nothing ; he was 
not going to be carried away by any of Gem's 
nonsense, not he ! " My plan is this," began 
Gem, encouraged by the general attention ; we 
will have a real battle, — we've got torpedoes, 
fire-crackers, and Tom's cannon, you know, — and 
we'll make a big monument of boards for Bun- 
kers' Hill ; I've been there and know just how it 
looks." 
" It wasn't there when the battle was fought, 
Goosey," said Tom. 
" How do you know ? " retorted Gem ; " you 
were not there, I guess. And as to history, who 
got ten imperfect marks in one week ? " 
The B. B.'s not being strong in history, did 
not take sides in this contest, and Gem went on 
triumphantly. " Jim Morse can be General 
Putnam, because his uncle's name is Putnam ; 
you see, I thought of that," said Gem, with con- 
scious pride. 
" Hurrah for Jim ! " said the enthusiastic B. B. 
before mentioned. 
" Then there will be the wolf-scene," continued 
Gem. " You remember how Putnam went down 
in a cave when everybody else was afraid, and 
shot a great wolf there. They had a rope 
around his legs, and when he pulled it they jerked 
it up, and out he came holding the wolf by the 
ears. Now that will do splendidly for us, for we 
can have the underground shanty for the cave, 
and Turk will just; do for the wolf." 
 
This last idea was received with applause, and 
the discussion became general, even Tom forget- 
ting his scorn in the interest of the occasion, and 
actually taking some importance upon himself 
because his sister was the originator of so much 
brilliancy. Books were consulted, suggestions 
and changes made, and the whole plot of the 
drama altered again and again. Each B. B. felt 
himself called upon to be a general, and they 
had all selected the names of revolutionary 
heroes, when some one suggested that an army 
composed entirely of generals would be difficult 
to manage. Then, there was the question of 
time, also. Should they confine themselves to 
Bunker Hill, or give an abstract of the whole 
war? Tom was for the whole war; but that 
was because he had already announced himself 
as George Washington, and naturally wished for 
as many battles as possible. He intended, also, 
to throw in the episode of the hatchet; " it will 
be real easy," he said, advocating his plan, " I 
know it all, out of the reader, and besides, we've 
got a cherry-tree." 
But another boy maintained that more than 
one battle would spoil the effect ; a number of 
the forces must of course be left dead and 
wounded upon the field, and it would not look 
well for them to come to life over and over 
again, right before everybody. 
It was finally decided to adopt a circuitous 
course, steering between the impossibilities, yet 
bringing in all the desired effects. The drama 
was to open with the wolf-hunt. Then the 
scene was to change ; Putnam, peacefully en- 
gaged in ploughing, was to hear the glorious 
news and depart instantly for Bunker Hill. The 
battle was to rage fiercely on the terrace slope, 
and in the vegetable garden, while a masked 
battery did terrible execution in the asparagus 
bed, and whole ranks of the enemy were to be 
mowed down in the cornfield conveniently out 
of sight. As Tom said, "something must be 
left to the imagination." The third scene was 
to bring in the hanging of the spy, Nathan 
Palmer, in order that Putnam might read his 
 
famous letter on the subject ; but as Gem ob- 
jected to the tragical end, it was decided to 
alter history a little, and let Nathan escape by 
night, which change would also give a fine 
chance for dark-lanterns, masks, and a muffled 
drum. The whole was to close with a tableau, 
and the singing of the " Star-Spangled Banner," 
in which the audience were to be especially 
requested to join. 
The outline of the performance was now ar- 
ranged and nothing remained but to fill in the 
details ; the whole afternoon was consumed in 
this labor, and still the work was not completed. 
For several days the B. B.'s studied severely ; 
United States histories were in great demand, and 
the pages of Shakespeare were turned over for 
inspiration. Each boy was to compile his own 
speeches, and many hurried consultations were 
held over back fences, and in haylofts ; one boy, 
who represented General Stark, selected Ham- 
let's ' to be or not to be.' A companion objected 
to the lines as inappropriate, but General Stark 
 
replied, " Well, I know the piece because I've 
spoken it in school, and I aint going to learn 
another, I can tell you ! I don't see why it won't 
do as well as anything else." 
Fourth of July came, and with it, great ex- 
citement in the vicinity of the old stone house. 
The B. B.'s belonged to the neighboring families, 
and their fathers, mothers and sisters were to com- 
pose the audience for whom benches had already 
been placed on the terrace under the trees. The 
day was warm, but enthusiasm was warmer, and 
although there was some foreboding of suffering 
among the audience as they looked out from 
their cool parlors into the vivid sunshine, there 
was no flinching among the actors. 
There had, however, been great difficulty with 
the cows who were to represent General Put- 
nam's oxen, for the horses' harness did not fit 
them very well, and they objected to dragging 
the plough as well-regulated oxen should have 
done ; so at the last moment it was decided to 
give up the idea of a moving scene, and simply 
attempt a tableau ; General Putnam at his 
plough in the field, reading the Declaration of 
Independence. A sheet could be held up until 
the cows were in position, then it was to be 
dropped and the tableau revealed to the audi- 
ence. " The effect would be grand," Tom said. 
At ten o'clock the actors were all in the vege- 
table garden, and the audience under cover of 
straw hats and parasols were slowly assembling 
on the benches above. The cannon was loaded 
at the top of an earthwork commanding the as- 
paragus-bed, torpedo ammunition was stored in a 
box half way down the hill, and fire-crackers 
were everywhere, provided by the combatants 
who had clubbed their spending-money for the 
purpose. A hole had been made in the roof of the 
underground shanty through which Putnam was 
to be let down by a rope, and Turk, as the wolf, 
had been imprisoned there since early morning, 
with Grip to keep him company. At last all 
was ready, and the orchestra opened the enter- 
tainment with " Hail Columbia 'Vbn the violin, 
 
by Tom, accompanied by the jews-haip, 
tambourine and triangle, and a flute which could 
only play two notes, but made up in power 
what it lacked in variety. Tom had tried hard 
to learn " Hail Columbia " for this occasion. He 
thought he knew it, and the family thought so too, 
from the amount of practising they had heard. 
But the excitement confused the performer, and 
the violin, after careering around among " Inde- 
pendence be your boast," ended in the well- 
known " Nelly Bly," Tom's chef-d'oeuvre. Fort- 
unately the change made no difference to the 
rest of the orchestra, their accompaniment was 
the same to all tunes, and " Nelly Bly " was fin- 
ished in triumph, and received with applause by 
the good-natured audience and calls for " first- 
violin." 
But the orchestra had already dispersed to aid 
iu the grand opening scene, the wolf-hunt, an 
"historical incident in the life of General Israel 
Putnam of glorious memory," as the written 
programme designated it. First appeared one 
 
of the B. B.'s attired as the " Classic Muse," 
with a wreath of laurel around his brow. He 
recited the following lines taken from the " Put- 
nam Memorial : — " 
" Hail ! Hero of Bunker's Hill. 
Thy presence now my soul doth thrill ! 
This is a sacred and heavenly spot 
Where thou, Putnam, didst thy body drop ; 
May future generations be blest 
With the patriotic spirit thou possessed I 
Thy memory is like a sweet balm, 
That will bless and do no harm." 
This remarkable ode concluded, the Muse re- 
tired, and Putnam himself appeared, dressed in 
full uniform with a sword by his side, and a ma- 
jestic feather in his hat. ' The general made a 
bow to the audience and repeated the following 
verse, also extracted from the " Memorial." 
" I am Israel Putnam the brave, 
Who in Pomfret shot the wolf in the cave ; 
And by her ears did draw her out, — 
I am no coward, but rash and stout ! " 
 
Having thus announced his character, General 
Putnam walked towards the shanty and bran- 
dished his sword. " Ha ! " he said, snorting 
fiercely, " there is a wolf here I I shall descend 
and slay him ! " 
" Nay, nay ! " shouted the B. B.'s in a chorus, 
as they rushed from the currant-bushes where 
they had remained hidden to give full effect to 
the scene. " Putnam, descend not ; the wolf is 
wild ! " cried one. " Putnam, descend not ; 
remember thy child ! " said another. (This was 
considered highly poetical by the B. B.'s). But 
Putnam was not to be persuaded, and the rope 
was therefore carefully secured to his belt. He 
took leave of all his friends, shaking them all by 
the hand, and then, feather and all, he was 
lowered into the cave, i. e. underground shanty. 
It was intended that there should be no delay in 
this part of the scene ; Turk had been through 
his portion of the programme many times, and 
had allowed himself to be hauled up and down 
with his usual good-nature. As it was expected, 
 
therefore, that Putnam would vanquish the wolf 
in no time, no dialogue had been provided for 
the friends and neighbors waiting outside, and as 
time passed and no signal to "draw up," came, 
they grew somewhat embarrassed. Tom, urged 
by necessity, spoke impromptu : " He fighteth the 
wolf ! " he cried ; " he fighteth fiercely ! " Then, 
in an undertone to his next neighbor, " say some- 
thing, Will ; anything will do." But Will could 
think of nothing but " He fighteth the wolf ! " 
also ; so he said it to Dick and kicked him on the 
shin as a signal to proceed. " Doth he ? " said 
Dick after a long pause ; then, at his wits' end 
as he received another and fiercer kick, he varied 
the phrase and stammered out, " Doth he ? " in a 
