ground. Most of these growths we speak of were under the shade of large
live-oaks; but when he took us into the wild forest, and showed us
peach, orange, and lemon trees set to struggle for existence on the
same footing, and with only the same advantages, as the wild denizens of
the forest, we rather demurred. Was not this pushing theory to extremes?
Time will show.

Col. Hardee has two or three native seedling peaches grown in Florida,
of which he speaks highly,--Mrs. Thompson's Golden Free, which commences
ripening in June, and continues till the first of August; the "Cracker
Cart," very large, weighing sometimes thirteen ounces; the Cling Yellow;
and the Japan, very small and sweet, ripening in May.

Besides these, Mr. Hardee has experimented largely in vines, in which he
gives preference to the Isabella, Hartford Prolific, and Concord.

He is also giving attention to roses and ornamental shrubbery. What
makes the inception of such nurseries as Mr. Hardee's a matter of
congratulation is that they furnish to purchasers things that have been
proved suited to the climate and soil of Florida. Peach-trees, roses,
and grapes, sent from the North, bring here the habit of their Northern
growth, which often makes them worthless. With a singular stubbornness,
they adhere to the times and seasons to which they have been accustomed
farther North. We set a peach-orchard of some four hundred trees which
we obtained from a nursery in Georgia. We suspect now, that, having a
press of orders, our nurseryman simply sent us a packet of trees from
some Northern nursery. The consequence is, that year after year, when
all nature about them is bursting into leaf and blossom, when peaches of
good size gem the boughs of Florida trees, our peach-orchard stands
sullen and leafless; nor will it start bud or blossom till the time for
peaches to start in New York. The same has been our trouble with some
fine varieties of roses which we took from our Northern grounds. As yet,
they are hardly worth the ground they occupy; and whether they ever
will do any thing is a matter of doubt. Meanwhile we have only to ride a
little way into the pine-woods to see around many a rustic cabin a
perfect blaze of crimson roses and cluster roses, foaming over the
fences in cascades of flowers. These are Florida roses, born and bred;
and this is the way they do with not one tithe of the work and care that
we have expended on our poor Northern exiles. Mr. Hardee, therefore, in
attempting the pioneer nursery of Florida, is doing a good thing for
every new-comer; and we wish him all success. As a parting present, we
received a fine summer squash, which, for the first of May, one must
admit is good growth. And now, for the benefit of those who may want to
take up land in Florida, we shall give the experience of some friends
and neighbors of ours who have carried through about as thorough and
well-conducted an experiment as any; and we give it from memoranda which
they have kindly furnished, in the hope of being of use to other
settlers.




  [Illustration]

OUR EXPERIENCE IN CROPS.


A few years ago, three brothers, farmers, from Vermont, exhausted by the
long, hard winters there, came to Florida to try an experiment. They
bought two hundred and seventy-five acres in the vicinity of Mandarin at
one dollar per acre. It was pine-land, that had been cut over twice for
timber, and was now considered of no further value by its possessor, who
threw it into the hands of a land-agent to make what he could of it. It
was the very cheapest kind of Florida land.

Of this land they cleared only thirty-five acres. The fencing cost two
hundred dollars. They put up a large, unplastered, two-story house, with
piazzas to both floors, at a cost of about a thousand dollars. The
additional outlay was on two mules and a pair of oxen, estimated at four
hundred dollars. The last year, they put up a sugar-mill and
establishment at a cost of five hundred dollars.

An orange-grove, a vineyard, and a peach-orchard, are all included in
the programme of these operators, and are all well under way. But these
are later results. It is not safe to calculate on an orange-grove under
ten years, or on a vineyard or peach-orchard under four or five.

We have permission to copy verbatim certain memoranda of results with
which they have furnished us.


CABBAGES.

First Year.--Sowed seed in light sandy soil without manure. Weak
plants, beaten down by rain, lost.

Second Year.--Put out an acre and a half of fine plants: large part
turned out poorly. Part of the land was low, sour, and wet, and all
meagrely fertilized. Crop sold in Jacksonville for two hundred and fifty
dollars.

Third Year.--Three acres better, but still inadequately manured, and
half ruined by the Christmas frost: brought about eight hundred dollars.

Fourth Year (1871-72.)--Two acres better manured; planted in low land,
on ridges five feet apart: returned six hundred dollars. In favorable
seasons, with good culture, an acre of cabbages should yield a gross
return of five hundred dollars, of which three hundred would be clear
profit.


CUCUMBERS.

First Year.--Planted four acres, mostly new, hard, sour land,
broad-casting fifty bushels of lime to the acre, and using some weak,
half-rotted compost in the hills: wretched crop. The whole lot sent
North: did not pay for shipment.

Second Year.--An acre and a half best land, heavily manured with
well-rotted compost worked into drills eight feet apart: yielded fifty
bushels, which brought two hundred and fifty dollars in New York. More
would have been realized, except that an untimely hail-storm spoiled the
vines prematurely.

Third Year.--An acre and a half, well cultivated and manured, yielded
four hundred bushels, and brought a gross return of thirteen hundred
dollars.


TOMATOES.

First Year.--Lost many plants through rain and wet, and insufficient
manure. Those we got to the New-York market brought from four to six
dollars per bushel.

Second Year.--Manured too heavily in the hill with powerful
unfermented manures. A heavy rain helped ruin the crop. Those, however,
which we sent to market, brought good prices.

Third Year.--None planted for market; but those for family use did so
well as to put us in good humor with the crop, and induce us to plant
for this year.


SWEET-POTATOES.

Every year we have had pretty good success with them on land well
prepared with lime and ashes. We have had three hundred and fifty
bushels to the acre.


SUGAR-CANE

Has done very respectably on one-year-old soil manured with ashes only;
while mellow land, well prepared with muck, ashes, and fish-guano, has
yielded about twenty barrels of sugar to the acre.


IRISH POTATOES.

We have found these on light soil, with only moderate fertilizing, an
unprofitable crop at four dollars, but on good land, with very heavy
manuring, decidedly profitable at two dollars per bushel. Fine potatoes
rarely are less than that in Jacksonville. They will be ready to dig in
April and May.


PEAS

May be extraordinarily profitable, and may fail entirely. A mild winter,
without severe frosts, would bring them early into market. The
Christmas freeze of 1870 caught a half-acre of our peas in blossom, and
killed them to the ground.

Planted in the latter part of January, both peas and potatoes are pretty
sure. We have not done much with peas; but a neighbor of ours prefers
them to cabbages. He gets about three dollars per bushel.

As a general summary, our friend adds,--

"For two years in succession, we have found our leading market-crops
handsomely remunerative. The net returns look well compared with those
of successful gardening near New York. Cabbages raised here during the
fall and winter, without any protection, bear as good price as do the
spring cabbages which are raised in cold-frames at the North; and early
cucumbers, grown in the open air, have been worth as much to us as to
Northern gardeners who have grown them in hot-beds.

"The secret of our success is an open one; but we ourselves do not yet
come up to our mark, and reduce our preaching to practice. We have
hardly made a good beginning in high manuring. We did not understand at
first, as we now do, the difference between ordinary crops and early
vegetables and fruits. Good corn may be raised on poor land at the rate
of five or ten bushels to the acre; but, on a hundred acres of
scantily-fertilized land, scarcely a single handsome cabbage can be
grown. So with cucumbers: they will neither be early, nor fit for
market, if raised on ordinary land with ordinary culture. Most of the
market-gardening in Florida, so far as we know it, cannot but prove
disastrous. Land-agents and visionaries hold forth that great crops may
be expected from insignificant outlays; and so they decoy the credulous
to their ruin. To undertake raising vegetables in Florida, with these
ideas of low culture, is to embark in a leaky and surely-sinking ship.
If one is unwilling to expend for manure alone upon a single acre in one
year enough to buy a hundred acres of new land, let him give a wide
berth to market-gardening. Such expenditures have to be met at the
North; and there is no getting round it at the South.

"Yet one can economize here as one cannot at the North. The whole
culture of an early vegetable-garden can go on in connection with the
later crop of sugar-cane. Before our cabbages were off the ground this
spring, we had our cane-rows between them; and we never before prepared
the ground and planted the cane so easily. On another field we have the
cane-rows eight feet apart, and tomatoes and snap-beans intervening. We
have suffered much for lack of proper drainage. We have actually lost
enough from water standing upon crops to have underdrained the whole
enclosure. We undertook to till more acres than we could do justice to.
In farming, the love of acres is the root of all evil."

So much for our friend's experiences. We consider this experiment a most
valuable one for all who contemplate buying land and settling in
Florida. It is an experiment in which untiring industry, patience, and
economy have been brought into exercise. It has been tried on the very
cheapest land in Florida, and its results are most instructive.

Market-gardening must be the immediate source of support; and therefore
this experiment is exactly in point.

This will show that the land is the least of the expense in starting a
farm; and that it is best, in the first instance, to spend little for
land, and much for the culture of it.

Thousands of people pour down into Florida to winter, and must be fed.
The Jacksonville market, and the markets of all the different boarding
establishments on the river, need ample supplies; and there is no fear
that there will not be a ready sale for all that could be raised.

Our friends are willing to make a free contribution of their own
failures and mistakes for the good of those who come after. It shows
that a new country must be studied and tried before success is
attained. New-comers, by settling in the vicinity of successful
planters, may shorten the painful paths of experience.

All which we commend to all those who have written to inquire about
buying land in Florida.




  [Illustration]

MAY IN FLORIDA.


      MANDARIN, May 28, 1872.

The month of May in Florida corresponds to July and August at the north.

Strawberries, early peaches, blackberries, huckleberries, blueberries,
and two species of wild plums, are the fruits of this month, and make us
forget to want the departing oranges. Still, however, some of these
cling to the bough; and it is astonishing how juicy and refreshing they
still are. The blueberries are larger and sweeter, and less given to
hard seeds, than any we have ever tasted. In the way of
garden-vegetables, summer squashes, string-beans, and tomatoes are fully
in season.

This year, for the most part, the month has been most delightful
weather.

With all the pomp and glory of Nature in full view; beholding in the
wet, low lands red, succulent shoots, which, under the moist, fiery
breath of the season, seem really to grow an inch at a time, and to
shoot up as by magic; hearing bird-songs filling the air from morning to
night,--we feel a sort of tropical exultation, as if great, succulent
shoots of passion or poetry might spring up within us from out this
growing dream-life.

The birds!--who can describe their jubilees, their exultations, their
never-ending, still beginning babble and jargon of sweet sounds? All day
the air rings with sweet fanciful trills and melodies, as if there were
a thousand little vibrating bells. They iterate and reiterate one sweet
sound after another; they call to one another, and answer from thicket
to thicket; they pipe; they whistle; they chatter and mock at each other
with airy defiance: and sometimes it seems as if the very air broke into
rollicking bird-laughter. A naturalist, who, like Thoreau, has sojourned
for months in the Florida forests to study and observe Nature, has told
us that no true idea of the birds' plumage can be got till the hot
months come on. Then the sun pours light and color, and makes feathers
like steely armor.

The birds love the sun: they adore him. Our own Phoebus, when his cage
is hung on the shady side of the veranda, hangs sulky and silent; but
put him in the full blaze of the sun, and while the thermometer is going
up to the nineties, he rackets in a perfectly crazy abandon of bird
babblement, singing all he ever heard before, and trying his bill at new
notes, and, as a climax, ending each outburst with a purr of
satisfaction like an overgrown cat. Several pairs of family
mocking-birds have their nests somewhere in our orange-trees; and there
is no end of amusement in watching their dainty evolutions. Sometimes,
for an hour at a time, one of them, perched high and dry on a topmost
twig, where he gets the full blaze of the sun, will make the air ring
with so many notes and noises, that it would seem as if he were forty
birds instead of one. Then, again, you will see him stealing silently
about as if on some mysterious mission, perching here and there with a
peculiar nervous jerk of his long tail, and a silent little lift of his
wings, as if he were fanning himself. What this motion is for, we have
never been able to determine.

Our plantation, at present, is entirely given over to the domestic
affairs of the mocking-birds, dozens of whom have built their nests in
the green, inaccessible fastnesses of the orange-trees, and been rearing
families in security. Now, however, the young birds are to be taught to
fly; and the air resounds with the bustle and chatter of the operation.
Take, for example, one scene which is going on as we write. Down on the
little wharf which passes through the swamp in front of our house, three
or four juvenile mocking-birds are running up and down like chickens,
uttering plaintive cries of distress. On either side, perched on a tall,
dry, last-year's coffee-bean-stalk, sit "papa and mamma," chattering,
scolding, exhorting, and coaxing. The little ones run from side to side,
and say in plaintive squeaks, "I can't," "I daren't," as plain as birds
can say it. There! now they spread their little wings; and--oh,
joy!--they find to their delight that they do not fall: they exult in
the possession of a new-born sense of existence. As we look at this
pantomime, graver thoughts come over us, and we think how poor, timid
little souls moan, and hang back, and tremble, when the time comes to
leave this nest of earth, and trust themselves to the free air of the
world they were made for. As the little bird's moans and cries end in
delight and rapture in finding himself in a new, glorious, free life;
so, just beyond the dark step of death, will come a buoyant, exulting
sense of new existence. Our life here is in intimate communion with
bird-life. Their singing all day comes in bursts and snatches; and one
awakes to a sort of wondering consciousness of the many airy dialects
with which the blue heavens are filled. At night a whippoorwill or two,
perched in the cypress-trees, make a plaintive and familiar music. When
the nights are hot, and the moon bright, the mocking-birds burst into
gushes of song at any hour. At midnight we have risen to listen to
them. Birds are as plenty about us as chickens in a barnyard; and one
wonders at their incessant activity and motion, and studies what their
quaint little fanciful ways may mean, half inclined to say with
Cowper,--

      "But I, whatever powers were mine,
      Would cheerfully those gifts resign
      For such a pair of wings as thine,
        And such a head between 'em."

Speaking of birds reminds us of a little pastoral which is being enacted
in the neighborhood of St. Augustine. A young man from Massachusetts,
driven to seek health in a milder climate, has bought a spot of land for
a nursery-garden in the neighborhood of St. Augustine. We visited his
place, and found him and his mother in a neat little cottage, adorned
only with grasses and flowers picked in the wild woods, and living in
perfect familiarity with the birds, which they have learned to call in
from the neighboring forests. It has become one of the fashionable
amusements in the season for strangers to drive out to this cottage and
see the birds fed. At a cry from the inmates of the cottage, the
blue-jays and mocking-birds will come in flocks, settle on their
shoulders, eat out of their hands, or out of the hands of any one who
chooses to hold food to them. When we drove out, however, the birds were
mostly dispersed about their domestic affairs; this being the nesting
season. Moreover, the ample supply of fresh wild berries in the woods
makes them less anxious for such dry food as contented them in winter.
Only one pet mocking-bird had established himself in a neighboring tree,
and came at their call. Pic sat aloft, switching his long tail with a
jerky air of indifference, like an enfant gâté. When raisins were
thrown up, he caught them once or twice; but at last, with an evident
bird-yawn, declared that it was no go, and he didn't care for raisins.
Ungrateful Pic! Next winter, eager and hungry, he will be grateful; and
so with all the rest of them.

One of the charms of May not to be forgotten is the blossoming of the
great Cape jessamine that stands at the end of the veranda, which has
certainly had as many as three or four hundred great, white, fragrant
flowers at once.

As near as possible, this is the most perfect of flowers. It is as pure
as the white camellia, with the added gift of exquisite perfume. It is a
camellia with a soul! Its leaves are of most brilliant varnished green;
its buds are lovely; and its expanded flower is of a thick, waxen
texture, and as large as a large camellia. We have sat moonlight nights
at the end of the veranda, and enjoyed it. It wraps one in an atmosphere
of perfume. Only one fault has this bush: it blossoms only once a
season; not, like the ever-springing oleander, for months. One feels a
sense of hurry to enjoy and appropriate a bloom so rare, that lasts only
a few weeks.

Here in Florida, flowers form a large item of thought and conversation
wherever one goes; and the reason of it is the transcendent beauty and
variety that are here presented. We have just returned from St.
Augustine, and seen some gardens where wealth and leisure have expended
themselves on flowers; and in our next chapter we will tell of some of
these beauties.




  [Illustration]

ST. AUGUSTINE.


      MANDARIN, May 30, 1872.

The thermometer with us, during the third week in May, rose to
ninety-two in the shade; and as we had received an invitation from a
friend to visit St. Augustine, which is the Newport of Florida, we
thought it a good time to go seaward. So on a pleasant morning we
embarked on the handsome boat "Florence," which has taken so many up
the river, and thus secured all the breeze that was to be had.

"The Florence" is used expressly for a river pleasure-boat, plying every
day between Jacksonville and Pilatka. It is long and airy, and nicely
furnished; and one could not imagine a more delightful conveyance. In
hot weather, one could not be more sure of cool breezes than when
sailing up and down perpetually in "The Florence." Our destiny, however,
landed us in the very meridian of the day at Tekoi. Tekoi consists of a
shed and a sand-bank, and a little shanty, where, to those who require,
refreshments are served.

On landing, we found that we must pay for the pleasure and coolness of
coming up river in "The Florence" by waiting two or three mortal hours
till "The Starlight" arrived; for the railroad-car would not start till
the full complement of passengers was secured. We had a good
opportunity then of testing what the heat of a Florida sun might be,
untempered by live-oaks and orange shades, and unalleviated by
ice-water; and the lesson was an impressive one.

The railroad across to St. Augustine is made of wooden rails; and the
cars are drawn by horses.

There was one handsome car like those used on the New-York
horse-railroads: the others were the roughest things imaginable.
Travellers have usually spoken of this road with execration for its
slowness and roughness; but over this, such as it was, all the rank and
fashion of our pleasure-seekers, the last winter, have been pouring in
unbroken daily streams. In the height of the season, when the cars were
crowded, four hours were said to be consumed in performing this fifteen
miles. We, however, did it in about two.

To us this bit of ride through the Florida woods is such a
never-ceasing source of interest and pleasure, that we do not mind the
slowness of it, and should regret being whisked by at steam-speed. We
have come over it three times; and each time the varieties of shrubs and
flowers, grasses and curious leaves, were a never-failing study and
delight. Long reaches of green moist land form perfect flower-gardens,
whose variety of bloom changes with every month. The woods hang full of
beautiful climbing plants. The coral honeysuckle and the red bignonia
were in season now. Through glimpses and openings here and there we
could see into forests of wild orange-trees; and palmetto-palms raised
their scaly trunks and gigantic green fans. The passengers could not
help admiring the flowers: and as there were many stops and pauses, and
as the gait of the horses was never rapid, it was quite easy for the
gentlemen to gather and bring in specimens of all the beauties; and the
flowers formed the main staple of the conversation. They were so very
bright and gay and varied, that even the most unobserving could not but
notice them.

St. Augustine stands on a flat, sandy level, encompassed for miles and
miles by what is called "scrub,"--a mixture of low palmettoes and bushes
of various descriptions. Its history carries one back almost to the
middle ages. For instance, Menendez, who figured as commandant in its
early day, was afterwards appointed to command the Spanish Armada, away
back in the times of Queen Elizabeth; but, owing to the state of his
health, he did not accept the position.

In the year 1586, Elizabeth then being at war with Spain, her admiral,
Sir Francis Drake, bombarded St. Augustine, and took it; helping
himself, among other things, to seven brass cannon, two thousand pounds
in money, and other booty. In 1605 it was taken and plundered by
buccaneers; in 1702, besieged by the people of the Carolinas; in 1740,
besieged again by Gen. Oglethorpe of Georgia.

So we see that this part of our country, at least, does not lie open to
the imputation so often cast upon America, of having no historic
associations; though, like a great deal of the world's history, it is
written in letters of blood and fire.

Whoever would know, let him read Parkman's "Pioneers of France," under
the article "Huguenots in Florida," and he will see how the first
Spanish governor, Menendez, thought he did God service when he butchered
in cold blood hundreds of starving, shipwrecked Huguenots who threw
themselves on his mercy, and to whom he had extended pledges of shelter
and protection.

A government-officer, whose ship is stationed in Matanzas Inlet, told
me that the tradition is that the place is still haunted by the unquiet
ghosts of the dead. An old negro came to him, earnestly declaring that
he had heard often, at midnight, shrieks and moans, and sounds as of
expostulation, and earnest cries in some foreign language, at that
place; and that several white people whom he had taken to the spot had
heard the same. On inquiring of his men, Capt. H---- could find none who
had heard the noises; although, in digging in the sands, human bones
were often disinterred. But surely, by all laws of demonology, here is
where there ought to be the materials for a first-class ghost-story.
Here, where there has been such crime, cruelty, treachery, terror, fear,
and agony, we might fancy mourning shades wandering in unrest,--shades
of the murderers, forever deploring their crime and cruelty.

The aspect of St. Augustine is quaint and strange, in harmony with its
romantic history. It has no pretensions to architectural richness or
beauty; and yet it is impressive from its unlikeness to any thing else
in America. It is as if some little, old, dead-and-alive Spanish town,
with its fort and gateway and Moorish bell-towers, had broken loose,
floated over here, and got stranded on a sand-bank. Here you see the
shovel-hats and black gowns of priests; the convent, with gliding
figures of nuns; and in the narrow, crooked streets meet dark-browed
people with great Spanish eyes and coal-black hair. The current of life
here has the indolent, dreamy stillness that characterizes life in Old
Spain. In Spain, when you ask a man to do any thing, instead of
answering as we do, "In a minute," the invariable reply is, "In an
hour;" and the growth and progress of St. Augustine have been according.
There it stands, alone, isolated, connected by no good roads or
navigation with the busy, living world. Before 1835, St. Augustine was
a bower of orange-trees. Almost every house looked forth from these
encircling shades. The frost came and withered all; and in very few
cases did it seem to come into the heads of the inhabitants to try
again. The orange-groves are now the exception, not the rule; and yet
for thirty years it has been quite possible to have them.

As the only seaport city of any size in Florida, St. Augustine has many
attractions. Those who must choose a Southern home, and who are so
situated that they must remain through the whole summer in the home of
their choice, could not do better than to choose St. Augustine. It is
comparatively free from malarial fevers; and the sea-air tempers the
oppressive heats of summer, so that they are quite endurable.
Sea-bathing can be practised in suitable bathing-houses; but the sharks
make open sea-bathing dangerous. If one comes expecting a fine view of
the open ocean, however, one will be disappointed; for Anastasia
Island--a long, low sand-bar--stretches its barren line across the whole
view, giving only so much sea-prospect as can be afforded by the arm of
the sea--about two miles wide--which washes the town. Little as this may
seem of the ocean, the town lies so flat and low, that, in stormy
weather, the waves used to be driven up into it, so as to threaten its
destruction. A sea-wall of solid granite masonry was deemed necessary to
secure its safety, and has been erected by the United-States Government.
This wall affords a favorite promenade to the inhabitants, who there
enjoy good footing and sea-breezes.

What much interested us in St. Augustine was to see the results of such
wealth and care as are expended at the North on gardening being brought
to bear upon gardens in this semi-tropical region. As yet, all that we
have seen in Florida has been the beginning of industrial experiments,
where utility has been the only thing consulted, and where there has
been neither time nor money to seek the ornamental. Along the St. John's
you can see, to-day, hundreds of places torn from the forest, yet
showing the unrotted stumps of the trees; the house standing in a glare
of loose white sand, in which one sinks over shoes at every step. If
there be a flower-garden (and, wherever there is a woman, there will
be), its prospects in the loose sliding sands appear discouraging.
Boards and brick-edgings are necessary to make any kind of boundaries;
and a man who has to cut down a forest, dig a well, build a house, plant
an orange-grove, and meanwhile raise enough garden-stuff to pay his way,
has small time for the graces.

But here in St. Augustine are some families of wealth and leisure,
driven to seek such a winter-home, who amuse themselves during their
stay in making that home charming; and the results are encouraging.

In the first place, the slippery sand-spirit has been caught, and
confined under green grass-plats. The grass problem has been an earnest
study with us ever since we came here. What grass will bear a steady
blaze of the sun for six months, with the thermometer at a hundred and
thirty or forty, is a question. It is perfectly easy, as we have proved
by experiment, to raise flattering grass-plats of white clover, and even
of the red-top, during the cool, charming months of January, February,
and March; but their history will be summed up in the scriptural
account--"which to day is, and to-morrow is cast into the oven"--as soon
as May begins.

The chances of an enduring sod for ornamental purposes are confined to
two varieties,--the broad and the narrow leafed Bermuda grasses. These
have roots that run either to the centre of the earth, or far enough in
that direction for practical purposes; and are, besides, endowed with
the faculty of throwing out roots at every joint, so that they spread
rapidly. The broad-leafed kind is what is principally employed in St.
Augustine; and we have seen beautifully-kept gardens where it is cut
into borders, and where the grass-plats and croquet-grounds have been
made of it to admirable advantage. A surface of green in this climate is
doubly precious to the eye.

We were visiting in a house which is a model for a hot climate. A wide,
cool hall runs through the centre; and wide verandas, both above and
below, go around the whole four sides. From these we could look down at
our leisure into the foliage of a row of Magnolia grandiflora, now in
blossom. Ivy, honeysuckles, manrundia, and a host of other
climbing-plants, make a bower of these outside corridors of the house.
The calla-lilies blossom almost daily in shaded spots; and beds of
fragrant blue violets are never without flowers. Among the ornamental
shrubbery we noticed the chaparral,--a thorny tree, with clusters of
yellow blossoms, and long, drooping, peculiar leaves, resembling in
effect the willow-leafed acacia. The banana has a value simply as an
ornamental-leaf plant, quite apart from the consideration of its fruit,
which one can buy, perhaps, better than one can raise, in this part of
Florida; but it is glorious, when the thermometer is going up into the
hundreds, to see the great, fresh, broad, cool leaves of the banana-tree
leaping into life, and seeming to joy in existence. In groups of
different sizes, they form most beautiful and effective shrubbery. The
secret of gardening well here is to get things that love the sun. Plants
that come originally from hot regions, and that rejoice the hotter it
grows, are those to be sought for. The date-palm has many beautiful
specimens in the gardens of St. Augustine. A date-palm, at near view, is
as quaint and peculiar a specimen of Nature as one can imagine. Its
trunk seems built up of great scales, in which ferns and vines root
themselves, and twine and ramble, and hang in festoons. Above, the
leaves, thirty feet long, fall in a feathery arch, and in the centre,
like the waters of a fountain, shoot up bright, yellow, drooping
branches that look like coral. These are the flower-stalks. The fruit,
in this climate, does not ripen so as to be good for any thing.

One gentleman showed me a young palm, now six feet high, which he had
raised from a seed of the common shop date, planted four years ago. In
this same garden he showed me enormous rose-trees, which he had formed
by budding the finest of the Bourbon ever-blooming roses in the native
Florida rose. The growth in three years had been incredible; and these
trees are an ever-springing fountain of fresh roses. There is a
rose-tree in St. Augustine, in a little garden, which all the
sight-seers go to see. It is a tree with a trunk about the size of an
ordinary man's arm, and is said to have had a thousand roses on it at a
time. Half that number will answer our purpose; and we will set it down
at that. Rose-slugs and rose-bugs are pests unheard of here. The rose
grows as in its native home. One very pretty feature of the houses here
struck me agreeably. There is oftentimes a sort of shaded walk under
half the house, opening upon the garden. You go up a dusty street, and
stand at a door, which you expect will open into a hall. It opens, and a
garden full of flowers and trees meets your view. The surprise is
delightful. In one garden that we visited we saw a century-plant in
bud. The stalk was nineteen feet high; and the blossoms seemed to
promise to be similar to those of the yucca. The leaves are like the
aloe, only longer, and twisted and contorted in a strange, weird
fashion. On the whole, it looked as if it might have been one of the
strange plants in Rappicini's garden in Padua.

The society in St. Augustine, though not extensive, is very delightful.
We met and were introduced to some very cultivated, agreeable people.
There is a fair prospect that the city will soon be united by railroad
to Jacksonville, which will greatly add to the facility and convenience
of living there. We recrossed the railroad at Tekoi, on our way home, in
company with a party of gentlemen who are investigating that road with a
view of putting capital into it, and so getting it into active running
order. One of them informed me that he was also going to Indian River to
explore, in view of the projected plan to unite it with the St. John's
by means of a canal. Very sensibly he remarked, that, in order to really
make up one's mind about Florida, one should see it in summer; to which
we heartily assented.

By all these means this beautiful country is being laid open, and made
accessible and inhabitable as a home and refuge for those who need it.

On the steamboat, coming back, we met the Florida Thoreau of whom we
before spoke,--a devoted, enthusiastic lover of Nature as she reveals
herself in the most secluded everglades and forests. He supports
himself, and pays the expenses of his tours, by selling the curiosities
of Nature which he obtains to the crowd of eager visitors who throng the
hotels in winter. The feathers of the pink curlew, the heron, the crane,
the teeth of alligators, the skins of deer, panther, and wild-cat, are
among his trophies. He asserted with vehemence that there were
varieties of birds in Florida unknown as yet to any collection of
natural history. He excited us greatly by speaking of a pair of pet pink
curlews which had been tamed; also of a snow-white stork, with sky-blue
epaulet on each shoulder, which is to be found in the everglades. He was
going to spend the whole summer alone in these regions, or only with
Indian guides; and seemed cheerful and enthusiastic. He should find
plenty of cocoanuts, and would never need to have a fever if he would
eat daily of the wild oranges which abound. If one only could go in
spirit, and not in flesh, one would like to follow him into the
everglades. The tropical forests of Florida contain visions and wonders
of growth and glory never yet revealed to the eye of the common
traveller, and which he who sees must risk much to explore. Our best
wishes go with our enthusiast. May he live to tell us what he sees!




  [Illustration]

OUR NEIGHBOR OVER THE WAY.


      MANDARIN, May 14, 1872.

Our neighbor over the way is not, to be sure, quite so near or so
observable as if one lived on Fifth Avenue or Broadway.

Between us and his cottage lie five good miles of molten silver in the
shape of the St. John's River, outspread this morning in all its
quivering sheen, glancing, dimpling, and sparkling, dotted with
sail-boats, and occasionally ploughed by steamboats gliding like white
swans back and forth across the distance.

Far over on the other side, where the wooded shores melt into pearly
blue outlines, gleams out in the morning sun a white, glimmering spot
about as big as a ninepence, which shows us where his cottage stands.
Thither we are going to make a morning visit. Our water-coach is now
approaching the little wharf front of our house: and we sally forth
equipped with our sun-umbrellas; for the middle of May here is like the
middle of August at the North. The water-coach, or rather omnibus, is a
little thimble of a steamer, built for pleasuring on the St. John's,
called "The Mary Draper." She is a tiny shell of a thing, but with a
nice, pretty cabin, and capable of carrying comfortably thirty or forty
passengers. During the height of the travelling-season "The Mary Draper"
is let out to parties of tourists, who choose thus at their leisure to
explore the river, sailing, landing, rambling, exploring, hunting,
fishing, and perhaps inevitably flirting among the flowery nooks and
palmetto-hammocks of the shore. We have seen her many a time coming
gayly back from an excursion, with the voice of singing, and laugh of
youths and maidens, resounding from her deck, flower-wreathed and
flower-laden like some fabled bark from the fairy isles. But now, in the
middle of May, the tourists are few; and so "The Mary Draper" has been
turned into a sort of errand-boat, plying up and down the river to serve
the needs and convenience of the permanent inhabitants. A flag shown
