
Donald hoisted the jib of the Sea Foam, shoved off her head, and laid
her course, with the wind over the quarter, for Turtle Head--distant
about seven miles.




CHAPTER III

THE YACHT CLUB AT TURTLE HEAD.


The Sea Foam was a sloop yacht, thirty feet in length, and as handsome
as a picture in an illustrated paper, than which nothing could be finer.
It was a fact that she had cost twelve hundred dollars; but even this
sum was cheaper than she could have been built and fitted up in Boston
or Bristol. She was provided with everything required by a first class
yacht of her size, both for the comfort and safety of the voyager, as
well as for fast sailing. Though Mr. Ramsay, her builder, was a ship
carpenter, he was a very intelligent and well-read man. He had made
yachts a specialty, and devoted a great deal of study to the subject. He
had examined the fastest craft in New York and Newport, and had their
lines in his head. And he was a very ingenious man, so that he had the
tact to make the most of small spaces, and to economize every spare
inch in lockers, closets, and stow-holes for the numerous articles
required in a pleasure craft. He had learned his trade as a ship
carpenter and joiner in Scotland, where the mechanic's education is much
more thorough than in our own country, and he was an excellent workman.

The cabin of the Sea Foam was about twelve feet long, with transoms on
each side, which were used both as berths and sofas. They were supplied
with cushions covered with Brussels carpet, with a pillow of the same
material at each end. Through the middle, fore and aft, was the
centre-board casing, on each side of which was a table on hinges, so
that it could be dropped down when not in use. The only possible
objection to this cabin, in the mind of a shoreman, would have been its
lack of height. It was necessarily "low studded," being only five feet
from floor to ceiling, which was rather trying to the perpendicularity
of a six-footer. But it was a very comfortable cabin for all that,
though tall men were compelled to be humble within its low limits.

It was entered from the standing-room by a single step covered with
plate brass, in which the name of the yacht was wrought with bright
copper nails. On each side of the companion-way was a closet, one of
which was for dishes, and the other for miscellaneous stores. The trunk,
which readers away from boatable waters may need to be informed is an
elevation about a foot above the main deck, to afford head-room in the
middle of the cabin, had three deck lights, or ports, on each side. At
one end of the casing of the centre-board was a place for the water-jar,
and a rack for tumblers. In the middle were hooks in the trunk-beams for
the caster and the lantern. The brass-covered step at the entrance was
movable, and when it was drawn out it left an opening into the run under
the standing-room, where a considerable space was available for use. In
the centre of it was the ice-chest, a box two feet square, lined with
zinc, which was rigged on little grooved wheels running on iron rods,
like a railroad car, so that the chest could be drawn forward where the
contents could be reached. On each side of this box was a water-tank,
holding thirty gallons, which could be filled from the standing-room.
The water was drawn by a faucet lower than the bottom of the tank in a
recess at one side of the companion-way. The tanks were connected by a
pipe, so that the water was drawn from both. At the side of the step was
a gauge to indicate the supply of fresh water on board.

Forward of the cabin, in the bow of the yacht, was the cook-room, with a
scuttle opening into it from the forecastle. The stove, a miniature
affair, with an oven large enough to roast an eight-pound rib of beef,
and two holes on the top, was in the fore peak. It was placed in a
shallow pan filled with sand, and the wood-work was covered with sheet
tin, to guard against fire. Behind the stove was a fuel-bin. On each
side of the cook room was a shelf eighteen inches wide at the bulk-head
and tapering forward to nothing. Under it were several lockers for the
galley utensils and small stores. The room was only four feet high, and
a tall cook in the Sea Foam would have found it necessary to discount
himself. On the foremast was a seat on a hinge, which could be dropped
down, on which the "doctor" could sit and do his work, roasting himself
at the same time he roasted his beef or fried his fish. Everything in
the cook-room and the cabin, as well as on deck, was neat and nice. The
cabin was covered with a handsome oil-cloth carpet, and the wood was
white with zinc paint, varnished, with gilt moulding to ornament it.
Edward Patterdale, who was to be the nominal owner and the real skipper
of this beautiful craft, intended to have several framed pictures on the
spaces between the deck lights, a clock in the forward end over the
cook-room door, and brass brackets for the spy-glass in the
companion-way.

On deck the Sea Foam was as well appointed as she was below. Her
bowsprit had a gentle downward curve, her mast was a beautiful spar, and
her topmast was elegantly tapered and set up in good shape. Unlike most
of the regular highflyer yachts, her jib and mainsail were not
unreasonably large. Mr. Ramsay did not intend that it should be
necessary to reef when it blew a twelve-knot breeze, and, like the
Skylark, she was expected to carry all sail in anything short of a full
gale. But she was provided with an abundance of "kites," including an
immense gaff-topsail, which extended on poles far above the topmast
head, and far beyond the peak, a balloon-jib, a jib-topsail, and a
three-cornered studding-sail. The balloon-jib, or the jib-topsail, was
bent on with snap-hooks when it was needed, for only one was used at the
same time. These extra sails were to be required only in races, and they
were kept on shore. One stout hand could manage her very well, though
two made it easier work, and six were allowed in a race.

Donald seated himself in the standing-room, with the tiller in his right
hand. As soon as he had run out a little way, his attention was excited
by discovering three other sloop yachts coming down the bay. In one of
them he recognized the Skylark, and in another the Christabel, while the
third was a stranger to him, though he had heard of the arrival that day
of a new yacht from Newport, and concluded this was she. He let off his
sheet, and ran up to meet the little fleet.

"Sloop, ahoy!" shouted Robert Montague, from the Skylark, as Donald came
within hailing distance.

"On board the Skylark!" replied the skipper of the Sea Foam.

"Is that you, Don John?"

"Ay, ay."

"What sloop is that?" demanded Robert.

"The Sea Foam."

"Where bound?"

"Over to Turtle Head."

"We are bound there; come with us."

"Ay ay."

"Hold on a minute, Don John," shouted some one from the Christabel.

Each of the yachts had a tender towing astern, and that from the
Christabel, with five boys in it, immediately put off, and pulled to the
Sea Foam.

"Will you take us on board, Don John?" asked Gus Barker, as the tender
came alongside.

"Certainly; I'm glad to have your company," replied Donald, who had
thrown the yacht up into the wind.

Three of the party in the tender jumped upon the deck of the Sea Foam,
and the boat returned to the Christabel. Each of the yachts appeared to
have half a dozen or more on board of her, so that there was quite a
party on the way to Turtle Head. The sloops filled away again, the
Skylark and the new arrival having taken the lead, while the other two
were delayed.

"What sloop is that with the Skylark?" asked Donald.

"That's the Phantom. She got here from Newport this forenoon. Joe
Guilford's father bought her for him. She is the twin sister of the
Skylark, and they seem to make an even thing of it in sailing," replied
Gus Barker.

"You have quite a fleet now," added Donald.

"Yes; and we are going to form a Yacht Club. We intend to have a meeting
over at Turtle Head. Will you join, Don John?"

"I haven't any boat."

"Nor I, either. All the members can't be skippers," laughed Gus. "I am
to be mate of the Sea Foam, and that's the reason I wanted to come on
board of her."

"And I am to be one of her crew," added Dick Adams.

"And I the steward," laughed Ben Johnson. "I am going down into the
cook-room to see how things look there."

"You will join--won't you, Don?"

"Well, I don't know. I can't afford to run with you fellows with rich
fathers."

"O, get out! That don't make any difference," puffed Gus. "The owner of
the yacht has to foot the bills. Besides, we want you, Don John, for you
know more about a boat than all the rest of the fellows put together."

"Well, I shall be very glad to do anything I can to help the thing
along; but there are plenty of fellows that can sail a boat better than
I can."

"But you know all about a boat, and they want you for measurer. We have
the printed constitution of a Yacht Club, which Bob Montague got in
Boston, and according to that the measurer is entitled to ten cents a
foot for measuring a yacht; so you may make something out of your
office."

"I don't want to make any money out of it," protested Donald.

"You can make enough to pay your dues, for we have to raise some money
for prizes in the regattas; and we talk of having a club house over on
Turtle Head," rattled Gus, whose tongue seemed to be hung on a pivot in
his enthusiasm over the club. "Every fellow must be voted in, and pay
five dollars a year for membership. We shall have some big times.--We
are gaining on the Skylark, as true as you live!"

"I think we are; but I guess Bob isn't driving her," added Donald.

"She carries the same sail as the Sea Foam. I would give anything to
beat her. Make her do her best, Don John."

"I will," laughed the skipper, who had kept one eye on the Skylark all
the time.

He trimmed the sails a little, and began to be somewhat excited over the
prospect of a race. The Christabel was three feet longer than the other
yachts, and it was soon evident that in a light wind she was more than a
match for them, for she ran ahead of the Sea Foam. Her jib and mainsail
were much larger in proportion to her size than those of the other
sloops, but she was not an able boat, not a heavy-weather craft, like
them. The Sea Foam continued to gain on the Skylark, till she was
abreast of her, while the Phantom kept about even with her. But then
Robert Montague was busy all the time talking with his companions about
the Yacht Club, and did not pay particular attention to the sailing of
his boat. The Sea Foam began to walk ahead of him, and then, for the
first time, it dawned upon him that the reputation of the Skylark was at
stake. He had his crew of five with him, and he placed them in position
to improve the sailing of his craft. He ordered one of his hands to give
a small pull on the jib-sheet, another to let off the main sheet a
little, and a third to haul up the centre-board a little more, as she
was going free.

The effect of this attention on the part of the skipper of the Skylark
was to lessen the distance between her and the Sea Foam; they were abeam
of each other, with the Phantom in the same line. The Christabel was
about a cable's length ahead of them.

"She's game yet," said Gus Barker, his disappointment evident in the
tones of his voice, as the Skylark came up to the Sea Foam.

"This is a new boat, and I haven't got the hang of her yet," Donald
explained. "Haul up that fin a little, Dick."

"What fin?"

"The centre-board."

"Ay, ay," replied Dick, as he obeyed the order.

"Steady! that's enough," continued Donald, who now narrowly watched the
sailing of the Sea Foam, to assure himself that she did not make too
much leeway.

"That was what she wanted!" exclaimed Gus, when the yacht began to gain
again, and in a few minutes was half a length ahead.



"But not quite so much of it," replied Donald, when he saw that his
craft was sliding off a very little. "Give her just three inches more
fin, Dick."

The centre-board was dropped this distance, and the tendency to make
leeway thus corrected.

"She is gaining still!" cried Gus, delighted.

"Not much; it is a pretty even thing," added Donald.

"No matter; we beat her, and I don't care if it's only half an inch in a
mile."

"But the Christabel is leading us all. She is sure of all the first
prizes."

"Not a bit of it. She has to reef when there's a capful of wind. In a
calm she will beat us, but when it blows we shall wax her all to
pieces."

"Hallo!" shouted Mr. Laud Cavendish, whose small sail-boat was
overhauled about half way over to Turtle Head. "Is that you, Don John?"

"I believe so," replied Donald.

"Where you going?"

"Over to Turtle Head. Want us to give you a tow?"

"No; you needn't brag about your old tub. She don't belong to you; and
I'm going to have a boat that will beat that one all to splinters,"
replied Laud.

"All right; fetch her along."

"I say, Don John, I'm going to stop over Sunday on Turtle Head. Won't
you stay with me?"

"No, I thank you. I must go home to-night," answered Donald.

Mr. Laud Cavendish knew very well that Donald would not spend Sunday in
boating and fishing; and he did not ask because he wanted him. Besides,
for more reasons than one, he did not desire his company. The Sea Foam
ran out of talking distance of the sail-boat in a moment. Robert
Montague was doing his best to keep up the reputation of the Skylark;
but when the fleet came up to Turtle Head, she was more than a length
behind. The jib was hauled down, the yachts came up into the wind, and
the anchors were let go.

"Beat you," shouted Gus Barker.

"Not much," replied Robert. "We will try that over again some time."

"We are willing," added Donald.

The mainsails were lowered, and the young yachtmen embarked in the
tenders for the shore. Turtle Head is a rocky point at the northern
extremity of Long Island, in Penobscot Bay. There were a few trees near
the shore, and under these the party purposed to hold their meeting.
Though the weather was intensely hot on shore, it was comfortably cool
at the Head, where the wind came over five or six miles of salt water
cool from the ocean. The boys leaped ashore, and hauled up their boats
where the rising tide could not float them off. There were over twenty
of them, all members of the High School.

"The Sea Foam sails well," said Robert Montague, as he walked over to
the little grove with Donald.

"Very well, indeed. This is the first time she has been out, and I find
she works first rate," replied Donald.

"I want to try it with her some day, when everything is right."

"Wasn't everything right to-day?" asked Donald, smiling, for he was well
aware that every boatman has a good excuse for the shortcomings of his
craft.

"No; my tender is twice as heavy as yours," added Robert. "I must get
your father to build me one like that of the Sea Foam."

"We will try it without any tenders, which we don't want in a race."

"Of course I don't know but the Sea Foam can beat me; but I haven't seen
the boat of her inches before that could show her stern to the Skylark,"
said Robert; and it was plain that he was a little nettled at the slight
advantage which the new yacht had gained.

"I should like to sail her when you try it, for I have great hopes of
the Sea Foam. If my father has built a boat that will beat the Skylark
in all weathers, he has done a big thing, and it will make business good
for him."

"For his sake I might be almost willing to be whipped," replied Robert,
good-naturedly, as they halted in the grove.

Charley Armstrong was the oldest member of the party, and he was to call
the meeting to order, which he did with a brief speech, explaining the
object of the gathering, though everybody present knew it perfectly
well. Charles was then chosen chairman, and Dick Adams secretary. It was
voted to form a club, and the secretary was called upon to read the
constitution of the "Dorchester Yacht Club." The name was changed to
Belfast, and the document was adopted as the constitution of the Belfast
Yacht Club. The second article declared that the officers should consist
of a "Commodore, Vice-Commodore, Captain of the Fleet, Secretary,
Treasurer, Measurer, a Board of Trustees, and a Regatta Committee;" and
the next business was to elect them, which had to be done by written or
printed ballots. As the first three officers were required to be owners
in whole, or in part, of yachts enrolled in the club, there was found to
be an alarming scarcity of yachts. The Skylark, Sea Foam, Phantom, and
Christabel were on hand. Edward Patterdale and Samuel Rodman had
signified their intention to join, though they were unable to be present
at the first meeting. The Maud, as Samuel Rodman's new yacht was to be
called, was to be built at once: she was duly enrolled, thus making a
total of five, from whom the first three officers must be chosen.

The secretary had come supplied with stationery, and a slip was handed
to each member, after the constitution had been signed. A ballot was
taken for commodore; Robert B. Montague had twenty votes, and Charles
Armstrong one. Robert accepted the office in a "neat little speech,"
and took the chair, which was a sharp rock. Edward Patterdale was
elected vice-commodore, and Joseph Guilford captain of the fleet. Donald
was chosen measurer, and the other offices filled to the satisfaction of
those elected, if not of the others. It was then agreed to have a review
and excursion on the following Saturday, to which the ladies were to be
invited.

The important business of the day was happily finished, and the fleet
sailed for Belfast. Having secured the Sea Foam at her mooring, Donald
hastened home. As he approached the cottage, he saw a doctor's sulky at
the door, and the neighbors going in and out. His heart rose into his
throat, for there was not one living beneath that humble roof whom he
did not love better than himself.




CHAPTER IV.

A SAD EVENT IN THE RAMSAY FAMILY.


Donald's heart beat violently as he hastened towards the cottage. Before
he could reach it, another doctor drew up at the door, and it was
painfully certain that one of the family was very sick--dangerously so,
or two physicians would not have been summoned. It might be his father,
his mother, or his sister Barbara; and whichever it was, it was terrible
to think of. His legs almost gave away under him, when he staggered up
to the cottage. As he did so, he recalled the fact that his father had
been ailing when he went away in the Sea Foam. It must be his father,
therefore, who was now so desperately ill as to require the attendance
of two doctors.

The cottage was a small affair, with a pretty flower garden in front of
it, and a whitewashed fence around it. But small as it was, it was not
owned by the boat-builder, who, though not in debt, had hardly anything
of this world's goods--possibly a hundred dollars in the savings' bank,
and the furniture in the cottage. Though he was as prudent and thrifty
as Scotchmen generally are, and was not beset by their "often
infirmity," he had not been very prosperous. The business of
ship-building had been almost entirely suspended, and for several years
only a few small vessels had been built in the city. Ramsay had always
obtained work; but he lived well, and gave his daughter and his son an
excellent education.

Alexander Ramsay's specialty was the building of yachts and boats, and
he determined to make a better use of his skill than selling it with his
labor for day wages. He went into business for himself as a
boat-builder. When he established himself, he had several hundred
dollars, with which he purchased stock and tools. He had built several
sail-boats, but the Sea Foam was the largest job he had obtained.
Doubtless with life and health he would have done a good business.
Donald had always been interested in boats, and he knew the name and
shape of every timber and plank in the hull of a vessel, as well as
every spar and rope. Though only sixteen, he was an excellent mechanic
himself. His father had taken great pains to instruct him in the use of
tools, and in draughting and modelling boats and larger craft. He not
only studied the art in theory, but he worked with his own hands. In the
parlor of the little cottage was a full-rigged brig, made entirely by
him. The hull was not a log, shaped and dug out, but regularly
constructed, with timbers and planking. When he finished it, only a few
months before his introduction to the reader, he felt competent to build
a yacht like the Sea Foam, without any assistance; but boys are
generally over-confident, and possibly he overrated his ability.

With his heart rising up into his throat, Donald walked towards the
cottage. As he passed the whitewashed gate, one of the neighbors came
out at the front door. She was an elderly woman, and she looked very sad
as she glanced at the boy.

"I'm glad you have come, Donald; but I'm afraid he'll never speak to you
again," said she.

"Is it my father?" gasped the poor fellow.

"It is; and he's very sick indeed."

"What ails him?"

"That's more than the doctors can tell yet," added the woman. "They say
it's very like the cholera; and I suppose it's cholera-morbus. He has
been ailing for several days, and he didn't take care of himself. But go
in, Donald, and see him while you may."

The young man entered the cottage. The doctors, his mother and sister,
were all doing what they could for the sufferer, who was enduring, with
what patience he could, the most agonizing pain. Donald went into the
chamber where his father lay writhing upon the bed. The physicians were
at work upon him; but he saw his son as he entered the room and held out
his hand to him. The boy took it in his own. It was cold and convulsed.

"I'm glad you've come, Donald," groaned he, uttering the words with
great difficulty. "Be a good boy always, and take care of your mother
and sister."

"I will, father," sobbed Donald, pressing the cold hand he held.

"I was afraid I might never see you again," gasped Mr. Ramsay.

"O, don't give up, my man," said Dr. Wadman. "You may be all right in a
few hours."

The sick man said no more. He was in too much pain to speak again, and
Dr. Wadman sent Donald to the kitchen for some hot water. When he
returned with it he was directed to go to the apothecary's for an ounce
of chloroform, which the doctors were using internally and externally,
and had exhausted their supply. Donald ran all the way as though the
life of his father depended upon his speed. He was absent only a few
minutes, but when he came back there was weeping and wailing in the
little cottage by the sea-side. His father had breathed his last, even
while the doctors were hopefully working to save him.

"O, Donald, Donald!" cried Mrs. Ramsay, as she threw her arms around his
neck. "Your poor father is gone!"

The boy could not speak; he could not even weep, though his grief was
not less intense than that of his mother and sister. They groaned, and
sobbed, and sighed together, till kind neighbors led them from the
chamber of death, vainly endeavoring to comfort them. It was hours
before they were even tolerably calm; but they could speak of nothing,
think of nothing, but him who was gone. The neighbors did all that it
was necessary to do, and spent the night with the afflicted ones, who
could not separate to seek their beds. The rising sun of the Sabbath
found them still up, and still weeping--those who could weep. It was a
long, long Sunday to them, and every moment of it was given to him who
had been a devoted husband and a tender father. On Monday, all too soon,
was the funeral; and all that was mortal of Alexander Ramsay was laid in
the silent grave, never more to be looked upon by those who had loved
him, and whom he had loved.

The little cottage was like a casket robbed of its single jewel to those
who were left. Earth and life seemed like a terrible blank to them. They
could not accustom themselves to the empty chair at the window where he
sat when his day's work was done; to the vacant place at the table,
where he had always invoked the blessing of God on the frugal fare
before them; and to the silent and deserted shop on the other side of
the street, from which the noise of his hammer and the clip of his adze
had come to them. A week wore away and nothing was done but the most
necessary offices of the household. The neighbors came frequently to
beguile their grief, and the minister made several visits, bearing to
them the consolations of the gospel, and the tender message of a genuine
sympathy.

But it is not for poor people long to waste themselves in idle
lamentations. The problem of the future was forced upon Mrs. Ramsay for
solution. If they had been able only to live comfortably on the earnings
of the dead husband, what should they do now when the strong arm that
delved for them was silent in the cold embrace of death? They must all
work now; but even then the poor woman could hardly see how she could
keep her family together. Barbara was eighteen, but she had never done
anything except to assist her mother, whose health was not very good,
about the house. She was a graduate of the High School, and competent,
so far as education was concerned, to teach a school if she could obtain
a situation. Mrs. Ramsay might obtain work to be done at home, but it
was only a pittance she could earn besides doing her housework. She
wished to have Donald finish his education at the High School, but she
was afraid this was impossible.

Donald, still mourning for his father, who had so constantly been his
companion in the cottage and in the shop, that he could not reconcile
himself to the loss, hardly thought of the future, till his mother spoke
to him about it. He had often, since that bitter Saturday night,
recalled the last words his father had ever spoken to him, in which he
had told him to be a good boy always and take care of his mother and
sister; but they had not much real significance to him till his mother
spoke to him. Then he understood them; then he saw that his father was
conscious of the near approach of death, and had given his mother and
his sister into his keeping. Then, with the memory of him who was gone
lingering near and dear in his heart, a mighty resolution was born in
his soul, though it did not at once take a practical form.

"Don't worry about the future, mother," said he, after he had listened
to her rather hopeless statement of her views.

"I don't worry about it, Donald, for while we have our health and
strength, we can work and make a living. I want to keep you in school
till the end of the year, but I--"

"Of course I can't go to school any more, mother. I am ready to go to
work," interposed Donald.

"I know you are, my boy; but I want you to finish your school course
very much."

"I haven't thought a great deal about the matter yet, mother, but I
think I shall be able to do what father told me."

"Your father did not expect you to take care of us till you had grown
up, I'm sure," added Mrs. Ramsay, who had heard the dying injunction of
her husband to their son.

"I don't know that he did; but I shall do the best I can."

"Poor father! He never thought of anything but us," sighed Mrs. Ramsay;
and her woman's tears flowed freely again, so freely that there was no
power of utterance left to her.

Donald wept, too, as he thought of him who was not only his father, but
his loving companion in study, in work, and in play. He left the house
and walked over to the shop. For the first time since the sad event, he
unlocked the door and entered. The tears trickled down his cheeks as he
glanced at the bench where his father had done his last day's work. The
planes and a few other tools were neatly arranged upon it, and his apron
was spread over them. On the walls were models of boats and yachts, and
in one corner were the "moulds." Donald seated himself on the
tool-chest, and looked around at every familiar object in the shop. He
was thinking of something, but his thought had not yet taken definite
form. While he was considering the present and the future, Samuel Rodman
entered the shop.

"Do you suppose I can get the model of the Sea Foam, Don John?" inquired
he, after something had been said about the deceased boat-builder.

"I think you can. The model and the drawings are all here," replied
Donald.

"We intend to build the Maud this season, and I want her to be as near
like the Sea Foam as possible."

"Who is going to build her?" asked Donald, his interest suddenly kindled
by the question.

"I don't know; we haven't spoken to any one about it yet," replied
Samuel. "There isn't anybody in these parts that can build her as
your father would."



"Sam, can't I do this job for you?" said Donald.

"You?"

"Yes, I. You know I used to work with my father, and I understand his
way of doing things."

"Well, I hadn't thought that you could do it; but I will talk with my
father about it," answered Samuel, who appeared to have some doubts
about the ability of his friend to do so large a job.

"I don't mean to do it all myself, Sam. I will hire one or two
first-rate ship carpenters," added Donald. "She shall be just like the
Sea Foam, except a little alteration, which my father explained to me,
in the bow and run."

"Do you think you could do the job, Don John?" asked Samuel, with an
incredulous smile.

"I know I could," said Donald, earnestly. "If I had time enough I could
build her all alone."

"We want her as soon as we can get her."

"She shall be finished as quick as my father could have done her."

"I will see my father about it to-night, Don John, and let you know
to-morrow. I came down to see about the model."

Samuel Rodman left the shop and walked down the beach to the sail-boat
in which he had come. Donald was almost inspired by the idea which had
taken possession of him. If he could only carry on his father's
business, he could make money enough to support the family; and knowing
every stick in the hull of a vessel, he felt competent to do so. Full of
enthusiasm, he hastened into the cottage to unfold his brilliant scheme
to his mother. He stated his plan to her, but at first she shook her
head.

"Do you think you could build a yacht, Donald?" she asked.

"I am certain I could. Didn't you hear father say that my brig contained
every timber and plank that belongs to a vessel?"

"Yes, and that the work was done as well as he could do it himself; but
that does not prove that you can carry on the business."

"I want one or two men, if we build the Maud, because it would take too
long for me to do all the work alone."

"The Maud?"

"That was the yacht that father was to build next. I asked Sam Rodman to
give me the job, and he is going to talk with his father about it
to-night."

Mrs. Ramsay was rather startled at this announcement, which indicated
that her son really meant business in earnest.

"Do you think he will let you do it?" she asked.

"I hope he will."

"Are you sure you can make anything if you build the yacht?"

"Father made over three hundred dollars on the Sea Foam, besides his day
wages."

"That is no reason why you can do it."

"All his models, moulds, and draughts are in the shop. I know where they
are, and just what to do with them. I hope you will let me try it,
mother."

"Suppose you don't make out?"

"But I shall make out."

"If Mr. Rodman refuses to accept the yacht after the job is done, what
will you do?"

"I shall have her myself then, and I can make lots of money taking out
parties in her."

"Your father was paid for the Sea Foam as the work progressed. He had
received eight hundred dollars on her when she was finished."

"I know it; and Captain Patterdale owes four hundred more. If you let me
use some of the money to buy stock and pay the men till I get payment on
the job, I shall do very well."

"We must have something to live on. After I have paid the funeral
expenses and other bills, this money that Captain Patterdale owes will
be all I have."

"But Mr. Rodman will pay me something on the job, when he is satisfied
that the work will be done."

The widow was not very clear about the business; but she concluded, at
last, that if Mr. Rodman would give him the job, she would allow him to
