The Professor had not noticed the rhymes; poetry should be above rhymes
altogether, in his opinion.

The pleasant days passed, we sailed up and down the Matanzas, walked on
the sea-wall, and sat in the little overhanging balcony, which, like all
others in St. Augustine, was hung up on the side of the house like a
cupboard without any support from below. Letters from home meanwhile
brought tidings of snow and ice and storm, disasters by land and by sea.
A lady friend, a new arrival, had visited the Ancient City forty years
before, in the days of the ancien régime. “It is much changed,” she
said. “These modern houses springing up every where have altered the
whole aspect of the town. I am glad I came back while there is still
something left of the old time. Another five years and the last old wall
will be torn down for a horrible paling fence. Forty years ago the town
was largely Spanish or Moorish in its architecture. The houses were all
built of coquina, with a blank wall toward the north, galleries running
around a court-yard behind, where were flowers, vines, and a central
fountain. The halls, with their stone arches, opened out into this
greenery without doors of any kind, tropical fashion. Those were the
proud days of St. Augustine; the old families reigned with undisputed
sway; the slaves were well treated, hospitality was boundless, and the
intermixture of Spanish and Italian blood showed itself in the dark eyes
that glanced over the balconies as the stranger passed below. It has all
vanished now. The war effaced the last fading hue of the traditional
grandeur, and broke down the barriers between the haughty little city
and the outside world. The old houses have been modernized, and many of
them have given place to new and, to my ideas, thoroughly commonplace
dwellings. There is one left, however, the very mansion where I was so
charmingly entertained forty years ago; its open arches remain just as
they were, and the old wall still surrounds the garden. Up stairs is the
large parlor where we had our gay little parties, with wines, and those
delicious curled-up cakes, all stamped with figures, thin as a wafer,
crisp and brittle, which seemed to be peculiar to St. Augustine.”

“Did you know there was a native artist here?” said John, calling up one
morning as he sat on the balcony, Sara and myself endeavoring to write
duty letters.

“Painter or sculptor?” I inquired, pen in hand, pausing over an
elaborate description of a sunset with which I was favoring a
soul-to-soul correspondent. “Let me see: standing on the glacis with the
look-out tower outlined against--”

“Sculptor,” answered John. “His studio is on Charlotte Street not far
from here. Let us walk down and see him.”

“Look-out tower outlined against the golden after-glow. Is it worth
going to see?”

“Indeed it is. There is a fine design--a lion carved in stone, and also
a full-length figure of Henry Clay walking in the gardens of Ashland;
and what is more, these statues are on top of the house outlined
against--”

“The golden after-glow,” I suggested.

“Certainly,” said John. “And inside you will find rare antique vases,
Egyptian crocodiles, Grecian caskets, and other remarkable works, all
executed in stone.”

“I have long craved an alligator, but could not undertake the cigar-box
discipline,” I answered, rising. “A crocodile carved in stone will be
just the thing. Come, Sara.”

We walked down Charlotte Street, and presently came to a small house
with a low wing, whose open shutter showed the studio within. On the
roof were two figures in coquina, one a nondescript animal like the
cattle of a Noah’s ark, the other a little stone man who seemed to have
been so dwarfed by the weight of his hat that he never smiled again.

“The lion, and Henry Clay,” said John, introducing the figures.

“Passé for the lion; but how do you make out the other?”

“Oh, Henry seems to be the beau ideal of the South. You meet him every
where on the way down in a plaster and marble dress-coat, extending his
hand in a conversational manner, and so, of course, I supposed this to
be another one. And as to the gardens of Ashland, as he has his hat
on--indeed, he is principally hat--he must be taking a walk somewhere,
and where so likely as his own bucolic garden?”

“I shall go back to my after-glow, Mr. Hoffman. Your Henry Clay is a
fraud.”

“Wait and see the artist, Martha,” said Sara. “He is a colored man and a
cripple.”

We tapped on the shutter, and the artist appeared, supporting himself on
crutches; a young negro, with a cheerful shining countenance, and an
evident pride in the specimens of his skill scattered about the
floorless studio--alligators, boxes, roughly cut vases, all made of the
native coquina; or, as the artist’s sign had it,



“It must require no small amount of skill to cut any thing out of this
crumbling shell-rock,” I said, as, after purchasing a charming little
alligator, and conversing some time with the dusky artist, we turned
homeward.

“It does,” replied John. “Ignorant as he is, that man is not without his
ideas of beauty and symmetry--another witness to the capability for
education which I have every where noticed among the freedmen of the
South.”

“I too have been impressed with this capability,” said Sara--“strongly
impressed. Last Sunday I went to the Methodist colored Sunday-school on
St. George Street. The teachers are Northerners; some resident here,
some winter visitors; and the classes were filled up with full-grown men
and women, some of them aged and gray-haired, old uncles and aunties,
eager to learn, although they could scarcely see with their old eyes.
They repeated Bible texts in chorus, and then they began to read. It was
a pathetic sight to see the old men slowly following the simple words
with intense eagerness, keeping the place under each one with careful
finger. The younger men and girls read fluently, and showed quick
understanding in the answers given to the teachers’ questions. Then the
little children filed in from another room, and they all began to sing.
Oh, how they sang! The tenor voice of a young jet-black negro who sat
near me haunts me still with its sweet cadences. Singularly enough, the
favorite hymn seemed to be one whose chorus, repeated again and again,
ended in the words,

    “‘Shall wash me white as snow--
     White as snow.’”

“The negroes of St. Augustine were formerly almost all Romanists,” said
John, “and many of them still attend the old cathedral on the Plaza,
where there is a gallery especially for them. But of late the number of
Methodists and Baptists has largely increased, while the old cathedral
and its bishop, who once ruled supreme over the consciences of the whole
population of la siempre fiel Ciudad de San Augustin, find themselves in
danger of being left stranded high and dry as the tide of progress and
education sweeps by without a glance. The Peabody Educational Fund
supports almost entirely two excellent free schools here, one for white
and one for colored children; and in spite of opposition, gradually,
year by year, even Roman Catholic parents yield to the superior
advantages offered to their children, and the church schools hold fewer
and fewer scholars, especially among the boys. The Presbyterian church,
with its pastor and earnest working congregation, has made a strong
battle against the old-time influences, and it now looks as though the
autocratic sway of the religion of Spain were forever broken in this
ancient little Spanish city.”

“At least, however, the swarthy priests look picturesque and
appropriate as they come and go between their convent and the old
cathedral through that latticed gate in their odd dress,” said Sara. “Do
you remember, in Baddeck, the pleasing historical Jesuit, slender too
corpulent a word to describe his thinness, his stature primeval? Warner
goes on to say that the traveler is grateful for such figures, and is
not disposed to quarrel with the faith that preserves so much of the
ugly picturesque.”

“The principal interest I have in the old cathedral is the lost
under-ground passage which, according to tradition, once extended from
its high altar to Fort San Marco,” I remarked. “I am perpetually haunted
by the possibility of its being under my feet somewhere, and go about
stamping on the ground to catch hollow echoes down below. We moderns
have discovered at San Marco a subterranean dungeon and bones: then why
not an under-ground passage?”

“And bones?” asked Sara.

“No; Spanish jewels, plate, and all kinds of mediæval treasures. I
consider the possibility far more promising than Captain Kidd’s chest. I
have half a mind to begin digging.”

“You would be obliged to take the shovel yourself, then, Miss Martha,”
said John. “Do you suppose you could hire the St. Augustiners to dig,
really dig, day after day, Northern fashion? Why, they would laugh in
your face at the mere idea. I am inclined to think there would never be
another house built here if regular foundations and cellars were
required; as it is, they set up the timbers as the children set up their
houses of blocks. How clearly that sail-boat is outlined against the
gray water, like a sketch in India ink! Is not that Miss Carew on
board?”

“Yes, with Mr. Mokes,” said Sara.

“And Aunt Diana,” I added. “I remember now; Mr. Mokes gives a chowder
dinner to-day over on the North Beach.”

“I would not give much for chowder made by a Mokes,” said John, with the
scorn of an old camper-out in his voice.

“Oh, Mokes does not make it, Mr. Hoffman. What are you thinking of?
Mokes make chowder! By no means. He has his servant and the boatmen to
do all the work, and sends over his wines and ice beforehand. It will be
an elegant dinner, I assure you.”

“On the beach?”

“Yes, on the beach. Unfortunately, tables can not be transported,
unless, indeed, Dundreary should arrive with his ‘waft.’ But the
table-cloth will be damask, with a monogram worked in gold thread, and
the conversation will be strictly Fifth Avenueish, I will answer for
that.”

“Great is the power of youthful beauty,” I said, when we had reached our
room again. “Here is Mokes with his money and wines, the Professor with
his learning and bones, the Captain with his beauty and buttons, all
three apparently revolving around that giddy little cousin of mine. And
now comes John Hoffman!”

“With all his ancestors behind him! Has he taken her to the demi-lune
yet?” said Sara, opening the Princess of Thule, which she read after a
dose of Florida history, like sugar after a pill. “Do you know, Martha,
I think poor Lavender is rather unfairly treated by the author of this
book. He is ordered about by Ingram, and most unmercifully snubbed by
Sheila, who, after all, manages to have her own way, ‘whatever.’”

Now I had thrown John Hoffman purposely into my list of Iris’s admirers
in order to provoke something like a denial from Sara--these two seemed
to feel such a singular kind of interested dislike toward each other;
but my little bait caught nothing; Sara remained impassive.

Toward sunset the same evening we waited on the Plaza in company with
the entire population of the town for the distribution of the one mail,
accomplished with some difficulty by the efficient, active, Northern
postmaster, in consequence of the windows being darkened with flattened
noses, and the doorways blocked up, to say nothing of beatings on the
walls, impatient calls through the key-hole, and raids round the back
way by the waiting populace. Having wrestled manfully for our letters,
we all strolled down Tolomato Street, reading as we went. Iris journeyed
languidly through the sand; she had received no letters, and she had
Mokes on her hands, Mokes radiant with the rejection of his private
three-cornered chowder party, and the smiles she herself had bestowed
upon him over on that wicked North Beach. “Oh, for a horse!” she sighed.
“Nay, I would even ride in a Florida cart.”



Aunt Diana was weary, but jubilant; she had the Professor and the Trojan
war, and did her duty by them. Miss Sharp ambled along on the other
side, and said “Indeed!” at intervals. Sara read her letters with a
dreary sort of interest; her letters were always from “Ed.,” she used to
say. John and I, strolling in advance, carried on a good, comfortable,
political fight over our newspapers.

“Another cemetery,” said Sara, as the white crosses and head-stones
shone out in the sunset on one side of the road.

Mokes, stimulated to unusual conversational efforts by the successes of
the day, now brought forward the omnipresent item. “This is--er, I
suppose, the old Huguenot burying-ground, a--er--a spot of much
interest, I am told.”

“Yes,” replied Sara. “This is the very spot, Mr. Mokes.”

“Oh no, Miss St. John,” said Aunt Diana, coming to the rescue, “you
mistake. This is Tolomato.”

“It makes no difference. I am now convinced that they are all Huguenot
burying-grounds,” replied Sara, calmly.

The little cemetery was crowded with graves, mounds of sand over which
the grass would not grow, and heavy coquina tombs whose inscriptions had
crumbled away. The names on the low crosses, nearly all Spanish,
Minorcan, Corsican, and Greek, bore witness to the foreign ancestry of
the majority of the population. We found Alvarez, La Suarez, Leonardi,
Capo, Carrarus, Ximanies, Baya, Pomar, Rogero, and Hernandez. Among the
Christian names were Bartolo, Raimauld, Rafaelo, Geronimo, Celestino,
Dolorez, Dominga, Paula, and Anaclata.

“It looks venerable, but it only dates back about one hundred years,”
said John. “Where the old Dons of two or three centuries ago buried
their dead, no one knows; perhaps they sent them all back home, Chinese
fashion. An old bell which now hangs in the cathedral is said to have
come from here; it bears the inscription, ‘Sancte Joseph, ora pro nobis;
D. 1682,’ and is probably the oldest bell in the country.”

“And what was it doing here?” said Mokes, with the air of a historian.

“There was once an Indian village here, called Tolomato, and a mission
chapel; the bell is supposed to have come from the chapel.”

“Is that the chapel?” asked Mokes, pointing to a small building on the
far side of the cemetery. He was getting on famously, he thought, quite
historical, and that sort of thing.

“No; that is a chapel erected in 1853 by Cubans to the memory of Father
Varela. The old Tolomato chapel was--was destroyed.”

“How?” inquired Mokes.

John glanced toward Sara with a smile. “Oh, go on,” she said, “I am
quite prepared! A massacre, of course!”

“Yes, a massacre. The Indians stole into the chapel by night, and
finding Father Corpa engaged in his evening devotions, they slew him at
the altar, and threw his body out into the forest, where it could never
afterward be found. The present cemetery marks the site of the old
mission, and bears its name.”

Mokes, having covered himself with glory, now led the way out, and the
party turned homeward. Sara and I lingered to read the Latin inscription
over the chapel door, “Beati mortui qui in Domino moriuntur.” John
beckoned us toward a shadowed corner where stood a lonely tomb, the
horizontal slab across the top bearing no date, and only the initials of
a name, “Here lies T----F----.”

“Poor fellow!” said John, “he died by his own hand, alone, at night, on
this very spot: a young Frenchman, I was told, but I know nothing
more.”

“Is not that enough?” I said. “There is a whole history in those words.”

“There was once a railing separating this tomb from the other graves, as
something to be avoided and feared,” said John; “but time, or perhaps
the kind hand of charity, has removed the barrier: charity that can pity
the despairing, suffering, human creature whose only hope came to
this--to die!”

Happening to glance at Sara, I saw her eyes full of tears, and in spite
of her effort to keep them back, two great drops rolled down and fell on
the dark slab; John saw them, and turned away instantly.

“Why, Sara!” I said, moved almost to tears myself by sudden sympathy.

“Don’t say any thing, please,” answered Sara. “There, it is all over.”

We walked away, and found John standing before a little wooden cross
that had once marked a grave; there was no trace of a grave left, only
green grass growing over the level ground, while lichen and moss had
crept over the rough unpainted wood and effaced the old inscription. A
single rose-bush grew behind, planted probably a little slip when the
memory of the lost one was green and fresh with tears; now, a wild
neglected bush, it waved its green branches and shed its roses year by
year over the little cross that stood, veiled in moss, alone, where now
no grave remained, as though it said, “He is not here: he is risen.”

“Look,” said John. “Does it not tell its story? Why should we be
saddened while we have what that cross typifies?”



That evening, happening to take up Sara’s Bible, I found pinned in on
the blank leaf these old verses:

    “There is a calm for those who weep,
       A rest for weary pilgrims found;
     They softly lie and sweetly sleep
                   Low in the ground.

    “The storm that wracks the wintry sky
       No more disturbs their deep repose
     Than summer evening’s latest sigh
                   That shuts the rose.

    “I long to lay this painful head
       And aching heart beneath the soil,
     To slumber in that dreamless bed
                   From all my toil.”

“Poor child!” I said to myself--“poor child!”

“Who do you think is here, Niece Martha?” said Aunt Diana one morning a
week later. “Eugenio; he came last night.”

“What, the poet?”

“Yes; he will stay several days, and I can introduce him to all of you,”
said Aunt Di, graciously.

“I shall be very glad, not only on my own account, but on Sara’s also,
aunt.”

“Oh, Eugenio will not feel any interest in a person like Miss St. John,
Niece Martha! He belongs to another literary world entirely.”

“I know that; but may not Sara attain to that other world in time? I
hope much from her.”

“Then you will be disappointed, Niece Martha. I am not literary myself,
but I have always noticed that those writers whose friends are always
‘hoping much’ never amount to much; it is the writer who takes his
friends and the world by surprise who has the genius.”

There was a substratum of hard common-sense in Aunt Diana, where my
romantic boat often got aground. It was aground now.

The next morning Eugenio presented himself without waiting for Aunt Di,
and John proposed a walk to the Ponce de Leon Spring in his honor.

“It is almost the only spot you have not visited,” he said to us, “and
Eugenio must see the sweep of a pine-barren.”

“By all means,” replied the poet, “the stretching glades and far
savannas, gemmed with the Southern wild flowers.”

“You have missed the most beautiful flower of all,” said Iris, “‘the
wild sweet princess of far Florida, the yellow jasmine.’”

The Captain was with us, likewise Mokes; but Aunt Diana had sliced in
another young lady to keep the balance even; and away we went through
the town, across the Maria Sanchez Creek, under the tree arches, and out
on to the broad causeway beyond.

“What! walk to Ponce de Leon Spring!” exclaimed the languid St.
Augustine ladies as we passed.

“They evidently look upon Northerners as a species of walking madmen,” I
said, laughing.

“It is a singular fact,” commented Sara, “that country people never walk
if they can help it; they go about their little town and that is all.
City people, on the contrary, walk their miles daily as a matter of
course. You can almost tell whether a young lady is city or country bred
from the mere fact of her walking or not walking.”

“Climate here has something to do with it,” said John, “and also the old
Spanish ideas that ladies should wear satin slippers and take as few
steps as possible. The Minorcans keep up some of the old ideas still.
Courtship is carried on through a window, the maiden within, a rose in
her hair, and the favorite Spanish work in her hand, and the lover
outside leaning on the casement. Not until a formal acceptance has been
given is he allowed to enter the house and rest himself and his
aspirations in a chair.”

“We have adopted English ideas of exercise in New York,” said Eugenio,
“but they have not penetrated far into the interior as yet, and are
utterly unknown south of Mason and Dixon’s line. St. Augustine, however,
is still Spanish, and no one expects the traditional Spanish señorita,
with her delicate slippers, fan, and mantilla, to start out for a
six-mile constitutional--it would not be her style at all. By-the-way, I
saw a beautiful Spanish face leaning from a window on St. George Street
this morning.”

“Yes,” said Mokes, consequentially. “There are two on St. George Street,
two on Charlotte, and one on St. Hypolita. I have taken pains to
trace--er--to trace them out; they like it--er--and I have, I may say,
some experience in outlines and that sort of thing--galleries
abroad--old masters, etc. Paint a little myself.”

“Indeed!” said Eugenio. “Original designs, I suppose?”

Oh no; Mokes left that to the regular profession. They had to do it,
poor fellows--wouldn’t interfere with them.

“Very generous,” said Eugenio.

Yes, Mokes thought it was. But gentlemen of--of fortune, you know, had
their duties--as--as such.

“How much I should like to see your pictures, Mr. Mokes!” said the
poet, assuming an air of deep interest.

The highly flattered Mokes thought that “perhaps--er,” he “might have
one or two sent down by express;” he always liked “to oblige his
friends.”

“Don’t chaff him any more,” whispered John, with a meaning glance toward
Iris.

“What! not that lovely girl!” exclaimed Eugenio, under his breath.

“Two or three millions!” said John.

“Ah!” replied the poet.

On the red bridge Sara paused a moment and stood gazing down the river.
“What a misty look there is away down there over the salt marshes!” she
said, “the boats tipped up on shore, with their slender masts against
the sky. The river is certainly going down to the sea, and yet the
sea-breeze comes from behind me.”

“The Sebastian is nearer the ocean up here than it is down at its
mouth,” said John. “Look across: there is only the North Beach between
us here and the ocean.”

“Between us and Africa, you mean.”

“What is it that attracts you toward Africa, Miss St. John?” asked
Eugenio.

“Antony,” replied Sara, promptly. “Don’t you remember those wonderful
lines written by an Ohio soldier,

    “‘I am dying, Egypt, dying;
      Ebbs the crimson life-tide fast?’”

“Dear me, Miss St. John, I hope you are not taking up Antony and
Cleopatra to the detriment of the time-honored Romeo and Juliet!
Romeo is the orthodox lover, pray remember.”

“But I am heterodox,” replied Sara, smiling.

Beyond the river the road led through the deep white sand of Florida.
Iris’s little boots sank ankle deep.

“Take my arm,” said the Captain.

Now taking the arm means more or less, according to the arm and the way
it is offered. The Captain was tall, the Captain was strong, and he had
a way with him. Iris was small, Iris was graceful, and she had a way
with her. To say that from that moment they flirted boundlessly all the
afternoon does not express it. I am sorry to say, also, that John and
the poet openly, and Sara and I tacitly, egged them on. The bullion star
of Mokes had been in the ascendant long enough, we thought. The
Professor had a staff, a trowel, and a large basket for specimens. He
made forays into the thicket, lost himself regularly, and Miss Sharp as
regularly went to the rescue and guided him back.

“How many old tracks there are turning off to the right and the left!” I
said. “Where do they go?”

“The most delightful roads are those that go nowhere,” said Eugenio,
“roads that go out and haze around in the woods just for fun. Who wants
to be always going somewhere?”

“These roads will answer your purpose, then,” said John. “Most of them
go nowhere. They did go out to old military posts once upon a time, in
the Seminole war, but the military posts have disappeared, and now they
go nowhere. They are pretty tracks, some of them, especially the old
Indian entrance to St. Augustine--a trail coming up from the south.”

Turning to the right, we passed through a little nook of verdure,
leaving the sand behind us. “This,” said John, “is a hamak; and if I
have a pet grievance, it is the general use of the word ‘hummock’ in its
place. ‘Hummock’ is an arctic word, meaning to pile up ice; but ‘hamak’
is pure Carib or Appalachian, and signifies a resting or abiding place,
a small Indian farm. There is another kind of soil in Florida which has
the singular name of ‘sobbed land.’ This has a rocky substratum,
impervious to water, four feet below the surface, which holds the
rain-falls as though it--”

“Devoured its own tears,” suggested Eugenio. “But where are your
flowers, good people? Is not this the land of flowers?”



“No,” said John; “that is another mistake. The Spaniards happened to
land here during the Easter season, which they call Pascua Florida, the
flowery Passover, on account of the palms with which their churches are
decorated at that time; and so they named the country from the festival,
and not from the flowers at all. There is not one word said about
flowers in all their voluminous old records--”

“Don’t be statistical, I beg,” interrupted Eugenio. “And are there no
flowers, then?”

“Oh yes,” answered Sara, “little wee blossoms in delicate colors
starring over the ground, besides violets and gold-cups; these are the
yeomanry. The Cherokee roses, the yellow jasmine, and the
Spanish-bayonets, with their sceptres of white blossoms, are the
nobility.”

Presently we came out upon the barren, with its single feathery trees,
its broad sky-sweep, its clear-water ponds, an endless stretch of desert
which was yet no desert, but green and fair. The saw-palmetto grew in
patches, and rustled its stiff leaves as we passed.

“I can’t think of any thing but Spanish ladies looking out between the
sticks of their fans,” remarked Eugenio.

“That’s just like it,” said Iris, and plucking one of the fan-shaped
leaves, she gave the idea a lovely coquettish reality. The Captain
murmured something (he had a way of murmuring). What it was we could not
hear, but then Iris heard, and blushed very prettily. Mokes took the
“other young lady,” the sliced one, and walked on loftily. She went. The
truth is, they generally go with three millions.

“There is something about the barrens that always gives me the feeling
of being far away,” said Sara.

“The old attraction,” replied Eugenio. “‘Over the hills and far away’ is
the dream of all imaginative souls. Do you remember

    “‘Afar in the desert I love to ride,
     With the silent Bush-boy alone by my side?’”

         “‘There is a happy land,
           Far, far away,’”

I sang.



“Yes, that is it,” said John, “and even our old friend ‘Swannee Ribber’
owes his dominion to the fact that he is ‘far, far away.’”

A little trail turned off to a low cabin on the bank of a brook; we saw
some flowers, and wandered that way for a moment. It was the lonely
little home of a freedman, and two children stood in the doorway staring
at us with solemn eyes. We bestowed some pennies, which produced a bob
of a courtesy; then some jokes, which brought out the ivories.

“What are your names, children?” I asked.

“They’s jes Lou-ee-zy and Low-ii-zy,” replied a voice from within-doors.
“They’s twins, and I’s took car’ ob dein allays.”

It was a crippled old auntie who spoke. She told us her story, with long
digressions about “ole massa” and “ole miss.”

“After all, I suspect you were more comfortable in the old times,
auntie,” I said.

“What’s dat to do wid de acquisition ob freedom?” replied the old woman,
proudly. “De great ting is dis yer: Lou-ee-zy is free, and Low-ii-zy is
free! Bot’ ob dem! Bot’ ob dem, ladies!”

“I have never been able to make them confess that they were more
comfortable in the old days, no matter how poor and desolate they may
be,” I said.

“The divine spark in every breast,” replied Eugenio. “But where is the
spring, Hoffman? I like your barren; it smacks of the outlaw and bold
buccaneer, after the trim wheat fields of the North, and there is a
grand sweep of sky overhead. Nevertheless, I own to being thirsty.”

“It is not ordinary thirst,” replied John; “it is the old yearning which
Ponce de Leon always felt when he had come as far as this.”

“He came this way, then, did he?”

“Invariably.”

“If I had been here at the time I should have said, ‘Ponce’ (of course
we should have been intimate enough to call each other by our first
names)--‘Ponce, my good friend, have your spring a little nearer while
you are magically about it!’” And taking off his straw hat the poet
wiped his white forehead, and looked at us with a quizzical expression
in his brilliant eyes.

“It is warm,” confessed Aunt Diana, who, weary and worried, was
toiling along almost in silence. Mokes was nearly out of sight with the
“other young lady;” Iris and the Captain were absorbed in that murmured
conversation so hopeless to outsiders; and Spartan matron though she
was, she had not the courage to climb around after the Professor in
cloth boots that drew like a magnet the vicious cacti of the thicket.
Miss Sharp had leather boots, and climbed valiantly.

At last we came to the place, and filed in through a broken-down fence.
We found a deserted house, an overgrown field, a gully, a pool, and an
old curb of coquina surrounding the magic spring.

“I wonder if any one was ever massacred here?” observed Sara, looking
around.

“The Fountain of Youth,” declaimed John, ladling out the water. “Who
will drink? Centuries ago the Indians of Cuba came to these shores to
seek the waters of immortality, and as they never returned, they are
supposed to be still here somewhere enjoying a continued cherubic
existence. Father Martyn himself affirms in his letter to the Pope that
there is a spring here the water thereof being drunk straightway maketh
the old young again. Ladies and gentlemen, the original and only Ponce
de Leon Spring! Who will drink?”

We all drank; and then there was a great silence.

“Well,” said the poet, deliberately, looking around from his seat on the
curb, “take it altogether, that shanty, those bushes, the pig-sty, the
hopeless sandy field, the oozing pool, and this horrible tepid water,
drawn from, to say the least, a dubious source--a very dubious
source--it is, all in all, about the ugliest place I ever saw!”

There was a general shout.

“We have suspected it in our hearts all winter,” said the “other young
lady;” “but not one of us dared put the thought into words, as it was
our only walk.”

The poet staid with us a day or two longer, and charmed us all with his
delightful, winsome humor.

“Do you know, I really love that man,” I announced.

“So do I,” said Iris.

“That is nothing,” said John; “he is ‘the poet whom poets love,’ you
know.”

“But we are not poets, Mr. Hoffman.”

“We are only plebes, and plebes may very well love what poets love, I
think.”

“But it does not always follow,” I said.

“By no means. In this case, however, it is true. All love Eugenio, both
poets and plebes.”

“He is the Mendelssohn of poets,” I said; “and, besides that, he is the
only person I ever met who reminded me of my idea of Mendelssohn
personally--an idea gathered from those charming ‘letters’ and the
Auchester book.”

The next evening Eugenio and Sara went off for a stroll on the sea-wall;
two hours later Sara came back to our room, laid a blank book on the
table, and threw herself into a chair.

“Tired?” I asked.

“Yes.”

“It is a lovely evening.”

“Yes.”

“Did you have a pleasant time?”
