like other priests, perhaps ? " 

" I know it's not good," said the painter. " It 
is conventional, in spite of everything. But here's 
that first sketch I made of you." 

He took up a canvas facing the wall, and set it 
on the easel. The character in this charcoal sketch 
was vastly sincerer and sweeter. 

" Ah ! " said Don Ippolito, with a sigh and smile 
of relief, " that is immeasurably better. I wish I 
could speak to you, dear friend, in a mood of yours 
as sympathetic as this picture records, of some mat 
ters that concern me very nearly. I have just come 
from the railroad station." 

" Seeing some friends off ? " asked the painter, 
indifferently, hovering near the sketch with a bit of 
charcoal in his hand, and hesitating whether to give 
it a certain touch. He glanced with half-shut eyes 
at the priest. 

Don Ippolito sighed again. " I hardly know. I 
was seeing off my hopes, my desires, my prayers, 
that followed the train to America ! " 

The painter put down his charcoal, dusted his 
fingers, and looked at the priest without saying 
anything. 

" Do you remember when I first came to you ? " 
asked Don Tppolito. 





" Certainly," said Ferris. " Is it of that matter 
you want to speak to me ? I rn very sorry to hear 
it, for I don 't think it practical." 

" Practical, practical ! " cried the priest hotly. 
" Nothing is practical till it has been tried. And 
why should I not go to America ? " 

" Because you can 't get your passport, for one 
thing," answered the painter dryly. 

" I have thought of that," rejoined Don Ippolito 
more patiently. " I can get a passport for France 
from the Austrian authorities here, and at Milan 
there must be ways in which I could change it for 
one from my own king " - it was by this title that 
patriotic Venetians of those days spoke of Victor 
Emmanuel " that would carry me out of France 
into England." 

Ferris pondered a moment. " That is quite 
true," he said. " Why had n t you thought of that 
when you first came to me ? " 

" I cannot tell. I didn 't know that I could even 
get a passport for France till the other day." 

Both were silent while the painter filled his pipe. 
" Well," he said presently, " I'm very sorry. I'm 
afraid you're dooming yourself to many bitter dis 
appointments in going to America. What do you 
expect to do there ? " 

" Why, with my inventions " 

" I suppose," interrupted the other, putting a 
lighted match to his pipe, " that a painter must be 
a very poor sort of American : his first thought is 



 

of coming to Italy. So I know very little directly 
about the fortunes of my inventive fellow-country 
men, or whether an inventor has any prospect of 
making a living. But once when I was at Wash 
ington I went into the Patent Office, where the 
models of the inventions are deposited ; the build 
ing is about as large as the Ducal Palace, and it is 
full of them. The people there told me nothing 
was commoner than for the same invention to be re 
peated over and over again by different inventors. 
Some few succeed, and then they have lawsuits 
with the infringers of their patents ; some sell out 
their inventions for a trifle to companies that have 
capital, and that grow rich upon them ; the great 
number can never bring their ideas to the public 
notice at all. You can judge for yourself what 
your chances would be. You have asked me why 
you should not go to America. Well, because I 
think you would starve there." 

" I am used to that," said Don Ippolito ; " and 
besides, until some of my inventions became known, 
I could give lessons in Italian." 

" Oh, bravo I " said Ferris, " you prefer instant 
death, then?" 

" But madamigella seemed to believe that my 
success as an inventor would be assured, there." 

Ferris gave a very ironical laugh. " Miss Ver 
vain must have been about twelve years old when 
she left America. Even a lady's knowledge of busi 
ness, at that age, is limited. When did yon talk 



 

with her about it ? You had not spoken of it to 
me, of late, and I thought you were more contented 
than you used to be." 

" It is true," said the priest. u Sometimes within 
the last two months I have almost forgotten it." 

" And what has brought it so forcibly to your 
mind again ? " 

" That is what I so greatly desire to tell you," 
replied Don Ippolito, with an appealing look at the 
painter's face. He moistened his parched lips a 
little, waiting for further question from the painter, 
to whom he seemed a man fevered by some strong 
emotion and at that moment not quite wholesome. 
Ferris did not speak, and Don Ippolito began 
again : " Even though I have not said so in words 
to you, dear friend, has it not appeared to you that 
I have no heart in my vocation ? " 

" Yes, I have sometimes fancied that. I had no 
right to ask you why." 

" Some day I will tell you, when I have the 
courage to go all over it again. It is partly my 
own fault, but it is more my miserable fortune. 
But wherever the wrong lies, it has at last become 
intolerable to me. I cannot endure it any longer 
and live. I must go away, I must fly from it." 

Ferris shrank from him a little, as men instinc 
tively do from one who has set himself upon some 
desperate attempt. " Do you mean, Don Ippolito, 
that you are going to renounce your priesthood ? " 

Don Ippolito opened his hands and let his priest 
hood drop, as it were, to the ground. 



 

" You never spoke of this before, when you talked 
of going to America. Though to be sure " 

" Yes, yes ! " replied Don Ippolito with vehe 
mence, " but now an angel has appeared and shown 
me the blackness of my life ! " 

Ferris began to wonder if he or Don Ippolito 
were not perhaps mad. 

" An angel, yes," the priest went on, rising from 
his chair, " an angel whose immaculate truth has 
mirrored my falsehood in all its vileness and distor 
tion to whom, if it destroys me, I cannot devote 
less than a truthfulness like hers ! " 

" Hers hers ? " cried the painter, with a sudden 
pang. " Whose ? don 't speak in these riddles. 
Whom do you mean ? " 

" Whom can I mean but only one ? madami- 
gella ! " 

" Miss Vervain? Do you mean to say that Miss 
Vervain has advised you to renounce your priest 
hood?" 

" In as many ..words she has bidden rne forsake it 
at any risk, at the cost of kindred, friends, good 
fame, country, everything." 

The painter passed his hand confusedly over his 
face. These were his own words, the words he had 
used in speaking with Florida of the supposed skep 
tical priest. He grew very pale. " May I ask," 
he demanded in a hard, dry voice, u how she came 
to advise such a step ? " 

" I can hardly tell. Something had already 



 

moved her to learn from me the story of my life 
to know that I was a man with neither faith nor 
hope. Her pure heart was torn by the thought of 
my wrong and of my error. I had never seen my 
self in such deformity as she saw me even when she 
used me with that divine compassion. I was al 
most glad to be what I was because of her angelic 
pity for me ! " 

The tears sprang to Don Tppolito's eyes, but 
Ferris asked in the same tone as before, " Was it 
then that she bade you be no longer a priest ? " 

" No, not then," patiently replied the other ; 
" she was too greatly overwhelmed with my calam 
ity to think of any cure for it. To-day it was that 
she uttered those words words which I shall never 
forget, which will support and comfort me, what 
ever happens ! " 

The painter was biting hard upon the stem of his 
pipe. He turned away and began ordering the 
color-tubes and pencils on a table against the wall, 
putting them close together in very neat, straight 
rows. Presently he said : " Perhaps Miss Vervain 
also advised you to go to America ? " 

"Yes," answered the priest reverently. " She 
had thought of everything. She has promised me 
a refuge under her mother's roof there, until I can 
make my inventions known ; and I shall follow 
them at once." 

" Follow them ? " 

" They are going, she told me. Madama does 



 

not grow better. They are homesick. They 
but you must know all this already ? " 

" Oh, not at all, not at all," said the painter with 
a very bitter smile. " You are telling me news. 
Pray go on." 

" There is no more. She made me promise to 
come to you and listen to your advice before I took 
any step. I must not trust to her alone, she said ; 
but if I took this step, then through whatever hap 
pened she would be my friend. Ah, dear friend, 
may I speak to you of the hope that these words 
gave me ? You have seen have you not ? you 
must have seen that " 

The priest faltered, and Ferris stared at him 
helpless. When the next words came he could not 
find any strangeness in the fact which yet gave him 
so great a shock. He found that to his nether con 
sciousness it had been long familiar ever since 
that day when lie had first jestingly proposed Don 
Ippolito as Miss Vervain's teacher. Grotesque, 
tragic, impossible it had still been the under-cur 
rent of all his reveries ; or so now it seemed to have 
been. 

Don Ippolito anxiously drew nearer to him and 
laid an imploring touch upon his arm, "I love 
her ! " 

"What!" gasped the painter. "You? You! 
A priest ? " 

" Priest ! priest ! " cried Don Ippolito, violently. 
" From this day I am no longer a priest ! From 



 

this hour I am a man, and I can offer her the hon 
orable love of a man, the truth of a most sacred" 
marriage, and fidelity to death ! 

Ferris made no answer. He began to look very 
coldly and haughtily at Don Ippolito, whose heat 
died away under his stare, and who at last met it 
with a glance of tremulous perplexity.. His hand 
had dropped from Ferris's arm, and he now moved 
some steps from him. " What is it, dear friend ? " 
he besought him. " Is there something that offends 
you ? I came to you for counsel, and you meet me 
with a repulse little short of enmity. I do not un 
derstand. Do I intend anything wrong without 
knowing it ? Oh, I conjure you to speak plainly ! 

"Wait! Wait a minute," said Ferris, waving 
his hand like a man tormented by a passing pain. 
" I am trying to think. What you say is .... 
I cannot imagine if ! 

" Not imagine it ? Not imagine it ? And why ? 
Is she not beautiful ? " 

Yes." 

" And good ? " 

" Without doubt." 

"And young, and yet wise beyond her years ? 
And true, and yet angelically kind? " 

" It is all as you say, God knows. But .... 
a priest " 

" Oh ! Always that accursed word ! And at 
heart, what is a priest, then, but a man? a 
wretched, masked, imprisoned, banished man ! Has 




he not blood and nerves like you ? Has he not eyes 
to see what is fair, and ears to hear what is sweet ? 
Can he live near so divine a flower and not know 
her grace, not inhale the fragrance of her soul, not 
adore her beauty ? Oh, great God ! And if at 
last he would tear off his stifling mask, escape from 
his prison, return from his exile, would you gainsay 
him ? " 

" No ! " said the painter with a kind of groan. 
Fie sat down in a tall, carven gothic chair, the 
furniture of one of his pictures, and rested his 
head against its high back and looked at the priest 
across the room. " Excuse me," he continued with 
a strong effort. " I am ready to befriend you to 
the utmost of my power. What was it you wanted 
to ask me ? I have told you truly what I thought 
of your scheme of going to America ; but I may 
very well be mistaken. Was it about that Miss 
Vervain desired you to consult me?" His voice 
and manner hardened again in spite of him. " Or 
did she wish me to advise you about the renuncia 
tion of your priesthood ? You must have thought 
that carefully over for yourself." 

" Yes, I do not think you could make me see that 
as a greater difficulty than it has appeared to me." 
He paused with a confused and daunted air, as if 
some important point had slipped his mind. " But 
I must take the step ; the burden of the double 
part I play is unendurable, is it not ? " 

" You know better than T." 



 

" But if you were such a man as I, with neither 
love for your vocation nor faith in it, should you 
not cease to be a priest ? " 

" If you ask me in that way, yes," answered 
the painter. " But I advise you nothing. I could 
not counsel another in such a case." 

" But you think and feel as I do," said the priest, 
" and I am right, then." 

" I do not say you are wrong." 

Ferris was silent while Don Ippolito moved up 
and down the room, with his sliding step, like some 
tall, gaunt, unhappy girl. Neither could put an 
end to this interview, so full of intangible, inconclu 
sive misery. Ferris drew a long breath, and then 
said steadily, " Don Tppolito, I suppose you did not 
speak idly to me of your your feeling for Miss 
Vervain, and that I may speak plainly to you in 
return." 

" Surely," answered the priest, pausing in his 
walk and fixing his eyes upon the painter. " It 
was to you as the friend of both that I spoke of my 
love, and my hope which is oftener my despair." 

" Then you have not much reason to believe that 
she returns your feeling ? " 

"Ah, how could she consciously return it ? I 
have been hitherto a priest to her, and the thought 
of me would have been impurity. But hereafter, if 
I can prove myself a man, if I can win my place in 
the world .... No, even now, why should she 
care so much for my escape from these bonds, if she 
did not care for me more than she knew ? " 



 

" Have you ever thought of that extravagant 
generosity of Miss Vervain's character ? " 

" It is divine ! " 

" Has it seemed to you that if such a woman 
knew herself to have once wrongly given you pain, 
her atonement might be as headlong and excessive 
as her offense ? That she could have no reserves 
in her reparation ? " 

Don Ippolito looked at Ferris, but did not inter 
pose. 

" Miss Vervain is very religious in her way, and 
she is truth itself. Are you sure that it is not con 
cern for what seems to her your terrible position, 
that has made her show so much anxiety on your 
account ? " 

" Do I not know that well ? Have I not felt 
the balm of her most heavenly pitv ? " 

" And may she not be only trying to appeal to 
something in you as high as the impulse of her own 
heart?" 

" As high ! " cried Don Ippolito, almost angrily. 
" Can there be any higher thing in heaven or on 
earth than love for such a woman ? " 

" Yes ; both in heaven and on earth," answered 
Ferris. 

"I do not understand you," said Don Ippolito 
with a puzzled stare. 

Ferris did not reply. He fell into a dull reverie 
in which he seemed to forget Don Ippolito and the 




 

whole affair. At last the priest spoke again: 
" Have you nothing to say to me, signore ? " 

" I ? What is there to say ? " returned the other 
blankly. 

kt Do you know any reason why I should not love 
her, save that I am have been a priest? " 

" No, I know none," said the painter, wearily. 

" Ah," exclaimed Don Ippolito, " there is some 
thing on your mind that you will not speak. I 
beseech you not to let me go wrong. I love her so 
well that I would rather die than let my love offend 
her. I am a man with the passions and hopes of a 
man, but without a man's experience, or a man's 
knowledge of what is just and right in these rela 
tions. If you can be my friend in this so far as to 
advise or warn me ; if you can be her friend " 

Ferris abruptly rose and went to his balcony, 
and looked out upon the Grand Canal. The time- 
stained palace opposite had not changed in the last 
half-hour. As on many another summer day, he saw 
the black boats going by. A heavy, high-pointed 
barge from the Sile, with the captain's family at 
dinner in the shade of a matting on the roof, moved 
sluo-crishly down the middle current. A party of 

Oo J , 

Americans in a gondola, with their opera-glasses 
and guide-books in their hands, pointed out to each 
other the eagle on the consular arms. They were 
all like sights in a mirror, or things in a world 
turned upside down. 

Ferris came back and looked dizzily at the priest, 



A FOREGONE CONCLUSION. 



trying to believe that this unlmman, sacerdotal 
phantasm had been telling him that it loved a 
beautiful young girl of his own race, faith, and 
language. 

" Will you not answer me, signore ? " meekly de 
manded Don Ippolito. 

" In this matter," replied the painter, " I cannot 
advise or warn you. The whole affair is beyond my 
conception. I mean no unkindness, but I cannot 
consult with you about it. There are reasons why 
I should not. The mother of Miss Vervain is here 
with her, and I do not feel that her interests in 
such a matter are in my hands. If they come to 
me for help, that is different. What do you wish ? 
You tell me that you are resolved to renounce the 
priesthood and go to America ; and I have answered 
you to the best of my power. You tell me that 
you are in love with Miss Vervain. What can I 
have to say about that ? " 

Don Ippolito stood listening with a patient, and 
then a wounded air. " Nothing," he answered 
proudly. " I ask your pardon for troubling you 
with my affairs. Your former kindness emboldened 
me too much. I shall not trespass again. It was 
my ignorance, which I pray you to excuse. I take; 
my leave, signore." 

He bowed, and moved out of the room, and a 
dull remorse filled the painter, as he heard the outer 
door close after him. But he could do nothing. 
He had given a wound to the heart that trusted 


him, it was in an anguish which he had not been 
able to master, and whose causes he could not yet 
define. It was all a shapeless torment ; it held him 
like the memory of some hideous nightmare pro 
longing its horror beyond sleep. It seemed impos 
sible that what had happened should have hap 
pened. 

It was long, as he sat in the chair from which he 
had talked with Don Ippolito, before he could rea 
son about what had been said ; and then the worst 
phase presented itself first. He could not help see 
ing that the priest might have found cause for hope 
in the girl's behavior toward him. Her violent re 
sentments, and her equally violent repentances ; her 
fervent interest in his unhappy fortunes, and her 
anxiety that he should at once forsake the priest 
hood ; her urging him to go to America, and her 
promising him a home under her mother's roof 
there : why might it not all be in fact a proof of 
her tenderness for him ? She might have found it 
necessary to be thus coarsely explicit with him, for 
a man in Don Ippolito's relation to her could not 
otherwise have imagined her interest in him. But 
her making use of Ferris to confirm her own pur 
poses by his words, her repeating them so that they 
should come back to him from Don Ippolito's lips, 
her letting another man go with her to look upon 
the procession in which her priestly lover was to 
appear in his sacerdotal panoply ; these things could 
not be accounted for except by that strain of inso- 



 

lent, passionate defiance which lie had noted in her 
from the beginning:. Whv should she first tell Don 



Ippolito of their going away ? " Well, I wish him 
joy of his bargain," said Ferris aloud, and rising, 
shrugged his shoulders, and tried to cast off all care 
of a matter that did not concern him. But one 
does not so easily cast off a matter that does not 
concern one. He found himself haunted by certain 
tones and looks and attitudes of the young girl, 
wholly alien to the character he had just constructed 
for her. They were child-like, trusting, uncon 
scious, far beyond anything he had yet known in 
women, and they appealed to him now with a mad 
dening pathos. She was standing there before Don 
Ippolito's picture as on that morning when she 
came to Ferris, looking anxiously at him, her inno 
cent beauty, troubled with some hidden care, hal 
lowing the place. Ferris thought of the young 
fellow who told him that he had spent three months 
in a dull German town because he had the room 
there that was once occupied by the girl who had 
refused him ; the painter remembered that the 
young fellow said he had just read of her marriage 
in an American newspaper. 

Why did Miss Vervain send Don Ippolito to him ? 
Was it some scheme of her secret love for the 
priest ; or mere coarse resentment of the cautions 
Ferris had once hinted, a piece of vulgar bravado ? 
But if she had acted throughout in pure simplicity, 
in unwise goodness of heart ? If Don Ippolito 



 

were altogether self-deceived, and nothing but her 
unknowing pity had given him grounds of hope ? 
He himself had suggested this to the priest, and 
now with a different motive he looked at it in his 
own behalf. A great load began slowly to lift it 
self from Ferris's heart, which could ache now for 
this most unhappy priest. But if his conjecture 
were just, his duty would be different. He must 
not coldly acquiesce and let things take their course. 
He had introduced Don Ippolito to the Vervains ; 
he was in some sort responsible for him ; he must 
save them if possible from the painful consequences 
of the priest's hallucination. But how to do this 
was by no means clear. He blamed himself for 
not having been franker with Don Ippolito and 
tried to make him see that the Vervains might re 
gard his passion as a presumption upon their kind 
ness to him, an abuse of their hospitable friendship ; 
and yet how could he have done this without out 
rage to a sensitive and right-meaning soul ? For a 
moment it seemed to him that he must seek Don 
Ippolito, and repair his fault ; but they had hardly 
parted as friends, and his action might be easily 
misconstrued. If he shrank from the thought of 
speaking to him of the matter again, it appeared 
yet more impossible to bring it before the Vervains. 
Like a man of the imaginative temperament as he 
was, he exaggerated the probable effect, and pic 
tured their dismay in colors that made his interfer 
ence seem a ludicrous enormity ; in fact, it would 




have been an awkward business enough for one not 
hampered by his intricate obligations. He felt 
bound to the Vervains, the ignorant young girl, and 
the addle-pated mother ; but if he ought to go to 
them and tell them what he knew, to which of them 
ought he to speak, and how? In an anguish of 
perplexity that made the sweat stand in drops upon 
his forehead, he smiled to think it just possible that 
Mrs. Vervain might take the matter seriously, and 
w sli to consider the propriety of Florida's accept 
ing Don Ippolito. But if he spoke to the daughter, 
how should he approach the subject ? " Don Ippo 
lito tells me he loves you, and he goes to America 
with the expectation that when he has made his 
fortune with a patent back-action apple-corer, you 
will marry him." Should he say something to this 
purport ? And in Heaven's name what right had 
he, Ferris, to say anything at all ? The horrible 
absurdity, the inexorable delicacy of his position 
made him laugh. 

On the other hand, besides, he was bound to Don 
Ippolito, who had come to him as the nearest friend 
of both, and confided in him. He remembered with 
a tardy, poignant intelligence how in their first talk 
of the Vervains Don Ippolito had taken pains to 
inform himself that Ferris was not in love with 
Florida. Could he be less manly and generous than 
this poor priest, and violate the sanctity of his con 
fidence? Ferris groaned aloud. No, contrive it 
as he would, call it bv what fair name he chose, he 



could not commit this treachery. It was the more 
impossible to him because, in this agony of doubt 
as to what he should do, he now at least read his 
own heart clearly, and had no longer a doubt what 
was in it. He pitied her for the pain she must 
suffer. He saw how her simple goodness, her blind 
sympathy with Don Ippolito, and only this, must 
have led the priest to the mistaken pass at which 
he stood. But Ferris felt that the whole affair had 
been fatally carried beyond his reach ; he could do 
nothing now but wait and endure. There are cases 
in which a man must not protect the woman he 
loves. This was one. 

The afternoon wore away. In the evening he 
went to the Piazza, and drank a cup of coffee at 
Florian s. Then he walked to the Public Gardens, 
