life, not the grand dreams that never come to 
pass. 

I prepared the tray and took it, standing it 
on a table at the bed's side. When I returned 
the little group were in their accustomed places, 
with papa ready to ask the blessing. I slipped 
quietly into the circle. 

When I went to bring the dishes down I 
remarked a peculiar expression upon Louis' face. 

"Miss Rose," he began, "I want to know 
how it feels to be generous ; therefore I shall 
give you a holiday this evening. I must resolve 
to stay alone now and then." 

"Are you quite sure ?' 

"Quite;' and he waved his hand, smilingly. 

I did want to go down to the store with Fan ; 
so I was glad of the permission. Stuart started 
to accompany us but two of the village boys 
came to call on him. I was relieved, for I 
wanted to stop on the way and see one of my 
Sunday School children, 



 

Fan bought her braid, and we found the baby 
at the Day's was sick, and Betty had to stay at 
home to help take care of it. Poor thing, how 
wild and wan it looked, so different from our 
rosy Edith. 

Mrs. Day's house was generally in disorder. 
She was a hard-working woman in some respects, 
for she was always at it. Her husband was a 
gardener and day-laborer, earning his twelve 
dollars a week pretty regularly, and they owned 
a small cottage and garden, that Mrs. Day senior 
had left them. Yet they always looked very poor. 

" Yes," Mrs. Day was saying, " I couldn't 
spare Betty on Sunday. Husband went over 
the river to see his cousin, and took little Jem. 
I'd been hard at work all the week, and was 
clear beat out, up half the night, too. And I 
don't see as the baby gets a bit better. You 
don't know what it is to look after a baby all 
alone by yourself, and not have a soul to raise 
a ringer for you." 

" But Betty helps a good deal. I returned, 
for I could not bear to have the child so under- 
rated. 

"A girl like that can't do much at the best. 
Now, if I had one or two grown up, as youi 
mother has ! 



 

She always thought if she only had something 
another person possessed, she should be happier. 
I wondered a little how she would get along 
with mamma's cares and worries, and sewing, 
to say nothing of the demands from outside. 

"Ask your ma if she cannot come over. 
Hardly a soul has been in, and I can't go any- 
where for a bit of change. But poor people 
have to do the best they can in trouble." 

I promised, and spoke a few words of cheer 
to sad-eyed Betty. 

"That woman always does try me!' declared 
Fan. " If I was a minister's wife she would be 
a thorn in my side. How many poor, inefficient 
people there are in this world, and the worst 
feature appears to be their inability to learn any- 
thing ! I do not believe they try in good earnest." 

"Yet I feel sorry for her." 

"Well, yes, and the poor sick baby. But if 
her room had been swept, her dishes taken to 
the kitchen, and her hair combed, and a collar 
on, how it would have altered the aspect of the 
place! And she seems to think every one else 
in the world has it so much easier." 

" This is one of the places where one must 
not weary in well-doing, papa would say/' was 
my rejoiner. 



 

"You are a good little girl, Rose. I have 
not half your faith or patience. I wonder if I 
shall be of any real and sensible use in this 
world ? " 

" You can try to-morrow. The house will be 
clean." 

" I am afraid I should not want to go, other- 
wise," she returned, laughingly. 

The man came over for her the next morning, 
quite early, having been to the village, on busi- 
ness. We felt that she was going off in state, 
but I suppose it was on account of its being 
the West Side and the Churchills, for Fan 
somehow was fortunate in having plenty of 
rides fall to her share. She uttered a laughing 


good-bye and they drove away. 

It seems odd how one event comes out of 
another, like the wonderful Chinese transforma- 
tions. You open a ball and the article inside is 
one you would never have guessed at. You go 
to some place, and one trifling incident changes 
the course of one's whole life, or a few words 
that some person utters carelessly brings about 
a new train of thought and action, and your 
life is not quite the same afterward. 

The Churchill mansion had a look of the old 



 

nobility. It was two stories, with a great, double 
pitched roof, and wide, overhanging eaves. 
Just the old fashion of white and green. But 
the blinds were never faded, and the exterior 
never soiled. A porch on the front and one side, 
upheld by square, white columns, and on the 
other side the graveled roadway to the barn. 
A lawn in front, terraced twice, with clumps of 
blossoming shrubs, or dainty beds cut out sharply 
in the grass. For the house stood on a slight 
hill which gave it a still more commanding 
appearance. 

But around, just a trifle removed, to let in 
the sunshine, stood the glory of it all. Great 
trees, elms, maples, a giant black-walnut, hem- 
locks that must have grown nearly a hundred 
years, firs, spruce and larches waving their long 
fringy arms. No modern sacriligous hands had 
come near to disturb them. Birds built in their 
branches }~ear after year, and the sunshine sifted 
through on the grass. 

It was a warm morning and Miss Lucy's re- 
clining chair had been wheeled out to the shady 
side of the porch. She was dressed in white 
with pale pink roses in her hair and at her 
oat. Just turned of thirty she had the 

Churchill maturity with a certain delicate girl- 
ishness. You could imagine Miss Esther being 
a handsome and stately old woman, but it seemed 
as if Miss Lucy must always stay where she 
was. 

Mr. Churchill came to help her out, Miss 
Esther welcomed her warmly, and Lucy put 
forth her hand with a smile. 

"I was afraid we might be too early, but 
Abner had to go over on business, and we told 
him to wait if you were not ready. Did you 
have a pleasant ride ? ' 

"It is very kind of you to come. I hope I 
shall not tire you out before the day is over, ' 
said Miss Lucy. 

" O, you will not, I am sure," Fanny re- 
turned with her bright smile. "I am delighted 
to come." 

"And the sewing?" Miss Churchill exclaimed. 
'I did all the long seams last evening, and 
Rose is to bind my trimming for me, but I am 
much obliged." 


What industrious girls you are. I am almost 
conscience smitten. Are you quite sure you 
could be spared?" 

"Yes, indeed. Don't think of that please, 
Miss Clnirr-hill. 



 

"Will you sit here awhile?" The air is so 
fresh and fragrant. The greater part of my 
going out amounts to this only, so I am thank- 
ful for the beautiful prospect. Look at those 
woods over there." 

Another knoll dark with evergreens as tall as 
those around the house. At a little distance an 
adjoining hill, but in the level opening between, 
there was a field of ripening wheat which looked 
like a golden sea. Fan spoke of it. 

"How odd," returned Miss Lucy, "I have 
had the same thought dozens of times in the 
last fortnight. I sometimes imagine that there 
is a lovely undiscovered country just beyond, 
and what it is like. I am glad that I cannot go 
out to discover it, that would take away half 
the charm." 

Fanny smiled at the quaint conceit, so satis- 
fying. 

" And now tell me all about the children at 
home, and the sick young man? What do you 
think Dr. Hawley said to me a few days ago ? 
Miss Lucy, you need some one to bring you a 
good dish of gossip.". 

'' good gossip at that; ' laughed Mr. Churchill 
with a humorous twinkle in his eye. "If Miss 



 

Endicott does not acquit herself well, I'll go for 
some of the village cronies.' 

"I'll begin with the baby then," and Fanny 
moved her seat a trifle. " She is just the cun- 
ningest baby you ever saw. We were all smart 
children, but she is a prodigy. She sits alone, 
and creeps a little sideways, and when she gets 
in a glee, flaps her wings, i. e. her arms, and 
crows.' 



Mr. Churchill shook his head solemnly. " That 
will hardly do for a girl," he said, " and a 
clergyman's daughter." 

"We think it best for her to do her crowing 

while she is small," was Fannie 's playful answer. 

She talked about the others Fan had a way 
of brightening up everything that was very 
amusing. Not that she ever made it out better 
or worse- -it was only the quaint touches of 
harmless pleasantry. 

Miss Lucy laughed softly and a pink tint came 
to her pale cheeks. 

Miss Esther in the meanwhile made several 
journeys to and fro. Mr. Churchill took up his 
paper and pretended to read, but his eyes wan- 
dered to the fair young girl whose simple home- 
likeness was her greatest charm. Presently the 

sun came around, and Miss Lucy's chair was 
wheeled to the sitting room, which was cool and 
shady. 

All their entertainments were not kept for 
the great drawing-room. Here were pictures, a 
well filled book-case, articles of virtu, a cabinet 
of shells, minerals and precious stones, and port- 
folios of fine engravings. Here an album filled 
with notable authors, artists and musical people, 
another with eminent men of Europe, and re- 
markable women. Fan had enough to entertain 
her there. 

Suddenly a bell rang. 

"This is the shortest morning that I have 
known for some time," exclaimed Miss Lucy. 
" It hardly seems possible that is the dinner bell. 
We are old fashioned in our hour, you see." 

Fan was astonished as well. Mr. Churchill 
gave Lucy his arm, as she could walk with a 
little assistance. Miss Esther led Fanny. 

The dinner table was like a picture. The 
quaint old china, delicately flowered, and the 
antique silver was set off by the snowy cloth 
and the brilliant bouquets with trailing stems that 
looked as if they might have grown in the vases. 
Fan enjoyed it all to the uttermost, and was too 
happy to envy aught of it. 



You have been sitting up all the morning;'' 
said Miss Churchill, "and you do not look a Lit 
tired now ! Shall we give Miss Fanny the 
credit?" 

"I think she deserves it. Indeed I hardly 
noticed how the time passed. You see I get so 
tired of staying alone, or talking over the same 
old subjects with Essie." 

" You are a grateful young woman I must 
say ! ' and Miss Churchill laughed. 

" Kenton, couldn't we have a drive to Round 
Hill about sunset ? I think I could go." 

"What, more dissipation?' 

" Please don't undertake too much, ' said 
Fanny. "I am well content to stay here." 

"But the sunset is so lovely there." 


"You must have a good long rest;' said her 
sister, " and we will see how you feel then." 

''I dare say Miss Eiidicott will be glad for I 
have kept her talking steadily." 

"I am used to it," laughed Fan, "and some- 
how I never understood the charms of solitude, 
or perhaps was born incapable of appreciating 
them." 

"There is no doubt of that;" Mr. Churchill 
returned with a quiet smile. 


They sat over their dessert a long while, 
talking of various subjects that were exceedingly 
entertaining. The quiet and air of formal cour- 
tesy that was far removed from stiffness, pleased 
and interested Fanny greatly. 

But Miss Churchill was inexorable afterward, 
and would not even consent to Fan's going up 
stairs with Lucy. Instead she took charge of 
her and they inspected the house and the clean, 
fragrant dairy, and lastly found themselves in 
Miss Churchill's room. This was large and airy, 
looking cool in its summer dress of matting and 
furniture of cane or delicate chintz covers. 

The visit was so different from the formal little 
calls that we had been in the habit of making 
with either of our parents. Indeed, Fan always 
declared that this day's experience took her right 
into the Churchills' lives, and I think it did. 

A dress of fine white India muslin lay on 
Miss Churchill's bed. At least, the skirt which 
had three ruffles edged with delicate needlework. 
The rest had been ripped apart and ironed out. 

" Do you think it pretty? " asked Miss Churchill. 

"It is lovely. What exquisite muslin ! I 
wonder what makes these old things so much 
more beautiful than what we have now?' 



 

"They are neater and not so showy." 
"But tins would be noticeable anywhere." 
"Yes, yet it has an air of quiet refinement. 
Twenty or thirty years ago ladies bought dresses 
to keep, now they are unpardonably old after 
one or two seasons, therefore it does not pay to 
make them so elegant. My' dear Miss Fanny, I 
may as well confess to a conspiracy. I brought 
out a lot of old dresses yesterday- -too pretty 
to give to the absolute poor. I selected this 
and altered the skirt. It is all done but the 
band. I did not know precisely what to do 
with the waist, so I shall have to give you the 
material. And if you will accept these for your- 
self and your sister- -there is a great quantity 
in them, and you will find it a nice, serviceable 


fabric, as it will save washing. Please do not 
consider me officious." 

"Oh, Miss Churchill!' was all that Fan could 
say. 

" This pine-apple will be good for afternoon 
wear, and I believe to some extent in useful 
gifts. The other I wanted you to have because 
it was so pretty. I have two more, which will 
last me my life time." 

"You aru too generous! Oh, Miss Churchill, 
how can I thank you ? ' 



 

"By wearing and enjoying them, my dear, 
and not having any fussy feeling over them. 
Just as if they had come from an aunt, for 
instance. I do not believe your mother will ob- 
ject. She is too truly a lady to fancy that I 
desire to place you under any obligation. 

I should have stood silent and abashed. Fan 
did the best thing of all, just clasped her arms 
around Miss Churchill's neck and kissed her for 
thanks. 

The stage came lumbering along at that mo- 
ment. Miss Churchill glanced out of the window 
with one arm still around Fanny. 

"Of all things! Here is Winthrop Ogden 
looking too merry for any misfortune. It is like 
him to take us so by surprise. My dear, I will 
run down a moment." 



CHAPTER VIII. 

AX heard the sound of the voices with- 
out distinguishing the words, and turned 
to an inspection of the dresses. There 
was a dainty apron overskirt of the muslin, with 
the same lovely milling around it, and plenty 
for the waist and sleeves. The others were blue 
and white striped, one very narrow, the other 
about an inch wide, with a kind of embroidered 
figure in the stripe. The skirts were long and 
full, and with one there was a mantle. 

Miss Churchill returned presently. 

You have not mutinied in my absence, have 
you ? My dear girl, I do not want to place you 
under any obligation, yet I thought these gar- 
ments mio'ht be of some use to you and your 

sister. It would not do to send them to the 
sewing society to be cut up for the very poor. 
Don't give yourself an anxious thought. No\v 



 

go in to Lucy who is waiting for you, and when 
she is ready you must come down stairs and see 
our nephew. 

Miss Lucy was much rested. "I have had 
three or four naps which did me a world of 
good ; ' she said. " You see I was very tired, 
and that made me rest delightfully. All my 
good things come at once. winthrop is here." 

She looked bright and cheerful. 

"Can I not do something for you?' asked 
Fanny. "I might brush your hair, I often do 
mamma's.' 



"If it would not trouble you- -Essie does it in 
the morning, and I generally manage it in the 
afternoon. But I am afraid " 




No,'' returned Fan cordially, divining the 
delicate fear. She took up the brush and soon 
had it in order. 

Usually Miss Lucy walked about without any 
assistance, but being somewhat weak now, she 
had to help herself with a cane which she always 
kept in her room. Fan tried to anticipate her 
wants, and she was ready so soon that she rang 
the bell for her brother, who came to assist her 
down stairs. 

"This is our nephew, Mr. Ogden ; " announced 
Miss Churchill, "Miss Endicott." 
Fan remembered seeing him at church occasionally. 
He was about twenty-two, and had 
matured considerably in a year. He was medium 
height, with a rather handsome, rollicking face. 
There was a laugh in his hazel eyes, in his curly 
chestnut hair, and it seemed to play hide and 
seek about his mouth, the upper lip being shaded 
by a soft brown moustache. 

"Ah, Miss Endicott, though I ought to 
know you without a formal presentation, only I 
could not save your life I suppose if I were not 
introduced. How are you, Aunt Lucy ? Why 
you have roses, actually ! I thought from Aunt 
Essie's letter that you must be a pale shadow ! ' 

" The roses are in your honor, and not very 
durable. I am glad to see you, but oh how you 
have changed ! 
" For the better allow me to hope ! ' 
She laughed. "But how did you come to 
take us so by surprise ? I thought you were at 
Newport." 

" I was yesterday. But I had to dance so 
much night before last, that I was afraid of 
impairing my constitution. I began to sigh for 
simple country life, and came hither, thinking 
of uncle Kenton's horses.' 


" They are in a fine condition ; ' said Mr. 
Churchill. 

"And I can have only a fortnight's vacation 
now, so I mean to make the most of it. The 
other two weeks will come in September." 

"Your mother and Helen ?' 

" Are delightfully well and charmingly enter- 
tained can you ask more ? ' 

He gave a droll little smile at this. 

We heard sometime afterward that Miss Oerden 
was engaged, and her lover's mother being very 
fond of her, they had gone to Newport somewhat 
on her account. 

"Come out on the porch. Here is your chair 
Lucy, "and Mr. Churchill wheeled it round. 
" Why you do look quite bright. Miss Endicott, 
we must thank you for part of it." 

"I have not done much, I am sure." 

" Oh, Aunt Lucy, have you a protege, or has 
Miss Endicott kindly consented to rule you for 
the nonce ? Will my occupation be gone ? ' 

"What nonsense, Winthrop ! Miss Endicott 
came over to spend the day, taking pity on me. 
I have been so forlornly lonesome of late." 

"Then I have arrived just in the nick of 
time, if that word has any meaning or relation 

to anything above or under the waters. Let 
me feel your pulse. Quite reduced, I must 
admit. Beef tea and camomile flowers three 
times a day. A long walk morning and eve- 
ning. Cheerful society- -a new bonnet and 
but try that first. My knowledge is not ex- 
hausted." 

" Could you take the ride, think, Lucy ? ' 
asked Miss Churchill. " Kenton we will have 
the large carriage and all go.'' 

" What conspiracy have you planned ? ' in- 
quired Winthrop. 

" A harmless drive," returned Miss Lucy mirth- 
fully. "If it looks suspicious we will leave you 
at home in Hugo's charge. 

was a handsome English hound, as 
aristocratic as his master. 

They all asked and answered questions, draw- 
ing Fan within their beautiful circle by the fine 
tact of thorough breeding. She was so gay and 
charming, and withal natural without any aim- 
ing at position or special notice. Indeed she 
and Mr. Ogden had two or three passages of 
sharpness between them that made their elders 
laugh. 

It came supper time so soon, that Miss Lucy 



 

declared gaily she had been defrauded; the day 
certainly was shorter than usual. 

" Yes," returned Mr. Churchill, "they are. 
We have passed the longest days." 

"Have you? Sometimes I feel as if I were 
just coming to mine," and there was a graver 
look in her face. 

Aunt Lucy low spirited ! Why I thought 
you were a very princess of philosophy ! ' 

" One's heart does fail sometimes." 

"But I am to be married you know, and you 
are to make me long visits. I'll save my buttons 
for you to sew on, you shall embroider my 
initials, and mend my gloves. Will not that be 
happiness enough ? ' 

" What is your wife to do meanwhile ? ' 

He affected to be puzzled. " Why I suppose 
she will not know how to do anything. Is not 
that the accomplishment of the girl of the 
period ? ' 

" There may be girls of the semi-colon who 
do not go quite so far ; ' answered Miss Lucy 
clrolly. 

Winthrop glanced up at Fan who colored 
vividly. 

"Excuse me, Miss Endicott, ! ' 




"Wmthrop you are not- to tease Miss Endi- 
cott, nor to classify her, either. I take her 
under my especial protection. 

" I lay down my arms at once, Aunt Lucy. I 
am your most obedient." 

And so it went on with bits of fun and pleas- 
antness cropping out now and then. Mr. Church- 
ill unbending, Miss Churchill stravinsf from the 


little hedge of formalities, sweet as a wild briar 
blossom. And Lucy was nearly as bright as 
Fan. 

The carriage came around soon afterwards. 
Mr. Ogden, insisted upon driving, so the man 
was dispensed with. The Churchill estate was 
very large, including the mountainous track and 
a good deal of woodland. It was not a much 
frequented drive, although Round Hill was one 
of the curiosities of the town. But the Church- 
ills and the Garth waites seemed to fence it in 
with their sense of ownership, and it was not 
common property like Longmeadow and the 
Cascades. 

But it was very beautiful in the low lying 
light. Here was a field in deep gloom, shadowed 
by yonder trees, hero a strip of waving grain, 
then long sweeps of grassy hillsides broken by 

