    $700
     450
     700
  ——————
  $1,850
This you will please consider as the amount of your wife’s salary, due
from you for services rendered, exclusive of board and lodgings, which
are always the portion of resident employees in your house. There is
no charge for “extras,” you observe. We have said nothing about the
bill for nursing you through that four weeks’ spell of inflammatory
rheumatism last winter, or the longer siege of fever, three years ago,
when this servant-of-all-work sat up with you fourteen weary nights,
and would entrust the care of you to no one else. By her skillful
ministrations, the miracle of her patience, love and prayers, you were
rescued, say the doctors, from the close clutch of death. You cannot
see the figures very distinctly while you think of it, but we agreed,
at the outset, to keep feeling in the background.
You “have tried to be a kind, affectionate husband,” you say, in a very
unbusiness-like way.
I believe you, and so does the blessed little woman whom I have shut
out from this conference, lest her foolish fondness should spoil the
effect of our matter-of-fact talk. I would have you and all husbands
be just, no less than loving. Let us return to our figures. The
estimate is for a man of moderate means and modest home, one of
the middle class which is everywhere the bone and muscle of the
community—the class that makes national character, the world over. If
you are wealthy, and put the care of a large and elegant establishment
upon your manager, the remuneration should be in proportion. For a
fancy article you have to pay a fancy price. You misunderstand your
wife and me, if you imagine that we would inaugurate in your household
a debit and credit system and quarter-day settlements. She would be the
first to shrink from such an interpretation of your mutual relations. I
should, of all your friends and well-wishers, be the last to recommend
it.
But I have studied this matter long and seriously, and I offer you as
the result of my observation in various walks of life, and careful
calculation of labor and expense, the bold assertion that every
wife who performs her part, even tolerably well, in whatever rank
of society, more than earns her living, and that this should be an
acknowledged fact with both parties to the marriage contract. The
idea of her dependence upon her husband is essentially false and
mischievous, and should be done away with, at once and forever. It
has crushed self-respect out of thousands of women; it has scourged
thousands from the marriage-altar to the tomb, with a whip of
scorpions; it has driven many to desperation and crime.
“Every dollar is a lash!” I once overheard a wife say, in bitter
soliloquy, as her husband left her presence after placing in her hand
the money for which she had timidly asked him, to pay the weekly
household bills.
Then, still supposing herself unseen, she threw the roll of bank-notes
upon the floor and trampled it under foot, in a transport of impotent,
and, to my way of thinking, righteous wrath.
“An exceptional case?” I beg your pardon! I wish it were. Her husband
meant to be kind and affectionate as honestly as do you. When money was
“easy,” he would give it to her freely and cheerfully, provided his
mood was propitious at the time of her application. He had expended
large sums in the purchase of jewelry and handsome clothing for her,
and exulted in seeing her arrayed in them. He loved her truly, and
was proud of her. His mistake was in ignoring the fact that he owed
her anything in actual dollars and cents; that she worked for her
livelihood as faithfully as did he, and that his debt to her was, in
the highest degree, a “confidential” one. If put into the confessional,
he would have admitted that he thought of himself as the only
bread-winner of the family, and was, sometimes, tartly intolerant of
the domestic demands upon his earnings. He made a yet grosser mistake
in feeling and behaving as if the money deposited in her hands for the
current expenses of the establishment, were a gift to her personally.
This is a masculine blunder that poisons the happiness of more women
than I like to think of, or you would be willing to believe. Be
kindly-affectioned as you will, your wife cannot respect you thoroughly
if she sees that you are habitually unreasonable and unjust. And it
is neither just nor rational to speak and act as if all the butter,
flour, sugar, meat and sundries which she saves you the trouble of
buying, and of which, nine times out of ten, she is the more judicious
purchaser, were to be consumed by her, and her alone.
“You never thought of such a thing!” you protest betwixt laughter and
vexation.
Then, do not act as if it were your settled conviction.
Set aside from your income what you adjudge to be a reasonable and
liberal sum for the maintenance of your family in the style suitable
for people of your means and position. Determine what purchases you
will yourself make, and what shall be intrusted to your wife, and put
the money needed for her proportion into her care as frankly as you
take charge of your share. Try the experiment of talking to her as if
she were a business partner. Let her understand what you can afford to
do, and what you cannot. If in this explanation you can say, “we,” and
“ours,” you will gain a decided moral advantage, although it may be at
the cost of masculine prejudice and pride of power. Impress upon her
mind that a certain sum, made over to her apart from the rest, is hers
absolutely. Not a present from you, but her honest earnings, and that
you would not be honest were you to withhold it. And do not ask her
“if that will do?” any more than you would address the question to any
other workwoman. (With what cordial detestation wives regard that brief
query, which drops, like a sentence of the creed, from husbandly lips,
I leave your spouse to tell you. Also, if she ever heard of a woman who
answered anything but “yes.”)
Advise her, for her own satisfaction, and because it is “business
like,” to keep an account of her receipts and expenditures, but apprise
her distinctly that you do not expect her to exhibit this to you,
unless she should need your assistance or advice in balancing her
books, or in some perplexed question of “profit and loss.” She will
be ready to appreciate that the one sum deposited with her is a trust
fund to be used to the best advantage for the general good, and the
proud consciousness that she is the actual proprietor of the other, and
irresponsible, save to her conscience, for the manner in which it is
spent, will make her the more careful not to use it amiss. As to the
housekeeping money—the weekly or monthly “allowance”—you may be very
sure that you and the children will get the benefit of every cent.
However economically she may handle her private store, the bulk of it
will not be increased by surreptitious pinchings from the family supply
of daily bread.
I have known women whose sole perquisites were what they could save
from their not large allowances, who, in the absence of their husbands
from home, would keep themselves and families of hungry, growing
children,—with the consent and co-operation of the latter—upon the most
meagre fare consistent with the bare satisfaction of the cravings of
nature, that the few dollars thus spared might go toward the purchase
of some coveted article of dress for one of the girls; a set of tools
or books for a boy, or a piece of furniture desired by all. Which
bit of economy (!) being reported to the paterfamilias when the
dearly-bought thing was exhibited, was pronounced by him, his hand
complacently finding its way to the plethoric wallet in his pocket, to
be worthy of his august approval. How many husbands have heard their
wives remark how cheaply the family lived when “papa was away?” and how
many have asked themselves seriously why and how this was done?
Other women, and more to be pitied, I am acquainted with, who make
false entries in the account-books, which are showed weekly to their
lords as explanatory of “the way the money goes.” It is easier and less
likely “to make a fuss,” to record that seven pounds of butter have
been bought and used, his lordship having helped in the consumption
thereof, when by sharp management, five have sufficed; to write down
“new shoes for Bobby, $4,00,” when, in reality, the cost of mending his
old ones that they might last a month longer, was only $1,50,—than to
confess to the practical critic who does not overlook a single item,
that the money “made” by these expedients was spent, partly in paying
up a yearly subscription to the Charitable Society; partly for an
innocent luncheon during a day’s shopping in the city.
“Unjustifiable deception?” Have I pretended to excuse it? But I look
back of the timid woman—the pauper, bedecked in silks, laces and
gems,—for most men like to see their wives dressed as well as their
neighbors—the moral coward, who has lied from the natural desire to
handle a little money for herself without being cross-examined about
it—and ask—“by what stress of humiliating tyranny was she brought to
this?”
All women do not manage monetary affairs well, you remind me, gently.
Some are unprincipled in their extravagance, reckless of everything
save their own whims and unconscionable desires. Must a man beggar
himself and those dependent upon him, lest such an one should accuse
him of parsimony? By yielding to demands he knows to be exorbitant, he
proves himself to be weaker even than she.
I have said nowhere that a woman is the best judge of what her husband
ought to appropriate from his gains or fortune for the support of his
family. But he stands convicted of a grave error of judgment, if he has
chosen from the whole world as the keeper of his honor and happiness, a
woman whom he cannot trust to touch his purse-strings.
Let us be patient as well as reasonable. So long as a babe is kept in
long clothes, and carried in arms, it will not learn to walk alone.
The majority of women have been swathed in conventionalities and
borne above the practicalities of business by mistaken tenderness or
misapprehension of their powers, for so long, that, however quick may
be their intuitions, time and practice are necessary to make them
adepts in financiering. The best way to render them trustworthy is
not by taking it for granted, and letting them see that you do, that
they have sinister designs upon your pockets. They are not pirates by
nature, nor are they, even with such schooling as many get from their
legal proprietors, always on the alert to wheedle or extort a few
dollars for their own sty and selfish ends. After all, is there not a
spice of truth in the would-be satire of the old distich?
  “What are wives made of—made of?
   Everything good, if they’re but understood!”
If you chance to be painfully conscious of the mental inferiority and
warped conscience of your partner in the solemn dance of life; if there
is more “worse” than “better” in the everyday wear of the matrimonial
bond; if sloth and waste mark her administration of household affairs,
instead of the industrious thrift you would recommend, and which you
see others practise; if the rent in the bottom of the pouch carries off
the money faster than you can drop it in, you are to be pitied almost
as much as your bachelor neighbor, who sews on his own buttons, and
depends upon boarding-houses for his daily food. Still, my friend, is
there any reason why you should accept the consequences of this one
mistake on your part, with less philosophy; bring to the bearing of it
a smaller modicum of Christian resignation than you summon to support
you under any other? Women have been as grievously misled by fancy or
affection, before now, and have borne the burden of disappointment to
the grave without murmur or reproach.
Then, there is always the chance that your wife is not “understood,”
or that, well-meant as your attempts to “manage” her have been, you
have not selected the most judicious methods of doing this. In this
enlightened and liberal age, nobody, unless he be bigot or fool,
habitually thinks and speaks of women as a lower order of intelligent
beings. But even in your breast, my ill-mated friend, there may lurk a
touch of the ancient leaven of uncharitableness, and in your treatment
of her “whom the Lord hath given to be with you,” there may be a spice
of arrogance, the exponent of which, were you Turk or Kaffir, would be
brute force.
“I do not object to your proposal, my love. You always have your own
way in household affairs,” said a very “kind and affectionate” man to
his wife, with the air of a potentate amiably relinquishing his sceptre
for love’s sake.
“Will you tell me, my dear husband, why, if I conduct ‘household
affairs’ wisely and pleasantly (and you have often acknowledged that I
do!) I should not have my own way?” was the unexpected reply, uttered
in perfect temper—no less sweetly for being an argument. “For twenty
years I have made domestic economy a constant and practical study. Is
it reasonable to suppose that, after all this expenditure of time and
thought, I am not a better judge of ways and means in my profession
than are you, whose life has been spent in other pursuits? For all your
indulgent affection to me, as displayed in a thousand ways since our
marriage-day, I love and thank you. But excuse me for saying that I am
not grateful that you have, as you are rather fond of saying, ‘made it
a point to give me my head’ in all pertaining to housekeeping. That you
do this shows that you are just and honorable. It is no more a favor
done to me than is my non-interference with your clerks and purchases,
your shipments and warehouses, a matter for which you should thank me.”
The husband stroked his beard thoughtfully. He was a sensible man, and
magnanimous enough to recognize the truth that his wife was a sensible
woman.
“Upon my word,” he said, presently, with a frank laugh, “that is a view
of the case I never took before. I believe you are right.”
One more hint, which may be of service to those who are not so ready to
acknowledge the superiority—in any case—of feminine reasoning, or to
such as are not blessed with sensible consorts—the best friends of
these ladies being judges.
“Drive him with an easy rein!” said my John in trusting me for the
first time to manage his favorite horse. “His mouth is tender as a
woman’s. You cannot deal with a thoroughbred as with a cold-blooded
roadster.”
“What will happen if I hold him in hard?” inquired I, eyeing the
pointed ears and arched neck with as much apprehension as admiration.
I commend the laconic answer to your consideration, as altogether
pertinent to the subject we have been discussing.
“A rear-up, and a run backward, instead of forward!”
RIPE FRUIT.
THE sight of the fruit-dish or basket upon the breakfast table has
become so common of late years that its absence, rather than its
presence, in the season of ripe fruits would be remarked, and felt
even painfully by some. It is fashionable, and therefore considered
a wise sanitary measure, to eat oranges as a prelude to the regular
business of the morning meal. Grapes are eaten so long as they can be
conveniently obtained. It may be because my own taste and digestion
revolt at the practice of forcing crude acids upon an empty, and often
faint stomach, that I am disposed to doubt the healthfulness of the
innovation upon the long-established rule that sets fruit always in the
place of dessert. I have an actual antipathy to the pungent odor of raw
orange-peel, and have been driven from the breakfast-table at a hotel
more than once by the overpowering effect of the piles of yellow rind
at my left, right, and opposite to me. A cluster of grapes taken before
breakfast would put me, and others whom I know, hors de combat for
the day with severe headache. In the consciousness of this, I can be
courageous in declining the “first course” of an à la mode breakfast,
and at my own table, withholding the fruit until the stomach has
regained its normal tone under the judicious application of substantial
viands. Then, it is pleasant to linger over the vinous globes of
crimson, purple, and pale-green; to dip ripe strawberries in powdered
sugar with lazy gusto; to pare rosy rareripes and golden Bartletts
while discussing the day’s news and plans, in the serene belief that
the healthful, delicious juices are assimilating whatever incongruous
elements have preceded them in the alimentary canal.
I write this, not to guide the practice of other households, but to
enforce a remark I see an opportunity for bringing in here. Be a
slavish follower of no custom whatsoever. It is sensible and expedient
to act in uniformity with your neighbors when you can do so without
moral or physical injury. Conformity to a foolish or hurtful fashion is
always weak, if not positively wicked.
Serve your fruit, then, as the first or last course at your family
breakfast as may seem right to yourself, but, by all means, have it
whenever you can procure it comfortably and without much expense.
In warm weather, you had better banish meat from the morning bill
of fare, three days in the week, than have the children go without
berries and other fresh fruits. Make a pretty glass dish, or silver or
wicker basket of peaches, pears or plums, an institution of the summer
breakfast. In autumn, you can have grapes until after frost; then,
oranges and bananas if you desire. These, being expensive luxuries,
are not absolutely enjoined by nature or common sense. Let the “basket
of summer fruit,” however, be a comely and agreeable reality while
solstitial suns beget bile, and miasma walks, a living, almost visible
presence, through the land.
Fruits, each in its season, are the cheapest, most elegant and
wholesome dessert you can offer your family or friends, at luncheon
or tea. Pastry and plum-pudding should be prohibited by law, from the
beginning of June until the end of September. And in winter, a dish of
apples and oranges flanked by one of boiled chestnuts, and another of
picked walnut or hickory-nut kernels, will often please John and the
bairns better than the rich dessert that cost you a hot hour over the
kitchen-range, when Bridget was called away to a cousin’s funeral, or
Daphne was laid up with “a misery in her head.”
Among the creams, jellies and “forms” of a state-dinner dessert, fruit
is indispensable, and the arrangement and preparation of the choicer
varieties is a matter for the taste and skill of the mistress, or her
refined daughters, as are the floral decorations of the feast.
FROSTED PEACHES.
12 large rich peaches—freestones.
Whites of three eggs, whisked to a standing froth.
2 table-spoonfuls water.
1 cup powdered sugar.
Put water and beaten whites together; dip in each peach when you have
rubbed off the fur with a clean cloth, and then roll in powdered sugar.
Set up carefully, on the stem end, upon a sheet of white paper, laid
on a waiter in a sunny window. When half dry, roll again in the sugar.
Expose to the sun and breeze until perfectly dry, then, put in a cool,
dry place until you are ready to arrange them in the glass dish for
table.
Garnish with green leaves.
FROSTED AND GLACÉ ORANGES.
6 sweet, large oranges.
  Whites of two eggs, whisked stiff,  }
  1 table-spoonful water,             } for frosting.
  1 cup powdered sugar.               }
  Cochineal.                          }
  1 cup sugar,                 }
  1 ounce gum arabic,          } for glazing.
  2 table-spoonfuls hot water, }
Pare the oranges, squeezing them as little as you can, remove every
particle of the inner white skin, and divide them into lobes, taking
care not to break the skin. Take half of the sugar meant for frosting,
and stir it up with a few drops of liquid cochineal. Spread on a dish
in the sun to dry, and if it lump, roll or pound again to powder. Put
the white sugar in another dish. Add the water to the stiffened whites;
dip in one-third of the orange lobes and roll in the white sugar;
another third, first in the eggs and water, then in the red sugar. Lay
them upon a sheet of paper to dry.
Put the gum arabic and hot water together over the fire, and when the
gum is melted, add the cup of sugar. Stir until it is a clear, thick
glue. Set in a pan of hot water and dip the remaining pieces of orange
in it. Lay a stick lengthwise on a flat dish, and lean the lobes
against it on both sides, to dry.
Heap red, white, and yellow together in a glass dish, and garnish with
leaves—orange or lemon leaves if you can get them.
This is a delicate, but not difficult, bit of work, and the effect is
very pretty.
TROPICAL SNOW. +
10 sweet oranges.
1 grated cocoanut.
2 glasses pale sherry.
1 cup powdered sugar.
6 red bananas.
Peel the oranges; divide into lobes and cut these across three times,
making small pieces, from which the seeds must be taken. Put a layer of
these in the bottom of a glass bowl, and pour a little wine over them.
Strew thickly with white sugar. The cocoanut should have been pared and
thrown into cold water before it was grated. Spread some of it over the
sugared oranges; cut the bananas into very thin round slices, and put a
layer of the fruit close together, all over the cocoanut. More oranges,
wine, sugar and cocoanut, and when the dish is full, heap high with the
cocoanut. Sprinkle sugar on this, and ornament with rings of sliced
banana. Eat very soon, or the oranges will grow tough in the wine.
Oranges cut up in the way I have described are more easily managed with
a spoon, and less juice is wasted, than when they are sliced in the
usual manner.
This is a handsome and delightful dessert.
COCOANUT FROST ON CUSTARD. +
2 cups rich milk.
½ pound sweet almonds, blanched and pounded.
4 eggs, beaten light.
½ cup powdered sugar.
Rose-water.
1 cocoanut, pared, thrown into cold water and grated.
Scald the milk and sweeten. Stir into it the almonds pounded to a
paste, with a little rose-water. Boil three minutes, and pour gradually
upon the beaten eggs, stirring all the time. Return to the fire and
boil until well thickened. When cold turn into a glass bowl, and heap
high with the grated cocoanut. Sift a little powdered sugar over all.
STEWED APPLES. +
Core the fruit without paring it, and put it into a glass or stoneware
jar, with a cover. Set in a pot of cold water and bring to a slow boil.
Leave it at the back of the range for seven or eight hours, boiling
gently all the time. Let the apples get perfectly cold before you open
the jar.
Eat with plenty of sugar and cream.
Only sweet apples are good cooked in this manner, and they are very
good.
BAKED PEARS. +
Cut ripe pears in half, without peeling or removing the stems. Pack
in layers in a stoneware or glass jar. Strew a little sugar over each
layer. Put a small cupful of water in the bottom of the jar to prevent
burning; fit on a close cover, and set in a moderate oven. Bake three
hours, and let the jar stand unopened in the oven all night.
APPLES AND JELLY. +
Fill a baking-dish with pippins, or other tender juicy apples, pared
and cored, but not sliced. Make a syrup of one cup of water, and half
as much sugar; stir until the sugar is dissolved, and pour over the
apples. Cover closely, and bake slowly until tender. Draw from the
oven, and let the apples cool without uncovering. Pour off the syrup,
and fill the hollowed centres with some bright fruit jelly.
Boil down the syrup fast, until quite thick, and, just before sending
the apples to table, stir into it some rich cream sweetened very
abundantly. Pass with the apples.
BOILED CHESTNUTS.
Put into warm (not hot) water, slightly salted, bring to a boil, and
cook fast fifteen minutes. Turn off the water through a cullender; stir
a good piece of butter into the hot chestnuts, tossing them over and
over until they are glossy and dry.
Serve upon a hot napkin in a deep dish.
WALNUTS AND HICKORY NUTS.
Crack and pick from the shells; sprinkle salt lightly over them, and
serve mixed in the same dish.
Black walnuts are much more wholesome when eaten with salt. Indeed,
they are not wholesome at all without it.
MELONS.
Wipe watermelons clean when they are taken from the ice. They should
lie on, or in ice, for at least four hours before they are eaten. Carve
at table by slicing off each end, then cutting the middle in sharp,
long points, letting the knife go half way through the melon at every
stroke. Pull the halves apart, and you will have a dentated crown.
Wash nutmeg and muskmelons; wipe dry; cut in two, scrape out the seeds,
and put a lump of ice in each half.
Eat with sugar, or with mixed pepper and salt.
CAKES OF ALL KINDS.
NELLIE’S CUP CAKE. +
5 cups of flour.
5 eggs, whites and yolks separated—the latter strained.
1 cup of butter, }
3 cups of sugar, } well creamed together.
1 cup of sweet milk.
1 teaspoonful soda, dissolved in hot water.
2 teaspoonfuls of cream tartar, sifted with flour.
1 teaspoonful of vanilla.
If prepared flour be used in this or any other cake, there is no need
of soda and cream of tartar.
Hecker’s flour I have found invaluable in cake-making. Indeed, I have
never achieved anything short of triumphant success when I have used it.
CAROLINA CAKE (WITHOUT EGGS.) +
1 coffee-cup of sugar—powdered.
2 large table-spoonfuls butter, rubbed into the sugar.
1½ cups of flour.
½ cup sweet cream.
½ teaspoonful of soda.
Bake quickly in small tins, and eat while fresh and warm.
WHITE CAKE. +
1 cup of butter, }
2 cups of sugar, } rubbed to a light cream.
1 cup of sweet milk.
6 eggs, the whites only—beaten stiff.
½ teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in boiling water.
1 teaspoonful of cream tartar, sifted with flour.
4 cups of flour, or enough for tolerably thick batter.
Juice of 1 lemon, and half the grated peel.
CHOCOLATE CAKE. +
2 cups of sugar.
4 table-spoonfuls butter, rubbed in with the sugar.
4 eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately.
1 cup sweet milk.
3 heaping cups of flour.
1 teaspoonful of cream tartar, sifted into flour.
½ teaspoonful soda, melted in hot water.
Bake in jelly cake tins.
Filling.
Whites of two eggs, beaten to a froth.
1 cup of powdered sugar.
¼ pound grated chocolate, wet in 1 table-spoonful cream.
1 teaspoonful vanilla.
Beat the sugar into the whipped whites; then the chocolate. Whisk all
together hard for three minutes before adding the vanilla. Let the cake
get quite cold before you spread it. Reserve a little of the mixture
for the top, and beat more sugar into this to form a firm icing.
APPLE CAKE. +
2 cups powdered sugar.
3 cups of flour.
½ cup corn-starch, wet up with a little milk.
½ cup of butter, rubbed to light cream with sugar.
½ cup sweet milk.
1 teaspoonful cream of tartar, sifted with flour.
½ teaspoonful soda, dissolved in hot water.
6 eggs, the whites only, whipped very stiff.
Add the milk to the creamed butter and sugar; the soda-water,
corn-starch, then the flour and whites alternately. Bake in jelly cake
tins.
Filling.
3 tart, well-flavored apples, grated.
1 egg, beaten light.
1 cup of sugar.
1 lemon, grated peel and juice.
Beat sugar and egg up with the lemon. Pare the apples and grate
them directly into this mixture, letting an assistant stir it the
while. The color will be better preserved by this method. Put into a
farina-kettle, with boiling water in the outer vessel, and stir until
it comes to a boil. Let it cool before putting it between the cakes.
It is best eaten fresh.
ORANGE CAKE.
3 table-spoonfuls butter.
2 cups of sugar.
Yolks of 5 eggs, whites of three, beaten separately—the yolks strained
through a sieve after they are whipped.
1 cup of cold water.
3 full cups of flour—enough for good batter.
1 large orange, the juice, and half the grated peel.
½ teaspoonful soda, dissolved in hot water.
1 teaspoonful cream of tartar, sifted in flour.
Cream the butter and sugar; add the eggs; heat in the orange, the
water, soda, and stir in the flour quickly.
Bake in jelly cake tins.
Filling.
Whites of two eggs, whisked stiff.
1 cup powdered sugar.
Juice, and half the peel of an orange.
Whip very light, and spread between the cakes when cold.
Reserve a little, and whip more sugar into it for frosting on top layer.
CHARLOTTE POLONAISE CAKE. (Very fine.) +
2 cups powdered sugar.
½ cup of butter.
4 eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately.
1 small cup of cream, or rich milk.
3 cups of prepared flour.
Bake as for jelly cake.
Filling.
6 eggs, whipped very light.
2 table-spoonfuls flour.
3 cups of cream—scalding hot.
6 table-spoonfuls grated chocolate.
6 table-spoonfuls powdered sugar.
½ pound sweet almonds, blanched and pounded.
¼ pound chopped citron.
¼ pound apricots, peaches, or other crystallized fruit.
½ pound macaroons.
Beat the yolks of the eggs very light. Stir into the cream the flour
which has been previously wet with a little cold milk.
Add very carefully the beaten yolks, and keep the mixture at a slow
boil, stirring all the time, for five minutes. Take from the fire
and divide the custard into three equal portions. Put the grated
chocolate, with the macaroons, finely crumbled (or pounded), with one
table-spoonful of sugar, into one pan of the mixture, stirring and
beating well. Boil five minutes, stirring constantly; take from the
fire, whip with your egg-beater five minutes more, and set aside to
cool.
Pound the blanched almonds—a few at a time—in a Wedgewood mortar,
adding, now and then, a few drops of rose-water. Chop the citron very
fine and mix with the almonds, adding three table-spoonfuls of sugar.
Stir into the second portion of custard; heat to a slow boil; take it
off and set by to cool.
Chop the crystallized fruit very small, and put with the third cupful
of custard. Heat to a boil; pour out and let it cool.
Season the chocolate custard with vanilla; the almond and citron with
bitter almond. The fruit will require no other flavoring. When quite
cold, lay out four cakes made according to receipt given here, or bake
at the same time a white cake in jelly-cake tins, and alternate with
that. This will give you two good loaves. Put the chocolate filling
between the first and second cakes; next, the almond and citron; the
fruit custard next to the top. There will be enough for both loaves.
Ice the tops with lemon icing, made of the whites of the eggs whisked
very stiff with powdered sugar, and flavored with lemon-juice.
Lest the reader should, at a casual glance through this receipt, be
appalled at the length and the number of ingredients, let me say that
I have made the “polonaise” frequently at the cost of little more time
and trouble than is required for an ordinary cream or chocolate cake. I
would rather make three such, than one loaf of rich fruit-cake.
A CHARLOTTE CACHÉE CAKE.
1 thick loaf of sponge, or other plain cake.
2 kinds of jelly—tart and sweet.
Whisked whites of 5 eggs.
1 heaping cup powdered sugar—or enough to make stiff icing.
Juice of 1 lemon whipped into the icing.
Cut the cake horizontally into five or six slices of uniform width.
Spread each slice with jelly—first the tart, then the sweet, and fit
them into their former places. Ice thickly all over, so as to leave no
sign of the slices; set in a slow oven for a few minutes to harden;
then, in a sunny window.
This is an easy way of making a showy cake out of a plain one.
FANNY’S CAKE. +
1 pound powdered sugar.
1 pound flour—Hecker’s “prepared.”
¼ pound butter rubbed to a cream with the sugar.
8 eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately.
1 coffee-cupful sweet almonds—blanched.
Extract of bitter almond and rose-water.
Blanch the almonds in boiling water. Strip off the skins and spread
them upon a dry cloth until perfectly cold and crisp. Pound in a
Wedgewood mortar, adding rose-water as you go on, and, at the last,
half a teaspoonful bitter almond extract.
Stir the creamed butter and sugar and yolks together until very
light; add to this the flour, handful by handful; then the almond
paste, alternately with the whites. Beat vigorously up from the bottom,
two or three minutes.
Bake in small tins, well buttered. When cold, turn them out and cover
tops and sides with—
Almond Icing.
Whites of 3 eggs, whisked to a standing froth.
¾ pound of powdered sugar.
½ pound of sweet almonds blanched and pounded to a paste. When beaten
fine and smooth, work gradually into the icing. Flavor with lemon-juice
and rose-water.
This frosting is delicious. Dry in the open air when this is
practicable.
MOTHER’S CUP CAKE.
1 cup of butter, }
2 cups of sugar, } creamed together.
3 cups of flour.
4 eggs beaten light—the yolks strained.
1 cup sweet milk—a small one.
1 teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in hot water.
2 teaspoonfuls cream of tartar sifted into the flour.
Nutmeg and vanilla flavoring.
Bake in a loaf, or as jelly-cake.
RAISIN CAKE.
1 pound powdered sugar.
1 pound flour.
½ pound butter rubbed to light cream with sugar.
1 cup sweet milk.
5 eggs, whites and yolks whipped separately, and the latter strained.
1 pound raisins, stoned, cut in half, dredged with flour, and put into
the cake just before it goes into the oven.
1 teaspoonful mixed cloves, cinnamon and nutmeg.
½ teaspoonful of soda dissolved in hot water.
1 teaspoonful cream of tartar, sifted in the flour.
Beat very hard after it is mixed, and bake in small loaves, in a steady
oven.
NEAPOLITAN CAKE. + (Yellow, pink, white and brown.)
Yellow.
2 cups powdered sugar.
1 cup butter stirred to light cream with sugar.
5 eggs—beaten well, yolks and whites separately.
½ cupful sweet milk.
3 cups prepared flour.
A little nutmeg.
Pink and White.
1 pound sugar—powdered.
1 pound prepared flour.
½ pound butter creamed with sugar.
10 eggs—the whites only—whisked stiff.
Divide this batter into two equal portions. Leave one white, and color
the other with a very little prepared cochineal. Use it cautiously, as
a few drops too much will ruin the color.
Brown.
3 eggs beaten light.
1 cup powdered sugar.
¼ cup of butter creamed with sugar.
2 table-spoonfuls cream.
1 heaping cup prepared flour.
2 table-spoonfuls vanilla chocolate grated and rubbed smooth in the
cream, before it is beaten into the cake.
Bake all in jelly-cake tins. The above quantity should make one dozen
cakes—three of each color. Of course, half as much will suffice for an
ordinary family baking. But it is convenient to prepare it wholesale in
this manner for a large supper, for a charity bazaar entertainment, or
a church “sociable.”
Filling.
1st. 2 cups sweet milk.
2 table-spoonfuls corn-starch, wet with milk.
2 eggs.
2 small cups powdered sugar.
Heat the milk, stir in the sugar and corn-starch; boil five minutes and
put in the eggs. Stir steadily until quite thick. Divide this custard
into two parts. Stir into one 2 table-spoonfuls of chocolate (grated)
and a teaspoonful of vanilla; into the other bitter almond.
2d. Whites of three eggs, whisked stiff.
1 cup of powdered sugar—heaping.
Juice, and half the grated peel of 1 lemon.
Whip up well. Lay the brown cake as the foundation of the pile; spread
with the yellow custard. Put the pink, coated with chocolate, next, and
the white frosting between the third and fourth cakes—i.e. the white
and yellow. You can vary the order as your fancy dictates. Cover the
top with powdered sugar, or ice it.
This cake looks very handsome cut into slices and mixed with plain, in
baskets or salvers. You can hardly do better than to undertake it, if
you have promised a liberal contribution to any of the objects above
named.
ORLEANS CAKE.
1 liberal pound best flour, dried and sifted.
1 pound powdered sugar.
¾ pound butter, rubbed to a cream with the sugar.
6 eggs beaten light, and the yolks strained.
1 cup cream.
1 glass best brandy.
1 teaspoonful mixed mace and cinnamon.
1 teaspoonful soda, dissolved in hot water.
2 teaspoonfuls cream of tartar sifted with flour.
Add the strained yolks to the creamed butter and sugar; to this, the
cream and soda—then, in alternate supplies, the whites and flour;
finally, spice and brandy. Beat up hard for three minutes, and bake in
two square loaves. The oven should not be too quick, but steady. Cover
with paper if the cake shows signs of crustiness on the top before it
has risen to the proper height. It should bake one hour.
Cover with lemon frosting when it is cool.
It is a good cake, and keeps well.
MORRIS CAKE. +
2 cups powdered sugar.
1 cup butter, creamed with the sugar.
4 cups flour.
5 eggs beaten light, the yolks strained.
1 rather large cup sour cream, or loppered milk.
½ grated nutmeg.
1 teaspoonful vanilla.
1 teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in hot water.
Stir beaten yolks, butter, and sugar together, and beat very light.
Put in nutmeg and vanilla, the sour cream, half the flour, the
soda-water, and the rest of the flour. Beat with steady strokes five
minutes, bringing up batter from the bottom of the bowl at every sweep
of the wooden spoon. In this way you drive the air into the cells
of the egg-batter, instead of out of them. This is a knack in the
cake-maker’s art that is too little understood and practised.
Remember, then, that the motion should always be upward, and the spoon
always come up full.
Bake in two loaves, or several smaller ones. The oven should not be too
quick.
MONT BLANC CAKE. +
2 even cups of powdered sugar.
¾ cup butter, creamed with sugar.
Whites of 5 eggs, very stiff.
1 cup of milk.
3 cups of flour, or enough for good batter.
1 teaspoonful soda, dissolved in hot water.
