or injure any one.”
“That’s myself for one,” I replied, warmly.
He seemed to be using the very arguments which. I had applied to my
own case while borrowing the funds of the bank that employed me. What
did he mean by it? Could it be possible that he even suspected me of
taking the money of the bank? Had he by any means obtained a hint of
my financial operations? He was in another establishment. He could not
suspect what none in our bank suspected. I was excited with champagne,
and I dismissed the fear as preposterous.
“That’s myself for another!” exclaimed he, with more emphasis than the
subject matter seemed to require. “My coppers have doubled on my hands.”
“What are your coppers?” I inquired.
“The Ballyhack,” he answered promptly. “Do you think I haven’t any?”
He pulled from his breast-pocket a bundle of papers, and exhibited
certificates of shares for a very large amount of stock. Just at this
time there was a fever of speculation in these copper stocks. While
some were substantial companies, many were mere fancies, run up to high
figures by unscrupulous and dishonest men. In the particular one he
mentioned, the upward progress of the stock had been tremendous. Men
had made five or ten thousand dollars in them as easily as they could
turn their hands. It was patent to me that the Ballyhack had doubled in
a week, and was gaining rapidly every day.
Cormorin had “gone in for a big thing,” for he exhibited two hundred
shares, for which he had paid twenty-five, and which was now quoted
at fifty. Shrewd men were buying it at this rate, confident that the
stock would touch a hundred in a week or two. Cormorin’s statements,
therefore, were reasonable, and I began to be deeply interested in the
operation. If this reckless and semi-dissipated fellow could make five
or ten thousand dollars in a fortnight, why might not I do the same. It
flashed upon my mind that I could redeem myself from my own financial
difficulties by this exciting process—if I only had the capital to
make the investment. My companion had gone deeply into the business,
and could advise me in regard to some safe and profitable speculation
in coppers. It would be even less troublesome than borrowing money of
Aunt Rachel.
“You see it now,” continued Cormorin, folding up his papers, and
restoring them to his pocket.
“I do; that’s a good operation.”
“That’s so! What’s the use for a man to be contented with a paltry
salary of two thousand a year, when he can make five times that sum in
a week or two? That’s the question,” said he, vehemently.
“It is all very well for a fellow that has the capital to go into these
operations,” I added.
“The capital! Yes; that’s so! There’s the rub. But you see I didn’t
have any capital.”
He paused to fill the glasses again, though mine was not empty. He was
laboring with the next step in his revelation, and, reckless as he was,
he appeared to halt on the verge of further developments. I could not
see how he purchased his stock, if he had no capital; and I was rather
anxious to have the problem solved.
“Nary red,” he added, as I did not ask the question which would suggest
the revelation he evidently wished to make. “Not a cent—up to my
eyes in debt beside—one, two or three thousand dollars. O, well!
When a man understands himself, these things are easy enough. By the
way, Glasswood, don’t you want to try your hand in this business? I
know of a new company, which is going to be the cock of the walk on
State Street. You can buy it for twenty to-day. It will be twenty-five
to-morrow, for it is going like hot cakes. Everybody is after it. I
have been tempted to sell my Ballyhack and invest in it.”
“What’s the company?”
“The Bustumup—Indian name, you know. It’s going up like a rocket, now.”
“Perhaps it will come down like one.”
“No fear of that. If I had ten thousand dollars to-day, I would put
every cent of it into Bustumups. If you want two, three or five hundred
shares of it, I will get them for you at the lowest figure. Your name,
you know, would help the thing along.”
My name! Of course I was flattered. If I could have raised four or
five thousand dollars, I should have been glad to give the company the
benefit of my name!
“I should like to go in, but I have no capital,” I replied, with the
modesty of a man without means.
“Do as I did!” exclaimed Cormorin, in whom the champagne had now
banished every thing like caution.
“How did you do?”
“I used the bank funds!” he replied, hitting the table a tremendous
rap. “But I don’t mean that the bank shall ever lose a single cent by
me. I mean to be honest. I mean to pay every cent I borrow. I don’t see
why money should lie idle in my drawer in the bank, when I can make
something out of it, without wronging, cheating or defrauding man,
woman or child. Glasswood, give me your hand. I have spoken frankly to
you. If you betray me, of course I shall have to take the next steamer
for foreign parts, and I’m afraid the bank would then be the loser by
the operation.”
“I will never betray you,” I replied, clasping his offered hand.
“Thank you, Glasswood! You are a noble fellow. To-morrow those infernal
directors will examine into the condition of our bank. My cash is five
thousand short—just the sum I paid for the Ballyhacks. You understand
me?”
I had drank so much champagne that I not only understood, but
sympathized with him. He had done just what I had, though I was not
stupid enough to betray myself to him.
“I understand you, Cormorin,” I replied. “Go on and tell me what you
are driving at just as though I were your own brother.”
“Exactly so; just as though you were my own brother. I borrowed five
thousand dollars from the bank. It will be missed to-morrow. Lend me
five one thousand dollar bills, or the same amount in some other form,
for two hours to-morrow, and I shall be all right. You shall hold my
stock as collateral. It is worth double the amount; and I will do the
same thing for you when your cash is counted, if you want to make
something on your own account.”
“I’ll do it,” I replied, without a moment of reflection.
“You are a good fellow, Glasswood. Your fortune is made, and so is
mine.”
I should not have been so prompt in acceding to his request without the
aid of the champagne. Though I knew what I was about well enough, I was
reckless. I was fascinated with the idea of making five or ten thousand
dollars in “coppers,” and thus discharging my obligation to the bank.
“We don’t always know when our directors intend to make an
examination,” I suggested.
“I can always tell by the looks of them. No matter; there is time
enough after they begin. Our banks are near enough to each other to
enable us to make a connection,” laughed Cormorin.
We discussed the matter still further, but we were perfectly agreed. We
separated with an arrangement to meet in the forenoon of the next day,
to carry out the plan we had devised. I did not deem it prudent to go
directly home, and I spent an hour on the Common, waiting for the fumes
of the wine I had drank to work off. When I went to Needham Street, I
found that Lilian was still out, probably purchasing her new black silk
dress. She came at last, and we ate a dried-up dinner at five o’clock.
She had purchased her dress, and was in the best of spirits.
The next day, when I went to the bank, I quietly transferred six
thousand dollars from my drawer to my pocket, with hardly a tithe of
the compunction with which I had appropriated my first loan. O, I
intended to be honest! The bank was not to lose a penny by me. For five
thousand of the money, Cormorin was to give me collateral worth ten
thousand in the market. With the other thousand I intended to pay my
uncle, and silence his carping for all time.
Cormorin was punctual in his call for his share of the funds. He handed
me the certificates and I gave him the money. In the course of the
forenoon Captain Halliard, faithful to his threat, paid me a visit.
I was not ready for him then, but I showed him one-half of Cormorin’s
certificates. They did not abate his persistency for payment of the
note, and I promised to pay him at three o’clock in the afternoon,
without fail. As I had the money in my pocket, I could safely make the
promise.
At the appointed time he presented himself before me.
CHAPTER XVII.
PROVIDING FOR THE WORST.
“THERE is your money, principal and interest,” said I to my uncle,
carelessly tossing him the bills. “You have compelled me to sacrifice
my coppers, but I am rid of you now.”
“Rid of me! It isn’t necessary for you to be impudent, Paley,” replied
the Captain.
“I assure you, it is a very great satisfaction for me to feel that
there is now no possible way in which you can annoy me.”
“I don’t want to annoy you.”
“I thought you did. You have been crowding me pretty hard. You have
compelled me to pay this note, for no other purpose than to annoy me.
You have done your worst, and I hope you are satisfied.”
“You may have the money again, if you want it,” said he; for, like
other bullies, when he felt that his power was gone, he was disposed to
make peace.
“I don’t want it now. I have sold out my stock at a loss to gratify
your malice. If you can do anything more to crush me, I hope you will
do it.”
“I don’t want to crush you. What are you talking about?” added my
uncle, impatiently.
“I don’t know what you mean by crowding me so hard, then.”
“Paley, you are living too fast. All I have done has been for your
good.”
“I don’t see it; and I don’t exactly know by what right you purpose
to take the management of my affairs into your own hands. You have
an offer for my house, and you have attempted to drive me out of it.
Let me say that I would go into bankruptcy, or into the State Prison,
before I would submit to any such dictation. I am of age and I think
I am able to take care of myself. I hear that Aunt Rachel is better
to-day, and is steadily improving. I shall take the first occasion to
tell her how you have used me.”
“Do you want to make trouble in the family?” asked he, evidently
startled by my threat; for the handling of the invalid’s property was
of some importance even to a gentleman of Captain Halliard’s wealth.
“I want justice done, though the heavens fall. Aunt Rachel never
intended that I should be driven up to pay this thousand dollars, as
you have done the business.”
“I did what I thought was best for you and for her.”
“All right; if you are satisfied, I am.”
I think my uncle was rather sorry he had crowded me so hard. He had
failed to accomplish his purpose of driving me out of my house, and he
knew that I had some influence with my aunt. He was disposed to back
out, but I was not willing that he should do so. I did not like the
idea of having him around me in the capacity of a guardian, prying into
my affairs, and listening to every breath of scandal that related to me.
The sharp words I had spoken produced some effect upon him. But it
occurred to me that his malice would be dangerous, and I did not
deem it prudent to provoke him any farther. He was intimate with Mr.
Bristlebach, and his influence might imperil my situation. It would
be utter ruin for me to be discharged before I had replaced the sums
I had “borrowed.” I moderated my wrath, therefore, and refrained from
enforcing my threat. My uncle left me, and I was willing to wait until
he made the next move.
I remained at the bank until half-past three o’clock, at which time I
had agreed to meet Cormorin, at Young’s. He was nearly half an hour
late, but he came, and I saw by his countenance that every thing
had gone well with him. I should say, in the light of subsequent
experience, that every thing had gone ill with him, for the successful
concealment of guilt, whatever consequences might follow its exposure,
is the greatest misfortune that can befall a man, inasmuch as it leads
him farther and deeper into crime.
“Five thousand; there are the identical bills you lent me,” said
Cormorin, as he laid the money upon the table before me. “I’m all right
now, and I hope I shall not have occasion to repeat this folly.”
“You will make enough by your operation in Ballyhacks to afford you a
sufficient capital for future operations.”
“That’s so. I shall be worth ten or fifteen thousand dollars next week,
as sure as I live. I am going to pay what I owe the bank, and then keep
square with the world. You have done me a good turn to-day, Glasswood,
and I am not one of the kind that forget such things.”
“Here are your certificates. I am glad to have been able to serve
you,” I replied, as I handed him the papers. “You said something about
another company in which a fellow might make a good thing.”
“I did—the Bustumup. Its stock’s going up just as that of the
Ballyhack did.”
“What can I have it for?”
“I am interested in this company, and if you take the stock at once you
shall have it for twenty, though it went at twenty-two to-day.”
“I will take two hundred and fifty shares of it.”
“You are sensible,” replied Cormorin. “You have the money in your fist,
and you can return it in a week or two, and put ten thousand dollars
into your pocket.”
I had not told Cormorin my secret, and I think he was anxious to have
me invest the five thousand dollars, I had taken from the bank, that we
might stand on an equal footing. He desired to possess as strong a hold
upon me as I had upon him. I was satisfied of the truth of what he had
told me in regard to his own “coppers.” I had inquired for myself, and
I realized that he was making ten if not fifteen thousand dollars by
his operation.
I felt compelled to take the step he suggested. I owed my bank three
thousand dollars, and while Aunt Rachel was so feeble, I had no hope of
obtaining the amount from her. I must do something to save myself from
possible exposure. The brilliant example of Cormorin loomed up before
me. If he had made a large sum in “coppers,” there was no reason why I
should not do the same. It was necessary that I should make the effort,
and I gave him the five thousand dollars he had just returned to me, to
be invested in Bustumups.
“It will be a safe operation, Glasswood,” continued Cormorin.
“Bustumups are sure to go up.”
I did not regard this last expression as one to be taken in the
metaphorical sense.
“You have looked into this matter, Cormorin, and of course you
understand it. As things now stand, you and I must hang together.”
“That’s so; count on me for anything you want.”
“Thank you. Now won’t you have a bottle of champagne with me?”
“I am much obliged to you, Glasswood, but I can’t stop any longer
now. I must get your stock for you before four, or it will cost you
twenty-five to-morrow.”
“You are confident that this is a safe thing for me—are you not?”
“Oh, perfectly confident!” exclaimed he. “If you don’t believe in it,
don’t do it.”
“I rely upon your statements, and go in upon the assurance of what you
say.”
“Of course you must run your own risk. I can only advise you to do what
I would do myself.”
“That’s enough.”
He left me to procure the certificates of stock in the Bustumup
Company. I was to wait in the private room I had taken until his
return. I was alone, and when I began to think what I was doing, I was
appalled at the possibility of failure. I was in debt to the bank in
the sum of eight thousand dollars. If my investment should go wrong
I could not hope to make good the loss. I should be obliged to flee
from my wife and my home, and end my days in exile, if I should be
so fortunate as to escape without detection. A cold sweat stood on
my forehead as I thought of the possibility of discovery, of being
arrested even before I supposed any one suspected me, and of being
condemned to the State Prison for ten years or more.
I rang the bell, and ordered a bottle of champagne. I drank several
glasses of it, and the fumes went to my brain. I felt better. My
thoughts began to flow in another direction under the influence of the
sparkling fluid. Bustumups would advance every day. In a week or two
they would go up to a hundred dollars a share. If they did this, I
should make twenty thousand dollars, besides having my capital returned
to me. I should be able to pay off the bank, and have seventeen
thousand dollars left. My dream of future success was colored with the
pinkiest tint of the wine I drank.
I intended to be cautious. If, after my stock had gone up to fifty,
there were any signs of a reaction, I would sell, and still make ten
thousand dollars. Cormorin was sure the stock would be twenty-five the
next day. If it was, I should clear twelve hundred and fifty dollars.
But if it only went up to thirty-five in a week, it would enable me to
pay off what I owed the bank, and I should be content even with that.
My new friend brought me the coveted shares, and helped me finish the
bottle of champagne before me. For some reason or other he declined
to punish a second one with me, and we separated. I went home with
my shares in my pocket. When the fumes of the champagne passed off, I
was uneasy again. I felt that I stood upon the brink of a precipice.
If Bustumups went down instead of going up, I was ruined. There was no
possible way for me to redeem myself.
Though my uncle knew I was dealing in stocks—or rather took my word
for it—and was plunging into a sea of speculation, he did not warn me
against it. He had not a word of caution to utter, and probably had no
suspicion that I might be tempted to meddle with the funds of the bank.
If he had been as solicitous as he pretended to be for my welfare, he
would have warned me of the perils of my course. For my own part, my
uncle was a mystery to me.
Lilian with the black silk in prospect, was as happy as a queen. In the
evening Tom Flynn called. He was hardly seated before Mrs. Oliphant
and Bertha made us a call. “Dear ma” appeared to be cured of her evil
propensity, probably because another daughter, through my indirect
agency, was in a fair way of being disposed of. We had sacred music,
and a lively time generally. I was quite satisfied that Tom would, at
no distant day, make my wife’s sister his bride. This prospect was
quite enough to appease Mrs. Oliphant, and she really looked quite
amiable under the indications of this happy event.
Tom escorted Bertha and her mother home at ten o’clock, and the next
day the noble fellow told me with a blush, that he did not leave the
house on Tremont Street till the clock struck twelve. A question or two
from me brought out the fact that they were engaged. I envied Tom—he
was so happy. Why should he not be? He owed the bank nothing. He had
not soiled his soul by taking what did not belong to him. He was a
strictly moral and religious young man. He would have gone without his
dinner rather than stay away from the evening prayer-meeting. I say I
envied him. I did; and I would have given all the world, had it been
mine to give, for his peace of mind.
I could not sleep that night when I went to bed. I got up and drank
nearly half a bottle of Smith’s old sherry, which stupefied my brain,
and gave me the needed rest from the goadings of conscience and the
terrors of the future. My fate depended upon the success of the
Bustumup Company. If that went down, I might be called at any time to
flee from my wife, and wander in fear and trembling as an exile in
some strange land. If I was in peril of exposure I could not remain to
face the blast of popular condemnation. My pride would not permit me to
live where any man could look down upon me with either pity or contempt.
At twelve o’clock, when I run out for a lunch, I found that Bustumups
were quoted at twenty-five. This fact assured me, for already I had
practically paid off more than one-third of my debt. The stock went a
little higher before two o’clock, and my courage was correspondingly
increased. I was rather disturbed, however, at the close of the bank,
to see my uncle in close conversation with Mr. Bristlebach. I fancied
that I was the subject of their remarks, especially as the president
cast frequent glances at me. Captain Halliard looked ugly.
I had shown him a portion of the certificates which Cormorin had lent
me. He was a shrewd business man, and though he had not objected to
the statement that I had saved half my salary, and invested it in
stocks, he might well have doubted the truth of it. Perhaps he had
been thinking over my affairs, and had come to the conclusion that my
assertions were doubtful. On two occasions he had driven me up to the
payment of money, and both times I had met the demand.
Cormorin told me that he always ascertained when the directors intended
to make an examination. Captain Halliard meant mischief. He intended,
at least, to put me in condition to let Aunt Rachel alone. I am
confident he did not really believe that I had borrowed any thing of
the bank; but probably he wanted to satisfy himself that I did not
obtain my ready money from the drawer. As the conversation continued
I became alarmed. The President almost invariably left the bank soon
after two o’clock. To-day he remained. As he had done once before since
I occupied my position, he might examine the condition of the cash
department.
I meant to be on the sure side. I ran into the bank where Cormorin was,
and told him what I suspected. He promptly offered to help me out, on
the same terms that I had performed a similar service for him.
“I want eight thousand,” I whispered. “I will return it to-morrow
morning.”
“Eight thousand!” exclaimed he. “Why, you are only five thousand
short.”
“Eight,” I replied, firmly.
“How’s that?”
“I was three thousand short when I made the little arrangement.”
“Thunder!” ejaculated he, impatiently. “Then you are the eagle and I am
the lamb.”
“We are both honest fellows, and mean to pay all we owe,” I replied.
“Do you suppose I would have accommodated you, the other day, if I had
not been in hot water myself? Of course if I go down, you go with me.”
“But the security?” he asked.
“Two hundred and fifty shares of Bustumups.”
“They are worth only six thousand or so.”
“But will be worth more than eight in a few days; you shall have your
bills back to-morrow morning, without fail.”
I gave him my certificates and he handed me the money; but he gnashed
his teeth as he did so. If I fell, I should drag him down with me.
“Is everything right in your drawer?” asked Heavyside, the cashier,
slyly, of me, when I returned.
“Certainly it is,” I replied. “Why do you ask?”
“Bristlebach is going to look over our accounts and cash this
afternoon.”
“All right,” I answered, carelessly.
I deposited the eight thousand in my drawer, balanced my cash, and put
the trunk into the safe. Paying no attention to any one, and especially
not to my uncle, I sauntered leisurely out of the bank.
CHAPTER XVIII.
BUSTUMUPS AT FIFTY.
BY the ruse in which Cormorin had instructed me, and for which he had
furnished the funds, I had provided against any exposure. By this time
I was fully satisfied that my uncle was working against me; not that he
intended to ruin me, but only to maintain his own power and influence
over me. There are men of this stamp in the world, who will punish
their best friends when they refuse to be guided by them. Captain
Halliard was as jealous of his influence as he was of his money.
As my account with the bank was now square, I had no fear of the
investigation which was in progress. Mr. Heavyside, who had never been
suspected of even an irregularity, had been so kind as to inform me of
the proposed examination. I had in him a good friend, and a mortgage on
his future fidelity to me. I should defeat my uncle this time, as I had
before, but it was annoying to be subjected to his espionage, though I
could not afford to have a serious quarrel with him.
I went home at about the usual hour. My Bustumups had done so well
that I was tolerably light-hearted. Lilian was as joyous as a dream
in June. Bertha had been with her all the forenoon, and I heard much
in praise of Tom Flynn. We dined, and then I proposed to Lilian that
we should ride out into the country. She was glad to go, and we went.
On my return home at six o’clock, Biddy handed me a note from Mr.
Bristlebach. I recognized his heavy hand-writing, and my blood ceased
to flow in its channels. I tore open the envelope. It was simply a
request to appear at the bank immediately.
What could it mean? My cash was all right. They could not have
discovered the truth. That was simply impossible. If there was any
trouble at the present time, Cormorin, and not myself, would be the
sufferer. If there had been a discovery of the whole truth, Mr.
Bristlebach was not the man to have sent a note to me; he would have
sent a constable. I decided to go at once to the bank, for I was
satisfied, from the manner in which the message had come, and by the
assurance that my cash was all right, that nothing very serious could
be charged upon me. I told Lilian I was going down town for an hour,
and she did not bother me with any troublesome questions.
On my arrival at the bank I found the president and my uncle in the
directors’ room. Both of them looked severe, but Captain Halliard did
not seem to be so much at his ease as usual. I knew him well enough to
be able to read his thoughts, and whatever mischief was brewing he was
at the bottom of it.
“Mr. Glasswood, of course you are aware that There is a deficiency in
your account?” said Mr. Bristlebach.
“No, sir, I am not aware of it,” I replied; and as I spoke the literal
truth, I answered with confidence.
“You are not?”
“No, sir.”
“Did you balance your cash to-day?”
“I did, sir; and at half-past two it was all right.”
“You put a bold face on the matter.”
“Certainly I do, sir. I am innocent of the charge, and I can afford to
speak the truth.”
“Nevertheless, your cash is short.”
“It was not short at half-past two to-day,” I replied, glancing at my
uncle.
He was uneasy, and did not confront me when I gazed at him.
“It is not a large deficiency,” added Mr. Bristlebach, “but large
enough to demand inquiry.”
“May I ask how much you found it short,” I inquired.
“Only three hundred dollars.”
“There may be some mistake—I hope there is,” suggested my uncle.
“Who counted the cash?” I asked.
“We counted it together,” replied the president. “I wish to add that I
do not regard you as a defaulter or any thing of that sort. I sent for
you to enable you to explain the matter.”
“I have no further explanation to make. I left my cash all right
to-day,” I added, confidently.
“He is so sure, that I rather think some mistake has been made,” added
Captain Halliard.
“Probably there has been. Mr. Glasswood, I have had the utmost
confidence in you. When I suspected you before, a second examination
convinced me of your integrity. I have no doubt it will be so this
time.”
“I cannot undertake to keep my cash right, if other persons are allowed
to go to my drawer,” I continued, rather savagely.
“What!” exclaimed my uncle, springing to his feet.
“I said what I meant to say,” I replied.
The remark hit just where I intended it should. Mr. Bristlebach and
my uncle had been counting my cash. I had left it all right. If the
deficiency was insignificant, it was still enough to ruin me. I had
already made up my mind how my cash happened to be short. If the
president had made the examination himself there would have been no
deficiency. Of course I mean to say that Captain Halliard himself had
been the author of the mischief. In other words, he had either taken
three hundred dollars from my cash, or had falsely reported his count.
Before I ventured to make this violent statement, I put my uncle fairly
on trial, and called up all the circumstances of our present relations
to testify against him. He was determined to maintain his influence
over me, and to prevent me from saying any thing to Aunt Rachel about
him. I had refused to give up my house at his bidding, and prevented
him from obliging his friend, Mr. Brentbone. I had roundly reproached
him for his conduct to me, and used language which he could not
tolerate in any one. I was satisfied that he had a strong motive for
desiring to obtain a hold upon me.
A strong motive, however, is not sufficient to explain so dastardly
an act as that in which I had dared to implicate my uncle. A man of
integrity, simply an honest man, would not be guilty of so vile a deed.
Was my uncle capable of such an act? He had procured my situation for
me by bringing up a charge against Tom Flynn which both he and I knew
was false—one which he himself had disproved as soon as his purpose
was accomplished. If he would do one mean thing, he would not halt at
another.
He had compelled me to pay the thousand dollars I owed Aunt Rachel,
out of sheer malice, and only to put me in a position where he could
control me. The mild speech of the president of the bank assured me
that I was not to be harshly dealt with; and my uncle gently suggested
that there might be a mistake.
“Be careful what you say, Mr. Glasswood,” said the president. “Now
I’m going out to get a cup of tea; when I come back we will ascertain
whether there is a mistake or not.”
Mr. Bristlebach left the room. My uncle looked embarrassed, thrust his
fingers into his vest pockets, and seemed to be feeling for something.
I was tempted to spring upon him, and throw out the contents of those
pockets, for I was satisfied that the deficiency in my cash could be
accounted for only in that way.
“Paley, you have been speculating in coppers,” said he.
“I have; but that is my business,” I replied, roughly.
“I propose to pay the bank the amount your cash is short, and to hush
the matter up where it is.”
“I don’t ask you to do any thing of the sort.”
“I am on your bond, and I must do it. No matter about that. I expected,
after you told me what you were doing in coppers, to find a deficit of
thousands. I was prepared to pay even that, for you are of my own flesh
and blood.”
“You are very affectionate!”
“I have succeeded in quieting Mr. Bristlebach.”
“I see you have.”
“You talk to me as though I had done you an injury instead of a
kindness,” added he, reproachfully.
“That is what you have done.”
“Your cash is three hundred short,” said he, putting his hands into his
vest pockets again.
Perhaps I was insane under the pressure of his implied charge; at any
rate, under the impulse of the moment, without consciously determining
to do it, I sprung upon him like a tiger; and having no warning of
my purpose myself, I gave him none. I thrust my hands into his vest
pockets, and drew from them whatever they contained. I retreated into
the farther corner of the room to examine my capture. The deed was done
so quick that Captain Halliard had no time to resist, though he seized
me by the shoulders. I was furious, and shook him off like a child.
“What do you mean, you villain?” gasped he.
I paid no attention to him, but proceeded to examine my prize. Among
other things I found three bills, of one hundred dollars each.
“Do you mean to rob me, Paley?” demanded he; but, like Hamlet’s ghost,
he appeared to be “more in sorrow than in anger;” and more in fear than
in sorrow.
“Do you carry your money in your vest pockets, sir?” I demanded.
“Sometimes I do.”
“You took these bills from my trunk when you counted my cash.”
“Nonsense, Paley!”
“I can swear to one of them, at least,” I replied, holding up one of
the bills, on the face of which some clown had written a sentence about
depreciated currency, that had attracted my attention. “I left this
bill in my trunk in the vault at half-past two to-day; at half-past six
I find it in your pocket.”
“Do you think—”
“I know!” I interrupted, him, in the most savage manner. “If I can find
a policeman, I will put you on the track to the State Prison.”
“Don’t be absurd, Paley,” interposed my uncle; but I saw that there
was no heart in the remark. “There must have been a mistake in the
counting.”
“You stole this money from my trunk to get me into trouble.”
“Didn’t I tell the president that I would pay the deficit?” asked my
uncle. “Hush up! There comes Mr. Bristlebach! Not a word of this to
him.”
“You confess, then, that you took this money from my trunk?”
“By-and-by we will talk about it,” he replied, with much agitation.
I had proved my case. My uncle was a villain. He had taken three
hundred dollars from my cash—not enough to make me look like a
defaulter—for the purpose of maintaining his influence over me, and to
keep me from telling bad stories about him to Aunt Rachel. Guilty as I
was, I made myself believe that I was an innocent man, because I was
not guilty in the direction he accused me. Mr. Bristlebach returned to
the room.
“I am satisfied, from what Mr. Glasswood says, that there must have
been a mistake in our count,” said my uncle. “As I told you, I was
confident my nephew was honest, but I was fearful, when I learned that
he had been speculating in coppers. I thought, as I was on his bond, we
had better look into the matter. I am perfectly satisfied now.”
This very consistent statement was assented to by the president, but
my cash was counted again, at the request of Captain Halliard. I was
in doubt whether to restore the three hundred I had wrested from the
conspirator, but I concluded that I could not afford to expose him. We
counted the cash, which was mostly in large bills, and of course I was
fully vindicated. The president was profuse in his apologies, and my
uncle was kind enough to take the burden of the blunder on himself. He
could even see where he had made the mistake. I left the bank with him,
and we walked up the street together.
“That was an awkward mistake of mine,” said he.
“Very,” I replied, with a sneer.
“But I think I can explain it.”
“I don’t think you can.”
“You seem to have taken it into your head that I mean to injure you.”
“I have.”
“You are mistaken. I am on your bond. Money is so plenty with you, that
I was afraid I might be called upon to pay the bond. Bristlebach is
so intimate with me that I could satisfy myself without doing you any
harm. That was all I intended.”
“And that’s the reason why you took three hundred dollars out of my
trunk, I suppose?”
“Mr. Bristlebach handed me that money himself. I wanted to pay out that
amount to-night, and I drew a check for it. I entirely forgot it when
we counted the cash, and that was the deficit. Here is the check; as
you put the money back, I took the check from your drawer. That’s the
whole story.”
“Why didn’t you explain it to Mr. Bristlebach, then?” I asked,
believing not a word he said.
“Because it was so stupid of me to forget that the check had been paid
out of your cash.”
“Very stupid, indeed!”
“I will tell him about it to-morrow,” added my uncle.
As I have said before, a man in my situation could not afford to
quarrel with one so powerful as Captain Halliard. I kept my own
counsel, not wholly certain that he would not yet be called upon to pay
the amount of his bond on my account. We parted in peace, and I was
abundantly pleased that I had been able to fight off the charge.
The next morning, when I went to the bank, I took the eight thousand
from the cash, which Cormorin had lent me, and returned it to him. He
was a happy man then. I doubt whether he slept a wink the night before,
for the idea of being responsible for my deficit, as well as his own,
could not have been very comforting to him.
I was all right at the bank, and my uncle treated me with
“distinguished consideration.” On several occasions he assured me he
should use his influence in my favor with Aunt Rachel. If I wished for
the money he had compelled me to pay—solely for my own good—he would
let me have it again. Indeed, if I was short at any time, he would lend
me a thousand dollars. I thought I might have occasion to avail myself
of his offer, and I was pleasant and pliable. I said nothing more about
the three hundred dollars.
For a week all was well with me. Ballyhacks went up to seventy-five;
but Bustumups were slower, and had only touched forty in the same time.
This figure satisfied me, inasmuch as it enabled me to pay my debt at
the bank. Yet I believed, with the utmost confidence, that there was
five or ten thousand more in the stock for me, and as long as things
were easy at the bank, I did not think of realizing.
Then I was sick for ten days, and was obliged to stay in the house,
but even while my brain was on fire with fever I went down town one
day. I dared not leave my deficit to be discovered by my substitute.
I compelled poor Cormorin to lend me the eight thousand again, on the
security of my Bustumups. They were worth nearly this sum in the
market by this time, and he did not object very strenuously.
As soon as I was able to get out, I hastened back to the bank, and
took my place at the counter. Cormorin had sold his stock at eighty.
Bustumups were quoted at fifty, with a prospect of a further advance.
My friend had made thirteen thousand dollars. When I had made him
whole, he instantly resigned his place, fearful, I think, of getting
into trouble through my agency. He went to New York, to go into
business there. I did not care. My stocks at fifty paid my debt, and
left me forty-five hundred surplus. I was excited over the prospect. I
should be a rich man in a few weeks.
But everything did not turn out just as I anticipated.
CHAPTER XIX.
A CRASH IN COPPERS.
I WAS worth forty-five hundred dollars while Bustumups were quoted at
fifty. Every day, while they hung at about this figure, I debated with
myself the policy of selling, paying my debt, and investing my surplus
in some other concern. Perhaps I should have done so, if I had known of
a company in which I could place entire confidence. I missed Cormorin
very much, for I needed his advice; and I had come to regard him as an
oracle in the matter of coppers.
It looked like madness to sacrifice a stock which might go up to eighty
or a hundred, as the Ballyhack had, and though my debt worried me, I
could not make up my mind to let it go. If I could put ten thousand
dollars in my pocket, my fortune would be made, for with this sum
I could operate on a large scale. There was no danger of another
examination of my cash at present, and I was secure. But Bustumups did
not advance as rapidly as I wished. They hung at about fifty. I was
told that parties were investigating the condition of the mine, and
that as soon as they reported, the stock would go up as rapidly as
Ballyhack had done. I was willing to wait patiently for a week or two,
while the stock about held its own. Its trifling fluctuations up and
down troubled me, but the parties who worked it convinced me that these
were only accidental changes.
Though I saw my uncle every day, he did not allude to his own villainy,
and I was prudent enough to wait until I was out of the woods before
I did so. In the course of a couple of weeks, when I had made my ten
thousand dollars, I intended to resign my position, and then I could
afford to express my mind very freely to Captain Halliard. With ten
thousand dollars in my exchequer, I could go into any business that
suited me, and make money enough to support me in a style becoming my
abilities.
I still had strong hopes that the fortune of Aunt Rachel would be mine.
She was now apparently rapidly regaining her health, and I determined
to improve my chances as soon as I could. On the following Saturday
afternoon I took Lilian down to Springhaven with me, and we both used
our best efforts to win her regard. I took her out to ride, I read to
her, and the old lady seemed as fond of me as when I was a boy. I was
her only nephew, and it had been often reported that I was to be her
heir, though on what authority I did not know. I invited her to spend
a week or a month at my house in Boston, and she promised to do so as
soon as she was able.
A rumor that the parties who were investigating the condition of the
mine intended to make a favorable report sent Bustumups to fifty-five,
and I was very happy. I was worth nearly six thousand dollars. At the
end of another week the stock went up to sixty, and the balance of
worldly wealth in my favor was seven thousand dollars. The game was
becoming intensely exciting. Another week or so would realize all my
hopes. I should be free and safe.
While every thing was in this cheerful condition Aunt Rachel sent for
me, and I hastened to Springhaven, for I could not afford to neglect
her summons. She was ready to go home with me, and she accompanied me
to my house in Needham street. The old lady was a little surprised to
find that I lived in elegant style, as she was pleased to express it;
but then she regarded the salary I received, which was double what her
minister had, as princely in itself. Simple as were her views of social
economy, she did not accuse me of extravagance. Lilian understood the
matter perfectly, and was all tenderness and devotion.
One morning, after she had been at our house three days, Aunt Rachel
asked me if I knew a certain Squire Townsend, a lawyer, whom the old
lady had been acquainted with in the early years of her life. I had
heard of him. He was an attorney of the old school, and I hoped she
intended to make her will while she was thus kindly disposed towards
me. She begged me to see the old gentleman, and ask him to call upon
her during the forenoon.
“Do you see much of Captain Halliard, Paley?” asked my aunt, as I was
going out.
“I see him nearly every day.”
“I wonder he has not been up to see me yet,” added the old lady.
I did not wonder. I had not taken the trouble to tell him that Aunt
Rachel was at my house.
“Do you wish to see him?” I asked.
“Not particularly. He has done considerable business for me.”
“I know it. He did some for you while you were sick.”
“Did he?”
