“I told brother Stephen all about him when I was in Calcutta last year,
and he wrote to the boy, but Clara has got no end of plans in her head
and so she insisted on keeping Charlie a year longer when his father
ordered him off to India,” replied the doctor as they walked away.

“It is too late to ‘order’ Charlie is a man now, and Stephen will find
he has been too easy with him all these years. Poor fellow, it has been
hard lines for him, and is likely to be harder, I fancy, unless he comes
home and straightens things out.”

“He won’t do that if he can help it. He has lost all his energy living
in that climate and hates worry more than ever, so you can imagine what
an effort it would be to manage a foolish woman and a headstrong boy. We
must lend a hand, Mac, and do our best for poor old Steve.”

“The best we can do for the lad is to marry and settle him as soon as
possible.”

“My dear fellow, he is only three and twenty,” began the doctor, as
if the idea was preposterous. Then a sudden change came over him as
he added with a melancholy smile, “I forget how much one can hope and
suffer, even at twenty-three.”

“And be all the better for, if bravely outlived,” said Uncle Mac, with
his hand on his brother’s shoulder and the sincerest approval in
his voice. Then, kindly returning to the younger people, he went on
inquiringly, “You don’t incline to Clara’s view of a certain matter, I
fancy?”

“Decidedly not. My girl must have the best, and Clara’s training would
spoil an angel,” answered Dr. Alec quickly.

“But we shall find it hard to let our little Rose go out of the family.
How would Archie do? He has been well brought up and is a thoroughly
excellent lad.”

The brothers had retired to the study by this time and were alone, yet
Dr. Alec lowered his voice as he said with a tender sort of anxiety
pleasant to see: “You know I do not approve of cousins marrying, so I’m
in a quandary, Mac, for I love the child as if she were my own and feel
as if I could not give her up to any man whom I did not know and trust
entirely. It is of no use for us to plan, for she must choose for
herself yet I do wish we could keep her among us and give one of our
boys a wife worth having.”

“We must, so never mind your theories but devote yourself to testing our
elder lads and making one of them a happy fellow. All are heart-whole,
I believe, and, though young still for this sort of thing, we can be
gently shaping matters for them, since no one knows how soon the moment
may come. My faith it is like living in a powder mill to be among a lot
of young folks nowadays! All looks as calm as possible till a sudden
spark produces an explosion, and heaven only knows where we find
ourselves after it is over.”

And Uncle Mac sat himself comfortably down to settle Rose’s fate while
the doctor paced the room, plucking at his beard and knitting his brows
as if he found it hard to see his way.

“Yes, Archie is a good fellow,” he said, answering the question he had
ignored before. “An upright, steady, intelligent lad who will make an
excellent husband if he ever finds out that he has a heart. I suppose
I’m an old fool, but I do like a little more romance in a young man than
he seems to have more warmth and enthusiasm, you know. Bless the boy! He
might be forty instead of three or four and twenty, he’s so sober, calm,
and cool. I’m younger than he is, and could go a-wooing like a Romeo if
I had any heart to offer a woman.”

The doctor looked rather shamefaced as he spoke, and his brother
burst out laughing. “See here, Alec, it’s a pity so much romance and
excellence as yours should be lost, so why don’t you set these young
fellows an example and go a-wooing yourself? Jessie has been wondering
how you have managed to keep from falling in love with Phebe all this
time, and Clara is quite sure that you waited only till she was safe
under Aunt Plenty’s wing to offer yourself in the good old-fashioned
style.”

“I!” And the doctor stood aghast at the mere idea, then he gave a
resigned sort of sigh and added like a martyr, “If those dear women
would let me alone, I’d thank them forever. Put the idea out of their
minds for heaven’s sake, Mac, or I shall be having that poor girl flung
at my head and her comfort destroyed. She is a fine creature and I’m
proud of her, but she deserves a better lot than to be tied to an old
fellow like me whose only merit is his fidelity.”

“As you please, I was only joking,” and Uncle Mac dropped the subject
with secret relief. The excellent man thought a good deal of family and
had been rather worried at the hints of the ladies. After a moment’s
silence he returned to a former topic, which was rather a pet plan of
his. “I don’t think you do Archie justice, Alec. You don’t know him as
well as I do, but you’ll find that he has heart enough under his cool,
quiet manner. I’ve grown very fond of him, think highly of him, and
don’t see how you could do better for Rose than to give her to him.”

“If she will go,” said the doctor, smiling at his brother’s businesslike
way of disposing of the young people.

“She’ll do anything to please you,” began Uncle Mac in perfect good
faith, for twenty-five years in the society of a very prosaic wife had
taken nearly all the romance out of him.

“It is of no use for us to plan, and I shall never interfere except to
advise, and if I were to choose one of the boys, I should incline to my
godson,” answered the doctor gravely.

“What, my Ugly Duckling!” exclaimed Uncle Mac in great surprise.

“The Ugly Duckling turned out a swan, you remember. I’ve always been
fond of the boy because he’s so genuine and original. Crude as a green
apple now, but sound at the core, and only needs time to ripen. I’m sure
he’ll turn out a capital specimen of the Campbell variety.”

“Much obliged, Alec, but it will never do at all. He’s a good fellow,
and may do something to be proud of by and by, but he’s not the mate
for our Rose. She needs someone who can manage her property when we are
gone, and Archie is the man for that, depend upon it.”

“Confound the property!” cried Dr. Alec impetuously. “I want her to
be happy, and I don’t care how soon she gets rid of her money if it is
going to be a millstone round her neck. I declare to you, I dreaded the
thought of this time so much that I’ve kept her away as long as I could
and trembled whenever a young fellow joined us while we were abroad.
Had one or two narrow escapes, and now I’m in for it, as you can see
by tonight’s ‘success’ as Clara calls it. Thank heaven I haven’t many
daughters to look after!”

“Come, come, don’t be anxious take Archie and settle it right up safely
and happily. That’s my advice, and you’ll find it sound,” replied the
elder conspirator, like one having experience.

“I’ll think of it, but mind you, Mac, not a word of this to the sisters.
We are a couple of old fools to be matchmaking so soon but I see what is
before me and it’s a comfort to free my mind to someone.”

“So it is. Depend on me not a breath even to Jane,” answered Uncle Mac,
with a hearty shake and a sympathetic slap on the shoulder.

“Why, what dark and awful secrets are going on here? Is it a Freemason’s
Lodge and those the mystic signs?” asked a gay voice at the door; and
there stood Rose, full of smiling wonder at the sight of her two uncles
hand in hand, whispering and nodding to one another mysteriously.

They stared like schoolboys caught plotting mischief and looked so
guilty that she took pity on them, innocently imagining the brothers
were indulging in a little sentiment on this joyful occasion, so she
added quickly, as she beckoned, without crossing the threshold, “Women
not allowed, of course, but both of you dear Odd Fellows are wanted, for
Aunt Plenty begs we will have an old-fashioned contra dance, and I’m to
lead off with Uncle Mac. I chose you, sir, because you do it in style,
pigeon wings and all. So, please come and Phebe is waiting for you,
Uncle Alec. She is rather shy you know, but will enjoy it with you to
take care of her.”

“Thank you, thank you!” cried both gentlemen, following with great
alacrity.

Unconscious, Rose enjoyed that Virginia reel immensely, for the
pigeon wings were superb, and her partner conducted her through the
convolutions of the dance without a fault, going down the middle in his
most gallant style. Landing safely at the bottom, she stood aside to let
him get his breath, for stout Uncle Mac was bound to do or die on that
occasion and would have danced his pumps through without a murmur if she
had desired it.

Leaning against the wall with his hair in his eyes, and a decidedly
bored expression of countenance, was Mac, Jr., who had been surveying
the gymnastics of his parent with respectful astonishment.

“Come and take a turn, my lad. Rose is fresh as a daisy, but we old
fellows soon get enough of it, so you shall have my place,” said his
father, wiping his face, which glowed like a cheerful peony.

“No, thank you, sir I can’t stand that sort of thing. I’ll race you
round the piazza with pleasure, Cousin, but his oven is too much for
me,” was Mac’s uncivil reply as he backed toward the open window, as if
glad of an excuse to escape.

“Fragile creature, don’t stay on my account, I beg. I can’t leave my
guests for a moonlight run, even if I dared to take it on a frosty night
in a thin dress,” said Rose, fanning herself and not a bit ruffled by
Mac’s refusal, for she knew his ways and they amused her.

“Not half so bad as all this dust, gas, heat, and noise. What do you
suppose lungs are made of?” demanded Mac, ready for a discussion then
and there.

“I used to know, but I’ve forgotten now. Been so busy with other things
that I’ve neglected the hobbies I used to ride five or six years ago,”
 she said, laughing.

“Ah, those were times worth having! Are you going in for much of
this sort of thing, Rose?” he asked with a disapproving glance at the
dancers.

“About three months of it, I think.”

“Then good-bye till New Year.” And Mac vanished behind the curtains.

“Rose, my dear, you really must take that fellow in hand before he gets
to be quite a bear. Since you have been gone he has lived in his books
and got on so finely that we have let him alone, though his mother
groans over his manners. Polish him up a bit, I beg of you, for it is
high time he mended his odd ways and did justice to the fine gifts he
hides behind them,” said Uncle Mac, scandalized at the bluntness of his
son.

“I know my chestnut burr too well to mind his prickles. But others do
not, so I will take him in hand and make him a credit to his family,”
 answered Rose readily.

“Take Archie for your model he’s one of a thousand, and the girl who
gets him gets a prize, I do assure you,” added Uncle Mac, who found
matchmaking to his taste and thought that closing remark a deep one.

“Oh, me, how tired I am!” cried Rose, dropping into a chair as the last
carriage rolled away somewhere between one and two.

“What is your opinion now, Miss Campbell?” asked the doctor, addressing
her for the first time by the name which had been uttered so often that
night.

“My opinion is that Miss Campbell is likely to have a gay life if she
goes on as she has begun, and that she finds it very delightful so far,”
 answered the girl, with lips still smiling from their first taste of
what the world calls pleasure.




Chapter 4 THORNS AMONG THE ROSES

For a time everything went smoothly, and Rose was a happy girl. The
world seemed a beautiful and friendly place, and fulfillment of her
brightest dreams appeared to be a possibility. Of course this could not
last, and disappointment was inevitable, because young eyes look for a
Paradise and weep when they find a workaday world which seems full of
care and trouble till one learns to gladden and glorify it with high
thoughts and holy living.

Those who loved her waited anxiously for the disillusion which must come
in spite of all their cherishing, for till now Rose had been so busy
with her studies, travels, and home duties that she knew very little
of the triumphs, trials, and temptations of fashionable life. Birth and
fortune placed her where she could not well escape some of them, and Dr.
Alec, knowing that experience is the best teacher, wisely left her to
learn this lesson as she must many another, devoutly hoping that it
would not be a hard one.

October and November passed rapidly, and Christmas was at hand, with all
its merry mysteries, home gatherings, and good wishes.

Rose sat in her own little sanctum, opening from the parlor, busily
preparing gifts for the dear five hundred friends who seemed to grow
fonder and fonder as the holidays drew near. The drawers of her commode
stood open, giving glimpses of dainty trifles, which she was tying up
with bright ribbons.

A young girl’s face at such moments is apt to be a happy one, but Rose’s
was very grave as she worked, and now and then she threw a parcel into
the drawer with a careless toss, as if no love made the gift precious.
So unusual was this expression that it struck Dr. Alec as he came in
and brought an anxious look to his eyes, for any cloud on that other
countenance dropped its shadow over his.

“Can you spare a minute from your pretty work to take a stitch in my old
glove?” he asked, coming up to the table strewn with ribbon, lace, and
colored papers.

“Yes, Uncle, as many as you please.”

The face brightened with sudden sunshine; both hands were put out
to receive the shabby driving glove, and the voice was full of that
affectionate alacrity which makes the smallest service sweet.

“My Lady Bountiful is hard at work, I see. Can I help in any way?” he
asked, glancing at the display before him.

“No, thank you, unless you can make me as full of interest and pleasure
in these things as I used to be. Don’t you think preparing presents a
great bore, except for those you love and who love you?” she added in a
tone which had a slight tremor in it as she uttered the last words.

“I don’t give to people whom I care nothing for. Can’t do it, especially
at Christmas, when goodwill should go into everything one does. If all
these ‘pretties’ are for dear friends, you must have a great many.”

“I thought they were friends, but I find many of them are not, and
that’s the trouble, sir.”

“Tell me all about it, dear, and let the old glove go,” he said, sitting
down beside her with his most sympathetic air.

But she held the glove fast, saying eagerly, “No, no, I love to do
this! I don’t feel as if I could look at you while I tell what a bad,
suspicious girl I am,” she added, keeping her eyes on her work.

“Very well, I’m ready for confessions of any iniquity and glad to get
them, for sometimes lately I’ve seen a cloud in my girl’s eyes and
caught a worried tone in her voice. Is there a bitter drop in the cup
that promised to be so sweet, Rose?”

“Yes, Uncle. I’ve tried to think there was not, but it is there, and I
don’t like it. I’m ashamed to tell, and yet I want to, because you will
show me how to make it sweet or assure me that I shall be the better for
it, as you used to do when I took medicine.”

She paused a minute, sewing swiftly; then out came the trouble all in
one burst of girlish grief and chagrin.

“Uncle, half the people who are so kind to me don’t care a bit for me,
but for what I can give them, and that makes me unhappy, because I was
so glad and proud to be liked. I do wish I hadn’t a penny in the world,
then I should know who my true friends were.”

“Poor little lass! She has found out that all that glitters is not
gold, and the disillusion has begun,” said the doctor to himself, adding
aloud, smiling yet pitiful, “And so all the pleasure is gone out of the
pretty gifts and Christmas is a failure?”

“Oh, no not for those whom nothing can make me doubt! It is sweeter than
ever to make these things, because my heart is in every stitch and I
know that, poor as they are, they will be dear to you, Aunty Plen, Aunt
Jessie, Phebe, and the boys.”

She opened a drawer where lay a pile of pretty gifts, wrought with
loving care by her own hands, touching them tenderly as she spoke and
patting the sailor’s knot of blue ribbon on one fat parcel with a smile
that told how unshakable her faith in someone was. “But these,” she
said, pulling open another drawer and tossing over its gay contents with
an air half sad, half scornful, “these I bought and give because they
are expected. These people care only for a rich gift, not one bit for
the giver, whom they will secretly abuse if she is not as generous as
they expect. How can I enjoy that sort of thing, Uncle?”

“You cannot, but perhaps you do some of them injustice, my dear. Don’t
let the envy or selfishness of a few poison your faith in all. Are you
sure that none of these girls care for you?” he asked, reading a name
here and there on the parcels scattered about.

“I’m afraid I am. You see I heard several talking together the other
evening at Annabel’s, only a few words, but it hurt me very much, for
nearly everyone was speculating on what I would give them and hoping it
would be something fine. ‘She’s so rich she ought to be generous,’ said
one. ‘I’ve been perfectly devoted to her for weeks and hope she won’t
forget it,’ said another. ‘If she doesn’t give me some of her gloves, I
shall think she’s very mean, for she has heaps, and I tried on a pair in
fun so she could see they fitted and take a hint,’ added a third. I did
take the hint, you see.” And Rose opened a handsome box in which lay
several pairs of her best gloves, with buttons enough to satisfy the
heart of the most covetous.

“Plenty of silver paper and perfume, but not much love went into that
bundle, I fancy?” And Dr. Alec could not help smiling at the disdainful
little gesture with which Rose pushed away the box.

“Not a particle, nor in most of these. I have given them what they
wanted and taken back the confidence and respect they didn’t care for.
It is wrong, I know, but I can’t bear to think all the seeming goodwill
and friendliness I’ve been enjoying was insincere and for a purpose.
That’s not the way I treat people.”

“I am sure of it. Take things for what they are worth, dear, and try to
find the wheat among the tares, for there is plenty if one knows how to
look. Is that all the trouble?”

“No, sir, that is the lightest part of it. I shall soon get over my
disappointment in those girls and take them for what they are worth as
you advise, but being deceived in them makes me suspicious of others,
and that is hateful. If I cannot trust people I’d rather keep by myself
and be happy. I do detest maneuvering and underhanded plots and plans!”

Rose spoke petulantly and twitched her silk till it broke, while regret
seemed to give place to anger as she spoke.

“There is evidently another thorn pricking. Let us have it out, and
then I’ll kiss the place to make it well as I used to do when I took the
splinters from the fingers you are pricking so unmercifully,” said the
doctor, anxious to relieve his pet patient as soon as possible.

Rose laughed, but the color deepened in her cheeks as she answered with
a pretty mixture of maidenly shyness and natural candor.

“Aunt Clara worries me by warning me against half the young men I meet
and insisting that they want only my money. Now that is dreadful, and
I won’t listen, but I can’t help thinking of it sometimes, for they
are very kind to me and I’m not vain enough to think it is my beauty. I
suppose I am foolish, but I do like to feel that I am something besides
an heiress.”

The little quiver was in Rose’s voice again as she ended, and Dr. Alec
gave a quick sigh as he looked at the downcast face so full of the
perplexity ingenuous spirits feel when doubt first mars their faith
and dims the innocent beliefs still left from childhood. He had been
expecting this and knew that what the girl just began to perceive and
try modestly to tell had long ago been plain to worldlier eyes. The
heiress was the attraction to most of the young men whom she met. Good
fellows enough, but educated, as nearly all are nowadays, to believe
that girls with beauty or money are brought to market to sell or buy as
the case may be.

Rose could purchase anything she liked, as she combined both advantages,
and was soon surrounded by many admirers, each striving to secure the
prize. Not being trained to believe that the only end and aim of a
woman’s life was a good match, she was a little disturbed, when the
first pleasing excitement was over, to discover that her fortune was her
chief attraction.

It was impossible for her to help seeing, hearing, guessing this from a
significant glance, a stray word, a slight hint here and there, and
the quick instinct of a woman felt even before it understood the
self-interest which chilled for her so many opening friendships. In her
eyes love was a very sacred thing, hardly to be thought of till it came,
reverently received and cherished faithfully to the end. Therefore, it
is not strange that she shrank from hearing it flippantly discussed and
marriage treated as a bargain to be haggled over, with little thought
of its high duties, great responsibilities, and tender joys. Many
things perplexed her, and sometimes a doubt of all that till now she had
believed and trusted made her feel as if at sea without a compass,
for the new world was so unlike the one she had been living in that it
bewildered while it charmed the novice.

Dr. Alec understood the mood in which he found her and did his best to
warn without saddening by too much worldly wisdom.

“You are something besides an heiress to those who know and love you, so
take heart, my girl, and hold fast to the faith that is in you. There
is a touchstone for all these things, and whatever does not ring true,
doubt and avoid. Test and try men and women as they come along, and I
am sure conscience, instinct, and experience will keep you from any dire
mistake,” he said, with a protecting arm about her and a trustful look
that was very comforting.

After a moment’s pause she answered, while a sudden smile dimpled around
her mouth and the big glove went up to hide her telltale cheeks: “Uncle,
if I must have lovers, I do wish they’d be more interesting. How can I
like or respect men who go on as some of them do and then imagine women
can feel honored by the offer of their hands? Hearts are out of fashion,
so they don’t say much about them.”

“Ah, ha! That is the trouble, is it? And we begin to have delicate
distresses, do we?” said Dr. Alec, glad to see her brightening and full
of interest in the new topic, for he was a romantic old fellow, as he
had confessed to his brother.

Rose put down the glove and looked up with a droll mixture of amusement
and disgust in her face. “Uncle, it is perfectly disgraceful! I’ve
wanted to tell you, but I was ashamed, because I never could boast of
such things as some girls do, and they were so absurd I couldn’t feel as
if they were worth repeating even to you. Perhaps I ought, though,
for you may think it proper to command me to make a good match, and of
course I should have to obey,” she added, trying to look meek.

“Tell, by all means. Don’t I always keep your secrets and give you the
best advice, like a model guardian? You must have a confidant, and where
find a better one than here?” he asked, tapping his waistcoat with an
inviting gesture.

“Nowhere so I’ll tell all but the names. I’d best be prudent, for I’m
afraid you may get a little fierce you do sometimes when people vex
me,” began Rose, rather liking the prospect of a confidential chat with
Uncle, for he had kept himself a good deal in the background lately.

“You know our ideas are old-fashioned, so I was not prepared to have
men propose at all times and places with no warning but a few smiles and
soft speeches. I expected things of that sort would be very interesting
and proper, not to say thrilling, on my part but they are not, and I
find myself laughing instead of crying, feeling angry instead of glad,
and forgetting all about it very soon. Why, Uncle, one absurd boy
proposed when we’d met only half a dozen times. But he was dreadfully in
debt, so that accounted for it perhaps.” And Rose dusted her fingers, as
if she had soiled them.

“I know him, and I thought he’d do it,” observed the doctor with a
shrug.

“You see and know everything, so there’s no need of going on, is there?”

“Do, do! Who else? I won’t even guess.”

“Well, another went down upon his knees in Mrs. Van’s greenhouse and
poured forth his passion manfully, with a great cactus pricking his poor
legs all the while. Kitty found him there, and it was impossible to keep
sober, so he has hated me ever since.”

The doctor’s “Ha! Ha!” was good to hear, and Rose joined him, for it was
impossible to regard these episodes seriously, since no true sentiment
redeemed them from absurdity.

“Another sent me reams of poetry and went on so Byronically that I
began to wish I had red hair and my name was Betsy Ann. I burnt all the
verses, so don’t expect to see them, and he, poor fellow, is consoling
himself with Emma. But the worst of all was the one who would make love
in public and insisted on proposing in the middle of a dance. I seldom
dance round dances except with our boys, but that night I did because
the girls laughed at me for being so ‘prudish,’ as they called it. I
don’t mind them now, for I found I was right, and felt that I deserved
my fate.”

“Is that all?” asked her uncle, looking “fierce,” as she predicted,
at the idea of his beloved girl obliged to listen to a declaration,
twirling on the arm of a lover.

“One more but him I shall not tell about, for I know he was in earnest
and really suffered, though I was as kind as I knew how to be. I’m young
in these things yet, so I grieved for him, and treat his love with the
tenderest respect.”

Rose’s voice sank almost to a whisper as she ended, and Dr. Alec bent
his head, as if involuntarily saluting a comrade in misfortune. Then
he got up, saying with a keen look into the face he lifted by a finger
under the chin: “Do you want another three months of this?”

“I’ll tell you on New Year’s Day, Uncle.”

“Very well. Try to keep a straight course, my little captain, and if you
see dirty weather ahead, call on your first mate.”

“Aye, aye, sir. I’ll remember.”




Chapter 5 PRINCE CHARMING

The old glove lay upon the floor forgotten while Rose sat musing, till a
quick step sounded in the hall and a voice drew near, tunefully humming.

    “As he was walkin’ doun the street
    The city for to view,
    Oh, there he spied a bonny lass,
    The window lookin’ through.”

    “Sae licht he jumpèd up the stair,
    And tirled at the pin;
    Oh, wha sae ready as hersel’
    To let the laddie in?”

sang Rose as the voice paused and a tap came at the door.

“Good morning, Rosamunda, here are your letters, and your most devoted
ready to execute any commissions you may have for him,” was Charlie’s
greeting as he came in looking comely, gay, and debonair as usual.

“Thanks. I’ve no errands unless you mail my replies, if these need
answering, so by your leave, Prince,” and Rose began to open the handful
of notes he threw into her lap.

“Ha! What sight is this to blast mine eyes?” ejaculated Charlie, as
he pointed to the glove with a melodramatic start, for, like most
accomplished amateur actors, he was fond of introducing private
theatricals into his daily talk and conversation.

“Uncle left it.”

“‘Tis well. Methought perchance a rival had been here,” and, picking
it up, Charlie amused himself with putting it on the head of a little
Psyche which ornamented the mantelpiece, softly singing as he did so,
another verse of the old song:

    “He set his Jenny on his knee,
    All in his Highland dress;
    For brawly well he kenned the way
    To please a bonny lass.”

Rose went on reading her letters, but all the while was thinking of her
conversation with her uncle as well as something else suggested by the
newcomer and his ditty.

During the three months since her return she had seen more of this
cousin than any of the others, for he seemed to be the only one who had
leisure to “play with Rose,” as they used to say years ago. The other
boys were all at work, even little Jamie, many of whose play hours were
devoted to manful struggles with Latin grammar, the evil genius of
his boyish life. Dr. Alec had many affairs to arrange after his long
absence; Phebe was busy with her music; and Aunt Plenty still actively
superintended her housekeeping. Thus it fell out, quite naturally, that
Charlie should form the habit of lounging in at all hours with letters,
messages, bits of news, and agreeable plans for Rose. He helped her with
her sketching, rode with her, sang with her, and took her to parties
as a matter of course, for Aunt Clara, being the gaiest of the sisters,
played chaperon on all occasions.

For a time it was very pleasant, but, by and by, Rose began to wish
Charlie would find something to do like the rest and not make dawdling
after her the business of his life. The family was used to his
self-indulgent ways, and there was an amiable delusion in the minds of
the boys that he had a right to the best of everything, for to them
he was still the Prince, the flower of the flock, and in time to be an
honor to the name. No one exactly knew how, for, though full of talent,
he seemed to have no especial gift or bias, and the elders began to
shake their heads because, in spite of many grand promises and projects,
the moment for decisive action never came.

Rose saw all this and longed to inspire her brilliant cousin with some
manful purpose which should win for him respect as well as admiration.
But she found it very hard, for though he listened with imperturbable
good humor, and owned his shortcomings with delightful frankness, he
always had some argument, reason, or excuse to offer and out-talked her
in five minutes, leaving her silenced but unconvinced.

Of late she had observed that he seemed to feel as if her time and
thoughts belonged exclusively to him and rather resented the approach
of any other claimant. This annoyed her and suggested the idea that
her affectionate interest and efforts were misunderstood by him,
misrepresented and taken advantage of by Aunt Clara, who had been most
urgent that she should “use her influence with the dear boy,” though the
fond mother resented all other interference. This troubled Rose and made
her feel as if caught in a snare, for, while she owned to herself that
Charlie was the most attractive of her cousins, she was not ready to be
taken possession of in this masterful way, especially since other and
sometimes better men sought her favor more humbly.

These thoughts were floating vaguely in her mind as she read her letters
and unconsciously influenced her in the chat that followed.

“Only invitations, and I can’t stop to answer them now or I shall never
get through this job,” she said, returning to her work.

“Let me help. You do up, and I’ll direct. Have a secretary, do now, and
see what a comfort it will be,” proposed Charlie, who could turn his
hand to anything and had made himself quite at home in the sanctum.

“I’d rather finish this myself, but you may answer the notes if you
will. Just regrets to all but two or three. Read the names as you go
along and I’ll tell you which.”

“To hear is to obey. Who says I’m a ‘frivolous idler’ now?” And Charlie
sat down at the writing table with alacrity, for these hours in the
little room were his best and happiest.

“Order is heaven’s first law, and the view a lovely one, but I don’t see
any notepaper,” he added, opening the desk and surveying its contents
with interest.

“Right-hand drawer violet monogram for the notes, plain paper for the
business letter. I’ll see to that, though,” answered Rose, trying to
decide whether Annabel or Emma should have the laced handkerchief.

“Confiding creature! Suppose I open the wrong drawer and come upon the
tender secrets of your soul?” continued the new secretary, rummaging out
the delicate notepaper with masculine disregard of order.

“I haven’t got any,” answered Rose demurely.

“What, not one despairing scrawl, one cherished miniature, one faded
floweret, etc., etc.? I can’t believe it, Cousin,” and he shook his head
incredulously.

“If I had, I certainly should not show them to you, impertinent
person! There are a few little souvenirs in that desk, but nothing very
sentimental or interesting.”

“How I’d like to see ‘em! But I should never dare to ask,” observed
Charlie, peering over the top of the half-open lid with a most
persuasive pair of eyes.

“You may if you want to, but you’ll be disappointed, Paul Pry. Lower
left-hand drawer with the key in it.”

“‘Angel of goodness, how shall I requite thee? Interesting moment, with
what palpitating emotions art thou fraught!’” And, quoting from the
“Mysteries of Udolpho,” he unlocked and opened the drawer with a tragic
gesture.

“Seven locks of hair in a box, all light, for ‘here’s your straw color,
your orange tawny, your French crown color, and your perfect yellow’
Shakespeare. They look very familiar, and I fancy I know the heads they
thatched.”

“Yes, you all gave me one when I went away, you know, and I carried them
round the world with me in that very box.”

“I wish the heads had gone too. Here’s a jolly little amber god with
a gold ring in his back and a most balmy breath,” continued Charlie,
taking a long sniff at the scent bottle.

“Uncle brought me that long ago, and I’m very fond of it.”

“This now looks suspicious man’s ring with a lotus cut on the stone and
a note attached. I tremble as I ask, who, when, and where?”

“A gentleman, on my birthday, in Calcutta.”

“I breathe again it was my sire?”

“Don’t be absurd. Of course it was, and he did everything to make my
visit pleasant. I wish you’d go and see him like a dutiful son, instead
of idling here.”

“That’s what Uncle Mac is eternally telling me, but I don’t intend to
be lectured into the treadmill till I’ve had my fling first,” muttered
Charlie rebelliously.

“If you fling yourself in the wrong direction, you may find it hard to
get back again,” began Rose gravely.

“No fear, if you look after me as you seem to have promised to do,
judging by the thanks you get in this note. Poor old governor! I should
like to see him, for it’s almost four years since he came home last and
he must be getting on.”

