rudder on the wreck of the Sunflower " — 
" Why, the Sunflower did'nt sink until " — 
"  know wlien she sunk ; it was three years 
before that, on the 2d of December; Asa Hardy 
was captain of her, and his brother John was first 
clerk; and it was his first trip in her, too; Tom 
Jones told me these things a week afterward in 
New Orleans ; he was first mate of the Sunflower. 
Captain Hardy stuck a nail in his foot the 6th of 
July of the next year, and died of the lock; aw on 
the 15th. His brother John died two years after, — 
3d of March, — erysipelas. I never saw either of the 
Hardys, — they were Alleghany River men, — but 
people who knew them told me all these things. 
And they said Captain Hardy wore yarn socks 
winter and summer just the same, and his first 
wife's name was Jane Shook, — she was from New 
England, — and his second one die in a lunatic 
asylum. It was in the blood. She was from Lexington, 
Kentucky. Name was Horton before she was married." 
And HO on, by the hour, the man's tongue would 
go. He could not forget anything. It was simply 
impossible. The most trivial details remained as 
distinct and luminous in his head, after they had 
lain there for years, as the most memorable 
events. His was not simply a pilot's memory ; its 
grasp was universal. If he were talking about a 
trifling letter he had received seven years before, 
he was pretty sure to deliver you the entire screed 
from memory. And then, witliout observing that 
he was departing from the true line of his talk, he 
was more than likely to hurl in a long-drawn par- 
enthetical biography ol the writer of that letter ; 
and you were lucky indeed if he did not take up 
that writer's relatives, one by one, and give you 
their biographies, too. 
Such a memory as that is a gi'eat misfortune. To 
it, all occurrences are ol the same size. Its posses- 
sor cannot distinguish an interesting circumstance 
from an uninteresting one. As a talker, he is bound 
to clog his narrative with tiresome details and make 
himself an insufferable bore. Moreover, he cannot 
stick to his subject. He picks up every little grain 
of memory he discerns in his way, and so is led 
aside. Mr. J would start out with the honest 
intention of telling you a vastly funny anecdote 
about a dog. He would be " so full of laugh" that 
he could hardly begin ; then his memory would 
start with the dog's breed and personal appearance; 
drift into a history of his owner; of his owner's 
family, with descriptions of weddings and burials 
that had occurred in it, together with recitals of 
congratulatory verses and obituary poetry provoked 
by the same; then this memory would recollect 
that one of these events occurred during the cele- 
brated " hard winter " of such and such a year, and 
a minute description of that winter would follow, 
along with the names of people who were frozen to 
death, and statistics showing the high figures which 
pork and hay went up to. Pork and hay would 
suggest com and fodder; com and fodder would 
suggest cows and horses ; the latter would suggest 
the circus and certain celebrated bare-back riders ; 
the transition from the circus to the menagerie was 
easy and natural ; from the elephant to equatorial 
Africa was but a step ; then of course the heathen 
savages would suggest religion ; and at the end of 
three or four hours' tedious jaw, the watch would 
change and J would go out of the pilot-house 
muttering extracts from sermons he had heard years 
before about the efficacy of prayer as a means of 
grace. And the original first mention would be all 
you had learned about that dog, after all this wait- 
ing and hungering. 
A pilot must have a memory ; but there are two 
higher qualities which he must also have. He must 
have good and quick judgment and decision, and a 
cool, calm courage that no peril can shake. Give a 
man the merest trifle of pluck to start with, and by 
the time ho has become a pilot he cannot be unman- 
ned by any danger a steamboat can get into; but one 
cannot quite say the same for judgment. Judg- 
ment is a matter of brains, and a man must start 
with a good stock of that article or he will never 
succeed as a pilot. 
The growth of courage in the pilot-house is 
steady all the time, but it does not reach a high 
and satisfactory condition until some time after the 
young pilot has been " standing his own watch," 
alone and under the staggering weight of all the 
responsibilities connected with the position. When 
an apprentice has become pretty thoroughly acquain- 
ted with the river, he goes clattering along so fear- 
lessly with his steamboat, night or day, that he 
presently begins to imagine that it is his courage 
that animates him ; but the fii-st time the pilot 
steps out and leaves him to his own devices he finds 
out it was the other man's. He discovers that the 
article has been left out of his own cargo altogether. 
The whole river is bristling with exigencies in a 
moment ; he is not prepared for them ; he does not 
know how to meet them ; all his knowledge for- 
sakes him ; and within fifteen minutes he is as 
white as a sheet and scared almost to death. There- 
fore pilots wisely train these cubs by various strat- 
egic tricks to look danger in the face a little more 
calmly. A favorite way of theirs is to play a 
friendly bwindle upon the candidate. 
Mr. B served me in this fashion once, and for 
years afterwards I used to blush even in my sleep 
when I thought of it. I had become a good steers 
man ; so good, indeed, that I had all the work to 
do on our watch, night or day ; Mr. B seldom 
made a suggestion to me ; all he ever did was to 
take the wheel on particularly bad nights or in par- 
ticularly bad crossings, land the boat when she 
needed to be landed, play gentleman of leisure nine 
tenths of the watch, and collect the wages. The 
lower river was about bank-full, and if anybody 
had questioned my ability to run any crossing be- 
tween Cairo and New Orleans without help or in- 
struction, I should have felt irreparably hurt. The 
idea of being afraid of any crossing in the lot, in 
the day-time, was a thing too preposterous for con- 
templation. Well, one matchless summer's day I 
was bowling down the bend above island 66, 
brim full of self-conceit and carrying my nose as 
high as a giraffe's, when Mr. B said, — 
"I am going below a while. I suppose you 
know the next crossing ? " 
This was almost an aflfront. It was about the 
plainest and simplest crossing in the whole river. 
One couldn't come to any harm, whether he ran it 
right or not ; and as for depth, there never had 
been any bottom there. I knew all this, perfectly 
well. 
Know how to run it ? Why, I can run it with 
my eyes shut." 
" How much water is there in it ? " 
" Well, that is an odd question. I couldn't get 
bottom there with a church steeple." 
. "You think so, do you?" 
The very tone of the question shook my confi- 
dence. That was what Mr. B was expecting. 
He left, without saying anything more. I began 
to imagine all sorts of things. Mr. B , unknown 
to me, of course, sent somebody down to the fore- 
castle with some mysterious instruction to the 
leadsmen, another messenger was sent to whisper 
among the officers, and then Mr. B went into 
hiding behind a smoke-stack where he could ob- 
serve results. Presently the captain stepped out on 
the hurricane dock ; next the chief mate appeared ; 
then a clerk. Every moment or two a straggler 
was added to my audience ; and before I got to the 
head of the island I had fifteen or twenty people 
assembled down there under my nose. I began to 
wonder what the trouble was. As I started across 
the captain glanced aloft at me and said, with a 
sham uneasiness in his voice, — 
"Where is Mr. B V* 
" Gone below, sir." 
But that did the business for me. My imagina- 
tion began to construct dangers out of nothing, and 
they multiplied faster than I could keep the run of 
them. All at once I imagined I saw shoal water 
ahead! The wave of coward agony that surged 
through me then came near dislocating every 
joint in me. All my confidence in that crossing 
vanished. I seized the bell-rope ; dropped it, 
ashamed ; seized it again ; dropped it once more ; 
clutched it tremblingly once again, and pulled it so 
feebly that I could hardly hear the stroke myself. 
Captain and mate sang out instantly, and both to- 
gether, — 
" Starboard lead there ! and quick about it ! '' 
This was another shock. I began to climb the 
wheel like a squirrel ; but I would hardly get the 
boat started to port before I would see new dangers 
on that side, and away I would spin to the other ; 
only to find perils accumulating to starboard, and 
be crazy to get to port again. Then came the 
leadsman's sepulchral cry : — 
" D-ee-p four ! " 
Deep four in a bottomless crossing ! The terror 
of it took my breath away. 
" M-a-r-k three ! M-a-r k three ! Quarter less 
three ! Half twain ! " 
This was frightful ! I seized the bell-ropes and 
stopped the engines. 
" Quarter twain ! Quarter twain ! Mark twain !" 
I was helpless. I did not know what in the 
world to do. I was quaking from head to foot, and 
I could have hung my hat on my eyes, they stuck 
out so far. 
" Quarter less twain ! Nine and a half ! " 
We were drawing nine! My hands were in a 
nerveless flutter. I could not ring a bell intelligible
with them. I flew to the speak into- tube and 
shouted to the engineer, — 
" Oh, Ben, if you love me, hack her ! Quick 
Ben ! Oh, back the immortal soul out of her ! " 
I heard the door close gently. I looked around 
and the'e stood Mr. B , smiling a bland, sweet 
smile. ThcE the audience on the hurricane deck 
sent uj- Si out of humiliating laughter. I saw it 
all, now, and I felt meaner than the meanest man 
in human history. I laid in the lead, set the boat 
in her marks, came ahead on the engines, and said, — 
" It was a fine trick to play on an orphan u'osn't 
it ? I suppose I 'll never hear the last of how I was 
ass enough to heave the lead at the head of G6." 
" Well, no, you won't, maybe. In fact I hope you 
won't ; for I want you to learn something by that 
experience. Didn't you Icriow there was no bot- 
tom in that crossing ? " 
" Yes, sir, I did." 
" Ver well, then. You shouldn't have allowed 
me or anybody else to shake your confidence in 
that knowledge. Try to remember that. And 
another thing : when you get into a dangerous 
place, don't turn coward. That isn't going to help 
matters any." 
It was a good enough lesson, but pretty hardly 
learned. Yet about the hardest part of it was that 
for months I so often had to hear a phrase which 
I had conceived a particular distaste for. It was, 
" Oh, Ben, if you love me, back her ! " 
CHAPTER VI. 
OFFICIAL RANK AND DIGNITY OF A PILOT. THE 
RISE AND DECADENCE OF THE PILOTS' ASSOCL 
ATION. 
In my preceding articles I have trie&, by going 
into the minutiae of the science of piloting, to carry 
the reader step by step to a comprehension of what 
the science consists of; and at the same time I 
have tried to show him that it is a very curious 
and wonderful science, too, and very worthy of his 
attention. If I have seemed to love my subject, it 
is no surprising thing, for I loved the profession 
far better than any I have followed since, and I 
took a measureless pride in it. The reason is 
plain : a pilot in those days, was the only un- 
fettered and entirely independent huiuan being 
that lived in the earth. Kings are but the ham- 
pered servants of parliament and people ; parlia 
ments sit in chains forged by their constituency ; 
the editor of a newspaper cannot be independent, 
but must work with one hand tied behind him by 
party and patrons, and be content to utter only 
half or two-thirdn of his mind ; no clergyman is a 
free man and may speak the whole truth, regard- 
less of his parish's opinions ; writers of all kinds 
are manacled servants of the public. We write 
frankly and fearlessly, but then we *' modify " 
before we print. In truth, ever man and woman 
and child has a master, and worries and frets in 
servitude ; but in the day I write of, the Missis- 
sippi pilot had 7ione. The captain could stand 
upon the hurricane deck, in the pomp of a very 
brief authority, and give him five or six orders, 
while the vessel backed into the stream, and then 
that skipper's reign was over. The moment that 
the boat was under way in the river, she was under 
the sole and unquestioned control of the pilot. He 
could do with her exactly as he pleased, run her 
when and whither he chose, and tie her up to the 
bank whenever his judgment said that that course 
was best. His movements were entirely free ; he 
consulted no one, he received commands from 
nobody, he promptly resented even the merest 
suggestions. Indeed, the law of the United States 
forbade him to listen to commands or suggestions, 
rightly considering that the pilot necessarily knew 
better how to handle the boat than anybody oould 
tell him. So here was the novelty of a king with- 
out a keeper, an absolute monarch who was 
absolute in sober truth and not by a fiction of 
words. I have seen a boy of eighteen taking a 
great steamer serenely i'to what seemed almost 
certain destruction, and the agod captain standing 
mutely by, filled with apprehension but powerless 
to interfere. His interference, in that particular 
instance, might have been an excellent thing, but 
to permit it would have been to establish a most 
pernicious precedent. It will easily be guessed, 
considering the pilot's boundless authority, that 
he was a great personage in the old steamboating 
days. He was treated with marked courtesy by 
the captain and with marked deference by all the 
officers and servants ; and this deferential spirit 
was quickly communicated to the passengers, too. 
I think pilots were about the only people I ever 
knew who failed to show, in some degree, em- 
barrassment in the presence of traveling foreign 
princes. But then, people in one's own grade of life 
are not usually embarrassing objects. 
By long habit, pilots came to put all their wishes 
in the form of commands. It " gravels " me, to 
this day, to put my will in the weak shape of a 
request, instead of launching it in the crisp lan- 
guage of an order. 
In those old days, to load a steamboat at St. 
Louis, take her to New Orleans and back, and dis- 
chLTge cargo, consumed about twenty-five days, on 
an average. Seven or eight of thtse days the boat 
spent at the wharves of St. Louis and New Orleans, 
and every soul on board was hard at work, except 
the two pilots ; they did nothing but play gentle- 
man, up town, and receive the same wages for it 
as if they had been on duty. The moment the 
boat touched the wharf at citlior city, they wore 
ashore ; and they were not likely to bo seen again 
till the last boll wns ringing and everything in 
readiness for another voyage. 
When a captain got hold of a pilot of particularly 
high reputation, he took pains to keep him. When 
wages were four hundred dollars a month on the 
Upper Mississippi, I have known a captain to 
keep such a pilot in idleness, under full pay, three 
months at a time, while the river was frozen up. 
And one must remember that in those cheap times 
four hundred dollars was a salary of almost in- 
conceivable splendor. Few men on shore got such 
pay as that, and when they did they were mightly 
looked up to. When pilots from either end of the 
river waii lered into our small Missouri village, 
they were ght by the best and the fairest, and 
treated w ''alted respect. Lying in port under 
wages was a thing which many pilots greatly en- 
joyed and appreciated ; especially if they belonged 
in the Missouri River in the heyday of that trade 
(Kansas times), and got nine hundred dollars a 
trip, which was equivalent to about eighteen hun- 
dered dollars a month. Here is a conversation of 
that day. A chap out of the Illinois Biver, with a 
little stem-wheel tub, accosts a couple of ornate 
and gilded Missouri River pilots : — 
'' Gentlemen, I've got a pretty good trip for the 
up-country, and shall want you about a month. 
How much will it be ? " 
'' Eighteen hundred dollars apiece.'' 
" Heavens and earth ! You take my boat, let 
me have your wages, and I'll divide ! " 
I will remark, in passing, that Mississippi steam- 
boatmen were important in landsmen's eyes (and 
in their own, too, in a degree) according to the 
dignity of the boat they were on. For instance, 
it was a proud thing to be of the crew of such 
stately craft as the Aleck Scott or the Grand Turk. 
Negro firemen, deck hands, and barbers belonging 
to those boats were distinguished personages in 
their grade of life, and they were well aware of 
that fact, too. A stalwart darkey once gave offense 
at a negro ball in New Orleans by putting on a 
good many airs. Finally, one of the managers 
bustled up to him and said, — 
"Who is you, any way? Who is you? dat's 
what I wants to know ! " 
The offender was not disconcerted in the least, 
but swelled himself up and threw that into his 
voice which showed that he knew he was putting 
on all those airs on a stinted capital. 
"Who is I? Who is I? I let you know mighty 
quick who I is ! I want you niggers to understan' 
dat I fires de middle do' on de Aleck Scott!" 
That was sufficient. ' 
The barber of the Grand Turk was a spruce 
young negro, who aired his importance with balmy 
complacency, and was greiitly courted by the circle 
in which he moved. The young colored population 
of New Orleans were much given to flirting, at 
twilight, on the pavements of the back streets. 
Somebody saw and heard something like the 
following, one evenmg, in one of those localities. 
A middle-aged negro woman projected her head 
through a broken pane and shouted (very willing 
that the neighbors should hear and envy), '' You 
Mary Ann, come inde house dis minute! Stannin' 
out dab foolin' 'long wid dat low trash, an' heah's 
de barber off'n de Gran' Turk wants to conwerse 
wid you ! " 
My reference, a moment ago, to the fact that a 
pilot's peculiar official position placed him out of 
the reach of criticism or command, brings Stephen 
W naturally to my mind. He was a giffced 
pilot, a good fellow, a tireless talker, and had both 
wit and humor in him. He had a most irreverent 
independence, too, and was deliciously easy-going 
and comfortable in the presence of age, official dig- 
nity, and even the most august wealth. He al- 
ways had work, he never saved a penny, he was a 
most persuasive borrower, he was in debt to every 
pilot on the river, and to the majority of the cap- 
tains. He could throw a sort of splendor around a 
bit of harum-scarum, devil-may-care piloting, that 
made it almost fascinating — but not to everybody. 
He made a trip with good old gentle-spirited Captain 
Y once, and was "relieved" from duty 
when the boat got to Now Orleans. Somebody 
ecpressed surprise at the discharge. Captain 
Y shuddered at the mere mention of Stephen. 
Then his poor, thin old voice piped out something 
like this : 
"Why, bless me ! I wouldn't have such a wild 
creature on my boat for the world — not for the 
whole world! He swears, he sings, he whistles, he 
yells — I never saw such an Injun to yell. All times 
of the night — it never made any difference to him. 
He would just yell that way, not for anjrthing in 
particular, but merely on account of a kind of 
devilish comfort he got out of it. I never could 
get into a sound sleep but he would fetch me out 
of bed, all in a cold sweat, with one of those dread- 
ful war-whoops. A queer being, — very queer being; 
no respect for anything or anybody. Sometimes 
he called me * Johnny.' And he kept a fiddle, and a 
cat. He played execrably. This seemed to distress 
the cat, and so the cat would howL Nobody could 
sleep where that man — and his family — was. And 
reckless? There never was anything like it. Now 
you may believe it or not, but as sure as I am- 
sitting here, he brought my boat a-tilting down 
through those awful snags at Chicot under a 
rattling head of steam, and the wind a-blowing ' 
like the very nation, at that ! My officers will tell  
you so. They saw it. And, sir, while he was 
a-tearing right down through those snags, and I s 
shaking in my shoeb and praying, I wish I may 
never speak again if he didn't pucker up his mouth 
and go to whistling! Yes sir; whistling Buffalo 
gals, can't you come out to-night, can't you come 
out to-night, can't you come out to-night;' and 
doing it as calmly as if we were attending a funeral 
and weren't related to the corpse. And when I 
remonstrated with him about it, he smiled down on 
me as if I was his child, £nd told me to run in the 
house and try to be good, and not be meddling with 
my superiors ! " * 
Once a pretty mean captain caught Stephen in 
New Orleans out of work and as usual out of 
money. He laid steady siege to Stephen, who was 
in a very ''close place." and finally persuaded him 
to hire with him at one hundred and twenty-five 
dollars per month, just half wages, the captain 
agreeing not to divulge the secret and so bring 
down the contempt of all the guild upon the poor 
fellow. But the boat was not more than a day out 
of New Orleans before Stephen discovered that the 
captain was boasting of his exploit, and that aU' 
the officers had been told. Stephen winced, but 
said nothing. About the middle of the artemoon 
the captain stepped out on the hurricane deck, cast 
bis eye arcind, and looked a good deal surprised. 
He glanced inquiringly aloft at Stephen, but 
Stephen was whistling placidly, and attending to 
I Considering a captain's ostentatious but hollow chieftainship 
and a pilot's real authority, there was somethmg impudently apt 
aad happy about that way of phrasing it. 
 The captain stood around awhile in 
evident discomfort, and once or twice seemed about 
to make a suggestion; but the etiquetta of the 
river taught him to avoid that sort of rashness, and 
so he managed to hold his peace. He chafed and 
puzzled a few minutes longer, then retired to his 
apartments. But soon he was out again, and 
apparently more perplexed than ever. Presently 
he ventured to remark, with deference, — 
" Pretty good stage of the river now, ain't it, sir?" 
" Well, I should say so ! Bank-full is a pretty 
liberal stage." 
" Seems to be a good deal of current here." 
"Good deal don't describe it! It's worse than 
a mill-race." 
'' Isn't it easier in toward shore than it is out 
here in the middle ? " 
"Yes, I reckon it is; but a body can't be too 
careful with a steamboat. It's pretty safe out here ; 
can't strike any bottom here, you can depend on 
that." 
The captain departed, looking rueful enough. 
At this rate, he would probably die cf old age before 
his boat got to St. Louis. Next day he appeared 
on deck and again found Stephen faithfully standing 
up the middle of the river, fighting the whole vast 
force of the Mississippi, and whistling the same 
placid tune. This thing was becoming serious. 
In by the shore was a slower boat clipping along in 
the easy water and gaining steadily ; she began to 
make for an island chute; Stephen stuck to the 
middle of the river. Speech was wrung from the 
captain. He said, — 
 '' Mr. W , don't that chute cut off a good deal 
of distance?" 
" I think it does, but i don't know." 
" Don't know ! Well, isn't there water enough 
in it now to go through 9 " 
" I expect there is, but I am not certain." 
" Upon my word this is odd ! Why, those pilots 
on that boat yonder are going to try it. Do you 
mean to say that you don't know as much as they 
do?" 
" Theyf Why, they are two-hundred-and -fifty- 
dollar pilots ! But don't you be uneasy ; I know 
as much as any man can afford to know for a 
hundred and twenty-five ! " 
Five minutes later Stephen was bowling through 
the chute and showing the rival boat a two-hun- 
dred-and-fifty-doUars pair of heels. 
One day, on board the Aleck Scott, my chief, 
Mr. B , was crawling carefully through a close 
place at Cat Island, both leads going, and every- 
body holding his breath. The captain, a nervous, 
apprehensive man, kept still as long as he could, 
but finally broke down and shouted from the hur- 
ricane deck, — 
'' For gracious' sake, give her steam, Mr. B ! 
give her steam ! She'll never raise the reef on this 
headway!" 
For ail the effects that was prodnoed apon Mr. 
B , one would have supposed that noremark had 
been made. But five minutes later, when the dan- 
ger was past and the leads laid in, he ibursi in- 
stantly into a consuming fury, and gave the cap- 
tain the most admirable cursing I ever listened to. 
No bloodshed ensued ; but that was because the 
captain's cause was weak : for ordinarily he wap 
not a man to take correction quietly. 
Having now set forth in detail the nature of the 
science of piloting, and likewise described le rank 
which the pilot held among the fraternity of steam- 
boatmen, this seems a fitting place to say a few 
words about an organization which the pilots once 
'formed for the protection of their guild. It was 
curious and noteworthy in this, that it was per- 
haps the compact'est, the completest, and the 
strongest commercial organization ever formed 
among men. 
For a long time wages had been two hundred 
and fifty dollars a month ; but curiously enough, 
as steamboats multiplied and business increased, 
the wages began to fall, little by little. It was 
easy to discover the reason of tJiis. Two many 
pilots were being '* made." It was nice to have a 
'' cub," a steersman, to do all the hard work for a 
couple of years, gratis, while his master sat on a 
high bench and smoked ; all pilots And captains 
had sons or brothers who wanted to be pilots. By 
and by it came to pass that nearly every pilot on 
the river had a steersman. When a steersraan had 
made an araonnt of progress that was satisfactory 
to any two pilots in the trade, they could get a 
pilot's license for him by signing an application 
directed to the United States Inspector. Noth- 
ing further was needed ; usually no questions were 
Msked, no proofs of capacity required. 
Very well, this growing swarm of new pilots pre- 
sently began to undermine the wages, in order to 
get berths. Too late — apparently — the knights of 
the tiller perceived their mistake. Plainly, some- 
thing had to be done, and quickly ; but what was 
to be the needful thing ? A close organization. 
Nothing else would answer. To compass this ' 
seemed an impossibility ; so it was talked, and 
talked, and then dropped. It was too likely to 
ruin whoever ventured to move in the matter. But 
at last about a dozen of the boldest — and some of 
them the best — pilots on the river launched them- 
selves into the enterprise and took all the chances. 
They got a special charter from the legislature, 
with large powers, under the name oi the Pilots' 
Benevolent Association ; elected their officers, 
completed their organization, contributed capital, 
put " association " wages up to two hundred and 
fifty dollars at once — and then retired to their 
homes, for they were promptly discharged from 
employment. But there were two or three un- 
noticed trifles in their by-laws which had the seeds 
6i propagation in them. For instance, all idle 
members of the associaaon, in good standing, were 
entitled to a pension of twenty-five dollars per 
month. This began to bring in one straggler after 
another from the ranks of the new-fledged pilots, 
in the dull (summer) season. Bettei have twenty- 
five dollars than starve ; the initiation fee was only 
twelve dollars, and no dues required from the un- 
employed. 
Also, the widows of deceased members in good 
standing could draw twenty-five dollars per month, 
and a certain sum for each of their children. Also, 
the said deceased would be buried at the associa- 
tion's expense. These things resurrected all the 
superannuated and forgotten pilots in the Missis- 
sippi Valley. Thoy came from farms, they came 
from interior villages, they came from every- 
where. They came on crutches, on drays, in 
ambulances, — any way, so they got there. They 
paid in their twelve dcUars, and straightway began 
to draw out twenty-fie dollars a month and calcu- 
late their burial bills. 
By and by, all the useless, helpless pilots, and a 
dozen first-class ones, were in the association, and 
nine-tenths of the best pilots out of it and laughing 
at it. It was the laughing-stock of the whole river. 
Everybody joked about the by-law requiring mem- 
bers to pay ten per cent, of their wages, every 
month, into the treasury for the support of the 
association, whereas all the members were outcast' 
and tabooed, and no one would employ them.
Everybody was derisively grateful to the association 
for taking all the worthless pilots out of the way 
and leaving the whole field to the excellent and the 
deserving ; and everybody was not only jocularly 
grateful for that, but for a result which naturally 
followed, namely, the gradual advance of wages as 
the busy season approached. Wages had gone up 
from the low figure of one hundred dollars a month 
to one hundred and twenty-five, and in some cases 
to one hundred and fifty ; and it was great fun to 
enlarge upon the fact that this charming thing had 
been accomplished by a body of men not one of 
whom received a particle of benefit from it. Some 
of the jokers use to call at the association rooms 
and have a good time chaffing the members and 
offering them the charity of taking them as steers- 
men for a trip, so that they could see what the 
forgotten river looked like. However, the associa- 
tion was content ; or at least it gave no sign to the 
contrary. Now and then it captured a pilot who 
was * out of luck," and added him to its list ; and 
these later additions were very valuable, for they 
were good pilots; the incompetent ones had all 
been absorbed before. As buisness freshened, 
wages climbed gradually up to two hundred and 
fifty dollars — the association figure — and became 
firmly fixed there ; and still without benefiting a 
member of that body, for no member was hired. 
The hilarity at the association's expense burst aU 
bounds, now. There was no end to the fun whioh 
that poor martyr had to put up with. 
However, it is a long lane that has no tnmiii<?. 
Winter approached, business doubled and trebled, 
and an avalanche of Missouri, Illinois, and Upper 
Mississippi Eiver boats came pouring down to take 
a chance in the New Orleans trade. All of a 
sadden, pilots were in great dtsmand, and were 
correspondingly scarce. The time for revenge was 
come. It was a bitter pill to have to accept 
association pilots at last, yet captains and owners 
agreed that there was no other way. But none of 
these outcasts offered ! So there was a still bit- 
terer pill to be swallowed : they must be sought 
out and asked for their services. Captain was 
the first man who found it necessary to take the 
dose, and he had been the loudest derider of the 
organization. He hunted up' one of the best of the 
association pilots and said, — 
' Well, you boys have rather got the best of us 
for a little while, so I'll give in with as good a 
grace as I can. I've come to hire you ; get your 
trunk abroad ri ht away. I want to leave at twelve 
o'clock." 
" I don't know about that. Who is your other 
pilot?" 
*' rve got I. S . Why ? " 
" I can't go with him. He don't belong to the 
association." i:iict 
"What!" - 
"It's so." --tRf 
" Bo you mean to tell me that you won't tunl  
wheel with one of the very best and oldest pilots 
on the river because he don't belong to yonr 
assooiation ? " 
" Yes, I do." 
'' Well, if this isn't putting on airs ! I snppoBed 
I was doing you a benevolence ; but I begin to 
think that I am the party that wants a favor dono. 
Are you acting under a law of the concern ? '* 
" Yes' 
. " Show it to me." 
So they stepped into the association rooms, and 
the secretary soon satisfied the captain, who said, — 
''Well, what am I to do? I have hired Mr. 
8 for the entire season." 
" I will provide for you," said the secretary. " I 
will detail a pilot to go with you, and he shall be 
on board at twelve o'clock." 
" But if I discharge S , he will come on me 
for the whole season's wages.'* 
" Of course that is a matter between you and Mr. 
S— , captain. We cannot meddle in your private 
affairs." 
The captain stormed, but to no purpose. In the 
end he had to discharge S , pay him about a 
thousand dollars, and take an association pilot in 
his place. The laugh was beginning to turn the 
other way, now. Every day, thenceforward, a new 
victim fell ; every day some outraged captain dis- 
charged a non-association pet, with tears and pro- 
laniiy, and inttsed ahaiedwasBSociationman in his 
