Bartlett: "What makes me think it? From the 
very first she interpreted me by what she knew of 
him. She expected me to be this and not to be 
that; to have one habit and not another; and I 
could see that every time the fact was different, it 
was a miserable disappointment to her, a sort of 
shock. Every little difference between me and that 
other rascal gave her a start ; and whenever I 
looked up I found her wistful eyes on me as if they 
were trying to puzzle me out ; they used to follow 
me round the room like the eyes of a family por- 
trait. You wouldn't have liked it yourself, Cum- 
mings. For the first three weeks I simply existed 
on false pretenses, involuntary false pretenses, at 
that. I wanted to explode ; I wanted to roar out, 
'If you think I'm at all like that abandoned scoun- 
 
drel of yours ID anything but looks, I'm not!' But 
I was bound by everything that was decent, to hold 
my tongue, and let my soul be rasped out of me in 
silence and apparent unconsciousness. That was 
your fault. If you hadn't told me all about the 
thing I could have done something outrageous and 
stopped it. But I was tied hand and foot by what 
I knew. I had to let it go on." 
Oummings: "I'm very sorry, Bartlett, but" 
Barllett: "Oh, I dare say you wouldn't have 
done it if you hadn't had a wild ass of the desert 
to deal with. Well, the old people got used to 
some little individuality in me, by and by, and be- 
yond a suppressed whoop or two from the mother 
when I came suddenly into the room, they didn't 
do anything to annoy me directly. But they were 
anxious every minute for the effect on her ; and 
it worried me as much to have them watching her 
as to have her watching me. Of course I knew 
that she talked this confounded resemblance over 
with her mother every time I left them, and avoided 
talking it over with the father." 
Cummings : " But you say the trouble 's over 
now." 
Not at all Like. Ill 
Bartlett: "Oh over! No, it isn't over. When 
she's with me a while she comes to see that I am 
not a mere doppelganger. She respites me to that 
extent. But I have still some small rags of self- 
esteem dangling about me; and now suppose I 
should presume to set up for somebody on my own 
account; the first hint of my caring for her as I 
do, if she could conceive of anything so atrocious, 
would tear open all the old sorrows. Ah! I can't 
think of it. Besides, I tell you, it isn't all over. 
It 's only not so bad as it was. She 's subject to 
relapses, when it 's much worse than ever. Why " 
Bartlett stands facing his friend, with a half- 
whimsical, half-desperate smile, as if about to illus- 
trate his point, when Constance and her mother 
enter the parlor. 
II. 
CONSTANCE, MRS. WYATT, BARTLETT, and CUM- 
MINGS. 
Constance, with a quick, violent arrest, "Ah! 
Oh!" 
Mrs. Wyatt: "Constance, Constance, darling! 
What ? H the matter ? " 
Constance: " Oh, nothing nothing." She 
laughs, nervously. " I thought there was nobody 
here; and it startled me. How do you do, 
Mr. Cummings?" She goes quickly up to that 
gentleman, and gives him her hand. " Don't you 
think it wonderful to find such a day as this, 
up here, at this time of year?" She struggles 
to control the panting breath in which she speaks. 
Gumming s : "Yes, I supposed I had come quite 
too late for anything of the sort. You must make 
haste with your Ponkwasset, Miss Wyatt, or you'll 
have to paint him with his winter cap on." 
 
Constance : " Ah, yes ! My picture. Mr. Bart- 
lett has been telling you." Her eyes have already 
wandered away from Cummings, and they now 
dwell, with a furtive light of reparation and im- 
ploring upon Bartlett's disheartened patience : 
" Good morning.'  It is a delicately tentative salu- 
tation, in a low voice, still fluttered by her nervous 
agitation. 
Bartlett, in dull despair : " Good morning." 
Constance : " How is the light on the mountain 
this morning ? " She drifts deprecatingly up to the 
picture, near which Bartlett has stolidly kept his 
place. 
 Bartlett, in apathetic inattention : " Oh, very 
well, very well, indeed, thank you." 
Constance, after a hesitating glance at him : 
" Did you like what I had done on it yesterday ? " 
Bartlett, very much as before : " Oh, yes ; why 
not ? " 
Constance, with meek subtlety : " I was afraid I 
had vexed you by it." She bends an appealing 
glance upon him, to which Bartlett remains im- 
pervious, and she drops her eyes with a faint sigh. 
 
Then she lifts them again : " I was afraid I had 
made the distance too blue." 
Bartlett : " Oh, no ; not at all." 
Constance : " Do you think I had better try to 
finish it?" 
Bartlett: "Oh, certainly. Why not? If it 
amuses you! " 
Constance, perplexedly : " Of course." Then 
with a sad significance : " But I know I am trying 
your patience too far. You have been so kind, so 
good, I can't forgive myself for annoying you." 
Bartlett : " It doesn't annoy me. I 'm very glad 
to be useful to you." 
Constance, demurely : " I didn't mean painting ; 
I meant screaming." She lifts her eyes to Bart- 
lett's face, with a pathetic, inquiring attempt at 
lightness, the slightest imaginable experimental 
archness in her self-reproach, which dies out as 
Bartlett frowns and bites the corner of his mus- 
tache in unresponsive silence. " I ought to be well 
enough now to stop it ; I 'm quite well enough to 
be ashamed of it." She breaks off a miserable 
little laugh. 
Bartlett, with cold indifference : " There 's no 
reason why you should stop it if it amuses you." 
She looks at him in surprise at this rudeness. " Do 
you wish to try your hand at Ponkwasset this 
morning ? " 
Constance, with a flash of resentment : " No ; 
thanks." Then with a lapse into her morbid self- 
abasement : " I shall not touch it again. Mam- 
ma!" 
Mrs. Wyatt: "Yes, Constance." Mrs. Wyatt 
and Cummings, both intent on Bartlett and Con- 
stance, have been heroically feigning a polite in- 
terest in each other, from which pretense they 
now eagerly release themselves. 
Constance : " Oh nothing. I can get it of 
Mary. I won't trouble you." She goes toward 
the door. 
Mrs. Wyatt : " Mary isn't up from her breakfast, 
yet. If you want anything, let me go with you, 
dear." She turns to follow Constance. u Good 
morning, Mr. Cummings ; we shall see you at din- 
ner. Good morning," with an inquiring glance 
at Bartlett. Constance slightly inclines towards 
 
the two gentlemen without looking at them, in 
going out with her mother ; and Cummings moves 
away to the piano, and affects to examine the 
sheet-music scattered over it. Bartlett remains in 
his place near the easel. 
III. 
BARTLETT and CUMMINGS. 
Bartlett, harshly, after a certain silence which 
his friend is apparently resolved not to break : 
" Sail in, Cummings ! " 
Gummings : " Oh, I Ve got nothing to say." 
Bartlett: "Yes, you have. You think I'm a 
greater fool and a greater brute than you ever 
supposed in your most sanguine moments. Well, 
I am ! What then ? " 
Gummings, turning about from the music at 
which he has been pretending to look, and facing 
Bartlett, with a slight shrug : " If you choose to 
characterize your own behavior in that way, I shall 
not dispute you at any rate." 
Bartlett : " Go on ! " 
Gummings: "Go on? You saw yourself, I 
suppose, how she hung upon every syllable you 
spoke, every look, every gesture ? " 
 
Bartlctt: "Yes, I saw it." 
Cummings : " You saw how completely crushed 
she was by your tone and manner. You 're not 
blind. Upon my word, Bartlett, if I didn't know 
what a good, kind-hearted fellow you are, I should 
say you were the greatest ruffian alive." 
Bartlett) with a groan : " Go on ! That 's some- 
thing like." 
Cummings : " I couldn't hear what was going 
on I 'll own I tried but I could see ; and to 
see the delicate amende she was trying to offer 
you, in such a way that it should not seem an 
amende, a perfect study of a woman's gra- 
cious, unconscious art, and then to see your sour 
refusal of it all, it made me sick." 
Bartlett with a desperate clutch at his face, like 
a man oppressed with some stifling vapor : " Yes, 
yes ! I saw it all, too ! And if it had been for me, 
I would have given anything for such happiness. 
Oh, gracious powers ! How dear she is ! I would 
rather have suffered any anguish than give her 
pain, and yet I gave her pain ! I knew how it 
entered her heart : I felt it in my own. But 
what could I do ? If I am to be myself, if I am 
not to steal the tenderness meant for another 
man, the love she shows to me because I 'in like 
somebody else, I must play the brute. But have a 
little mercy on me. At least, I 'm a baited brute. 
I don't know which way to turn, I don't know 
what to do. She 's so dear to me, so dear in 
every tone of her voice, every look of her eyes, 
every aspiration or desire of her transparent soul, 
that it seems to me my whole being is nothing but 
a thought of her. I loved her helplessness, her 
pallor, her sorrow ; judge how I adore her return 
to something like life ! Oh, you blame me ! You 
simplify this infernal perplexity of mine and label 
it brutality, and scold me for it. Great heaven ! 
And yet you saw, you heard how she entered this 
room. In that instant the old illusion was back 
on her, and I was nothing. All that I had been 
striving and longing to be to her, and hoping and 
despairing to seem, was swept out of existence ; I 
was reduced to a body without a soul, to a shadow, 
a counterfeit! You think I resented it? Poor 
girl, I pitied her so ; and my own heart all the 
 
time like lead in my breast, a dull lump of ache! 
I swear, I wonder I don't go mad. I suppose 
why, I suppose I am insane. No man in his senses 
was ever bedeviled by such a maniacal hallucina- 
tion. Look here, Cummings: tell me that this 
damnable coil isn't simply a matter of my own 
fancy. It'll be some little relief to know that it's 
real. 
Cummings: "It's real enough, my dear fellow. 
And it is a trial, more than I could have be- 
lieved such a fantastic thing could be." 
Bartlett: " Trial? Ordeal by fire! Torment! I 
can't stand it any longer." 
Cumminys, musingly : " She is beautiful, isn't 
she, with that faint dawn of red in her cheeks, 
not a color, but a colored light like the light that 
hangs round a rose-tree's boughs in the early 
spring! And what a magnificent movement, what 
a stately grace ! The girl must have been a god- 
dess!" 
Bartlett: "And now she's a saint for sweet- 
ness and patience! You think she 's had nothing 
to suffer before from me ? You know me better ! 
Well, I 'm going away." 
 
Cummings: Perhaps it will be the best. You 
can go back with me to-morrow." 
Bartlett: "To morrow? Go back with you to- 
morrow? What are you talking about, man?" 
Cummings smiles. "I can't go to-morrow. I 
can't leave her hating me." --. 
Cummin gs: " I knew you never meant to go. 
Well, what will you do ? " 
Bartlett: "Don't be so cold-blooded! What 
would you do ? " 
Cummings: "I would have it out, somehow." 
Bartlett : " Oh, you talk ! How ? " 
Cummings: "I am not in love with Miss 
Wyatt." 
Bartlett : " Oh, don't try to play the cynic with 
me ! It doesn't become you. I know I Ve used 
you badly at times, Cummings. I behaved abomi- 
nably in leaving you to take the brunt of meeting 
General Wyatt that first day ; I said so then, and 
f shall always say it. But I thought you had for- 
given that." 
Cummings, with a laugh : " You make it hard to 
treat you seriously, Bartlett. What do you want 
 
me to do ? Do you want me to go to Miss Wyatt, 
and explain your case to her?" 
Bartlett, angrily: "No!" 
Gumming s : "Perhaps to Mrs. Wyatt?" 
Bartlett, infuriate : " No ! " 
, Cummings : " To the General ? " 
Bartlett, with sudden quiet: "You had better 
go away from here, Cummings while you can." 
Cummings : " I see you don't wish me to do 
anything, and you 're quite right. Nobody can do 
anything but yourself." 
Bartlett : " And what would you advise me to 
do?" 
Cummings: "I've told you that I would have 
it out. You can't make matters worse. You can't 
go on in this way indefinitely. It's just possible 
that you might find yourself mistaken, that Miss 
Wyatt cares for you in your own proper identity." 
Bartlett: "For shame!" 
Cummings: "Oh, if you like!" 
Bartlett, after a pause: "Would you would 
you see the General?" 
Cummings: "If I wanted to marry the General. 
 
Come, Bartlett; don't be ridiculous. You know 
you don't want my advice, and I haven't any to 
give. I must go to my room a moment." 
Bartlett: "Well, go! You're of no advantage 
here. You 'd have it out, would you ? Well, then, 
I wouldn't. I 'm a brute, I know, and a fool, but 
I 'm not such a brute and fool as that ! " Cum- 
mings listens with smiling patience, and then goes 
without reply, while Bartlett drops into the chair 
near the easel, and sulkily glares at the picture. 
Through the window at his back shows the mel- 
low Indian summer landscape. The trees have all 
dropped their leaves, save the oaks which show 
their dark crimson banners among the deep green 
of the pines and hemlocks on the hills; the mead- 
ows, verdant as in June, slope away toward the 
fringe of birches and young maples along the 
borders of the pond ; the low-blackberry trails like 
a running fire over the long grass limp from the 
first frosts, which have silenced all the insect voices. 
No sound of sylvan life is heard but the harsh 
challenge of a jay, answered from many trees of the 
nearest wood-lot. The far-off hill-tops are molten 
 
 
in the soft azure haze of the season ; the nearer 
slopes and crests sleep under a grayer and thinner 
veil. It is to this scene that the painter turns 
from the easel, with the sullen unconsciousness in 
which he has dwelt upon the picture. Its beauty 
seems at last to penetrate his mood ; he rises and 
looks upon it ; then he goes out on the gallery, and, 
hidden by the fall of one of the curtains, stands 
leaning upon the rail and rapt in the common 
revery of the dreaming world. While he lingers 
there, Cummings appears at the door, and looks 
in ; then with an air of some surprise, as if wonder- 
ing not to see Bartlett, vanishes again, to give 
place to General Wyatt, who after a like research 
retires silently and apparently disconcerted. A 
few moments later Mrs. Wyatt comes to the thresh- 
old, and calling gently into the room, "Con- 
stance!" waits briefly and goes away. At last, 
the young girl herself appears, and falters in the 
doorway an instant, but finally comes forward and 
drifts softly and indirectly up to the picture, at 
which she glances with a little sigh. At the same 
moment Bartlett's voice, trolling a snatch of song, 
comes from the gallery without: 
 
ROMANCE. 
Here apart our paths, then, lie : 
This way you wend, that way I ; 
Speak one word before you go : ' 
Do not, do not leave me so ! 
n. 
What is it that I should say ? 
Tell me quick ; I cannot stay ; 
Quick ! I am not good at guessing : 
Night is near, and time is pressing. 
Nay, then, go ! But were I you, 
I will tell you what I 'd do : 
Rather than be baffled so, 
I would never, never go ! " 
As the song ends, Bartlett reappears at the gallery 
door giving into the parlor, and encounters Con- 
stance turning at his tread from the picture on 
which she has been pensively gazing while he 
sang. He puts up a hand on either side of the 
door. 
IV. 
BARTLETT and CONSTANCE. 
Bartlett: "I didn't know you were here." 
Constance: "Neither did I know you were, 
till I heard you singing." 
Bartlett, smiling ironically: "Oh, you didn't 
suppose I sang ! " 
Constance, confusedly: "I I don't know" 
Bartlett: " Ah, you thought I did! I don't. I 
was indulging in a sort of modulated howling 
which I flatter myself is at least one peculiarity 
that 's entirely my own. I was baying the land- 
scape merely for my private amusement, and I 'd 
not have done it, if I 'd known you were in hear- 
ing. However, if it's helped to settle the fact 
one way or other, concerning any little idiosyncrasy 
of mine, I shan't regret it. I hope not to disappoint 
you in anything, by and by." He drops his hands 
 
from the doorposts and steps into the room, while 
Constance, in shrinking abeyance, stands trembling 
at his harshness. 
Constance, in faltering reproach: "Mr. Bart- 
lett!" 
Bartlett: " Constance ! " 
Constance, struggling to assert herself, but break- 
ing feebly in her attempt at hauteur: "Constance? 
What does this mean, Mr. Bartlett?" 
Bartlett, with a sudden burst: "What does it 
mean ? It means that I 'm sick of this nightmare 
masquerade. It means that I want to be some- 
thing to you all the world to you in and for 
myself. It means that I can't play another man's 
part any longer and live. It means that I love 
you, love you, love you, Constance!" He starts 
involuntarily toward her with outstretched arms, 
from which she recoils with a convulsive cry. 
Constance: "You love me? Me? Oh, no, no! 
How can you be so merciless as to talk to me of 
love?" She drops her glowing face into her hands. 
Bartlett: "Because I 'm a man. Because love 
is more than mercy better, higher, wiser. Listen 
 
to me, Constance! yes, I will call you so now, 
if never again : you are so dear to me that I must 
say it at last if it killed you. If loving you is 
cruel, I 'm pitiless ! Give me some hope, tell me 
to breathe, my girl ! " 
Constance: "Oh go, while I can still forgive 
you." 
Bartlett : " I won't go ; I won't have your for- 
giveness ; I will have all or nothing ; I want your 
love ! " 
Constance, uncovering her face and turning its 
desolation upon him ; " My love ? I have no love 
to give. My heart is dead." 
Bartlett: "No, no! That's part of the ugly 
trance that we 've both been living in so long. 
Look ! You 're better now than when you came 
here ; you 're stronger, braver, more beautiful. 
My angel, you 're turned a woman again ! Oh 
you can love me if you will ; and you will ! Look 
at me, darling ! " He takes her listless right hand 
in his left, and gently draws her toward him. 
Constance, starting away : " You 're wrong ; 
you're all wrong! You don't understand; you 
don't know Oh, listen to me ! " 
 
Bartlett, still holding her cold hand fast : " Yes, 
a thousand years. But you must tell me first that 
I may love you. That first ! " 
Constance : " No ! That never ! And since you 
speak to me of love, listen to what it 's my right 
you should hear!' 
Bartlett, releasing her : " I don't care to hear. 
Nothing can ever change me. But if you bid me, 
I will go ! " 
Constance : " You shall not go now till you 
know what despised and hated and forsaken thing 
you Ve offered your love to." 
Bartlett, beseechingly : " Constance, let me go 
while I can forgive myself. Nothing you can say 
will make me love you less ; remember that ; but 
I implore you to spare yourself. Don't speak, my 
love." 
Constance: "Spare myself? Not speak? Not 
speak what has been on my tongue and heart and 
brain, a burning fire, so long ? Oh, I was a happy 
girl once ! The days were not long enough for 
my happiness ; I woke at night to think of it. I 
was proud in my happiness and believed myself, 
poor fool, one to favor those I smiled on ; and I 
had my vain and crazy dreams of being the hap- 
piness of some one who should come to ask for 
what you ask now. Some one came. At first 
I didn't care for him, but he knew how to make 
me. He knew how to make my thoughts of him 
part of my happiness and pride and vanity till he 
was all in all, and I had no wish, no hope, no life 
but him ; and then he left me ! " She buries 
her face in her hands again, and breaks into a low, 
piteous sobbing. 
Bartlett, with a groan of helpless fury and com- 
passion : " The fool, the sot, the slave ! Constance, 
I knew all this, I knew it from the first." 
Constance, recoiling in wild reproach : " You 
knew it? " 
Bartlett, desperately : " Yes, I knew it in 
spite of myself, through my own stubborn fury I 
knew it, that first day, when I had obliged my 
friend to tell me what your father had told him, 
before I would hear reason. I would have given 
anything not to have known it then, when it was 
too late, for I had at least the grace to feel the 
 
wrong, the outrage of my knowing it. You can 
never pardon it, I see ; but you must feel what a 
hateful burden I had to bear, when I found that I 
had somehow purloined the presence, the looks, 
the voice of another man- a man whom I would 
have joyfully changed myself to any monstrous 
shape not to resemble, though I knew that my 
likeness to him, bewildering you in a continual 
dream of him, was all that ever made you look at 
me or think of me. I lived in the hope Heaven 
only knows why I should have had the hope ! 
that I might yet be myself to you; that you might 
wake from your dream of him and look on me in 
the daylight, and see that I was at least an honest 
man, and pity me and may be love me at last, as I 
loved you at first, from the moment I saw your 
dear, pale face, and heard your dear, sad voice." 
He follows up her slow retreat and again pos- 
sesses himself of her hand : " Don't cast me off ! It 
was monstrous, out of all decency, to know your 
sorrow ; but I never tried to know it ; I tried not 
to know it." He keeps fast hold of her hand, 
while she remains with averted head. " I love you, 
 
Constance ; I loved you ; and when once you had 
bidden me stay, I was helpless to go away, or I 
would never be here now to offend you with the 
confession of that shameful knowledge. Do you 
think it was no trial to me ? It gave me the con- 
science of an eavesdropper and a spy ; yet all I 
knew was sacred to me." 
Constance, turning and looking steadfastly into 
his face : " And you could care for so poor a crea- 
ture as I so abject, so obtuse as never to know 
what had made her intolerable to the man that 
cast her off?" 
Bartlett : " Man ? He was no man ! He " 
Constance, suddenly: "Oh, wait! I I love 
him yet." 
Bartlett, dropping her hand : " You " 
Constance : " Yes, yes ! As much as I live, I 
love him ! But when he left me, I seemed to die ; 
and now it's as if I were some wretched ghost 
clinging for all existence to the thought of my lost 
happiness. If that slips from me, then I cease to 
be." 
Bartlett : " Why, this is still your dream. But 
 
I won't despair. You'll wake yet, and care for 
me : I know you will." 
Constance, tenderly: "Oh, I'm not dreaming 
now. I know that you are not he. You are 
everything that is kind and good ; and some 
day you will be very happy." 
Bartlett, desolately : " I shall never be happy 
without your love." After a pause ; " It will be a 
barren, bitter comfort, but let me have it if you 
can : if I had met you first, could you have loved 
u*f 
Constance: " I might have loved you if I had 
lived." She turns from him again, and moves 
softly toward the door; his hollow voice arrests 
her. 
Bartlett : " If you are dead, then I have lived 
too long. Your loss takes the smile out of life 
for me." A moment later : " You are cruel, Con- 
stance." 
Constance, abruptly facing him : " I cruel ? To 
you f " 
Bartlett : " Yes, you have put me to shame 
before myself. You might have spared me! A 
 
treacherous villain is false in time to save you 
from a life of betrayal, and you say your heart 
is dead. But that isn't enough. You tell me 
that you cannot care for me because you love 
that treacherous villain still. That 's my disgrace, 
that's my humiliation, that's my killing shame. 
I could have borne all else. You might have cast 
me off however you would, driven me away 
with any scorn, whipped me from you with the 
sharpest rebuke that such presumption as mine 
could merit ; but to drag a decent man's self- 
respect through such mire as that poor rascal's 
memory for six long weeks, and then tell him 
.that you prefer the mire " ~ 
Constance : u Oh, hush ! I can't let you re- 
proach him ! He was pitilessly false to me, but 
I will be true to him forever. How do I know 
I must find some reason for that, or there is no 
reason in anything ! how do I know that he did 
not break his word to me at my father's bidding? 
My father never liked him." 
Bartlett, shaking his head with a melancholy 
smile : " Ah, Constance, do you think I would 
break my word to you at your father's bidding ? " 
 
Constance, in abject despair: "Well, then I 
go back to what I always knew; I was too 
slight, too foolish, too tiresome for his life-long 
love. He saw it in time, I don't blame him. 
You would see it, too." 
Bartlett : " What devil's vantage enabled that 
infernal scoundrel to blight your spirit with his 
treason ? Constance, is this my last answer ? " 
Constance : " Yes, go ! I am so sorry for you, 
sorrier than I ever thought I could be for 
anything again." 
Bartlett: "Then if you pity me, give me a 
little hope that sometime, somehow " 
Constance: " Oh, I have no hope, for you, for me. 
for any one. Good-by, good, kind friend ! Try, 
you won't have to try hard to forget me. 
Unless some miracle should happen to show me 
that it was all his fault and none of mine, we are 
parting now forever. It has been a strange 
dream, and nothing is so strange as that it should 
be ending so. Are you the ghost or I, I wonder ! 
It confuses me as it did at first; but if you are 
he, or only you Ah, don't look at me so, or 
 
I must believe he has never left me, and implore 
you to stay ! " 
Bartlettj quietly : " Thanks. I would not stay 
a moment longer in his disguise, if you begged 
me on your knees. I shall always love you, 
Constance, but if the world is wide enough, please 
Heaven, I will never see you again. There are 
some things dearer to me than your, presence. 
No, I won't take your hand ; it can't heal the 
hurt your words have made, and nothing can 
help me, now I know from your own lips that 
but for my likeness to him I should never have 
been anything to you. Good-by ! " 
Constance : " Oh ! " She sinks with a long 
cry into the arm-chair beside the table, and drops 
her head into her arms upon it. At the door 
toward which he turns Bartlett meets General 
Wyatt, and a moment later Mrs. Wyatt enters by 
the other. Bartlett recoils under the concen- 
trated reproach and inquiry of their gaze. 
V. 
GENERAL WYATT, MRS. WYATT, CONSTANCE, 
and BARTLETT. 
Mrs. Wyatt, hastening to bow herself over 
Constance's fallen head : " Oh, what is it, Con- 
stance ? " As Constance makes no reply, she lifts 
her eyes again to Bartlett's face. 
General Wyatt) peremptorily : " Well, sir ! " 
Bartlett, with bitter desperation : " Oh, you 
shall know ! " 
Constance, interposing : " I will tell ! You 
shall be spared that, at least." She has risen, 
and with her face still hidden in her handkerchief, 
seeks her father with an outstretched hand. He 
tenderly gathers her to his arms, and she droops 
a moment upon his shoulder ; then, with an elec- 
trical revolt against her own weakness, she lifts 
her head and dries her tears with a passion- 
 
ate energy. "He Oh, speak for me!" Her 
head falls again on her father's shoulder. 
Bartlett, with grave irony and self-scorn : " It 's 
a simple matter, sir; I have been telling Miss 
Wyatt that I love her, and offering to share with 
her my obscurity and poverty. I " 
General Wyatt, impatiently : " Curse your 
poverty, sir ! I 'm poor myself. Well ! " 
Bartlett: "Oh, that's merely the beginning; I 
have had the indecency to do this, knowing that 
what alone rendered me sufferable to her it was 
a cruel shame for me to know, and an atrocity 
for me to presume upon. I " 
General Wyatt: "I authorized this knowledge 
on your part when I spoke to your friend, and 
before he went away he told me all he had said 
to you." 
Bartlett, in the first stages of petrifaction : 
" Cummings ? " 
General Wyatt: "Yes." 
Bartlett : " Told you that I knew whom I was 
like ? " 
General Wyatt: "Yes." 
 
Bartlett, very gently : " Then I think that man 
will be lost for keeping his conscience too clean. 
Cummings has invented a new sin." 
Mrs. Wyatt : " James, James ! You told me 
that Mr. Bartlett didn't know." 
General Wyatt, contritely : " I let you think so, 
Margaret ; I didn't know what else to do." 
Mrs. Wyatt : " Oh, James ! " 
Constance : " Oh, papa ! " She turns with 
bowed head from her father's arms, and takes 
refuge in her mother's embrace. General Wyatt, 
released, fetches a compass round about the par- 
lor, with a face of intense dismay. He pauses in 
front of his wife. 
General Wyatt : " Margaret, you must know the 
worst, now." 
Mrs. Wyatt, in gentle reproach, while she softly 
caresses Constance's hair: "Oh, is there anything 
worse, James ? " 
General Wyatt, hopelessly : " Yes : I 'm afraid 
I have been to blame," 
Bartlett : " General Wyatt, let me retire. I " 
General Wyatt: "No, sir. This concerns you, 
 
 
too, now. Your destiny has entangled you with 
our sad fortunes, and now you must know them 
all." 
Constance, from her mother's shoulder: "Yes, 
stay, whatever it is. If you care for me, 
nothing can hurt you any more, now." 
General Wyatt : " Margaret, Constance ! If I 
have been mistaken in what I have done, you must 
try somehow to forgive me ; it was my tenderness 
for you both misled me, if I erred. Sir, let me ad- 
dress my defense to you. You can see the whole 
matter with clearer eyes than we." At an implor- 
