house, and lived alone upon his territory, just that he might be free
and rule his realm independently. Their common name, Saxon, came from a
peculiar weapon, the sachs; a stone war-mallet or battle-axe, which was
made fast to a longer or shorter wooden handle. In the strong hands of
the Saxons this was a fearful weapon, with which they rushed fearlessly
upon the foe, hastening to come to a hand-to-hand fight; for they liked
to be at close quarters with their enemies.
"'Wild and terrible as their other customs were, was also their idol
worship. Their principal deity was called Woden, in whose honour men
were slaughtered upon great blocks of stone; their throats being cut
with stone knives. Not far off, some two or three hours from
Hermannsburg, are still what are called the seven stone-houses; in
other words, blocks of granite set up in a square, upon which a great
granite block lies like a cover. The men to be sacrificed were slain
upon these blocks of granite. Quite near our village too, there stood
formerly some such sacrificial altars. How fearful and bloody these
sacrifices were, appears from what an old writer relates; that it was
the custom of the Saxons, when they returned home from their warlike
expeditions, to sacrifice to their idols every tenth man among the
captives; the rest they shared among themselves for slaves. And upon
special occasions, for instance, if they had suffered severe losses in
the war, the whole of the captives would be consecrated to Woden and
sacrificed. That's the Woden we call one day of the week after.'"
"We? One day of the week!" exclaimed Maggie; while Flora looked up and
said, "Oh yes! Wednesday."
"Wednesday?" repeated Maggie.
"Woden's-day," said Meredith.
"Is it Woden's-day? Wednesday? But how come we to call it so, Ditto?"
"Because our fathers did."
"But that is very strange. I don't think we ought to call it
Woden's-day."
"The Germans do not call it so, who live at this time round those old
stone altars; they say Mittwoche, or Mid-week. But the English Saxons
seem to have kept up the title."
"Are those stone altars standing now, Ditto?"
"Some of them, Pastor Harms says; and what is very odd, it seems they
call them stone houses; and don't you recollect Jacob called his stone
that he set up at Bethel, 'God's house'?"
"Well, Ditto, go on please," said Maggie.
"You don't care for archæology. Well--'The German emperor Charlemagne,
who reigned from 768 to 814, was a good Christian. He governed the
kingdom of the Franks; and that means the whole of central and southern
Germany, together with France and Italy; and all these, his subjects,
had been already Christian a long time. On the north his empire was
bordered by our heathen ancestors, the Saxons, and they were the sworn
foes of Christianity. Whenever they could, they made a rush upon
Charlemagne's dominions, plundered and killed, destroyed the churches
and put to death the Christian priests; and were never quiet. So
Charlemagne determined to make war upon the Saxons, partly to protect
his kingdom against their inroads, and partly with the intent to convert
them with a strong hand to the Christian religion. Then arose a fearful
war of thirty-three years' length, which by both sides was carried on
with great bitterness. The Saxons had, in especial, two valiant,
heroic-hearted leaders, called "dukes" because they led the armies. The
word "duke," therefore, means the same as army-leader. The one of them
in Westphalia was named Wittekind; the other in Eastphalia was named
Albion, also called Alboin. Charlemagne was in a difficult position. If
he beat the Saxons, and thought, now they would surely keep the peace,
and he went off then to some more distant part of his great empire,
immediately the Saxons broke loose again, and the war began anew.
Charlemagne was made so bitter by this, that once when he had beaten the
Saxons at Verden on the Aller, and surrounded their army, he ordered
4500 captive Saxons to be cut to pieces, hoping so to give a
disheartening example. But just the contrary befell. Wittekind and
Albion now gathered together an imposing army to avenge the cruel deed;
and fought two bloody battles, at Osnabrück and Detmold, with such
furious valour that they thrust Charlemagne back, and took 4000
prisoners; and these prisoners, as a Lüneburg chronicle says, they
slaughtered--part on the Blocksberg, part in the Osnabrück country, and
part on the "stone-houses;" where the same chronicle relates that
Wittekind, on his black war-horse, in furious joy, would have galloped
over the bleeding corpses which lay around the stone-houses: but his
horse shied from treading on the human bodies, and making a tremendous
leap, struck his hoof so violently against one of the stone-houses that
the mark of the hoof remained. Wittekind elsewhere in the chronicle is
described as a noble, magnanimous hero; and this madness of war in him
is explained on the ground of his hatred of Christians, and revenge for
the death of the Saxons at Verden.
"'At last, in the year 785, Wittekind and Albion were baptized, and
embraced the Christian religion. Thereupon came peace among that part of
the Saxons which held them in consideration, for the most distinguished
men by degrees followed their example; and it was only in the other
portions of the country that the war lasted until the year 805; when at
last the whole country of the Saxons submitted to Charlemagne, renounced
heathenism, and accepted Christianity. So hard did it go with our
forefathers before they could become Christians; but once Christians,
they became so zealous for the Christian faith that their land
afterwards was called "Good Saxony" as before it had been known as "Wild
Saxony." Charlemagne, however, was not merely at the pains to subdue the
Saxons, and to compel them into the Christian faith, but as a truly
pious emperor, he also took care that they should be instructed; and
wherever he could he established bishoprics and churches. For example,
the sees of Minden, Osnabrück, Verden, Bremen, Münster, Paderhorn,
Halberstadt, and Hildesheim, all situated in the Saxon country, owe
their origin to him. At all these places there were mission
establishments, from which preachers went out into the whole land, to
preach the Gospel to the heathen Saxons.
"'Among those Willehad and Liudgar were distinguished for their zeal.
With untiring faithfulness, with steadfast faith, and great
self-sacrifice, they laboured, and their works were greatly blessed of
the Lord. Willehad finally became bishop in Bremen and Liudgar bishop of
Münster. They may with justice be called the apostles of the Saxons. In
a remarkable manner the conversion of our own parts hereabouts proceeded
from the mission establishment in Minden. Liudgar had lived there a long
while, and his piety and his ardour had infected the young monks
assembled there with a live zeal for missions. One of these monks, who
the chronicle tells came from Eastphalia, and had been converted to
Christianity through Liudgar's means, was called Landolf. Now when
Wittekind and Albion had received holy baptism, and so a door was opened
in the Saxon land to the messengers of salvation, Landolf could stand it
no longer in Münden, but determined to go back to his native Eastphalia
and carry the sweet Gospel to his beloved countrymen. He had no rest day
nor night; the heathen Eastphalians were always standing before him and
calling to him, "Come here and help us!"'"
"There!" said Meredith pausing, "that's how I feel."
Every one of the three heads around him was lifted up.
"You, Ditto?" exclaimed Maggie, but the others only looked.
"Yes," said Meredith, "I feel just so."
"About whom?" said his sister abruptly.
"All the heathen. Nobody in particular, Everybody who doesn't know the
Lord Jesus."
"You had better begin at home!" said Flora with an accent of scorn.
"I do," said her brother gravely; and Flora was silent, for she knew he
did.
"But why, dear Ditto?" said Maggie, with a mixture of anxiety and
curiosity.
"I am so sorry for them, Maggie." And watching, she could see that
Meredith's downcast eyes were swimming. "Think--they do not know
Jesus; and what is life worth without that?"
"But it isn't everybody's place to go preaching," said Flora after a
minute.
"Can you prove it? I think it is."
"Mine, for instance, and Maggie's?"
"What is preaching, in the first place? It is just telling other people
the truth you know yourself. But you must know it first. I don't think
it is your place to tell what you do not know. But the Bible says, 'Let
him that heareth say, Come!' and I think we, who have heard, ought to
say it. And I think," added Meredith slowly, "if anybody is as glad of
it himself as he ought to be, he cannot help saying it. It will burn in
his heart if he don't say it."
"But what do you want to do, Ditto?" Maggie asked again.
"I don't know, Maggie. Not preach in churches; I am not fit for that.
But I want to tell all I can. People seem to me so miserable that do not
know Christ. So miserable!"
"But, Ditto," said Maggie again, "you can give money to send
missionaries."
"Pay somebody else to do my work?"
"You can tell people here at home."
"Well--" said Meredith with a long breath, "let us see what Landolf the
Saxon did."
CHAPTER III.
"'What did this man do in the daring of faith? He first got permission
of his superiors; then he went aboard of a little boat, took nothing
else with him but his Bible and his Prayer-book, his few tools, a
fishing net, and food for several days, and then dropped down the Weser,
all alone, intending by that way to get to the Eastphalians. But his
chief strength was prayer, in which he lived day and night. When he came
to the place where the Aller flows into the Weser, he quitted the Weser
and went up the Aller, that he might look at the spot where those 4500
Saxons were cut to pieces by Charlemagne, and on the ground pray for the
murdered men. For at that time it was believed that even the dead could
be helped by prayer, as is still the erroneous teaching of the
Catholics. Leaving that place, he wished to visit the "stone-houses,"
that he might pray there too, where the captive Franks had been
slaughtered by the Saxons; and so he went on up the Aller and from the
Aller into the Oerze, all the while living upon the fish which he
caught.'"
"Had he no bread?" said Maggie.
"How should he?--going through wild woods and countries lone in his
boat? He would come to no bakers' shops, Maggie."
"Just living on fish! Well, go on, Ditto."
"'But all along on this journey he had not only caught fish, but also
everywhere preached the Gospel. And then must have been the first time
that the sweet name of Jesus was ever heard in our region. Perhaps when
you look at the map you will ask, why Landolf went this difficult way by
water, which was a very roundabout way besides, to get to the
"stone-houses," when he could have come across from Verden by a much
nearer and straighter route? Our chronicle gives two reasons: first, the
whole interior of the country at that time was almost nothing but thick
forest and deep morasses, through which there was no going on foot; and
secondly, he had been told in Verden, that if he wanted to visit the
"stone-houses," he must first go to the Billing of the long-legged
Horz-Saxons, who lived on the river Horz in Harm's "ouden dorp." Now
this river Horz is the Oerze; and the name, the chronicle announces,
comes from the fact that this river runs and leaps like a Horz--that
is, a horse; and because a great many horses were pastured on its banks.
For the chief wealth of our Saxon ancestors consisted in cattle,
especially in horses, which they used not only for riding and in war
expeditions, but reckoned their flesh a favourite food. And were a horse
but entirely spotless and white, it was even held to be sacred. Such
white horses were kept in the sacred forests of oak, where they were
used for nothing but soothsaying; for by the neighing of these white
horses the heathen priests prophesied whether a business, or a campaign,
that was in hand, would turn out happily or unhappily. For this reason
also our Lüneburg country since the earliest times has borne the free,
bounding horse in its escutcheon; and for the same reason most of the
houses in the country of Lüneburg down to the present times have their
gables adorned with two wooden horses' heads; and it is only lately that
this custom has somewhat fallen off.
"'The Saxons, or as the chronicle writes, Sahzen, were called
"Horzsahzen," either because they lived on the Horz, or Oerze; or
because they were almost all of them horsemen and owned a great many
horses. They bore besides the honorary title of the "long-legged," for
our forefathers were distinguished by their unusual stature. It is
remarkable that the name "Lange" is still the widest spread family name
of any in our region, so that there are villages that are almost
exclusively inhabited by "Langen," among whom a goodly number might yet
be called "long-legged;" though many also have grown something shorter,
while they nevertheless bear the name of Lange. Well, that is all
one, so they only keep the old, tried faithfulness and honesty, and the
manly holding to their word, and the beautiful pureness of morals, for
which our forefathers were renowned.
"'But now, what sort of a man is the Billing? Our chronicle translates
the word into Latin; curatos legum, that is, the "guardian of the
laws." Bill, you see, in old low German or Saxon, was a "law" which
had been confirmed by the whole assembly of the people; and the man who
proposed these laws, and when they were confirmed had the charge of
seeing that they were not transgressed, was called the Billing. The
Billing of the Horzsahzen was at this time a man named Harm, that is
Hermann; and he lived in Harm's ouden dorp--or Hermann's old village.
The spot where this old village of Hermann stood is now a cultivated
field, about ten minutes away from the present Hermannsburg; and this
field is still called at the present day up'n Ollendorp, and lies
right on the Oerze. To this place accordingly the brave Landolf
repaired, and was received kindly and with the customary Saxon
hospitality by Hermann the Billing.
"'Hermann's dwelling was a large cottage, surrounded with pens for
cattle, especially for horses, which were pastured on the river meadows.
There were no stables; the animals remained day and night under the open
sky, and even in winter time had no shelter beyond that of the thick
forest with which the land was covered. The pens themselves were merely
enclosures without a roof. Landolf was entertained with roasted horses'
flesh, which to the astonishment of his hosts he left untouched. For by
the rules of the Christian Church at that time it was not permitted to
eat horse-flesh; they reckoned it a heathen practice.
"'When Landolf had made his abode with the Billing for a while, he found
out that his host was in fact the principal person in all that district
of country, and as guardian of the laws enjoyed a patriarchal and
wide-reaching consideration. He was indeed no edeling (or nobleman),
only a freiling--a free man; but he possessed seven large manors; on
which account later writers, as for instance Adam of Bremen, give the
Billing family the name of Siebenmeyer.' (Sieben means seven,
Maggie.) 'The oldest son, who regularly bore the name of Hermann, was
the family head; and after the death of his father the dignity of
Billing descended to him. The younger brothers were settled in some of
the other manors, remaining nevertheless always dependent upon the
oldest.
"'Now Landolf preached the Gospel zealously to the family whose guest he
was, and they listened to him with willing ears. But when he would have
declared his message also to the Saxons who lived in their
neighbourhood, Hermann explained to him that by law and usage he must
not do that, until permission had first been given him by the regular
assembly of the people. As the house-father he himself could indeed in
his own family allow the proclamation of the Christian faith; but a
public proclamation must have the decision of the people upon it, that
is, of the assembly of all the free men. Landolf had arrived in the
autumn--the stated gathering of the commons would not be till spring,
and indeed not till May; in the meanwhile he must be contented. Hard as
it was for Landolf to wait so long, for his heart was burning to convert
the poor heathen to Christ, he yet knew the people and their customs too
well to contend against them. So all winter he abode with Hermann. And a
blessed winter that was. It was the habit of the family, when at evening
a fire was kindled in the middle of the hut, that the whole household,
men, women, and children, even the servants and maids, should assemble
around it--the master of the house having the place of honour in the
midst of them. The house-father then generally told stories about the
heroic deeds of their forefathers; about the ancient laws and usages,
the knowledge of which was handed down from father to son; and Landolf
sat among them and listened with the rest, but soon got permission to
tell on his part of the wonderful things of the Christian faith. So then
he profited by the long winter evenings to tell over the whole Bible
story of the Old and New Testaments. And with such simplicity, and with
such joy of faith and confidence he told it, that the hearts of his
hearers were stirred. In addition to that, he often sang the songs of
the Christian Church, in a clear, fine-toned voice; and presently some
among them, the younger especially, began to join in the singing. His
Bible stories were in all their mouths; and the people had such capital
memories that, he says himself, he needed usually to tell a thing but
once or twice, and all of them, even the children, could repeat it
almost word for word. This is a common experience among people who have
no written literature; they are apt to be uncommonly strong in power of
memory. And when he prayed too, and he did it daily upon his knees, he
was never disturbed, although he prayed in the cottage, which had only
one room for all; instead, he soon had the joy of seeing that many
kneeled down with him and with him called upon Christ, "the God of the
Christians," as they phrased it. So the winter passed, May came, ice and
snow melted away, and everybody got ready to attend the great assembly
of the people. It was to be held at the stone-houses. Landolf travelled
thither as Hermann's guest, under his protection--Hermann even letting
him ride his best horse, by way of doing him honour before all the
people. With a noble train of freilings--that is, of free men--they set
forth.
"'The first day, however, they went no further than about a quarter of
an hour from Harm's ouden dorp, to a sacrificial altar which was
placed close by what was called the Deep Moor (Deepenbroock, the
chronicle says). There Landolf was to be spectator of a terrible scene,
which shows as well the frightful savageness and cruelty of the Saxons
as their noble purity of manners. By about noon of the abovenamed day,
all the free men of that whole region had gathered together at the altar
of sacrifice. This altar consisted, as may still be seen by the
so-called stone-houses now standing, of eight slabs of granite, set up
in a quadrangle; with four openings, or doors, towards the four quarters
of the heaven, broad enough to let a man go through; and covered over
on the top with another great granite block. The young warriors brought
up two prisoners, who had been taken in a late campaign and fetched
along. One of them was made to go under the sacrifice altar through the
north and south doors, the other through the east and west doors. Then
stepped forth two priests, having their long flowing hair bound with a
mistletoe branch, and a sharp knife of flint in the hand. You must know
that the mistletoe, which is still to be found in plenty in our woods,
growing especially on birch trees, was held among our forefathers to be
sacred. For since it does not grow upon the ground like other plants,
but upon trees, birches particularly, it was believed that the seed of
this plant fell down from heaven; and this belief was strengthened by
the remarkable manner of its growth, so unlike other plants, with its
forking opposite branches and shining white berries. After solemn
prayers, which were half sung half said, to the two gods Woden and Thor,
and the two goddesses Hela and Hertha, the captive men were one after
the other laid each upon his back on the altar, so that his head hung
down over the edge of the altar.'"
"Oh, stop, Ditto!" cried Maggie.
"Why?"
"It is too horrible."
"It is pretty horrible. But men did it, and men suffered it. Can't you
hear it?"
"Men were dreadful!"
"Men are dreadful where the light of the Gospel has not come. 'The
dark places of the earth are full of the habitations of cruelty.'"
"Tell me about those gods and goddesses."
"Were those Saxon Druids?" Flora asked.
"It sounds so. But I don't know the gods of the Teutons as well as I do
those of the Greeks; I can't tell you much about Woden and Thor, Maggie.
We'll look when we go home. Now, am I to go on?"
"I suppose so. Oh yes, I want you to go on. But it is dreadful."
"Well, the captives were laid on the altar, as I read, 'and the priests
cut their throats with their knives of flint. When the quivering victim
had ceased to bleed, the body was taken up by the young warriors and
cast into the Deep Moor, where it immediately sunk in the bog. Landolf
had not recovered from the shock--for he had never seen a human
sacrifice before, having gone while yet a boy into the country of the
Christians--when his attention was fettered by another dreadful drama.
"'Some of the young men fetched a long and broad hurdle, woven of fir
branches, laid it down before the altar, and went away; but came back
again presently with a man and a woman, who had been accused and
convicted of breaking the marriage vow. An accuser stepped forth, and
repeated the charge before the Billing. The Billing then asked the
accused whether the charge was true? and admonished them to confess the
truth, since never yet had a free Saxon told a lie. And when the guilty
people had owned their guilt, first their relations came forward and
spat in their faces; then the man's weapons were taken from him, his
hands and feet and the woman's were tied together: and so tied they were
thrown into the Deep Moor, the hurdle covered over them, and this and
the underlying bodies, by their nearest relations first of all, were
trodden down into the deep morass. So came the marriage-breakers to a
shameful end and received the reward of their sin.
"'Hermann told Landolf afterwards that there were three crimes which
they punished on this disgraceful wise--marriage-breaking, lying, and
cowardice; because such people were not held worthy to die the
honourable death of a warrior, and be slain with weapons. Landolf
answered "O Billing! you are terrible people! yet even as heathen you
hate the sins that you know. What would you be, if you were once
Christians, and the Lord Jesus gave you His light!"
"'And as I write down these words from the old chronicle, I could cast
my eyes to the ground for shame and weep tears of blood over the deep,
shameful apostasy of the German Christianity of the present day. Christ
gives us His light now; we are Christians now; but where have purity,
truth, and courage hid themselves? Are there ten in a hundred German
Christians that keep a pure life, true lips, and a brave heart? I do not
think it. Open and secret impurity, coarse and polished falsehood,
disgraceful cowardliness, fear of men and men-pleasing, have infested
the whole German Christian nation, and will soon bring down the judgment
of God; for "the bruise is incurable, and the wound is grievous." Great
and small, men and women, old and young, all are tainted with the
plague. Our heathen forefathers were better and cleaner in these things
than we Christians--they will condemn us at the last judgment, and we
shall have to stand abashed before them. And you that read this, if you
prize the name of a German--if, as you should, you prize a thousand
times more the name of a Christian--ask your conscience whether it has
not been uneasy under the foregoing narration; and if it has, then
repent, you degenerate German, you hypocritical Christian; repent in
sackcloth and ashes, and on your knees implore your God, the living
Saviour: "Jesus, my Lord, thou holy God, give me a pure nature, a lip of
faithfulness, and a bold heart, through the faith that is in Thee."
"'And now I must go on to tell what more befell that same day, in which
the devilish nature of heathenism among our forefathers was shown as
frightfully as in their murderous sacrifices. Far behindhand as our
ancestors at that time were in all civilisation, they nevertheless
already understood the art of preparing intoxicating drinks. For this
purpose they used especially the wild oats which grew all over, and the
darnel grass, of which a strong, intoxicating beer was brewed; and to
make it yet more stupefying, they added a certain marsh plant. And
scarce ever was there a sacrifice that was not concluded with a
drinking-bout. So it fell out at this time. Many writers tell, how among
the old Germans it was even made a boast to spend eight or even fourteen
days, one after another, in such carousals. On the occasion of which we
are speaking, indeed, they lasted only over the rest of that day and
through the night; for the next day the intent was to go on to the
stone-houses. But what horror must Landolf have felt even in that short
time! When all of them had got drunk, a quarrel sprang up; and as each
man had his weapons with him, his war-axe especially, the quarrel came
to duels between man and man; and soon blood was flowing from most of
the people, and several corpses lay here and there. The bodies were
burned, their ashes buried, and a round hillock of earth thrown up over
them; for, as it was thought, they had fallen in honourable fight, as it
became men to do. And when Landolf, full of astonishment, asked the
Billing, who of all the crowd was the only one that had remained sober,
whether they did not then punish people for murder? the Billing in
wonder retorted by the question, where the murderers were? There had
been nothing but an open, honest fight, which was to the honour of those
concerned in it.
"'Yet another abomination Landolf saw on this occasion, which, however,
was in a remarkable manner mixed up with truth and noblemindedness. I
mean that while this drinking-bout was going on, a number of men, young
and old, amused themselves with gaming, of which they were passionately
fond. To be sure they had no cards, neither dice. But they had little
longish, square cornered, wooden sticks, shaved white, and with certain
marks painted on the upper side. Each man took a certain number of these
in both hands, shook them, and threw them up in the air. When they fell
on the ground, they were carefully looked at to see how many of them lay
with the painted side up, and how many with the unpainted; and whoever
then had the most sticks with the painted side up, he had won. Upon each
throw they set some of their cattle, a hog, a cow, or an ox, or a horse;
perhaps at last a specially prized drinking vessel, made out of a ure-ox
horn; even finally, what they held to be most valuable of all, their
weapons; and at last Landolf saw a young man, who had lost all he had,
cast his freedom upon the last throw; and when this too was lost, he saw
how frankly and without grumbling he gave himself up to be the slave of
his fellow-player; so fast the German, even amid the bewilderments of
sin, held to truth and the inviolable keeping of his word once given.
Liberty was truly his most valuable and precious possession, for which
at any other time he was ready to die, arms in hand. And yet he yielded
this treasure quietly up, when he had lost it at play, rather than break
his word and his faith; if he were the stronger, he did not defend
himself; he did not take to flight, though he might have a hundred
opportunities--the free man who gloried in his freedom, became a slave,
that he might keep faith. This was how Landolf found things among the
heathen; he wept bitter tears over it; but he never desponded: so much
the firmer grew his resolution to preach the Gospel to this people, and
make the true God known to them. For the thought always rose in him,
what might come of a people whom God had so nobly endowed, among whom
even in the abominations of idolatry there shone forth such traits of
pureness of manners and nobleness of thought, were they but once renewed
and born again by the glorious Christian faith.
"'But if Landolf were to come to light again in these days, when we
are Christians, what would he say of us? Outward culture truly he
would find--the face of the earth would indeed have changed. But if he
came into the inns, where drinking and gaming are going on, into the
so-called Maybeers, into the assemblies for eating and drinking, and
playing at weddings, and housewarmings, and christenings; or into the
private drinking and gaming parties in people's houses, the gaming hells
at the watering-places, the drinking carousals of students, the
companies of the noble, the so-called entertainments with which
everything must be celebrated in Germany--how confounded would he be, to
find that the drinking and gaming devil is still the ruling devil in
Germany! but, on the other hand, faith and truth are extinguished. It is
true what the old song says--"Most are Christians only in name. God's
true seed are thinly scattered, those who love and honour Christ and do
His pleasure!" Well, God mend it!'"
Meredith shut up his book.
"Ditto," said Maggie thoughtfully, "is it so bad here?"
"How do I know, Maggie?"
"But what do you think?"
Flora lifted up her head. "Now, Meredith, don't go and say something
absurd."
"What do you want me to say?"
"Why, the truth! that there are a great many nice people in America."
"I have no doubt, so there are in Germany."
"Then that talk is all stuff."
"Pastor Harms never talked stuff."
"How do you know?"
"I have read enough of him to know. He was one of those he calls God's
true seed."
"Then what did he mean? Or what do you mean?"
"Well, Flora, I will ask you a question: How many people do you know who
live to do Christ's will?"
Flora did not answer immediately. Maggie on her part went to
calculating.
"I know--I know--three!" she said slowly.
"Three!" said Flora. "Who are they?"
"That's not the question, Flo," said her brother. "How many do you
know?"
"Well," said Flora, "Mr. Murray is one, and you are another, I believe;
but there are other nice people in the world."
"I know people drink," said Maggie, so gravely and sagely that the
others laughed. "I do know. I have seen them at our house. You needn't
say anything, Esther; I have once or twice when I have been at dinner,
when you were not at home. Not papa, of course, and they don't do it
now. Papa won't have wine on the table at all, but I saw how they did.
Some of the gentlemen began with whisky and water, and one took brandy
and water, before dinner began."
"Oh stop, Maggie!" Esther exclaimed.
"No, but I want to tell you. Then they took Greek wine or Sauterne with
their soup. Then they took champagne with the dinner. Then they had
port wine with the cheese--oh, I recollect, Esther--and then they had
Madeira and sherry with dessert, and claret and Madeira and sherry with
the fruit. And some of them drank every one. I am glad papa won't have
wine at all now. Uncle Eden wouldn't, a good while ago."
"People used in England, not very long ago, to drink a bottle or two of
wine after dinner each man," said Meredith; "but it is not quite so bad
as that nowadays."
Flora was vexed, but silent; she too remembered bowls of punch and
baskets of champagne in her father's time.
"And gaming--" said Maggie, and stopped.
"What?" said Meredith.
"I was thinking how fond Fenton was of it."
"Oh hush, Maggie! he wasn't!" Esther exclaimed.
"It was just the same thing, Uncle Eden said."
"Where is Fenton?" said Meredith.
"He's coming to-morrow. He likes champagne too, and other wine when he
can get it. And Bolivar--Bolivar put something in his lemonade!"
"Why, Maggie," said Meredith, smiling and passing his hand gently over
the little girl's head, "you are taking gloomy views of life!"
"I was only thinking, Ditto. But it seems to me so very strange that
people should be worse now than when they were heathen Saxons."
"People are a mixture now, you must remember. The good part are a great
deal better, and I suppose the bad part are a great deal worse."
"Worse than the heathen!" cried Flora.
"Well, judge for yourself. But darkness in the midst of light is always
the blackest, and not only by contrast either."
"If you think people are so awful, I should think you would go to work
and preach to them," said Esther.
"I will," said Meredith calmly.
"Then what will you do with Meadow Park?"
"Oh, he proposes to turn that into an hospital."
"An hospital!"----
"Flora is romancing a little," said her brother. "There are no
infirmaries put up yet. How sweet this place is! Do you smell the fir
trees and pines? The air is a spice-box."
"The air a box!" cried Maggie laughing.
"I mean it is full of perfumes, like a spice-box. And these old stones,
laid up here by the soldiers' hands of a hundred years ago, just make a
dining place for us now. But it's pretty! And the air is nectar."
"You can choose whether you will smell it, or swallow it," remarked his
sister.
"By your leave, I will do both. Well, shall I go on?"
CHAPTER IV.
"'The morning after the sacrificial feast at the Deep Moor, Landolf with
the Billing and the free men travelled on to the May diet, which was to
be held at the seven stone-houses, and before noon came to the place.
There were an enormous crowd of free men assembled, priests, nobles, and
commons. The place lies in the middle of a vast, level heath, on the
soft declivity of a rising ground, which on the other side falls away
sharply down to a boggy dell. I have already described the stone-houses.
There are seven of them, a number which must have been held sacred among
the Saxons. At least in our country the so-called "Huhnen" graves, in
which our forefathers lie buried, are always found either alone, or
constantly by sevens together in a wide circle. The spot on which the
stone-houses stand must have been sacred to Woden, for in the chronicle
it is called "Wuotanswohrt," and wohrt in Saxon always means a
secluded, enclosed, sacred place, especially devoted to the
administration of justice; for courts of justice were held under the
open sky and always by day, as though to denote that justice is of
heavenly origin, courts the light of sunshine and shuns the darkness.
The word wohrt is connected with wehren' (which means, to keep off,
Maggie), 'because everything unholy must be kept off from it, on which
account also such places were hedged in. Of the transactions at this May
diet, it is only told that a great sacrifice was offered, this time
consisting of fourteen men, two of whom were slaughtered upon each of
the stone-houses in the manner already described; that then cases of law
were decided according to the ancient usage; then the state of things
between the Saxons and the Franks was considered; and at this
opportunity Landolf, who as guest of the Billing had been present at all
the discussions, begged to be permitted to speak, and asked for leave to
preach Christianity in the country. Scarcely had he preferred his
request, when threatening and distrustful looks were directed upon him
from almost all present, and many a hand grasped to the war-axe; for at
the word Christianity, men's thoughts at once flew to the Franks,
those hitherto enemies of the Saxons, by whom after three and thirty
years of fighting they had at last been subdued. The Billing immediately
observed the excitement, and before any of it could get open expression
he himself was upon his feet. He related that Landolf was no Frank, but
an Eastphalian, and so of their own people and race; that when a boy he
had been taken prisoner by the Franks in the war and carried to the
Franks' country, where he had been converted to Christianity, and had
been a pupil of the good Liudgar, who himself was a Saxon and known by
report to all Saxons. That afterwards he had lived with this Liudgar in
the country of their brethren the Westphalians, and half a year before
this time had come to him quite alone and become his guest; and as his
guest he would protect the man, since he had done nothing contrary to
the customs and usages of the Saxon people. In his own home he had
permitted him to preach Christianity; and now here, in the assembly of
the people, according to ancient law and usage, Landolf desired to ask
whether he might be allowed to proclaim openly in the country the Gospel
of the God of the Christians. This must now be regularly debated in the
assembly of the people; and he gave permission to Landolf that free and
unmolested he might say out his wishes and tell exactly what the
Christian belief was. Then every one might give his opinion.
"'Now Landolf rose up. His tall figure, his noble presence, and the
fearless, frank, spirited glance of his eye round the circle, made a
deep impression; and in noiseless silence the assembly listened to his
speech, the first preaching that ever was held in our country. This
short, simple discourse has so grown into my heart and I like it so
much, that I shall give it here.' Flora, are you listening?"
"Of course."
"I didn't know but you were too busy counting your stitches. I want you
to hear this speech of Landolf's. It is very fine.
"'"In the name of God, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost, the only
true God. Amen. Men and brethren, hear my words. One hundred years ago"
(A.D. 960, according to the chronicle), "came two pious Christian
priests to you, to make known to your fathers the Gospel of Christ, the
true God; they were the dark and the fair Ewald. They were your own
relations, they came from England; they were your friends, they had left
England and come over the sea for the love of you; they were your
guests, they had been sheltered in your houses. They wanted to let you
know that God has become your Brother, that He might deliver you from
your sins. You would not let them preach in your land--you were free not
to do that; but you murdered them; here on these stones you slew them in
honour of Woden; your brothers, your friends, your guests, you murdered,
who had done you no evil. Since that time the true God, the God of the
Christians, has been angry with you. You number as many as the Franks
do; you are just as brave as they. Yet Charlemagne, the Frank, has
conquered and subdued you. How is that? God fought with Charlemagne; He
loved him--he is a Christian. God fought against you, for you have
killed his priests; you are murderers. You can kill me too. Do it; I am
not afraid of death; I am the servant of God; if you kill me, God will
take me up to heaven. God's anger will not depart from you, unless you
become Christians. Why will you not become Christians? Your gods are
good for nothing; they cannot help you; they have not been able to stand
before the Christian's God. Where is your Irmensul? Charlemagne has
broken it to pieces." (Irmensul was an idol image that stood at
Hildesheim). "Where is your Wodensaak? Charlemagne has cut it down."
(This Woden's oak stood at Verden on the Aller.) "Where is your
Helawohrt? Charlemagne has destroyed it." (The sacred place of the
goddess Hela was on the Aller, in what is now the suburb Heelen at
Celle.) "Where are your brave leaders, Wittekind and Albion? They have
become Charlemagne's friends and vassals; they are Christians. Do you
think it was Charlemagne that subdued them? No, a greater One, the God
of the Christians has subdued them. Charlemagne indeed often overthrew
them; but the Christian's God has conquered them. Do you know how that
came about? I have heard in Münster, and I will tell you.
"'"After the last battle they lost--you know about that, your young men
bled there too--before peace was concluded, the brave Wittekind said to
his brother in arms, Albion, 'Come, let us go! we will pay a visit to
Charlemagne in his fortress, and take a look at his power; for he is the
greatest in the land.' So the bold heroes set forth; hiding their strong
frames under the dress of beggars; for they wished to remain unknown,
and to see and prove for themselves. Fear was not in their brave hearts.
They travelled and travelled for days and days; and wherever they came,
Christians gave them food. Then they questioned with one another--'Is
this what Christians are?' They were many nights on their journeyings,
and wherever they came the Christians took them in, although they were
beggars. Then they asked one another, 'Is this what Christians are?'
Many a time they lost their way, in cities, villages, and fields; the
Christians set them right, and they said to each other in astonishment,
'Is this what the Christians are?' At last they came to Ingelheim."
(The chronicle names Ingelheim, and not Aix-la-Chapelle.) "They went
through the city, admiring the handsome houses and magnificent streets,
till they came to a large house, the largest of all they had hitherto
seen. 'This must be Charlemagne's dwelling,' said they; 'for certainly
he is the greatest man among his people!' They went in--they heard
singing, that sounded as if it came down from heaven. They went further
in; there stood up in the chancel a man in a white dress (it was a
priest in white church robes) who was speaking: 'Hear, you who believe
the glad message; the great God in heaven loves you. He loves you so
much that He sent His dear Son Jesus Christ to you. Jesus Christ came
down from heaven; God's Son became your brother, so little and poor that
He lay in a manger in the stall for cattle. When He was grown up, He
preached everywhere and said, Sinners, turn, and I will save you. He
made the lame to go and the blind to see, and healed the sick, and
raised up the dead that lay in their graves. He shed His blood for
sinners; sinners put Him to death. He was still kind to them in His
death, and prayed for His murderers, Father, forgive them! for they know
not what they do. They buried Him. But can God stay in the grave? Lo!
after three days the earth quaked and the rocks rent; Jesus rose up out
of the grave, Jesus went up to heaven, and sits now again upon the
throne of His Father, God. He reigns; He commands: Repent, and I will
save you, you shall come into my heaven and reign with me.
"'"So preached the priest. There stood the two heroes in astonishment,
but they were to be yet more astonished. Lo! a tall man steps forward
through the church up to the altar, where the priest was standing; and a
crown was upon his head. It was the King Charlemagne. The two heroes
knew him, and yet they did not know him. Was this the mighty hero, whose
flashing sword in battle struck and slew? Was this the man whose eyes
blazed with the fire of battle? He wears no sword here; his eyes sparkle
peacefully; as he stands before the altar, he humbly takes his crown off
and sets it on the ground; then he bows his knee upon the steps of the
altar and prays to Jesus Christ, the God of the Christians, and all the
people fall upon their knees, and the heavenly music of them who are
singing praises swells out again--'Glory to God in the highest, and on
earth peace, good-will to men.' Then Charlemagne rises and sits down in
a chair, and the man in white clothing preaches of Jesus, who came to
save sinners, and Charlemagne bows his high head so often as the name
of Jesus is named. Then the priest blesses the congregation--the service
is over.
"'"It was not Charlemagne's house in which they were; it was God's
house, in which Charlemagne had been praying. God is greater than
Charlemagne, and so must God's house be the biggest in the city. The
brothers in arms went forth of the church. Before the church door there
was a great crowd of beggars, in garments like their own. Gentle and
kind, Charlemagne goes to the poor people, giving each one a piece of
money and saying, 'God bless it to you, my children; pray for me too.'
'Is that King Charlemagne?' the heroes asked each other by their
astonished looks. Then the king steps up to them, looks at them
graciously, and says--'You have never been here before, my friends; come
into my house, and I will give you your portion.' He goes on and they
follow him. They come into his house, which was smaller than God's
house. They go into his apartment; there he dismisses the attendants,
goes up to Wittekind and Albion, offers them his hand like a brother and
says: 'Welcome to my citadel, you brave Saxon heroes! God has heard my
prayer; my foes are becoming my friends. Put off your rags. I will dress
