is not perceived. Stealthily their evil work may 
be going on. Like spiders in dark corners and 
shut chambers, these evil things are silently cast 
ing fibre after fibre, and loop after loop, around 
our souls, until threads of gossamer are spun into 
bonds no strength of ours, may sunder. It is well 
for us, then, that some hand open a window occasionally, and let in the light upon these dark cor 
ners and shut chambers, disturbing the spiders at 
their work. There will be, of course, a sudden 
stir, a shaking along the filmy lines, a sense of 
bondage as the spirit rises to an easy movement. 
From repose and self-enjoyment from false security, there will be an awakening into painful 
disquietude. We are offended, perhaps, because 
of this meddling with our individual life. We 
blame the officious hand that flung open a shut 
window we call him a disturber of our peace 
who frightened the spiders at their evil work, and 
made us aware of their presence. And he may 
have intended to disturb us, not that he might 
help us to cast out these evil things, but that he 
 
might enjoy our pain and humiliation. But, let 
us remember, that if there be no unclean, no vile 
and hurtful things, in our minds, the opening of 
a window, and flashing in of light, cannot touch 
our tranquil states. If the chambers of our souls 
are always swept and garnished, sunbeams can 
only reveal order and beauty. 
And so, if miserable for the day, after such a 
visitation, good must follow with those who 
aspire after good with those who, once made 
conscious of disease, turn to the great Physician. 
We may not be able to think well of him who dis 
covered to us how weak, vain, selfish or mean- 
spirited we were, because he only sought to 
wound and humiliate. Nay, we will hold our 
selves guarded at the next interview, lest he reveal to us other spider-filled corners, and humble 
us in his presence again. 
Salutary as the influence of these disturbers of 
our peace may be, through the revelations they 
give us of ourselves, they only help us to disco 
ver evil, which they scent as the crow scents car- 
rion. They are not physicians ; have no oint 
ment for the sores they uncover; no balm for the 
wounds made in sharp thrusts into our tender 
sides. They hurt us, and then go on their way 
rejoicing that they left us in pain. With us, if 
we are indeed of those who are striving to ascend 
to the higher regions of spiritual life, where the 
sky is clear, and the air serene, they leave, in 
their departure, the difficult but essential duty of 
forgiveness. Let us see to it that our hurt in the 
contact is less than was intended ; nay, that good 
come, where evil was designed. 
Of that other class to which we have referred, 
the individuals come to us as angels come, search 
ing for good. They are those who say to evil, be 
far from me. In their company the bad in us 
hides itself still farther away, or skulks to the 
dim exteriors of our conscious life, shorn for the 
time of strength. All that is generous and no 
ble ; all that is self-denying ; all that gives us 
sympathy with our fellow-man; all that invests 
goodness with beauty, is made alive and active in 
 
our souls. They come to us in light they come 
to us in love making truth clearer, and affection 
warmer. The peace that dwells with them, per 
vading their atmosphere like the odorous sphere 
surrounding a flower, and penetrating to our life, 
is no slumbrous calm. The sun is shining; the air 
is clear and vital ; good seeds in the ground have 
sprung up in thrifty stalks, and the harvest nods 
hopefully in the swelling grain. And we feel, 
while with them, our own earth drinking the sun, 
and thank God for the signs of fruitfulness in our 
souls. All is not a barren waste, as we some 
times feared. They have made us more in love 
with goodness ; strengthened our better purposes ; 
taught us lessons of forgiveness, and shown us how 
to walk with him, who, when upon earth, went 
about doing good. Blessings on all such! Theii 
lives are in heaven. In the Golden Age, angels 
walked with men ; not in natural bodies, but in 
bodies of spiritual substance, made visible to the 
spiritual eyes of celestial men, living in primal 
innocence. Sin closed the inner senses, and 
though 
" Myriads of spiritual beings walk the earth unseen, 
Whether we sleep or wake," 
our darkened vision perceives them not. And 
yet, in God 's inercy, angels still walk and talk 
with us, leading our thoughts upward, and these 
are they of whom we have just spoken. Their 
lives are in heaven ; but they dwell in natural bo 
dies, and talk with us face to face. Blessings on 
them, we repeat. 
Our changes of state are all dependent on 
things within us. Disturbing influences may 
come from without ; but, if there is nothing to 
disturb, the pressure is vain. The wind that 
lashes the sea into fury, sweeps scarcely heeded 
over the level earth. What a lesson in this ! 
what a revelation ! Every touch from the out 
side meets some response within, or dies unheeded. 
If to an evil allurement an evil desire starts up, 
what will you say? That the allurement created 
 
the desire? Not so. The magnet revealed the 
iron. The evil was there. And so of any and 
all responses made by the soul. Thus, our 
changes of state are our instructors. They show 
us the quality of our lives ; admonish us of hid 
den diseases ; and encourage us by revelations of 
progress in the right way, or triumphs in the 
good fight. 
III. 
THE SWEET FOUNTAIN. 
cup is too bitter," said the lady "Too, 
too bitter ! I cannot drink of it." And a 
shudder ran through her frame. Her face was 
wan and troubled ; her eyes red from a night of 
weeping. 
" But at last, it shall be sweet to the taste." 
"You mock me!" the lady exclaimed, with a 
sudden throb of almost indignant rejection in her 
voice. 
" Not so, my dear Mrs. Lea," was calmly, al 
most tenderly answered. " We are in God 's 
hand, and all his ways are in mercy. If he per 
mit sorrow or trouble, misfortune or bereavement, 
to darken our homes, it is that he may open the 
way for brighter sunbeams to enter. In the bittcrest cup 
placed to our lips, will be found sweet 
ness at last." 
"There can be no sweetness in my cup. I 
shall find the draft grow bitterer and bitterer 
even to the dregs." 
"And yet I say, dear friend! it was dipped 
from a sweet fountain." 
The face of the lady who thus answered was 
serene; and yet, no one could look into it without 
seeing the old marks of pain, of care, of endu 
rance and long suffering. The lines were not 
now sharply cut; but rounded and softened by the 
verdure which heavenly sunshine and refreshing 
dew had wakened into life. 
" It was dipped from a sweet fountain," she repeated, " and the water is sweet." 
" Sweet ! Why will you mock me ?" And 
Mrs. Lea, with a half offended air, shut her eyes, 
and leaned back among the cushions amid which 
she languidly reposed. Her face was very, very 
sad. 
" The bitterness lies in your taste. But, when 
 
that is refined and made perceptive in a higher 
degree, then will this cup of offence, as it now 
seems, be found to contain heavenly nectar. I 
amnot speaking with a vague idealism no, 
no but from life-experience. What we have 
lived we comprehend. Time was, when the cup 
God placed to my lips was as gall and worm 
wood. Often and often since, have I drank from 
the same cup, and found it honey to my taste. 
Have you been very happy in the time past, my 
friend?" 
Mrs. Lea did not answer this abruptly-put 
question, and a period of silence followed. As 
her friend looked into her troubled countenance 
the eyes were still shut she saw thought begin 
ning to obliterate many of the lines that expressed 
only rebellion and suffering. 
" In the time past," she resumed, " the abun 
dance of this world has been gathered to your 
door. You have enjoyed wealth and position. 
But, has your soul, in dwelling with these, found 
unalloyed pleasure ? Did they bring satisfactions, 
 
delights, tranquilities ? Was there no reaching 
of the soul beyond ? No yearnings for a higher 
life ? Have you not grown weary, and restless, 
often, under a sense of inadequacy in all around 
you to minister to crying wants ? Like a caged 
bird, have you not fluttered as in a prison, pant 
ing for a wider range and purer atmosphere? 
Yes, my friend ; it has been even so. You need 
not answer. We have stood, in past years, very 
near together, and I have seen it all. You have 
not been happy !" 
"My own fault," answered Mrs. Lea, with 
slight impatience of manner. " I had everything 
to make me happy. Now, I lose everything on 
which my soul can rest." 
" So far from that," said the friend, " you will 
lose nothing on which true happiness is based. 
* Riches and honors have no power, in themselves, 
to give blessing. That is a state of the soul, and 
comes from right activities. The will acts in 
useful ends, and gives delight according to its 
quality of love to God and man, without reference 
 
to external conditions. So the way to happiness 
is set before the humblest and the poorest, even 
as it is set before the rich and great. If the rich 
will not, in their riches, find the way that leads 
to true enjoyment, and it is possible to lead them 
to right paths through the vale of poverty, God, 
wlrt) is infinite in his love, will, from love, take 
them down into this valley, and in it show them 
the paths of peace,, leading up to the mountains 
of delight. He will put a cup to their lips which 
may prove exceedingly bitter to the taste ; but, in 
the end, they will find that its waters came from 
a sweet fountain. In these sad times, He is lead 
ing many thousands down into dark and difficult 
ways, and they shrink, and tremble, and shudder 
as they descend. But, He knows what is in 
them, and will see that no good is lost, and no 
true source of happiness destroyed. If they will 
be patient, submissive, and self-denying, he will 
surely make their sun to shine in an unclouded 
sky, and their peace to flow as a river. Not, it 
may be, through any restoration of former things 
 
but in a new life, to which shall be given, for 
nourishment, celestial food. The difference of 
this life from the former life, will be as that be 
tween the chrysalis and the butterfly. O my 
friend, seek for this life ! As you go down in the 
ways of misfortune that must be trodden, do it 
with a brave heart and with trust in God. He is 
very near to all ; but especially and intimately 
near to those who, in suffering and sorrow, turn 
to him in tearful hope, and prayerful confidence. 
He will make what looks so rough in the dis 
tance, smooth and soft as grassy meadows. Down 
amid those gloomy shadows that appal your soul, 
rays of divine light will come. Angel hands 
shall lead you, and angel voices speak words of 
consolation and hope." 
And it came, in time, to be even so. There 
was good in Mrs. Lea. Potent in her heart were 
all the elements of a true woman, ind these found 
life and development in a lower plane of social 
activity from the one in which she had moved in 
a spirit of proud self-seeking, or idle indulgence. 
 
Her fall, like that of many others, was rapid. 
In the concussion, she was stunned and bewil 
dered; and for a brief time lay as one in whom 
all useful life was extinguished. But, Mrs. Lea 
was a wife and mother. Her husband was dear 
to her, and so were her children. Yet, had she 
not filled out the measure of her obligations as 
wife and mother for all the love in her heart. 
Wealth had placed her in a false relation to com 
mon duties ; and brought her within the sphere 
of false ideas. Because she was rich, and could, 
for hire, command the services of others, she had 
permitted herself to accept the hurtful fallacy, 
that in useful employments there was something 
degrading. And so accepting the ease and idle 
ness which were offered, she had delegated her 
most sacred obligations, and left even her tender 
babes to the exclusive care of those who worked 
for hire. 
But so sweeping was the disaster that fell upon 
her husband, that every vestige of fortune disap 
peared, and, at the age of forty, he found himself 
 
just on the level from which he started nearly 
twenty years before. 
Six months after the period of wreck, let us 
look in upon Mrs. Lea. The cup of misfortune 
has been, for all this time, at her lips ; let us see 
whether she has found any sweetness in the 
draught. The home in which we find her is 
very humble compared with the one out of which 
she passed, not long before, with hardly restrained 
tears. She is sitting with two children by her 
side, one a girl of seven years, and the other a 
boy of nine. The boy has his arm around her 
neck, and is looking upon a book that she is 
holding. The little girl stands in front, with her 
large eyes, full of light and happiness, fixed in 
tently on her mother 's face. Mrs. Lea is reading 
aloud. There is no sadness in her voice ; but, on 
the contrary, a firm cheerfulness. Every now 
and then she pauses, and talks to the children 
about what she is reading. They listen with the 
deepest interest. Now, in one of these pausas. 
 
and just as the mother raises the book to resume 
her reading, the boy says, 
" I like this home best, don 't you, Florence ?" 
"Yes, indeed I do;" the little girl answers, 
with a quiver of delight in her voice. 
" How comes that ? This home is not so large, 
nor so handsome, and we are poor." Mrs. Lea 
gazes curiously, and not without manifest surprise 
at her children. 
There is a deepening of color on the boy 's face, 
and a slight hesitation of manner. He looks up 
at his mother with eyes so full of love that it is 
brimming them with tears. 
" Why, my son ? Why do you like this home 
the best ?" 
"Because " The flush on his face is 
warmer. 
"Say it, dear." And Mrs. Lea draws the 
answer. 
" Because you are always with us now !" The 
tears will not hold back. There comes a half 
hindered sob, and the boy 's face goes down upon 
his mother 's breast. 
Was any joy in all that mother 's experience so 
deep and pure as the joy which now rewards her 
whole being, giving delight even to the very bo 
dily sensations ; and there is no power in misfor 
tune to cast a shadow over it. 
" You love to have mother with you ?" 
"Don 't we, Florence?" The boy lifts his 
head, not ashamed of the tears, that shine like 
dew-beads on his cheeks, and smiles upon his 
sister. 
" Indeed we do," answers bright eyes, with a 
fuller meaning in her tones than she can. express 
in words ; " and I hope we ll always be poor, and 
never have a nursery any more, to be shut up in, 
with cross, ugly nurses." 
A world of new thoughts come pressing in 
upon the mind of Mrs. Lea. Scales drop from 
her eyes. She sees how the true woman in her 
had been overlaid by fashionable observances. 
How the mere possession of wealth had deceived 
 
her into the false idea that a mother could trans 
fer to a hireling the most sacred of all duties. 
"Is the cup so very bitter?" Mrs. Lea is 
talking with herself, as she sits sewing upon a 
garment for one of her children. They have left 
her side, and are at play with themselves. " My 
friend was right; there is a sweet taste in the 
water it contains. The bitterness was in me." 
A few hours later, coming in from the small 
chamber, where she has, after hearing their prayers, 
given her children to the arms of sleep, Mrs. 
Lea stands by her husband, and lays her hand 
upon him. He looks up into her face. His own 
had worn a shadow when he came in, not long 
before ; but it is not shadowed now. 
" We have not lost all," he says. 
"JS"o, not all. Much is left much that is 
priceless in value." 
" Love is left and duty and God 's kingdom, 
into which we may enter by love and duty." 
The voice of Mr. Lea trembles a little with its 
burden of feeling, in this new utterance for him. 
 
He has been listening to the clear, yet reverent, 
voices of his children, going up in their evening 
prayer, and from the chamber in which they 
kneeled by their mother he has gone back 
through nearly forty years to another chamber 
and another mother. The treasure-house of good 
affections and pious thoughts, stored in infancy 
and childhood, is unlocked now. He has gone in 
among its precious things, and comprehending 
their value, he says " Love is left and duty 
and God 's kingdom, into which we may enter by 
love and duty." It was by misfortune that the 
key came into his hands. And so in the loss of 
worldly treasure, he has found the way to a store 
house of celestial riches. 
" When this cup touched my lips." It is still 
later in the evening, and there has been long and 
earnest communion with the past, the present, and 
the future. "When this cup touched my lips," 
Mrs. Lea is speaking " its bitterness made me 
shudder ; yet, now I can see that it brought me 
water from a sweet fountain. I am happier to- 
 
night than I was one year ago, when no dread of 
the storm that has swept over us sent a chill to 
my heart. There is a foundation, dear husband, 
on which we may build and rest secure, though 
the floods beat, and the tempests rage." 
" Let us build thereon," is answered in low, 
earnest tones, " a building that shall endure for 
ever." 
 
IV. 
COMFORTED. 
drawn curtains stillness; such deep 
^ surrounding stillness that breathing was audi 
ble. In this dimness and silence sat, through 
the long days, refusing to be comforted, a mother 
who had lost her child : Not a child in the in 
nocence of infancy, but in the fragrance and pu 
rity of young womanhood. 
A sorrow like this is hard to bear. It touches 
the very springs of life, and dashes their waters 
with bitterness. It weighs down the heart with a 
burden that makes every pulsation weak and 
painful. Clouds envelop the sun and the earth 
is in shadow. 
" If I could only see her in my dreams," said 
Mrs. Ellsworth to a friend, who had left the out 
side cheerful world, and come into the gloomy 
 
apartment where the bereaved one sat nursing her 
sorrow. " If I could only see her in my dreams, 
it would be something. But since the day her 
face was shut from me by the coffin lid, neither 
to outward sight nor inward vision has it again 
been visible. Through how many hours of the 
night have I kept awake, hoping that I'm ight see 
her in the darkness. I was not afraid. Dear, 
dear child ! She has gone from me as completely 
as if I were sailing over an ocean, and she had 
dropped down into its fathomless depths. Is 
there no return of our beloved? My faith begins 
to fail. I had not thought of the spiritual world 
as very distant. T had believed the separating 
veil but thin. Thought gives presence, and love 
conjunction, as to the spirit, whether we be in the 
body or out of the body ; so I had said, and so I 
had believed. But now I sit and think of Mar 
garet for hours, yet do not perceive her presence." 
The friend made no attempt to meet the state 
of Mrs. Ellsworth by theory or doctrine. She 
understood her case, and knew that there was no 
 
comfort in words. So after sitting silent for a. 
little while, she said 
" You knew Mrs. Garland ?" 
"Yes." 
" Have you heard about her ?" 
" No ! what about her ?" 
" Not that her husband was killed at Gettys 
burg?" 
" Why, no ! Killed at Gettysburg !" 
"Yes; and what makes the case sadder, his 
body could not be found. She will never know 
the place of his burial !" 
" Have you seen her ?" asked Mrs. Ellsworth. 
"No; my acquaintance was too slight to war 
rant intrusion. But you were an intimate friend, 
I think." 
"We have been quite intimate. Poor Mrs. 
Garland ! How does she bear this terrible afflic 
tion ?" 
"I have not happened to meet with any one 
who has visited her." 
Mi s. Ellsworth, who had been sitting in a Ian- 
 
guid attitude, almost too spiritless to move, loft 
her chair, and began walking about the room. A 
new interest had been awakened in her mind. 
The grief of a friend had for the moment over 
shadowed her own. 
"You will go and see her?" suggested the 
visitor. 
Mrs. Ellsworth stood still. She had not been 
out of her house scarcely out of her chamber 
since her daughter 's death. 
" The words of a very near friend give comfort 
in sorrow. The heart is sustained by sympathy," 
" We are near and dear friends ; her affliction 
is heavier than mine; I will go to her," said Mrs. 
Ellsworth. 
Temperaments are different, and so are the 
principles on which character is based. No two 
minds bear sorrow alike. The heart of Mrs. 
Ellsworth failed her as she crossed the threshold 
of her friend 's dwelling. She had come to offer 
the comfort of her presence not to deal in fruit 
less words and now she felt that even her pre- 
 
sence could only add gloom to the darkness in 
which Mrs. Garland was enshrouded. A few 
moments of waiting, and then a servant invited 
her up stairs. The chamber in which she found 
her friend was not in twilight shadows, but cheer 
ful with tempered light. As she entered, she met 
a pale, suffering face, and eyes running over. 
The face hid itself on her bosom. Tears mingled 
with tears, and sobs answered to sobs. 
" It was so kind in you to come," said Mrs. 
Garland, as they sat down together. "I have 
thought of you so many times, and wished to see 
you." 
A baby sat on the floor a baby ten months 
old. His nurse had gone down stairs. He was 
half alarmed at the presence of a stranger, and 
put up his hands to be taken. His mother lifted 
him into her arms, and he nestled his head close 
down against her bosom, but with his eyes on 
Mrs. Ellsworth 's face. 
" Dear baby !" said Mrs. Ellsworth, the mois 
ture glistening in her eyes. 
 
"Margaret loved him so! I never look at 
him that I do not think of Margaret," returned 
Mrs. Garland. "And he was so fond of her 
dear girl that she was ! I dreamed of her last 
night. She was standing in this very room, with 
Eddy in her arms. How plainly I can se 
her!" 
" Oh, I would give all I have in the world for 
just such a dream ! to see her, even in my sleep. 
Oh, yes, she loved Eddy. Come, darling." And 
Mrs. Ellsworth, in whose heart was born at that 
instant a tender yearning towards the child, held 
out her hands. The baby felt the new-born love, 
and responded by leaping into Mrs. Ellsworth 's 
arms, and laying his head down sweetly on her 
bosom. 
"Just so he would spring into Margaret 's 
arms," said the mother. 
"She loved all little children. A baby was 
her delight." And something of that very de 
light transfused itself through the soul of Mrs. 
Ellsworth. Since her own little ones lay on her 
 
breast, she had never perceived such beauty in a 
baby. 
And Margaret had loved this very baby so ten 
derly ! had so often held him in her arms, and 
fell his head against her bosom as she felt it now ! 
A thrill of strange pleasure ran along her nerves. 
She had an intimation of Margaret 's presence 
such as had not been given since the veil of death 
dropped down between them. 
" She so tenderly loved little children while in 
this world," said Mrs. Garland, "that, I doubt 
not, God has placed her in the midst of them. 
Their pure spirits are going upwards daily and 
hourly. Angels are gathering them, like fra 
grant harvests, from thousands of earthly homes, 
and garnering them in heaven. I have often pic 
tured Margaret to my thought, surrounded by ba 
bies and little children, in ministering to whom 
she found a purer and more unfailing delight 
than she ever knew upon the earth." 
The countenance of Mrs. Ellsworth lightened. 
Her eyes glanced upwards ; the close compression 
her quivering lips gave way to something like 
a smile. 
" While my thought has dwelt too often with 
the body in the grave," she answered, "even 
when it followed her across the dividing river, it 
realized no actual condition of life saw her in no 
congenial associations realized nothing. Dear 
friend ! you have put stones beneath my sinking 
feet. It may not be just as you have imagined ; 
but, one thing is plain to me now the pure and 
innocent loves of her heart will not flow forth to 
be lost like water in sand." 
" No, no," said Mrs. Garland. " Defect, im 
pediment, hindrance are of this world. They are 
born of evil. But, in heaven, every pure de 
sire every tender love is gratified. Let our 
souls take up their rest in this ; let us find some 
relief to pain in the sure faith that it is well with 
our departed ones ; and that, if they come to us 
in spirit, they will be able to draw nearer if our 
souls are calm and resigned to God 's will, than if 
 
they were shrouded in despair, and turbulent 
with complaint." 
"Yes, yes. It must be so," returned Mrs. 
Ellsworth. "A new suggestion comes to me. 
Have I not so hidden my spirit away amid pall 
and cloud, that my child could not find me? 
Her love is still the same. Her thought could 
not have turned itself from me. Why have I 
had no sign of her presence ?" 
Mrs. Garland reached her hands for the child, 
who was still in Mrs. Ellsworth 's arms; but Mrs. 
Ellsworth drew him closer, saying : 
" Let him remain dear baby ! I have hardly 
acknowledged it to myself, but since he has been 
lying here, Margaret has seemed almost in bodily 
presence beside me. I came to grieve with you, 
dear friend, in your deeper sorrow, and lo, my 
heart has been comforted !" 
" I have been hiding away from my darling," 
said Mrs. Ellsworth, talking with herself as she 
went homeward. " I have so darkened all the 
chambers in which my soul dwelt, that she could 
not find me. I'm ust open the windows ; I'm ust 
let in the light ; I'm ust clothe my spirits with 
fairer garments. I'm ust no longer think of my 
loss, but of her gain. As God 's kingdom in the 
heavens into which she has been born is a king 
dom of mutual love and service, my life must 
dwell amid useful things if I would be in associa 
tion with angels and she is an angel." 
That night she had a dream of Margaret. She 
came to her in spotless garments, holding little 
Eddy in her arms, and smiling down upon him 
with looks of ineffable sweetness. How real it 
all was ! 
"Take him, dear mother!" She held him 
forth, and he sprang to the arms of Mrs. Ells 
worth. 
The smile on Margaret 's face grew tenderer, as 
she said : 
" Of such is the kingdom of heaven." 
The dream passed. Morning came. But a 
sense of Margaret 's presence remained. If she 
thought of her sadly ; if she repined at her loss ; 
 
if she sat down with folded hands, gathering 
gloomy states around her, this sense of presence 
began to fade. The departed one seemed to 
move afar off. But, in all cheerful work, in all 
self-forgetfulness, in all service for another, she 
felt her very near. Sometimes she could say : 
" Margaret has been with me all day long." 
And so she was comforted. In an almost con 
strained effort to leave her own sorrow, and try 
to soften the pain that lay close and hard upon 
another spirit, she had found the way of consola 
tion. 
" IF I had leisure, quiet, repose ! If I codld 
escape from this fret and fever of life from 
this daily contact with things that chafe and 
worry ; that hurt and agitate. Ah, my friend ! 
There is something wrong. Something out of 
joint in the constitution of society, when its ac 
tion is so painfully felt. If I were as immovable 
as stone; or if my nerves were steel, I'm ight pass 
through the world with unruffled feelings. But 
I am a bundle of sensitive fibres, which answer, 
like a finely-strung instrument, to every touch ; 
giving melody to sort-falling and skillful fingers, 
and discord whenever a rough hand invades." 
"A living soul, fearfully and wonderfully 
made," I answered. "A delicately-wrought in 
strument, created for choral harmonies." 
My friend looked at me with a face that ques 
tioned as to the meaning of what I had said. 
" It is not escape from society that you need," 
I remarked. 
" What then ?" 
" The chording of your instrument with the 
grand life-chorus. Drop out of your place go 
away by yourself and you will be as a solitary 
hautboy, a trombone, a flute, or whatever the in 
strument may be to which you correspond in the 
living orchestral world." 
"Ingenious and fanciful. But, accepting your 
thought as true, how can an instrument, finely - 
strung, find its true relation and power where all 
is discord ?" 
" Impossible in the nature of things," was my 
reply. "But there is a grand life-chorus, into 
which all human instruments, if in tune, may 
come, each in its turn giving increase to the 
harmony." 
" My senses are not acute enough to perceive 
this harmony," returned my friend. " I listen j 
 
but to my ears come shocks of discord, thai send 
thrills of pain along the strings of my soul. For 
me there is no hope but in escape from this Babel 
of sounds. I'm ust get away, and live cl.eer to 
nature. I'm ust talk with the babbling streams ; 
with the birds; with insects; with sweet airs, per 
fume-laden ; .with forest and sky ; with all things, 
in fact, which are in the order of their creation, 
and so image the Creator. Oh, how I am long 
ing to escape ! And I will escape !" 
My friend was in earnest, and so, seeking for 
opportunity, he made his escape, going from the 
city in which his life had been passed, far away 
into the country, that he might stand face to face 
wtth nature, and so be in harmony with her. 
He found leisure, quiet, repose. The stream 
which had, almost from its source, moved along 
in a free current now hurrying past flowery 
banks, now flashing back the sunlight in silvery 
gleams as it swept over stony places or down 
rocky heights composed itself to sleep in a tnn- 
quil lake. 
"The smooth, tree-encircled lake impresses you with a sense of 
tranquillity." 
lie found it very pleasant and peaceful for a 
time. The rush, the hurry, the change were 
over. No more discords no more strivings no 
more contact with rudeness and coarseness, with 
all-absorbing selfishness. 
" I am at one with nature," he wrote me, soon 
after the change. "All her peace, and order, and 
harmony flow into my life. She speaks to me, 
and I understand her language. She takes me 
by the hand, and leads me into green pastures 
and beside still waters. I never understood life 
