purposely changed it, and the evening passed in 
very pleasant talk, alternating with some Bible 
reading. Only, towards the close of the evening 
Fenton started the question, "where they would 
go the next day ? " 
" Suppose we leave that for Monday to take care 
of," Mr. Murray answered. 
" But, sir, there might be some arrangements to 
make." 
"To-night?" 
" Perhaps; but at any rate I might want to give 
some orders in the morning." 
" I don't think we should have a good time, if 
we consulted about it now." 
"Why not, sir?" 
" You forget. It is the Lord's time. And if we 
want him to give us his favour on our expedition, 
it seems to me we had better not offend him about 
it beforehand." 
"But, sir! " 
"But, Mr. Murray!" put in Flora. "Just to 
speak about things?" 
" Time enough to-morrow, Miss Flora. And this 
is the Lord's time, you know." 
. 
 
" But just talking not doing anything ? " 
"Doing a good deal in imagination. What's 
the difference ? Study the fifty-eighth chapter of 
Isaiah, the last two verses. Sir Matthew Hale 
gave it as his testimony, that he found business 
concocted on Sunday did not run off well in the 
week. No, we will leave the question till to-morrow at breakfast if you please." 
" I can't understand it ! " said Flora as she went 
upstairs. 
"Study those verses in Isaiah," said Meredith, 
who overheard her. 
 
CHAPTEK XVIII. 
A bright little party gathered round the breakfast table Monday morning. 
"Now, Uncle Eden," cried Maggie, "where shall 
we go to-day ? It is Monday now." 
"What is proposed?" 
Several plans were ready. 
"Down in the cove of the bay," said Fenton, 
" where the lower brook comes in then I can fish 
off Old Woman's rock till lunch is ready." 
" I propose the Indian falls," said Esther. "Flora 
and Meredith have never seen them." 
" I say, Fort Montgomery," said Maggie. 
" Fort Montgomery ! " There was a general ex 
clamation. 
"Where is that?" Meredith asked. 
" Seven miles down the river. it is just lovely ! " Maggie explained. " We go down with the tide and come back with the tide, and spend the 
day down on the hill there, opposite Anthony's 
Nose. I shewed you from the front door which Anthony's Nose is, Ditto." 
 
" That would be delightful. The day is going to 
be perfectly quiet and warm and sunny just the 
thing." 
" Seven miles," Fenton grunted. " Who's going 
to do the rowing ? " 
" I," said Meredith. 
" And I," said Mr. Murray. 
" And we can take Fairbairn," said Maggie ; " and 
we had better, for there will be the baskets to carry." 
"Nonsense I can carry baskets," said Meredith; 
"and get wood, and all that." 
" I think we can do without Fairbairn," said 
Mr. Murray. " I like the plan. It is just the day 
for it. If it only turn out to be just the time of 
tide also! " 
"We'll soon see about that," cried the boys. 
There was a rush and a whoop and a race to the 
boat-house, and then a more leisurely return. 
" It's all right," said Meredith. " Couldn't be better. It is half past eight now, and the tide just beginning to turn. It will be running down till two 
o'clock and just give us a nice current home." 
"And a good pull too," said Fenton. 
" That's all right, old boy. Corne ! don't you pull 
backwards. Now, how soon can we be ready ? " 
"Just as soon as we can get our lunch ready, 
and the things," said Maggie. " You might pack 
the things, Ditto, and get them into the boat, while 
we see about lunch." 
" What are 'things'?" 
" Why, cups and saucers, and tea-kettle, and 
 
matches, and plates, and paper to light the fire, 
and everything, you know." 
" Go off," said Mr. Murray, " and see about victualling- the ship. I can manage the cups and 
saucers." 
So Maggie and Esther ran to consult Betsey, who 
now held a nondescript position of usefulness in 
the family and was acting cook while Mrs. Candlish 
was away ; cook proper being absent on leave. 
"0 Betsey, we are going out, to be gone all day; 
and now, what can we have for lunch ? " 
" Lunch, Miss Maggie ! " 
"Yes, and you know we want a good deal. There 
are six of us." 
" You know, it's Monday." 
"Well, what of it?" 
"There h'aint so much as if t'was any other day. 
You see, yesterday it was Sunday." 
"0 well! what have we got, Betsey? I know 
you have got something." 
"There's bread, Miss h'Esther." 
"We want more than bread. And butter, and 
tea and coffee and all that. We must have something more, Betsey. What have you got? " 
" The chickens is nothing left of 'em ; and that 
'am bone h'aint got much on it. I do think, Miss 
Maggie, ye consume a great deal in the woods ! " 
" Of course we do. And we want a good, hearty 
lunch to-day, because the boys and Uncle Eden will 
have a long way to row. Come, Betsey, make 
haste." 
 
"There h'aint a living thing in the 'ouse, but 
h'oysters, and li'eggs, and potatoes. That is, nothing cooked. And ye want dressed meat." 
" Oysters ? " said Maggie doubtfully. 
" Capital," said Esther. " And sweet potatoes. 
We can bake them in the ashes. And eggs are 
good. Meredith will make us another friar's own 
let." 
" There's nothing else for ye," said Betsey summing up. 
So Fairbairn carried a great bag of oysters down 
to the boat, and a basket with the potatoes and 
eggs, and the kettle, and a pail to fetch water in. 
And into other baskets went everything else that 
everybody could think of as possibly wanting from 
the house. Affghan and worsted, finally, and the 
merry party themselves. 
Ten o'clock, and a soft, fair, mild day as could 
ever have been wished for. Not much haze to-day, 
yet a tempered sunlight, such as October rejoices 
in. No wind, and a blue sky far more tender in 
hue and less intense than that of summer. Little 
racks of cloud scattered along the horizon were, 
like everything else in nature, quiet and at rest; no 
hurry, no driving ; no storms, no ripening sun-heat ; 
earth's harvests gathered in and done for that year, 
and nature at rest and at play. And with slow 
leisurely strokes of the oar the little boat fell down 
with the tide; she was at play too. Sunshades 
were not opened ; shawls were not unfolded ; in the 
perfection of atmosphere and temperature there 
 
was nothing to do but to breathe and enjoy. At 
first even talking was checked by the calm beauty, 
the grand hush, of earth and sky. The boat crossed 
over to Gee's Point, and from there coasted down 
under the shore. There the colours of the woods 
shewed plainly in their variety ; dark red oaks, olive 
green cedars, dusky chestnut oaks and purple ashes ; 
with now and then a hickory in clear gold, or a 
maple flaunting in red and yellow. They all succeeded one another in turn, with ever fresh com 
binations; on the opposite shore the same thing 
softened by distance; overhead that clear, pale blue 
of October. 
"I do not realize that I am living in the common 
world ! " said Flora at last. " I seem to be floating 
somewhere in fairy-land." 
" It's October that is all," said Mr. Murray. 
" Then I never saw October before." 
" Aren't you glad to make his acquaintance ! " 
said her brother. 
"But how can one come down to November 
after it?" 
" Oh, November is lovely, " cried Maggie. " It 
is lovely here." 
"At Mosswood? Well, I can believe it. But 
at Leeds November comes with a scowl and a bluster and takes one by the shoulders and gives one 
a shake to put one in order for winter, I suppose." 
" I don't think shaking puts anything in order," 
remarked Esther. 
"No. Now this '" said Flora wistfully looking 
 
around her " this comes as near making me feel 
good, as anything can." 
" Take a lesson " said Mr. Murray. 
" But after all, the months must be according to 
their nature," said Flora. 
"Certainly. The difference is, that you may 
choose what manner of nature you will be of. It 
all depends, you know," Mr. Murray went on smiling, "on how much of the sun the months get. 
And on how much of the Sun you get." 
" How can I choose ? " said Flora. 
" How ? Why, you may be in the full sunshine 
all the time if you like." 
Again the boat dropped down stream silently. 
The way was long; seven miles is a good deal in a 
row-boat; so they took it leisurely and enjoyed to 
the full the consciousness that it was a long way, 
and they should have a great deal of it. By and 
by they came to a little rocky island or prom 
ontory, connected with the main land by marsh 
meadows at least if by nothing more, to get round 
which they had to make quite a wide sweep. When 
they had passed it and drew in to the shore again, 
they were already nearing the southern hills which 
from Mosswood looked so distant and seemed to 
lock into one another. They had the same seem 
ing still, though standing out now in brighter tints 
and new and detailed beauty. On and on the 
little boat went, coasting along. No further break 
in the line of shore for a good while; only they 
were nearing and nearing that nest of hills. At 
 
last they came abreast of one or two houses, where 
a well-defined road came down to the river. 
" Do we land here ? " asked Flora. 
"Not yet. Round on the other side of that bluff 
we shall come to a creek, with a mill; that is the 
place. Are you in a hurry ? " 
" I should like to sail so all day! " 
They floated down with the tide and a little 
movement of the oars; there was absolutely no 
wind. The sloops and schooners in the river drifted or swung at anchor. Hardly a leaf moved on 
a stem. The tide ran fast hoNvever, and the lit 
tle boat slipped easily past the gay banks, with 
their kaleidoscope changes of colour. This piece 
of the way nevertheless seemed long, just because 
the inexperienced were constantly expecting it to 
come to an end; but on and on the boat glided 
and there was never a creek or a mill to be seen. 
"Uncle Eden," said Maggie, "there used to be 
a creek here somewhere." 
"Certainly." 
"There is none here now," said Flora. 
" That you see." 
"I can look along the shore for a good way, 
Mr. Murray. Are we going quite down to those 
mountains V " 
" No. You will see the creek presently." 
"The banks seem without the least break in 
them." 
"It will not do to trust appearances. Have you 
not found that out yet ? " 
 
"I tell you what; I'm getting hungry," said Fenton, who was taking his turn at the oars. 
" Eleven o'clock. You will have to control your 
impatience for some time yet," said Meredith. 
" I can tell you, this boat is awfully heavy," said 
Fenton. He had meant to use a stronger word, 
but changed it. "Can't we get lunch by twelve?" 
"0 no! we shall have some reading first, I guess," 
said Maggie. "Lunch at twelve? Why you never 
have it till one, Fenton." 
"Makes a difference whether you are pulling 
a dozen people and forty baskets along," rejoined 
her brother. "It's an awful bore, to have to do 
things." 
There was a general merry burst at that. 
"What sort of things, Fenton? Do you want 
to live like a South Sea Island savage ? " his uncle 
asked. 
" Uncommonly jolly, I should think," responded 
Fenton. "Dive into the surf and get a lobster, 
climb into a tree and fetch down a cocoanut 
there's your dinner." 
" A very queer dinner," remarked Maggie, amid 
renewed merriment. 
" I never heard that lobsters were fished out of 
breakers, either," said Flora. 
" You seem to think it is no work to fight the 
breakers and climb the cocoanut trees," remarked 
Mr. Murray. "However, I grant you, it would 
not occupy a great deal of time. Is your idea of 
life, that it is useful only for eating purposes ? " 
 
"It comes to that, pretty much," said the boy. 
" What do people work for, if it isn't to live ? I 
don't care how they work." 
"Some people's aim is to get where they will 
do nothing," said Mr. Murray. " Do you see a bit 
of a break yonder in the lines of the shore, Miss 
Flora?" 
"Is it? yes, it is the creek!" cried Maggie 
joyously. " It is the creek. Now you can see it, 
Flora." 
It opened fast upon them now as they came near, 
quite a wide-mouthed little creek, setting in among 
wooded banks which soon narrowed upon it. Just 
before they narrowed, an old mill stood by the side 
of the water, and there were some steps by which 
one could land. There the boat was made fast, 
and the little party disembarked, glad after all to 
feel their feet again ; and baskets one after another 
were handed out. 
"What is all this cargo?" said Fenton grumbling ; " and who's going to carry it to the top of 
the hill ? Suppose we stay down here ? " 
" And lose all the view ? " said Maggie. 
"And the walk? and the fun?" said Esther. 
"Fun!" echoed Fenton. "Just take that sack 
along with you, if you want fun. What ever have 
you got in it ? cannon balls ? " 
"Oysters." 
"Oysters! In the shell! Why didn't you have 
them taken out? What's in this basket? this is as 
bad." 
 
"Cups and saucers, and spoons and plates, and 
such things." 
"We could have done without them." 
"How?" 
" Eat with our fingers." 
" You had better go to the South Sea Islands, and 
done with it," said Esther. " Come you take hold 
of one side of the basket and I of the other." 
"No, Essie," said her uncle; "that would be very 
unchivalrous. Do not ask Fenton such a thing. In 
the South Sea Islands men may make women do 
the work for them ; but not here. Come, my boy, 
here are three of us and only a basket apiece ; take 
up your burden and be thankful, and be brave." 
I am afraid Fenton was neither; but he shouldered his basket; and being an athletic fellow, 
managed to reach the top of the hill without more 
muscular distress than the others showed. Of the 
state of his mind I say nothing further; but the 
truth is, the way was rather long. Nobody knew 
the shortest cut to the place they desired to reach ; 
so they wound about among thickets of low cedar, 
sprinkled here and there with taller pines, going 
up and down and round about for some time. At 
last they found their way to the top of the ridge, 
and wandering along in search of a suitable place 
for their rest and pleasure, came out upon an open 
bit of turf and moss on the highest ground, over 
which a group of white pines stretched their sheltering branches. The view was clear over a very 
long stretch of the river with its eastern shore; 
 
indeed they could look up quite to the turn of the 
river at Gee's Point; Gee's Point itself hid Mosswood from them. 
With acclamations the party deposited their bas 
kets and threw themselves down on the bank. The 
gentle warmth of the sun was not shorn of its effect 
by the least stir of wind ; the moss and grass were 
perfectly dry ; and the lookout over river and shores 
was lovely. Sugarloaf shewed now true to its 
name, an elegant little cone. The sails of the two 
or three vessels the party had passed in coming 
down the river were so still that they served to 
emphasize the general stillness; they hung lazily 
waiting for a breeze and could not carry their hulls 
fast or far. 
For a while the pleasure party could do nothing but rest and look. But after a while Meredith 
roused himself to further action. He began wan 
dering about; what he was searching for did not 
appear, until he came back with an armful of 
green, soft, pine branches. 
"Now if you will just get up for a few minutes," 
said he, "I will give you a couch to rest upon." 
And he went on to lay the branches thick together, 
BO as to form a very yielding comfortable layer of 
cushions, on which the party stretched themselves 
with new pleasure and strong appreciation. Meredith had to bring a good many armfuls of pine 
branches to accommodate them all; at last he had 
done, and flung himself down like the rest. 
" When do you want your fire made?" said he. 
 
"Somebody else is hungry, I am afraid," said 
Flora. 
"I cannot deny it. But I can wait as long as 
you can ! " 
" I am very hungry," said Flora. 
" I believe I shall be," said Mr. Murray, by the 
time our luncheon can be ready. Here's for a 
fire!" 
They all went about it. To find a place and to 
arrange stones for the kettle, and to collect fuel and 
to build and kindle the fire. Stones for the chimney-place were not at hand in manageable size; 
so Mr. Murray planted three strong sticks on the 
ground with their bases a couple of feet or so apart 
and their heads tied together ; and slung the kettle 
to them, over the fire. This was very pretty, and 
drew forth great expressions of admiration. Then, 
while waiting for the kettle to boil, they all threw 
themselves on their pine branches again and called 
for a stoiy ; only Fenton sat by the fire to keep it 
up. Meredith took his book from his pocket and 
laid it on the pine branches, open before him. 
"You could not attend to anything very deep 
till you have had something to eat," he said. "I 
will give you something easy." 
"Most of your stories are so profound," added 
Flora. 
"Nevermind; listen." 
 
CHAPTER XIX. 
" The story that I am going to tell now, happened here in Hermannsburg.' " 
"A great many things seem to have happened 
in Hermannsburg," Flora remarked. 
" Yes. Just think what it must be to live in a 
village with a history. 
"  It is, for one thing, a beautiful story for Passion week; and then it gives a lovely picture of 
the relation in which princes and their vassals at 
that time stood to one another. The thirty years' 
war had brought frightful misery over our country. 
Havoc and devastation had come even into the 
churches. So, for example, in this place; the imperial troops had not only plundered the church 
and carried away everything that was of value; 
for to be sure the people here were Lutheran heretics; but they had even broken to pieces all the 
bells in the tower, and driven off no less than five 
baggage waggons full of brass metal, to be recast 
for cannon. And the last one, the big bell, was 
broken up and about to be carried away by the 
Croats ; the horses were even put to the waggon ; 
 
when suddenly the blast of trumpets and the battle-cry, " God with us ! " announced the coming of 
Lutheran troops, and scared the Croats away. So 
the metal was left behind. After the thirty years' 
war, gradually the people gathered together again ; 
but the number of them was very small, and many 
a farm had to lie waste, for want of both farmer 
and farming stock. There are said to have been 
at first only ten families come back to our parish 
village, with four oxen and two cows. Besides all 
that, towards the end of the war epidemics were 
constantly prevailing, so that for example, in this 
parish, in the thirty years from 1650 to 1680, three 
pastors died one after another of contagious epidemics ; namely, Andreas Kruse ' " (that was the fellow 
who stood out so for his church vessels), " ' Paulus 
Boccatius, Johannes Buchholz ; and the fourth Justus Theodor Breyhan, who died in 1686, was three times at death's door. Those were troubled times ! 
"  This Breyhan was a childlike good man, whom 
his parish held in great love and honour, for both 
in spiritual and in material things there was no 
better counsellor for them. Like a true father he 
stood by the bedside of the sick and the dying, 
to shew them how to die happy, and like a good 
father he comforted the survivors, and by the live 
and powerful words of his preaching, poured new 
strength and fresh courage of faith into all hearts. 
With all that, this man was a singular lover of the 
sound of the bell. In his opinion it was a remark 
able thing, that the heavenly King would allow his 
 
bells to be cast of the same metal in which earthly- 
princes cast their guns; and his highest wish was, 
to get a great church bell again. The metal indeed 
was still on hand; but who would have it cast? 
There was only a little bell still hanging up in the 
tower, which was called the Bingel bell, and dated 
back to the year 1495; (it is there still) and had 
been too insignificant to tempt the Croats. With 
that on Sundays people must be rung to church, 
and with that the tolling for the dead must be done 
at funerals. It did, it is true, give out a fine, lovely, 
clear note ; but the good dear Breyhan often wept 
great tears when he heard the sound of it; it seemed to him that it was too disrespectful to the great 
King in heaven, that he should have no better bell 
than that. He could hardly sleep at last for thinking of it. Especially at the high festival days and 
in Passion week, and on occasion of funerals, he 
was in great uneasiness. Then, it was in the fast 
season of the year 1680, he was again sick unto 
death, and in his fevered fancies he was continually 
praying to the dear Lord that he would not let him 
die before he could have the bell properly tolled at 
his burying. He recovered, and on Good Friday 
was again able to preach. The congregation wept 
for joy at having their beloved pastor among them 
again, and never perhaps have more ardent thanks 
gone up to God from the parish than did that day. 
The time of the Easter festival passed by, and they 
rejoiced with one another over the glorious resurrection of the Lord Jesus. The third day of the 
Easter festival (at that time there were still always 
three feast days) he told the congregation that they 
must pray for him faithfully ; for the next day he 
was going on a journey after a bell, which in his 
illness he had promised to the Lord. 
'"The next morning his honest old parish farmer 
Ebel was at the door with a little farm waggon, and 
asked him where they were to go ? and whether it 
was to be a long or a short journey ? You must 
know the man was under obligation to take several long journeys for his pastor, lasting some days, 
and several short expeditions of a day only each. 
"It shall be a short one for to-day," the pastor an 
swered. "I think with God's help to ride to Zelle." 
So after Ebel had attended morning worship in the 
parsonage, for he would not willingly have missed 
that, Breyhan mounted into the waggon, set himself 
down upon a spread of straw, took his hat oif and 
said reverently "In God's name !" and then they 
went forward, step by step, as the manner was then ; 
for in those days people were not in such a hurry 
as they are now. Before the city they stopped, 
and with prayer and thanksgiving eat the break 
fast they had brought along with them. Then 
Breyhan took his vestments out of a clean linen 
cloth and put them on, and one could see by his 
lips that he was speaking to himself or praying. 
Good Ebel felt himself growing quite devotional at 
the sight, and he drove into the city with twice the 
spirit he had had before, because now everybody 
might see that he had a pastor in his waggon.'" 
 
Meredith paused a moment to glance up at the 
river and hills opposite, and Maggie broke forth, 
"The people in that country seem to be very unlike the people in this country ! " 
"You mean, nobody here would care so much 
about carrying a minister in his waggon," said 
Meredith laughing. 
"Well he wouldn't, would he?" 
" I am afraid not. More's the pity." 
"Why, Ditto?" said his sister. "What are ministers so much more than other people?" 
"They are the King's ambassadors," said Mr. 
Murray, taking the answer upon himself. "And 
you know, Miss Flora, the ambassador of a king 
is always treated as something more than other 
people." 
Flora looked at him. "Mr. Murray," she said, 
"ministers do not seem like that?" 
"When they are the true thing, they do." 
"But then besides," Maggie went on, "how 
could anybody, how could that good man care so 
much about a bell? What difference did it make 
whether the bell was big or little?" 
" Superstition " said Flora. 
"No, not exactly," responded Mr. Murray. 
"That other man cared so much about his silver 
service, and this one about his bell they were both 
alike, but I don't understand it," said Maggie. 
" How would you like your father to have his table set with pewter instead of silver ? " 
" Uncle Eden ! but that" 
 
" Or to drive a lame horse in his carriage ? " 
" But Uncle Eden" 
" Or to wear a fustian coat? " 
"But that's different, Uncle Eden?" 
"Yes, it is different. This concerns our own 
things; those matters of the vessels and the bell 
concerned God's things." 
"Then you approve of building very costly 
churches, sir?" asked Meredith, whose head was 
running on churches lately. 
"No, I do not," 
" How then, Mr. Murray ? " said Flora curiously. 
" Because the temple of the Lord, the only one 
he cares much about, is not built yet. I hold it 
false stewardship to turn aside the Lord's money 
into brick and mortar and marble channels, while 
his poor have no comfortable shelter, his waifs want 
bread, and a community anywhere in the world are 
going without the light of life and the word of 
salvation." 
" What do you mean by the temple of the Lord, 
Uncle Eden ? " said Maggie. " I thought there was 
no temple of the Lord now ? " 
Mr. Murray pulled out his Bible from his pocket, 
opened and found a place. 
"  Now therefore ye are no more strangers and 
foreigners, but fellow-citizens with the saints, and of 
the household of God ; and are built upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ 
himself being the chief corner-stone ; in whom all 
the building, fitly framed together, groweth unto 
 
an holy temple in the Lord ; in whom ye also are 
builded together, for an habitation of God through 
the Spirit.' " 
" How lovely ! " said Meredith. 
" I didn't know that was in the Bible," said 
Flora. 
"The literal Jewish temple was in part a type 
of this spiritual one. And as in Solomon's build 
ing,  the house was built of stone made ready be 
fore it was brought thither ; so that there was neither hammer, nor axe, nor any tool of iron heard 
in the house while it was in building,' but the walls 
rose silently, so it is in this temple. The stones 
are silently preparing, 'polished after the similitude of a palace;' silently put in place; 'lively 
stones built up a spiritual house;' so the Lord 
says, ' He that overcometh, will I make a pillar 
in the temple of my God.'" 
There was silence for a few moments, when Mr. 
Murray added, "That is the temple, Meredith, that 
I think the Lord wants us to build and help build. 
I think any diversion of the money or strength 
needed for this, a sad, sad waste ; and no honour to 
the Lord of the temple, though it may be meant so. 
Come, go on with Pastor Breyhan ; I like him. His 
was a true-souled care for God's honour. I hope he 
got his bell." 
Meredith went on. 
"'To Ebel's question, "where he should drive 
to?" the answer was, "to the Stechbahn;" that 
was a road which lay opposite the ducal castle. 
 
Ebel's wonderment grew greater and greater, but 
Breyhan kept still, slowly dismounted, gave orders 
to Ebel that he should drive to the inn, but he himself went straight on to the ducal castle. As he 
had expected, for it was just eleven o'clock, he 
found the duke sitting in front of the entrance to 
the castle. For about this hour the duke was wont 
to sit there and allow everybody, even the lowest 
of his vassals, to have free access and speech of 
him. If there were no petitions, or complaints, or 
the like on hand, he would converse in the kindest 
and most affable way with everybody, and many a 
peasant could boast that in all simple-heartedness 
he had shaken hands with his liege lord. Breyhan 
found the duke (it was George William) surrounded 
by a number of people. However there can have 
been nothing of consequence going on, for when 
the duke saw the pastor approaching, he signed 
him immediately to come near. Breyhan present 
ed himself ; and related simply and in, childlike 
wise how things stood in Hermannsburg, and how 
the people had not yet been able to get their affairs 
rightly under way since the terrible war. George 
William listened kindly, and many a tear came 
into his mild eyes as Breyhan told him of the sick 
beds and the dying beds. 
 "You want to ask some help in your need?" 
demanded the duke. 
"No," was the answer; "we can manage as yet 
to get along with these earthly troubles. But we 
have a spiritual trouble, that we feel more keenly, 
 
and which we cannot deal with by ourselves, and 
in that you must help us, my lord duke; this is 
what I have come for to-day." He told him now 
all that he had on his heart respecting the bell; 
how that the beautiful metal was there yet, but no 
means to get it cast, and that that was for the 
duke to do. The duke was delighted with the 
childlike, honest nature of the man and his hearty 
confidence that the duke's help was certain ; and lie 
could not help putting Breyhan's faith a little to 
the test. 
"Dear pastor," said he, "you are suffering in a 
small way from the after effects of the thirty years' 
war; on the other hand I am suffering the same 
thing on a great scale. Your village treasury is 
empty, my castle treasury is empty, and the country's treasury to boot. So I cannot shake down the 
money for you out of my sleeves. If all the people 
in the land came to me to get their bells cast for 
them, what would be the end of it ? " 
" 'Breyhan was of opinion that the case was some 
what different with Hermannsburg. Since one of 
the duke's ancestors had founded the church there, 
one of the descendants might well have a bell cast 
for it. The duke however would not yet give in, 
but teased the petitioner with all sorts of objections, 
just to see what he would answer; he loved clever 
and witty speeches. Breyhan did what he could to 
satisfy the duke's objections. At last it got to be 
too much of a good thing, and he said; "My lord 
duke, I have now been a good while asking a boon 
 
of you, as a humble vassal may ask his prince ; but 
as asking does no good, I will now order you to 
have the bell cast. Perhaps you are not aware 
that I am lord of the manor to you, and that 
you are my liegeman. A liegeman 'must stand 
by his feudal lord with his goods and with his 
blood, with life and honour. The bell we must 
have ; it is needful for our holding of divine service. 
You are not obliged to give us the whole bell ; you 
are only to have it cast. Now it does not indeed 
stand in your title-deed that you must have a bell 
cast for us ; therefore I cannot put you out of your 
farm for not doing it. But it does stand therein 
written that you must make hay for me three days 
in every year, and do a day's work for me in every 
week, for which service each time you are to get a 
half gallon of beer. Hitherto your bailiff has put 
a man to do it, and I have consented; but if you 
do not have the bell cast, then you must come 
yourself and make hay and cut wood." 
'"You should have seen the duke then. "My 
dear pastor," said he, "that is something I did not 
know before, that you are my lord of the manor; 
in that case, I must take shame to myself that 
I have let you stand here all this while. Come 
into the castle with me." He seized his hand and 
led him into the house, sent for his wife, and said 
in a solemn voice, " See here, my dear wife, until 
now I have supposed that I was the first man ill 
the country; and how to-day I have come to know 
that the Hermannsburg pastor stands highest, for 
 
he is lord of the manor to me. Let preparation be 
made for his dining with us." While the servants 
made ready, the duke sought better information, 
and learned now that he actually held a farm in 
Hermannsburg from the Hermannsburg benefice, 
the contract for which on every occasion of the 
coming of a new pastor, or of a new duke's assuming the government, must be ratified over a cup of 
wine, and upon which, besides the yearly service 
money, the above obligations rested. The duke 
was so delighted at this, that he not only promised 
Breyhan to yield obedience and have the bell cast, 
but he begged him in the humblest manner that 
he would spare him in the matter of the hay-making and wood-cutting, for he was not exactly in 
practice in the matter of those two exercises; then 
jestingly he begged his wife to apply to the pastor 
herself for him, to let grace take the place of right. 
And as he was not slow to do this, all was soon settled. At table Breyhan was requested to make the 
prayer, and the conversation went on most charmingly about things of God's word. 
The faithful carter Ebel meanwhile did not know 
at all where his pastor could be staying so long; 
and as he certainly understood so much as that the 
