Fry the meat and onions in the dripping to a light brown. Put on in two
quarts of water, and having cooked one hour, add the other vegetables
chopped, and the remaining three quarts of water, cold. Boil slowly
four hours, skimming often. Strain, pulping the vegetables. Put meat
and bones into the stock-pot, season well; divide the broth into two
portions; salt one, and pour into the stock-pot. When cold, set on ice
for to-morrow. Cool and skim the rest; heat and skim until quite clear.
Put dice of fried bread into the tureen.
PATÉ DE FOIE DE VEAU.
3 lbs. of calf’s liver—parboiled and cold; ½ lb. of cold cooked ham;
3 eggs; 1 tablespoonful of butter, and same of fine crumbs; 1 scant
cup of milk; a little minced onion and parsley; nutmeg, cayenne, and a
pinch of grated lemon-peel; some good pie-paste.
Mince the ham, and pound the boiled liver. Make into a sort of paste
with the butter, beaten eggs, bread-crumbs, milk, and seasoning. It
should be just soft enough to pour. Butter a bake-dish profusely; line
with a good paste, rolled out thicker than for most pies. Fill this
with the liver mixture; cover with crust, which must not overlap the
edge of the dish, but be pinched down firmly upon the lower crust; set
in a pan, containing a cupful of boiling water, just enough to keep
the bottom crust from burning, and bake one hour and a quarter in a
moderate oven. Pass a knife around the edges of the crust to detach the
paté; invert upon a deep dish. Pass with it drawn butter in which have
been beaten two raw eggs, and these thickened by two minutes’ boiling.
STUFFED SQUASH.
Pare a “turban” squash, and cut off a slice from the top. Extract the
seeds, and lay one hour in salt water. Then fill with a good stuffing
of crumbs, chopped fat salt pork, parsley, etc., wet with gravy. Put on
the top slice; set the squash in a pudding-dish. Put a few spoonfuls of
melted butter and twice as much hot water in the bottom; cover the dish
very closely, and set in the oven two hours, or until tender. Lay
within a deep dish, and pour the gravy over it.
SUCCOTASH.
See Wednesday, First Week in September.
BAKED POTATOES.
Wash, wipe, and lay in a moderate oven. Bake until soft to the grasp.
Send to table in their skins, wrapped in a napkin.
BAKED BLACKBERRY PUDDING.
1 pint of milk; 2 eggs; 1 quart flour, or enough for thick batter;
1 gill bakers’ yeast; 1 saltspoonful of salt; 1 teaspoonful of soda
dissolved in boiling water; nearly a quart of berries, dredged with
flour.
Make the batter and let it rise in a warm place four hours. When very
light, stir in the dredged fruit lightly and quickly; pour into a
buttered dish and bake one hour, covering with white paper should it
“crust” over too fast. Turn out, and eat with sweet sauce.
  Second Week.      Wednesday.
  ——
  Soup à la Bonne Femme.
  Roast Tenderloin of Beef.      Beets Sautés.
  Lima Beans.      Fried Egg-plant.
  ——
  Velvet Blanc-Mange.
  ——
SOUP À LA BONNE FEMME.
3 lbs. of lean veal; ½ lb. lean ham; 2 carrots, grated; 1 chopped
onion; thyme and parsley; 1 cup of chopped mushrooms; pepper and salt;
1 cup of milk; floured butter; 4 quarts water.
Cut the meat small and put on with herbs and vegetables in the water.
Bring to a slow boil, and keep at this, taking off the scum as it
rises, for three hours, or until the liquid is reduced one-half.
Strain, cool, skim, season and return to the fire with the chopped
mushrooms. Stew slowly half an hour; stir in a tablespoonful of butter
cut up in one of flour. Boil two minutes and pour into the tureen. Add
the boiling milk, and pour out.
ROAST TENDERLOIN OF BEEF.
See Sunday of First Week in September.
BEETS SAUTÉS.
Wash and cut off the tops, but do not touch the roots with a knife.
Boil one hour; scrape and slice them, and stew ten minutes in a little
butter, mixed with pepper, and a good spoonful of vinegar. Toss and
stir lest they should brown.
LIMA BEANS.
See Thursday, First Week in September.
FRIED EGG-PLANT.
See Sunday, First Week in September.
VELVET BLANC-MANGE.
1 pint sweet cream, whipped stiff; ½ package Cooper’s gelatine soaked
in 2 cups of cold water; 2 glasses white wine; juice of one large
lemon; bitter almond flavoring; 1 cup sugar.
Put sugar, soaked gelatine, lemon and wine into a covered vessel for
one hour. Stir well, and set the covered jar or bowl into a saucepan
of boiling water until the gelatine is dissolved. Strain and cool
before flavoring it. When it begins to congeal, beat gradually into the
whipped cream. Put into a wet mould, and bury in the ice until wanted.
Pass cake with it.
  Second Week.      Thursday.
  ——
  Egg Soup.
  Smothered Chickens with Mushrooms.
  Stewed Tomatoes.
  Scalloped Cauliflower.      Beet-root Salad.
  ——
  Peaches and Cream.
  ——
EGG SOUP.
1 quart of broth in which the feet and giblets of the chickens have
been boiled; all that you have left of yesterday’s soup, strained; 4
beaten eggs; parsley, salt and pepper; dice of stale bread.
Cool and skim the quart of water in which have been boiled for one
hour the cleaned feet and giblets of your chickens. (Salt the giblets
and put them in the refrigerator.) Set this broth over the fire, and
season. When it boils, take it off, pour it upon the beaten eggs; put
all into a jar and set in boiling water, stirring until it thickens.
Heat in another saucepan the remains of yesterday’s soup—or, if you
have none, a scant quantity of milk, thickened with floured butter;
pour into a tureen, add the egg-broth, and throw in a good handful of
stale bread-dice. Stir well and serve.
SMOTHERED CHICKENS WITH MUSHROOMS.
Split a pair of young, full-grown chickens down the back. Lay them,
breasts upward, in a dripping-pan; pour over them a great cupful of
boiling water in which have been melted two tablespoonfuls of butter.
Invert another pan over them, covering closely, and cook in a steady
oven until they are tender and of a mellow russet hue. An hour is
generally sufficient. Baste very often, twice at the last with butter.
Keep the fowls hot upon a chafing-dish while you add the rest of the
can of mushrooms opened yesterday—each mushroom sliced into thirds—to
the gravy, with browned flour and pepper. Simmer ten minutes; pour a
little upon the chickens, the rest into a boat.
SCALLOPED CAULIFLOWER.
Small, and therefore cheap, cauliflowers will do for this purpose. Boil
them in hot salted water twenty minutes. Drain, cool, and chop. Beat
into them a couple of eggs, a spoonful of melted butter, a half cup
of milk, and season. Pour into a buttered bake-dish; cover with drawn
butter, then with fine crumbs, and bake half an hour.
STEWED TOMATOES.
Loosen the skins with boiling water; peel, slice, and stew twenty
minutes. Season with sugar, pepper, salt, a good piece of butter cut up
in flour, and stew five minutes more.
BEET-ROOT SALAD.
Arrange the cold beets left from yesterday in a salad-dish. Pour a
little salad-oil over them, season with sifted sugar, salt, a little
cayenne, and vinegar at discretion.
PEACHES AND CREAM.
See Monday of First Week in September.
  Second Week.      Friday.
  ——
  Oberlin Soup.
  Cream Pickerel.      Giblet Omelette.
  Mashed Potatoes.      Boiled Corn.
  Cucumbers.
  ——
  Diplomatic Pudding.
  ——
OBERLIN SOUP.
3 onions; 3 turnips; 3 carrots; ½ cabbage; bunch of herbs; 8 tomatoes,
sliced; 3 tablespoonfuls of butter; 1 teaspoonful of corn-starch;
pepper, sugar, and salt; 1 cup of boiling milk; 3 quarts of cold water.
Chop the vegetables, and put all except the tomatoes and cabbage over
the fire, with the water. Simmer one hour. Then add the cabbage,
previously parboiled. Ten minutes later, put in the tomatoes and herbs.
Stew rather fast for half an hour. Rub through a colander; put over the
fire; stir in the butter and corn-starch. Cook five minutes; season
well. Let all stand together at the side of the range, covered, five
minutes, and pour out. Stir in the boiling milk (with a pinch of soda
in it) after the soup is in the tureen.
CREAM PICKEREL.
If you cannot get pickerel, pike, or salmon-trout, use rock-fish or
bass for this dish. Clean the fish, and, if large, score the back-bone
in several places. Bake slowly, pouring a cup of boiling water over him
at first, afterward basting often with butter and water. When done,
lay upon a hot-water dish; add to the gravy in the dripping-pan a cup
of milk (with a pinch of soda stirred in), and, when this heats, stir
in two tablespoonfuls of butter, one teaspoonful of corn-starch, wet
in water, and a little chopped parsley. Boil up once, to thicken, add
pepper and salt to taste, and pour over the fish.
GIBLET OMELETTE.
7 eggs; 2 tablespoonfuls of cream; yesterday’s giblets, chopped very
fine and seasoned; 1 good spoonful of butter.
Beat yolks and whites together; then add the cream. Heat the butter in
the frying-pan; put in the giblets; shake hard for a moment, and pour
in the eggs. Keep them free from the bottom by shaking, and loosening
with a cake-turner; and, when quite “set,” fold in the middle. Invert a
hot dish over the pan, turn out, and serve at once.
MASHED POTATOES.
Mash soft, heap upon a hot dish, and serve without browning.
BOILED CORN.
See Sunday, First Week in September.
CUCUMBERS.
Pare; lay in ice-water an hour; slice, and dish, with pounded ice
strewed over and among them. Pass condiments with them.
DIPLOMATIC PUDDING.
1 quart of milk; 4 eggs; 1 cup very fine bread-crumbs; 1
tablespoonful of corn-starch, wet with cold milk; ¼ lb. of currants,
washed, dried, and dredged; 1 cup of sugar.
Soak the bread-crumbs in the milk, setting the vessel containing them
in one of hot water, and heating milk and crumbs to scalding. Pour
upon the beaten eggs and sugar; add corn-starch; lastly, the dredged
currants. Pour into a buttered mould, and boil an hour and a quarter.
Turn out, and pour a cup of hot custard over it for sauce, flavored
with vanilla, or other essence.
  Second Week.      Saturday.
  ——
  Mutton Noodle Soup.
  Baked Sheep’s Head à la Russe.      Sweet Potatoes.
  Squash.      Tomatoes Stuffed with Corn.
  ——
  Cream Peach Pie.
  ——
MUTTON NOODLE SOUP.
1 perfectly clean sheep’s head, cleaned with the skin left on; 3 lbs.
scrag of mutton, broken to pieces; 2 onions; 2 carrots; bunch of herbs;
pepper and salt; a large handful of noodles (see Receipt, Wednesday,
First Week in August); 7 quarts water.
Slice the vegetables, put with the head and scrag into a soup-kettle,
add four quarts of water, and simmer two hours, or until the sheep’s
head is so tender that the bones will slip out. Skim well, pour in
three quarts of cold water, and after three minutes take out the head
carefully. Lay in a greased bake-dish; as carefully, pull out the bones
through the under side, and put these back into the soup-kettle. Add
the vegetables and herbs; bring again to a slow boil, and cook three
hours longer. Take out meat and bones; salt highly; put into your
stock-jar, and pour half the broth over them. Season this also, and put
by for another day. Rub the vegetables through the sieve into the broth
left for to-day. Cool, skim; season, and set over the fire. Boil and
skim for two minutes; add the noodles; simmer twenty minutes, and pour
out.
BAKED SHEEP’S HEAD À LA RUSSE.
Let the boiled and boned sheep’s head get cold in the bake-dish. Then
brush over with raw egg, and sift over it a mixture of fine crumbs, a
dust of flour and some minced parsley (dried and powdered is better),
seasoned with pepper and salt. Set in the oven; baste well with butter,
as it browns. Serve in the dish, and send with it a boat of drawn
butter, based upon a cupful of the soup and seasoned with French
mustard, the juice of half a lemon, and some onion pickle minced very
fine.
SWEET POTATOES.
See Wednesday of First Week in September.
SQUASH.
Pare, slice, cook soft in boiling salt water. Drain and mash smooth in
a hot colander. Season with butter, salt, and pepper.
TOMATOES STUFFED WITH CORN.
Set large, smooth tomatoes in a greased pudding-dish. Cut a slice
from the top of each. Scoop out the seeds, leaving the walls thickly
lined with pulp. Have ready a cupful of corn grated from the cob, and
seasoned with butter, pepper, and salt. Fill the tomatoes with this;
put on the upper slices, and pour a little gravy over all. Bake,
covered, in a moderate oven, one hour. Serve in the dish.
CREAM PEACH PIE.
Make as directed in Saturday, Fourth Week in August; but lay the upper
crust on lightly, slightly buttering the lower at the point of contact.
When the pie is done, lift the cover and pour in a cream made thus: 1
cup (small) of rich milk, heated; whites of 2 eggs, whipped and stirred
into the milk; 1 tablespoonful of sugar; ½ teaspoonful of corn-starch
wet up in milk. Boil three minutes. The cream must be cold when it goes
into the hot pie. Replace the crust, and set by to cool. Eat fresh.
  Third Week.      Sunday.
  ——
  Rice and Tomato Soup.
  Boiled Chickens and Tongue.      Breaded Egg-plant.
  Boiled Cauliflower.      Lima Beans.
  ——
  Frozen Custard and Cake.
  ——
RICE AND TOMATO SOUP.
Skim the soup in your stock-pot. Strain from the meat and bones; heat
and add a pint of tomatoes, stewed, strained, and seasoned, and a cup
of boiled rice with the cup of water in which it has been cooked.
Season to taste; simmer fifteen or twenty minutes after it begins to
boil, and turn out.
BOILED CHICKENS AND TONGUE.
Tie the stuffed and trussed chickens in netting, fitted to their shape,
and cook in plenty of boiling water, a little salt. An hour and a
quarter should suffice, if the fowls are tender. Soak a tongue over
night. In the morning, wash it well and boil eighteen minutes to the
pound. Trim and skin it. Lay in the middle of the dish, with a chicken
on each side, and pour over them drawn butter, based upon a cupful
of the liquor in which the chickens were boiled, mixed with a little
minced parsley. Save the rest of the liquor.
BREADED EGG-PLANT.
Slice, and pare each slice. Lay in salt and water one hour, with a
plate on top, to keep the slices under water. Wipe dry; salt and
pepper; dip in beaten egg, then in cracker-dust, and fry to a fine
brown in lard or dripping. Drain, and serve.
BOILED CAULIFLOWER.
Cook in boiling salted water twenty-five minutes, having tied the
cauliflower up in white netting. Drain; untie; lay in a deep dish, the
blossom upward, and deluge with a white sauce made of drawn butter,
with the juice of a lemon squeezed in.
LIMA BEANS.
See Thursday, First Week in September.
FROZEN CUSTARD AND CAKE.
Please refer to Sunday, Second Week in July.
  Third Week.      Monday.
  ——
  Chicken and Corn Soup.
  Casserole of Rice, Chicken, and Tongue.     Onions Stewed Brown.
  Baked Sweet Potatoes.      Cold Slaw.
  ——
  Corn-starch Hasty Pudding.
  Tea and Fancy Crackers.
  ——
CHICKEN AND CORN SOUP.
Skim the liquor in which the chickens were boiled yesterday. Put over
the fire, with the grated corn from twelve ears. Boil one hour; rub
through a colander; season, heat, and stir in a tablespoonful of butter
rolled in flour, a little finely cut parsley, and a teaspoonful essence
of celery. Simmer five minutes; add a cup of boiling milk, and pour out.
CASSEROLE OF RICE, WITH CHICKENS AND TONGUE.
Chop the remains of yesterday’s chickens and tongue fine, with the
giblets. Season, and put over the fire, with a cup of yesterday’s soup,
and, when almost on the boil, add two beaten eggs. Boil a cup of rice
in a little of the chicken-liquor used for your soup, until the rice
is soft, and the liquor absorbed. Beat two eggs into half a cup of
milk, in which a tablespoonful of butter has been melted. Stir and beat
this into the rice. Let it get cold, and then line a greased mould with
it—one with a cylinder in the middle will not do. Make the walls of
rice-paste an inch thick; then fill with the mince, which should not
be too soft. Cover with the rice; put the top on the mould; set in a
pot of boiling water, and cook one hour and a half. Turn out with great
care, and pour a little of the pot-liquor, thickened and seasoned, over
it.
ONIONS STEWED BROWN.
Top and tail them; skin, and dredge them with flour. Then fry to a good
brown in dripping. Put into a pot, cover with a little of the liquor
in which the tongue was boiled, and stew slowly two hours, or until
tender. Take up the onions; thicken the sauce with browned flour, add a
tablespoonful of butter, with pepper; boil up, and pour over the onions.
BAKED SWEET POTATOES.
Wash, wipe, and lay in a moderate oven. Bake until the largest is soft
between your testing fingers. Wipe off, and serve in their jackets.
COLD SLAW.
Shred the heart of a firm white cabbage. Put into a salad-bowl, and
season with sugar, salt, pepper, oil, and vinegar. Stir up and toss
thoroughly.
CORN-STARCH HASTY PUDDING.
1 quart fresh milk; 3 tablespoonfuls corn-starch, wet up in cold milk;
1 tablespoonful of butter; 1 teaspoonful of salt.
Scald and salt the milk, and stir into it the corn-starch. Boil
steadily, stirring now and then, for fifteen minutes. Add the butter;
let the pudding stand in hot water, uncovered, after you have ceased to
stir, until you are ready for it; then serve in an open, deep dish. Eat
with cream and sugar.
TEA AND FANCY BISCUITS.
If the weather be hot, have iced tea; if cool, and suggestive of early
frosts, or equinoctial storms, introduce the bright tea-pot and pretty
“cozy.”
  Third Week.      Tuesday.
  ——
  St. Rémo Broth.
  Beefsteak.      Potatoes au Naturel.
  Kidney-Beans.      Raw Tomatoes.
  ——
  Fruit Dessert.
  Coffee and Cake.
  ——
ST. RÉMO BROTH.
3 lbs. of veal—lean and cut into strips; 2 onions, sliced and fried;
3 quarts of water; 1 tablespoonful of minced parsley; ½ cupful of raw
rice; 2 tablespoonfuls of grated cheese; salt and pepper.
Fry the onions in dripping; put in the meat, and fry to a light brown.
Put into the soup-pot with the water, and boil slowly three hours, or
until brought down to two quarts. The meat should be in rags. Strain;
cool, skim, and season. Put back into the kettle with the rice, which
must have soaked one hour in a little water. This water, also, must
go into the soup. Simmer half an hour. Put the grated cheese into the
tureen, and when the rice has boiled soft, pour upon the cheese, stir
up and serve.
BEEFSTEAK.
Flatten with the broad side of a hatchet, and broil quickly upon a
greased gridiron. Ten minutes should be enough if you like it rare. Lay
upon a hot dish, turn another over it, having salted, buttered, and
peppered it, and let it stand five minutes before sending to table.
POTATOES AU NATUREL.
Cook, without paring, in boiling salted water, until a fork will enter
easily the largest. Pour off the water; set the pot, uncovered, upon
the range for a moment, to dry off the moisture; peel rapidly, and dish.
KIDNEY-BEANS.
Shell; cook in boiling water, a little salt, half an hour, or until
tender. Drain, salt, pepper, and butter, and serve in a deep dish.
RAW TOMATOES.
Pare and slice. Put into a salad-dish, and pour over them a dressing
made of two tablespoonfuls of oil rubbed with one teaspoonful of sugar,
and half as much, each, of made mustard, salt, and pepper; then with
five tablespoonfuls of vinegar, whipped in, a little at a time.
FRUIT DESSERT.
Use your own discretion and consult your own convenience in devising a
tasteful and acceptable dessert of fruits, such as should now be plenty
and cheap. Late peaches, melons, bananas, pears, and apples, are, some
or all of them, within reach of housekeepers of moderate means. Arrange
in dishes or baskets decorated with green sprays and flowers.
COFFEE AND CAKE.
Consult, also, your discretion and the weather in the question of hot
or iced coffee.
  Third Week.      Wednesday.
  ——
  Ox-Cheek Soup.
  Stewed Calf’s Hearts.      Lima Beans.
  Potatoes au Maître d’Hôtel.
  Stewed Tomatoes with Onion.
  ——
  Stewed Pears with Rice.
  ——
OX-CHEEK SOUP.
2 ox-cheeks; 3 onions; 2 carrots; 2 turnips; 12 whole black peppers; 6
cloves; salt; 5 quarts of water; ½ cup of German sago.
Break the bones of the cheeks, and wash well with salt and water.
Cover with cold water; bring to a boil, and throw off the water. Fry
the sliced onions, and put into the pot with the meat, also the sliced
carrots, onions, and spice. Cover with a gallon and a quart of water.
Bring to a slow boil, and keep this up, skimming often, for four hours.
Strain off the liquor; pick out the meat and bones; salt highly; put
into your stock-pot with nearly half the broth. Set in a cold place for
to-morrow. Pulp the vegetables into that meant for to-day; let it cool;
take off the fat, and put back over the fire. Season to your liking;
add the sago, which should have been soaking for two hours in a little
water, and simmer until it is clear.
STEWED CALF’S HEARTS.
Wash two fresh calf’s hearts; stuff with a force-meat of crumbs,
chopped salt pork, a little thyme, sage and onion. Tie up snugly in
clean mosquito-netting; put into a broad saucepan; half cover with
broth from your soup from yesterday or to-day. Cover and stew an hour
and three-quarters gently, turning several times. Take out the hearts,
and keep them hot, while you thicken the gravy with a tablespoonful
of butter cut up in flour. Boil up, add pepper, salt, a little grated
lemon-peel, and the juice of half a lemon, with a small glass of wine.
Pour over the hearts.
LIMA BEANS.
See Thursday, First Week in September.
POTATOES AU MAÎTRE D’HÔTEL.
Slice cold boiled potatoes rather thick. Have ready in a saucepan four
or five tablespoonfuls of milk, a good lump of butter, with salt,
pepper and minced parsley. Heat quickly; put in the potatoes, and stir
until almost boiling. Stir in a little flour, wet with cold milk; cook
a moment to thicken it; add the juice of half a lemon, and pour out
into a deep dish.
STEWED TOMATOES AND ONION.
Peel, slice, and stew a dozen tomatoes ten minutes. Then add a small
parboiled onion, cut up small; cook twenty minutes; stir in sugar, salt
and pepper, with a good spoonful of butter rolled in flour. Simmer five
minutes, and pour out.
STEWED PEARS WITH RICE.
Pare and halve eight large pears. Put into a saucepan with eight
tablespoonfuls of sugar and a cup of claret—or if you prefer, clear
water. Stew slowly until tender and clear. Take out the pears and boil
down the syrup to one-half, flavoring, then, with essence of bitter
almond. Have ready two cupfuls of boiled rice, cooked in milk, and
sweetened. Spread upon a flat dish; lay the pears upon it, and pour on
the syrup. Eat very cold.
  Third Week.      Thursday.
  ——
  Rissole Soup.
  Lamb Chops.      Potato Mound.
  Fried Egg-Plant.      Ladies’ Cabbage.
  ——
  Damson Tart.
  ——
RISSOLE SOUP.
Take the fat from the top of your cold stock. Pick out some of the best
pieces of meat—about a cupful—and set aside. Add a pint of boiling
water to the stock, and boil slowly, with the bones and the rest of
the meat, for nearly an hour. Chop the meat reserved from the stock;
make into force-meat with fine crumbs, seasoning with onion, parsley,
pepper, salt, nutmeg, and binding with beaten egg. Flour your hands
and make this into round balls. Roll them in flour; set in a floured
pie-dish, not touching each other, and leave in a quick oven until
crusted over. Let them cool. Strain your soup; add such seasoning as
you desire; heat to a boil; drop in the force-meat rissoles, and heat,
without boiling, three minutes.
LAMB CHOPS.
Trim off fat and skin, leaving a bare bit of bone at the end of each.
Broil quickly over a clear fire; butter, salt, and pepper each, and
stand them on the larger ends, just touching each other, around your
mound of potato.
POTATO MOUND.
Mash smooth, with butter, milk, salt, and pepper; make into a smooth
mound upon a hot dish, and arrange the chops around it.
FRIED EGG-PLANT.
See Sunday, First Week in September.
LADIES’ CABBAGE.
Boil a firm cabbage in two waters. When done, quarter it and let it
get perfectly cold. Chop fine; add two beaten eggs, a tablespoonful of
butter, pepper, salt, and three tablespoonfuls of milk. Stir all well;
pour into a buttered pudding-dish, and bake, covered, until very hot,
then brown. If your dish has been well buttered, turn the cabbage upon
a hot dish, and pour over it a cupful of drawn butter.
DAMSON TART.
Fill a pie-dish, lined with good paste, with ripe, sound damsons;
sweeten very plentifully; cover with crust and bake. Brush with beaten
egg when done, and return to the oven one moment, to glaze.
  Third Week.      Friday.
  ——
  Potato Porridge.
  Devilled Crab.      Roasted Sweetbreads.
  Potato Croquettes.      Boiled Green Corn.
  ——
  Apple Soufflé Pudding.
  ——
POTATO PORRIDGE.
12 potatoes, peeled and sliced; 1 large onion, also pared and
sliced; 2 quarts of boiling water; 1 cup of hot milk; 3 beaten eggs;
3 tablespoonfuls of butter rolled in flour; salt, pepper, and 1
teaspoonful celery essence; chopped parsley.
Fry potatoes and onions light brown in a little butter. Put into a
soup-pot with the boiling water, and cook gently until soft. Rub
through a colander to a smooth purée. Add the water in which they
were boiled, and return to the fire. When the purée begins to
bubble, stir in the buttered flour, pepper, salt, and chopped parsley,
and simmer five minutes. Heat the milk in another vessel; pour upon
the beaten eggs; cook one minute, and pour into the tureen. Add the
purée; stir in the celery-essence, and it is ready.
DEVILLED CRABS.
Boil the crabs; cool; break the shells and pick out the meat. To eight
tablespoonfuls of meat, add three of fine crumbs, the yolks (chopped)
of three boiled eggs, the juice of a lemon, with salt and cayenne to
taste. Work up to a soft mixture with drawn butter; fill scallop or
clam shells, or paté-pans with it, sift cracker-dust over the top, and
brown delicately in a quick oven.
ROASTED SWEETBREADS.
3 fine sweetbreads; 1 cup of gravy—a cup of your soup will do; 1 beaten
egg; cracker-dust; 1 tablespoonful mushroom catsup; 1 small glass wine;
a very little minced onion put into the gravy; 2 tablespoonfuls melted
butter; fried bread.
Boil and blanch the sweetbreads. Wipe perfectly dry, roll in egg, then
in the pounded cracker. Lay in a baking-pan; pour the melted butter
slowly over them, that it may soak into the crumbs. Set in the oven,
cover, and bake forty-five minutes, basting freely, from the time they
begin to brown, with the gravy. Dish upon crustless slices of fried
bread. Strain the gravy; add catsup and wine; boil up, and pour over
the sweetbreads.
POTATO CROQUETTES.
Mash the potatoes, and beat in a raw egg, butter, milk, nutmeg, a
little grated lemon-peel, with pepper and salt. Heat in a saucepan,
stirring constantly, for three minutes. The saucepan should be buttered
first. When cool enough to handle with comfort, make into croquettes,
roll in flour, or dip in egg and cracker-crumbs, and fry—not putting
too many into the pan at once—in boiling lard, or dripping. Drain in a
hot colander, and serve.
BOILED GREEN CORN.
See Sunday, First Week in September.
APPLE SOUFFLÉ PUDDING.
7 or 8 juicy apples; 4 eggs; 1 cup fine crumbs; 1 cup of sugar; 2
tablespoonfuls of butter; nutmeg, and a little grated lemon-peel.
Pare, core, and slice the apples, and cook tender in a covered
farina-kettle without adding water to them. Beat to a smooth pulp, and
stir in butter, sugar, and seasoning. When cold, whip in the yolks of
the eggs; then the frothed whites, alternately with the crumbs. Beat to
a creamy batter; put into a buttered pudding-dish, and bake, covered,
fifty minutes. Then brown quickly. Eat hot with custard sauce, or cold,
with cream and sugar.
  Third Week.      Saturday.
  ——
  Rule of Three Soup.
  Veal and Ham Cutlets à la Polonaise.      Stewed Potatoes.
  Cream Squash.      Scalloped Tomatoes.
  ——
  Bavarian Cream.
  ——
RULE OF THREE SOUP.
3 lbs. of lean beef; 3 lbs. of marrow bones; 3 lbs. coarse mutton; 3
onions; 3 carrots; 3 turnips; 3 sprigs of parsley, and same of thyme
and marjoram; 6 quarts of water; 3 blades of mace; 3 tomatoes; 3 ears
of corn; 3 tablespoonfuls of rice; pepper and salt.
Chop the vegetables; cut up the meat and crack the bones. Put onions,
carrots, turnips, herbs and mace into the soup-pot; cover with three
quarts of water; stew gently three hours; strain off the broth into a
bowl; pour the remaining three quarts of water, boiling hot, upon the
meat, bones, and vegetables in the pot, and put back over the fire.
Cool that which you have strained; take off the fat, and put on in
another kettle, with the tomatoes, the corn cut from the cob, and the
rice. Season, and cook gently for another hour, then pour out.
Boil the soup left in the pot, three hours longer at the back of
the range; add boiling water as the liquid shrinks. At the end of
that time, season well; pour, without straining, into the stock-pot,
and keep in a cold place. You have now stock for three days—a good
investment of time, materials, and labor.
VEAL AND HAM CUTLETS, À LA POLONAISE.
Slice cutlets of veal, of equal size, with as many slices of corned
ham, previously cooked. Flatten the cutlets with a hatchet; dip in
beaten egg, then in cracker-dust, mixed with minced parsley, pepper,
salt, and nutmeg. Fry in dripping; drain, and lay upon a dish, with
alternate slices of the ham, broiled, and spread with a dressing of
butter and a little French mustard.
STEWED POTATOES.
Pare, and cut the potatoes into dice. Stew, with a small onion, in
enough hot water to cover them. Turn off most of the water; take out
the onion; pour in a cup of cold milk, and, when this boils, stir in
a little chopped parsley, pepper, salt, and a tablespoonful of butter
rolled in flour. Boil up once, and serve.
CREAM SQUASH.
Mash, and press in a hot colander. Return to the fire, with a good
spoonful of butter, three or four spoonfuls of milk, and a quarter
spoonful of flour, wet up in the milk. Stir for five minutes; season
with pepper and salt, and dish.
SCALLOPED TOMATOES.
Pare and slice. Scatter fine crumbs in the bottom of a bake-dish; cover
with slices of tomatoes, seasoned with sugar, pepper, salt, and butter.
Cover with crumbs, and these with tomatoes. Fill the dish in this
order, covering all with crumbs, with bits of butter sprinkled upon
them. Bake, covered, half an hour, and brown.
BAVARIAN CREAM.
1 pint rich milk, and the same of sweet cream; yolks of 4 eggs; ½ oz.
gelatine; 1 small cup of sugar; 2 teaspoonfuls vanilla or other extract.
Soak the gelatine two hours in enough cold water to cover it. Heat the
milk, and stir in the gelatine until melted. Pour this upon the beaten
yolks and sugar, and heat until it begins to thicken. It should not
boil. Take from the fire, flavor, and let it cool somewhat. The cream
should have been whipped stiff in a syllabub-churn. Beat, a spoonful at
a time, into the lukewarm custard, until it is like sponge-cake batter.
Pour into a wet mould, and set on ice to form. It will be formed in a
few hours, if buried in the ice.
  Fourth Week.      Sunday.
  ——
  Fancy Macaroni Soup.
  Fricasseed Chicken.      Spinach à la Crême.
  Devilled Tomatoes.      Sweet Potatoes, Browned.
  ——
  Baked Pears and Cream.
  Orange Cake.
  ——
FANCY MACARONI SOUP.
Take the fat from your soup-stock, add a pint of boiling water, and
bring to a slow boil. Strain all through a colander. Pour off two
quarts, through a soup-sieve, into your soup-kettle, and set over the
fire to simmer clear. Pulp the vegetables left in the colander, and
press the juice out of the meat into the rest of the broth. Remand this
to the stock-pot. When that in the soup-kettle has boiled ten minutes,
and been skimmed carefully, add a half cup of what is known as “fancy
macaroni,” cut into fantastic shapes, expressly for soups. It should
have been boiled twenty minutes, or until tender, in hot salted water.
Simmer one minute in the soup; add seasoning, if needed, and serve.
FRICASSEED CHICKENS.
Clean, wash, and joint a pair of chickens. (Salt the giblets slightly,
and keep on ice until Monday; or, should the weather be warm, boil
them in a pint of water; salt it well, and set away with the giblets
in it.) Scald the pieces of chicken in boiling water, leaving them in
it four minutes. Lay in ice-water ten minutes, to blanch them. Add to
the quart of boiling water used for scalding them, the skimmed fat, the
necks, and the heads, cleaned by scalding, picking off the feathers and
cutting off the beaks. Stew for one hour, or until there is but a pint
of gravy. Strain, cool, and take off the fat. Put two tablespoonfuls
of butter into a saucepan, with a very finely minced onion and a
dessertspoonful of flour. When they begin to simmer, put in the joints
of chicken; turn several times in the butter, and, after they begin to
color, add enough gravy to keep them from scorching, and stew, covered,
at least an hour. Keep the chicken hot; strain the gravy; add parsley,
pepper, and salt. Have in another saucepan a half cup of hot milk. Pour
upon two beaten eggs, make very hot, and add to the gravy when you have
taken the latter from the fire. Stir up, and pour over the chickens.
SPINACH À LA CRÊME.
Boil in plenty of hot salted water; drain, and chop fine upon a board
or in a wooden tray. Return to the saucepan with a tablespoonful of
butter, and when hot, add a little sugar, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and two
tablespoonfuls of cream. Stir until very hot, and serve in a deep dish,
with sippets of fried bread laid over it.
DEVILLED TOMATOES.
1 quart fine ripe tomatoes, pared and cut in thick slices; yolks of 3
boiled eggs, pounded; 3 tablespoonfuls melted butter; 4 tablespoonfuls
vinegar; 1 raw egg, beaten light; 1 teaspoonful powdered sugar; 1
saltspoonful salt, and same of made mustard; a soupçon of cayenne.
Rub a tablespoonful of butter into the pounded yolks; add the
seasoning, then the vinegar, and put into a tin or porcelain saucepan.
Heat, and stir in the beaten egg. Set in boiling water while you heat
the rest of the butter in a frying-pan, and put in the sliced tomatoes.
Shake over the fire eight minutes, turning several times. Lay the
tomatoes upon a hot dish. Strain the butter in which they were fried
into the dressing, stir well, and pour over the tomatoes.
SWEET POTATOES—BROWNED.
Parboil, peel, and lay in a baking-pan. Baste with a little of your
soup stock, then with butter, until they are baked to a nice brown.
BAKED PEARS AND CREAM.
Peel ripe pears, and cut them in half, without removing the seeds. Pack
in layers in a stoneware jar. Strew each layer with sugar, and drop a
pinch of nutmeg in, now and then. Put a small cupful of water in the
bottom to prevent burning. Fit on a close cover, and set in a moderate
oven. Bake three hours on Saturday, and leave, unopened, in the oven
all night. Set upon ice for some hours before you use them. Pour into a
glass dish, and eat with cream. They are delicious if the pears are of
fair quality.
ORANGE CAKE.
Please see “BREAKFAST, LUNCHEON, AND TEA,” page 318.
  Fourth Week.      Monday.
  ——
  Giblet Soup.
  Brown Beef Stew.      Mashed Potatoes.
  Lima Beans.      Cucumbers and Onion Salad.
  ——
  Bananas, Oranges, and Apples.
  Coffee and Albert Biscuit.
  ——
GIBLET SOUP.
Again skim the contents of your stock-pot. Pour into the soup-kettle
with the water in which the giblets were boiled. Add seasoning at
discretion, and simmer, after the boil is reached, fifteen minutes.
Chop the gizzards very fine, and put into the soup. Pound the livers
to a paste, with a heaping tablespoonful of butter, and half as much
flour; thin with a little of the boiling soup; stir into the soup; boil
one minute, and serve.
BROWN BEEF STEW.
3 lbs. lean beef; 1 onion; a tablespoonful of powdered marjoram; thyme
and parsley, mixed; 1 tablespoonful of browned flour; 1 teaspoonful
of Worcestershire sauce; 1 tablespoonful of tomato catsup; 1 glass of
wine; juice of half a lemon, and a pinch of the peel; 1 cup of chopped
mushrooms; dice of fried bread.
Cut the beef into strips two inches long; add the minced onion; just
cover with water, and cook, at the back of the range, two hours. Add
the rest of the ingredients, with the exception of the flour, catsup,
sauce, lemon-juice, and wine, and let it simmer one hour longer. Then
add the condiments just named, and the flour. Boil up; line a deep dish
with small squares of fried bread, and pour the stew upon them.
