chaw, that's all. They'll find it out one o' these days--see if they
don't."

"Wal, but Zeph's folks is putty nice folks, now," said Job.

"O--wal, yis--they be; don't say nothin' agin his folks. Mis' Higgins
is a meek, marciful old body, kind o' heart-broken at leavin' Parson
Cushing and her meetin'. Then there's Nabby, and the boys. Wal, they
sort o' like it--young folks goes in for new things. There's Nabby
over there now, come in with Jim Sawin. I believe she's makin' a fool
o' that 'ere fellow. Harnsom gal, Nabby is--knows it too--and sarves
out the fellers. Maybe she'll go through the wood and pick up a
crooked stick 'fore she knows it. I've sot up with Nabby myself; but
laws, she ain't the only gal in the world--plenty on 'em all 'round
the lot."

"Why," exclaimed his neighbor, "if there ain't the minister's boys
down there in that front slip!"

"Sartin; you may bet on Bill and Tom for bein' into the best seat
whatever's goin' on. Likely boys; wide awake they be! Bill there
could drive stage as well as I can, only if I didn't hold on to him
he'd have us all to the darnation in five minutes. There's the makin'
of suthin' in that Bill. He'll go strong to the Lord or to the devil
one o' these days."

"Wal, what's his father think of his bein' here?"

"Parson Cushing! Lordy massy, he don't know nothin' where they
be. Met him and Mis' Cushing jinglin' over to the Friday evenin'
prayer-meetin' to North Poganuc."

"Wal, now," said his neighbor, "ef there ain't Lucius Jenks down
there and Mis' Jenks, and all his folks."

"Yis--yis, jes' so. They say Lucius is thinkin' of signin' off to
the 'Piscopals to get the trade. He's jest sot up store, and Deacon
Dickenson's got all the ground; but there's the Lewises and the
Copleys and the Danforths goes to the 'Piscopals, and they's folks
that lives well and uses lots of groceries. I shouldn't wonder ef
Lucius should make a good thing on't. Jenks ain't one that cares
much which church he goes to, and, like enough, it don't make much
difference to some folks."

"You know this 'ere minister they've got here?" asked Job.

"Know him? Guess so!" said Hiel, with a superior smile. "I've known
Sim Coan ever since he wore short jackets. Sim comes from over by
East Poganuc. His gran'ther was old Gineral Coan, a gret Tory he was,
in the war times. Sim's ben to college, and he's putty smart and
chipper. Come to heft him, tho', he don't weigh much 'longside o'
Parson Cushing. He's got a good voice, and reads well; but come to a
sermon--wal, ain't no gret heft in't."

"Want to know," said his auditor.

"Yis," said Hiel, "but Sim's almighty plucky. You'd think now,
comin' into this 'ere little bit of a church, right opposite Parson
Cushing's great meetin'-house, and with the biggest part of folks
goin' to meetin', that he'd sing small at fust; but he don't. Lordy
massy, no! He comes right out with it that Parson Cushing ain't
no minister, and hain't got no right to preach, nor administer
sacraments, nor nothin'--nor nobody else but him and his 'Piscopal
folks, that's been ordained by bishops. He gives it to 'em, hip and
thigh, I tell you."

"That air don't look reasonable," said Job, after a few minutes of
profound reflection.

"Wal, Sim says this 'ere thing has come right stret down from the
'Postles--one ordainin' another in a steady string all the way down
till it come to him. And Parson Cushing, he's out in the cold, 'cause
there hain't no bishop ordained him."

"Wal, I declare!" said the other. "I think that air's cheek."

"Ain't it now?" said Hiel. "Now, for my part, I go for the man
that does his work best. Here's all our ministers round a savin'
sinners and convartin' souls, whether the 'Postles ordained 'em
or not--that's what ministers is fur. I'll set Parson Cushing
'longside any minister--preachin' and teachin' and holdin' meetin's
in Poganuc Center, and North and South Poganuc, and gatherin' church
members, and seein' to the schools, and keepin' every thing agoin'.
That air kind o' minister 's good enough for me."

"Then you've no thoughts of signing off?"

"Not a bit on't. My old mother, she thinks every thing o' Parson
Cushing. She's a gret deal better jedge than I be o' this 'ere sort
o' thing. I shall go to meetin' with Mother."

"It's sort o' takin' and pretty, though, this 'ere dressing up the
church and all," said his neighbor.

"Wal, yis, 'tis putty," said Hiel, looking around with an air of
candid allowance, "but who's going to pay for it all? These 'ere sort
of things chalk up, ye know. All these 'ere taller candles ain't
burnt out for nothing--somebody's got to foot the bills."

"Wal, I like the orgin," said Job. "I wish we had an orgin to our
meetin'."

"Dunno," said Hiel, loth to admit any superiority. "Wal, they
wouldn't a hed none ef it hadn't been for Uncle Sol Peters. You know
he's kind o' crazy to sing, and he hain't got no ear, and no more
voice 'n a saw-mill, and they wouldn't hev 'im in our singer seats,
and so he went off to the 'Piscopals. And he bought an orgin right
out and out, and paid for it, and put it in this church so that
they'd let him be in the singin'. You know they can make noise enough
with an orgin to drown his voice."

"Wal, it was considerable for Uncle Sol to do--wa'n't it?" said Job.

"Laws, he's an old bachelor, hain't got no wife and children to
support, so I s'pose he may as well spend his money that way as any.
Uncle Sol never could get any gal to hev him. There he is now, tryin'
to get 'longside o' Nabby Higgins; but you'll see he won't do it. She
knows what she's about. Now, for my part, I like our singin' up to
the meetin'-house full as wal as this 'ere. I like good old-fashioned
psalm tunes, with Ben Davis to lead--that's the sort I like."

It will have been remarked that Hiel was one of that common class of
Yankees who felt provided with a ready-made opinion of everything
and every subject that could possibly be started, from stage-driving
to apostolic succession, with a most comfortable opinion of the
importance of his approbation and patronage.

When the house was filled and the evening service begun Hiel looked
down critically as the audience rose or sat down or bowed in the
Creed. The tones of the small organ, leading the choral chant and
somewhat covering the uncultured roughness of the voices in the
choir, rose and filled the green arches with a solemn and plaintive
sound, affecting many a heart that scarce could give a reason why. It
was in truth a very sweet and beautiful service, and one calculated
to make a thoughtful person regret that the Church of England had
ever expelled the Puritan leaders from an inheritance of such
lovely possibilities. When the minister's sermon appeared, however,
it proved to be a spirited discourse on the obligation of keeping
Christmas, to which Hiel listened with pricked-up ears, evidently
bristling with combativeness.

"Parson Cushing could knock that air all to flinders; you see if
he can't," said Hiel, the moment the concluding services allowed
him space to speak his mind. "Wal, did ye see old Zeph a-gettin'
up and a-settin' down in the wrong place, and tryin' to manage his
prayer-book?" he said. "It's worse than the militia drill--he never
hits right. I hed to laugh to see him. Hulloa! if there ain't little
Dolly down there in the corner, under them cedars. How come she out
this time o' night? Guess Parson Cushing 'll hev to look out for this
'ere!"




CHAPTER IV.

DOLLY'S ADVENTURE.


And, after all, Dolly was there! Yes, she was. Human nature, which
runs wild with the oldest of us at times, was too strong for poor
little Dolly.

Can any of us look back to the earlier days of our mortal pilgrimage
and remember the helpless sense of desolation and loneliness caused
by being forced to go off to the stillness and darkness of a solitary
bed far from all the beloved voices and employments and sights of
life? Can we remember lying, hearing distant voices, and laughs of
more fortunate, older people, and the opening and shutting of distant
doors, that told of scenes of animation and interest from which we
were excluded? How doleful sounded the tick of the clock, and how
dismal was the darkness as sunshine faded from the window, leaving
only a square of dusky dimness in place of daylight!

All who remember these will sympathize with Dolly, who was hustled
off to bed by Nabby the minute supper was over, that she might have
the decks clear for action.

"Now be a good girl; shut your eyes, and say your prayers, and go
right to sleep," had been Nabby's parting injunction as she went out,
closing the door after her.

The little head sunk into the pillow and Dolly recited her usual
liturgy of "Our Father who art in Heaven," and "I pray God to bless
my dear father and mother and all my dear friends and relations, and
make me a good girl;" and ending with

    "'Now I lay me down to sleep.'"

But sleep she could not. The wide, bright, wistful blue eyes lay
shining like two stars towards the fading light in the window,
and the little ears were strained to catch every sound. She heard
the shouts of Tom and Bill and the loud barking of Spring as they
swept out of the door; and the sound went to her heart. Spring--her
faithful attendant, the most loving and sympathetic of dogs, her
friend and confidential counsellor in many a solitary ramble--Spring
had gone with the boys to see the sight, and left her alone. She
began to pity herself and cry softly on her pillow. For awhile she
could hear Nabby's energetic movements below, washing up dishes,
setting back chairs, and giving energetic thumps and bangs here and
there, as her way was of producing order. But by and by that was all
over, and she heard the loud shutting of the kitchen door and Nabby's
voice chatting with her attendant as she went off to the scene of
gaiety.

In those simple, innocent days in New England villages nobody thought
of locking house doors at night. There was in those times no idea
either of tramps or burglars, and many a night in summer had Dolly
lain awake and heard the voices of tree-toads and whippoorwills
mingling with the whisper of leaves and the swaying of elm boughs,
while the great outside door of the house lay broad open in the
moonlight. But then this was when everybody was in the house and
asleep, when the door of her parents' room stood open on the front
hall, and she knew she could run to the paternal bed in a minute for
protection. Now, however, she knew the house was empty. Everybody had
gone out of it; and there is something fearful to a little lonely
body in the possibilities of a great, empty house. She got up and
opened her door, and the "tick-tock" of the old kitchen clock for
a moment seemed like company; but pretty soon its ticking began to
strike louder and louder with a nervous insistancy on her ear, till
the nerves quivered and vibrated, and she couldn't go to sleep.
She lay and listened to all the noises outside. It was a still,
clear, freezing night, when the least sound clinked with a metallic
resonance. She heard the runners of sleighs squeaking and crunching
over the frozen road, and the lively jingle of bells. They would come
nearer, nearer, pass by the house, and go off in the distance. Those
were the happy folks going to see the gold star and the Christmas
greens in the church. The gold star, the Christmas greens, had all
the more attraction from their vagueness. Dolly was a fanciful little
creature, and the clear air and romantic scenery of a mountain town
had fed her imagination. Stories she had never read, except those in
the Bible and the Pilgrim's Progress, but her very soul had vibrated
with the descriptions of the celestial city--something vague, bright,
glorious, lying beyond some dark river; and Nabby's rude account of
what was going on in the church suggested those images.

Finally a bright thought popped into her little head. She could see
the church from the front windows of the house; she would go there
and look. In haste she sprang out of bed and dressed herself. It was
sharp and freezing in the fireless chamber, but Dolly's blood had a
racing, healthy tingle to it; she didn't mind cold. She wrapped her
cloak around her and tied on her hood and ran to the front windows.
There it was, to be sure--the little church with its sharp-pointed
windows every pane of which was sending streams of light across the
glittering snow. There was a crowd around the door, and men and boys
looking in at the windows. Dolly's soul was fired. But the elm-boughs
a little obstructed her vision; she thought she would go down and
look at it from the yard. So down stairs she ran, but as she opened
the door the sound of the chant rolled out into the darkness with a
sweet and solemn sound:

"Glory be to God on high; and on earth peace, good will towards
men."

Dolly's soul was all aglow--her nerves tingled and vibrated; she
thought of the bells ringing in the celestial city; she could no
longer contain herself, but faster and faster the little hooded form
scudded across the snowy plain and pushed in among the dark cluster
of spectators at the door. All made way for the child, and in a
moment, whether in the body or out she could not tell, Dolly was
sitting in a little nook under a bower of spruce, gazing at the star
and listening to the voices:

"We praise Thee, we bless Thee, we worship Thee, we glorify Thee, we
give thanks to thee for thy great glory, O Lord God, Heavenly King,
God, the Father Almighty."

Her heart throbbed and beat; she trembled with a strange happiness
and sat as one entranced till the music was over. Then came reading,
the rustle and murmur of people kneeling, and then they all rose
and there was the solemn buzz of voices repeating the Creed with a
curious lulling sound to her ear. There was old Mr. Danforth with his
spectacles on, reading with a pompous tone, as if to witness a good
confession for the church; and there was Squire Lewis and old Ma'am
Lewis; and there was one place where they all bowed their heads and
all the ladies made courtesies--all of which entertained her mightily.

When the sermon began Dolly got fast asleep and slept as quietly as
a pet lamb in a meadow, lying in a little warm roll back under the
shadows of the spruces. She was so tired and so sound asleep that she
did not wake when the service ended, lying serenely curled up, and
having perhaps pleasant dreams. She might have had the fortunes of
little Goody Two-Shoes, whose history was detailed in one of the few
children's books then printed, had not two friends united to find her
out.

Spring, who had got into the slip with the boys, and been an equally
attentive and edified listener, after service began a tour of
investigation, dog-fashion, with his nose; for how could a minister's
dog form a suitable judgment of any new procedure if he was
repressed from the use of his own leading faculty? So, Spring went
round the church conscientiously, smelling at pew-doors, smelling of
the greens, smelling at the heels of gentlemen and ladies, till he
came near the door of the church, when he suddenly smelt something
which called for immediate attention, and he made a side dart into
the thicket where Dolly was sleeping, and began licking her face
and hands and pulling her dress, giving short barks occasionally,
as if to say, "Come, Dolly, wake up!" At the same instant Hiel, who
had seen her from the gallery, came down just as the little one was
sitting up with a dazed, bewildered air.

"Why, Dolly, how came you out o' bed this time o' night! Don't ye
know the nine o'clock bell's jest rung?"

Dolly knew Hiel well enough--what child in the village did not! She
reached up her little hands saying in an apologetic fashion,

"They were all gone away, and I was so lonesome!"

Hiel took her up in his long arms and carried her home, and was just
entering the house-door with her as the sleigh drove up with Parson
Cushing and his wife.

"Wal, Parson, your folks has all ben to the 'lumination--Nabby and
Bill and Tom and Dolly here; found her all rolled up in a heap like
a rabbit under the cedars."

"Why, Dolly Cushing!" exclaimed her mother. "What upon earth got you
out of bed this time of night? You'll catch your death o' cold."

"I was all alone," said Dolly, with a piteous bleat.

"Oh, there, there, wife; don't say a word," put in the Parson. "Get
her off to bed. Never mind, Dolly, don't you cry;" for Parson Cushing
was a soft-hearted gentleman and couldn't bear the sight of Dolly's
quivering under lip. So Dolly told her little story, how she had
been promised a sugar dog by Nabby if she'd be a good girl and go to
sleep, and how she couldn't go to sleep, and how she just went down
to look from the yard, and how the music drew her right over.

"There, there," said Parson Cushing, "go to bed, Dolly; and if Nabby
don't give you a sugar dog, I will.

"This Christmas dressing is all nonsense," he added, "but the child
's not to blame--it was natural."

"After all," he said to his wife the last thing after they were
settled for the night, "our little Dolly is an unusual child. There
were not many little girls that would have dared to do that. I shall
preach a sermon right away that will set all this Christmas matter
straight," said the doctor. "There is not a shadow of evidence that
the first Christians kept Christmas. It wasn't kept for the first
three centuries, nor was Christ born anywhere near the 25th of
December."




CHAPTER V.

DOLLY'S FIRST CHRISTMAS DAY.


The next morning found little Dolly's blue eyes wide open with all
the wondering eagerness of a new idea. In those early times the life
of childhood was much more in the imagination than now. Children were
let alone, to think their own thoughts. There were no kindergartens
to train the baby to play philosophically, and infuse a stealthy
aroma of geometry and conic sections into the very toys of the
nursery. Parents were not anxiously watching every dawning idea of
the little mind to set it straight even before it was uttered; and
there were then no newspapers or magazines with a special corner for
the bright sayings of children.

Not that children were any less beloved, or motherhood a less holy
thing. There were many women of deep hearts, who, like the "most
blessed among women," kept all the sayings of their darlings and
pondered them in their hearts; but it was not deemed edifying or
useful to pay much apparent attention to these utterances and
actions of the youthful pilgrim.

Children's inquiries were freely put off with the general answer that
Mamma was busy and they must not talk--that when they were grown up
they would know all about these things, etc.; and so they lived apart
from older people in their own little child-world of uninvaded ideas.

Dolly, therefore, had her wise thoughts about Christmas. She had been
terribly frightened at first, when she was brought home from the
church; but when her papa kissed her and promised her a sugar dog she
was quite sure that, whatever the unexplained mystery might be, he
did not think the lovely scene of the night before a wicked one. And
when Mrs. Cushing came and covered the little girl up warmly in bed,
she only said to her, "Dolly, you must never get out of bed again
at night after you are put there; you might have caught a dreadful
cold and been sick and died, and then we should have lost our little
Dolly." So Dolly promised quite readily to be good and lie still ever
after, no matter what attractions might be on foot in the community.

Much was gained, however, and it was all clear gain; and forthwith
the little fanciful head proceeded to make the most of it, thinking
over every feature of the wonder. The child had a vibrating, musical
organization, and the sway and rush of the chanting still sounded in
her ears and reminded her of that wonderful story in the "Pilgrim's
Progress," where the gate of the celestial city swung open, and
there were voices that sung, "Blessing and honor and glory and power
be unto Him who sitteth on the throne." And then that wonderful
star, that shone just as if it were a real star--how could it be!
For Miss Ida Lewis, being a young lady of native artistic genius,
had cut a little hole in the center of her gilt paper star, behind
which was placed a candle, so that it gave real light, in a way most
astonishing to untaught eyes. In Dolly's simple view it verged on
the supernatural--perhaps it was the very real star read about in
the gospel story. Why not? Dolly was at the happy age when anything
bright and heavenly seemed credible, and had the child-faith to which
all things were possible. She had even seriously pondered at times
the feasibility of walking some day to the end of the rainbow to look
for the pot of gold which Nabby had credibly assured her was to be
found there; and if at any time in her ramblings through the wood a
wolf had met her and opened a conversation, as in the case of little
Red Riding Hood, she would have been no way surprised, but kept up
her part of the interview with becoming spirit.

"I wish, my dear," said Mrs. Cushing, after they were retired to
their room for the night, "that to-morrow morning you would read the
account of the birth of Christ in St Matthew, and give the children
some good advice upon the proper way of keeping Christmas."

"Well, but you know we don't keep Christmas; nobody knows anything
about Christmas," said the Doctor.

"You know what I mean, my dear," replied his wife. "You know that my
mother and her family do keep Christmas. I always heard of it when
I was a child; and even now, though I have been out of the way of it
so long, I cannot help a sort of kindly feeling towards these ways. I
am not surprised at all that the children got drawn over last night
to the service. I think it's the most natural thing in the world, and
I know by experience just how attractive such things are. I shouldn't
wonder if this Episcopal church should draw very seriously on your
congregation; but I don't want it to begin by taking away our own
children. Dolly is an inquisitive child; a child that thinks a good
deal, and she'll be asking all sorts of questions about the why and
wherefore of what she saw last night."

"Oh, yes, Dolly is a bright one. Dolly's an uncommon child," said the
Doctor, who had a pardonable pride in his children--they being, in
fact, the only worldly treasure that he was at all rich in.

"And as to that little dress-up affair over there," he continued, "I
don't think any real harm has been done as yet. I have my eyes open.
I know all about it, and I shall straighten out this whole matter
next Sunday," he said, with the comfortable certainty of a man in the
habit of carrying his points.

"I don't feel so very sure of that," said his wife; "at the same time
I shouldn't want anything like an open attack on the Episcopalians.
There are sincere good people of that way of thinking--my mother, for
instance, is a saint on earth, and so is good old Madam Lewis. So
pray be careful what you say."

"My dear, I haven't the least objection to their dressing their
church and having a good Christian service any day in the year if
they want to, but our people may just as well understand our own
ground. I know that the Democrats are behind this new move, and they
are just using this church to carry their own party purposes--to
break up the standing order and put down all the laws that are left
to protect religion and morals. They want to upset everything that
our fathers came to New England to establish. But I'm going to head
this thing off in Poganuc. I shall write a sermon to-morrow, and
settle matters."

Now, there is no religious organization in the world in its genius
and history less likely to assimilate with a democratic movement than
the Episcopal Church. It is essentially aristocratic in form, and, in
New England, as we have already noticed, had always been on the side
of monarchical institutions.

But, just at this point in the history of New England affairs, all
the minor denominations were ready to join any party that promised to
break the supremacy of the State Church and give them a foothold.

It was the "Democratic party" of that day that broke up the exclusive
laws in favor of the Congregational Church and consequently gained
large accessions to their own standard. To use a brief phrase, all
the outs were Democrats, and all the ins Federalists. But the
Democratic party had, as always, its radical train. Not satisfied
with wresting the scepter from the hands of the Congregational
clergyman, and giving equal rights and a fair field to other
denominations, the cry was now to abolish all laws in any way
protective of religious institutions, or restrictive of the fullest
personal individualism; in short, the cry was for the liberty of
every man to go to church or not, to keep the Sabbath or not, to
support a minister or not, as seemed good and proper in his own eyes.

This was in fact the final outcome of things in New England, and
experience has demonstrated that this wide and perfect freedom is
the best way of preserving religion and morals. But it was not given
to a clergyman in the day of Dr. Cushing, who had hitherto felt that
a state ought to be like a well-governed school, under the minister
for schoolmaster, to look on the movements of the Democratic party
otherwise than as tending to destruction and anarchy. This new
movement in the Episcopal Church he regarded as but a device by
appeals to the senses--by scenic effects, illuminations and music--to
draw people off to an unspiritual and superficial form of religion,
which, having once been the tool of monarchy and aristocracy, had now
fallen into the hands of the far more dangerous democracy; and he
determined to set the trumpet to his mouth on the following Sabbath,
and warn the watchmen on the walls of Zion.

He rose up early, however, and proceeded to buy a sugar dog at the
store of Lucius Jenks, and when Dolly came down to breakfast he
called her to him and presented it, saying as he kissed her,

"Papa gives you this, not because it is Christmas, but because he
loves his little Dolly."

"But isn't it Christmas?" asked Dolly, with a puzzled air.

"No, child; nobody knows when Christ was born, and there is nothing
in the Bible to tell us when to keep Christmas."

And then in family worship the doctor read the account of the birth
of Christ and of the shepherds abiding in the fields who came at the
call of the angels, and they sung the old hymn:

    "While shepherds watched their flocks by night."

"Now, children," he said when all was over, "you must be good
children and go to school. If we are going to keep any day on account
of the birth of Christ, the best way to keep it is by doing all our
duties on that day better than any other. Your duty is to be good
children, go to school and mind your lessons."

Tom and Bill, who had been at the show the evening before and
exhausted the capabilities of the scenic effects, were quite ready
to fall in with their father's view of the matter. The candles were
burnt out, the play over, for them, and forthwith they assumed to
look down on the whole with the contempt of superior intelligence.
As for Dolly, she put her little tongue advisedly to the back of her
sugar dog and found that he was very sweet indeed--a most tempting
little animal. She even went so far as to nibble off a bit of the
green ground he stood on--yet resolved heroically not to eat him
at once, but to make him last as long as possible. She wrapped him
tenderly in cotton and took him to the school with her, and when her
confidential friend, Bessie Lewis, displayed her Christmas gifts,
Dolly had something on her side to show, though she shook her curly
head wisely and informed Bessie in strict confidence that there
wasn't any such thing as Christmas, her papa had told her so--a
heresy which Bessie forthwith reported when she went home at noon.

"Poor little Presbyterian--and did she say so?" asked gentle old
Grandmamma Lewis. "Well, dear, you mustn't blame her--she don't know
any better. You bring the little thing in here to-night and I'll give
her a Christmas cookey. I'm sorry for such children."

And so, after school, Dolly went in to see dear old Madam Lewis, who
sat in her rocking-chair in the front parlor, where the fire was
snapping behind great tall brass andirons and all the pictures were
overshadowed with boughs of spruce and pine. Dolly gazed about her
with awe and wonder. Over one of the pictures was suspended a cross
of green with flowers of white everlasting.

"What is that for?" asked Dolly, pointing solemnly with her little
forefinger, and speaking under her breath.

"Dear child, that is the picture of my poor boy who died--ever so
many years ago. That is my cross--we have all one--to carry."

Dolly did not half understand these words, but she saw tears in the
gentle old lady's eyes and was afraid to ask more.

She accepted thankfully and with her nicest and best executed
courtesy a Christmas cookey representing a good-sized fish, with fins
all spread and pink sugar-plums for eyes, and went home marveling yet
more about this mystery of Christmas.

As she was crossing the green to go home the Poganuc stage drove in,
with Hiel seated on high, whipping up his horses to make them execute
that grand entrée which was the glory of his daily existence.

Now that the stage was on runners, and slipped noiselessly over the
smooth frozen plain, Hiel cracked his whip more energetically and
shouted louder, first to one horse and then to another, to make
up for the loss of the rattling wheels; and he generally had the
satisfaction of seeing all the women rushing distractedly to doors
and windows, and imagined them saying, "There's Hiel; the stage is
in!"

"Hulloa, Dolly!" he called out, drawing up with a suddenness which
threw the fore-horses back upon their haunches. "I've got a bundle
for your folks. Want to ride? You may jest jump up here by me and
I'll take you 'round to your father's door;" and so Dolly reached up
her little red-mittened hand, and Hiel drew her up beside him.

"'Xpect ye want a bit of a ride, and I've got a bundle for Widder
Badger, down on South Street, so I guess I'll go 'round that way to
make it longer. I 'xpect this 'ere bundle is from some of your ma's
folks in Boston--'Piscopals they be, and keeps Christmas. Good sized
bundle 'tis; reckon it'll come handy in a good many ways."

So, after finishing his detour, Hiel landed his little charge at the
parsonage door.

"Reckon I'll be over when I've put up my hosses," he said to Nabby
when he handed down the bundle to her. "I hain't been to see ye much
lately, Nabby, and I know you've been a pinin' after me, but fact
is--"

"Well, now, Hiel Beers, you jest shet up with your imperence," said
Nabby, with flashing eyes; "you jest look out or you'll get suthin."

"I 'xpect to get a kiss when I come round to-night," said Hiel,
composedly. "Take care o' that air bundle, now; mebbe there's glass
or crockery in 't."

"Hiel Beers," said Nabby, "don't give me none o' your saase, for I
won't take it. Jim Sawin said last night you was the brassiest man
he ever see. He said there was brass enough in your face to make a
kettle of."

"You tell him there's sap enough in his head to fill it, any way,"
said Hiel. "Good bye, Nabby, I'll come 'round this evenin'," and he
drove away at a rattling pace, while Nabby, with flushed cheeks and
snapping eyes, soliloquized,

"Well, I hope he will come! I'd jest like a chance to show him how
little I care for him."

Meanwhile the bundle was soon opened, and contained a store of
treasures: a smart little red dress and a pair of red shoes for
Dolly, a half dozen pocket-handkerchiefs for Dr. Cushing, and
"Robinson Crusoe" and "Sanford and Merton," handsomely bound, for the
boys, and a bonnet trimming for Mrs. Cushing. These were accompanied
by a characteristic letter from Aunt Debby Kittery, opening as
follows:

  "DEAR SISTER:

  "Mother worries because she thinks you Presbyterians won't get any
  Christmas presents. I tell her it serves you right for being out of
  the true church. However, this comes to give every one of you some
  of the crumbs which fall from the church's table, and Mother says
  she wishes you all a pious Christmas, which she thinks is better
  than a merry one. If I didn't lay violent hands on her she would
  use all our substance in riotous giving of Christmas presents to
  all the beggars and chimney sweeps in Boston. She is in good health
  and talks daily of wanting to see you and the children; and I hope
  before long you will bring some of them, and come and make us a
  visit.

  "Your affectionate sister,

  "DEBBY KITTERY."

There was a scene of exultation and clamor in the parsonage as these
presents were pulled out and discussed; and when all possible joy was
procured from them in the sitting-room, the children rushed in a body
into the kitchen and showed them to Nabby, calling on her to join
their acclamations.

And then in the evening Hiel came in, and Nabby prosecuted her
attacks upon him with great vigor and severity, actually carrying
matters to such a length that she was obliged, as a matter of pure
Christian charity, to "kiss and make up" with him at the end of the
evening. Of course Hiel took away an accurate inventory of every
article in the bundle, for the enlightenment of any of his particular
female friends who had a curiosity to know "what Mis' Cushin's folks
sent her in that air bundle from Boston."

On the whole, when Dolly had said her prayers that night and thought
the matter over, she concluded that her Christmas Day had been quite
a success.




CHAPTER VI.

VILLAGE POLITICIANS.


We have traced our little Dolly's fortunes, haps and havings through
Christmas day, but we should not do justice to the situation did we
not throw some light on the views and opinions of the Poganuc people
upon this occasion.

The Episcopal church had been newly finished. There was held on
this day, for the first time in open daylight, the full Christmas
Service. The illumination and services of the evening before had been
skillfully designed to make an impression on the popular mind, and to
draw in children and young people with all that floating populace who
might be desirous of seeing or hearing some new things.

It had been a success. Such an audience had been drawn and such a
sensation produced that on Christmas day everybody in the village was
talking of the church; and those who did not go ran to the windows
to see who did go. A week-day church service other than a fast, and
thanksgiving, and "preparatory lecture" was a striking novelty; and
when the little bell rang out its peal and the congregation began to
assemble it was watched with curious eyes from many a house.

The day was a glorious one. The bright, cold sun made the icicles
that adorned the fronts of all the houses glitter like the gems of
Aladdin's palace, and a well-dressed company were seen coming up from
various points of the village and thronging the portals of the church.

The little choir and their new organ rang out the Te Deum with
hearty good-will, and many ears for the first time heard that
glorious old heroic poem of the early church. The waves of sound
rolled across the green and smote on the unresponsive double row of
windows of the old meeting-house, which seemed to stare back with a
