it is not true ; and the ; why lies in the nature of 
things. Galleries of pictures and Ole Ball's concerts have none of those evil effects I was speaking 
of, but the contrary." 

" You read Shakspeare," said Olive. 

" I will read it to you as often as you like, if you 
will promise me to go no more to any theatrical or 
operatic performances." 

There was a pause. 

" Promise me, Olive ! " And I heard the light 
sound of a kiss, with which the demand was em 
phasized and sweetened at once. But the promise 
I did not hear. 

"It is not for my honour," he said then more 
gravely, " that my wife should seem to countenance 
what I am known to disapprove. And Olive, it is 
not for yours." 

" Everybody knows you are not responsible." 

"I cannot take that view of it. My sense of responsibility obliges me to do what I am very sorry 
to do interfere with your pleasure." 

" What I do does not compromise you." 

" It must not, Olive. May I trust that in future 
you will deny yourself this pleasure, for my sake?" 

" What would you do, if I were perverse enough 



 

to refuse?" said she, with an accent I could not 
interpret. 

" It is not my way to threaten." 

"You would hinder me ? " 

" I am hindering you,"'s.aid he good-hum ouredly. 
"Give me your promise, Olive, and let me go. It 
is time." 

"I don't think it is reasonable," said Olive; "but 
I suppose you must have your own way. I promise. What would you do, if / insisted on some 
change in your ways ? " 

"Consider the matter " said he laughingly; and 
left the room. Olive left it immediately after. I 
had been afraid to stir. The first minute, when I 
could have made my presence known, having been 
lost through want of presence of mind, there was 
no other minute in which it had been possible. 

I sat still in the moonlight which began to edge 
up to me now, but the whole course of my meditations was changed. I was thinking no longer of 
Art and Dore. No, nor of my sister, though she 
gave me matter enough. I was thinking of myself, 
somewhat awe-struck. For the start my heart had 
given when I suddenly heard Mr. IredelTs voice so 
near me, had revealed to me something, which until 
that moment I had not so certainly known. I had 
fondly supposed all that chapter of my life closed, 
all that half of my heart dead and withered; but 
here it was alive ; in full, quick, sentient existence. 
So much my stay in this pleasant house had done 
for me; it had unearthed the creature which had 



 

retreated to the depths of its cover and was supposed to be winter-killed. No, Desire; your battle 
is not so soon fought and won ; life is not yet for 
you an even prairie ground; with no rocks and 
precipices, if also with no hills and fair outlooks. 
There i,s rough walking for you yet, and it would 
be roughest of all in this house. It will not do ; I 
must go back to Chesterfield. I sat looking at this 
necessity; at the same time recognizing also the 
fact that I could not without great violence break 
away at once ; Olive expects me to stay with her 
until spring, and I have allowed her to expect it. 
I have no excuse for making the change and going 
now. I came to that conclusion, slowly gathered 
myself up and shut the volume which lay open 
before me in the moonlight, and somewhat miserably made my way up stairs. Well, doth not 
the Lord know? And life is, to do his will. I 
am content, I am. content. 



Dec. 27. 

CHRISTMAS EVE came in a storm of snow and 
w wind. We were to have gone out, to spend 
the evening with Caroline; but the weather was 
too bad. We sat instead in the library as usual, 
and read and talked; and at intervals paused to 
listen to the wind. It rushed round the house, 
whistled in the chimney, roared in great blasts 
along the street; then lulled for a moment, and 



 

began a low, soft singing up somewhere in the 
region of the roof, or the upper air. 

** That's a Christmas wind," said Mr. Iredell. 

"Why? because it blows at Christmas?" Olive 
asked. 

"Yes. It often blows so at Christmas. It al 
ways sounds Christmas-like to me. I believe it 
seems to waken the chimes of joy which always 
rang in my childhood's ears at this time; the vibrations linger yet." 

" Was Christmas such a pleasant time to you ? " 
Olive said carelessly. 

"Very pleasant? My mother always made it so 
It was always a time brim-full of enjoyment for me 
and my sister." 

I knew, for Olive had told me, that Mr. Iredell 
had been passionately fond of this sister, and that 
the loss of her had shadowed his early life. She 
was mentioned now with a softened and lowered 
voice, as one held in a very tender memory. 

" Christmas was never anything to me," Olive 
presently went on. " We roasted a turkey at New 
Year's and made mince pies; and usually gathered 
a party together to eat them; but there was no 
particular romance about that; and if the wind 
sighed, nobody minded." 

" How was it with you, Desire ! " 

" Me ? " said I starting. " it was with me as 
with Olive. Nobody made anything special of 
Christmas. I feel as if in many things I have 
lately begun to live and see what they are." 



 

"Christmas too?" said Olive laughing. "Will 
you hang up your stocking, and expect Santa 
Glaus will be more good to you than he used to 
be in the old times ? If I got an apple and a pair 
of scissors and a fancy gingercake, I thought my 
self well off." 

" Hang up your stocking, by all means, Desire," 
said Mr. Iredell. " That wind is not whistling for 
nothing. Santa Glaus is certainly about in this 
weather. I wish I knew he would not pass over 
just those houses where he is most wanted ! " 

"They won't miss him," said Olive. "What peo 
ple don't know, they don't want." 

" True, only within limits," returned Mr. Iredell
" Comfort is wanted, by many a one who never 
knew it. Fire, and food, and shelter I wish I 
could give them to all who need them in Philadelphia to-night ? " 

"I have no doubt you have done your share," 
remarked Olive. 

" What is anybody's L share, in that work ? " 

" 0, I don't know," die answered. "His fair proportion, I suppose, of the relief to be given ; according to his circumstances." 

"How shall ore know what is his proportion, 
in that view of his responsibilities ? " 

"He knows what he can afford." 

"But that has nothing to do with what other 
people afford." 

" It ought." 

"Why?" 



 

"No one ought to be burdened disproportion 
ately." 

"Burdened! There is your mistake. If you 
take it as a burden, you cannot do it. Desire, you 
remember how, when the Lord was on earth, he 
helped and relieved all who applied to him ? " 

" Yes, certainly." 

"Does he care for those suffering classes less 
now ? " 

"No of course he cannot care less, He does 
not change." 

" The same yesterday, to-day, and for ever. 
Then why does he not still relieve the sufferers ? " 

"I don't know," said I; "I thought" 

"He gave it in charge to his people to do; to us. 
We are his ministers and messengers, to carry on 
the work which he began, and for which he left us 
the means and the material. And he says, Olive, 
that he will reckon it as done to himself. Shall I 
try how little I can do for my Master? shall I count 
services rendered, lest there be too many ? " 

"At that rate," said Olive, "where will you 
stop?" 

"When I have done all I can." 

" But all you can may mean a great deal." 

"I would be thankful." 

"Mr. Iredell, I do think you carry things too far. 
A man has to attend to his family." 

"Are you neglected?" said he smiling." 

"No " said Olive; but if I were to propose to 
you to get a new carpet for the drawing room 



 

I suppose you would tell me you could not af 
ford it." 

Mr. Iredell paused, and an expression of some sur 
prise passed over his features ; his answer however 
was in a calm business tone. 

" Is the carpet not respectable ?" 

" Respectable ! but it is very old, Mr. Iredell ; it 
has been down a long while; its freshness is off, 
and it is old-fashioned. I don't like it, either; it is 
too dark." 

"But it is respectable?" 

" Of course, it is respectable." 

"Suppose I shew you, that the price of a new 
carpet would keep a hundred children out of the 
streets this winter ? " 

"Keep them where?" 

"Where they would be fed and sheltered and 
taught and taken care of." 

Olive was silent. 

"Which is best?" 

Olive hesitated again, and then said that at thai 
rate she did not see how anybody was to have any 
thing. 

"Except the poor children? " said Mr. Iredell. 
"Well, Olive, I would rather they had it than I. 
It is my Master, you know." 

Olive let the matter drop, and so did he. A little 
later, she and I were sitting over the fire in her 
dressing room, whither she had drawn me. 

"You see," she said, "what Mr. Iredell thinks 
about the carpet." 



 

"But Olive, Olive!" I cried; "would you not 
rather do the Lord's work than have a new carpet ? " 
" He does enough of that work besides. lie is 
always doing it. See these old fogies, or young 
ones, that he brings home to dinner every day. 
He could do all that, and let me have my carpet 
too." 

"Yet the carpet would do so mucli more; you 
cannot help that." 

" Where is one to stop, then ? " 
"0 where Mr. Iredell said; when you have done 
all you can. Olive, you are throwing happiness 
away; you are throwing happiness away! Why 
do you?" 

Olive did not answer, and I thought was not 
pleased. Nor was I. We sat still listening to the 
Christmas wind, which was charged now with all 
sorts of associations for me. Was this, I wondered, 
a happy Christmas to Mr. Iredell? Kembering 
those at his old home and with his mother and sis 
ter, did his wife make up to him for what he used 
to have and had no longer? And Olive how 
Olive was missing her chance, her rich chance of a 
noble and happy life. I sat still a while, and then 
I rose up and kissed her and went to my own room. 
And sadness overcame me there; and I did what 
I rarely do; gave way to tears. They were heavy 
and unrefreshing tears; and I went to sleep with 
them hardly dry. 

But the morning, Christmas morning, broke 
bright and sparkling upon me. The storm was 



 

past There was a white glory upon the world, 
and a crystal glitter upon every snow surface, brilliant and laughing in light. I remembered that it 
was Christmas Day, and that Christmas meant 
"peace on earth" ; and that the King of peace, 
whose own the day is, would surely not disown his 
name to any who trust in him. Therefore not to 
me. There came therewith a sort of peace into 
my heart, which was not without some brightness 
of its own, if the sparkle was wanting. What a 
sparkle the outward world was in! Snow lying, 
and snow flying in the wind, the floating separate 
crystals catching the sun rays and giving them 
back, so that at times the air seemed full of diamond dust. "Well, life was not like that to me 
any longer. No, but its brightness was from the 
sun direct, beholden to no reflections, sweet and 
golden. I watched at the window, fascinated with 
the beauty outside. The wind brought flurries of 
the light, dry snow, and all the air would be full of 
that diamond sparkle; then it would clear away, 
and the intense blue overhead shew itself without 
any sort of a veil. There were no snow fields be 
neath, and no hills, with their wooded sides shak 
ing off showers of snow at every such sweep of the 
wind over them. That would be fairer yet to look 
upon; yet as I thought of it, Chesterfield seemed 
to me to be a cold place, and I felt as if I were here 
in the very region of summer. 

I was half dressed, looking and thinking, when 
a knock came at my door. It was my sister's 



 

woman, for Olive has a maid now, bringing me a 
basket; with her mistress's love. I took in the 
basket, which had an odd way of being at once 
light and heavy; and lifted up some silk paper 
which covered it; warned already by a peculiar 
odour what I was going to see. Yes, I knew it, 
fur ! I lifted it up, as I could, for fold after fold fell 
away from my fingers, till I saw what I held; a 
great fur cape with long ends, big enough to cover 
me all up. Certainly I should never be cold again 
out of doors, whatever happened to me anywhere 
else. It was beautiful fur ; I could see that, with 
out being a connoisseur ; excellence in many things 
commends itself to the perception even of the unini 
tiated. Soft and lovely; I have all a woman's liking 
for pretty things, I believe; and I held the thing in 
my hands, with incredulous pleasure. Then there 
came another knock at the door. I opened. Martha again, with another object in her grasp, and 
"Mr. Iredell's Christmas good wishes." I took this 
also from her and came in to look at it. A picture, a beautiful photograph, in the neatest of delicate frames. This picture was quite large. I set 
it down in a good light, and sat down myself be 
fore it to study it; but I found I needed help. 
It was beautiful, and delighted me, but I could not 
read the story of it. So it occurred to me at last 
that I had better finish dressing and be ready to 
receive explanations. Mr. Iredell remembered then 
that I loved pictures. That was kind of him. 
When I was ready I went to Olive's room; who 



 

this time was up and dressing, intending to honour 
Christmas morning by taking breakfast with us. 
I thanked her warmly for her gift. 

" Does it please you ? " said she. Mr. Iredell 
would have it furs and nothing else." 

" But it is from you ? " said I. 

"0 yes; he said you would like it better so. 
But you know, making people warm is one of his 
hobbies. Did he give you anything?" 

I nodded. "A picture." 

"A picture!" cried Olive. "He gave me a picture. There it is. K 

"0 that is another," I said. "Mine is just the 
same size, and framed so, but different. How 
beautiful I I know what this is. I have seen it 
before." I got down on the floor to examine it. 

"What is it?" said Olive coldly. I do not know 
what it means." 

"Don't you? It is by Millais. It is the Eve of 
St. Bartholomew. This man is a Huguenot, and 
the lady is a Catholic, and she knows that the 
Catholics have agreed to recognize each other in 
the confusion that night by a white favour worn 
somehow; so she is trying to tie her handkerchief 
upon his arm." 

"To save his life " said Olive. 

" And he will not let her." 

" He does not know what it means ? " 

"0 yes, he knows, but he will not buy his life 
at the expense of his truth. He will not disown 
his religion." 



 

" He might consider her," remarked Olive. 

" And be false ? " said I looking up. 

" A white handkerchief is not a falsehood. He 
don't put it on ; he need not take it off. It would 
keep some one from committing murder. I think 
you and Mr. Iredell have very strained notions of 
right and wrong." 

"Would you like Mr. Iredell to be false to his 
principles, to be untrue to his religion, for the sake 
of doing you a pleasure ? " 

"Are you thinking of the drawing-room carpet? 
I wonder if he was thinking of it, and meant to 
give me a lesson this way ! What is your picture 
about ? " 

"It is another parting," said I, "but I do not 
understand it. I am going to ask Mr. Iredell to 
explain." 

"Go and fetch it, and let us see them to 
gether." 

I obeyed, but just then we were called to break 
fast. 

I do not think Olive's mood was genial; never 
theless, that was a bright, sweet, merry breakfast. 
Mr. Iredell made it so; nothing could resist the 
power of his brightness and sweetness. The talk 
was delightful. It was only near the end of the 
meal that Olive brought up the subject of the pictures and asked him to explain mine. 

" It is another couple bidding each other good 
bye," ho. answered; "you can see that at a glance; 
but the bitter drop in the cup is different. Did 



 

you notice the picture on the wall of the room 
where they are?" 

" No." 

"It is Napoleon crossing the Alps. The house 
where that picture hangs must be French, or in 
tensely French in its sympathies. The time is the 
time when Napoleon had Germany under his heel. 
Now the Black Brunswicker is going to the war to 
free his country, and the skull and cross bones on 
his cap shew that the regiment to which he be 
longs will give no quarter." 

" And she is trying to keep him from going ? " 
I said. 

"And honour, and patriotism, forbid him to yield 
to her." 

"As truth and religion forbid the Huguenot. 
Yes; now I want to compare them." 

"What made you give. that to Desire?" said 
Olive. 

"I knew she likes such things; and she could 
appreciate the struggle of passion with duty." 

" And you thought I could appreciate the other 
struggle, of interest with religion ? " 

"I hoped you could appreciate the victory. 
There is no struggle in the Huguenot's mind." 

"Do you never have struggles?" said Olive sud 
denly. But Mr. Iredell answered with impenetra 
ble calmness, 

" I have had them." 

" Which sort ? " 

He smiled at her in a little wonder. "I have 



 

never had an Eve of St. Bartholomew to try me/ 
he said. 

" I know ! " said Olive. "You would do exactly 
like that man, and refuse life for a punctilio." But 
there was a little red spot on each of her cheeks, 
which I wondered much to see there. Mr. Iredell 
made no answer, and as we rose to go up stairs, he 
went to the library. In Olive's room I threw my 
self down before the pictures, to study and compare. Olive took no part. I had a feeling that 
she was looking at me. 

"Well," said she at last; "what do you see 
there ? " 

"All Mr. Iredell said. They are beautiful in 
their different ways of telling the story. There is 
no struggle in the Huguenot's face; it is sad, but 
H is lofty and sweet; there is almost a smile. And 
the Black Brunswicker's brow is all knotted with 
pain." 

"He is going, though," said Olive. "There is 
no more struggle in this than in the other one." 

"The victory is less complete, then. His will 
triumphs ; but I am afraid feeling makes a terrible 
rebellion." 

"And in the Huguenot it does not? " 

"Certainly it does not. He is quiet and calm; 
quite ready to meet whatever comes." And as I
spoke, the lesson contained in my own words went 
through and through my own heart; at the same 
time a secret question, what had moved Mr. Iredell 
to assign that picture to Olive, this to me. He 




wanted her to learn that lesson, perhaps, and gave 
this to me just because it was the companion picture. But while I was delighted, Olive for some 
reason or other was out of humour." 

" Which do you like best?" said she. 

" I like the man best in yours." 

" I will change with you." 

" no," said I. " That would not do, since Mr. 
Iredell has given them. Besides, I like the womar 
best in mine." 

" Do you think she looks like you ? " 

"Like me! No; I was never so handsome as 
that." 

" You never wore a white satin gown, if that is 
what you mean," said Olive scornfully ; " but you 
are a great deal better looking than that girl. And 
she does look a little bit like you." 

Olive regarded me, as she said that, with so pe 
culiar an expression that she puzzled me. It was 
the look of an inquisitor. I sat back on the floor 
and gazed at her in my turn. 

"Are you searching perhaps for some hidden 
vanity in me ? " I asked. " If you are, you should 
not compare me with that beauty in white." 

"You can bear it," said Olive shortly; and she 
turned away. But when I was going off with my 
Black Brunswicker, she stopped me. 

" Leave it, cannot you ? I have not half seen 
it. I want to compare the two, as you have been 
doing." 

I left the picture of course, a little unwillingly 

 

How easily one falls into a selfish way of looking 
at tilings! I remembered now that I should have 
time enough to enjoy it, and might let Olive have 
this little bit of pleasure; and I sat down to read 
my Bible and bring myself into order. For the 
experiences of the morning had somewhat demor 
alized me. There was a stir in my heart, which 
whether it were most pain or pleasure I could not 
have told; but the stir was greater than I liked. 
I sat long over my Bible, pondering a word here 
and a word there ; trying to regulate the impatient 
beats of my pulses by its sweet, steady measure; 
and at last I arrived at this final conclusion, that 
Philadelphia is no place for me. I must be where 
such excitements and demoralization will be far 
from me. I must go home to Chesterfield, and 
make some excuse to go at once. If I cannot 
command my thoughts and feelings, the only next 
thing is to run away. 

I came to this conclusion, shed some tears over 
it, and went down to lunch. What a thin crust 
this outer life of society is! and what fires and 
seethings of hidden elements go on beneath it! 
So calmly we sat at table, and I as calm as any 
body, and talked, and talked, and all the while 
the lire burned, and I thought the smoke of the 
fire would put my eyes out. How good it is we 
cannot see into each other's hearts. 



 

Jan. 2. 

MY resolution was superseded. Mr. Iredell announced, the morning after Christmas day, 
that he had business in Florida, and was going 
thither for a few weeks. He said he would take 
the time while I am here, as being the best time 
for him to leave Olive ; and he would leave us two 
to carry on all we could of his work while he was 
gone. 

"Desiraand me!" Olive repeated. "That is a 
great compliment to Desire. I should have thought 
you would leave things to me." 

"All you can attend to," Mr. Iredell returned 
smiling; "but you are never visible till lunch 
time. I charge Desire with attending to all busi 
ness that comes before that." 

" What sort does come ? " I asked. 

" All sorts." 

"You honour me even more than Olive said," I 
replied. "How can you expect me to fulfil so 
broad a commission ? " 

" Or me, either ? " added Olive. 

" I will give you one easy rule, both of you. It 
answers a multitude of questions, and applies to 
