
" It is proper, when we can, to take a position 
of respect when we speak to the King; don't you 
think so ? " 

Dolly shuffled herself up upon her knees in the 
bed, not regarding much that Mrs. Eberstein threw 
a shawl round her shoulders; and waited a minute 
or two, looking intensely serious and considering. 
Then, laying her hands involuntarily together, but 
with her eyes open, she spoke. 

" O Lord Jesus Aunt Harry says you are here, 
though I cannot see you. If you are here, you 
can see, and you know that I love you; and I will 
be your servant. I never knew about you before, 
or I would have done it before. Now I do. Please 
to teach me, for I do not know anything, that I 
may do everything that pleases you. I will not 
do anything that don't please you. Amen." 

Dolly waited a moment, then turned and put 
her arms round her aunt's neck and kissed her. 
"Thank you!" she said earnestly; and then lay 
down and arranged herself to sleep. 

Mrs. Eberstein went down stairs and astonished 
her husband by a burst of hysterical weeping. He 
made anxious enquiries; and at last received an 
account of the last half hour. 

" But O Edward, what do you think ? " she 
concluded. "Did you ever hear anything like 



 

that in your life? Do you think it can be gen- 
uine ? " 

" Genuine what ? " demanded her husband. 

" Why, I mean, can it be true religious conversion? This child knows next to nothing; just 
that Jesus died out of love to her, to save her. 
Nothing more." 

" And she has given her love back. Very logical and reasonable; and ought not to be so uncommon." 

" But it is uncommon, Edward. At least people 
generally make a longer business of it." 

" In which they do not shew their wisdom." 

"No, but they do it. Edward, can it be, that 
this child is so suddenly a Christian? Will it 
stand?" 

" Only time can shew that. But Harry, all the 
cases, almost all the cases, reported in the New 
Testament are cases of sudden yielding. Just look 
at it. John and Andrew took but a couple of 
hours or so to make up their minds. Nathanael 
did not apparently take more than two minutes, 
after he saw Christ. Lydia became a Christian 
at her first hearing the good news; the eunuch 
made up his mind as quick. Why should not little Dolly ? The trouble is caused only by people's 
obstinate resistance." 

" Then you think it may be true work ? " 

" Of course I think so. This child is not an ordinary child, there is that to be said." 

"No," said Mrs. Eberstein thoughtfully. "Is 



 

she not peculiar? She is such a child; and yet 
there is such a wise, deep look in her brown eyes. 
What pretty eyes they are. There is the oddest 
mixture of old and young in her I ever saw. She 
is going to be lovely, Edward ! " 

" I think she is lovely now." 

" yes ! but I mean, when she grows up. She 
will be very lovely, with those spiritual eyes and 
that loose curly brown hair; if only she can be 
kept as she is now." 

" My dear ! she cannot be that." 

" O you know what I mean, Edward. If she 
can be kept unspoiled ; untainted ; unsophisticated ; 
with that sort of mixture of wisdom and simplic- 
ity which she has now. I wish we need not send 
her to school ! " 

"We have no choice about that. And the Lord 
can keep his own. Let us ask him." 

They knelt and did so ; with some warm tears on 
Mrs. Eberstein's part, and great and warm earnestness in them both. 



CHAPTER II. 

CHRISTINA AND HER MOTHER. 

MRS. EBERSTEIN watched during the next few 
days, to see, if she could, whether the sudden resolve-taking on Dolly's part that first evening " meant anything," as she expressed it, or not. 
She remained in doubt. Dolly was thoughtful certainly, and sweet certainly; "but that don't tell," 
Mrs. Eberstein remarked; "it is her characteristic." 
It was equally certain that she had attached her- 
self with a trustful, clinging affection to the new 
friends whose house and hearts had received her. 
Dolly's confidence was given to them, fully and 
heartily, from that very first day; and they saw 
that it was. 

Nearly a week passed before the school term began. Meanwhile Dolly was taken about in walks 
and drives, to see all that her friends thought 
would interest her. Everything interested her, 
they found; and upon every subject presented to 
her her little head went to work; the result of 
which was the putting of a question now and 
then, which afforded her guardians perhaps as 
much entertainment as the ground of the question had given Dolly. These questions however 
were called forth most of all by the subject which 
had seized hold of Dolly's mind with such force 
that first evening. Mrs. Eberstein had not forgotten her promise about the Bible. One of the 
first expeditions undertaken the next day had been 
in search of one; successful, in the judgment of 
both Dolly and her aunt; and since then the book 
was very often to be seen in Dolly's hands. 

" What are you reading there, Dolly ? " Mr. 
Eberstein asked, corning in one evening just before dinner. Dolly was on a low seat at the 
corner of the fireplace, reading by the shine of 
a fire of Liverpool coal, which threw warm lights 
all over the little figure. She looked up and 
said it was her Bible she was studying. 

"You will put out your eyes." 

"0 no, Uncle Edward; the print is so good, and 
the fire makes such a nice blaze, I can see perfectly." 

"And pray, what are you looking for, or what 
are you finding, in that book, little one ? " 

" I am looking for a great deal, arid I am finding a little," was Dolly's reply. 

" Different with me," said Mr. Eberstein with a 
short laugh. " I generally find more in the Bible 
than I look for." 

"What do you look for in it?" said Dolly, 
raising her head which had gone down to the 
reading. 

Mr. Eberstein laughed again. 

"Truly, Dolly," he said, "you have hit me there! 



 

I believe I often open the Bible without looking 
for anything, in particular." 

" Perhaps that makes the difference," said Dolly, 
letting her eyes fall again to her page. 

"Perhaps it does; but Dolly, I should very much 
like to know what you are looking for ? " 

" I am looking to find out the will of God, Uncle 
Edward." 

" Come here, my pet," said Mr. Eberstein, coaxing the little girl into his arms and setting her on 
his knee. "What do you want to find out the 
will of God for ? what about ? " 

"About me." 

" What do you want to know the will of God 
about you for ? " 

" I want to do it, Uncle Edward." 

" There couldn't be a better reason. Jesus says, 
' He that hath my commandments, and keepeth 
them, he it is that loveth me.' Do you find what 
you seek?" 

" I find some," said Dolly. 

" Where were you reading just now ? " 

"About Abraham." 

"Abraham! What do you find in Abraham's 
life, may I ask, that tells you the will of God 
about Dolly Copley ? You are not called upon to 
leave your country and go out into a strange land." 

"No; not that. But God said to Abraham, 
'Walk before me, and be thou perfect.' And it 
puzzles me." 

" What puzzles you ? " 



 

" I don't see how I can ' walk before him.' " 

" Dolly, the Lord is here, here where we are, 
wherever we are." 

"Yes. I know that." 

"Then if you know that and remember it, and 
do everything you do in his presence, and feeling 
that it is in his presence, you will be walking 
before him ; don't you see ? Just as if Jesus were 
here again upon earth, and you were always with 
him; only you do not see him now. He sees 
you." 

" And ' be perfect ' ? " said Dolly questioningly. 

"Yes. That means, I think, don't try to serve 
two masters. If you love God with all your heart, 
and give him your whole life and service, not a 
part of it, that is what the word to Abraham 
means, I think. A servant of God is a perfect servant, if he does all the will of God that he knows, 
and as fast as he knows it. But you cannot do 
that of yourself, little Dolly." 

"Why cannot I ? if I want to." 

" Why because there come temptations and there 
come difficulties; and you will want to do something you like and not what God likes ; and you 
will do it too, unless the Lord Jesus keeps fast 
hold of you and saves you from making such a 
mistake. Only he can." 

"Can he?" 

"Certainly he can." 

"Will he?" 

" If you want him to do it, and trust him to do 



 

it, he will. He will just do all that you trust him 
to do." 

Dolly pondered. "Will he do that because he 
loves me?" she asked. 

"Just for that reason, Dolly." 

"Then he will do it," said Dolly confidently; 
" for I will trust him. Won't you shew me where 
he says that, Uncle Edward ? " 

Mr. Ebersteiu told Dolly to find Matt. xxi. 21. 
Dolly read eagerly. 

"Jesus answered and said unto them, Verily I 
say unto you, If ye have faith, and doubt not, ye 
shall not only do this which is done to the fig 
tree, but also if ye shall say unto this mountain, 
Be thou removed, and be thou cast into the sea, 
it shall be done. And all things whatsoever ye 
shall ask in prayer, believing, ye shall receive." 

Dolly read to herself, then looked up, eager and 
confident, for the next reference. 

"Turn to John xv. 7." 

Again Dolly found and read, in silence. 

" If ye abide in me, and my words abide in you, 
ye shall ask what ye will, and it shall be done 
unto you." 

" What next, Uncle Edward ? " 

" Isn't that promise enough ? " 

"Yes; but I thought you had more." 

" There is a great deal more. Look out I Thes-salonians v. 23, 24." 

Dolly read, slowly, aloud now, 

'"And the very God of peace sanctify you 



 

wholly; and I pray God your whole spirit and 
soul and body be preserved blameless unto the 
coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. Faithful is he 
that calleth you, who also will do it.' that is 
beautiful, Uncle Edward ! " 

"Do you want another? Find Jude, and read 
the 24th and 25th verses." 

With some trouble, Dolly found it. 

" ' Now unto him that is able to keep you from 
falling, and to present you faultless before the 
presence of his glory with exceeding joy, to the 
only wise God our Saviour, be glory and majesty, dominion and power, both now and ever. 
Amen.' " 

Dolly slipped off Mr. Eberstein's knee and retook her old place by the fire ; where she sat turning from one passage to another of those she had 
been reading. Mr. Eberstein watched her, how 
the ribband markers of the Bible were carefully 
laid in two of the places, and a couple of neat slips 
of paper prepared for the others. 

" What have you been doing to-day, Dolly ? " 
he asked at length. 

"We went to see the water works." 

"O you did! And what did you think of the 
water works ? " 

" We went up to the top and walked about. 
Do the people in Philadelphia want so much water 
as all that ? " 

" They want a great deal more. The Fairmount 
works give only enough for part of the city." 



 

"That is taking a great deal of trouble to get 
water." 

" It would be worse trouble to do without it." 

"But why don't people all live in the country, 
as we do at home? then they would have water 
for nothing." 

" Humph ! That would answer, Dolly, if people 
were contented with water; they all want wine. 
I mean, my child, that most people are not satisfied with simple doings; and for anything more 
they must have money ; and they can make money 
faster in cities. Therefore they build cities." 

" Is that what they build cities for ? " said Dolly. 

" Largely. Not altogether. A great many things 
can be better done where people are congregated 
together; it is for the convenience of trade and 
business, in many kinds, and in many ways. 
What have you been doing since you came home 
from the water works ? " 

" Uncle Edward ! " said Dolly, suddenly rising 
now and coming to him, " Aunt Harry has opened 
for me her old bookcase ! " 

"What old bookcase? I didn't know she had 
an old bookcase." 

" yes ; the one where she keeps the books she 
had when she was as old as I am." 

"And as young, eh? Well, what is in that 
bookcase ? is it a great find ? " 

" Uncle Edward, there is a great deal in it ! 
It is wonderful. Books I never saw, and they 
look so interesting ! " 



 

" What, for instance ? Something to rival Plu- 
tarch's Lives ? " 

"I don't know," said Dolly; "you know I have 
not read them yet. There is ' Sandford and Merton'; I was reading in that, and I like it very 
much; and the 'Looking Glass' is another; and 
' Eosamond ' I am sure is interesting. there is 
a whole load of them." 

" Well I am glad of it," said Mr. Eberstein. 
"That is the right sort of stuif for your busy 
little brain; will not weigh too heavy. Now I 
suppose you will be reading all the time you are 
in the house." 

" Aunt Harry has begun to teach me to knit." 

"Very good," said Mr. Eberstein. "I believe 
in knitting too. That's safe." 

They went to dinner, and after dinner there was 
a further knitting lesson, in which Dolly seemed 
absorbed; nevertheless, before the evening was 
over she brought up a very different subject again. 

"Aunt Harry," she began, in the midst of ari 
arduous effort to get the loops of wool on her 
needles in the right relative condition, "does 
mother know about the Bible ? " 

" Yes," said Mrs. Eberstein, with a glance at her 
husband, " she knows about it, something." 

"Then why did she never tell me anything 
about it ? " 

Mrs. Eberstein hesitated. 

"I suppose, Dolly, her thoughts were fuller of 
other things." 



 

"But how could they be?" said the little one, 
laying her hands with their knitting work in her 
lap, and looking up. Her aunt did not answer. 

"How could her thoughts be fuller of other 
things, if she knows the Bible ? " Dolly urged. 

"I don't think she really knows much of what 
is in the Bible," Mrs. Eberstein said. "She has 
never read it much." 

"I don't think she knows about Jesus," Dolly 
went on gravely; "for she never told me; and she 
would if she had known, I think. Aunt Harriet, 
I think I ought to tell her now." 

" What would you tell her, my darling ? " 

"I will tell her that I know him and love 
him; and I will tell her I have got a Bible, and 
some of the things I have found in it. I will ask 
her to get one too, and read it. I don't believe she 
knows." 

"The reason why a great many people do not 
know, Dolly, is, as your Aunt Harry says, that 
they are so much taken up with other things." 

" Then I think one ought to take care not to be 
too much taken up with other things," said Dolly 
very seriously. 

" But you have got to be taken up with other 
things," Mr. Eberstein went on. "Here you are 
going to school in a few days ; then your head will 
be full of English and French and your hands full 
of piano keys and harp strings, from morning till 
night. How are you going to do ? " 

Dolly looked at the speaker, came and placed 



 

herself on his knee again, and laid a hand on his 
shoulder; eying him steadily. 

" Ought I not to go to school ? " 

" Must ! else you cannot be the right sort of a 
woman, and do the right sort of work." 

"How then, Uncle Edward? what shall I do? " 

" I'll tell you one thing, Dolly. Don't study and 
practise to get ahead of somebody else; but to 
please the King ! " 

" The King that is Jesus ? " 

" Certainly." 

Dolly nodded, in full agreement with the rule 
of action as thus stated; presently brought forward another idea. 

"Will he care? Would it please him to have me 
play on the piano, or learn French and arithmetic ? " 

" Dolly, the more you know, and the better you 
know it, the better servant you can be ; you will 
have the more to use for Jesus." 

" Can I use such things for him ? How ? " 

" Many ways. He will shew you how. Do you 
think an ignorant woman could do as much in the 
world as an elegant, well-informed, accomplished 
woman ? " 

Dolly thought over this question, nodded as one 
who had come to an understanding of it, and went 
back to her knitting. 

"What ever will become of that child," said 
Mrs. Eberstein an hour or two later, when she and 
her husband were alone. "I am full of anxiety 
about her." 



 

"Then you are taking upon you the part of 
Providence." 

"No, but Edward, Dolly will have a history." 

" So have we all," Mr. Eberstein responded very 
unresponsively. 

" But she will not have a common history. Do 
you see how open she is to receive impressions, 
and how fast they stay once they are made ? " 

" I see the first quality. I never saw a creature 
quicker to take impressions or to welcome affections. Whether they will prove as lasting as they 
are sudden, that we have no means of knowing 
at present." 

"I think they will." 

"That's a woman's conclusion, founded on her 
wishes." 

"It is a man's conclusion too; for you think the 
same thing, Edward." 

"Don't prove anything, Harry." 

"Yes, it does. When two people come to the 
same independent view of something, it is fair to 
suppose there are grounds for it." 

" I hope so. Time will shew." 

" But Edward, with this extremely sensitive and 
affectionate nature, how important it is that Dolly 
should have only the right surroundings and see 
only the right sort of people." 

"Just so. And so she is going out into the 
world of a large school; where she will meet all 
sorts of people and be subjected to all sorts of influences ; and you cannot shield her." 



 

" I wish I could keep her at home, and have her 
taught here ! I wish I could ! " 

" Playing Providence again. We all like to 
do it." 

"No, but Edward, just look at her," said Mrs. 
Eberstein with her eyes full of tears. 

" I do," said Mr. Eberstein. " I've got eyes. But 
you will have to trust her, Harry." 

" Now she will go, I have no doubt, and write 
that letter to her mother. I wonder if Sally will 
get scared, and take her away from-us ? " 

" Why, Hal," said her husband, " your self-will 
is getting up very strong to-night! What if? 
Dolly's future does not depend upon us; though 
we will do what we can for it." 

What they did then, was to pray about it again ; 
for these people believed in prayer. 

The next day Mrs. Eberstein had invited an acquaintance to come to dinner. This acquaintance 
had a daughter, also about to enter Mrs. Delancy's 
school; and Mrs. Eberstein's object was to let the 
two girls become a little known to each other, so 
that Dolly in the new world she was about to 
enter might not feel everything utterly strange. 
Mrs. Thayer belonged to a good New York family ; 
and it likewise suited her purposes to have her 
daughter received in so unexceptionable a house 
as Mrs. Eberstein's, albeit the young lady was not 
without other Philadelphia friends. So the party 
fitted together very harmoniously. Mrs. Thayer, in 
spite of her good connections, was no more than a 



 

commonplace personage. Christina, her daughter, 
on the other hand, shewed tokens of becoming a 
great beauty. A little older than Dolly, of larger 
build and more flesh and blood development generally, and with one of those peach-blossom complexions which for fairness and delicacy almost rival 
the flower. Her hair was pretty, her features also 
pretty, her expression placid. Mrs. Eberstein was 
much struck. 

" They are just about of an age," remarked Mrs. 
Thayer. " I suppose they will study the same things. 
Everybody studies the same things. Well, I hope 
you'll be friends and not rivals, my dears." 

"Dolly will not be rivals with anybody," returned Dolly's aunt. 

"She don't look very strong. I should think 
it would not do for her to study too hard," 
said the other lady. "0 rivalry is necessary, 
you know, to bring out the spirit of boys and 
girls and make them work. It may be friendly rivalry; but if they were not rivals they 
would not be anything; might as well not be 
school girls, or school boys. They would not 
do any work but what they liked, and we know 
what that would amount to. I don't know about 
beating learning into boys; some people say that 
is the way; but with girls you can't take that 
way; and all you have to fall back upon is emulation." 

" Very few young people will study for the love 
of it," Mrs. Eberstein so far assented. 



 

" They might, I believe, if the right way was 
taken," Mr. Eberstein remarked. 

" Emulation will do it, if a girl has any spirit," 
said Mrs. Thayer. 

" What sort of spirit ?" 

" What sort of spirit ? Why, the spirit not to 
let themselves be outdone ; to stand as high as 
anybody, and higher ; be No. 1, and carry off the 
first honours. A spirited girl don't like to be 
No. 2. Christina will never be No. 2." 

" Is it quite certain that such a spirit is the one 
to be cultivated ? " 

"It makes them study," said Mrs. Thayer, 
looking at her questioner to see what he meant. 

" What do you think the Bible means, when it 
tells us not to seek for honour ? " 

" Not to seek for honour ? " repeated the lady. 

" Not the honour that comes from man." 

" I didn't know it forbade it. I never heard that 
it was forbidden. Why, Mr. Eberstein, it is natural 
to wish for honour. Everybody wishes for it." 

" So they do," Mr. Eberstein assented. " I might 
say, so we do." 

" It is natural," repeated the lady. 

