“I may go abroad in the autumn.”
“Oh, how lovely!”
“Isn’t it? David German is going to spend a year in Rome, to finish a
statue, and wants me to go along. Grandma is willing, as cousin Maria
wants her for a long visit, so everything looks promising and I really
think I may go.”
“Won’t it cost a great deal?” asked Merry, who, in spite of her little
elegancies, had a good deal of her thrifty mother’s common sense.
“Yes; and I’ve got to earn it. But I can--I know I can, for I’ve saved
some, and I shall work like ten beavers all summer. I won’t borrow if
I can help it, but I know someone who would lend me five hundred if I
wanted it;” and Ralph looked as eager and secure as if the earning of
twice that sum was a mere trifle when all the longing of his life was
put into his daily tasks.
“I wish I had it to give you. It must be so splendid to feel that you
can do great things if you only have the chance. And to travel, and see
all the lovely pictures and statues, and people and places in Italy. How
happy you must be!” and Merry’s eyes had the wistful look they always
wore when she dreamed dreams of the world she loved to live in.
“I am--so happy that I’m afraid it never will happen. If I do go, I’ll
write and tell you all about the fine sights, and how I get on. Would
you like me to?” asked Ralph, beginning enthusiastically and ending
rather bashfully, for he admired Merry very much, and was not quite sure
how this proposal would be received.
“Indeed I should! I’d feel so grand to have letters from Paris and
Rome, and you’d have so much to tell it would be almost as good as going
myself,” she said, looking off into the daffodil sky, as they paused
a minute on the hill-top to get breath, for both had walked as fast as
they talked.
“And will you answer the letters?” asked Ralph, watching the innocent
face, which looked unusually kind and beautiful to him in that soft
light.
“Why, yes; I’d love to, only I shall not have anything interesting to
say. What can I write about?” and Merry smiled as she thought how dull
her letters would sound after the exciting details his would doubtless
give.
“Write about yourself, and all the rest of the people I know. Grandma
will be gone, and I shall want to hear how you get on.” Ralph looked
very anxious indeed to hear, and Merry promised she would tell all
about the other people, adding, as she turned from the evening peace and
loveliness to the house, whence came the clatter of milk-pans and the
smell of cooking,--
“I never should have anything very nice to tell about myself, for I
don’t do interesting things as you do, and you wouldn’t care to hear
about school, and sewing, and messing round at home.”
Merry gave a disdainful little sniff at the savory perfume of ham which
saluted them, and paused with her hand on the gate, as if she found it
pleasanter out there than in the house. Ralph seemed to agree with her,
for, leaning on the gate, he lingered to say, with real sympathy in his
tone and something else in his face, “Yes, I should; so you write and
tell me all about it. I didn’t know you had any worries, for you always
seemed like one of the happiest people in the world, with so many to pet
and care for you, and plenty of money, and nothing very hard or hateful
to do. You’d think you were well off if you knew as much about poverty
and work and never getting what you want, as I do.”
“You bear your worries so well that nobody knows you have them. I ought
not to complain, and I won’t, for I do have all I need. I’m so glad you
are going to get what you want at last;” and Merry held out her hand to
say good-night, with so much pleasure in her face that Ralph could not
make up his mind to go just yet.
“I shall have to scratch round in a lively way before I do get it, for
David says a fellow can’t live on less than four or five hundred a year,
even living as poor artists have to, in garrets and on crusts. I don’t
mind as long as Grandma is all right. She is away to-night, or I should
not be here,” he added, as if some excuse was necessary. Merry needed no
hint, for her tender heart was touched by the vision of her friend in
a garret, and she suddenly rejoiced that there was ham and eggs for
supper, so that he might be well fed once, at least, before he went away
to feed on artistic crusts.
“Being here, come in and spend the evening. The boys will like to hear
the news, and so will father. Do, now.”
It was impossible to refuse the invitation he had been longing for, and
in they went to the great delight of Roxy, who instantly retired to the
pantry, smiling significantly, and brought out the most elaborate pie in
honor of the occasion. Merry touched up the table, and put a little vase
of flowers in the middle to redeem the vulgarity of doughnuts. Of course
the boys upset it, but as there was company nothing was said, and Ralph
devoured his supper with the appetite of a hungry boy, while watching
Merry eat bread and cream out of an old-fashioned silver porringer, and
thinking it the sweetest sight he ever beheld.
Then the young people gathered about the table, full of the new plans,
and the elders listened as they rested after the week’s work. A pleasant
evening, for they all liked Ralph, but as the parents watched Merry
sitting among the great lads like a little queen among her subjects,
half unconscious as yet of the power in her hands, they nodded to one
another, and then shook their heads as if they said,--
“I’m afraid the time is coming, mother.”
“No danger as long as she don’t know it, father.”
At nine the boys went off to the barn, the farmer to wind up the
eight-day clock, and the housewife to see how the baked beans and Indian
pudding for to-morrow were getting on in the oven. Ralph took up his hat
to go, saying as he looked at the shade on the tall student lamp,--
“What a good light that gives! I can see it as I go home every night,
and it burns up here like a beacon. I always look for it, and it hardly
ever fails to be burning. Sort of cheers up the way, you know, when I’m
tired or low in my mind.”
“Then I’m very glad I got it. I liked the shape, but the boys laughed
at it as they did at my bulrushes in a ginger-jar over there. I’d been
reading about ‘household art,’ and I thought I’d try a little,” answered
Merry, laughing at her own whims.
“You’ve got a better sort of household art, I think, for you make people
happy and places pretty, without fussing over it. This room is ever so
much improved every time I come, though I hardly see what it is except
the flowers,” said Ralph, looking from the girl to the tall calla that
bent its white cup above her as if to pour its dew upon her head.
“Isn’t that lovely? I tried to draw it--the shape was so graceful I
wanted to keep it. But I couldn’t. Isn’t it a pity such beautiful things
won’t last forever?” and Merry looked regretfully at the half-faded one
that grew beside the fresh blossom.
“I can keep it for you. It would look well in plaster. May I?” asked
Ralph.
“Thank you, I should like that very much. Take the real one as a
model--please do; there are more coming, and this will brighten up your
room for a day or two.”
As she spoke, Merry cut the stem, and, adding two or three of the great
green leaves, put the handsome flower in his hand with so much good-will
that he felt as if he had received a very precious gift. Then he said
good-night so gratefully that Merry’s hand quite tingled with the grasp
of his, and went away, often looking backward through the darkness to
where the light burned brightly on the hill-top--the beacon kindled by
an unconscious Hero for a young Leander swimming gallantly against wind
and tide toward the goal of his ambition.
Chapter XVII. Down at Molly’s
“Now, my dears, I’ve something very curious to tell you, so listen
quietly and then I’ll give you your dinners,” said Molly, addressing the
nine cats who came trooping after her as she went into the shed-chamber
with a bowl of milk and a plate of scraps in her hands. She had taught
them to behave well at meals, so, though their eyes glared and their
tails quivered with impatience, they obeyed; and when she put the food
on a high shelf and retired to the big basket, the four old cats sat
demurely down before her, while the five kits scrambled after her and
tumbled into her lap, as if hoping to hasten the desired feast by their
innocent gambols.
Granny, Tobias, Mortification, and Molasses were the elders. Granny, a
gray old puss, was the mother and grandmother of all the rest. Tobias
was her eldest son, and Mortification his brother, so named because he
had lost his tail, which affliction depressed his spirits and cast a
blight over his young life. Molasses was a yellow cat, the mamma of four
of the kits, the fifth being Granny’s latest darling. Toddlekins, the
little aunt, was the image of her mother, and very sedate even at that
early age; Miss Muffet, so called from her dread of spiders, was a timid
black and white kit; Beauty, a pretty Maltese, with a serene little face
and pink nose; Ragbag, a funny thing, every color that a cat could be;
and Scamp, who well deserved his name, for he was the plague of Miss
Bat’s life, and Molly’s especial pet.
He was now perched on her shoulder, and, as she talked, kept peeping
into her face or biting her ear in the most impertinent way, while the
others sprawled in her lap or promenaded round the basket rim.
“My friends, something very remarkable has happened: Miss Bat is
cleaning house!” and, having made this announcement, Molly leaned back
to see how the cats received it, for she insisted that they understood
all she said to them.
Tobias stared, Mortification lay down as if it was too much for him,
Molasses beat her tail on the floor as if whipping a dusty carpet, and
Granny began to purr approvingly. The giddy kits paid no attention, as
they did not know what house-cleaning meant, happy little dears!
“I thought you’d like it, Granny, for you are a decent cat, and know
what is proper,” continued Molly, leaning down to stroke the old puss,
who blinked affectionately at her. “I can’t imagine what put it into
Miss Bat’s head. I never said a word, and gave up groaning over the
clutter, as I couldn’t mend it. I just took care of Boo and myself, and
left her to be as untidy as she pleased, and she is a regular old----”
Here Scamp put his paw on her lips because he saw them moving, but it
seemed as if it was to check the disrespectful word just coming out.
“Well, I won’t call names; but what shall I do when I see everything in
confusion, and she won’t let me clear up?” asked Molly, looking round at
Scamp, who promptly put the little paw on her eyelid, as if the roll of
the blue ball underneath amused him.
“Shut my eyes to it, you mean? I do all I can, but it is hard, when I
wish to be nice, and do try; don’t I?” asked Molly. But Scamp was ready
for her, and began to comb her hair with both paws as he stood on his
hind legs to work so busily that Molly laughed and pulled him down,
saying, as she cuddled the sly kit.
“You sharp little thing! I know my hair is not neat now, for I’ve been
chasing Boo round the garden to wash him for school. Then Miss Bat threw
the parlor carpet out of the window, and I was so surprised I had to run
and tell you. Now, what had we better do about it?”
The cats all winked at her, but no one had any advice to offer, except
Tobias, who walked to the shelf, and, looking up, uttered a deep,
suggestive yowl, which said as plainly as words, “Dinner first and
discussion afterward.”
“Very well, don’t scramble,” said Molly, getting up to feed her pets.
First the kits, who rushed at the bowl and thrust their heads in,
lapping as if for a wager; then the cats, who each went to one of the
four piles of scraps laid round at intervals and placidly ate their
meat; while Molly retired to the basket, to ponder over the phenomena
taking place in the house.
She could not imagine what had started the old lady. It was not the
example of her neighbors, who had beaten carpets and scrubbed paint
every spring for years without exciting her to any greater exertion
than cleaning a few windows and having a man to clear away the rubbish
displayed when the snow melted. Molly never guessed that her own efforts
were at the bottom of the change, or knew that a few words not meant for
her ear had shamed Miss Bat into action. Coming home from prayer-meeting
one dark night, she trotted along behind two old ladies who were
gossiping in loud voices, as one was rather deaf, and Miss Bat was both
pleased and troubled to hear herself unduly praised.
“I always said Sister Dawes meant well; but she’s getting into years,
and the care of two children is a good deal for her, with her cooking
and her rheumatiz. I don’t deny she did neglect ‘em for a spell, but
she does well by ‘em now, and I wouldn’t wish to see better-appearing
children.”
“You’ve no idee how improved Molly is. She came in to see my girls, and
brought her sewing-work, shirts for the boy, and done it as neat and
capable as you’d wish to see. She always was a smart child, but dreadful
careless,” said the other old lady, evidently much impressed by the
change in harum-scarum Molly Loo.
“Being over to Mis Minot’s so much has been good for her, and up to Mis
Grant’s. Girls catch neat ways as quick as they do untidy ones, and them
wild little tykes often turn out smart women.”
“Sister Dawes has done well by them children, and I hope Mr. Bemis
sees it. He ought to give her something comfortable to live on when she
can’t do for him any longer. He can well afford it.”
“I haven’t a doubt he will. He’s a lavish man when he starts to do a
thing, but dreadful unobserving, else he’d have seen to matters long
ago. Them children was town-talk last fall, and I used to feel as if it
was my bounden duty to speak to Miss Dawes. But I never did, fearing I
might speak too plain, and hurt her feelings.”
“You’ve spoken plain enough now, and I’m beholden to you, though you’ll
never know it,” said Miss Bat to herself, as she slipped into her own
gate, while the gossips trudged on quite unconscious of the listener
behind them.
Miss Bat was a worthy old soul in the main, only, like so many of us,
she needed rousing up to her duty. She had got the rousing now, and
it did her good, for she could not bear to be praised when she had not
deserved it. She had watched Molly’s efforts with lazy interest, and
when the girl gave up meddling with her affairs, as she called the
housekeeping, Miss Bat ceased to oppose her, and let her scrub Boo, mend
clothes, and brush her hair as much as she liked. So Molly had worked
along without any help from her, running in to Mrs. Pecq for advice, to
Merry for comfort, or Mrs. Minot for the higher kind of help one often
needs so much. Now Miss Bat found that she was getting the credit and
the praise belonging to other people, and it stirred her up to try and
deserve a part at least.
“Molly don’t want any help about her work or the boy: it’s too late for
that; but if this house don’t get a spring cleaning that will make it
shine, my name ain’t Bathsheba Dawes,” said the old lady, as she
put away her bonnet that night, and laid energetic plans for a grand
revolution, inspired thereto not only by shame, but by the hint that
“Mr. Bemis was a lavish man,” as no one knew better than she.
Molly’s amazement next day at seeing carpets fly out of window, ancient
cobwebs come down, and long-undisturbed closets routed out to the great
dismay of moths and mice, has been already confided to the cats, and as
she sat there watching them lap and gnaw, she said to herself,--
“I don’t understand it, but as she never says much to me about my
affairs, I won’t take any notice till she gets through, then I’ll admire
everything all I can. It is so pleasant to be praised after you’ve been
trying hard.”
She might well say that, for she got very little herself, and her trials
had been many, her efforts not always successful, and her reward seemed
a long way off. Poor Boo could have sympathized with her, for he had
suffered much persecution from his small schoolmates when he appeared
with large gray patches on the little brown trousers, where he had worn
them out coasting down those too fascinating steps. As he could not
see the patches himself, he fancied them invisible, and came home much
afflicted by the jeers of his friends. Then Molly tried to make him a
new pair out of a sack of her own; but she cut both sides for the same
leg, so one was wrong side out. Fondly hoping no one would observe it,
she sewed bright buttons wherever they could be put, and sent confiding
Boo away in a pair of blue trousers, which were absurdly hunchy behind
and buttony before. He came home heart-broken and muddy, having been
accidentally tipped into a mud-puddle by two bad boys who felt that such
tailoring was an insult to mankind. That roused Molly’s spirit, and she
begged her father to take the boy and have him properly fitted out,
as he was old enough now to be well-dressed, and she wouldn’t have him
tormented. His attention being called to the trousers, Mr. Bemis had a
good laugh over them, and then got Boo a suit which caused him to be the
admired of all observers, and to feel as proud as a little peacock.
Cheered by this success, Molly undertook a set of small shirts, and
stitched away bravely, though her own summer clothes were in a sad
state, and for the first time in her life she cared about what she
should wear.
“I must ask Merry, and may be father will let me go with her and her
mother when they do their shopping, instead of leaving it to Miss
Bat, who dresses me like an old woman. Merry knows what is pretty and
becoming: I don’t,” thought Molly, meditating in the bushel basket, with
her eyes on her snuff-colored gown and the dark purple bow at the end of
the long braid Muffet had been playing with.
Molly was beginning to see that even so small a matter as the choice of
colors made a difference in one’s appearance, and to wonder why Merry
always took such pains to have a blue tie for the gray dress, a rosy one
for the brown, and gloves that matched her bonnet ribbons. Merry never
wore a locket outside her sack, a gay bow in her hair and soiled cuffs,
a smart hat and the braid worn off her skirts. She was exquisitely neat
and simple, yet always looked well-dressed and pretty; for her love of
beauty taught her what all girls should learn as soon as they begin
to care for appearances--that neatness and simplicity are their best
ornaments, that good habits are better than fine clothes, and the most
elegant manners are the kindest.
All these thoughts were dancing through Molly’s head, and when she left
her cats, after a general romp in which even decorous Granny allowed her
family to play leap-frog over her respectable back, she had made up
her mind not to have yellow ribbons on her summer hat if she got a pink
muslin as she had planned, but to finish off Boo’s last shirt before she
went shopping with Merry.
It rained that evening, and Mr. Bemis had a headache, so he threw
himself down upon the lounge after tea for a nap, with his silk
handkerchief spread over his face. He did get a nap, and when he waked
he lay for a time drowsily listening to the patter of the rain, and
another sound which was even more soothing. Putting back a corner of the
handkerchief to learn what it was, he saw Molly sitting by the fire with
Boo in her lap, rocking and humming as she warmed his little bare feet,
having learned to guard against croup by attending to the damp shoes
and socks before going to bed. Boo lay with his round face turned up to
hers, stroking her cheek while the sleepy blue eyes blinked lovingly at
her as she sang her lullaby with a motherly patience sweet to see. They
made a pretty little picture, and Mr. Bemis looked at it with pleasure,
having a leisure moment in which to discover, as all parents do sooner
or later, that his children were growing up.
“Molly is getting to be quite a woman, and very like her mother,”
 thought papa, wiping the eye that peeped, for he had been fond of the
pretty wife who died when Boo was born. “Sad loss to them, poor things!
But Miss Bat seems to have done well by them. Molly is much improved,
and the boy looks finely. She’s a good soul, after all;” and Mr. Bemis
began to think he had been hasty when he half made up his mind to get
a new housekeeper, feeling that burnt steak, weak coffee, and ragged
wristbands were sure signs that Miss Bat’s days of usefulness were over.
Molly was singing the lullaby her mother used to sing to her, and her
father listened to it silently till Boo was carried away too sleepy for
anything but bed. When she came back she sat down to her work, fancying
her father still asleep. She had a crimson bow at her throat and one on
the newly braided hair, her cuffs were clean, and a white apron hid the
shabbiness of the old dress. She looked like a thrifty little housewife
as she sat with her basket beside her full of neat white rolls, her
spools set forth, and a new pair of scissors shining on the table. There
was a sort of charm in watching the busy needle flash to and fro, the
anxious pucker of the forehead as she looked to see if the stitches were
even, and the expression of intense relief upon her face as she surveyed
the finished button-hole with girlish satisfaction. Her father was wide
awake and looking at her, thinking, as he did so,--
“Really the old lady has worked well to change my tomboy into that nice
little girl: I wonder how she did it.” Then he gave a yawn, pulled off
the handkerchief, and said aloud, “What are you making, Molly?” for it
struck him that sewing was a new amusement.
“Shirts for Boo, sir. Four, and this is the last,” she answered, with
pardonable pride, as she held it up and nodded toward the pile in her
basket.
“Isn’t that a new notion? I thought Miss Bat did the sewing,” said Mr.
Bemis, as he smiled at the funny little garment, it looked so like Boo
himself.
“No, sir; only yours. I do mine and Boo’s. At least, I’m learning how,
and Mrs. Pecq says I get on nicely,” answered Molly, threading her
needle and making a knot in her most capable way.
“I suppose it is time you did learn, for you are getting to be a great
girl, and all women should know how to make and mend. You must take a
stitch for me now and then: Miss Bat’s eyes are not what they were,
I find;” and Mr. Bemis looked at his frayed wristband, as if he
particularly felt the need of a stitch just then.
“I’d love to, and I guess I could. I can mend gloves; Merry taught me,
so I’d better begin on them, if you have any,” said Molly, much pleased
at being able to do anything for her father, and still more so at being
asked.
“There’s something to start with;” and he threw her a pair, with nearly
every finger ripped.
Molly shook her head over them, but got out her gray silk and fell to
work, glad to show how well she could sew.
“What are you smiling about?” asked her father, after a little pause,
for his head felt better, and it amused him to question Molly.
“I was thinking about my summer clothes. I must get them before long,
and I’d like to go with Mrs. Grant and learn how to shop, if you are
willing.”
“I thought Miss Bat did that for you.”
“She always has, but she gets ugly, cheap things that I don’t like. I
think I am old enough to choose myself, if there is someone to tell me
about prices and the goodness of the stuff. Merry does; and she is only
a few months older than I am.”
“How old are you, child?” asked her father, feeling as if he had lost
his reckoning.
“Fifteen in August;” and Molly looked very proud of the fact.
“So you are! Bless my heart, how the time goes! Well, get what you
please; if I’m to have a young lady here, I’d like to have her prettily
dressed. It won’t offend Miss Bat, will it?”
Molly’s eyes sparkled, but she gave a little shrug as she answered, “She
won’t care. She never troubles herself about me if I let her alone.
“Hey? what? Not trouble herself? If she doesn’t, who does?” and Mr.
Bemis sat up as if this discovery was more surprising than the other.
“I take care of myself and Boo, and she looks after you. The house goes
any way.”
“I should think so! I nearly broke my neck over the parlor sofa in the
hall to-night. What is it there for?”
Molly laughed. “That’s the joke, sir, Miss Bat is cleaning house, and
I’m sure it needs cleaning, for it is years since it was properly done.
I thought you might have told her to.”
“I’ve said nothing. Don’t like house-cleaning well enough to suggest it.
I did think the hall was rather dirty when I dropped my coat and took it
up covered with lint. Is she going to upset the whole place?” asked Mr.
Bemis, looking alarmed at the prospect.
“I hope so, for I really am ashamed when people come, to have them see
the dust and cobwebs, and old carpets and dirty windows,” said Molly,
with a sigh, though she never had cared a bit till lately.
“Why don’t you dust round a little, then? No time to spare from the
books and play?”
“I tried, father, but Miss Bat didn’t like it, and it was too hard for
me alone. If things were once in nice order, I think I could keep them
so; for I do want to be neat, and I’m learning as fast as I can.”
“It is high time someone took hold, if matters are left as you say. I’ve
just been thinking what a clever woman Miss Bat was, to make such a tidy
little girl out of what I used to hear called the greatest tomboy in
town, and wondering what I could give the old lady. Now I find you are
the one to be thanked, and it is a very pleasant surprise to me.”
“Give her the present, please; I’m satisfied, if you like what I’ve
done. It isn’t much, and I didn’t know as you would ever observe any
difference. But I did try, and now I guess I’m really getting on,” said
Molly, sewing away with a bright color in her cheeks, for she, too,
found it a pleasant surprise to be praised after many failures and few
successes.
“You certainly are, my dear. I’ll wait till the house-cleaning is
over, and then, if we are all alive, I’ll see about Miss Bat’s reward.
Meantime, you go with Mrs. Grant and get whatever you and the boy need,
and send the bills to me;” and Mr. Bemis lighted a cigar, as if that
matter was settled.
“Oh, thank you, sir! That will be splendid. Merry always has pretty
things, and I know you will like me when I get fixed,” said Molly,
smoothing down her apron, with a little air.
“Seems to me you look very well as you are. Isn’t that a pretty enough
frock?” asked Mr. Bemis, quite unconscious that his own unusual interest
in his daughter’s affairs made her look so bright and winsome.
“This? Why, father, I’ve worn it all winter, and it’s frightfully
ugly, and almost in rags. I asked you for a new one a month ago, and you
said you’d ‘see about it’; but you didn’t, so I patched this up as well
as I could;” and Molly showed her elbows, feeling that such masculine
blindness as this deserved a mild reproof.
“Too bad! Well, go and get half a dozen pretty muslin and gingham
things, and be as gay as a butterfly, to make up for it,” laughed her
father, really touched by the patches and Molly’s resignation to the
unreliable “I’ll see about it,” which he recognized as a household word.
Molly clapped her hands, old gloves and all, exclaiming, with girlish
delight, “How nice it will seem to have a plenty of new, neat dresses
all at once, and be like other girls! Miss Bat always talks about
economy, and has no more taste than a--caterpillar.” Molly meant to say
“cat,” but remembering her pets, spared them the insult.
“I think I can afford to dress my girl as well as Grant does his. Get
a new hat and coat, child, and any little notions you fancy. Miss Bat’s
economy isn’t the sort I like;” and Mr. Bemis looked at his wristbands
again, as if he could sympathize with Molly’s elbows.
“At this rate, I shall have more clothes than I know what to do with,
after being a rag-bag,” thought the girl, in great glee, as she bravely
stitched away at the worst glove, while her father smoked silently for a
while, feeling that several little matters had escaped his eye which he
really ought to “see about.”
Presently he went to his desk, but not to bury himself in business
papers, as usual, for, after rummaging in several drawers, he took out
a small bunch of keys, and sat looking at them with an expression only
seen on his face when he looked up at the portrait of a dark-eyed woman
hanging in his room. He was a very busy man, but he had a tender place
in his heart for his children; and when a look, a few words, a moment’s
reflection, called his attention to the fact that his little girl was
growing up, he found both pride and pleasure in the thought that this
young daughter was trying to fill her mother’s place, and be a comfort
to him, if he would let her.
“Molly, my dear, here is something for you,” he said; and when she stood
beside him, added, as he put the keys into her hand, keeping both in his
own for a minute,--
“Those are the keys to your mother’s things. I always meant you to have
them, when you were old enough to use or care for them. I think you’ll
fancy this better than any other present, for you are a good child, and
very like her.”
Something seemed to get into his throat there, and Molly put her arm
round his neck, saying, with a little choke in her own voice, “Thank
you, father, I’d rather have this than anything else in the world, and
I’ll try to be more like her every day, for your sake.”
He kissed her, then said, as he began to stir his papers about, “I
must write some letters. Run off to bed, child. Good-night, my dear,
good-night.”
Seeing that he wanted to be alone, Molly slipped away, feeling that she
had received a very precious gift; for she remembered the dear, dead
mother, and had often longed to possess the relics laid away in the one
room where order reigned and Miss Bat had no power to meddle. As she
slowly undressed, she was not thinking of the pretty new gowns in which
she was to be “as gay as a butterfly,” but of the half-worn garments
waiting for her hands to unfold with a tender touch; and when she fell
asleep, with the keys under her pillow and her arms round Boo, a few
happy tears on her cheeks seemed to show that, in trying to do the duty
which lay nearest her, she had earned a very sweet reward.
So the little missionaries succeeded better in their second attempt than
in their first; for, though still very far from being perfect girls,
each was slowly learning, in her own way, one of the three lessons all
are the better for knowing--that cheerfulness can change misfortune into
love and friends; that in ordering one’s self aright one helps others to
do the same; and that the power of finding beauty in the humblest things
makes home happy and life lovely.
Chapter XVIII. May Baskets
Spring was late that year, but to Jill it seemed the loveliest she had
ever known, for hope was growing green and strong in her own little
heart, and all the world looked beautiful. With the help of the brace
she could sit up for a short time every day, and when the air was mild
enough she was warmly wrapped and allowed to look out at the open window
into the garden, where the gold and purple crocuses were coming bravely
up, and the snowdrops nodded their delicate heads as if calling to
her,--
“Good day, little sister, come out and play with us, for winter is over
and spring is here.”
“I wish I could!” thought Jill, as the soft wind kissed a tinge of color
into her pale cheeks. “Never mind, they have been shut up in a darker
place than I for months, and had no fun at all; I won’t fret, but think
about July and the seashore while I work.”
The job now in hand was May baskets, for it was the custom of the
children to hang them on the doors of their friends the night before
May-day; and the girls had agreed to supply baskets if the boys would
hunt for flowers, much the harder task of the two. Jill had more leisure
as well as taste and skill than the other girls, so she amused herself
with making a goodly store of pretty baskets of all shapes, sizes, and
colors, quite confident that they would be filled, though not a flower
had shown its head except a few hardy dandelions, and here and there a
small cluster of saxifrage.
The violets would not open their blue eyes till the sunshine was warmer,
the columbines refused to dance with the boisterous east wind, the ferns
kept themselves rolled up in their brown flannel jackets, and little
Hepatica, with many another spring beauty, hid away in the woods, afraid
to venture out, in spite of the eager welcome awaiting them. But the
birds had come, punctual as ever, and the bluejays were screaming in
the orchard, robins were perking up their heads and tails as they went
house-hunting, purple finches in their little red hoods were feasting
on the spruce buds, and the faithful chip birds chirped gayly on the
grapevine trellis where they had lived all winter, warming their little
gray breasts against the southern side of the house when the sun shone,
and hiding under the evergreen boughs when the snow fell.
“That tree is a sort of bird’s hotel,” said Jill, looking out at the
tall spruce before her window, every spray now tipped with a soft green.
“They all go there to sleep and eat, and it has room for every one. It
is green when other trees die, the wind can’t break it, and the snow
only makes it look prettier. It sings to me, and nods as if it knew I
loved it.”
“We might call it ‘The Holly Tree Inn,’ as some of the cheap
eating-houses for poor people are called in the city, as my holly bush
grows at its foot for a sign. You can be the landlady, and feed your
feathery customers every day, till the hard times are over,” said Mrs.
Minot, glad to see the child’s enjoyment of the outer world from which
she had been shut so long.
Jill liked the fancy, and gladly strewed crumbs on the window ledge
for the chippies, who came confidingly to eat almost from her hand.
She threw out grain for the handsome jays, the jaunty robins, and the
neighbors’ doves, who came with soft flight to trip about on their pink
feet, arching their shining necks as they cooed and pecked. Carrots
and cabbage-leaves also flew out of the window for the marauding gray
rabbit, last of all Jack’s half-dozen, who led him a weary life of it
because they would not stay in the Bunny-house, but undermined the
garden with their burrows, ate the neighbors’ plants, and refused to
be caught till all but one ran away, to Jack’s great relief. This old
fellow camped out for the winter, and seemed to get on very well among
the cats and the hens, who shared their stores with him, and he might
be seen at all hours of the day and night scampering about the place, or
kicking up his heels by moonlight, for he was a desperate poacher.
Jill took great delight in her pretty pensioners, who soon learned to
love “The Holly Tree Inn,” and to feel that the Bird Room held a caged
comrade; for, when it was too cold or wet to open the windows, the doves
came and tapped at the pane, the chippies sat on the ledge in plump
little bunches as if she were their sunshine, the jays called her in
their shrill voices to ring the dinner-bell, and the robins tilted on
the spruce boughs where lunch was always to be had.
The first of May came on Sunday, so all the celebrating must be done on
Saturday, which happily proved fair, though too chilly for muslin gowns,
paper garlands, and picnics on damp grass. Being a holiday, the boys
decided to devote the morning to ball and the afternoon to the flower
hunt, while the girls finished the baskets; and in the evening our
particular seven were to meet at the Minots to fill them, ready for the
closing frolic of hanging on door-handles, ringing bells, and running
away.
“Now I must do my Maying, for there will be no more sunshine, and I want
to pick my flowers before it is dark. Come, Mammy, you go too,” said
Jill, as the last sunbeams shone in at the western window where her
hyacinths stood that no fostering ray might be lost.
It was rather pathetic to see the once merry girl who used to be the
life of the wood-parties now carefully lifting herself from the couch,
and, leaning on her mother’s strong arm, slowly take the half-dozen
steps that made up her little expedition. But she was happy, and stood
smiling out at old Bun skipping down the walk, the gold-edged clouds
that drew apart so that a sunbeam might give her a good-night kiss as
she gathered her long-cherished daisies, primroses, and hyacinths to
fill the pretty basket in her hand.
“Who is it for, my dearie?” asked her mother, standing behind her as
a prop, while the thin fingers did their work so willingly that not a
flower was left.
“For My Lady, of course. Who else would I give my posies to, when I love
them so well?” answered Jill, who thought no name too fine for their
best friend.
“I fancied it would be for Master Jack,” said her mother, wishing the
excursion to be a cheerful one.
“I’ve another for him, but she must have the prettiest. He is going to
hang it for me, and ring and run away, and she won’t know who it’s from
till she sees this. She will remember it, for I’ve been turning and
tending it ever so long, to make it bloom to-day. Isn’t it a beauty?”
 and Jill held up her finest hyacinth, which seemed to ring its pale
pink bells as if glad to carry its sweet message from a grateful little
heart.
“Indeed it is; and you are right to give your best to her. Come away
now, you must not stand any longer. Come and rest while I fetch a dish
to put the flowers in till you want them;” and Mrs. Pecq turned her
round with her small Maying safely done.
“I didn’t think I’d ever be able to do even so much, and here I am
walking and sitting up, and going to drive some day. Isn’t it nice that
I’m not to be a poor Lucinda after all?” and Jill drew a long sigh of
relief that six months instead of twenty years would probably be the end
of her captivity.
“Yes, thank Heaven! I don’t think I could have borne that;” and the
mother took Jill in her arms as if she were a baby, holding her close
for a minute, and laying her down with a tender kiss that made the arms
cling about her neck as her little girl returned it heartily, for all
sorts of new, sweet feelings seemed to be budding in both, born of great
joy and thankfulness.
Then Mrs. Pecq hurried away to see about tea for the hungry boys, and
Jill watched the pleasant twilight deepen as she lay singing to herself
one of the songs her friend taught her because it fitted her so well.
  “A little bird I am,
  Shut from the fields of air,
  And in my cage I sit and sing
  To Him who placed me there:
  Well pleased a prisoner to be,
  Because, my God, it pleases Thee!
  “Naught have I else to do;
  I sing the whole day long;
  And He whom most I love to please
  Doth listen to my song,
  He caught and bound my wandering wing,
  But still He bends to hear me sing.”
“Now we are ready for you, so bring on your flowers,” said Molly to the
boys, as she and Merry added their store of baskets to the gay show Jill
had set forth on the long table ready for the evening’s work.
“They wouldn’t let me see one, but I guess they have had good luck,
they look so jolly,” answered Jill, looking at Gus, Frank, and Jack, who
stood laughing, each with a large basket in his hands.
“Fair to middling. Just look in and see;” with which cheerful remark Gus
tipped up his basket and displayed a few bits of green at the bottom.
“I did better. Now, don’t all scream at once over these beauties;” and
Frank shook out some evergreen sprigs, half a dozen saxifrages, and two
or three forlorn violets with hardly any stems.
“I don’t brag, but here’s the best of all the three,” chuckled Jack,
producing a bunch of feathery carrot-tops, with a few half-shut
dandelions trying to look brave and gay.
“Oh, boys, is that all?”
“What shall we do?”
“We’ve only a few house-flowers, and all those baskets to fill,” cried
the girls, in despair; for Merry’s contribution had been small, and
Molly had only a handful of artificial flowers “to fill up,” she said.
“It isn’t our fault: it is the late spring. We can’t make flowers, can
we?” asked Frank, in a tone of calm resignation.
“Couldn’t you buy some, then?” said Molly, smoothing her crumpled
morning-glories, with a sigh.
“Who ever heard of a fellow having any money left the last day of the
month?” demanded Gus, severely.
“Or girls either. I spent all mine in ribbon and paper for my baskets,
and now they are of no use. It’s a shame!” lamented Jill, while Merry
began to thin out her full baskets to fill the empty ones.
“Hold on!” cried Frank, relenting. “Now, Jack, make their minds easy
before they begin to weep and wail.”
“Left the box outside. You tell while I go for it;” and Jack bolted, as
if afraid the young ladies might be too demonstrative when the tale was
told.
“Tell away,” said Frank, modestly passing the story along to Gus, who
made short work of it.
“We rampaged all over the country, and got only that small mess of
greens. Knew you’d be disgusted, and sat down to see what we could do.
Then Jack piped up, and said he’d show us a place where we could get
a plenty. ‘Come on,’ said we, and after leading us a nice tramp, he
brought us out at Morse’s greenhouse. So we got a few on tick, as we had
but four cents among us, and there you are. Pretty clever of the little
chap, wasn’t it?”
A chorus of delight greeted Jack as he popped his head in, was promptly
seized by his elders and walked up to the table, where the box was
opened, displaying gay posies enough to fill most of the baskets if
distributed with great economy and much green.
“You are the dearest boy that ever was!” began Jill, with her nose
luxuriously buried in the box, though the flowers were more remarkable
for color than perfume.
“No, I’m not; there’s a much dearer one coming upstairs now, and he’s
got something that will make you howl for joy,” said Jack, ignoring his
own prowess as Ed came in with a bigger box, looking as if he had done
nothing but go a Maying all his days.
“Don’t believe it!” cried Jill, hugging her own treasure jealously.
“It’s only another joke. I won’t look,” said Molly, still struggling to
make her cambric roses bloom again.
“I know what it is! Oh, how sweet!” added Merry, sniffing, as Ed set the
box before her, saying pleasantly,--
“You shall see first, because you had faith.”
Up went the cover, and a whiff of the freshest fragrance regaled the
seven eager noses bent to inhale it, as a general murmur of pleasure
greeted the nest of great, rosy mayflowers that lay before them.
“The dear things, how lovely they are!” and Merry looked as if greeting
her cousins, so blooming and sweet was her own face.
Molly pushed her dingy garlands away, ashamed of such poor attempts
beside these perfect works of nature, and Jill stretched out her hand
involuntarily, as she said, forgetting her exotics, “Give me just one to
smell of, it is so woodsy and delicious.”
“Here you are, plenty for all. Real Pilgrim Fathers, right from
Plymouth. One of our fellows lives there, and I told him to bring me a
good lot; so he did, and you can do what you like with them,” explained
Ed, passing round bunches and shaking the rest in a mossy pile upon the
table.
“Ed always gets ahead of us in doing the right thing at the right time.
Hope you’ve got some first-class baskets ready for him,” said Gus,
refreshing the Washingtonian nose with a pink blossom or two.
“Not much danger of his being forgotten,” answered Molly; and
every one laughed, for Ed was much beloved by all the girls, and his
door-steps always bloomed like a flower-bed on May eve.
“Now we must fly round and fill up. Come, boys, sort out the green and
hand us the flowers as we want them. Then we must direct them, and, by
the time that is done, you can go and leave them,” said Jill, setting
all to work.
“Ed must choose his baskets first. These are ours; but any of those you
can have;” and Molly pointed to a detachment of gay baskets, set apart
