that he very soon started for Germany. In the reader, 
Gordon "Wright's letter will, perhaps, excite surprise 
rather than hilarity ; but Longuevjlle thought it highly 
characteristic of his friend. What it especially pointed 
to was Gordon's want of imagination — a deficiency 
which was a matter of common jocular allusion be- 
tween the two young men, each of whom kept a 
collection of acknowledged oddities as a playground 
for the other's wit. Bernard had often spoken of his 
comrade's want of imagination as a bottomless pit, 
into which Gordon was perpetually inviting him to 
lower himself. " My dear fellow," Bernard said, " you 
must really ex,cuse me ; I cannot take these subterranean excursions. I should lose my breath down 
there ; I should never come up alive. You know I 
have dropped things down — little jokes and meta- 
phors, little fantasies and paradoxes tHrand I have 
never heard them touch bottom ! " This was an 
epigram on the part of a young man who had a 
lively play of fancy ; but it was none the less true 
that Gordon Wright had a firmly-treading, rather 
than a winged, intellect. Every phrase in his letter 
seemed, to Bernard, to march in stout-soled walking- 
boots, and nothing could better express his attach- 
ment to the process of reasoning things out than this 
proposal that his friend should come and make a 
chemical analysis — a geometrical survey — of the 
lady of his love. " That I shall have any difficulty 
in forming an opinion, and any difficulty in expressing 
it when formed — of this he has as little idea as that 
he shall have any difficulty in accepting it when expressed." So Bernard reflected, as he rolled in the 
train to Munich. "Gordon's mind," he went on, 
"has no atmosphere; his intellectual process goes 
on in the void There are no currents and eddies to 
affect it, no high winds nor hot suns, no changes of 
season and temperature. His premises are neatly 
arranged, and his conclusions are perfectly calculable." 

Yet for the man on whose character he so freely 
exercised his wit Bernard Longueville had a strong 
affection. It is nothing against the validity of a 
friendship that the parties to it have not a mutual 
resemblance. There must be a basis of agreement, 
t)ftt te structure reared upon it may contain a 
thousand disparities. These two young men had 
formed an alliance of old, in college days, and the 
bond between them had been strengthened by the 
simple fact of its having survived the sentimental 
revolutions of early life. Its strongest link was a sort 
of mutual respect. Their tastes, their pursuits were 
different ; but each of them had a high esteem for the 
other's character. It may be said that they were 
easily pleased ; for it is certain that neither of them 
had performed any very conspicuous action. They 
vyere highly civilized young Americans, born to an 
easy fortune and a tranquil destiny, and unfamiliar 
with the glitter of golden opportunities. If I did not 
shrink from disparaging the constitution of their native 
land for their own credit, I should say that it had 
never been very definitely proposed to these young 
gentlemen to distinguish themselves. On reaching 
manhood, they had each come into property sufficient 
to make violent exertion superfluous. Gordon Wright, 
indeed, had inherited a large estate. Their wants 
being tolerably modest, they had not been tempted 
to strive for the glory of building up commercial 
fortunes — the most obvious career open to young 
Americans. They had, indeed, embraced no career 
at all, and if summoned to give an account of themselves would, perhaps, hae found it hard to tell any 
very impressive story. Gordon Wright was much 
interested in physical science, and had ideas of his 





own on what is called the endowment of research. 
His ideas had taken a practical shape, and he had 
distributed money very freely among the investigating 
classes, after which he had gone to spend a couple of 
years in Germany, supposing it to be the land of laboratories. Here we find him at present, cultivating 
relations with several learned bodies and promoting 
the study of various tough branches of human knowledge, by paying the expenses of difficult experiments. 
The experiments, it must be added, were often of his 
own making, and he must have the honor of what- 
ever brilliancy attaches, in the estimation of the world, 
to such pursuits. It was not, indeed, a brilliancy that 
dazzled Bernard Longueville, who, however, was not 
easily dazzled by anything. It was because he 
regarded him in so plain and direct a fashion, that 
Bernard had an affection for his friend — an affection 
to which it would perhaps be difficult to assign a 
definite cause. Personal sympathies are doubtless 
caused by something; but the causes are remote, 
mysterious to our daily vision, like those of the particular state of the weather. We content ourselves 
with remarking that it is fine or that it rains, and the 
enjoyment of our likes and dislikes is by no means 
apt to borrow its edge from the keenness of our 
analysis. Longueville had a relish for fine quality 
— superior savour ; and he was sensible of this merit 
in the simple, candid, manly, affectionate nature of 





his comrade, which seemed to him an excellent thing 
of its kind. Gordon Wright had a tender heart and 
a strong will — a combination which, when the under- 
standing is not too limited, is often the motive of 
admirable actions. There might sometimes be a 
question whether Gordon's understanding were sufficiently unlimited, but the impulses of a generous 
temper often play a useful part in filling up the gaps 
of an incomplete imagination, and the general impres- 
sion that Wright produced was certainly that of intelli- 
gent good-nature. The reasons for appreciating Bernard 
Longueville were much more manifest. He pleased 
superficially, as well as fundamentally. Nature had 
sent him into the world with an armful of good gifts. 
He was very good-looking — tall, dark, agile, perfectly 
finished, so good-looking that he might have been a 
fool and yet be forgiven. As has already been intimated, however, he was far from being a fool. He 
had a number of talents, which, during three or four 
years that followed his leaving college, had received 
the discipline of the study of the law. He had not 
made much of the law ; but he had made something 
of his talents. He was almost always spoken of as 
" accomplished ; " people asked why he didn' t do something. This question was never satisfactorily answered, 
the feeling being that Longueville did more than many 
people in causing it to be asked. Moreover, there 
was one thing he did constantly — he enjoyed himself. This is manifestly not a career, and it has been 
said at the outset that he was not attached to any of 
the recognized professions. But without going into 
details, he was a charming fellow — clever, urhane, 
free-handed, and with that fortunate quality in his 
appearance which is known as distiBction. 



III. 

He had not specified, in writing to Gordon Wright, 
the day on which he should arrive at Baden-Baden ; 
it must "he confessed that he was not addicted- to 
specifying days. He came to his journey's end in 
the evening, and, on presenting himself at the hotel 
from which his friend had dated his letter, he learned 
that Gordon Wright had betaken himself after dinner, 
according to the custom of Baden-Baden, to the 
grounds of the Conversation-house. It was eight 
o'clock, and Longueville, after removing the stains 
of travel, sat down to dine. His first impulse had 
been to send for Gordon to come and keep him com- 
pany at his repast ; but on second thought he deter- 
mined to make it as brief as possible. Having 
brought it to a close, he took his way to the Kursaal. 
The great German watering-place is one of the pret- 
tiest nooks in Europe, and of a summer evening in the 
gaming days, five-and-twenty years ago, it was one of 
the most brilliant scenes. The lighted windows of the 
great temple of hazard (of as chaste an architecture 
as if it had been devoted to a much purer divinity) 
opened wide upon the gardens and groves ; the little 





river that issues from the bosky mountains of the 
Black Forest flowed, with an air of brook-like inno- 
cence, past the expensive hotels and lodging-houses ; 
the orchestra, in a high pavilion on the terrace of the 
Kursaal, played a discreet accompaniment to the con- 
versation of the ladies and gentlemen who, scattered 
over the large expanse on a thousand little chairs, 
preferred for the time the beauties of nature to the 
shuffle of coin and the calculation of chance ; while 
the faint summer stars, twinkling above the vague 
black hills and woods, looked down at the indifferent 
groups without venturing to drop their light upon 
them. 

Longueville, noting all this, went straight into the 
gaming-rooms ; he was curious to see whether his 
friend, being fond of experiments, was trying combi- 
nations at roulette. But he was not to be found in any 
of the gilded chambers, among the crowd that pressed 
in silence about the tables ; so that Bernard presently 
came and began to wander about the lamplit terrace, 
where innumerable groups, seated and strolling, made 
the place a gigantic conversazione. It seemed to him 
very agreeable and amusing, and he remarked to him- 
self that, for a man who was supposed not to take 
especially the Epicurean view of life, Gordon Wright, 
in coming to Baden, had certainly made himself com- 
fortable. Longueville went his way, glancing from 
one cluster of talkers to another ; and at last he saw 





a face whicli brought him to a stop. He stood a 
moment looking at it ; he knew he had seen it before. 
He had an excellent memory for faces ; but it was 
some time before he was able to attach an identity to 
this one. Where had he seen a little elderly lady 
with an expression of timorous vigilance, and a band 
of hair as softly white as a dove's wing ? The answer 
to the question presently came — Where but in a grass- 
. grown corner of an old Italian town ? The lady was 
the mother of his inconsequent model, so that this 
mysterious personage was probably herself not far off. 
Before Longueville had time to verify this induction, 
he found his eyes resting upon the broad back of a 
gentleman seated close to the old lady, and who, turn- 
ing away from her, was talking to a young girl. It 
was nothing but the back of this gentleman that he 
saw, but nevertheless, with the instinct of true friend- 
ship, he recognized in this featureless . expanse the 
robust personality of Gordon Wright. In a moment 
he had stepped forward and laid his hand upon 
Wright's shoulder. 

His friend looked round, and then sprang up with 
a joyous exclamation and grasp of the hand. 

"My dear fellow — my dear Bernard! What on 
earth — when did you arrive ? " 

While Bernard answered and explained a little, he 
glanced from his friend's good, gratified face at the 
young girl with whom Wright had been talking, and 





then at the lady on the other side, who was giving 
him a bright little stare. He raised his hat to her 
 and to the young girl, and he became conscious, as 
regards the latter, of a certain disappointment. She 
was very pretty ; she was looking at   him ; but she 
was not the heroine of the little incident of the terrace 
at Siena. 

" It 's just like Longuevllle, you know," Gordon 
Wright went on; "he always comes at you from 
behind ; he 's so awfully fond of surprises." He was 
laughing; he was greatly pleased; he introduced 
Bernard to the two ladies. "You must know Mrs. 
Vivian ; you must know Miss Blanche Eve rs." 

Bernard took his place in the little circle ; he won- 
dered whether he ought to venture upon a special 
recognition of Mrs. Vivian. Then it seemed to him 
that he should leave the option of this step with the 
lady, especially as he had detected recognition in her 
eye. But Mrs. Vivian ventured upon nothing special ; 
she contented herself with soft generalities — with 
remarking that she always liked to know when people 
would arrive ; that, for herself, she never enjoyed sur- 
prises. 

" And yet I imagine you have had your share,'' said 
Longueville, with a smile. He thought this might 
remind her of the moment when she came out of the 
little church at Siena and found her daughter postur- 
ing to an unknown painter. 





But Mrs. Vivian, turning her benignant head about, 
gave but a superficial reply. 

" Oh, I have had my share of everything, good and 
bad. I don't complain of anything." And she gave 
a little deprecating laugh. 

Gordon Wright shook hands with Bernard again ; 
he seemed really very glad to see him. Longueville, 
remembering that Gordon had written to him that he 
had been " making love," began to seek in his coun- 
tenance for the ravages of passion. For the moment, 
however, they were not apparent ; the excellent, hon- 
est fellow looked placid and contented. Gordon 
Wright had a clear gray eye, short, straight, flaxen 
hair, and a healthy diffusion of color. His features 
were thick and rather irregular ; but his countenance 
- — in addition to the merit of its expression — derived 
a certain grace from a powerful yellow moustache, to 
which its wearer occasionally gave a martial twist. 
Gordon Wright was not tall, but he was strong, and 
in his whole person there was something well-planted 
and sturdy. He almost always dressed in light-col- 
ored garments, and he wore round his neck an eternal 
blue cravat. When he was agitated he grew very 
red. While he questioned Longueville about his jour- 
ney and his health, his whereabouts and his inten- 
tions, the latter, among his own replies, endeavored to 
read in Wright's eyes some account of his present 
situation. Was that pretty girl at his side the ambig- 





uous object of his adoration, and, in that case, what 
was the function of the elder lady, and what had 
become of her argumentative daughter? Perhaps 
this was another, a younger daughter, though, indeed, 
she bore no resemblance to either of Longueville's 
friends. Gordon Wright, in spite of Bernard's inter- 
rogative glances, indulged in no optical confidences. 
He had too much to tell. He would keep his story 
till they should be alone together. It was impossible 
that they should adjourn just yet to social solitude ; 
the two ladies were under Gordon's protection. Mrs. 
Vivian — Bernard felt a satisfaction in learning her 
name; it was as if a curtain, half pulled up and 
stopped by a hitch, had suddenly been raised alto- 
gether — Mrs. Vivian sat looking up and down the 
terrace at the crowd of loungers and talkers with 
an air of tender expectation. She was probably look- 
ing for her elder daughter, and Longueville could not 
help wishing also that this young lady would arrive. 
Meanwhile, he saw that the young girl to whom Gor- 
don had been devoting himself was extremely pretty, 
and appeared eminently approachable. Longueville 
had some talk with her, reflecting that if she were 
the person concerning whom Gordon had written him, 
it behooved him to appear to take an interest in her. 
This' view of the case was confirmed by Gordon 
Wright's presently turning away to talk, with Mrs. 
Vivian, so that his friend might be at liberty to make 
acquaintance with their companion. 





Though she had not been with the others at Siena, 
it seemed to Longueville, with regard to her, too, that 
this was not the first time he had seen her. She was 
simply the American pretty girl, whom he had seen 
a thousand times. It was a numerous sisterhood, 
pervaded by a strong family likeness. This young 
lady had charming eyes (of the color of Gordon's 
cravats), which looked everywhere at once and yet 
found time to linger in some places, where Longue- 
ville's own eyes frequently met them. She had soft 
brown hair, with a silky-golden thread in it, beauti- 
fully arranged and crowned by a smart little hat that 
savoured of Paris. She had also a slender little 
figure, neatly rounded, and delicate, narrow hands, 
prettily gloved. She moved about a great deal in 
her place, twisted her little flexible body and tossed 
her head, fingered her hair and examined the orna- 
ments of her dress. She had a great deal of conver- 
sation, Longueville speedily learned, and she expressed 
herself with extreme frankness and decision. He 
asked her, to begin with, if she had been long at 
Baden, but the impetus of this question was all she 
required. Turning her charming, conscious, coquet- 
tish little face upon him, she instantly began to 
chatter. 

"I have been here about four weeks. I don't 
know whether you call that long. It doesn 't seem 
long to me ; I have had such a lovely time. I have 





met ever so many people here I know — every day 
some one turns up. Now you have turned up to- 
day." 

" Ah, but you don't know me," said Longueville, 
laughing. 

" Well, I have heard a great deal about you !" cried 
the young girl, with a pretty little stare of contradic- 
tion. "I think you know a great friend of mine, 
 Mi«a Ella-Jkiaclane, of Baltimore. She's travelling 
in Europe now." Longueville's memory did not in- 
stantly respond to this signal, but he expressed that 
rapturous assent which the occasion demanded, and 
even risked the observation that the young lady from 
Baltimore was very pretty. " She 's far too lovely," 
his companion went on. " I have often heard her 
speak of you. I think you know her sister rather 
better than you know her. She has not been, out very 
long. She is just as interesting as she can be. Her 
hair comes down to her feet. She's travelling in 
Norway. She has been everywhere you can think 
of, and she 's going to finish off with Finland. You 
can't go any further than that, can you ? That 's one 
comfort ; she will have to turn round and come back. 
I want her dreadfully to come to Baden-Baden." 

" I wish she would," said Longueville. " Is she 
travelling alone ? " 

"Oh, no. They've got some Englishman. They 
say he 's devoted to Ella. Every one seems to have 





an Englishman, now. We 've got one here, Captain 
Lovelock. Well, 
they're awfully handsome. Ella Maclane is dying 
to come to Baden-Baden. I wish you 'd write to her. 
Her father and mother have got some idea in their 
heads ; they think it 's improper — what do you call 
it ? — immoral. I wish you would write to her and tell 
her it isn 't. I wonder if they think that Mrs. Vivian 
would come to a place that 's immoral. Mrs. Vivian 
says she would take her in a moment; she doesn't 
seem to care how many she has. I declare, she 's 
only too kind. You know I 'm in Mrs. Vivian's care. 
My mother 's gone to Marienbad. She would let me 
go with Mrs. Vivian anywhere, on account of the 
influence — she thinks so much of Mrs. Vivian's in- 
fluence. I have always heard a great deal about it, 
have n 't you ? I must say it 's lovely ; it 's had a 
wonderful effect upon me. I don't want to praise 
myself, but it has. You ask Mrs. Vivian if I haven 't 
been good. I have been just as good as I can be. I 
have been so peaceful, I have just sat here this way. 
Do you call this immoral ? You 're not obliged to 
gamble if you don't want to. Ella Maclane's father 
seems to think you get drawn in. I 'm sure I 
haven 't been drawn in. I know what you 're going 
to say — you're going to say I have been- drawn out. 
Well, I have, to-night. We just sit here so quietly — 
there 's nothing to do but to talk. We make a little 





party by ourselves — are you going to belong to our 
party? Two of us are missing — Miss__Yivian and 
Captain Lovelock. Captain Lovelock has goneVith 
her into the rooms to explain the gambling — Miss 
Vivian always wants everything explained. I am 
sure I understood it the first time I looked at the 
tables. Have you ever seen Miss Vivian? She's 
very much admired, she's so very unusual. Black 
hair 's so uncommon — I see you have got it too — 
but I mean for young ladies. I am sure one sees 
everything here. There 's a woman that comes to 
the tables — a Portuguese countess — who has hair 
that is positively blue. I can't say I admire it when 
it comes to that shade. Blue 's my favorite color, but 
I prefer it in the eyes," continued Longueville's com- 
panion, resting upon him her own two brilliant little 
specimens of the tint. 

He listened with that expression of clear amusement 
which is not always an indication of high esteem, but 
which even pretty chatterers, who are not the reverse 
of estimable, often prefer to masculine inattention ; 
and while he listened Bernard, according to his wont, 
made his reflections. He said to himself that there 
were two kinds of pretty girls — the acutely conscious 
and the finely unconscious. Mrs. Vivian's prodgre'e was 
a member of the former category ; she belonged to the 
genus coquette. We all have our conception of the in- 
dispensable, and the indispensable, to this young lady 





was a spectator ; almost any male biped would serve 
the purpose. To her spectator she addressed, for the 
moment, the whole volume of her being — addressed 
it in her glances, her attitudes, her exclamations, in 
a hundred little experiments of tone and gesture and 
position. And these rustling artifices were so inno- 
cent and obvious that the directness of her desire to 
be well with her observer became in itself a grace ; 
it led Bernard afterward to say to himself that the 
natural vocation and metier of little girls for whom 
existence was but a shimmering surface, was to prat- 
tle and ruffle their plumage ; their view of life and 
its duties was as simple and superficial as that of an 
Oriental hayadere. It surely could not be with re- 
gard to this transparent little flirt that Gordon Wright 
desired advice ; you could literally see the daylight — 
or rather the Baden gaslight — on the other side of 
her. She sat there for a minute, turning her little 
empty head to and fro, and catching Bernard's eye 
every time she moved ; she had for the instant the 
air of having exhausted all topics. Just then a young 
lady, with a gentleman at her side, drew near to the 
little group, and Longueville, perceiving her, instantly 
got up from his chair. 

" There 's a beauty of the unconscious class ! " he 
said to himself. He knew her face very well; he 
had spent half an hour in copying it. 

" Here comes Miss Vivian ! " said Gordon Wright, 





also getting up, as if to make room for the daughter 
near the mother. 

She stopped in front of them, smiling slightly, and 
then she rested her eyes upon Longueville. Their 
gaze at first was full and direct, but it expressed 
nothing more than civil curiosity. This was imme- 
diately followed, however, by the light of recognition 
— recognition embarrassed, and signalling itself by a 
blush. 

Miss Vivian's companion was a powerful, hand- 
some fellow, with a remarkable auburn beard, who 
struck the observer immediately as being uncom- 
monly well dressed. He carried his hands in the 
pockets of a little jacket, the button-hole of which 
was adorned with a blooming rose. He approached 
Blanche Evers, smiling and dandling his body a little, 
and making her two or three jocular bows. 

" Well, I hope you have lost every penny you put 
on the table ! " said the young girl, by way of response 
to his obeisances. 

He began to laugh and repeat them.. 

" I don't care what I lose, so long — so long — " 

"So long as what, pray ?" 

" So long as you let me sit down by you ! " And 
he dropped, very gallantly, into a chair on the other 
side of her. 

"I wish you would lose all your property!" she 
replied, glancing at Bernard. 





"It would be a very small stake," said Captain 
Lovelock. " Would you really like to see me reduced 
to misery ? " 

While this graceful dialogue rapidly established it- 
self. Miss Vivian removed her eyes from Longueville's 
face and turned toward her mother. But Gordon 
Wright checked this movement by laying his hand 
on Longueville's shoulder and proceeding to introduce 
his friend. 

"This is the accomplished creature, Mr. Bernard 
Longueville, of whom you have heard me speak. 
One of his accomplishments, as you see, is to drop 
down from the moon." 

" No, I don't drop from the moon," said Bernard, 
laughing. "I drop from — Siena!" He offered his 
hand to Miss Vivian, who for an appreciable instant 
hesitated to extend her own. Then she returned his 
salutation, without any response to his allusion to 
Siena. 

She declined to take a seat, and said she was tired 
and preferred to go home. With this suggestion her 
mother immediately complied, and the two ladies ap- 
pealed to the indulgence of little Miss Evers, who was 
obliged to renounce the society of Captain Lovelock, 
She enjoyed this luxury, however, on the way to 
Mrs. Vivian's lodgings, toward which they all slowly 
strolled, in the sociable Baden fashion. Longueville 
might naturally have found himself next Miss Vivian, 





but he received an impression that she avoided him. 
She walked in front, and Gordon Wright strolled be- 
side her, though Longueville noticed that they appeared 
to exchange but fevif words. He himself offered his 
arm to Mrs. Vivian, who paced along with a little 
lightly-wavering step, making observations upon the 
beauties of Baden and the respective merits of the 
hotels. 



IV. 

" Which of them is it ? " asked Longueville of his 
friend, after they had bidden good-night to the three 
ladies and to Captain Lovelock, who went off to begin, 
as he said, the evening. They stood, when they had 
turned away from the door of Mrs. Vivian's lodgings, 
in the little, rough- paved German street. 

" "Which of them is what ? " Gordon asked, staring 
at his companion. 

" Oh, come," said Longueville, " you are not going 
to begin to play at modesty at this hour ! Didn 't you 
write to me that you had been making violent love? " 

"Violent? No." 

" The more shame to you ! Has your love-making 
been feeble?" 

His friend looked at him a moment rather soberly. 

"I suppose you thought it a queer document — 
that letter I wrote you." 

"I thought it characteristic," said Longueville 
smiling. 

" Isn 't that the same thing ? " 

"Not in the least. I have never thought you a 
man of oddities." Gordon stood there looking at him 





with a serious eye, lialf appealing, half questioning ; 
but at these last words he glanced away. Even a 
very modest man may wince a little at hearing him- 
self denied the distinction of a few variations from 
the common type. Longueville made this reflection, 
and it struck him, also, that his companion was in 
a graver mood than he had expected ; though why, 
after all, should he have been in a state of exhilara- 
tion ? " Your letter was a very natural, interesting 
one," Bernard added. 

" Well, you see," said Gordon, facing his companion 
again, " I have been a good deal preoccupied." 

" Obviously, my dear fellow ! " 

" I want very much to marry." 

" It 's a capital idea," said Longueville. 

" I think almost as well of it," his friend declared, 
"as if I had invented it. It has struck me for the 
first time." 

These words were uttered with a mild simplicity 
which provoked Longuevllle to violent laughter. 

" My dear fellow," he exclaimed, " you have, after 
all, your little oddities." 

Singularly enough, however, Gordon Wright failed 
to appear flattered by this concession. 

" I didn' t send for you to laugh at me," he said. 

" Ah, but I haven 't travelled three hundred miles 
to cry ! Seriously, solemnly, then, it is one of these 
young ladies that has put marriage into your head ? " 





" Not at all. I had it in my head." 

" Having a desire to marry, you proceeded to fall 
in love." 

"I am not in love!" said Gordon Wright, with 
some energy. 

" Ah, then, my dear fellow, why did you send for 
me?" 

Wright looked at him an instant in silence. 

" Because I thought you were a good fellow, as well 
as a clever one." 
