


THE spectacle of a love affair in which the woman 
gives more of her heart than the man gives of his is 
so pitiable that we are apt to attribute a kind of 
merit to her, as if it were a voluntary self-sacrifice 
for her to love more than her share. Not only other 
men, but other women, look on with this canonizing 
compassion ; for women have a lively power of im 
agining themselves in the place of any sister who 
suffers in matters of sentiment, and are eager to 
espouse the common cause in commiserating her. 
Each of them pictures herself similarly wronged or 
slighted by the man she likes best, and feels how 
cruel it would be if he were to care less for her than 
she for him ; and for the time being, in order to real 
ize the situation, she loads him with all the sins of 
omission proper to the culprit in the alien case. 
But possibly there is a compensation in merely lov 
ing, even where the love given is out of all propor 
tion to the love received. 

If Bartley Hubbard 's sensations and impressions of 
the day had been at all reasoned, that night as he lay 
thinking it over, he could unquestionably have seen 
many advantages for Marcia in the affair, perhaps 
more than for himself. But to do him justice he did 
not formulate these now, or in any wise explicitly 
recognize the favors he was bestowing. At twenty- 
six one does not naturally compute them in musing 
upon the girl to whom one is just betrothed ; and 
Bartley 's mind was a confusion of pleasure. He liked 



 

so well to think how fond of him Marcia was, that it 
did not occur to him then to question whether lie 
were as fond of her. It is possible that as he drowsed, 
at last, there Hoated airily through the consciousness 
which was melting and dispersing itself before the 
approach of sleep, an intimation from somewhere to 
some one that perhaps the affair need not be consid 
ered too seriously. But in that mysterious limbo 
one cannot be sure of what is thought and what is 
dreamed ; and Bartley always acquitted himself, and 
probably with justice, of any want of seriousness. 

What he did make sure of when he woke was that 
he was still out of sorts, and that he had again that 
dull headache ; and his instant longing for sympathy 
did more than anything else to convince him that he 
really loved Marcia, and had never, in his obscurest 
or remotest feeling, swerved in his fealty to her. In 
the atmosphere of her devotion yesterday, he had so 
wholly forgotten his sufferings that he had imagined 
himself well ; but now he found that he was not well, 
and he began to believe that he was going to have 
what the country people call a fit of sickness. He 
felt that he ought to be taken care of, that he was unfit 
to work ; and in his vexation at not being able to go 
to Marcia for comfort it really amounted to nothing 
less he entered upon the day 's affairs with fretful 
impatience. 

The Free Press was published on Tuesdays, and 
Monday was always a busy time of preparation. The 
hands were apt also to feel the demoralization that 
follows a holiday, even when it has been a holy day. 
The girls who set the type of the Free Press had 
by no means foregone the rights and privileges of 
their sex in espousing their art, and they had their 
beaux on Sunday night like other young ladies. It 
resulted that on Monday morning they were nervous 
and impatient, alternating between fits of giggling 



 

delight in the interchange of fond reminiscences, and 
the crossness which is pretty sure to disfigure human 
behavior from want of sleep. But ordinarily Bartley 
got on very well with them. In spite of the assump 
tion of equality between all classes in Equity, they 
stood in secret awe of his personal splendor, and the 
tradition of his achievements at college and in the 
great world ; and a flattering joke or a sharp sarcasm 
from him went a great way with them. Besides, he 
had an efficient lieutenant in Henry Bird, the young 
printer who had picked up his trade in the office, and 
who acted as Bartley 's foreman, so far as the estab 
lishment had an organization. Bird had industry 
and discipline which were contagious, and that love 
of his work which is said to be growing rare among 
artisansjri the modern subdivision of trades. This 
boy for he was only nineteen worked at his craft 
early and late out of pleasure in it. He seemed one 
of those simple, subordinate natures which are happy 
in looking up to whatever assumes to be above them. 
He exulted to serve in a world where most people 
prefer to be served, and it is uncertain whether he 
liked his work better for its own sake, or Bartley s, 
for whom he did it. He was slight and rather delicate 
in health, and it came natural for Bartley to patronize 
him. He took him on the long walks of which he 
was fond, and made him in some sort his humble con 
fidant, talking to him of himself and his plans with 
large and braggart vagueness. He depended upon 
Bird in a great many things, and Bird never failed 
him ; for he had a basis of constancy that was im 
movable. "No," said a philosopher from a neigh 
boring logging-camp, who used to hang about the 
printing-office a long time after he had got his paper, 
" there aint a great deal of natural git np and howl 
about Henry ; but he stays put." In the confidences 
which Bartley used to make Bird, he promised that, 



 

when he left the newspaper for the law, he would see 
that no one else succeeded him. The young fellow 
did not need this promise to make him Bartley 's fast 
friend, but it colored his affection with ambitious en 
thusiasm ; to edit and publish a newspaper, his 
dreams did not go beyond that : to devote it to Bart- 
ley 's interest in the political life on which Bartley 
often hinted he might enter, that would be the 
sweetest privilege of realized success. Bird already 
wrote paragraphs for the Free Press, and Bartley let 
him make up a column of news from the city ex 
changes, which was partly written and partly se 
lected. 

Bartley came to the office rather late on Monday 
morning, bringing with him the papers from Satur 
day night 's mail, which had lain unopened over Sun 
day, and went directly into his own room, without 
looking into the printing-office. He felt feverish and 
irritable, and he resolved to fill up with selections and 
let his editorial paragraphing go, or get Bird to do 
it. He was tired of the work, and sick of Equity ; 
Marcia 's face seemed to look sadly in upon his 
angry discontent, and he no longer wished to go to 
her for sympathy. His door opened, and, without- 
glancing from the newspaper which he held up be 
fore him, he asked, " What is it, Bird ? Do you want 
copy ? " 

"Well, no, Mr. Hubbard," answered Bird, "we have 
copy enough for the force we Ve got this morning." 

" Why, what 's up ? " demanded Bartley, dropping 
his paper. 

" Lizzie Sawyer has sent word that she is sick, 
and we haven 't heard or seen anything of Hannah 
Morrison." 

"Confound the girls!" said Bartley, "there 's al 
ways something the matter with them." He rubbed 
his hand over his forehead, as if to rub out the dull 



 

pain there. " Well," he said, " I must go to work 
myself, then. He rose, and took hold of the lapels of 
his coat, to pull it off; but something in Bird 's look 
arrested him. " What is it ? " he asked. 

" Old Morrison was here, just before you came in, 
and said he wanted to see you. I think lie was 
drunk," said Bird, anxiously. "He said he was com 
ing back again." 

" All right; let him come," replied Bartley. " This 
is a free country, especially in Equity. I suppose 
lie wants Hannah 's wages raised, as usual. How 
much are we behind on the paper, Henry ? " 

" We 're not a great deal behind, Mr. Hubbard, if 
we were not so weak-handed." 

" Perhaps we can get Hannah back, during the 
forenoon. At any rate, we can ask her honored 
parent when he comes." 

Where Morrison got his liquor was a question that 
agitated Equity "from time to time, and baffled the 
officer of the law empowered to see that no strong 
drink came into the town. Under conditions which 
made it impossible even in the logging-camps, and 
rendered the sale of spirits too precarious for the 
apothecary, who might be supposed to deal in them 
medicinally, Morrison never failed of his spree when 
the mysterious mechanism of his appetite enforced it. 
Probably it was some form of bedevilled cider that 
supplied the material of his debauch ; but even cider 
was not easily to be had. 

Morrison 's spree was a movable feast, and recurred 
at irregular intervals of two, or three, or even six 
weeks ; but it recurred often enough to keep him poor, 
and his family in a social outlawry against which 
the kindly instincts of their neighbors struggled in 
vain. Mrs. Morrison was that pariah who, in a vil 
lage like Equity, cuts herself off from hope by tak 
ing in washing ; and it was a decided rise in the 



 

world for Hannah, a wild girl at school, to get a place 
in the printing-office. Her father had applied for it 
humbly enough at the tremulous and penitent close 
of one of his long sprees, and was grateful to Bartley 
for taking the special interest in her which she 're 
ported at home. 

But the independence of a drunken shoemaker is 
proverbial, and Morrison 's meek spirit soared into 
lordly arrogance with his earliest cups. The first 
warning which the community had of his change of 
attitude was the conspicuous and even defiant closure 
of his shop, and the scornful rejection of custom, how 
ever urgent or necessitous. All Equity might go in 
broken shoes, for any patching or half-soling the 
people got from him. He went about collecting his 
small dues, and paying up his debts as long as the 
money lasted, in token of his resolution not to take 
any favors from any man thereafter. Then he retired 
to his house on one of the by streets, and by degrees 
drank himself past active offence. It was of course 
in his defiant humor that he came to visit Bartley, 
who had learned to expect him whenever Hannah 
failed to appear promptly at her work. The affair 
was always easily arranged. Bartley instantly as 
sented, with whatever irony he liked, to Morrison 's 
demands ; he refused with overwhelming politeness 
even to permit him to give himself the trouble to 
support them by argument; he complimented Hannah 
inordinately as one of the most gifted and accom 
plished ladies of his acquaintance, and inquired affec 
tionately after the health of each member of the Mor 
rison family. When Morrison rose to go he always 
said, in shaking hands, " Well, sir, if there was more 
like you in Equity a poor man could get along. You 're 
a gentleman, sir." After getting some paces away 
from the street door, he stumbled back up the stairs 
to repeat, " You 're a gentleman ! " Hannah came 



 

during the day, and the wages remained the same : 
neither of the contracting parties regarded the in 
crease so elaborately agreed upon, and Morrison, on 
becoming sober, gratefully ignored the whole trans 
action, though, by a curious juggle of his brain, he 
recurred to it in his next spree, and advanced in his 
new demand from the last rise: his daughter was now 
nominally in receipt of an income of forty dollars a 
week, but actually accepted four. 

Bartley, on his part, enjoyed the business as an 
agreeable excitement and a welcome relief from the 
monotony of his official life. He never hurried Mor 
rison 's visits, but amused himself by treating him 
with the most flattering distinction, and baffling his 
arrogance by immediate concession. But this morn 
ing, when Morrison came back with a front of un 
common fierceness, he merely looked up from his 
newspapers, to which he had recurred, and said coolly, 
" Oh, Mr. Morrison ! Good morning. I suppose it 's 
that little advance that you wish to see me about. 
Take a chair. What is the increase you ask this 
time ? Of course I agree to anything." 

He leaned forward, pencil in hand, to make a note 
of the figure Morrison should name, when the drunk 
ard approached and struck the table in front of him 
with his fist, and blazed upon Bartley 's face, suddenly 
uplifted, with his blue crazy eyes. 

" No, sir ! I won 't take a seat, and I don 't come 
on no such business ! No, sir ! " He struck the 
table again, and the violence of his blow upset the 
inkstand. 

Bartley saved himself by suddenly springing away. 
" Hollo here ! " he shouted. " What do you mean by 
this infernal nonsense ? " 

" What do you mean," retorted the drunkard, " by 
makin up to my girl ? " 

" You 're a fool," cried Bartley, " and drunk ! " 



 

" I 'll  show you whether I 'm a fool, and I 'll  show 
you whether I 'm drunk," said Morrison. He opened 
the door and beckoned to Bird, with an air of myste 
rious authority. " Young man ! Come here!" 

Bird was used to the indulgence with which Bart- 
ley treated Morrison 's tipsy freaks, and supposed that 
lie had been called by his consent to witness another 
agreement to a rise in Hannah 's wages. He came 
quickly, to help get Morrison out of the way the 
sooner, and he was astonished to be met by Bartley 
with " I don 't want you, Bird." 

" All right," answered the boy, and he turned to go 
out of the door. 

But Morrison had planted himself against it, and 
waved Bird austerely back. "I  want you," he said, 
with drunken impressiveness, " for a witness wick 
witness while I ask Mr. Hubbard what he means 

by-" 

" Hold your tongue ! " cried Bartley. " Get out of 
this ! " He advanced a pace or two toward Morrison 
who stood his ground without swerving. 

" Now you you keep quiet, Mr. Hubbard," said 
Morrison, with a swift drunken change of mood, by 
which he passed from arrogant denunciation to a 
smooth, patronizing mastery of the situation. "I  
wish this thing all settled amic ic amelcabilly." 

Bartley broke into a helpless laugh at Morrison 's 
final failure on a word difficult to sober tongues, and 
the latter went on : " No casion for bad feeling on 
either side. All I want know is what you mean." 

" Well, go on ! " cried Bartley, good-naturedly, and 
he sat down in his chair, which he tilted back, and, 
clasping his hands behind his head, looked up into 
Morrison 's face. " What do I mean by what ? " 

Probably Morrison had not expected to be categori 
cal, or to bring anything like a bill of particulars 
against Bartley, and this demand gave him pause. 



 

" What you mean," he said, at last, " by always 
praising her up so ? " 

" What I said. She 's a very good girl, and a very 
bright one. You don 't deny that ? " 

" No no matter what I deny. What what 
you lend her all them books for ? " 

" To improve her mind. You don 't object to that ? 
I thought you once thanked me for taking an interest 
in her." 

"Don 't you mind what I object to, and what I 
thank you for," said Morrison, with dignity. "I 
know what I 'm about." 

" I begin to doubt. But get on. I 'm in a great 
hurry this morning," said Bartley. 

Morrison seemed to be making a mental examina 
tion of his stock of charges, while the strain of keep 
ing his upright position began to tell upon him, and 
he swayed to and fro against the door. " What 's 
that word you sent her by my boy, Sat day night ? " 

"That she was a smart girl, and would be sure 
to get on if she was good or words to that effect. 
I trust there was no offence in that, Mr. Morrison ? " 

Morrison surrendered himself to another season of 
cogitation, in which he probably found his vagueness 
growing upon him. He ended by fumbling in all his 
pockets, and bringing up from the last a crumpled 
scrap of paper. " What you what you say that ? " 

Bartley took the extended scrap with an easy air. 
" Miss Morrison 's handwriting, I think." He held it 
up before him and read aloud, " I love my love with 
an H because he is Handsome. This appears to be 
a confidence of Miss Morrison to her Muse. Whom 
do you think she refers to, Mr. Morrison ? " 

" What 's what 's the h rst letter your name ? " 
demanded Morrison, with an effort to collect his dis 
persing severity. 

" B," promptly replied Bartley. " Perhaps this con- 



 

cerns you, Henry. Your name begins with an H." 
He passed the paper up over his head to Bird, who 
took it silently. " You see," he continued, addressing 
Bird, but looking at Morrison as he spoke, " Mr. 
Morrison wishes to convict me of an attempt upon 
Miss Hannah 's affections. Have you anything else 
to urge, Mr. Morrison ? " 

Morrison slid at last from his difficult position into 
a convenient chair, and struggled to keep himself 
from doubling forward. " I want know what you 
mean," he said, with dogged iteration. 

" I 'll  show you what I mean," said Bartley with an 
ugly quiet, while his mustache began to twitch. He 
sprang to his feet and seized Morrison by the collar, 
pulling him up out of the chair till he held him clear 
of the floor, and opened the door with his other hand. 
" Don 't show your face here again, you or your girl 
either!" Still holding the man by the collar, he 
pushed him before him through the office, and gave 
him a final thust out of the outer door. 

Bartley returned to his room in a white heat : 
" Miserable tipsy rascal ! " he panted ; " I wonder 
who has set him on to this thing." 

Bird stood pale and silent, still holding the crum 
pled scrap of paper in his hand. 

" I shouldn 't be surprised if that impudent little 
witch herself had put him up to it. She 's capable of 
it," said Bartley, fumbling aimlessly about on his 
table, in his wrath, without looking at Bird. 

" It 's a lie ! " said Bird. 

Bartley started as if the other had struck him, and 
as he glared at Bird the anger went out of his face 
for pure amazement. " Are you out of your mind, 
Henry ? " he asked calmly. " Perhaps you 're drunk 
too, this morning. The Devil seems to have got into 
pretty much everybody." 

" It 's a lie ! " repeated the boy, while the tears 



 

sprang to his eyes. " She 's as good a girl as Marcia 
Gaylord is, any day ! " 

" Better go away, Henry," said Bartley, with a 
deadly sort of gentleness. 

"I 'm going away," answered the boy, his face 
twisted with weeping. " I 've done my last day 's 
work for you." He pulled down his shirt-sleeves, 
and buttoned them at the wrists, while the tears ran 
out over his face, helpless tears, the sign of his 
womanish tenderness, his womanish weakness. 

Bartley continued to glare at him. " Why, I do 
believe you 're in love with her yourself, you little 
fool!" 

" Oh, I 've been a fool ! " cried Bird. " A fool to 
think as much of you as I always have, a fool to 
believe that you were a gentleman, and wouldn 't 
take a mean advantage. I was a fool to suppose you 
wanted to do her any good, when you came praising 
and tiattering her, and turning her head !" 

"Well, then," said Bartley with harsh insolence, 
" don 't be a fool any longer. If you 're in love with 
her, you haven 't any quarrel with me, my boy. She 
flies at higher game than humble newspaper editors. 
The head of Willett 's lumbering gang is your man ; 
and so you may go and tell that old sot, her father. 
Why, Henry ! You don 't mean to say you care any 
thing for that girl ? " 

- " And do you mean to say you haven 't done every 
thing you could to turn her head since she 's been 
in this office ? She used to like me well enough at 
school." All men are blind and jealous children 
alike, when it comes to question of a woman between 
them, and this poor boy 's passion was turning him 
into a tiger. " Don 't come to me with your lies, 
any more ! " Here his rage culminated, and with a 
blind cry of "Ay!" he struck the paper which he 
had kept in his hand into Bartley 's face. 



 

The demons, whatever they were, of anger, 're 
morse, pride, shame, were at work in Bartley 's heart 
too, and he returned the blow as instantly as if Bird 's 
touch had set the mechanism of his arm in motion. 
In contempt of the other 's weakness he struck with 
the flat of his hand ; but the blow was enough. Bird 
fell headlong, and the concussion of his head upon 
the floor did the rest. He lay senseless. 



 



VII. 



BARTLEY hung over the boy with such a terror in 
his soul as he had never had before. He believed 
that he had killed him, and in this conviction came 
with the simultaneity of events in dreams the sense 
of all his blame, of which the blow given for a blow 
seemed the least part. He was not so wrong in that 
as he was wrong in what led to it. He did not 
abhor in himself so much the wretch who had struck 
his brother down as the light and empty fool who 
had trifled with that silly hoyden. The follies that 
-seemed so amusing and resultless in their time had 
ripened to this bitter effect, and he knew that he, and 
not she, was mainly culpable. Her self-betrayal, how 
ever it came about, was proof that they were more 
serious with her than with him, and he could not 
plead to himself even the poor excuse that his fancy 
had been caught. Amidst the anguish of his self- 
condemnation the need to conceal what he had done 
occurred to him. He had been holding Bird 's head 
in his arms, and imploring him, " Henry ! Henry ! 
wake up ! " in a low, husky voice ; but now he turned 
to the door and locked it, and the lie by which he 
should escape sprang to his tongue. " He died in a 
fit." He almost believed it as it murmured itself 
from his lips. There was no mark, no bruise, noth 
ing to show that he had touched the boy. Suddenly 
he felt the lie choke him. He pulled down the 
window to let in the fresh air, and this pure breath 
of heaven blew into his darkened spirit and lifted 



 

there a little the vapors which were thickening in it. 
The horror of having to tell that lie, even if he 
should escape by it, all his life long, till he was a 
gray old man, and to keep the truth forever from his 
lips, presented itself to him as intolerable slavery. 
" Oh, my God ! " he spoke aloud, " how can I bear 
that ? " And it was in self-pity that he revolted 
from it. Few men love the truth for its own sake, 
and Bartley was not one of these ; but he practised 
it because his experience had been that lies were 
difficult to manage, and that they were a burden 
on the mind. He was not candid ; he did not shun 
concealments and evasions ; but positive lies he 
had kept from, and now he could not trust one to 
save his life. He unlocked the door and ran out to 
find help ; he must do that at last ; he must do it 
at any risk ; no matter what he said afterward. 
When our deeds and motives come to be balanced at 
the last day, let us hope that mercy, and not justice, 
may prevail. 

It must have been mercy that sent the doctor at 
that moment to the apothecary s, on the other side of 
the street, and enabled Bartley to get him up into his 
office, without publicity or explanation other than 
that Henry Bird seemed to be in a fit. The doctor 
lifted the boy 's head, and explored his bosom with his 
hand. 

" Is he is he dead ? " gasped Bartley, and the 
words came so mechanically from his tongue that he 
began to believe he had not spoken them, when the 
doctor answered. 

" No ! How did this happen ? Tell me exactly." 

" We had a quarrel. He struck me. I knocked 
him down." Bartley delivered up the truth, as a 
prisoner of war or a captive brigand, perhaps 
parts with his weapons one by one. 

" Very well," said the doctor. " Get some water." 



 

Bartley poured some out of the pitcher on his table, 
and the doctor, wetting his handkerchief, drew it 
again and again over Bird 's forehead. 

"I never meant to hurt him," said Bartley. "I 
didn 't even intend to strike him when lie hit me." 

" Intentions have very little to do with physical 
effects," replied the doctor sharply. " Henry ! " 

The boy opened his eyes, and, muttering feebly, 
" My head ! " closed them again. 

" There 's a concussion here," said the doctor. 
"We had better get him home. Drive my sleigh 
over, will you, from Smith s." 

Bartley went out into the glare of the sun, which 
beat upon him like the eye of the world. But the 
street was really empty, as it often was in the middle 
of the forenoon at Equity. The apothecary, who saw 
him untying the doctor 's horse, came to his door, and 
said jocosely, " Hello, Doc ! who 's sick ? " 

" I am," said Bartley, solemnly, and the apothe 
cary laughed at his readiness. Bartley drove round 
to the back of the printing-office, where the farmers 
delivered his wood. " I thought we could get him 
out better that way," he explained, and the doctor, 
who had to befriend a great many concealments 
in his practice, silently spared Bartley 's disingenu- 
ousness. 

The rush of the cold air, as they drove rapidly down 
the street, with that limp shape between them, 're 
vived the boy, and he opened his eyes, and made an 
effort to hold himself erect, but he could not ; and 
when they got him into the warm room at home, he 
fainted again. His mother had met them at the door 
of her poor little house, without any demonstration 
of grief or terror ; she was far too well acquainted in 
her widowhood bereft of all her children but this 
son with sickness and death, to show even sur 
prise, if she felt it. When Bartley broke out into his 



 

lamentable confession, " Oh, Mrs. Bird ! this is my 
work!" she only wrung her hands and answered, 
" Your work ! Oh, Mr. Hubbard, he thought the 
world of you ! " and did not ask him how or why he 
had done it. After they had got Henry on the bed, 
Bartley was no longer of use there ; but they let him 
remain in the corner into which he had shrunk, and 
from which he watched all that went on, with a dry 
mouth and faltering breath. It began to appear to 
him that he was very young to be involved in a 
misfortune like this ; he did not understand why it 
should have happened to him ; but he promised him 
self that, if Henry lived, he would try to be a better 
man in every way. 

After he had lost all hope, the time seemed so long, 
the boy on the bed opened his eyes once more, and 
looked round, while Bartley still sat with his face in 
his hands. " Where where is Mr. Hubbard ? " he 
faintly asked, with a bewildered look at his mother 
and the doctor. 

Bartley heard the weak voice, and staggered for 
ward, and fell on his knees beside the bed. " Here, 
here ! Here I am, Henry ! Oh, Henry, I didn 't 
intend He stopped at the word, and hid his 
face in the coverlet. 

The boy lay as if trying to make out what had 
happened, and the doctor told him that he had 
fainted. After a time, he put out his hand and laid 
it on Bartley 's head. " Yes ; but I don 't understand 
what makes him cry." 

They looked at Bartley, who had lifted his head, 
and he went over the whole affair, except so far as it 
related to Hannah Morrison ; he did not spare him 
self ; he had often found that strenuous self-condem 
nation moved others to compassion ; and besides, it 
