appeared to be aware of it, or disturbed by it. But 
the next moment he was himself disturbed by it, and 
showed discomposure; for this was the only service 
he had been permitted to do with his own hands 
during the meal, and he did not doubt that he had 
done a most improper and unprincely thing. At 
that moment the muscles of his nose began to twitch, 
and the end of that organ to lift and wrinkle. This 
continued, and Tom began to evince a growing dis- 
tress. He looked appealingly, first at one and then 
another of the lords about him, and tears came into 
his eyes. They sprang forward with dismay in their 
faces, and begged to know his trouble. Tom said 
with genuine anguish: 

“I crave your indulgence; my nose itcheth 
cruelly. What is the custom and usage in this 
emergence? Prithee speed, for ’tis but a little time 
that I can bear it.” 

None smiled; but all were sore perplexed, and 
looked one to the other in deep tribulation for coun- 
sel. But, behold, here was a dead wall, and nothing 
in English history to tell how to get over it. The 
Master of Ceremonies was not present; there was 

no one who felt safe to venture upon this uncharted- 
sea, or risk the attempt to solve this solemn prob- 
lem. Alas! there was no Hereditary Scratcher. 
Meantime the tears had overflowed their banks, and 
begun to trickle down Tom’s cheeks. His twitching 
nose was pleading more lugently than ever for relief. 
At last natme broke down the barriers of 
etiquette; Tom lifted up an inward prayer for pardon 
if he was doing wrong, and brought relief to the 
burdened hearts of his court by scratching his nose 
himself. 

His meal being ended, a lord came and held before 
him a broad, shallow, golden dish with fragrant 
rose-water in it, to cleanse his mouth and fingers 
with; and my lord the Hereditary Diaperer stood by 
with a napkin for his use. Tom gazed at the dish 
a puzzled moment or two, then raised it to his 
lips, and gravely took a draught. Then he returned 
it to the waiting lord, and said: 

“Nay, it likes me not, my lord; it hath a pretty 
flavor, but it wanteth strength.” 

This new eccentricity of the prince’s ruined mind 
made all the hearts about him ache; but the sad 
sight moved none to merriment. 

Tom’s next unconscious blunder was to get up and 
leave the table just when the chaplain had taken his 
stand behind his chair and with uplifted hands and 
dosed uplifted eyes, was in the act of beginning 
the blessing. Still nobody seemed to perceive that 
the prince had done a thing unusual. 

By his own request, our small friend was now 
conducted to his private cabinet, and left there 
alone to his own devices. Hanging upon hooks in 
the oaken wainscoting were the several pieces of a 
suit of shining steel armor, covered all over with 
beautiful designs exquisitely inlaid in gold. This 
martial panoply belonged to the true prince — a 
recent present from Madam Parr, the queen. Tom 
put on the greaves, the gatmtlets, the plumed helmet,
and such other pieces as he could don with- 
out assistance, and for a while was minded to call 
for help and complete the matter, but bethought 
him of the nuts he had brought away from dinner, 
and the joy it would be to eat them with no crowd 
to eye him, and no Grand Hereditaries to pester 
him with undesired services; so he restored the 
pretty things to their several places, and soon was 
cracldng nuts, and feeling almost naturally happy 
for the first time since God for his sins had made 
him a prince. When the nuts were all gone, he 
stumbled upon some inviting books in a closet, 
among them one about the etiquette of the English 
court. This was a prize. He lay down upon a 
sumptuous divan, and proceeded to instruct himself 
with honest zeal. Let us leave him there for the 
present. 



CHAPTER VIII 


THE QUESTION OF THE SEAL 

ABOUT five o’clock Henry VIII. awoke out of 
unrefreshing nap, and muttered to himself, 
“Troublous dreams, troublous dreams! Mine end 
is now at hand; so say these warnings, and my 
failing pulses do confirm it.” Presently a wicked 
light flamed up in his eye, and he muttered, “Yet 
win not I die till he go before.” 

His attendants perceiving that he was awake, one 
of them asked his pleasure concerning the Lord 
Chancellor, who was waiting without. 

“Admit him, admit him!” exclaimed the king 
eagerly. 

The Lord Chancellor entered, and knelt by the 
king’s couch, saying: 

“I have given order, and, according to the king’s 
command, the peers of the realm, in their robes, do 
now stand at the bar of the House, where, having 
confirmed the Duke of Norfolk’s doom, they humbly 
wait his majesty’s further pleasure in the matter.” 

The king’s face lit up with a fierce joy. Said he: 

“Lift me up! In mine own person will I go be- 
fore my Parliament, and with mine own hand will I 
seal the warrant that rids me of — ” 


His voice failed; an ashen pallor swept the flush 
from his cheeks; and the attendants eased him back 
upon his pillows, and hurriedly assisted him with 
restoratives. Presently he said sorrowfully: 

“Alack, how have I longed for this sweet hour! 
and lo, too late it cometh, and I am robbed of this 
so coveted chance. But speed ye, speed ye! let 
others do this happy office sith ’tis denied to me. I 
put my great seal in commission: choose thou the 
lords that shall compose it, and get ye to your work. 
Speed ye, man! Before the sun shall rise and set 
again, bring me his head that I may see it.” 

“According to the king’s command, so shall it 
be. Will’t please your majesty to order that the 
Seal be now restored to me, so that I may forth 
upon the business?” 

‘‘ The Seal ! Who keepeth the Seal but thou ?” 

“Please your majesty, you did take it from me 
two days since, saying it should no more do its 
office till your own royal hand should use it upon 
the Duke of Norfolk’s warrant.” 

“Why, so in sooth I did; I do remember it. . . . 
What did I with it! ... I am very feeble. ... So 
oft these days doth my memory play the traitor with 
me. . . . ’Tis strange, strange — ” 

The king dropped into inarticulate mumblings, 
shaking his gray head weakly from time to time, and 
gropingly trying to recollect what he had done with 
the Seal. At last my Lord Hertford ventured to 
kneel and offer information — 

“Sire, if that I may be so bold, here be several 
that do remember with me how that you gave the 

Great Seal into the hands of his Highness the Prince 
of Wales to keep against the day that — ” 

“True, most true!” interrupted the king. “Fetch 
it I Go : time flieth 1’ ’ 

Lord Hertford flew to Tom, but returned to the 
king before very long, troubled and empty-handed. 
He delivered himself to this effect: 

“It grieveth me, my lord the king, to bear so 
heavy and unwelcome tidings; but it is the will of 
God that the prince’s affliction abideth stfll, and he 
cannot recall to mind that he received the Seal. So 
came I quickly to report, thinking it were waste of 
precious time, and little worth withal, that any 
should attempt to search the long array of chambers 
and saloons that belong unto his royal high — ” 

A groan from the king interrupted my lord at this 
point. After a little while his majesty said, with a 
deep sadness in his tone: 

“Trouble him no more, poor child. The hand 
of God lieth heavy upon him, and my heart goeth 
out in loving compassion for him, and sorrow that I 
may not bear his burden on mine own old trouble- 
weighted shoulders, and so bring him peace.” 

He closed his eyes, fell to mumbling, and pres- 
ently was silent. After a time he opened his eyes 
again, and gazed vacantly around until his glance 
rested upon the kneeling Lord Chancellor. Instantly 
his face flushed with wrath: 

“What, thou here yet! By the glory of God, 
an thou gettest not about that traitor’s business, 
thy miter shall have holiday the morrow for lack of 
a head to grace withal!” 


The trembling Chancellor answered: 

“Good your majesty, I cry you mercy! I but 
waited for the Seal.” 

“Man, hast lost thy wits? The small Seal which 
aforetime I was wont to take with me abroad lieth 
in my treasury. And, since the Great Seal hath 
flown away, shall not it sufiice? Hast lost thy wits? 
Begone! And hark ye — come no more till thou do 
bring his head.” 

The poor Chancellor was not long in removing 
himself from this dangerous vicinity; nor did the 
commission waste time in giving the royal assent to 
the work of the slavish Parliament, and appointing 
the morrow for the beheading of the premier peer 
of England, the luckless Duke of Norfolk. 


CHAPTER IX 


THE RIVER PAGEANT 

AT nine in the evening the whole vast river-front 
of the palace was blazing with light. The river 
itself, as far as the eye could reach cityward, was 
so thickly covered with watermen’s boats and with 
pleasure barges, all fringed with colored lanterns, 
and gently agitated by the waves, that it resembled 
a glowing and limitless garden of flowers stirred 
to soft motion by summer winds. The grand terrace 
of stone steps leading down to the water, spacious 
enough to mass the army of a German principality 
upon, was a picture to see, with its ranks of royal 
halberdiers in polished armor, and its troops of 
brilliantly costumed servitors flitting up and down, 
and to and fro, in the hurry of preparation. 

Presently a command was given, and immediately 
all living creatures vanished from the steps. Now 
the air was heavy with the hush of suspense and 
expectancy. As far as one’s vision could carry, he 
might see the myriads of people in the boats rise 
up, and shade their eyes from the glare of lanterns 
and torches, and gaze toward the palace. 

A file of forty or fifty state barges drew up to the 
steps. They were richly gilt, and their lofty prows 
and stems were elaborately carved. Some of them' 

were decorated with banners and streamers; some 
with cloth-of-gold and arras embroidered with coats 
of arms; others with silken flags that had number- 
less little silver bells fastened to them, which shook 
out tiny showers of joyous music whenever the 
breezes fluttered them; others of yet higher preten- 
sions, since they belonged to nobles in the prince s 
immediate service, had their sides picturesquely 
fenced with shields gorgeously emblazoned with 
armorial bearings. Each state barge was towed by 
a tender. Besides the rowers, these tenders carried 
each a number of men-at-arms in glossy helmet and 
breastplate, and a company of musicians. 

The advance-guard of the expected procession .now 
appeared in the great gateway, a troop of hal- 
berdiers. “They were dressed in striped hose of 
black and tawny, velvet caps graced at the sides with 
silver roses, and doublets of murrey and blue cloth, 
embroidered on the front and back with the three 
feathers, the prince’s blazon, woven in gold. Their 
halberd staves were covered with crimson velvet, 
fastened with gilt nails, and ornamented with gold 
tassels. Filing off on the right and left, they formed 
two long lines, extending from the gateway of the 
palace to the water’s edge. A thick, rayed cloth or 
carpet was then unfolded, and laid down between 
them by attendants in the gold-and-crimson liveries 
of the prince. This done, a flourish of trumpets 
resounded from within. A lively prelude arose from 
the musicians on the water; and two ushers with 
white wands marched with a slow and stately pace 
from the portal. They were followed by an officer 

bearing the civic mace, after whom came another 
carrying the city’s sword; then several sergeants of 
the city guard, in their full accoutrements, and with 
badges on their sleeves; then the Garter king-at- 
arms, in his tabard; then several knights of the 
Bath, each with a white lace on his sleeve; then 
their esquires; then the judges, in their robes of 
scarlet and coifs; then the Lord High Chancellor of 
England, in a robe of scarlet, open before, and 
purfled with minever; then a deputation of aider- 
men, in their scarlet cloaks; and then the heads of 
the different civic companies, in their robes of state. 
Now came twelve French gentlemen, in splendid 
habiliments, consisting of pourpoints of white 
damask barred with gold, short mantles of crimson 
velvet lined with violet tafifeta, and carnation-colored 
hauts-de-chausses, and took their way dowm the 
steps. They were of the suite of the French ambassador, 
and were followed by twelve cavaliers of 
the suite of the Spanish ambassador, dothed in 
black velvet, unrelieved by any ornament. Following 
these came several great English nobles with 
their attendants.” 

There was a flourish of trumpets within; and the 
prince’s unde, the future great Duke of Somerset, 
emerged from the gateway, arrayed in a “doublet 
of black cloth-of-gold, and a doak of crimson satin 
flowered with gold, and ribanded with nets of 
silver.” He turned, doffed his plumed cap, bent his 
body in a low reverence, and began to step back- 
ward, bowing at each step. A prolonged trumpet- 
blast followed, and a proclamation, “Way for the 
high and mighty, the Lord Edward, Prince of Wales !” 
High aloft on the palace walls a long line of red 
tongues of flame leaped forth with a thunder-crash; 
the massed world on the river burst into a mighty 
roar of welcome; and Tom Canty, the cause and 
hero of it all, stepped into view, and slightly bowed 
his princely head. 

He was “magnificently habited in a doublet of 
white satin, with a front-piece of purple cloth-of- 
tissue, powdered with diamonds, and edged with 
ermine. Over this he wore a mantle of white cloth- 
of-gold, pounced with the triple-feather crest, lined 
with blue satin, set with pearls and precious stones, 
and fastened with a clasp of brilliants. About his 
neck hung the order of the Garter, and several 
princely foreign orders”; and wherever light fell 
upon him jewels responded with a blinding flash. 
0, Tom Canty, bom in a hovel, bred in the gutters 
of London, familiar with rags and dirt and misery, 
what a spectacle is this! 



CHAPTER X 


THE PRINCE IN THE TOILS 

WE left John Canty dragging the rightful prince 
into Offal Court, with a noisy and delighted 
mob at his heels. There was but one person in it 
who offered a pleading word for the captive, and he 
was not heeded; he was hardly even heard, so great 
was the turmoil. The prince continued to struggle 
for freedom, and to rage against the treatment he 
was suffering, imtil John Canty lost what little 
patience was left in him, and raised his oaken cudgel 
in a sudden fury over the prince’s head. The single 
pleader for the lad sprang to stop the man’s arm, 
and the blow descended upon his own wrist, Canty 
roared out; 

“Thou’lt meddle, wilt thou? Then have thy 
reward. ” 

His cudgel crashed down upon the meddler’s 
head; there was a groan, a dim form sank to the 
ground among the feet of the crowd, and the next 
momrait it lay there in the dark alone. The mob 
pressed on, their enjoyment nothing disturbed by 
this episode. 

Presently the prince found himself in John Canty’s 
abode, with the door closed against the outsiders. 
By the vague light of a tallow candle which was 
thrust into a bottle, he made out the main features 
of the loathsome den, and also of the occupants of it. 
Two frowsy girls and a middle-aged woman cowered 
against the wall in one comer, with the aspect of 
animals habituated to harsh usage, and expecting 
and dreading it now. Prom another comer stole a 
withered hag with streaming gray hair and malignant 
eyes. John Canty said to this one : 

“Tarry! There’s fine mummeries here. Mar 
them not till thou’st enjoyed them; then let thy 
hand be heavy as thou wilt. Stand forth, lad. 
Now say thy foolery again, an thou’st not forgot 
it. Name thy name. Who art thou?” 

The insulted blood mounted to the little prince’s 
cheek once more, and he lifted a steady and indignant 
gaze to the man’s face, and said: 

“’Tis but ill-breeding in such as thou to command 
me to speak. I tell thee now, as I told thee 
before, I am Edward, Prince of Wales, and none 
other.” 

The stunning surprise of this reply nailed the 
hag’s feet to the floor where she stood, and almost 
took her breath. She stared at the prince in stupid 
amazement, which so amused her ruffianly son that 
he burst into a roar of laughter. But the effect 
upon Tom Canty’s mother and sisters was different. 
Their dread of bodily injury gave way at once to 
distress of a different sort. They ran forward with 
woe and dismay in their faces, exclaiming: 

“Oh, poor Tom, poor lad!” 

The mother fell on her knees before the prince, 
put her hands upon his shoulders, and gazed yearningly 
into his face through her rising tears. Then 
she said: 

“Oh, my poor boy! thy foolish reading hath 
wrought its woeful work at last, and ta’en thy wit 
away. Ah! why didst thou cleave to it when I so 
warned thee ’gainst it? Thou’st broke thy mother’s 
heart.” 

The prince looked into her face, and said gently: 

“Thy son is well and hath not lost his wits, good 
dame. Comfort thee; let me to the palace where 
he is, and straightway will the king my father 
restore him to thee.” 

“The king thy father! Oh, my child! unsay 
these words that be freighted with death for thee, 
and ruin for all that be near to thee. Shake off this 
gruesome dream. Call back thy poor wandering 
memory. Look upon me. Am not I thy mother 
that bore thee, and loveth thee?” 

The prince shook his head, and reluctantly said: 

“God knoweth I am loath to grieve thy heart; 
but truly have I never looked upon thy face be- 
fore.” 

The woman sank back to a sitting posture on the 
floor, and, covering her eyes with her hands, gave 
way to heartbroken sobs and wailings. 

“Let the show go on!” shouted Canty. “What, 
Nan! what. Bet! Mannerless wenches ! will ye stand 
in the prince’s presence? Upon your knees, ye 
pauper scum, and do him reverence!” 

He followed this with another horse-laugh. The 
girls began to plead timidly for their brother; and 
Nan said: 



“An thou wilt but let him to bed, father, rest 
and sleep will heal his madness; prithee, do.” 

“Do, father,” said Bet; “he is more worn than 
is his wont. To-morrow will he be himself again, 
and will beg with diligence, and come not empty 
home again.” 

This remark sobered the father's joviality, and 
brought his mind to business. He turned angrily 
upon the prince, and said; 

“The morrow must we pay two pennies to him 
that owns this hole; two pennies mark ye — all this 
money for a half-year’s rent, else out of this we go. 
Show what thou’st gathered with thy lazy begging.” 

The prince said: 

“Ofiend me not with thy sordid matters. I tell 
thee again I am the king’s son.” 

A sounding blow upon the prince’s shoulder from 
Canty’s broad palm sent him staggering into good- 
wife Canty’s arms, who clasped him to her breast, 
and sheltered him from a pelting rain of cuffs and 
slaps by interposing her own person. 

The frightened girls retreated to their comer; but 
the grandmother stepped eagerly forward to assist 
her son. The prince sprang away from Mrs. Canty, 
exclaiming: 

“Thou shalt not suffer for me, madam. Let these 
swine do their will upon me alone.” 

This speech infuriated the swine to such a degree 
that they set about their work without waste of time. 
Between them they belabored the boy right soundly, 
and then gave the girls and their mother a beating 
for showing sympathy for the victim. 


“Now,” said Canty, “to bed, all of ye. The 
entertainment has tired me.” 

The light was put out, and the family retired. As 
soon as the snorings of the head of the house and 
his mother showed that they were asleep, the yoimg 
girls crept to where the prince lay, and covered him 
tenderly from the cold with straw and rags ; and their 
mother crept to him also, and stroked his hair, and 
cried over him, whispering broken words of comfort 
and compassion in his ear the while. She had saved 
a morsel for him to eat also; but the boy’s pains 
had swept away all appetite — at least for black and 
tasteless crusts. He was touched by her brave and 
costly defense of him, and by her commiseration; 
and he thanked her in very noble and princely 
words, and begged her to go to her sleep and try to 
forget her sorrows. And he added that the king 
his father would not let her loyal kindness and de- 
votion go unrewarded. This return to his “mad- 
ness” broke her heart anew, and she strained him 
to her breast again and again and then went bade, 
drowned in tears, to her bed. 

As she lay thinking and mourning, the suggestion 
began to creep into her mind that there was an un- 
definable something about this boy that was lacking 
in Tom Canty, mad or sane. She could not describe 
it, she could not tell just what it was, and yet her 
sharp mother-instinct seemed to detect it and per- 
ceive it. What if the boy were really not her son, 
after all? Oh, absurd! She almost smiled at the 
idea, spite of her griefs and troubles. No matter, 
she found that it was an idea that would not “down,” 


but persisted in haunting her. It pursued her, it 
harassed her, it clung to her, and refused to be put 
away or ignored. At last she perceived that there 
was not going to be any peace for her until she 
should devise a test that should prove, clearly and 
without question, whether this lad was her son or 
not, and so banish these wearing and worrying 
doubts. Ah, yes, this was plainly the right way out 
of the diflSculty; therefore she set her wits to work 
at once to contrive that test. But it was an easier 
thing to propose than to accomplish. She turned 
over in her mind one promising test after another, 
but was obliged to relinquish them all — none of 
them, were absolutely sure, absolutely perfect; and 
an imperfect one could not satisfy her. Evidently 
she was racking her head in vain — it seemed manifest 
that she must give the matter up. While this de- 
pressing thought was passing through her mind, her 
ear caught the regular breathing of the boy, and 
she knew he had fallen asleep. And while she 
listened, the measured breathing was broken by a 
soft, startled cry, such as one utters in a troubled 
dream. This chance occurrence furnished her in- 
stantly with a plan worth all her labored tests com- 
bined. She at once set herself feverishly, but noise- 
lessly, to work to relight her candle, muttering to 
herself, “Had I but seen him then, I should have 
known ! Since that day, when he was little, that the 
powder burst in his face, he hath never been startled 
of a sudden out of his dreams or out of his think- 
ings, but he hath cast his hand before his eyes, even 
as he did that day, and not as others would do it, 

with the palm inward, but always with the palm 
turned outward — I have seen it a hundred times, 
and it hath never varied nor ever failed. Yes, I 
shall soon know now!” 

By this time she had crept to the slumbering 
boy’s side, with the candle shaded in her hand. She 
bent heedfully and warily over him, scarcely breath- 
ing, in her suppressed excitement, and suddenly 
flashed the light in his face and struck the floor by 
his ear with her knuckles. The sleeper’s eyes sprung 
wide open, and he cast a startled stare about him — 
but he made no special movement with his hands. 

The poor woman was smitten almost helpless with 
surprise and grief; but she contrived to hide her 
emotions, and to soothe the boy to sleep again; 
then she crept apart and communed miserably with 
herself upon the disastrous result of her experiment. 
She tried to believe that her Tom’s madness had 
banished this habitual gesture of his; but she could 
not do it. “No,” she said, “his hands are not mad, 
they could not tmleam so old a habit in so brief a 
time. Oh, this is a heavy day for me!” 

Still, hope was as stubborn now as doubt had 
been before; she could not bring herself to accept 
the verdict of the test; she must try the thing 
again — the failure must have been only an accident; 
so she startled the boy out of his sleep a second and 
a third time, at intervals — with the same result 
which had marked the first test — then she dragged 
herself to bed, and fell sorrowfully asleep, saying, 
“But I cannot give him up— oh, no, I cannot, I 
cannot — he must be my boy!” 

The poor mother’s interruptions having ceased, 
and the prince’s pains having gradually lost their 
power to disturb him, utter weariness at last sealed 
his eyes in a profound and restful sleep. Hour after 
hour slipped away, and still he slept like the dead. 
Thus four or five hours passed. Then his stupor 
began to lighten. Presently, while half asleep and 
half awake, he murmured: 

“Sir William!” 

After a moment : 

“Ho, Sir William Herbert! Hie thee hither, and 
list to the strangest dream that ever. ... Sir 
William! Dost hear? Man, I did think me changed 
to a pauper, and ... Ho there! Guards! Sir 
William! What! is there no groom of the chamber 
ip waiting? Alack it shall go hard with — ” 

“What aileth thee?” asked a whisper near him. 
“Who art thou calling?” 

“Sir William Herbert. Who art thou?” 

“I? Who should I be, but thy sister Nan? Oh, 
Tom, I had forgot! Thou’rt mad yet — poor lad 
thou’rt mad yet, would I had never woke to know 
it again! But, prithee, master thy tongue, lest we 
be all beaten till we die!” 

The startled princfe sprang partly up, but a sharp 
reminder from his stiffened bruises brought him to 
hims elf, and he sunk back among his fold straw with 
a moan and the ejaculation: 

“Alas, it was no dream, then!” 

In a moment all the heavy sorrow and misery 
which sleep had banished were upon him again, and 
he realized that he was no longer a petted prince in 
a palace, with the adoring eyes of a nation upon 
him, but a pauper, an outcast, clothed in rags, 
prisoner in a den fit only for beasts, and consorting 
with beggars and thieves. 

In the midst of his grief he began to be conscious 
of hilarious noises and shoutings, apparently but a 
block or two away. The next moment there were 
several sharp raps at the door; John Canty ceased 
from snoring and said: 

“Who knocketh? What wilt thou?” 

A voice answered; 

‘ ‘ Know’st thou who it was thou laid thy cudgel on ?” 

“No. Neither know I, nor care.” 

“Belike thou’lt change thy note eftsoons. An 
thou would save thy neek, nothing but flight may 
stead thee. The man is this moment delivering up 
the ghost. ’Tis the priest, Father Andrew!” 

“God-a-mercy!” exclaimed Canty. He roused 
his family, and hoarsely commanded, “Up with ye 
all and fly — or bide where ye are and perish!” 

Scarcely five minutes later the Canty household 
were in the street and flying for their lives. John 
Canty held the prince by the wrist, and hurried hhn 
along the dark way, giving him this caution in a 
low voice: 

“Mind thy tongue, thou mad fool, and speak not 
our name. I will choose me a new name, speedily, 
to throw the law’s dogs off the scent. Mind thy 
tongue, I tell thee!” 

He growled these words to the rest of the family: 

“If it so chance that we be separated, let each 
make for London Bridge; whoso findeth himself as 

far as the last linen-draper’s shop on the bridge, let 
him tarry there till the others be come, then will we 
flee into Southwark together.” 
