shall have nothing but level travelling, and the horses go pretty well." 
"Pretty well!" said Rotha laughing. "I am wondering then what you would 
call very well? We have got to cross the railway, Mr. Southwode. It runs 
by the foot of the hill." 
"There is no train near," he answered as he put his horses in motion. 
They went slowly down the hill, which was rough and steep. The horses 
behaved well, setting down their feet carefully, and holding back the 
carnage with the instinct or training which seems to be aware what would 
be the consequence of letting themselves and it go. But then happened one 
of those things against which instinct is no protection and training 
cannot provide. Just as a sharp turn in the road was reached, from which 
it went on turning round a shoulder of the hill till it reached the lower 
ground, this thing happened. It was the worst possible place for an 
accident; the descent was steep and rough and winding, the road 
disappearing from view behind the turn; and crossed evidently, just a 
little further below, by the railway track. The horses at this point came 
to a sudden stop. Mr. Southwode alone saw why. Some buckle or pin or 
strap, which had to do with the secure holding of the end of the carriage 
pole to the harness, was broken or had given way, and the pole had fallen 
to the ground. The horses had made an astonished pause, but he knew this 
pause would be followed the next instant by a mad headlong rush down the 
hill and a swallowing of the plain with their hoofs, if they ever reached 
it; which was in u high degree unlikely for them and impossible for the 
carriage. Rotha only knew that the horses quietly stopped, and that Mr. 
Southwode said quietly, 
"Jump, Rotha!" 
Yes, he said it quietly; and yet there was something in tone or accent 
which left no room for disobedience or even hesitation. That something 
was very much the matter, Rotha at once knew; and if there was danger she 
did not at all wish to get out of it and leave him to face it alone. She 
would rather have sat still and taken what came, so she took it with him. 
Moreover she had always been told that in case of a runaway the last 
thing to be done is to try to get out of the carriage. All this was full 
in her mind; and yet when Mr. Southwode said "Jump," she knew she must 
mind him. He offered her no help; but light and active as she was she did 
not need it; a step on the wheel and a spring to the ground, and she was 
safe. Just for that instant the horses stood still; then followed what 
their driver had known would follow. Almost as Rotha's foot touched the 
ground they dashed forward, and with one confused rush and whirl she saw 
them, phaeton and all, disappear round the turn of the hill. 
And there was the railway track to cross! Rotha stood still, feeling 
stunned and sick. It was all so sudden. One minute in happy safety and 
quiet, beside the person she liked best in the world; only the next 
minute alone and desolate, with the sight of him before her eyes hurled 
to danger and probable death. Danger? how could anything live to get to 
the bottom of that hill at the rate the horses took? 
Of the fallen carnage pole Rotha knew nothing, and needed not that to be 
assured that the chance of her ever hearing Mr. Southwode speak again was 
a very, very slender one. She did not think; she merely knew all this, 
with a dumb, blank consciousness; she stood still, mechanically pressing 
her hands upon her heart. The noise of the horses' hoofs and the rushing 
wheels had been swallowed up by the intervening hill, and the stillness 
was simply mocking in its tranquil peacefulness. The sunlight at the 
glory of which they had both been looking, had hardly died away from the 
landscape; and one of them, most likely, was beyond seeing the light of 
earth forevermore. Rotha stood as still as death herself, listening for a 
sound that came not, and gradually growing white and whiter. Yet she 
never was in any danger of fainting; no sealing of her senses served as a 
release to her pain; in full, clear consciousness she stood there, and 
heard the silence and saw the sweet fall of the evening light upon the 
plain. Only stunned; with a consciousness that was but partially alive to 
suffering. I suppose the mind cannot fully take in such a change at once. 
She was so stunned, that several minutes passed before she could act, or 
move; and it seemed that the silence and peace had long been reigning 
over hill and plain, when she roused herself to go down the road. 
She went then with dreadful haste, yet so trembling that she could not go 
as fast as she would. The horror of what might be at the bottom of the 
hill might have kept her for ever upon it; but the need to know was 
greater still; and so with an awful fear of what every step might bring 
her to, she sped down the hill. She heard no noise; she saw no wreck; 
following the winding of the road, which wound fearfully down such a 
steep, she came to the railway crossing and passed it, and followed on 
still further down; the curve of the road always hiding from her what 
might be beyond. Her feet got wings at last; she was shaking in every 
joint, yet fairly flew along, being unable to endure the fear and 
uncertainty. No trace of any disaster met her eyes; no call for help or 
cry to the horses came to her ears; what did the silence portend? 
Just at the bottom the road made another sharp turn around a clump of 
woodland. Rounding this turn, Rotha came suddenly upon what she sought. 
The first glance shewed her that Mr. Southwode was upon his feet; the 
second that the horses were standing still. Rotha hardly saw anything 
more. She made her way, still running, till she got to Mr. Southwode's 
side, and there stopped and looked at him; with white lips apart and eyes 
that put an intense question. For though she saw him standing and 
apparently well able to stand, the passion of fear could not so 
immediately be driven out by the evidence of one sense alone. He met the 
urgency of her eyes and smiled. 
"I am all right," he said. 
"Not hurt?" 
"Not in the least." 
Looking at her still, for her face had startled him, he saw a change come 
over it which was beyond the demands of mere friendly solicitude, even 
when very warm. He saw the flash of intense joy in her eyes, and what was 
yet more, a quiver in the unbent lovely lines about the mouth. One does 
not stop to reason out conclusions at such a time. Mr. Southwode was 
still holding the reins of the panting horses, the carriage was a wreck a 
few yards off, they were miles away from home; he forgot it all, and 
acting upon one of those subtle instincts which give no account of 
themselves, he laid one arm lightly around Rotha and bent down and kissed 
the unsteady lips. 
A sudden flood of scarlet, so intense that it was almost pain, shot over 
Rotha's face, and her eyes drooped and failed utterly to meet his. She 
had been very near bursting into tears, woman's natural relief from 
overstrained nerves; but his kiss turned the current of feeling into 
another channel, and the sting of delight and pain was met by an 
overwhelming consciousness. Had she betrayed herself? What made him do 
that? It was good for Rotha just then that she was no practised woman of 
the world, not skilled in any manner of evasion or trick of deceptive 
art. If she had been; if she had answered his demonstration with a little 
cold, careless laugh, and turned it off with a word of derision; as I 
suppose she would if she had not been so utterly true and honest, 
according to a woman's terrible instinct of self-preservation, or 
preservation of her secret; he would have thought as he had thought 
before--she loves me as a child does. But the extreme confusion, and the 
lovely abasement of the lowered brow, went to his heart with their 
unmistakeable revelation. Instead of releasing her, he put both arms 
round her now and gently drew her up to him. But Rotha was by no means so 
clear in her mind as by this time he was. She did not understand his 
action, and so misinterpreted it. She made a brave effort to relieve him 
from what she thought overwrought gratitude. 
"That is nothing to thank me for, Mr. Southwode," she said. "Any friend 
would have been anxious, in my place." 
"True. Were you anxious simply as a friend, Rotha?" 
Rotha hesitated, and the hesitation lasted till it amounted to an 
eloquent answer; and the arms that held her drew her a little closer. 
"But I do not understand--" she managed to say. 
"Do you not? I do. I think I can make you understand too." 
But his explanations were wordless, and if convincing were exceedingly 
confusing to Rotha. 
"But Mr. Southwode!--what do you mean?" she managed at last to say, 
trying to release herself. 
"I mean, that you belong to me, and I belong to you, for the rest of our 
lives. That is what I mean." 
"Are you sure?" 
"Yes," said he with a low laugh; "and so are you. When you and I mean a 
thing, we mean it." 
Rotha wondered that he could mean it, and she wondered how he could know 
that she meant it. Had she somehow betrayed herself? and how? She felt 
very humble, and very proud at the same time; in one way esteeming at its 
full value the woman's heart and life she had to give, as every woman 
should; in another way thinking it not half good enough. Shamefaced, 
because her secret was found out, yet too honest and noble of nature to 
attempt any poor effort at deceit, she stood with lights and shadows 
flying over her face in a lovely and most womanly manner; yet mostly 
lights, of shy modesty and half veiled gladness and humble 
content. Fifty things came to her lips to say, and she could speak none 
of them; and she began to wish the silence would be broken. 
"How did you know, Mr. Southwode?" she burst forth at last, that question 
pressing too hard to be satisfied. 
"Know what?" said he. 
"I mean--you know what I mean! I mean,--now came you--what made you--
speak as you did? I mean! that isn't it. I mean, what justification did 
you think you had?" 
Mr. Southwode laughed his low laugh again. 
"Do I need justification?" 
"Yes, for jumping at conclusions." 
"That is the way they say women always do." 
"Not in such things!" 
"Perhaps not. Certainly you have not done it in this case." 
"How came you to do it? Please answer me! Mr. Southwode, are you sure you 
know what you mean? You did not think of any such thing when we set out 
upon our drive this afternoon?" Rotha spoke with great and painful 
difficulty, but she felt she must speak. 
"I had thought of it. But Rotha, I was not sure of you." 
"In what way?" 
"I knew you cared for me, a good deal; but I fancied it was merely a 
child's devotion, which would vanish fast away as soon as the right claim 
was made to your heart." 
"And why do you not think so still?" said Rotha, the flames of 
consciousness flashing up to her very brow. But Mr. Southwode only 
laughed softly and kissed, both lips and brow, tenderly and reverently, 
if very assuredly. 
"I have not done anything--" said Rotha, trembling and a little 
distressed. 
"Nothing, but to be true and pure and natural; and so has come the answer 
to my question, which I might not have ventured to ask. Mrs. Purcell 
asked me to-day whether I was going to marry you, and I said no; for I 
never could have let you marry me with a child's transient passion and 
find out afterwards that your woman's heart was not given me. But now I 
will correct my answer to Mrs. Purcell, if I have opportunity." 
"But," said Rotha hesitating,--"I think in one thing you are mistaken. I 
do not think my feeling has really changed, since long ago." 
"Did you give me your woman's heart then?" 
"You think I had it not to give; but I think, I gave you all I had. And 
though I have changed, that has not changed." 
"I take it," he said. "And what I have to give you, I will let my life 
tell you. Now we must try to get home." 
Released from the arm that had held her all this while, Rotha for the 
first time surveyed the ground. There were the horses, standing quietly 
enough after their mad rush down the hill; panting yet, and feeling 
nervous, as might be seen by the movement of ears and air of head. And a 
few rods behind lay what had been the phaeton; now a thorough and utter 
wreck. 
"How did it happen?" exclaimed Rotha, in a sudden spasm of dread catching 
hold of Mr. Southwode's arm. He told her what had been the beginning of 
the trouble. 
"What carelessness! But how have you escaped? And how came the carriage 
to be such a smash?" 
"I knew what was before me, when on the hill the horses made that sudden 
pause and I saw the pole on the ground. I knew they would be still only 
that one instant. Then I told you to jump. You behaved very well." 
"I did nothing," said Rotha. "The tone of your voice, when you said 
'Jump!' was something, or had something in it, which I could not possibly 
disobey. I did not want to jump, at all; but I had no choice. Then?--" 
"Then followed what I knew must come. You saw how we went down the hill; 
but happily the road turned and you could not see us long. I do not know 
how we went scathless so far as we did; but at last the end of the pole 
of the phaeton lodged against some obstacle in the road, stuck fast, and 
the carriage simply turned a somersault over it, throwing me out into 
safety, and itself getting presently broken almost to shivers." 
"Throwing you out into safety!" Rotha exclaimed, turning pale. 
"Don't I look safe?" said he smiling. 
"And you are as cool as if nothing had happened." 
"Am I? On the contrary, I feel very warm about the region of my heart, 
and as if a good deal had happened. Now Rotha, we have got to walk home. 
How many miles it is, I do not know." 
"And I do not care!" said Rotha. "But how came you to keep hold of the 
reins all the time? Or did you catch them afterwards?" 
"No, I held on to them. It was the only way to save the horses." 
"But they were running! How could you?" 
"I do not know; only what has to be done, generally can be done. We will 
take the rest of the way gently." 
But I am not sure that they did; and I am sure that they did not much 
think how they took it. Rather briskly, I fancy, following the horses, 
which were restless yet; and with a certain apprehension that there was a 
long way to go. On the roads they had travelled at first coming out there 
had been frequently a farmhouse to be seen; now they came to none. The 
road was solitary, stretching away between tracts of rocky and stony 
soil, left to its natural condition, and with patches of wood. But what a 
walk that was after all! The mild, mellow October light beautified even 
the barren spots of earth, and made the woodland tufts of foliage into 
clusters of beauty. As the light faded, the hues of things grew softer; a 
spicier fragrance came from leaf and stem; the gently gathering dusk 
seemed to fold the two who were walking through it into a more reserved 
world of their own. And then, above in the dark bright sky lights began 
to look forth, so quiet, so peaceful, as if they were blinking their 
sympathy with the wanderers. These did not talk very much, and about 
nothing but trifling matters by the way; yet it came over Rotha's mind 
that perhaps in all future time she would never have a pleasanter walk 
than this. Could life have anything better? And she might have been 
right, if she had been like many, who know nothing more precious than the 
earthly love which for her was just in its blossoming time. But she was 
wrong; for to people given over, as these two were, to the service of 
Christ, the joys of life are on an ascending scale; experience brings 
more than time takes away; affection, having a joint object beyond and 
above each other, does never grow weary or stale, and never knows 
disappointment or satiety; and the work of life brings in delicious 
fruits as they go, and the light of heaven shines brighter and brighter 
upon their footsteps. It can be only owing to their own fault, if to-
morrow is not steadily better than to-day. 
But from what I have said it will appear that Rotha was presently in a 
contented state of mind; and she went revolving all sorts of things in 
her thoughts as she walked, laying up stores of material for future 
conversations, which however she was glad Mr. Southwode did not begin 
now. 
As for Mr. Southwode, he minded his horses, and also minded her; but if 
he spoke at all it was merely to remark on some rough bit of ground, or 
some wonderful bit of colour in the evening sky. 
"Well, hollo, mister!" cried a hotel hostler as they approached near 
enough to have the manner of their travelling discernible,--"what ha' 
you done wi' your waggin?" 
"I was unable to do anything with it." 
"Where is it then?" 
"About five miles off, I judge, lying at the foot of a hill." 
"Spilled, hey?" 
"It will never hold anything again." 
"What's that? what's this?" cried the landlord now, issuing from the 
lower door of the house; "what's wrong here, sir?" 
"I do not know," said Mr. Southwode; "but there has been carelessness 
somewhere. Either the hostler did his work with his eyes shut, or the 
leather of the harness gave way, or the iron work of something. The pole 
fell, as we were going down a steep hill; of course the phaeton is a 
wreck. I could only save the horses." 
The landlord was in a great fume. 
"Sir, sir," he stammered and blustered,--"this is your account of it." 
"Precisely," said Mr. Southwode. "That is my account of it." 
"How in thunder did it happen? It was bad driving, I expect." 
"It was nothing of the kind. It was a steep hill, a dropped carriage 
pole, and a run. You could not expect the horses not to run. And of 
course the carriage went to pieces." 
"Who was in it?" 
"I was in it. The lady jumped out, just before the run began." 
"Didn't you know enough to jump too?" 
"I knew enough not to jump," said Mr. Southwode, laughing a little. "By 
that means I saved your horses." 
"And I expect you want me to take that as pay for the carriage! and take 
your story too. But it was at your risk, sir--at your risk. When I sends 
out a team, without I sends a man with it, it's at the driver's risk, 
whoever he is. I expect you to make it good, sir. I can't afford no 
otherwise. The phaeton was in good order when it went out o' this yard; 
and I expect you to bring it back in good order, or stand the loss. My 
business wouldn't keep me, sir, on no other principles. You must make the 
damage good, if you're a gentleman or no gentleman." 
"Take the best supposition, and let me have supper. If you will make 
that good, Mr. Landlord, you may add the phaeton to my bill." 
"You'll pay it, I s'pose?" cried the anxious landlord, as his guest 
turned away. 
"I always pay my bills," said Mr. Southwode, mounting the steps to the 
piazza. "Now Rotha, come and have something to eat." 
Supper was long since over for the family; the two had the great dining 
hall to themselves. It was the room in which Rotha had taken her solitary 
breakfast the morning of her arrival. Now as she and her companion took 
their seats at one of the small tables, it seemed to the girl that she 
had got into an enchanted country. Aladdin's vaults of jewels were not a 
pleasanter place in his eyes, than this room to her to-night. And she had 
not to take care even of her supper; care of every sort was gone. One 
thing however was on Rotha's mind. 
"Mr. Southwode," she said as soon as they had placed themselves,--"it was 
not your fault, all that about the phaeton." 
"No." 
"Then you ought not to pay for it." 
"It would be more loss to this poor man, than to me, Rotha, I fancy." 
"Yes, but right is right. Making a present is one thing; paying an unjust 
charge is another. It is allowing that you were to blame." 
"I do not know that it is unjust. And peace is worth paying for, if the 
phaeton is not." 
"How much do you suppose it will be?" 
"I do not know," he said laughing a little. "Are you anxious, about it?" 
Rotha coloured up brightly. "It seems like allowing that you were in the 
wrong," she said. "And the man was very impertinent." 
"I recognize your old fierce logic of justice. Haven't you learned yet 
that one must give and take a good deal in this world, to get along 
smoothly? No charge the man can ever make will equal what the broken 
phaeton is worth to me, Rotha." 
CHAPTER XXXI. 
DISCUSSIONS. 
The sitting room, when they came to it after supper, looked as pleasant 
as a hotel sitting room could. It was but a bare apartment, after the 
fashion of country hotels; however it was filled with the blaze of a good 
fire, and that gives a glimmer of comfort anywhere. Moreover it was a 
private room; they had it to themselves. Now what next? thought Rotha. 
Mr. Southwode put a chair for her, gave a little dressing to the fire, 
and then stood by the mantel-piece with his back towards it, so that his 
face was in shadow. Probably he was considering Rotha's face, into which 
the fire shone full. For it was a pleasant thing to look at, with its 
brightness just now softened by a lovely veil of modesty, and a certain 
unmistakeable blessedness of content lurking in the corners of the mouth 
and the lines of the brow. It met all the requirements of a fastidious 
man. There was sense, dignity, refinement, sensitiveness, and frankness; 
and the gazer almost forgot what he wanted to do, in the pleasure of 
looking. Rotha had time to wonder more than once "what next?"  
"It seems to me we have a great deal to talk about, Rotha," Mr. Southwode 
said at last. "And not much time. What comes first?" 
"I suppose," said Rotha, "the first thing is, that I must go back to 
school." 
"I suppose you must!" he said. There was an accent about it that made 
Rotha laugh. 
"Why I must of course!" she said. "I do not know anything;--only the 
beginnings of things." 
"Yes," repeated Mr. Southwode, "for a year you must go, I suppose. For a 
year.-- After that, I will not wait any longer. You shall do the rest of 
your studying with me." 
"You know I like that best of all--" she said softly. 
"Perhaps I will take you to Germany." 
"Germany!"-- 
"It is a good place to study German. Or to study anything." 
"Must one go to France too, to study French?" Rotha asked with a nervous 
laugh. 
"We must not be too long away from home. But a year--or till next summer; 
school terms end in summer, do they not?" 
"In June." 
"So, for a year, or for eight months, I shall hardly see you. We must do 
a great deal of talking to-night." 
"Where will you be, Mr. Digby?" Rotha asked timidly, as he took a chair 
beside her. 
"Not far off; but for this interval I shall choose to play the part of 
guardian, rather than that of lover, before the eyes of the world." 
"O yes, indeed!" said Rotha earnestly. "For every reason." 
"All the more, I am not going to play the part of guardian to-night. 
Rotha I think now, it would be as well to return to Mrs. Mowbray for 
these eight months. Would you like that?" 
"O I shall like it very much! if you like it." 
"Things are changed, since we talked about it this afternoon." 
"Yes!--" said Rotha breathless. And there was something she wanted to 
say, but at that minute she could not say it. For that minute she could 
not disturb the sweetness of things as they were. Scruples must wait. 
Mr. Southwode saw that she was a little disturbed, shy and nervous, 
albeit there was no doubt that she was very happy. He stretched out his 
hand and took hers, holding it in a fast steady clasp; as if to assure 
her of something tangible and real in her new happiness. "Now," said 
he, "tell me about yourself--about all these years." 
"I did tell you, in part." 
"Yes. Tell me the other part. I want to have the whole now." 
"It would just--annoy you, I am afraid." 
"What sort of a home did you have with your aunt?" 
"Not pleasant. That was partly my own fault. I was not patient and 
gentle and quiet--as you told me to be. I got into a kind of a fury, at 
things and at her." 
"What did she do?" 
And then Rotha told him the whole story, not sparing herself at all by 
the way; till he knew pretty well what her life had been these three 
years, and what part Mrs. Mowbray and what part Mrs. Busby had played in 
it. Only one thing Rotha did not tell him; the episode of the stockings. 
He listened in absolute silence, save that now and then he helped her on 
with a question; holding her hand firmly all the while. And Rotha felt 
the clasp and knew what it meant, and poured out her heart. After she had 
done, he was still silent a minute. 
"What shall we do to Mrs. Mowbray!" he broke out. 
"You cannot do anything to her," said Rotha. "Thanks are nothing; and 
there is no way of doing the least thing beside;--unless she could be 
very ill and left to my care; and I do not wish that." 
"Perhaps she will give up schooling some day; and we will coax her over 
to England and make her live with us." 
Rotha started and turned upon the speaker one of her brilliant looks. A 
sort of delight at the thought, and admiration of his thought, with a 
flush of intense affection which regarded at least two people, made her 
face like a cluster of diamonds. Mr. Southwode smiled, and then began to 
talk about that home to which he had alluded. He described it to Rotha; 
sketched the plan of the house for her; told her about the people of the 
surrounding country. The house was not magnificent or stately, he said; 
but large, comfortable, old, and rather picturesque in appearance; 
standing in the midst of extensive and very lovely grounds, where art had 
not interfered with nature. He told Rotha he thought she would like it. 
Rotha's eyes fell; she made no answer, but was he thought very grave. He 
went on to tell her about himself and his business. He, and his father 
and grandfather before him, had been owners of a large manufacturing 
establishment, the buildings of which made almost a village some three 
miles from the house, and the workmen in which were very many. 
"Isn't that troublesome often?" Rotha asked, forgetting herself now. 
"No. Why should it be troublesome?" 
"I read in the papers so much about strikes, and disagreements between 
masters and workmen in this country." 
"We never had a strike, and we never have disagreements." 
"That is nice; but how do you manage? I suppose I can guess! They all do 
what you tell them." 
"I do not tell them anything unreasonable." 
"Still, ignorant people do not always know what is reasonable." 
"That is true. And it is rather the Golden Rule we go by, than the might 
of Reason or the reign of Law." 
"How do you manage, Mr. Digby?" 
"I am not to be Mr. Digby always, I hope?" 
"This year--" murmured Rotha.
"This year! I do not mean to ask anything unreasonable of you either; but 
I would like you to remember that things are changed," he said, amused. 
"Yes, I will," said Rotha confusedly--"I will remember; I do remember, 
but now please tell me about your factory people." 
"What about them?" 
"O, how you manage; how they do; anything!" 
"Well--the hands go to work at six o'clock, and work two hours; or not 
quite that, for the bell rings in time to let them wash their hands 
before breakfast; and for that there are rooms provided, with soap and 
towels and everything necessary. Then they gather in the dining halls, 
where their breakfast is ready; or if any of them prefer to bring their 
own food, it is cooked for them. There is no compulsion." 
"What do they have for breakfast?" 
"Coffee and tea and bread, and porridge with milk or with syrup--all at 
certain fixed low rates and all of good quality. There are people to 
cook, and boys and girls to wait upon the tables. They have the time till 
half past eight, but it is not all used for eating; the last quarter of 
an hour they stroll about and talk together. At half past eight comes the 
time for prayers. One of the managers conducts the service in the chapel; 
the Bible is read, and a hymn is sung, and there is a short prayer. At 
nine o'clock all hands go back to work." 
"They have had an hour's good rest," said Rotha. "You say, in the  
chapel? have you a chapel for them?" 
"In the midst of the mills. It is a pretty little building--in old 
English rustic style; I think it very pretty." 
"I dare say the people enjoy that," said Rotha. "It ought to be pretty, 
for them. I should think your hands would never want to leave you, Mr. 
Southwode." 
"They never do. And as I told you, there is never a question of strikes. 
Neither do we ever have a time of bad business. The work done is so 
thorough and has been so long well known, that we never need to ask for 
orders. We never lose by making bad debts; and we never give notes, or 
take them. I say 'we'--I am using the old formula--it is all in my hand 
now." 
"Why are not other people wise enough to make such arrangements and have 
the same sort of comfort?" 
"Men fail to recognize their common humanity with those under them. That 
has been the basis of our management from the beginning. But the chapel, 
and the religious influence, are of later date.--I must find a ring for 
this finger, Rotha." 
"A ring!" exclaimed the girl. 
"Yes. Is not that the custom here? to make people remember what they have 
pledged themselves to?--" he said smiling. 
"Oh never mind that, Mr. Southwode!" said Rotha hurriedly. "Go on and 
tell me more about your mill people." 
"What shall I tell you?" 
"About your ways,--and their ways. When do they have dinner?" 
"Between one and two. They have an hour for it. A little after half past 
one they go to work again and work till six; only they have time allowed 
them for tea and coffee at half past four." 
"There is no drinking, I suppose?" 
"Not even of beer. Half the people do their work at their own homes; they 
bring it in on certain days, when we give them hot tea and coffee and 
bread and cheese, which they have without paying for it. That saves them 
from the temptation of the public houses; and there is no such thing as 
drunkenness known in the community." 
"Tea and coffee seem to play a great part," said Rotha. 
"So they do. People steadily at work in any mechanical way need frequent 
refreshment of body, which also in some degree is refreshment of mind; 
and there, as beer and whiskey are banished, tea and coffee come in 
happily. I do not know how they would manage without them.--Then in 
various ways we minister to the people and care for them; so that we are 
like one big family. When any are sick, they are paid at least half wages 
all the time; and by clubbing together it is generally made up to full 
wages. We have hospitals, where they have board and lodging and care in 
addition to half wages; but there is no compulsion about going to the 
hospitals. And whenever any of them are in any sort of trouble, they come 
to us for counsel and sympathy and help; my father knew them all 
personally, and so do I, and so did my dear mother when she was living. 
But a mistress is wanted there now, Rotha," Mr. Southwode went on. "I 
cannot do all I would alone, nor half so well what I do. Your place is 
ready." 
"O do not speak so!" cried Rotha catching her breath. "I wish I were fit 
for it." 
"Fit for it!" said he, putting his hand under her chin and drawing his 
fingers slowly along the delicate outlines, while the blood mounted into 
her cheeks and flamed out vividly. 
"You make me feel so very small, telling me all these things!" she said. 
"They are such grand things! And what am I?" 
He lifted her face, not without a little resistance on her part, till he 
could reach her lips, and gave his answer there first; gave it tenderly, 
and laughingly. 
"You are mine," he said; "and what is mine I do not like anybody to find 
fault with, except myself." 
"I mean it seriously, Mr. Digby--" Rotha made effort to say. 
"So do I. And seriously, I want you there very much. I want your help in 
the schools, and with men, women and children out of the schools. It is 
pleasant work too. They are always glad to see me; and they will be more 
glad to see you." 
"Never!" said Rotha energetically. "What is the name of the place? you 
never told me." 
"Southwode." 
"Southwode! That is pretty." 
"I  am glad you think so. I will shew you, if I can, a little what the 
house is like." 
He had sketched the ground plan of it before; now he drew the elevation, 
giving some hints of the surrounding trees and further lines of the 
landscape; telling her all sorts of quiet details about this room and 
that room, this and that growth of trees, or plantation, or shrubbery. 
And Rotha looked on and listened, in a kind of dream witchery of 
pleasure; absorbed, fascinated, with very fulness of content. 
Nevertheless, her mind was not settled on one point, and that a very 
essential point; and after the evening was over and she was alone in her 
own room, she thought about it a great deal. She could not think 
regularly; that was impossible; she was in too great a confusion of 
emotions; happiness and wonder and strangeness and doubt made a 
labyrinth; through which Rotha had no clue but a thread of sensitive 
impulse; a woman's too frequent only leader, or misleader. That thread 
she held fast to; and made up her mind that certain words in consonance 
therewith should certainly be spoken to Mr. Digby in the morning. It 
would not be easy, nor pleasant. No, not at all; but that made no 
difference. She had taken to her room with her the sketch which Mr. 
Southwode had made of his home; she would keep that always. It was very 
lovely to Rotha's eyes. She looked at it fondly, longingly, even with a 
tear or two; but all the same, one thing she was sure it was right to do, 
to say; and she would do it, though it drew the heart out of her body. 
She thought about it for a while, trying to arrange how she should do it; 
but then went to sleep, and slept as if all cares were gone. 
She slept late; then dressed hastily, nervously, thinking of her task. It 
would be very difficult to speak so that her words would have any chance 
of effect; but Rotha set her teeth with the resolve that it should be 
done. Better any pain or awkwardness than a mistake now. Now or never a 
mistake must be prevented. She went to the sitting room with her heart 
beating. Mr. Digby was already there, and the new, unwonted manner of his 
greeting nearly routed Rotha's plan of attack. She stood still to collect 
her forces. She was sure the breakfast bell would ring in a minute, and 
then the game would be up. Mr. Southwode set a chair for her, and turned 
to gather together some papers on the table; he had been writing. 
"What o'clock is it?" Rotha asked, to make sure of her own voice. 
"Almost breakfast time, if that is what you mean. Are you hungry?" 
"I--do not know," said Rotha. "Mr. Digby--"
Mr. Digby knew her well enough and knew the tone of her voice well 
enough, to be almost sure of what sort of thing was coming. He answered 
with a matter-of-fact "What, Rotha?" 
"I want to say something to you--" But her breath came and went hastily. 
Then he came and put his arms round her, and told her to speak. 
"It is not easy to speak--what I want to say." 
"I am not anxious to make it easy!" 
"Why not?" said Rotha, looking suddenly up at him, with such innocent, 
eager, questioning eyes that he was much inclined to put a sudden stop to 
her communications. But she had something on her mind, and it was better 
that she should get rid of it; so he restrained himself. 
"Go on, Rotha. What is it?" 
"I can hardly talk to you so, Mr. Digby. I think, if I were standing over 
yonder by the window, with all that space between us, I could manage it 
better." 
"I am not going to put space between us in any way, nor for any reason. 
What is this all about?" 
"It is just that, Mr. Southwode. I think--I am afraid--I think, perhaps, 
you spoke hastily to me yesterday, and might find out afterwards that it 
was not just the best thing--" 
"What?" 
"I--for you," said the girl bravely; though her cheeks burned and every 
nerve in her trembled. He could feel how she was trembling. "I think--
maybe,--you might find it out after a while; and I would rather you 
should find it out at once. I propose,"--she went on hurriedly, forcing 
herself to say all she had meant to say;--"I propose, that we agree to 
let things be as if you had not said it; let things be as they were--for 
a year,--until next summer, I mean. And then, if you think it was not a 
mistake, you can tell me." 
She had turned a little pale now, and her lip quivered slightly. And 
after a slight pause, which Mr. Southwode did not break, she went on,--
"And, in the mean time, we will let nobody know anything about it." 
"I shall tell Mrs. Mowbray the first five minutes I am in her company," 
he said. 
Rotha looked up again, but then her eyes fell, and the strained lines of 
brow and lips relaxed, and the colour rose. 
"About Mrs. Busby, you shall do as you please. You do not know me yet, 
Rotha--my little Rotha! Do you think I would say to any woman what I said 
to you yesterday, and not know my own mind?" 
"No--" Rotha said softly. "But I thought I was so unfit I do not know 
what I thought! only I knew I must speak to you." 
"You are a brave girl," said he tenderly, "and my very darling." And he 
allowed himself the kisses now. "Was that all, Rotha?" 
"Yes," she whispered. 
"You have nothing else on your mind?" 
"No." 
"Then come to breakfast. It is always bad to go to breakfast with 
anything on your mind. It is only on my mind that it is so long to next 
June!" 
Rotha however was very willing it should be so. She wanted all these 
months, to study, to work, to think, to make herself as ready as she 
could be for what was before her. 
The train could not take them until eleven o'clock. After breakfast Rotha 
sat for a time meditating, no longer on troublesome subjects, while Mr. 
Southwode finished the letter he had begun earlier. As he began to fold 
up his paper, she came out with a question. 
"Mr. Southwode, what do you think I had better specially study this 
winter?" 
He did not smile, for if the question was put like a child, the work he 
knew would be done like a woman. He asked quietly, 
"What is your object in going to school at all?" 
The answer lingered, till his eyes looked up for it; then Rotha said, 
while a lovely flush covered the girl's face,--
"That you may not be ashamed of me." 
"That contingency never came under my consideration," he said, commanding 
his gravity. 
"But indeed it did under mine!" 
"Allow me to ask a further question. After that, do you expect to make it 
the main business of your life to please me?" 
"I suppose so," said Rotha, flushing deeper but speaking frankly, as her 
manner was. "It would be nothing new." 
"I should think that would come to be terribly monotonous!" he said with 
feigned dryness. 
"On the contrary!" said Rotha. "That is just what saves life from 
monotony." And then her colour fairly flamed up; but she would not 
qualify her words. 
"Right in principle," he said, smiling now, "but wrong in application." 
"How, Mr. Digby?" said Rotha, a little abashed. 
He threw his letter on one side, came and sat down by her, and putting 
his arm round her shoulders, answered first by one of those silent 
answers which--sometimes--say so much more than anything spoken. 
"I should be a sorry fellow," he said, "if I did not estimate those words 
at their full value, which to me is beyond value. I know you of old, and 
how much they mean. But, Rotha, this is not to be the rule of your 
life,--nor of mine." 
"Why not?" she asked shyly. 
"Because we are both servants of another Master, whom we love even better 
than we love each other." 
Did they? Did she? Rotha leaned her head upon her hand and queried. Was 
she all right there? Or, as her heart was bounding back to the allegiance 
she had so delighted to give to Mr. Digby, might she be in danger of 
putting that allegiance first? He would not do the like. No, he would 
never make such a mistake; but she?--Mr. Southwode went on, 
"That would put life at a lower figure than I want it to be, for you or 
for myself. No, Christ first; and his service, and his honour, and his 
pleasure and his will, first. After that, then nothing dearer, and 
nothing to which we owe more, than each of us to the other." 
As she was silent, he asked gently, "What do you say to it, Rotha?" 
"Of course you are right. Only--I am afraid I have not got so far as you 
have." 
"You only began the other day. But we are settling principles. I want 
this one settled clearly and fully, so that we may regulate every 
footstep by it." 
"Every footstep?" Rotha repeated, looking up for a glance. 
"You do not understand that?" 
"No." 
"It is the rule of all my footsteps. I want it to be the rule of all 
yours. Let me ask you a question. In view of all that Christ has done for 
us, what do we owe him?" 
"Why--of course--all," said Rotha looking up. 
"What does 'all' mean? There is nothing like defining terms." 
"What can 'all' mean but all?" 
"There is a general impression among many Christians that the whole does 
not include the parts." 
"Among Christians?" 
"Among many who are called so." 
"But how do you mean?" 
"Do you know there is such a thing as saying 'yes' in general, and 'no' 
in particular? What in your understanding of it, does 'all' include?" 
"Everything, of course." 
"That is my understanding of it. Then we owe to our Master all we have?" 
"Yes--" said Rotha with slight hesitation. Mr. Southwode smiled. 
"That is certainly the Bible understanding of it. 'For the love of Christ 
constraineth us; because we thus judge, that if one died for all, then 
were all dead; and that he died for all, that they which live should not 
henceforth live unto themselves, but unto him which died for them and 
rose again.'" 
"But how much is involved in that 'living to him'?" 
"Let us find out, if we can. Turn to Lev. xiv. and read at the 14th 
verse. These are the directions for the cleansing of a leper who has been 
healed of his leprosy." He gave her his Bible, and she read. 
"'And the priest shall take some of the blood of the trespass offering, 
and the priest shall put it upon the tip of the right ear of him that is 
to be cleansed, and upon the thumb of his right hand, and upon the great 
toe of his right foot. And the priest shall take some of the log of oil, 
and pour it into the palm of his own left hand, and shall sprinkle of the 
oil with his finger seven times before the Lord: and of the rest of the 
