Tita, of whom you have heard me speak; we first called her Petite, then
Tita. Mr. Pronando and Tita are married."
"The same Pronando to whom you were engaged?"
"Yes. He is--"
"Oh, I do not care to hear anything about him. Give me your hand,
Anne. Take off that ring."
"No; it was a present from my pupils," she said, drawing back with a
smile, but at the same time an inward sigh of relief that the disclosure
was over. "They--"
"If you knew what I suffered when I read that notice!" pursued
Heathcote, without heeding her. "The world seemed all wrong then
forever. For there was something about you, Anne, which brought out what
small good there was in my worthless self, and young as you were, you
yet in one way ruled me. I might have borne the separation itself, but
the thought that any other man should call you wife was intolerable to
me. I had--I still have it--a peculiar feeling about you. In some
mysterious way you had come to be the one real faith of my life. I was
bitterly hurt and angry when you ran away from me; but angry as I was, I
still searched for you, and would have searched again if Helen had
not--But never mind that now. If I have loved you, Anne, you have loved
me just as dearly. And now you are here, and I am here, let us ask no
more questions, but just--be happy."
"But," said the girl, breathlessly, "Helen--?" Then she stopped.
Heathcote was watching her. She tried to be calm, but her lips trembled.
A little skill in deception now, poor Anne, would have been of saving
help. Heathcote still watched her in silence--watched her until at last
she turned toward him.
"Did you not know," he said, slowly meeting her eyes--"did you not know
that Helen was--married?"
"Married? And not to you?"
There was a perceptible pause. Then he answered. "Not to me."
A silence followed. A whirl of conflicting feelings filled Anne's heart;
she turned her face away, blushing deeply, and conscious of it. "I hope
she is happy," she murmured at last, striving to speak naturally.
"I think she is." Then he stretched out his hands and took hers. "Turn
this way, so that I can see you," he said, beseechingly.
She turned, and it seemed to him that eyes never beheld so exquisite a
face.
"My darling, do you love me? Tell me so. If I was not a poor sick
fellow, I should take you in my arms and draw your sweet face down upon
my shoulder. But, as it is--" He moved nearer, and tried to lift himself
upon his elbow.
There was a feebleness in the effort which went to Anne's heart. She
loved him so deeply! They were both free now, and he was weak and ill.
With a sudden impulse she drew nearer, so that his head could rest on
her shoulder. He silently put out his hand; she took it in hers; then he
closed his eyes as if content.
As for Anne, she felt an outburst of happiness almost too great to bear;
her breath came and went so quickly that Heathcote perceived it, and
raising her hand he pressed it to his lips. Still he did not open his
eyes, or speak one word further to the blushing, beautiful woman whose
arm was supporting him, and whose eyes, timid yet loving, were resting
upon his face. If he had been strong, she would never have yielded so
far. But nothing appeals so powerfully to a woman's heart as the sudden
feebleness of a strong man--the man she loves. It is so new and
perilously sweet that he should be dependent upon her, that her arm
should be needed to support him, that his weak voice should call her
name with childish loneliness and impatience if she is not there. And so
Anne at last no longer turned her eyes away, but looked down upon the
face lying upon her shoulder--a face worn by illness and bronzed by
exposure, but the same face still, the face of the summer idler at
Caryl's, the face she had seen during those long hours in the sunset
arbor in the garden that morning, the face of the man who had followed
her westward, and who now, after long hopeless loneliness and pain, was
with her again, and her own forever. A rush of tenderest pity came over
her as she noted the hollows at the temples, and the dark shadows under
the closed eyes. She bent her head, and touched his closely cut hair
with her lips.
"Do not," said Heathcote.
She had not thought that he would perceive the girlish little caress;
she drew back quickly. Then he opened his eyes. It seemed almost as if
he had been trying to keep them shut.
"It is of no use," he murmured, looking at her. "Kiss me, Anne. Kiss me
once. Oh, my darling! my darling!" And with more strength than she
supposed him to possess, he threw his arms round her, drew her lovely
face down to his and kissed her fondly, not once, but many times.
And she, at first resisting love's sweet violence, at last yielded to
it; for, she loved him.
The rain still fell; it was growing toward twilight. Footsteps were
approaching.
"It is Diana," said Anne.
But Heathcote still held her.
"Please let me go," she said, smiling happily.
"Then tell me you love me."
"You know I do, Ward," she answered, blushing deeply, yet with all the
old honesty in her sincere eyes.
"Will you come and say good-night to me if I let you go now?"
"Yes."
Her beautiful lips were near his; he could not help kissing her once
more. Then he released her.
The room was dim. Opening the door, she saw Diana and July coming
through the shed toward her, their clothes wet and streaked with red
clay. Diana explained their long absence gravely. July had not been able
to restrain his curiosity about the dead soldier, and when he finally
found his wife, where she was searching for "miss," they were both so
far up the mountain that he announced his intention of going to "find
the pore fellow anyway," and that she might go with him or return
homeward as she pleased.
"Sence he would go, it was better fo' me to go too, miss," said the
black wife, glancing at her husband with some severity. "An' while we
was about it, we jess buried him."
The sternly honest principles of Diana countenanced no rifling of
pockets, no thefts of clothing; she would not trust July alone with the
dead man. Who knew what temptation there might be in the shape of a
pocket-knife? Without putting her fears into words, however--for she
always carefully guarded her husband's dignity--she accompanied him,
stood by while he made his examination, and then waited alone in the
ravine while he went to a farm-house a mile or two distant and returned
with two other blacks, who assisted in digging the grave. The rain
pattered down upon the leaves overhead, and at last reached her and the
dead, whose face she had reverently covered with her clean white apron.
When all was ready, they carefully lowered the body to its last
resting-place, first lining the hollow with fresh green leaves,
according to the rude unconscious poetry which the negroes, left to
themselves, often display. Diana had then kneeled down and "offered a
powerfu' prayer," so July said. Then, having made a "firs'-rate moun'
ober him," they had come away, leaving him to his long repose.
Half an hour later the Redds returned also. By contrast with the
preceding stillness, the little house seemed full to overflowing. Anne
busied herself in household tasks, and let the others wait upon the
patient. But she did not deny herself the pleasure of looking at him
from the other side of the room now and then, and she smiled brightly
whenever his eyes met hers and gave back her mute salutation.
Heathcote was so much better that only July was to watch that night;
Diana was to enjoy an unbroken night's rest, with a pillow and a blanket
upon the hay in the barn. July went out to arrange this bed for his
wife, and then, as the patient was for the moment left alone, Anne stole
down from her loft to keep her promise.
"Good-night," she murmured, bending over him. "Do not keep me,
good-night."
He drew her toward him, but, laughing lightly and happily, she slipped
from his grasp and was gone.
When July returned, there was no one there but his patient, who did not
have so quiet a night as they had anticipated, being restless, tormented
apparently by troubled dreams.
CHAPTER XXVI.
     "My only wickedness is that I love you; my only goodness, the
     same."--ANONYMOUS.
     "A Durwaish in his prayer said: 'O God, show kindness toward the
     wicked; for on the good Thou hast already bestowed kindness enough
     by having created them virtuous.'"--SAADI.
Anne passed the next day in the same state of vivid happiness. The mere
joy of the present was enough for her; she thought not as yet of the
future, of next month, next week, or even to-morrow. It sufficed that
they were there together, and free without wrong to love each other.
During the morning there came no second chance for their being alone,
and Heathcote grew irritated as the slow hours passed. Farmer Redd
esteemed it his duty, now that he was at home again, to entertain his
guest whenever, from his open eyes, he judged him ready for
conversation; and Mrs. Redd, July, and Diana seemed to have grown into
six persons at least, from their continuous appearances at the door. At
last, about five o'clock, Anne was left alone in the room, and his
impatient eyes immediately summoned her. Smiling at his irritation, she
sat down by the bedside and took up the fan.
"You need not do that," he said; "or rather, yes, do. It will keep you
here, at any rate. Where have you been all day?"
They could talk in low tones unheard; but through the open door Mrs.
Redd and Diana were visible, taking down clothes from the line.
Heathcote watched them for a moment, and then looked at his nurse with
silent wistfulness.
"But it is a great happiness merely to be together," said Anne,
answering the look in words.
"Yes, I know it; but yet-- Tell me, Anne, do you love me?"
"You know I do; in truth, you have told me you knew it more times than
was generous," she answered, almost gayly. She was fairly light-hearted
now with happiness.
"That is not what I want. Look at me and tell me; do, dear." He spoke
urgently, almost feverishly; a sombre restless light burned in his eyes.
And then she bent forward and looked at him with so much love that his
inmost heart was stirred. "I love you with all my heart, all my being,"
she murmured, even the fair young beauty of her face eclipsed by the
light from the soul within. He saw then what he had seen before--how
deep was her love for him. But this time there was in it no fear; only
perfect trust.
He turned his head away as if struggling with some hidden emotion. But
Anne, recovering herself, fell back into her former content, and began
to talk with the child-like ease of happiness. She told him of her life,
all that had happened since their parting. Once or twice, when her story
approached their past, and she made some chance inquiry, he stopped her.
"Do not ask questions," he said; "let us rest content with what we
have;" and she, willing to follow his fancy, smiled and refrained. He
lay silently watching her as she talked. Her faith in him was absolute;
it was part of her nature, and he knew her nature. It was because she
was what she was that he had loved her, when all the habits and purposes
of his life were directly opposed to it.
"Anne," he said, "when will you marry me?"
"Whenever you wish," she answered, with what was to him the sweetest
expression of obedience that a girl's pure eyes ever held.
"Will you go with me, as soon as I am able, and let some clergyman in
the nearest village marry us?"
"I would rather have Miss Lois come, and little André; still, Ward, it
shall be as you wish."
He took her hand, and laid his hot cheek upon it; a moisture gathered in
his eyes. "You trust me entirely. You would put your hand in mine
to-night and go out into the world with me unquestioning?"
"Yes."
"Kiss me once, love--just once more." His face was altering; its faint
color had faded, and a brown pallor was taking its place.
"You are tired," said Anne, regretfully; "I have talked to you too
long." What he had said made no especial impression upon her; of course
she trusted him.
"Kiss me," he said again; "only once more, love." There was a strange
dulled look in his eyes; she missed the expression which had lain there
since the avowal of the day before. She turned; there was no one in
sight--the women had gone to the end of the garden. She bent over and
kissed him with timid tenderness, and as her lips touched his cheek,
tears stole from his eyes under the closed lashes. Then, as steps were
approaching, he turned his face toward the wall, and covered his eyes
with his hand. She thought that he was tired, that he had been overtaxed
by all that had happened, and going out softly she cautioned the others.
"Do not go in at present; I think he is falling asleep."
"Well, then, I'll jest take this time to run across to Miss Pendleton's
and git some of that yere fine meal; I reckon the captain will like a
cake of it for supper," said Mrs. Redd. "And, Di, you go down to
Dawson's and git a young chicken for briling. No one need say as how the
captain don't have enough to eat yere."
July was left in charge. Anne took her straw hat, passed through the
garden, and into the wood-lot behind, where she strolled to and fro,
looking at the hues of the sunset through the trees, although not in
reality conscious of the colors at all, save as part of the great
boundless joy of the day.
She had been there some time, when a sound roused her; she lifted her
eyes. Was it a ghost approaching?
Weak, holding on by the trees, a shadow of his former self, it was Ward
Heathcote who was coming toward her as well as he could, swerving a
little now and then, and moving unsteadily, yet walking. July had
deserted his post, and the patient, left alone, had risen, dressed
himself unaided, and was coming to find her.
With a cry she went to meet him, and drew him down upon a fallen tree
trunk. "What can you mean?" she said, kneeling down to support him.
"Do not," he answered (and the voice was unlike Heathcote's). "I will
move along so that I can lean against this tree. Come where I can see
you, Anne; I have something to say."
"Let us first go back to the house. Then you can say it."
But he only made a motion of refusal, and, startled by his manner, she
came and stood before him as he desired. He began to speak at once, and
rapidly.
"Anne, I have deceived you. Helen is married; but I--am her husband."
She gazed at him. Not a muscle or feature had stirred, yet her whole
face was altered.
"I did not mean to deceive you; there was no plan. It was a wild
temptation that swept over me suddenly when I found that you were
free--not married as I had thought; that you still loved me, and that
you--did not know. I said to myself, let me have the sweetness of her
love for one short day, one short day only, and then I will tell her
all. Yet I might have let it go on for a while longer, Anne, if it had
not been for your own words this afternoon: you would go with me
anywhere, at any time, trusting me utterly, loving me as you only can
love. Your faith has humiliated me; your unquestioning trust has made me
ashamed. And so I have come to tell you the deception, and to tell you
also that I love you so that I will no longer trust myself. I do not say
that I can not, but that I will not. And I feel the strongest
self-reproach of my life that I took advantage of your innocent faith to
draw out, even for that short time, the proof which I did not need; for
ever since that morning in the garden, Anne, I have known that you loved
me. It was that which hurt me in your marriage. But you are so sweet,
so dangerously sweet to me, and I--have not been accustomed to deny
myself. This is no excuse; I do not offer it as such. But remember what
kind of a man I have been; remember that I love you, and--forgive me."
For the first time he now looked at her. Still and white as a snow
statue, she met his gaze mutely.
"I can say no more, Anne, unless you tell me you forgive me."
She did not answer. He moved as if to rise and come to her, but she
stretched out her hand to keep him back.
"You are too weak," she murmured, hurriedly. "Yes, yes, I forgive you."
"You will wish to know how it all happened," he began again, and his
voice showed his increasing exhaustion.
"No; I do not care to hear."
"I will write it, then."
There was a momentary pause; he closed his eyes. The girl, noting, amid
her own suffering, the deathly look upon his face, came to his side.
"You must go back to the house," she said. "Will my arm be enough? Or
shall I call July?"
He looked at her; a light came back into his eyes. "Anne," he whispered,
"would not the whole world be well lost to us if we could have but love
and each other?"
She returned his gaze. "Yes," she said, "it would--if happiness were
all."
"Then you would be happy with me, darling?"
"Yes."
"Alone with me, and--in banishment?"
"In banishment, in disgrace, in poverty, pain, and death," she answered,
steadily.
"Then you will go with me, trusting to me only?" He was holding her
hands now, and she did not withdraw them.
"No," she answered; "never. If happiness were all, I said. But it is not
all. There is something nearer, higher than happiness." She paused. Then
rapidly and passionately these words broke from her: "Ward, Ward, you
are far more than my life to me. Do not kill me, kill my love for you,
my faith in you, by trying to tempt me more. You could not succeed; I
tell you plainly you could never succeed; but it is not on that account
I speak. It is because it would kill me to lose my belief in you, my
love, my only, only love!"
"But I am not so good as you think," murmured Heathcote, leaning his
head against her. His hands, still holding hers, were growing cold.
"But you are brave. And you shall be true. Go back to Helen, and try
to do what is right, as I also shall try."
"But you--that is different. You do not care."
"Not care!" she repeated, and her voice quivered and broke. "You know
that is false."
"It is. Forgive me."
"Promise me that you will go back; promise for my sake, Ward. Light
words are often spoken about a broken heart; but I think, if you fail me
now, my heart will break indeed."
"What must I do?"
"Go back to Helen--to your life, whatever it is."
"And shall I see you again?"
"No."
"It is too hard, too hard," he whispered, putting his arms round her.
But she unclasped them. "I have your promise?" she said.
"No."
"Then I take it." And lightly touching his forehead with her lips, she
turned and was gone.
When July and Diana came to bring back their foolhardy patient, they
found him lying on the earth so still and cold that it seemed as if he
were dead. That night the fever appeared again. But there was only Diana
to nurse him now; Anne was gone.
Farmer Redd acted as guide and escort back to Peterson's Mill; but the
pale young nurse would not stop, begging Dr. Flower to send her onward
immediately to Number Two. She was so worn and changed that the surgeon
feared that fever had already attacked her, and he sent a private note
to the surgeon of Number Two, recommending that Miss Douglas should at
once be returned to Number One, and, if possible, sent northward to her
home. But when Anne arrived at Number One, and saw again the sweet face
of Mrs. Barstow, when she felt herself safely surrounded by the old
work, she said that she would stay for a few days longer. While her
hands were busy, she could think; as she could not sleep, she would
watch. She felt that she had now to learn life entirely anew; not only
herself, but the very sky, sunshine, and air. The world was altered.
On the seventh morning a letter came; it was from Heathcote, and had
been forwarded from Peterson's Mill. She kept it until she had a
half-hour to herself, and then, going to the bank of the river, she sat
down under the trees and opened it. Slowly; for it might be for good, or
it might be for evil; but, in any case, it was her last. She would not
allow herself to receive or read another.
It was a long letter, written with pencil upon coarse blue-lined paper.
After saying that the fever had disappeared, and that before long he
should try to rejoin his regiment, the words went on as follows:
"I said that I would write and tell you all. When you ran away from me
last year, I was deeply hurt; I searched for you, but could find no
clew. Then I went back eastward, joined the camping party, and after a
day or two returned with them to Caryl's. No one suspected where I had
been. From Caryl's we all went down to the city together, and the winter
began.
"I was, in a certain way, engaged to Helen; yet I was not bound. Nor was
she. I liked her: she had known how to adapt herself to me always. But I
had never been in any haste; and I wondered sometimes why she held to
me, when there were other men, worth more in every way than Ward
Heathcote, who admired her as much as I did. But I did not then know
that she loved me. I know it now.
"After our return to the city, I never spoke of you; but now and then
she mentioned your name of her own accord, and I--listened. She was much
surprised that you did not write to her; she knew no more where you
were than I did, and hoped every day for a letter; so did I. But you
did not write.
"All this time--I do not like to say it, yet it is part of the
story--she made herself my slave. There was nothing I could say or do,
no matter how arbitrary, to which she did not yield, in which she did
not acquiesce. No word concerning marriage was spoken, even our former
vague lovers' talk had ceased; for, after you hurt me so deeply, Anne, I
had not the heart for it. My temper was anything but pleasant. The
winter moved on; I had no plan; I let things take their course. But I
always expected to find you in some way, to see you again, until--that
marriage notice appeared. I took it to Helen. 'It is Anne, I suppose?' I
said. She read it, and answered, 'Yes.' She was deceived, just as I
was."
Here Anne put down the letter, and looked off over the river. Helen knew
that Tita's name was Angélique, and that the sister's was plain Anne. It
was a lie direct. But Heathcote did not know it. "He shall never know
through me," she thought, with stern sadness.
The letter went on: "I think she had not suspected me before, Anne--I
mean in connection with you: she was always thinking of Rachel. But she
did then, and I saw it. I was so cut up about it that I concealed
nothing. About a week after that she was thrown from her carriage. They
thought she was dying, and sent for me. Miss Teller was in the hall
waiting; she took me into the library, and said that the doctors thought
Helen might live if they could only rouse her, but that she seemed to be
sinking into a stupor. With tears rolling down her cheeks, she said,
'Ward, I know you love her, and she has long loved you. But you have
said nothing, and it has worn upon her. Go to her and save her life.
You can.'
"She took me into the room, and went out, closing the door. Helen was
lying on a couch; I thought she was already dead. But when I bent over
her and spoke her name, she opened her eyes, and knew me immediately. I
was shocked by her death-like face. It was all so sudden. I had left her
the night before, dressed for a ball. She whispered to me to lift her
in my arms, so that she might die there; but I was afraid to move her,
lest her suffering should increase. She begged with so much earnestness,
however, that at last, gently as I could, I lifted and held her. 'I am
going to die,' she whispered, 'so I need not care any more, or try. I
have always loved you, Ward. I loved you even when I married Richard.' I
thought her mind was wandering; and she must have seen that I did,
because she spoke again, and this time aloud. 'I am perfectly myself. I
tell you that I have always loved you; you shall know it before I
die.' Miss Teller said, 'And he loves you also, my darling child; he has
told me so. Now, for his sake you will try to recover and be his
wife.'
"We were married two days later. The doctors advised it, because when I
was not there Helen sank rapidly. I took care of the poor girl for
weeks; she ate only from my hand. As she grew stronger, I taught her to
walk again, and carried her in my arms up and down stairs. When at last
she began to improve, she gained strength rapidly; she is now well, save
that she will never be able to walk far or dance. I think she is happy.
It seems a feeble thing to say, and yet it is something--I am always
kind to Helen.
"As for you--it was all a wild, sudden temptation.
"I will go back to my regiment (as to my being in the army, after that
attack on Sumter it seemed to me the only thing to do). I will make no
attempt to follow you. In short, I will do--as well as I can. It may not
be very well.
W. H."
     
That was all. Anne, miserable, lonely, broken-hearted, as she was, felt
that she had in one way conquered. She leaned her head against the tree
trunk, and sat for some time with her eyes closed. Then she tore the
letter into fragments, threw them into the river, and watched the slow
current bear them away. When the last one had disappeared, she rose and
went back to the hospital.
"The clean clothes have been brought in, Miss Douglas," said the
surgeon's assistant. "Can you sort them?"
"Yes," she replied. And dull life moved on again.
CHAPTER XXVII.
     "O Toil, O Loneliness, O Poverty, doing the right makes ye no
     easier."
The next morning the new nurses, long delayed, sent by the Weston Aid
Society, arrived at Number One, and Mary Crane, Mrs. Barstow, and Anne
were relieved from duty, and returned to their Northern home. During the
journey Anne decided that she must not remain in Weston. It was a hard
decision, but it seemed to her inevitable. This man whom she loved knew
that her home was there. He had said that he would not follow her; but
could she depend upon his promise? Even in saying that he would try to
do as well as he could, he had distinctly added that it might "not be
very well." She must leave no temptation in his path, or her own. She
must put it out of his power to find her, out of hers to meet him. She
must go away, leaving no trace behind.
She felt deeply thankful that at the present moment her movements were
not cramped by the wants of the children; for if they had been in
pressing need, she must have staid--have staid and faced the fear and
the danger. Now she could go. But whither? It would be hard to go out
into the broad world again, this time more solitary than before. After
much thought, she decided to go eastward to the half-house,
Jeanne-Armande having given her permission to use it. It would be at
least a shelter over her head, and probably old Nora would be glad to
come and stay with her. With this little home as background, she hoped
to be able to obtain pupils in the city, little girls to whom she could
be day governess, giving lessons in music and French. But the pupils:
how could she obtain them? Whose influence could she hope for? She could
not go to Tante, lest Helen should hear of her presence. At first it
seemed as if there were no one; she went over and over in vain her
meagre list of friends. Suddenly a remembrance of the little German
music-master, who had taught classical music, and hated Belzini, came to
her; he was no longer at the Moreau school, and she had his address. He
had been especially kind. She summoned her courage and wrote to him.
Herr Scheffel's reply came promptly and cordially. "I have your letter
received, and I remember you entirely. I know not now all I can promise,
as my season of lessons is not yet begun, but two little girls you can
have at once for scales, though much they will not pay. But with your
voice, honored Fräulein, a place in a church choir is the best, and for
that I will do my very best endeavor. But while you make a beginning,
honored Fräulein, take my wife and I for friends. Our loaf and our cup,
and our hearts too, are all yours."
The little German had liked Anne: this pupil, and this one only, had
cheered the dull hours he had spent in the little third-story room,
where he, the piano, and the screen had their cramped abode. Anne smiled
as she gratefully read his warm-hearted letter, his offer of his cup and
his loaf; she could hear him saying it--his "gup" and his "loave," and
"two liddle girls for sgales, though moche they will not bay." She had
written to old Nora also, and the answer (a niece acting as scribe)
declared, with Hibernian effusiveness, and a curious assemblage of
negatives, that she would be glad to return to the half-house on
Jeanne-Armande's old terms, namely, her living, but no wages. She did
not add that, owing to rheumatism, she was unable to obtain work where
she was; she left Anne to find that out for herself. But even old Nora,
bandaged in red flannel, her gait reduced to a limp, was a companion
worth having when one is companionless. During the interval, Anne had
received several letters from Miss Lois. Little André was better, but
the doctors advised that he should remain where he was through the
winter. Miss Lois wrote that she was willing to remain, in the hope of
benefit to the suffering boy, and how great a concession this was from
the careful housekeeper and home-lover only Anne could know. (But she
did not know how close the child had grown to Miss Lois's heart.) This
new plan would prevent their coming to Weston at present. Thankful now
for what would have been, under other circumstances, a great
disappointment, Anne resigned her position in the Weston school, and
went away, at the last suddenly, and evading all inquiries. Mrs. Green
was absent, the woman in temporary charge of the lodgings was not
curious, and the lonely young teacher was able to carry out her design.
She left Weston alone in the cold dawn of a dark morning, her face
turned eastward.
It was a courageous journey; only Herr Scheffel to rely upon, and the
great stony-hearted city to encounter in the hard struggle for daily
bread. Yet she felt that she must not linger in Weston; and she felt,
too, that she must not add herself to Miss Lois's cares, but rather make
a strong effort to secure a new position as soon as possible, in order
to send money to André. She thought that she would be safely hidden at
the half-house. Heathcote knew that Jeanne-Armande was in Europe, and
therefore he would not think of her in connection with Lancaster, but
would suppose that she was still in Weston, or, if not there, then at
home on her Northern island. In addition, one is never so well hidden as
in the crowds of a large city. But when she saw the spires, as the train
swept over the salt marshes, her heart began to beat: the blur of roofs
seemed so vast, and herself so small and alone! But she made the transit
safely, and drove up to the door of the half-house in the red wagon,
with Li as driver, at sunset. A figure was sitting on the steps outside,
with a large bundle at its feet; it was Nora. Anne opened the door with
Jeanne-Armande's key, and they entered together.
"Oh, wirra, wirra! Miss Douglas dear, and did ye know she'd taken out
all the furrrniture? Sure the ould shell is impty." It was true, and
drearily unexpected.
Jeanne-Armande, finding time to make a flying visit to her country
residence the day before she sailed, had been seized with the sudden
suspicion that certain articles were missing, notably a green wooden
pail and a window-curtain. The young priest, who had met her there by
appointment, and opened the door for her with his key (what mazes of
roundabout ways homeward, in order to divert suspicion, Jeanne-Armande
required of him that day!), was of the opinion that she was mistaken.
But no; Jeanne-Armande was never mistaken. She knew just where she had
left that pail, and as for the pattern of the flowers upon that curtain,
she knew every petal. Haunted by a vision of the abstraction of all her
household furniture, piece by piece, during her long absence--tables,
chairs, pans, and candle-sticks following each other through back
windows, moved by invisible hands--she was seized with an inspiration on
the spot: she would sell off all her furniture by public sale that very
hour, and leave only an empty house behind her. She knew that she was
considered a mystery in the neighborhood; probably, then, people would
come to a Mystery's sale, and pay good prices for a Mystery's furniture.
Of one thing she was certain--no buyer in that region knew how to buy
for prices as low as she herself had paid. Her method of buying was
genius. In five minutes a boy and a bell were secured, in half an hour
the whole neighborhood had heard the announcement, and, as mademoiselle
had anticipated, flocked to the sale. She attended to all negotiations
in person, still in her rôle of a Mystery, and sailed for Europe the
next day in triumph, having in her pocket nearly twice the sum she had
originally expended. She did not once think of Anne in connection with
this. Although she had given her authority to use the half-house, and
had intrusted to her care her own key, it seemed almost impossible that
the young girl would wish to use it. For was she not admirably
established at Weston, with all the advantages of mademoiselle's own
name and position behind her?
And thus it was that only bare walls met Anne's eyes as, followed by
Nora, she went from room to room, asking herself silently what she
should do in this new emergency that confronted her. One door they found
locked; it was the door of the store-room: there must, then, be
something within. Li was summoned to break the lock, and nothing loath,
he broke it so well that it was useless from that hour. Yes, here was
something--the unsold articles, carefully placed in order. A chair, a
kitchen table, an iron tea-kettle with a hole in it, and two straw
beds--the covers hanging on nails, and the straw tied in bundles
beneath; there was also a collection of wooden boxes, which mademoiselle
had endeavored, but without success, to dispose of as "old, superior,
and well-seasoned kindling-wood." It was a meagre supply of furniture
with which to begin housekeeping, a collection conspicuous for what it
lacked. But Anne, summoning courage, directed Li to carry down stairs
all the articles, such as they were, while she cheered old Nora with the
promise to buy whatever was necessary, and asked her to unpack the few
supplies she had herself purchased on her way through the city. The
kitchen stove was gone; but there was a fire-place, and Li made a bright
fire with some of the superior kindling-wood, mended the kettle, filled
it, and hung it over the crackling flame. The boy enjoyed it all
greatly. He stuffed the cases with straw, and dragged them down stairs,
he brought down the chair and table, and piled up boxes for a second
seat, he pinned up Anne's shawl for a curtain, and then volunteered to
go to the store for whatever was necessary, insisting, however, upon the
strict allowance of two spoons, two plates, and two cups only. It was
all like Robinson Crusoe and The Swiss Family Robinson, and more
than two would infringe upon the severe paucity required by those
admirable narratives. When he returned with his burden, he affably
offered to remain and take supper with them; in truth, it was difficult
to leave such a fascinating scene as two straw beds on the floor, and a
kettle swinging over a hearth fire, like a gypsy camp--at least as Li
imagined it, for that essence of vagrant romanticism is absent from
American life, the so-called gypsies always turning out impostors, with
neither donkeys, tents, nor camp fires, and instead of the ancient and
mysterious language described by Borrow, using generally the well-known
and unpoetical dialect that belongs to modern and Americanized Erin. At
last, however, Li departed; Anne fastened the door. Old Nora was soon
asleep on the straw, but not her young mistress, in whose mind figures,
added together and set opposite each other, were inscribing themselves
like letters of fire on a black wall. She had not expected any such
outlay as would now be required, and the money she had brought with her
would not admit it. At last, troubled and despairing, she rose from her
hard couch, went to the window, and looked out. Overhead the stars were
serenely shining; her mind went back to the little window of her room in
the old Agency. These were the same stars; God was the same God; would
He not show her a way? Quieted, she returned to her straw, and soon fell
asleep.
In the morning they had a gypsy breakfast. The sun shone brightly, and
even in the empty rooms the young day looked hopeful. The mistress of
the house went in to the city on the morning train, and in spite of all
lacks, in spite of all her trouble and care, it was a beautiful girl who
entered the train at Lancaster station, and caused for a moment the
chronically tired business men to forget their damp-smelling morning
papers as they looked at her. For Anne was constantly growing more
beautiful; nothing had had power as yet to arrest the strong course of
nature. Sorrow had but added a more ripened charm, since now the old
child-like openness was gone, and in its place was a knowledge of the
depth and the richness and the pain of life, and a reticence. The open
page had been written upon, and turned down. Riding on toward the city,
she was, however, as unconscious of any observation she attracted as if
she had been a girl of marble. Hers was not one of those natures which
can follow at a time but one idea; yet something of the intensity which
such natures have--the nature of all enthusiasts and partisans--was
hers, owing to the strength of the few feelings which absorbed her. For
the thousand-and-one changing interests, fancies, and impulses which
actuate most young girls there was in her heart no room. It was not that
she thought and imagined less, but that she loved more.
Herr Scheffel received her in his small parlor. It was over the shop of
a musical instrument maker, a German also. Anne looked into his small
show-window while she was waiting for the street door to be opened,
noted the great brass tubes disposed diagonally, the accordions in a
rampart, the pavement of little music-boxes with views of Switzerland on
their lids, and the violins in apotheosis above. Behind the inner glass
she saw the instrument maker himself dusting a tambourine. She imagined
him playing on it all alone on rainy evenings for company, with the
other instruments looking on in a friendly way. Here Herr Scheffel's
cheery wife opened the door, and upon learning the name, welcomed her
visitor heartily, and ushered her up the narrow stairway.
"How you haf zhanged!" said Herr Scheffel, lifting his hands in
astonishment as he met her at the entrance. "But not for the vorse,
Fräulein. On the gontrary!" He bowed gallantly, and brought forward his
best arm-chair, then bowed again, sat down opposite, folded his hands,
and was ready for business or pleasure, as she saw fit to select. Anne
had come to him hoping, but not expecting. Fortune favored her, however;
or rather, as usual, some one had taken hold of Fortune, and forced her
to extend her favor, the some one in this instance being the little
music-master himself, who had not only bestowed two of his own scholars
as a beginning, but had also obtained for her a trial place in a church
choir. He now went with her without delay to the residence of the little
pupils, and arranged for the first lesson; then he took her to visit the
contralto of the choir, whose good-will he had already besought for the
young stranger. The contralto was a thin, disappointed little woman,
with rather a bad temper; but as she liked Anne's voice, and hated the
organist and tenor, she mentally organized an alliance offensive and
defensive on the spot, contralto, soprano, and basso against the other
two, with possibilities as to the rector thrown in. For, as the rector
regularly attended the rehearsals (under the mild delusion that he was
directing the choir), the contralto hoped that the new soprano's face,
as well as voice, would draw him out of his guarded neutrality, and
give to their side the balance of power. So, being in a friendly mood,
she went over the anthems with Anne, and when the little rehearsal was
ended, Herr Scheffel took her thin hand, and bowed over it profoundly.
Miss Pratt was a native of Maine, and despised romance, yet she was not
altogether displeased with that bow. Sunday morning came; the new voice
conquered. Anne was engaged to fill the vacant place in the choir.
Furniture was now purchased for the empty little home, but very
sparingly. It looked as though it would be cold there in the winter.
But--winter was not yet come.
Slowly she gained other pupils; but still only little girls "for the
sgales," as Herr Scheffel said. The older scholars for whom she had
hoped did not as yet seek her. But the little household lived.
In the mean while Père Michaux on the island and Miss Lois at the
springs had both been taken by surprise by Anne's sudden departure from
Weston. They knew nothing of it until she was safely in the half-house.
But poor Miss Lois, ever since the affair of Tita and Rast, had
cynically held that there was no accounting for anybody or anything in
this world, and she therefore remained silent. Père Michaux divined that
there was something behind; but as Anne offered no explanation, he asked
no question. In truth, the old priest had a faith in her not unlike that
which had taken possession of Heathcote. What was it that gave these two
men of the world this faith? It was not her innocence alone, for many
are innocent. It was her sincerity, combined with the peculiar intensity
of feeling which lay beneath the surface--an intensity of which she was
herself unconscious, but which their eyes could plainly perceive, and,
for its great rarity, admire, as the one perfect pearl is admired among
the thousands of its compeers by those who have knowledge and experience
enough to appreciate its flawlessness. But the majority have not this
knowledge; they admire mere size, or a pear-like shape, or perhaps some
eccentricity of color. Thus the perfect one is guarded, and the world is
not reduced to despair.
During these days in the city Anne had thought often of Helen. Her
engagements were all in another quarter, distant from Miss Teller's
residence; she would not have accepted pupils in that neighborhood. But
it was not probable that any would be offered to her in so fashionable a
locality. She did not allow herself even to approach that part of the
city, or to enter the streets leading to it, yet many times she found
herself longing to see the house in spite of her determination, and
thinking that if she wore a thick veil, so that no one would recognize
her, there would be no danger, and she might catch a glimpse of Miss
Teller, or even of Helen. But she never yielded to these longings.
October passed into November, and November into December, and she did
not once transgress her rules.
Early in December she obtained a new pupil, her first in vocal music.
She gave two lessons without any unusual occurrence, and then--Of all
the powers that make or mar us, the most autocratic is Chance. Let not
the name of Fate be mentioned in its presence; let Luck hide its head.
For Luck is but the man himself, and Fate deals only with great
questions; but Chance attacks all irrelevantly and at random. Though man
avoids, arranges, labors, and plans, one stroke from its wand destroys
all. Anne had avoided, arranged, labored, and planned, yet on her way to
give the third lesson to this new pupil she came suddenly upon--Helen.
On the opposite side a carriage had stopped; the footman opened the
door, and a servant came from the house to assist its occupant. Anne's
eyes by chance were resting upon the group. She saw a lady lifted to the
pavement; then saw her slowly ascend the house steps, while a maid
followed with shawls and wraps. It was Helen. Anne's eyes recognized her
instantly. She was unchanged--proud, graceful, and exquisitely attired
as ever, in spite of her slow step and need of assistance. Involuntarily
the girl opposite had paused; then, recovering herself, she drew down
her veil and walked on, her heart beating rapidly, her breath coming in
throbs. But no one had noticed her. Helen was already within the
