


CHAPTER XXIX.

A WEDDING RECEPTION.


Orton Campbell cursed his folly in arousing the hostility of Jones. He
concluded that the latter had released Florence in order to obtain a
hold upon him, and would be ready to assist him again if satisfactorily
paid. In that event all was not lost. It was necessary to see Jones as
early as possible and make matters right with him.

He was not quite clear as to where Jones could be found, but concluded
that he had carried Florence back to her boarding-house. He therefore
ordered his driver to proceed at once to the house of Mrs. Armstrong.

He hastily descended from the carriage and rang the bell.

It was answered by Mrs. Armstrong in person, who regarded him with no
very friendly eye.

Orton Campbell, knowing his own treachery, and conscious that it was
also known to the lady before him, asked, in some embarrassment, "Is
Miss Douglas here?"

"No, sir."

Orton Campbell looked surprised. "I--I thought she might be here," he
stammered.

"Were you the person who lured her from my house yesterday by a false
letter?" demanded Mrs. Armstrong, sternly.

"No," answered Campbell, unblushingly; "it was an agent of mine, who has
deceived and betrayed me."

"Then, you had nothing to do with the disappearance of the young lady?"

"Certainly not," answered Orton Campbell, boldly. "I assure you it has
given me great concern, and I have been riding hither and thither this
morning in search of her."

"Won't you come in, sir? Perhaps we may be able to throw some light on
this mystery."

"She believes me," thought Orton Campbell, congratulating himself on the
effect of his duplicity.--"Certainly," he answered; "I shall be most
happy to do so."

He was ushered into the parlor, into which, five minutes later, entered
Florence, Richard Dewey, and a gentleman of clerical appearance.

"Miss Douglas!" exclaimed Orton Campbell, in astonishment.--"I thought
you said," turning to Mrs. Armstrong, "that Miss Douglas was not here?"

"I am not Miss Douglas," said Florence, quietly.

"I don't understand you."

"Perhaps I can explain the mystery," said Richard Dewey, coming forward.

"I wish you would, if you can," said Orton Campbell, with a sneer.

"This young lady is my wife."

"Your wife? And who are you?"

"Richard Dewey, at your service."

Orton Campbell had never known Dewey well, and his life at the mines had
so changed his appearance that it was not surprising he did not
recognize him.

"Is this true?" he asked, in visible dismay. "When were you married?"

"Half an hour since, by this gentleman;" and Richard Dewey waved his
hand in the direction of the clerical gentleman already referred to.

"You have done a good stroke of business, sir," said Campbell, with a
sneer and a look of baffled hatred. "The lady's fortune makes her a good
match."

"So you evidently thought, sir," answered Dewey. "Your unscrupulous
methods have not succeeded, and I beg to warn you that the lady now has
a protector who will punish any such persecution as that with which you
have recently visited her."

"You are quite mistaken. My agent--"

"Only followed your instructions," said an unexpected voice, as Jones,
who was within hearing, now entered from the adjoining room. "Mr. Orton,
I have confessed all, so you needn't try to humbug this gentleman."

"You are a scoundrel," said Campbell, wrathfully, excited by the
appearance of the man who, in return for being cheated, had betrayed
him.

"Then there's a pair of us, Mr. Campbell," said he, coolly. "I admit
that I behaved like a rascal, but I've tried to set matters right."

"You can find your way back to New York as you can; I have done with
you," said Campbell, hardly conscious that this very remark betrayed
him.

"Mr. Dewey has kindly offered to take me back with him," said Jones, not
at all disturbed by this notice.

"If you are going back by the next steamer, Mr. Campbell," said Richard
Dewey, "I will thank you to apprise your father of his ward's marriage,
and ask him to arrange for the surrender of her property at the proper
time."

"You may attend to your own messages, sir," said Orton, irritably. "I
will have nothing to do with them."

Without any further words he hurried out of the house, and drove at once
to the office of the steamship company, where he secured passage by the
earliest vessel eastward bound.

That same evening Mr. and Mrs. Richard Dewey held an informal reception
at their boarding-house.

It was not largely attended, for Florence had made but few
acquaintances during her stay in the city. Uncertain as her prospects
were, she had thought it best to keep aloof from her friends, who might
possibly make known her residence to her guardian. Among those present,
however, were Richard Dewey's tried friends, Bradley and Ben Stanton.

Bradley tried to excuse himself, on the ground that he was only a rough
miner and not accustomed to society, but his objection was overruled
both by Florence and her husband.

"You are a true friend, Mr. Bradley," said Florence, gratefully, "and I
should miss you more than any one else except my young friend and
cousin, Ben."

"Ben's different from what I am," said Bradley. "He ain't such a rough
specimen."

"I'm only a miner, like you," said Ben. "I am a country boy and not used
to society, but I don't believe Cousin Ida will care for that."

"Cousin Ida" was the name by which Ben had been instructed to call
Florence when she came out to California under his escort.

The upshot of it all was that both Bradley and Ben were present at the
bride's reception, and were made so thoroughly at home by Mrs. Richard
Dewey that neither felt in the least awkward.

Two weeks later Richard Dewey and his wife sailed for New York, but Ben
and Bradley remained behind.

"Come with us, Ben," said Florence. "I don't like to leave you behind."

"Thank you, Miss Florence--I mean Mrs. Dewey," said the boy--"but I am
not ready to go yet."

"Don't let the thought of money keep you here, Ben. I am rich, or I
shall be in a few months, when my guardian surrenders his trust, and I
will take care that you are well provided for."

"Thank you again," said Ben; "but I've promised to go back to the mines.
I've got a claim reserved for me, and so has Bradley. We'll go back now
and try to gather a little more gold-dust."

"But you'll let us see you in New York before long?"

"Yes, I shall go home in a few months, even if I come back again later.
I want to see Uncle Job and Cousin Jennie, and all my old friends, not
forgetting Sam Sturgis," added Ben, smiling.

"We must be content with that, I suppose," said the young lady. "I hope
you will have good luck, but even if you don't, remember that you have
two friends who will only be too glad to be of service to you.--Please
consider, Mr. Bradley, that this is said to you also."

"Thank you, ma'am," said Jake Bradley, awkwardly, for with all his good
traits he was not quite at ease in the society of ladies.

Ben and Bradley saw the young couple off on the steamer, and then
prepared to go back to the mines.

"It's made me feel kind of lonesome to part with Dick Dewey," said
Bradley, thoughtfully. "He's a whole-souled feller, and he's 'struck it
rich' in a wife."

"That's so, Jake."




CHAPTER XXX.

THE NUGGET.


Ben and Bradley made their way back to Golden Gulch by easy stages. They
reached the Gulch about sunset, and were welcomed in such noisy style by
the miners that it might almost be called an ovation.

"We reckoned you'd come," said one of the leaders. "You look like you'd
keep your promise."

"I hope there ain't any hosses been stole since we went away," said
Bradley, jocosely. "Ben and I ain't quite ready to hand in our checks."

"We wouldn't hold you responsible if there had been," was the reply.

"That makes me feel a little easier in mind," said Bradley. "It may be
pleasant to hang from a branch with a noose round your neck, but I don't
want to try it."

The miners were just preparing to take their evening meal, and Ben and
his friend were invited to share their hospitality. After supper pipes
were produced, and Bradley was called upon to bring forth his budget of
news. In the little mining-settlement, far from the great world, a man
who could give the latest news from the city or produce a late paper
from any of the Eastern cities was hailed as a public benefactor.

So it was at an unusually late hour that our friends and the miners
retired to rest.

The next morning the two new-comers were shown the claims which had been
set aside for them. They were eligibly located, and already had a
commercial value, but were bestowed out of good-will, without a cent of
compensation.

Bradley and Ben got to work at once. They had had their vacation, and
were ready to settle down to business. They were stimulated to effort by
the success of some of their fellow miners. Ben's next neighbor had
already gathered nearly three thousand dollars' worth of gold-dust, and
it was quite within the limits of probability that our young hero might
be as successful.

"If I fail it won't be for lack of trying," thought Ben.

Three thousand dollars, in addition to the thousand he already had,
would make him feel rich. Some of my readers, who have been luxuriously
reared, will be surprised to hear this. But Ben had always been used to
small things. He had been brought up in a small country town, where a
dollar counts for a good deal more than it does in the city, and where a
man possessing ten thousand dollars is thought to be independently rich.
His uncle Job, who was thrifty and industrious, and generally, through
careful economy, had a little money in the savings bank, was probably
worth, at the outside, fifteen hundred dollars.

No wonder, then, that the prospect of being worth four thousand dollars
dazzled our young hero and stimulated him to unwonted effort.

Neither of our two friends got on fast. They averaged perhaps fifty
dollars a week each, but out of this their expenses had to be paid, and
these, on account of the high price of all articles of necessity, were
rather heavy. Still, the end of each week found both richer, and they
were contented.

It was the aim of every miner to "strike it rich." Each had a dream of
some day cutting a rich vein or finding a nugget of extraordinary size
which should compress into one day the profits of a year or two of
ordinary success. But such lucky finds were not numerous. As in ordinary
life, the large prizes are rare, and average success is the rule. But
the general hope was kept up by occasional lucky strokes.

"Ben," said Bradley, one day in excitement, returning from a visit to
the claims half a mile distant on the other side of a hilly ridge, "I've
got great news."

"What is it, Jake?"

"Perkins has just found a nugget that must contain five hundred dollars'
worth of gold."

"You don't say so, Jake?"

"Fact; I just saw it."

"I hope there's more of them 'round here."

"So do I. That's a find worth having."

The discovery made a sensation at Golden Gulch. It excited the hope of
all, and stimulated labor. What had fallen to Perkins might chance to
any one of his comrades.

So, as the miners sat round their roaring fire--for it was getting
chilly in the evening--one and another discussed the interesting
question, "What would I do if I could find a nugget?" Various, of
course, were the answers. One would go home and start a dry-goods store
(he had been a dry-goods clerk in Philadelphia); another would buy the
old Stuart place and get married; another would pay off a mortgage on
the old homestead, and so on.

"What would you do, Ben?" asked Bradley.

"I would go home by the next steamer, and buy Uncle Job the three-acre
lot he has been wanting so long, and buy new dresses for aunt and
Jennie. But it isn't much use forming plans till the nugget is found."

"That's so, Ben; but you are as likely to find it as the next man."

"I will hope for it, at any rate."

Though Ben's prospects were excellent, and he had met with unusual
success, his thoughts often wandered back to the quiet village where
the years of his boyhood had been chiefly passed. From time to time he
was disturbed by the thought that something might have happened to his
uncle's family, of whom he had heard little or nothing since he went
away. He afterward learned that letters had been sent which he had not
received. He was not exactly homesick, but he felt keenly the lack of
news from home.

In spite of this, however, he worked on with energy and industry. He
felt that every dollar he earned brought nearer the day when he would
feel justified in turning his back upon the gold-fields of California
and wending his homeward way to Hampton.

Meanwhile, Ben did not neglect to do what he could for the general
entertainment. It has already been mentioned that he could sing very
creditably, and his talent was very often called into requisition in the
evening. Ben was obliging, and, finding he could give pleasure, he
generally complied with the request of the miners and rehearsed such
songs as he knew, so that he was considered a decided acquisition by
the little company, and his popularity was unbounded.

"I've been thinkin', Ben," said Bradley, one Sunday when they were
taking a walk together, "that if there was any offices to be filled
you'd stand a good show of bein' elected."

"What makes you think so, Jake?"

"You're the most popular man in the camp--leastways, boy."

"I can easily believe that, Jake, as I am the only boy."

"Well, there's no one ahead of you, man or boy."

"I am glad if that is so," said Ben, modestly. "It is chiefly because I
am a boy."

"Boys are not always popular. It depends a good deal on the kind of
boy."

So the reader will get some idea of Ben's life at the mines and the
estimation in which he was held by his comrades. It was not very
exciting nor very eventful, but there was to be a change.

One day his pick struck something hard. It might be a rock which would
need to be removed. He dug round it patiently, but when he wished to
lift it after it was loosened, he found it necessary to summon Bradley
to his assistance.

"Why, Ben!" exclaimed Bradley, in excitement, "this isn't a rock; it is
a nugget, and a bouncer."

"'A nugget'!" repeated Ben, incredulously.

"Yes; look here!" and Bradley pointed out the indubitable signs of its
value. "Yes, Ben, your fortune has come at last."

"How much is it worth?" demanded Ben, almost breathless with excitement
and exhilaration.

"How much? Three thousand dollars at least."

"Then I can go home."

"Yes, Ben, you're got your pile."

It may as well be stated here that Bradley's guess was not far out of
the way. The nugget, when it reached San Francisco, was found to amount
to three thousand seven hundred dollars.

To the credit of the miners of Golden Gulch, it must be said that all
rejoiced in Ben's success. No one's good luck would have excited so
little envy or jealousy as that of the boy who had worked by their side
for months, and done so much by his good-humor and musical gifts to
cheer up and entertain them. When he was ready to start for the city on
his homeward journey all joined in wishing him a pleasant journey and
the best of luck in the years to come.

Ben was not obliged to travel alone. Bradley decided not only to
accompany him to San Francisco, but to sail to New York in his company.

"I've never seen York," he said, "and I never shall see it if I don't go
now. So, if you don't mind, Ben, I'll go along with you."

"Mind, Jake? There's nothing I shall like better."

While they are on the steamer homeward bound events have transpired in
Ben's old home which require to be noted.




CHAPTER XXXI.

JOB STANTON'S MISTAKE.


There had not been many changes in the little town of Hampton since Ben
left it. It was one of those quiet New England villages where life moves
slowly, and a death or a marriage is an event.

Uncle Job still lived in his plain little cottage with his wife and
daughter, and still plied his humble task as the village cobbler,
essaying sometimes to make shoes when there were none to be repaired.
There was a plat of land belonging to his house rather more than an acre
in extent, but land was cheap in Hampton, and it is doubtful whether
both house and lot would have brought, if thrown into the market, over
one thousand dollars. Uncle Job had at one time about a hundred dollars
in the savings bank in a neighboring town--a fund to draw from in an
emergency--and this money with his plain home constituted his entire
wealth.

Eleven hundred dollars all told! It was not a very brilliant result for
forty years' labor, beginning with the days of his boyhood; but Job
Stanton was not ambitious, and he actually felt well-to-do. He earned
enough to supply the simple wants of his family, and had something over,
and this satisfied him.

But one day a strong temptation came to Job Stanton, and he yielded to
it.

A trader came riding over from a neighboring town and called on Uncle
Job. The good man thought he had come to order a new pair of shoes, and
felt flattered that such a dashing man should have gone so far out of
his way to patronize him.

"I'm glad to see you, Mr. Richmond," he said. "Won't you set down?"

He should have said sit, but Job Stanton's educational advantages had
been very limited.

"I don't care if I do. Snug place you've got here, Mr. Stanton."

"It's very plain and humble, but it's home, and I set by it," answered
Job, who was busily engaged in tapping a shoe belonging to Eliphalet
Nourza, a farm-laborer.

"I've come over to see you on a little business, Mr. Stanton," said the
trader, affably.

"Jest so!" returned Uncle Job cheerfully, glancing over his spectacles
at the trader's shoes to see if they looked much worn. "Want a pair of
new shoes, I reckon?"

"I shall need a new pair soon," said Richmond, "but that isn't exactly
what I meant."

It flashed across Job Stanton's mind that his visitor might be going to
make him an offer for the old place, but he felt that he could not bear
to part with it. He had lived there ever since he was married,
thirty-five years ago, and there Jennie, the child of his old age, had
been born.

But the trader's next sentence relieved him of this thought.

"The fact is, Uncle Job," proceeded the trader, adopting the title by
which the shoemaker was generally known in Hampton, "I've got a favor to
ask of you."

"'A favor to ask of me'?" repeated Job, looking up with some surprise at
the well-dressed merchant, who seemed by his presence to honor the
homely little shop.

"Yes," continued Richmond, with gravity; "I want you to indorse my note
for five hundred dollars."

"What made you come to me?" asked Job Stanton in surprise. "I am not a
capitalist; I am a poor man."

"Oh, well, you're good for five hundred dollars."

"Yes," answered Job with some complacency; "my place here is worth twice
that, let alone the money I've got in the savings bank."

"Of course it is."

"Still, I don't want to run no risk. You'd better go to some moneyed
man--like Major Sturgis, for instance."

"Why, the fact is, Uncle Job, it's the major that lets me have the money
on my note, but he stipulated that I should have an indorser, and he
particularly mentioned you."

"That's cur'us!" said Job. "Why should he think of me?"

"Oh, he knew you were a reliable man."

"How does it happen that you need money?" asked Job, bluntly. "Isn't
your business good?"

"That's just it," said Richmond, glibly. "It's so good that I've got to
extend my stock, and that takes money. I'm turning money over all the
time, and it won't be long before I am able to retire."

"I'm glad of that, but I don't quite understand, if that's so, why
you're short of funds."

"It's clear you are not a business-man," said Richmond, laughing, "but I
think I can explain to you how it is."

He did explain, and the explanation seemed very plausible, yet Job
Stanton, who was a cautious man, hesitated.

This brought the trader to his closing argument: "You mustn't think,
Uncle Job, that I expect this service for nothing. I am ready to pay you
ten dollars for the accommodation, and to order a pair of shoes at your
own price."

"That's handsome!" said Job; "and all I've got to do is to sign my
name?"

"Just so. It's a mere formality. I shall have the money to pay the note
twice over before it comes due."

"Then I wonder the major wants an indorser."

"Oh, it's his invariable custom. 'I know it isn't necessary, Mr.
Richmond,' he told me, 'but it's my rule, and I won't break over it,
even in your case. If you will get Job Stanton to indorse for you, it
will be perfectly satisfactory. I know he is a poor man, but then it's
only a form.'"

"Well, I don't know," said Job, doubtfully. "If Ben was here I would ask
him."

"You mean your nephew, don't you?"

"Yes, the boy that went to California."

"I'm glad you mentioned him. As soon as he gets back send him to me and
I'll give him a place in my store. I've heard he's very smart."

"So he is," said Job, "and I'd like to have him with you, so that he
could come to see us once in a while. There ain't no openin' in
Hampton."

"Of course not."

"And you'll give Ben a place when he gets home?"

"Certainly; that is, if you indorse my note. I am ready to pay you the
ten dollars down."

He drew a crisp bank-note for ten dollars from his pocket, and Job
Stanton yielded, for it was a great deal of money to him. I think,
however, that he was more influenced by the prospect of obtaining a good
place for Ben that would keep him from wandering farther away from home.
If he had been shrewder, it would have occurred to him that a prosperous
business-man, such as Richmond claimed to be, was unusually anxious for
a small accommodation. However, to him five hundred dollars represented
a large sum, and it didn't seem at all strange.

So Uncle Job took off his leather apron, ushered his visitor into the
sitting-room, and sitting down at the table indorsed the note.

"Thank you," said Richmond. "Here is the ten."

"I don't know as I ought to ask you so much," said Job, with
conscientious scruples.

"Oh, that's all right. Now, I'll go into the shop, and you may take my
measure for a pair of shoes."

"This has been a lucky day for me," thought Job Stanton. "I've got ten
dollars for writing my name, and it isn't often I earn as much as that
in a week."

The trader seemed equally pleased, and the two parted in mutual good
spirits.

The note was for three months, or ninety days, and Job Stanton thought
no more about it. Why should he? Richmond had expressly told him that it
was a mere form, and he supposed that this was the case. The ten dollars
went to buy new dresses--not very expensive, of course--for his wife and
Jennie, and that seemed to be the end of it.

But Job was destined to be undeceived, and that very rudely.

One day he was surprised by a call from his dignified fellow-townsman,
Major Sturgis.

"Good-morning, Mr. Stanton," said the major, condescendingly.

"Good-morning, major. I hope your family are quite well."

"Quite well, I thank you."

"What's he come about?" thought Job, wonderingly.

"You indorsed a note for Richmond, the dry-goods man, three months
since."

"So I did. Is it really three months?"

"Close upon it, Mr. Stanton. I regret to say that I shall be obliged to
call upon you to pay it."

"Me! to pay it!" ejaculated Uncle Job, thunderstruck. "Why, I only
indorsed it."

"Precisely. That means that you are to pay it if Richmond doesn't."

"But he will pay it," said the poor shoemaker, eagerly. "He said it was
only a matter of form."

"Then he deceived you. I have just received a note from him telling me
to look to you."




CHAPTER XXXII.

THE HOUSE IS MORTGAGED.


Job Stanton would not have been more utterly overwhelmed if he had seen
his treasured home reduced to ashes before his eyes. That he should be
responsible for a debt of five hundred dollars seemed to him almost
incredible. The trader's representation that indorsing the note was only
a matter of form he had accepted as strictly true.

"Well, what are you going to do about it?" asked the major, impatiently.

"'Goin' to do about it'?" ejaculated Job.

"Certainly. When a man indorses a note he knows that he may be called
upon to pay, and of course has some plan for doing it."

"I don't know what to do," said the poor shoemaker, sadly. "I can't pay
the note."

"Humph! There seems to be only one thing to do, then."

"What is it?"

"You must sell or mortgage your place."

"What! sell or mortgage my house? I can't do that, Major Sturgis."

"Very well. I won't insist on it if you can pay the note in any other
way."

"Heaven knows I can't."

"Then, Mr. Stanton," said the major, sharply, "it's time to speak
plainly. Unless you do as I suggest, I shall attach your property and
compel you to raise the money in the way I indicate."

Job Stanton was mortally afraid of legal proceedings, and after a while
he acceded to the major's proposal, which was himself to accept a
mortgage for the sum of five hundred dollars secured upon the place. His
wife, who had to be told, wept bitterly, for it seemed to her as if they
were parting with their main reliance. But Major Sturgis carried his
point, and walked off triumphant.

And now for the major's motive, for he had one, and he had artfully made
use of Richmond to forward his plan: He was desirous of getting
possession of the poor shoemaker's house and land, having in view the
purchase of the lot adjoining. Then he would move the house off, throw
down the fence between the two lots, build a nice dwelling, and rent it
to a city friend who wished to spend his summers in Hampton. He knew
very well that Job Stanton wouldn't listen to a proposition for selling
his house, and he therefore tried to accomplish by stratagem what he
could not fairly.

"Pa, you are looking in good spirits," said Sam Sturgis when his father
came home.

"I don't feel so," said the major, hypocritically. "I have had to do a
very disagreeable thing this morning."

"What was it?" Sam asked, his curiosity being excited.

"Mr. Richmond the trader owed me a note for five hundred dollars,
indorsed by Job Stanton, and as he did not pay it, I had to call on
Stanton."

"He couldn't pay--he's too poor," said Sam.

"Not in money, but he owns his place. I have accepted a mortgage for six
months' time on his house and lot."

"Suppose he doesn't pay when the time comes?"

"I am afraid I shall have to foreclose the mortgage."

"And he'll have to leave, won't he?"

"Unless he can raise the money some other way."

"There isn't any other way, is there?"

"Richmond might hand over the money by that time."

"Do you think he will?"

