" Frankly, Mr. Yorke, no." 

" Then you shan't . I won't be more disagree 
able than I must. I will come to the office, as you 
wish. But why cannot I have a separate hour, 
after the women are gone? It seems to me it 
would be quite as pleasant, and much less " he, 
too, hesitated before adding, " noticeable." 

" I hardly know," said Doctor Zay, knitting her 
brows. " There are no precedents, exactly." He 
had never seen her irresolute before. She looked 
fatigued and annoyed. " There are new questions 
constantly arising," she went on, " for a woman in 
my position. One ceases to be an individual. One 
acts for the whole, for the sex, for a cau|e, for 
a future. We are not quite free, like other people, 
in little perplexities. It is what Paul said 
about no man 's living to himself. We pay a price 



 

for our privilege. I suppose everything in this 
world renders its cost, but nothing so heavily, 
nothing so relentlessly, as an unusual purpose in 
a woman. Nothing is more expensive than sus 
tained usefulness, or what one tries to make 
such. I hate to think of petty things ! " she 
added, with some fire. 

" Then don't ! " urged the young man. " I can 
not see the need of it, in a case like yours. You 
are an antidote to pettiness. You eat it out, like 
a swift and beautiful vitriol. You would make us 
all ashamed of it. It cannot exist where you are. 
I felt that in you the first time I saw you. And 
pretense, I had got so tired of pretense. You 
went on your way so simply. You were so thorough.
I said, There is a trained woman. She 
is honest all through. She has t;ie modesty of 
knowledge. I thought all this while you were 
tying that artery, before I fainted. What a faint 
that was ! " 

." You overestimate me, Mr. Yorke," said the 
doctor, rather distantly. And yet he was sure 
that he had not displeased her. 

" I have sometimes wondered," he went on, with 
an awkward courage, " what you thought of me, 
the first time you saw me. I dare say you could 
n't remember. I don't presume, believe me, that 
it was of so much importance." 



 

" Oh, yes, I remember perfectly," said Doctor 
Zay, laughing. " I thought, Concussion and dis 
location ! Possibly a fine compound fracture. I 
have never had a compound fracture. I 've always 
wanted one." 

" And I have always thought, always maintained, 
that the scientific temperament is the hardest 
among civilized types. He broke himself against 
that flint, I heard said once of a sensitive man, in 
a miserable instance, it happened to be a mar 
riage, but that doesn't  affect the point. One 
comes upon such a nature as against the glacial 
period: it solidifies against you; it never bends 
nor shatters " 

" Nor melts ? " she asked, smiling (he could 
see) out of pure mischief. 

" In the course of ages, I suppose. Too late to 
be of practical service. One freezes in the
process." 

" The best thing that could happen ! " she said 
quickly. 

A white light darted over the young man 's face, 
and passed. He was a remarkably fine-looking 
fellow in these swift pallors. He shook himself, 
as if to shake his weakness off. 

" Come, Doctor," he said, lightly enough. 
" Tell me ! Was that all you thought when I 
fell into your remorseless hands ?" 



 

" No," she said gravely and gently. " I thought 
His mother would not know him." 

" Was I so hideous ? " 

" Yes, you were badly mangled." 

" Well, I am even with you. That first time 
you touched me, I thought I was in hell." 

" Yes, sir ; you made the fact quite evident, 
particularly when I set the ankle." 

"And now," he said, leaning his head back in 
the office chair, and dreamily regarding her across 
the little distance that separated them, " now I 
am in " 

The doctor looked at her watch, and moved back 
her chair. 

" I have spent fifteen minutes on you ! " she 
said, in a tone of vexation too genuine to be mis 
taken by the blindest feeling for a freak of 
feminine coyness. "So long out of this short morn 
ing ! And I have thirty-two calls to make before 
supper. Continue the remedy that you have, till 
to-morrow. Then call on me again, here. Come 
at noon ; the office will not be so full, then. You 
may be a little late, if you like. You may come 
to me twice a week, now, for an office call. If you 
need extra attention, but I do not think you 
will, I will call on you, as formerly. You must 
excuse me now." 



 

" Twice a iveelc ! " cried the patient. She made 
him no answer, rang her bell for Handy, and put 
ting on her feathered hat, walked rapidly away. 

Yorke sat in the office a few minutes where she 
had left him ; he looked confusedly about. It 
seemed to him that he was taking her up in new 
and unknown conditions, like the second volume 
of a novel. He turned the leaves with a dull 
uneasiness. Something in him urged, " Throw the 
book down ! " He searched his soul for power to 
arise and do so. He found there only a great com 
pulsion, as silent and as terrible as the thread in 
the hand of Lachesis, which he knew would bind 
him down to read on to the end. 



VII. 

HE did not go at noon. It occurred to him in 
the morning that he was well enough to wait till 
the evening office. He dreamed away his day on 
the piazza, watching her as she went and came ; 
lost in admiration of his own self-restraint, and in 
a nebulous impression that it was time to take 
matters into a more strictly masculine control. 

She did not come home till eight o clock. The 
July twilight was already deepening down. 
Handy came up from the depths of the sawdust- 
heap and retired from public life with Old Oak; 
the doctor went to her supper ; and Yorke got 
around into the reception-room, and waited for 
her in the dusk. No other patients were there. 
Roses were in the room somewhere, he . could 
not see them. The folds of the long muslin 
curtains drifted in the warm wind. The rows of 
books in the office, seen through the open door, 
looked fuller for the darkness. Beyond them, an 
other door led into the doctor 's private parlor. He 
had heard Mrs. Butterwell say that her lodger liud 
three rooms below ("two and a half," Mrs. But- 



 

terwell called them), and one up-stairs. This 
other door was half open, swinging idly on its 
hinges in the perfumed air. He sat and watched 
it till she came in. It did not open ; it would not 
shut. 

She did not see him at first, and he admired the 
fine unconsciousness of her movements as she 
crossed the rooms. She lighted her German student l
amp on the office table, and, pulling a for 
midable professional book towards her, without a 
moment 's irresolution, plunged into its contents 
with the headlong dash which only an absorbing 
intellectual passion gives. She leaned her head 
upon her hand, with her controlled profile towards 
him, while she read. He contrasted this little act 
cruelly with his invalid reveries. 

A woman who says, " My life is too full to have 
need of you," will be met by the historic masculine 
privilege of reply, "You take the trouble to 
mention it. I reserve the benefit of the doubt." 
Doctor Zay took the trouble to mention nothing. 

The young man had seen for himself what all the 
little feminine protest in the world could never 
have made patent to his imagination : a woman 
absorbed in her business, to whom a man must be 
the accident, not the substance, of thought. 

He rose at once, and made her aware of his 



 

presence. She expressed the slight, superficial 
surprise of a preoccupied person, whose life brings 
her in constant contact with the unexpected. She 
met him very cordially. He vaguely felt that she 
approved of him for staying away half a day longer 
than was necessary. He limped over to the office 
chair. She shut the door, and he surrendered him 
self to the brief medical consultation. She found it 
necessary to examine the injured foot, upon which 
she laid for a moment her vital, healing touch. 

" You would get on much faster if this foot could 
be properly treated every day, Mr. Yorke. There 
is not a massage rubber short of Bangor. You 
need one now. You have reached the stage where 
I should recommend it decidedly. I am sorry." 

Yorke made no reply ; he dared not, he was so 
sure that he should say something unexpected to 
himself and annoying to her ; and she brought the 
consultation to an end. As he went away she 
told him that she desired him to ride the next day. 
His ankle, she thought, would bear the motion, 
one of the last experiments before walking, and 
he would have a driver, ol course. She gave the 
order lightly, the means by which it was to be 
obeyed not being the physician 's concern. 

"I should like it, of all things," said Yorke, 
impulsively, " if I may. But it is so dull with a 



 

driver, and Mr. Butterwell is going to Bangor, you 
know, for several days. I don't doubt he would 
offer to take me, if he were here. I wish " 

" Why, I suppose I might take you," said
Doctor Zay, after a scarcely perceptible pause. " I 
never thought of it ! " 

" I didn't  suppose you did," said Yorke, laugh 
ing ; " but I don't see why I shouldn't  go, if 
you won't let me bore you, that is, do you?" 

" Certainly not. I will take you with pleasure. 
I often take patients in the summer. It is stupid 
waiting. You won't find it an exciting process, 
I warn you. But it will be better for you than 
moping on the piai|p,. You have done enough 
of that." 

"Quite enough, I*think," said Yorke, looking 
fully into her upraisfd eyes. 

" Persistent pallor ! " said the doctor, in a 
meditative tone. " Tendency to fixed ideas. This
accords with other symptoms I have noted. I must 
look it up carefully ; but I feel pretty sure I shall 
give you" her face lighted with the fervor of 
the symptomatologist "I shall give you carbo 
vegetabilis ! " 

They rode. They rode three hours through the 
warmth and scent of roadside things, while the 

summer morning waxed indolently towards the 
splendid noon. Yorke bore the experiment with 
remarkable success. The doctor attributed this to 
the cavbo vegetabilis. 

She chatted cordially with him, as they drove 
over the long, solitary intervals that separated one 
call from another ; or she came from a grave case 
to sit in the phaeton silent and distrait, and mind 
him no more than if he had been Handy ; or a patient
was responding to a difficult diagnosis or a 
pet theory, and she radiated her happiness upon 
him. He did not try to talk much. He absorbed 
her idly, as he did returning life and the throbbing 
clay. He had never been beside her for so long 
before. He thought of that first ride through the 
Maine forest, and said dreamily, 

" It seems like a modern magazine serial that I 
should be driving with the caryatid. But I have 
not overtaken Atalanta. There is the Greek trag 
edy. No, don't turn to your note-book. I am not 
delirious yet. You need not " 

" Need not what, sir ? " 

" Need not change the remedy. It works well." 

" You speak in figures," said the woman of science, 
curtly. " I am a person of facts. I fail to 
follow you." 
They called at those Baileys who had become 



 

historic during the scarlet fever, and Yorke looked 
about him with vague reminiscences. The woman 
came to the door to welcome the doctor, extending 
her lean arm. 

"There! It 's the sign-post woman!" cried 
Yorke. " We owe it all to her." 

" You are strangling in allegory, again. It is a 
case of asphyxia," said the doctor, handing him 
the blue reins. 

" I mean, we owe it to her that I ever got to 
Sherman, a precious sort of debt you think it ! 
Your eyes laugh loud enough to be heard in Ban- 
gor. You might spare a shattered man so innocent 
a delusion. Science would be none the less 
exact for it. Hang no, bless Mrs. Bailey ! It 
was she who put me up to By the way, Doctor, 
did you drop it by accident, or did you mean " 

" How 's that leg of Bob 's ? " asked the doctor, 
in her happy soprano. She was half-way up the 
dreary front yard. The children ran to meet her, 
a forlorn little batch, and the woman clung 
to her with an uncouth, pathetic gesture, half 
reverence, half fearless love. Mrs. Bailey never 
thought of paying a doctor 's bill, but she wore 
new mourning for her baby. Her affection was 
none the less genuine for that. Doctor Zay did 
not grudge her the sleazy alpaca. 



 

There was a sacredness to the physician beyond 
the pale of enlightened social science, in the clasp 
of those scraggy black arms. Mrs. Bailey might 
outrage political economy, and retard the millen 
nium by becoming a pauper ; but she trusted her 
doctor, and had lost her baby. 

Yorke knew little about people of this sort ; he 
had left the lower orders of society to his mother, 
with a dim sense of their usefulness in providing 
an outlet for her superfluous sympathies. Boston 
women must always have an outlet. His mother 
kept herself supplied with several. He thought, 
as he sat in the phaeton waiting for this unusual 
young lady to exchange the society of the Baileys 
for his own, that she possessed a power which was 
far more masculine than feminine, of absorption in 
the immediate task. He thought it would go hard 
with a man to haunt her. She would shake him off 
for what she called objects in life, as a fine spaniel 
shakes off the drops after a plunge into the sea ; 
earth is his element, after all. 

Bob Bailey had cut one of the femoral muscles 
on a mowing-machine. The doctor etherized him, 
and sewed the leg up, enthusiastically. The odor 
of the ether permeated the fresh morning, and 
Yorke sickened over it in the phaeton. She came 
out presently, with that cool, scientific eye which 
Stimulated more than it defied him. 



 

" I had forgotten you were here ! " she said, as 
she took the reins. " Are you tired waiting ? " 

"I am not patient by nature, but may become 
so by grace. I am cherishing a host of feminine 
 virtues," replied Yorke, stretching his big 
 dimensions in the little carriage. " I shall make rather 
a superior woman by the time I get well. Like 
the man who had a damp cellar : it was good for 
nothing else, so he grew mushrooms in it. These 
beautiful characteristics which suffering or you, 
it 's all the same thing " 

" Why, thank you ! " 

" Are cultivating in me, are " 

" Mushrooms ? " 

" I'm afraid so. They won't live long. I am 
not a woman, unfortunately. I am only an ar 
rested development. It is something, though, in 
this world, to be even a lost opportunity." 

" Call it a rudiment," was the scientific
suggestion. "And I am glad you reach the subject of 
mushrooms, Mr. Yorke, of your own accord. It is 
precisely the point to which I wish to conduct 
your botanical education. When one knows enough 
not to expect a mushroom to be, say, an aloe, one 
is prepared for life. You will recover. I like the 
symptom." 

" Symptom ! " cried the young man irritably. 



 

" Everything, with you, is a symptom. I am 
growing nervous over the sound of the word." 

" Morbid sensitiveness to trifles. I must 
consider that in your next remedy. Well, and why 
not, Mr. Yorke? Most things are symptoms. 
Life is only a pathological experiment." 

" That is a narrow professional view." 

" All views are narrow. Let me advise you to 
have as few as possible." 

" I am tired of being advised," said Yorke 
wearily. 

Her eyes brimmed with frolic. " Do you want 
to go home ? Or change your doctor ? " 

" Sometimes I think I will do both, to-morrow." 

" You could not do a better thing," said Doctor 
Zay, carelessly. 

" Do you think me able to travel so far? " 

" I did not say that. Much depends on the pa 
tient. There are collateral dangers in all cases. 
Many cures consist in a fine choice of risks. 
Therapeutics, as Hamilton said of conversation, is 
always a selection." 

Yorke regarded her steadily. " I shall not go," 
he said with decision, after a moment 's pause. 

They rode. He drank in the divine healing of 
the day. They talked of safe subjects, anesthetics 
and Materia Medica. Yorke had always be- 



 

fore, regarded homoeopathy as a private hobby of 
his mother 's. He was interested in this young 
woman 's clear-headed exposition of a theory to 
which he was compelled to acknowledge himself a 
grateful, if not a convincing testimony. With the 
irresponsibility of the laity, he amused himself 
with her fervor, while revering her skill. When 
she alluded to the Divine Truth in connection with 
her sugar-plums, he laughed. But when they 
drove over that bridge whence the Bangor pony 
had plunged to his last account, the young man 
grew respectfully grave. He experienced at moments 
a species of awe of this studious and in 
structed lady ; not so much because of her learn 
ing, which was unquestionable, nor of her beautiful 
inborn fitness for the art of healing, which was 
as clear as the flash of her eye, as for the fact that, 
in spite of these circumstances, she could be a 
charming creature. 

The swift morning grew into the high, hot noon. 
The dew dried on the white clover by the. road 
side. The dust flew a little. Yorke was tired,
despite himself, and glad when the doctor took a 
cross-cut through a wood-path to make her last call. 
It was a poor girl, she said, who had few friends. 
They passed a saw-mill, as they drove to this place. 
The wheel was silent. The water dripped from it 



 

with a cool sound. The men were separating to 
their dinner ; one remained at work above the 
dam. Yorke observed with admiration his 
practiced step upon the slippery logs which floated, 
chained, over the deep, black pool. 

Doctor Zay drove to the foot of the hill, and 
stopped. She would leave him in the shade, she 
said, and walk up to her patient 's ; it was but a 
step. Yorke made no protest. He had long since 
learned that it was hopeless to argue with his
physician. He sat and rested in the green coolness, 
till she returned. 

She was gone about twenty minutes, and came 
out abstracted and stern. She did not speak at 
first, or take the reins, but sat still, with a twitch 
ing of all the delicate facial muscles which in 
other women would have meant a shower of tears 
or a tornado of anger. 

" Well ? " asked Yorke, conscious how imbecile 
the monosyllable sounded, but not daring to add 
another. 

" She has just told me who it is that is to 
blame ! " said the physician in a low, surcharged 
voice. 

Yorke uttered a sympathetic ejaculation, as her 
meaning flashed upon him. He felt touched both 
at the simplicity and the solemnity of her words. 



 

Nothing of the sort had occurred to him, when 
she spoke about her " poor girl." Nothing could 
have revealed to him, as did this little shock, the 
gravity and sacredness of her work. Alas ! what 
could have so betrayed to him the gulf between 
her dedicated life and his own ? 

"I have tried for some time to learn," said the 
doctor, with unwonted agitation. " The poor thing 
opened her heart to me just now. You cannot 
think how such things affect me. He was per 
fectly free to marry her. There is nothing too bad 
for him ! I have no mercy for such men, none ! 
I wish Excuse me, Mr. Yorke," she interrupted 
herself. " There is a professional thoughtlessness ; 
I hope I do not often fall into it. I was overborne 
by the poor thing 's trouble. She is such a pretty 
creature. It would break your heart to see her. 
And the women all depend on me so ; they think 
there is nothing beyond my power. Why, she 
clings to me as if she thouaht I could undo it all, 
could make her what she used to be again ! I 
believe she does. It is more than I can I ear." 

His own eyes filled, 43 he saw the slow, strong 
tears, beaten back and -dreaded, gather on her lids. 
All the littleness and pretense and shallow barrier 
of the world slipped away from them, as they sat 
there together in the forest. They did not seem 



 

any more to be young and unfamiliar, or even man 
and woman, but only two human beings, who 
could arise and go hand in hand to meet the sol 
emn need of all the world. To Yorke it was a 
moment that he wished might never end. 

She was the first to speak, and she said gently, - 

" I have tired, or perhaps shocked you. We 
will go home now. It is not my habit to speak of 
my cares to my patients. You must " 

" Help, Help ! Oh, for God 's sake, HELP ! " 

A terrible cry interrupted the doctor. It came 
from the mill-pond, whose dam frowned over their 
heads. The thin cascade of the falls drooped like 
lace against the wall of stone. The trees gathered 
close about the water, and Yorke looked up to the 
sky, as out of a well. He could see nothing else. 
The cry died in a gurgling sound. Yorke sprang, 
putting the woman by ; he forgot her. 

" Mr. Yorke, stay just where you are ! " 

An imperious voice, a firm hand, barred his 
way. 

" Let me go ! " demanded the man. 

" Not an inch ! To lame yourself for life, and 
help nobody ! You never "can get up there. Sit 
back ! Take the reins ! Drive on for help ! There 
must be men at dinner behind that barn. Do as 
I bid you ! Do as I ask you&gt; please." 



 

He obeyed her ; lie cursed his helplessness, but 
he obeyed. She was already out of his sight, be 
hind the saw-mill. The next instant, as he drove, 
lashing the pony, he saw her run swiftly out upon 
the chained logs above the dam. lie closed his 
eyes. She poised herself like a chamois. He saw 
her sink upon her knees, had she slipped ? His 
breath came fast and feeble. The road darkened 
before him, and the forest whirled. 

. Am I going to do such a lady-like thing as to 
faint ? " thought the sick man. He fixed his eyes 
fiercely upon the blue reins, they seemed to 
remain knotted in his fingers ; he had a vision of 
the flying road, of the sudden sun, of dashing down 
upon a group of men, of seeing figures dart, of 
cry answering to cry ; and his next precise impres 
sion was that he had been sitting in the bottom of 
that phaeton, with his head on the cushions, longer 
than he supposed. He was alone, by the barn she 
spoke of. All the men were gone. He gathered 
his soul together, and drove back as he had come. 

A cluster of men hung on the bank above the 
dam. A motionless figure lay on the ground in 
the centre of the group. For an instant Yorke 
could see nothing distinctly. 

" Turn him over ! " rang out a clear, sweet,
imperious voice. " No, not so. So. This way. 
There ! Now, here, Jenley ! You help me. 



 

" All right, Doctor ! " said an unseen man.
Silence followed. Yorke bowed his face upon his 
crutch, with a confused idea of saying his prayers. 
All he could think of was the Apostles Creed and 
Fairy Lilian. The trickle of the fall fell cheer 
fully over the dam. 

" Tompkins, you here ! " came the word of com 
mand, in that calm, refined voice. " Work at his 
feet, as I bade you. Keep the arms, Jenley. Tear 
the shirt, don't wait. Harder, Smith ! Get 
more blankets from the house, bed-quilts, any 
thing. And flannel cloths, all you can muster. 
Be quiet. Work more steadily. Don't get 
excited. I want even motions, so." 

Fifteen minutes passed. One of the men spoke 
in a lone tone : 

" He don't budge, Doctor." 

She made no answer. They worked on silently. 
Yorke looked at his watch. Twenty-two min 
utes. 

" Ma.ke that chest movement just as I told you, 
Jenley ! patiently. Have courage. Give me 
the flannel, Smith. No. Rub upwards, not down ; 
I told you twice. Harder. Here, I 'll show you." 

Twenty-six minutes. Half an hour. The lum 
bermen began to mutter. Yorke could hear their 
faint gutteral protest. 



 

" You can't resusentite a dead man, Doctor." 

