
"Tell him any thing you like, Dory Dornwood, as soon as you get on board
of the steamer," added Pearl. "Are you ready to go on shore?"

"If I must go on shore, I suppose I must," replied Dory in a
non-committal way. "What is to become of my boat if I go ashore?"

"You can have her again when I have done with her," answered Pearl in a
coaxing tone; for, if he could get rid of his pursuers, he cared for
nothing else just then.

"Where shall I be likely to find her?" asked Dory in a tone which
indicated his incredulity.

"You will find her in Missisquoi Bay, on the northern shore, Dory; and
she will be in as good condition as she is now."

"Perhaps I shall find her there," added Dory.

"I will"--But, before Pearl could say what he would do, the centre-board
of the boat dragged in the sand on the bottom.

The skipper hastened to raise it, but a few moments later it struck
again. Pearl hoisted it up as far as he could, and then kept the
schooner away a few points; for she would no longer lie up to the wind
as closely as before. In this way he succeeded in getting the boat
within about a hundred feet of the shore, and then the Goldwing grounded
on her bottom.

The water was not more than three feet deep at the stem of the boat, and
it was impossible to get her any nearer to the dry land on the beach.
Pearl bit his lip; for both of the boats of the Sylph were pulling
towards the schooner, and Peppers would soon have an audience to whom
he could tell his story.

"I can't get any nearer the shore, Dory," said Pearl, not a little
agitated. "You must jump into the water, and wade ashore."

Dory leaped upon the forward deck, and Pearl probably thought he
intended to adopt his suggestion, and wade to the beach. But the owner
of the Goldwing had no intention of "giving up the ship" in any such
manner. The sails hid Dory from the skipper, so that he could not see
what he was doing; and, while Pearl was waiting to hear the splash when
he went overboard, Dory grasped one of the stays, and climbed half way
to the mast-head before his persecutor discovered what he was about.

"What are you doing up there?" demanded Pearl fiercely. "What are you
about?"

"I want to see how far off the shore is," replied Dory, for the want of
something more sensible to say.

"Come down this instant, you young villain!" yelled Pearl, whose hope of
saving himself was thus endangered by the unexpected freak of the owner
of the boat.

"I think I can make myself very comfortable up here for a while,"
replied Dory, as he placed his feet on the foresail gaff, and passed his
arm around the topmast.

"If you don't come down, I will shoot you!" stormed Pearl angrily, as he
saw the two boats of the steamer coming nearer to him every moment.

Dory had the average aversion to being shot, and he did not like the
sound of the threat. He did not know whether or not Pearl had a pistol,
though it was not improbable that he had one. He looked at the
approaching boats. One of them was not thirty yards from the schooner,
and the officer could hardly have helped hearing the threat of the
skipper. The port boat had come near enough by this time to enable Dory
to see that his uncle was in the stern-sheets.

"Give way, my lads, with all your might!" said the officer of the nearer
boat, speaking with great energy, as though he meant to take a hand in
the business on board of the Goldwing.

"Are you coming down, Dory Dornwood?" demanded Pearl, as he stopped on
the forward deck of the schooner.

"I think I will come down," replied Dory, who had made up his mind not
to run the risk of being shot; but he was satisfied that one of the
boats would be alongside the Goldwing before he could reach the deck.
"But it isn't so easy to get down as it was to come up," he added,
making it as an excuse for the slow movement in coming down to the deck.
Dory descended with the utmost caution. He had gained time enough to
enable the starboard boat to reach the schooner, and this was all he
expected to accomplish by going aloft.

"Come, hurry up, Dory!" shouted the skipper, when he was about half way
to the deck.

Dory immediately changed his movement, and began to ascend again.

"What are you about, you young cub? Are you going back again?" cried
Pearl.

"You told me to hurry up," pleaded Dory, wishing to gain all the time he
could.

"You are a natural fool! Come down, or I'll--do what I said I would,"
added Pearl, as he glanced at the nearer boat, which was not fifty feet
from the schooner.

"All right! I will be with you in a moment," answered Dory, as he
descended to the deck with a reasonable degree of celerity.

But the boat was alongside the Goldwing as soon as he reached the
forward deck. The officer leaped on deck without waiting for any
ceremony. Pearl dropped into a seat in the forward part of the
standing-room. He evidently realized that he had lost the game he had
been playing.

"Which is Theodore Dornwood?" asked the officer as he came on board.

"There he is, on the forward deck," replied Pearl. "He is the most
obstinate young cub that ever floated on Lake Champlain. You can take
him with you as quick as you please. I don't want any thing more of
him."

"What in the world is going on aboard this boat?" asked the officer, as
he looked from Pearl to Dory, and then from Dory to Pearl, unable to
understand the appearance of things on board. "What have you got cooped
up in that cuddy?"

"I thought you wanted Dory Dornwood. Why don't you take him, and not
waste any more of your time and mine?" said Pearl impatiently.

"Captain Gildrock wants to see you very much, Theodore, and there is a
place in my boat for you."

"I don't care about going in your boat, and I shall not go on board of
the Sylph if I can help myself," replied Dory stoutly.

"There he is again!" exclaimed Pearl, as he glanced at the boat that
contained Captain Gildrock. "He is a mule, a sulky dog. If you want him,
I will pitch him into your boat for you, and make an end of this
business."

Pearl leaped upon the forward deck, intent upon putting his threat into
execution. But, as he went up on the starboard side, Dory leaped down
into the standing-room on the port side. Pearl followed him, and seemed
to have a hope, that, if he could drive Dory into the boat, he might get
rid of his troublesome visitors.

"Don't you meddle with the boy, officer," said Peppers through the hole
in the door; "and don't you let that man meddle with him."

"What does all this mean? Why are you in there? Why don't you come out?"

Before Peppers could explain, the port boat came alongside, and Captain
Gildrock stepped on board the Goldwing.




CHAPTER XXIV.

THROUGH VARIED STRIFE AND STRUGGLES.


Captain Royal Gildrock was not over forty-five years of age. He was
dressed in the uniform of his yacht. He was a good-looking man, of
middling height, and rather stout. A single glance at his face would
have assured any one skilled in reading expressions that he was a person
of great force of character.

"What's going on here, Mr. Jepson?" said he, as he glanced curiously
about the Goldwing.

"That is what I was trying to find out when you came on board, sir,"
replied Mr. Jepson. "Theodore and the man in charge of the boat appear
to be at sword's points, and there are two men in the cuddy who seem to
be fastened in there."

"What does all this mean?" asked Captain Gildrock. And it was apparent
now that he was the owner of the gruff voice.

"I will tell you all about it, sir," replied Peppers, taking this duty
upon himself.

"I shall be glad to know, for the skipper of the boat has behaved in the
most unaccountable manner."

Dory had retreated to the forward deck again when his uncle came on
board, though the captain did not seem to be such a terrible man as one
might have supposed from the conduct of his nephew. He desired to keep
as far as possible from his uncle.

"I wish you would let me out of this place before I tell the story,"
suggested the detective.

"Why don't you come out if you wish to do so?" asked Captain Gildrock.

"We are locked in. Hawlinshed took the key away from Dory Dornwood by
force, and has kept us prisoners ever since. It isn't a bad place; but
it is rather confined for a long stay," added Peppers.

"But I didn't lock them in there," added Pearl. "That was done by Dory."

"Have you the key?" asked the captain, turning to Pearl.

"If you want your nephew, there he is, Captain Gildrock," replied
Pearl, pointing to the forward deck. "I don't think you have any right
to interfere with my affairs. I will put Dory Dornwood into one of your
boats, and you can take him away with you."

"All I want is my nephew; and I don't intend to meddle with what don't
concern me," said Captain Gildrock.

"That's the sort of man you are; and I always knew you were as
straightforward as a gun," added Pearl, delighted with this statement of
the owner of the steamer. "Which boat shall I put the boy into?"

Pearl sprang upon the forward deck, and rushed towards Dory. The boy did
not take kindly to this proceeding. He dodged around the foremast, and
leaped down into the standing-room.

"Captain Gildrock, this boat belongs to Dory, and Hawlinshed has taken
her from him by force," interposed the detective.

"My nephew stole the money with which he bought her," added Captain
Gildrock. "I don't think he owns her any more than I do."

"You are mistaken, sir. I don't know where your nephew got the money
with which he bought this boat, but the charge made against him in
Plattsburgh is not a true bill. I came over here to arrest Hawlinshed,
and that is the reason why I am a prisoner in this coop at this moment."

"You have no right to arrest me in the State of Vermont," protested
Pearl, standing on the forward deck. "Captain Gildrock, this is a
conspiracy. I had a little difficulty with my father, and this is a
trumped-up charge to get me back to Plattsburgh."

This was an entirely new presentation of the case, and Captain Gildrock
was confused by the differing statements.

"I am not disposed to interfere in this business. I came for my nephew,
and I was astonished and surprised to hear that he was accused of
robbery. All I want is my nephew."

"If you are willing to assist a robber to escape into Canada, Captain
Gildrock, I have nothing further to say," said Peppers. "If you take
your nephew away and leave things as you find them, that will be just
what you will do."

"Of course, I don't mean to render assistance to any fugitive from
justice," replied the captain, more perplexed than ever.

"If you will let us out of this place, I will prove to your satisfaction
that Hawlinshed is a robber," added the detective.

"And I can prove that I am the victim of a conspiracy," protested Pearl.
"I can prove it by Dory Dornwood, if he will only speak the truth, which
he never does, except by accident."

"I am sorry to hear such bad stories about my nephew," added the
captain. "I have been told that he was wild, and was going to ruin."

"He can't deny that he had a talk with my father," said Pearl; "and my
father and I don't agree very well."

Dory thought they didn't agree at all, but he determined not to say a
word on the forbidden topic. He had made up his mind in the beginning
not to go on board of the Sylph, and the present aspect of things made
him more decided than before. If his uncle and Pearl decided that he
should go into one of the boats, he meant to jump into the water, and
wade to the shore.

Captain Gildrock was silent, looking from the officer in the cuddy to
Pearl. He was considering what he should do. Peppers thought it was a
plain case. He desired the visitor to act for himself, after he had
looked the case over, and listened to the facts.

"I think I will hear what you have to say, officer," said he, after a
few moments' reflection. "It is none of my business; but I want my
nephew, though I don't like to do any wrong in taking him away. The only
way I can do to leave things as I find them is to let my nephew remain;
and I can't do that under the present circumstances. Mr. Hawlinshed,
will you unlock those doors?"

"No, sir: I will not!" replied Pearl haughtily. "You are interfering
with my affairs, and giving me away to my enemies. If you want your
nephew, I will help you get him on board of the Sylph; but you have no
business to let those men out when they want to cut my throat."

"I only purpose to look into this matter; and, when I have done so, I
shall act as I think my duty requires of me."

"That man is not an officer in the State of Vermont; and he has no right
to arrest me here," added Pearl.

"I don't deal in quibbles, Mr. Hawlinshed. All I want to know now is,
who has the right in the present situation? If I can ascertain the truth
on this point, I don't care a straw whether we are in the State of
Vermont or the State of New York. Will you open the doors of that
cuddy?"

"No, sir: I will not! And I will not allow anybody else to interfere
with my affairs," answered Pearl angrily.

"I am going to open those doors," added Captain Gildrock decidedly.

"I don't believe you will," said Pearl, as he took the key of the
padlock from his pocket.

He held it up so that the captain could see it, and then jerked it into
the lake. It struck the water about fifty feet from the boat. The next
instant Dory dropped into the water, and waded in the direction the
villain had thrown it. He had kept his eye on the spot where it had
fallen; and the water was so clear that he could see the grains of sand
on the bottom.

Pearl saw that his purpose was likely to be defeated by the prompt
action of the boy; and, before any one could stop him, he had leaped
into the water after Dory.

"That man will drown your nephew if you let him do it, Captain
Gildrock!" exclaimed Peppers, as he saw Pearl leap into the water.

But the captain had no intention of being a passive observer of what was
about to transpire in the water; for he leaped into his boat, and
ordered his crew to back her. In an instant they were pulling with all
their might; and the boat had nearly run over Pearl before the captain
gave the order, "Way enough!"

"Lay hold of that man," said the captain to the two men who pulled the
bow oars.

The young fellows unshipped their oars, and grabbed Pearl with no tender
grasp. They threw him down, and then dragged him into the boat.

"Hold on to him, my lads!" added the captain. "Don't let him go."

Pearl struggled for his liberty; but the two young fellows jammed him
down in the bottom of the boat, and held him there in spite of his
efforts to shake them off.

"This is an outrage, Captain Gildrock!" gasped Pearl, out of breath from
the violence of his exertions. "I did not think this of you! I have
always heard you spoken of as a fair man; but you interfere with my
business, and hand me over to my enemies!"

[Illustration: "THE YOUNG FELLOWS GRABBED PEARL WITH NO TENDER GRASP."
PAGE 264.]

"Your enemies, as you call them, are willing to have the truth, whatever
it is, shown out; but you are not," replied Captain Gildrock. "If the
officer in the cuddy don't make out a case against you, I shall not
meddle with you; and you can go to Canada, or wherever else you please.
Give way," he added to the two after oarsmen.

The two men pulled the boat, and the captain steered it to the spot
where Dory was looking for the key. He had taken no notice of what had
been transpiring behind him, but had kept his eyes fixed on the spot
where he had seen the key drop into the water. After a few minutes'
search he saw it lying on the sand, and picked it up. By this time the
boat had come up to him; but he paid no attention to it, and began to
wade back to the schooner.

"Come into the boat, Theodore," said Captain Gildrock.

"No, I thank you, sir: I will wade back to the Goldwing. It won't take
me but a moment."

The captain thought the boy behaved very strangely, as he had ever since
the boats from the Sylph had come alongside the schooner. But he
permitted his nephew to have his own way, and Dory soon climbed over the
side of the boat into the standing-room. Taking the key from his pocket,
he unlocked the padlock, and threw the doors open. Peppers and Moody
crawled out of their prison, and stretched their limbs; for they were
rather stiff after being kept so long in one position.

By the time Captain Gildrock's boat came along side, the two prisoners
were at liberty. The two bow oarsmen were told to let their captive up.
Pearl could not have been more wrathy if he had tried. The pleasant game
over which he had rubbed his hands so felicitously had gone against him.
He knew that Peppers would get the best of him in the argument, and he
had lost all hope. He regarded Dory as the cause of all his misfortunes;
and, as soon as he was released, he sprang into the standing-room of the
schooner, and rushed upon him.

Very likely it would have gone hard with poor Dory, if Moody and Peppers
had not seen what the villain intended. Both of them dropped upon him,
and bore him to the floor. He struggled desperately, but foolishly; for
he had no chance whatever against Moody, who was a powerful man.

While the maker of tomato-wine held him, Peppers put the irons on his
wrists.




CHAPTER XXV.

WIND SOUTH-SOUTH-WEST, BLOWING FRESH.


"I think we have him now where we want him," said Peppers, after Moody,
under his direction, had tied the prisoner, with the rope that had bound
Dory, to the side of the boat.

Pearl Hawlinshed was panting from his effort to escape. He made no reply
to the remark of the detective. He felt that he had lost the battle, and
any further resistance would be useless.

"I am ready to hear any thing you have to say, officer," said Captain
Gildrock, as he stepped into the standing-room from his boat. "If you
haven't any case, I shall simply put things where I found them, with the
exception of taking my nephew on board of the Sylph."

Dory had his doubts about this; for he was as determined as ever not to
put himself into his uncle's hands. He had a sore grudge against him,
and he did not want to have any thing to do with him. He had no doubt
that the captain would decide against Pearl, for he knew enough of the
case to understand that it was a good one. He was already considering in
what manner he should get away from his uncle after the robbery question
had been settled. He was likely to have a chance yet to use his skill
and ingenuity in getting away from the Sylph.

"I am entirely willing to have you do what you think is right after you
have heard the facts in the case," replied Peppers.

"Have you arrested my nephew for robbery, stealing, or any other crime?"
asked the captain, glancing at Dory, who had retreated to the forward
deck; for he wished to be in a situation for action when he felt that it
was required of him.

"No, sir: I have not, and he has not been arrested. But I will tell you
the whole story, and you will see in what manner Dory is connected with
the robbery," answered the detective.

Peppers narrated all that had occurred at the hotel in Plattsburgh,
giving all the details that were known in regard to the robbery of
Moody's room. He added to it the particulars of the two days' chase of
the Missisquoi after the Goldwing, with the landlord's statement in
regard to Dory's supposed connection with the robbery.

"Then Theodore was charged with the robbery?" asked Captain Gildrock.

"By Hawlinshed, he was; but that was to cover up his own tracks. As soon
as the landlord told me that Pearl accused your nephew of the crime,
declaring that he had bought this boat with the money he stole from the
room, I got an idea," continued the detective. "I found Moody, and he
frankly told the facts. He will excuse me; but he makes temperance wine,
though he drinks whiskey himself."

"I don't believe I shall ever drink any more," interposed Moody. "I have
been in the habit of drinking considerable whiskey when I went to
Plattsburgh: and, after I had done my business, I felt pretty good; for
I had sold two hundred dollars' worth of my goods, and I felt like
celebrating the event with a little tear. But I was afraid that I might
lose my money; and I put one hundred and fifty dollars of it in my bag,
keeping the rest in my pocket. I guess that scoundrel saw me put it
there."

"It was not till after the Missisquoi had gone off on her cruise that
Moody told me he had marked his money with the rubber stamp," continued
Peppers. "Then the landlord told me that Dory had taken the money, and
had been seen about the hall, near the room. He had bought and paid for
the boat that morning, and I went to the auctioneer. I wanted to see the
money the boy had paid. It was five ten-dollar bills; and that settled
it that Dory had not paid for the boat with the money taken from Moody's
room."

"I am glad to hear that," added Captain Gildrock.

Dory had thought he would be sorry to hear it; but there was a bad
misunderstanding between him and his uncle.

"When Dory came back, he showed me the money he had, about sixty
dollars," continued Peppers.

"Sixty dollars, besides what he had paid for the boat?" queried the
captain.

"That is what he had; but he got eight dollars back from the
auctioneer," replied the officer.

"That makes over a hundred dollars," said Captain Gildrock, knitting his
brow as though he did not like the looks of this fact. "Where did he
get so much money, if he did not steal it?"

"That's the question, Captain Gildrock," interposed Pearl, who spoke for
the first time since the narrative was begun. "When you have looked into
the matter, you will find that he stole it."

"I don't know where he got it," Peppers proceeded. "That is none of my
business. All I know is, that none of the money found upon Dory, and
none that he had paid out, was the bills Moody lost."

"But have you no idea where my nephew got so much money?" asked the
captain.

"I have not the remotest idea, Captain Gildrock. It don't concern me to
know, and I make it a rule to mind my own business. But I did find some
of Moody's money in Plattsburgh. One five with the stamp on it was paid
for a pistol, and the other for the provisions taken on board of the
Missisquoi. Both of them came from Hawlinshed."

"It is a lie!" exclaimed Pearl with an oath.

"Both of the shopkeepers are ready to swear to the identity of their
man. Now, I shall take the liberty to do what I have not had an
opportunity to do before. I shall search the prisoner. Before I do it I
should like to have you look at these two bills, Captain Gildrock. They
are the fives paid for the pistol and the provisions by Hawlinshed." And
Peppers handed him the bank-notes.

"It will be an easy matter to identify these bills. In addition to the
stamp on them, this is the first time they have ever been out of the
bank," said the captain, after he had looked at the bills.

Pearl was furious when the officer, assisted by Moody, attempted to
search him. Moody handled him very roughly, and he was forced to submit
to the operation. Peppers took from a pocket inside of his vest a
wallet, which was found to contain quite a roll of new bills. The
detective spread a couple of them out on the top of the centre-board
casing. The red stamp appeared upon them, and they were exactly like
those in the hands of the captain.

"It is a plain case, and I have nothing more to say," said Captain
Gildrock. "You have made out your case, and I shall not interfere with
your taking your prisoner to Plattsburgh."

"I knew you would be satisfied when you heard the case," added Peppers,
as he put the money he had taken from Pearl into his pocket-book, and
returned it to his pocket.

"I am entirely satisfied, Mr. Peppers," replied Captain Gildrock,
glancing at the sky, and giving a general survey to the horizon to the
southward. "I see the wind is hauling to the southward, and it looks
like bad weather."

"I noticed that it was calm a little while ago," answered Peppers. "Do
you think we shall have a storm, sir?"

"We shall have a good deal of wind, and some rain before many hours, if
not before dark. I have to go in at Plattsburgh on my way south; and, if
you choose, you can take your prisoner on board of the Sylph," continued
the captain.

"Thank you, sir: I should be very glad to return in your beautiful
yacht, especially if it is going to blow," answered the detective.

"You may take them on board in your boat, Mr. Jepson. I will take Mr.
Moody in mine," said Captain Gildrock. "Theodore, you will go in my
boat."

Dory made no reply to this intimation. He was looking over Simms's
Point out into the lake, where a fresh south-south-west wind was now
rolling up the white-caps. The captain seated himself in the
stern-sheets of the port boat. Moody assisted the officer in placing his
prisoner in the starboard boat, and took his place with Captain
Gildrock. Pearl, though very sulky and even ugly, offered no serious
resistance to the transfer to the boat. With his arms handcuffed behind
him, he took the seat in which Mr. Jepson placed him.

The starboard boat, having received her complement of passengers, shoved
off; and her crew pulled for the steamer. The port boat was waiting for
Dory, who was standing at the bow, behind the foresail. He had the
boat-hook in his hand, but he did not indicate in what manner he
intended to use it. The fresh breeze was beginning to blow in the Gut,
though the Goldwing was sheltered from its full force by the land.

"I am waiting for you, Theodore," called Captain Gildrock.

"I am not going, sir," replied Dory in a mild, but very decided, tone.

"Not going? Didn't you hear me say that I came down here after you?"
asked the captain, evidently much surprised at the boy's answer.

"I can't leave the boat here, sir. It is coming on to blow, and she will
drift off," added Dory, struggling to suppress his emotion; for he
expected a very unpleasant scene with his uncle now that the issue had
been reached.

Captain Gildrock seemed to have no suspicion of the state of feeling to
which his nephew had wrought himself up. He appeared to think that his
invitation to go on board of the Sylph was enough, and the present
attitude of the boy was clearly a surprise to him. It was plain that he
had not thought of the schooner, for he was silent when Dory intimated
that she was not in a safe position for heavy weather.

"You can furl her sails, and throw over her anchor," said he after a
moment's consideration.

"I don't think the anchor will hold her, sir: the sand is as hard as a
rock here."

"Isn't she aground?"

"She was aground, sir."

"I will run the boat ahead, and we will drag her farther up on the
shoal, and carry the anchor to the shore. Then she will be all right;
and you can come up after her in a few days," continued Captain
Gildrock, as he directed his bowman to shove off from the Goldwing.

The sails of the schooner were beginning to thrash and bang about as
they felt the increasing breeze. The boat had been aground at the bow;
but, the moment she was relieved of the weight of the three men who had
been on board of her when she grounded, she floated again. Dory had
noticed this fact; and, taking the boat-hook, he had thrust it down into
the sand, and held her. As the wind freshened, driving her off from the
shore, his hold was not strong enough upon the bottom to keep her any
longer. But it must be added that Dory did not wish to hold her any
longer.

The moment the boat-hook tore out of the bottom, the schooner began to
make sternway. Then the jib, the sheet of which was still fast, filled,
and the Goldwing whirled around like a top. Then a gust of wind struck
the sails, and threw them all over. Dory rushed to the helm, trimmed the
sails, and headed the Goldwing across the bay.




CHAPTER XXVI.

DORY DORNWOOD MANOEUVRES TO ESCAPE.


"What are you about, Theodore?" shouted Captain Gildrock, as the
Goldwing shot away, heeled down to her gunwale under the blast of the
strong wind. "Come about, and run her on the beach."

Dory took no notice of this direction, but grasped the tiller with all
his might; and with the short stick it was all he could do to hold her.
He dropped the centre-board, and stood to the eastward, evidently to
avoid the steam-yacht, which was now giving an occasional turn to her
screw to avoid being driven out into the Gut. The starboard quarter-boat
had just put the detective and his prisoner on board of her.

Captain Gildrock had put the other boat about; and the four oarsmen were
straining their muscles, pulling in the direction the schooner had
taken. Mr. Jepson saw what was going on; and, as soon as he had
disposed of his passengers, he started his boat to the eastward, with
the intention of cutting off the Goldwing as she came out of the bay.

The sky was obscured by piles of angry-looking clouds, and every thing
looked like a southerly storm. The sun was now not more than half an
hour high, but there would be about an hour more of daylight. The
Goldwing was making at least eight miles an hour, and Dory was satisfied
that Captain Gildrock's boat could not overtake him. He had headed it to
the north-east, so as to take the shortest course; for the Goldwing must
soon go to the north, or she would run ashore.

As soon as Dory noticed the change in the course of his uncle's boat, he
began to haul in his sheets; for he saw that he was giving the boat the
advantage of him, though it was not likely to gain enough to enable it
to overhaul the schooner. The port boat was the only one from which he
expected any interference. The skipper measured the distances very
carefully with his eye. He calculated that he had to make half a mile to
reach the point where the starboard boat would intercept him, if at all.
Mr. Jepson's boat had to get over at least three-quarters of this
distance.

Dory thought his chances were very good. At any rate, he determined to
keep on his present course until he found himself mistaken. The Goldwing
was tearing through the water at a tremendous rate. Since his passengers
left her, she was trimmed down at the stern too much; but this did not
interfere with her speed while she had a free wind.

The tiller was a great strain upon him, and it took all his strength to
prevent the boat from coming up into the wind. There was certainly
nothing like a lee helm in her present condition. As the wind increased
in force the farther out he went from the sheltering shore, he was
afraid he should not be able to hold her up to her course. If he let her
broach to, and spilled the sails, he must certainly lose the race.

Taking the end of the sheet, which was considerably longer than was
required, he took a turn with it around the end of the tiller. In this
manner he was able to take the strain off his muscles in holding the
boat; but at every gust of wind he had to put his helm up, and then let
it off. He wanted the long tiller, but he could not leave the helm for a
moment to get it.

The Goldwing occasionally dipped up the water over her lee wash-board;
and, when she did this, it was necessary to "touch her up," or let her
eat into the wind, as she would do if left to herself. The skipper was
doing some bold and risky sailing, but he was determined to keep out of
his uncle's hands if it were possible. He watched the starboard boat
with the most intense interest. He had made up his mind that he had
little to fear from her, even if she reached the point where the two
courses of the boats met.

If Mr. Jepson put his boat in the course of the schooner, Dory did not
see how he could help running over her. The collision would smash the
quarter-boat, for it would strike her on the beam; while the schooner
was not likely to be greatly harmed. She would strike with her bow,
where she was least liable to injury.

As Dory continued on his course, he was satisfied that he was greatly
outsailing the boat from which he expected trouble, if he had any. The
water was getting rough, which impeded the speed of the quarter-boat,
while it did not diminish that of the schooner. Five minutes later he
was sure Mr. Jepson's boat would fall astern of him. He was confident of
it, but he did not relax his care. The officer was urging his crew to
increased exertions, but the oarsmen were evidently doing all they
could.

