"Was it right and just? For an instant he felt quite un- 
certain. 
There followed a quiet interval at Cedarwood. Kathie 
spent her time in trying to comfort her mother. She was 
glad in those days that Fay Collamore had gone to Lake 
George with Mr. and Mrs. Hunsdon. Emma was her only 
friend, and they two drew nearer in a tender spiritual 
communion. 
Once Kathie had spoken of having the baby, but her 
mother had answered with a sharp, sudden pain. Charlie 
came home full of joy and hope, but he tempered it sweetly 
to the sorrow he found. Every day or two they heard 
from Aunt Ruth. Robert had come, and they were so glad 
to have him. Bruce lived, but it was a doubtful question. 
They all hoped, they could not give him up. 
The whisper floated about that Robert Alston had made 
a secret, unfortunate marriage, and that his wife through 
an accident had lost her mind. 
Dick Grayson knew more about her, though he made no 
comment to any one save Mr. Conover. 
" They were a bad lot," he said ; u I don't see how Rob 
could have been fooled by them ; but the girl was very 
pretty. And, somehow, I 'm not sure but I would rather 
have her in an asylum, out of harm's way, than to do as 
her sister has done. But poor Rob ! We must all try to 
make it up to him." 
CHAPTER XX. 
THE very brooding over her sorrow worked a partial 
cure in Mrs. Alston's case. She saw the suffering, the 
shame, the fear, the brave resolve to eat the bitter fruit he 
had gathered, to make no outcry at the sting, since he had 
grasped -the nettles of his own will and pleasure. She 
longed for a first word from him, and yet she admired the 
strength that could wait and accept the sentence. 
Yet he was hers, and nothing could weaken that bond. 
She could recall so many little remorseful touches of the 
summer before ; once when he had stood with his arms 
clasped about her neck, and said, to some little word of 
hers, " I wish I were more worthy of your love, but the 
duty of my coming years must be to make myself so." 
And the little thoughtful courtesies that had never been 
much in his way before, how they touched her now. 
So she wrote a brief note, blotted by tears, and he an- 
swered. They knew it had come, but its contents were 
sacred to her. Then he wrote to Uncle Robert : 
" During one of the long night-watches, when the Gen- 
eral was quite used up, I told Aunt Ruth my story, all that 
we decided had better be known. Uncle Robert, I think I 
must have behaved brutally to you during that last visit ! 
I was almost crazy with loneliness and despair, and fight- 
ing for the thing I wanted. I see some of it now. Aunt 
Ruth has been so sweet, so lovely, and, though I can 't 
accept it all now as you would like me to, I have come to 
my senses a little. I can never make amends for your 
love and patience, and I have broken poor mother's heart. 
O Uncle Robert, why don't we have a little sense, a little 
sure faith in the inexorable laws of right and wrong ? We 
cannot overstep them and go scot free. Every wrong way 
has its penalty. 
" Comfort my mother. I shall not ask you to forgive 
me until I have in some sense earned it by my endeavors 
in the future : as if I ever could earn it or repay you for 
what you have done." 
Bruce was better. The wound in the lung was under 
control, but the hip was not doing as well as they wished. 
There was a great deal of anxiety lest it should settle to 
permanent lameness, but they were all coming home. 
Jessie Meredith and Kathie had orders to find a cosy fur- 
nished house for winter quarters. Aunt Ruth was anxious 
that Dr. Markham should have her boy under his care. 
And again she said : I hardly know what we would have 
done without Robert. I think him truly brave and noble. 
He lacks only the ' one thing,' and I am not sure but the 
discipline of living out of this sorrow will lead him to it." 
Fred returned to college and the family went to the city 
for a visit. Hunting a house was a new and perplexing, 
as well as absorbing interest. There were enough of them, 
as Jessie said, but some were all up stairs and down, others 
all style and show. Mrs. Gamier came to the relief at 
last, with a pretty home, whose owner, a young widow, was 
going to Cuba for the winter. The lower floor had a cosy 
reception and dining room, with a spacious kitchen, and 
up stairs a lovely parlor, taking in the whole front, with 
two alcoves, and two sleeping-rooms beside, and apart- 
ments farther up in abundance. 
" This will do admirably," Jessie decided. " Brace can 
have the range of this floor, and there will be very little 
going up and down for Aunt Ruth. Then the furniture 
and adornments are neat and harmonious, which is a great 
thing for an invalid, and is just far enough from the ave- 
nue to afford quiet." 
 
Mrs. Alston had brought Jane- Maybin with her, and 
engaged a nice tidy country woman for housekeeper. 
They had just completed all arrangements when the tel- 
egram came. The party would reach New York the fol- 
lowing morning. 
Mrs. Alston had meant to accompany the family to 
receive them, but at the last moment her courage failed, and 
so the four went without her. Mr. Meredith had planned 
everything for the invalid's comfort, so there would be no 
confusion or delay. They watched eagerly as the long 
train wound its waj" slowly in. 
Kathie and Jessie stood a little back, and the crowd 
kept surging between them and the gentlemen. Then Rob 
stood on the car step and grasped his uncle's hand, and 
General Mackenzie followed him. 
"Jessie and Kathie are here," said Mr. Conover. 
" Bring Aunt Ruth and let us send them home in a car- 
riage, and attend to the rest afterward." 
It was a good plan. Rob had just a moment to come 
and clasp their hands, and see that Aunt Ruth was safe 
between them all. 
' ' Wait a moment ; I think I will go in the carriage with 
you," said Mr. Meredith. 
While the horses stood still Jessie asked a few questions. 
It seemed to Kathie she could only look at Aunt Ruth and 
wonder. 
"Bruce stood the journey very well," Aunt Ruth was 
saying. " Until last night he did not show any special 
signs of fatigue, but he is extremely weak. He does not 
gain strength as we hoped he would, and his father is 
afraid the hip may settle into a permanent lameness. We 
were so anxious to see Dr. Markham." And she smiled 
over to Kathie. " I am not sure but it would have been 
better if we had brought him at the very earliest possible 
moment ; but we had to guard against the strain and hem- 
orrhages." 
''How dreadful it has been!" Kathie sighed softly. 
"And we thought the war was all over. You know Bruce 
used to laugh about being a peace soldier." 
" The war never seems quite all over," Aunt Ruth 
returned gravely. 
"Now," exclaimed Mr. Meredith, springing in, "the 
rest of the procession is under way. Kathie, do you. 
remember what a lank, white fellow I was when Jessie 
brought me home ? There will be some nursing for you, 
to keep your hand in. I think we can both answer for 
her, Mrs. Mackenzie?" 
Aunt Ruth smiled faintly again as she pressed the hand 
that clasped hers so fondly. Then the carriage rattled 
over the stones and there was no more talking. They 
reached home a long while the first, and Aunt Ruth had 
time to lay off her wraps and take a view of her new dom- 
icile. 
"Oh, how very pretty ! " And a soft pink flush over- 
spread her face. 
Mrs. Alston held her in her arms many moments ; then 
there was a stir in the street. 
' i Send" Robert in here to me when you have done with 
him," she whispered, and disappeared in the adjoining 
room. 
The strong arms formed a litter, and bore Bruce up to 
the parlor, where Mr. Meredith had arranged a large and 
comfortable reclining chair. But as they laid him down 
they saw he had fainted quite away. 
Kathie looked on curiously, awe-stricken. She had 
never seen Bruce but in the highest state of physical health. 
She could not remember that he had ever complained of a 
pain. He had gloried so in walks and climbs up danger- 
ous mountain-sides. He had rowed and driven like an ath- 
lete. And always the splendid coloring of youth and vigor, 
of ambition and hope, hope in the seen and unseen ; and 
now the dark edge of hair framed in a thin, transparent face 
that bore the marks of high suffering, a heroic struggle 
somewhere, that at the first moment dazed and confused 
her, when it seemed as if she ought to hold in her own 
hand the clew. She could only think of one thing dis- 
tinctly. 
He opened his eyes suddenly, and drew a long, shudder- 
ing breath, as little shadows of returning animation quiv- 
ered through the translucent veins. His lips moved, his 
hand was outstretched, and a tender light gleamed in his 
eye. 
"Kathie!" 
He had seen her for an instant, as in Heaven. When 
she clasped his hand, when she stooped over and kissed 
the marble brow, he had lapsed into forgetfulness. 
" Kathie," Hob touched her. " Mother," and there 
was a tremulous quaver in his voice. 
She led him to the door and opened it softly, just utter- 
ing " Mamma " in her gentlest tone. 
They went straight to each other's arms : the one, know- 
ing how it must be, because he understood the great love ; the 
other, having found her lost piece of money, was content. 
Not the prodigal who had gone down to the depths of the 
husks and swine, but the one who had squandered and be- 
trayed love, who had gone astray and was found. 
Kathie wandered around in a strange state of awe and 
loneliness. Mr. Meredith had gone for Dr. Markham. 
Uncle Robert and the General were trying to make the 
invalid comfortable and picking up the travelling wraps. 
" Jane," Kathie exclaimed, " I think there ought to be 
a sort of breakfast luncheon for them. I dare say they ate 
very little this morning. Make some tea and coffee, and 
I will arrange the table." 
That gave her a connecting interest with the world again. 
It seemed as if she had been in some strange country, had 
half known or seen something she ought to know wholly, 
and now she was on the outside rim again. 
"It is the excitement and confusion," she thought. 
" And oh, poor Bruce ! " 
Dr. Markham had been holding himself in readiness for 
the summons. The General and he were closeted a long 
while with the invalid, but presently they rejoined the 
others at the table, where he gave Kathie numberless orders, 
and teased her a little about donning a black gown and 
white cap and becoming a regular Sister of Mercy. 
"Of course the poor fellow is dreadfully worn out by 
the journey, and weak from loss of blood," explained Mr. 
Meredith. ' i Markham thinks the treatment of the hip 
hasn't been quite the thing, but the other was all right, 
and, though the lung may require a little carefulness, there 's 
no trouble to be apprehended from it. People rarely get 
over these things in a day or two. I didn't myself." And 
he smiled humorously. 
" But it's a kind of fight for life, after all," Rob said, 
later on, to Kathie. "There was one night that I 
wished I could die in his stead, and I understood then 
what a comfort it was to pray," with a low, reverent 
intonation. "And I know how he feels; he wants to 
get entirely well. He 's so young, and he has always 
been so strong. Kathie, I don't know but Bruce is the 
bravest hero of them all. It was a good thing in Uncle 
Robert to send me out there. And when I found him 
bearing a life-long sorrow " 
" Oh, he will get well!" cried Kathie in a passion of 
tender pain. 
Rob stopped and colored. This was not the fidelity he 
had promised. 
" We all hope so. But he may never be as strong, 
and possibly have to change his whole career." 
" Rob, I do not think Bruce cared altogether for mili- 
tary glory, or as much as he used at West Point," Kathie 
answered, with a vague consciousness of some change. 
Mr. and Mrs. Meredith left them in the afternoon. 
Bruce had been put in the middle room, and was quite 
comfortable, but, oh, so ghostly wan, and white, even to 
his hands ! 
"Quite fine, isn't it, old fellow?" he said to Rob. 
" Civilization has its advantages, we must admit, and it is 
extremely pleasant to the eye. Ought we to class these 
among the pomps and vanities? " glancing around. 
" Not a bit. The best of all things could never be too 
good for you, and you 'll never hoard them up or crowd 
out any one else ! " was the earnest rejoinder. 
" And I made quite a Miss Nancy of myself fainting 
away and all! " with a wan little smile. " I did get so 
horribly tired last night, and then jolting over the stones 
was excruciating. But Dr. Markham thinks it may all 
come out right in the end." 
" It will, it must," declared Rob vigorously. u God 
won't give you anything harder to bear, when you Ve been 
so brave, so " 
"The thorn in the flesh! St. Paul suffered all his 
life long. And coming nearer home, mother is a little 
lame, and it adds a sort of piquancy ; she never com- 
plains." 
" But Aunt Ruth always was an angel ! " 
" And a six-footer without petticoats might make a guy 
of himself. It doesn't add any romance to a man, does 
it? Where is mother?" 
" Gone to lie down." 
"Poor, sweet mother. O Rob, I'm so thankful for 
my share of her." 
" And how like a brute I 've been all my life to an own, 
real mother ! " Rob said in a remorsefully passionate tone. 
" O Bruce, I thought of your grand verse to-day, about 
the heights and depths, and powers and principalities, and 
I couldn't help saying a little of it to mother, for nothing 
ever can separate us again. It has been so horrible these 
years, when I had the bitter realization that I had put such 
a gulf between." 
The thin hand stretched out and found the other so 
plump and warm. 
tk And if that love is so great, what about the other, 
Rob? If it is so sweet to get home to the heart of human 
affection, what of the Divine? " 
" I can't see it all " 
" I believe you will presently. The mistake is, we do 
not any of us see it all, or all the time. There are 
clouds, and storms, and wanderings. And in our slothful- 
ness we are not looking out continually." 
" Rob," he said again, after a long silence, u did I 
see her?" 
" Yes, no ; you had fainted away." 
" And I dreamed she came and kissed me." 
" Oh, she did; that wasn't a dream! And she is 
frightened half out of her wits." 
" Do you know if she is going to stay ? " 
" She is here yet. Dr. Markham said she was to 
help Aunt Ruth nurse you. I don't know what mamma 
thinks, but it shall be just as you wish. No one shall 
make you suffer a needless pang." 
Several changes passed over the pale face. He thought 
he had fought it all out, given her up, but the renunciation 
was one thing out there, alone, and here quite another. 
" Bruce I don't think and Kathie she doesn't 
know," incoherently began Robert, but the hope in his 
face pieced together the broken sentences. 
" Oh, Rob, hush," the feeble voice entreated. " You 
are so strong, so full of vigor, and life, and health ; let me 
lean on you a little now, and do not tempt me to covet 
my neighbors' joys. If I cannot see her without desiring, 
longing, I have no right to see her at all. I must take a 
coward's place and skulk in the rear, along the hedges." 
" He that hath used no deceit in his tongue, nor done 
evil to his neighbor " 
" O Bruce, you think of it all." And he hid his face 
repentantly on the pillow. " I never can, and that is why." 
''We must do a little pulling in the same boat, old 
chap ! " A nd the words came with a quivering sigh. l ' Don't 
you remember how lie lay and slept in the boat until they 
came and called him, and he is always there to say 
* Peace.' You know we settled the other matter." 
'- But you never had a chance, at least not a fair chance, 
and that is what bothers me so. If she had seen you to- 
gether. Oh, forgive me, Bruce, I never will pain you so 
again ! Oh, don't faint," besought the lad, pitifully, his 
eyes swimming in tears. 
" No, I am not going to faint ; but I am so weak to-day. 
Suppose you read a little, Rob, the dear old ' In Memo- 
riam.'" 
Rob found the book ; he had put it in his satchel . He 
had read a good deal to Bruce in the last fortnight, and 
found it very soothing. There was so much in the poem 
to comfort them both. 
They heard Kathie's voice presently in the adjoining room 
talking to Aunt Ruth. 
" Rob," he said, in the little pause, " suppose we have 
it over ; I must see her some time." 
Rob opened the door. " You have not been in to visit 
our invalid, mother," he said, as he caught sight of her by 
the window. " And you, Kathie, unless he frightened you 
out of your stately composure." 
"Oh, no, indeed"; and Kathie smiled. "Come, 
mamma," holding out her hand. 
"How is he, Robert? " asked Aunt Ruth. 
" He wanted to see them," Rob made answer, includ- 
ing his plural with a slight hesitation, for though the sub- 
ject had never been spoken of between them, he under- 
stood the fear implied in Aunt Ruth's tone. 
Mrs. Alston was much shocked. It hardly seemed that 
one could change so greatly. Kathie came around and 
took the thin hand. 
" It docsn't look much like fighting now," she said, 
" or climbing Alps." 
" No." He smiled faintly. " I am glad we had all that, 
and our grand winter in Russia, and all the delights. 
But you have all been very good to me to-day ; and Rob 
here thinks I behaved quite like a baby." 
" Because he had been such a hero ! See what it is to 
exalt one's opinion." 
" I think you have managed to tone down my boisterous 
boy a good deal," said Mrs. Alston. " I never fancied 
nursing his forte before." 
"Rob and I have been good comrades." And the 
look told the rest. 
" Oh, you have drifted in here," said Mr. Conover, enter- 
ing the room and casting a quick glance at Kathie 
" Well, Bruce, my lad ! " 
" I expect to be the centre of attraction ; I shall feel 
quite hurt if any one slights me. Will you all sit down ? " 
" We must not disturb you. It has been an exciting 
day, and rather hard on your little strength." 
" I think," began Rob, " that I might be spared. I 
want a good walk before dinner. Will you go, Uncle? 
and we might hunt up Fred." 
' ' We shall not have far to hunt ; both boys are making 
their home with the Merediths. I am quite ready for the 
walk. We might go down there to dinner, unless you are 
wanted." 
" I 'll be generous and give Rob a holiday," declared 
the invalid. 
There was so much to say between the two who went. 
Rob had recovered his strength and elasticity, much of his 
bright coloring, although thinner than of yore. What if, 
after all, that deep anguish was evanescent and bore no 
real fruit. 
But the effort Rob had been compelled to make in Bruce's 
behalf had brought him out of his gloomy despair. He 
was able to see something beside all the long stretch of 
years, how they were to be lived ; and the use he was to 
make of his one talent or many. He was beginning to 
learn that the austere Master exacted something beside not 
losing. There was a growth and work, and if he had plunged 
himself into the slough of despond he was not to lie there, 
not to disdain the help of friendly hands, not to feel that 
the great aims had dropped out because he had lost for 
a while the right clew. He could live out of, but he could 
not go back and begin again. The flawed and spoiled must 
be taken out patiently. 
He had learned a little of it, dimly, wonderingly. The 
truth had always been there, but in the heedlessness of 
youth he had leaped quite over it, and now he must retrace 
these steps that he hated, that shamed him, that had cut 
him off from so many things he was beginning to desire. 
They had a delightful time at dinner. Charlie and Fred 
gave him the warmest of welcomes, and unfolded so many 
plans. They sympathized with Bruce as well, and hoped 
all things in the future. Only it seemed to Rob they were 
very young, and he felt old beside them. 
" Uncle Robert," he said, as they were walking home, 
" I have about made up my mind to one of two things, if 
you are willing. I should like to go in the Merediths' bus- 
iness house or some other here in the city." 
" Rob, do you remember what you said about chem- 
istry?" 
" O Uncle ! " Rob's heart gave a great leap of JOY , 
then he sternly brought it under control. "You are so 
good to think of that. You have all been so good to me, 
but I have incurred some expenses that I ought not to 
lay off on any one's shoulders. If I couldn't think when I 
was crazy enough to to marry, I must think now. I 
must earn sufficient to take care of the two whose com- 
fort, to say the least, I became responsible for. I shall 
make that myself, beside my own living. Why, I need not 
work as severely as I have. Then if I have any time, or 
energy, or money left over, I shall feel free to spend 
that on myself. I was talking a little to Mr. Meredith to- 
night j he thinks it can be brought about," 
" Robert," his uncle said gravely, tenderly, "I honor 
your resolve. It is simple right and justice. It will do 
more toward strengthening your character than any assist- 
ance from friends. I think you can be trusted, and I 
shall be glad to have you here." 
" And I must learn to be my mother's son. After all, 
she may have me more years than she ever dreamed." 
And he choked down the sigh for the chain he must wear. 
" And I want to say," a little tremulously, " that for the 
child's sake, for the family's sake, your proposal was best. 
In any event I owed it to you to accept it. It is my bus- 
iness to render my life the better for it." 
He felt the approving pressure on his arm. 
They found Bruce comparatively comfortable. He did 
not need a watcher, so Rob brought in the reclining chair 
for his bed, to be at hand at a word General Macken- 
zie seemed quite worn out, and the promise of a night's 
sleep was extremely refreshing. 
' ' I don't know what we should have done without j r our 
boy," he said, with his good-night to Mrs Alston, " and I 
think very few would have passed through such a terrible 
ordeal as well. Poor lad." 
The mother's eyes filled with tears. 
The house grew quiet presently, and all the lights were 
out save the one turned low in the parlor. The door was 
left open, for Bruce liked the shadowy suggestiveness bet- 
ter. Rob uttered a happy good-night, he was so at peace, 
and in a few moments Bruce heard the regular breathing of 
healthful slumber. He could not sleep, partty for pain, 
bravely borne while the others were looking > partly be- 
cause there was a tumult in his soul. 
He had come into her life again, so differently from any- 
thing he had planned. He was to wait until they were mar- 
ried and in their own home, and she was hedged about with 
pretty wifely and parish duties, the bright, generous, out- 
flowing woman, infusing the spirit of her Master in ever- 
widening circles, taking in the poor in heart, the weary 
and worn, and feeding them with some living bread 
of holiness and redemption. Like a pilgrim journeying 
on to the same far country he might stop and break bread, 
and exchange greetings of cheer. He would have over-lived 
the pain and longing ; the comfort she could have given 
would have been held out by a higher hand. He should 
see her there and rejoice with her in her work, diviner than 
any he could have brought her. 
But it was not so to be. He had met her to-day , rather 
she had come to meet him, with the old friendly fondness 
he once fancied meant love. The same sweet, generous 
graciousness, the pure, upward look. Yes, he had been 
mistaken. Even if he had won that, it would not have 
brought supreme satisfaction ; he would have wanted more, 
a depth and richness, a woman's love, such as Aunt Ruth 
was giving his father daity. Could girls love like that, or 
was it the larger awaiting of full womanhood ? 
And now he must see her daily and keep himself from 
any coveting, from any envying. He turned to God for 
strength ; there had been many times in his young life when 
he would have fainted but for this help. 
CHAPTER XXI. 
IT was a lovely, glowing autumn, full of long, dreamy 
days, with Indian summer skies ; just the time for delicious 
country rambles, and yet the city seemed to hold the most 
interest for Kathie. Mr. Meredith had offered Rob a very 
fair position, and he had gone to work with all his olden 
energy. There was one heavenly precept that would never 
have to be instilled into the young man. Whatever his 
hand found to do he did with all his might. Ned Mere- 
diih often smiled, recalling the Rob of old days at his 
play. 
He was to board through the winter with Aunt Ruth. 
Bruce wanted him ; that was sufficient. 
'' But I have made an arrangement to spend every other 
Sunday with you," Rob said to his mother. " Mr. Mere- 
dith offered to give me off the Monday morning, but I 
shall make it up. Only I shall have the house astir catch- 
ing the early train. Shall I prove a nuisance ? " 
She kissed him to hide her tears, touched by the devo- 
tion. He had begun in the path of duty. If he did not 
understand, if he could not see the certain evidence, still 
he would not abate, but persevere to the end. 
And while she was holding him to her heart another 
thought entered it. The little child alone was an innocent 
outcast from their love and sympathy. Theyhad forgiven 
him ; why should they be so cruelly hard to her ? 
" Rob," she said, with a soft tremble in her voice, 
"your uncle once spoke of the the baby. I am not 
sure but we ought to have it. I was so surprised and 
hurt then, that my heart was steeled against it." 
" Oh, no ! " he cried, with sudden shame and repugnance. 
" Do not bring it here ! " 
 
" Your child, Robert ! " She thought of the warm wel- 
come her own little ones had received on every hand. 
A deep flush suffused his face. 
''It seems so strange," half impatiently. "I have 
never known much about it. I never had Kathie's fond- 
ness for babies." 
" I think it had better come," in a tone of grave reproof. 
" As you like," he answered quietty. 
She discussed the matter with her brother, and they 
decided to go out to Chicago. Perhaps, too, she had a 
half-confessed curiosity to see the woman who had made 
such havoc of her boy's life. 
Kathie was left with Aunt Ruth. She was such a bright, 
useful, and entertaining body. Her very face, full of 
exquisite hope and tenderness, said so much without a 
word. Perhaps it was because she was so free from the 
platitudes often used in a sick-room, well meaning, but 
frequently extremely trying to sensitive nerves. She 
breathed patience and fortitude in her very aspect, she 
brought hope in her quick smile. Then she had so many 
expedients ; the comfort and solace of to-day was a little 
changed to-morrow by some added grace. 
The " boys " came in to see Bruce when he could enjoy 
company. Charlie had some of Kathie's ways, Bruce was 
forced to admit, almost unwillingly. He brought in a 
handful of flowers, not a regular-made bouquet ; or a paper 
that had a fine article Kathie must read aloud ; another 
day it would be some deliciously ripened fruit, or a set of 
fine photographs, borrowed from a friend. Bruce schooled 
himself to watch them together, to think of the time when 
their lives would be irrevocabty blended. 
After two weeks of suffering patiently borne, Dr. 
Markham found that, in spite of all his efforts, an abscess 
was forming. Dr. Gamier did not take the matter so 
seriously ; the patient had youth, a good constitution, and 
excellent habits for the groundwork of hope. And when 
he recovered from the fatigues of the journey he realty 
made some improvement. If he could get through without 
any permanent injury ; to save him from that would be 
their work. 
Dick, and Charlie, and Fred were glad to have Rob back 
in their midst. Ada Gamier welcomed him, too, but he 
was a little shy of her at first. 
" It is as good as a school," declared Dick, " to meet 
the people at her house and hear them talk." 
And but for the child Robert might have almost forgot- 
ten the miserable episode of the past. 
Mrs. Alston went on her journey with a half-sense of 
unwillingness, although she considered it her duty. The 
many changes and the brilliant autumn scenery interested 
her and diverted her mind in some degree from the sad 
aspect of affairs. They would see the child first. She 
was not quite certain she could take this alien to her heart, 
even if she did pity its lonely condition. 
They found Mrs. Fleming bright and tidy, and her little 
charge in riotous health. She stared at the new-comers 
with her large, laughing brown eyes, and then half shyly 
hid her face in her foster-mother's dress. 
" This is Mr. Alston's mother," Mr. Conover an- 
nounced. 
"Bertha, Bertha, you must not be naughty," said the 
gentle voice. " She is not usually afraid," in apology. 
"And she has quite forgotten me," declared Uncle 
Robert. " We became very good friends in the summer. 
Bertha." 
The child peeped out in such a pretty, piquant manner, 
showing a face strangely like, yet mysteriously unlike her 
father. There was a great struggle in Mrs. Alston's soul, 
and perhaps it was more from duty than love that she 
stooped and held out her hands. 
" Little Bertha," she said softly, " will you not come to 
me?" 
The child studied her a moment with grave intent, 
then, breaking into a merry peal of laughter, ran to Uncle 
Robert to be caught and lifted in his arms. Her satisfac- 
tion was but momentary, however ; the next instant she 
struggled to get away. 
" I want my mamma ! " reaching out her dimpled hands ; 
"I want my own, own mamma ! " 
Something in the bright, bird-like tone touched Mrs. 
Alston's heart, brought back the by-gone years. 
" She is a little strange," said Mrs. Fleming, coloring. 
" But she is very good, so merry and cheerful, and I think 
quite forward for her age. She can say nearly everything, 
and has so many cunning ways. As for her health, that is 
perfect. Don't you think she resembles her father? " 
" Yes. You have seen her mother? " 
" She came a few times. She owned that she did not 
care about children. I can't understand why the Lord 
sends them to such people, when there is many a hunger- 
ing soul that would welcome a baby. But young people 
rush into marriage without thinking of the sacred respon- 
sibility." And Mrs. Fleming checked herself suddenly, 
coloring. " Is the poor thing any better?" she asked. 
' ' She can never be restored in mind ; otherwise she is 
well, " Mr. Conover made answer. 
There was a brief pause, and then Mrs. Alston said in 
a low, gentle tone : 
" We have decided, my brother and I, that the proper 
place for the child is with us, since its mother will never 
be competent to care for it. But she is so fond of you, I 
hardly know how we will be able to get her home. Robert, 
it will tux your ingenuity." And she smiled. 
" I should like to keep her always." The tears came in 
Mrs. Fleming's eyes. "If the parents had been very 
poor, I should have proposed it, but I could only bring her 
up plainly." 
Mrs. Alston felt self-condemned. Not that she should 
ever grudge the child anything money could procure, she 
was not selfish in that respect, she was even sympathetic, 
but she could not instantly open her heart to love. In her 
soul she had blamed her son for this hardness, and she 
must struggle to overcome it. Simple duty was not all 
that was required ; there was a higher point. And how 
teach Robert to see it if she evaded it herself? 
" It is right and best that the child should be brought 
up among her relatives," she answered kindly. il I think 
we shall be able to manage. When will you be likely to 
return ? " glancing at Mr. Conover. 
" Oh, you will want to see the city before you leave it ! 
There is no hurry. We can come in and visit the little 
one again." 
He managed to coax a kiss out of her before he went 
away. 
. Then they started on their sad and distasteful errand. 
It was one of the poor creature's quiet days. She sat by 
a sunny window turning the leaves of a child's picture- 
book in gaudy colors. There was a lovely flush on her 
cheek, yet hardly the tint of health, and her vacant face 
had a curious, unearthly beauty. 
Mrs. Alston looked and turned away with a sigh. 
" Poor thing ! " said the nurse. " She gives very little 
trouble. My opinion is that she 's not so long for this 
world as they think, though some of them do live beyond 
everything ; but that 's more likely when they go insane 
naturally, without any accident, I mean. There's some- 
thing wrong with her spine, the doctors say. Mercy 
grant that she may not lie helpless years and years ! " 
They both echoed the prayer. Mrs. Alston turned 
away and her brother followed. 
" I think," she began, after they were in the carriage 
and driving slowly along, "that in some respects we can 
excuse Rob. He has always been hasty and impulsive. I 
can imagine the fascination this girl's beauty exercised 
over him, and no doubt she did lay a trap for him, if she 
fancied him the heir to a fortune. Evidently there was 
some object in marrying him ; it was not merely the love 
of flirtation. Still, it seems to me she might have done 
better, taken some one whose fortune was secure." 
" She had no doubt seen a good deal of the world, and 
on her part, I fancy, there was no very deep sentiment. 
But in the first place Robert should have kept away from 
such people. It serves to lower any young man's respect 
and regard for womanhood. He had been taught better, 
nay, he kmw better. Then, as Mrs. Fleming said, there is 
too much careless taking on of the most solemn vows of 
life. Marriage seems so easy, so delightful, that our 
young people take it up with about as much deliberation 
as going to an opera. They do not ask if it is the thing 
they want for thirty or fifty years, that they are not to 
thrust lightly aside, but endure with patience, realizing 
that it is an obligation of their own choosing, or their own 
haste and unwisdom. Then the ease with which these ties 
are sundered seems to offer a premium on thoughtlessness, 
and does weaken the sense of responsibility." 
" It is a bitter lesson. I fancy Robert will feel it more 
keenly as time goes on. But you thought he accepted it 
bravely," as if she could not bear to have him so 
severely blamed. 
" Yes, I think he displayed a great deal of courage and 
true manliness in his course, even to keeping the secret. 
He might have come to us then with his burden, and I 
shall always respect him that he bore it in silence as long 
as it was possible. The true test now is his living out of 
this, the kind of man he makes under this discipline. He 
has always been thoughtless as to consequences ; the pres- 
ent want has dominated him. He will have time now to 
ponder over the impatience of youth." 
" But, Robert, if she " 
" Hush, Dora, we must not allow ourselves to think of 
that," he answered solemnly. " With God alone belong 
the issues of life and death. It is the now that we are in, 
the present, and our work is to do the duty of the 
present." 
She did not make any immediate answer ; but after a 
considerable silence, said in a low, awed tone, " There 
Is one thing that I shall feel thankful for always, that she 
did not openly disgrace her child. A misfortune can be 
