Dory Dornwood, the hero of the initial volume of the series, is again
presented, and about a quarter of a hundred others; though all of them
cannot be heroes. Like the former volume, the scene is laid on Lake
Champlain and its shores.

In accordance with the hint thrown out in the preface of the first
volume, the Beech-Hill Industrial School makes a beginning in this
book; and its pupils are gathered together in the schoolroom and the
workshop. The boys are instructed only in those branches of learning
which will be of the greatest practical utility to them as mechanics.
They are taken into the shop, and set to work as carpenters and
machinists; and some idea is given of their operations at the bench.
But in a work of this kind the author finds it hardly practicable to
describe in detail the work done by the Champlain mechanics; though he
has done so to some extent, as a suggestion rather than as a system of
instruction for boy-workmen. Without a vast number of drawings, the
tools and machinery used by the carpenter and machinist cannot be
described and explained so as to be of any great practical service.
The book is rather to create an interest in these trades than to
furnish a guide to young mechanics.

The author regrets that there is no American work of the kind
mentioned. Our English cousins have sent us over some excellent works
on the subject, which are very useful, though not fully adapted to the
needs of American boys. A new friend suggests that such a book be
prepared, and with his aid it may yet be done.

Captain Gildrock, the founder and patron of the Beech-Hill Industrial
School, has some radical ideas on the subject of education; and
probably many of the older readers of this book will disagree with
him: but the question he argues is worthy of attention and discussion,
however it may be finally settled.

Though the author is not a mechanic by trade, he has worked in his own
shop for many years. With the carpenter’s bench, the turning-lathe,
and the various implements for working in wood and metals, he finds
not only his needed exercise, but a degree of pleasure which makes it
all the more healthy and exhilarating; and he commends the work to his
young friends, both for their amusement and instruction.




“Starboard your helm! hard a-starboard!” shouted Dory Dornwood, as he
put the helm of the Goldwing to port in order to avoid a collision
with a steam-launch which lay dead ahead of the schooner.

“Keep off! you will sink me!” cried a young man in a sloop-boat, which
lay exactly in the course of the steam-launch.

“That’s just what I mean to do, if you don’t come about!” yelled the
man at the wheel of the steamer. “Why didn’t you stop when I called to
you?”

“Keep off, or you will be into me!” screamed the skipper of the sloop,
whose tones and manner indicated that he was very much terrified at
the situation.

And he had reason enough to be alarmed. It was plain, from his
management of his boat, that he was but an indifferent boatman; and
probably he did not know what to do in the emergency. Dory had noticed
the sloop coming up the lake with the steam-launch astern of her. The
latter had run ahead of the sloop, and had come about, it now
appeared, for the purpose of intercepting her.

When the skipper of the sloop realized the intention of the helmsman
of the steamer, he put his helm to port; but he was too late. The
sharp bow of the launch struck the frail craft amidships, and cut
through her as though she had been made of card-board.

The sloop filled instantly; and, a moment later, the young man in her
was struggling on the surface of the water. The boat was heavily
ballasted, and she went down like a lump of lead. It was soon clear to
Dory that the skipper could not swim, for he screamed as though the
end of all things had come.

Very likely it would have been the end of all things to him, if Dory
had not come about with the Goldwing, and stood over to the place
where the young man was vainly beating the water with his feet and
hands. With no great difficulty the skipper of the Goldwing, who was
an aquatic bird of the first water, pulled in the victim of the
catastrophe, in spite of the apparent efforts of the sufferer to
prevent him from doing so.

It was a very warm day towards the end of August, and a bath in the
cool waters of Lake Champlain was not the worst thing in the world to
take. The victim of the collision was more scared than hurt; and he
lay in the bottom of the yacht, puffing and blowing like a black bass
just stolen from his native element. He did not seem to be able to
speak, and Dory thought he was making a great fuss about a very small
affair.

The Goldwing had been headed across the lake when her skipper picked
up the victim; and, when he was safely on board, she continued on her
course. Dory had come out to cool off and take a sail, and it made no
difference to him where he went. The Beech-hill Industrial School had
not yet commenced operations, and he had nothing on earth to do the
greater part of the time.

His father had died a few weeks before; but he had found a snug harbor
at Beech Hill, where he resided with his mother and sister in the
elegant mansion of his uncle, Captain Royal Gildrock. The captain had
acquired an immense fortune by his operations in various parts of the
world; but as his wife was dead, and he had no children, it had
bothered him a good deal to determine what to do with all his money.

For many years there had been a feud between the head of the Dornwood
family and the owner of Beech Hill. Mr. Dornwood was an intemperate
man, and never more than half supported his family; though he had good
wages as a pilot on the lake. He had married the captain’s only sister
in spite of the opposition of all her friends, and especially of her
brother.

When the captain attempted to assist his sister in taking care of her
two children, her husband ordered him out of his house; for a great
many sharp words had passed between them. The wife was afraid of her
inebriate husband, and the attempts of the wealthy brother to help the
family had ended in the complete estrangement of the brother and
sister.

But as soon as Mrs. Dornwood was a widow, the captain hastened to her
assistance. Though Dory had made an earnest effort to support the
family, he had finally consented to reside with his mother at Beech
Hill. The pilot’s wife and children had always lived in the humblest
tenements, worn the meanest garments, and lived upon the plainest and
cheapest food.

Their lot at the new home was in tremendous contrast with their former
condition. Captain Gildrock was a plain man himself, and inclined to
regard the elegancies and luxuries of life with contempt. Though his
house was large, it was plainly furnished. If his table was not
garnished by the skill of a French cook, it was loaded with the best
that could be procured. To the Dornwoods every thing about the house
was luxurious.

Captain Gildrock was a thinking man, and he had ideas as well as
money. The two go well together, for ideas are often barren things
when one has not the means to carry them out. The worthy shipmaster
had studied society and human nature in many lands and climes. After
he retired from the sea and business generally, he had given his
attention wholly to the affairs in his own country. After he had done
so for a year or two, he was disposed to exclaim with the inspired
writer, “Vanity of vanities! All is vanity!”

Perhaps the standard of the captain was too high for this world, but
he felt that the American people were slipping away from first
principles. The nation had prospered by toil,--by inducing and
compelling the earth to yield her increase. Life had been something
more than a pleasure-excursion.

“When I was young,” he used to say, “the boys worked on the farm,
learned a trade, or went to sea. Now all the young men go into stores,
become counter-jumpers and man-milliners. Men get rich now by making
corners, betting on futures, and in speculation of all sorts. A big
thief is a gentleman: a little one is a criminal, after he is caught.
The boys and girls have been educated too much: they get above their
station in life, and then half starve themselves in order to be
genteel.”

The captain did not believe that the young people were educated too
much; only that they were trained in useless accomplishments, as he
regarded them. He did not think that the Genverres high-school, though
a very successful institution in the opinion of the school-board and
the citizens generally, was really a blessing to the town. He was
confident that he had discovered the philosopher’s stone in education,
though he found himself almost alone in his opinions.

“That school only spoils good farmers and mechanics, good seamen and
engineers. It gives them altogether too high notions of themselves. It
turns its pupils out on the world fit only to be genteel. The
education which the fathers of New England meant, when they planted
the schoolhouse alongside the church, was simply a common-school
education, without any high-school bosh on the tail-end of it. It’s
all well enough for rich people: it is a luxury they can afford, and
one they ought to pay for.”

Very likely the captain was too ultra in his views, but the question
he argued is one which must be settled before the lapse of many years.

The shipmaster was a practical man, and he did not talk without
acting. He believed in industrial education, not in the grammar-school,
but in place of the high-school. He had talked his views in
town-meeting, and printed them in the papers; but the people were not
inclined to adopt them.

A year before, he had taken a number of young men, and instructed them
in seamanship and the construction and management of the marine
engine. It was only a partial experiment, but he regarded it as an
eminently successful one. Most of his pupils had obtained situations
as engineers, and they were competent to fill them.

Captain Gildrock hoped to convince the people that his views were
correct, and he was ready to spend his money in demonstrating the
truth of what he preached. His class of the preceding year had been
rather too old when he took them in hand. He wanted boys from the
grammar-school, twelve or fourteen years old, before they had “bowed
down to the vanity of this world,” before they had learned to be
genteel, before they oiled their hair, and spent half an hour a day in
adjusting their neckties.

After the death of his brother-in-law, the pilot, he had captured his
nephew, after a hard struggle, and found he was the leading spirit of
the Goldwing Club, which had taken its name from Dory’s boat. These
boys were rather wild, but not bad. The captain succeeded in gathering
them all into the Beech-hill Industrial School, as he decided to call
the new institution. But the boys in Genverres were shy of the new
school, or their parents were shy for them. Not a few of the latter
regarded the retired shipmaster as a sort of harmless lunatic, liberal
with his money, but, like all reformers, an unsafe leader to follow.

Several boys from the high-school had made excellent records out in
the world, and each fond parent expected his own son would join the
galaxy of bright stars from its graduates. The captain could find only
three boys in the whole town who would join the new school, while
thirty went to the high-school. Possibly the requirement that the
pupils should reside at Beech Hill had some influence with the
parents.

It looked as though the school was to begin with eight pupils,--hardly
enough to man the Sylph, the captain’s elegant steam-yacht, the
largest and finest craft of the kind on the lake. All the boys in the
high-school would have liked to flirt about the lake in the
magnificent steamer; but to do it as seamen, firemen, engineers,
waiters, and cooks, was not wholly to the taste of the parents, if it
suited that of the boys.

Dory Dornwood was waiting for the school to begin. Great boxes of
tools, machinery, and other material for the workshops, had arrived at
Beech Hill; but the captain would not allow them to be opened until
the boys came. Besides, he was very busy in looking up pupils for the
new institution. He wanted twenty-four to begin with, and he was
searching for them in some of the interior towns where he was
acquainted.

Dory was very impatient for the school to begin, though he was very
happy in the midst of his new surroundings. He was a natural mechanic,
and tools of any kind suited him better than books. He was fond of
adventure, and wondered if he should ever have another time as lively
as that on the lake before he was captured by his uncle.

The young man he had picked up on the lake was about sixteen years
old, and was a stranger to him. His wet garments, though poor enough,
betrayed an effort at some style. After a while he recovered his
breath, and seemed to be in condition to give an account of himself.




CHAPTER II.

THE YOUNG MAN WITH A LONG NAME.


“You had a narrow squeak that time,” said Dory Dornwood, as soon as he
thought the victim of the disaster was in condition to do a little
talking. “It is lucky you didn’t get tangled up in the rigging of your
boat. She went to the bottom like a pound of carpet-tacks; and she
would have carried you down in a hurry if you hadn’t let go in short
metre.”

“I think I am remarkably fortunate in being among the living at this
moment,” replied the stranger, looking out over the stern of the
Goldwing. “That was the most atrocious thing a fellow ever did.”

“What was?” inquired Dory, who was not quite sure what the victim
meant by the remark, or whether he alluded to him or to the man in the
steam-launch.

“Why, running into me like that,” protested the passenger with no
little indignation in his tones.

“Let me see, ‘atrocious’ means something bad or wicked, don’t it?”
continued Dory.

“Something very bad and very wicked,” replied the stranger, with a
sickly smile, as he bestowed a patronizing glance upon his deliverer.

“I thought it was something of that sort. I suppose you don’t use such
big words as that before breakfast, do you?”

“Why not before breakfast as well as after? It is a common word, in
use every day in the week.”

“I didn’t know but it might put your jaws out of joint, and spoil your
appetite,” added Dory, as he glanced behind him to see what had become
of the steam-launch.

“My appetite is not so easily spoiled.”

“I suppose you came up from Burlington?” said Dory suggestively, as
though he considered an explanation on the part of the stranger to be
in order at the present time.

“I have just come from Burlington,” answered the victim, who appeared
to be disposed to say nothing more. “Do you suppose I can get that
boat again?”

“I should say that the chance of getting her again was not first-rate.
She went down where the water is about two hundred and fifty feet
deep; and it won’t be an easy thing to get hold of her,” replied Dory.
“If you had let him run into you between Diamond Island and Porter’s
Bay, where the water is not more than fifty or sixty feet deep, you
could have raised her without much difficulty. I don’t believe you
will ever see her again.”

“That’s bad,” mused the stranger. “She did not belong to me.”

“Then you are so much in. Perhaps, if she had belonged to you, you
would not have let the steam-launch run into you,” added Dory, who did
not quite like the way the victim was taking things; for he did not
seem to remember that he had been pulled out of the water by the
skipper of the Goldwing when he was in great danger of drowning.

“I did not let the steam-launch run into me. The man in her did it on
purpose. It was not an accident,” answered the stranger.

“I heard the fellow say that he meant to sink you; and, after he said
that, I thought you were a little out of your head to let him do it.”

“I didn’t let him do it.”

“I thought you did. If I had been at the tiller of that sloop, he
wouldn’t have done it.”

“Probably you are a better boatman than I am: I don’t pretend to know
much about the management of a yacht,” replied the victim meekly, as
he finished wiping the water from his face.

“Then you ought not to be sailing a boat in a fresh breeze, such as we
are having to-day. Why didn’t you put your helm down when you saw that
he was going to run into you?”

“Down where?” asked the victim with a vacant stare.

“Down cellar!” exclaimed Dory, disgusted at the ignorance of the
skipper of the sunken sloop. “No fellow ought to sail a boat if he
don’t know how to put the helm down.”

“A fellow can’t know every thing in the world.”

“Then, I suppose you know every thing else: but how to put the helm
down was the one thing you ought to have known, when that fellow was
kind enough to tell you beforehand that he meant to sink you.”

“Don’t be too rough on me, Mr.-- I don’t know your name. I am under
very great obligations to you for the signal service you have rendered
me, and I shall be glad to know you better.”

“My name is Theodore Dornwood,--Dory for short. What is yours?”

“Dory Dornwood!” exclaimed the victim, bestowing a look of
astonishment upon the modest skipper. “I have heard of you before, and
I am particularly glad to meet you.”

“I should think you might be, since I picked you up in deep water. But
you did not give me your name.”

“My name is Bolingbroke Millweed.”

“Is that all the name you have?” asked Dory, as he opened his eyes
till they were as big as a pair of saucers--very small saucers. “I
didn’t quite make it out, for it fairly snarled up my intellect.”

“Bolingbroke Millweed,” repeated the stranger with a slight frown upon
his brow. “It’s all the name I have.”

“It’s name enough, I should say.”

“It is hardly worth while to make fun of my name: I am not responsible
for it, and it is the best I have.”

“I beg your pardon, Mr.-- I don’t know what your name is now, for
really I did not take it in,” pleaded Dory, who was sometimes very
brusk in his manner, though he did not mean to hurt anybody’s
feelings. “Honestly, I did not understand you.”

“You cannot have read English history very much, or you would have
recognized the first name.”

“I never did read English history much: in fact, I never did much
reading of any kind.”

“My first name is Bolingbroke, and my surname is Millweed. The whole
of it is Bolingbroke Millweed,” added the victim, mollified as he
pitied the ignorance of his deliverer.

“All right, Mr. Millweed: I won’t tackle the first name until I get a
little better acquainted with it.”

“Viscount Henry St. John Bolingbroke, after whom I was named, was a
prime minister of England, and a fine scholar; though he was charged
with treason. But I did not pick out the name myself: it was my
mother’s choice, but I can’t say that I approve it. I suppose I shall
be called ‘Bolly’ as long as I live.”

“Of course your friends can’t handle such a jaw-breaker as Bolingbroke
every time they want to ask you which way the wind is. But never mind
the name, Mr. Millweed. I picked you up in deep water, and that’s how
you happen to be on board of the Goldwing.”

“The famous Goldwing! I am extremely happy to be on board of her;
though I wish our meeting had been under more favorable
circumstances,” added Mr. Bolingbroke Millweed, as he poured the water
out of one of his shoes.

“I only said that you were on board of the Goldwing; and the question
now is, what shall I do with you, for I see the steam-launch is headed
this way. I should judge from his actions that the man at the wheel of
her wants to see you.”

“He does want to see me! I am the victim of a conspiracy!” exclaimed
Mr. Millweed in tragic tones, as he sprang to his feet.

“The victim of a conspiracy? Is that what you call the sinking of a
sloop?”

“I feel that the brave and noble Dory Dornwood will be my friend,
and"--

“Clap a stopper on your jaw-tackle!” interposed the skipper of the
Goldwing, borrowing an expression his uncle had quoted in his
presence. “If you mean to blarney me, I shall be your enemy; and I
will put you ashore on Diamond Island, without benefit of clergy.”

“Excuse me: I did not mean to offend you, Mr. Dornwood,”--

“Avast heaving! Don’t ‘mister’ me. Call me Dory; but don’t call me too
late for dinner,” laughed the skipper.

“Since I know who you are, I shall tell you my story, and explain how
I happened to be sailing the sloop, and”--

“I know how you were sailing her, and you sailed her to the bottom.
Tell me the rest of it.”

“I will tell you why that man ran into me, and why he was chasing me
up the lake.”

“That’s the point; but make the yarn a short one, or the steam-launch
will be upon us before you get through with it. You have the floor,
Mr. Millweed,” replied Dory, as he glanced at the approaching steamer.

“But I don’t want to be caught by that man! It might be fatal to me.
He is a conspirator; and he is seeking to destroy my good name,”
pleaded Mr. Millweed earnestly.

“I don’t understand the matter. Is the man an officer?”

“Not at all: he is chief clerk in a store in Burlington, and the
steam-launch belongs to his employer. But he is rapidly overtaking
us,” said the passenger.

“Why should he be after you? What have you been doing that is wrong?”
asked Dory, who had no idea of enlisting on the wrong side in
anybody’s cause.

“I have done nothing wrong. I will tell you all about the matter, only
don’t let that man get hold of me. Upon my sacred honor, I am guilty
of no crime,” continued Bolingbroke Millweed.

Dory was greatly tempted. He had a reputation on Lake Champlain, won
but a short time before he made his snug harbor at Beech Hill. On two
occasions he had successfully kept out of the way of a steamer. He had
been pursued all one day by the swiftest steam-yacht on the lake, but
by his “tactics” he had kept out of her reach.

If the young man had been guilty of a crime, he would do nothing for
him. His passenger spoke fairly; but, if he had been doing wrong, he
would not scruple to lie about it. Dory decided to keep out of the way
of the steam-launch long enough to hear Bolingbroke’s story. It was an
exciting game to dodge a steamer, and he desired to play it. The water
in the lake had been very low all summer, and no heavy rains had yet
raised it. The low-water soundings on the chart needed no corrections.

The Goldwing was a schooner, and Dory had been sailing under jib and
mainsail only. This was about all the sail she could comfortably
carry. The skipper looked over the situation very carefully. The yacht
was on the wind, headed across the lake. After the sinking of the
sloop, the two men in the steamer had a long talk before they started
her screw again; and she was all of half a mile astern of the
Goldwing.

Coming up into the wind, Dory set the mainsail; and then it was a
staggering wind for the Goldwing. By a little manœuvring the skipper
brought Diamond Island between his own craft and the steam-launch.

The pursuer had gained on him while he was setting the foresail.
Starting his sheets, he stood off to the south-west until the steamer
was abreast of the island. She could not head him off; and then he
came about again, steering her due south.

The skipper was ready for the explanation, and the passenger proceeded
to relate it.




CHAPTER III.

MR. BOLINGBROKE MILLWEED TELLS HIS STORY.


The wind was blowing very fresh; and the Goldwing staggered wildly, as
she went ahead nearly before it. Mr. Bolingbroke Millweed appeared to
be a little nervous, for the schooner carried twice as much sail in
proportion to her size as the sloop in which he had come from
Burlington.

“She acts just as though she was going to tip over,” said he, clinging
to the wash-board.

“Tip over! She don’t do that sort of thing. She has got over all her
bad habits,” replied the skipper. “But I should like to have you spin
your yarn before we get up to Field’s Bay, so that I may know what to
do with you.”

“I have been looking for a place in a store for a year, for I was
graduated at the high-school last summer,” Mr. Millweed began. “I know
a young man by the name of Hackett Tungwood, who is in a store in
Burlington. He wanted a vacation of a week, and he engaged me to take
his place while he was absent.”

“Did his boss agree to it?” asked Dory.

“His employer did agree to it, and treated me very kindly when I went
to the store at seven o’clock this morning. About nine o’clock Mr.
Lingerwell, who is Hack’s brother-in-law, and the head man in the
store, sent me to the safe for the cash-book.”

“I got the book, and gave it to him. Just then Mr. Longbrook, the
proprietor, came in, and asked Mr. Lingerwell for the four hundred and
fifty dollars which had been put in the safe the night before. I saw
the head man go to the safe, and then both he and his employer seemed
to be in great consternation.”

“Short words, or you never will finish,” interposed Dory.

“I did not know what the matter was, but Mr. Lingerwell used a great
many exclamations.”

“What did he do with them?”

“He uttered them, of course: what else could he do with them? If you
continue to interrupt with irrelevant questions, it will take me a
long time to tell the story,” replied Mr. Millweed impatiently. “I was
putting up goods near the desk, or I should not have noticed what was
going on. In a little while I heard enough to satisfy me that the four
hundred and fifty dollars was missing.

“Mr. Longbrook called me to the desk, and asked if I had been to the
safe. I told him I had taken the cash-book from the safe, as I had
been told to do. He looked me sharply in the eye. Mr. Lingerwell said
no one else had been to the safe since he opened it in the morning.

“I was sent back to my work, and the two men kept on talking about the
money. It was clear enough to me that I was suspected of taking it,
and I felt as though I was already in the State prison. I heard Mr.
Lingerwell say he was sure I had taken the money, for it was all right
when he opened the safe. I never was so terrified before in my life.
Hack Tungwell had told me he did not expect to keep his place much
longer: he might not return at all. If I pleased his employer, I might
get the situation.

“What I heard seemed to be the knell of all my hopes. I had done my
best to get a place, for my father sadly needs what little I could
earn. Then the two men talked in low tones for a while. Presently
Mr. Longbrook went out of the store. I was sure he had gone for an
officer to arrest me.

“The idea of being arrested and marched through the streets by a
constable was about as bad to me as being shot through the head. When
Mr. Lingerwell went to the back part of the store, I rushed out at the
front door.”

“You left!” exclaimed Dory with something like indignation in his
tones.

“I did: I was wholly unwilling to be dragged through the streets by an
officer.”

“That was worse than sinking the sloop in two hundred and fifty feet
of water. Do I understand you to say that you did not take the money
from the safe?” demanded Dory.

“Do I look like a thief?” asked Mr. Millweed, rising from his seat in
the standing-room in deep disgust; though he was immediately thrown
back again by the motion of the yacht.

“Never mind how you look: you acted just like a thief,” retorted Dory
warmly. “You don’t say yet that you didn’t take the money when you
went to the safe for the book.”

“I do say now, most emphatically, that I did not take the money when
I went to the safe for the cash-book, or at any other time. I didn’t
even know there was any money in the safe,” protested Mr. Millweed
very earnestly.

“That’s coming to the point; but you have done the best you could to
convince your employer and his head man that you did take it. I advise
you to go straight back to Burlington, and then straight to the store,
and face the music. If anybody says I stole any money, I want to see
the man that says so.”

“That would all be very well under ordinary circumstances,” pleaded
Mr. Millweed.

“It’s all very well under any circumstances.”

“I had a theory of my own.”

“I don’t care any thing about your theory: I say the way is to face
the music. If you had let them search you before you went out of the
store, you would have been all right. They would not have found the
money upon you, and you had had no chance to get rid of it. Now they
will say you buried it somewhere on the shore of the lake.”

“But I tell you I have a theory. I believe Tim Lingerwell took the
money himself. How easy it would have been for him to slip the wallet,
or the package, whatever it was, into my pocket when I was not
looking.”

“That thing has been done in a hundred and fifty novels and stories,
but it isn’t done every day in Burlington. If Tim Lingerwell wanted
the money bad enough to steal it, he wouldn’t put it into your
pocket.”

“He isn’t any too good to do such a thing. He and Hack belong in
Genverres; and people here wouldn’t trust either of them with a pewter
quarter,” argued Mr. Millweed.

“Perhaps you are right: I don’t know. You have given yourself away,
and made it look bad for you. If Tim Lingerwell took the money, what
did he do with it?”

“That’s more than I know. He has the care of the safe, and he and I
were the only persons who had been near it when Mr. Longbrook came in
for the money. I know I did not take it; and if I didn’t, he did.
That’s the whole of it.”

Dory believed his passenger had been a fool to run away; but, without
knowing why, he could not help believing that he was telling the truth.

“Where did you get the sloop in which you came up the lake?” he asked.
“You said she did not belong to you.”

“She belongs to Sim Green, a friend of mine, who lives next door to
me. He was going down to Burlington to stay a few days with his uncle.
Money is a scarce article in our family, and I had none to pay my fare
by railroad. I was going to walk; but, at Sim’s invitation, I went
down in his sloop. When I left the store, I went down to the boat, and
got into it. Then I thought I would go home, and tell my father and
mother what had happened.”

“Then you took the boat without leave?”

“I knew Sim would not care, and he won’t come home before Saturday. I
meant to send it back before that time,” Mr. Millweed explained.

“That may be all right; but Sim won’t thank you for taking it, when he
learns that she has gone down in two hundred and fifty feet of water.
Now, what is to be done?” asked Dory. “Will you go back to Burlington,
and face the music?”

“I don’t know what to do,” replied Mr. Millweed, evidently overwhelmed
with perplexity.

“I have told you what I would do if I were in your place,” added Dory.

“Then I will go back; but I don’t want to be dragged into Burlington
by Tim Lingerwell,” replied Mr. Millweed, as he glanced at the
steam-launch.

“All right, if you will only go back. What makes you think Tim
Lingerwell took the money?” asked Dory.

“The more I think of it, the more certain I feel that he took the
money. Why should he call me from my work to get the cash-book out of
the safe for him, when he was within six feet of it? Why should he
send me to the safe at all, and leave it unlocked, when he knew there
was so much money in it? Why didn’t he search me before Mr. Longbrook
went out? He managed it all to suit himself,” replied the passenger
with energy.

Dory thought his passenger was right. If the head man in the store
believed the substitute clerk had taken the money from the safe, he
could not see why he had been permitted to leave the store.

“Did they chase you in the street after you left the store?” asked
Dory, who was rather inclined to do a little detective business on his
own account, as he had had a taste of it during the summer.

“No one chased me. I did not see any one from the store. I was off
Split Rock when I first saw the launch, but I didn’t know Tim was in
her till just before he ran into the sloop. The moment I heard his
voice, I understood it all; but I did not know enough about a boat to
get out of the way.”

“I don’t believe you did, or you would not have sunk that sloop. The
wonder is, that you got as far as you did without capsizing her.”

