      The evening shades appear;
    O may we all remember well
      The night of death draws near,"

sang the wife, in her sweet voice, sitting close to her husband's chair,
so that he could hear the words.

Not long afterwards the Major said he was tired; it was not often that
he was tired so early in the evening, but to-night, for some reason, he
felt quite weary; he thought he would go to bed. It was half-past eight;
at nine he and Scar were both asleep, and the two women left the house
together. Walley's Cove was not far from the Farms, but it was farther
up the mountain, where there was no road, only paths; they could not,
therefore, go in the carriage; they could have taken Caleb Inches with
them, but in that peaceful neighborhood escort for mere safety's sake
was not necessary, and they preferred to be alone.

"Take my arm, mamma," said Sara, as they began to ascend.

But Madam Carroll would not. She walked on unaided. Her step was firm.
She did not once speak.

In the small room under the roof, which he had occupied since his
return, lay the young man who was now dying; for it needed but one
glance to show that the summons had come: he was passing away. The
farmer's wife, much affected, knelt beside him; the doctor had gone, she
said, but a short time before; there was nothing more that he could do,
and he was needed elsewhere. The farmer himself was fanning the
unconscious face. Madam Carroll took the fan.

"Let me do that," she said. "I know you feel as if your children were
needing you down-stairs."

For the three little children had been left alone in the room below,
and, disturbed by the absence of father and mother, were not asleep; one
of them had begun to cry a little at intervals. The farmer went down,
his clumsy boots making no sound on the uncarpeted stairway, so careful
was his tread. Madam Carroll sat down on the edge of the poor bed, and
fanned the sleeping face; the eyes were closed, the long, dark lashes
lay on the thin cheeks, the breath came slowly through the slightly
parted lips. The farmer's wife began to pray in a low voice; she was a
devout Baptist, and she had had her pastor there in the afternoon, and
had fancied that the dying man was conscious for a time, and that he had
listened and responded. She had grown fond of the poor musician in
taking care of him, and the tears rolled down her sunburned cheeks as
she prayed. Madam Carroll remained calm; she moved the fan with even
sweep to and fro. She had taken off her bonnet, as the night was warm,
and with her golden curls, her pink-tinted complexion, and the same
pretty dress she had worn to church in the morning, she was a contrast
to the rough, bare room, to the farmer's wife, in her coarse homespun
gown, and even to her own daughter, who, in her plain black dress, her
face pale and sad, was standing near.

An hour passed. The child's wail below had now in it the unmistakable
sound of suffering. "Pray go down," said Madam Carroll; "I am sure your
baby needs you."

"But I don't like to leave you, Madam Carroll; it doesn't seem right,"
the woman answered, yet listening, too, at the same time, to the baby's
wail below.

"You need have no hesitation. I have had experience of this kind before;
and besides, I do not easily lose my self-possession."

"Yes, you hev got a strong hold on yersel," said the farmer's wife
admiringly. They spoke in low tones, though sounds of earth could no
longer penetrate to that gray, still border-land which the sleeper's
soul was crossing. "I know you keer for the poor young man; you keer
for him as much as I do. For yer see he ain't got no mother to be sorry
for him, poor fellow," she continued, laying her rough hand tenderly on
his head; "and you and me knows, Madam Carroll, how his mother'd feel.
There ain't nothing like the way a mother keers for her boy."

Sara came forward. "I am sure your child needs you, Mrs. Walley," she
said; "please go down at once. I promise to call you if anything should
be needed."

The child was crying again, and the mother went. Sara softly closed the
door. It had not been closed until then.

A little before midnight, Dupont, who had been for six hours in a
lethargic sleep, stirred and woke. Madam Carroll bent over him. He knew
her; he turned his head towards her and lay looking at her, his large
eyes strangely solemn in their unmoving gaze. Sara came and stood on the
other side of the bed, fanning him with the fan which her mother had
relinquished. Thus he remained, looking at Madam Carroll, with his slow,
partially comprehending stare. Then gradually the stare grew conscious
and intelligent. And then it grew full of expression. It was wonderful
to see the mind come back and look once more from the windows of its
deserted house of clay--the last look on earth. Madam Carroll, bending
towards him, returned his gaze; she had laid one hand on his forehead,
the other on his breast; her fair hair touched his shoulder. She said
nothing; she did not move; but all her being was concentrated in her
eyes. The dying man also was silent: probably he had passed beyond the
power of speech. Thus, motionless, they continued to look at each other
for a number of minutes. Then consciousness faded, the light left the
windows; a few seconds more and the soul was gone. Madam Carroll, still
in silence, laid her hand upon the heart and temples; all was still.
Then she gently closed the eyes.

Sara, weeping, came to her side. "Do not, Sara; some one might come in,"
said her mother. Her hands rested on the closed lids. Then, her task
done, she stood for a moment beside the couch, silently, looking at the
still face on the pillow. "You must go down and tell them," she said, in
a composed tone. "Farmer Walley must go immediately for Sabrina Barnes
and her sister. You can say that the funeral will be from this house,
and that they had better ask their own minister--the one who was here
this afternoon--to officiate."

"Oh, mamma, do not try to think of everything; it is not necessary now,"
said Sara, beseechingly.

"Do as I tell you, Sara," answered Madam Carroll. And Sara obeyed her.



When she returned, Madam Carroll was arranging the pillows and
straightening the coarse sheet. She had folded the musician's thin hands
over his breast and smoothed his disordered hair.

"The child has been in pain all this time," said the daughter, "and they
are frightened; Farmer Walley will go for Sabrina Barnes and for the
doctor at the same time. I told Mrs. Walley that she need not come up,
that we would stay. In any case she could hardly leave her baby now. But
oh, mamma, do not try to do that; do not try to do anything more."

"Yes, we will stay," said Madam Carroll. She took a chair, placed it
beside the bed, so that it faced the figure lying there, and sat down;
she put her feet on a footstool and folded her hands.

"Dear mamma, do not sit there looking like that; do not try to be so
quiet. No one will be here for half an hour: cry, mamma; let yourself
cry. You have this little time, and--and it will be your last."

"I will not cry," answered Madam Carroll; "I have not cried at all;
tears I can keep back. But I should like to kiss him, Sara, if you will
keep watch. He would like to have his mother kiss him once before he
goes away." And bending forward as she sat, she kissed tenderly the
forehead and the closed eyes. The touch overcame her; she did not weep,
but, putting her arms round him, she sat looking at him piteously. "He
was such a dear little baby!" she murmured. "I was so proud of him! He
was always so handsome and so brave--such a sturdy little fellow! When
he was only six years old he said, 'I want to grow up quick and be big,
so that I can take care of you, mamma.'" She stroked back his dark hair.
"You meant no harm; none of it was your fault, Julian. Do not think your
mother has any blame for you, my darling boy. But now you know that I
have not." She passed her hands softly over his wasted cheeks. "May I
put him in our--in your--lot in the church-yard, Sara? It will only take
a little space, and the lot is so large; there isn't any other place
where I should like to have him lying. People would think it was our
kindness; in that way it could be done. And do not put me too far from
him, when my time comes; not too far. For you know he was, Sara, my
dear boy, my darling first-born son." She murmured this over and over,
her arms round him. Then, "He is not lying quite straight," she said.
And she tried to move his head a little. But already it had the strange
heaviness of death, it was like a weight of stone in her small hands. As
she realized this, her face became convulsed for the first time; her
whole frame was shaken by her grief.

Footsteps were now audible coming up the mountain path outside. "Mamma,
they are here," said Sara, from her post at the window.

But Madam Carroll had already controlled herself. She rose, pressed one
long, last kiss on the still face; then she went to the door and opened
it. When Sabrina Barnes and her sister, the two old women who in that
rural neighborhood filled the office of watching by the dead, came up
the stairs, she was waiting for them. In a clear, low voice she gave
them her directions: the expenses of the funeral she should herself
assume. Then she passed down the stairs with Sara on her way home,
stopping to speak to the mother of the sick child in the lower room, and
suggest some new remedy.

Mrs. Walley was distressed at the idea of their going home alone; but
her husband had not yet returned, and the ladies did not wish to wait.
The path was safe enough; it was only the loneliness of it. But the
ladies said that they did not mind the loneliness. They went down the
mountain by the light of the stars, reaching the Farms a little after
two o'clock. Dupont had died at midnight.

The funeral took place on Tuesday afternoon. The Baptist minister
officiated, but all the congregation of St. John's were also present.
The farm-house was full, and people stood in the garden outside
bare-headed and reverent. Then the little procession was formed, and
went down the mountain towards St. John's, where the Carrolls, with
their usual goodness, as everybody said, had given a place for the poor
stranger in their own lot. The coffin was borne on men's shoulders in
the old-fashioned way. It was covered with flowers. Every one had sent
some, for they all remembered how fond he had been of their
flower-gardens. They recalled his sweet voice and his songs, his merry
ways with children. There was a pathos, too, in his poverty, because
they had not suspected it. And so they all thought of him kindly as he
was borne by on his way to his last rest.

Madam Carroll and Sara had not been at the farm-house. But they were at
the grave. They were in waiting there when the procession entered the
church-yard gate. They stood at the head of the coffin as it rested on
the bier during the prayer. They stood there while it was lowered, and
while the grave was being filled. This was the custom in Far Edgerley:
everybody stayed. But when this task was completed the people dispersed;
the services were considered at an end.

Flower had begun to shape the mound, and Madam Carroll still waited.
Seeing this, several persons came back, and a little group gathered.

"Ah, well, poor friendless young man, his life here is over," said Mrs.
Greer. "It is not quite straight, Flower; if you come here and look, you
can see for yourself."

"I suppose he was a foreigner," said Miss Sophy; "he looked like one.
Didn't you say that you thought he was a foreigner, Madam Carroll?"

"He came from Martinique," answered the Major's wife; "he had lived
there, I believe, or on one of the neighboring islands, almost all his
life."

"Well, I call that foreign; I call all the West India Islands very
foreign," said Miss Sophy. "They don't seem to me civilized. They are
principally inhabited by blacks."

"It was so sad that he had no money," remarked Mrs. Rendlesham. "We
never dreamed of that, you know. Though I remember now that his clothes,
when you came to really look at them, were a little--a little worn,
perhaps."

"They were shabby," said Miss Corinna, not with unkindness, but simply
as historian.

"Is it true, Madam Carroll, that he was a Baptist?" asked Miss Bolt,
thoughtfully looking at the mound.

"The Walleys are Baptists, you know," answered the lady of the Farms.
"They had their pastor there several times, and on the last day Mrs.
Walley was sure that Mr.--Mr. Dupont was conscious, and that he joined
in their prayers, and assented to what was said."

"I don't believe he was anything--I mean, anything in particular,"
said Mrs. General Hibbard, decisively. "He hadn't that air."

"Oh, dear Mrs. Hibbard, surely we should be charitable," said little
Miss Tappen, who was waiting with a wreath of her best chrysanthemums to
place upon the completed mound.

"Well, Amelia, can you say he had?" said the General's widow, in an
argumentative tone, with her forefinger extended.

"I suppose he had neither father nor mother, nor any near relatives,
poor fellow, as he never spoke of them," observed Miss Dalley; "that is,
I never heard that he did. But perhaps he talked more freely to you,
Madam Carroll. Did he ever mention his parents?"

"Mamma, I think we had better go now," interposed Sara Carroll. "You are
very tired, I know."

"Oh, yes," said all the ladies, "do go, dear Madam Carroll." "You have
had so much to do lately." "You are looking quite fatigued, really."
"Pray take care of yourself, for all our sakes."

Madam Carroll looked at the mound, which was now nearly completed. Then
she made a little gesture of farewell to the group, and turned with her
daughter towards the gate. All the ladies wore black dresses: it was the
custom at Far Edgerley to wear black at funerals. Madam Carroll not
only wore a black dress, but she had put a black ribbon on her little
straw bonnet.

"Isn't it sweet of her to do that?" said Miss Dalley. "It makes it a
sort of mourning, you know; and I like to think that the poor lonely
fellow had at least one mourner to stand beside his grave."

The path took the two ladies past the study. Its door was open; the
rector saw them, and came out. He offered his arm in silence to Madam
Carroll. She took it. She was trembling a little. "I am excessively
tired," she said, as if apologizing.

"Yes, I noticed it during the prayer."

"Then you were there?" She spoke mechanically, more as if she were
filling the time that must pass before they could reach the gate than as
though she cared for reply.

"I was both at the house and the grave," answered Owen. He did not look
at Sara, who was on the other side of Madam Carroll. He could not.
During all these days and nights of Dupont's last illness, and since his
death, he had been haunted by the thought of the grief she must be
enduring. And yet to have seen the least trace of that grief in her face
(and he should be sure to see it, though others might not), would have
been intolerable to him. He did not, therefore, once look at her; he was
a man of stern self-control as regarded his actions. But he could not
help his feelings; and these gave him new suffering as he walked on, so
near her, yet separated from her by the gulf of that bitter knowledge.
Their carriage was waiting at the gate; he assisted them in, bowed, and
they drove away.

Scar and the Major were sitting at the open window of the library as the
two ladies alighted at the door. "Mamma, it seems a very long time
since you and sister Sara went away," said the child, leaning out to
speak to them. "Papa and I have taken a walk, and looked at all our
pictures, and told all our stories; and now we are sitting here waiting
for you."

"I will come in a few minutes, my pet," said Madam Carroll.

Sara went directly to the library, and sat down beside her father's
chair. He wished to hear all about the funeral of "that poor young man,"
and she answered his questions at length, and told him everything she
could think of in connection with it. The Major had known Dupont but
vaguely; he had seen him at the reception, but the face had faded from
his memory, and he should not have known him had they met again. He was
a musical genius who had appeared among them. He was glad that he had
appeared; it was a variety, and they had so little variety in Far
Edgerley. Good music was always an addition, and Marion was very fond
of music, very; he was glad she could have this little enjoyment. He had
said this to Marion several times. But it was a sad end--very--to die
alone among strangers, so far from home.

After some delay, Madam Carroll came in. She had taken off her black
dress and put on a bright little gown of blue; her hair had been
recurled, and there was a lovely color in her cheeks, and some sprays of
cream-colored honeysuckle in her blue belt. As she came nearer, the
Major's old eyes dwelt upon her with childlike pleasure and pride. "You
are looking very charming this evening, Madam Carroll," he said, with
his old-fashioned gallantry.

She sat down beside him. "Sara has been telling me about the funeral of
that unfortunate young musician," he continued. "It was like you,
Marion, to show so much kindness to the poor fellow, whoever he was, and
I am glad you did it. Kindness to the unfortunate and the stranger has
always been an especial characteristic of the Carroll family, and you
have merely represented me in this matter, done what I, of course,
should have done had I been well--had I quite recovered from my illness
of last winter, you know. But I am much improved--much improved. This
poor young man seems to have been utterly alone in the world, since even
when he was dying, and knew that he was, he told no one, as I
understand it, anything of his parentage, or life, or history, and left
no letters or even a message for friends. It is really quite
remarkable."

"Papa," said Sara, "now that we are all here, wouldn't it be a good time
to look at the new photographs?" The photographs were views of English
scenery which she had sent for; the Major had been in England, and liked
to relate reminiscences of his visit. He was interested at once.

"Certainly," he answered, with alacrity, "an excellent idea. Scar, get
the boxes."

Scar brought the boxes, and gave one of them to his mother; as he did so
his hand touched hers. "Why, mamma, are you so cold?" he said, in
surprise. "It is still summer, mamma, and quite warm."

"It is nothing," answered Madam Carroll; "only a passing chill. It is
over now."




CHAPTER VII.


A few days after the funeral of the musician the Major was taken ill. It
was not the failure of strength, which often came over him, nor the
confused feeling in the head, of which he never spoke, but which his
wife always recognized when she saw him sitting with his forehead bent
and his hand over his eyes. This time he had fever, and was slightly
delirious; he seemed also to be in pain. Madam Carroll and Sara did not
leave him; they were in deep anxiety. But in the evening relief came;
the fever ceased, and he fell into a quiet sleep. The two women kissed
him softly, and, still anxious, stole into the next room to keep the
watch, leaving the door open between the two. A shaded night-lamp
faintly illumined the room where he lay, but the outer one was in
darkness. Scar had gone to bed, and the house was very still; they could
hear the murmur of the brook through the open window; for although it
was now towards the last of October, it was still summer in that favored
land. The outer room was large, and they sat on a sofa at its far end;
they could talk in low tones without danger of disturbing the Major,
whose sleeping face they could see through the open door.

The moon rose. Madam Carroll went into the Major's room and closed the
dark curtains, so that the increasing light should not waken him; when
she came back the silver radiance had reached Sara, and was illuminating
her face and figure as she leaned against the cushions of the sofa. "He
is sleeping naturally and restfully now," said the wife, as she took her
seat again; "his face has lost that look of pain it has had all day. But
do you know that you yourself are looking far from well, Sara?"

"I know it. And I am ashamed of it. When I see you doing everything, and
bearing everything, without one outward sign, without the least change
in your face or expression, I am ashamed that I have so little
self-control."

"Have you been supposing, then, that all this unvarying pink and white
color was my own? Have you never suspected that I put it on?--that it
was fictitious? I began in July--you know when. It was for that reason
that I altered the hours of our receptions from afternoon to evening:
candle-light is more favorable, you know. I also began then to wear a
little lace veil. You think me about thirty-five, don't you? I am
forty-eight. I was thirty-five when I married the Major. All this golden
hair would be heavily streaked with gray if I should let it alone."

"Do not feel obliged to tell me anything, mamma."

"I prefer that you should know; and it is also a relief to me to tell,"
answered Madam Carroll, her eyes on the dark outline of the mountains,
visible in the moonlight through the open window. "My poor little
Cecilia passed easily for six, she was so small and frail, like Scar; in
reality she was over ten. The story was, you know, that I had been
married the first time at sixteen. That part was true; but nineteen
years had passed instead of seven, as they supposed. You are wondering,
probably, why I should have deceived your father in such little things,
matters unimportant. There had been no plan for deceiving him; it had
been begun before I met him; he simply believed what the others
believed. And later I found that they were not unimportant to him--those
little things; they were important. He thought a great deal of them. He
thought a great deal of my youth; youth and ignorance of the world,
child-like inexperience, had made up his ideal of me, and by the time I
found it out, his love and goodness, his dear protection, had become so
much to me that I could not run the risk of losing them by telling him
his mistake. I know now that I need not have feared this, I need not
have feared anything where he was concerned; but I did not know then,
and I was afraid. He saw in me a little blue-eyed, golden-haired
girl-mother, unacquainted with the dark side of life, trusting, sweet.
It was this very youth and childlike look which had attracted him, man
of the world as he was himself, and no longer young. I feared to shatter
his dream. In addition, that part did not seem to me of any especial
consequence; I knew that I should be able to live up to his ideal, to
maintain it not only fully, but longer, probably, than as though I had
been in reality the person he supposed me to be; for now it would be a
purpose, determinedly and carefully carried out, and not mere chance. I
knew that I could look the same for years longer; I have that kind of
diminutive prettiness which, with attention, does not change; and I
should give the greatest attention. I felt, too, that I should always be
entirely devoted to him. Gallant and handsome as he was, he was not
young, and I knew that I should care for him just the same through
illness, age, or infirmity; for I have that kind of faithfulness (many
women haven't) and--I loved him.

"And as to my little dead boy, there again there had been no plan for
deceiving him. People had supposed from my young face that I could have
been married but a year or two, and that Cecilia had been my only child.
It was imagined from my silence that my marriage had not been a happy
one--they said I had that look--and therefore no one questioned me; they
took it all for granted. I said that my husband was dead. But I said no
more. I had decided, for Cecilia's sake, to keep the secret of the
manner of his death: why should her innocent life be clouded by the
story of her father? Besides, could I go about proclaiming, relating,
his--shortcomings? He was my husband, though he had cared so little for
me; he was my husband, though he had taken from me my darling little
son. And about that son, my poor little drowned boy, I simply had never
been able to speak; the hurt was too deep; I could not have spoken
without telling what I had decided not to tell, for where he was
concerned I could not have invented. Thus I had kept the secret at first
from loyalty to my dead husband, and for the sake of my little girl; I
kept it later, Sara, because I was afraid. The Major loved me--yes; but
would he continue to love me if he should know that instead of being the
youthful little woman barely twenty-three, I was over thirty-five? that
instead of being inexperienced, unacquainted with the dark side of life,
I knew all, had been through all? that instead of the dear little
girl's being my only child, I was the mother of a son who, had he lived,
would have been a man almost full-grown--would he continue to love me
through all this? I was afraid he would not.

"Remember that I had not planned his idea of me, I had had nothing to
do with it; he had made it himself. Remember, too, that such as it was,
I knew I could live up to it, that he need never be disappointed, that I
could fully realize his dream. In that, at least, I have succeeded. I
have lived up to it, I have been it, so long, that there have even
been times when I have seemed to myself to really be the pretty, bright
little wife, thirty years younger than her husband, that I was
pretending to be. But that feeling can never come again.

"I am not excusing myself to you, Sara, in all this; I am only
explaining myself. Under the same circumstances you would never have
done it, nor under twenty times the same circumstances. But I am not
you; I am not anybody but myself. That lofty kind of vision which sees
only the one path, and that the highest, is not mine; I always see all
the shorter paths, lower down, that lead to the same place--the
cross-cuts. I can do little things well, and I can do a great many of
them; I have that kind of small and ever-present cleverness. But the
great things, the wide view--they are beyond me. And do not forget,
too, how much it was to me. It was everything. I was alone in the world
with my delicate little girl, who needed so much that I could not
give--luxuries, constant care, the best advice. I had strained every
nerve, made use of all my poor little knowledge and my trifling
accomplishments; I had worked as hard as I possibly could; and the
result of all my efforts was that I had barely succeeded in getting our
bread from day to day, with nothing laid up for the future, and the end
of my small strength near at hand. For I was not fitted for that kind of
struggle, and I knew that I was not. I could work and plan and
accomplish, and even, I believed, successfully, but only when
sheltered--sheltered in a home, no matter how plain, protected from
actual contact with the crowd. In a crowd there is always brutality; in
a crowd I lost heart. What were my small plans, which always concerned
themselves with the delicate little things and details, in the great
pushing struggle for bread? It was when I was fully realizing the
hopelessness of all my efforts, when the future was at its blackest, and
I could not look at Cecilia without danger of tears--for they had told
me that something might be done for her during the next year--for her
poor spine--and I had not the money to pay for it--it was then that your
father's love came to me like a gift straight down from heaven. But do
not think that I did not love him in return--really love him for
himself, not for what he gave me. I did. I do. I had suffered so much,
my life had been so crushed under sorrow and trouble, that, save my love
for Cecilia, I seemed to myself to have no feelings left; I thought they
were all dead. But when the Major began to love me, when he spoke--oh,
then I knew that they were not! I felt that I had never known what real
happiness was until that day; and my whole heart turned to him. There
was gratitude in my love, I do not deny it; but the gratitude was for my
little girl--the love was all for him. It has never lessened, Sara, from
that hour.

"It seemed to me such a wonderful thing that he should love me! It gave
me such a strange surprise that he should care for my little doll-like
face and curls. But when I found that he did care for them, how precious
they became to me, how hard I tried to keep them pretty for his sake!
And, for his sake, I not only kept them pretty, but I made them
prettier. I was a far prettier woman after the Major married me than I
was before; I had a motive to be so. Ah, yes, I loved him, Sara! May you
never have a comprehension of the ill-usage, the suffering, I had been
through! but still, without such knowledge, you will hardly be able to
understand the depth of my love for him. When he first saw me, I was
making an effort to seem comparatively cheerful; I was spending a few
weeks with Mrs. Upton, the wife of an army officer, at Mayberry, and I
did not want her to suspect my inward despair. Mrs. Upton had known me
at Natchez while I was trying to keep a little school there, and when I
came to Mayberry to try again, she asked me to come and spend a few
weeks with her before I began. She knew that I was poor--she did not
know how poor--and she had always been fond of Cecilia, who was--surely
I may say it now--a very beautiful child. Think of it all, Sara;
remember the needs of the child; remember what he was himself, and--that
I loved him."

"I do think of it. And I do not blame you," Sara Carroll answered,
speaking not as the daughter, but as one woman speaks to another. "You
have made my father's life a very happy one."

"I have tried; but it has always been in my own narrow way, the little
things of each day and hour. It was the only way I knew."

There was a silence; the room had grown dark, as a broad bank of cloud
came slowly over the moon.

"Cecilia is with her brother to-night," said Madam Carroll, after a
while; "Cecilia is a woman now, a woman in heaven. She was twenty-two on
the 11th of September. I wonder what they are saying to each other! He
used to be so fond of her, so proud when I let him hold her for a few
minutes in his strong little arms! They will be sure to meet and talk
together; don't you think so?"

"How can we know, mamma?" said Sara, sadly.

"We cannot. Yet we do," answered Madam Carroll. "I know it; I am sure of
it." She was silent for a moment; then went on speaking softly in the
darkness, as if half to herself. "His poor clothes, Sara--oh, so
neglected and worn!--I could not bear it when I saw them. I had asked
him about them more than once, and he always said that they were in good
order--that is, good enough. But I pressed him; I wanted to see with my
own eyes; and at last I succeeded in persuading him to bring a few of
them late in the evening when no one would see him, and put them under
the hedge near the gate; then, when everybody was asleep, I stole down
to get them, took them into the sitting-room, lighted the lamp, and
looked at them. In 'good order' he had called them, poor boy, when they
were almost rags. I cried over those clothes, Sara; I could not help it;
they were the only tears I shed. It showed so plainly what his life had
been. I could not help remembering in what careful order were all his
little frocks and jackets when he was my dear little child. After that I
made him bring me a few things once a week. I gave him a little old
carpet-bag of mine to put them in. I used to mend them in my
dressing-room, with the door locked, whenever I had a little leisure (I
took only my leisure), and then I carried them down and put them under
the hedge when I knew he was coming. It was a comfort to me to do it;
but he didn't care anything about the mending himself--he said so. He
had lived so long with his poor things neglected and ragged that he
didn't know any other way. Yet he tried, too, after his fashion--a man's
fashion--to dress well. Don't you remember his red silk handkerchiefs
and socks, and his silk-lined umbrella? Poor boy, he had the wish; but
not the money or the knowledge. How could he learn, living where and as
he had? That watch-chain and ring he had when he came back--they were
only gilt."

The grieving story was no longer uttered aloud, the low tones ceased.
But the mother was pursuing the train of thought in her own mind.

After a while she spoke again. "I was so unwilling to tell you, Sara, to
burden you with it all! Nothing could have made me do it but the fear
of--of that which afterwards did happen--death. For when he came back
after that illness, and I saw how changed he was, how weak, and knew
that I had nothing to help him with, then I felt desperate. I knew that
he ought to return to that warmer climate, and at once; I had nothing of
my own, and the Major's money, of course, I would not take. Yours is not
his, and so I came to you; I knew that you would help me to the utmost
of your power--as you have. But if there had been any possible
alternative, anything else in the world that I could have done--and I
thought over everything--I want you to believe that I should never have
come to you."

"It was too much for you to bear alone, mamma."

"No, it was not that; I could have borne much more. I have borne it. But
what I could not bear was that he should be ill. I had exhausted every
means I had when he went away the first time; there was nothing left. I
had given all I had--all, excepting things which the Major himself had
given me. I had even stretched a point, and added the watch your uncle
Mr. Chase sent me when I was married. There was the little breast-pin,
also, that Mrs. Upton gave me at the same time. Then there was the gold
thimble and the sleeve-buttons you sent me from Longfields, and the gold
pencil Senator Ashley gave me one Christmas. I even put in my little
coral necklace. It had belonged to Cecilia, and was the only thing I had
left from her baby days; it was of little, almost no value
intrinsically, as I knew, because I had tried to sell it more than once
when she and I were so poor; but if it could add even a few shillings to
the hoard--so small!--that was to take him back to the climate he
needed, I was glad to have it go. I tell you this only to show you that
absolute necessity, and that alone, drove me to you."

"I am so glad you came, mamma!--glad that I was able to help you, or at
least that you let me try."

"Yes, you were glad to help me; you were very kind and good," answered
the Major's wife. Then, sitting erect, and with a quicker utterance,
"But you were always afraid of him. You never trusted him. You were
always afraid that he would be traitorous, that he would go to your
father, I was never afraid; I knew that he would never betray; he
cared too much for me, for his poor mother; for although he had not been
with me since he was a child, in his way he loved me. He was never
selfish, he was only unthinking, my poor, neglected boy! But you never
gave him any mercy; you suspected him to the last."

"Oh, no, mamma; I tried--"

"Yes, you tried. But you were always Miss Carroll, always scornful at
heart, cold. You endured him; that was all. And do not think he did not
see it, was not hurt by it! But I did not mean to reproach you, Sara;
it is not just. I will stop this minute." She brought one hand down into
the palm of the other with a decided little sound, and held them thus
pressed tightly together for several minutes. Then, letting them fall
apart, she leaned her head back against the cushions again. "You were
thinking of your father," she said, in a gentler tone; "that was the
cause of all, of your coldness, your fear. You were afraid that Julian
would do something to distress him, to disturb his peace. But he would
never have done that. You did not know him, Sara; you never in the least
comprehended him. But I must not keep going back to that. Rather tell
me--and speak truthfully, it can make no difference now--do you think
there was any time, after my poor boy's first coming, when we could have
safely told the Major?"

"No," answered the Major's daughter, "there was no time. He could not
have borne it; the surprise, the shock, would have been too great."

"So it seemed to me. But I wanted your opinion too. You see, about me
there is more than there used to be in his mind, or, rather, in his
fancy: he doesn't distinguish. What were once surmises he now thinks
facts, and he fully believes in them. He has constructed a sort of
history, and has woven in all sorts of imaginary theories in the most
curious way. For instance, he thinks that my mother was one of a family
well known in New York--so they tell me, at least; I know little of New
York--the Forsters of Forster's Island. My mother was plain Mary Foster,
from Chester, Vermont, or its neighborhood, a farmer's daughter. In the
same way he has built up a belief that my father was an Episcopal
clergyman, and that he was educated in England. My father was a Baptist
missionary; he was a man of fair education (he educated me), but he was
never in England in his life. These are only parts of it, his late
fancies about me. To have brushed them all away, to have told him that
they were false, that I had all along been deceiving him, to have
bewildered him, given him so much pain--my dear gray-haired old Major!
Oh, Sara, I could never have done it! 'A son?' he would have said,
perplexed. 'But there is only little Scar.' It would have been cruelty,
he believes in me so!" Her voice quivered, and she stopped.

"He has never had more cause to believe in you than now, mamma--to
believe in your love for him; he does not know it, but some day he will.
You have been so unswerving in your determination to make secure, first
of all, his happiness and tranquillity, so unmindful of your own pain,
that it seems to me, his daughter, as if you had never been so faithful
a wife to him as now."

"Oh, say it again!" said Madam Carroll, burying her face in her hands.
"I did my best, or at least I tried; but I have been
so--tortured--harassed--"

The Major stirred in the next room; they hurried softly in. He was
awake; he turned his head and looked at his wife as she stood beside the
bed. "You and Sara both here?" he said. "Did I go to bed, then, very
early this evening?" He did not wait for reply, but went on. "I have had
such a beautiful dream, Marion; it was about that drive we took when we
were first married--do you remember? Through the woods near Mayberry.
There was that same little stream that we had to cross so many times,
and the same bank where you got out and gathered wild violets, and the
same spring where we drank, and that broken bridge where you were so
frightened--do you remember?"

"Yes," answered his wife, brightly; "and I remember, too, that you lost
your way, and pretended that you had not, and wouldn't ask, for fear I
should suspect it."

The Major laughed, feebly, but with enjoyment. "I didn't want you to
know that I didn't know everything--even the country roads," he
answered. "For I was old enough to be your father, and you were such a
little thing; I had my dignity to keep up, you see." He laughed again.
"That spring was very cold, wasn't it?" he said, and he lay thinking of
it for a minute or two. Then slowly his eyes closed; he had fallen
asleep. They waited, but he did not waken. His sleep was peaceful, and
they went back again to their watch in the outer room.
