to Rowland 's knowledge, his first compliment. 

" I might sit to Phidias, if he would promise to be 
veiy amusing and make me laugh. What do you say, 
Stenterello ? would you sit to Phidias ?" 

"We must talk of this some other time," said Mrs. 
Light. " We are in Rome for the winter. Many thanks. 
Cavaliere, call the carriage." The Cavaliere led the way 
out, backing like a silver-stick, and Miss Light, following 
her mother, nodded without looking at them, to each of 
the young men. 

Immortal powers, what a head!" cried Roderick, 
when they were gone. " There 's my fortune ! " 

" She is certainly very beautiful," said Rowland. 
" But I am sorry you have undertaken her bust." 

" And why, pray ?" 

" I suspect it will bring trouble with it." 

" What kind of trouble ?" 

" I hardly know. They are queer people. The 
mamma, I suspect, is a bit of an adventuress. Heaven 
knows what the daughter is." 

" She 's a goddess !" cried Roderick. 

"Just so. She is all the more dangerous." 

" Dangerous ? What will she do to me ? She doesn't 
bite, I imagine." 

" It remains to be seen. There are two kinds of 
women you ought to know by this time the safe and 
the unsafe. Miss Light, if I am not mistaken, is one of 
the unsafe. A word to the wise !" 

" Much obliged ! " said Roderick, and he began to 
whistle a triumphant air, in honour apparently of the 
advent of his beautiful model. 

In calling this young lady and her mamma queer 
people Rowland but roughly expressed his sentiment. 
They were so marked a variation from the monotonous 



 

troop of his compatriots that he felt much curiosity as to 
the sources of the change, especially since he doubted 
greatly whether on the whole it elevated the type. For 
a week he saw the two ladies driving daily in a well- 
appointed landau, with the Cavaliere and the poodle in 
the front seat. From Mrs. Light he received a gracious 
salute, tempered by her native majesty ; but the young 
girl, looking straight before her, seemed profoundly 
indifferent to observers. Her extraordinary beauty, 
however, had already made observers numerous, and 
given the habitues of the Pincian plenty to talk about. 
The echoes of their commentary reached Rowland 's 
ears ; but he had little taste for unsifted rumour, and he 
desired a veracious informant. He found one in the 
person of Madame Grandoni, for whom Mrs. Light and 
her beautiful daughter were a pair of old friends. 

"I have known the mamma for twenty years," said 
this judicious critic, "and if you ask any of the people 
who have been living here as long as I, you will find 
they remember her well. I have held the beautiful 
Christina on my knee when she was a little wizened 
baby with a very red face and no promise of beauty but 
those magnificent eyes. Ten years ago Mrs. Light dis 
appeared, and has not since been seen in Rome, except 
for a few days last winter, when she passed through on 
her way to Naples. Then it was you met the trio in the 
Ludovisi gardens. When I first knew her she was the 
unmarried but very marriageable daughter of an old 
American painter of very bad landscapes, which people 
used to buy from charity and use for fire-boards. His 
name was Savage ; it used to make every one laugh, he 
was such a mild, melancholy, pitiful old gentleman. 
He had married a horrible wife, an Englishwoman who 
had been on the stage. It was said she used to beat 
poor Savage with his mahl-stick, and, when the domestic 
finances were low, to lock him up in his studio and tell 
him he shouldn't come out until he had painted half a 



 

dozen of his daubs. She had a good deal of showy 
beauty. She would go forth with the key in her pocket, 
and, her beauty helping, she would make certain people 
take the pictures. It helped her at last to make an 
English lord run away with her. At the time I speak 
of she had quite disappeared. Mrs. Light was then a 
very handsome girl, though by no means so handsome 
as her daughter has now become. Mr. Light was an 
American consul, newly appointed at one of the Adriatic 
ports. He was a mild, fair- whiskered young man, with 
some little property, and my impression is that he had 
got into bad company at home, and that his family pro 
cured him his place to keep him out of harm 's way. He 
came up to Rome on a holiday, fell in love with Miss 
Savage, and married her on the spot. He had not been 
married three years when he was drowned in the Adriatic, 
no one ever knew how. The young widow came back 
to Rome, to her father, and here shortly afterwards, in 
the shadow of Saint Peter s, her little girl was born. It 
might have been supposed that Mrs. Light would marry 
again, and I know she had opportunities. But she over 
reached herself. She would take nothing less than a 
title and a fortune, and they were not forthcoming. She 
was admired and very fond of admiration ; very vain, 
very worldly, very silly. She remained a pretty widow 
with a surprising variety of bonnets and a dozen men 
always in her train. Giacosa dates from this period. 
He calls himself a Roman, but I have an impression he 
came up from Ancona with her. He was fami de la 
maison. He used to hold her bouquets, clean her gloves 
and satin shoes, run her errands, get her opera-boxes, 
fight her battles with the shopkeepers. For this he 
needed courage, for she was smothered in debt. She at 
last left Rome to escape her creditors. Many of them 
must remember her still, but she seems now to have 
money to satisfy them. She left her poor old father 
here alone helpless, infirm, and unable to work. A 



 

subscription was shortly afterwards taken up among the 
foreigners, and he was sent back to America, where, as 
I finally heard, he died in some sort of asylum. From 
time to time, for several years, I heard vaguely of Mrs. 
Light as a wandering beauty at French and German 
watering-places. Once came a rumour that she was 
going to make a grand marriage in England : then we 
heard that the gentleman had thought better of it and 
left her to keep afloat as she could. She was a terribly 
scatter-brained creature. She pretends to be a great 
lady, but I consider that old Filomena, my washerwoman, 
is in essentials a greater one. But certainly, after all, she 
has been fortunate. She embarked at last on a lawsuit 
about some property with her husband 's family, and 
went to America to attend to it. She came back 
triumphant, with a long purse. She reappeared in Italy, 
and established herself for a while in Venice. Then she 
came to Florence, where she spent a couple of years, 
and where I saw her. Last year she passed down to 
Naples, which I should have said was just the place for 
her, and this winter she had laid siege to Rome. She 
seems very prosperous. She has taken a floor in the 

Palazzo F , she keeps her carriage, and Christina 

and she, between them, must have a pretty milliner 's 
bill. Giacosa has turned up again, looking as if he had 
been kept in ice at Ancona for her return." 

"What sort of education," Rowland asked, "do you 
imagine the mother 's adventures to have been for the 
daughter?" 

" A strange school ! But Mrs. Light told me 
Florence that she had given her child the education of a 
princess. In other words, I suppose she speaks, three or 
four languages and has read several hundred French 
novels. Christina, I suspect, is very clever. When I saw 
her I was amazed at her beauty, and certainly if there is 
any truth in faces she ought to have the soul of an angel. 
Perhaps she has. I don't judge her ; she 's an extraordinary 
young person. She has been told twenty times 
a day by her mother, since she was five years old, that 
she is a beauty of beauties, that her face is her fortune, 
and that if she plays her cards she may marry a duke. 
If she has not been fatally corrupted she is a very superior 
girl. My own impression is that she is a mixture of 
good and bad, of ambition and indifference. Mrs. Light 
having failed to make her own fortune in matrimony has 
transferred her hopes to her daughter, and nursed them 
till they have become a monomania. She has a hobby, 
which she rides in secret ; but some day she will let you 
see it. I am sure that if you go in some evening unan 
nounced, you will find her scanning the tea-leaves in her 
cup or telling her daughter 's fortune with a greasy pack 
of cards, kept sacredly for the purpose. She promises 
her a prince a reigning prince. But if Mrs. Light is 
a fool she is a practical one, and lest considerations of 
state should deny her prince the luxury of a love-match 
she keeps on hand a few common mortals. At the worst 
she would take a duke, an English lord, or even a young 
American with a proper number of millions. The poor 
woman must be rather uncomfortable. She is always 
building castles and knocking them down again always 
casting her nets and pulling them in. If her daughter 
were less of a beauty her restless ambition would be 
simply grotesque ; but there is something in the girl, as 
one looks at her, that seems to make it very possible 
she is marked out for one of those wonderful romantic 
fortunes that history now and then relates. Who, after 
all, was the Empress of the French? Mrs. Light is for 
ever saying. And beside Christina the Empress is a 
dowdy! " 

"And what does Christina say?" 

" She makes no scruple, as you know, of saying that 
her mother is an idiot ! What she thinks Heaven 
knows. I suspect that practically she does not commit 
herself. She is excessively proud, and thinks herself 



 

good enough to occupy the highest station in the world ; 
but she knows that her mother talks nonsense, and that 
even a beautiful girl may look awkward in making un 
successful advances. So she remains superbly indifferent, 
and lets her mother take the risks. If the Prince is 
secured, so much the better ; if he is not, she need never 
confess to herself that even a prince has slighted her." 

"Your report is as solid," Rowland said to Madame 
Grandoni, thanking her, "as if it had been drawn up 
for the Academy of Sciences;" and he congratulated 
himself on having listened to it when a couple of days 
later Mrs. Light and her daughter, attended by the 
Cavaliere and the poodle, came to his rooms to look at 
Roderick 's statues. It was more comfortable to know 
just with whom he was dealing. 

Mrs. Light was prodigiously gracious, and showered 
down compliments not only on the statues but on all his 
possessions. "Upon my word," she said, "you rich 
young men know how to make yourselves comfortable. 
If one of us poor women had half as many easy-chairs 
and nick-nacks we should be famously abused. It 's 
really selfish to be living all alone in such a place as this. 
Cavaliere, how should you like this suite of rooms and a 
fortune to fill them with pictures and statues ? Christina, 
love, look at that mosaic table. Mr. Mallet, I could 
almost beg it from you ! Yes, that Eve is certainly very 
fine. We needn't be ashamed of such a great-grand 
mother as that. If she was really such a beautiful 
woman, it accounts for the good looks of some of us. 
Where is Mr. What s-his-name, the young sculptor ? 
Why isn't he here to be complimented ?" 

Christina had remained but for a moment in the chair 
which Rowland placed for her, had given but a cursory 
glance at the statues, and then, leaving her seat, had 
begun to wander round the room looking at herself in 
the mirror, touching the ornaments and curiosities, 
glancing at the books and prints. Rowland 's sitting- 



 

room was encumbered with bric-a-brac, and she found 
plenty of occupation. Rowland presently ioined her 
and pointed out some of the objects he most valued. 

"It 's an odd jumble," she said, frankly. "Some 
things are very pretty some are very ugly. But I like 
ugly things when they have a certain look. Prettiness 
is terribly vulgar nowadays, and it is not every one that 
knows just the sort of ugliness that has chic. But chic 
is getting dreadfully common too. There 's a hint of it 
even in Madame Baldi 's bonnets. I like looking at 
people 's things," she added in a moment, turning to 
Rowland and resting her eyes on him. " It helps you 
to find out their characters." 

"Am I to suppose," asked Rowland, smiling, "that 
you have arrived at any conclusions as to mine ?" 

"I am rather intrigue e ; you have too many things ; 
one seems to contradict another. You are very artistic, 
and yet you are very prosaic ; you have what is called a 
catholic taste, and yet you are full of obstinate little 
prejudices and preferences which, if I knew you, I should 
find very tiresome. I don't think I like you." 

" You make a great mistake," laughed Rowland ; "I 
assure you I am very amiable." 

"Yes, I am probably wrong, and if I knew you, I 
should find out I was wrong, and that would irritate me 
and make me dislike you more. So you see we are 
necessarily enemies. " 

"No, I don't dislike you !" 

" Worse and worse ; for you certainly will not like me." 

" You are very discouraging." 

" I am fond of facing the truth, though some day you 
will deny even that. Where is that queer friend of 
yours?" 

"You mean Roderick Hudson? He is represented 
by these beautiful works." 

Miss Light looked for some moments at Roderick 's 
statues. "Yes," she said, " they are not so silly as most 



 

of the things we have seen. They have no chic, and yet 
they are beautiful." 

" You describe them perfectly," said Rowland. " They 
are beautiful, and yet they have no chic. That 's it !" 

" If he will promise to put no chic into my bust, I have 
a mind to let him make it. A request made in those 
terms deserves to be granted." 

"In what terms?" 

" Didn't you hear him? Mademoiselle, you almost 
satisfy my conception of the beautiful. I must model 
your bust. That almost should be rewarded ! He is 
like me, he likes to face the truth. I think we should 
get on together." 

The Cavaliere approached Rowland to express the 
pleasure he had derived from his beautiful " collection." 
His smile was exquisitely bland, his accent appealing, 
flattering, insinuating. But he gave Rowland an odd 
sense of looking at a little waxen image adjusted to per 
form certain gestures and emit certain sounds. It had 
once contained a soul, but the soul had leaked away. 
Nevertheless, Rowland reflected, there are more graceless 
things than mere manner and posture in an old-fashioned 
Italian. And the Cavaliere too had soul enough left to 
desire to speak a few words on his own account, and 
call Rowland 's attention to the fact that he was not, after 
all, a hired cicerone, but an ancient Roman gentleman. 
Rowland felt sorry for him ; he hardly knew why. He 
assured him in a friendly fashion that he must come 
again ; that his house was always at his service. The 
Cavaliere bowed down to the ground. " You do me too 
much honour," he murmured. " If you will allow me 
it is not impossible !" 

Mrs. Light meanwhile had prepared to depart. " If 
you are not afraid to come and see two quiet little 
women, we shall be most happy!" she said. "We 
have no statues nor pictures we have nothing but each 
other. Eh, darling?" 



 

"I beg your pardon," said Christina. 

"Oh, and the Cavaliere," added her mother. 

"The poodle, please !" cried the young girl. 

Rowland glanced at the Cavaliere ; he was smiling 
more blandly than ever. 

A few days later Rowland presented himself, as civility 
demanded, at Mrs. Light 's door. He found her living in 
one of the stately houses of the Via dell Angelo Custode, 
and rather to his surprise was told she was at home. He 
passed through half a dozen rooms and was ushered into 
an immense saloon, at one end of which sat the mistress 
of the establishment with a piece of embroidery. She 
received him very graciously, and then pointing mysteri 
ously to a large screen which was unfolded across the 
embrasure of one of the deep windows, " I am keeping 
guard !" she said. Rowland looked interrogative ; 
whereupon she beckoned him forward and motioned him 
to look behind the screen. He obeyed, and for some 
moments stood gazing. Roderick, with his back turned, 
stood before an extemporised pedestal, ardently shaping 
a formless mass of clay. Before him sat Christina Light, 
in a white dress, with her shoulders bare, her magnificent 
hair twisted into a classic coil, her head admirably poised. 
Meeting Rowland 's gaze, she smiled a little, only in the 
depths of her blue -gray eyes, without moving. She 
looked divinely beautiful. 



IX. 

THE brilliant Roman winter came round again, and 
Rowland enjoyed it in a certain way more deeply than 
before. He grew passionately, unreasoningly fond of all 
Roman sights and sensations, and to breathe the Roman 
atmosphere seemed a needful condition of being. He 



 

could not have defined and explained the nature of his 
great relish, nor have made up the sum of it by adding 
together his calculable pleasures. It was a large, vague, 
idle, half-profitless emotion, of which perhaps the most 
pertinent thing that may be said is that it brought with 
it a sort of relaxed acceptance of the present, the actual, 
the sensuous of life on the terms of the moment. It 
was perhaps for this very reason that, in spite of the charm 
which Rome flings over one 's mood, there ran through 
Rowland 's meditations an undertone of melancholy natural 
enough in a mind which finds its horizon sensibly limited 
even by a magic circle. Whether it be that one tacitly 
concedes to the Roman Church the monopoly of a guar 
antee of immortality, so that if one is indisposed to bar 
gain with her for the precious gift one must do without 
it altogether ; or whether in an atmosphere so heavily 
weighted with echoes and memories one grows to believe 
that there is nothing in one 's consciousness that is not 
foredoomed to moulder and crumble and become dust 
for the feet and possible malaria for the lungs of future 
generations the fact at least remains that one parts half 
willingly with one 's hopes in Rome and misses them only 
under some very exceptional stress of circumstance. For 
this reason it may perhaps be said that there is no other 
place in which one 's daily temper has such a mellow 
serenity, and none at the same time in which acute attacks 
of depression are more intolerable. Rowland found, in 
fact, a perfect response to his prevision that to live in 
Rome was an education to the senses and the imagina 
tion ; but he sometimes wondered whether this were not 
a questionable gain in case of one 's not being prepared 
to subside into soft dilettanteism. His customary toler 
ance of circumstances seemed sometimes to pivot about 
by a mysterious inward impulse, and look his conscience 
in the face. " But afterwards . . . ?" it seemed to ask, 
with a long reverberation ; and he could give no answer 
but a shy affirmation that there was no such thing as to- 

morrow, and that to-day was uncommonly fine. He 
often felt heavy-hearted ; he was sombre without know 
ing why ; there were no visible clouds in his heaven, but 
there were cloud-shadows on his mood. Shadows pro 
jected they often were, without his knowing it, by an 
undue apprehension that things, after all, might not go so 
ideally well with Roderick. When he caught himself 
fidgeting it vexed him, and he rebuked himself for taking 
things unmanfully hard. If Roderick chose to follow 
a crooked path, it was no fault of his ; he had given him, 
he would continue to give him, all that he had offered 
him friendship, sympathy, advice. He had not under 
taken to make him over ! 

If Rowland felt his roots striking and spreading in the 
Roman soil, Roderick also surrendered himself with re 
newed liberality to the local influence. More than once 
he declared to his companion that he meant to live and 
die within the shadow of St. Peter s, and that he cared 
little if he should never again draw breath in American 
air. For a man of my temperament Rome is the only 
possible place," he said; "it 's better to recognise the 
fact early than late. So I shall never go home unless I 
am absolutely forced." 

" What is your idea of force ?" asked Rowland, 
smiling. " It seems to me you have an excellent reason 
for going home some day or other." 

" Ah, you mean my engagement?" Roderick answered, 
with unaverted eyes. "Yes, there is a little understand 
ing of that sort at Northampton ! " And he gave a little 
vaguely appreciative sigh. "To reconcile Northampton 
and Rome is rather a problem. Mary had better come 
out here. Even at the worst I have no intention of 
giving up Rome for six or eight years, and a union de 
ferred for that length of time would be rather absurd." 

" Miss Garland could hardly leave your mother," 
Rowland observed. 

"Oh, of course my mother should come ! I think I 



 

will suggest it in my next letter. It will take her a year 
or two to make up her mind to it, but if she consents it 
will brighten her up. It 's too small and dry a life over 
there, even for a timid old larly. It is hard to imagine," 
he added, "any change in Mary being a change for the 
better ; but I should like her to take a look at the world, 
and have her ideas enlarged a little. One is never so 
good, I suppose, but that one can improve." 

" If you wish your mother and Miss Garland to come," 
Rowland suggested, " you had better go home and bring 
them." 

" Oh, I can't think of leaving Europe for many a day. 
At present it would quite break the charm. I am just 
beginning to profit, to get used to things and take them 
naturally. I am sure the sight of Northampton Main 
Street would permanently upset me." 

It was reassuring to hear that Roderick in his own 
view was but "just beginning" to spread his wings, and 
Rowland, if he had had any forebodings, might have 
suffered them to be modified by this declaration. This 
was the first time since their meeting at Geneva that 
Roderick had mentioned his cousin 's name, but the ice 
being broken he indulged for some time afterwards in 
frequent allusions to his betrothed, which always had an 
accent of scrupulous, of almost studied, consideration. 
An uninitiated observer, hearing him, would have ima 
gined her to be a person of a certain age possibly an 
affectionate maiden aunt who had once done him a 
kindness which he highly appreciated ; perhaps presented 
him with a cheque for a thousand dollars. Rowland 
noted the difference between his present frankness and 
his reticence during the first six months of his engage 
ment, and sometimes wondered whether it were not 
rather an anomaly that he should expatiate more largely 
as the happy event receded. He had wondered over the 
whole matter first and last in a great many different ways 
he had looked at it in all possible lights. There was 



 

something uncommonly hard to explain in the fact of his 
having fallen in love with his cousin. She was not, as 
Rowland conceived her, the sort of girl he would have 
been likely to fancy, and the operation of sentiment, in 
all cases so mysterious, was particularly so in this one. 
Just why it was that Roderick should not in consistency 
have been captivated, his companion would have been at 
a loss to say ; but I think the conviction had its roots in 
an unformulated comparison between himself and the 
accepted suitor. Roderick and he were as different as 
two men could be, and yet Roderick had taken it into 
his head to fall in love with a woman for whom he him 
self had been keeping in reserve for years a deeply char 
acteristic passion. That if Rowland Mallet happened to 
be very much struck with the merits of Roderick 's mis 
tress, the irregularity here was hardly Roderick s, was a 
view of the case to which our virtuous hero did scanty 
justice. There were women, he said to himself, whom 
it was every one 's business to fall in love with a little 
women beautiful, brilliant, artful, easily fascinating. 
Miss Light, for instance, was one of these ; every man 
who spoke to her did so, if not in the language, at least 
with something of the agitation, the divine tremor, of a 
lover. There were other women they might have great 
beauty, they might have small ; perhaps they were gen 
erally to be classified as plain whose triumphs in this 
line were rare, but immutably permanent. Such a one, 
conspicuously, was Mary Gai land. Upon the doctrine 
of probabilities it was unlikely that she should have had 
an equal charm for each of them, and was it not possible, 
therefore, that the charm for Roderick had been simply 
the charm imagined, unquestionably accepted, the general 
charm of youth, sympathy, kindness of the present femi 
nine, in short enhanced indeed by the advantage of an 
expressive countenance? The charm in this case for 
Rowland was the charm ! the mysterious, individual, 
essential woman. There was an element in the charm, 



 

as his companion saw it, which Rowland was obliged to 
recognise, but which he forebore to linger upon ; the 
rather important attraction, namely, of reciprocity. As 
to the girl being in love with Roderick, and commending 
herself by this accident, this was a point with which his 
imagination ventured to take no liberties ; partly because 
it would have been indelicate, and partly because it 
would have been vain. He contented himself with feel 
ing that she was still as vivid an image in his own 
memory as she had been five days after he left her, and 
with drifting nearer and nearer to the conviction that at 
just that crisis any other girl would have answered Rode 
rick 's sentimental needs as well. Any other woman, 
indeed, would do so still ! Roderick had confessed as 
much to him at Geneva in saying that he had been 
taking at Baden the measure of his susceptibility. 

His extraordinary success in modelling the bust of the 
beautiful Miss Light was pertinent evidence of this 
amiable quality. She sat to him repeatedly for a fort 
night, and the work was rapidly finished. On one of 
the last days Roderick asked Rowland to come and give 
his opinion as to what was still wanting ; for the sittings 
had continued to take place in Mrs. Light 's apartment, 
the studio being pronounced too damp for the fair model. 
When Rowland presented himself, Christina, still in her 
white dress, with her shoulders bare, was standing before 
a mirror readjusting her hair, the arrangement of which 
on this occasion had apparently not met the young sculp 
tor 's approval. He stood beside her, directing the opera 
tion with a peremptoriness of tone which seemed to 
Rowland to denote a considerable advance in intimacy. 
As Rowland entered Christina was losing patience, " Do 
it yourself, then !" she cried, and with a rapid movement 
unloosed the great coil of her tresses and let them fall 
over her shoulders. 

They were magnificent, and with her perfect face 
dividing their rippling flow she looked like some immacu- 



 

late saint of legend being led to martyrdom. Rowland 's 
eyes presumably betrayed his admiration, but her own 
manifested no consciousness of it. If Christina was a 
coquette, as the remarkable timeliness of this incident 
might have suggested, she was not a superficial one. 

" Hudson 's a sculptor," said Rowland, with warmth. 
" But if I were only a painter !" 

Thank Heaven you are not ! " said Christina. I 
am having quite enough of this minute inspection of my 
charms." 

"My dear young man, hands off!" cried Mrs. Light, 
coming forward and seizing her daughter 's hair. " Chris 
tina, love, I am surprised." 

"Is it indelicate?" Christina asked. "I beg Mr. 
Mallet 's pardon." Mrs. Light gathered up the dusky 
locks and let them fall through her fingers, glancing at 
her visitor with a significant smile. Rowland had never 
been in the East, but if he had attempted to make a 
sketch of an old slave-merchant calling attention to the 
"points" of a Circassian beauty, he would have depicted 
such a smile as Mrs. Light s. "Mamma is not really 
shocked," added Christina in a moment, as if she had 
guessed her mother 's by-play. " She is only afraid that 
Mr. Hudson might have injured my hair, and that, per 
conseqttenza, I should sell for less." 

"You unnatural child!" cried mamma. "You 
deserve that I should make a fright of you ! " And with 
half a dozen skilful passes she twisted the tresses into a 
single picturesque braid, placed high on the head, as a 
kind of coronal. 

" What does your mother do when she wants to do 
you justice ? " Rowland asked, observing the admirable 
line of the young girl 's neck. 

" I do her justice when I say she says very improper 
things. What is one to do with such a thorn in the 
flesh?" Mrs. Light demanded. 

"Think of it at your leisure, Mr. Mallet," said Chris- 



 

tina, " and when you have discovered something let us 
hear. But I must tell you that I shall not willingly 
believe in any remedy of yours, for you have something 
in the expression of your face that particularly provokes 
me to make the remarks that my mother so sincerely 
deplores. I noticed it the first time I saw you. I 
think it 's because your face is so broad. For some reason 
or other broad faces exasperate me ; they fill me with 
a kind of rabbia. Last summer at Carlsbad there was 
an Austrian count, with enormous estates and some great 
office at court. He was very attentive seriously so ; 
he was really veiy far gone. Cela ne tenait qifh moi! 
But I couldn't ; he was impossible ! He must have 
measured from ear to ear at least a yard and a half. 
And he was blonde too, which made it worse as blonde 
as Stenterello ; pure fleece ! So I said to him frankly, 
Many thanks, Herr Graf ; your uniform is magnificent, 
but your face is too fat. " 

" I am afraid that mine also," said Rowland, with a 
