of the pan.
When all are dished, lay the ham or bacon neatly about the eggs like
a garnish. Pepper all lightly. Ham for this purpose should be cut in
small narrow slices.
Drop sprays of parsley on the rim of the dish.
Baked Eggs.
Put a tablespoonful of butter in a pie-plate, and set in the oven until
it melts and begins to smoke. Take it to the table and break six eggs
one by one into a cup, pouring each in turn into the melted butter
carefully. Sprinkle with pepper and salt, put a tiny bit of butter
on each and set in the oven to bake until the eggs are “set”—that is,
when the whites are firm and the yolks skimmed over, but not hard. Four
minutes in a quick oven should do this. Send to table at once.
If you have a few spoonfuls of nice chicken gravy, you can strain and
use it instead of butter.
Scalloped Eggs.
    Six eggs.
    Half a cupful of nice gravy skimmed and strained.
      Chicken, turkey, game and veal gravy are especially
      good for this purpose. Clear soup may also be used.
    Half a cupful of pounded cracker or fine dry
      bread-crumbs.
    Pepper and salt.
Pour the gravy into a pie-plate and let it get warm before putting in
the eggs as in last receipt. Pepper, salt and strew cracker crumbs
evenly over them. Bake five minutes. Serve in the pie-plate.
Dropped Eggs with White Sauce.
Drop or poach the eggs; put them on a hot, flat dish and pour over them
this sauce boiling hot.
    In a saucepan put half a cupful of boiling water.
    Two or three large spoonfuls of nice strained gravy.
    A little pepper.
    A quarter teaspoonful of salt.
When this boils stir in a heaping teaspoonful of flour wet up smoothly
with a little cold water to keep it from lumping. Stir and boil one
minute and add a tablespoonful of butter. Stir steadily two minutes
longer, add, if you like, a little minced parsley, and pour the sauce
which should be like thick cream, over the dished eggs.
Omelette.
    Six eggs.
    Four teaspoonfuls of cream.
    Half a teaspoonful salt.
    A little pepper.
    Two tablespoonfuls of butter.
Whip whites and yolks together for four minutes in a bowl with the
“Dover” egg beater. They should be thick and smooth before you beat in
cream, salt and pepper. Melt the butter in a clean frying-pan, set on
one side of the stove where it will keep warm but not scorch. Pour the
beaten mixture into it and remove to a place where the fire is hotter.
As it “sets,” slip a broad knife carefully around the edges and under
it, that the butter may find its way freely to all parts of the pan.
When the middle is just set, pass a cake-turner carefully under one
half of the omelette and fold it over the other. Lay a hot platter
upside down above the doubled mass and holding frying-pan and dish
firmly, turn the latter quickly over, reversing the positions of the
two, and depositing the omelette in the dish.
Do not be mortified should you break your trial omelette. Join the bits
neatly; lay sprays of parsley over the cracks and try another soon. Be
sure it is loosened from the pan before you try to turn it out; hold
pan and dish fast in place; do not be nervous or flurried, and you will
soon catch the knack of dishing the omelette dexterously and handsomely.
I have given you ten receipts for cooking eggs. It would be easy to
furnish as many more without exhausting the list of ways of preparing
this invaluable article of food for our tables. I have selected the
methods that are at once easy and excellent, and adapted to the ability
of a class of beginners.
6
BROILED MEATS.
IT has been said that the frying-pan has ruined more American
digestions than all the other hurtful agencies combined. It
is certainly true that while the process of frying properly
performed upon certain substances does not of necessity, make them
unwholesome—the useful utensil does play altogether too important a
part in our National cookery. Broiled meats are more wholesome, more
palatable, and far more elegant. Certain things should never be fried.
That beefsteak should never make the acquaintance of the frying-pan
is a rule without an exception.
The best gridirons for private families are the light, double
“broilers,” made of tinned wire and linked together at the back with
loops of the same material. They are easily handled, turned and
cleansed, and when not in use may be hung on the wall out of the way.
It is well to have two sizes, one for large steaks, the smaller for
birds, oysters, and when there is occasion to broil a single chop or
chicken-leg for an invalid.
Beefsteak.
Never wash a steak unless it has fallen in the dirt or met with other
accident. In this case cleanse quickly in cold water and wipe perfectly
dry before cooking.
Have a clear hot fire and do not uncover that part of the stove above
it until you have adjusted the steak on the broiler. If you use the
ordinary iron gridiron, lay the meat on it the instant it goes over the
fire, but have it already warm and rub the bars with a bit of fresh
suet.
When the meat has lain over the coals two minutes and begins to
“sizzle,” turn it and let the other side cook as long. Watch it
continually and turn whenever it begins to drip. Do this quickly to
keep in the juices. If these should fall in the fire in spite of your
care, lift it for an instant and hold over a plate or dish until the
smoke is gone. Broiled meats flavored with creosote are not uncommon,
but always detestable. The knack of broiling a steak well is to turn it
so often and dexterously that it will neither be smoked nor scorched.
Ten minutes should cook it rare, if the fire is right and the steak
not very thick. Cut with a keen blade into the thickest part when the
time is up. If the heart is of a rich red-brown—not the livid purple of
uncooked flesh, carry broiler and meat to a table where stands a hot
dish. Lay the steak on this. In a saucer have a liberal tablespoonful
of butter cut into bits, and with these rub both sides of the smoking
steak, leaving unmelted pieces on the top. Sprinkle it also on both
sides with pepper and salt—about half a teaspoonful of salt and a third
as much pepper for a large steak. All this must be done quickly.
Before you begin to cook the steak, prepare the butter and measure the
salt and pepper. Cover the dish closely. If you have not a block-tin
dish-cover, lay over the steak another dish, made very hot in the oven,
and set both with the meat between them in the plate-warmer, or in an
open oven, or somewhere where it will keep hot for three minutes.
Serve—i. e. put on the table—as hot as possible and on warm plates.
Unless you have a hot water dish, do not send the steak into the
dining-room until all have taken their places.
Sometimes steak is tough. You shake your head over it as it comes from
the butcher’s basket. I know of an enterprising meat merchant who
objected to a wealthy customer because he would have choice cuts. He
was willing to pay double for them, but as the worthy seller observed:
“We must sell second-best cuts, and he’d ought to take his turn.”
Like sin, tough steak ought not to be, but it is! If your turn to
take it has come, lay it on a clean board, some hours before cooking
it, and hack it on both sides, criss-cross, with a tolerably sharp
knife, taking care not to cut too deeply. Rub both sides very well
with the strained juice of a lemon, and set the meat in a cold place
until you are ready to cook it. Do this over night, if you want it for
breakfast. Very tough, fibrous meat is sometimes made eatable by this
process.
Mutton or Lamb Chops.
Cut off most of the fat and all the skin. A clean bone an inch in
length will project from the smaller end when you have pared away the
tallow and skin which would have cooked into rankness and leather.
Put as many chops on the broiler as it will conveniently hold, and
broil as you would beefsteak. Cut into the largest to see if it is
done. If it is, lay the chops on a heated dish set over a pot of
boiling water; butter, pepper and salt them, and cover them up while
you cook the rest.
Serve as soon as the last is cooked, as they lose flavor with standing.
Lay sprigs of parsley around the edges of the dish and scatter a few
over the chops which must be arranged in neat rows, a small end next to
a large.
Broiled Ham.
Cut even slices from a cold boiled Ferris & Co.’s “Trade Mark” ham.
Divide these into oblong pieces about an inch and a half in width,
and broil quickly over clear coals until a delicate brown touches the
slices here and there. Lay in order on a hot dish. Broiled ham is
appetizing, and should be accompanied by dry toast, lightly buttered.
7
FRIED MEATS.
Larded Liver.
THE butcher will slice the liver, or show you how to do it. When it is
cut up, lay it in cold water in which has been stirred a teaspoonful of
salt. This will draw out the blood.
Cut fat, raw salt pork into strips a finger long and a quarter of an
inch thick and wide.
In half an hour’s time take the liver from the water, spread it out on
a clean dry cloth, lay another cloth over the slices and pat gently
to dry them thoroughly. Make holes an inch apart in the liver with a
pen-knife or sharp skewer, and stick in the pork strips. They should
protrude an equal distance on both sides.
As fast as they are ready, lay them in a clean, warm (not hot)
frying-pan. When all are in, set it over the fire, and let it fry
rather slowly in the fat that will run out from the pork “lardoons.”
In five minutes turn the slices, and again ten minutes later. Let the
liver heat quite slowly for the first ten minutes. If cooked fast it is
hard and indigestible. Allow about twenty-five minutes for frying it.
Take it up with a fork, draining off every drop of grease against the
side of the pan as you remove each piece, and dish on a hot platter.
Put a half a teaspoonful of tomato sauce on each slice. Serve without
gravy and very hot.
Veal Cutlets (Breaded).
Whip two eggs light and pour them into a pie-plate. Turn the cutlets,
one by one, over in this until every part is coated. In another dish
spread evenly a cupful of rolled or pounded cracker, very fine and dry.
Turn the “egged” cutlets over in this to encrust them well.
Meanwhile four large spoonfuls of sweet lard or nice beef-dripping
must be melting in a clean frying-pan at one side of the range. When
the cutlets are all breaded, move the pan directly over the fire. As
the fat begins a lively hiss, put in as many cutlets as can lie in it
without crowding. In five minutes turn them with care, not to loosen
the crumb-coating. After another five minutes of rapid frying, pull the
pan to a spot where the cooking will go on slowly, but regularly. In
ten minutes turn the cutlets a second time. In another ten minutes they
should be done.
Understand! The first fast cooking sears the surface of the meat and
forms the breading into a firm crust that keeps in the juices. The
slower work that follows cooks the veal thoroughly without hardening
the fibres.
Lift the cutlets carefully from the pan, draining all the grease from
each, and keep hot in a covered dish set over a pot of boiling water
until all are done.
Always put tomato catsup or tomato sauce, in some form, on the table
with veal cutlets.
Sausage Cakes.
Break off bits of sausage meat of equal size, roll them in the palms of
clean hands into balls and pat them into flat cakes. Arrange them in a
frying-pan and cook (not too fast) in their own fat, turning them twice
until they are nicely and evenly browned. The time allowed for frying
them depends on the size of the cakes. If they are not large, fifteen
minutes should be enough.
Serve on a hot dish, without gravy.
Smothered Sausages.
Prick “link” sausages—that is, those done up in skins, in fifteen or
twenty places, with a large needle; put them in a clean frying-pan in
which is a half a teacup full of hot water. Roll the sausages over in
this several times and cover closely. If you have not the lid of a
pot or of a tin-pail that fits the frying-pan, use a pie-dish turned
upside down. Set the pan where the water will bubble slowly, for ten
minutes. Lift the cover then, and roll the sausages over again two or
three times, to wet them thoroughly, leaving them with the sides up
that were down. Cover again and cook ten minutes longer. Turn them
twice more, at intervals of five minutes, cover, and let them steam
four minutes before taking them up. They will be plump, whole, tender
and well-done, and the bottom of the pan be almost dry. Lay in neat
rows on a hot dish.
Fish Balls.
Soak a pound of cod-fish all night in cold water. Change it in the
morning, and cover with lukewarm water for three hours more. Wash it,
scraping off the salt and fat; put it into a sauce-pan, cover it well
with water just blood-warm, and let it simmer—that is, not quite
boil, two hours. Take it up, pick out the bones and remove the skin,
and set the fish aside to cool.
When perfectly cold chop it fine in a wooden tray. Have ready, for a
cupful of minced fish, nearly two cupfuls of potato boiled and mashed
very smooth.
    A tablespoonful of butter.
    Half a teaspoonful of salt.
    Two tablespoonfuls of milk worked into the fish while
      hot.
    Add also, when the potato has been rubbed until free
      from lumps, the beaten yolk of an egg. Work this in
      well with a wooden or silver spoon.
    Now stir in the chopped fish, a little at a time,
      mixing all together until you have a soft mass which
      you can handle easily.
Drop a tablespoonful of the mixture on a floured pastry board, or a
floured dish. Flour your hands, roll the fish and potato into a ball,
and pat it into a cake, or make it as round as a marble. Lay these as
you form them on a dish dusted with flour, and when all are made out,
set in a cool place until morning.
Half an hour before breakfast, have five or six great spoonfuls of
sweet lard hissing hot in a frying-pan or doughnut-kettle. Put in the
balls a few at a time; turn as they color; take them out when they are
of a tanny brown, lay them in a hot colander set in a plate, and keep
warm in the open oven until all are fried.
A Breakfast Stew (very nice).
    Two pounds of lean beef. (The “second best cuts” may be
      used here.)
    A quarter of a medium-sized onion.
    A tablespoonful of browned flour.
    Half a teaspoonful each of minced parsley, summer
      savory, and sweet marjoram.
    As much allspice as will lie on a silver dime.
    One teaspoonful of Halford sauce.
    One saltspoonful of made mustard.
    One saltspoonful of pepper.
    Strained juice of half a lemon.
Cut the meat into pieces an inch square. Put it with the chopped onion
into a saucepan with a pint of lukewarm water; cover closely and cook
slowly, at least two hours and a half. The meat should not be allowed
to boil hard at any time, and when done, be so tender that it is ready
to fall to pieces.
Pour the stew into a bowl, add the salt and pepper, cover it and set in
a cool place until next morning.
Then put it back into the sauce-pan, set it over a quick fire, and
when it begins to boil, stir in the spice and herbs. (The latter may
be bought dried and powdered at the druggist’s if you cannot get them
fresh.)
Boil up sharply five minutes.
The flour should be browned the day before, by spreading it on a tin
plate and setting this on the stove, stirring constantly to keep it
from burning black. Or a better way is, to set the tin plate in a hot
oven, opening the door now and then to stir it. It is a good plan to
brown a good deal—say a cupful of flour—at a time, and keep it in a
glass jar for thickening gravies, etc.
Wet up a heaping tablespoonful of this with three tablespoonfuls of
cold water, the lemon-juice, mustard and Worcestershire sauce. Rub
smooth and stir well into the stew. Boil two minutes longer to thicken
the gravy and turn out into a deep covered dish.
This is a good dinner, as well as breakfast dish. A teaspoonful of
catsup is an improvement.
8
WHAT TO DO WITH “LEFT-OVERS.”
A VOLUME, instead of a single chapter, might be written upon the
various methods of preparing what the French call “rechauffés,” and
we speak of, usually contemptuously, as “warmed-over” meats. Cold
meat is seldom tempting except to the very hungry. Cold tongue, ham
and poultry are well enough on picnics and as a side-dish at tea. At
breakfast they are barely admissible; for a simple luncheon tolerable;
for dinner hardly excusable. At the first and last meal of the day, the
stomach craves something hot and relishable.
A wife told me, once, with strong disgust in the remembrance, that
when her husband took her on the wedding-trip to visit his mother, a
frugal Massachusetts matron, they were set down within half an hour
after their arrival, to lunch on a cold eel-pie left from the day
before. The daughter-in-law, forty years later, spoke feelingly of the
impression of niggardliness and inhospitality made on her mind by the
incident.
“If she had even warmed it up, I should not have felt so forlornly
homesick,” she said. “But cold eel-pie! Think of it!”
I confess to heartfelt sympathy with the complainant. There is a
suggestion of friendliness and home-comfort in the “goodly smell” of a
steaming-hot entrée set before family or guest. It argues forethought
for those who are to be fed. We have the consciousness that we are
expected and that somebody has cared enough for us to make ready a
visible welcome. Pale slices of cold mutton, and thin slabs of corned
beef cannot, with the best intentions on the part of the caterer,
convey this.
The summing up of this lecture, is: Neither despise unlikely fragments
left over from roast, baked or boiled, nor consider them good enough as
they are without “rehabilitation.”
We will begin with a dish the mention of which provokes a sneer more
often than any other known to civilization.
Hash.
Rid cold corned or roast beef of fat, skin and gristle, and mince it in
a wooden tray with a sharp chopper until the largest piece is not more
than an eighth of an inch square.
With two cupfuls of this mix a cupful of mashed potato rubbed smooth
with a potato beater or wooden spoon.
Season well with pepper and salt if the beef be fresh, if corned use
the salt sparingly and pepper well.
Set a clean frying-pan on the stove with a cupful of beef gravy in it
from which you have skimmed all the fat. Clear soup will do if you
have no gravy. If you have neither, pour into the pan a half-pint of
boiling water and stir into this three tablespoonfuls of butter. When
the butter-water (or gravy) reaches the boil, add a half-teaspoonful of
made mustard.
Then put in the meat and potato and stir—scraping the bottom of the pan
to prevent sticking—for five minutes, or until you have a bubbling-hot
mass, not stiff, nor yet semi-liquid. It must have been brought to
boiling heat and kept at it about five minutes, cooking so fast that
you have to stir and toss constantly lest it should scorch.
Heap on a hot dish, and eat from hot plates.
Hash Cakes.
Having prepared the hash as above set it aside until cold, when mould
into flat cakes as you would sausage meat, and roll in flour. Heat
nice beef-dripping to a boil in a frying-pan, lay in the cakes, and fry
to a light brown on both sides.
Beef Croquettes.
You can make these of the cold hash by moulding it into rolls about
three and a half inches long, and rather more than an inch in diameter.
Roll these over and over on a floured dish or board to get them smooth
and regular in shape; flatten the ends by setting each upright on the
floury dish, and put enough dripping in the pan to cover them as they
lie on their sides in it. It should be very hot before they go in.
Roll over carefully in the fat as they brown, not to spoil the shape.
Do not put too many in the pan at once; as fast as they are done take
them up and lay in a hot colander until all are ready. Arrange neatly
on a heated flat dish and serve.
A Mutton Stew.
Cut slices of cold mutton half an inch thick, trim away fat and skin
and divide the lean meat into neat squares about an inch across.
Drop a piece of onion as large as a hickory-nut in a cupful of water
and boil fifteen minutes. Strain the water through a bit of muslin,
squeezing the onion hard to extract the flavor. Allow this cupful of
water to two cupfuls of meat. If you have less mutton use less water;
if more increase the quantity of liquid.
Pour the water into a clean saucepan and when it boils add two full
tablespoonfuls of butter cut into bits and rolled over and over in
browned flour until no more will adhere to the butter.
Stir this in with a little pepper and salt, a pinch of mace and a
teaspoonful of lemon-juice. Boil up once and drop in the meat. Cover
closely and let it simmer at one side of the stove, almost, but never
quite boiling, for ten minutes.
Turn into a deep dish and serve very hot.
Minced Mutton on Toast.
Trim off skin and fat from slices of cold mutton and mince in a
chopping-tray. Season with pepper and salt.
Into a clean frying-pan, pour a cupful of mutton-gravy which has been
skimmed well, mixed with a little hot water and strained through a bit
of coarse muslin.
When this boils, wet a teaspoonful of browned flour with three
tablespoonfuls of cold water, and a teaspoonful of tomato or walnut
catsup, or half a teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce. Rub out all the
lumps and stir into the gravy in the frying-pan. Boil up once well
before putting in the mutton.
As soon as the mixture bubbles and smokes all over, draw it to one
side of the range where it will keep hot, but not quite boil; cover
it closely, and let it stand five minutes. Warmed-over mutton becomes
insipid when cooked too much.
Before the mince is put into the pan, toast the bread. Cut thick slices
from a stale loaf, and trim off the crust. If you would have them look
particularly nice, cut them round with a cake or biscuit-cutter. Toast
to a light-brown, and keep hot until the mince is cooked.
Then lay the toast on a heated platter; butter the rounds well on both
sides, and pour on each a tablespoonful of boiling water. Heap a
great spoonful of the minced mutton on each piece.
The mince should not be a stiff paste, nor yet so soft as to run all
over the dish. A cupful of gravy will be enough for three cupfuls of
meat.
Some people fancy a little green pickle or chow chow chopped very fine
and mixed in with the mince while cooking. Others think the dish
improved by the addition of a teaspoonful of lemon-juice put in just
before taking it from the fire.
Devilled Mutton.
    Cut even slices of cold mutton, not too fat.
    Stir together and melt in a clean frying-pan two
      tablespoonfuls of butter and one of currant or grape
      jelly.
    When it hisses lay in the mutton and heat
      slowly—turning several times—for five minutes, or
      until the slices are soft and very hot, but not until
      they begin to crisp.
    Take out the meat, lay on a warmed dish, cover and set
      over boiling water.
    To the butter and jelly left in the pan add three
      tablespoonfuls of vinegar.
    A small teaspoonful of made mustard.
    A quarter spoonful of salt.
    Half as much pepper as you have salt.
    Stir together over the fire until they boil, and pour
      on the meat. Cover three minutes over boiling water,
      and serve.
Devilled, or Barbecued Ham.
Slice cold Ferris & Co.’s “Trade Mark” ham, lean and fat together, and
lay in a clean frying-pan. Fry gently in the grease that runs from it
as it heats, until the lean is soft, the fat clear and beginning to
crisp at the edges.
Take out the slices with a fork, lay on a warmed dish; keep hot over
boiling water.
Add to the fat left in the frying-pan:
    Four tablespoonfuls of vinegar.
    A small teaspoonful of made mustard.
    As much pepper as will lie easily on a silver
      half-dime.
    Stir until it boils, then pour on the ham. Let it stand
      covered over the boiling water for five minutes
      before sending to the table.
Chicken Croquettes.
    One cup of cold chicken, minced fine.
    One quarter cup of pounded cracker.
    One teaspoonful of cornstarch, wet up in a little
      cold water.
    One egg.
    One tablespoonful of butter.
    Half a tablespoonful of salt.
    A good pinch of pepper.
    Half a cupful of boiling water.
    Mix minced chicken and crumbs together in a bowl with
      salt and pepper.
Put the boiling water in a clean saucepan, add the butter and set over
the fire. When the butter is melted stir in the wet corn starch. Boil
and stir until it thickens.
Have the egg beaten light in a bowl and pour the hot mixture upon it.
Beat well, and mix with the minced chicken. Let it get perfectly cold
and make into croquettes as directed for beef croquettes.
But roll these in a well-beaten egg, then in fine cracker-crumbs
instead of flour, and fry, a few at a time, in a mixture half-butter,
half-lard enough to cover them well. Drain off every drop of fat from
each croquette as you take it up, and keep hot until all are done.
Serve hot and at once.
9
DINNER DISHES.
I AM amused and yet made thoughtful by the fact that so many young
housekeepers write to me of their pleasure in cake-making and
their desire to learn how to compound what are usually known as
“fancy-dishes,” some sending excellent receipts for loaf-cake, cookies
and doughnuts, while few express the least interest in soups, meats and
vegetables. The drift of the dear creatures’ thoughts reminds me of a
rhymed—“If I had!” which I read years ago, setting forth how a little
boy would have if he could, a house built of pastry, floored with
taffy, ceiled with sugar-plums, and roofed with frosted gingerbread.
In engaging a cook one does not ask, first of all, “Can you get up
handsome desserts?” but, “Do you understand bread-making and baking,
and the management of meats, soups, and other branches of plain
cookery?”
The same “plain cookery” is the pivot on which the family health and
comfort rest and turn. If you would qualify yourselves to become
thorough housewives, it is as essential that you should master the
principles of this, as that a musician should be able to read the notes
on the staff. Some people do play tolerably by ear, but they are never
ranked as students, much less as professors of music. “Fancy” cookery
is to the real thing what embroidery is to the art of the seamstress.
She who has learned how to use her needle deftly upon “seam, gusset and
band,” will find the acquisition of ornamental stitches an easy matter.
Skill in Kensington and satin stitch is of little value in fitting one
to do “fine,” which is also useful sewing.
I am sorry to add that my observation goes to prove that more American
housekeepers can make delicate and rich cake than excellent soups.
Soup Stock.
    Two pounds coarse lean beef, chopped almost as fine as
      sausage-meat.
    One pound of lean veal—also chopped.
    Two pounds of bones (beef, veal, or mutton) cracked in
      several places.
    Half an onion chopped.
    Two or three stalks of celery, when you can get it.
    Five quarts of cold water.
Meat and bones should be raw, but if you have bones left from underdone
beef or mutton, you may crack and add them. Put all the ingredients (no
salt or pepper) in a large clean pot, cover it closely and set at one
side of the range where it will not get really hot under two hours.
This gives the water time to draw out the juices of the meat. Then
remove to a warmer place, stir up well from the bottom, and cook slowly
five hours longer.
It should never boil hard, but “bubble-bubble” softly and steadily all
the while. Fast boiling toughens the fibres and keeps in the juice of
the meat which should form the body of the soup. When the time is up,
lift the pot from the fire, throw in a heaping tablespoonful of salt,
and a teaspoonful of pepper, and pour out into your “stock-pot.” This
should be a stout stone crock or jar, with a cover, and be used for
nothing else.
See that it is free from grease, dust and all smell, scald out with hot
water and soda, then with clean boiling water just before pouring in
the soup, or the hot liquid may crack it.
Put on the cover and set in a cold place until next day.
Then take off every particle of the caked fat from the top. You can use
this as dripping for frying. Soup that has globules of grease floating
on the surface is unwholesome and slovenly.
Strain the skimmed liquid through a colander, squeezing the meat hard
to extract every drop of nutriment. Throw away the tasteless fibres and
bones when you have wrung them dry.
This process should give you about three quarts of strong “stock.”
Rinse your jar well and pour back the strained stock into it to be used
as the foundation of several days’ soups. Season it highly and keep in
a cold place—in warm weather on the ice.
I hope you will not fail to set up a “stock-pot.” Every family should
have one. It makes the matter of really good soups simple and easy.
Clear Soup with Sago or Tapioca.
Soak half a cup of German sago or pearl tapioca four hours in a
large cup of cold water. An hour before dinner put a quart of your
soup-stock on the stove and bring quickly almost to a boil. When it
is hot, stir in the raw white and the shell of an egg, and, stirring
frequently to prevent the egg from catching on the bottom of the pot,
boil fast ten minutes.
Take off and strain through a clean thick cloth, wrung out in hot water
and laid like a lining in your colander. Do not squeeze the cloth, or
you will muddy the soup.
Return the liquid, when strained, to the saucepan, which must be
perfectly clean; stir in the soaked tapioca and a teaspoonful of minced
parsley, and simmer half an hour on the side of the range.
If necessary, add a little more seasoning.
When you have made nice clear soup once, you may, if you like, color
the second supply with a little “caramel-water.”
This is made by putting a tablespoonful of sugar in a tin cup and
setting it over the fire until it breaks up into brown bubbles, then
pouring a few tablespoonfuls of boiling water on it and stirring it
until dissolved. A tablespoonful of this in a quart of clear soup will
give a fine amber color and not injure the flavor. Send all soups in to
table very hot.
Julienne Soup.
    One quarter of a firm white cabbage, shred as for cold
      slaw.
    One small turnip, peeled and cut into thin dice.
    One carrot, peeled and cut into strips like inch-long
      straws.
    One teaspoonful of onion shred fine.
    Three raw tomatoes, peeled and cut into bits.
    One tablespoonful of minced parsley, and, if you can
      get it, three stalks of celery cut into thin slices.
Use a sharp knife for this work and bruise the vegetables as little as
possible.
When all are prepared, put them in hot water enough to cover them,
throw in a teaspoonful of salt and cook gently half an hour.
Clear a quart of soup-stock as directed in the last receipt, and color
it with a teaspoonful of Halford sauce, or walnut catsup.
When the vegetables are tender, turn them into a colander to drain,
taking care not to mash or break them. Throw away the water in which
they were boiled, and add the vegetables to the clear hot soup.
Taste, to determine if it needs more pepper or salt, and simmer all
together gently twenty minutes before turning into the tureen.
White Chicken Soup (Delicious).
A tough fowl can be converted into very delicious dishes by boiling it
first for soup and mincing it, when cold, for croquettes.
In boiling it, allow a quart of cold water for each pound of chicken,
and set it where it will heat very slowly.
If the fowl be quite old do not let it reach a boil under two hours,
then boil very gently four hours longer.
Throw in a tablespoonful of salt when you take it from the fire, turn
chicken and liquor into a bowl and set in a cold place all night.
Next day skim off the fat, strain the broth from the chicken, shaking
the colander to do this well, and put aside the meat for croquettes or
a scallop.
Set three pints of the broth over the fire with a teaspoonful of
chopped onion, season with salt and pepper, and let it boil half an
hour. Line a colander with a thick cloth, and strain the liquid,
squeezing the cloth to get the flavor of the onion.
Return the strained soup to the saucepan, with a tablespoonful of
minced parsley, and bring to a boil. Meanwhile, scald in a farina
kettle a cupful of milk, dropping into it a bit of soda the size of a
pea.
Stir into this when hot, a tablespoonful of cornstarch wet up with
cold milk. When it thickens scrape it out into a bowl in which you have
two eggs whipped light. Beat all together well, and stir in, spoonful
by spoonful, a cupful of the boiling soup.
Draw the soup pot to one side of the range, stir in the contents of the
bowl, and let it stand—but not boil—three minutes before pouring into
the tureen.
Chicken and Rice Soup
Is made as white chicken soup, but with the addition of four
tablespoonfuls of rice, boiled soft, and added to the chicken liquor at
the same time with the parsley. Then proceed as directed, with milk,
eggs, etc.
Tomato Soup.
    Add a quart of raw tomatoes, peeled and sliced, or a
      can of stewed tomatoes, and half a small onion to a
      quart of stock, and stew slowly one hour.
    Strain and rub through a colander and set again over
      the fire.
    Stir in a tablespoonful of butter cut up and rubbed
      into a tablespoonful of flour.
    A tablespoonful of cornstarch wet up with cold water.
    Season to taste with pepper and salt, boil once more
      and pour out.
Bean Soup.
Soak one pint of dried beans all night in lukewarm water. In the
morning add three quarts of cold water, half a pound of nice salt pork,
cut into strips, half an onion chopped, and three stalks of celery, cut
small. Set at one side of the fire until it is very hot, then where it
will cook slowly, and let it boil four hours. Stir up often from the
bottom, as bean-soup is apt to scorch.
An hour before dinner, set a colander over another pot and rub the bean
porridge through the holes with a stout wooden spoon, leaving the
skins in the colander.
Return the soup to the fire, stir in a tablespoonful of butter rubbed
in a tablespoonful of flour, and simmer gently fifteen minutes longer.
Have ready in the tureen a double handful of strips or squares of stale
bread, fried like doughnuts in dripping, and drained dry. Also, half a
lemon, peeled and sliced very thin.
Pour the soup on these and serve.
A Soup Maigre (without Meat).
    Twelve mealy potatoes, peeled and sliced.
    One quart of tomatoes—canned or fresh.
    One half of an onion.
    Two stalks of celery.
    One tablespoonful of minced parsley.
    Four tablespoonfuls of butter, cut up and rolled in
      flour.
    One tablespoonful of cornstarch wet and dissolved in
      cold water.
    One lump of white sugar.
    Three quarts of cold water will be needed.
Parboil the sliced potatoes fifteen minutes in enough hot water to
cover them well. Drain this off and throw it away. Put potatoes,
tomatoes, onion, celery and parsley on in three quarts of cold water,
and cook gently two hours.
Then rub them all through a colander, return the soup to the pot, drop
in the sugar, season to taste with pepper and salt, boil up once and
take off the scum before adding the floured butter, and when this is
dissolved, the cornstarch.
Stir two minutes over the fire, and your soup is ready for the table.
Very good it will prove, too, if the directions be exactly followed.
When celery is out of season, you can use instead of it, a little
essence of celery, or, what is better, celery salt.
10
MEATS.
ONE of the most comico-pathetico true stories I know is that of a boy,
the youngest of a large family, who, having always sat at the second
table, knew nothing experimentally of the choicer portions of chicken
or turkey. Being invited out to dinner as the guest of a playmate, he
was asked, first of all present, “what part of the turkey he preferred.”
“The carker” (carcass), “and a little of the stuff” (stuffing), “if
you please,” replied the poor little fellow, with prompt politeness.
It was his usual ration, and in his ignorance, he craved nothing
better.
The pupil in cookery who enjoys tossing up entrées, and devising
dainty rechauffés, but cannot support the thought of handling raw
chickens and big-boned joints of butcher’s meat, is hardly wiser than
he.
It is a common fallacy to believe that this branch of the culinary art
is uninteresting drudgery, fit only for the hands of the very plain
hired cook.
Another mistake, almost as prevalent, lies in supposing that she can,
of course, perform the duty properly. There is room for intelligent
skill in so simple a process as roasting a piece of meat, nor is the
task severe or repulsive. Practically, it is far more important to know
how to do this well, than to be proficient in cake, jelly, and pudding
making.
Roast Beef.
Have a steady, moderate fire in the stove-grate. Increase the heat when
the meat is thoroughly warmed.
Lay the beef, skin side uppermost, in a clean baking-pan, and dash all
over it two cups of boiling water in which a teaspoonful of salt
has been dissolved. This sears the surface slightly, and keeps in the
juices.
Shut the oven door, and do not open again for twenty minutes. Then,
with a ladle or iron spoon dip up the salted water and pour it over
the top of the meat, wetting every part again and again. Eight or ten
ladlefuls should be used in this “basting,” which should be repeated
every fifteen minutes for the next hour. Allow twelve minutes to each
pound of meat in roasting beef.
Do not swing the oven door wide while you baste, but slip your hand
(protected by an old glove or a napkin) into the space left by the
half-open door, and when you have wet the surface of the roast quickly
and well, shut it up again to heat and steam.
A little care in this respect will add much to the flavor and
tenderness of the beef.
Should one side of it, or the back, brown more rapidly than the
rest, turn the pan in the oven, and should the water dry up to a few
spoonfuls, pour in another cupful from the tea-kettle.
About twenty minutes before the time for the roasting is up, draw the
pan to the oven-door, and sift flour over the meat from a flour dredger
or a small sieve. Shut the door until the flour browns, then baste
abundantly, and dredge again.
In five minutes, or when this dredging is brown, rub the top of the
meat with a good teaspoonful of butter, dredge quickly and close the
door.
