sense of disappointment was visible in the faces and the 
almost indifferent attention of the audience. 
"I need not feel troubled, they will scarcely notice mj 
 
Autinous," he said with a touch of petulance. But as it 
neared his time, he picked his way delicately through 
the room into the hall, and from thence to the robing- 
room. Celia Marshall was nowhere about ; she had glided 
away quietly in her soft gray nun's dress and dainty bon- 
net, with a touch of blossom color in the feather, to a seat 
beside Mrs. Howarth. 
The curious Egyptian room with its semi-barbaric lux- 
ury was a great contrast to all that had gone before. A 
magnificent dog lay at the Emperor's feet, and he had 
just turned from the window, where he had been endeav- 
oring to read in the stars the truth of the scroll he held in 
his hand, that predicted his woeful loss. Leaning against 
a column crowned with flowers stood his favorite, in an 
attitude of such fascinating grace that he appeared akin 
to a poised Ganymede. The drapery and the flowing 
curls seemed to detract at least ten years ; it gave him 
the physical beauty of perfect, unflawed youth. Was there 
struggling through the brain some far ray of that old heroic 
paganism, of which the modern, the paganism of to-day, 
is but mummy-like cerements; rousing the deeper man- 
hood touched into new life by the story of the Crucified, 
until he longs to answer the prediction and set his great 
Master's heart at rest? 
Celia Marshall believed so, and some faint girlish pulses 
never stirred before were startled into an answering thrill 
as she drew a long responsive breath, and yet shrank 
from a step in that untried country whose mysteries were 
rapidly encompassing her. 
Sherrard lingered a moment to clasp Mrs. Linthorpe's 
hand. 
"It was perfect," he said with fervent enthusiasm. "I 
never saw anything like it." 
"Ah, you realize now how an artist's soul can translate 
the hidden meanings of art. A merely beautiful girl 
would have been self-conscious, and nine women out of 
ten would have coquetted. Celia Marshall Lb profoundly 
ignorant of such a thing." 
" I believe you," he replied. 
That night he tossed restlessly upon his bed, and 
dreamed vague, delicious, half-awake dreams. He had 
been roused and moved by a woman's beauty; he had 
been a little lured by irresistible, seductive grace, but 
here all was innocence. The man who loved her now 
could write his name on the white, unflawed page of the 
purest soul he had ever known, ever would know. Should 
he make the indelible mark ? 
He began to haunt the Howarths' now with a myste- 
rious persistency. Once or twice he sent Celia flowers, 
but even that seemed daring. Apart from her he still 
heard the lingering cadence of her cool, clear voice, that 
had not come to heats or passions. Now and then he 
touched her fingers, once they danced together. She did 
not much frequent the gay society revels, the late hours 
and exhaustive enjoyments unfitted her for her work. 
At home she and Daisy or Bertie often danced, and there 
it was a delight, born of the lovely, dreamy motion. 
She had comprehended with some rare, quick insight 
that Mr. Howarth did not approve of the hot, eager 
Bacchante whirls, that translated no grace or poetry from 
twinkling feet. 
At last — is it a word, or touch, or look, or some subtile 
blending of all ? They are in the beautiful drawing-room 
at the Howarths', where there are perhaps a dozen guests, 
mostly gentlemen of travel and scientific attainments; a 
charming woman, the well-read wife of a professor, and 
her daughter, who has been singing in a most exquisitely 
trained voice some of the pathetic old ballads of love and 
death, of waiting and broken faith on the one side, and 
deathless faith on the other. Is it true in that sweet, 
mysterious country? Do love and grief walk hand in 
hand? She raises her soft, shy, troubled eyes ; did they 
 
ask a question? Well, he has answered it, and the vague 
pain has been translated to a heaven-blossoming smile. 
The guests had mostly all gone when Fairfax Sherrard 
walked down to a table strewn with some pen-and-ink 
sketches of African explorations. There was a curiously 
proud and eager light in his eyes, and a new depth in his 
tone, as he said fearlessly, — 
"Mr. Howarth, I want to ask your permission, as you 
are in some sort Miss Marshall's guardian, to address 
her honorably. I love her ; I wish to make her my wife ; 
I desire opportunities of seeing her;" then he smiled and 
colored and bowed his head with the gentlemanly defer- 
ence of one who entreated a favor. 
Mr. Howarth glanced at him with an expression between 
incredulity and surprise. 
" I do not know," he made answer, " whether the right 
is altogether mine to give. Miss Marshall has a mother — " 
"But I wanted you to understand that if I haunted 
your house I came with honorable intent," and his clear, 
tmblenching eyes showed it. "I think I am not quite 
indifferent to her. She is such a child in matters like 
these." 
Leonard Howarth wished in his heart that she might 
have remained longer in her cloistered maidenhood. Yet 
it was the way of the world, and surely this man before 
him had much to bestow upon a woman, with his hand. 
" I hope you are not over hasty, " he began with a 
vague alarm. 
" I have not been hasty ; " in the incisive tone of a man 
who understands quite well what he is about. "And 
there is no need of my being hasty or in any way hurry- 
ing this sweet life out of its pure, gracious unfolding. 
I shall not desire to marry under a year or two, until I 
have quite won the heart whose fragrant pulses are as yet 
scarcely stirred." 
" You have my best wishes." Could he desire more for 
a daughter of his own blood than this perfect gentleman 
with his generous, kindly impulses, his wholesome life, his 
unquestioned position and integrity? 
" Thank you. The rest I will take in hand some day." 
They crossed the room together, with a slow step, and 
both glanced at the young girl sitting there so uncon- 
sciously. Only a moment. A wave of sensitive intuition 
swept over her soul and flamed up in her face with its 
rich dye, then a tremor flashed through the palpitant 
answering pulses. 
Sherrard did not single her out for any special good- 
night. He had an inborn reverent delicacy that would in 
all cases shield the woman he loved from any vulgar notori- 
ety. There was a quick half wondering glance, settling to 
fine accord as he left the room. She was too new to such 
emotions to desire them in any manner intensified. 
Presently Celia went up to her room. There was a cu- 
rious unsteady feeling, as if she had been swept from some 
secure mooring and had not quite entered the desired 
haven. She threw herself on her knees beside the bed 
and clasped her hands over her blushing face. Her trem- 
ulous lips did not shape any words, yet she prayed a new 
prayer for the man who loved her. His safety and well- 
being would be a part of her daily petition henceforth. 
Mr. and Mrs. Howarth discussed it in the dressing- 
room. There was a sense of exultation in her womanly, 
motherly soul, that her unpretentious little violet should 
carry off this scion of an honorable manhood. The wealth 
did not count for so much in her eyes as the sincere and 
honest manliness that had not been ashamed to keep itself 
above the meretricious pleasures, so called, of vigorous 
and imperious youth. If a thought crossed her mind of 
the women at Sherrard House, it caused her no uneasiness 
just then. They could not shut in the world as they shut 
in and narrowed their own lives. 
"I wonder," Mr. Howarth began gravely, "if he under- 
 
stands Celia's position exactly. We have not deceived 
people, that I can see," and he gave a musing smile, " yet 
I do suppose there are many ignorant of Mrs. Marshall's 
business standing, and the fact that no one really knows 
whether Mr. Marshall is dead. Ordinarily it makes no 
difference. Some of the greatest painters have come up 
from poverty and obscurity, and no one is found brave 
enough or silly enough to fling it into their faces. Before 
this matter comes to a positive engagement, I want to tell 
Sherrard the whole truth. If it can make any alteration 
it had better work its slight grief now." 
" If it can change his feelings he is a different man than 
my estimation of him ; yet you are perfectly right, Leonard. 
Celia herself would say so. His course has been delicate 
and honorable, and we of all others cannot fail to appre- 
ciate it." 
Yet the next morning Fairfax Sherrard found himself 
in a curiously impatient mood. He would not go to Mrs. 
Linthorpe's — somehow he did not want her to read his 
secret until he had quaffed its first exalted sweetness. It 
would be like having some rarely sweet confidential letter 
read by curious eyes. He sauntered through the streets, 
dropped in at the Club, then bethought himself of the 
pleasure of choosing a ring for her. It took him a long 
while, for he proved most exigeant. There was a flaw in 
either the stone or the setting, but at last he chanced up- 
on a most exquisite one and paid the price with such 
quiet indifference that the man actually stared. 
How long the day was ! Would the interminable hours 
never end ? When it proved unendurable he sauntered 
to the Howarths' just in time to see from the corner the 
coupi drive away with two ladies. At least he could 
leave a message. He rang the bell and the well-trained 
waiter stood in listening attitude. 
"Mrs. Howarthhad just gone to drive with a friend. 
Miss Marshall was in." 
"I will see Mies Marshall," he replied gravely. 
Here in the long drawing-room she sat last night and 
answered his look the instant the thought touched both 
hearts with its magnetic fire. Was there some glamour 
that might never be again — the pervasive music of the 
song, the low-burning lights, the soft fragrant atmosphere? 
Would the garish light of day, so pitiless, destroy the illu- 
sion? 
There is a glowing fire of cannel coal at one end of the 
spacious room, the heavy silken curtains temper the win- 
try sunshine, a great bunch of heliotrope in a jar perfumes 
the air. He. walks down to the fire and leans, in his 
graceful attitude, with his arm just resting on the mantel, 
his eyes bent on the porti&re partly swung aside. 
Celia ran softly down the stairs at the rear, and paused 
a moment in the library to cool the bloom of her cheeks, 
and entered — coming upon him so unexpectedly that she 
stood still as a marble statue from some undefined sur- 
prise, only never was marble so celestial rosy red. 
He took one step, then held her gently in his arms and 
kissed softly down amid the blushes. Was it moments or 
a lifetime? 
"I have brought your ring," he said, a long while after, 
in the mellow unsteadiness of voice that a great emotion 
leaves behind. "And I could only guess at the size — I 
am afraid it is too large, but the stone is perfect. We 
can have it reset." 
He dropped it into her hand, where it lay quivering 
like some mysteriously prisoned soul. It gave her a curi- 
ous, far-reaching sense of life, a connection with some 
shadowy occult secret. 
" It is the only stone I found worthy of you, my pearl 
of girls," he said, in a voice of vivid tenderness that 
seemed to enfold her like some sacred raiment. 
"Oh, it is too beautiful ! " she cried in her rare humility, 
which was prouder than another's pride. 
 
"Nothing can be too beautiful for you. I looked at 
pearls, but somehow they seem weak in such a ring. One 
wants a subtile, enduring strength, that nothing can mar." 
Nothing could mar his strength, she thought in a quick 
flash. Was she quite sure of her own ? Did she under- 
stand all this far-reaching mystery that was presently to 
make both lives one? 
" Oh, are you quite sure I have made no mistake ? " she 
entreated pitifully, her whole frame quivering with intense 
emotion. " I know so little — I have lived with my art, 
and my mother, and I have not even thought of lovers — " 
Ah, it is because of this heavenly purity that she must 
always be so precious to him. 
"I shall not hurry you," he returned, with a strong, 
comforting assurance in his rich voice. " I want you to 
learn your sweet lesson by slow degrees," smiling down 
into her brave, innocent, questioning eyes. ." There is not 
one drop in the whole cup of sweetness that I can afford 
to lose. But we will go on much as before. I will not be 
the marplot to your genius, of which I shall always be 
proud," — exultingly. "You shall have a long engage- 
ment if you like, — a year or two at least," and he smiles 
with a sense of delicious amusement. 
" I am very glad." She drew a long breath like a sob- 
bing sigh, and he understood her too well to ascribe it to 
any other cause than that fine sacred reluctance which he 
would not have had her without. 
They tried the ring presently. Her hand was plump, 
with a kind of youthful vigor, a characteristic hand, with 
no weak lines, not too daintily small for life uses, but finely 
shaped. 
" I cannot wear it all the time," she said, with candid 
seriousness. "It is too beautiful, too precious, and it 
would jar upon me in the sense of not being in harmony. 
Only part of my life is here ; " and she glanced about the 
elegantly-appointed room, while a fine wavering flame 
swept her face. 
"You shall be the judge, so that you always wear it for 
me," he answered softly. 
" It is so different from the life I had planned," and 
there was a sudden tender remorse in her voice. " I had 
not thought of marrying. I was to make a pretty home 
for mamma when the others had gone out of it. Ah ! if 
you knew her ! " and a certain clear ring vibrated on the 
soft air. 
" I shall know her some day. I can fancy the kind of 
mother you should have," changing his sentence a little 
with the remembrance that he knew absolutely nothing of 
her family. . 
" She is beautiful, ever so much handsomer than Mrs. 
Howarth, and noble and strong. When you come to real- 
ize what her life has been — well, mine will look like a 
weak little half-blown violet in the grass to her rich rose 
bloom." 
Celia stood up straight, with a subtile strength and 
sweetness in her courage that would have compelled re- 
spect from others beside a lover. There was no wavering 
in the fine flame of her eyes, no weak curves in the pure, 
sensitive mouth, but something more than a daughter's 
respect and enduring love that would go through tempests 
and arid deserts if need were. 
" You heroic little girl ; " and he smiled with delighted 
approval. " I think I need to realize a little of a mother's 
holy and unselfish affection. It has not come much in my 
way, I must confess. I shall be glad to know her, my 
darling." 
They could neither of them see the black shadow in the 
distance that was to try this love as by fire. Well for us 
all that there are some moments of unalloyed pleasure, 
some cup of pure and promising joy, before we come to 
dregs and ashes, else our faith in the types and shadows 
of things might fail us in the bitter trial hours. 
After he had gone she sat dreaming in a girl's fanciful 
 
way, a new and delicious experience for her. That Fair- 
fax Sherrard was wealthy she was aware, how rich did 
not once cross her thoughts. Even now it seemed her 
mother who figured largely in the life to come rather than 
her lover. Between this and that there was so great a 
space to bridge over with work and ambition, with prizes 
won, with aims steady and sure, leading up to a clear, 
golden fruition. There would be no time, no excuse for 
mere idle frivolity — that always wearied her. The vigor- 
ous and cheerful nature answered more readily to the high 
and fine illusions of the artistic temperament than to any 
pursuit of mere physical or sensuous gratification. Still 
less was there any of that continual rasping struggle to 
apprehend an unattainable perfection, either mental or 
spiritual, that wears so many finely-attuned but ill-balanced 
souls. 
Celia Marshall could not talk her soul's secrets over with 
this, her most honored friend, until her mother's sacred 
right had first been satisfied. There were callers in the 
evening, the usual custom indeed. If Mrs. Howarth ex- 
pected one who came not, Celia made no sign. Graceful, 
agreeable, doing her part of the entertaining simply, with 
the gladness and sweetness of youth, and not the airs and 
languor of a world-wearied woman blase with long amuse- 
ment. 
She meant to return home the next morning, but at the 
studio she was detained by a visitor endeavoring to make 
a choice from some sketches for a gift to a friend at a dis- 
tance. The short midwinter afternoon was drawing to a 
close when she crossed the well-known threshold. The 
girl in the store glanced up with a smile as she passed 
through. The little work-room was empty, but she caught 
sight of her mother's figure just beyond, and hastened to 
her with blooming face and beating heart. 
What had worked this sudden, awesome change, what 
had drained the secret springs of this affluent nature, 
leaving a kind of death-in-life hopelessness ! Celia stared 
with a chill misgiving at the pale face and eyes heavy with 
weeping. Like a vision the old years returned. 
"Oh, mamma! mamma!" she cried in anguish as the 
regal head bowed itself upon her shoulder and a long dry 
sob tore its way up from the mother's soul. There was 
but one thing that could so crush the bright heroic spirit. 
"Mamma, has he come back ? " Her own voice was so 
chilled and dreary that she hardly recognized it for the 
glad sound of the morning. 
" He has come back, — oh, my darling ! " 
Then the mother held her in a long, long embrace, as if 
their souls grew together with a clasp and bond that no 
after-life could undo. Now and then that shivering sob, 
the hardest of all, with no tears to moisten the arid way. 
Celia Marshall remembered the fastidious knightly gen- 
tleman whose ring was on her finger. He abhorred drunk- 
enness as he would a plague, he would thrust it far from 
him with an unconquerable loathing. And she had this 
plague spot on her white clean soul by no fault of her own, 
she must answer for a sin made by another's weakness, 
his utter disregard not only of himself and wife, but his 
children, who must perforce accept their inheritance. A 
spirit of revolt flamed up in her clear, just soul. Not sim- 
ply that something might intervene between her and her 
love — the thought of self was farthest from her, but no 
matter if she relinquished all love, it could not wash 
away the stain. 
"Yes, he has come back," — there was the hysterical 
sort of repression in her voice as when one has been 
standing guard for a long while over one's self, lest all 
shall be swept away, — "and O Celia, not to me! My 
darling how can I bear it ? Why, I would have taken 
him in a beggar! I would have nursed and cared for him 
if he had been ill — and he casts me out of his life ! " 
" Mamma ! " It was so mysterious that Celia loosened 
 
the clasp and held her off a little to study the strained, 
agonized face. "Not to you? Is it worse than anything 
we ever dreamed." 
"It is here — all I know," and she fumbled about the 
table like one stricken blind. " I took up last evening's 
paper after the children were in bed — Bertie had glanced 
it carelessly over, but missed this. Oh, you can guess at 
the stab." 
The Westwater Gazette was the paper .of the town, the 
Morning Journal counting for very little, being cheaper 
and for the commoner class of readers. The paragraph was 
folded outward, and the sharp creases told of the still 
sharper agony made by its studied perusal. 
Celia took it to the waning light, and read one of 
those complimentary notices with which a man is occa- 
sionally honored, to the effect that Mr. Thomas Marshall, 
one of our well-known and esteemed citizens, had returned 
to Westwater after an absence of several years spent at 
the far West, mostly occupied in mining interests ; that he 
had been one of a party of four who had by perseverance 
and that peculiar pluck the result often of an adventurous 
spirit, succeeded in finding a new lead in a silver mine that 
had been relinquished by other parties as not worth the 
trouble of further explorations. They had all realized 
handsome fortunes, and Mr. Marshall was now at the 
house of his sister on Westminster Place, recruiting from 
the effects of the labor and exposure incident to such a 
life. A party of eminent capitalists had already purchased 
the mine, which was found to yield even beyond expectar 
tions. 
Celia Marshall grew still and cold with poignant, de- 
spairing anguish. To come home and not to them! 
CHAPTER XVH. 
M T is the old story ! Even the blind world 
Knows not its angels of deliverance." 
Gebald Masset. 
It was true Thomas Marshall had returned to West- 
water an esteemed and respected citizen henceforth, since 
fortune had smiled upon him. If he had returned as 
poor as when he went away, no newspaper paragraph 
would have been found to do him honor. There had 
come in his life one of the turns of luck so little sought 
for or deserved that one wonders sometimes at the divine 
law of compensation. 
Five and a half years before he had gone as far as his 
ticket and his money would carry him. Then he had 
fallen in. with a party much in his plight, and they had 
tramped, begged, worked when they could not help it, 
drank when they could get it, wandered from place to 
place, modern Ishmaels with their hands against the re- 
straints of society. Tom had never added positive crime 
such as robbery or murder to his career, he was hardly the 
stuff out of which desperadoes were made. 
In a certain way he enjoyed the adventurous life. It 
was not so bad to go hungry or in rags when beyond the 
ken of watchful civilization, and even drunkenness held a 
certain status of its own. Over in the mining regions 
there were no women to have heartaches at the degrada- 
tion of the men who had once been heroes to them. Tom 
had now and then a streak of luck as a camp follower, or 
he came in deserted places after the fashion of roughing 
it, and for a few weeks lived in clover on what others had 
left behind. 
In this way he and a comrade had chanced upon what 
had once been a place of high hopes, but was now a col- 
lection of ruined shanties and a mine that after being 
worked awhile had come to an abrupt termination. Now 
and then some enterprising miner would turn up a prom- 
ising bit of ore, but the place had been honey-combed and 
left in disgust by the larger fish. Long Forks, as it was 
called from the peculiar conformation of two little streams, 
had become, in vulgar parlance, played out. 
Here and now Tom Marshall's life of dissipation and ex- 
posure began to tell upon him. The splendid physique that 
should have taken him past the four score and ten years 
had endured to its uttermost and collapsed. There was a 
long illness when the rough fellows in their moments of 
partial sobriety nursed him with a good deal of tenderness. 
Occasionally the doctor from some thirty miles above rode 
down and left a little medicine or a little nourishment 
that he must otherwise have gone without. 
What did he think of in those long days and wearisome 
nights? Not much, except the present discomforts, the 
wish for a cooling drink or fresh clothing, the latter a 
luxury not attainable. No poignant remorse haunted 
him, luck had been against him, that was all. He had no 
special desire to live, and in his sodden brain there was 
no particular fear of death. As for the old ties, — well, 
here he was, and there they were, — doing well enough, 
no doubt, Eleanor, possibly married again by this time. 
After awhile he began to mend, so that he could crawl 
out into the sunshine. Lying around, listening to the mar- 
vellous " finds" and " leads" that were told over, he began 
to take a curious interest as one of the men, Sandy Jim, 
who still had faith in Long Forks, dug and hunted and 
grubbed about. He did not even have the enthusiasm of 
belief, and yet one day he stumbled over something queer, 
to say the least. For days he toiled until he found he 
could not make the desired headway alone, when he 
called Sandy Jim to his assistance. 
How many things have evaded honest, persistent labor, 
to drop into the hands of some one who has neither sowed 
nor reaped ! It seems a travesty on the old curse, when 
the sweat of the brow often brings forth only thorns and 
thistles. A week later Sandy Jim and Tom Marshall had 
struck "luck," and bought out the share of their com- 
panions. Three months afterward they in turn retired, if 
not fabulously wealthy, with a reasonably large fortune, 
and Long Forks was again the scene of mad, eager activity. 
Thomas Marshall went to a noted physician in San 
Francisco and paid for the truth. 
" You have used yourself pretty hard, my friend," said 
the keen-eyed, gray-bearded man. "You have had a 
magnificent constitution, and you have sapped it by vil- 
lainous liquors. Strange that a man will ruin soul, body, 
intellect, all that he has, for the mad passion of intemper- 
ance. If you care to go on, six months of it will finish 
you. Any friends or family?" 
Thomas Marshall nodded affirmatively. 
"Eastward?" laconically. 
Another nod as brief as the word. 
" I should advise you to return to them. With a little 
care and the comforts of a home there may be some years 
before you. I know how this generally ends, I've seen it 
times enough. You look above the level of rough crowds. 
What is there in them that can hold a man of even aver- 
age refinement ? There are the two courses open before 
you." 
Tom Marshall paid his fee, went off with a half laugh, 
and for a week never drew a sober breath, for many 
weeks never left his bed. All this time the doctor was 
rigorous. He came back to a gleam of common sense, 
and, when he was able to travel, settled his affairs and 
turned his steps eastward. 
 
According to most theories of reformation he should 
have been filled with remorse at the thought of his long- 
suffering wife, bat he had held a dull, grudging hate at 
the worst of times, and it seemed to grow keener as his 
brain cleared. She had left him and gone her way to 
make money. If she had prospered — why, then she did 
not need him. If she were poor and suffering — and 
there was his boy! A dim sense of fatherhood stirred 
within him. 
If he had found her hard worked and friendless, he 
would have liked nothing better than being a princely 
hero. He had a vague kind of fear down deep in his 
heart that there were wrongs money could not heal, and 
that he could not fail to read them in her clear eyes, even 
if they never passed her lips. He hated the sense of 
abasement when the world in general was ready to do 
him honor. 
He reached Westwater quite undecided. After a din- 
ner at one of the chief hotels, where he had taken a room, 
he sallied out. It was evening now, and the streets were 
lighted, many of the store windows were a flash of bril- 
liance. There was a general thriving air in the business 
streets, and people were hurrying to and fro. No one 
looked at him, or if they did they would not have recog- 
nized in this thin, pale man with beard and hair well 
whitened, the gay, jaunty, jolly Thomas Marshall of other 
prosperous days. Down Main Street he walked. Old 
stores had been made over with iron fronts and plate glass, 
new ones had been erected, but here was the old place 
with its unpretentious sign — "Mrs. E. Marshall.'' She 
was not married then ! He had been turned out of this 
place — how the remembrance rankled ! but he would not 
remember that he was in no state to meet any delicate 
woman, with breath reeking with vile whiskey. The men- 
tal poise of Thomas Marshall's character had an obliquity 
toward self-love and self-pity. The few pangs others had 
made him suffer quite extinguished any trifle of anguish 
he had caused another. He walked slowly past — there 
was a girl behind the counter, was it one of her daugh- 
ters? — he did not say his daughters. Certainly it was a 
bright, showy store, with evident marks of prosperity. 
Just then a dark-eyed, rosy-cheeked lad ran in eagerly, — 
ah, that must have been Bertie ! Something stirred his 
heart then. 
He walked down quite a distance and then sauntered 
slowly back again. Two persons were standing in the 
door now, quite an elegant young man of three or four- 
and-twenty, and a tall, stylish girl with a society air and 
a certain aplomb, as if, somehow, meekness might not be 
her chief virtue. Brilliant, too, with fair hair and eyes 
that were deep, clear, and strong — they gave him a 
curious shock, as if of half fear. The young man opened 
the door. 
"Good-night, mamma; good-night, Bertie," said the 
fresh, well-cadenced voice, as she finished buttoning her 
glove and stepped into the street, taking the gentleman's 
arm. Graceful as her carriage undeniably was, it had a 
certain resolution. 
Which one of the girls could it be? Celia, of course. 
Little Daisy — well, Daisy could never have quite that air 
and manner, as if she could ride down all in her way with 
no compunction. Neither could that be Daisy in the store. 
Celia, he remembered — and he shrugged his shoulders 
with a sense of uneasiness. Celia and her mother were 
always cosseting together. 
Still he did not go in. There was his mother, too. 
She had been tender and sympathizing with him. Sup- 
pose he went to her first ; there would be nothing to rasp 
a fellow in her gentle demeanor. Ah, that was a bright 
thought. That she might not be among the living never 
once occurred to him. 
So he rang the bell at Westminster Place, and was 
 
ushered into the drawing-room. " An old friend," he sent 
up word to Mrs. Marshall. Some moments elapsed before 
she came down ; she had been guessing, after the manner 
of women, to whom the description could apply. When 
she did enter she glanced uncertainly, and a puzzled look 
came into the placid face, fair still, but perhaps a trifle 
more wrinkled. 
" Mrs. Marshall, you said," and she paused, perplexed. 
It came to him with a shock that she really did not 
know him. 
" Mother ! " he exclaimed ; " Mother ! " 
" Oh," with a cry, " surely it is not Thomas ! " Then 
she stretched out her hands blindly, and would have 
fallen if he had not caught her. 
"Thomas," she said tremulously, "dear, dear Tom." 
She might not have enjoyed taking care of him in ill- 
ness and poverty, but he felt sure that, as matters stood 
at present, she would never upbraid him. But would 
Eleanor? Ah, it is so much harder to forgive the people 
we have sinned against. 
Mrs. Vanduyne was quickly summoned. There had 
been a great change in Tom. He wore the livery of a 
gentleman, and she noticed that his clothing was of an 
expensive kind ; that a small but elegant diamond gleamed 
in his shirt front, and a magnificent seal ring upon one 
finger, — just the jewelry he wore in old times. There 
was no sign of absolute intemperance. In fact he was 
quite a creditable prodigal, and one might receive him, if 
one did not go so far as to order the fatted calf. 
They went upstairs presently to Mrs. Marshall's room, 
it was so much more cosy. Tom soon told them about 
the Alvaredes mine, and with no great ostentation, but 
some natural pride, informed them that he had not come 
back to be a burden on anyone. That thawed the last 
vestige of Mrs. Vanduyne's little frost. She was pleased, 
too, that he should come to them at first. 
When he finally rose to go, she insisted upon his 
remaining all night. There was plenty of room, and he 
looked so delicate someone ought to begin to care for 
him. Would he have anything? 
It was so homelike and comfortable in this warm room, 
and then he did enjoy being made a hero of once more, 
being adored in his mother's pretty, lavish manner. He 
remained all night; he was really quite charming over 
the breakfast table ; his world had widened a good deal 
in these years, and he indulged in something more refined 
than the vernacular of saloons. 
By daylight they saw that he was greatly broken. He 
looked quite old, and fine wrinkles were beginning to 
thread his face. Indeed, now he resembled his mother 
much more than anyone would ever have imagined, and 
he had come to have a kind of toned-down air that added 
to his gentlemanly aspect. He coughed a good deal, 
which distressed his mother greatly, and she evinced much 
tender solicitude. 
Some time after breakfast he spoke of his family. "I 
was not sure but I should play the old romance over 
again, so I thought it best to be a little wary. Divorces 
are such an ordinary way of settling family difficulties." 
"I have never inquired particularly into Mrs. Marshall's 
business or family affairs," replied Katharine loftily. "I 
never wholly approved of her course in either respect, 
for it seems a woman's duty to uphold her home, not to 
destroy it. I do not think you were right, Tom, but she 
might have been more patient and kindly. A woman's 
virtues are pre-eminently those of the fire-side ; the influ- 
ence of a good home is incalculable, the happiness and 
well-being of not only one individual but of the whole 
world depends upon it. I never did approve of women 
who are so desirous of contesting the part of money-mak- 
ing wiii men, or who are anxious to achieve a success out- 
side the line of pure womanliness." 
 
Mrs. Vanduyne delivered this in a kind of lecturing 
fashion, but it had a fine and noble sound to Tom. 
"She has been — lucky, I suppose?" 
" She has managed to get some of the best trade in the 
city, but her own folks do not countenance her at all. 
Oh, of course she dresses like a lady, and holds up her 
head with a grand air ; you know Eleanor always had a 
magnificent bearing, as if she were posing for tableaux. 
She has educated the elder girl for an artist, and I believe 
she has been taken up by some swell people in New York, 
who make a great pretence to art and all that ; " and Mrs. 
Vanduyne gave a bitter-flavored laugh. 
"But, Tom ought to let by-gones — " interposed mild, 
weak Mrs. Marshall, when her son interrupted her with, — 
"I'm not going to hold any special grudge against 
Eleanor, though I can't say I was treated altogether 
rightly. I was in a bad way, but there had been such a 
deuced run of luck that I became completely discouraged. 
Still, you see, I wasn't so bad but what I could reform, 
and I had sense enough to make money again when I had 
a fair chance, and now I do not mean to fool it away. I 
shall have enough to last my time out, and a good bit to 
leave to whomever I choose." 
Tom Marshall uttered this with a kind of magnanimous 
pride, as if, having done so much for himself without any 
aid, he might grandly forgive minor sins against him in 
the days of his misfortune. As for the major sins, he 
would take his time about them. 
"And I am not going to prejudice you in any way 
about your wife, Tom. I hope I am not so small to my 
own sex as that. You must forgive her or not, entirely 
upon your own responsibility. I think she did treat 
mother shamefully when she went to offer a home for 
you and the family." 
" Offer a home ? " cried Tom in surprise. " This is the 
first I have heard of it." 
" Oh," answered Katharine, with a touch of fine indif- 
ference, "it was a cottage I had, but you would all have 
been welcome to it." 
"You were very good, I am sure." Tom could afford 
to be grateful now. He could afford to have a good 
many virtues, since he was a rich man. 
"lam sure if Eleanor had come to me in any trouble I 
would have befriended her always. Mother was very 
sympathetic, too. But she chose her own way, and even 
the Wilders could not turn her from it. It was a fine 
mortification for them ; and Celia has managed somehow 
to be hand in glove with several of their stylish friends. 
Do you remember the Van Cleves and the Chantreys? 
