" Shewed himself! Do you mean, in a vision ? " 
"0 no, papa!" said Esther smiling. "I have 
not seen his face, not literally. But he has some 
how shewed me how good he is, and how glorious; 
and has made me understand how he loves me, and 
how he is with me; so that I do not feel alone any 
more. I don't think I ever shall feel alone again." 
Was this extravagance ? The colonel pondered. 
It seemed to him a thing to be rebuked or repressed; he knew nothing of this kind in his own 
religious experience; he feared it was visionary and 
fanciful. But when he looked at Esther's face the 
words died on his tongue which he would have 
spoken. Those happy eyes were so strong in their 
wistfulness, so grave in their happiness, that they 
forbade the charge of folly or fancifulness; nay, 
they were looking at something which the colonel 
wished he could himself see, if the sight brought 
such contentment. They stopped his mouth. He 
could not say what he thought to say, and his own 
eyes oddly fell before them. 

" What does William Dallas know about all 
this V " he asked. 

" Nothing, papa. I don't think he knows it at all." 
" Why did you write about it to him, then . " 
" I  was sure lie would be glad for me, papa. 
Once, a good while ago, I asked Pitt what could 



 

be the meaning of a verse in the Bible; that beautiful verse in Numbers; and he could not tell me, 
though what he said gave me a great help. So I 
knew he would remember, and he would be glad. 
And I want him to know Jesus too." 

The colonel felt a little twinge of jealousy here; 
but Esther did not know, he reflected, that her own 
father was in equal destitution of that knowledge. 
Or was it all visionary that she had been saying, 
and his view of religion the right one after all ? 
It must be the right one. Yet his religion had 
.never given his face the expression that shone in 
Esther's now. It almost hurt him. 

" And now you have comfort V " he said after a 
moment's pause. 

" Yes, papa. More than comfort." 

" Because you think that God looks upon you 
with favour." 

" Because I love him, papa. I know him and I 
love him. And I know he loves me, and will do 
everything for me." 

" How do you know it ? " asked the colonel almost harshly. "That sounds to me rather presuming. You may hope it; but how can you know 
it?" 

" He has made me know it, papa. And he has 
said it in the Bible. I just believe what he says." 

Col. Gainsborough gave up the argument. Be 
fore Esther's face of quiet confidence he felt him 
self baffled. If she were wrong, he could not prove 
her wrong. Uneasy and worsted, he gave up the 





discussion; but thought he would not have any 
more letters go to William Dallas. 

And as the days went on, he watched furtively 
his daughter. He had not been mistaken in his 
observations that evening. A steadfastness of sweet 
happiness was about her, beautifying and elevat 
ing all she did and all she was. Fair quiet on 
the brow, loving gladness on the lips, and hands 
of ready ministry. She had always been a dutiful 
child, faithful in her ministering; but now the service was not of duty but of love, and gracious 
accordingly, as the service of duty can never be. 
The colonel watched, and saw something of the 
difference, without being able however to come 
at a satisfactory understanding of it. He saw 
how under this influence of love and gladness 
his child was becoming the rarest of servants 
to him; and more still, how under it she was 
developing into a most exquisite personal beauty. 
He watched her, as if by watching he might catch 
something, of the secret mental charm by virtue of 
which these changes were wrought. But "the se 
cret of the Lord is with them that fear him " ; and 
it cannot be communicated from one to another. 

As has been mentioned, Pitt's letters after he got 
to work at Oxford became much fewer and scantier. 
!t was only at very rare intervals that one came to 
Col. Gainsborough; and Esther made no proposition 
of writing to England again. On that subject the 
colonel ceased to take any thought. It was other 
wise with Pitt's family. 



 

Mrs. Dallas sat one evening pondering over the 
last letter received from her son. It was early autumn; a little fire burning in the chimney, towards 
which the master of the house stretched out his 
legs, lying very much at his ease in an old-fashioned 
chaise lounge and turning over an English news 
paper. His attitude bespoke the comfortable ease 
and carelessness of his mind, on which certainly 
nothing lay heavy. His wife was in all things a 
contrast. Her handsome, stately figure was yield 
ing at the moment to no blandishments of comfort 
or luxury; she sat upright, with Pitt's letter in her 
hand, and on her brow there was an expression of 
troubled consideration. 

" Husband," she said at length, "do you notice 
how Pitt speaks of the colonel and his daughter . " 

"No " came slowly and indifferently from the 
lips of Mr. Dallas, as he turned the pages of his 
newspaper. 

" Don't you notice how he asks after them in 
every letter, and wants me to go and see them?" 

" Natural enough. Pitt is thinking of home, and 
he thinks of them; part of the picture." 

"That boy don't forget !" 

"Give him time" suggested Mr. Dallas, with a 
careless yawn. 

" He has had some time a year and a half, and 
in Europe; and distractions enough. But don't 
you know Pitt ? He sticks to a thing even closer 
than you do." 

" If he cares enough about it." 





" That's what troubles me, Hildebrand. I am 
afraid he does care. If he comes home next summer and finds that girl Do you know how she 
is growing up? " 

" That is the worst of children," said Mr. Dallas 
in the same lazy way; " they will grow up." 

" By next summer she will be well, I don't know 
how old, but quite old enough to take the fancy 
of a boy like Pitt." 

" I know Pitt's age. He will be twenty-two. 
Old enough to know better. He isn't such a fool." 

"Such a fool as what?" asked Mrs. Dallas sharply. 
" That girl is going to be handsome enough to take 
any man's fancy, and hold it too. She is uncommonly striking. Don't you see it ? " 

" Humph! yes, I  see it." 

" Hildebrand, I do not want him to marry the 
daughter of a dissenting colonel, with not money 
enough to dress her." 

" I do not mean he shall." 

" Then think how you are going to prevent it. 
Next summer, I warn you, it may be too late." 

In consequence perhaps of this conversation, 
though it is by no means certain that Mr. Dallas 
needed its suggestions, he strolled over after tea 
to Col. Gainsborough's. The colonel was in his 
usual place and position; Esther sitting at the 
table with her books. Mr. Dallas eyed her as she 
rose to receive him, noticed the gracious, quiet 
manner, the fair and noble face, the easy movement and fine bearing; and turned to her father 



 

with a strengthened purpose to do what he had 
come to do. He had to wait awhile. He told the 
news of Pitt's last letter ; intimated that he meant 
to keep him in England till his studies were all 
ended; and then went into a discussion of politics, 
deep and dry. When Esther at last left the room, 
he made a sudden break in the discussion. 

"Colonel, what are you going to do with that 
girl of yours ? " 

" What am I going to do with her ? " repeated 
the colonel a little drily. 

" Yes. Forgive me ; I have known her all her life, 
you know, nearly. I am concerned about Esther." 

" In what way ? 

" Well, don't take it ill of me; but I do not like 
to see her growing up so without any advantages. 
She is such a beautiful creature." 

Col. Gainsborough was silent. 

" I take the interest of a friend," Mr. Dallas went 
on. " I have a right to so much. I have watched 
her growing up. She will be something uncommon, 
you know. She ought really to have everything 
that can help to make humanity perfect." 

" What would you have me do ? " the colonel 
asked, half conscious and half impatient. 

" I would give her all the advantages that a girl 
of her birth and breeding would have in the old 
country." 

" How is that possible, at Seaforth ? " 

" It is not possible at Seaforth. There is nothing 
here. But elsewhere it is possible." 





" I shall never leave Seaforth," said the colonel 
doggedly. 

" But for Esther's sake ? Why she ought to be 
at school now, colonel." 

" I shall never quit Seaforth," the other repeated. 
* I do not expect to live Jong anywhere; when I 
die, I will lie by my wife's side, here." 

"You are not failing in health, Mr. Dallas persisted. " You are improving, colonel ; every time 
I. corne to see you I am convinced of it. We shall 
have you a long while among us yet; you may 
depend on it." 

" I  have no particular reason to wish you may 
be right. And I see myself no signs that you are." 

" You have your daughter to live for." 

" She will be taken care of. I have little fear." 

There was a somewhat grim set of Mr. Dallas's 
mouth in answer to this speech ; his words however 
were "smoother than butter." 

" You need have no fear," he said. " Miss Gains 
borough, with her birth and beauty and breeding, 
will do what you must wish her to do, marry 
some one well able to take care of her; but, you 
are not doing her justice, colonel, in not giving her 
the education that should go with her birth and 
oreedin. I  speak as a friend; I trust you will not 
take it ill of me." 

" I cannot send her to England." 

" You do not need. There are excellent institu 
tions of learning in this country now." 

" I do not know where." 



 

" My wife can tell you. She has some knowledge 
of such things, through friends who have daughters 
at school. She could tell you of several good schools 
for girls." 

" Where are they ? 

" I believe, in or near New York." 

" I do not wish to leave Seaforth," said the colonel 
gloomily. 

"And I am sure we do not wish to have you 
leave it," said the other rising. "It would be a 
terrible loss to us. Perhaps, after all, I have been 
officious; and you are giving Esther an education 
more than equal to what she could get at school." 

" I cannot quit Seaforth," the colonel repeated. 
"All that I care for in the world lies here. When 
I have done with the world, I wish to lie here too ; 
and till then I will wait." 

Mr. Dallas took his leave; and the set of his 
mouth was grim again as he walked home. 



CHAPTER XVII. 
MOVING. 

TVTR. DALLAS'S visits became frequent. He talked 
 of a great variety of things, but never failed 
to bring the colonel's mind to the subject of Esther's 
want of education. Indirectly or directly, some 
how, he presented to the colonel's mind that one 
idea; that his daughter was going without the advantages she needed and ought to have. It was 
true, and the colonel could not easily dispose of the 
thought which his friend so persistently held up 
before him. Waters wear away stones, as we know 
to a proverb; and so it befel in this case, and Mr. 
Dallas knew it must. The colonel began to grow 
uneasy. He often reasserted that he would never 
leave Seaforth ; he began to think about it never 
theless. 

" What should I do with this place ? " he asked 
one evening when the subject was up. 
" What do you wish to do with it? " 
" I wish to live in it as long as I live anywhere," 
said the colonel sighing; "but you say and perhaps you are right, that I ought to be somewhere 


 

else for my child's sake. In that case, what could 
I do with my place here ? " 

" I ask again, what do you wish to do with it ? 
Would you let it ? " 

"No," said the colonel sighing again; "if I go 
I must sell. My means will not allow me to do 
otherwise." 

" I will buy it of you, if you wish to sell." 

"You! What would you do with the property?" 

"Keep it for you, against a time when you may 
wish to buy it back. But indeed it would come 
very conveniently for me. I should like to have it, 
for my own purposes. I will give you its utmost 
value." 

The colonel pondered, not glad perhaps to have 
difficulties cleared out of his way. Mr. Dallas 
waited, too keen to press his point unduly. 

" I should have to go and reconnoitre," the for 
mer said presently. " I must not give up one home 
till I have another ready. I never thought to leave 
Seaforth ! Where do you say this place is that Mrs. 
Dallas recommends? " 

" In New York. The school is said to be particularly good and thorough, and conducted by an English lady; which would be a recommendation to 
me, as I suppose it is to you." 

" I should have to find a house in the neighbour 
hood," said the colonel musing. 

Mr. Dallas said no more, and waited. 

" I must go and see what I can find," the colonel 





repeated. " Perhaps Mrs. Dallas will be so good 
as to give me the address of the school in question." 

Mrs. Dallas did more than that. She gave letters 
to friends and addresses of more than one school 
teacher: and the end was, Col. Gainsborough set 
off on a search. The search was successful. He 
was satisfied with the testimonials he received respecting one of the institutions and respecting its 
head; he was directed by some of Mr. Dallas's business friends to various houses that might suit him for 
a residence; and among them made his choice, and 
even made his bargain, and came home with the 
business settled. 

Esther had spent the days of his absence in a 
a very doubtful mood, not knowing whether to be 
glad or sorry, to hope or to fear. Seaforth was the 
only home she had ever known; she did not like 
the thought of leaving it; but, she knew by this 
time as well as Mr. Dallas knew that she needed 
more advantages of education than Seaforth could 
give her. On the whole she hoped. 

The colonel was absent several days. There was 
no telegraphing in those times, and so the day of 
his return could not be notified ; but when a week 
had passed, Esther began to look for him. It was the 
first time he had ever been away from her, and so 
of course it was the first coming home. Esther 
felt it deserved some sort of celebration. The stage 
arrived towards evening, she knew. 

" I think maybe he will be here to-night, Barker," 



 

she said. " What is there we could have for supper, that papa likes particularly ? " 

" Indeed, Miss Esther, the colonel favours nothing 
more than another as I know. His toast and tea, 
that is all he cares for nights, mostly." 

"Toast and tea! " said Esther disparagingly. 

" It's the most he cares for, as I know," the house 
keeper repeated. " There's them quails Mr. Dallas 
sent over; they's nice and fat, and to be sure quails 
had ought to be eaten immediate; I can roast two 
or three of em, if you're pleased to order it; but the 
colonel, it's my opinion he won't care what you have. 
The gentlemen learns it so in the army, I'm thinkin . 
The colonel never did give himself no care about 
what he had for dinner, nor for no other time." 

Esther knew that; however,sheorderedthe quails; 
and watched eagerly for her father. He came too, 
that same evening. But the quail hardly got their 
deserts, nor Esther neither, for that matter. The 
colonel seemed to be uriregardful of the one as 
much as of the other. He gave his child a sufficiently 
kind greeting indeed, when he first came in; but 
then he took his usual seat on the sofa, without his 
usual book, and sat as if lost in thought. Tea was 
served immediately, and I suppose the colonel had 
had a thin dinner, for he consumed a quail and a 
half; yet satisfactory as this was in itself, Esther 
could not see that her father knew what he was 
eating. And after tea he still neglected his book, 
and sat brooding, with his head leaning on his hand. 
He had not said one word to his daughter concerning the success or non-success of his mission ; and 
eager as she was, it was not in accordance with the 
way she had been brought up that she should question him. She asked him nothing, further than 
about his own health and condition, and the length 
and character of his journey ; which questions were 
shortly disposed of; and then the colonel sat there 
with his head in his hand, doing nothing that he 
was wont to do. Esther feared something was 
troubling him, and could not bear to leave him to 
himself. She came near softly, and very softly let 
her finger tips touch her father's brow and temples 
and stroke back the hair from them. She ventured 
no more. 

Perhaps Col. Gainsborough could not bear so 
much. Perhaps he was reminded of the only other 
fingers which had had a right since his boyhood 
to touch him so. Yet he would not repel the gentle hand, and to avoid doing that he did another 
very uncommon thing; he drew Esther down into 
his arms and put her on his knee, leaning his head 
against her shoulder. It was exceeding pleasant 
to the girl, as a touch of sympathy and confidence; 
however, for that night the confidence went no 
farther; the colonel said nothing at all. He was 
in truth overcome with the sadness of leaving his 
home and his habits and the place of his wife's 
grave. As he reentered Seaforth and entered his 
house, this sadness had come over him; he could 
not shake it off; indeed he did not try ; he gave him 
self up to it, and forgot Esther, or rather forgot 



 

what he owed her. And Esther, who had done 
what she could, sat still on her father's knee, till 
she was weary and wished he would release her. 
Yet perhaps, she thought, it was a pleasure to him 
to have her there, and she would not move or speak. 
So they remained until it was past Esthers bed 
time. 

" I think I will go now, papa," she said. " It is 
getting late." 

lie kissed her and let her go. 

But next morning the colonel was himself again; 
himself as if he had never been away, only he had 
his news to tell; and he told it in orderly business 
fashion. 

"I have taken a house, Esther," he said; "and 
now I wish to get moved as soon as possible. You 
must tell Barker, and help her." 

" Certainly, papa. Whereabouts is the house 
you have taken ? " 

" On York Island. It is about a mile out of 
the city on the bank of the river; a very pretty 
situation." 

" Which river, papa ? " 

"The Hudson." 

" And am I to go to school ? " 

" Of course. That is the purpose of the move 
ment. You are to enter Miss Fairbairn's school, 
in New York. It is the best there, by all I can 
gather." 

"Thank you, papa. Then it is not near our 
new house ? " 





" No. You will have to drive there and back. 
I have made arrangements for that." 

" Won't that cost a good deal, papa ? " 

" Not so much as to live in the city would cost. 
And we are accustomed to the country ; it will be 
pleasanter." 

" much pleasanter ! What will be done with 
this house, papa ? " 

" Mr. Dallas takes it, and the place, off my 
hands." 

Esther did not like that ; why, she could not possibly have told. For to be sure, what could be 
better ? 

"Will he buy it?" 

"Yes, he buys it." 

Again a little pause. Then " What will become 
of the furniture and everything, papa?" 

"That must be packed to go. The house I 
have taken is empty. We shall want all we have 
got." 

Esther's eye went round the room. Everything 
to be packed ! She stood like a young general, 
surveying her battlefield. 

"Then, papa, you never mean to come back to 
Seaforth again ? " 

The colonel sighed. "Yes, when I die, Esther. 
I wish my bones to be laid here." 

He said no more. Having made his communications, he took up his book ; his manner evidently 
saying to Esther that in what came next he had 
no particular share. But could it be that he 



 

was leaving it all to her inexperience ? Was it to 
be her work, and depend on her wisdom ? 

" Papa, you said we were to move soon; do you 
wish me to arrange with Barker about it ? " 

"Yes, my dear, yes; tell her, and arrange with 
her. I wish to make the change as early as possible, before the weather becomes unfavourable; 
arid I wish you to get to school immediately. It 
cannot be too soon, tell Barker." 

So he was going to leave it all to her! On 
ordinary occasions he was wont to consider Esther 
a child still ; now it was convenient to suppose her 
a woman. He did not put it so to himself; it is 
some men's way. Esther went slowly to the kitchen, 
and informed Barker of what was before her. 

"An it's mor'n the middle of October" was the 
housekeeper's comment. 

"That's very good time," said Esther. 
"You're right, Miss Esther, and so it is, if we 
was all ready this minute. All aint done when 
you are moved, Miss Esther; there's the other house 
to settle; and it'll take a good bit o work before 
we get so far as to that." 

" Papa wants us to be as quick as we can." 
" We'll be as quick as two pair o hands is able 
for, I'll warrant; but that aint as if we was a dozen. 
There's every iridivviddle thing to put up, Miss Esther, from our chairs to our beds; and books, and 
china, and all. I'll go at the china fust of all, and 
to-day." 

" And what can I do, Barker ? " 





" I don know, Miss Esther. You haint no experience; and experience is somethin you can't buy 
in the shops even if there was any shops here to 
speak of. But Christopher and me, we'll manage 
it, I'll warrant. The colonel's quite right. This 
aint no place for you no longer. We'll see and 
get moved as quick as we can, Miss Esther." 

Without experience, however, it was found that 
Esther's share of the next weeks of work was a 
very important one. She packed up the clothes, 
and the books; and she did it "real uncommon," 
the housekeeper said ; but that was the least part. 
She kept her father comfortable, letting none of 
the confusion and as little as possible of the dust 
come into the room where he was. She stood in 
the gap when Barker was in the thick of some job, 
and herself prepared her father's soup or got his 
tea. Thoughtful, quiet, diligent, her head, young 
as it was, proved often a very useful help to Bar 
ker's experience; and something about her smooth 
composure was a stay to the tired nerves of her 
subordinates. Though Christopher Bounder really 
had no nerves; yet he felt the influence I speak of. 

"Aint our Miss Esther growed to be a stunner, 
though ! " he remarked more than once. 

" I'm sure I don't rightly know what you mean, 
Christopher," his sister answered! 

" Well, I tell you she's an uncommon handsome 
young lady, Sarah. An she has the real way with 
her; the real thing, she has." 

" What do you mean by that ? " 



 

" I'll wager a cucumber you can tell," said Chris 
topher, shutting up his eyes slyly. " There aint no 
flesh and blood round in these parts like that; no 
more ii a cabbage aint like a camellia. An that 
don't tell it.- She's that dainty and sweet as a 
camellia never was not as ever I see; and she 
has that fine, soft way with her, that is like the 
touch of a feather, and yet aint soft neither if you 
come to go agin it. I tell you what, Sarah, that 
shews blood, that does," concluded Christopher 
with a competent air. " Our young lady, she's the 
real thing. You and me, now, we couldn't be like 
that if we was to die for it. That's blood, that is." 

" I don't know," said the housekeeper. " She is 
sweet, uncommon ; and she is gentle enough, and 
she has a will of her own, too ; but I don't know 
she didn't use for to be just so." 

" Cause she's growiri up to years," said the gardener. " La, Sally, folks is like vegetables, uncommon; you must let em drop their rough leaves, 
before you can see what they're goin to be." 

" There warn't never no rough leaves nor rough 
anything, about Miss Esther. I can't say as I 
knows what you mean, Christopher." 

" A woman needn't to know everything," responded her brother with superiority; "and the 
natural world to be sure aint your department, 
Sarah. You're good for a great deal where you be." 



