


glass of milk? Elizabeth, get it for him." 

" Thank you," said Oswald, looking up with a glance 
which might have been translated, " Won't you forgive 
me ? And after all what did I say ? Did not your 
rebellious consciousness supply what made you blush ? " 
But Elizabeth did not meet his eyes. 

' Please go on, Mr. Oswald, about Jim, you know," 
said Philip, who never had enough of the young man's 
gay descriptions. 

' Well, I didn't confide in him because there was 
nothing to say. It would take a tale of horror to stir 
that gently phlegmatic nature. So I led him on, by a 
judicious question now and then, to talk of himself. 
It seems he has religious doubts. Has every body 
religious doubts, I wonder ? ' 

:< Oh, Jim is a sad case," said Mrs. Nye, shaking her 
head. ' He gets converted every time there is a 
revival, and then in three weeks he backslides again. 
We all know what Jim is." 

' Well, he didn't refer to his own shortcomings, of 
course. I notice that only a few ill-advised people do- 
But he considered the hackneyed questions of Jonah 
and the whale, the miracles and a few kindred sub- 
jects." 

" Don't you believe in them, Mr. Craig ? " asked 
Philip, boldly. 

" Oh, never mind what I believe," said Oswald, in- 
stantly interpreting the quick flush on Mrs. Nye's face. 
He knew the timid woman would suffer conscientious 
agonies at hearing him decry Scriptural lore, without 
having the courage to reprove him. ' Let's talk about 



 

Jim, first. What amused me most was his good- 
natured manner of weighing all subjects, spiritual and 
temporal. It was as if he tossed them up, caught, 
estimated, and laid them in a pile, not disposed of 
finally, but left until another passer should stop to talk 
them over. He described, with a very keen relish, some 
young fellow who, I should say, tried to suppress the 
revival." 

'Mr. Kewe," said Philip, his face aglow at once. 
' But he only tried to do more good than the revival. 
^ Every body was solemn. The boys at school were 
afraid they should die before they had time to be con- 
verted, and he told us there wasn't any use in such a 
fuss. But the school-committee were old fools yes, 
they were, mother, and I know you think so, too." ' 

' And what did Miss Elizabeth think ? " said Oswald, 
turning to her with his brightest smile. " Were you 
one of the disciples of the new leader ? " 

' I was away all the time," she said, quietly. " At 
Stowe. My aunt was ill." 

' Philip, I don't think it's quite right for you to say- 
so much," said his mother, as they rose from the table. 
' Mr. Kewe meant well, I'm sure, and he was a real 
nice young man, but the Evangelists expected to do 
good, too." 

'Yes, mother, but" Leaving the discussion, 
which was chiefly on Philip's side, with an occasional 
denial or assent from his mother, Oswald went out to 
look in at the sitting-room window and say to Eliza- 
beth, "The sky is a rose. Won't you come down to 
the sea ? I'm sure the waves are like opals." 

'I think not, to-night," said Elizabeth, trying to 



 

make her voice unconstrained, and succeeding poorly. 
' Philip is going to the store, and I'd better sit with 
mother." 

'Why are you offended ? ' said Oswald, in a softly 
pleading tone which made her heart at once beat fast- 
er. ' Now you are beginning to say you are not, but 
that isn't true. You wouldn't look at me at supper ; 
you were not interested ; you didn't even smile when 
I was trying to be funny. Why was it ? I've made as 
poor jokes when you have laughed and inspired me to 
fresh attempts." 

' I am afraid the way you amused yourself with 
Jim is only a specimen of the way you are studying 
us all. We all amuse you. Perhaps I don't care to 
have you make a study of my character. Besides 
you would waste time. It isn't deep enough." 

' Now you are cruel. Have you any right to hurt 
me ? ' His eyes were very dark and pleading. She 
caught the pained expression of his glance in her one 
look, and was instantly ashamed. 

' I'm sorry yes, it was small of me to say that, be- 
cause it wasn't true." His sunshiny smile broke out 
instantly. 

' But you're not going to get away with an apology. 
You shall do penance. Are you willing to make 
amends for having been unjust to me ? For you 
were, you know. Then give me your hand and ask to 
be forgiven." 

Elizabeth hesitated only a second, and then with 
an instinctive desire of making as light of it all as 
possible, put her hand in his and repeated the for- 
mula. 



 

' Now say no, don't take your hand away for an 
instant. I shall keep it as a hostage say, ' I want to 
punish myself by going to walk with you.' 

Elizabeth laughed, as she drew away her hand. " It 
proves I am very penitent, for I do exactly as you 
say. Will you tell mother, please, while I run up- 
stairs for a shawl ? " 

' The sky is two shades fainter than when I called 
you first," he said, as they took the path to the sea. 
' That is the penalty of delay ; you lose the first flush 
of twilight. Now tell me," turning squarely upon 
her, ' why I shouldn't study your character if I 
choose, without your being angry. You would say, 
would you not, that a woman with a beautiful profile 
was niggard enough, if she grudged a stranger his 
glance of admiration ?" 

' Yes, perhaps so, but the two things are different. 
If I had a beautiful face, you might admire it without 
disturbing me, but to study my character you must 
work your way into my thoughts and feelings. And 
all for your amusement ! It is like I can't say ex- 
actly what I mean like giving a stranger your confi- 
dence." 

'Is that true? Am I to be put with strangers?' 
There was no forced meaning in his tone. For the 
time being, he was as earnest as she. This was the 
one woman in the world who was engaging his 
thoughts. ' Elizabeth, you are even more unjust than 
I accused you of being awhile ago." 

'Then I am sorry again," she cried, in the futile 
perplexity we have all felt in trying to explain some 
slight thing which has magnified itself enormously, 



 

until we are quite sure its proportions are over-drawn, 
but are by no means able to estimate them correctly. 
' And let us not talk about it. I'm sure I had a 
meaning when we began, but I can't find it. I must 
have made a fuss out of very little material." 

' No, I am sure you had a reason for what you said, 
though you are too generous to hurt me again by con- 
fessing it. What you say would be right and just, if 
you did not apply it to me. Do you think I have so 
little fineness as to try to penetrate your reserve, if I 
had no object beyond amusing myself ? Tell me." 

Then why should you no, perhaps you have not ; 
I only spoke hastily when I accused you of it. Mr. 
Craig, let us not talk of it. I am more and more con- 
vinced that there is nothing to say." 

'But I must defend myself," said Oswald, im- 
petuously. The process of breaking down her defense 
of timidity and scruples was delightful. It was a piece 
of fine, artistic work ; he was unwilling to cut it short. 
Let me confess. I have studied you, but it was be- 
cause I cared to do it ; because you are the rarest, 
finest creature I ever found." 

There was a silence of a moment that seemed long- 
er. He had expected her to flush at least, if she 
should give no other sign of confusion, but she was 
quite pale, though there was a troubled look in her 
eyes. 

' I am sorry to hear you say so, because it doesn't 
seem to me you can mean it. Either that, or you are 
greatly deceived in me. I am an ordinary girl. I have 
seen nobody. I am not brilliant. Why do you give 
me credit for so much ? " 



 

" No, I know you do not see, and I am glad I am the 
first man for I know I am to teach you your charm. 
Don't you know that with your slender figure, your 
heavy hair and drooping wrists ' - Elizabeth involun- 
tarily looked down at them " you would always be 
distinguished, in that plain, black dress ! You pin a 
cluster of violets at your throat as nobody else ever 

did." 

" But I never try, I" began Elizabeth, helplessly, 
overwhelmed by his impetuous argument. 

" No, I know you never do, because you haven't re- 
alized your possibilities. But that is only your grace of 
face and figure." 

"Please don't, Mr. Craig," she said, stopping short, 
her hands folded tightly and the shawl wrapped closely 
about her shoulders. " I beg of you not to go on, if 
you think there is any more to say." 

" Ah, but there is, and you must know why I say it 
all. Tell me, are your thoughts any thing but child's 
thoughts ? You have had a bare, uninteresting sort of 
life, but there has been no tragedy in it. Love is a 
name to you. Ambition, jealousy, a dozen other pas- 
sions are abstractions. Am I not right ? " 

He had taken off his hat and passed his fingers 
through his hair. Elizabeth noticed, in the glance she 
seemed forced to keep fixed on him, that his eyes were 
like two stars. It was an instinct of preservation in 
her to keep her lids raised ; if they should once fall she 
might tremble. 

" Have you thought what it would be," he said with 
a quick change of tone to one of such persuasive mean- 
ing that she shrank perceptibly, " for a man who has 



 

seen gay and brilliant and beautiful women, and found 
them made after some half dozen patterns but of one 
monotonous type, to teach you to love ? " 

: You have no right to say such things to me," she 
cried, "I will not listen to them." Her eyes still met 
his bravely. He saw that if she yielded it would be 
after a long resistance. It was best to carry the for- 
tress by storm. 

'I claim the right of the man who loves you." Then 
her eyelids fell, after one wide glance. " Elizabeth, 
you must have seen I love you. Little foolish child, 
you have been drinking in love all this wonderful 
spring, without knowing it. Are you going to let me 
love you ? ' 

' No," came quickly. " I was quiet enough before ; 
not happy but not miserable. Why do you try to 
trouble my life, and fill it with questions and excite- 
ment ? " 

' It was not my fault nor yours ; say the fault of the 
gods for making you woman and me man. Being a 
woman you cannot help being found, nor can I resist 
my need of you. What sweet wind blew me here to 
Stratford but one of fate ? The breath of a divine 
whisper sent me to find you. You cannot resist fate." 

'But I can resist this," lifting her head with a mo- 
mentary pride. " I will resist it all. I only want to 
be left to my old dull life." 

'' Ah, no, I am sure you don't. Will you sit here ? " 
She shook her head and they both remained standing, 
she looking out to sea. " Listen a minute longer. You 
want to run away from me now and never see me 
again. No, you can't deny it. Shall I tell you why ? 



 

Because you love me. No, don't start, though I like 
to see you do it. It gives your head an erectness it 
sometimes lacks. No woman ever loved without with- 
drawing a pace, knowing her lover will pursue as I 
shall, Elizabeth." 

" But you are mistaken. I don't care for you. I have 
never thought of you in that way, in my life." 

" I dare say not. You are shy even with yourself. 
That is a part of your fineness. But stop to think. 
Are you not happy this spring ? Did your blood ever 
flow so quickly, and has not all your delight in life 
been connected with a thought of me ? You can't say 
no ; Elizabeth, give me your hand." She did it quick- 
ly, as if to prove the act an easy one, though the hand 
shook visibly. " See, when I hold it close in mine, 
every drop of blood coursing though my palm so near 
yours is warm with love of you. Is there no answer in 
your own heart ? ' 

u Oh please don't talk so to me ! " she cried passion- 
ately. " I can't bear it ! I " and then, with a sudden 
transition to a child's trembling and beseeching tone, 
" Mr. Craig, do you think it is so ? Do you think I 
love you ? " 

She had thrown herself on his mercy, and another 
man one capable of coarser passions, perhaps, but 
not actuated by an artistic delight in their counter- 
feits might have been too honorable to lead her 
further. 

But Oswald could not separate his appreciation of 
the machinery of the play from his own part as 
actor. For the time being, he loved her. 

" I know you love me. A woman of your truth will 



 

let me say so without false coquetry. I told you be- 
fore it was your fate that you were struggling against. 
Stop beating your wings against destiny, dear wild 
bird. Rest here in my arms." His voice was soft and 
pleading. Every thing called her, but she fought back 
the impulse to yield. 

' You must let me think. You have had time to 
reason it out. It is all new to me. I can't reason. I 
am only bewildered." 

'Yes, love crowds words to my tongue, and he 
makes you silent. Do not demand too much of him, 
Elizabeth ; he makes me eloquent to persuade, and 
chokes the words on your lips, to force your yielding. 
Let me tell you what is in your mind and heart." His 
breath was on her cheek, and his voice a whisper at 
her ear. ' You hear only my voice ; it shuts out 
every thing, even the sea. You know the darkness is 
coming, but it is soft as down and says, ' I shut you in 
a world where there is no one but your lover.' And 
the universe throbs like one great heart. Your own 
heart ah, I know how it beats ! . It sends out wave 
after wave of tumultuous blood in blushes. How I 
wish for the dawn instead of the darkness, that I might 
see them ! Every wave drives you gently toward 
your lover's arms. See, Elizabeth, here he stands ; 
shall he wait ? " 

She could see the outline of the slender, supple fig- 
ure through the darkness. He was right ; he had 
taken possession of her mind and senses, and in her 
world there was nothing but himself. One half un- 
decided step, and she was sobbing in excitement, with 
his lips touching hers. 



CHAPTER XV. 

NOT only has the sea its ebb and flow on every shore, 
but waves lying motionless under a tropic sky may 
rise and dash themselves white on New England rocks. 
And the rocks, no matter how firm they stand from ne- 
cessity of nature, might gladly shrink from the en- 
croaching sea. Elizabeth had the Puritanic spirit, a 
gift of inheritance. That always pointed first to a re- 
pression of natural impulses. Yet in spite of it, she felt 
herself roused, through an instant of emotion, into a 
new .and intense life. They had walked home in 
silence and parted without a word. Oswald was con- 
tent, like one who has followed a melody sung by a 
climbing voice, which stopped on a rapturous note, 
not caring to follow its descent. Elizabeth's thoughts, 
too, lingered with the one moment that had stricken 
them dumb. 

She answered her mother's questions quietly, and 
listened to Philip's story of seeing Mrs. Potter and 
hearing from Felix through her. The new life was so 
strong within her that it could wait. It need not yet 
burst the thinnest veil of habit to show its shining face. 
She went to her room without a light, and knelt by 
the window, not searching the heavens, but closing her 
eyes to breathe in the sweetness of the night. The air 
was prodigal of it, as if there were to be no more Junes 



 

and nature knew it. Does a man or woman feel in the 
distinct lines which can be put into thought, after a 
tidal wave or the blossoming of a flower in the heart ? 
I doubt it. 

This girl was conscious only of a living world ; her 
breath came in sobs and her very face drank in the night 
breezes. The paeans of a soul after such baptism might 
read, " Oh, dead and inert mass of earth, and sea which 
was once a waste of water, you are become full of a 
living mystery ! Earth, I am no longer a woman of 
flesh only ; my soul wakes and lies on the bosom of 
yours as my body treads your solid frame ! Are not 
my love and I immortal ? Then you, who have fed 
and blessed us until we were worthy to be offered the 
divine drink, are divine too." The pure feminine only 
lived in Elizabeth that night, the woman as uncon- 
scious of conventional rules and inherited principles, 
as Eve walked naked in Eden. Hour after hour went 
by as she knelt there, until the dews grew heavy and the 
seabreezes chill ; her pulses took on their wonted 
slowness and she crept to bed, exhausted by her delir- 
ium. A few hours' sleep, and then, waking with the 
ill-defined dread of some gigantic shape which had 
haunted her dream, and which might prove either rosy 
cloud or one dense and black, she blushed to find her- 
self face to face with the recollection of the woman who 
had given a lover her lips and heart. Was it her heart ? 
Was she sure ? There was in her mind no tradition of 
any such rapturous emotion. People married, but she 
had never thought they were carried away by a flood 
to the altar. There ought, said her literal mind, to be 
a certainty of love in marriage, not a delirium of emo- 



 

tion which shuts the ears to reason. Where was rea- 
son last night ? ' His heart spoke and my heart an- 
swered. Was I wrong to yield ? >! So, as the morn- 
ing came, and the objects in the room put on their 
every-day guise, Elizabeth felt an undefined shrink- 
ing toward retreat. She could only translate it into 
the certainty that she had made a mistake. Condi- 
tional love could not be real. 

It seemed that Oswald had risen before her, for it 
was half an hour before he came in from the sea. 

" Breakfast is all ready, Mr. Craig," said Mrs. Nye, 
cheerily, bringing in the coffee-pot. ' You got up 
bright and early this morning." 

'Yes," he said, with a glance for Elizabeth. "Such 
fine weather makes one too happy to sleep." 

' Not healthy people," persisted Mrs. Nye, with a 
smile. ' When I was young it was a great hardship to 
be called before day, and I went to bed at nine, too." 

' Oh, well, in spite of your generation's good habits, 
we have managed to cultivate a troublesome set of 
nerves. Philip, what news ? Your eyes dance like 
will-o'-the-wisps." 

'Everybody's going out fishing but me," said Philip. 
' Si's got a boat load engaged to take over to Scone. 
They start from there. I want to go awfully, but 
mother says I can't. Mr. Craig, go and take me 
with you ! Then you wouldn't mind, would you, 
mother ? " 

'Yes, Philip, I suppose I should. Strange that I 
should be afraid of the sea when we've lived here so 
long, isn't it?" she said, turning to Oswald. "But 
perhaps it's because our men-folks were all farmers. I 



 

don't suppose you're used to it, either. Do you feel 
afraid ? " 

' Never a bit. I should like a home afloat. When 
I'm ready to settle, perhaps I shall live in a yacht. 
Well, my lady," he said softly, as Mrs. Nye went into 
the dairy with her shell for skimming milk, and Philip 
disappeared, hurrying down the road for news of Si's 
movements. ' Haven't you a word for me this morn- 
ing?" 

: Yes, I want to see you," said Elizabeth, hurriedly. 
' I want to tell you I am sure it was all a mistake last 
night, and ask your forgiveness." 

This was a conclusion on which Oswald had not 
counted. 

" A mistake ? Not that you care for me. I know 
you do." 

Elizabeth was too entirely bent on convincing him 
for resentment at his tone of assurance. " You excited 
and frightened me. I wasn't myself. That is not 



caring." 



; What do you expect me to do, then ? ' asked 
Oswald, in his softest voice. ' Give up the memory 
that you believed you did? Give up the hope " 

: Yes, every thing," said Elizabeth, looking up at him 
beseechingly and with pain. " Forget it all. I wish I 
could, but I am sorry oh, how sorry I am ! You 
know I told you I was an ordinary girl. Now you will 
think I am a stupid one, and you will be quite right. I 
suppose there isn't another woman in the world who 
wouldn't have known, but I didn't, till I had time to 
think. Oh, if you must ask me, why didn't you give 
me time ? " 





"Love doesn't need consideration," said Oswald, 
still softly. ' Well, we will not speak of it again." 

' How kind you are to me ! " she said, her eyes filling 
with tears. " And will you try to forget it ? ' 

' Perhaps you will learn some time that it isn't easy 
to forget. No, don't look pained. I will do my best. 
I will go away." 

! Will you ? ' she caught at the suggestion. ' Then 
I am sure I can be comfortable again. If you staid 
you would make me troubled and undecided. I haven't 
been any thing else since you came." 

A flash of triumph came into his eyes. ' Do you 
mean that I have caused strange moods, such as you 
are not used to ? Aren't you your old self when I am 
with you ? " 

' Every thing is changed. It must be because you 
are a stranger and have had such a different life from, 
mine. It is like looking into another world to think 
of yours. It makes me discontented. I didn't know 
I was such a weak girl ! ' 

" Then it shall be good-by. I will join the Scone 
fishermen, and you will be relieved of my presence, in 
a few hours." 

The sadness of his voice reproached her. Besides, 
she had no means of knowing that he had arranged 
with Si to take him to Scone an hour before she saw 
him that morning. 

" Please don't think I am rude or unkind," she said, 

earnestly. " It has been so pleasant to have you here ! 

Mother and Philip will want you to stay, and so should 

I, if seeing you wouldn't remind me to be ashamed." 

Oswald's eyes grew beautifully soft, when there was 



"i S  

a demand on them. That liquid glance might have 
been sorrow or tenderness. " Will you give me your 
hand now, so that we may have our good-by before I 
say it to your mother ? ' It was a friendly and cordial 
grasp. Thank you for happy weeks. Don't regret 
having been kind to me." And he went up to his own 
room. 

Elizabeth longed to call him back, but she checked 
herself with a timely remembrance that impulse might 
only lead her again into repentance. She did not want 
him to stay ; she wished never to see him again, but 
it was a pity that he should be hurt. Kindliness and 
indecision are alone sufficient to make the truest wo- 
man a coquette, for the time being. Impatient at her 
varying impulses, she took her hat and called to her 
mother, " I am going to return Mrs. Crane's soda. If 
I wait a day longer, I shall forget it." 

'All right," came her mother's voice, in hollow res- 
onance from the dairy. That good woman spent the 
next few minutes in reflections as to the general flighti- 
ness of youth, which could alone prompt a girl to leave 
the dishes unwashed and the work " up in arms " for 
the sudden freak of doing an errand. 

... 

A week of brooding clouds and steady, continuous 
rain settled down on Stratford. Every one of the 
Nye household missed Oswald, and two of the family 
at least did not hesitate to say so, Mrs. Nye heartily 
calling on Elizabeth to share her regret, and Philip 
complaining in his most injured manner that if his 
mother had been willing, Oswald would surely have 
taken him. 





'And what did he mean, Betty ? ' asked the boy 
one day, as Elizabeth sat by the window struggling 
with the complications of making over a dress. ' I 
asked him if he supposed I should ever see him again, 
and he said, ' Ask your sister.' Did he tell you some- 
thing about it ? ' 

" No, not a word," said Elizabeth, a little pink flush 
coming into her cheeks, which made her so impatient 
that she held her needle up to the light and tested her 
coolness by threading it with hands that did not trem- 
ble. 

"But it must have been something," he insisted. 
" Elizabeth, you didn't make him promise not to in- 
vite me to Boston, did you ?" 

" No ; but then we seldom talked about you. You 
were almost always with us." 

The weather is to be held responsible for nine catas- 
trophes out of ten. The victorious army fights with 
its back to the sun; a comet strikes terror to the heart 
of the barbarian. Had the sea been blue and the 
earth warm in the steeping sunshine during those first 
days of Oswald's absence, Elizabeth might have ad- 
hered to her resolution of forgetting him. But no one 
had ever created such a disturbance in her life, and 
she was not old enough to wait patiently for the rip- 
ples to subside. As one day followed another, and 
she fell asleep thinking of him and awoke with the 
happy expectancy of a day in his presence, only to be 
followed by a throb of disappointment when the next 
moment told her he had gone, she began to wonder 
if he had not been right in declaring she must love 
him. This was more than friendship. Friends could 



 

clasp hands and part, with regret, but without this pas- 
sion of loss. And deep down in her heart was a germ 
of pity, which spread its rootlets further and further, 
day by day, and bade fair to grow into a mighty tree. 
' Could he be suffering ? " Elizabeth as yet took the 
world at its word. If a man had told her she was re- 
sponsible for breaking his heart, though amazed at the 
statement, she would have believed it implicitly. 
Marvelous as it might be, it was not on that account 
to be rejected, any more than the miracle of the loaves 
and fishes. 



Would the rain never stop ? When it had poured 
incessantly for four days, there came a day when the 
sky, though still leaden, withheld its showers. 

' May clear, at three," said Si, as he passed the 
house, where Elizabeth stood near the open door, 
searching the heavens for signs of a patch of blue. 
