welcome she received, that she almost thought she 
had misjudged Atossa in calling her hard and cold. 
She drew her guest to the cushions upon the carpets, 
and they sat down side by side. 

" I have been talking about you already this morn- 
ing, my princess," began Atossa, speaking at once in 
familiar terms, as though she were conversing with 
an intimate friend. Nehushta was very proud ; she 
knew herself to be of a race as royal as Atossa, 
though now almost extinct ; and in answering, she 
spoke in the same manner as the queen ; so that the 
latter was inwardly amused at the self-confidence of 
the Hebrew princess. 

"Indeed?" said Nehushta, "there must be far 
more interesting things than I in Shushan. I would 
have talked of you had I found any one to talk 
with." 

The queen laughed a little. 

" As I was coming out this morning, I met an old 
friend of mine upon the balcony before the king's
apartment, — Zoroaster, the handsome captain. We 



 

fell into conversation, How handsome he has grown 
since I saw him last ! " The queen watched Nehushta 
closely while affecting the greatest unconcern, and 
she thought the shadows about the princess's eyes 
turned a shade darker at the mention of the brilliant 
warrior. But Nehushta answered calmly enough : 

" He took the most excellent care of us. I should 
like to see him to-day, to thank him for all he did. I 
was tired last night and must have seemed ungrateful." 

"What need is there of ever telling men we are 
grateful for what they do for us?" returned the 
queen. " I should think there were not a noble in the 
Great King's guard who would not give his right 
hand to take care of you for a month, even if you 
never so mucli as noticed his existence." 

Nehushta laughed lightly at the compliment. 

"You honour me too much," she said, "but I sup- 
pose it is because most women think as you do that 
men call us so ungrateful. I think you judge from 
the standpoint of the queen, whereas I " 

" Whereas you look at things from the position of 
the beautiful princess, who is worshipped for herself 
alone, and not for the bounty and favour she may, or 
may not, dispense to her subjects." 

" The queen is dispensing much bounty and favour to one of her subjects at this very moment," 
answered Nehushta quietly, as though deprecating 
further flattery. 

" How glad you must be to have left that dreadful 
fortress at last!" cried the queen sympathetically. 
" My father used to go there every summer. I hated 



 

the miserable place, with those tiresome mountains 
and those endless gardens without the least variety 
in them. You must be very glad to have come 
here ! " 

"It is true," replied Nehushta, "I never ceased to 
dream of Shushan. I love the great city, and the 
people, and the court. I thought sometimes that I 
should have died of the weariness of Ecbatana. The 
winters were unbearable ! " 

" You must learn to love us, too," said Atossa, very 
sweetly. " The Great King mshes well to your race, 
and will certainly do much for your country. There 
is, moreover, a kinsman of yours, who is coming soon, 
expressly to confer with the king concerning the further rebuilding of the temple and the city of Jeru- 
salem." 

" Zorobabel ? " asked Nehushta, quickly. 

uYes — that is his name, I believe. Do you say 
Zerub-Ebel, or Zerub-Abel ? I know nothing of your 
language." 

"His name is Zorob-Abel," answered Nehushta. 
" Oh, I wish he might persuade the Great King to do 
something for my people ! Your father would have 
done so much if he had lived." 

" Doubtless the Great King will do all that is pos- 
sible for establishing the Hebrews and promoting 
their welfare," said the queen ; but a distant look in 
her eyes showed that her thoughts were no longer con- 
centrated on the subject. " Your friend Zoroaster," 
she added presently, " could be of great service to you 
and your cause, if he wished." 

" i would that he were a Hebrew ! " exclaimed 



 

Nehushta, with a little sigh, which did not escape 
Atossa. 

" Is he not ? I always thought that he had secretly- 
embraced your faith. With his love of study and 
with his ideas, it seemed so natural." 

" No," replied Nehushta, " he is not one of us, nor 
will he ever be. After all, though, it is perhaps of 
little moment what one believes when one is so just 
as he." 

" I have never been able to understand the impor- 
tance of religion," said the beautiful queen, spreading 
her white hand upon the purple of her mantle, and 
contemplating its delicate outline tenderly. ''For 
my own part, I am fond of the sacrifices and the music and the chants. I love to see the priests go up to 
the altar, two and two, in their white robes, — and 
then to see how they struggle to hold up the bullock's 
head, so that his eyes may see the sun, — and how 
the red blood gushes out like a beautiful fountain. 
Have you ever seen a great sacrifice?" 

" Oh yes ! I remember when I was quite a little 
girl, when Cambyses — I mean — when the king came 
to the throne — it was magnificent ! " Nehushta was 
not used to hesitate in her speech, but as she recalled 
the day when Cambyses was made king, it suddenly 
came over her that any reminiscences of the past might 
be painful to the extraordinary woman by her side. 
But Atossa showed no signs of being disturbed. On 
the contrary, she smiled more sweetly than ever, 
though there was perhaps a slight affectation of sadness in her voice as she answered : 

" Do not fear to hurt me by referring to those times, 



 

dear princess. I am accustomed to speak of them well 
enough. Yes, indeed I remember that great day, 
with the bright sun shining upon the procession, and 
the cars with four horses that they dedicated to the 
sun, and the milk-white horse that they slaughtered 
upon the steps of the temple. How I cried for him, 
poor beast ! It seemed so cruel to sacrifice a horse ! 
Even a few black slaves would have been a more 
natural offering, or a couple of Scythians." 

" I remember," said Nehushta, somewhat relieved 
at the queen's tone. " Of course I have now and 
then seen processions in Ecbatana, but Daniel would 
not let me go to the temple. They say Ecbatana is 
very much changed since the Great King has not gone 
there in summer. It is very quiet — it is given over 
to horse-merchants and grain-sellers, and they bring 
all the salted fish there from the Hyrcanian sea, so 
that some of the streets smell horribly." 

Atossa laughed at the description, more out of 
courtesy than because it amused her. 

" In my time," she answered, "the horse-market was 
in the meadow by the road toward Zagros, and the 
fish-sellers were not allowed to come within a f arsang 
of the city. The royal nostrils were delicate. But 
everything is changed — here, everywhere. We have 
had several — revolutions — religious ones, I mean of 
course, and so many people have been killed that there 
is a savour of death in the air. It is amazing how 
much trouble people will give themselves about the 
question of sacrificing a horse to the sun, or a calf to 
Auramazda, or an Ethiopian to Nabon or Ashtaroth I 
And these Magians ! They are really no more descendants of the priests in the Aiyan home than I am 
a Greek. Half of them are nearly black — they are 
Hindus and speak Persian with an accent. They believe in a vast number of gods of all sizes and descriptions, and they sing hymns, in which they say that all 
these gods are the same. It is most confusing, and 
as the principal part of their chief sacrifice consists in 
making themselves exceedingly drunk with the detest- 
able milkweed juice of which they are so fond, the 
performance is disgusting. The Great King began 
by saying that if they wished to sacrifice to their deities, they might do so, provided no one could find 
them doing it ; and if they wished to be drunk, they 
might be drunk when and where they pleased ; but 
that if they did the two together, he would crucify 
every Magian in Persia. His argument was very 
amusing. He said that a man who is drunk naturally 
speaks the truth, whereas a man who sacrifices to 
false gods inevitably tells lies ; wherefore a man who 
sacrifices to false gods when he is drunk, runs the 
risk of telling lies and speaking the truth at the same 
time, and is consequently a creature revolting to logic, 
and must be immediately destroyed for the good of 
the whole race of mankind." 

Nehushta had listened with varying attention to 
the queen's account of the religious difiiculties in the 
kingdom, and she laughed at the Megoeric puzzle by 
which Darius justified the death of the Magians. But 
in her heart she longed to see Zoroaster, and was 
weary of entertaining her royal guest. By way of 
diversion she clapped her hands, and ordered the 
slaves who came at her summons to bring sweetmeats 
and sherbet of crushed fruit and snow. 



 

"Are you fond of hunting?" asked Atossa, deli- 
cately taking a little piece of white fig-paste. 

"I have never been allowed to hunt," answered 
Nehushta. " Besides, it must be very tiring." 

" I delight in it — the fig-paste is not so good as it 
used to be — there is a new confectioner. Darius 
considered that the former one had religious convic- 
tions involving the telling of lies — and this is the 
result ! We are fallen low indeed when we cannot 
eat a Magian's pastry ! I am passionately fond of 
hunting, but it is far from here to the desert and the 
lions are scarce. Besides, the men who are fit for 
lion-hunting are generally engaged in hunting their 
fellow-creatures." 

" Does the Great King hunt ? " inquired Nehushta, 
languidly sipping her sherbet from a green jade gob- 
let, as she lay among her cushions, supporting herself 
upon one elbow. 

" Whenever he has leisure. He will talk of nothing 
else to you " 

" Surely," interrupted Nehushta, with an air of per- 
fect innocence, " I shall not be so far honoured as that 
the Great King should talk with me ? " 

Atossa raised her blue eyes and looked curiousl}y at 
the dark princess. She knew nothing of what had 
passed the night before, save that the king had seen 
Nehushta for a few moments, but she knew his char- 
acter well enough to imagine that his frank and, as 
she thought, undignified manner might have struck 
Nehushta even in that brief interview. The idea that 
the princess was already deceiving her flashed across 
her mind. She smiled more tenderly than ever, with 




a little added air of sadness that gave her a wonderful 
charm. 

" Yes, the Great King is very gracious to the ladies 
of the court," she said. " You are so beautiful and so 
different from them all that he will certainly talk long 
with you after the banquet this evening — when he has 
drunk much wine." The last words were added with 
a most special sweetness of tone. 

Nehushta's face flushed a little as she drank more 
sherbet before she answered. Then, letting her soft 
dark eyes rest, as though in admiration, upon the 
queen's face, she spoke in a tone of gentle depre- 
cation : 

" Shall a man prefer the darkness of night to the 
glories of risen day? 
Or shall a man turn from the lilies to pluck the 
lowly flower of the field f " 

"You know our poets, too?" exclaimed Atossa, 
pleased with the graceful tone of the compliment, but 
still looking at Nehushta with curious eyes. There 
was a self-possession about the Hebrew princess that 
she did not like ; it was as though some one had suddenly taken a quality of her own and made it theirs 
and displayed it before her eyes. There was indeed 
this difference, that while Atossa's calm and undisturbed manner was generally real, Nehushta's was as- 
sumed, and she herself felt that, at any moment, it 
might desert her at her utmost need, 

" So you know our poets ? " repeated the queen, and 
this time she laughed lightly. ''Indeed I fear the 
king will talk to you more than ever, for he loves 



 

poetry. I daresay Zoroaster, too, has repeated many 
verses to you in the winter evenings at Ecbatanac 
He used to know endless poetry when he was a boy.'' 

This time Nehushta looked at the queen, and wondered how she, who could not be more than two or 
three and twenty years old, although now married to 
her third husband, could speak of having known 
Zoroaster as a boy, seeing that he was past thirty 
years of age. She turned the question upon the 
queen. 

" You must have seen Zoroaster very often before 
he left Shushan," she said. "You know him so 
well." 

" Yes — every one knew him. He was the favourite 
of the court, with his beauty and his courage and his 
strange affection for that old — for the old Hebrew 
prophet. That is why Cambyses sent them both 
away," added she with a light laugh. " They were 
far too good, both of them, to be endured among the 
doings of those times." 

Atossa spoke readily enough of Cambyses. Nehushta wondered whether she could be induced to 
speak of Smerdis. Her supposed ignorance of the 
true nature of what had occurred in the last few 
months would permit her to speak of the dead usurper 
with impunity. 

" I suppose there have been great changes lately 
in the manners of the court — during this last year," 
suggested Nehushta carelessly. She pulled a raisin 
from the dry stem, and tried to peel it with her deli- 
cate fingers. 

" Indeed there have been changes," answered Atossa, 



 

calmly. " A great many things that used to be 
tolerated will never be heard of now. On the whole, 
the change has been rather in relation to religion 
than otherwise. You will understand that in one 
year we have had three court religions. Cambyses 
sacrificed to Ashtaroth — and I must say he made 
a most appropriate choice of his tutelary goddess. 
Smerdis " — continued the queen in measured tones 
and with the utmost calmness of manner — " Smerdis 
devoted himself wholly to the worship of Indra, who 
appeared to be a convenient association of all the 
most agreeable gods ; and the Great King now rules 
the earth by the grace of Auramazda. I, for my 
part, have always inclined to the Hebrew conception 
of one God — perhaps that is much the same as 
Auramazda, the All- Wise. What do you think ? " 

Nehushta smiled at the deft way in which the 
queen avoided speaking of Smerdis by turning the 
conversation again to religious topics. But fearing 
another lecture on the comparative merits of idolatry, 
human sacrifice, and monotheism, she manifested very 
little interest in the subject. 

" I daresay it is the same. Zoroaster always says 
so, and that was the one point that Daniel could never 
forgive him. The sun is coming through those plants 
upon your head — shall we not have our cushions 
moved into the shade at the other end ? " She clapped 
her hands and rose languidly, offering her hand to 
Atossa. But the queen sprang lightly to her feet. 

" I have stayed too long," she said. " Come with 
me, dearest princess, and we will go out into the 
orange gardens upon the upper terrace. Perhaps," 



 

she added, adjusting the folds of her mantle, "we 
shall find Zoroaster there, or some of the princes, or 
even the Great King himself. Or, perhaps, it would 
amuse you to see where I live? " 

Neiiushta received her mantle from her slaves, and 
one of them brought her a linen tiara in place of the 
gauze veil she had twisted about her hair. But 
Atossa would not permit the change. 

" It is too beautiful ! " she cried enthusiastically. 
" So new ! you must really not change it." 

She put her arm around Nehushta affectionately 
and led her towards the door of the inner staircase. 
Then suddenly she paused, as though recollecting 
herself. 

" No," she said, " I will show you the way I came. 
It is shorter and you should know it. It may be of 
use to you." 

So they left the balcony by the little door that was 
almost masked by one of the great pillars, and de- 
scended the dark stairs. Nehushta detested every 
sort of bodily inconvenience, and inwardly wished 
the queen had not changed her mind, but had led 
her by an easier way. 

" It is not far," said the queen, descending rapidly 
in front of her. 

" It is dreadfully steep," objected Nehushta, " and 
I can hardly see my way at all. How many steps 
are there?" 

" Only a score more," answered the queen's voice, 
farther down. She seemed to be hurrying, but Ne- 
hushta had no intention of going any faster, and care- 
fully groped her way. As she began to see a glim- 



 

mer of light at the last turn of the winding stair, she 
heard loud voices in the corridor below. With the 
cautious instinct of her race, she paused and listened. 
The hard, quick tones of an angry man dominated 
the rest. 



 



CHAPTER VIII. 

Zoroaster had sat for nearly an hour, his eyes 
fixed on the blue sky, his thoughts wandering in con- 
templation of things greater and higher than those of 
earth, when he was roused by the measured tread of 
armed men marching in a distant room. In an in- 
stant he stood up, his helmet on his head, — the whole 
force of military habit bringing him back suddenly to 
the world of reality. In a moment the same heavy 
curtain, from under which Atossa had issued two 
hours before, was drawn aside, and a double file of 
spearmen came out upon the balcony, ranging them- 
selves to right and left with well-drilled precision. 
A moment more, and the king himself appeared, 
walking alone, in his armour and winged helmet, his 
left hand upon the hilt of his sword, his splendid 
mantle hanging to the ground behind his shoulders. 
As he came between the soldiers, he walked more 
slowly, and his dark, deep-set eyes seemed to scan the 
bearing and accoutrements of each separate spear- 
man. It was rarely indeed, in those early days of 
his power, that he laid aside his breast-plate for the 
tunic, or his helmet for the tiara and royal crown. 
In his whole air and gait the character of the soldier 
dominated, and the look of the conqueror was already 
in his face. 

Zoroaster strode forward a few paces, and stood 



 

still as the king caught sight of him, preparing to 
prostrate himself, according to the ancient custom. 
But Darius checked him by a gesture ; turning half 
round, he dismissed the guard, who filed back through 
the door as they had come, and the curtain fell behind 
them. 

" I like not these elaborate customs," said the king. 
' A simple salutation, the hand to the lips and fore- 
head — it is quite enough. A man might win a 
battle if he had all the time that it takes him to fall 
down at my feet and rise up again, twenty times in a 
day." 

As the king's speech seemed to require no answer, 
Zoroaster stood silently waiting for his orders. Darius walked to the balustrade and stood in the full 
glare of the sun for a moment, looking out. Then 
he came back again. 

" The town seems to be quiet this morning," he 
said. " How long did the queen tarry here talking 
with thee, Zoroaster?" 

" The queen talked with her servant for the space 
of half an hour," answered Zoroaster, without hesitation, though he was astonished at the suddenness 
and directness of the question. 

" She is gone to see thy princess," continued the 
king. 

" The queen told her servant it was yet too early 
to see Nehushta," remarked the warrior. 

"She is gone to see her, nevertheless," asserted 
Darius, in a tone of conviction. " Now, it stands in 
reason that when the most beautiful woman in the 
world has been told that another woman is come 



 

who is more beautiful than she, she will not lose a 
moment in seeing her." He eyed Zoroaster curiously for a moment, and his thick black beard did 
not altogether hide the smile on his face. " Come," 
he added, " we shall find the two together." 

The king led the way and Zoroaster gravely followed. They passed down the staircase by which 
the queen had gone, and entering the low passage, 
came to the small door which she had bolted behind 
her with so much difficulty. The king pushed his 
weight against it, but it was still fastened. 

"Thou art stronger than I, Zoroaster," he said, 
with a deep laugh. " Open this door." 

The young warrior pushed heavily against the 
planks, and felt that one of them yielded. Then, 
standing back, he dealt a heavy blow on the spot 
with his clenched fist ; a second, and the plank broke 
in. He put his arm through the aperture, and easily 
slipped the bolt back, and the door flew open. The 
blood streamed from his hand. 

"That is well done," said Darius as he entered. 
His quick eye saw something white upon the stone 
bench in the dusky corner by the door. He stooped 
and picked it up quickly. It was the sealed scroll 
Atossa had left there when she needed both her 
hands to draw the bolt. Darius took it to one of the 
narrow windows, looked at it curiously and broke 
the seal. Zoroaster stood near and wiped the blood 
from his bruised knuckle. 

The contents of the scroll were short. It was ad- 
dressed to one Phraortes, of Ecbatana in Media, and 
contained the information that the Great King had 



 

returned in triumph from Babylon, having subdued 
the rebels and slain many thousands in two battles. 
Furthermore, that the said Phraortes should give in- 
stant information of the queen's affairs, and do noth- 
ing in regard to them until further intimation arrived. 

The king stood a moment in deep thought. Then 
he walked slowly down the corridor, holding the scroll 
loose in his hand. Just at that instant Atossa emerged 
from the dark staircase, and as she found herself face 
to face with Darius, she uttered an exclamation and 
stood still. 

" This is a very convenient place for our interview," 
said Darius quietly. " No one can hear us. There- 
fore speak the truth at once." He held up the scroll 
to her eyes. 

Atossa's ready wit did not desert her, nor did she 
change colour, though she knew her life was in the 
balance with her words. She laughed lightly as she 
spoke : 

" I came down the stairs this morning " 

" To see the most beautiful woman in the world," 
interrupted Darius, raising his voice. "You have 
seen her. I am glad of it. Why did you bolt the 
door of the passage ? " 

" Because I thought it unfitting that the passage to 
the women's apartments should be left open when so 
many in the palace know the way," she answered 
readily enough. 

" Where were you taking this letter when you left 
it at the door ? " asked the king, beginning to doubt 
whether there were anything wrong after all. 

"I was about to send it to Ecbatana," answered 
Atossa with perfect simplicity. 




" Who is this Phraortes ? " 

" He is the governor of the lands my father gave 
me for my own in Media. I wrote him to tell him of 
the Great King's victory, and that he should send me 
information concerning my affairs, and do nothing 
further until he hears from me." 

"Why not?" 

" Because I thought it possible that the Great King 
would spend the summer in Ecbatana, and that I 
should therefore be there myself to give my own 
directions. I forgot the letter because I had to take 
both hands to draw the bolt, and I was coming back 
to get it. Nehushta the princess is with me— she is 
now upon the staircase." 

The king looked thoughtfully at liis wife's beautiful 

face. 

" You have evidently spoken the truth," he said 
slowly. " But it is not always easy to understand 
what your truth signifies. I often think it would be 
much wiser to strangle you. Say you that Nehushta 
is near ? Call her, then. Why does she tarry ? " 

In truth Nehushta had trembled as she crouched 
upon the stairs, not knowing whether to descend or to 
fly up the steps again. As she heard the queen pronounce her name, however, she judged it prudent to 
seem to have been out of earshot, and with quick, 
soft steps, she went up till she came to the lighted 
part, and there she waited. 

" Let the Great King go himself and find her," said 
Atossa proudly, " if he doubts me any further." She 
stood aside to let him pass. But Darius beckoned to 
Zoroaster to go. He had remained standing at some 




distance, an unwilling witness to the royal altercation 
that had taken place before him ; but as he passed 
the queen, she gave him a glance of imploring sad- 
ness, as though beseeching his sympathy in what she 
was made to suffer. He ran quickly up the steps in 
spite of the darkness, and found Nehushta waiting by 
the window higher up. She started as he appeared, 
for he was the person she least expected. But he 
took her quickly in his arms, and kissed her passionately twice. 

" Come quickly, my beloved," he whispered. " The 
king waits below." 

"I heard his voice — and then I fled," she whis- 
pered hurriedly; and they began to descend again. 
"I hate her — I knew I should," she whispered, as 
she leaned upon his arm. So they emerged into the 
corridor, and met Darius waiting for them. The 
queen was nowhere to be seen, and the door at the 
farther extremity of the narrow way was wide open. 

The king was as calm as though nothing had 
occurred; he still held the open letter in his hand 
as Nehushta entered the passage, and bowed herself 
before him. He took her hand for a moment, and 
then dropped it ; but his eyes flashed suddenly and 
his arm trembled at her touch. 

" Thou hadst almost lost thy way," he said. " The 
palace is large and the passages are many and devious. 
Come now, I will lead thee to the gardens. There 
thou canst find friends among the queen's noble 
women, and amusements of many kinds. Let thy 
heart delight in the beauty of Shushan, and if there 
is anything that thou desirest, ask and I will give it 
thee." 



 

Nehushta bent her head in thanks. The only thing 
she desired was to be alone for half an hour with 
Zoroaster ; and that seemed difBcult. 

" Thy servant desireth what is pleasant in thy 
sight," she answered. And so they left the passage 
by the open door, and the king himself conducted 
Nehushta to the entrance of the garden, and bade the 
slave-woman who met them to lead her to the pavilion 
where the ladies of the palace spent the day in the 
warm summer weather. Zoroaster knew that what- 
