to the point. He now put the whole case fairly and squarely, and his
candour and openness seemed to him to react and characterise his conduct
throughout. He did not realise that this was not so till his father
said at the close, with mild justice, “You were to blame for letting the
thing run on so at loose ends.”
“Yes, of course,” said Dan, seeing that he was. “But there was no
intention of deceiving any one of bad faith--”
“Of course not.”
“I thought it could be easily arranged whenever it came to the point.”
“If you’d been older, you wouldn’t have thought that. You had women to
deal with on both sides. But if it’s all over, I’m not sorry. I always
admired Miss Pasmer, but I’ve been more and more afraid you were not
suited to each other. Your mother doesn’t know you’re here?”
“No, sir, I suppose not. Do you think it will distress her?”
“How did your sisters take it?”
Dan gave a rueful laugh. “It seemed to be rather a popular move with
them.”
“I will see your mother first,” said the father.
He left them when they went into the library after supper, and a little
later Dan and Eunice left Boardman in charge of Minnie there.
He looked after their unannounced withdrawal in comic consciousness.
“It’s no use pretending that I’m not a pretty large plurality here,” he
said to Minnie.
“Oh, I’m so glad you came!” she cried, with a kindness which was as real
as if it had been more sincere.
“Do you think mother will feel it much?” asked Dan anxiously, as he went
upstairs with Eunice.
“Well, she’ll hate to lose a correspondent--such a regular one,” said
Eunice, and the affair being so far beyond any other comment, she
laughed the rest of the way to their mother’s room.
The whole family had in some degree that foible which affects people who
lead isolated lives; they come to think that they are the only people
who have their virtues; they exaggerate these, and they conceive a
kindness even for the qualities which are not their virtues. Mrs.
Mavering’s life was secluded again from the family seclusion, and their
peculiarities were intensified in her. Besides, she had some very
marked peculiarities of her own, and these were also intensified by
the solitude to which she was necessarily left so much. She meditated a
great deal upon the character of her children, and she liked to analyse
and censure it both in her own mind and openly in their presence. She
was very trenchant and definite in these estimates of them; she liked
to ticket them, and then ticket them anew. She explored their ancestral
history on both sides for the origin of their traits, and there were
times when she reduced them in formula to mere congeries of inherited
characteristics. If Eunice was self-willed and despotic, she was just
like her grandmother Mavering; if Minnie was all sentiment and gentle
stubbornness, it was because two aunts of hers, one on either side,
were exactly so; if Dan loved pleasure and beauty, and was sinuous and
uncertain in so many ways, and yet was so kind and faithful and good, as
well as shilly-shallying and undecided, it was because her mother, and
her mother’s father, had these qualities in the same combination.
When she took her children to pieces before their faces, she was
sharp and admonitory enough with them. She warned them to what their
characters would bring them to if they did not look out; but perhaps
because she beheld them so hopelessly the present effect of the
accumulated tendencies of the family past, she was tender and forgiving
to their actions. The mother came in there, and superseded the
student of heredity: she found excuse for them in the perversity of
circumstance, in the peculiar hardship of the case, in the malignant
misbehaviour of others.
As Dan entered, with the precedence his father and sister yielded him as
the principal actor in the scene which must follow, she lifted herself
vigorously in bed, and propped herself on the elbow of one arm while she
stretched the other towards him.
“I’m glad of it, Dan!” she called, at the moment he opened the door,
and as he came toward her she continued, with the amazing velocity of
utterance peculiar to nervous sufferers of her sex: “I know all about
it, and I don’t blame you a bit! And I don’t blame her! Poor helpless
young things! But it’s a perfect mercy it’s all over; it’s the greatest
deliverance I ever heard of! You’d have been eaten up alive. I saw it,
and I knew it from the very first moment, and I’ve lived in fear and
trembling for you. You could have got on well enough if you’d been left
to yourselves, but that you couldn’t have been nor hope to be as long as
you breathed, from the meddling and the machinations and the malice of
that unscrupulous and unconscionable old Cat!”
By the time Mrs. Mavering had hissed out the last word she had her arm
round her boy’s neck and was clutching him, safe and sound after his
peril, to her breast; and between her kissing and crying she repeated
her accusals and denunciations with violent volubility.
Dan could not have replied to them in that effusion of gratitude and
tenderness he felt for his mother’s partisanship; and when she went on
in almost the very terms of his self-defence, and told him that he had
done as he had because it was easy for him to yield, and he could not
imagine a Cat who would put her daughter up to entrapping him into a
promise that she knew must break his mother’s heart, he found her so
right on the main point that he could not help some question of Mrs.
Pasmer in his soul. Could she really have been at the bottom of it all?
She was very sly, and she might be very false, and it was certainly she
who had first proposed their going abroad together. It looked as if it
might be as his mother said, and at any rate it was no time to dispute
her, and he did not say a word in behalf of Mrs. Pasmer, whom she
continued to rend in a thousand pieces and scatter to the winds till she
had to stop breathless.
“Yes! it’s quite as I expected! She did everything she could to trap you
into it. She fairly flung that poor girl at you. She laid her plans
so that you couldn’t say no--she understood your character from the
start!--and then, when it came out by accident, and she saw that she
had older heads to deal with, and you were not going to be quite at her
mercy, she dropped the mask in an instant, and made Alice break with
you. Oh, I could see through her from the beginning! And the next time,
Dan, I advise you, as you never suspect anybody yourself, to consult
with somebody who doesn’t take people for what they seem, and not to let
yourself be flattered out of your sensor, even if you see your father
is.”
Mrs. Mavering dropped back on her pillow, and her husband smiled
patiently at their daughter.
Dan saw his patient smile and understood it; and the injustice which his
father bore made him finally unwilling to let another remain under it.
Hard as it was to oppose his mother in anything when she was praising
him so sweetly and comforting him in the moment of his need, he pulled
himself together to protest: “No, no, mother! I don’t think Mrs. Pasmer
was to blame; I don’t believe she had anything to do with it. She’s
always stood my friend--”
“Oh, I’ve no doubt she’s made you think so, Dan,” said his mother, with
unabated fondness for him; “and you think so because you’re so simple
and good, and never suspect evil of any one. It’s this hideous optimism
that’s killing everything--”
A certain note in the invalid’s falling voice seemed to warn her hearers
of an impending change that could do no one good. Eunice rose hastily
and interrupted: “Mother, Mr. Boardman’s here. He came up with Dan. May
Minnie come in with him?”
Mrs. Mavering shot a glance of inquiry at Dan, and then let a swift
inspection range over all the details of the room, and finally
concentrate itself on the silk and lace of her bed, over which she
passed a smoothing hand. “Mr. Boardman?” she cried, with instantly
recovered amiability. “Of course she may!”
XLVII.
In Boston the rumour of Dan’s broken engagement was followed promptly
by a denial of it; both the rumour and the denial were apparently
authoritative; but it gives the effect of a little greater sagacity to
distrust rumours of all kinds, and most people went to bed, after the
teas and dinners and receptions and clubs at which the fact was first
debated, in the self-persuasion that it was not so. The next day they
found the rumour still persistent; the denial was still in the air
too, but it seemed weaker; at the end of the third day it had become a
question as to which broke the engagement, and why; by the end of a week
it was known that Alice had broken the engagement, but the reason could
not be ascertained.
This was not for want of asking, more or less direct. Pasmer, of course,
went and came at his club with perfect immunity. Men are quite as
curious as women, but they set business bounds to their curiosity, and
do not dream of passing these. With women who have no business of their
own, and can not quell themselves with the reflection that this thing
or that is not their affair, there is no question so intimate that they
will not put it to some other woman; perhaps it is not so intimate, or
perhaps it will not seem so; at any rate, they chance it. Mrs. Pasmer
was given every opportunity to explain the facts to the ladies whom
she met, and if she was much afflicted by Alice’s behaviour, she had a
measure of consolation in using her skill to baffle the research of her
acquaintance. After each encounter of the kind she had the pleasure of
reflecting that absolutely nothing more than she meant had become known.
The case never became fully known through her; it was the girl herself
who told it to Miss Cotton in one of those moments of confidence which
are necessary to burdened minds; and it is doubtful if more than two or
three people ever clearly understood it; most preferred one or other of
several mistaken versions which society finally settled down to.
The paroxysm of self-doubt, almost self-accusal, in which Alice came to
Miss Cotton, moved the latter to the deepest sympathy, and left her with
misgivings which became an intolerable anguish to her conscience. The
child was so afflicted at what she had done, not because she wished to
be reconciled with her lover, but because she was afraid she had been
unjust, been cruelly impatient and peremptory with him; she seemed to
Miss Cotton so absolutely alone and friendless with her great trouble,
she was so helpless, so hopeless, she was so anxious to do right, and
so fearful she had done wrong, that Miss Cotton would not have been
Miss Cotton if she had not taken her in her arms and assured her that in
everything she had done she had been sublimely and nobly right, a lesson
to all her sex in such matters for ever. She told her that she had
always admired her, but that now she idolised her; that she felt like
going down on her knees and simply worshipping her.
“Oh, don’t say that, Miss Cotton!” pleaded Alice, pulling away from
her embrace, but still clinging to her with her tremulous, cold little
hands. “I can’t bear it! I’m wicked and hard you don’t know how bad I
am; and I’m afraid of being weak, of doing more harm yet. Oh, I wronged
him cruelly in ever letting him get engaged to me! But now what you’ve
said will support me. If you think I’ve done right--It must seem strange
to you that I should come to you with my trouble instead of my mother;
but I’ve been to her, and--and we think alike on so few subjects, don’t
you know--”
“Yes, yes; I know, dear!” said Miss Cotton, in the tender folly of
her heart, with the satisfaction which every woman feels in being more
sufficient to another in trouble than her natural comforters.
“And I wanted to know how you saw it; and now, if you feel as you say, I
can never doubt myself again.”
She tempested out of Miss Cotton’s house, all tearful under the veil she
had pulled down, and as she shut the door of her coupe, Miss Cotton’s
heart jumped into her throat with an impulse to run after her, to recall
her, to recant, to modify everything.
From that moment Miss Cotton’s trouble began, and it became a torment
that mounted and gave her no peace till she imparted it. She said to
herself that she should suffer to the utmost in this matter, and if she
spoke to any one, it must not be to same one who had agreed with her
about Alice, but to some hard, skeptical nature, some one who would look
at it from a totally different point of view, and would punish her for
her error, if she had committed an error, in supporting and consoling
Alice. All the time she was thinking of Mrs. Brinkley; Mrs. Brinkley
had come into her mind at once; but it was only after repeated struggles
that she could get the strength to go to her.
Mrs. Brinkley, sacredly pledged to secrecy, listened with a sufficiently
dismaying air to the story which Miss Cotton told her in the extremity
of her fear and doubt.
“Well,” she said at the end, “have you written to Mr. Mavering?”
“Written to Mr. Mavering?” gasped Miss Cotton.
“Yes--to tell him she wants him back.”
“Wants him back?” Miss Cotton echoed again.
“That’s what she came to you for.”
“Oh, Mrs. Brinkley!” moaned Miss Cotton, and she stared at her in mute
reproach.
Mrs. Brinkley laughed. “I don’t say she knew that she came for that; but
there’s no doubt that she did; and she went away bitterly disappointed
with your consolation and support. She didn’t want anything of the
kind--you may comfort yourself with that reflection, Miss Cotton.”
“Mrs. Brinkley,” said Miss Cotton, with a severity which ought to have
been extremely effective from so mild a person, “do you mean to accuse
that poor child of dissimulation--of deceit--in such--a--a--”
“No!” shouted Mrs. Brinkley; “she didn’t know what she was doing any
more than you did; and she went home perfectly heart-broken; and I hope
she’ll stay so, for the good of all parties concerned.”
Miss Cotton was so bewildered by Mrs. Brinkley’s interpretation of
Alice’s latent motives that she let the truculent hostility of her
aspiration pass unheeded. She looked helplessly about, and seemed faint,
so that Mrs. Brinkley, without appearing to notice her state, interposed
the question of a little sherry. When it had been brought, and Miss
Cotton had sipped the glass that trembled in one hand while her emotion
shattered a biscuit with the other, Mrs. Brinkley went on: “I’m glad the
engagement is broken, and I hope it will never be mended. If what you
tell me of her reason for breaking it is true--”
“Oh, I feel so guilty for telling you! I’d no right to! Please never
speak of it!” pleaded Miss Cotton.
“Then I feel more than ever that it was all a mistake, and that to help
it on again would be a--crime.”
Miss Cotton gave a small jump at the word, as if she had already
committed the crime: she had longed to do it.
“Yes; I mean to say that they are better parted than plighted. If
matches are made in heaven, I believe some of them are unmade there too.
They’re not adapted to each other; there’s too great a disparity.”
“You mean,” began Miss Cotton, from her prepossession of Alice’s
superiority, “that she’s altogether his inferior, intellectually and
morally.”
“Oh, I can’t admit that!” cried Miss Cotton, glad to have Mrs. Brinkley
go too far, and plucking up courage from her excess.
“Intellectually and morally,” repeated Mrs. Brinkley, with the mounting
conviction which ladies seem to get from mere persistence. “I saw that
girl at Campobello; I watched her.”
“I never felt that you did her justice!” cried Miss Cotton, with the
valour of a hen-sparrow. “There was an antipathy.”
“There certainly wasn’t a sympathy, I’m happy to say,” retorted Mrs.
Brinkley. “I know her, and I know her family, root and branch. The
Pasmers are the dullest and most selfish people in the world.”
“Oh, I don’t think that’s her character,” said Miss Cotton, ruffling her
feathers defensively.
“Neither do I. She has no fixed character. No girl has. Nobody has. We
all have twenty different characters--more characters than gowns--and we
put them on and take them off just as often for different occasions.
I know you think each person is permanently this or that; but my
experience is that half the time they’re the other thing.”
“Then why,” said Miss Cotton, winking hard, as some weak people do when
they thick they are making a point, “do you say that Alice is dull and
selfish?”
“I don’t--not always, or not simply so. That’s the character of the
Pasmer blood, but it’s crossed with twenty different currents in her;
and from some body that the Pasmer dulness and selfishness must have
driven mad she got a crazy streak of piety; and that’s got mixed up in
her again with a nonsensical ideal of duty; and everything she does she
not only thinks is right, but she thinks it’s religious, and she thinks
it’s unselfish.”
“If you’d seen her, if you’d heard her, this morning,” said Miss Cotton,
“you wouldn’t say that, Mrs. Brinkley.”
Mrs. Brinkley refused this with an impatient gesture. “It isn’t what
she is now, or seems to be, or thinks she is. It’s what she’s going to
finally harden into--what’s going to be her prevailing character. Now
Dan Mavering has just the faults that will make such a girl think her
own defects are virtues, because they’re so different. I tell you Alice
Pasmer has neither the head nor the heart to appreciate the goodness,
the loveliness, of a fellow like Dan Mavering.”
“I think she feels his sweetness fully,” urged Miss Cotton. “But she
couldn’t endure his uncertainty. With her the truth is first of all
things.”
“Then she’s a little goose. If she had the sense to know it, she would
know that he might delay and temporise and beat about the bush, but he
would be true when it was necessary. I haven’t the least doubt in the
world but that poor fellow was going on in perfect security, because he
felt that it would be so easy for him to give up, and supposed it would
be just as easy for her. I don’t suppose he had a misgiving, and it must
have come upon him like a thunder-clap.”
“Don’t you think,” timidly suggested Miss Cotton, “that truth is the
first essential in marriage?”
“Of course it is. And if this girl was worthy of Dan Mavering, if she
were capable of loving him or anybody else unselfishly, she would have
felt his truth even if she couldn’t have seen it. I believe this minute
that that manoeuvring, humbugging mother of hers is a better woman, a
kinder woman, than she is.”
“Alice says her mother took his part,” said Miss Cotton, with a sigh.
“She took your view of it.”
“She’s a sensible woman. But I hope she won’t be able to get him into
her toils again,” continued Mrs. Brinkley, recurring to the conventional
estimate of Mrs. Pasmer.
“I can’t help feeling--believing--that they’ll come together somehow
still,” murmured Miss Cotton. It seemed to her that she had all along
wished this; and she tried to remember if what she had said to comfort
Alice might be construed as adverse to a reconciliation.
“I hope they won’t, then,” said Mrs. Brinkley, “for they couldn’t help
being unhappy together, with their temperaments. There’s one thing,
Miss Cotton, that’s more essential in marriage than Miss Pasmer’s
instantaneous honesty, and that’s patience.”
“Patience with wrong?” demanded Miss Cotton.
“Yes, even with wrong; but I meant patience with each other. Marriage
is a perpetual pardon, concession, surrender; it’s an everlasting giving
up; that’s the divine thing about it; and that’s just what Miss Passer
could never conceive of, because she is self-righteous and conceited and
unyielding. She would make him miserable.”
Miss Cotton rose in a bewilderment which did not permit her to go at
once. There was something in her mind which she wished to urge, but she
could not make it out, though she fingered in vague generalities. When
she got a block away from the house it suddenly came to her. Love! If
they loved each other, would not all be well with them? She would have
liked to run back and put that question to Mrs. Brinkley; but just
then she met Brinkley lumbering heavily homeward; she heard his hard
breathing from the exertion of bowing to her as he passed.
His wife met him in the hall, and went up to kiss him. He smelt
abominably of tobacco smoke.
“Hullo!” said her husband. “What are you after?”
“Nothing,” said his wife, enjoying his joke. “Come in here; I want to
tell you how I have just sat upon Miss Cotton.”
XLVIII.
The relations between Dan and his father had always been kindly and
trustful; they now became, in a degree that touched and flattered the
young fellow, confidential. With the rest of the family there soon
ceased to be any reference to his engagement; his sisters were glad,
each in her way, to have him back again; and, whatever they may have
said between themselves, they said nothing to him about Alice. His
mother appeared to have finished with the matter the first night; she
had her theory, and she did it justice; and when Mrs. Mavering had once
done a thing justice, she did not bring it up again unless somebody
disputed it. But nobody had defended Mrs. Pasmer after Dan’s feeble
protest in her behalf; Mrs. Mavering’s theory was accepted with
obedience if not conviction; the whole affair dropped, except between
Dan and his father.
Dan was certainly not so gay as he used to be; he was glad to find that
he was not so gay. There had been a sort of mercy in the suddenness of
the shock; it benumbed him, and the real stress and pain came during the
long weeks that followed, when nothing occurred to vary the situation
in any manner; he did not hear a word about Alice from Boston, nor any
rumour of her people.
At first he had intended to go back with Boardman and face it out; but
there seemed no use in this, and when it came to the point he found it
impossible. Boardman went back alone, and he put Dan’s things together
in his rooms at Boston and sent them to him, so that Dan remained at
home.
He set about helping his father at the business with unaffected
docility. He tried not to pose, and he did his best to bear his loss
and humiliation with manly fortitude. But his whole life had not set so
strongly in one direction that it could be sharply turned aside now,
and not in moments of forgetfulness press against the barriers almost
to bursting. Now and then, when he came to himself from the wonted
tendency, and remembered that Alice and he, who had been all in all to
each other, were now nothing, the pain was so sharp, so astonishing,
that he could not keep down a groan, which he then tried to turn off
with a cough, or a snatch of song, or a whistle, looking wildly round to
see if any one had noticed.
Once this happened when his father and he were walking silently home
from the works, and his father said, without touching him or showing his
sympathy except in his tone of humorously frank recognition, “Does it
still hurt a little occasionally, Dan?”
“Yes, sir, it hurts,” said the son; and he turned his face aside, and
whistled through his teeth.
“Well, it’s a trial, I suppose,” said his father, with his gentle, soft
half-lisp. “But there are greater trials.”
“How, greater?” asked Dan, with sad incredulity. “I’ve lost all that
made life worth living; and it’s all my own fault, too.”
“Yes,” said his father; “I think she was a good girl.”
“Good!” cried Dan; the word seemed to choke him.
“Still, I doubt if it’s all your fault.” Dan looked round at him. He
added, “And I think it’s perhaps for the best as it is.”
Dan halted, and then said, “Oh, I suppose so,” with dreary resignation,
as they walked on.
“Let us go round by the paddock,” said his father, “and see if Pat’s
put the horses up yet. You can hardly remember your mother, before she
became an invalid, I suppose,” he added, as Dan mechanically turned
aside with him from the path that led to the house into that leading to
the barn.
“No; I was such a little fellow,” said Dan.
“Women give up a great deal when they marry,” said the elder. “It’s not
strange that they exaggerate the sacrifice, and expect more in return
than it’s in the nature of men to give them. I should have been sorry to
have you marry a woman of an exacting disposition.”
“I’m afraid she was exacting,” said Dan. “But she never asked more than
was right.”
“And it’s difficult to do all that’s right,” suggested the elder.
“I’m sure you always have, father,” said the son.
The father did not respond. “I wish you could remember your mother when
she was well,” he said. Presently he added, “I think it isn’t best for a
woman to be too much in love with her husband.”
Dan took this to himself, and he laughed harshly. “She’s been able to
dissemble her love at last.”
His father went on, “Women keep the romantic feeling longer than men; it
dies out of us very soon--perhaps too soon.”
“You think I couldn’t have come to time?” asked Dan. “Well, as it’s
turned out, I won’t have to.”
“No man can be all a woman wishes him to be,” said his father. “It’s
better for the disappointment to come before it’s too late.”
“I was to blame,” said Dan stoutly. “She was all right.”
“You were to blame in the particular instance,” his father answered.
“But in general the fault was in her--or her temperament. As long as the
romance lasted she might have deluded herself, and believed you were all
she imagined you; but romance can’t last, even with women. I don like
your faults, and I don’t want you to excuse them to yourself. I don’t
like your chancing things, and leaving them to come out all right of
themselves; but I’ve always tried to make you children see all your
qualities in their true proportion and relation.”
“Yes; I know that, sir,” said Dan.
“Perhaps,” continued his father, as they swung easily along, shoulder
to shoulder, “I may have gone too far in that direction because I was
afraid that you might take your mother too seriously in the other--that
you might not understand that she judged you from her nerves and not
her convictions. It’s part of her malady, of her suffering, that her
inherited Puritanism clouds her judgment, and makes her see all faults
as of one size and equally damning. I wish you to know that she was not
always so, but was once able to distinguish differences in error, and to
realise that evil is of ill-will.”
“Yes; I know that,” said Dan. “She is now--when she feels well.”
“Harm comes from many things, but evil is of the heart. I wouldn’t
have you condemn yourself too severely for harm that you didn’t
intend--that’s remorse--that’s insanity; and I wouldn’t have you fall
under the condemnation of another’s invalid judgment.”
“Thank you, father,” said Dan.
They had come up to the paddock behind the barn, and they laid their
arms on the fence while they looked over at the horses, which were
still there. The beasts, in their rough winter coats, some bedaubed with
frozen clots of the mud in which they had been rolling earlier in the
afternoon, stood motionless in the thin, keen breeze that crept over
the hillside from the March sunset, and blew their manes and tails out
toward Dan and his father. Dan’s pony sent him a gleam of recognition
from under his frowsy bangs, but did not stir.
“Bunch looks like a caterpillar,” he said, recalling the time when his
father had given him the pony; he was a boy then, and the pony was as
much to him, it went through his mind, as Alice had ever been. Was it
all a jest, an irony? he asked himself.
“He’s getting pretty old,” said his father. “Let’s see: you were only
twelve.”
“Ten,” said Dan. “We’ve had him thirteen years.”
Some of the horses pricked up their ears at the sound of their voices.
One of them bit another’s neck; the victim threw up his heels and
squealed.
Pat called from the stable, “Heigh, you divils!”
“I think he’d better take them in,” said Dan’s father; and he continued,
as if it were all the same subject, “I hope you’ll have seen something
more of the world before you fall in love the next time.”
“Thank you; there won’t be any next time. But do you consider the world
such a school of morals; then? I supposed it was a very bad place.”
“We seem to have been all born into it,” said the father. He lifted his
arms from the fence, and Dan mechanically followed him into the stable.
A warm, homely smell of hay and of horses filled the place; a lantern
glimmered, a faint blot, in the loft where Pat was pitching some hay
forward to the edge of the boards; the naphtha gas weakly flared from
the jets beside the harness-room, whence a smell of leather issued and
mingled with the other smell. The simple, earthy wholesomeness of the
place appealed to Dan and comforted him. The hay began to tumble from
the loft with a pleasant rustling sound.
His father called up to Pat, “I think you’d better take the horses in
now.”
“Yes, sir: I’ve got the box-stalls ready for ‘em.”
Dan remembered how he and Eunice used to get into the box-stall with
his pony, and play at circus with it; he stood up on the pony, and
his sister was the ring-master. The picture of his careless childhood
reflected a deeper pathos upon his troubled present, and he sighed
again.
His father said, as they moved on through the barn: “Some of the best
people I’ve ever known were what were called worldly people. They
are apt to be sincere, and they have none of the spiritual pride, the
conceit of self-righteousness, which often comes to people who are shut
up by conscience or circumstance to the study of their own motives and
actions.”
“I don’t think she was one of that kind,” said Dan.
“Oh, I don’t know that she was. But the chances of happiness, of
goodness, would be greater with a less self-centred person--for you.”
“Ah, Yes! For me!” said Dan bitterly. “Because I hadn’t it in me to
be frank with her. With a man like me, a woman had better be a little
scampish, too! Father, I could get over the loss; she might have died,
and I could have got over that; but I can’t get over being to blame.”
“I don’t think I’d indulge in any remorse,” said his father. “There’s
nothing so useless, so depraving, as that. If you see you’re wrong, it’s
for your warning, not for your destruction.”
Dan was not really feeling very remorseful; he had never felt that he
was much to blame; but he had an intellectual perception of the case,
and he thought that he ought to feel remorseful; it was this persuasion
that he took for an emotion. He continued to look very disconsolate.
“Come,” said his father, touching his arm, “I don’t want you to brood
upon these things. It can do no manner of good. I want you to go to
New York next week and look after that Lafflin process. If it’s what he
thinks--if he can really cast his brass patterns without air-holes--it
will revolutionise our business. I want to get hold of him.”
The Portuguese cook was standing in the basement door which they passed
at the back of the house. He saluted father and son with a glittering
smile.
“Hello, Joe!” said Dan.
“Ah, Joe!” said his father; he touched his hat to the cook, who snatched
his cap off.
“What a brick you are, father!” thought Dan. His heart leaped at the
notion of getting away from Ponkwasset; he perceived how it had been
irking him to stay. “If you think I could manage it with Lafflin--”
“Oh, I think you could. He’s another slippery chap.”
Dan laughed for pleasure and pain at his father’s joke.
XLIX.
In New York Dan found that Lafflin had gone to Washington to look up
something in connection with his patent. In his eagerness to get away
from home, Dan had supposed that his father meant to make a holiday for
him, and he learned with a little surprise that he was quite in earnest
about getting hold of the invention he wrote home of Lafflin’s absence;
and he got a telegram in reply ordering him to follow on to Washington.
The sun was shining warm on the asphalt when he stepped out of the
Pennsylvania Depot with his bag in his hand, and put it into the hansom
that drove up for him. The sky overhead was of an intense blue that made
him remember the Boston sky as pale and grey; when the hansom tilted
out into the Avenue he had a joyous glimpse of the White House; of
the Capitol swimming like a balloon in the cloudless air. A keen March
breeze swept the dust before him, and through its veil the classic
Treasury Building showed like one edifice standing perfect amid ruin
represented by the jag-tooth irregularities of the business architecture
along the wide street.
He had never been in Washington before, and he had a confused sense
of having got back to Rome, which he remembered from his boyish visit.
Throughout his stay he seemed to be coming up against the facade of
the Temple of Neptune; but it was the Patent Office, or the Treasury
Building, or the White House, and under the gay Southern sky this
reversion to the sensations of a happier time began at once, and made
itself a lasting relief. He felt a lift in his spirits from the first.
They gave him a room at Wormley’s, where the chairs comported themselves
as self-respectfully upon two or three legs as they would have done at
Boston upon four; the cooking was excellent, and a mercenary welcome
glittered from all the kind black faces around him. After the quiet of
Ponkwasset and the rush of New York, the lazy ease of the hotel pleased
him; the clack of boots over its pavements, the clouds of tobacco smoke,
the Southern and Western accents, the spectacle of people unexpectedly
encountering and recognising each other in the office and the
dining-room, all helped to restore him to a hopefuller mood. Without
asking his heart too curiously why, he found it lighter; he felt that he
was still young.
In the weather he had struck a cold wave, and the wind was bitter in
the streets, but they were full of sun; he found the grass green in
sheltered places, and in one of the Circles he plucked a blossomed spray
from an adventurous forceythia. This happened when he was walking from
Wormley’s to the Arlington by a roundabout way of his own involuntary
invention, and he had the flowers in his button-hole when Lafflin was
pointed out to him in the reading room there, and he introduced himself.
Lafflin had put his hat far back on his head, and was intensely chewing
a toothpick, with an air of rapture from everything about him. He seemed
a very simple soul to Dan’s inexperience of men, and the young fellow
had no difficulty in committing him to a fair conditional arrangement.
He was going to stay some days in Washington, and he promised other
interviews, so that Dan thought it best to stay too. He used a sheet of
the Arlington letter-paper in writing his father of what he had done;
and then, as Lafflin had left him, he posted his letter at the clerk’s
desk, and wandered out through a corridor different from that which he
had come in by. It led by the door of the ladies parlour, and at the
sound of women’s voices Dan halted. For no other reason than that such
voices always irresistibly allured him, he went in, putting on an air
of having come to look for some one. There were two or three groups of
ladies receiving friends in different parts of the room. At the window
a girl’s figure silhouetted itself against the keen light, and as
he advanced into the room, peering about, it turned with a certain
vividness that seemed familiar. This young lady, whoever she was, had
the advantage of Dan in seeing him with the light on his face, and he
was still in the dark about her, when she advanced swiftly upon him,
holding out her hand.
“You don’t seem to know your old friends, Mr. Mavering,” and the manly
tones left him no doubt.
He felt a rush of gladness, and he clasped her hand and clung to it as
if he were not going to let it go again, bubbling out incoherencies of
pleasure at meeting her. “Why, Miss Anderson! You here? What a piece of
luck! Of course I couldn’t see you against the window--make you out! But
something looked familiar--and the way you turned! And when you started
toward me! I’m awfully glad! When--where are you--that is--”
Miss Anderson kept laughing with him, and bubbled back that she was very
glad too, and she was staying with her aunt in that hotel, and they had
been there a month, and didn’t he think Washington was charming? But it
was too bad he had just got there with that blizzard. The weather had
been perfectly divine till the day before yesterday.
He took the spray of forceythia out of his buttonhole. “I can believe
it. I found this in one, of the squares, and I think it belongs to
you.” He offered it with a bow and a laugh, and she took it in the same
humour.
“What is the language of forceythia?” she asked.
“It has none--only expressive silence, you know.”
A middle-aged lady came in, and Miss Anderson said, “My aunt, Mr.
Mavering.”
“Mr. Mavering will hardly remember me,” said the lady, giving him her
hand. He protested that he should indeed, but she had really made but a
vague impression upon him at Campobello. He knew that she was there with
Miss Anderson; he had been polite to her as he was to all women; but he
had not noticed her much, and in his heart he had a slight for her, as
compared with the Boston people he was more naturally thrown with; he
certainly had not remembered that she was a little hard of hearing.
Miss Van Hook was in a steel-grey effect of dress, and, she had carried
this up into her hair, of which she worn two short vertical curls on
each temple.
She did not sit down, and Dan perceived that the ladies were going out.
In her tailor-made suit of close-fitting serge and her Paris bonnet,
carried like a crest on her pretty little head, Miss Anderson was
charming. She had a short veil that came across the base of her lively
nose, and left her mouth and chin to make the most of themselves,
unprejudiced by its irregularity.
Dan felt it a hardship to part with them, but he prepared to take
himself off. Miss Anderson asked him how long he was to be in
Washington, and said he must come to see them; they meant to stay two
weeks yet, and then they were going to Old Point Comfort; they had their
rooms engaged.
He walked down to their carriage with the ladies and put them into it,
and Miss Anderson still kept him talking there.
Her aunt said: “Why shouldn’t you come with us, Mr. Mavering? We’re
going to Mrs. Secretary Miller’s reception.”
Dan gave himself a glance. “I don’t know--if you want me?”
“We want you,” said Miss Anderson. “Very well, then, I’ll go.”
He got in, and they began rolling over that smooth Washington asphalt
which makes talk in a carriage as easy as in a drawing-room. Dan kept
saying to himself, “Now she’s going to bring up Campobello;” but Miss
Anderson never recurred to their former meeting, and except for the
sense of old acquaintance which was manifest in her treatment of him
he might have thought that they had never met before. She talked of
Washington and its informal delights; and of those plans which her aunt
had made, like every one who spends a month in Washington, to spend all
the remaining winters of her life there.
It seemed to Dan that Miss Anderson was avoiding Campobello on his
account; he knew from what Alice had told him that there had been
much surmise about their affair after he had left the island, and he
suspected that Miss Anderson thought the subject was painful to him. He
wished to reassure her. He asked at the first break in the talk about
Washington, “How are the Trevors?”
“Oh, quite well,” she said, promptly availing herself of the opening.
“Have you seen any of our Campobello friends lately in Boston?”
“No; I’ve been at home for the last month--in the country.” He scanned
her face to see if she knew anything of his engagement. But she seemed
honestly ignorant of everything since Campobello; she was not just the
kind of New York girl who would visit in Boston, or have friends living
there; probably she had never heard of his engagement. Somehow this
seemed to simplify matters for Dan. She did not ask specifically after
the Pasmers; but that might have been because of the sort of break in
her friendship with Alice after that night at the Trevors’; she did not
ask specifically after Mrs. Brinkley or any of the others.
At Mrs. Secretary Miller’s door there was a rapid arrival and departure
of carriages, of coupes, of hansoms, and of herdics, all managed by a
man in plain livery, who opened and shut the doors, and sent the
drivers off without the intervention of a policeman; it is the genius of
Washington, which distinguishes it from every other capital, from every
other city, to make no show of formality, of any manner of constraint
anywhere. People were swarming in and out; coming and going on foot
as well as by carriage. The blandest of coloured uncles received
their cards in the hall and put them into a vast tray heaped up with
pasteboard, smiling affectionately upon them as if they had done him a
favour.
“Don’t you like them?” asked Dan of Miss Anderson; he meant the Southern
negroes.
“I adoye them,” she responded, with equal fervour. “You must study some
new types here for next summer,” she added.
Dan laughed and winced too. “Yes!” Then he said solemnly, “I am not
going to Campobello next summer.”
They felt into a stream of people tending toward an archway between the
drawing-rooms, where Mrs. Secretary Miller stood with two lady friends
who were helping her receive. They smiled wearily but kindly upon
the crowd, for whom the Secretary’s wife had a look of impartial
hospitality. She could not have known more than one in fifty; and
she met them all with this look at first, breaking into incredulous
recognition when she found a friend. “Don’t go away yet,” she said
cordially, to Miss Van Hook and her niece, and she held their hands for
a moment with a gentle look of relief and appeal which included Dan.
“Let me introduce you to Mrs. Tolliver and to Miss Dixon.”
These ladies said that it was not necessary in regard to Miss Anderson
and Miss Van Hook; and as the crowd pushed them on, Dan felt that they
had been received with distinction.
The crowd expressed the national variety of rich and poor, plain and
fashionable, urbane and rustic; they elbowed and shouldered each other
upon a perfect equality in a place where all were as free to come as to
the White House, and they jostled quaint groups of almond-eyed legations
in the yellows and purples of the East, who looked dreamily on as if
puzzled past all surmise by the scene. Certain young gentlemen with
the unmistakable air of being European or South American attaches found
their way about on their little feet, which the stalwart boots of
the republican masses must have imperilled; and smiled with a faint
diplomatic superiority, not visibly admitted, but all the same
indisputable. Several of these seemed to know Miss Anderson, and took
her presentation of Mavering with exaggerated effusion.
“I want to introduce you to my cousin over yonder,” she said, getting
rid of a minute Brazilian under-secretary, and putting her hand on Dan’s
arm to direct him: “Mrs. Justice Averill.”
Miss Van Hook, keeping her look of severe vigilance, really followed her
energetic niece, who took the lead, as a young lady must whenever she
and her chaperon meet on equal terms.
Mrs. Justice Averill, who was from the far West somewhere, received Dan
with the ease of the far East, and was talking London and Paris to him
before the end of the third minute. It gave Dan a sense of liberation,
of expansion; he filled his lungs with the cosmopolitan air in a sort
of intoxication; without formulating it, he felt, with the astonishment
which must always attend the Bostonian’s perception of the fact, that
there is a great social life in America outside of Boston. At Campobello
he had thought Miss Anderson a very jolly girl, bright, and up to all
sorts of things; but in the presence of the portable Boston there he
could not help regarding her with a sort of tolerance which he now
blushed for; he thought he had been a great ass. She seemed to know all
sorts of nice people, and she strove with generous hospitality to make
him have a good time. She said it was Cabinet Day, and that all the
