were there! So I came — and I have found you 
at last." 
She put her arms about him and drew him 
down onto the low window-seat. He shivered 
at her touch, but felt no impulse to resist her 
will, and she pressed his head down upon her 
cold breast. Then, suddenly, all things changed; 
the gallery, the moonlight, the white-robed, ice- 
cold woman faded from sense. The storm was 
no longer in his ears nor were the waves at his 
feet. He was standing in a dusky Eastern room, 
familiar and dear to him. Tapestries of rich 
stuffs were about him. and the skins of wild 
animals beneath his feet. Beyond, the twilight 
stole through a window, but did not reach where 
he stood. And in his close embrace was the 
woman he loved, with the stamp on her face of 
suffering, of desperate resolution, and of con- 
scious, welcomed weakness. And in his face was 
the regret for wasted years and possibilities, and 
a present, passionate gladness; that he could see 
in the mirror of the eyes over which the lids were 
slowly falling. . . . And the woman wore a 
clinging, shining yellow gown, and a blaze of 
jewels in her hair. What was said he hardly 
knew. It was enough to feel that a suddenly- 
born, passionate joy was making his pulses leap 
and his head reel; to know that heaven had come 
to him in this soft, quiet Southern night. 
VII. 
Dartmouth opened his eyes and looked 
about him. The storm had died, the waves were 
at rest, and he was alone. He let his head fall 
back against the frame of the window, and his 
eyes closed once more. What a dream ! — so 
vivid! — so realistic! Was it not his actual life? 
Could he take up the threads of another ? He 
felt ten years older; and, retreating down the 
dim, remote corridors of his brain, were trooping 
memories of a long, regretted, troubled, eventful 
past. In a moment they had vanished like 
ghosts and left no trace; he could recall none of 
them. He opened his eyes again and looked 
down the gallery, and gradually his perceptions 
grasped its familiar lines, and he was himself 
once more. He rose to his feet and put his hand 
to his head. That woman whom he had taken 
for the ghost of one dead and gone had been 
Weir, of course. She had arisen in her sleep 
and attired herself like the grandmother whose 
living portrait she was; she had piled up her 
hair and caught her white gown up under her 
bosom; and, in the shadows and mystery of night, 
small wonder that she had looked as if the can- 
vas in the gallery below had yielded her up! But 
what had her words meant ? — her words, and that 
dream ? — but no — they were not what he wanted. 
There had been something else — what was it? 
He felt as if a mist had newly arisen to cloud 
his faculties. There had been something else 
which had made him not quite himself as he had 
stood there with his arms about the woman who 
had been Weir, and yet not Weir. Above the 
pain and joy and passion which had shaken him, 
there had been an unmistakable perception of — 
an attribute — a quality — of another sort — of a 
power, of which he, Harold Dartmouth, had 
never been conscious— of — of — ah, yes ! of the 
power to pour out at the feet of that woman, in 
richest verse, the love she had awakened, and 
make them both immortal. What were the 
words ? They had been written legibly in his 
brain; he remembered now. He had seen and 
read them — yes, at last, at last! " Her face ! her 
form!" No! no! not that again. Oh, why would 
they not come ? They had been there, the words; 
the sense must be there, the inspiration, the bat- 
tling for voice and victory. They were ready to 
pour through his speech in a flood of song, but 
that iron hand forced them back — down, down, 
setting blood and brain on fire. Ah ! what was 
that ? Far off, at the end of some long gallery, 
there was a sweet, dying strain of music, and 
there were words — gathering in volume; they 
were rolling on; they were coming; they were 
thundering through his brain in a mighty chorus! 
There ! he had grasped them — No ! that iron 
hand had grasped them — and was hurling them 
back. In another moment it would have forced 
them down into their cell and turned the key ! 
He must catch and hold one of them ! Yes, he 
had it! Oh ! victory ! — "Her eyes, her hair." 
Dartmouth thrust out his hands as if fighting 
with a physical enemy, and he looked as if he had 
been through the agonies of death. The con- 
flict in his brain had suddenly ceased, but his 
physical strength was exhausted. He turned and 
walked uncertainly to his room; then he collected 
his scattered wits sufficiently to drop some lauda- 
num and take it, that he might ward off, if pos- 
sible, the attack of physical and spiritual prostra- 
tion which had been the result of a former ex, 
perience of a similar kind. Then, dressed as he 
was, he flung himself on the bed and slept. 
VIII. 
When Dartmouth awoke the next day, the sun 
was streaming across the bed and Jones's 
anxious face was bending over him. 
" Oh, Mr. 'Arold," exclaimed Jones, " you've 
got it again." 
Dartmouth laughed aloud. " One would think 
I had delirium tremens," he said. 
He put his hand over his eyes, and struggled 
with the desire to have the room darkened. The 
melancholy had fastened itself upon him, and he 
knew that for three or four days he was to be 
the victim of one of his unhappiest moods. The 
laudanum had lulled his brain and prevented 
violent reaction after its prolonged tension; but 
his spirits were at zero, and his instinct was to 
shut out the light and succumb to his enemy 
without resistance. If he had been anywhere 
but at Rhyd-Alwyn he would not have thought 
twice about it; but if he shut himself up in his 
room, not only would Weir be frightened and un- 
happy, but it was probable that Sir Iltyd would 
question the desirability of a son-in-law who was 
given to prolonged and uncontrollable attacks of 
the blues. He dressed and went down-stairs, 
but Weir was nowhere to be found, and after a 
search through the various rooms and corners of 
the castle which she was in the habit of 
frequenting, he met her maid and was informed that Miss 
Penrhyn was not well and would not come down- 
stairs before dinner. The news was very 
unwelcome to Dartmouth. Weir at least would have 
been a distraction. Now he must get through a 
dismal day, and fight his enemy by himself. To 
make matters worse, it was raining, and he could 
not go out and ride or hunt. He went into Sir 
Iltyd's library and talked to him for the rest of 
the morning. Sir Iltyd was not exciting, at his 
best, and to-day he had a bad cold; so after 
lunch Dartmouth went up to his tower and 
resigned himself to his own company. He sat 
down before the fire, and taking his head 
between his hands allowed the blue devils to 
triumph. He felt dull as well as depressed; but for 
a time he made an attempt to solve the problem 
of the phenomenon to which he had been twice 
subjected. That it was a phenomenon he did not 
see any reason to doubt. If he had spent his life 
in a vain attempt to write poetry and an 
unceasing wish for the necessary inspiration, there 
would be nothing remarkable in his mind 
yielding suddenly to the impetus of accumulated 
pressure, wrenching itself free of the will's 
control, and dashing off on a wild excursion of its 
own. But he had never voluntarily taken a pen 
in his hand to make verse, nor had he even felt 
the desire to possess the gift, except as a part of 
general ambition. He may have acknowledged 
the regret that he could not immortalize himself 
by writing a great poem, but the regret was the 
offspring of personal ambition, not of yearning 
poetical instinct. But the most extraordinary 
phase of the matter was that such a tempest 
could take place in a brain as well regulated as 
his own. He was eminently a practical man, and 
a good deal of a thinker. He had never been 
given to flights of imagination, and even in his 
attacks of melancholy, although his will might be 
somewhat enfeebled, his brain could always work 
clearly and cleverly. The lethargy which had 
occasionally got the best of him had invariably 
been due to violent nervous shock or strain, and 
was as natural as excessive bodily languor after 
violent physical effort. Why, then, should his 
brain twice have acted as if he had sown it with 
eccentric weeds all his life, instead of planting it 
with the choicest seeds he could obtain, and 
watering and cultivating them with a patience 
and an interest which had been untiring ? 
But the explanation of his attempt to put his 
unborn poem into words gave him less thought 
to-day than it had after its first occurrence; 
there were other phases of last night's 
experience weirder and more unexplainable still. 
Paramount, of course, was the vision or dream — 
which would seem to have been induced by some 
magnetic property possessed and exerted by 
Weir. Such things do not occur without cause, 
and he was not the sort of man to yield himself, 
physically and mentally, his will and his 
perceptions, to the unconscious caprice of a somnam- 
bulist. And the scene had cut itself so deeply 
into the tablets of his memory that he found 
himself forgetting more than once that it was not an 
actual episode of his past. He wished he could 
see Weir, and hear her account of her mental 
experiences of those hours. If her dream should 
have been a companion to his, then the 
explanation would suggest itself that the scene might 
have been a vagary of her brain; that in some 
way which he did not pretend to explain, she had 
hypnotized him, and that his brain had received 
a photographic imprint cf what had been in hers. 
It would then be merely a sort of telepathy. But 
why should she have dreamed a dream in which 
they both were so unhappily metamorphosed ? 
and why should it have produced so powerful an 
impression upon his waking sense ? And why, 
strangest of all, had he, without thought or self- 
surprise, gone to her, and with his soul stirred to 
its depths, called her " Sioned " ? True, she had 
almost disguised herself, and had been the living 
counterfeit of Sioned Penrhyn; but that was no 
reason why he should have called a woman who 
had belonged to his grandmother's time by her 
first name. Could Weir, thoroughly imbued with 
the character she was unconsciously representing, 
have exercised her hypnotic power from the 
moment she entered the gallery, and left him 
without power to think or feel except through her 
own altered perceptions ? He thrust out his foot 
against the fender, almost overturning it, and, 
throwing back his head, clasped his hands behind 
it and scowled at the black ceiling above him. 
He was a man who liked things explained, and he 
felt both sullen and angry that he should have 
had an experience which baffled his powers of 
analysis and reason. His partial solution gave 
him no satisfaction, and he had the uncomforta- 
ble sense of actual mystery, and a premonition of 
something more to come. This, however, he was 
willing to attribute to the depressed condition of 
 
his spirits, which threw its gloom over every 
object, abstract and concrete, and which induced 
the tendency to exaggerate any strange or un- 
pleasant experience of which he had been the 
victim. It was useless to try to think of anything 
else; his brain felt as if it had resolved itself into 
a kaleidoscope, through which those three scenes 
shifted eternally. Finally, he fell asleep, and did 
not awaken until it was time to dress for dinner. 
Before he left his room, Weir's maid knocked 
at his door and handed him a note, in which 
the lady of Rhyd-Alwyn apologized for leaving 
him to himself for an entire day, and announced 
that she would not appear at dinner, but would 
meet him in the drawing-room immediately there- 
after. Dartmouth read the note through with a 
puzzled expression: it was formal and stilted, 
even for Weir. She was gone when he came to 
his senses in the gallery the night before. Had 
she awakened and become conscious of the 
situation ? It was not a pleasant reminiscense for a 
girl to have, and he felt honestly sorry for her. 
Then he groaned in spirit at the prospect of an 
hour's tete-a-tete with Sir Iltyd. He liked Sir 
Iltyd very much, and thought him possessed of 
several qualifications valuable in a father-in-law, 
among them his devotion to his library; but 
in his present frame of mind he felt that history 
and politics were topics he would like to relegate 
out of existence. 
 
He put the best face on the situation he could 
muster, however, and managed to conceal from 
Sir Iltyd the fact that his spirits were in other 
than their normal condition. The old baronet's 
eyes were not very sharp, particularly when he 
had a cold, and he was not disposed to notice 
Harold's pallor and occasional fits of abstraction, 
so long as one of his favorite topics was under 
discussion. When Dartmouth found that he had 
got safely through the dinner, he felt that he had 
accomplished a feat which would have rejoiced 
the heart of his grandmother, and he thought that 
his reward could not come a moment too soon. 
Accordingly, for the first time since he had been 
at Rhyd-Alwyn, he declined to sit with Sir Iltyd 
over the wine, and went at once in search of 
Weir. 
As he opened the door of the drawing-room he 
found the room in semi-darkness, lighted only by 
the last rays of the setting sun, which strayed 
through the window. He went in, but did not 
see Weir. She was not in her accustomed seat 
by the fire, and he was about to call her name, 
when he came to a sudden halt, and for the mo- 
ment every faculty but one seemed suspended. 
A woman was standing by the open window 
looking out over the water. She had not heard him, 
and had not turned her head. Dartmouth felt a 
certain languor, as of one who is dreaming, and is 
half-conscious that he is dreaming, and therefore 
 
yields unresistingly to the pranks of his sleeping 
brain. Was it Weir, or was it the woman who 
had been a part of his vision last night ? She wore 
a long, shining yellow dress, and her arms and 
neck were bare. Surely it was the other woman! 
She turned her head a little, and he saw her 
face in profile; there was the same stamp of 
suffering, the same pallor. Weir had never 
looked like that; before he had known her she 
had had, sometimes, a little expression of sadness 
and abstraction which had made her look very 
picturesque, but which had borne no relationship 
to suffering or experience. And the scene! the 
room filled with dying light, the glimpse of water 
beyond, the very attitude of the woman at the 
casement — all were strangely and deeply familiar 
to him, although not the details of the vision of 
last night. The only things that were wanting 
were the Eastern hangings to cover the dark 
wainscotted old walls, and the skins on the black, 
time-stained floor. 
With a sudden effort of will he threw off the 
sense of mystery which had again taken
possession of him, and walked forward quickly. As 
Weir heard him, she turned her head and met 
his eyes, and although a closer look at her face 
startled him afresh, his brain was his own again, 
and he was determined that it should remain so. 
He might yield to supernatural impressions when 
unprepared, but not when both brain and will 
 
were defiantly on the alert. That she was not 
only unaccountably altered, but that she shrank 
from him, was evident; and he was determined to 
hear her version of last night's adventure without 
delay. He believed that she would 
unconsciously say something which would throw a flood 
of light on the whole matter. 
" Where did you get that dress ? " he said, abruptly. 
She started sharply, and the color flew to the 
roots of her hair, then, receding, left her paler 
than before. "Why do you ask me that?" she 
demanded, with unconcealed, almost terrified 
suspicion in her tones. 
"Because," he said, looking straight into her 
eyes, " I had a peculiar dream last night, in which 
you wore a dress exactly like this. It is rather a 
remarkable coincidence that you should put it on 
to-night." 
"Harold!" she cried, springing forward and 
catching his arm convulsively in both her hands, 
"what has happened? What is it? And how 
can you talk so calmly when to me it seems — " 
He put his arm around her. " Seems what ? " 
he said, soothingly. " Did you have a dream, 
too ? " 
" Yes," she said, her face turning a shade 
paler, " I had a dream." 
" And in it you wore this dress ? " 
" Yes." 
 
" Tell me your dream. " 
" No ! " she exclaimed, " I cannot." 
Dartmouth put his hand under her chin and 
pushed her head back against his shoulder, 
upturning her face. " You must tell me," he 
said, quietly; " every word of it ! I am not 
asking you out of curiosity, but because the dream 
I had was too remarkable to be without 
meaning. I cannot reach that meaning unassisted; 
but with your help I believe I can. So tell me 
at once." 
"Oh, Harold ! " she cried, throwing her arms 
suddenly about him and clinging to him, " I have 
no one else to speak to but you: I cannot tell 
my father; he would not understand. No girl 
ever felt so horribly alone as I have felt to-day. 
If it had not been for you I believe I should have 
killed myself; but you are everything to me, only 
— how can I tell you ? " 
He tightened his arms about her and kissed 
her. 
" Don't kiss me," she exclaimed sharply, 
trying to free herself. 
" Why not ? " he demanded, in surprise. " Why 
should I not kiss you ? " 
She let her head drop again to his shoulder. 
"True," she said; "why should you not? It is 
only that I forget that I am not the woman I 
dreamed I was; and for her — it was wrong to 
kiss you." 
 
" Weir, tell me your dream at once. It is for 
your good as well as mine that I insist. You 
will be miserable and terrified until you take 
someone into your confidence. I believe I can 
explain your dream, as well as give you the 
comfort of talking it over with you." 
She slipped suddenly out of his arms and 
walked quickly to the end of the room and 
back, pausing within a few feet of him. The 
room was growing dark, and he could distinguish 
little of her beyond the tall outline of her form 
and the unnatural brilliancy of her eyes, but he 
respected her wish and remained where he was. 
"Very well," she said, rapidly. "I will tell 
you. I went to sleep without much terror, for I 
had told my maid to sleep in my dressing-room. 
But I suppose the storm and the story I had told 
you had unsettled my nerves, for I soon began 
to dream a horrid dream. I thought I was dead 
once more. I could feel the horrible chill and 
pain, the close-packed ice about me. I was 
dead, but yet there was a spirit within me. I 
could feel it whispering to itself, although it had 
not as yet spread its fire through me and 
awakened me into life. It whispered that it was tired, 
and disheartened, and disappointed, and wanted 
rest; that it had been on a long, fruitless journey, 
and was so weary that it would not take up the 
burden of life again just yet. But its rest could 
not be long; there was someone it must find, 
 
and before he had gone again to that boundless 
land, whose haunting spirits were impalpable as 
flecks of mist. And then it moaned and wept, 
and seemed to live over its past, and I went back 
with it, or I was one with it — I cannot define. It 
recalled many scenes, but only one made an 
impression on my memory; I can recall no other." 
She paused abruptly, but Dartmouth made no 
comment; he stood motionless in breathless 
expectancy. She put her hand to her head, and 
after a moment continued haltingly: 
"I — oh — I hardly know how to tell it. I 
seemed to be standing with you in a room more 
familiar to me than any room in this castle; a 
room full of tapestries and skins and cushions 
and couches; a room which if I had seen it in a 
picture I should have recognized as Oriental, 
although I have never seen an Oriental room. I 
have always had an indescribable longing to see 
Constantinople, and it seemed to me in that 
dream as if I had but to walk to the window and 
look down upon it — as if I had looked down upon 
it many times and loved its beauty. But although 
I was with you, and your arms were about me, we 
were not as we are now — as we were before the 
dream: we had suffered all that a man and a 
woman can suffer who love and are held apart. 
And you looked as you do now, yet utterly 
different. You looked years older, and you were 
dressed so strangely. I do not know how I 
 
looked, but I know how I felt. I felt that I had 
made up my mind to commit a deadly sin, and 
that I gloried in it. I had suffered because to 
love you was a sin; but I only loved you the more 
for that reason. Then you slowly drew me 
further into the room and pressed me more 
closely in your arms and kissed me again, and 
then — I — oh — I do not know — it is all so vague 
I don't know what it meant — but it seemed as if 
the very foundations of my life were being swept 
away. And yet — oh, I cannot explain ! I do 
not know, myself." And she would have thrown 
herself headlong on the sofa had not Dartmouth 
sprang forward and caught her. 
"There, never mind," he said, quickly. " Let 
that go. It is of no consequence. A dream like 
that must necessarily end in a climax of 
incoherence and excitement." 
He drew her down on the sofa, and for a 
moment said nothing further. He had to 
acknowledge that she had deepened the mystery, and 
given no key. A silence fell, and neither 
moved. Suddenly she raised her head. " What 
was your dream ? " she demanded. 
" The same. I don't pretend to explain it. 
And I shall not insult your understanding by 
inventing weak excuses. If it means anything 
we will give the problem no rest until we have 
solved it. If we cannot solve it, then we are 
justified in coming to the conclusion that there 
 
is nothing in it. But I believe we shall get to 
the bottom of it yet." 
" Perhaps," she said, wearily; " I do not know. 
I only feel that I shall never be myself again, 
but must go through life with that woman's 
burden of sin and suffering weighing me down." 
She paused a moment, and then continued: " In 
that dream I wore a dress like this, and that is 
the reason I put it on to-night. I was getting 
some things in Paris before I left, and [ bought 
it thinking you would like it; I had heard you 
say that yellow was your favorite color. When 
my maid opened the door of my wardrobe to-night 
to take out a dress, and I saw this hanging there, it 
gave me such a shock that I caught at a chair to 
keep from falling. And then I felt irresistibly 
. impelled to put it on. I felt as if it were a shroud, 
vivid in color as it is; but it had an uncanny 
fascination for me, and I experienced a morbid de- 
light in feeling both spirit and flesh revolt, and 
yet compelling them to do my will. I never 
knew that it was in me to feel so, but I suppose I 
am utterly demoralized by so realistically living 
over again that awful experience of my 
childhood. If it happened again I should either be 
carried back to the vault for good and all, or end 
my days in the topmost tower of the castle, with 
a keeper, and the storms and sea-gulls for sole 
companions." 
She sat up in a moment, and putting her 
 
hand on his shoulder, looked him full in the 
face for the first time. " It seems to me that I 
know you now," she said, "and that I never knew 
you before. When I first saw you to-night I 
shrank from you: why, I hardly know, except 
that the personality of that woman had woven 
itself so strongly into mine that for the moment 
I felt I had no right to love you. But I have 
never loved you as I do to-night, because that 
dream, however little else I may have to thank it 
for, did for me this at least: it seemed to give me 
a glimpse into every nook and corner of your 
character; I feel now that my understanding of 
your strange nature is absolute. I had seen 
only one side of it before, and had made but 
instinctive guesses at the rest; but as I stood 
with you in that dream, I had, graven on 
my memory, the knowledge of every side and 
phase of your character as you had revealed 
it to me many times; and that memory 
abides with me. I remember no details, but that 
makes no difference; if I were one with you I 
could not know you better.'' She slipped her 
arms about his neck and pressed her face close 
to his. " You have one of your attacks of 
melancholy to-night," she murmured. " You tried 
to conceal it, and the effort made you 
appear cold. It was the first thing I thought of 
when I turned and saw you, in spite of all I felt 
myself. And although you had described those 
 
attacks before, the description had conveyed 
little to me; that your moods were different from 
other people's blues had hardly occurred to me, 
we had been so happy. But now I understand. 
I pay for the knowledge with a high price; but 
that is life, I suppose." 
IX. 
Two DAYS later Dartmouth received a 
despatch from the steward of his estates in the 
north of England announcing that there was 
serious trouble among his tenantry, and that his 
interests demanded he should be on the scene 
at once. The despatch was brought to his 
room, and he went directly down to the hall, 
where he had left Weir, and told her he- must 
leave her for a few days. She had been standing 
by the fire-place warming her foot on the fender, 
but she sat suddenly down on a chair as he 
explained to her the nature of the telegram. 
" Harold," she said, " if you go you will never 
come back" 
" My dear girl," he said, " that speech is 
unworthy of you. You are not the sort of woman 
to believe in such nonsense as presentiments." 
" Presentiments may be supernatural," she 
said, " but not more so than the experience we 
have had. So long as you are with me I feel 
comparatively untroubled, but if yon go I know 
that something will happen." 
He sat down on the arm of her chair and took 
her hand. "You are low-spirited yet," he said, 
" and consequently you take a morbid view of 
everything. That is all. I am beginning to 
doubt if the dream we had was anything more 
than the most remarkable dream on record; if 
it were otherwise, two such wise heads as ours 
would have discovered the hidden meaning 
by this time. And, granting that, you must 
also grant that if anything were going to 
happen, you could not possibly know it; nor 
will predicting it bring it about. I will be 
with you in two days from this hour, and you 
will only remember how glad you were to get 
rid of me." 
" I hope so," she said. " But — is it absolutely 
necessary for you to go ?" 
" Not if you don't mind living on bread and 
cheese for a year or two. The farms of my 
ancestral home make a pretty good rent-roll, but if 
my tenants become the untrammelled communists 
my steward predicts, we may have to camp out 
on burnt stubble for some time to come. It is 
in the hope of inducing them to leave me at least 
the Hall to take a bride to that I go to interview 
them at once. I may be too late, but I will do 
my best." 
" You will always joke, I suppose," she said, 
smiling a little; "but comeback to me." 
He left Rhyd-Alwyn that evening and arrived 
 
at Crumford Hall the next morning. He slept 
little during the journey. His mood was still 
upon him, and without consideration for Weir as 
an incentive it was more difficult to fight it off; 
indeed, it was almost a luxury to yield to it. 
Moreover, although it had been easy enough to 
say he would think no more about his vision and 
its accompanying incidents, it was not so easy to 
put the determination into practice, and he found 
himself spending the night in the vain attempt 
to untangle the web, and in endeavoring to an- 
alyze the subtle, uncomfortable sense of mystery 
which those events had left behind them. Tow- 
ard morning he lost all patience with himself, 
and taking a novel out of his bag fixed his mind 
deliberately upon it; and as the story was rather 
stupid, it had the comfortable effect of sending 
him to sleep. 
When he arrived at his place he found that the 
trouble was less serious than his steward had 
represented. The year had been unproductive, 
and his tenants had demanded a lower- 
ing of their rents; but neither flames nor 
imprecations were in order. Dartmouth was inclined 
to be a just man, and, moreover, he was very 
much in love, and anxious to get away; 
consequently, after a two days' examination of 
the situation in all its bearings, he acceded in great part 
to their demands and gave his lieutenant orders 
to hold the reins lightly during the coming year. 
 
On the second night after his arrival he went into 
his study to write to Weir. He had been so busy 
heretofore that he had sent her but a couple of 
lines at different times, scribbled on a leaf of his 
note-book, and he was glad to find the 
opportunity to write her a letter. He had hoped to 
return to her instead, but had found several 
other matters which demanded his attention, and 
he preferred to look into them at once ; 
otherwise he would be obliged to return later on. 
His study was a comfortable little den just off 
the library, and its four walls had witnessed the 
worst of his moods and the most roseate of his 
dreams. In it he had frequently sat up all night 
talking with his grandmother, and the 
atmosphere had vibrated with some hot disputes. 
There was a divan across one end, some 
bookshelves across the other, and on one side was a 
desk with a revolving chair before it. Above the 
desk hung a battle-axe which he had brought 
from America. Opposite was a heavily-curtained 
window, and near it a door which led into 
his private apartments. Between was a heavy 
piece of furniture of Byzantijie manufacture. As 
he entered the little room for the first time since 
his arrival, he stood for a moment with a 
retrospective smile in his eyes. He almost fancied he 
could see his grandmother half-reclining on one 
end of the divan, with a pillow beneath her elbow, 
her stately head, with its tower of white hair, 
thrown imperiously, somewhat superciliously 
back, as her eyes flashed and her mouth poured 
forth a torrent of overwhelming argument. 
"Poor old girl!" he thought; " why do women 
like that have to die? How she and Weir would 
have — argued, to put it mildly. I am afraid I 
should have had to put a continent between 
them. But I would give a good deal to see her 
again, all the same." 
He shut the door, sat down before his desk, 
and took a bunch of keys from his pocket. As 
he did so, his eyes fell upon one of curious 
workmanship, and he felt a sudden sense of 
pleasant anticipation. That key opened the 
Byzantine chest opposite, somewhere in whose 
cunningly hidden recesses lay, he was convinced, 
the papers which he had once seen in his grand- 
mother's clenched hands. He did not believe she 
had destroyed them; she had remarked a few 
days before her death — which had been sudden 
and unexpected — that she must soon devote an 
unpleasant hour to the burning of old letters and 
papers. She had spoken lightly, but there had 
been a gleam in her eyes and a tightening of her 
lips which had suggested the night he had seen 
her look as if she wished that the papers between 
her fingers were a human throat. Should he find 
those papers and pass away a dull evening? 
There was certainly nothing but the obstinacy of 
the chest to prevent, and she would forgive him 
 
more than that. He had always had a strong 
curiosity in regard to those papers, but his 
