


you. You are the most beautiful woman in the world, the 
most nobly good. Everybody knows it, why should I not 
say it ? I wish I were a little child, and that you were my 
mother. Are you angry still V 

Corona was silent, and her eyes grew soft again as she 
looked kindly at the man beside her. She did not under 
stand him, but she knew that he meant to express something 
which was not bad. Gouache waited for her to speak. 

' It was not for that I asked you to come with me,' she 
said at last. 

' I am glad I said it,' replied Gouache. ' I am going 
away to-morrow, and it might never have been said. You 
asked me if I loved her. I trust you. I say, yes, I do. I 
am going to say good-bye this afternoon.' 

' I am sorry you love her. Is it serious V 

6 Absolutely, on my part. Why are you sorry ? Is there 
anything unnatural in it?' 

'No, on the contrary, it is too natural. Our lives are 
unnatural You cannot marry her. It seems brutal to tell 
you so, but you must know it already.' 

' There was once a little boy in Paris, Madame, who did 
not have enough to eat every day, nor enough clothes when 
the north wind blew. But he had a good heart. His name 
was Anastase Gouache.' 

' My dear friend,' said Corona, kindly, ' the atmosphere of 
Casa Montevarchi is colder than the north wind. A man 
may overcome almost anything more easily than the old- 
fashioned prejudices of a Roman prince.' 
' You do not forbid me to try V 
' Would the prohibition make any difference V 
' I am not sure.' Gouache paused and looked long at the 
princess. ' No,' he said at last, ' I am afraid not.'

' In that case I can only say one thing. You are a man 
of honour. Do your best not to make her uselessly unhappy. 
Win her if you can, by any fair means. But she has a 
heart, and I am very fond of the child. If any harm comes 
to her I shall hold you responsible. If you love her, think 
what it would be should she love you and be married to 
another man.' 




A shade of sadness darkened Corona's brow, as she remem 
bered those terrible months of her own life. Gouache knew 
what she meant and was silent for a few moments. 

' I trust you,' said she, at last. ' And since you are going 
to-morrow, God bless you. You are going in a good 
cause.' 

She held out her hand as she rose to leave him, and he 
bent over it and touched it with his lips, as he would have 
kissed the hand of his mother. Then, skirting the little 
assembly of people, Anastase went back towards the piano, 
in search of Donna Faustina. He found her alone, as young 
girls are generally to be found in Eoman drawing-rooms, 
unless there are two of them present to sit together. 

' What have you been talking about with the princess ? ' 
asked Donna Faustina when Gouache was seated beside her. 

Could you see from here ' asked Gouache instead of 
answering. ' I thought the plants would have hindered you.' 

' I saw you kiss her hand when you got up, and so I 
supposed that the conversation had been serious.' 

' Less serious than ours must be,' replied Anastase, 
sadly. ' I was saying good-bye to her, and now ' 

' Good-bye ? Why ? ' Faustina checked herself and 

looked away to hide her pallor. She felt cold, and a slight 
shiver passed over her slender figure. 

' I am going to the front to-morrow morning.' 

There was a long silence, during which the two looked 
at each other from time to time, neither finding courage to 
speak. Since Gouache had been in the room it had grown 
dark, and as yet but one lamp had been brought. The 
young man's eyes sought those he loved in the dusk, and as 
his hand stole out it met another, a tender, nervous hand, 
trembling with emotion. They did not heed what was pass 
ing near them. 

As though their silence were contagious, the conversation 
died away, and there was a general lull, such as sometimes 
falls upon an assemblage of people who have been talking 
for some time. Then, through the deep windows there came 
up a sound of distant uproar, mingled with occasional sharp 
detonations, few indeed, but the more noticeable for their 

rarity. Suddenly the door of the drawing-room burst open, 
and a servant's voice was heard speaking in a loud key, the 
coarse accents and terrified tone contrasting strangely with 
the sounds generally heard in such a place. 

' Excellency ! Excellency ! The revolution ! Garibaldi 
is at the gates ! The Italians are coming I Madonna ! 
Madonna ! The revolution, Eccellenza mia I ' 

The man was mad with fear. Every one spoke at once. 
Some laughed, thinking the man crazy. Others, who had 
heard the distant noise from the streets, drew back and 
looked > nervously towards the door. Then Sant' Ilario's 
clear, strong voice, rang like a clarion through the room. 

' Bar the gates. Shut the blinds all over the house 
it is of no use to let them break good windows. Don't 
stand there shivering like a fool. It is only a mob.' 

Before he had finished speaking, San Giacinto was calmly 
bolting the blinds of the drawing-room windows, fastening 
each one as steadily and securely as he had been wont to 
put up the shutters of his inn at Aquila in the old days. 

In the dusky corner by the piano Gouache and Faustina 
were overlooked in the general confusion. There was no 
time for reflection, for at the first words of the servant 
Anastase knew that he must go instantly to his post. 
Faustina's little hand was still clasped in his, as they both 
sprang to their feet. Then with a sudden movement he 
clasped her in his arms and kissed her passionately. 

' Good-bye my beloved ! ' 

The girl's arms were twined closely about him, and her 
eyes looked up to his with a wild entreaty. 

' You are safe here, my darling good-bye ! ' 

' Where are you going ?' 

' To the Serristori barracks. God keep you safe till I 
come back good-bye ! ' 

' I will go with you,' said Faustina, with a strange look 
of determination in her angelic face. 

Gouache smiled, even then, at the mad thought which 
presented itself to the girl's mind. Once more he kissed 
her, and then, she knew not how, he was gone. Other 
persons had come near them, shutting the windows rapidly, 



one after the other, in anticipation of danger from without. 
With instinctive modesty Faustina withdrew her arms from 
the young man's neck and shrank back. In that moment 
he disappeared in the crowd. 

Faustina stared wildly about her for a few seconds, con 
fused and stunned by the suddenness of what had passed, 
above all by the thought that the man she loved was gone from 
her side to meet his death. Then without hesitation she 
left the room. No one hindered her, for the Saracinesca 
men were gone to see to the defences of the house, and 
Corona was already by the cradle of her child. No one 
noticed the slight figure as it slipped through the door and 
was gone in the darkness of the unlighted halls. All was 
cun fusion and noise and flashing of passing lights as the 
servants hurried about, trying to obey orders in spite of 
their terror. Faustina glided like a shadow down the vast 
staircase, slipped through one of the gates just as the 
bewildered porter was about to close it, and in a moment 
was out in the midst of the multitude that thronged the 
dim streets a mere child and alone, facing a revolution in 
the dark. 

CHAPTER V 

GOUACHE made his way as fast as he could to the bridge of 
Sant' Angelo, but his progress was constantly impeded by 
moving crowds bodies of men, women, and children rush 
ing frantically together at the corners of the streets and then 
surging onward in the direction of the resultant produced 
by their combined forces in the shock. There was loud 
and incoherent screaming of women and shouting of men, 
out of which occasionally a few words could be distinguished, 
more often ' Viva Pio Nono ! ' or ' Viva la Repubblica ! ' 
than anything else. The scene of confusion baffled descrip 
tion. A company of infantry was filing out of the castle 
of Sant' Angelo on to the bridge, where it was met by a 
dense multitude of people coming from the opposite direc 
tion. A squadron of mounted gendarmes came up from the 
Borgo Nuovo at the same moment, and half a dozen cabs 





were jammed in between the opposing masses of the soldiers 
and the people. The officer at the head of the column of 
foot-soldiers loudly urged the crowd to make way, and the 
latter, consisting chiefly of peaceable but terrified citizens, 
attempted to draw back, while the weight of those behind 
pushed them on. Gouache, who was in the front of the 
throng, was allowed to enter the file of infantry, in virtue 
of his uniform, and attempted to get through and make his 
way to the opposite bank. But with the best efforts he 
soon found himself unable to move, the soldiers being wedged 
together as tightly as the people. Presently the crowd in 
the piazza seemed to give way and the column began to 
advance again, bearing Gouache backwards in the direction 
he had come. He managed to get to the parapet, however, 
by edging sideways through the packed ranks. 

' Give me your shoulder, comrade ! ' he shouted to the 
man next to him. The fellow braced himself, and in an 
instant the agile Zouave was on the narrow parapet, running 
along as nimbly as a cat, and winding himself past the huge 
statues at every half-dozen steps. He jumped down at the 
other end and ran for the Borgo Santo Spirito at the top of 
his speed. The broad space was almost deserted and in 
three minutes he was before the gates of the barracks, which 
were situated on the right-hand side of the street, just beyond 
the College of the Penitentiaries and opposite the church of 
San Spirito in Sassia. 

Meanwhile Donna Faustina Montevarchi was alone in 
the streets. ^ In desperate emergencies young and nervously- 
organised people most commonly act in accordance with the 
dictates of the predominant passion by which they are in 
fluenced. Very generally that passion is terror, but when it 
is not, it is almost impossible to calculate the consequences 
which may follow. When the whole being is dominated by 
love and by the greatest anxiety for the safety of the person 
loved, the weakest woman will do deeds which might make 
a brave man blush for his courage. This was precisely 
Faustina's case. 

If any man says that he understands women he is con 
victed of folly by his own speech, seeing that they are alto- 



gether incomprehensible. Of men, it may be sufficient foi 
general purposes to say with David that they are all liars, 
even though we allow that they may be all curable of the 
vice of falsehood. Of women, however, there is no general 
statement which is true. The one is brave to heroism, the 
next cowardly in a degree fantastically comic. The one is 
honest, the other faithless ; the one contemptible in her 
narrowness of soul, the next supremely noble in broad truth 
as the angels in heaven ; the one trustful, the other suspi 
cious, this one gentle as a dove, that one grasping and 
venomous as a strong serpent. The hearts of women are 
as the streets of a great town some broad and straight and 
clean ; some dim and narrow and winding ; or as the 
edifices and buildings of that same city, wherein there are 
holy temples, at which men worship in calm and peace, and 
dens where men gamble away the souls given them by God 
against the living death they call pleasure, which is doled 
out to them by the devil ; in which there are quiet dwell 
ings, and noisy places of public gathering, fair palaces and 
loathsome charnel-houses, where the dead are heaped together, 
even as our dead sins lie ghastly and unburied in that dark 
chamber of the soul, whose gates open of their own selves 
and shall not be sealed while there is life in us tp suffer. 
Dost thou boast that thou knowest the heart of woman ? 
Go to, thou more than fool ! The heart of woman con- 
taineth all things, good and evil ; and knowest thou then 
all that is ? 

Donna Faustina was no angel. She had not that lofty 
calmness which we attribute to the angelic character. She 
was very young, utterly inexperienced and ignorant of the 
world. The idea which over-towers all other ideas was the 
first which had taken hold upon her, and under its strength 
she was like a flower before the wind. She was not naturally 
of the heroic type either, as Corona d'Astrardente had been, 
and perhaps was still, capable of sacrifice for the ideal of 
duty, able to suffer torment rather than debase herself by 
yielding, strong to stem the torrent of a great passion until 
she had the right to abandon herself to its mighty flood. 
Faustina was a younger and a gentler woman, not knowing 



what she did from the moment her heart began to dictate her 
actions, willing, above all, to take the suggestion of her soul 
as a command, and, because she knew no evil, rejoicing in an 
abandonment which might well have terrified one who knew 
the world. 

She already loved Anastase intensely. Under the cir 
cumstances of his farewell, the startling effect of the 
announcement of a revolution, the necessity under which, as 
a soldier, he found himself of leaving her instantly in order 
to face a real danger, with his first kiss warm upon her lips, 
and with the frightful conviction that if he left her it might 
be the last under all the emotions brought about by these 
things, half mad with love and anxiety, it was not altogether 
wonderful that she acted as she did. She could not have 
explained it, for the impulse was so instinctive that she did 
not comprehend it, and the deed followed so quickly upon 
the thought that there was no time for reflection. She fled 
from the room and from the palace, out into the street, 
wholly unconscious of danger, like a creature in a dream. 

The crowd which had impeded Gouache's progress was 
already thinning when Faustina reached the pavement. She 
was born and bred in Rome, and as a child, before the con 
vent days, had been taken to walk many a time in the 
neighbourhood of Saint Peter's. She knew well enough 
where the Serristori barracks were situated, and turned at 
once towards Sant' Angelo. There were still many people 
about, most of them either hurrying in the direction whence 
the departing uproar still proceeded, or running homewards 
to get out of danger. Few noticed her, and for some 
time no one hindered her progress, though it was a strange 
sight to see a fair young girl, dressed in the fashion of the 
time which so completely distinguished her from Roman 
women of lower station, running at breathless speed through 
the dusky streets. 

Suddenly she lost her way. Coming down the Yia de 
Coronari she turned too soon to the right and found herself 
in the confusing byways which form a small labyrinth 
around the church of San Salvatore in Lauro. She had 
entered a blind alley on the left when she ran against two 

 

men, who unexpectedly emerged from one of those under 
ground wine-shops which are numerous in that neighbour 
hood. They were talking in low and earnest tones, and one 
of them staggered backward as the young girl rushed upon 
him in the dark. Instinctively the man grasped her and 
held her tightly by the arms. 

' Where are you running to, my beauty V he asked, as she 
struggled to get away. 

' Oh, let me go ! let me go !' she cried in agonised tones, 
twisting her slender wrists in his firm grip. The other man 
stood by, watching the scene. 

' Better let her go, Peppino,' he said. ' Don't you see 
she is a lady ?' 

'A lady, eh?' echoed the other. ' Where are you going 
to, with that angel's face V 

'To the Serristori barrack,' answered Faustina, still 
struggling with all her might. 

At this announcement both men laughed loudly and 
glanced quickly at each other. They seemed to think the 
answer a very good joke. 

' If that is all, you may go, and the devil accompany you. 
What say you, Gaetano ?' Then they laughed again. 

'Take that chain and brooch as a ricordo just for a 
souvenir,' said Gaetano, who then himself tore off the orna 
ments while the other held Faustina's hands. 

' You are a pretty girl indeed ! ' he cried, looking at her 
pale face in the light of the filthy little red lamp that hung 
over the low door of the wine-shop. ' I never kissed a lady 
in my life.' 

With that he grasped her delicate chin in his foul hand 
and bent down, bringing his grimy face close to hers. But 
this was too much. Though Faustina had hitherto fought 
with all her natural strength against the ruffians, there 
was a reserved force, almost superhuman, in her slight frame, 
which was suddenly roused by the threatened outrage. 
With a piercing shriek she sprang backwards and dashed 
herself free, sending the two blackguards reeling into the 
darkness. Then, like a flash she was gone. By chance she 
took the right turning and in a moment more found herself 


in the Via di Tordinona, just opposite the entrance of the 
Apollo theatre. The torn white handbills on the wall, and 
the projecting shed over the doors told her where she was. 

By this time the soldiers who had intercepted Gouache's 
passage across the bridge, as well as the dense crowd, had dis 
appeared, and Faustina ran like the wind along the pave 
ment it had taken the soldier so long to traverse. Like a 
flitting bird she sped over the broad space beyond and up 
the Borgo Nuovo, past the long low hospital, wherein the sick 
and dying lay in their silence, tended by the patient Sisters 
of Mercy, while all was in excitement without. The young 
girl ran past the corner. A Zouave was running before her 
towards the gate of the barrack where a sentinel stood motion 
less under the lamp, his gray hood drawn over his head and 
his rifle erect by his shoulder. 

At that instant a terrific explosion rent the air, followed 
a moment later by the dull crash of falling fragments of 
masonry, and then by a long thundering, rumbling sound, 
dreadful to hear, which lasted several minutes, as the ruins 
continued to fall in, heaps upon heaps, sending immense 
clouds of thick dust up into the night air. Then all was 
still. 

The little piazza before San Spirito in Sassia was half 
filled with masses of stone and brickwork and crumbling 
mortar. A young girl lay motionless upon her face at the 
corner of the hospital, her white hands stretched out towards 
the man who lay dead but a few feet before her, crushed 
under a great irregular mound of stones and rubbish. Be 
neath the central heap where the barracks had stood lay the 
bodies of the poor Zouaves, deep buried in wreck of the 
main building, the greater part of which had fallen across 
the side street that passes between the Penitenzieri and 
the Serristori. All was still for many minutes, while the 
soft light streamed from the high windows of the hospital 
and faintly illuminated some portion of the hideous scene. 

Very slowly a few stragglers came in sight, then more, 
and then by degrees a great dark crowd of awestruck people 
were collected together and stood afar off, fearing to come 
near, lest the ruins should still continue falling. Presently 


 

the door of the hospital opened and a party of men in gray 
blouses, headed by three or four gentlemen in black coats 
one indeed was in his shirt sleeves emerged into the silent 
street and went straight towards the scene of the disaster. 
They carried lanterns and a couple of stretchers such as are 
used for bearing the wounded. It chanced that the straight 
line they followed from the door did not lead them to where 
the girl was lying, and it was not until after a long and 
nearly fruitless search that they turned back Two soldiers 
only, and both dead, could they find to bring back. The 
rest were buried far beneath, and it would be the work of 
many hours to extricate the bodies, even with a large force 
of men. 

As the little procession turned sadly back, they found that 
the crowd had advanced cautiously forward and now filled the 
street. In the foremost rank a little circle stood about a 
dark object that lay on the ground, curious, but too timid to 
touch it. 

' Signer Professore,' said one man in a low voice, ' there 
is a dead woman.' 

The physicians came forward and bent over the body. 
One of them shook his head, as the bright light of the 
lantern fell on her face while he raised the girl from the 
ground. 

' She is a lady,' said one of the others in a low voice. 
The men brought a stretcher and lifted the girl's body 

gently from the ground, scarcely daring to touch her, and 
gazing anxiously but yet in wonder at the white face. When 
she was laid upon the coarse canvas there was a moment's 
pause. The crowd pressed closely about the hospital men, 
and the yellow light of the lanterns was reflected on many 
strange faces, all bent eagerly forward and down to get a last 
sight of the dead girl's features. 

'Andiamo,' said one of the physicians in a quiet sad 
voice. The bearers took up the dead Zouaves again, the pro 
cession of death entered the gates of the hospital, and the 
heavy doors closed behind like the portals of a tomb. 

The crowd closed again and pressed forward to the ruins. 
A tew gendarmes had come up, and very soon a party of 


labourers was at work clearing away the lighter rubbish under 
the lurid glare of pitch torches stuck into the crevices and 
cracks of the rent walls. The devilish deed was done, but 
by a providential accident its consequences had been less 
awful than might have been anticipated. Only one-third of 
the mine had actually exploded, and only thirty Zouaves 
were at the time within the building. 

' Did you see her face, Gaetano V asked a rough fellow of 
his companion. They stood together in a dark corner a little 
aloof from the throng of people. 

' No, but it must have been she. I am glad I have not 
that sin on my soul.' 

' You are a fool, Gaetano. What is a girl to a couple of 
hundred soldiers ? Besides, if you had held her tight she 
would not have got here in time to be killed.' 

' Eh but a girl ! The other vagabonds at least, we have 
despatched in a good cause. Viva la liberta !' 
' Hush ! There are the gendarmes ! This way ! ' 

So they disappeared into the darkness whence they had 
come. 

It was not only in the Borgo Nuovo that there was con 
fusion and consternation. The first signal for the outbreak 
had been given in the Piazza Colonna, where bombs had been 
exploded. Attacks were made upon the prisons by bands of 
those sinister-looking, unknown men, who for several days 
had been noticed in various parts of the city. A compact 
mob invaded the capitol, armed with better weapons than 
mobs generally find ready to their hands. At the Porta San 
Paolo, which was rightly judged to be one of the weakest 
points of the city, a furious attack was made from without by 
a band of Garibaldians who had crept up near the walls in 
various disguises during the last two days. More than one 
of the barracks within the city were assaulted simultaneously, 
and for a short time companies of men paraded the streets, 
shouting their cries of ' Viva Garibaldi, Viva la liberta ! ' 
A few cried ' Viva Vittorio ! ' and 'Viva l'Italia!' But a 
calm observer and there were many such in Rome that 
night could easily see that the demonstration was rather 
in favour of an anarchic republic than of the Italian 




monarchy. On the whole, the population showed no 
sympathy with the insurrection. It is enough to say that 
this tiny revolution broke out at dusk and was entirely 
quelled before nine o'clock of the same evening. The 
attempts made were bold and desperate in many cases, but 
were supported by a small body of men only, the populace 
taking no active part in what was done. Had a real 
sympathy existed between the lower classes of Romans and 
the Garibaldians the result could not have been doubtful, for 
the vigour and energy displayed by the rioters would in 
evitably have attracted any similarly disposed crowd to join 
in a fray, when the weight of a few hundreds more would 
have turned the scale at any point. There was not a French 
soldier in the city at the time, and of the Zouaves and native 
troops a very large part were employed upon the frontier. 
Rome was saved and restored to order by a handful of 
soldiers, who were obliged to act at many points simul 
taneously, and the insignificance of the original movement 
may be determined from this fact. 

It is true that of the two infernal schemes, plotted at 
once to destroy the troops in a body and to strike terror 
into the inhabitants, one failed in part and the other al 
together. If the whole of the gunpowder which Giuseppe 
Monti and Gaetano Tognetti had placed in the mine under 
the Serristori barracks had exploded, instead of only one- 
third of the quantity, a considerable part of the Borgo 
Nuovo would have been destroyed ; and even the disaster 
which actually occurred would have killed many hundreds 
of Zouaves if these had chanced to be indoors at the time. 
But it is impossible to calculate the damage and loss of life 
which would have been recorded had the castle of Sant' 
Angelo and the adjacent fortifications been blown into the 
air. A huge mine had been laid and arranged for firing in 
the vaults of one of the bastions, but the plot was betrayed 
at the very last moment by one of the conspirators. I may 
add that these men, who were tried, and condemned only to 
penal servitude, were liberated in 1870, three years later, 
by the Italian Government, on the ground that they were 
merely political prisoners. The attempt in which they had 



been engaged would, however, even in time of declared war, 
have been regarded as a crime against the law of nations. 

Eome was immediately declared under a state of siege, 
and patrols of troops began to parade the streets, sending 
all stragglers whom they met to their homes, on the admir 
able principle that it is the duty of every man who finds 
himself in a riotous crowd to leave it instantly unless he 
can do something towards restoring order. Persons who 
found themselves in other people's houses, however, had 
some difficulty in at once returning to their own, and as it 
has been seen that the disturbance began precisely at the 
time selected by society for holding its confabulations, there 
were many who found themselves in that awkward situation. 

As the sounds in the street subsided, the excitement in 
the drawing-room at the Palazzo Saracinesca diminished like 
wise. Several of those present announced their intention of 
departing at once, but to this the old prince made serious 
objections. The city was not safe, he said. Carriages 
might be stopped at any moment, and even if that did not 
occur, all sorts of accidents might arise from the horses 
shying at the noises, or running over people in the crowds. 
He had his own views, and as he was in his own house it 
was not easy to dispute them. 

' The gates are shut,' he said, with a cheerful laugh, ' and 
none of you can get out at present. As it is nearly dinner 
time you must all dine with me. It will not be a banquet, 
but I can give you something to eat. I hope nobody is gone 
already.' 

Every one, at these words, looked at everybody else, as 
though to see whether any one were missing. 

' I saw Monsieur Gouache go out,' said Flavia Monte- 
varchi 

' Poor fellow ! ' exclaimed the princess, her mother. ' I 
hope nothing will happen to him ! ' She paused a moment 
and looked anxiously round the room. ' Good Heavens ! ' 
she cried suddenly, ' where is Faustina ? ' 

' She must have gone out of the room with my wife,' said 
Sant' Ilario, quietly. ' I will go and see.' 

The princess thought this explanation perfectly natural 


and waited till he should return. He did not come back 
however, so soon as might have been expected. He found 
his wife just leaving the nursery. Her first impulse had 
been to go to the child, and having satisfied herself that he 
had not been carried off" by a band of Garibaldians but was 
sound asleep in his cradle, she was about to rejoin her 



' Where is Faustina Monte varchi ? ' asked Giovanni, as 
though it were the most natural question in the world. 

' Faustina ? ' repeated Corona. ' In the drawing-room, 
to be sure. I have not seen her.' 

' She is not there,' said Sant' Ilario, in a more anxious 
tone. 'I thought she had come here with you.' 

' She must be with the rest. You have overlooked her 
in the crowd. Come back with me and see your son he 
does not seem to mind revolution in the least ! ' 

Giovanni, who had no real doubt but that Faustina was 
in the house, entered the nursery with his wife, and they 
stood together by the child's cradle. 

' Is he not beautiful ? ' exclaimed Corona, passing her arm 
affectionately through her husband's, and leaning her cheek 
on his shoulder. 

' He is a fine baby,' replied Giovanni, his voice expressing 
more satisfaction than his words. ' He will look like my 
father when he grows up.' 

' I would rather he should look like you,' said Corona. 

' If he could look like you, dear, there would be some 
use in wishing.' 

Then they both gazed for some seconds at the swarthy 
little boy, who lay on his pillows, his arms thrown back above 
his head and his two little fists tightly clenched. The rich 
blood softly coloured the child's dark cheeks, and the black 
lashes, already long, like his mother's, gave a singularly 
expressive look to the small face. 

Giovanni tenderly kissed his wife and then they softly 
left the room. As soon as they were outside Sant' Hario's 
thoughts returned to Faustina. 

' She was certainly not in the drawing-room,' he said, ' I 
am quite sure. It was her mother who asked for her and 



everybody heard the question. I dare not go back without 
her.' 

They stopped together in the corridor, looking at each 
other with grave faces. 

' This is very serious,' said Corona. ' We must search 
the house. Send the men. I will tell the women. We 
will meet at the head of the stairs.' 

Five minutes later, Giovanni returned in pursuit of his wife. 
'She has left the house,' he said, breathlessly. 'The 
porter saw her go out.' 

' Good Heavens ! Why did he not stop her ? ' cried 
Corona. 

' Because he is a fool ! ' answered Sant' Ilario, very pale 
in his anxiety. ' She must have lost her head and gone 
home. I will tell her mother.' 
