might have done for her, but at nineteen! And the doctor left the house,
reflecting that were not educated people the most timorous of all, the
emoluments of his profession would be slight.

Whether or not Miss Raritan found the chop and claret sufficient, or
whether she partook of a bromide as well, is not a part of history. In a
little while after the physician's departure a servant brought word to
Tristrem that for the moment Mrs. Raritan was unable to leave her
daughter, but if he would have his dinner then, Mrs. Raritan would see
him later. Such was the revulsion of feeling that Tristrem, to whom, ten
minutes before, the mere mention of food would have been distasteful,
sat down, and ate like a wolf. The meal finished, he went out on the
porch. There was no moon as yet, but the sky was brilliant with the
lights of other worlds. Before him was the infinite, in the air was the
scent of sea-weed, and beyond, the waves leaped up and fawned upon the
bluffs. And as he stood and watched it all, the servant came to him with
Mrs. Raritan's apologies. She thought it better, the maid explained, not
to leave Miss Raritan just yet, and would Mr. Varick be good enough to
excuse her for that evening?

"Wait a second," he answered, and went to his room. He found the jewels,
and brought them down-stairs. "Take these to Miss Raritan," he said, and
on a card he wrote some word of love, which he gave with the trinkets to
the maid. "La parlate d'amor," he murmured, as the servant left to do
his bidding, and then he went again to his room, and sat down at the
window companioned only by the stars. From beyond, the boom and
retreating wash of waves was still audible, and below in the garden he
caught, now and then, the spark and glitter of a firefly gyrating in
loops of gold, but the tower which he had noticed on arriving was lost
in the night.

It was in that direction, he told himself, that the accident must have
occurred. And what was it, after all? As yet he had not fully
understood. Had the horse stumbled, or had he bolted and thrown her? If
he had only been there! And as his fancy evoked the possibilities of
that ride, he saw a terrified brute tearing along a deserted road,
carrying the exquisite girl straight to some sudden death, and, just
when the end was imminent, his own muscles hardened into steel, he had
him by the bit and, though dragged by the impetus, at last he held him,
and she was safe. She was in his arms, her own about his neck, and were
he a knight-errant and she some gracious princess, what sweeter guerdon
could he claim?

But one thing preoccupied him. In the vertiginous flight she had lost
something--her whip, no, her hat--and it was incumbent on him to restore
it to her. Very softly, then, that he might not disturb her, he opened
the door. The house was hushed, and in a moment he was on the road. He
could see the tower now; it was illuminated, and it seemed to him odd
that he had not noticed the illumination before. It was that way, he
knew, back of Hazard's, and he hurried along in the direction which the
man had indicated. The insects had stilled their murmur, and the sky was
more obscure, but the road was clear.

He hurried on, and as he hurried he heard steps behind him, hurrying
too. He turned his head; behind him was a woman running, and who, as she
ran, cast a shadow that was monstrous. In the glimpse that he caught of
her he saw that she was bare of foot and that her breast was uncovered.
Her skirt was tattered and her hair was loose. He turned again, the face
was hideous. The eyes squinted, lustreless and opaque, the nose was
squat, the chin retreated, the forehead was seamed with scars, and the
mouth, that stretched to the ears, was extended with laughter. As she
ran she took her teeth out one by one, replacing them with either hand.
And still she laughed, a silent laughter, her thin lips distorted as
though she mocked the world.

Tristrem, overcome by the horror of that laughter, felt as agonized as a
child pursued. There was a fence at hand, a vacant lot, and across it a
light glimmered. Away he sped. In the field his foot caught in a
bramble; he fell, and could not rise, but he heard her coming and, with
a great effort just as she was on him, he was up again, distancing her
with ever-increasing space. The light was just beyond. He saw now it
came from the tower; there was another fence, he was over it; the door
was barred; no, it opened; he was safe!

In the middle of the room, circular as befits a tower, was a cradle, and
in the cradle was a little boy. As Tristrem looked at him he smiled; it
was, he knew, the child of the man to whom he had spoken that evening.
One hand was under the pillow, but the other, that lay on the coverlid,
held Viola's hat. He bent over to examine it; the fingers that held it
were grimy and large, and, as he looked closer, he saw that it was not a
child, but the man himself. Before he had an opportunity to account for
the delusion he heard the gallop of feet and a thunder at the door. It
was she! He wheeled like a rat surprised. There was a lateral exit,
through which he fled, and presently he found himself in a corridor that
seemed endless in extension. The man evidently had left the cradle and
preceded him, for Tristrem saw him putting on a great-coat some distance
ahead. In his feverish fright he thought, could he but disguise himself
with that, he might pass out unobserved, and he ran on to supplicate for
an exchange of costume; but when he reached the place where the man had
stood he had gone, vanished through a dead wall, and down the corridor
he heard her come. He could hear her bare feet patter on the stones. Oh,
God, what did she wish of him? And no escape, not one. He was in her
power, immured with her forevermore. He called for help, and beat at the
walls, and ever nearer she came, swifter than disease, and more
appalling than death. His nails sank in his flesh, he raised a hand to
stay the beating of his heart, and then at once she was upon him,
felling him to the ground as a ruffian fells his mistress, her knees
were on his arms, he was powerless, dumb with dread, and in his face was
the fetor of her breath. Her eyes were no longer lustreless, they
glittered like twin stars, and still she laughed, her naked breast
heaving with the convulsions of her mirth. "I am Truth," she bawled, and
laughed again. And with that Tristrem awoke, suffocating, quivering, and
outwearied as though he had run a race and lost it.

He sat awhile, broken by the horror of the dream. The palms of his hands
were not yet dry. But soon he bestirred himself, and went to the door;
the lights had been extinguished; he closed it again, and, with the aid
of some candles, he prepared for bed. He would have read a little, but
he was fatigued, tired by the emotions of the day, and when at last he
lay down it was an effort to rise again and put out the candle. How long
he lay in darkness, a second, an hour, he could not afterward recall; it
seemed to him that he had drowsed off at once, but suddenly he started,
trembling from head to foot. He had heard Viola's voice soaring to its
uttermost tension. "Coward," she had called. And then all was still. He
listened, he even went to the door, but the house was wrapped in
silence.

"Bah!" he muttered, "I am entertaining a procession of nightmares." And
in a few moments he was again asleep.




VIII.


At dawn he awoke refreshed. The sun rose from the ocean like an indolent
girl from a bath. Before the house was astir he was out of doors
exploring the land. He strolled past the row of hotels that front the
sea, and pausing a moment at the Casino, fragrant then, and free of the
stench of drink that is the outcome of the later season, he wondered how
it was that, given money, and possibly brains, it was necessary to make
a building as awkward as was that. And then he strayed to the shore,
past the tenantless bath-houses, and on through the glories of the
morning to the untrodden beach beyond.

As he walked, the village faded in the haze. The tide was low and the
sand firm and hard. The waves broke leisurely in films and fringes of
white, gurgling an invitation to their roomy embrace. And when the
hotels were lost in the distance and the solitude was murmurous with
nature alone, Tristrem, captivated by the allurements of the sea, went
down into the waves and clasped them to him as lovers clasp those they
love.

The sun was well on its amble to the zenith before he returned to the
cottage. His hostess, he found, had not yet appeared, and as breakfast
seemed to be served in that pleasant fashion which necessitates nothing,
not even an appetite, Tristrem drank his coffee in solitude. And as he
idled over the meal he recalled the horrors of the night, and smiled.
The air of the morning, the long and quiet stroll, the plunge in the
sea, and the after-bath of sunlight that he had taken stretched full
length on the sand, had dissipated the enervating emotions of dream and
brought him in their stead a new invigoration. He was about to begin the
dithyrambs of the day before, when the servant appeared, bearing a
yellow envelope, and a book in which he was to put his name. He gave the
receipt and opened the message, wonderingly.

"Please come to town," it ran, "your father is dying.--Robert
Harris."

"Your father is dying," he repeated. "H'm. Robert Harris. I never knew
before what the butler's first name was. But what has that to do with
it? There are times when I am utterly imbecile. Your father is dying.
Yes, of course, I must go at once. But it isn't possible. H'm. I
remember. He looked ghastly when I saw him. I suppose--I ought to--good
God, why should I attempt to feign a sorrow that I do not feel? It is
his own fault. I would have--But there, what is the use?"

He bit his nail; he was perplexed at his absence of sensibility. "And
yet," he mused, "in his way he has been kind to me. He has been kind;
that is, if it be kindness in a father to let a son absolutely alone.
After all, filial affection must be like patriotism, ingrained as an
obligation, a thing to blush at if not possessed. Yet then, again, if a
country acts like a step-mother to its children, if a father treats a
son as a guardian might treat a ward, the ties are conventional; and on
what shall affection subsist? It was he who called me into being, and,
having done so, he assumed duties which he should not have shirked. It
was not for him to make himself a stranger to me; it was for him to
teach me to honor him so much, to love him so well that at his death my
head would be bowed in prostrations of grief. I used to try to school
myself to think that it was only his way; that, outwardly cold and
undemonstrative, his heart was warm as another's. But--well, it may have
been, it may have been. After all, if I can't grieve, I would cross the
continent to spare him a moment's pain. It was he, I suppose, who told
Harris to wire. Yes, I must hurry."

He called the servant to him. "Can you tell me, please, when the next
train goes?" But the servant had no knowledge whereon to base a reply.
She suggested, however, that information might be obtained at an inn
which stood a short distance up the road. He scribbled a few lines on a
card, and gave it to the woman. "Take that to Miss Raritan, please, will
you?" he said, and left the house.

At the inn a very large individual sat on the stoop, coatless, a straw
covering of a remoter summer far back on his head, and his feet turned
in. He listened to Tristrem with surly indifference, and spat profusely.
He didn't know; he reckoned the morning train had gone.

"Hay, Alf," he called out to the negro who had taken Tristrem from the
station the night before, and who was then driving by, "when's the next
train go?"

"'Bout ten minutes; I just took a party from Taylor's."

"Thank you," said Tristrem to the innkeeper, who spat again by way of
acknowledgment. "Can you take me to the station?" he asked the negro;
and on receiving an affirmative reply, he told him to stop at Mrs.
Raritan's for his traps.

As Tristrem entered the gate he saw Viola's assistant of the preceding
evening drive up, waving a hat.

"I got it," the man cried out, "here it is. First time it ever passed a
night out of doors, I'll bet. And none the worse for it, either." He
handed it over to Tristrem. "I dreamt about you last night," he added.

"That's odd," Tristrem answered, "I dreamed about you." The man laughed
at this as had he never heard anything so droll. "Well, I swan!" he
exclaimed, and cracked his whip with delight. His horse started. "Here,"
he said, "I near forgot. Whoa, there, can't you. This goes with the
hat." And he crumpled a handkerchief in his hand, and tossing it to
Tristrem, he let the horse continue his way unchecked.

The hat which the man had found did not indeed look as though it had
passed a night on the roadside. Save for an incidental speck or two it
might have come fresh from a bandbox. Tristrem carried it into the
cottage, and was placing it on the hall-table when Mrs. Raritan
appeared.

"I am so sorry," she began, "Viola has told me----"

"How is she? May I not see her?"

"She scarcely slept last night."

Tristrem looked in the lady's face. The lids of her eyes were red and
swollen.

"But may I not see her? May I not, merely for a moment."

"She is sleeping now," Mrs. Raritan answered; "perhaps," she added, "it
is better that you should not. The doctor has been here. He says that
she should be quiet. But you will come back, will you not? Truly I
sympathize with you."

Mrs. Raritan's eyes filled with tears, but to what they were due, who
shall say? She seemed to Tristrem unaccountably nervous and distressed.

"There is nothing serious the matter, is there?" he asked, anxiously.
And at the question, Mrs. Raritan almost choked. She shook her head,
however, but Tristrem was not assured. "I must see her," he said, and
he made as would he mount the stair.

"Mr. Varick! she is asleep. She has had a wretched night. When you are
able to come back, it will be different. But if you care for her, let
her be."

The protest was almost incoherent. Mrs. Raritan appeared beside herself
with anxiety.

"Forgive me," said Tristrem, "I did not mean to vex you. Nor would I
disturb her." He paused a second, dumbly and vaguely afflicted. "You
will tell her, will you not?" he added; "tell her this, that I wanted to
see her. Mrs. Raritan, my whole life is wrapped up in her." He hesitated
again. "You are tired too, I can see. You were up with her last night,
were you not?"

Mrs. Raritan bowed her head.

"You must forgive me," he repeated, "I did not understand. Tell me," he
continued, "last night I awoke thinking that I heard her calling. Did
she call?"

"Call what?"

"I thought--you see I was half, perhaps wholly asleep, but I thought I
heard her voice. I was mistaken, was I not?"

"Yes, you must have been."

The negro had brought down the luggage, and stood waiting at the gate.

"You will tell her--Mrs. Raritan--I love her with all my heart and
soul."

The lady's lips quivered. "She knows it, and so do I."

"You will ask her to write."

"Yes, I will do so."

Tristrem took her hand in his. "Tell her from me," he began, but words
failed him, it was his face that completed the message. In a moment more
he was in the coach on his way to the station.

There was a brisk drive along the sea, a curve was rounded, and the
station stood in sight. And just as the turn was made Tristrem caught
the shriek of a whistle.

"There she goes," the negro exclaimed, "you ought to have been spryer."

"Has the train gone?" Tristrem asked.

"Can't you see her? I knew you'd be late." The man was insolent in his
familiarity, but Tristrem did not seem to notice it.

"I would have given much not to be," he said.

At this the negro became a trifle less uncivil. "Would you ree-ly like
to catch that train?" he asked.

"I would indeed."

"Is it worth twenty-five dollars to you?"

Tristrem nodded.

"Well, boss, I tell you. That train stops at Peacedale, and at Wakefield
she shunts off till the mail passes. Like as not the express is late. If
I get you to Kingston before the Newport passes, will you give me
twenty-five?"

"If I make the connection I will give you fifty."

"That's talking. You'll get there, boss. Just lay back and count your
thumbs."

The negro snapped his whip, and soon Tristrem was jolted over one of the
worst and fairest roads of New England, through a country for which
nature has done her best, and where only the legislator is vile. One
hamlet after another was passed, and still the coach rolled on.

"We'll get there," the negro repeated from time to time, and to
encourage his fare he lashed the horses to their utmost speed. Peacedale
was in the distance; Wakefield was passed, and in a cloud of dust they
tore through Kingston and reached the station just as the express
steamed up.

"I told you I'd do it," the negro exclaimed, exultingly. "I'll get
checks for your trunks."

A minute or two more, and the checks were obtained; the negro was
counting a roll of bills, and in a drawing-room car Tristrem was being
whirled to New York.

For several hours he sat looking out at the retreating uplands,
villages, and valleys. But after a while he remembered the scantiness of
his breakfast, and, summoning the porter, he obtained from him some food
and drink. By this time the train had reached New Haven, and there
Tristrem alighted to smoke a cigarette. He was, however, unable to
finish it before the whistle warned him that he should be aboard again.
The porter, who had been gratified by a tip, then told him that there
was a smoking compartment in the car beyond the one in which he had sat,
and, as the train moved on, Tristrem went forward in the direction
indicated.

The compartment was small, with seats for two on one side, and for
three, or for four at most, on the other. As Tristrem entered it he saw
that the larger sofa was occupied by one man, who lay out on it, full
length, his face turned to the partition. Tristrem took a seat opposite
him, and lit a fresh cigarette. As he smoked he looked at the reclining
form of his vis-à-vis. About the man's neck a silk handkerchief had
been rolled, but one end had come undone and hung loosely on the
cushion, and as Tristrem looked he noticed that on the neck was a wound,
unhealed and fresh, a line of excoriation, that neither steel nor shot
could have caused, but which might have come from a scratch. But, after
all, what business was it of his? And he turned his attention again to
the retreating uplands and to the villages that starred the route.

When the cigarette was done, he stood up to leave the compartment. But
however quietly he had moved, he seemed to arouse his neighbor, who
turned heavily, as though to change his position. As he did so, Tristrem
saw that it was Royal Weldon, and that on his face was a bruise. He
would have spoken, for Weldon was looking at him, but he recalled the
wanton lie of the week before, and as he hesitated whether to speak or
pass on, Weldon half rose. "Damn you," he said, "you are everywhere."
Then he lay down, turning his face again to the wall, and Tristrem,
without a word, went to the other car and found his former seat.

Two hours later he reached his home. He let himself in with a latch-key,
and rang the bell. But when Harris appeared he knew at once, by the
expression which the butler assumed, that he had come too late.

"When did it happen?" he asked.

"It was last evening, sir; he came in from his drive and inquired for
you, sir. I said that you had gone out of town, and showed him the
address you left. When I went to hannounce dinner, sir, he was sitting
in his arm-chair with his hat on. I thought he was asleep. I sent for
Dr. McMasters, sir, but it was no use. Dr. McMasters said it was the
'art, sir."

"You have notified my grandfather, have you not?"

"Yes, sir, I did, sir; Mr. Van Norden came in this morning, and left
word as how he would like to see you when you got back, sir."

"Very good. Call Davis, and get my things from the cabman."

"Yes, sir; thank you, sir. I beg pardon, sir," he added, "would you wish
some dinner? There's a nice fillet and a savory."




IX.


The morning after the funeral Tristrem received a letter from Mrs.
Raritan, and a little later a small package by express. The letter was
not long, and its transcription is unnecessary. It was to the effect
that on maturer consideration Viola had decided that the engagement into
which she had entered was untenable. To this decision Mrs. Raritan felt
herself reluctantly obliged to concur. It was not that Mr. Varick was
one whom she would be unwilling to welcome as her daughter's husband. On
the contrary, he was in many respects precisely what she most desired.
But Viola was young; she felt that she had a vocation to which marriage
would be an obstacle, and in the circumstances Viola was the better
judge. In any event, Mr. Varick was requested to consider the decision
as irrevocable. Then followed a few words of sympathy and a line of
condolence expressive of Mrs. Raritan's regret that the breaking of the
engagement should occur at a time when Tristrem was in grievous
affliction.

In the package were the jewels.

Tristrem read the letter as though he were reading some accusation of
felony levelled at him in the public press. If it had been a meteor
which had fallen at his feet he could not have wondered more. Indeed, it
was surprise that he felt. It was not anger or indignation; they were
after-comers. For the moment he was merely bewildered. It seemed to him
incredible that such a thing could be. He read the letter again, and
even examined the post-mark. At first he was for starting at once for
Narragansett. If he could but see Viola! The excuse about a vocation was
nonsense. Had he not told her that if she insisted on going on the
stage, he would sit in the stalls and applaud. No, it was not that; it
was because--After all, it was his own fault; if he had been unable to
make himself beloved, why should the engagement continue? But had an
opportunity been given him? He had not had speech with her since that
evening when she had drawn his face to hers. No, it could not be that.

He bowed his head, and then Anger came and sat at his side. What had he
done to Destiny that he should be to it the play-thing that he was? But
she; she was more voracious even than Fate. No, it was damnable. Why
should she take his heart and torment it? Why, having given love, should
she take it away? He was contented enough until he saw her. Why had she
come to him as the one woman in the world, luring him on; yes, for she
had lured him on? Why had she made him love her as he could never love
again, and just when she placed her hand in his,--a mist, a phantom, a
reproach? Why had she done so? Why was the engagement untenable?
Untenable, indeed, why was it untenable? Why--why--why? And in the
increasing exasperation of the moment, Tristrem did a thing that, with
him, was unusual. He rang the bell, and bade the servant bring him
drink.

It was on the afternoon of that day that he learned the tenor of his
father's will. It affected him as a chill affects a man smitten with
fever. He accepted it as a matter of course. It was not even the last
drop; the cup was full as it stood. What was it to him that he had
missed being one of the richest men in New York in comparison to the
knowledge that even had he the mines of Ormuz and of Ind, the revenue
would be as useless to him as the hands of the dead? Was she to be
bought? Had she not taken herself away before the contents of the will
were reported? He might be able to call the world his own, and it would
avail him nothing.

The will left him strangely insensible, though, after all, one may
wonder whether winter is severer than autumn to a flower once dead.

But if the will affected Tristrem but little, it stirred Dirck Van
Norden to paroxysms of wrath. "He ought to have his ghost kicked," he
said, in confidential allusion to Erastus Varick. "It's a thing that
cries out to heaven. And don't you tell me, sir, that nothing can be
done."

The lawyer with whom he happened to be in consultation said there were
many things that could be done. Indeed, he was reassuringly fecund in
resources. In the first place, the will was holographic. That, of
course, mattered nothing; it only pointed a moral. Laymen should not
draw up their own wills. For that matter, even professionals should be
as wary of so doing as physicians are of doctoring themselves. And the
lawyer instanced legal luminaries, judges whose obiter dicta and
opinions in banco were cited and received with the greatest respect,
and yet through whose wills, drawn up, mark you, by their own skilled
hands, coaches and tandems had been driven full speed. In regard to the
will of the deceased there was this to be said, it would not hold water.
Chapter 360, Laws of 1860, declares that no person having a husband,
wife, child, or parent, shall by his or her last will and testament,
devise or bequeath to any benevolent, charitable, scientific, literary,
religious, or missionary society, association, or corporation, in trust
or otherwise, more than one-half part of his or her estate.

"But he devised the whole."

"Yes, so he did; but in devising it he overlooked that very wise law. My
opinion in the matter is this. When, may I ask, was your grandson born?"

"He was born on the 10th of June, 1859."

"Exactly. The late Mr. Varick determined, on the birth of your grandson,
that the property should go over. His reasons for so determining are
immaterial. Rufus K. Taintor, the ablest man, sir, that ever sat on the
bench or addressed it, drew up the will at that time in accordance with
instructions received. Some years later, Taintor died of apoplexy, and
he died, too, as you doubtless remember, after the delivery of that
famous speech in the Besalul divorce case. Well, sir, what I make of the
matter is this. The late Mr. Varick, relying on Taintor's ability, and
possessing possibly some smattering of law of his own, recopied the will
every time the fancy took him to make minor alterations in the general
distribution of the trust. Consequently his last will and testament,
having been made since the passage of the law of 1860, is nugatory and
void as to one-half the bequest, and your grandson may still come in for
a very pretty sum."

"He ought to have it all," said Mr. Van Norden, decidedly.

"I don't dispute that, sir, in the least--and my opinion is that he
will get it. This will is dated five days previous to Mr. Varick's
demise. Now, according to the law of 1848, Chapter 319, and, if I
remember rightly, Section 6, no such bequest as the deceased's is valid
in any will which shall not have been made and executed at least two
months before the death of the testator. That, sir, I consider an
extremely wise bit of legislation. The law of 1860, which I quoted,
vitiates the will as to one-half the bequest; the law of 1848 does away
with the will altogether. Practically speaking, your son-in-law might
just as well have died intestate. Though, between ourselves, if Mr.
Varick had not been ignorant of these laws, and had not, in consequence
of his ignorance, made a disposition of certain private documents the
contents of which are easily guessed, your grandson would have merely a
prima facie right to have the will set aside; for, if you remember,
these laws were passed only to provide for the possible interests of a
surviving husband, wife, or child."

He emphasized the last word, and, as his meaning grew clear to Mr. Van
Norden, that gentleman got very red in the face. He rang the bell.

"Thank you, sir," he said. "I shall be indebted if you will send me your
account. And I shall be particularly indebted if you will send it at
your very earliest convenience. Henry, get this--this--get this
gentleman his hat and see him to the street."

Unfortunately for those that practise, there are a great many more
lawyers in New York than one. And before the last will and testament of
Erastus Varick came up for probate, Mr. Van Norden experienced slight
difficulty in retaining another attorney to defend Tristrem's interests.
The matter, of course, was set down for a hearing, and came up on the
calendar three months later.

Of the result of that hearing the reader has been already informed, and
then it was that Tristrem was taxed with old-world folly.




X.


In years gone by it had been Mr. Van Norden's custom to pass the heated
term at Rockaway. But when Rockaway became a popular resort, Mr. Van
Norden, like the sensible man that he was, discovered that his own house
was more comfortable than a crowded hotel. This particular summer,
therefore, he passed as usual in New York, and Tristrem, who had moved
to his house, kept him company. June was not altogether disagreeable,
but in July the city was visited by a heat at once insistent and
enervating. In August it was cooler, as our Augusts are apt to be; yet
the air was lifeless, and New York was not a nosegay. During these
months Tristrem was as lifeless as the air. In his first need of
sympathy he had gone to the irascible and kind-hearted old gentleman and
told him of the breaking of the engagement, and, he might have added, of
his heart, though in the telling he sought, with a lover's fealty, to
palliate the grievousness of the cruelty to which he had been subjected.

"It is this way," he said; "Viola, I think, feels that she does not know
me sufficiently well. After all, we have seen but little of each other,
and if she accepted me, it was on the spur of the moment. Since then she
has thought of it more seriously. It is for me to win her, not for her
to throw herself in my arms. That is what she has thought. She may seem
capricious; and what if she does? Your knowledge of women has, I am
sure, made you indulgent."

"Not in the least," Mr. Van Norden answered. And then, for the time
being, the subject was dropped.

It was this semi-consolatory view which Tristrem took of the matter
after the effect of the first shock had lost its force. But when he
received the bundle of letters, together with the Panama hat, which,
through some splendid irony, had been devised to him in the only clause
of the will in which his name was mentioned, it was as though a flash
had rent the darkness and revealed in one quick glare an answer to the
enigma in which he groped.

The letters were few in number--a dozen at most--and they were tied
together with a bit of faded ribbon. They were all in the same hand, one
and all contained protestations of passionate love, and each was signed
in full, Roanoke Raritan. The envelope which held them was addressed to
Mrs. Erastus Varick.

It was then that he saw the reason of his disinheritance, and it was
then that he understood the cause of Viola's withdrawal. It was evident
to him that Mrs. Raritan possessed either thorough knowledge of the
facts, or else that she had some inkling of them which her feminine
instinct had supplemented into evidence, and which had compelled her to
forbid the banns. There were, however, certain things which he could not
make clear to his mind. Why had Mrs. Raritan treated him with such
consideration? She had known from the first that he loved her daughter.
And after the engagement, if she wished it broken, why had she allowed
Viola to invite him to the Pier?

These things were at first inexplicable to him. Afterward he fancied
that it might be that Mrs. Raritan, originally uninformed, had become so
only through the man whom he had believed was his father, after the
announcement of the engagement had been made to him, and possibly
through some communication which had only reached her after his sudden
death. This explanation he was inclined to accept, and he was
particularly inclined to do so on recalling the spasm which had agitated
the deceased when he had come to him with the intelligence of the
engagement, and the nervous excitement which Mrs. Raritan displayed on
the morning when he left for town.

This explanation he accepted later--but in the horror of the situation
in which he first found himself his mind declined to act. He had never
known his mother, but her fame he had cherished as one cherishes that
which is best and most perfect of all. And abruptly that fame was
tarnished, as some fair picture might be sullied by a splash and
splatter of mud. And as though that were insufficient, the letters which
devastated his mother's honor brought him a hideous suspicion, and one
which developed into certainty, that his father and the father of the
girl whom he loved were one and the same.

It is not surprising, then, that during the summer months Tristrem was
as lifeless as the air he breathed. His grandfather noticed the
change--he would have been blind indeed had he not--and he urged him to
leave New York. But at each remonstrance Tristrem shook his head with
persistent apathy. What did it matter to him where he was? If New York,
instead of being merely hot and uncomfortable, had been cholera-smitten,
and the prey of pest, Tristrem's demeanor would not have altered. There
are people whom calamity affects like a tonic, who rise from misfortune
refreshed; there are others on whom disaster acts like a soporific, and
he was one of the latter. For three months he did not open a book, the
daily papers were taken from him unread, and if during that time he had
lost his reason, it is probable that his insanity would have consisted
in sitting always with eyes fixed, without laughing, weeping, or
changing place.

But after the hearing in the Surrogate's Court there was a change of
scene. The will was set aside, and the estate, of which Tristrem had
taken absolutely no thought whatever, reverted to him. It was then that
he made it over in its entirety to the institution to which it had been
originally devised; and it was in connection with the disposal of the
property, a disposal which he effected as a matter of course, and as the
only right and proper thing for him to do, that he enjoyed a memorable
interview with his grandfather.

He had not spoken to Mr. Van Norden about the letters, and the old
gentleman, through some restraining sense of delicacy, had hesitated to
question. Besides, he was confident that the estate would be Tristrem's,
and thus assured, it seemed unnecessary to him to touch on a matter to
which Tristrem had not alluded, and which was presumably distasteful to
him. But when he learned what Tristrem had done, he looked upon the
matter in a different light, and attacked him very aggressively the next
day.

"I can understand perfectly," he said, "that you should decline to hold
property on what you seem to regard as a legal quibble. But I should be
very much gratified to learn in what your judgment is superior to that
of the Legislature, and why you should refuse that to which you had as
clear and indefeasible a claim as I have to this fob on my waistcoat. I
should be really very much gratified to learn----"

Tristrem looked at his grandfather very much as though he had been asked
to open a wound. But he answered nothing. He got the letters and placed
them in the old gentleman's hand.

Mr. Van Norden glanced at one, and then turned to Tristrem. It was
evident that he was in the currents of conflicting and retroacting
emotions. He made as though he would speak, yet for the time being the
intensity of his feelings prevented him. He took up the letters again
and eyed them, shaking his head as he did so with the anger of one
enraged at the irreparable, and conscious of the futility of the wrath.

In the lives of most men and women there are moments in which they are
pregnant with words. The necessity of speech is so great that until the
parturition is accomplished they experience the throes of suffocation.
If no listener be at hand, there are at least the walls. Mr. Van Norden
was standing near to Tristrem, but that he might be the better assured
of his attention, he caught him by the arm, and addressed him in abrupt,
disjointed sentences, in a torrent of phrases, unconnected, as though
others than himself beat their vocables from his mouth. His words were
so tumultuous that they assailed the gates of speech, as spectators at
the sight of flame crowd the exits of a hall, and issue, some as were
they hurled from catapults, others, maimed, in disarray.

He was possessed of anger, and as sometimes happens off the stage, his
anger was splendid and glorious to behold. And Tristrem, with the thirst
of one who has drunk of thirst itself, caught the cascade of words, and
found in them the waters and fountains of life.

"These letters----But how is it possible? God in Heaven----! But can't
you see?--the bare idea is an infamy. Your mother was as interested in
Raritan as--as----It's enough to make a mad dog blush. It was just a few
