man, or a sensitive girl, or a refined woman had 
done them. Inevitably from his manipulation, 
however, the art of the number acquired homo- 
geneity, and there was nothing casual in its ap- 
pearance. The result, March eagerly owned, was 
better than the literary result, and lie foresaw that 
the number would be sold and praised chiefly for 
its pictures. Yet he was not ashamed of the litera- 
ture, and he indulged his admiration of it the more 
freely because he had not only not written it, but 
in a way had not edited it. To be sure, he had 
chosen all the material, but he had not voluntarily 
put it all together for that number ; it had largely 
put itself together, as every number of every 
magazine does, and as it seems more and more to 
do, in the experience of every editor. There had to 
be, of course, a story, and then a sketch of travel. 
There was a literary essay and a social essay ; there 
was a dramatic trifle, very gay, very light ; there 
was a dashing criticism on the new pictures, the new 
plays, the new books, the new fashions ; and then 
there was the translation of a bit of vivid Russian 
realism, which the editor owed to Lindau's explora- 
tion of the foreign periodicals left with him ; Lindau 
was himself a romanticist of the Victor Hugo sort, 
but he said this fragment of Dostoyevski was good 
of its kind. The poem was a bit of society verse, 
with a backward look into simpler and wholesomer 
experiences. 
Fulkerson was extremely proud of the number; 
but he said it was too good — too good from every 
point of view. The cover was too good, and the 
paper was too good, and that device of rough edges, 
 
which got over the objection to uncut leaves -while it 
secured their a?sthetic effect, was a thing that he 
trembled for, though he rejoiced in it as a stroke of 
the highest genius. It had come from Beaton at 
the last moment, as a compromise, when the problem 
of the vulgar croppiness of cut leaves and the 
unpopularity of uncut leaves seemed to have no 
solution but suicide. Fulkerson was still morally 
crawling round on his hands and knees, as he said, 
in abject gratitude at Beaton's feet, though he had 
his qualms, his questions ; and he declared that 
Beaton was the most inspired ass since Balaam's. 
"We're all asses, of course," he admitted, in semi- 
apology to March ; " but we 're no such asses as 
Beaton." He said that if the tasteful decorativeness 
of the thing did not kill it with the public outright, 
its literary excellence would give it the finishing 
stroke. Perhaps that might be overlooked in the 
impression of novelty which a first number would 
give, but it must never happen again. He implored 
March to promise that it should never happen again ; 
he said their only hope was in the immediate 
cheapening of the whole affair. It was bad enough 
to give the public too much quantity for their 
money, but to throw in such quality as that was 
simply ruinous ; it must be stopped. These were 
the expressions of his intimate moods ; every front 
that he presented to the public wore a glow of lofty, 
of devout exultation. His pride in the number 
gushed out in fresh bursts of rhetoric to every one 
whom he could cet to talk with him about it. He 
worked the personal kindliness of the i)rcss to the 
utmost. He did not mind making himself ridiculous 
or becoming a joke in the good cause, as he called it. 
He joined in the applause when a humorist at the 
club feigned to drop dead from his chair at Fulker- 
son's introduction of the topic, and he went on talk- 
ing that first number into the surviving spectators. 
He stood treat upon all occasions, and he lunched 
attaches of the press at all hours. He especially 
befriended the correspondents of the newspapers of 
other cities, for, as he explained to March, those 
fellows could give him any amount of advertising 
simply as literary gossip. Many of the fellows 
were ladies who could not be so summarily asked 
out to lunch, but Fulkerson's ingenuity was equal to 
every exigency, and he contiived somehow to 
make each of these feel that she had been possessed 
of exclusive information. There was a moment 
\vlien March conjectured a willingness in Fulker- 
son to work Mrs. March into the advertising depart- 
ment, by means of a tea to these ladies and their 
friends which she should administer in his apart- 
ment, but he did not encourage Fulkerson to be 
explicit, and the moment passed. Afterward, when 
he told his wife about it, he was astonished to find 
that she would not have minded doing it for Ful- 
kerson, and he experienced another proof of the 
bluntness of the feminine instincts in some direc- 
tions, and of the personal favour which Fulkerson 
seemed to enjoy with the whole sex. This alone 
was enoutch to account for the willingness of these 
 
correspondents to write about the first number, but 
March accused him of sending it to their addresses 
with boxes of Jacqueminot roses and Huyler candy. 
Fulkerson let him enjoy his joke. He said that 
he would do that or anything else for the good 
cause, short of marrying the whole circle of female 
correspondents. 
March was inclined to hope that if the first 
number had been made too good for the country at 
large, the more enlightened taste of metropolitan 
journalism would invite a compensating favour for 
it in New York. But first Fulkerson and then the 
event proved him wrong. In spite of the quality of 
the magazine, and in spite of the kindness which so 
many newspaper men felt for Fulkerson, the notices 
in the New York papers seemed grudging and pro- 
visional to the ardour of the editor. A meiit in the 
work was acknowledged, and certain defects in it 
for which March had trembled were ignored ; but 
the critics astonished him by selecting for censure 
points which he was either proud of or had never 
noticed ; which being now brought to his notice 
he still could not feel were faults. He owned to 
Fulkerson that if they had said so and so against it, 
he could have agreed with them, but that to say 
thus and so was preposterous ; and that if the 
advertising had not been adjusted with such generous 
recognition of the claims of the different papers, 
he should have known the counting-room was 
at the bottom of it. As it was, he could only- 
attribute it to perversity or stupidity. It was 
 
certainly stupid to condemn a magazine novelty 
like Every Other Week for being novel ; and to 
augur that if it failed, it would fail through its 
departure from the lines on which all the other 
prosperous magazines had been built, was in the 
last degree perverse, and it looked malicious. The 
fact that it was neither exactly a book nor a 
magazine ought to be for it and not against it, since 
it would invade no other field ; it would prosper on 
no ground but its own. 
XIV. 
The more March thought of the injustice of 
the New York press (which had not, however, 
attacked the literary quahty of the number) the 
more bitterly he resented it ; and his wife's indigna- 
tion superheated his own. Every Other JFeeJc had 
become a very personal affair with the whole family ; 
the children shared their parents' disgust; Bella 
was outspoken in her denunciations of a venal press. 
Mrs. March saw nothing but ruin ahead, and began 
tacitly to plan a retreat to Boston, and an establish- 
ment retrenched to the basis of two thousand a 
year. She shed some secret tears in anticipation 
of the privations which this must involve ; but 
when Fulkerson came to see March rather late the 
night of the publication day, she nobly told him 
that if the worst came to the worst she could only 
have the kindliest feeling toward him, and should 
not regard him as in the slightest degree responsible. 
"Oh, hold on, hold on!" he protested. "You 
don't think we 've made a failure, do you ? " 
"Why, of course," she faltered, while March re- 
mained gloomily silent. 
" Well, I guess we 'll wait for the official count, 
first. Even New York hasn't gone against us, and 
I guess there 's a majority coming down to Harlem 
Eiver that could sweep everything before it, anyway." 
" What do you moan, Fulkerson ? " March de- 
manded sternly. 
" Oh, nutln'ng ! Only, the News Company has 
ordered ten thousand now ; and you know we had 
to give them the first twenty on commission." 
" What do you mean ? " March repeated ; his \vife 
held her breath. 
" I mean that the first number is a booming 
success already, and that it 's going to a hundred 
thousand before it stops. That unanimity and 
variety of censure in the morning papers, combined 
with the attractiveness of the thing itself, has 
cleared every stand in the city, and now if the favour 
of the country press doesn't turn the tide against us, 
our fortune's made." The Marches remained dumb. 
" Why, look here ! Didn't I tell you those criticisms 
would be the making of us, when they first began to 
turn you blue tliis morning, JNIarch ? " 
"He came home to lunch perfectly sick," said Mrs. 
March ; " and I wouldn't let him go back again." 
" Didn't I tell you so ? " Fulkerson persisted. 
March could not remember that he had, or that 
he had been anything but incoherently and hysteric- 
ally jocose over the papers, but he said, " Yes, yes — 
I think so." 
" I knew it from the start," said Fulkerson. " The 
only other person who took those criticisms in the 
right spirit was Mother Dryfoos — I 've just been 
 
bolstering up the Dryfoos family. She had them 
read to her by Mrs. Mandel, and she understood 
them to be all the most flattering prophecies of 
success. Well, I didn't read between the lines to 
that extent, quite ; but I saw that they were going 
to help us, if there was anything in us, more than 
anything that could have been done. And there 
was something in us ! I tell you, March, that seven- 
shooting self-cocking donkey of a Beaton has given 
us the greatest start ! He 's caught on like a mice. 
He 's made the thing awfully chic ; it 's jimmy ; 
there 's lots of dog about it. He 's managed that 
process so that the illustrations look as expensive as 
first-class wood-cuts, and they're cheaper than 
chromos. He 's put style into the whole thing." 
" Oh yes," said March with eager meekness, " it 's 
Beaton that's done it." 
Fulkerson read jealousy of Beaton in Mrs. March's 
face. " Beaton has given us the start because his 
work appeals to the eye. There 's no denying that 
the pictures have sold this first number; but I 
expect the literature of this first number to sell the 
pictures of the second. I 've been reading it all over, 
nearly, since I found how the cat was jumping ; I 
was anxious about it, and I tell you, old man, it's 
good. Yes, sir ! I was afraid may be you had got it 
too good, with that Boston refinement of yours; but 
I reckon you haven't. I 'll risk it. I don't see how 
you got so much variety into so few things, and all 
of them palpitant, all of 'em on the keen jump with 
actuality." ' 
 
The mixture of American slang with tho jargon 
of Europc;ui criticism in Fulkcrson's talk made March 
smile, but his wife did not seem to notice it in her 
exultation. " That is just what I say," she broke in. 
"It's perfectly wonderful. I never was anxious 
about it a moment, except, as you say, Mr. Fulker- 
son, I was afraid it might be too good.'' 
They went on in an antiphony of praise till March 
said, " Really, I don't see what 's left me but to 
strike for higher wages. I })erceive that I 'm 
indispensable." 
" Why, old man, you 're coming in on the divvy, 
you know," said Fulkcrson. 
They both laughed, and when Fulkcrson was 
gone, Mrs. March asked her husband what a divvy 
was. 
" It 's a chicken before it 's hatched." 
" No ! Truly ? " 
He explained, and she began to spend the divvy. 
At Mrs. Leighton's Fulkcrson gave Alma all the 
honour of the success ; he told her mother that the 
girl's design for the cover had sold every number, 
and Mrs. Leighton believed him. 
"Well, Ah think Ah maght have some of the 
glory," Miss Woodburn pouted. "Where am Ah 
comin' in ? " 
" You 're coming in on the cover of the next 
number," said Fulkcrson. "We're going to have 
your face there ; Miss Leighton's going to sketch it 
in." He said this reckless of the fact that he had 
already shown them the design of the second 
 
number which was Beaton's weird bit of gas-country 
landscape. 
"Ah don't sec why you don't wrahte the fiction 
for your magazine, Mr. Fulkerson," said the girl. 
This served to remind Fulkerson of something. 
He turned to her father. "I'll tell you what, 
Colonel Woodburn, I want Mr. March to see some 
chapters of that book of yours. I 've been talking 
to him about it." 
" I do not think it would add to the popularity 
of your periodical, sir," said the Colonel, with a 
stately pleasure in being asked. "My views of a 
civilisation based upon responsible slavery would 
hardly be acceptable to your commercialised society." 
" Well, not as a practical thing, of course," 
Fulkerson admitted. "But as something retro- 
spective, speculative, I believe it would make a hit. 
There's so much going on now about social ques- 
tions ; I guess people would like to read it." 
" I do not know that my work is intended to 
amuse people," said the Colonel, with some state. 
"Mah goodness! Ah only wish it was, then," 
said his daughter; and she added: "Yes, Mr. 
Fulkerson, the Colonel will be very glad to submit 
po'tions of his woak to yo' edito'. We want to have 
some of the honaw. Perhaps we can say we helped 
to stop yo' magazine, if we didn't help to stawt it." 
They all laughed at her boldness, and Fulkerson 
said, " It 'll take a good deal more than that to stop 
Every Otiier JFeek. The Colonel's whole book 
couldn't do it." Then he looked unhappy, for 
 
Colonel Woodburn did not seem to enjoy his re- 
assuring words ; but Miss Woodburn came to liis 
rescue. "You maglit illustrate it with the po'ti'ait of 
the awthor's daughtaw, if it 's too late for the covali." 
"Going to have that in every number, Miss 
Woodburn," he cried, 
" Oh, mah goodness ! " she said, with mock 
humility. 
Alma sat looking at her piquant head, black, 
unconsciously outlined against the lamp, as she sat 
working by the table. " Just keep still a moment!" 
She got her sketch-block and pencils, and began 
to draw ; Fulkerson tilted himself forward and 
looked over her shoulder ; he smiled outwardly ; 
inwardly he was divided between admiration of 
Miss Woodburn's arch beauty and appreciation of 
the skill which reproduced it ; at the same time 
he was trying to remember whether March had 
authorised him to go so far as to ask for a sight 
of Colonel Woodburn's manuscript. He felt that 
he had trenched upon March's province, and he 
framed one apology to the editor for bringing him 
the manuscript, and another to the author for 
bringing it back 
"Most Ah hold raght still like it was a photo- 
graph ? " asked Miss Woodburn. " Can Ah toak ? " 
"Talk all you want," said Alma, squinting her 
eyes. " And you needn't be either adamantine, nor 
yet — wooden." 
"Oh, ho' very good of you! Well, if Ah can 
toak — go on, Mr. Fulkerson ! " 
 
" Me talk ? I can't breathe till this thing is 
done ! " sighed Fulkerson ; at that point of his 
mental drama the Colonel was behaving rustily 
about the return of his manuscript, and he felt that 
he was looking his last on Miss woodburn's profile. 
"Is she getting it raghtl " asked the girl, 
" I don't know which is which," said Fulkerson. 
" Oh, Ah hope Ah shall ! I don't want to go 
round feelin' like a sheet of papah half the time." 
" You could rattle on, just the same," suggested 
Alma. 
"Oh, now! Jost listen to that, Mr. Fialkerson. 
Do you call that any way to toak to people ] " 
" You might know which you were by the 
colour," Fulkerson began, and then he broke off 
from the personal consideration with a business 
inspiration, and smacked himself on the knee: ""Wo 
could p-'tnt it in colour ! " 
Mrs. Leighton gathered up her sewing and held 
it with both hands in her lap, while she came round, 
and looked critically at the sketch and the model 
over her glasses. " It 's very good, Alma," she said. 
Colonel Woodburn remained restively on his side 
of the table. " Of course, Mr. Fulkerson, you were 
jesting, sir, when you spoke of printing a sketch of 
my daughter." 
" Why, I don't know If you object " 
" I do, sir — decidedly," said the Colonel. 
" Then that settles it, of course," said Fulkerson. 
" I only meant " 
" Indeed it doesn't ! " cried the girl. " Who 's to 
 
know who it's from? Ah'm josfc set on liavin' it 
printed ! Ah 'm going to appear as the licad of 
Slavery — in opposition to the head of Liberty." 
" There 'll be a revolution inside of forty-eight 
hours, and we 'll have the Colonel's system going 
wherever a copy of Eixry Other Week circulates," 
said Fulkerson. 
"This sketch belongs to me," Alma interposed. 
"I'm not going to let it be printed." 
" Oh, mail goodness ! " said Miss Woodburn, 
laughing good-humouredly. " That 's bccose you 
were brought up to hate slavery." 
" I should like Mr. Beaton to see it," said Mrs. 
Leighton in a sort of absent tone. She added, to 
Fulkerson : '  I rather expected he might be in to- 
night." 
" Well, if he comes we 'll leave it to Beaton," 
Fulkerson said, with relief in the solution, and aii 
anxious glance at the Colonel, across the table, to 
see how he took that form of the joke. Miss 
Woodburn intercepted his glance and laughed, and 
Fulkerson laughed too, but rather forlornly. 
Alma set her lips primly and turned her head 
first on one side and then on the other to look at 
the sketch. " I don't tliink we 'll leave it to Mr. 
Beaton, even if he comes." 
"We left the other design for the cover to 
Beaton," Fulkerson insinuated. " I guess you 
needn't be afraid of him." 
"Is it a question of my being afraid ?" Alma 
asked ; she seemed coolly intent on her drawing. 
 
"Miss Leigliton thinks he ought to be afraid of 
her," Miss Woodburn explained. 
" It 's a question of his courage, then ? " said Ahna. 
"Well, I don't think there are many young ladies 
that Beaton 's afraid of," said Fulkerson, giving him- 
self the respite of this purely random remark, while 
he interrogated the faces of Mrs. Leighton and 
Colonel Woodburn for some light upon the tendency 
of their daughters' words. 
He was not helped by Mrs. Leighton's saying, 
with a certain anxiety, "I don't know what you 
mean, Mr. Fulkerson." 
' ' Well, you 're as much in the dark as I am my- 
self, then," said Fulkerson. "I suppose I meant 
that Beaton is rather — a — favourite, you know. 
The women like him." 
Mrs. Leighton sighed, and Colonel Woodburn rose 
and left the room. 
XV. 
In the silence that followed, Fulkerson looked 
from one lady to the other with dismay. " I seem to 
have put my foot in it, somehow," he suggested, and 
Miss Woodburn gave a cry of laughter. 
"Poo' Mr. Fulkerson! Pgo' Mr. Fulkerson! 
Papa thoat you wanted him to go." 
" Wanted him to go ? " repeated Fulkerson. 
" We always mention Mr. Beaton when we want 
to get rid of papa." 
"Well, it seems to me that I Jmve noticed that 
he didn't take much interest in Beaton, as a general 
topic. But I don't know that I ever saw it drive 
him out of the room before ! " 
"Well, he isn't always so bad," said Miss Wood- 
burn. " But it was a case of hate at first sight, and 
it seems to be growin' on papa." 
" Well, I can understand that," said Fulkerson. 
"The impulse to destroy Beaton is something that 
everybody has to struggle against at the start." 
" I must say, Mr. Fulkerson," said Mrs. Leighton 
m the tremor through which she nerved herself to 
differ openly with any one she liked, " I never had 
to struggle with anything of the kind, in regard to 
 
Mr. Beaton. He has always been most respectful 
and — and considerate, with me, whatever he has 
been with others," 
" Well, of course, Mrs, Lcighton ! " Fulkerson 
came back in a soothing tone, " But you see you 're 
the rule that proves the exception. I was speaking 
of the way men felt about Beaton, It's different 
with ladies ; I just said so." 
'' Is it always different ? " Alma asked, lifting her 
head and her hand from her drawing, and staring at 
it absently. 
Fulkerson pushed his hands both through his 
whiskers, " Look here ! Look here ! " he said. 
' ' Won't somebody start some other subject ? We 
haven't had the weather up yet, have we ? Or the 
opera ? What is the matter with a few remarks 
about politics ? " 
" Why I thoat you lahked to toak about the staff 
of yo' magazine," said Miss Woodburn. 
" Oh, I do ! " said Fulkerson, " But not always 
about the same member of it. He gets monotonous, 
when he doesn't get complicated, I 've just come 
round from the Marches'," he added, to Mrs, Leighton, 
" I suppose they 've got thoroughly settled in 
their apartment by this time." Mrs. Leighton said 
something like this whenever the Marches were 
mentioned. At the bottom of her heart she had not 
forgiven them for not taking her rooms ; she had 
liked their looks so much ; and she was alwuj's 
hoping that they were uncomfortable or dissatisfied ; 
she could not help wanting them punished a little. 
 
"Well, yes; as much as they ever will be," 
Fulkerson answered. "The Boston style is pretty 
different, you know ; and the Marches are old- 
fashioned folks, and I reckon they never went in 
much for bric-a-brac. They 've put away nine or 
ten barrels of dragon candlesticks, but they keep 
finding new ones." 
'' Their landlady has just joined our class," said 
Alma. '  Isn't her name Green ? She happened to 
see my copy of Every Other JFeek, and said she knew 
the editor ; and told me." 
" Well, it 's a little world," said Fulkerson. " You 
seem to be touching elbows with everybody. Just 
think of your having had our head translator for a 
model." 
" Ah think that your whole publication revolves 
aroand the Leighton family," said Miss Woodburn. 
"That's pretty much so," Fulkerson admitted. 
"Anyhow, the publisher seems disposed to do so." 
" Are you the publisher ? I thought it was Mr, 
Dryfoos," said Alma. 
"It is." 
" Oh ! " 
The tone and tlic word gave Fulkerson a dis- 
comfort which he pi'omptly confessed. "Missed 
again." 
The girls laughed, and he regained something of 
his lost spirits, and smiled upon their gaiety, which 
lasted beyond any apparent reason for it. 
Miss Woodburn asked, "And is Mr. Dryfoos 
senio' anything like ouah Mr. Dryfoos ? " 
 
"Not the least." 
" But he 's jost as exemplary ? " 
"Yes; in his way." 
" Well, Ah wish Ah could see all those pinks of 
puffection togethath, once." 
"Why, look here ! I 've been thinking I 'd celebrate 
a little, when the old gentleman gets back. Have a 
little supper — something of that kind. How would 
you like to let me have your parlours for it, Mrs. 
Leighton ? You ladies could stand on the stairs, 
and have a peep at us, in the bunch." 
"Oh, mall! What a privilege! And will Miss 
Alma be there, with the othah contributors ? Ah 
shall jost expah of envy ! " 
"She won't be there in person," said Fulkerson, 
" but she 'll be represented by the head of the art 
department." 
" Mah goodness ! And who 'll the head of the 
publishing department represent ? " 
" He can represent you," said Alma. 
" Well, Ah want to be represented, someho'." 
"We'll have the banquet the night before you 
appear on the cover of our fourth number," said 
Fulkerson. 
" Ah thoat that was doubly fo 'bidden," said Miss 
Woodburn. " By the stern parent and the envious 
awtust." 
" We 'll get Beaton to get round them, somehow. 
I guess we can trust him to manage that." 
Mrs. Leighton sighed her resentment of the 
implication. 
 
" I always feel that Mr. Beaton doesn't do him- 
self justice," she began. 
Fulkerson could not forego tlic chance of a joke. 
" Well, may be he would rather temper justice with 
mercy in a case like his." This made both the 
younger ladies laugh. " I judge this is my chance 
to get off with my life," he added, and he rose as he 
spoke. "Mrs. Leighton, I am about the only man 
of my sex who doesn't thirst for Beaton's blood 
most of the time. But I know him and I don't. 
He 's more kinds of a good fellow than people gener- 
ally understand. lie don't wear his heart upon his 
sleeve — not his iilster sleeve, anyway. You can 
always count me on your side when it 's a question 
of finding Beaton not guilty if he 'll leave the State." 
Alma set her drawing against the wall, in rising 
to say good night to Fulkerson. He bent over on 
his stick to look at it. "Well, it's beautiful," he 
sighed, with unconscious sincerity. 
Alma made him a courtesy of mock modesty. 
" Thanks to Miss Woodburn." 
" Oh no ! All she had to do was simply to 
stay put." 
" Don't you think Ah might have improved it if 
Ah had looked better ? " the girl asked gravely. 
" Oh, you couldn't ! " said Fulkerson, and he went 
off triumphant in their applause and their cries of 
" Which ? which ? " 
Mrs. Leighton sank deep into an accusing gloom 
when at last she found herself alone with her 
daughter. "I don't know what you are thinking 
 
about, Alma Leighton. If you don't like Mr. 
Beaton " 
" I don't." 
" You don't ? You know better than that. You 
know that you did care for him." 
" Oh ! that 's a very different thing. That 's a 
thing that can be got over." 
" Got over ! " repeated Mrs. Leighton, aghast. 
" Of course, it can ! Don't be romantic, mamma. 
Peoj)le get over dozens of such fancies. They even 
marry for love two or three times." 
" Never ! " cried her mother, doing her best to 
feel shocked, and at last looking it. 
Her looking it had no effect upon Alma. "You 
can easily get over caring for people ; but you can't 
get over liking them— if you like them because they 
are sweet and good. That's what lasts. I was a 
simple goose, and he imposed upon me because he 
was a sophisticated goose. Now the case is reversed." 
" He does care for you, now. You can see it. 
Why do you encourage him to come here ? " 
"I don't," said Alma. "I will tell him to keep 
away if you like. But whether he comes or goes, it 
will be the same." 
" Not to him, Alma ! He is in love with you ! " 
" He has never said so." 
"And you would really let him say so, when you 
intend to refuse him ? " 
"I can't very well refuse him till he does say so." 
This was undeniable. Mrs. Leighton could only 
demand in an awful tone, " May I ask ivhy—ii you 
 
cared for him ; and I know you care for him still — 
you will refuse him ? " 
Alma laughed. "Because — because I'm wedded 
to my Art, and I 'm not going to commit bigamy, 
whatever I do." 
"Alma!" 
" Well, then, because I don't lihc him — that is, I 
don't believe in him, and don't trust him. He 's 
fascinating, but he 's false and he 's fickle. He can't 
help it, I dare say." 
" And you are perfectly hard. Is it possible that 
you were actually pleased to have Mr. Fulkerson 
tease you about Mr. Dryfoos ? " 
" Oh, good night, now, mamma ! This is becom- 
ing personal." 
PART THIRD. 
I. 
The scheme of a banquet to celebrate the initial 
success of Every Other JFeek expanded in Fulkerson's 
fancy into a series. Instead of the pubhshing and 
editorial force, with certain of the more representa- 
tive artists and authors sitting down to a modest 
supper in Mrs. Leighton's parlours, he conceived of 
a dinner at Delmonico's, with the principal literary 
and artistic people throughout the country as guests, 
and an inexhaustible hospitality to reporters and 
correspondents, from whom paragraphs, prophetic 
and historic, would flow weeks before and after the 
first of the series. He said the thing was a new de- 
parture in magazines ; it amounted to something in 
literature as radical as the American Revolution in 
politics : it was the idea of self-government in the 
arts ; and it was this idea that had never yet been 
fully developed in regard to it. That was what 
must be done in the speeches at the dinner, and the 
speeches must be reported. Then it would go like 
wildfire. He asked March whether he thought Mr. 
Depew could be got to come ; Mark Twain, he was 
sure would come ; he was a literary man. They 
ought to invite Mr. Evarts, and the Cardinal and 
the leading- Protestant divines. His ambition 
stopped at nothing, nothing hut the question of 
expense ; there he had to wait the return of the 
cider Dryfoos from the West, and Dryfoos was still 
delayed at Moffitt, and Fulkerson openly confessed 
that he was afraid he would stay there till his own 
enthusiasm escaped in other activities, other plans. 
Fulkerson was as little likely as possible to fall 
under a superstitious subjection to another man ; but 
March could not help seeing that in this possible 
measure Dryfoos was Fulkerson's fetish. He did not 
revere him, March decided, because it was not in 
Fulkerson's nature to revere anything ; he could like 
and dislike, but he could not respect. Apparently, 
however, Dryfoos daunted him somehow ; and be- 
sides the homage which those who have not pay 
to those who have, Fulkerson rendered Dryfoos the 
tribute of a feeling which Marcli could only define as 
a sort of bewilderment. As well as March could 
make out, this feeling was evoked by the spectacle 
of Dryfoos's unfailing luck, which Fulkerson was fond 
of dazzling himself with. It perfectly consisted with 
a keen sense of whatever was sordid and selfish in a 
man on whom his career must have had its inevitable 
effect. He liked to philosophise the case with March, 
to recall Dryfoos as he was when he first met him 
still somewhat in the sap, at jMofHtt, and to study 
the processes by which he imagined him to have 
dried into the hardened speculator, without even the 
 
pretence to any advantage but his own in his ven- 
tures. He was aware of painting the character too 
vividly, and he warned IMarch not to accept it 
exactly in those tints, but to subdue them and shade 
it for himself. He said that where his advantage 
was not concerned, there was ever so much good 
in Dryfoos, and that if in some things he had 
grown inflexible, he had expanded in others to the 
full measure of the vast scale on which he did busi- 
ness. It had seemed a little odd to March that a 
man should put money into such an enterprise as 
Every Other TFeeJc and go off about other affairs, not 
only without any sign of anxiety but without any 
sort of interest. But Fulkerson said that was the 
splendid side of Dryfoos. He had a courage, a 
magnanimity, that was equal to the strain of any 
such uncertainty. He had faced the music once for 
all, when he asked Fulkerson what the thing would 
cost in the different degrees of potential failure ; and 
then he had gone off, leaving everything to Fulkerson 
and the younger Dryfoos, with the instruction simply 
to go ahead and not bother him about it. Fulkerson 
called that pretty tall for an old fellow who used to 
bewail the want of pigs and chickens to occupy his 
mind. He alleged it as another proof of the versa- 
tility of the American mind, and of the grandeur of 
institutions and opportunities that let every man 
grow to his full size, so that any man in America 
could run the concern if necessary. He believed 
that old Dryfoos could step into Bismarck's shoes, 
and run the German Empire at ten days' notice, or 
 
about as long as it would take him to go from New 
York to Berlin. But Bismarck would not know 
anything about Dryfoos's plans till Dryfoos got 
ready to show his hand. Fulkerson himself did not 
pretend to say what the old man had been up to, 
since he went West. He was at Moffitt first, and 
then he was at Chicago, and then he had gone out to 
Denver to look after some mines he had out there, 
