rejoiced to hear this, and ordered me to ask the amount of cash on
board. The Dutchman assured us that he had none.

"We will soon see for ourselves!" said the captain, and taking with
him the pilot and four sailors, he went on board of the merchantman.
In half an hour he called out to the schooner to come alongside. This
was done, and the Dutchman was again sent on board of his vessel,
where he was greeted with a blow from the flat of a sword that
stretched him on the deck. The inquiries concerning the money now
began afresh, accompanied by the threats of burning both ship and
crew, if money should actually be found on board. Then the Dutchman
was placed in confinement, while the crew were sent on board the
schooner, and down into the hold. Both ships sailed into the harbour
at sundown, that they might spend the night in safety. I received
permission to retire to the cabin, and there found a neat little
supper that the care of the benevolent cook had provided for me. The
salve that I had prepared for my wounds had an excellent effect, and I
was now quite free from pain.

The next morning the freight of the captured vessel was transferred to
the schooner, and I was again obliged to assist with my small
knowledge of Dutch. After dinner I was sent on shore again, to dress
Don Toribios' wounds. As they were healing rapidly, and the fever had
quite left him, I soon returned, his daughter having presented me with
a box of Havana cigars.

As night had not yet set in, they proceeded vigorously in transferring
the cargo of the Dutchman, and the goods were piled up high on the
deck of the schooner; they were not to be sold, as before, but taken
by a coasting vessel to Havana, and disposed of there. The next
morning the coaster appeared, and the transfer of the cargo began
again. While all were thus busied, the captain drew me aside, and said
to me in an unusually confidential tone, "I must accompany this
coaster some distance; we shall be gone four or five days. Therefore,
go on shore once more, and carry to Don Toribios as much physic as he
will want during this time, but be sure to be back before sunset."

I immediately obeyed, fulfilled my commission, and returned at the
appointed hour; the captain was making merry with the coaster, and as
I would take no part in their excesses, I retired to rest, but could
not sleep. The door of my cabin opened gently, to admit the cook; he
sat down by me, and said as softly as possible:

"While you were on shore to-day, the captain called together the crew,
and told them that during the course of four weeks they had all
learned to know the captive Englishman, and must be aware that he was
most useful in every capacity. 'But,' said the captain, 'he is not to
be trusted; I see that he meditates escape, day and night, and if his
plans should succeed, which is not impossible, the first English
man-of-war that he meets will have the secret of our retreat here, and
all will be over with us. I have, therefore, formed a resolution that
will certainly seem right to you all. We will let him finish the sails
that he is now at work upon, and then get rid of him. Some evening I
will get up a dispute with him; you will gather around us and take
sides, and in the heat of argument I will plunge my knife into his
bosom, and you will finish the business.' The crew consulted together,
and opinion was divided; only a few of the most bloody-minded agreed
to the thought of your murder; at last it was determined to have you
closely watched, and not to allow you to go on shore any more."

"Have it so then," cried the captain, angrily; "you will see what will
come of it."

"Now my friend," concluded the brave fellow, "now you know every
thing. I fear the captain has not given up his intention; therefore,
take your measures accordingly. If I can assist you in carrying out
any plan that you may form, rely upon my desire to serve you. God
grant, that if you escape, I may accompany you."

With these words he bade me good night and left me. What were my
sensations. "Am I then," I said to myself "to be thus cut off in the
midst of my youth? No! I will balk these monsters. I must attempt to
save myself even if the attempt cost me my life." These thoughts
occupied me during the night, and I did not sleep until towards four
o'clock in the morning.


VI.

At sunrise the schooner weighed anchor, in order to accompany the
coaster. Towards noon we discovered an English brig, which proved to
be a merchantman, and the customary pursuit and capture ensued. The
cargo consisted of rum, for the vessel was bound for Liverpool from
Jamaica. The English captain, who was an old acquaintance of mine,
offered to ransom his vessel, and begged me to make the arrangement
for him; this I gladly did, and the brig was ransomed for four hundred
doubloons and eight casks of rum. The Englishman, who had a
considerable amount of cash on board, pressed upon me, at parting,
twenty doubloons.

Towards evening the skies were covered with black clouds; the sea
began to rage, and every thing indicated an approaching storm. We
therefore ran into a little bay, sheltered by high rocks, and passed a
very quiet night, although a fearful storm was raging on the open sea,
and the rain fell in torrents. The next morning we set sail again and
conveyed the coaster almost to the place of her destination. On our
return voyage we captured a French vessel, but it was also ransomed,
and on the evening of the fourth day we reached again our old station,
where the Dutch brig had been left under the command of the pilot. The
Dutch captain and a great part of his crew had accompanied us.

The pirate was very well pleased with his short, profitable trip, and
gave orders to the steward to prepare a magnificent collation, to
which he invited his officers, the Dutch captain, and myself. As it
was too warm in the cabin the table was laid on deck; the steward had
done his best, and when the wine had begun to take effect, the
Dutchman informed me that he had a proposition to make. He spoke in
Dutch, and that no suspicion might be excited, I immediately informed
the captain of what he had said, and offered to carry on the
negociation. This was agreed to, and the Dutchman then informed me
that he had concealed upon his person, a heavy gold chain, a gold
watch set with brilliants, and two diamond rings, and that he would
give them all if the pirate would release his vessel and allow him to
depart, with provisions for eight days. I translated all this to the
captain as well as I could, and his countenance immediately beamed
with the friendliest expression.

"Tell the captain," he replied mildly, "that I accept his offer, and
if he will hand over to me the articles in question, I swear by the
holy virgin, that he shall depart to-morrow morning early, with eight
days' provisions, and sail whither he pleases."

I interpreted this to the captain, who hastened, joyfully, into the
cabin, and returned in a few minutes with the jewels, which he laid
before the captain, on the table.

"Done," said he, reaching his hand and filling his glass; "join me
captain and gentlemen all. By heaven, I will keep my word; you are all
witnesses."

We remained at table until eleven o'clock, when all retired; my
thoughts kept me awake during the whole night. Immediately after
sunrise, the Dutch vessel was supplied with the promised provisions,
besides six casks of water and two of Geneva. The captain took leave
of us all; put several pieces of gold into my hand, and betook himself
on board of his own ship. In half an hour he set sail, and with a
favourable wind was soon out of sight.

Towards eight o'clock, a boat appeared from the shore, and brought two
calves and two sheep, just killed, and a quantity of fowls,
vegetables, and fruit, as a present for the captain, from Don Toribios
and the other officials. They announced their intention, also, of
paying us a visit with their wives, in the afternoon, whereat the
captain was much pleased. Preparations were instantly made for their
reception, and the steward was busy enough; at half-past two the
little fleet appeared, and the guests arrived on board, where they
were served with refreshments. They talked, laughed, joked, played the
guitar, and sang, until near sunset, when the air grew cooler. Then
the seats and benches were cleared away; the old people betook
themselves, with their wine, to the cabin, and the young ones danced
until they were called to supper. The time was passed most pleasantly,
and I almost forgot that I was on board a pirate vessel. Don
Toribios, too, was very friendly, and called out as soon as he saw
me, "Going on excellently! all healed over!" I examined his wounds and
found it actually so. The old gentleman then applied himself
industriously to the wine, and appeared determined to make up for the
abstinence of two weeks. My warning, to be prudent, was not regarded
in the least.

The company found the entertainment so much to their liking that they
remained three hours longer on board than they had at first intended;
the moon was in her first quarter, but shone brighter than even the
full moon in England. A little after nine, the guests took leave of
the captain and entered their boats; the little fleet rowed away in
the glorious moonlight, and every thing was restored to order on board
of the schooner.

The captain was unusually gay and friendly; had three bottles of
Bordeaux brought, and called to me: "Sit down; we will drink another
glass together. Fill for yourself. I see you are a brave, fine fellow,
and if you conduct yourself well, you shall have such wages as you'll
get on no ship of the line, I can tell you. Come, drink; here's to our
noble profession!"

I was obliged to join him, and drank in this way almost a bottle full.
I succeeded, however, in allaying all his suspicion of me. Towards
midnight I threw myself upon my bed, but could not close my eyes, my
thoughts were so busy with plans of escape. Where shall I be, I asked
myself, in one--two weeks--in a month? If my plan succeeds, I shall be
upon my way home; but if not, where then? Of this last alternative I
would not think, and towards two o'clock I fell asleep.


VII.

The next afternoon I sat working at my sails, when a boat with three
negroes in it, pushed off from the shore, and approached the schooner.
The man at the helm had a large basket, covered with black, before
him, and the usually white aprons of the negroes were black. This
indicated a death, and I was very anxious to know which of yesterday's
company had so quickly had their joy turned to mourning; in the
meanwhile the boat arrived, and the chief negro came on board.

"Master dead!" he said, in his broken Spanish. "Don Toribios dead!
last night! Here a letter and presents for Senor captain and Senor
helmsman."

With these words he handed the captain four bundles of Havana cigars,
as many baskets of fruit, and two great pastries, besides four jars of
sweet-meats. This giving of presents is customary in Cuba in case of
any death, and I also received the due proportion of gifts. The negro
was dismissed with a present in money.

When the captain, after dinner, had taken his siesta, he made known to
the crew the death of Don Toribios, and ordered preparations to be
made for paying the last honors to his deceased friend. A hundred
bottles of wine, torches, crape, and whatever else is necessary upon
such occasions, were put into the long-boat, into which the captain
entered, with ten sailors, six musicians, and myself. We found horses
and mules waiting for us on the shore, and we soon reached the house
of death, before which a great many tar barrels were burning, and in
the centre stood a bier, upon which the coffin was placed. A number of
mourners, among whom were twelve or fifteen ladies, now greeted us. We
returned their salutations and entered the brilliantly lighted saloon,
hung with black, where sat the mother and daughter of the dead man,
dressed in the deepest mourning. We expressed our sympathy for them;
refreshments were handed round, and all were provided with torches.
The procession was then arranged. Our sailors carried the coffin; the
musicians commenced a mournful march; the priest, with the choristers,
led the way and the others followed in pairs; the captain conducted
the mother, and I the daughter. Our sailors sent up some rockets, and
at this signal the schooner fired minute guns for a half hour. After
the conclusion of the solemnity, we went to the funeral supper, and
the guests indulged in all kinds of gayety.

Midnight had past, when we broke up; towards two o'clock we got on
board the schooner and retired to rest. The next morning I returned to
my sails, but thought incessantly of my plan for escape, and how it
could be most prudently carried into execution, for the danger of such
an attempt was immense. I believed that I could possess myself of one
of the boats, but where could I find a companion to be depended upon?
Yet such a one was absolutely necessary. I could never row alone for
five or six leagues, which was the shortest distance that would place
me out of reach of the pirates. Whether I should confide in the
steward, I could not exactly decide. Imagine my astonishment when the
honest fellow came to me while the captain was taking his afternoon's
nap in the cabin, and began gently to whisper in my ear.

"My friend, we must fly. In a few days there will be horrible work on
board here; a new conspiracy has been formed against the captain, and
his death is inevitable. We must seize the first opportunity to get
away. I know these waters well, for I was born upon the Cuban coast.
You know that quantities of fishing boats come every evening to
exchange their fish for brandy, and their owners often remain all
night on board, while their boats are floating by the side of the
vessel. My plan is to get into one of these about midnight, and trust
ourselves to the wind and the current, until the next morning, when we
can find our way to Havana."

"Well, my honest friend," I replied, "I agree with you entirely; in
this way we cannot fail to succeed. We will, therefore, hold ourselves
in readiness any day, and God will not forsake us in our hour of
need."

Thus we separated.

When the captain awoke he complained of violent pain in his limbs, and
I saw clearly that a fever had attacked him. With his consent, I
opened a vein and took from him thirteen ounces of blood. His bed was
placed on the forward deck, and an awning spread above it, for the
cabin was too close and hot. I left him for the night and prescribed
almond milk and orange flower water.


VIII.

It was about sunset, the weather was sultry, and towards the south
masses of clouds were forming, which betokened a storm. The sea, too,
began to be disturbed. Two fishing boats, that had ventured too far
into the open sea, came alongside and asked to be allowed to lodge on
board for the night. The lieutenant granted their request, after
conferring with the captain, and told them to make fast their boats to
the stern of the vessel. They did so, and came on board, bringing with
them a large basket of the fish that they had caught.

After they had presented the captain and lieutenant with the two
finest fish in their basket, they exchanged the rest for rum and
brandy.

They took two of the dozen great bottles they received to treat the
crew with. The captain, who had no appetite, gave up his fish to the
crew, and the lieutenant invited his comrades and me to share his with
him.

When the steward came to receive the fish, I said to him, with
peculiar emphasis: "Well, steward! now or never! display your art!"

He understood me perfectly.

"Yes, indeed, Senor," he replied, significantly, "I will make an
English sauce for the gentlemen, such as they cannot find in all
Havana."

He went out, and I went to inquire after the captain.

"I feel much better," he replied to my inquiries; "only give me
something strengthening."

I retired to the cabin, wrote down what I wanted upon a card, and
sent it to the steward. I soon received two dozen oranges and sweet
lemons, a great bottle of Canary, half a loaf of bread, a pound of
sugar, three spoons full of East India cinnamon, and a bottle of old
Malaga wine. From these I prepared most artistically, a strong,
delicious drink. I mixed with it, finally, one hundred and fifty drops
of opium that I took from the medicine chest. The dose was rather
large, but I had to do, not with men, but with beasts. After I had
poured it all into a large bowl, I carried it to the captain, who
immediately took ten or twelve spoons full of it, and was quite
delighted; I told him that he might drink as much of it as he
pleased.

"Well," he said, kindly, "since you are so skilful, go and get two
dozen bottles of Bordeaux; you can share them with the officers."

I thanked him and turned to go.

"Stop!" he cried, "if I am well my men shall feel well too; they have
been grumbling for several days; I'll moisten their throats with rum;
we're perfectly safe here; tell the steward to roll a barrel on deck;
they shall drink until they can't stand."

The storm had, in the meantime, blown over; the sea was placid, and
the full moon was rising gloriously. The table was already spread; I
hastened to the cabin, taking with me the laudanum bottle from the
medicine chest, out of which I poured a stupefying dose into the
rum-cask and into every bottle of Bordeaux, except the one destined
for my own use, which I marked by a cut in the cork. Then I gave the
captain's orders to the steward, who immediately obeyed them, and the
crew expressed their gratitude by three cheers and a "Long live the
captain!"

I now placed the bottles of Bordeaux upon the table so that the one I
had marked stood by my plate. Eight o'clock struck during these
preparations; supper was brought and we immediately took our places.
The crew lay about on the deck, and seemed very good humored. When the
keenness of their appetite was appeased, they began to drink, and the
officers broke the necks of the bottles of Bordeaux.

I did not neglect the captain meanwhile; he was very well content, for
he had already emptied half the bowl. I perceived that the laudanum
was taking effect upon all, and when I returned to the officers I
found them all very much excited. They were relating their various
exploits so noisily that scarcely a word could be heard. On deck the
wildest confusion reigned, and the sailors were shouting their
horrible pirate songs. The noise lasted about a half an hour and then
grew fainter and fainter till it ceased entirely; the opium had done
its duty; all lay buried in profound slumber, just where they had been
drinking.

The steward and I delayed not an instant in taking advantage of this
favourable moment. We immediately put into one of the fishing boats, a
cask of water, a brandy flask, a ham and some other provisions, and
then provided ourselves with the necessary clothes. I put on my
overcoat, into which I had sewed a considerable number of gold-pieces;
took a pocket compass, and a good spy glass, and was in the boat in
less than five seconds. The steward threw down a bundle and followed
me immediately.

We quickly cut the rope that fastened us to the hated schooner, put up
the sail, and as the wind was favourable, were soon out of sight of
her. We got into the current and shot along like an arrow. I was
rather terrified when the moon set, but the stars shone brightly, and
the steward was indeed well acquainted with those waters. When the sun
rose, we were not more than five leagues from Havana, and as the wind
and current continued to be favorable, we sailed into port a little
after nine o'clock, heard the bells ringing, and the great city with
its threatening fortifications and forest of masts lay before us. We
landed, and before a half an hour had elapsed, were in the house of
the English consul, relating to him our wonderful escape from the
pirates, whom I had served, much against my will, for more than a
month.

Two days afterwards, an English frigate set sail for home. I took my
passage in it, and after a short, prosperous voyage, landed at
Plymouth, my native town.




Captivity among the Japanese.


On the fifth of July, A. D., 1811, the Russian sloop of war, Diana,
approached Kumachir, one of the most southerly of the Kurile islands,
belonging to Japan, for the purpose of seeking shelter in one of its
bays against an approaching storm. They were received, on their
arrival, by a shower of balls from a fort which commanded the bay. As
no one, however, approached the vessel, its commander, Vassillii
Golownin, considering this hostile reception as the natural
consequence of former deeds of violence perpetrated by his countrymen
in those waters, did not return the fire, but endeavored, by means of
signs, to make the natives understand that his intentions towards them
were friendly, and that he wished to land merely to fill his water
casks. After a protracted negociation, a nearer conference was agreed
on, and Golownin was imprudent enough to fall into the snare set for
him. But we will let him describe the dangers and sufferings he
underwent, in his own words:

After we had cast anchor, says he, in the spot designated to us, I
landed with midshipman Moor, the steersman, Chleb Nikow, four sailors,
and Alexis, a native of the Kuriles, who acted as interpreter. So
deceived were we by the apparent friendliness of the Japanese, that we
took no arms with us, except our swords. In order to destroy any
distrust they might feel towards us, I ordered our boat to be partly
drawn on shore, and left a sailor to watch it. The rest of the men, by
my orders, carried after us some chairs, and the presents we intended
for the natives. As I entered the fort, I was astonished to find that
a large crowd had collected in it. There were at least four hundred
soldiers, armed with guns, pikes, and javelins, drawn up in an open
space to the right of the gates. Opposite to them was a tent made of
striped cotton stuffs, into which we were conducted. The commander of
the fort, a stately man, dressed in a complete suit of armor, and
wearing two sabres by his side, rose on our entrance, and when we had
saluted him, politely begged us to be seated on some benches which
were set ready for us. We thanked him for his courtesy, but preferred
taking our seats on the chairs which we had brought with us. When we
were seated, they served us with tea without sugar, which they carried
on lacquered wooden waiters. According to the Japanese custom, the
cups were only half full. After we had partaken of it, they supplied
us with pipes and tobacco, and the conference began. They first
inquired the name and rank of each of us, and then asked repeatedly,
and in an insidious manner, where we came from, whither we were going,
and why our countrymen had formerly ravaged their northern coasts.
When we had returned guarded answers to these questions, they wanted
to know how many men were in our vessel. As I thought it prudent to
magnify our strength, I replied "a hundred;" but Alexis could not
translate this number, and I was obliged to make a hundred marks on a
piece of paper, with a pencil, and let the Japanese count them.
Whilst they were thus employed, midshipman Moor observed that naked
sabres were being distributed among the soldiers, and immediately
advised me of the fact; but as we had been so kindly treated, I
thought little of the circumstance, especially as they were preparing
for us a feast, consisting of rice, fish served up with a green sauce,
and many other delicacies, the names of which we did not know. After
we had partaken heartily of these solids, and for a drink been given a
kind of beer called "Sagic," I declared that we could not stay any
longer, and begged them to tell us the price of the meal, which we
designed paying for. To this request of mine, they returned very
evasive answers, and when they saw that we were tired of the useless
and fruitless questioning we had undergone, and were making
preparations to depart, they suddenly threw off the mask they had
hitherto worn, and by their threatening gestures showed plainly enough
what their intentions were. Their chief, who, until the present
moment, had spoken in a friendly and pleasant manner, now raised his
voice, and pronouncing the name of the Russian who had ravaged their
coasts, made a long speech, during which he often fiercely struck his
hand on his sword, and ended by swearing that the Emperor would have
him cut in two if he suffered a single Russian, who was in his power,
to escape. As soon as Alexis, in whose anxious countenance we
discovered coming evil, had translated these words to us, we sprang to
our feet, and made for the door. The Japanese immediately set up a
loud and threatening cry, but did not attempt to seize us, contenting
themselves with throwing oars and blocks of wood in our way, in order
that in running we might stumble over them and fall. When we had
almost reached the entrance of the fort, they fired a volley at us,
but fortunately hit no one, although the balls whistled most
unpleasantly near to our heads. We were lucky enough to get out of the
fort, and had almost reached our boat, when I saw to my horror that it
was lying high and dry on shore, for in our absence the tide had
ebbed. As our pursuers were well aware that we could not float it
again, and had also made themselves acquainted with the fact that
there were no weapons in it, they grew bolder, and surrounded us on
all sides, brandishing their huge sabres, which they held in both
hands. As resistance in such a case would be little less than madness,
we surrendered ourselves to them as their prisoners. They seized me by
the arms, and dragged me back to the fort, together with my unhappy
companions. On the way a soldier struck me with a small iron rod, but
an officer angrily ordered him to desist, and no more blows followed.

They took us into a large building resembling a barrack, which stood
on the shore, and having forced us to kneel, bound us with cords of
the thickness of one's finger. Over these they lapped thinner ones,
which gave us great pain. The Japanese are perfect masters of this
art, and we were excellent specimens of their skill. We had about us
just the same number of ropes and knots, and were tied in precisely
the same parts of our bodies. Cords ran round our breasts and necks,
our elbows nearly touched each other behind our backs, and our hands
were tied fast together. A long rope was fastened to us, one end of
which a Japanese held, and on the least intimation of flight, had only
to pull it, and our elbows were painfully pressed together, whilst the
ropes around our necks were so tightly drawn, that we were nearly
choked. But as if this was not enough, they bound our legs together
above the knees and ancles, and then making slip-knots in the ends of
some ropes, they put them over our necks, and tied them to the rafters
of the building, pulling them so tight that we could not stir. They
then searched our pockets, and having taken from them every thing they
could find, very coolly lit their pipes and sat down to smoke. Whilst
they were binding us, the chief came in, and taking his station in
front of us, made a speech, during which he frequently pointed to his
mouth, with the intention probably of intimating to us, that at
present they had no intention of starving us. In this pitiful and
agonizing position we remained for an hour, not knowing what was to be
our fate. When I saw them put the ropes over the rafters, I concluded,
of course, that their intention was to hang us, and never have I so
despised death as I did in that moment; my only wish was, that they
would finish the murderous work as soon as possible. But the Japanese,
it seemed, had no idea, whatever, of taking such a step. Their sole
design and object was to render futile any attempt at escape on our
part. After a while they unbound our ancles, loosened the ropes about
our knees, and leading us out of the building, conducted us through
some cultivated fields into a wood. We were so tightly and skilfully
bound that a boy ten years of age might have conducted us in perfect
safety, but these anxious and careful people did not think so, for
each of us had an especial watchman who held the rope, and an armed
soldier to walk by his side. From a hill we saw our vessel for the
last time, and with bleeding hearts, bid it and our native land, a
long farewell.


II.

We walked along in single file, and had proceeded on our journey for
about half an hour, when we heard the distant thunder of cannon, and
concluded that our vessel must have attacked the fort. I was so
tightly bound, especially about the neck, that my face became swollen,
and I found that my breath was fast leaving me. I could scarcely
swallow, and only with the greatest difficulty, articulate. We
repeatedly begged our guards to loosen a little the cords which bound
us, but the noise of the cannon had thrown them into such paroxysms of
terror that they took no notice whatever of our entreaties, but kept
looking back, and urging us to go on faster. Life, at this moment,
appeared to me a most intolerable burden, and I made up my mind to get
rid of it, by leaping into the next stream of water we came to. But
this determination of mine, I found, was easier to be made than
carried out, for whenever we passed over a stream of the smallest size
even, our suspicious guards held us tightly by the arms. At last,
unable to proceed farther, I sank exhausted and senseless to the
ground. When I recovered, I found that blood had flowed from my mouth
and nostrils, and that I was sprinkled with water. For the first time,
the natives now listened to our entreaties, and loosening our bonds,
greatly relieved us, enabling us to proceed on our way with renewed
strength.

After walking for about three hours longer, we arrived at a little
village, which is situated on the shores of the strait separating
Kumachir from the island of Jesso. Here we were led into a house, and
rice bread offered us, but as our appetites were entirely gone, they
took us into another room, and made us lie down near the walls, so
that none of us could communicate with the others. The ropes by which
we had been led along, they tied to iron spikes, which were driven
into the floor, and they drew off our boots, and again tied our legs
as before. When our guards had thus disposed of us to their entire
satisfaction, they seated themselves in the middle of the apartment,
round a pan of coals, and began to drink tea and smoke tobacco. One
would imagine that men might rest in peace even among lions, if they
were bound as we were, but the Japanese did not seem to consider
themselves safe even now, for they carefully examined our bonds every
quarter of an hour or so.

Letters were very often brought to the captain of our guards, which he
read attentively, and then communicated their contents to his
companions. They conversed, however, in such a low tone of voice, that
we saw very well they feared our hearing what they said, though on
that subject they might have made themselves perfectly easy, for we
did not understand a single word of the Japanese language. Towards
midnight they made preparations for departure. A wide board was
brought in, to the four corners of which ropes had been attached;
through these ropes a pole was put, by means of which they raised it
from the ground. They now laid me on the board, and carried me away,
which made us fully believe that they were going to separate us, and
that we now saw each other for the last time. We, therefore, took
leave of each other like dying men, our eyes filled with tears. The
farewell of the sailors, which they sobbed aloud, cut me to the heart,
for I felt that my imprudence was the cause of all their misery. I was
carried to the shore, and laid on a mat in a large boat, and to my joy
and surprise they brought down my comrades, one after the other, and
laid them near to me. This was so unexpected, and so gratifying, that
for a moment I almost forgot my sufferings. They then covered me and
my companions with moss, and an armed guard having taken his seat by
the side of each of us, they pushed off from the shore. During our
journey by water that night, the Japanese kept perfectly quiet. They
spoke not a word, and turned a deaf ear to all our lamentations and
complaints.

At the break of day we arrived at a little village on the coast of
Jesso, where they placed us in several smaller boats, which they drew
along the shore by means of ropes. From time to time they offered us
rice-broth, and roasted fish, and if any of us wanted to eat, they put
the food into his mouth by means of slender sticks, which, in Japan,
are used instead of forks.

The good people who had bound us in such an unmerciful manner, from a
fear only that we would escape from them, or commit suicide, now
showed themselves to be any thing but cruel, for they were even,
careful to brush the flies from us with green bushes, which otherwise
would have plagued us sadly. After they had carried us along the coast
in this manner, for the space of two days, the boats were dragged upon
the land, and shoved along by the aid of a large number of people,
without either we or our guards being obliged to leave them. They
pulled us through thickets and woods, and at last we found ourselves
on the top of a high hill. We could not conceive what possible object
the Japanese could have in drawing across the land, with so much
trouble, boats of no inconsiderable size. We concluded, at last, that
they must have seen our vessel, and feared lest they should lose their
prize. But the solution of the riddle was soon apparent, for when they
had got the boats up to the top of the hill, they allowed them to
slide down the other side by the force of their own gravity, and then
launched them on a small stream, which, after having navigated for two
days, we left in order to continue our journey by land. They loosened
the bands from our legs, and having drawn on our boots, asked us
whether we would walk or be carried in litters, by which name they
designated boards, some four feet in length, fastened to ropes, by
which they were borne along. We chose to walk, and accordingly the
chief formed the procession. First walked two of the natives, side by
side, with red staves in their hands, who pointed out the way. After
them came three soldiers, and then myself. On one side of me walked a
soldier, and on the other a servant, who, with a green bush, brushed
the flies from me. After me walked a guard, who held the rope that
bound me, and then followed people bearing my litter. In the same
manner, Moor, Chleb Nikow, and the sailors, were led along, and the
procession closed with soldiers and a crowd of servants, who carried
the baggage and provisions. Each one of the latter had fastened to his
girdle a small wooden tablet, marked so as to designate to which of us
he was attached, and what was his duty. During the whole of the
journey, the Japanese preserved the same order, and the day was spent
in the following manner: At dawn we prepared to start, breakfasted,
and set out on our march. At the villages through which we passed, we
generally stopped to rest, to drink tea, and smoke tobacco. At noon we
dined. An hour after dinner, we started again, and two or three hours
before sunset halted for the night, generally in some village, or
where a garrison lay. Immediately on our arrival, we were led to the
chief's dwelling, and seated on benches, until that magnate reviewed
and mustered us. We were then taken to a house appropriated to us, and
bound fast to iron clamps. Afterwards they pulled off our boots, and
washed our feet with salt and water. We ate regularly three times a
day; in the morning, at noon, and in the evening. Our food varied very
little, consisting of rice-broth, instead of bread, with salted
radishes, instead of salt, a mess of greens, balls of pastry, or
roasted fish. Sometimes we received mushroom soup, and a hard boiled
egg. The food was not measured out to us, but each one was at liberty
to eat as much as he pleased. Our drink was generally bad tea, without
sugar, and sometimes, though rarely, beer. In this manner we were
taken to our place of destination, which was as yet unknown to us.

By degrees they loosened the ropes, which had been put round our
necks, and when, after a time, a man of higher rank took the command
of our party, he permitted our hands to be untied, so that we could
feed ourselves. Only when we were carried across some strait or river,
did they bind us so unmercifully tight, and this did not happen often,
nor last long. Our conductors were very careful of us, and carried
their caution and watchfulness so far, that for a long time they would
not suffer us to approach the shore. However, as we pleaded hard to be
allowed to do so, because we could walk so much easier on the wet
sand, they at last gave a reluctant consent, taking care to keep
between us and the water, even where they were obliged to wade in it.
When, also, they allowed us to smoke pipes, they held them with both
hands, or fastened to the mouth-pieces wooden balls of the size of
hen's eggs, for they seemed to imagine that if we were not restrained,
we would choke ourselves with them. We laughed heartily at this
proceeding, and made them understand, by signs, that it was much
easier to strangle ourselves with these balls than with pipe-stems. At
this they laughed too, but told us that they had most positive orders
to prevent us in every possible way from committing suicide. They were
so very anxious about our health, that they watched us from the tops
of our heads to the soles of our feet, carried us across the smallest
brooks or puddles, and asked us every morning how we felt.

On the eighth of August, we arrived at Khakodade, a large town, which
they told us was to be our abode for the present. An immense multitude
came forth to meet us. The road was lined on both sides with
spectators, but they behaved themselves very soberly, none of them
betraying in their looks, as I saw to my satisfaction, either hatred,
scorn, or malicious pleasure; still less did they attempt to annoy us
with either mockery or outrage. After we had passed through the town
gates, and a long and very narrow street, we turned into a by-lane,
and saw on a high piece of ground before us, which was surrounded by
an earthen wall and thick-set hedge, and guarded by armed soldiers, a
building which was, perhaps, to be our prison during life.

As soon as we entered we were mustered by an officer, according to the
instructions given him by the captain of our guards, and then led
farther into the court, where we saw a large, dark shed, in which
stood cages made of strong bars of wood, and resembling bird-cages in
every thing but size. After the Japanese had taken counsel among
themselves for some time, as to how they should dispose of us, they
led me along a passage, and forced me to go into one of the little
apartments, which was partitioned off by means of wooden posts. I
looked around for my companions, and judge of my horror, when I found
that they had vanished. After the guards had taken off my bonds, and
also, taken off my boots, they fastened the door of my cage, without
saying a word, and left me to myself. The thought that I was separated
from my comrades, overcame me, and I threw myself on the ground in
despair.


III.

I had lain there, almost unconscious, for some time, when I perceived
a man at the window, who, by signs, invited me to approach him. As I
did so, he handed me through the grating, a couple of little sweet
cakes, and signified to me that I was to eat them quickly, without
letting any one see me do so, for if that was to happen it might be
all the worse for him. Although at this moment I felt a positive
aversion towards all kinds of food, yet with a great exertion, I
gulped them both down, because I did not wish either to anger or
injure him. He now left me, with a pleased countenance, promising to
provide me in future, with the same kind of food. I thanked him as
well as I was able, and wondered not a little, that a man, who to
judge from his appearance, was of the lowest rank in life, should
possess so much goodness of heart, as to resolve on comforting a
