purpose of solf-sacrificc and  with the other a vulgar 
and shameless use of it, 

" I couldn't do it," said Beaton. " I couldn't 
think of attempting it." 

" Why not ? " Dryfoos persisted. " Wo got some 
photographs of him ; he didn't like to sit very  well; 
but his mother got him to ; and you know how he 
looked." 

" I couldn't do it — I couldn't. I can't even con- 
sider it. I 'm very sorry. I would, if it were 
possible. But it isn't possible." 

" I reckon if you see the photographs once " 

" It isn't that, Mr. Dryfoos. But I 'm not in the 
way of that kind of thing any more." 

" I 'd give any price yoTi 've a mind to name " 

" Oh, it isn't the money ! " cried Beaton, beginning 
to lose control of himself. 

The old man did not notice him. lie sat with 
his head fallen forward, and his chin resting on his 
folded hands. Thinking of the portrait, he saw 
Conrad's face before him, reproachful, astonished, 
but all gentle as it looked when Conrad catight his 
hand that day after lie struck him ; he heard him 
say, " Father ! " and the sweat gathered on his fore- 
head. " my God ! " he groaned. " No ; there 
ain't anything I can do now." 

Beaton did not know whether Dryfoos was speak- 
ing to him or not. lie started toward him : " Arc 
you ill?" 

" No, there ain't anything the matter," said the 
old man. " But I guess I 'll lay down on your settee 



  

a minute." He tottered with Eeaton's lielp to the 
aesthetic couch covered with a tiger-skin, on which 
Eeaton had once thought of painting a Cleopatra ; 
but he could never get the right model. As the old 
man stretched himself out on it, jDale and suffering, 
he did not look much like a Cleopatra, but Beaton 
was struck with his effectiveness, and the likeness 
between him and his daughter ; she would make a 
very good Cleopatra in some ways. All the time, 
while these thoughts passed through his mind, he 
was afraid Dryfoos would die. The old man fetched 
his breath in gasps, which presently smoothed and 
lengthened into his normal breathing. Beaton got 
him a glass of wine, and after tasting it he sat 
up. 

" You've got to excuse me," he said, getting back 
to his characteristic grimncss with surprising sudden- 
ness, when once he began to recover himself. " I 've 
been through a good deal lately ; and sometimes it 
ketches me round the heart like a pain." 

In his life of selfish immunity from grief Beaton 
could not understand this experience that poignant 
sorrow brings ; ho said to himself that Dryfoos was 
going the way of angina pectoris ; as he began shuffling 
off the tiger-skin he said, ' Had you better get up ? 
"Wouldn't you like me to call a doctor ? " 

" I 'm all right, joung man." Dryfoos took his 
hat and stick from him, but he made for the door 
so uncertainly that Beaton put his hand under his 
elbow and helped him out, and down the stairs, to 
his coupe. 





  

" Hadn't you hotter let mc drive home witli you ? " 
he asked. 

" What ? " said Dryfoos suspiciously. 

Beaton repeated his question. 

" I guess I 'm able to go home alone," said Dryfoos, 
in a surly tone, and he put liis head out of the 
•window and called up " Home ! " to the driver, 
who immediately started off, and left Beaton stand- 
ing beside the curb-stone. 



XIV. 

Beaton wasted the rest of the day in the 
emotions and speculations  which Dryfoos's call in- 
spired. It was not that they continuously occupied 
him, but they broke up the train of other thoughts, 
and spoiled him for vrovk ; a very little spoiled 
Beaton for work ; he required just the right mood 
fur work. He comprehended perfectly "well that 
Dryfoos had made him that extraordinary embassy 
because he wishcd him to rencw his visits, and he 
easily imagined the means that had brought him to 
this pass. From uhat he knew of that girl he did 
not envy her father his meeting with her when he 
must tell her his mission had failed. But had it 
failed ] "When Beaton came to ask himself this 
question, he could only perceiAe that he and Dry- 
foos had failed to find any ground of sympathy, and 
had parted in the same dislike with which they had 
met. But as to any other failure, it was certainly 
tacit, and it still rested with him to give it effect. 
He could go back to Dryfoos's house, as freely as 
before, and it was clear that he was A'cry much de- 
sired to come back. But if he went back it was also 
clear that he must go back with intentions more 



  

explicit than before, and now ho had to ask himself 
just liow much or how little he liad meant by going 
there. His liking for Christine had certainly not 
increased, but the charm, on the other hand, of 
holding a leopardess in leash had not yet palled 
upon him. In his life of inconstancies, it was 
a pleasure to rest upon something fixed, and the 
man who liad no control over himself liked logically 
enough to feel his control of some one else. The 
fact cannot otherwise be put in terms, and the 
attraction which Christine Dryfoos had for him, 
apart from this, escapes from all terms, as anything 
purely and merely passional must. He had seen 
from the first that she was a cat, and so far as youth 
forecasts such things, he felt that she would be a 
shrew. But he had a perverse sense of her beauty, 
and he knew a sort of life in which her power to 
molest him with her temper could be reduced to the 
smallest proportions, and even broken to pieces. 
Then the consciousness of her money entered. 
It was evident that the old man had mentioned 
his millions in the way of a hint to him of what 
he might reasonably expect if he would turn and 
be his son-indaw. Beaton did not put it to him- 
self in those words; and in fact his cogitations were 
not in words at all. It was the play of cognitions, 
of sensations, formlessly tending to the effect which 
can only be very clumsily interpreted in language. 
But when he got to this point in them, Beaton 
rose to magnanimity and in a flash of dramatic 
reverie disposed of a part of Dryfoos's riches in 



  

placing his father and mother, and his brothers and 
sisters, beyond all pecuniary anxiety for ever. He 
had no shame, no scruple in this, for he had been 
a pensioner upon others ever since a Syracusan 
amateur of the arts had detected his talent, and 
given him the money to go and study abroad. 
Beaton had always considered the money a loan, to 
be repaid out of his future success ; but he now 
never dreamt of repaying it ; as the man was rich, 
he had even a contempt for the notion of repaying 
him ; but this did not prevent him from feeling very 
Iceenly the hardshijis he put his father to in borrow- 
ing money from him, though he never repaid his 
father, either. In this reverie he saw himself sacri- 
ficed in marriage with Christine Dryfoos, in a kind 
of admiring self-pity, and he was melted by the 
spectacle of the dignity with which he suffered all 
the life-long trials ensuing from his unselfishness. 
The fancy that Alma Leighton came bitterly to 
regret him, contributed to soothe and flatter him, 
and he was not sure that Margaret Vance did not 
suffer a like loss in him. 

There had been times when, as he believed, that 
beautiful girl's high thoughts had tended tOward 
him ; there had been looks, gestures, even words, 
that had this effect to him, or that seemed to have 
had it ; and Beaton saw that he might easily construe 
Mrs. Horn's confidential appeal to him to get Mar- 
garet interested in art again as something by no 
means necessarily offensive, even though it had been 
made to him as to a master of illusion. If Mrs. 



  

Horn liad to clioosc between him and the life of 
good works to -wliicli her niece avus visibly abandon- 
ing herself, Eeaton could not doubt which she would 
choose ; the only question was how real the danger 
of a life of good works was. 

As he thought of these two girls, one so charm- 
ing and the other so divine, it became indefinitely 
difficult to renounce them for Christine Dryfoos, 
witli her sultry temper, and her earthbound ideals. 
Life had been so flattering to Beaton hitherto tliat 
he could not believe them both finally indifferent ; 
and if they were not indifferent, perhaps he did not 
wish either of them to Ije very definite. "What he 
really longed for was their sympathy ; for a man 
who is able to walk round cpiite ruthlessly on the 
feelings of others often has very tender feelings of 
his Own, easily lacerated, and eagerly responsive to 
the caresses of compassion. In this frame Beaton 
determined to go that afternoon, though it was not 
Mrs. Horn's day, and call upon her in the hope of 
possibly seeing Miss Yance alone. As he continued 
in it, he took this for a sign, and actually went. It 
did not fall out at once as he wished, but he got 
Mrs. Horn to talking again about her niece, and Mrs. 
Horn again regretted that nothing could be done by 
the fine arts to reclaim Margaret from good works. 

" Is she at home ? Will you let me see her ? " 
asked Beaton with something of the scientific 
interest of a physician inquiring for a patient avIiosc 
symptoms have been rehearsed to him. lie had not 
asked for her before. 



  

" Yes, certainly," said Mrs. Horn, and slic went 
herself to call Margaret, and she did not return with 
her. The girl entered with the gentle grace jDeculiar 
to her ; and Beaton, bent as ho was on his own 
consolation, could not help being struck with the 
spiritual exaltation of her look. At sight of her, 
the vague hope he had never quite relinquished, 
that they might be something more than aesthetic 
friends, died in his heart. She wore black, as she 
often did ; but in spite of its fashion her dress 
received a nun-like effect from the pensive absence 
of her face. " Decidedly," thought Beaton, " she is 
far gone in good works." 

But he rose, all the same, to meet her on the old 
level, and he began at once to talk to her of the 
subject he had been discussing with her aunt. He 
said frankly that they both felt she had unjustifiably 
turned her back upon possibilities which she ought 
not to neglect. 

" You know very well," she answered, " that I 
couldn't do anything in that way worth the time 
I should waste on it. Don't talk of it, please. I 
suppose my aunt has been asking you to say this, 
but it 's no use. I 'm sorry it 's no use, she wishes 
it so much ; but I 'm not sorry other\A'ise. You can 
find the pleasure at least of doing good work in it ; 
but I couldn't find anything in it but a barren 
amusement. Mr. Wetmorc is right ; for mo, it 's 
like enjoying an opera, or a ball." 

" That 's one of Wetmore's })hrases. He 'd sacrifice 
anything to them." 




She put aside the whole subject with a look. 
" You wore not at JMr. Dryfoos's the other day. 
Have you seen them, any of them, lately ? " 

" I haven't been there for some time, no," said 
Beaton evasively. But he thought if he was to get 
on to anything, he had bettor be candid. " Mr. 
Dryfoos was at my studio this morning. He 's got 
a queer notion. He wants me to paint his son's 
portrait." 

She started. "And will you " 

" No, I couldn't do such a thing. It isn't in my 
way. I told him so. His son had a beautiful face 
— an antique profile ; a sort of early Christian typo ; 
but I 'm too much of a pagan for that sort of tiling." 

"Yes." 

" Yes," Beaton continued, not cuite liking her 
assent, after he had invited it. He had his pride in 
being a pagan, a Greek, but it failed him in her 
presence, now ; and he wished that she had pro- 
tested he was none. " He was a singular creature ; 
a kind of sur\aval ; an exile in our time and place. 
I don't know : we don't quite expect a saint to be 
rustic ; but with all his goodness Conrad Dryfoos 
was a country person. If he were not dying for a 
cause you could imagine him milking." Beaton 
intended a contempt that came from the bitterness 
of liaAng himself once milked the family cow. 

His contempt did not reach Mhs Vance. " He 
died for a cause," she said. " The holiest." 

"Of labour]" 

" Of peace. He was there to persuade tho 
strikers to be quiet and go home." 



  

" I haven't been quite sure," said Bjeaton. " But 
in any case lie had no business there. The police 
 were on hand to do the persuading." 

"I can't let you talk so!" cried the girl. "It's 
shocking ! Oh, I know it 's the "way people talk, 
and the worst is that in the sight of the world it 's 
the right way. But the blessing on the peace- 
makers is not for the policemen with their clubs." 

Beaton saw that she was nervous ; he made his 
reflection that she was altogether too far gone in 
good works for the fine arts to reach her ; he began 
to think how he could turn her primitive Christi- 
anity to the account of his modern heathenism. 
He had no deeper design than to get flattered back 
into his own favour far enough to find courage for 
some sort of decisive step. In his heart he was try- 
ing to will whether he should or should not go back 
to Dryfoos's house. It could not be from the caprice 
that had formerly taken him ; it must be from a 
definite purpose; again he realised this. "Of 
course ; you are right," he said. " I wish I could 
have answered that old man diflerenth'. I fancy he 
was bound up in his son, though he quarrelled with 
him, and crossed him. But I couldn't do it; it 
wasn't possible." He said to himself that if she 
said, "No," iiow, he would be ruled by her agree- 
ment with him ; and if she disagreed with him, he 
would be ruled still by the chance, and would go no 
more to the Dryfoos's. He found himself em- 
barrassed to the point of blushing when she said 
nothing, and left him, as it were, on his own hands. 
"I should like to have given him that comfort; I 


fancy he liasn't much comfort in life ; but there 
seems no comfort in me." He dropped his head in 
a fit attitude for compassion ; but she poured no 
pity upon it. 

"There is no comfort for us in ourselves," she 
said. "It's hiu'd to get outside; but there's only 
despair within. When  we think we have done 
something for others, l)y some great effort, we find 
it's all for our own vanity." 

"Yes," said Beaton. "If I could paint pictures 
for righteousness' sake, I should have been glad to 
do Conrad Dryfoos for his father. I felt sorry for 
him. Did the rest seem very much broken up ? 
You saw them all ? " 

"Not all. Miss Dryfoos was ill, her sister said. 
It's hard to tell how much people suffer. His 
mother seemed bewildered. The younger sister is 
a simple creature ; she looks like him ; I think she 
must have something of his spirit." 

"Not much spirit of any kind, I imagine," said 
Beaton. " But she 's amiably material. Did they 
say Miss Dryfoos was seriously ill ? " 

" No. I supposed she might be j)rostratcd by her 
brother's death." 

"Does she seem that kind of jicrson to you. Miss 
Vance ? " asked Beaton. 

"I don't know. I haven't tried to see so much 
of them as I might, the past winter. I was not 
sure about her when I met her ; I 've never seen 
much of people, except in my own set, and the— 
very poor. I have been afraid I didn't understand 



  

her. She may have a kind of pride that would not 
let her do herself justice." 

Beaton felt the unconscious dislike in the endea- 
vour of praise. " Then she seems to you like a 
person whose life — its trials, its chances — would 
make more of than she is now ? " 

"I didn't say that. I can't judge of her at all; 
but where we don't know, don't you think we ought 
to imagine the best ? " 

"Oh yes," said Beaton. "I didn't know but 
what I once said of them might have prejudiced 
you against them. I have accused myself of it." 
He always took a tone of conscientiousness, of self- 
censure, in talking with Miss Vance ; he could not 
help it. 

"Oh no. And I never allowed myself to form 
any judgment of her. She is very pretty, don't 
you think, in a kind of way ? " 

" Very." 

" She has a beautiful brunette colouring : that 
floury white and the delicate pink in it. Her 
eyes are beautiful." 

" She 's graceful, too," said Beaton. ' I 've tried 
her in colour ; but I didn't make it out." 

"I've wondered sometimes," said Miss Vance, 
"whether that elusive quality you find in some 
people you try to paint doesn't characterise them 
all through. Miss Dryfoos might be ever so much 
finer and better than we would find out in the 
society way that seems the only way." 

" Perhaps," said Beaton gloomily ; and he went 



  

away profoundly discouraged by this last analysis of 
Christine's character. The angelic imperviousncss 
of Miss Vance to properties of which his own wicked- 
ness was so keenly aware in Christine might have 
made him laugh, if it had not hccn such a serious 
affair with him. As it was, he smiled to think how 
very differently Alma Leighton would have judged 
her from Miss Vance's premises. He liked that 
clear vision of Alma's even when it pierced his own 
disguises. Yes, that was the light he had let die 
out, and it might have shone upon his path through 
life. Beaton never felt so j)oignantly the dis- 
advantage of having on any given occasion been 
wanting to his Own interests through his self-love 
as in this. He had no one to blame but himself for 
what had happened, but he blamed Alma for what 
might happen in the future because she shut out the 
way of retrieval and return. When he thought of 
the attitude she had taken toward him, it seemed 
incredible, and he was always longing to give her a 
final chance to reverse her final judgment. It 
appeax'ed to him that the time had come for this 
now, if ever. 



XV. 



While avg are still young we feel a kind of pride, 
a sort of fierce pleasure, in any important experi- 
ence, such as we have read of or heard of in the 
lives of others, no matter how painful. It was this 
pride, this pleasure, which Beaton now felt in realis- 
ing that the toils of fate were about him, that 
between him and a future of which Christine Dry- 
foos must be the genius, there was nothing but the 
will, the mood, the fancy of a girl who had not 
given him the hope that either could ever again be 
in his favour. He had nothing to trust to, in fact, 
but his knowledge that he had once had them all ; 
she did not deny that ; but neither did she conceal 
that he had flung away his power over them, and 
she had told him that they never could be his again. 
A man knows that he can love and wholly cease to 
love, not once merely, but several times ; he recog- 
nises the fact in regard to himself, both theoretically 
and practically ; but in regard to women he cherishes 
the superstition of the romances that love is once 
for all, and for ever. It was because Beaton would 
not believe that Alma Leighton, being a woman, 
could put him out of her heart after suffering him 



  

to steal into it, that he now liopcd anything from 
her, and she had been so explicit when they hist 
spoke of that affair that he did not hope much. 
He said to himself that he was going to cast him- 
self on her mercy, to take whatever chance of 
life, love, and work there was in her having the 
smallest pity on him. If she would liavc none, 
then there was but one thing he couW do : marry 
Christine and go abroad. He did not see how he 
could bring this alternative to bear upon Alma ; 
even if she knew what he would do in case of a 
final rejection, he had grounds for fearing she would 
not care ; but he brought it to bear upon himself, 
and it nerved him to a desperate courage. He 
could hardly wait for evening to come, before he 
went to see her; when it came, it seemed to have 
come too soon. He had wrought himself thoroughly 
into the conviction that he was in earnest, and that 
everything depended upon her answer to him, but 
it was not till he found himself in her presence, and 
alone with her, that he realised the truth of his 
conviction. Then the influences of her grace, her 
gaict}', her arch beauty, above all, her good sense, 
penetrated his soul like a subtle intoxication, and he 
said to himself that he was right; he could not 
live without her ; these attributes of hers were what 
he needed to win him, to cheer him, to charm him, 
to guide him. He longed so to please her, to in- 
gratiate himself with her, that he attempted to be 
light like her in his talk, but lapsed into abysmal 
absnnres, and gloomy recesses of introspection. 



  

" What are you laughing at ? " he asked, suddenly 
starting from one of these. 

"What you are thinking of." 

" It 's notliing to laugh at. Do you know what it 
is I 'm thinking of ? " 

•' Don't tell, if it 's dreadful." 

"Oh, I dare say you wouldn't think it 's dreadful," 
he said, with bitterness. " It 's simply the case of a 
man who has made a fool of himself, and sees no 
help of retrieval in himself." 

" Can any one else help a man unmake a fool of 
himself ? " she asked, with a smile. 

"Yes. In a case like this." 

" Dear me ! This is very interesting." 

She did not ask him what the case was, but he 
was launched now, and he pressed on. " I am the 
man who has made a fool of himself " 

"Oh!" 

"And you can help me out if you will. Alma, I 
wish you could see me as I really am." 

"Do you, Mr. Beaton ? Perhaps I do." 

"Xo; you don't. You formulated me in a cer- 
tain way, and you won't allow for the change that 
takes place in every one. You have changed ; why 
shouldn't I ? " 

"Has this to do with your having made a fool of 
yourself ? " 

" Yes." 

" Oh ! Then I don't see how you have changed." 

She laughed, and he too, ruefully. " You 're cruel. 
Not but what I deserve your mockery. But the 



  

change was not from the capacity of making a fool 
of myself. I suppose I shall always do that more 
or less — unless you help me. Alma ! Why can't 
you have a little compassion ? You know that I 
must always love you." 

" Nothing makes me doubt that like your saying it, 
Mr. Beaton. But now you 've broken your word " 

" You are to blame for that. You knew I couldn't 
keep it ! " 

" Yes, I 'm to blame. I was wrong to let you 
come — after that. And so I forgive you for speak- 
ing to me in that way again. But it's perfectly im- 
possible and perfectly useless for me to hear you any 
more on that subject ; and so — good-bye ! " 

She rose, and he perforce with her. ''And do 
you mean it ? " he asked. " For ever ? " 

" For over. This is truly the last time I will ever 
see you if I can help it. Oh, I feel sorry enough for 
you ! " she said, with a glance at his face. " I do 
believe you are in earnest. But it 's too late now. 
Don't let us talk about it any more ! But we shall, 
if we meet, and so " 

"And so good-bye! Well I've nothing more to 
say, and I might as well say that. I think you 've 
been very good to me. It seems to me as if you had 
been — shall I say it ? — trying to give me a chance. 
Is that so ? " 

She dropped her eyes and did not answer. 

" You found it was no use ! AYell, I thank you 
for trying. It's curious to think that I once had 
your trusjt, your regard, and now I haven't it. You 




don't mind my remembering that I had ? It 'll be 
some little consolation, and I believe it will be some 
help. I know I can't retrieve the past now. It is 
too late. It seems too preposterous — pei'fectly lurid 
— that I could have been going to tell you what a 
tangle I'd got myself in, and to ask you to help 
imtangle me. I must choke in the infernal coil, but 
I 'd like to have the sweetness of your pity in it — 
whatever it is." 

She put out her hand. " Whatever it is, I do pity 
you ; I said that." 

"Thank you." He kissed the hand she gave him 
and went. 

He had gone on some such terms before ; was it 
now for the last time? She believed it was. She 
felt in herself a satiety, a fatigue, in which his good 
looks, his invented airs and poses, his real trouble, 
were all alike repulsive. She did not acquit herself 
of the wrong of having let him think she might yet 
have liked him as she once did ; but she had been 
honestly willing to see whether she could. It had 
mystified her to find that when they first met in 
New York, after their summer in St. Barnaby, she 
cared nothing for him ; she had expected to punish 
him for his neglect, and then fancy him as before, 
but she did not. More and more she saw him selfish 
and mean, weak-willed, narrow-minded and hard- 
hearted ; and aimless, with all his talent. She ad- 
mired his talent in proportion as she learned more 
of artists, and perceived how uncommon it was ; but 
she said to herself that if she were going to devote 



  

herself to art, she woukl do it at firet liaml. She 
was perfectly serene and happy in her final rejection 
of Beaton ; he had worn out not only her fancy, hut 
her sympathy too. 

This was what her mother would not hclievc when 
Alma reported the interview to her ; she would not 
believe it was the last time they should meet ; death 
itself can hardly convince us that it is the last time 
of anything, of everything between ourselves and 
the dead. " Well, Alma," she said, " I hope you 'll 
never regret what you 've done." 

" You may be sure I shall not regret it. If ever 
I 'm low-spirited about anything, I 'll think of giving 
Mr. Beaton his freedom, and that will cheer me uj)." 

" And don't you expect to get married ? Do you 
intend to be an old maid ? " demanded her mother, 
in the bonds of the superstition women have so long 
been under to the effect that every woman must 
wish to get married, if for no other purpose than to 
