statement was as significant in its way as the list of the men, in the
days of Emerson, Agassiz, and Longfellow, who dined together as the
Saturday Club in Boston. We cannot, however, generalize from this that
the only thing considered in the North-west is money, and that the only
thing held in esteem in Boston is intellect.

The chief concerns in the North-west are material, and the making of
money, sometimes termed the “development of resources,” is of the
first importance. In Minneapolis and St. Paul, social position is more
determined by money than it is in most Eastern cities, and this makes
social life more democratic, so far as traditions and family are
concerned. I desire not to overstate this, for money is potent
everywhere; but I should say that a person not devoted to business,
or not succeeding in it, but interested rather in intellectual
pursuits—study, research, art (not decorative), education, and the
like—would find less sympathy there than in Eastern cities of the same
size and less consideration. Indeed, I was told, more than once, that
the spirit of plutocracy is so strong in these cities as to make a very
disagreeable atmosphere for people who value the higher things in life
more than money and what money only will procure, and display which is
always more or less vulgar. But it is necessary to get closer to the
facts than this statement.

The materialistic spirit is very strong in the West; of necessity it is,
in the struggle for existence and position going on there, and in the
unprecedented opportunities for making fortunes. And hence arises a
prevailing notion that any education is of little value that does not
bear directly upon material success. I should say that the professions,
including divinity and the work of the scholar and the man of letters,
do not have the weight there that they do in some other places. The
professional man, either in the college or the pulpit, is expected to
look alive and keep up with the procession. Tradition is weak; it is
no objection to a thing that it is new, and in the general strain
“sensations” are welcome. The general motto is, “Be alive; be
practical.” Naturally, also, wealth recently come by desires to assert
itself a little in display, in ostentatious houses, luxurious living,
dress, jewellery, even to the frank delight in the diamond shirt-stud.

But we are writing of Americans, and the Americans are the quickest
people in the world to adapt themselves to new situations. The Western
people travel much, at home and abroad, and they do not require a very
long experience to know what is in bad taste. They are as quick as
anybody—I believe they gave us the phrase—to “catch on” to quietness and
a low tone. Indeed, I don’t know but they would boast that if it is a
question of subdued style, they can beat the world. The revolution
which has gone all over the country since the Exposition of 1876 in
house-furnishing and decoration is quite as apparent in the West as
in the East. The West has not suffered more than the East from
eccentricities of architecture in the past twenty years. Violations of
good taste are pretty well distributed, but of new houses the proportion
of handsome, solid, good structures is as large in the West as in the
East, and in the cities I think the West has the advantage in variety.
It must be frankly said that if the Easterner is surprised at the size,
cost, and palatial character of many of their residences, he is not less
surprised by the refinement and good taste of their interiors. There are
cases where money is too evident, where the splendor has been ordered,
but there are plenty of other cases where individual taste is apparent,
and love of harmony and beauty. What I am trying to say is that the East
undervalues the real refinement of living going along with the admitted
cost and luxury in the West. The art of dining is said to be a test of
civilization—on a certain plane. Well, dining, in good houses (I believe
that is the phrase), is much the same East and West as to appointments,
service, cuisine, and talk, with a trifle more freedom and sense of
newness in the West. No doubt there is a difference in tone, appreciable
but not easy to define. It relates less to the things than the way the
things are considered. Where a family has had “things” for two or three
generations they are less an object than an unregarded matter of course;
where things and a manner of living are newly acquired, they have more
importance in themselves. An old community, if it is really civilized (I
mean a state in which intellectual concerns are paramount), values less
and less, as an end, merely material refinement. The tendency all over
the United States is for wealth to run into vulgarity.

In St. Paul and Minneapolis one thing notable is the cordial
hospitality, another is the public spirit, and another is the intense
devotion to business, the forecast and alertness in new enterprises.
Where society is fluid and on the move, it seems comparatively easy
to interest the citizens in any scheme for the public good. The public
spirit of those cities is admirable. One notices also an uncommon power
of organization, of devices for saving time. An illustration of this is
the immense railway transfer ground here. Midway between the cities is a
mile square of land where all the great railway lines meet, and by
means of communicating tracks easily and cheaply exchange freight
cars, immensely increasing the facility and lessening the cost of
transportation. Another illustration of system is the State office of
Public Examiner, an office peculiar to Minnesota, an office supervising
banks, public institutions, and county treasuries, by means of which
a uniform system of accounting is enforced for all public funds, and
safety is insured.

There is a large furniture and furnishing store in Minneapolis, well
sustained by the public, which gives one a new idea of the taste of the
North-west. A community that buys furniture so elegant and chaste in
design, and stuffs and decorations so aesthetically good, as this shop
offers it, is certainly not deficient either in material refinement or
the means to gratify the love of it.

What is there besides this tremendous energy, very material prosperity,
and undeniable refinement in living? I do not know that the excellently
managed public-school system offers anything peculiar for comment. But
the High-school in St. Paul is worth a visit. So far as I could judge,
the method of teaching is admirable, and produces good results. It has
no rules, nor any espionage. Scholars are put upon their honor. One
object of education being character, it is well to have good behavior
consist, not in conformity to artificial laws existing only in school,
but to principles of good conduct that should prevail everywhere. There
is system here, but the conduct expected is that of well-bred boys and
girls anywhere. The plan works well, and there are very few cases of
discipline. A manual training school is attached—a notion growing in
favor in the West, and practised in a scientific and truly educational
spirit. Attendance is not compulsory, but a considerable proportion of
the pupils, boys and girls, spend a certain number of hours each week in
the workshops, learning the use of tools, and making simple objects to
an accurate scale from drawings on the blackboard. The design is not at
all to teach a trade. The object is strictly educational, not simply
to give manual facility and knowledge in the use of tools, but to teach
accuracy, the mental training that there is in working out a definite,
specific purpose.

The State University is still in a formative condition, and has attached
to it a preparatory school. Its first class graduated only in 1872. It
sends out on an average about twenty graduates a year in the various
departments, science, literature, mechanic arts, and agriculture. The
bane of a State university is politics, and in the West the hand of the
Granger is on the college, endeavoring to make it “practical.” Probably
this modern idea of education will have to run its course, and so long
as it is running its course the Eastern colleges which adhere to the
idea of intellectual discipline will attract the young men who value
a liberal rather than a material education. The State University of
Minnesota is thriving in the enlargement of its facilities. About
one-third of its scholars are women, but I notice that in the last
catalogue, in the Senior Class of twenty-six there is only one woman.
There are two independent institutions also that should be mentioned,
both within the limits of St. Paul, the Hamline University, under
Methodist auspices, and the McAllister College, under Presbyterian.
I did not visit the former, but the latter, at least, though just
beginning, has the idea of a classical education foremost, and does
not adopt co-education. Its library is well begun by the gift of a
miscellaneous collection, containing many rare and old books, by the
Rev. E. D. Neill, the well-known antiquarian, who has done so much to
illuminate the colonial history of Virginia and Maryland. In the State
Historical Society, which has rooms in the Capitol in St. Paul, a
vigorous and well-managed society, is a valuable collection of books
illustrating the history of the North-west. The visitor will notice in
St. Paul quite as much taste for reading among business men as exists
elsewhere, a growing fancy for rare books, and find some private
collections of interest. Though music and art cannot be said to be
generally cultivated, there are in private circles musical enthusiasm
and musical ability, and many of the best examples of modern painting
are to be found in private houses. Indeed, there is one gallery in which
is a collection of pictures by foreign artists that would be notable in
any city. These things are mentioned as indications of a liberalizing
use of wealth.

Wisconsin is not only one of the most progressive, but one of the most
enlightened, States in the Union. Physically it is an agreeable and
beautiful State, agriculturally it is rich, in the southern and
central portions at least, and it is overlaid with a perfect network
of railways. All this is well known. I wish to speak of certain other
things which give it distinction. I mean the prevailing spirit in
education and in social-economic problems. In some respects it leads all
the other States.

There seem to be two elements in the State contending for the mastery,
one the New England, but emancipated from tradition, the other the
foreign, with ideas of liberty not of New England origin. Neither is
afraid of new ideas nor of trying social experiments. Co-education
seems to be everywhere accepted without question, as if it were already
demonstrated that the mingling of the sexes in the higher education
will produce the sort of men and women most desirable in the highest
civilization. The success of women in the higher schools, the capacity
shown by women in the management of public institutions and in reforms
and charities, have perhaps something to do with the favor to woman
suffrage. It may be that, if women vote there in general elections as
well as school matters, on the ground that every public office “relates
to education,” Prohibition will be agitated as it is in most other
States, but at present the lager-bier interest is too strong to give
Prohibition much chance. The capital invested in the manufacture of beer
makes this interest a political element of great importance.

Milwaukee and Madison may be taken to represent fairly the civilization
of Wisconsin. Milwaukee, having a population of about 175,000, is a
beautiful city, with some characteristics peculiar to itself, having the
settled air of being much older than it is, a place accustomed to money
and considerable elegance of living. The situation on the lake is fine,
the high curving bluffs offering most attractive sites for residences,
and the rolling country about having a quiet beauty. Grand avenue, an
extension of the main business thoroughfare of the city, runs out into
the country some two miles, broad, with a solid road, a stately avenue,
lined with fine dwellings, many of them palaces in size and elegant in
design. Fashion seems to hesitate between the east side and the
west side, but the east or lake side seems to have the advantage in
situation, certainly in views, and contains a greater proportion of the
American population than the other. Indeed, it is not easy to recall
a quarter of any busy city which combines more comfort, evidences of
wealth and taste and refinement, and a certain domestic character, than
this portion of the town on the bluffs, Prospect avenue and the adjacent
streets. With the many costly and elegant houses there is here and
there one rather fantastic, but the whole effect is pleasing, and
the traveller feels no hesitation in deciding that this would be
an agreeable place to live. From the avenue the lake prospect is
wonderfully attractive—the beauty of Lake Michigan in changing color and
variety of lights in sun and storm cannot be too much insisted on—and
this is especially true of the noble Esplanade, where stands the bronze
statue (a gift of two citizens) of Solomon Juneau, the first settler of
Milwaukee in 1818. It is a very satisfactory figure, and placed where it
is, it gives a sort of foreign distinction to the open place which the
city has wisely left for public use. In this part of the town is the
house of the Milwaukee Club, a good building, one of the most
tasteful internally, and one of the best appointed, best arranged, and
comfortable club-houses In the country. Near this is the new Art Museum
(also the gift of a private citizen), a building greatly to be commended
for its excellent proportions, simplicity, and chasteness of style, and
adaptability to its purpose. It is a style that will last, to please
the eye, and be more and more appreciated as the taste of the community
becomes more and more refined.

In this quarter are many of the churches, of the average sort, but
none calling for special mention except St. Paul’s, which is noble in
proportions and rich in color, and contains several notable windows of
stained glass, one of them occupying the entire end of one transept, the
largest, I believe, in the country. It is a copy of Doré’. painting of
Christ on the way to the Crucifixion, an illuminated street scene, with
superb architecture of marble and porphyry, and crowded with hundreds
of figures in colors of Oriental splendor. The colors are rich and
harmonious, but it is very brilliant, flashing in the sunlight with
magnificent effect, and I am not sure but it would attract the humble
sinners of Milwaukee from a contemplation of their little faults which
they go to church to confess.

The city does not neglect education, as the many thriving public
schools testify. It has a public circulating library of 42,000 volumes,
sustained at an expense of $22,000 a year by a tax; is free, and well
patronized. There are good private collections of books also, one that
I saw large and worthy to be called a library, especially strong in
classic English literature.

Perhaps the greatest industry of the city, certainly the most
conspicuous, is brewing. I do not say that the city is in the hands of
the brewers, but with their vast establishments they wield great power.
One of them, about the largest in the country, and said to equal in its
capacity any in Europe, has in one group seven enormous buildings, and
is impressive by its extent and orderly management, as well as by the
rivers of amber fluid which it pours out for this thirsty country.
Milwaukee, with its large German element—two-thirds of the population,
most of whom are freethinkers—has no Sunday except in a holiday
sense; the theatres are all open, and the pleasure-gardens, which are
extensive, are crowded with merrymakers in the season. It is, in short,
the Continental fashion, and while the churches and church-goers are
like churches and church-goers everywhere, there is an air of general
Continental freedom.

The general impression of Milwaukee is that it is a city of much
wealth and a great deal of comfort, with a settled, almost conservative
feeling, like an Eastern city, and charming, cultivated social life,
with the grace and beauty that are common in American society anywhere.
I think the men generally would be called well-looking, robust, of the
quiet, assured manner of an old community. The women seen on the street
and In the shops are of good physique and good color and average good
looks, without anything startling in the way of beauty or elegance. I
speak of the general aspect of the town, and I mention the well-to-do
physical condition because it contradicts the English prophecy of a
physical decadence in the West, owing to the stimulating climate and
the restless pursuit of wealth. On the train to Madison (the line runs
through a beautiful country) one might have fancied that he was on a
local New England train: the same plain, good sort of people, and in
abundance the well-looking, domestic sort of young women.

Madison is a great contrast to Milwaukee. Although it is the political
and educational centre, has the Capitol and the State University, and a
population of about 15,000, it is like a large village, with the village
habits and friendliness. On elevated, hilly ground, between two charming
lakes, it has an almost unrivalled situation, and is likely to
possess, in the progress of years and the accumulation of wealth, the
picturesqueness and beauty that travellers ascribe to Stockholm. With
the hills of the town, the gracefully curving shores of the lakes and
their pointed bays, the gentle elevations beyond the lakes, and the
capacity of these two bodies of water as pleasure resorts, with elegant
music pavilions and fleets of boats for the sail and the oar—why do we
not take a hint from the painted Venetian sail?—there is no limit to
what may be expected in the way of refined beauty of Madison in the
summer, if it remains a city of education and of laws, and does not get
up a “boom,” and set up factories, and blacken all the landscape with
coal smoke!

The centre of the town is a big square, pleasantly tree-planted, so
large that the facing rows of shops and houses have a remote and dwarfed
appearance, and in the middle of it is the great pillared State-house,
American style. The town itself is one of unpretentious, comfortable
houses, some of them with elegant interiors, having plenty of books
and the spoils of foreign travel. In one of them, the old-fashioned but
entirely charming mansion of Governor Fairchild, I cannot refrain
from saying, is a collection which, so far as I know, is unique in the
world—a collection to which the helmet of Don Quixote gives a certain
flavor; it is of barbers’ basins, of all ages and countries.

Wisconsin is working out its educational ideas on an intelligent system,
and one that may be expected to demonstrate the full value of the
popular method—I mean a more intimate connection of the university with
the life of the people than exists elsewhere. What effect this will have
upon the higher education in the ultimate civilization of the State is
a question of serious and curious interest. Unless the experience of the
ages is misleading, the tendency of the “practical” in all education is
a downward and material one, and the highest civilization must continue
to depend upon a pure scholarship, and upon what are called abstract
ideas. Even so practical a man as Socrates found the natural sciences
inadequate to the inner needs of the soul. “I thought,” he says, “as
I have failed in the contemplation of true existence (by means of the
sciences), I ought to be careful that I did not lose the eye of the
soul, as people may injure their bodily eye by gazing on the sun during
an eclipse.... That occurred to me, and I was afraid that my soul might
be blinded altogether if I looked at things with my eyes, or tried by
the help of the senses to apprehend them. And I thought I had better
have recourse to ideas, and seek in them the truth of existence.” The
intimate union of the university with the life of the people is a most
desirable object, if the university does not descend and lose its high
character in the process.

The graded school system of the State is vigorous, all working up to the
University. This is a State institution, and the State is fairly liberal
to it, so far as practical education is concerned. It has a magnificent
new Science building, and will have excellent shops and machinery for
the sciences (especially the applied) and the mechanic arts. The system
is elective. A small per cent, of the students take Greek, a larger
number Latin, French, and German, but the University is largely devoted
to science. In all the departments, including law, there are about six
hundred students, of whom above one hundred are girls. There seems to be
no doubt about co-education as a practical matter in the conduct of
the college, and as a desirable thing for women. The girls are good
students, and usually take more than half the highest honors on the
marking scale. Notwithstanding the testimony of the marks, however, the
boys say that the girls don’t “know” as much as they do about things
generally, and they (the boys) have no doubt of their ability to pass
the girls either in scholarship or practical affairs in the struggle of
life. The idea seems to be that the girls are serious in education
only up to a certain point, and that marriage will practically end the
rivalry.

The distinguishing thing, however, about the State University is its
vital connection with the farmers and the agricultural interests. I do
not refer to the agricultural department, which it has in common with
many colleges, nor to the special short agricultural course of three
months in the winter, intended to give farmers’ boys, who enter it
without examination or other connection with the University, the most
available agricultural information in the briefest time, the intention
being not to educate boys away from a taste for farming but to make them
better farmers. The students must be not less than sixteen years old,
and have a common-school education. During the term of twelve weeks
they have lectures by the professors and recitations on practical and
theoretical agriculture, on elementary and agricultural chemistry, on
elemental botany, with laboratory practice, and on the anatomy of our
domestic animals and the treatment of their common diseases. But what
I wish to call special attention to is the connection of the University
with the farmers’ institutes.

A special Act of the Legislature, drawn by a lawyer, Mr. C. E.
Estabrook, authorized the farmers’ institutes, and placed them under the
control of the regents of the University, who have the power to select
a State superintendent to control them. A committee of three of the
regents has special charge of the institutes. Thus the farmers are
brought into direct relation with the University, and while, as a
prospectus says, they are not actually non-resident students of the
University, they receive information and instruction directly from it.
The State appropriates twelve thousand dollars a year to this work,
which pays the salaries of Mr. W. H. Morrison, the superintendent, to
whose tact and energy the success of the institutes is largely due, and
his assistants, and enables him to pay the expenses of specialists
and agriculturists who can instruct the farmers and wisely direct the
discussions at the meetings. By reason of this complete organization,
which penetrates every part of the State, subjects of most advantage are
considered, and time is not wasted in merely amateur debates.

I know of no other State where a like system of popular instruction on
a vital and universal interest of the State, directed by the highest
educational authority, is so perfectly organized and carried on with
such unity of purpose and detail of administration; no other in which
the farmer is brought systematically into such direct relations to the
university. In the current year there have been held eighty-two
farmers’ institutes in forty-five counties. The list of practical topics
discussed is 279, and in this service have been engaged one hundred and
seven workers, thirty-one of whom are specialists from other States.
This is an “agricultural college,” on a grand scale, brought to the
homes of the people. The meetings are managed by local committees in
such a way as to evoke local pride, interest, and talent. I will
mention some of the topics that were thoroughly discussed at one of
the institutes: clover as a fertilizer; recuperative agriculture;
bee-keeping; taking care of the little things about the house and
farm; the education for farmers’ daughters; the whole economy of sheep
husbandry; egg production; poultry; the value of thought and application
in farming; horses to breed for the farm and market; breeding and
management of swine; mixed farming; grain-raising; assessment and
collection of taxes; does knowledge pay? (with illustrations of money
made by knowledge of the market); breeding and care of cattle, with
expert testimony as to the best sorts of cows; points in corn culture;
full discussion of small-fruit culture; butter-making as a line art; the
daily; our country roads; agricultural education. So, during the winter,
every topic that concerns the well-being of the home, the prolit of
the farm, the moral welfare of the people and their prosperity, was
intelligently discussed, with audiences fully awake to the value of this
practical and applied education. Some of the best of these discussions
are printed and widely distributed. Most of them are full of wise
details in the way of thrift and money-making, but I am glad to see that
the meetings also consider the truth that as much care should be given
to the rearing of boys and girls as of calves and colts, and that brains
are as necessary in farming as in any other occupation.

As these farmers’ institutes are conducted, I do not know any influence
comparable to them in waking up the farmers to think, to inquire into
new and improved methods, and to see in what real prosperity consists.
With prosperity, as a rule, the farmer and his family are conservative,
law-keeping, church-going, good citizens. The little appropriation of
twelve thousand dollars has already returned to the State a hundred-fold
financially and a thousand-fold in general intelligence.

I have spoken of the habit in Minnesota and Wisconsin of depending
mostly upon one crop—that of spring wheat—and the disasters from this
single reliance in bad years. Hard lessons are beginning to teach the
advantage of mixed farming and stockraising. In this change the farmers’
institutes of Wisconsin have been potent. As one observer says, “They
have produced a revolution in the mode of farming, raising crops, and
caring for stock.” The farmers have been enabled to protect themselves
against the effects of drought and other evils. Taking the advice of the
institute in 1886, the farmers planted 50,000 acres of ensilage corn,
which took the place of the short hay crop caused by the drought.
This provision saved thousands of dollars’ worth of stock in several
counties. From all over the State comes the testimony of farmers as to
the good results of the institute work, like this: “Several thousand
dollars’ worth of improved stock have been brought in. Creameries and
cheese-factories have been established and well supported. Farmers are
no longer raising grain exclusively as heretofore. Our hill-sides are
covered with clover. Our farmers are encouraged to labor anew. A new era
of prosperity in our State dates from the farmers’ institutes.”

There is abundant evidence that a revolution is going on in the farming
of Wisconsin, greatly assisted, if not inaugurated, by this systematic
popular instruction from the University as a centre. It may not greatly
interest the reader that the result of this will be greater agricultural
wealth in Wisconsin, but it does concern him that putting intelligence
into farming must inevitably raise the level of the home life and the
general civilization of Wisconsin. I have spoken of this centralized,
systematic effort in some detail because it seems more efficient than
the work of agricultural societies and sporadic institutes in other
States.

In another matter Wisconsin has taken a step in advance of other States;
that is, in the care of the insane. The State has about 2600 insane,
increasing at the rate of about 167 a year. The provisions in the State
for these are the State Hospital (capacity of 500), Northern Hospital
(capacity of 600), the Milwaukee Asylum (capacity of 255), and fifteen
county asylums for the chronic insane, including two nearly ready
(capacity 1220). The improvement in the care of the insane consists in
several particulars—the doing away of restraints, either by mechanical
appliances or by narcotics, reasonable separation of the chronic cases
from the others, increased liberty, and the substitution of wholesome
labor for idleness. Many of these changes have been brought about by the
establishment of county asylums, the feature of which I wish specially
to speak. The State asylums were crowded beyond their proper capacity,
classification was difficult in them, and a large number of the insane
were miserably housed in county jails and poor-houses. The evils of
great establishments were more and more apparent, and it was determined
to try the experiment of county asylums. These have now been in
operation for six years, and a word about their constitution and
perfectly successful operation may be of public service.

These asylums, which are only for the chronic insane, are managed by
local authorities, but under constant and close State supervision; this
last provision is absolutely essential, and no doubt accounts for the
success of the undertaking. It is not necessary here to enter into
details as to the construction of these buildings. They are of brick,
solid, plain, comfortable, and of a size to accommodate not less than
fifty nor more than one hundred inmates: an institution with less than
fifty is not economical; one with a larger number than one hundred is
unwieldy, and beyond the personal supervision of the superintendent. A
farm is needed for economy in maintenance and to furnish occupation for
the men; about four acres for each inmate is a fair allowance. The
land should be fertile, and adapted to a variety of crops as well as to
cattle, and it should have woodland to give occupation in the winter.
The fact is recognized that idleness is no better for an insane than
for a sane person. The house-work is all done by the women; the farm,
garden, and general out-door work by the men. Experience shows that
three-fourths of the chronic insane can be furnished occupation of
some sort, and greatly to their physical and moral well-being. The
nervousness incident always to restraint and idleness disappears with
liberty and occupation. Hence greater happiness and comfort to the
insane, and occasionally a complete or partial cure.

About one attendant to twenty insane persons is sufficient, but it is
necessary that these should have intelligence and tact; the men capable
of leading in farm-work, the women to instruct in house-work and
dress-making, and it is well if they can play some musical instrument
and direct in amusements. One of the most encouraging features of this
experiment in small asylums has been the discovery of so many efficient
superintendents and matrons among the intelligent farmers and business
men of the rural districts, who have the practical sagacity and
financial ability to carry on these institutions successfully.

These asylums are as open as a school; no locked doors (instead of
window-bars, the glass-frames are of iron painted white), no pens made
by high fences. The inmates are free to go and come at their work, with
no other restraint than the watch of the attendants. The asylum is a
home and not a prison. The great thing is to provide occupation. The
insane, it is found, can be trained to regular industry, and it is
remarkable how little restraint is needed if an earnest effort is made
to do without it. In the county asylums of Wisconsin about one person in
a thousand is in restraint or seclusion each day. The whole theory seems
to be to treat the insane like persons in some way diseased, who need
occupation, amusement, kindness. The practice of this theory in the
Wisconsin county asylums is so successful that it must ultimately affect
the treatment of the insane all over the country.

And the beauty of it is that it is as economical as it is enlightened
and humane. The secret of providing occupation for this class is to buy
as little material and hire as little labor as possible; let the women
make the clothes, and the men do the farm-work without the aid of
machinery. The surprising result of this is that some of these asylums
approach the point of being self-supporting, and all of them save money
to the counties, compared with the old method. The State has not lost
by these asylums, and the counties have gained; nor has the economy been
purchased at the expense of humanity to the insane; the insane in the
county asylums have been as well clothed, lodged, and fed as in the
State institutions, and have had more freedom, and consequently more
personal comfort and a better chance of abating their mania. This is the
result arrived at by an exhaustive report on these county asylums in the
report of the State Board of Charities and Reforms, of which Mr. Albert
O. Wright is secretary. The average cost per week per capita of patients
in the asylums by the latest report was, in the State Hospital, $4.39;
in the Northern Hospital, $4.33; in the county asylums, $1.89.

The new system considers the education of the chronic insane an
important part of their treatment; not specially book-learning (though
that may be included), but training of the mental, moral, and physical
faculties in habits of order, propriety, and labor. By these means
wonders have been worked for the insane. The danger, of course, is that
the local asylums may fall into unproductive routine, and that politics
will interfere with the intelligent State supervision. If Wisconsin is
able to keep her State institutions out of the clutches of men with whom
politics is a business simply for what they can make out of it (as it is
with those who oppose a civil service not based upon partisan dexterity
and subserviency), she will carry her enlightened ideas into the making
of a model State. The working out of such a noble reform as this in the
treatment of the insane can only be intrusted to men specially qualified
by knowledge, sympathy, and enthusiasm, and would be impossible in the
hands of changing political workers. The systematized enlightenment
of the farmers in the farmers’ institutes by means of their vital
connection with the University needs the steady direction of those
who are devoted to it, and not to any party success. As to education
generally, it may be said that while for the present the popular favor
to the State University depends upon its being “practical” in this and
other ways, the time will come when it will be seen that the highest
service it can render the State is by upholding pure scholarship,
without the least material object.

Another institution of which Wisconsin has reason to be proud is the
State Historical Society—a corporation (dating from 1853) with perpetual
succession, supported by an annual appropriation of five thousand
dollars, with provisions for printing the reports of the society and the
catalogues of the library. It is housed in the Capitol. The society has
accumulated interesting historical portraits, cabinets of antiquities,
natural history, and curiosities, a collection of copper, and some
valuable MSS. for the library. The library is one of the best historical
collections in the country. The excellence of it is largely due to Lyman
C. Draper, LL.D., who was its secretary for thirty-three years, but who
began as early as 1834 to gather facts and materials for border history
and biography, and who had in 1852 accumulated thousands of manuscripts
and historical statements, the nucleus of the present splendid library,
which embraces rare and valuable works relating to the history of nearly
every State. This material is arranged by States, and readily accessible
to the student. Indeed, there are few historical libraries in the
country where historical research in American subjects can be better
prosecuted than in this. The library began in January, 1854, with fifty
volumes. In January, 1887, it had 57,935 volumes and 60,731 pamphlets
and documents, making a total of 118,666 titles.

There is a large law library in the State-house, the University has a
fair special library for the students, and in the city is a good public
circulating library, free, supported by a tax, and much used. For a
young city, it is therefore very well off for books.

Madison is not only an educational centre, but an intelligent city; the
people read and no doubt buy books, but they do not support book-stores.
The shops where books are sold are variety-shops, dealing in stationery,
artists’ materials, cheap pictures, bric-à-brac. Books are of minor
importance, and but few are “kept in stock.” Indeed, bookselling is not
a profitable part of the business; it does not pay to “handle” books,
or to keep the run of new publications, or to keep a supply of standard
works. In this the shops of Madison are not peculiar. It is true all
over the West, except in two or three large cities, and true, perhaps,
not quite so generally in the East; the book-shops are not the literary
and intellectual centres they used to be.

There are several reasons given for this discouraging state of the
book-trade. Perhaps it is true that people accustomed to newspapers full
of “selections,” to the flimsy publications found on the cheap counters,
and to the magazines, do not buy “books that are books,” except for
“furnishing;” that they depend more and more upon the circulating
libraries for anything that costs more than an imported cigar or half
a pound of candy. The local dealers say that the system of the great
publishing houses is unsatisfactory as to prices and discounts. Private
persons can get the same discounts as the dealers, and can very likely,
by ordering a list, buy more cheaply than of the local bookseller, and
therefore, as a matter of business, he says that it does not pay to
keep books; he gives up trying to sell them, and turns his attention to
“varieties.” Another reason for the decline in the trade may be in the
fact that comparatively few booksellers are men of taste in letters, men
who read, or keep the run of new publications. If a retail grocer knew
no more of his business than many booksellers know of theirs, he would
certainly fail. It is a pity on all accounts that the book-trade is
in this condition. A bookseller in any community, if he is a man of
literary culture, and has a love of books and knowledge of them, can do
a great deal for the cultivation of the public taste. His shop becomes
a sort of intellectual centre of the town. If the public find there
an atmosphere of books, and are likely to have their wants met for
publications new or rare, they will generally sustain the shop; at
least this is my observation. Still, I should not like to attempt to say
whether the falling off in the retail book-trade is due to want of skill
in the sellers, to the publishing machinery, or to public indifference.
The subject is worthy the attention of experts. It is undeniably
important to maintain everywhere these little depots of intellectual
supply. In a town new to him the visitor is apt to estimate the taste,
the culture, the refinement, as well as the wealth of the town, by its
shops. The stock in the dry goods and fancy stores tells one thing, that
in the art-stores another thing, that in the book-stores another thing,
about the inhabitants. The West, even on the remote frontiers, is full
of magnificent stores of goods, telling of taste as well as luxury; the
book-shops are the poorest of all.

The impression of the North-west, thus far seen, is that of tremendous
energy, material refinement, much open-mindedness, considerable
self-appreciation,’ uncommon sagacity in meeting new problems, generous
hospitality, the Old Testament notion of possessing this world, rather
more recognition of the pecuniary as the only success than exists in
the East and South, intense national enthusiasm, and unblushing and most
welcome “Americanism.”

In these sketchy observations on the North-west nothing has seemed to me
more interesting and important than the agricultural changes going on
in eastern Dakota, Minnesota, and Wisconsin. In the vast wheat farms, as
well as in the vast cattle ranges, there is an element of speculation,
if not of gambling, of the chance of immense profits or of considerable
loss, that is neither conducive to the stable prosperity nor to the
moral soundness of a State. In the breaking up of the great farms, and
in the introduction of varied agriculture and cattle-raising on a small
scale, there will not be so many great fortunes made, but each State
will be richer as a whole, and less liable to yearly fluctuations in
prosperity. But the gain most worth considering will be in the home
life and the character of the citizens. The best life of any community
depends upon varied industries. No part of the United States has ever
prospered, as regards the well-being of the mass of the people, that
relied upon the production of a single staple.




IX.—CHICAGO. [First Paper.]

Chicago is becoming modest. Perhaps the inhabitants may still be able to
conceal their modesty, but nevertheless they feel it. The explanation
is simple. The city has grown not only beyond the most sanguine
expectations of those who indulged in the most inflated hope of its
future, but it has grown beyond what they said they expected. This gives
the citizens pause—as it might an eagle that laid a roc’s egg.

The fact is, Chicago has become an independent organism, growing by a
combination of forces and opportunities, beyond the contrivance of
any combination of men to help or hinder, beyond the need of flaming
circulars and reports of boards of trade, and process pictures. It has
passed the danger or the fear of rivalry, and reached the point where
the growth of any other portion of the great North-west, or of any
city in it (whatever rivalry that city may show in industries or in
commerce), is in some way a contribution to the power and wealth of
Chicago. To them that have shall be given. Cities, under favoring
conditions for local expansion, which reach a certain amount of
population and wealth, grow by a kind of natural increment, the law of
attraction, very well known in human nature, which draws a person to an
active city of two hundred thousand rather than to a stagnant city of
one hundred thousand. And it is a fortunate thing for civilization that
this attraction is almost as strong to men of letters as it is to men of
affairs. Chicago has, it seems to me, only recently turned this point of
assured expansion, and, as I intimated, the inhabitants have hardly yet
become accustomed to this idea; but I believe that the time is near when
they will be as indifferent to what strangers think of Chicago as the
New-Yorkers are to what strangers think of New York. New York is
to-day the only American city free from this anxious note of
provincialism—though in Boston it rather takes the form of pity for the
unenlightened man who doubts its superiority; but the impartial student
of Chicago to-day can see plenty of signs of the sure growth of this
metropolitan indifference. And yet there is still here enough of the old
Chicago stamp to make the place interesting.

It is everything in getting a point of view. Last summer a lady of New
Orleans who had never before been out of her native French city, and
who would look upon the whole North with the impartial eyes of a
foreigner—and more than that, with Continental eyes—visited Chicago, and
afterwards New York. “Which city did you like best?” I asked, without
taking myself seriously in the question. To my surprise, she hesitated.
This hesitation was fatal to all my preconceived notions. It mattered
not thereafter which she preferred: she had hesitated. She was actually
comparing Chicago to New York in her mind, as one might compare Paris
and London. The audacity of the comparison I saw was excused by its
innocence. I confess that it had never occurred to me to think of
