to our relief, and at any of these imaginary discoveries they 
would burst out Into shouts of joy. 

The second day that we passed upon the raft was perfectly clear, and the friendly aspect of the heavens inspired 
us with fresh courage ; most of us were firmly convinced 
that the boats would soon appear. But when the evening 
came and the comfortless night followed, all seemed 
crianged. Not only did all hope vanish, but the spirit of 
rebellion reigned instead ; no one would obey orders and 
cur former prudence was turned to despair. Dark clouds 
agam veiled the heavens and the wind increased so that the 
Bea raged and foamed more fearfully than on the foregoing' 
night. Huge waves rolled over us, throwing us into heaps 
upon one another; fortunately, we had the wind on our 



 

backs so that the force of the sea was somewhat broken by 
the swiftness of our course ; still the waves beat upon us 
from before and behind, and carried off some men spite of 
all their exertions in clinging to the masts that composed 
the raft; all gathered together in the middle of our vessel, 
as that was the point of least danger, and crowded so 
closely that several were stifled. As the raft continually 
turned its broadside to the wind, it stood almost upright, 
so that in order to keep the balance, one was often obliged 
to rush towards the side that was high in the air, spite of 
the foaming waves. 

In this extremity the rage of the soldiers awoke again, 
and as they considered themselves lost, they determined to 
enjoy their last moments and to drink their fill. They 
threw themselves upoil the wine casks, cut great holes in 
them, and filled their tin cups, which had been given to 
them on board of the frigate, as often as they pleased with 
the contents, utterly disregarding all the commands of their 
officers. When the wine had increased their fury and they 
were thoroughly intoxicated, they formed a plan of destroying the raft and .thus releasing themselves and their 
companions from their misery. Scarcely was the plan 
formed when they hastened to carry it into execution. 
One of them, by birth an Asiatic, a gigantic fellow with 
short curling hair and a brqad flat nose, who had already 
made much mischief by his rough and violent temper, step- 
ped to the edge of the raft, with an axe, and began to cut 
the ropes that bound it together. We rushed towards him 
to put a stop to this senseless project; the maniac raised 
his axe against the officer who endeavored to push him 



away, but instantly paid for his madness with his life that 
was terminated by a sword cut. The mutineers now 
seized their swords and knives and rushed upon us. All 
who held their lives dear, seized also their weapons, and 
another soldier who raised his sword against an officer, was 
killed. 

This unexpected resistance somewhat surprised the 
rebels; they grew quieter, but bidding us defiance, re- 
treated slowly io the end of the raft, to carry out their 
intentions there. One of them pretended to stoop and cut 
the rope through with his knife. As soon as we saw this 
we rushed upon him, and threw him overboard, with 
another man who attempted to defend him. Now the 
fight became universal ; part of the mutineers cut and tore 
up the sail, and then threw down the mast, which in 
falling shattered the leg of an officer, and prostrated him 
unconscious upon the raft. The soldiers immediately 
shoved him overboard ; we drew him up and placed him 
upon a cask, but he was pushed off again by the rioters, 
who tried to put out his eyes with a pen-knife. Enraged 
at the sight of such barbarity, we pressed upon the mon- 
sters, sword in hand, broke through their ranks, and killed 
many of them. After this second combat the fury of the 
soldiers suddenly gave place to the most abject cowardice ; 
many of them fell upon their knees and begged for mercy, 
which was granted them. 

It was now midnight, and as we believed that order waa 
finally restored, we returned to our places in the middle 
of the raft, but were upon our guard, and did not lay 
aside our weapons. About an hour afterwards the muti- 



 

neers, who appeared to be entirely beside themselvea, 
arose and rushed upon us again with swords and knives ; 
those of them who had no weapons bit with their teeth, 
so that several of us were quite badly wounded. We 
numbered only fifteen, but we kept so well together, and 
fought with such a scorn of death, that we once again 
gained the victory over our opponents, although they were 
five times as strong in numbers, and threw many of them 
overboard. 

These superhuman exertions deprived many of us, even 
those whom we had always considered as the most self- 
possessed and collected among us, so entirely of all pres« 
ence of mind, that they scarcely knew what they were 
doing. Sometimes, for a moment, indeed, the fearful reality 
flashed upon them, like lightning from a thunder-cloud, but 
they were haunted most of the time by the loveliest ima- 
ges. One imagined himself in the midst of the most 
beautiful Italian landscape; another said, very seriously, 
" I know that the boats have forsaken us, but be com- 
forted, I have written to the governor, and in a few hours 
help will arrive." There was need of the greatest self- 
command to keep from being thus bewildered, for who- 
ever gave himself up to such fancies was lost. Thus iti 
was with most of the unhappy soldiers, for they were 
restrained by no consideration. Some of them plunged 
into the sea, crying, " We will soon return and bring you 
help." Others aimed blows at the waves, as if in the 
delirium of fever, not knowing what they were about, and 
others fell upon their companions with their swords, call- 
ing loudly for their favorite dish, a roast fowl The mad- 



 

ness was so universal that inc?t of us did not know in the 
morning whether a fight had really taken place in the 
night, or whether we had only dreamed it. But all were 
overcome with weariness and lamed in every limb. 

III. 

When the day at last broke, we found that, in this fear- 
ful night, sixty men had disappeared, so had the sword, 
the ocean, and a desire for death raged among the ship 
wrecked ; of our party only two were missing, but several 
were wounded, and our clothes were all cut to pieces. 
The deepest dejection was legible upon every counte- 
nance, and many shed bitter tears over their hard fate 
As the sun rose the sea became more calm ; we replaced 
our mast, and did our best to steer for the coast, which we 
several times thought we perceived. 

The mutineers had destroyed, in their fury, two casks 
of wine, and our whole supply of water, so that only a 
small cask of wine yet remained, and the daily measure for 
each man was of course diminished, at which a murmur 
arose among the soldiers. We were all so weary with the 
exertions of the past night that we could scarcely stand 
up; and, although the raft had been so much lightened 
that it did not sink as at first, yet it was still under water, 
so that we could not lie down. Hunger tormented us yet 
more ; we tried to catch some fish with the bent bayonet 
of one of the officers, but in vain ; one fish bit at it, but 
Bwam off again. 

Hunger deprived the soldiers of all humanity, and they 
resorted to the most horrible means to sustain their 



 

wretched lives. At a given signal they fell upon the 
bodies of some of their companions who had either died or 
been killed during the previous night, cut them in pieces, 
and devoured them upon the spot. At first we shuddered at 
the idea of this horrible repast, but at last, urged on by 
the fiercest pangs of famine, we partook of it, and even 
dried the pieces in the air to make them more palatable. 
A few only could not bring themselves to any thing so 
horrible, for a long time, and preferred devouring linen rags 
or hat-felt ; any thing upon w"hich there was any greasg 
or dirt; but in the end the love of life prevailed; all over- 
came their aversion, and took their portions greedily. 

Our hope of rescue diminished every hour ; we looked 
anxiously around every moment but could descry neither 
shore nor ship. The day was fine, and we had not indeed 
to contend either with our companioins or with the sea. So 
we took some rest, but rest that was worse than wakefulness, 
for we were tormented by the mo,st fearful dreams, and the 
moans of those who were thus disturbed, waked those 
standing near them fix)m their stupor. The night was 
calm also, but the water reached to our knees and we were 
obliged to sleep standing, and so closely crowded together 
that we formed one immovable mass. When the fourth 
day broke we found twelve more men dead ; the living, 
who saw in them their own future fate, laid one body aside 
for food and threw the rest overboard. ( 

The evening of this day brought us a blessed relief; a 
quantity of, flying fish fell upon our raft and were caught 
in the holes in it. We fell upon them, and threw the 
remainder, about three hundred, into an empty wine cask. 



In catching the fish we discovered in one of the holes of 
the raft, a flint, some lint, and some powder, and we suc- 
ceeded by means of these and some linen rags, in making 
a fire. An old cask served us for a hearth, after we had V\V\ 
covered it with some very wet articles to prevent its being 
burnt through, and placed it upon another cask to be above 
the water. We now cooked our fish and eat them with 
the greatest relish; but as this meagre supply soon came 
to an end, we again had recourse to the human flesh, which 
lost some of its repulsiveness by being cooked. We were 
soon obliged, however, to eat it raw again, for the bottom 
of the cask was burnt through, and besides, we had no 
more fuel. 

The next night, as the weather was very fine, and the 
sea smooth as a mirror, might have passed very quietly, 
but another mutiny broke out in which several soldiers 
took part, who had until now, befriended our party. This 
outbreak was caused by avarice, a passion which one would 
not dream could have existed among men in our situation. 
We had collected our money and all our articles of value 
in a bundle and hung them upon the mast. The muti- 
neers wished to possess themselves of this treasure, for a 
negro among them had assured them that we were now 
close upon the coast, and they determined to throw us into 
the sea. A Spaniard gave the signal for the attack ; stand- 
ing by the msfst, he drew a cross upon it with one hand, 
while with the other he brandished a knife above his head.       
Our faithful sailors immediately seized him and flung him 
overboard, and another combat ensued, which was the 
more dangerous as we did not know now who were for vi 



 

or who against us. We, however, drove the rioters back, 
and succeeded once more in restoring order. After the 
cause of the mutineers was lost, a servant of one of our 
officers, who had taken part in the mutiny, seized the only 
remaining axe, and after in vain attempting to cut the rope 
that held together the forepart of the raft, plunged with it 
into the sea. 

With intense longing we awaited the morning of the 
sixth day, and when the sun rose, its rays fell upon only 
thirty people yet living on the raft. We had lost five of 
our faithful sailors in the last combat, and the remainder 
were all wounded more or less seriously. We were besides 
in a most wretched condition, the sun and the sea-water 
had blistered the skin of our legs and feet, and many of us 
were so covered with bruises and gashes that we were 
shrieking with pain every minute ; only twenty at the 
most were able to move. The wine, our last refreshment, 
could, with the greatest economy only last four days 
longer, and even this nearly failed us. Two soldiers had 
secretly tapped the cask and were drinking the wine 
through a straw. They were, however, soon discovered, 
and as it had been decreed beforehand that any one guilty 
of such a deed, should be thrown into the sea, the law was 
instantly executed. 

Thus our number was diminished to twenty-eight, and 
of these, thirteen were so seriously wounded that it was 
more than improbable that they would live even a few 
days longer. The remaining fifteen entered irto a mourn- 
ful discussion and decided that even if the boats had reached 
the French possessions and sent out a ship in search of us, 



 

several days must elapse still before it could reach us. It 
was, therefore, all important to hold out as long as possi- 
ble, and when we considered that the daily allotment of 
wine consumed by the sick, deprived us of our last means 
of support, without benefitting them, we arrived, after long 
consideration, \in which despair guided us, at the horrible 
determination of throwing our wretched fellow-men into 
the sea that we might have a supply of wine for six more 
days. Three sailors and a soldier undertook the cruel 
business; we turned away our faces and wept over the 
fate of our unfortunate companions. 

It was all the more frightful as every one saw clearly 
what his own fate would be should he become disabled, for 
now the law was proclaimed : " We must save those 
who can be saved, and destroy all who are beyond the 
hope of rescue." This law, in direct opposition to God's 
law, saved us, however, from destruction, for when in six 
days succor really appeared, only a very small quantity of 
wine remained. 

Had we retained all the sick on board, our supply would 
ihave been consumed several days beforehand, and in our 
weak condition we could not possibly have survived 
twenty-four hours. 

But we were all filled with such horror, that to ensure 
quiet, we threw all our weapons into the sea, with the 
exception of one sword, which we kept to ke the place 
of a knife or axe, if we should need one. 



 

IV. 

The following day was a sad one for us, for even in oui 
sleep the remembrance of the cruel death of our compan- 
ions haunted us, and we often prayed Heaven to end our 
lives also. Our condition upon the raft was much more 
comfortable, for, by the great diminution of our members, 
we gained more room, and as the weather remained calm 
and clear, we could improve our accommodations some- 
what. We therefore exerted all our remaining strength in 
tearing up some of the boards in the fore-part of the raft, 
and constructing, by means of them, a kind of floor in the 
middle, upon which we laid all the articles of clothing 
that -we could do without, to form a softer couch for our 
weary limbs. This contrivance protected us somewhat 
against the waves, which still broko over us continually, 
and caused us great suffering, especially in our legs, which 
were covered with bruises and wounds. Our worst tor- 
ment was a burning thirst, which the hot rays of the sun 
increased- We tried to quench it with salt water, but this 
only appeased it for a moment to cause it to return with 
greater fury. 

In +his extremity one of the oflicers found, by chance, 
a small lemon ; as he tried to keep it for himself, and was 
not to be moved by our entreaties to share it, the indigna- 
tion of his comrades began to show itself at his selfish 
behavior, and he would have fallen a yictim to his 
. greediness if he had not yielded in time. We contended 
" just as seriously about the division of whatever we 
could find that was eatable All these bickerinsrs were 


accompanied by the most desperate threats, and bl(X)d 
would often have been shed but for the interference of 
those who were calmer and more self-possessed. One of 
US dipcovered in his pocket a bottle of medicine for the 
tooth-a,che, which he husbanded very carefully, and would 
only give us each a few drops in the hollow of our hands. 
It was a mixture of all kinds of berbs, tasted quite pleas- 
antly, and quenched our thirst for some moments. Some 
of us held a piece of tin in our mouths to induce a little 
moisture by means of it ; others filled their hats with salt 
water, bathed their heads and faces with it, and experi- 
enced from it a beneficial effect ; most of us sucked up our 
portion of wine through a quill, and contended that in this 
way our thirst was allayed for a longer time than if we 
drank it at once out of our cups. 

On the 16th we believed ourselves to be very near to 
land, and three of the boldest ol' us agreed to endeavor to 
reach it by meaiis of a mast about thirty feet long, which 
we broke off of the raft. Upon this we nailed little pieces 
of board to prevent it from turning round, stuck into it a 
pole with a little sail tied to it, and supplied it with a kind 
of rudder that we manufactured with our sword, out of a 
piece of an old cask. The attempt was to take place on 
the following day, and our bold companions received their 
whole portion of wine, which, for want of a better Tessel, 
was poured into a boot. After this machine was comple- 
ted, we made a trial of it, but it turned over when one of 
the sailors stepped upon it, and showed us the folly of the 
attempt. There was nothing left for us but to await death 
calmly upon the raft. Night came again, and we were 



 

Slled with the darkest forebodings ; we had scarcely three 
measures of wine left, and we had for some time experi- 
enced such an unconquerable disgust at the human flesh 
that we had soaked in salt water and dried, that the mere 
sight of it caused a shudder. 

On the morning of the 17th of July the weather was 
quite clear ; at sunrise we all prayed devoutly, and were 
drinking our wine, when suddenly an officer discovered a 
ship in the distance, and with a cry of joy announced the 
discovery. Although the vessel was so distant that we 
could scarcely distinguish the tops of the masts, an indes- 
cribable delight filled our minds ; we considered ourselves 
already safe, and gave thanks to the Almighty. But now 
arose the question, how to make our low raft seen from so 
great a distance. We immediately collected some sticks 
of wood, to which we tied handkerchiefs and cloths, and 
helped a man up the mast to wave these little flags. More 
than half an hour was passed between hope and fear; 
some thought that the ship gradually approached, and 
others maintained that it receded ; the latter were unhap- 
pily in the right, for it soon vanished entirely. The deep- 
est dejection ensued upon our joyful anticipations, and we 
envied the lot of those who had died at our sides. 

After this bitter illusion we determined to await death 
calmly, and, erected a kind of tent with a piece of sail, 
under which we were somewhat protected from the burn- 
ing rays of the sun. Here we conceived the plan of 
scratching a short account of our fate, which should be 
signed by all upon a board with the poinl; of our sword, in 
the hope that it might be picked up somewhere, with the 



 

fragments of our raft, and convey to the government and 
our families some intelligence of our mournful fate. Thus 
we passed about two hours, when one of us went out of 
the tent to look round him once more, but instantly 
returned -vith a loud cry. Joy beamed from his counte- 
nance ; he stretched out his arms towards the sea, and 
breathing with difficulty, could scarcely stammer out the 
word at last : " Saved ! a ship !" 

We immediately left the tent, and even those whose sore 
feet and legs had prevented their standing for some days, 
managed to creep out to regale themselves with a sight of 
the ship which, her sails all set, was bearing down upon us 
at scarce a league's distance. We embraced each other 
with a rapture that bordered on frenzy, and tears of joy 
rolled down our wasted cheeks. Each seized some piece 
of cloth and waved it that we might be seen by the vessel, 
which, however, must have seen us for some time, as it 
approached us steadily. Our joy was increased when we 
saw the 'French flag floating from the mast, and recognized 
the vessel for the brig Argus which had sailed from Prance 
for the Senegal in company with the Medusa. 

The brig now lay to and put out a boat which took us 
in and carried us on board, where we met others who had 
been shipwrecked in the Medusa, and had deserted the 
raft. Deep emotion was painted on every countenance 
and tears of sympathy filled all eyes. Imagine fifteen 
wretches, almost without clothing, the skin flayed from 
their limbn, their whole bodies burnt by the' sun, and 
their faces fearfully emaciated ! Our hollow, wild-rolling 
eyes, and long beards must have given us a liigbtful 



 

appearance; we were indeed only the shadows of men, 
and ten of the fifteen could scarcely move. They gave us 
excellent meat broth immediately, into which they poured 
wine, to make it even more nourishing ; they tended us 
most tenderly; our wounds were bandaged, and on the 
following day several of those most severely ill among us 
could set upright. Misfortune still pursued several of us, 
for the room next to the kitchen, where they lay, caught 
fire and they would have perished in the flames if the fire 
had not fortunately been extinguished just in time. 

Some of the boats which had so shamefully deserted the 
raft reached the coast on the following day, where the 
crews landed to continue their journey towards the French 
colony by land ; others directed their course directly to the 
mouth of the Senegal, which they happily reached. The 
brig immediately received orders to weigh anchor and 
hasten to the succor of the shipwrecked ; they coasted 
along the shore, and supplied those who had landed 
with provisions, but could not succeed in finding the raft. 
They were already returning when on the morning of our 
rescue the wind changed, and the captain had the vessel 
turned round once more ; two hours afterwards they dis- 
cerned something firom the mast-head and soon recognized 
it for our raft. Another smaller vessel had gone to the 
rescue of the seventeen people upon the stranded frigate ; 
but contrary winds detained it and when, after fifty days, 
it reached the wreck, only three men were found on it 
alive. Each of these kept themselves secluded from the 
others, and when in thfiir search for food, which had been 
soaked and spoilt in the salt water, they encountered 


one another they threatened each other with their 

knives. 

We reached the Senegal the same day that we had been 
found, and were received in the colony with great kindness 
and sympathy, even the negro slaves wept bitterly when 
they saw our miserable, reduced condition. Six of our 
number died soon after, notwithstanding the greatest care ; 
the nine who survived returned as soon as they were 
strong enough, to their native country. 

We add to this narrative of the shipwrecked sailor, that 
most of his companions were ill for the re'st of their 
Kves, and the captain immediately upon his return to 
France, was tried before a court martial for his cowardice 
and unpardonable negligence, and was judged unworthy 
 f his post and expelled from the service. 




A LAEGE Village in one of the most beautiful and fertile 
valleys of the interior of AMca is my birth-place ; it must 
be very far from the coast, for I do not remember ever 
having heard, during my childhood, of the sea or of white 
men. My parents possessed quite a large estate and a 
multitude of slaves, and as I was the youngest of seven 
children, I was naturally my mother's favorite, and she 
took a great deal of pains with my education. From my 
earliest youth I practised constantly, shooting with a bow 
and arrow, and hurling the javelin. Thus I grew up to 
my eleventh year, when an end was suddenly put to my 
happiness. 

One day, when my parents had gone as usual into the 
fields to labor with the slaves, and no one was left at home 
but myself av.d one of my sisters, who was about a year 
my senior, two men and a woman climbed over the wall 
that surrounded the yard in which we were, seized us 
both, gagged us so that we could not scream, and ran with " 
us into the nearest forest. Here they bound our hands, 
and carried us on until the sun went down, and we reached 
a little house. Here they unbound us, but stupefied with 
fatigue and terror, we could not eat, and soon found some 
relief from our cruel fate in sleep. The next morning we 


continued our journey, and arrived, after travelling all day 
through a dense forest, at a place that seemed familiar to 
me. I soon saw several people, and began to scream out 
to them with all my might, but my shrieks produced no 
effect except to cause our persecutors to gag us again, and 
put us into a bag until we were out of sight of any one. 
At night they again offered us something to eat, but we 
refused it, and found a mournful satisfaction in crying in 
each other's arms the whole night long. But alas ! even 
this poor comfort was taken from us, for the next day they 
tore my sister away from me, and carried her away, leav- 
ing me in a state of perfect despair. I wept and sobbed, 
and for eight days eat nothing but what was forced down 
my throat. At last, after travelling many days, they sold 
me, in quite a pleasant country, to a wealthy herdsman. 
This man had two wives, and some children ; they all 
treated me kindly, and took great pains to console me, 
especially the elder wife, who looked something like my 
mother. Although I was far from my own home, these 
people spoke my language. My master was, by trade, a 
smith, and my heaviest labor was to manage the bellows 
for him. I think the metal in which he worked was gold, 
for it was of a beautiful light yellow color, and was worn 
by the women upon their wrists and ankles. 

I had not been quite a month with these people, before 
they trusted me to go alone any where. I used this lib- 
erty to find out every thing that I could concerning the 
road that might lead me to my home. I often went in the 
cool of the evening, with the girls to the fountain, and 
helped them to fill their jars with water, and I then 




observed where the sun rose and set, and learnt also that 
my father's house lay toward the rising of the sun. I 
intended to seize some fitting opportunity, and start off in 
that direction, for grief for my mother and friends weighed 
upon me, and my love of liberty, always strong, was so 
increased by my state of servitude, that I could not even 
bear to sit down to eat with free children, although I was 
treated in every way as their companion. 

While I was meditating my plan of escape, a provoking 
occurrence put an end to all my hopes. I used sometimes 
to assist an old slave woman in the kitchen, and take care 
of the poultry. One morning, as I was feeding the chick- 
ens, I thoughtlessly threw a pebble at one of them that 
killed it on the spot. The old slave missed the chicken, 
and when I told her frankly what had become of it, (for 
my mother had taught me never to tell a lie) she flew into 
a rage, said I should suffer for it, and went straight to tell 
her mistress. I feared a whipping, and as I had never 
been struck at home, the idea of such a disgrace was so 
horrible to me, that I ran off and hid myself in a wood 
near at hand. They searched for me all day long unsuc- 
cessfully, although they were several times so near my 
hiding-place that I could hear them talking distinctly. 
From what they said, I learnt that I could never succeed 
in reaching my home, if I had attempted it, but would 
certainly fall a prey to wild beasts, or into the hands of 
slave-dealers. I therefore gave up my intention, and 
when night came on, and I began to be afraid of the 
snakes that I thought I heard hissing in the leaves around 
me, I slipt back into the house, went into the kitchen, and 




as I was freezing with cold, lay down in the warm ashes, 
fervently praying that death might soon end my woes. I 
was hardly awake in the morning, when the old slave 
came in, and was much surprised to see me again. She 
promised to intercede for me with my master, who soon 
made his appearance, and after administering a slight 
reproof to me, told the slave to take good care of me. 
But after this they all seemed displeased with me, and 
soon sold me. 

I was now carried again through frightful forests, where 
I could continually hear savage beasts roaming around us. 
The people who had bought me, when I was tired, carried me 
sometimes upon their shoulders, and sometimes upon their 
backs. From time to time we arrived at convenient, well 
built huts, in which travellers and merchants could lodge 
very comfortably. In this wiay we travelled many miles, 
until one evening, to my surprise and delight, my dear 
sister was brought into the hut where we were to lodge for 
the night. When she saw me, she shrieked and rushed 
into my arms. Neither of us could speak, and we em- 
braced silently. Our meeting touched the bystanders, and 
they left us to talk together in perfect freedom. But this 
delight only lasted until the next morning, when my dear 
sister was taken from me, and carried off forever. I was 
now more wretched, if possible, than before. The little 
relief that her presence had been to me was gone, and my 
own sufferings were increased by the fear lest her's might 
be greater, and I should not be with her to soothe them. 

The same day I was sold, and after journeying through 
a quantity of small villages, arrived at last at a town that 



appeared to be very wealthy and was situated in the most 
charming country I had ever beheld. There I ate, for the 
first time, sugar cane and cocoanuts, which last I thought 
more delicious than any thing I had ever tasted. The 
money of the inhabitants consisted of little white shells 
about, the size of a finger nail, and for a hundred and 
seventy-two of these coins they sold me to a rich widow 
who had a son about my age and size. I was washed and 
anointed with perfumed oils, and when noon came I sat 
down to dinner with the son of my mistress in her pres- 
ence. This astonished me. I did not expect to be treated 
80 kindly, and my pleasant circumstances almost made me 
forget that I was a slave. There were several slaves in 
our household, and we practised shooting and hurling the 
javelin every day. I spent two months in this pleasant 
mode of life, so like what I had enjoyed in my dear home 
that I was quite reconciled to my lot and began to forget 
my former trials ; I even expected to be adopted as a son 
by the rich widow, when suddenly the dear illusion was 
dispelled. Without the least warning I was one morning 
awakened, and while my dear young master and the rest 
of the family were asleep, I was sold and hurried away to 
new trials among strangers. 

Hitherto, all the people that I had seen were like those 
of my own nation in language and customs, but now I was 
carried into the midst of a people diflfering entirely from 
any of whom I had ever heard. They offered no sacri- 
fices, adored no deity, never washed their hands before 
eating. They cooked their food in iron vessels, and had 
European swords and muskets, which I had never seen in 

my country. The men used to adorn thenwelves with 
great scars, and they filed their teeth sharp in front. They 
tried to induce me to submit to this latter operation, but I 
obstinately refused, for I hoped still to live again among 
nations with more reasonable customs. At last I reached 
the shore of a large river, which was covered with canoes, 
in which whole families lived. At this I was greatly 
astonished, for in my country I had never seen any quan- 
tity of water larger than a pond or a little brook, and I 
was somewhat terrified when they put me into a canoe and 
rowed down the stream till nightfall. We then landed 
and some made a fire on the shore, while others remained 
in the canoe all night long. I was not a little surprised 
when I saw not only men but women plunge into the 
water, dive to the bottom and then rising swim all about. 
After breakfast the next morning we again embarked and 
sailed down the stream. Thus, sometimes journeying by 
land, and sometimes by water, through all kinds of country 
and people, we arrived, six or seven months after I had 
been kidnapped, upon the sea coast. 

II. 

The first object that greeted my eyes here was a slave- 
ship that was lying at anchor waiting for its cargo. This 
Bight filled me with astonishment that was soon changed 
into terror. It were in vain to attempt to describe my 
sensations when I was carried on board the vessel. Some 
of the sailors seized me and examined me so roughly to see 
if I were healthy, that I felt sure that I had fallen among 
demons who were about to kill and eat me. The color 


