"I will," said Laura, with a laugh. "How furious she will be! Of course
it is Adele who gets these things."

"Of course. Five francs is quite enough."

And Laura, little knowing or guessing how it would be used against her,
sent a five-franc note with her card in an envelope and addressed it. On
the card she had written in pencil, "For Maria B., with best thanks."

"There is one other thing I would like to do," she said. "But I do not
know whether you would approve. It would give me such satisfaction--you
know I am only a woman, after all."

"What is that?" asked Ghisleri, "and why should you need my approval?"

"Only this. To-morrow, and perhaps the next day, when she is quite sure
I must have received those letters, I would like to drive with you in an
open carriage where we should be sure to meet Adele. I would give
anything to see her face."

Ghisleri laughed. The womanly side of Laura's nature was becoming more
apparent of late, and its manifestations pleased and surprised him. He
thought Laura would hardly have seemed human if she had not wished to
let Adele see how completely the attempt had failed which she had so
ingeniously planned and carried out.

"If anything would make the town talk, that would," he answered. "The
only way to manage it would be to get the Princess to go with you and
then take me as--" He stopped short, rather awkwardly.

"I should rather go without her," said Laura, turning her face away to
hide her amusement at the slip of the tongue of which he had been
guilty.

In Rome, for Ghisleri to be seen driving with the Princess of Gerano and
her daughter would have been almost equivalent to announcing his
engagement to Laura.




CHAPTER XXIV.


Adele had not anticipated such complete failure in the first instance.
The five-franc note with Laura Arden's card told her plainly enough what
her step-sister thought of the matter, but she had no means of finding
out whether Ghisleri had been informed of what she had done or not, and
her efforts to extract information from him when she met him were not
successful. His tone and his manner towards her were precisely the same
as formerly, and he was as ready as ever to enter into desultory
conversation with her; but if she ventured to lead the talk in such a
direction as to find out what she wanted to know, he instantly met her
with a counter-allusion to her doings which frightened her and silenced
her effectually. So the months passed in a sort of petty skirmishing
which led to no positive result, and she secretly planned some further
step which should complete those she had already taken, reverse Laura's
judgment, and completely ruin Pietro Ghisleri with her and before the
world. The uneasy workings of her unsettled brain grew more and more
tortuous every day, until at last she felt unable to reason the question
out without the help of some experienced person. She felt quite sure
that there must be some way out of all her difficulties, by a short cut
to victory, and that a clever man, a good lawyer, for instance, if he
could be deceived into believing the story she had concocted, would know
how to make use of it against her enemies. The difficulty was two-fold.
In the first place she must put together such a body of evidence as no
experienced advocate could refuse as ground for an action at law, and,
secondly, she must find the said advocate and explain the whole matter
to him from her own point of view. The action would be brought in
self-defence against Pietro Ghisleri, who would be accused of having
systematically attempted to levy blackmail. That was the crude form in
which the idea suggested itself to Adele when she set to work.

Her conviction now was that Pietro was only partially aware of the
substance of the lost confession, and that the letter containing it was
still at Gerano. This being the case, she could freely speak of it to
her lawyer and describe the contents in any way she pleased, so as to
turn the existence of the document to her own advantage. In the letters
she had sent Laura and in the other two which she kept by her for future
use, she had been careful never to say anything conclusive. Maria B. had
indeed spoken of the transaction as being ended, but that could be
interpreted as the unfounded supposition of a person not fully
acquainted with the facts, and desirous of making money out of them as
far as possible. The hardest thing would probably be to produce the
woman who was supposed to have written to Laura, in case she should be
needed. Money well bestowed, however, would do much towards stimulating
the memory of some indigent and unscrupulous person, and the part to be
played would, after all, be a small and insignificant one. On the other
hand, the weak point in the case would be that Adele, while able to
produce an unlimited number of her own letters to Ghisleri, would not
have a single line of his writing to show. She could, indeed, fall back
upon her own natural sense of caution, and declare that she had
destroyed all he had written, in the mistaken belief that it would be
safer to do so, and her lawyer could taunt his opponent with his folly
in not doing likewise; but that would, after all, be rather a poor
expedient. Or it might be pretended that Pietro had invariably written
to her in a feigned handwriting signing himself, perhaps, with a single
initial, as a precaution in case his letters should fall into the wrong
hands. In that case she could produce whatever she chose. The best
possible plan would be to extract one or two short notes from him upon
which an ambiguous construction might be put by the lawyers. All this,
Adele reflected, would need considerable time, and several months must
elapse before she could expect to be ready. Her mind, too, worked
spasmodically, and she was subject to long fits of apathy and extreme
depression in the intervals between her short hours of abnormal
activity. She knew that this was the result of the morphia she took in
such quantities, and she resolved to make a great effort to cure herself
of the fatal habit, if it were not already too late.

As has been said more than once, Adele Savelli had possessed a very
determined will, and it had not yet been altogether destroyed. Having
once made up her mind to free herself if she could, she made the attempt
bravely and systematically. The result was that, in the course of
several months, she had reduced the amount of her daily doses very
considerably. The suffering was great, but the object to be gained was
great also, and she steeled herself to endure all that a woman could.
She was encouraged, also, by the fact that her mind began to act more
regularly and seemed more reliable. Physically, she was growing very
weak and was becoming almost emaciated. Francesco Savelli watched her
narrowly, and it was his opinion that she could not last long. The
Prince of Gerano was very anxious about her all through the spring which
followed the events last described, and his wife, though she was far
less fond of Adele than in former times, could not but feel a sorrowful
regret as she saw the young life that had begun so brightly wearing
itself away before her eyes. But the Princess had consolations in
another direction. Laura Arden seemed to grow daily more lovely in her
mature beauty, and Herbert was growing out of his babyhood into a sturdy
little boy of phenomenal strength and of imperturbably good temper.
Laura was headstrong where Ghisleri was concerned, but in all other
respects she was herself still.

The first consequence of Adele's attempt to break the strong friendship
which united Laura and Pietro, was to draw them still more closely
together, and to make Laura, at least, more defiant of the world's
opinion than ever. As for Ghisleri, he almost forgot to ask himself
questions. The time to separate for the summer was drawing near, and he
knew, when he thought of it, what a different parting this one would be
from the one which had preceded it a year earlier. But he tried to think
of the present and not of the weary months of solitude he looked forward
to between June and November or December. He remembered, in spite of
himself, how he had more than once enjoyed the lonely life, even
refusing invitations to pleasant places rather than lose a single week
of an existence so full of charm. But another interest had been growing,
slowly, deep-sown, spreading its roots in silence, and fastening itself
about his heart while he had not even suspected that it was there at
all. Little by little, without visible manifestation, the strong thing
had drawn more strength from his own life, mysteriously absorbing into
itself the springs of thought and the sources of emotion, unifying them
and assimilating them all into something which was a part, and was soon
to be the chief part, of his being. And now, above the harrowed surface
of that inner ground on which such fierce battles had been fought
throughout his years of storm, a soft shoot raised its delicate head,
not timidly, but quietly and unobtrusively, to meet the warm sunshine of
the happier days to come. He saw it, and knew it, and held his peace,
dreading it and yet loving it, for it was love itself; but not knowing
truly what the little blade would come to, whether it was to bloom all
at once into a bright and poisonous flower of evil, bringing to him the
death of all possible love for ever; or whether it would grow up slowly,
calm and fair, from leaf to shrub, from shrub to sapling, from sapling
at last to tree, straight, tall, and strong, able to face tempest and
storm without bending its lofty head, rich to bear for him in the end
the stately blossom and the heavenly fruit of passionate true love.

For before the day of parting came Pietro Ghisleri knew that he loved
Laura Arden. Ever since that moment when she had quietly given him
Adele's letter and had told him that she would believe no evil of him,
he had begun to suspect that she was no longer what she had been to him
once and what she had remained so long, a friend, kind, almost
affectionate, for whom he would give all he had, but only a friend after
all. It was different now. The thought of bidding Laura good-bye, even
for a few months, sent a thrill of pain through his heart which he had
not expected to feel--the small, sharp pain which tells a man the truth
about a woman and himself as nothing else can. The prospect of the
lonely summer was dreary.

Ghisleri was surprised, and almost startled. During nearly two years and
a half he had honestly believed that he could never love again, and if a
sincere wish, formulated in the shape he unconsciously chose, could be
called a prayer, he earnestly prayed that so long as he lived he might
not feel what he had felt very strongly twice, at least, since he had
been a boy. But such a man could hardly expect that such a wish, or
prayer, could be granted or heard, so long as he was spending many hours
of each succeeding week in the company of Laura Arden. In the full
strength of manhood, passionate, sensitive beneath a cold exterior,
always attracted by women, and almost always repelled by men, Pietro
Ghisleri could hardly expect that in one moment the capacity for loving
should be wholly rooted out and destroyed by something like an act of
will, and as the consequence of his being disappointed and disgusted by
his own fickleness. The new passion might turn out to be greater or less
than the two which had hitherto disturbed his existence, but it could
hardly be greater than the first. It would necessarily be different from
either, in that it would be hopeless from the beginning, as he thought.
For where he was very sincere, he was rarely very confident in himself,
if the stake was woman's love, a fact more common with men who are at
once sensitive and strong than is generally known.

But his first impulse was not to go away and escape from the temptation,
as it would have been some time earlier. There was no reason for doing
that, as he had reflected before, when he had considered the
advisability of breaking off all intercourse with Laura for the sake of
silencing the world's idle chatter. He was perfectly free to love her,
and to tell her so, if he chose. No one could blame him for wishing to
marry her; at most he might be thought foolish for desiring anything so
very improbable as that she should accept him. But he was quite
indifferent to what any one might think of him excepting Laura herself.
One resolution only he made and did his best to keep, and it was a good
one. He made up his mind that he would not make love to her, as he
understood the meaning of the term. Possibly, as he told himself with a
little scorn, this was no resolution at all, but only a way of
expressing his conviction that he was quite unable to do what he so
magnanimously refused to attempt. For his instinct told him that his
love for Laura had already taken a shape which differed wholly from all
former passions, one unfamiliar to him, one which would need a new
expression if it continued to be sincere. But that he doubted. He was
quite ready to admit that when Laura came back in the autumn, this early
beginning of love would have disappeared again, and that the old strong
friendship would be found in its place, solid, firmly based, and
unchanged, a permanent happiness and a constant satisfaction. He was no
longer a boy, to imagine that the first breath of love was the
forerunner of an all-destroying storm in which he must perish, or of a
clear, fair wind before which the ship of his life was to run her
straight course to the haven of death's peace. He had seen too much
fickleness in himself and in others to believe in any such thing; but if
he had anticipated either it would have been the tempest. On the whole,
he did the wisest thing he could. He changed nothing in his manner
towards Laura and he waited as calmly as he was able, to see what the
end would be. Once only before Laura went away the conversation turned
upon love, and oddly enough it was Laura who brought up the subject.

She had been talking about little Herbert, as she often did, planning
out his future according to her own wishes and making it happy in her
own way, even to sketching the wife he was to win some five and twenty
years hence.

"I should like her to be very fair," she said. "Herbert will be dark, as
I am, and they say that contrasts attract each other most permanently.
But of course, though she must be beautiful, she must have ever so many
other good points besides. In the first place, she must be capable of
loving him with all her heart and soul. I suppose that is really the
hardest thing of all to find."

"The 'one-great-passion' sort of person, you mean, I fancy," observed
Ghisleri, with a smile. "A rare bird--I agree with you."

"I doubt whether the individual exists," said Laura. "Except by
accident, or when the course of true love runs so very smoothly that it
would need superhuman ingenuity to fall off it."

"You are a constant revelation to me!" Ghisleri laughed, and looked at
her.

"What is there surprising about what I said? You are not a believer in
the universal stability of the human heart, are you?"

"Hardly that! But women very often are--at first. And then, when they
see that change is possible, they are apt to say that there is no such
thing as true love at all, whereas we know that there is."

"In other words, you think that I take the sensible view. After all,
what is the use of expecting humanity to be superhuman?"

"I always like the way in which you put things," said Ghisleri,
thoughtfully. "That is exactly it. Homo sum. I am neither angel, nor
ape, but man, and at present, I believe, no near relation of the seraph
or the monkey."

"And as a man, changeable. So am I, as a woman, I have no doubt. Every
one must be, and I do not think it is fair to respect people who do not
change at all because they never have the chance."

"One cannot help it. Human nature instinctively places the man who has
only loved once above the man who has shown that he can love often. It
is connected with the idea of faith and loyalty."

"Often--that is too much. There comes the question of the limit. How
often can a man love sincerely?"

"Three times--not more," answered Ghisleri, with conviction.

"Why not two, or four? How can you lay down the law in that way?"

"It is very simple. I think that no love is worth the name which does
not influence a man strongly for at least ten years. Any really great
passion will do that. But human life is short. Let a man fall in love at
twenty, and three periods of ten years each will bring him to fifty. A
man who falls in love after he is fifty is a rarity, and generally an
object of ridicule. That seems to me a logical demonstration, and I do
not see why it should not apply to a woman as well as to a man."

"Yes, I think there is truth in that," said Laura. "At all events, it
looks true. Besides, there is something quite reasonable in the idea
that a man naturally has three stages, when he is twenty years old,
thirty, and forty. I should imagine that the middle stage, while he is
still developing, might be the shortest."

It was impossible for Ghisleri to imagine that Laura was referring to
his own life, but the remark was certainly very applicable to himself,
so far. Would the third stage be permanent, if he really reached it? He
was inclined to think that nothing about him had much stability, for
within the last two years he had come to accept the fact as something
which was part of his nature and from which there was no escape, despise
the weakness and hate it as he would. It was a singular coincidence that
since he had tormented himself less he had become really less
changeable.

A month later he parted from Laura, to all outward appearances as
quietly and calmly as in the previous year. If there were any
difference, it was in her manner rather than in his. She said almost
sadly that she was sorry the time had come, and that she looked forward
to the meeting in the autumn as to one of the pleasantest things in the
future. The words she spoke were almost commonplace, though even if
taken literally they conveyed more than she had ever said before. But it
was quite clear that she meant more than she said.

When she was gone Ghisleri felt more lonely than he had for years, and
every interest seemed to have died out of his existence. He tried to
laugh at himself for turning into a boy again, but even that diversion
failed him. He could not even find the bitter words it had once amused
him, in a grim way, to put together. Then he left Rome, weary of the
sights and sounds of the streets, of the solitude of his rooms, of the
effort to show some intelligence when he was obliged to talk with an
acquaintance. He went to his own place in Tuscany and passed his time in
trying to improve the condition of things. He knew something of
practical architecture, and he rebuilt a staircase, and restored the
vaulting in a part of the little castle to which he had never done
anything before, and which had gone to ruin during the last hundred
years or more, since it had last been inhabited. For he, his father, and
his grandfather had been only sons, and his mother having died when he
was a mere boy, his father had taken a dislike to Torre de' Ghisleri and
had lived the remainder of his short life in Florence. Hence the general
dilapidation of the old place which was not, however, without beauty.
The occupation did him good, and the sight of the old familiar faces of
his tenants and few retainers was pleasant, after facing the museum of
society masks during seven months and more. But he felt that even here
he could not stay any great length of time without a change, and as the
summer advanced his restlessness became extreme.

He came down to Rome for a week in August. The first person he met in
the street was Francesco Savelli, who stopped to speak with him.
Ghisleri never voluntarily stopped any one.

"How is Donna Adele?" he asked, after they had exchanged the first
greetings.

"Very nervous," answered Savelli, shaking his head with the air of
concern he thought it proper to affect whenever he spoke of his wife's
illness. "The nerves are something which no one can understand. I can
tell you a story, for instance, about something which happened the other
day--to be accurate, in June, when we were at Gerano. Do you remember
the oubliette between the guard-room and the tower? Yes--my wife said
she showed it to you. We were all staying together--all the children,
her father, and the Princess and two or three friends. One morning she
said she was quite sure that if we took up that slab of stone and
lowered a man into the shaft, we should find a skeleton hanging
there--Heaven knows what she imagined! The Prince said he had looked
into the shaft scores of times when the trap-door still existed and
there was a bar across the passage to prevent any one from going near;
that he himself had ordered the stone to be put where it was and knew
all about the place. The only skeleton ever found in the castle had been
discovered walled up in the thickness of the north tower, with a little
window just opposite the face, so that the individual must have died
looking at the hills. Nobody knew anything about it. But my wife
insisted, and grew angry, and at last furious. It was of no use, of
course. You know the old gentleman--he can be perfectly rigid. He
answered that no one should touch the stone, that if she yielded to such
ideas once, she would soon wish to pull Gerano to pieces to count the
mice, and that if she could persuade my father to knock holes in the
walls at Castel Savello, that was the affair of the Savelli, but that so
long as he lived she should not make any experiments in excavation under
his roof. If you will believe me, she had a fit of anger which brought
on an attack of the nerves, and she never went out of her room for three
days in consequence. Do you wonder that I am anxious?"

"Certainly not. It would be amazing if you were indifferent. The story
gives one the idea that she is subject to delusions. I am very sorry she
is no better. Pray remember me to her."

Thereupon Ghisleri passed on, inwardly wondering how long it would be
before Adele became quite mad. Two days later he received a note from
her. She had heard from her husband that he was in Rome, she said, and
wrote to ask a great favour of him. He was doubtless aware of her
father's passion for manuscripts, which was well known in Rome. It was
reported that a certain dealer had bought Prince Montevarchi's library
after the crash, and she very much wished to buy a very interesting
manuscript of which she had often heard her father speak, and which
contained an account of the famous, or infamous, Isabella Montevarchi's
life, written with her own hand--a sort of confession, in fact. As she
did not know the exact title of the document, if it had any, she would
call it a confession, though, of course, in a strictly lay sense. Now,
she inquired, would Ghisleri, for old friendship's sake, try to obtain
it for her at a reasonable price? She knew, of course, that such an
original would be expensive, but she was prepared to discuss the terms
if not wholly beyond her means. She sent her note by the carrier, as
that was generally quicker than writing by the post, she said. Would
Ghisleri kindly answer by the same means? The man would call again on
the next day but one. That would perhaps give time to make preliminary
inquiries. With which observation, and with best thanks in anticipation
of the service he was about to render, Adele called herself most
sincerely his.

Ghisleri was not an extremely suspicious man, but he would have given
evidence of almost infantine simplicity if he had not seen that there
was something wrong about Adele's note. It was certainly very well
planned, and if Laura had never shown him the letters Adele had sent
her, it might very possibly have succeeded. On ascertaining the price
set by the dealer on the manuscript, he would probably have written a
few words, stating in a business-like way the sum for which the
so-called confession could be bought. In all likelihood, too, he would
have only dated his note by the day of the week, omitting altogether the
month and the year. He saw at a glance how easily a communication of
that kind might have taken such a shape as to be very serviceable
against him, and how hard it might have been to show that he was writing
about a genuine transaction concerning a manuscript actually for sale.
He determined to be very careful.

His first step was to find out the name of the dealer who had bought the
Montevarchi library. He next ascertained that what Adele wanted was
still unsold, and that he must therefore necessarily enter into
correspondence with her. After that he sought out a young lawyer whom he
had employed once or twice within the last few years when he had needed
legal advice in regard to some trifling point, and laid the whole matter
before him. This young man, Ubaldini by name, had rapidly acquired a
reputation as a criminal lawyer, and had successfully defended some
remarkable cases, but, as he justly observed, acquitted prisoners of the
classes in which crimes are common, pay very little, and condemned
criminals pay nothing at all. He was therefore under the necessity of
taking other kinds of business as a means of support. The last murderer
who had escaped the law by Ubaldini's eloquence had sent him a bag of
beans and a cream cheese, which was all the family could afford in the
way of a fee, but upon which a barrister who had a taste for variety
could not subsist any length of time.

Ghisleri explained at considerable length the whole story, as far as it
has been told in these pages, and expressed the belief that Donna Adele
Savelli was intent upon ruining him for what, after all, seemed very
insufficient reasons.

"When a woman lives on morphia and the fear of discovery, instead of
food and drink, I would not give much for the soundness of any of her
reasons," said Ubaldini, with a laugh. "What shall we do with the
Princess? Shall we convict her of homicide, or bring an action for
defamation, which we are sure to win? I like this case. We shall amuse
ourselves."

"I do not wish to bring any accusation nor any action against Donna
Adele Savelli," answered Ghisleri. "All I wish to do is to protect
myself. Of course I should be curious to know what became of that
written confession of hers, if it ever existed. But at present I wish
you to have certified copies made of all my letters to her, and to keep
the originals of those she writes me. If she makes such another attack
on me as the last one, I will ask you, perhaps, to take the matter up.
In the mean time, I only desire to keep on the safe side."

"In a case like this," said the lawyer, "it is far safer to attack than
to wait for the enemy. Be careful in what you write, at all events. It
would be wiser to show me the letters before you send them. One never
can tell at what point the error of omission or commission will be made,
upon which everything will depend. As a bit of general advice, I should
warn you always to date every sheet on which you write anything, always
to mention the name of the dealer when you speak of him, and invariably
to give in full the correct title by which the manuscript is known. If
you do that, and take good care that the dealer knows you perfectly each
time you see him, and remembers your visits, it will not be easy to
manage. But Donna Adele Savelli is evidently a clever person, whether
her reasons for hating you are good or bad. That little trick of sending
her own letters to the other lady was masterly--absolutely diabolical.
The reason she failed was that she struck too high. She over-reached
herself. She accused you of too much. That shows that although her
methods are clever her judgment is insufficient. The same is true of
this last attempt. By the bye, have you ever mentioned me to her, so far
as you can recollect?"

"No, I believe not."

"Then avoid doing so, if you please. It is always better to keep the
opposite party in ignorance of one's lawyer's name until the last
minute."

"Very well."

As soon as Ghisleri was gone Ubaldini wrote a draft of a letter to
Adele, as follows:

    "EXCELLENCY:--At the decease of a client of humble station a number
    of papers have come under my notice and are now in my hands. One of
    them, of some length, has evidently gone astray, for it is written
    by your Excellency and apparently addressed to a member of the
    clergy, besides containing, as one glance told me, matter of a
    private nature. It is my wish to restore it immediately, and I
    therefore write to inquire whether I may entrust it to the
    post-office, or whether I shall hand it sealed to your Excellency's
    legal representative. I need not add the assurance that so far as I
    am concerned the matter is a strict secret, nor that I desire to
    restore the document as a duty of honour, and could not consider for
    a moment the question of any remuneration.

    "Deign, Excellency, to receive graciously the expression of
    profoundest respect with which I write myself,

    "Your Excellency's most humble, obedient servant,

    "RINALDO UBALDINI, Advocate."




CHAPTER XXV.


As Ghisleri had anticipated, Adele kept up a lively correspondence with
him for some time. All her letters were duly filed by Ubaldini, who took
certified copies of Pietro's replies, but did not mention what he
himself had done in the matter. Adele bargained sharply until Ghisleri
wrote to her as plainly as he well could that the manuscript was not to
be had for less than the sum he had repeatedly named, and that he could
do nothing more for her. Thereupon she answered that she would consider
the matter, and did not write again. Pietro, after waiting several days,
left Rome again, and returned to Torre de' Ghisleri, glad to be relieved
at last from the irksome and dangerous task of writing concise and
lawyer-like communications about a subject which did not interest him at
all.

Meanwhile Adele had been through a series of emotions of which Pietro
knew nothing, and which very nearly drove her to increasing her daily
doses of morphia again. On receiving Ubaldini's very respectful and
straightforward letter, she had felt that she was saved at last, though
it definitely destroyed the illusion by which she had so long persuaded
herself that the confession was still in the oubliette at Gerano.
Without much hesitation she wrote to Ubaldini, and laid a bank-note for
five hundred francs in the folded sheet. She begged him to send a
special messenger with the sealed packet to Castel Savello, and
requested him, in spite of his protest, to accept the enclosed sum to
cover expenses.

During forty-eight hours she enjoyed to the full the anticipation of at
last getting back the letter which had cost her such terrible anxiety at
various times during the past two years and a half. Then came Ubaldini's
answer, though when she opened it she had no idea that it was from him.
He had made his clerk both write and sign the fair copy of the first
letter, which had been written on paper not stamped with an address. He
now wrote with his own hand upon the paper he kept for business
correspondence upon which, of course, the address was printed. There was
consequently not the slightest resemblance between the two letters. But
Adele was not prepared for the contents. The first thing she noticed was
her bank-note, carefully pinned inside the sheet. Even the form of
addressing her was not the same, and the one now employed was the
correct one, the Savelli being one of the families in which the title of
Prince and Princess belongs indiscriminately to all the children, and
consequently to the wives of all the sons. The letter was as follows:

    "SIGNORA PRINCIPESSA:--I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt
    of a communication from your Excellency, in which you request me to
    send a certain sealed packet to Castel Savello by a special
    messenger, and enclosing a bank note for five hundred francs (Banca
    Romana S. 32/0945) which I return herewith. I take the occasion to
    say that I know nothing whatever of the sealed packet referred to,
    and I beg to suggest that your Excellency may have accidentally
    addressed the letter to me instead of to some other person, perhaps
    in using a directory. If, however, it was written in answer to one
    supposed to have been indited to you by me, the letter must have
    been composed and sent by some designing person in the hope of
    intercepting the reply and gaining possession of the money, which I
    am glad to be able to send back to its original owner. Believe me,
    Signora Principessa,

    "Your Excellency's most obedient,

    "RINALDO UBALDINI."

The shock was almost more than Adele could bear, and the room reeled
with her as she comprehended what had happened, so far as she was able
to understand it all. The truth did not strike her, however. What she
believed was what the lawyer suggested, that some person had played a
trick on her, and had made use of Ubaldini's name and address in the
hope of getting the money he or she naturally expected that she would
send as compensation for such an important service. The hardest to
endure was the disappointment of finding that she was not to have the
confession after all. The point proved was that, whether it were still
in the oubliette or had been found and carried off, there was in either
case at least one person at large who knew it existed, and who knew that
the contents would be greatly to her disadvantage if known. And if one
person knew it, she argued, all Rome might be acquainted with the story,
and probably was. But the comforting conviction that the letter was
still safe at Gerano did not return. There was a tone about the first
communication disclaimed by Ubaldini, which forced upon her the belief
that the writer knew everything, and could ruin her at a moment's
notice.

What Ubaldini gained was the certainty that the story which Ghisleri
described as current gossip was a fact, and a very serious one. He had
played detective instead of lawyer, and he had been very successful. He
knew also, that, as he had acted altogether in the interests of his
client, Ghisleri, and had returned Adele's money, no objection could,
strictly speaking, be made to the stratagem, however it might be looked
upon by gentlemen and men of the world, like Ghisleri himself. But
Ubaldini was a lawyer, and it was not his business to consider what the
fine world would think of his doings. He filed Adele's letter with the
copies of his own.

In the course of a few days, Adele, who was all the time carrying on her
correspondence with Pietro, gathered some hope from the latter's
answers. She had a suspicion that he might keep all the notes he
received from her, and after the first she was as careful never to
mention the manuscript except as "the confession," as he, on his part,
was always to write out its title in full. It struck her, however, that
a man playing such a part as she wished to have it thought that he was
playing, would naturally use some such means for making his letters seem
commonplace if they should fall into the wrong hands, and it would be
easy to persuade her friends that the autobiographic writings of
Isabella Montevarchi meant Adele Savelli's confession, by common
consent, though she herself had not taken the trouble to use such a long
title more than once. The thought elated her, and comforted her in a
measure for the disappointment she had suffered, and which had shaken
her nerves severely.

She now spent much time in going over the correspondence, weighing each
word in the attempt to establish its exact value if regarded from the
point of view of a systematic attempt to extort money. With a relative
coolness which would not have disgraced a strong man, and which showed
how far she had recovered control of herself by diminishing the doses of
morphia, she set to work to put her case together on the supposition
that she meant to lay it before her husband, for instance, or any other
intelligent person, with a request for advice. And the case, as she put
it, was better than might have been expected, though it depended
ultimately, for its solidity, on the supposition that the confession
could never be found.

In the first place, she intended to admit that she had been jealous of
Laura for years, and to own frankly that she had often said cruel and
spiteful things of her, and of Arden, just as everybody she knew said
spiteful things of somebody. She would even admit that she had first set
afloat the rumour that Lord Herbert was intemperate, and that Laura had
the evil eye. She could then point out that her conduct had suddenly
changed in deference to her father's wishes, that there had been an open
reconciliation, not very heartfelt on her part at first, but made
sincere by the remorse she felt after Arden's death. For she meant to go
even so far as to confess that Arden might have caught the scarlet fever
in her house, seeing that her maid was only just recovering from it at
the time. The woman's illness had been kept strictly secret, and she had
been, from the first, taken to a distant part of the palace, so that
Adele had not believed there could be any danger. Even her husband had
not known what the maid's illness was, and poor Lucia had pleaded so
hard not to be sent to the hospital that Adele had yielded. But to
prove, she would say, how little fear of contagion she had, her own
children had not been sent into the country. The Palazzo Savelli was big
enough to have had a whole infirmary in one part of it, completely
isolated from all the rest. Nevertheless, she had always felt that there
was a possibility of Arden's last illness having been taken at that
dinner-party, and her secret remorse had caused her the greatest
suffering. Between that and a nervous disorder from which she had little
hope of ever recovering, she had fallen very ill, and had gone to
Gerano. While there, her conscience had so pricked her in the matter of
her past unkindness to her step-sister and to Arden, that although she
had been to confession at Easter, she wrote a long letter to her
confessor in Rome, going again over the full details of the past winter.
From that point she could tell the truth, without even sparing Lucia,
until she came to the discovery that it was Ghisleri himself who had
picked up the letter, or confession, under the shaft of the oubliette.
And here she would lay great stress on Ghisleri's attachment to Laura,
and consequent dislike of herself. The well-known fact that Pietro had
fought a desperate duel merely because Campodonico said that Lady
Herbert Arden might have the evil eye, sufficiently showed to what
lengths he would go in her defence. Nothing more would really be needed.
But there was plenty more. All Rome knew that he had broken with
Maddalena dell' Armi for Laura's sake, and that he had exhibited the
most untiring devotion ever afterwards. Never, since the death of the
Princess Corleone, Adele would boldly assert, had he been faithful to
any one woman for such a length of time. That was a strong point. The
Princess of Gerano herself could testify to her own anxiety about Laura
since Ghisleri had been so much with her. Laura herself had behaved in
the most admirable manner ever since the reconciliation, but Ghisleri,
in constituting himself her champion, had become, so to say, more
royalist than the king, and more catholic than the pope. His dislike, if
not his positive hatred, for Adele was apparent at every step in the
story. He did not, it is true, speak of it to any one, but his reticence
was a well-known peculiarity of his character. It was when he was alone
in conversation with Adele that he showed what he felt. But his manner
was always courteous and rather formal. It was by sarcastic hints that
he conveyed his meaning. Nevertheless, Adele had maintained the outward
forms of friendly acquaintance, and once, some six months after Arden's
death, when matters had not been so bad as they now were, she had asked
him to stay a few days at Gerano. Lucia could testify that he was there
at the time when the confession disappeared, and Lucia, who had
attempted to extort money for it, and would have succeeded if the
document had been forthcoming, had naturally been as interested as any
one to find it. Not until some time later had Adele suspected that it
had been picked up by Ghisleri. The thing, of course, had not any very
great value, but what woman, Adele would ask, could bear to think that
the most private outpourings of her soul to her spiritual director were
in the hands of a man who hated her, and who could, if he pleased,
circulate them and make them the talk of the town? When Ghisleri, in the
following winter, had begun to torment her systematically by quoting
little phrases and expressions which she remembered to have written in
the letter, she had at last boldly taxed him with having it in his
possession, and he, with the unparalleled cynicism for which he was
famous, had laughed at her and owned the truth. Every one would allow
that this was very like him. She had threatened to complain to her
husband, and he had expressed the utmost indifference. He was a known
duelist and a dangerous adversary, and for her husband's sake she had
held her tongue, while Ghisleri continued to make her life miserable
