"Oh, I dare say. But I was thinking of myself."
Ludlow sent word to Charmian at the Synthesis that he should not ask
her to sit to him that afternoon, and in the evening he went to see
Wetmore. It was eleven o'clock, and he would have been welcome at
Wetmore's any time between that hour of the night and two of the
morning. He found a number of people. Mrs. Westley was there with Mrs.
Rangeley; they had been at a concert together. Mrs. Wetmore had just
made a Welsh rabbit, and they were all talking of the real meaning of
the word "beautiful."
"I think," Mrs. Rangeley was saying, "that the beautiful is whatever
pleases or fascinates. There are lots of good-looking people who are
not beautiful at all, because they have no atmosphere: and you see
other people, who are irregular, and quite plain even, and yet you come
away feeling that they are perfectly beautiful." Mrs. Rangeley's own
beauty was a little irregular. She looked anxiously round, and caught
Wetmore in a smile. "What are you laughing at?" she demanded in rueful
deprecation.
"Oh, nothing, nothing!" he said. "I was thinking how convincing you
were!"
"Nothing of the kind!" said one of the men, who had been listening
patiently till she fully committed herself. "There couldn't be a more
fallacious notion of the meaning of beauty. The thing exists in itself,
independently of our pleasure or displeasure; they have almost nothing
to do with it. If you mix it with them you are lost, as far as a true
conception of it goes. Beauty is something as absolute as truth, and
whatever varies from it, as it was ascertained, we'll say, by the Greek
sculptors and the Italian painters, is unbeautiful, just as anything
that varies from the truth is untrue. Charm, fascination, atmosphere,
are purely subjective; one feels them and another doesn't. But beauty
is objective, and nobody can deny it who sees it, whether he likes it
or not. You can't get away from it, any more than you can get away from
the truth. There it is!"
"Where?" asked Wetmore. He looked at the ladies as if he thought one of
them had been indicated.
"How delightful to have one's ideas jumped on just as if they were a
man's!" sighed Mrs. Rangeley. Her opponent laughed a generous delight,
as if he liked nothing better than having his reasoning brought to
naught. He entered joyously into the tumult which the utterance of the
different opinions, prejudices and prepossessions of the company
became.
Ludlow escaped from it, and made his way to Mrs. Westley, in that
remoter and quieter corner, which she seemed to find everywhere when
you saw her out of her own house; there she was necessarily prominent.
"I think Mr. Agnew is right, and Mrs. Rangeley is altogether wrong,"
she said. "There couldn't be a better illustration of it than in those
two young art-student friends of yours. Miss Saunders is beautiful in
just that absolute way Mr. Agnew speaks of; you simply can't refuse to
see it; and Miss Maybough is fascinating, if you feel her so. I should
think you'd find her very difficult to paint, and with Miss Saunders
there, all the time, I should be afraid of getting her decided
qualities into my picture."
Ludlow said, "Ah, that's very interesting."
He meant to outstay the rest, for he wished to speak with Wetmore
alone, and it seemed as though those people would never go. They went
at last. Mrs. Wetmore herself went off to the domestic quarter of the
apartment, and left the two men together.
"'Baccy?" asked Wetmore, with a hospitable gesture toward the pipes on
his mantel.
"No, thank you," said Ludlow.
"Well?"
"Wetmore, what was it you saw in my picture today, when you began with
that 'Hello' of yours, and then broke off to say something else?"
"Did I do that? Well, if you really wish to know----"
"I do!"
"I'll tell you. I was going to ask you which of those two girls you had
painted it from. The topography was the topography of Miss Maybough,
but the landscape was the landscape of Miss Saunders." He waited, as if
for Ludlow to speak; then he went on: "I supposed you had been working
from some new theory of yours, and I thought I had said about as much
on your theories as you would stand for the time."
"Was that all?" Ludlow asked.
"All? It seems to me that's a good deal to be compressed into one small
'hello.'"
Wetmore lighted a pipe, and began to smoke in great comfort. "We were
talking, just before you dropped in, of what you may call the psychical
chemistry of our kind of shop: the way a fellow transmutes himself into
everything he does. I can trace the man himself in every figure he
draws or models. You can't get away from yourself, simply because you
are always thinking yourself, or through yourself; you can't see or
know any one else in any other way."
"It's a very curious thing," said Ludlow, uneasily. "I've noticed that,
too; I suppose every one has. But--good-night."
Wetmore followed him out of the studio to the head of the public stairs
with a lamp, and Ludlow stopped there again. "Should you think there
was anything any one but you would notice?"
"You mean the two girls themselves? Well, I should say, on general
principles, that what two such girls didn't see in your work----"
"Of course! Then--what would you do? Would you speak to her about it?"
"Which?"
"You know: Miss Saunders."
"Ah! It seems rather difficult, doesn't it?"
"Confoundedly."
"Why, if you mean to say it was unconscious, perhaps I was mistaken.
The thing may have been altogether in my own mind. I'd like to take
another look at it----"
"You can't. I've painted it out." Ludlow ran down one flight of the
stairs, and then came stumbling quickly back. "I say, Wetmore. Do you
tell your wife everything?"
"My dear boy, I don't tell her anything. She finds it out. But, then,
she never tells anybody."
XXVII.
Ludlow sent word again to Charmian that he should not be able to keep
his appointment for the afternoon, and as soon as he could hope to find
Cornelia at home from the Synthesis, he went to see her.
He began abruptly, "I came to tell you, Miss Saunders, when I first
thought of painting Miss Maybough, and now I've come to tell you that
I've given it up."
"Given it up?" she repeated.
"You've seen the failures I've made. I took my last one home yesterday,
and painted it out." He looked at Cornelia, but if he expected her to
give him any sort of leading, he was disappointed. He had to conclude
unaided, "I'm not going to try any more."
She did not answer, and he went on, after a moment: "Of course, it's
humiliating to make a failure, but it's better to own it, and leave it
behind you; if you don't own it, you have to carry it with you, and it
remains a burden."
She kept her eyes away from him, but she said, "Oh, yes; certainly."
"The worst of it was the disappointment I had to inflict upon Mrs.
Maybough," he went on uneasily. "She was really hurt, and I don't
believe I convinced her after all that I simply and honestly couldn't
get the picture. I went to tell her this afternoon, and she seemed to
feel some sort of disparagement--I can't express it--in my giving it
up."
He stopped, and Cornelia asked, as if forced to say something, "Does
Charmian know?"
"I suppose she does, by this time," said Ludlow. He roused himself from
a moment of revery, and added, "But I didn't intend to oppress you with
this. I want to tell you something--else."
He drew a deep breath. She started forward where she sat, and looked
past him at the door, as if to see whether the way of escape was clear.
He went on: "I took Wetmore there with me yesterday, and I showed him
your sketches, and he thinks you might get one of them into the Academy
exhibition in the spring, after you've carried it a little farther."
She sank back in her chair. "Does he?" she asked listlessly, and she
thought, as of another person, how her heart would once have thrilled
at the hope of this.
"Yes. But I don't feel sure that it would be well," said Ludlow. "I
wanted to say, though, that I shall be glad to come and be of any
little use I can if you're going on with it."
"Oh, thank you," said Cornelia. She thought she was going to say
something more, but she stopped stiffly at that, and they both stood in
an embarrassment which neither could hide from the other. He repeated
his offer, in other terms, and she was able finally to thank him a
little more fitly, and to say that she should not forget his kind
offer; she should not forget all he had done for her, all the trouble
he had taken, and they parted with a vague alienation.
As we grow older, we are impatient of misunderstandings, of
disagreements; we make haste to have them explained; but while we are
young, life seems so spacious and so full of chances that we fetch a
large compass round about such things, and wait for favoring
fortuities, and hope for occasions precisely fit; we linger in
dangerous delays, and take risks that may be ruinous.
Cornelia went hack to her work at the Synthesis as before, but she
worked listlessly and aimlessly; the zest was gone, and the meaning.
She knew that for the past month she had drudged through the morning at
the Synthesis that she might free herself to the glad endeavor of the
afternoon at Charmian's studio with a good conscience. Ludlow's
criticism, even when it was harshest, was incentive and inspiration;
and her life was blank and dull on the old terms.
The arts have a logic of their own, which seems no logic at all to the
interests. Ludlow's world found it altogether fit and intelligible that
he should give up trying to paint Charmian if he had failed to get his
picture of her, and thought he could not get it. Mrs. Maybough's world
regarded it as a breach of contract for him not to do what he had
undertaken. She had more trouble to reconcile her friends to his
behavior than she had in justifying it to herself. Through Charmian she
had at least a second-hand appreciation of motives and principles that
were instantly satisfactory to the girl and to all her comrades at the
Synthesis; they accepted it as another proof of Ludlow's greatness that
he should frankly own he had missed his picture of her, and they
exalted Charmian as a partner in his merit, for being so impossible.
The arguments of Wetmore went for something with Mrs. Maybough, though
they were mainly admissions to the effect that Ludlow was more of a
crank than he had supposed, and would have to be humored in a case of
the kind; but it was chiefly the courage and friendship of Mrs. Westley
that availed. She enforced what she had to say in his behalf with the
invitation to her January Thursdays which she had brought. She had
brought it in person because she wished to beg Mrs. Maybough to let her
daughter come with her friend, Miss Saunders, and pour tea at the first
of the Thursdays.
"I got you off," she said to Ludlow, when they met, "but it was not
easy. She still thinks you ought to have let her see your last attempt,
and left her to decide whether it was good or not."
Mrs. Westley showed her amusement at this, but Ludlow answered gravely
that there was a certain reason in the position. "If she's disappointed
in not having any portrait, though," he added, "she had better take
Miss Saunders's."
"Do you really mean that?" Mrs. Westley asked, with more or less of
that incredulity concerning the performance of a woman which all the
sex feel, in spite of their boasting about one another. "Has she so
much talent?"
"Why not? Somebody has to have the talent."
This was like Wetmore's tone, and it made Mrs. Westley think of him.
"And do you believe she could get her picture into the exhibition?"
"Has Wetmore been talking to you about it?"
"Yes."
"I don't know," said Ludlow. "That was Wetmore's notion."
"And does she know about it?"
"I mentioned it to her."
"It would be a great thing for her if she could get her picture in--and
sell it."
"Yes," Ludlow dryly admitted. He wished he had never told Mrs. Westley
how Cornelia had earned the money for her studies at the Synthesis; he
resented the implication of her need, and Mrs. Westley vaguely felt
that she had somehow gone wrong. She made haste to retrieve her error
by suggesting, "Perhaps Miss Maybough would object, though."
"That's hardly thinkable." said Ludlow lightly. He would have gone away
without making Mrs. Westley due return for the trouble she had taken
for him with Mrs. Maybough, and she was so far vexed that she would
have let him go without telling him that she was going to have his
protégée pour tea for her; she had fancied that this would have
pleased him.
But by one of those sudden flashes that seem to come from somewhere
without, he saw himself in the odious light in which she must see him,
and he turned in time. "Mrs. Westley, I think you have taken a great
deal more pains for me than I'm worth. It's difficult to care what such
a poor little Philistine as Mrs. Maybough--the mere figment of somebody
else's misgotten money--thinks of me. But she is to be regarded, and
I know that you have looked after her in my interest; and it's very
kind of you, and very good--it's like you. If you've done it, though,
with the notion of my keeping on in portraits, or getting more
portraits to paint, I'm sorry, for I shall not try to do any. I'm not
fit for that kind of work. I don't say it because I despise the work,
but because I despise myself. I should always let some wretched
preoccupation of my own--some fancy, some whim--come between me and
what I see my sitter to be, and paint that."
"That is, you have some imagination," she began, in defence of him
against himself.
"No, no! There's scope for the greatest imagination, the most intense
feeling, in portraits. But I can't do that kind of thing, and I must
stick to my little sophistical fantasies, or my bald reports of nature.
But Miss Saunders, if she were not a woman--excuse me!----"
"Oh, I understand!"
"She could do it, and she will, if she keeps on. She could have a
career; she could be a painter of women's portraits. A man's idea of a
woman, it's interesting, of course, but it's never quite just; it's
never quite true; it can't be. Every woman knows that, but you go on
accepting men's notions of women, in literature and in art, as if they
were essentially, or anything but superficially, like women. I couldn't
get a picture of Miss Maybough because I was always making more or less
than there really was of her. You were speaking the other night at
Wetmore's, of the uncertain quality of her beauty, and the danger of
getting something else in," said Ludlow, suddenly grappling with the
fact, "and I was always doing that, or else leaving everything out. Her
beauty has no fixed impression. It ranges from something exquisite to
something grotesque; just as she ranges in character from the noblest
generosity to the most inconceivable absurdity. You never can know how
she will look or how she will behave. At least, I couldn't. I was
always guessing at her; but Miss Saunders seemed to understand her. All
her studies of her are alike; the last might be taken for the first,
except that the handling is better. It's invariably the very person,
without being in the least photographic, as people call it, because it
is one woman's unclouded perception of another. The only question is
whether Miss Saunders can keep that saving simplicity. It may be
trained out of her, or she may be taught to put other things before it.
Wetmore felt the danger of that, when we looked at her sketches. I'm
not saying they're not full of faults; the technique is bad enough;
sometimes it's almost childish; but the root of the matter is there.
She knows what she sees, and she tells."
"Really?" said Mrs. Westley. "It is hard for a woman to believe much
in women; we don't expect anything of each other yet. Should you like
her to paint me?"
"I?"
"I mean, do you think she could do it?"
"Not yet. She doesn't know enough of life, even if she knew enough of
art. She merely painted another girl."
"That is true," said Mrs. Westley with a sigh. She added impersonally;
"But if people only kept to what they knew, and didn't do what they
divined, there would be very little art or literature left, it seems to
me."
"Well, perhaps the less the better." said Ludlow, with a smile for the
absurdity he was reduced to. "What was left would certainty be the
best."
He felt as if his praise of Cornelia were somehow retrieval; as if it
would avail where he seemed otherwise so helpless, and would bring them
together on the old terms again. There was, indeed, nothing explicit in
their alienation, and when he saw Cornelia at Mrs. Westley's first
Thursday, he made his way to her at once, and asked her if she would
give him some tea, with the effect of having had a cup from her the day
before. He did not know whether to be pleased or not that she treated
their meeting as something uneventful, too, and made a little joke
about remembering that he liked his tea without sugar.
"I wasn't aware that you knew that," he said.
"Oh, yes; that is the way Charmian always made it for you; and
sometimes I made it."
"To be sure. It seems a great while ago. How are you getting on with
your picture?"
"I'm not getting on," said Cornelia, and she turned aside to make a cup
of tea for an old gentleman, who confessed that he liked a spoonful of
rum in his. General Westley had brought him up and presented him, and
he remained chatting with Cornelia, apparently in the fatuity that if
he talked trivially to her he would be the same as a young man. Ludlow
stayed, too, and when the old gentleman got away, he said, the same as
if there had been no interruption, "Why aren't you getting on?"
"Because I'm not doing anything to it."
"You ought to. I told you what Wetmore said of it."
"Yes; but I don't know how," said Cornelia, with a laugh that he liked;
it seemed an effect of pleasure in his presence at her elbow; though
from time to time she ignored him, and talked with other people who
came for tea. He noticed that she had begun to have a little society
manner of her own; he did not know whether he liked it or not. She wore
a very pretty dress, too; one he had not seen before.
"Will you let me show you how--as well as I can?"
"After I've asked you? Thank you!"
"I offered, once, before you asked."
"Oh!" said Cornelia, with her face aslant from him over her tea-cups.
"I thought you had forgotten that."
He winced, but he knew that he deserved the little scratch. He did not
try to exculpate himself, but he asked, "May I talk with Miss Maybough
about it?"
Cornelia returned gayly, "It's a free country."
He rose from the chair which he had been keeping at her elbow, and
looked about over the room. It was very full, and the first of Mrs.
Westley's Thursdays was successful beyond question. With the roving
eye, which he would not suffer to be intercepted, he saw the
distinguished people whom she had hitherto affected in their usual
number, and in rather unusual number the society people who had
probably come to satisfy an amiable curiosity; he made his reflection
that Mrs. Westley's evolution was proceeding in the inevitable
direction, and that in another winter the swells would come so
increasingly that there would be no celebrities for them to see. His
glance rested upon Mrs. Maybough, who stood in a little desolation of
her own, trying to look as if she were not there, and he had the
inspiration to go and speak to her instead of her daughter; there were
people enough speaking to Charmian, or seeming to speak to her, which
serves much the same purpose on such occasions. She was looking her
most mysterious, and he praised her peculiar charm to Mrs. Maybough.
"It's no wonder I failed with that portrait."
Mrs. Maybough said, "You must try again, Mr. Ludlow."
"No, I won't abuse your patience again, but I will tell you: I should
like to come and look now and then at the picture Miss Saunders has
begun of her, and that I want her to keep on with."
"Why not?" asked Mrs. Maybough in the softest assent. She would not
listen to the injuries which Ludlow heaped upon himself in proof of his
unworthiness to cross her threshold.
He went back to Cornelia, and said, "Well, it's arranged. I've spoken
with Mrs. Maybough, and we can begin again whenever you like."
"With Mrs. Maybough? You said you were going to speak to Charmian!"
"It doesn't matter, does it?"
"Yes. I--I don't know yet as I want to go on with the picture. I hadn't
thought----"
"Oh!" said Ludlow, with marked politeness. "Then I misunderstood. But
don't let it annoy you. It doesn't matter, of course. There's no sort
of appointment."
He found Mrs. Westley in a moment of disoccupation before he went, and
used a friend's right to recognize the brilliancy of her Thursday. She
refused all merit for it and asked him if he had ever seen any thing
like the contrast of Charmian at the chocolate with Cornelia at the
tea. "Did you notice the gown Miss Saunders had on? It's one that her
mother has just sent her from home. She says her mother made it, and
she came to ask me, the other day, if it would do to pour tea in.
Wasn't it delightful? I'm going to have her spend a week with me in
Lent. The general has taken a great fancy to her. I think I begin to
appreciate her fascination; it's her courage and her candor together.
Most girls are so uncertain and capricious. It's delightful to meet
such a straightforward and downright creature."
"Oh, yes," said Ludlow.
XXVIII.
Cornelia knew that Ludlow was offended. She had not meant to hurt or
offend him; though she thought he had behaved very queerly ever since
he gave up painting Charmian. She had really not had time to think of
his offer before he went off to speak with Charmian, as she supposed.
The moment he was gone she saw that it would not do; that she could not
have him coming to look at her work; she did not feel that she could
ever touch it again. She wondered at him, and now if he had spoken to
Mrs. Maybough instead of Charmian, it was not her fault, certainly. She
did not wish to revenge herself, but she remembered how much she had
been left to account for as she could, or painfully to ignore. If he
was mystified and puzzled now, it was no more than she had been before.
There was nothing that Cornelia hated so much as to be made a fool of,
and this was the grievance which she was willing fate should retaliate
upon him, though she had not meant it at all. She ought to have been
satisfied, and she ought to have been happy, but she was not.
She wished to escape from herself, and she eagerly accepted an
invitation to go with Mrs. Montgomery to the theatre that night. The
manager had got two places and given them to the landlady.
Cornelia had a passion for the theatre, and in the excitement of the
play, which worked strongly in her ingenuous fancy, she forgot herself
for the time, or dimly remembered the real world and her lot in it, as
if it were a subordinate action of the piece. At the end of the fourth
act she heard a voice which she knew, saying, "Well, well! Is this the
way the folks at Pymantoning expect you to spend your evenings?" She
looked up and around, and saw Mr. Dickerson in the seat behind her. He
put forward two hands over her shoulder--one for her to shake, and one
for Mrs. Montgomery.
"Why, Mr. Dickerson!" said the landlady, "where did you spring from?
You been sitting here behind us all the time?"
"I wish I had," said Dickerson. "But this seat is 'another's,' as they
say on the stage; he's gone out 'to see a man,' and I'm keeping it for
him. Just caught sight of you before the curtain fell. Couldn't hardly
believe my eyes."
"But where are you? Why haven't you been round to the house?"
"Well, I'm only here for a day," said Dickerson, with a note of
self-denial in his voice that Cornelia knew was meant for her, "and I
thought I wouldn't disturb you. No use making so many bites of a
cherry. I got in so late last night I had to go to a hotel anyway."
Mrs. Montgomery began some hospitable expostulations, but be waived
them with, "Yes; that's all right. I'll remember it next time, Mrs.
Montgomery," and then he began to speak of the play, and he was so
funny about some things in it that he made Cornelia laugh. He took
leave of them when the owner of the seat came back. He told Mrs.
Montgomery he should not see her again this time; but at the end of the
play they found him waiting for them at the outer door of the theatre.
He skipped lightly into step with them. "Thought I might as well see
you home, as they say in Pymantoning. Do' know as I shall be back for
quite a while, this next trip, and we don't see much ladies' society on
the road; at least, I don't. I'm not so easy to make acquaintance as
I used to be. I suppose it was being married so long. I can't manage to
help a pretty girl raise a car-window, or put her grip into the rack,
the way I could once. Fact is, there don't seem to be so many pretty
girls as there were, or else I'm gettin' old-sighted, and can't see
'em."
He spoke to Mrs. Montgomery, but Cornelia knew he was talking at her.
Now he leaned forward and addressed her across Mrs. Montgomery: "Do'
know as I told you that I saw your mother in Lakeland day before
yesterday, Miss Saunders."
"Oh, did you?" Cornelia eagerly besought him. The apparition of her
mother rose before her; it was almost like having her actually there,
to meet some one who had seen her so lately. "Was she looking well? The
last letter she wrote she hadn't been very----"
"Well, I guess she's all right, now. You know I think your mother is
about the finest woman in this world, Miss Nelie, and the
prettiest-looking. I've never told you about Mrs. Saunders, have I,
Mrs. Montgomery? Well, you wouldn't know but her and Miss Nelie were
sisters. She looks like a girl, a little way off; and she is a girl,
in her feelings. She's got the kindest heart, and she's the best person
I ever saw. I tell you, it would be a different sort of a world if
everybody was like Mrs. Saunders, and I should ha' been a different
sort of a man if I'd always appreciated her goodness. Well, so it
goes," he said, with a sigh of indefinite regret, which availed with
Cornelia because it was mixed with praise of her mother; it made her
feel safer with him and more tolerant. He leaned forward again, and
said across Mrs. Montgomery, as before: "She was gettin' off the train
from Pymantoning, and I was just takin' my train West, but I knew it
was her as soon as I saw her walk. I was half a mind to stop and speak
to her, and let my train go."
Cornelia could see her mother, just how she would look, wandering
sweetly and vaguely away from her train, and the vision was so
delightful to her, that it made her laugh. "I guess you're mother's
girl," Mrs. Montgomery interpreted, and Mr. Dickerson said:
"Well, I guess she's got a good right to be. I wasn't certain whether
it was her or Miss Saunders first when I saw her, the other day."
At her door Mrs. Montgomery invited him to come in, and he said he did
not know but he would for a minute, and Cornelia's gratitude for his
praise of her mother kept her from leaving them at once. In the
dining-room, where Mrs. Montgomery set out a lunch for him, he began to
tell stories.
Cornelia had no grudge against him for the past. She was only too glad
that it had all fallen out as it did; and though she still knew that he
was a shameless little wretch, she did not feel so personally disgraced
by him, as she had at first, when she was not sure she could make him
keep his distance. He was a respite from her own thoughts, and she
lingered and lingered, and listened and listened, remotely aware that
it was wrong, but somehow bewildered and constrained.
Mrs. Montgomery went down to the kitchen a moment, for something more
to add to the lunch, and he seized the chance to say, "I know how you
feel about me, Miss Saunders, and I don't blame you. You needn't be
afraid; I ain't going to trouble you. I might, if you was a different
kind of girl; but I've thought it all over since I saw you, and I
respect you. I hope you won't give me away to Mrs. Montgomery, but if
you do, I shall respect you all the same, and I sha'n't blame you, even
then." The landlady returned, and he went on, "I was just tellin' Miss
Saunders about my friend Bob Whiteley's railroad accident. But you've
heard it so often."
"Oh, well, do go on!" said Mrs. Montgomery, setting down the plate of
cold chicken she had brought back with her.
It was midnight before he rose. "I declare I could listen all night,"
said Mrs. Montgomery.
Cornelia could have done so, too, but she did not say it. While the
talk lasted, she had a pleasure in the apt slang, and sinister wit and
low wisdom, which made everything higher and nobler seem ridiculous.
She tried helplessly to rise above the delight she found in it, and
while she listened, she was miserably aware that she was unworthy even
of the cheap respect which this amusing little wretch made a show of
paying her before Mrs. Montgomery.
She loathed him, and yet she hated to have him go; for then she would
be left to herself and her own thoughts. As she crept up the long
stairs to her room, she asked herself if she could be the same girl who
had poured tea at Mrs. Westley's, and talked to all those refined
people, who seemed to admire her and make much of her, as if she were
one of them. Before, she had escaped from the toils of that folly of
the past by disowning it; but now, she had voluntarily made it hers.
She had wilfully entangled herself in its toils; they seemed to trip
her steps, and make her stumble on the stairs as if they were tangible
things. She had knowingly suffered such a man as that, whose commonness
of soul she had always instinctively felt, to come back into her life,
and she could never banish him again. She could never even tell any
one; she was the captive of her shabby secret till he should come again
and openly claim her. He would come again; there could be no doubt of
that.
On the bureau before her glass lay a letter. It was from Ludlow, and it
delicately expressed the hope that there had been nothing in his manner
of offering to help her with her picture which made it impossible for
her to accept. "I need not tell you that I think you have talent, for I
have told you that before. I have flattered myself that I had a
personal interest in it, because I saw it long ago, and I have been
rather proud of thinking that you were making use of me. I wish you
would think the matter over, and decide to go on with your picture of
Miss Maybough. I promise to reduce my criticism to a minimum, for I
think it is more important that you should keep on in your own way,
even if you go a little wrong in it, now and then, than that you should
go perfectly right in some one's else. Do let me hear from you, and say
that I may come Saturday to Miss Maybough's studio, and silently see
what you are doing."
In a postscript he wrote: "I am afraid that I have offended you by
something in my words or ways. If I have, won't you at least let me
come and be forgiven?"
She dropped her face on the letter where it lay open before her, and
stretched out her arms, and moaned in a despair that no tears even came
to soften. She realized how much worse it was to have made a fool of
herself than to be made a fool of.
XXIX.
There was only one thing for Cornelia to do now, and she did it as well
as she knew how, or could hope to know without the help that she could
not seek anywhere. She wrote to Ludlow and thanked him, and told him
that she did not think she should go on with the picture of Charmian,
for the present. She said, in the first five or six drafts of her
letter, that it had been her uncertainty as to this which made her
hesitate when he spoke to her, but in every form she gave this she
found it false; and at last she left it out altogether, and merely
assured him that she had nothing whatever to forgive him. She wished to
forbid his coming to see her; she did not know quite how to do that;
but either the tone of her letter was forbidding enough, or else he
felt that he had done his whole duty, now, for he did not come.
With moments of utter self-abasement, she had to leave Charmian to the
belief that she was distraught and captious, solely for the reason they
shared the secret of, and Charmian respected this with a devotion so
obvious as to be almost spectacular. Cornelia found herself turning
into a romantic heroine, and had to make such struggle against the
transformation as she could in bursts of hysterical gayety. These had
rather the effect of deepening Charmian's compassionate gloom, till she
exhausted her possibilities in that direction and began to crave some
new expression. There was no change in her affection for Cornelia; and
there were times when Cornelia longed to trust her fully; she knew that
it would be safe, and she did not believe that it would lower her in
Charmian's eyes; but to keep the fact of her weakness altogether her
own seemed the only terms on which she could bear it.
One day there came a letter from her mother out of her usual order of
writing; she wrote on Sunday, and her letters reached Cornelia the next
evening; but this letter came on a Wednesday morning, and the sight of
it filled Cornelia with alarm, first for her mother, and then for
herself; which deepened as she read:
    "DEAR NIE: That good-for-nothing little scrub has been here, talken
    aboute you, and acting as if you was hand-and-glove with him. Now
    Nelie, I don't want to interfere with you anyway and I won't if you
    say the word. But I never felt just righte about that fellow, and
    what I done long ago to make you tollerate him, and now I want to
    make it up to you if I can. He is a common low-down person, and he
    isn't fit to speake to you, and I hope you wont speake to him. The
    divorce, the way I look at it, don't make any difference; hese just
    as much married as what he ever was, and if he had never been
    married atoll, it wouldn't of made any difference as far as I feel
    about it. Now Nelie, you are old enough to take care of yourself,
    but I hope if that fellow ever comes around you again, you'll box
    his ears and be done with him. I know hes got a smooth tongue, and
    he can make you laugh in spite of yourselfe, but don't you have
    anything to do with him.
    "MOTHER.
    "P. S. I have been talken it over with Mrs. Burton, and she thinks
    just the way I do aboute it. She thinks you are good enough for the
    best, and you no need to throw yourself away on such a perfect
    little scamp. In haste. How is that cellebrated picture that you
    are painting with Mr. Ludlow getting along?"
                     *      *      *      *      *
Cornelia got this letter from the postman at Mrs. Montgomery's door,
when she opened it to go out in the morning, and she read it on her way
to the Synthesis. It seemed to make the air reel around her, and step
by step she felt as if she should fall. A wild anger swelled her heart,
and left no room there for shame even. She wondered what abominable
lies that little wretch had told; but they must have been impudent
indeed to overcome her mother's life-long reluctance from writing and
her well-grounded fears of spelling, so far as to make her send a
letter out of the usual course. But when her first fury passed, and she
began to grow weak in the revulsion, she felt only her helplessness in
the presence of such audacity, and a fear that nothing could save her
from him. If he could make her so far forget herself as to tolerate
him, to listen to his stories, to laugh at his jokes, and show him that
she enjoyed his company, after all she knew of him, then he could make
her marry him, if he tried.
The logic was perfect, and it seemed but another link in the
infrangible chain of events, when she found another letter waiting for
her at the office of the Synthesis. It bore the postmark of Lakeland,
of the same date as her mother's, and in the corner of the envelope the
business card of Gates & Clarkson, Dealers in Art Goods; J. B.
Dickerson, in a line of fine print at the top was modestly "with" them.
The address, "Dear friend," was written over something else which had
been rubbed out, but beyond this the letter ran fluently and
uninterruptedly along in a hand which had a business-like directness
and distinctness. "I don't know," the writer said, "as you expected to
hear from me, and I don't know as I expected to let you, but
circumstances alter cases, and I just wanted to drop you a line and
tell you that I have been in Pymantoning and seen your mother. She is
looking prime, and younger than ever. We had a long talk about old
times, and I told her what a mistake I made. Confession is good for the
soul, they say, and I took a big dose of it; I guess I confessed pretty
much everything; regular Topsey style. Well, your mother didn't spare
me any, and I don't know but what she was about right. The fact is, a
man on the road don't think as much about his p's and q's as he ought
as long as he is young, and if I made a bad break in that little
matrimonial venture of mine, I guess it was no more than I deserved to.
I told your mother just how I happened to meet you again, and how the
sight of you was enough to make another man of me. I was always a
little too much afraid of you, or it might have turned out different;
but I can appreciate a character like yours, and I want you to know it.
I guess your mother sized it up about right when I said all I asked was
to worship you at a distance, and she said she guessed you would look
out for the distance. I told her you had, up to date. I want you to
understand that I don't presume on anything, and if we seemed to have a
pretty good time after the theatre, the other night, it was because you
didn't want to spoil Mrs. Montgomery's fun, and treated me well just
because I was a friend of hers. Well, it's pretty hard to realize that
my life is ruined, and that I have got nobody but myself to thank for
it, but I guess that's what I've got to come to, sooner or later. It's
what your mother said, and I guess she was right; she didn't spare me a
bit, and I didn't want her to. I knew she would write to you, as soon
as I was gone, and tell you not to have anything to do with me; and if
she has, all I have got to say is, all right. I have been a bad lot,
and I don't deny it, and all I can ask now, from this time forward, is
to be kept from doing any more mischief. I don't know as I shall ever
see you again; I had a kind of presentiment I shouldn't, and I told
your mother so. I don't know but I told a little more about how kind
you were to me the other evening than what the facts would justify
exactly, but as sure as you live I didn't mean to lie about it. If I
exaggerated any, it was because it seemed the greatest thing in the
world to me, just to talk to you, and be where I could see you smile,
and hear you laugh; you've got a laugh that is like a child's, or an
angel's, if angels laugh. I've heard of their weeping, and if you knew
my whole life, I think you would shed a tear or two over me. But that
is not what I am trying to get at; I want to explain that if I appeared
to brag of being tolerated by you, and made it seem any thing more than
toleration, it was because it was like heaven to me not to have you
give me the grand bounce again. And what I want to ask you now, is just
to let me write to you, every now and then, and when I am tempted to go
wrong, anyways--and a business life is full of temptations--let me put
the case before you, and have you set me right. I won't want but a word
from you, and most part of the time, I shall just want to free my mind
to you on life in general, and won't expect any answer. I feel as if
you had got my soul in your hands, and you could save it, or throw it
away. That is all. I am writing on the train, and I have to use pencil.
I hope you'll excuse the stationery; it's all the porter could get me,
and I'm anxious to have a letter go back to you at once. I know your
mother has written to you, and I want to corroborate everything she
says against me."
The letter covered half-a-dozen telegraph blanks, and filled them full,
so that the diffident suggestion, "My permanent address is with Gates &
Clarkson," had to be written along the side of the first page.
The low cunning, the impudent hypocrisy, the leering pretence of
reverence, the affectation of penitence, the whole fraudulent design,
so flimsy that the writer himself seemed to be mocking at it, was open
to Cornelia, and she read the letter through with distinct relief.
Whatever the fascinations of Mr. Dickerson were when he was personally
at hand, he had none at a distance, and when she ran over the pages a
second time, it was with a laugh, which she felt sure he would have
joined her in, if he had been there. It turned her tragedy into farce
so completely, for the time, that she went through her morning's work
with a pleasure and a peace of mind which she had not felt for many
days. It really seemed such a joke, that she almost yielded to the
temptation of showing passages of the letter to Charmian; and she
forebore only because she would have had to tell more than she cared to
have any one know of Mr. Dickerson, if she did. She had a right to keep
all that from those who had no right to know it, but she had no right,
or if she had the right, she had not the power to act as if the past
had never been. She set herself to bear what was laid upon her, and if
she was ever to have strength for her burden she must begin by owning
her weakness. There was no one to whom she could own it but her mother,
and she did this fully as soon as she got back to her room, and could
sit down to answer her letter. She enclosed Dickerson's, and while she
did not spare him, she took the whole blame upon herself, for she said
she might have known that if she suffered him to see that he amused her
or pleased her at all, he was impudent enough to think that he could
make her like him again. "And mother," she wrote, "you know I never
really liked him, and was only too glad to get rid of him; you know
that much. But I suppose you will wonder, then, why I ever let him
speak to me if I really despised him as much as ever; and that is not
easy to explain. For one thing he was with Mrs. Montgomery, and she
likes him, and she has always been so good to me that I hated to treat
him badly before her; but that is not the real reason, and I am not
going to pretend it was. You know yourself how funny he is, and can
make you laugh in spite of yourself, but it was not that, either. It
was because I was angry with myself for having been angry with some one
else, without a cause, as I can see it now, and I had made a fool of
myself, and I wanted to get away from myself. I cannot tell you just
how it was, yet, and I do not know as I ever can, but that was truly
it, and nothing else, though the other things had something to do with
it. I suppose it was just like men when they take a drink of whiskey to
make them forget. The worst of it all is, and the discouraging part is,
that it shows me I have not changed a particle. My temper is just us
bad as ever, and I might as well be back at sixteen, for all the sense
I've got. Sometimes it seems to me that the past is all there is of us,
anyway. It seems to come up in me, all the time, and I am so ashamed I
don't know what to do. I make all kinds of good resolutions, and I want
to be good, and then comes something and it is all over with me. Then,
it appears as if it was not me, altogether, that is to blame. I know I
was to blame, this last time, laughing at that little 'scrub's' jokes
as you call him, and behaving like a fool; but I don't see how I was to
blame for his coming back into my life, when I never really wanted him
at all, and certainly never wished to set eyes on him again.
"I don't suppose it would be the least use to ask you not to show this
letter to Mrs. Burton, and I won't, but if you do, I wish you would ask
her what she thinks it means, and whether it's fate, or foreordination,
