success, only to be foiled at last, and consigned to a jail for a term
of years.

"Curse the luck!" muttered Bill, bitterly, and in his heart Mike said
amen.

"Gentlemen, I will count this money before you," said the janitor, as he
opened the parcel.

The count was quickly accomplished. It resulted, as my readers already
know, in the discovery that, in place of twelve thousand, the parcel
contained but one thousand dollars.

"Eleven thousand dollars short!" said Jack. "Gentlemen, will you take
notice of this? Of course it is clear where the rest is gone--Talbot
carried it away with him."

"Where is he?" inquired one of the policemen. "He ought to be pursued."

"By this time he is in custody," said Jack.

"Look here, old man, who engineered this thing?" demanded Bill.

"Come here, Dan," said Jack, summoning our hero, who modestly stood in
the background. "Mr. Burglar, this boy is entitled to the credit of
defeating you. We should have known nothing of your intentions but for
Dan, the Detective."

"He!" said Bill, scornfully. "Why, I could crush him with one hand."

"Force is a good thing, but brains are better," said Jack. "Dan here has
got a better head-piece than any of us."

"You've done yourself credit, boy," said the chief policeman. "When I
have a difficult case I'll send for you."

"You are giving me more credit than I deserve," said Dan, modestly.

"If I ever get out of jail, I'll remember you," said Bill, scowling. "I
wouldn't have minded so much if it had been a man, but to be laid by the
heels by a boy like you--that's enough to make me sick."

"You've said enough, my man," said the policeman who had him in charge.
"Come along, will you?"

The two prisoners, escorted by their captors, made their unwilling way
to the station-house. They were duly tried, and were sentenced to a ten
years' term of imprisonment.

As for Talbot, he tried to have it believed that he took the money found
on him because he distrusted the honesty of the janitor; but this
statement fell to the ground before Dan's testimony and that of Bill's
wife.

He, too, received a heavy sentence, and it was felt that he only got his
just deserts.

       *       *       *       *       *       *       *

On the morning after the events recorded above, Mr. Rogers called Dan
into the counting-room.

"Dan," he said, "I wish to express to you my personal obligations for
the admirable manner in which you have managed the affair of this
burglary."

"Thank you, sir," said Dan.

"I am convinced that but for you I should have lost twelve thousand
dollars. It would not have ruined me, to be sure, but it would have been
a heavy loss."

"Such a loss as that would have ruined me," said Dan, smiling.

"So I should suppose," assented his employer. "I predict, however, that
the time will come when you can stand such a loss, and have something
left."

"I hope so, sir."

"As there must always be a beginning, suppose you begin with that."

Mr. Rogers had turned to his desk and written a check, which he handed
to Dan.

This was the way it read:


     No. 375.

                    PARK NATIONAL BANK.
     Pay to Dan Mordaunt or order One Thousand Dollars.
     ($1,000.)                         BARTON & ROGERS.


Dan took the check, supposing it might be for twenty dollars or so. When
he saw the amount, he started in excitement and incredulity.

"One thousand dollars!" he repeated, in bewilderment.

"Yes," said Mr. Rogers, smiling. "It is a large sum for a boy like you,
Dan. I hope you will invest it wisely."

"But, sir, you don't mean all this for me?" said Dan.

"Indeed I do. It is less than ten per cent on the money you have saved
for us."

"How can I thank you for your kindness, sir?" said Dan, gratefully.

"By continuing to serve us faithfully. By the way, what wages do we pay
you?"

"Six dollars a week."

"It is too little. From this time you will draw ten dollars."

"You have made me rich, Mr. Rogers," said Dan, gratefully.

"It is a little better than selling papers in front of the Astor House,
isn't it, Dan?"

"A good deal, sir."

"I hope you will continue to prosper. Now, Dan, let me give you two
pieces of advice."

"I wish you would, sir."

"First, put this money in a good savings-bank, and don't draw upon it
unless you are obliged to. Let it be a nest-egg."

"I mean to do that, sir."

"And next, spend a part of your earnings in improving your education.
You have already had unusual advantages for a boy of your age, but you
should still be learning. It may help you, in a business point of view,
to understand book-keeping."

"I will learn it, sir."

Dan not only did this, but resumed the study of both French and German,
of which he had some elementary knowledge, and advanced rapidly in all.




CHAPTER XXVI.

DAN LEARNS TO DANCE.


Several months passed without any incidents worth recording.

Punctually every month Dan received a remittance of sixty dollars
through a foreign banker, whose office was near Wall street.

Of this sum it may be remembered that ten dollars were to be
appropriated to Althea's dress.

Of the little girl it may be said she was very happy in her new home.
She formed a strong attachment for Mrs. Mordaunt, whom she called mamma,
while she always looked forward with delight to Dan's return at night.

Mrs. Mordaunt was very happy in the child's companionship, and found the
task of teaching her very congenial.

But for the little girl she would have had many lonely hours, since Dan
was absent all day on business.

"I don't know what I shall do, Althea, when you go to school," she said
one day.

"I don't want to go to school. Let me stay at home with you, mamma."

"For the present I can teach you, my dear, but the time will come when
for your own good it will be better to go to school. I cannot teach you
as well as the teachers you will find there."

"You know ever so much, mamma. Don't you know everything?"

Mrs. Mordaunt smiled.

"Compared with you, my dear, I seem to know a great deal, but there are
others who know much more."

Althea was too young as yet, however, to attend school, and the happy
home life continued.

Mrs. Mordaunt and Dan often wondered how long their mysterious ward was
to remain with them. Had she a mother living? If so, how could that
mother voluntarily forego her child's society?

These were questions they sometimes asked themselves, but no answer
suggested itself. They were content to have them remain unanswered, so
long as Althea might remain with them.

The increase of Dan's income, and the large sum he had on interest,
would have enabled them to live comfortably even without the provision
made for their young ward.

As it was they could do better. Dan felt himself justified in indulging
in a little extravagance.

"Mother," said he, one evening, "I am thinking of taking a course of
lessons in dancing."

"What has put that into your head, Dan?"

"Julia Rogers is to have a birthday party in two or three months, and I
think from a hint her father dropped to-day I shall have an invitation.
I shall feel awkward if I don't know how to dance. Besides----"

Here Dan hesitated.

"Well, Dan, what besides?"

"Tom Carver will be sure to be there, and if I don't dance, or if I am
awkward, he will be sure to sneer at me."

"Will that make you feel bad, Dan?"

"Not exactly, but I don't want to appear at disadvantage when he is
around. If I have been a newsboy, I want to show that I can take the
part of gentleman as well as he."

"Does the ability to dance make a gentleman, Dan?"

"No, mother, but I should feel awkward without it. I don't want to be a
wall-flower. What do you say to my plan, mother?"

"Carry it out by all means, Dan. There is no reason why you shouldn't
hold up your head with any of them," and Mrs. Mordaunt's eyes rested
with pride on the handsome face and manly expression of her son.

"You are a little prejudiced in my favor, mother," said Dan, smiling.
"If I were as awkward as a cat in a strange garret, you wouldn't see
it."

"I am not quite blind, Dan."

Dan accordingly decided to take lessons in dancing. He selected a
fashionable teacher, although the price was high, for he thought it
might secure him desirable acquaintances, purchased a handsome suit of
clothes, and soon became very much interested in the lessons. He had a
quick ear, a good figure, and a natural grace of movement, which soon
made him noticeable in the class, and he was quite in demand among the
young ladies as a partner.

He was no less a favorite socially, being agreeable as well as
good-looking.

"Mr. Mordaunt," said the professor, "I wish all my scholars did me as
much credit as you do. You dance beautifully."

"Thank you, sir," said Dan, modestly, but he felt gratified.

By the time the invitation came Dan had no fears as to acquitting
himself creditably.

"I hope Tom Carver will be there," he said to his mother, as he was
dressing for the party.




CHAPTER XXVII.

IN THE DRESSING-ROOM.


Mr. Rogers lived in a handsome brown-stone-front house up town.

As Dan approached, he saw the entire house brilliantly lighted. He
passed beneath a canopy, over carpeted steps, to the front door, and
rang the bell.

The door was opened by a stylish-looking colored man, whose grand air
showed that he felt the importance and dignity of his position.

As Dan passed in he said:

"Gentlemen's dressing-room third floor back."

With a single glance through the open door at the lighted parlors, where
several guests were already assembled, Dan followed directions, and went
up stairs.

Entering the dressing-room, he saw a boy carefully arranging his hair
before the glass.

"That's my friend, Tom Carver," said Dan to himself.

Tom was so busily engaged at his toilet that he didn't at once look at
the new guest. When he had leisure to look up, he seemed surprised, and
remarked, superciliously:

"I didn't expect to see you here."

"Why not?" demanded Dan, who understood his meaning.

"Are you engaged to look after this room? If so, just brush me."

"With all my heart, if you'll brush me," answered Dan, partly offended
and partly amused.

"What do you mean?" demanded Tom, haughtily.

"Just what I say. One good turn deserves another."

"Our positions are rather different, I think."

"How so? You are a guest of Miss Rogers, and so am I."

"You don't mean to say that you are going down into the parlor?"

"Why not?"

"A boy who sells papers in front of the Astor House is not a suitable
guest at a fashionable party."

"That is not your affair," said Dan, coldly. "But it is not true that I
sell papers anywhere."

"Oh, I forgot. You're a shop-boy now. You used to sell papers, though."

"And I will again, if necessary," answered Dan, as he took Tom's place
in front of the glass and began to arrange his toilet.

Then, for the first time, Tom took notice that Dan was dressed as well
as himself, in a style with which the most captious critic could not
find fault. Tom was both surprised and disappointed. He would have liked
to see Dan in awkward, ill-fitting, or shabby clothes. It seemed to him
that an ex-newsboy had no right to dress so well, and he was greatly
puzzled to understand how he could afford it.

"Where did you borrow those clothes?" he asked, impudently.

"Where did you borrow yours?" retorted Dan.

"Don't be saucy."

"You set me the example."

"It is not remarkable that I should be well dressed. I can afford it."

"So can I," answered Dan, laconically.

"Do you mean to say that you bought that suit and paid for it?"

"I do."

"It must have taken all your money."

"You are very kind to take so much interest in me. It may relieve your
mind to see this."

Dan took a roll of bills from his pocket, and displayed them to the
astonished Tom.

"I don't see where you got so much money," said Tom, mystified.

"I've got more in the bank," said Dan. "I mention it to you that you
needn't feel bad about my extravagance in buying a party suit."

"I wouldn't have come to this party if I had been you," said Tom,
changing his tone.

"Why not?"

"You'll be so awkward, you know. You don't know any one except Miss
Rogers, who, of course, invited you out of pity, not expecting you would
accept."

"Did she tell you so?" asked Dan, smiling.

"No, but it stands to reason."

"You forget I know you," said Dan, smiling again.

"I beg you won't presume upon our former slight acquaintance," said Tom,
hastily. "I shall be so busily occupied that I really can't give you any
attention."

"Then I must shift for myself, I suppose," said Dan, good-humoredly.
"Shall we go down?"

"Go first, if you like," said Tom, superciliously. "I will follow
directly."

"He doesn't want to go down with me," thought Dan. "Perhaps I shall
surprise him a little;" and he made his way down stairs.




CHAPTER XXVIII.

DAN AT THE PARTY.


As Dan entered the parlors he saw the young lady in whose honor the
party was given only a few feet distant.

He advanced with perfect ease, and paid his respects.

"I am very glad to see you here this evening, Mr. Mordaunt," said Julia,
cordially.

"What a handsome boy he is!" she thought. "I had no idea he would look
so well."

Mentally she pronounced him the handsomest young gentleman present.

"Take your partners for a quadrille, young gentlemen," announced the
master of ceremonies.

"Are you engaged, Miss Rogers?" asked Dan.

"Not as yet," answered the young lady, smiling.

"Then may I have the honor?"

"Certainly."

So it happened that as Tom Carver entered the room, he beheld, to his
intense surprise and disgust, Dan leading the young hostess to her place
in the quadrille.

"What a cheek that fellow has!" said Tom to himself. "I suppose he
never attempted to dance in his life. It will be fun to watch his
awkwardness. I am very much surprised that Julia should condescend to
dance with him--a common newsboy."

At first Tom thought he wouldn't dance, but Mrs. Rogers approaching
said:

"Tom, there's Jane Sheldon. She has no partner."

Accordingly Tom found himself leading up a little girl of eight.

There was no place except in the quadrille in which Dan and Julia Rogers
were to dance. Tom found himself one of the "sides."

"Good-evening, Julia," he said, catching the eye of Miss Rogers.

"Good-evening, Tom. You are late."

"I am too late to be your partner."

"Yes, but you see I am not left a wall-flower," said the young lady,
smiling. "Mr. Mordaunt kindly relieved me of that apprehension."

"You are fortunate," said Tom, sneering.

"I leave my partner to thank you for that compliment," said Julia,
determined not to gratify Tom by appearing to understand the sneer.

"There's no occasion," said Tom, rudely.

"I am glad of it," said Dan, "for I am so unused to compliments that I
am afraid I should answer awkwardly."

"I can very well believe that," returned Tom, significantly.

Julia did not smile. She looked offended rather for she felt that
rudeness to her partner reflected upon herself.

But here the music struck up, and the quadrille began.

"Now for awkwardness," said Tom to himself, and he watched Dan closely.

But, to his surprise, nothing could be neater or better modulated than
Dan's movements. Instead of hopping about, as Tom thought he would, he
was thoroughly graceful.

"Where could the fellow have learned to dance?" he asked himself, in
disappointment.

Julia was gratified; for, to tell the truth, she too had not been
altogether without misgivings on the subject of Dan's dancing, and,
being herself an excellent dancer, she would have found it a little
disagreeable if Dan had proved awkward.

The quadrille proceeded, and Tom was chagrined that the newsboy, as he
mentally termed Dan, had proved a better dancer than himself.

"Oh, well, it's easy to dance in a quadrille," he said to himself, by
way of consolation. "He won't venture on any of the round dances."

But as Dan was leading Julia to her seat he asked her hand in the next
polka, and was graciously accepted.

He then bowed and left her, knowing that he ought not to monopolize the
young hostess.

Although Tom had told Dan not to expect any attentions from him, he was
led by curiosity to accost our hero.

"It seems that newsboys dance," said he.

"Does it?" asked Dan, indifferently.

"But it was not in very good taste for you to engage Miss Rogers for the
first dance."

"Why not?"

"It was making yourself too prominent."

"Somebody had to be prominent, or Miss Rogers would have been left to
dance by herself."

"There are others who would have made more suitable partners for her."

"Yourself, for instance."

"Yes."

"I am sorry to have stood in your way."

"Oh, you needn't mind. I shall have plenty of opportunities of dancing
with her, and you won't. I suppose she took pity on you, as you know no
other young lady here."

Just then a pretty girl, beautifully dressed, approached Dan.

"Good-evening, Mr. Mordaunt," she said, offering her hand with a beaming
smile.

"Good-evening, Miss Carroll," said Dan. "Are you engaged for the galop?"

Miss Carroll shook her head.

"Then will you give me the pleasure?"

In a minute Dan was whirling round the room with the young lady, greatly
to Tom's amazement, for Edith Carroll was from a family of high social
standing, living on Murray Hill.

"How in the duse does Dan Mordaunt know that girl?" Tom asked himself,
with a frown. "They spoke as if they were acquainted."

To Tom's further disappointment Dan danced as gracefully in the galop as
in the quadrille.

When the galop was over, Dan promenaded with another young lady, whose
acquaintance he had made at dancing-school, and altogether seemed as
much at his ease as if he had been attending parties all his life.

Tom managed to obtain Edith Carroll as a partner.

"I didn't know you were acquainted with Dan Mordaunt," he said.

"Oh, yes, I know him very well. Doesn't he dance charmingly?"

"Humph!" said Tom, not very well pleased. "I thought him rather
awkward."

"How can you say so, Mr. Carver? Why I think he dances beautifully,
and so do all the girls."

"How do the girls know how he dances?"

"Why he goes to our dancing-school. The professor says he is his best
pupil. We all like to dance with him."

"That's fortunate for him," said Tom, with a sneer. "Perhaps he may
become a dancing-master in time."

"He would make a good one, but I don't think he's very likely to do
that."

"It would be a good thing for him. He is poor, you know."

"No, I don't. I am sure he dresses well. He is as well-dressed as any
young gentleman here."

This was true, and Tom resented it. He felt that Dan had no right to
dress well.

"He ought not to spend so much money on dress when he has his mother to
support," he said, provoked.

"It seems to me you take a great deal of interest in Mr. Mordaunt," said
the young beauty, pointedly.

"Oh, no; he can do as he likes for all me, but, of course, when a boy
in his position dresses as if he were rich one can't help noticing it."

"I am sure he can't be very poor, or he could not attend Dodworth's
dancing-school. At any rate I like to dance with him, and I don't care
whether he's poor or rich."

Presently Tom saw Dan dancing the polka with Julia Rogers, and with the
same grace that he had exhibited in the other dances.

He felt jealous, for he fancied himself a favorite with Julia, because
their families being intimate, he saw a good deal of her.

On the whole Tom was not enjoying the party. He did succeed, however, in
obtaining the privilege of escorting Julia to supper.

Just in front of him was Dan, escorting a young lady from Fifth avenue.

"Mr. Mordaunt appears to be enjoying himself," said Julia Rogers.

"Yes, he has plenty of cheek," muttered Tom.

"Excuse me, Tom, but do you think such expressions suitable for such an
occasion as this?"

"I am sorry you don't like it, but I never saw a more forward or
presuming fellow than this Dan Mordaunt."

"I beg you to keep your opinion to yourself," said Julia Rogers, with
dignity. "I find he is a great favorite with all the young ladies here.
I had no idea he knew so many of them."

Tom gave it up. It seemed to him that all the girls were infatuated with
a common newsboy, while his vanity was hurt by finding himself quite
distanced in the race.

About twelve o'clock the two boys met in the dressing-room.

"You seemed to enjoy yourself," said Tom, coldly.

"Yes, thanks to your kind attentions," answered Dan, with a smile. "It
is pleasant to meet old friends, you know. By the way, I suppose we
shall meet at Miss Carroll's party."

"Are you to be invited?" asked Tom, in astonishment.

"So the young lady tells me," answered Dan, smiling.

"I suppose you'll be giving a fashionable party next," said Tom, with
a sneer.

"Consider yourself invited if I do. Good-night, and pleasant dreams."

But Dan's dreams were by no means sweet that night.

When he reached home, it was to hear of a great and startling
misfortune.




CHAPTER XXIX.

A NE'ER DO WELL.


At half-past twelve Dan ascended the stairs to his mother's room. He had
promised to come in and tell her how he had enjoyed himself at the
party. He was in excellent spirits on account of the flattering
attentions he had received. It was in this frame of mind that he opened
the door. What was his surprise, even consternation, when his mother
advanced to meet him with tearful eyes and an expression of distress.

"Oh, Dan, I am so glad you have got home!" she ejaculated.

"What is the matter, mother? Are you sick?" asked Dan.

"I am quite well, Dan; but Althea----"

And Mrs. Mordaunt burst into tears.

"What has happened to Althea? Is she sick?" asked Dan, alarmed.

"We have lost her, Dan."

"Lost her! You don't mean she is----"

He couldn't finish the sentence, but his mother divined what he meant.

"Not dead, thank God!" she said, "but she has disappeared--she has been
stolen."

"You don't mean it, mother!" exclaimed Dan, startled and grieved. "Tell
me about it."

Mrs. Mordaunt told what she knew, but that related only to the
particulars of the abduction. We are in a position to tell the reader
more, but it will be necessary to go back for a month, and transfer the
scene to another continent.

In a spacious and handsomely furnished apartment at the West End of
London sat the lady who had placed Althea in charge of the Mordaunts.
She was deep in thought, and that not of an agreeable nature.

"I fear," she said to herself, "that trouble awaits me. John Hartley,
whom I supposed to be in California, is certainly in London. I cannot be
mistaken in his face, and I certainly saw him in Hyde Park to-day. Did
he see me? I don't know, but I fear he did. If so, he will not long
delay in making his appearance. Then I shall be persecuted, but I must
be firm. He shall not learn through me where Althea is. He is her
father, it is true, but he has forfeited all claim to her guardianship.
A confirmed gambler and drunkard, he would soon waste her fortune,
bequeathed her by her poor mother. He can have no possible claim to it;
