"Who? Why Marion and Mr. Vanbrugh. Who else?" Dolly watched Mrs.
Willoughby's face.

"Oh, I was not thinking of that. I meant Mr.--hm--" She interrupted
herself in fear of indiscretion. "Your dress will be complete now with
the lace, will it not, Dolly?"

"Oh yes," answered Dolly in a careless tone. "It was just like Mr.
Vanbrugh, was it not, to take all that trouble to find the very thing I
wanted?"

"A man will take a great deal of trouble, my dear, when he wants to
please somebody he is fond of."

"Yes--but me," suggested Dolly, just to see what Cousin Annie thought.

"Why not you? Should you like some tea, Dolly?"

"Why not me? I suppose because I am Marion's friend," Dolly answered.

"Oh yes, if you put it in that way--"

Mrs. Willoughby was interrupted by the appearance of Stubbs bringing in
the tea.

"Is Mrs. Darche at home if any one calls, Stubbs?" she inquired.

"No, madam. Mrs. Darche is upstairs and not at home." He paused a
moment to see whether Mrs. Willoughby meant to say anything more, and
then left the room.

"Dear Mrs. Willoughby, I do so want to ask you a question," said Dolly,
beginning to pour the tea.

"What is it, my dear?"

"One lump or two?" inquired Dolly with hesitation.

"Is that all?" asked Mrs. Willoughby with a slight laugh.

"Not quite," answered Dolly. "Do you take milk?"

"Please, and one lump. What is the question, child?"

"No," said Dolly, laughing herself. "It was foolish and inquisitive,
and all sorts of horrid things. I think I had better not ask it."

"About Marion and Mr. Brett?"

"Why?" Dolly asked, looking up quickly, and then hesitating. "Is there
anything? I mean--yes, that is what I meant to ask."

"Well, my dear," answered Mrs. Willoughby in a confidential tone, "to
tell the truth I am glad to talk to somebody about it, for it is on my
mind, and you know that Marion does not like to answer questions."

"Yes, I know. Well, so you think there is something between them?"

"My dear, of course there is," said Mrs. Willoughby without hesitation.
"And I am quite sure that something has happened lately. In fact, I
believe they are engaged to be married."

"Do you really? And--and--where does Mr. Vanbrugh come in?"

"Mr. Vanbrugh? I am sure I do not know. Perhaps he will be Harry
Brett's best man."

"If they could see themselves as others see them," reflected Dolly
under her breath, before she answered the remark. "They would make a
handsome couple, would they not? But you are quite mistaken, dear Mrs.
Willoughby--oh, you are quite--quite mistaken." She looked down and
sipped her tea.

"How do you know that?" asked Mrs. Willoughby. "How can you be so sure?
Do you not see how they go on together, always sitting in corners and
talking in undertones?"

"Do you not see how Marion spoils Mr. Vanbrugh, and gets his special
brand of cigarettes for him, and always asks him to dinner to fill up a
place, and altogether behaves like an idiot about him? You must be
blind if you do not see that. Let me give you another cup of tea?"

"Thanks, I have not finished," said Cousin Annie. "Of course, my dear
child, no two people ever look at things from the same point of view,
but I was thinking--"

Stubbs opened the door again.

"Mr. Vanbrugh," he announced.

"He knew you were here, my dear," said Mrs. Willoughby in a whisper.
"He has come to see you."

"Will you be good-natured and forgive my spoiling your tea?" asked
Vanbrugh, as he entered the room.

"We will try," said Dolly.

"Sit down," said Mrs. Willoughby, "and have some with us."

"Thanks," answered Vanbrugh. "I am even ruder than I seem, for I am in
a hurry. Do you think I could see Mrs. Darche? For a minute?"

"I daresay," replied Cousin Annie, doubtfully.

"Of course you can. She is upstairs and not at home." Dolly laughed.

"So Stubbs told me," said Vanbrugh, "and I came in to ask you to help
me. I am very glad I have seen you first. I know it is late and I will
not keep you a moment. There is something that I must say. I have just
been at the club for a moment and Brown came in and four or five
others. There is certainly an impression that John Darche has really
come back again."

"Good heavens!" cried Mrs. Willoughby, thoroughly startled.

"Oh, how awful!" exclaimed Dolly in real distress. "But you were all
saying after luncheon that it was impossible."

"I know," said Vanbrugh. "I know we were. But it looks otherwise now.
There was so much talk about it that I proposed to Brown to try and
find the man. We have been down town since then, to Mulberry Street.
There certainly is a man knocking about under the name of John Darche,
who landed from an Italian vessel last night."

"Have you seen him?" asked Dolly. "Oh, poor Marion!"

"Dreadful, dreadful!" repeated Mrs. Willoughby, staring at Vanbrugh.

"No," answered the latter in reply to Dolly's question, "we have not
seen him, but we shall have him this evening."

"Here?" exclaimed Mrs. Willoughby, looking round nervously.

"Here in this house?"

"Yes--or at least, under our hand," said Vanbrugh. "Brown is waiting
for information at the Mulberry Street Station."

"To bring him here to-night?" asked Cousin Annie, with increasing
anxiety.

"No, to keep him from coming."

"And you have come to warn Marion?" inquired Dolly.

"Yes, in a way," answered Vanbrugh. "But not to tell her, of course. I
want her to give strict orders about any odd-looking persons who may
present themselves. I mean to tell her that I am afraid some reporter
may try to get in, and that the man at the door must be very careful."

"I will go to her," said Mrs. Willoughby, rising. "Mr. Vanbrugh--if he
comes, if it is really he, he cannot be turned away from what was his
own house."

"No, but he shall be stopped at the door, and I will go out and talk to
him and persuade him to escape, or to come and see me in the morning,
if he is mad enough to stay."

"Yes, that is sensible," answered Cousin Annie. "Shall I speak to my
niece myself, or shall I make her come down?"

Vanbrugh hesitated a moment and looked at Dolly, who answered by an
almost imperceptible nod.

"I think," said Vanbrugh, "that to put her to any inconvenience would
make the matter look more serious than we wish her to think it is. Do
you think you could explain, Mrs. Willoughby? Give her the idea that
the newspaper man who was here to-day may come back--or some other
person, or two or three. Anything of that sort."

"I will do my best," answered Mrs. Willoughby. "You will wait until I
come back, will you not?"

"Of course," replied Vanbrugh, as she left the room.

"Do you think it is really true?" asked Dolly.

"I do not know what to think. Putting all the facts we have together,
there is certainly a possibility."

"I am very, very sorry," said Dolly, after a short pause.

"Poor Mrs. Darche!" exclaimed Vanbrugh. "After all these months of
freedom she has had, it will break her heart."

"I was not thinking of Marion," answered Dolly.

"Of whom, then?" asked Vanbrugh.

"Of--of--some one else."

"Yes, I know."

"Yes," repeated Dolly with marked sympathy. "Will you not let me make
you a nice cup of tea, Mr. Vanbrugh?"

"No, thanks."

"Will you not light a cigarette?" asked Dolly. "Here are some of your
own."

"No, thanks," answered Vanbrugh absently. "I have just smoked."

"Do sit down and warm yourself," said Dolly, pushing a chair towards
the fire.

"Well--thanks--I suppose Mrs. Willoughby will be gone some minutes.
Have you thought of what might happen if Darche were alive?" he asked,
reverting to the subject uppermost in his mind.

"I do not like to think of it. But I cannot help thinking of it," she
answered almost inaudibly. "I know that I cannot, and I hate myself and
everybody."

"We may have to think of it seriously in three or four hours," said
Vanbrugh. "Brown will bring me word. He will dine with me, and I will
be within reach in case anything happens."

"What a head you have!" exclaimed Dolly. "You ought to be a general."

"It is simple enough, it seems to me, as simple as going back to stop
an express train when there has been an accident on the line."

"Yes, but it is always the one particular man who has more sense than
the rest who thinks of stopping the express train."

"I suppose so," answered Vanbrugh indifferently. "The man who has his
eyes open. It is odd, is it not, that the happiness of so many people
should be at stake on one day?"

"So many?"

"Well, three at least."

"Three? Are there not four?" asked Dolly, with a smile.

"There is Stubbs, of course," said Vanbrugh thoughtfully; "not to
mention a lot of people who would not be particularly glad to see
Darche back, on general principles. Well, I am sorry for them all, but
I was not thinking of them especially."

"Whom were you thinking of?"

"Some one not concerned in the matter--some one, I cannot say nearest;
think of something that rhymes with it. You are fond of hymns and that
sort of thing."

"Dearest?" suggested Dolly.

"Yes, 'dearest'; that rhymes, does it not?"

"Yes, that rhymes," assented Dolly, with a little sigh. "Whom were you
thinking of?" she asked.

"A person."

"What an answer! And what an expression! I suppose the name of the
person is a profound secret?"

"It has been a secret for some time," said Vanbrugh.

"Oh!--then you have a faithful disposition?" asked Dolly with a laugh.

"I hope so," answered Vanbrugh, smiling.

"Any other virtues?"

"Lots," he laughed in his turn.

"I am so glad."

"Why?"

"Virtue makes people so nice and safe," said Dolly, "and helps them to
bear misfortune, and to do almost everything except enjoy themselves."

"What an appalling code for a Sunday school teacher!"

"Do not laugh. I have had an offer."

"Of marriage?" asked Vanbrugh, looking at her.

"No. If I had, I would not tell you. I have been offered twenty-five
dollars a month to teach at a Sunday school--a visitor, who did not
know me, you see, and wished to engage me."

"And you refused?"

"Yes. Foolish of me, was it not? Twenty-five dollars--just think!"

"It is a lot of money," laughed Vanbrugh.

"Several pairs of gloves," said Dolly gravely. "But I refused. You know
the proverb--'be virtuous and you will be happy, but you will not have
a good time.'"

"And you mean to have a good time. I have always been meaning to--but
it is rather dull, all by myself. I am not young enough to be gay
alone--nor old enough to enjoy being sour."

"There is a remedy--get married!" Dolly smiled, looked grave, and then
smiled again.

"That is almost easier done than said, if one does not mind whom one
marries."

"And you do mind, I suppose?"

"Yes--I am foolish enough to care," answered Vanbrugh, glancing at her.

"To care for some particular person--is that rude, or indiscreet, or
horrid of me?"

"Very! But I will forgive you on one condition."

"I never accept conditions."

"Unconditional surrender? Is that it?"

"Of course," Dolly answered without hesitation.

"I surrender unconditionally--at discretion."

"Oh--very well. Then I will be nice and ask what the condition was for
the sake of which you kindly proposed to forgive me for what I did not
do. Come--what is it?"

"You asked if I cared for one particular person," said Vanbrugh,
gently.

"Yes. Do you?" He could hardly distinguish the words.

"I will tell you, if you will answer the same question."

"You answer first."

"Yes. That is the answer." His hand stole out towards hers.

"Yes--that is the other answer."

"Do two positives make a negative?" asked Vanbrugh, as their hands met.

"No--not in mathematics," laughed Dolly, a little awkwardly, and
withdrawing her fingers from his. "Two negatives make a positive,
sometimes."

"A positive 'no'?" asked Vanbrugh, incredulously.

"Sometimes."

"But we were both saying 'yes.'"

"We are both saying 'yes,'" repeated Dolly slowly.

"Could we not go a step farther?"

"How?" Dolly started a little and looked at him. "I do not
understand--I thought--"

"What did you think?"

"I do not know what to think." She hesitated.

"Will you not let me help you to decide?" For the first time in their
acquaintance, Vanbrugh's voice grew tender.

"I--I am almost afraid--"

"Afraid of me?"

"Of you? Oh no, you do not frighten me at all--but I am just a
little--" again Dolly hesitated, then as though making a great effort
she tried to speak severely. "Mr. Vanbrugh, you must not play with me!"

"Miss Maylands, you have played with me a long time," answered Vanbrugh
softly.

"I?"

"Yes."

"Have I? I--I did not mean to," she added thoughtfully.

"Perhaps we have both played in earnest," suggested Vanbrugh.

"But you play with so many people--"

"With whom, for instance?" asked Vanbrugh.

"With Marion, for instance," said Dolly.

"With Mrs. Darche?" Vanbrugh's voice expressed genuine astonishment.
"What an extraordinary idea! As though Brett were not my best friend!"

"What of that?"

"Oh, do not pretend that you do not understand--especially to-day, when
they are both so unhappy--you will do something that will hurt them if
you are not careful."

"I wonder--" Dolly did not complete the sentence, but turned away as
though leaving it to him.

"I know. So you must not talk of my flirting with Mrs. Darche. It is
not just to her nor kind to me--and you do not mean to be unkind to me,
do you?"

"To you--of all people!" Her voice was very gentle.

"Of all people in the world, dear?"

"Yes--I think so--of all people." She nodded slowly, and then looked up
and let her eyes meet his.

"You think so--you are not quite sure?" asked Vanbrugh, although there
was no longer any doubt.

"I am always sure of what I think." Dolly smiled, still looking at him.

"And this is not play any more? This is quite earnest?"

"Quite--quite--" While she was speaking his face was suddenly close to
hers and his lips touched her cheek. "Oh!--I did not mean--"

"I did," said Vanbrugh emphatically.

"I see you did," answered Dolly, blushing scarlet.

"Will you not see again--" He leaned towards her again.

"Oh, no! Not on any account!" she cried, pushing him away and laughing.
"Besides"--the handle of the door turned as she was speaking--"there
are people coming. Oh--I can feel it!" she whispered, rising
precipitately with her hands to her cheek. "But I am so happy!" she
added, with one more look as she broke from him.

Dolly whispered the last words as Mrs. Willoughby re-entered the room,
and Vanbrugh rose to his feet, hardly realising that the crisis of his
life had been reached with a laugh and a kiss, but quite as happy as
Dolly herself in his thoroughly undemonstrative way. Both were,
perhaps, a little ashamed of themselves when they remembered Marion
Darche's trouble, and contrasted her anxiety with their own visions of
a sunny future; and both felt all at once that they were out of place;
if they could not be together without a third person, they wished to be
alone.

"I do not really believe that anything will happen," said Vanbrugh,
speaking to Mrs. Willoughby. "I do not believe either, that this man is
Mrs. Darche's husband, for there is every reason to be sure that John
Darche was actually drowned. But in case anything should happen, pray
send for me at once. I shall be at home and shall not go out this
evening. Good-night, Miss Maylands."

"I am going, too," said Dolly, rather suddenly. "Do you think," she
added, turning to Mrs. Willoughby, "that it would be very dreadful if
Mr. Vanbrugh took me as far as the corner?"

"What is there dreadful in it?" asked Mrs. Willoughby, who was
old-fashioned and remembered the times when young men used to take
young girls to parties, and walked home with them unchaperoned.

"Very well, then, will you take me, Mr. Vanbrugh? My maid has not come
yet. I only want to go to Mrs. Trehearne's and tell her it is all right
about that lace."

"I shall be delighted," answered Vanbrugh, his handsome face lighting
up in a way Dolly had never seen.

They had not been gone more than five minutes when Brett rang at the
door again and asked for Mrs. Darche. Stubbs looked at him for a
moment, and then said that he would inquire. Brett waited in the
library, by the deserted tea table, for Cousin Annie had betaken
herself to her own room as soon as Dolly and Vanbrugh left, and he
wondered who had been there. It was some time before Marion appeared.

"I am glad to see you again," she said, quietly, and holding out her
hand. "You went away so suddenly--as though you were anxious about
something."

"I am."

"And you have made me anxious, too. You were telling me that a great
and final misfortune is hanging over my head. You do not know me. You
do not understand me. You do not see that I would much rather know what
it is, and face it, than live in terror of it and trust altogether to
you to keep it from me."

"But do you not know after all these years, that you can trust me? Do
you not trust me now?"

"Yes," Marion answered after a pause. "As a man, my dear friend, I
trust you. You do all that a man can do. I can even give you credit,
perhaps, for being able to do more than you or any other man can do.
But there is more. There is something yet. Be as faithful as you may,
as honest as God has made you, and as brave and as strong as you
are--you cannot control fate. You do not believe in fate? I do. Well,
call it that you please. Circumstances arise which none of us, not the
strongest of us, can govern. Whatever this secret is, it means a fact,
it means that there is something, somewhere, which might come to my
knowledge, which might make me unutterably miserable, which you some
day may not be able to keep from me. Does it not?"

"Yes, it does," said Brett, slowly. "I cannot deny that. You might, you
may, come to know of it without my telling you."

"Then tell me now," said Marion earnestly. "Is it not far better and
far more natural that this, whatever it may be, should come to me
directly from you, instead of through some stranger, unawares, when I
am least prepared for it, when I may break down under the shock of it?
Do you not think that you, my best friend, could make it easier for me
to hear, if any one could?"

"If any one could, yes," answered Brett in a low voice.

"And if no one can, then you at least can make it less cruel. Let me
know now when I am prepared for it by all you have said--prepared to
hear the most dreadful news that I can possibly imagine, something far
more dreadful, I am sure, than anything really could be. Let me hear of
it from you of all other men."

"No, no, do not ask me!" He turned from her as though he had finally
made up his mind. "Of all men, I should be the last to hurt you. And
there is no certainty, perhaps not even a probability, that you should
ever know it if I do not tell you."

"Ah, but there is!" she cried, insisting. "You have said so. You told
me that a moment ago. No--you must tell me. I will not let you go until
you do. I will not leave anything unsaid that I can say--that a woman
can say--"

"No, no!"

"Harry, I must know. I will know." She laid her hand upon his arm.

"For heaven's sake!" exclaimed Brett in the utmost distress.

"Harry! You loved me once--" Her voice vibrated audibly.

"Once!" Brett started violently, and turned if possible, paler.

"You made me think so."

"Marion, Marion, don't!"

"I will. Do you remember, Harry, long, long ago when we were almost boy
and girl, how you promised, faithfully, sacredly, that if ever I needed
you, that if ever I asked your help--"

"And you married John Darche instead of me," said Brett, interrupting
her.

"Yes, and I married John Darche," answered Marion, gravely.

"Because you loved him and not me."

"Because I thought,--no, I will not go back to that. There is a nearer
time than that in the past, a day we both remember, a day that I am
ashamed of, and yet--well you have not forgotten it either. That
morning--not so many months ago. It was on that day--that day when my
husband was arrested. It was in this very room. You told me that you
loved me, and I--you know what I did. It was bad. It was wrong. Call it
what you please, but it was the truth. I let you know that I loved you
as well as you loved me and better, for I had more to lose. John was
alive then. He is dead now--long dead. If I was ashamed then, I am not
ashamed now--for I have nothing to be ashamed of. I am showing whether
I trust you or not, whether I believe in you, whether I am willing to
stake my woman's pride on your man's faithfulness. I loved you then,
and I showed you that I did. Harry! I love you now--and I tell you so
without a blush."

Brett trembled as though in bodily fear, glanced at her and turned
away.

"Great God!" he exclaimed under his breath.

"And you--Harry--you still--Harry--look at me! What is it?"

With wide and loving eyes she looked at him, expecting every instant
that he would turn to her. But he did not move. Then suddenly, with a
low cry, as though she were mortally hurt, she fell back upon the sofa.

"Oh, my God! you do not love me!"

Her voice was broken and weak, but he heard the words. He turned at
last, looked at her, and then knelt down at her side.

"Marion, Marion! dear!" he whispered lovingly, again and again. But she
pushed him away. Then he rose to his feet and sat beside her, looking
down into her face. "Yes," he said gravely, "you must know my secret
now."

"Yes, I know your secret now, your miserable secret." She turned her
face from him against the cushion.

"No, you do not know it," he said. "You do not even guess it. But I
must tell you now. Take care. Be strong, be brave. It will hurt you."

While he was speaking Mrs. Darche rose from the sofa and her expression
slowly changed as she realised that he had something grave to tell her.
She rose slowly, steadying herself, but not taking her eyes from his
face.

"Tell me, please. I am ready."

"John Darche is alive, and I have known it almost from the first."

It seemed to Brett that nothing he had ever done in his life had been
half so hard. Marion stared at him for a moment, and then once more
sank slowly into her seat and covered her face.

"Do you understand me now?" he asked after a long pause. "Do you see
now why I have fought so hard against telling you this thing?"

"It is better so," she answered in a low and indistinct tone. "It was
better that I should know it now." Then she was silent for a long time.
"And is that all you have to tell me after all that I have told you?"
she asked at last, as though in a dream.

"All? All, dear?" Suddenly his resolution broke down. "You know it is
not all. I love you--that is all, indeed--and more than I have the
right to say or you to hear."

"A right! What is right? Where is right now?"

"Where you are, dear." He was holding both her hands in his.

Then all at once a light came into her face.

"And we can make the rest right, too! Are there no laws? Is there no
justice? If this man who has ruined both our lives is not dead--ah! but
he is! I know he is. What proof have you? How can you stand there and
tell me that I am still bound and tied to a man whose very name is a
stain on me, whose mere memory is a disgrace."

"How do I know?" repeated Brett. "It is simple enough. He has written
to me. I have his letters. Do you care to see them? Do you know what he
says? What he repeats whenever he writes? He began a few days after we
heard of his supposed death. I know the letter by heart. 'My dear
Brett--I am not dead at all. I know that you love my wife, but I do not
propose that you should be happy at my expense. If you try to marry
her I shall be at the wedding to forbid the banns.'"

"He wrote that? He wrote that in his own hand?" The strange emotions
that were chasing each other in her heart found quick expression in her
face.

"And he has written it often. Would it have made you happier to know it
during all these months? Or could I have looked you in the face as an
honourable man and told you that I loved you when I alone knew that
your husband was alive?" He had drawn back from her now and stood
leaning against the mantelpiece with folded arms.

"Oh, I see it all! I see it all now!" she said. "How brave you have
been! How good! And now he is coming back to find some new way of
hurting us! Oh it is too much! I thought I had borne all. But you were
right. There was more to bear."

"Do you know?" Brett began after a moment's pause. "In spite of this
story that was in the papers to-day I find it hard to believe that he
has really come back. He was quite capable of starting the story
himself from a distance for the sake of giving you pain, but he knows
as well as we do that if he comes here he comes to serve his time in
prison."

Marion seemed to be trying to think over the situation.

"Stop!" she said at last. "You know that there was a woman, too, though
we never spoke of her, you and I. But every one knew it. People used to
pity me for that before they knew the rest. Do you not think it
possible that she may have written those letters to you?"

"Oh, no! I know John Darche's handwriting. I have good cause to know
it."

"Yes, I suppose you are right," answered Marion thoughtfully. "Did any
one man ever accumulate so much wickedness in a lifetime? He was not
satisfied with one crime. And yet he was not the only bad man in the
world. What does a girl know of the man she is to marry? She sees him
day after day, of course, but she only sees the best side of him. She
knows nothing of what he does, nor of what he thinks when he is not
with her, but she imagines it all, in her own way, with no facts to
guide her. Then comes marriage. How could I know?"

"Indeed, it would have been hard for any girl to guess what sort of man
John Darche was."

"Please do not talk about that."

"And how do you know that I am any better man than John Darche?" asked
Brett, suddenly. "What do you know of my comings and goings when I am
not here, or how I spend my time? How do you know that I am not bound
by some disgraceful tie, as he was? I have been in all sorts of places
since we said good-bye on that winter's evening. Do you remember? I
have wandered and worked, and done ever so many things since then. How
do you know that there is not some woman in my life whom I cannot get
rid of?"

He had not changed his position while speaking. When he paused for her
answer she went up to him, laying her hands upon his shoulders and
