
"Senor,' murmured Valencia, "thou wilt 
tarry with us long, no ? We have much to 
show thee in Santa Barbara, and on our ran- 
chos." 

"I fear that I can stay but a week, senorita. 
I must return to Los Angeles. " 

" Would nothing tempt thee to stay, Don 
Diego ? " 

He looked into her rich Southern face and 
approved of it : when had he ever failed to 
approve of a pretty woman ? ' ' Thine eyes, 
senorita, would tempt a man to forget more 
than duty." 

"And thou wilt stay?" 

"When I leave Santa Barbara what I take 
of myself will not be worth leaving." 

" Ay ! and what thou leavest thou never 
shalt have again. " 

"There is my hope of heaven, senorita." 

He turned from this glittering conversation 
to Chonita. 

"You are a little tired," he said, in a low 
voice. " Your color has gone, and the shadows 
are coming about your eyes." 

The suspicion was borne home to her that 
he must have observed her closely to detect 
those shades of difference which no one else 
had noted 
 

"A little, sefior. I went to bed late and 
rose early. Such times as these tax the endu- 
rance. But after a siesta I shall be refreshed." 

" You look strong and very healthy." 

"Ay, but I am ! I am not delicate at all. 
I can ride all day, and swim — which few of 
our women do. I even like to walk ; and I 
can dance every night for a week. Only, this 
is an unusual time." 

Her supple elastic figure and healthy white- 
ness of skin betokened endurance and vitality, 
and he looked at her with pleasure. "Yes, 
you are strong," he said. ''You look as if you 
would last, — as if you never would grow brown 
nor stout." 

" What difference, if the next generation be 
beautiful ? " she said, lightly. " Look at Don 
Juan de la Borrasca. See him gaze upon Pan- 
chita Lopez, who is just sixteen. What does 
he care that the women of his day are coffee- 
colored and stringy or fat ? You will care as 
little when you too are brown and dried up, 
afraid to eat dulces, and each month seeking a 
new parting for your hair. " 

' ' You are a hopeful seer ! But you — are you 
resigned to the time when even the withered 
old beau will not look at you, — you who are 
the loveliest woman in the Californias ? " 


It was the first compliment he had paid her, 
and she looked up with a swift blush, then low- 
ered her eyes again. " With truth, I never im- 
agine myself except as I am iiow ; but I should 
have always my books, and no husband to 
teach me that there were other women more 
fair." 

" And books will suffice, then ? " 

"Sure." She said it a little wistfully. Then 
she added, abruptly, " I shall go to confession 
this week." 

^'Ah!" 

"Yes ; for although I hate you still — that is, 
I do not like you — I have forgiven you. I believe
you to be kind and generous, although 
the enemy of my brother ; that if you did op- 
pose him and cast him into prison, you did so 
with a loyal motive ; you cannot help making 
mistakes, for you are but human. And I do 
not forget that if it were not for you he would 
not be a bridegroom to-day. Also, you are 
not responsible for being an Estenega ; so, 
although I do not forgive the blood in you, — how 
could I, and be worthy to bear the name of 
Iturbi y Moncada ? — I forgive you, yourself, 
for being what you cannot help, and for what 
you have unwittingly and mistakenly done. 
Do you understand ? " 



" I understand. Your subtleties are magnifi- 
cent. " 

''You must not laugh at me. Tell me, how 
do you like my friend Valencia .? " 

" Well enough. I want to hear more about 
your confession. You fall back into the bosom 
of your Church with joy, I suppose ? " 

''Ay!" 

"And you would never disobey one of her 
mandates ? " 

"Holy God! no." 

"Why?" 

" Why ? Because I am a Catholic." 

"That is not what I asked you. Why are 
you a Catholic ? if I must make myself more 
plain. Why are you afraid to disobey ? Why 
do you cling to the Church with your back 
braced against your intelligence ? It is hope 
of future reward, I suppose, — or fear ? " 

"Sure. I want to go to the heaven of the 
good Catholic. " 

"Do not waste this life, particularly the 
youth of it, preparing for a legendary hereafter. 
Granting, for the sake of argument, that this 
existence is supplemented by another : you 
have no knowledge of what elements you will 
be composed when you lay aside your mortal 
part to enter there. Your power of enjoyment 




may be very thin indeed, like the music of a 
band without brass ; the sort of happiness one 
can imagine a human being to experience out 
of whose anatomy the nervous system has by 
some surgical triumph been removed, and in 
whom love of the arts alone exists, abnormally 
cultivated. But one thing we of earth do know ; 
you do not, but I will tell you ; we have a 
slight capacity for happiness and a large 
capacity for enjoyment. There is not much in life, 
God knows, but there is something. One can 
get a reasonable amount out of it with due 
exercise of philosophy. Of that we are sure. 
Of what comes after we are absolutely unsure." 

She had endeavored to interrupt him once 
or twice, and did so now, her eyes flashing. 
" Are you an atheist t " she demanded, ab- 
ruptly. ''Are you not a Catholic ? " 

"I am neither an atheist nor a Catholic. 
The question of religion has no interest for me 
whatever. I wish it had none for you." 

She looked at him sternly. For a moment I 
thought the Doomswoman would annihilate 
the renegade. But her face softened suddenly. 
" I will pray for you, " she said, and turned to 
the man at her right. 

Estenega's face turned the chalky hue I al- 
ways dreaded, and he bent his lips to her ear. 




" Pray for me many times a day ; and at other 
times recall what I said about the relative 
value of possible and improbable heavens. 
You are a woman who thinks. " 

'*Don Diego," exclaimed Valencia, unable 
to control her impatience longer, and turning 
sharply from the caballero who was talking to 
her in a fiery undertone, " thou hast not spoken 
to me for ten minutes. " 

"For ten hours, senorita. Thou hast treated 
me with the scorn and indifference of one 
weary of homage. " 

She blushed with gratification. " It is thou 
who hast forgotten me. " 

" Would that I could!" 

" Dost thou wish to?" 

'*When I am away from thee, or thou talk- 
est to other men, — sure." 

" It is thy fault if I talk to other men." 

" You make me feel the Good Samaritan." 

'* But I care not to talk to them." 

'*Thy heart is a comb of honey, senorita. 
On my knees I accept the little morsel the 
queen bee — thy swift messenger — brings me. 
Truly, never was sweet so sweetly sweet. " 

"It is thou who hast the honey on thy 
tongue, although I fear there may be a stone 
in thy heart." 

 

" Ah ! Why ? No stone could sit so h'ghtly 
in my breast as my heart when those red lips 
smile to me." 

Chonita listened to this conversation with 
mingled amazement and anger. She did not 
doubt Estenega's sincerity to herself; neither 
did Valencia appear to doubt him. But his 
present levity was manifest to her. Why 
should he care to talk so to another woman ? 
How strange were men ! She gave up the 
problem. 

After the long banquet concluded, the caval- 
cade formed once more, and we returned to 
the town. Prudencia rode her white horse alone* 
this time, her husband beside her. Leading the 
cavalcade was the Presidio band. Its members 
wore red jackets trimmed with yellow cord, 
Turkish trousers of white wool, and red Polish 
caps. With their music mingled the regular 
detonations of the Presidio cannon. After we 
had wound the length of the valley we made a 
progress through the town for the benefit of 
the populace, who ran to the corridors to watch 
us, and shouted with delight. But the sun was 
hot, and we were all glad to be between the 
thick adobe walls once more. 

We took a long siesta that day, but hours 
before dark the populace was crowded in the 

court-yard under the booth which had been 
erected during the afternoon. After the early 
supper the guests of Casa Grande, and our 
neighbors of the town, filled the sala, the large 
bare rooms adjoining, and the corridors. The 
old people of both degrees seated themselves 
in rows against the wall, the fiddles scraped, 
the guitars twanged, the flutes cooed, and the 
dancing began. * 

In the court-yard a small space was cleared, 
and changing couples danced El Jarabe and 
La Jota, — two stately jigs, — whilst the spec- 
tators applauded with wild and impartial en- 
thusiasm, and Don Guillermo from the corridor 
threw silver coins at the dancers' feet. Now 
and again a pretty girl would dance alone, her 
gay skirt lifted with the tips of her fingers, her 
eyes fixed upon the ground. A man would 
approach from behind and place his hat on her 
head. Perhaps she would toss it saucily aside, 
perhaps let it rest on her coquettish braids, — a 
token that its owner was her accepted gallant 
for the evening. 

Above, the slender men and women of the 
aristocracy, the former in black and white, the 
latter in gowns of vivid richness, danced the 
contradanza, the most graceful dance I have 
ever seen ; and since those Californian days I 



have lived in almost every capital of Europe. 
The music is so monotonous and sweet, the 
figures so melting and harmonious, that to 
both spectator and dancer comes a dreaming 
languid contentment, as were the senses 
swimming on the brink of sleep. Chonita and 
Valencia were famous rivals in its rendering, 
always the sala-stars to those not dancing. 
Valencia was the perfection of grace, but it 
was the grace now of the snake, again of the 
cat. She suggested fangs and claws, a re- 
pressed propensity to sudden leaps. Chonita's 
grace was that of rhythmical music imprisoned 
in a woman's form of proportions so perfect 
that she seemed to dissolve from one figure 
into another, swaying, bending, gliding. The 
soul of grace emanated from her, too evan- 
escent to be seen, but felt as one feels perfume 
or the something that is not color in the heart 
of a rose. Her star-like eyes were open, but the 
brain behind them was half asleep : she danced 
by instinct. 

I was watching the dancing of these two, — 
the poetry of promise and the poetry of 
death, — when suddenly Don Guillermo entered 
the room, stamped his foot, pulled out his 
rosary, and instantly we all went down on our 
knees. It was eig^ht of the clock, and thia 


ceremony was never omitted in Casa Grande, 
be the occasion festive or domestic. When 
we had told our beads, Don Guillermo rose, 
put his rosary in his pocket, trotted out, and 
the dancing was resumed. 

As the Contradanza and its ensuing waltz 
finished, Estenega went up to Chonita. '' You 
are too tired to dance any more to-night," he 
said. '* Let us sit here and talk. Besides, I 
do not like to see you whirling about the room 
in men's arms." 

" It is nothing to you if I dance with other 
men," she said, rebelliously, although she took 
the seat he indicated. "And to dance is not 
wrong." 

" Nothing is wrong. In some countries the 
biggest liar is king. We know as little of eth- 
ics — except, to be sure, the ethics of civilization 
— as one sex knows of another. So we fall back 
on instinct. I have not a prejudice, but I feel 
it disgusting to see a woman who is somewhat 
more to me than other women, embraced by 
another man. It would infuriate me if done in 
private ; why should it not at least disgust me 
in public ? I care as little for the approving seal 
of the conventions as I care whether other wo- 
men — including my own sisters — waltz or not" 

and, alas ! frorn that night Chonita ncvef 



waltzed again. '* It is not that I care for his 
opinion, ' she assured me later ; " only he made 
me feel that I never wanted a man to touch me 
again. " 

Valencia used every art of flashing eyes and 
pouting lips and gay sally — there was nothing 
subtle in her methods — to win Estenega to her 
side ; but the sofa on which he sat with Cho- 
nita might have been the remotest star in the 
firmament. Then, prompted by pique and de- 
terniination to find ointment for her wounded 
vanity, she suddenly opened her batteries upon 
Reinaldo. That beautiful young bridegroom 
was bored to the verge of dissolution by his 
solemn and sleepy Prudencia, who kept her wide 
eyes upon him with an expression of rapt adoration, 
exactly as she regarded the Stations in the 
Mission when performing the Via Crucis. Va- 
lencia, to his mind, was the handsomest woman 
in the room, and he felt the flattery of her 
assault. Besides, he was safely married. So he 
drifted to her side, danced with her, flirted with 
her, devoted himself to her caprices, until every 
one was noting, and I thought that Prudencia 
would bawl outright. Just in the moment, how- 
ever, when our nerves were humming, Don 
Guillermo thumped on the door with his stick 
and ordered us all to go to bed. 



XIX. 

The next morning we started at an early hour 
for the Rancho de las Rocas, three leagues 
from Santa Barbara. The populace remained 
in the booth, but we were joined by all our 
friends of the town, and once more were a 
large party. We were bound for a merienda 
and a carnesada, where bullocks would be 
roasted whole on spits over a bed of coals in a 
deep excavation. It took a Californian only a 
few hours to sleep off fatigue, and we were as 
fresh and gay as if we had gone to bed at eight 
the night before. 

Valencia managed to ride beside Estenega, 
and I wondered if she would win him. Wo- 
man's persistence, allied to man's vanity, so 
often accomplishes the result intended by the 
woman. It seemed to me the simplest climax 
for the unfolding drama, although I should have 
been sorry for Diego. 

It was Reinaldo's turn to look black, but he 
devoted himself ostentatiously to Prudencia, 
who beamed like a child with a stick of candy. 


Chonita rode between Don Juan de la Borrasca 
and Adan. Her face was calm, but it occurred 
to me that she was growing careless of her sov- 
ereignty, for her manner was abstracted and in- 
different ; she seemed to have discarded those 
little coquetries which had sat so gracefully 
upon her. Still, as long as she concealed the 
light of her mind under a bushel, her beauty 
and Lorleian fascination would draw men to 
her feet and keep them there. Every man but 
Estenega and Alvarado was as gay of color as 
the wild flowers had been, and the girls, as they 
cantered, looked like full-blown roses. Choni- 
ta wore a dark-blue gown and reboso of thin 
silk, which became her fairness marvelously 
well. 

"Dona Chonita, light of my eyes," said Don 
Juan, "thou art not wont to be so quiet when 
I am by thee." 

" Thou usually hast enough to say for two. " 

"Ay, thou canst appreciate the art of speech. 
Hast thou ever known any one who could 
converse with lighter ease than I and thy 
brother .? " 

" I never have heard any one use more 
words. " 

''Ay! they roll from my tongue — and from 
Reinaldo's — like wheels downhill " 


She turned to Adan : '*They will be nappy, 
you think, — Reinaldo and Prudencia?" 

"Ay!" 

"What a beautiful wedding, no ? ' 

"Ay!'' 

"Life is always the same with thee, I 
suppose, — smoking, riding, swinging in the 
hamnock?" 

'*Ay !" 

''Thou wouldst not exchange thy life for 
another ? Thou dost not wish to travel ? " 

"No, — sure." 

She wheeled suddenly and galloped over to 
her father and Alvarado, her caballeros staring 
helplessly after her. 

When we arrived at the rancho the bullocks 
were already swinging in the pits, the smell of 
roast meat was in the air. We dismounted, 
throwing our bridles to the vaqueros in waiting ; 
and while Indian servants spread the table, the 
girls joined hands and danced about the pit, 
throwing flowers upon the bullocks, singing and 
laughing. The men watched them, or amused 
themselves in various ways, — some with cock- 
fights and impromptu races ; others began at 
once to gamble on a large flat stone ; a group 
stood about a greased pole and jeered at two 
rival vaqueros endeavoring to mount it for the 



 



 





sake of the gold piece on the top. One buried 
a rooster in the ground, leaving its head alone 
exposed ; others, mounting their horses, dashed 
by at full speed, snatching at the head as they 
passed. Reinaldo distinguished himself by 
twisting it off with facile wrist while urging his 
horse to the swiftness of the east wind. 

" I am going to dare more than Californian 
has ever dared before, " said Estenega to me, 
as we gathered at length about the table-cloth. 
" I am going to get Dona Chonita off by her- 
self in that little cafton and have a talk with 
her. Now, do you stand guard. " 

" I shall not ! " I exclaimed. '* It is 
understood that when DonaTrinidad stays at home 
Chonita is in my charge. I will not permit 
such a thing." 

"Thou wilt, my Eustaquia. Dona Chonita 
is no pudding-brained girl. She needs no 
duena. " 

" I know that ; but it is not that I am 
thinking of. Suppose some one sees you ; thou 
knowest the inflexibility of our conventions." 

" You forget that we are comadre and 
compadre. Our privileges are many. " He abruptly 
dismissed the intimate "thou," with his usual 
American perversity. 

^' True ; I had forgotten. But whither is all 

this tending", Diego ? She neither will nor can 
marry you. " 

" She both can and will. Will you help me, 
or not ? Because if not I shall proceed without 
you. Only you can make it easier." 

I always gave way to him ; everybody did. 

He was as good as his word. How he man- 
aged, Chonita never knew, but not a half-hour 
after dinner she found herself alone in the canon 
with him, seated among the huge stones cata- 
clysms had hurled there. 

''Why have you brought me here?" she 
asked. 

"To talk with you." 

"But this would be severely censured. 

"Do you care? " 
"'No." 

She looked at him with a curious feeling she 
had had before ; there was something inside of 
his head that she wanted to get at, — something 
that baffled and teased and allured her. She 
wanted to understand him, and she was op- 
pressed by the weight of her ignorance ; she 
had no key to unlock a man like that. With 
one of her swift impulses she told him of what 
she was thinking. 

He smiled, his eyes lighting. " I am more 
than willing you should know all that you 

would be curious about," he said. ''Ask me 
a hundred questions ; I will answer them. " 

She meditated a moment. She never had 
taken sufficient interest in a man before to 
desire to fathom him, and the arts of the Califor- 
nian belle were not those of the tactfully and 
impartially interested woman of to-day. She 
did not know how to begin. 

'*What have you read ?" she asked, at 
length. 

He gave her some account of his library, — a 
large one, — and mentioned many books of 
many nations, of which she had never heard. 

''You have read all those books ? '* 

''There are many long winter nights and 
days in the redwood forests of the northern 
coast." 

"That does not tell me much, — what you 
have read. I feel that it is but one of the many 
items which went to the making up of you. 
You have traveled everywhere, no ? Was it 
like living over again the books of travel ? " 

"Not in the least. Each man travels for 
himself " 

' ' Madame de Sta^l said that traveling was 
sad. Is it so ? " 

' ' To the lover of history it is like food with- 
out salt : imagination has painted an historical 

City with the panorama of a great time ; it 
has been to us a stage for great events. We 
find it a stage with familiar paraphernalia, and 
actors as commonplace as ourselves." 

" It is more satisfactory to stay at home and 
read about it ? " 

''Infinitely, though less expanding.' 

"Then is anything worth while except read- 
ing?" 

' ' Several things ; the pursuit of glory, for one 
thing, and the active occupied life necessary 
for its achievement." 

She leaned forward a little ; she felt that she 
had stumbled nearer to him. "Are you am- 
bitious ? '' she asked. 

' ' For what it compels life to yield ; abstractly, 
not. Ambition is the looting of hell in chase 
of biting flames swirling above a desert of ashes. 
As for posthumous fame, it must be about as 
satisfactory as a draught of ice-water poured 
down the throat of a man who has died on Sa- 
hara. And yet, even if in the end it all means 
nothing, if  from hour to hour we ripe and ripe 
and then from hour to hour we rot and rot
still for a quarter-century or so the nettle of 
ambition flagellating our brain may serve to 
make life less uninteresting and more 
satisfactory. The abstraction and absorption of the 

fight, the stinging fear of rivals, the murmur 
of acknowledgment, the shout of compelled 
applause, — they fill the blanks.' 

'' Tell me," she said, imperiously, " what do 
you want ? " 

" Shall I tell you? I never have spoken of 
it to a living soul but Alvarado. Shall I tell it 
to a woman, — and an Iturbi y Moncada? 
Could the folly of man further go ? " 

"If I am a woman I am an Iturbi y Mon- 
cada, and if I am an Iturbi y Moncada I have 
the honor of its generations in my veins." 

''Very good. I believe you would not be- 
tray me, even in the interest of your house. 
Would you ? " 

-No." 

''And I love to talk to you, to tell you what 
I would tell no other. Listen, then. An 
envoy goes to Mexico next week with letters from 
Alvarado, desiring that I be the next governor 
of the Californias, and containing the assurance 
that the Departmental Junta will endorse me. 
I shall follow next month to see Santa Ana 
personally ; I know him well, and he was a friend 
of my father's. I wish to be invested with pe- 
culiar powers ; that is to say, I wish California 
to be practically overlooked while I am governor
and I wish it understood that I shall be 

governor as long as I please. Alvarado will 
hold no office under the Americans, and is as 
ready to retire now as a few years later. Of 
course my predilection for the Americans must 
be carefully concealed both from the Mexican 
government and the mass of the people here : 
Santa Ana and Alvarado know what is bound 
to come ; the Mexicans, generally, retain 
enough interest in the Californias to wish to 
keep them. I shall be the last governor of the 
Department, and I shall employ that period to 
amalgamate the native population so closely 
