beside him. Her eyes returned his merriment.

“Father!” she exclaimed, “Mr. Bayard does not recant. He is
proud of it. He glories in his heresy. He is laughing at his
martyrdom--and at us. I think you’d better ‘let up’ on him awhile.”

“Let up, Helen? Let up?” complained her mother. “That is a very
questionable expression. Ask your father, my dear, if it is good
English. And I’m sure Mr. Bayard will be a gentlemanly heretic,
whatever he is.”

Helen laughed outright, now. Bayard joined her; and the four drew
breath and found themselves at their ease.

“For my part,” said Helen unexpectedly, “I should like to see Mr.
Bayard’s church--if he would stoop to invite us.... I suppose,” she
added thoughtfully, “one reason saints don’t stoop, is for fear the
halo should tumble off. It must be so inconvenient! Don’t you ever
have a stiff neck, Mr. Bayard?”

“Why, Helen!” cried Mrs. Carruth in genuine horror. She hastened
to atone for her daughter’s rudeness to a young man who already had
enough to bear. “I will come and bring Helen myself, Mr. Bayard, to
hear you preach--that is, if you would like to have us.”

“Pray don’t!” protested Bayard. “The Professor’s hair would turn
black again in a single night. It won’t do for you to recognize an
outlaw like me, you know. Why, Fenton and I haven’t met since he
came here; unless at the post-office. I understand my position.
Don’t feel any delicacy about it. I don’t. I can’t stop for that!
I am too busy.”

The Professor of Theology colored a little.

“The ladies of my family are quite free to visit any of the places
of worship around us,” he observed with some dignity. “They are not
bound by the same species of ecclesiastical etiquette”--

“We must be going, Mother,” said Helen abruptly. Her cheeks were
blazing; her eyes met Bayard’s with a ray of indignant sympathy
which went to his head like wine. He felt the light, quick motion
of her breath; the folds of her summer dress--he could not have
told what she wore--fell over the carpet lounge; the hem of the
dress touched his boot, and just covered the patch on it from
sight. He had but glanced at her before. He looked at her now;
her heightened color became her richly; her hand--she wore a
driving-glove--lay upon the cretonne sofa pillow; she had picked a
single flower as she came up Mrs. Granite’s garden walk. Bayard was
amused to see that she had instinctively taken a deep purple pansy
with a heart of gold.

A little embarrassed, Helen held out the pansy.

“I like them,” she said. “They make faces at me.”

“This one is a royal creature,” said Bayard. “It has the face of a
Queen.”

“Mr. Bayard,” asked Mrs. Carruth, with the air of starting a
subject of depth and force, “do you find any time to analyze
flowers?”

“So far--hardly,” replied Bayard, looking Helen straight in the
face.

“I used to study botany when I was a young lady--in New York,”
observed Mrs. Carruth placidly; “it seems to me a very wholesome
and refining”--

“Papa!” cried Helen, “Pepper is eating a tomato can--No, it’s a
piece of--It is an apron--a gingham apron! The menu of that horse,
Mr. Bayard, surpasses anything”--

“It is plainly some article belonging to the ladies of the house,”
said Bayard, laughing.

He had started to rescue the apron, when Jane Granite was seen
to run out and wrench that portion of her wardrobe from Pepper’s
voracity.

“That,” observed Mrs. Carruth, “is the maid, I presume?”

“It is Miss Granite, my landlady’s daughter,” replied Bayard with
some unnecessary dignity. Poor little Jane, red in the face, and
raging at the heart, stood, with the eyes of the visitors upon
her, contending with Pepper, who insisted on retaining the apron
strings, and had already swallowed one halfway.

Quick to respond to the discomfort of any woman, Bayard ran down to
Jane’s relief.

“It blew over from the lines,” said Jane. She lifted to him her
sad, grateful eyes. She would have cried, if she had ventured to
speak. Helen, from the window, looked down silently.

When Bayard came upstairs again, his visitors had risen to leave,
in earnest. Helen avoided his eyes. He felt that hers had taken in
every detail of his poor place: the iron angel on the ugly stove;
the Cupid and the grapes upon the paper screen; the dreary, darned,
brown carpet; the barren shades; the mosquito-net portière; the
whole homeless, rude, poverty-smitten thing.

“You have a fine engraving of Guido’s Saint Michael, here,”
observed Professor Carruth, taking out his glasses.

“And I notice--don’t I see another good picture through the gauze
portière?” asked Mrs. Carruth modestly.

“That is Leonardo’s Christ,” said the Professor promptly, at
a look. “It really makes a singular, I may say a beautiful,
impression behind that white stuff. I never happened to see
it before with such an effect. Look, Helen! It seems like a
transparency--or a cloud.”

A devout expression touched Helen’s face, which had grown quite
grave. She did not answer, and went downstairs behind her mother,
very quietly.

Jane Granite had disappeared. Pepper was engaged in a private
conflict with such portions of her wardrobe as he had succeeded in
swallowing; Mrs. Carruth mounted heavily into the carryall, and
Helen leaped after her. Then it appeared that the Professor had
forgotten his cane, and Bayard ran back for it. As he came down,
he caught a glimpse of Jane Granite in the sitting-room. She was
crying.

“That is my Charter Oak cane,” observed the Professor anxiously;
“the one with the handle made from the old ship Constitution. I
wouldn’t have mislaid it on any account.”

“Father would rather have mislaid me,” said Helen with an air of
conviction. Her mother was inviting Mr. Bayard to call on them at
the Flying Jib. Helen said nothing on this point. She smiled and
nodded girlishly, and Pepper bore them away.

Bayard came back upstairs three steps at a time. The sitting-room
door was shut, and it did not occur to him to open it. He had quite
forgotten Jane. He closed his study-door softly, and went and sat
down on the carpet lounge; the pansy that she had dropped was
there. He looked for it, and looked at it, then laid it gently on
his study-table. He took up the cretonne pillow where her hand had
lain, then put it softly down.

“I must keep my head,” thought the young man. He passed his hand
over his too brilliant eyes, and went, with compressed lips, to his
study-table.

But Jane Granite went out in the back yard, and sat down under the
clothes-lines, on the salt-fish box. The chewed apron was in her
hand. The clothes flapped in the rising wind above her head. She
could not be seen from the house. Here she could cry in peace.

She was surprised to find, when she was seated there, that she did
not want to cry. Her eyes, her throat, her lips, her head, seemed
burning to ashes. Hot, hard, wicked wishes came for the first time
in her gentle life to Jane. That purple-and-gold woman swam giddily
between her and the summer sky.

Jane had known her at the first look. Her soul winced when she
recognized the stranger of the electric car. Mr. Bayard had thought
Jane did not notice that lady that April day. Jane had by heart
every line and tint and detail of her, from the gold dagger on
her bonnet to the dark purple cloth gaiter of her boots; from her
pleased brown eyes, with the well-bred motion of their lids, to
the pretty gestures that she made with her narrow, gloved hand.
Jane looked at her own wash-day dress and parboiled fingers. The
indefinable, undeniable fact of the stranger’s personal elegance
crushed the girl with the sense of helpless bitterness which only
women who have been poor and gone shabby can understand. The
language of dress, which is to the half-educated the symbol of
superiority, conveyed to Jane, in advance of any finer or truer
vocabulary, the full force of the situation.

“She is different,” thought Jane.

These three words said it all. Jane dropped her face in her soaked
and wrinkled fingers. The damp clothes flapped persistently about
her neat, brown head, as if trying to arouse her with the useless
diversion of things that one is quite used to. Jane thought of Ben
Trawl, it is true, but without any distinct sense of disloyalty
or remorse. She experienced the ancient and always inexplicable
emotion not peculiar to Jane: she might have lived on in relative
content, not in the least disturbed by any consciousness of her own
ties, as long as the calm eyes she worshiped reflected the image of
no other woman. Now something in Jane’s heart seemed to snap and
let lava through.

Oh, purple and gold, gall and wormwood, beauty and daintiness,
heart-ache and fear! Had the Queen come to the palace of Kubla
Khan? Let Alph, the sacred river, run! Who was she, Jane Granite,
that she should stem the sweeping current?

“... Crying again? This is a nice way to greet a fellar,” said
roughly a sudden voice in Jane’s dulled ear.

Ben Trawl lifted the damp clothes, strode through between the
poles, and stood beside his promised wife. His face was ominously
dark.




XIV.


It is not so hard to endure suffering as to resist ease. The
passion for martyrdom sweeps everything before it, as long as it
is challenged by no stronger force. Emanuel Bayard had lived for a
year upon the elixir of a spiritual exaltation such as has carried
men to a glowing death, or through a tortured life without a throb
of weakness. He had yet to adjust his nature to the antidote of
common human comfort.

Like most of the subtler experiences of life, this came so
naturally that, at first, he scarcely knew it by sight or name.

It was not a noteworthy matter to show the courtesies of civilized
life to the family of his old Professor. Bayard reminded himself of
this as he walked down the Point.

It was quite a week before he found leisure to attend to this
simple, social obligation. His duties in Angel Alley had been many
and laborious; it did not occur to him to shorten a service or
an entertainment; to omit a visit to the wharves when the crews
came in, or to put by the emergency of a drunkard’s wife to a more
convenient season because he had in view that which had grown so
rare to the young man, now--the experience of a personal luxury.
Like a much older and more ascetic man than he was, he counted the
beads on his rosary of labors conscientiously through. Then he
hurried to her.

Now, to women of leisure nothing is so incomprehensible as the
preoccupation of a seriously busy man. Bayard had not counted upon
this feminine fact: indeed, he lived in a world where feminine
whim was an element as much outside his calculation as the spring
fashions of the planet Uranus. He was quite at a loss when Miss
Carruth received him distantly.

The Flying Jib was, as to its exterior, an ugly little cottage
run out on the neck of the jutting reef that formed the chief
attraction of the Mainsail Hotel. The interior of the Flying Jib
varied from a dreary lodge to a summer home, according to the
nature of the occupants. It seemed to Bayard that season absurdly
charming. He had lived so long out of his natural world, that the
photographs and rugs, the draperies, the flowers, the embroidery,
the work-baskets, the bric-a-brac, the mere presence of taste and
of ladies, appeared to him at first essential luxury. He looked
about him with a sigh of delight, while Mrs. Carruth went to call
her daughter, who had gone over to the fish-house study with the
Professor, and who could be seen idling along home over the meadow,
a stately figure in a pale, yellow summer dress, with a shade hat,
and pansies on it.

As we say, that young lady at first received Bayard coolly.
She sauntered into the little parlor with her hands full of
sweet-briar, nodded to him politely, and excused herself at once
to arrange her flowers. This took her some time. Mrs. Carruth
entertained him placidly. Helen’s eyes saw but did not seem to see
the slightest motion of his nervous hand, each tone of expression
that ran over his sensitive face. He had looked so eager and happy
when she came; almost boyishly thirsting for that little pleasure!
She had that terrible inability to understand the facts of his life
or feeling which is responsible for most of the friction between
two half-attracted or half-separating human beings. But when she
saw the light die from his eyes, when she saw that hurt look which
she knew quite well, settle about the lower part of his face, Helen
was ashamed of herself. Mrs. Carruth was mildly introducing the
subject of mosquito bars; theirs, she said, were all on the second
story; the supply didn’t go round, and the Professor objected to
them; so the hornets--

“Mother,” said Helen, “I wonder if Mr. Bayard wouldn’t like to have
us show him the clam study?”

“Your father said he should be at work on the ‘State of the
Unforgiven after Death,’” replied Mrs. Carruth. “I don’t know that
we ought to disturb him; do you think we ought, Helen?”

“He was whittling a piece of mahogany for the head of a cane when I
left him,” said Helen irreverently; “he stole it out of the cabin
of that old wreck in the inner harbor. Do you think a Professor
of Theology could be forgiven after death for sneak-thieving, Mr.
Bayard?”

She abandoned the idea of visiting the clam study, however, and
seated herself with frank graciousness by their visitor. Mrs.
Carruth having strolled away presently to keep some elderly tryst
among the piazza ladies of the hotel, the young people were left
alone.

They sat for a moment in sudden, rather awkward silence. Helen
looked like a tall June lily, in her summer gown; she had taken
her hat off; her hair was a little tumbled and curly; the wind
blew in strong from the sea, tossing the lace curtains of the
Flying Jib like sails on a toy boat. The scent of the sweet-briar
was delicately defined in the room. Bayard looked at her without
any attempt to speak. She answered his silent question by saying,
abruptly:--

“You know you’ll have to forgive me, whether you want to, or not.”

“Forgive you?”

“Why, for being vexed. I was a little, at first. But I needn’t
have been such a schoolgirl as to show it.”

“If you would be so kind as to tell me what I can possibly have
done to--deserve your displeasure--” began Bayard helplessly.

“If a man doesn’t understand without being told, I’ve noticed he
can’t understand when he is told.... Why didn’t you wait till
next fall before you came to see us, Mr. Bayard?”

“Oh!” said Bayard. His happy look came back to his tired face, as
if a magic lantern had shifted a beautiful slide. “Is that it?”

He laughed delightedly. “Why, I suppose I must have seemed
rude--neglectful, at any rate. But I’ve noticed that if a woman
doesn’t understand without being told, she makes up for it by her
readiness of comprehension when she is told.”

“What a nice, red coal!” smiled Helen. “The top of my head feels
quite warm. Dear me! Isn’t there a spot burned bald?”

She felt anxiously of her pretty hair.

“Come over and see my work,” said Bayard, “and you’ll never ask me
again why I didn’t do anything I--would so much rather do.”

“I never asked you before!” flashed Helen.

“You did me an honor that I shall remember,” said Bayard gravely.

“Oh, please don’t! Pray forget it as soon as you can,” cried Helen,
with red cheeks.

“You can’t know, you see you can’t know, how a man situated as
I am prizes the signs of the simplest human friendship that is
sincere and womanly.”

So said Bayard quietly. Helen drew a little quick breath. She
seemed reconciled now, to herself, and to him. They began to talk
at once, quite fast and freely. Afterwards he tried to remember
what it had all been about, but he found it not easy; the evening
passed on wings; he felt the atmosphere of this little pleasure
with a delight impossible to be understood by a man who had not
known and graced society and left it. Now and then he spoke of his
work, but Helen did not exhibit a marked interest in the subject.

Bayard drew the modest inference that he had obtruded his own
affairs with the obtuseness common to missionaries and other
zealots; he roused himself to disused conversation, and to the
forgotten topics of the world. It did not occur to him that this
was precisely what she intended. The young lady drew him out, and
drew him on. They chatted about Cesarea and Beacon Street, about
Art, Clubs, Magazine literature, and the Symphony Concerts, like
the ordinary social human being.

“You see I have been out of it so long!” pleaded Bayard.

“Not yet a year,” corrected Helen.

“It seems to me twenty,” he mused.

“You don’t go to see your uncle, yet?”

“I met him once or twice down town. I have not been home, yet. But
that would make no difference. I have no leisure for--all these
little things.”

He said the words with such an utter absence of affectation that it
was impossible either to smile or to take offence at them. Helen
regarded him gravely.

“There were two or three superb concerts this winter. I thought of
you. I wished you had come in”--

“Did you take that trouble?” he asked eagerly.

“I don’t think I ever heard Schubert played better in my life,” she
went on, without noticing the interruption. “Schoeffelowski does do
The Serenade divinely.”

“I used to care for that more than for any other music in the
world, I think,” he answered slowly.

“I play poorly,” said Helen, “and I sing worse, and the piano
is rented of a Windover schoolgirl. But I have got some of his
renderings by heart--if you would care for it.”

“It is plain,” replied Bayard, flushing, “that I no longer move
in good society. It did not even occur to me to ask you. I should
enjoy it--it would rest me more than anything I can think of. Not
that that matters, of course--but I should be more grateful than it
is possible for you to understand.”

Helen went to the piano without ado, and began to sing the great
serenade. She played with feeling, and had a sweet, not a strong
voice; it had the usual amateur culture, no more, but it had a
quality not so usual. She sang with a certain sumptuous delicacy
(if the words may be conjoined) by which Bayard found himself
unexpectedly moved. He sat with his hand over his eyes, and she
sang quite through.

    “Komm beglücke mich?
     Komm beglücke mich!”

Her voice sank, and ceased. What tenderness! What strength! What
vigor and hope and joy, and--forbid the thought!--what power of
loving, the woman had!

“Some lucky fellow will know, some day,” thought the devotee.
Aloud, he said nothing at all. Helen’s hands lay on the keys; she,
too, sat silent. It was beginning to grow dark in the cottage
parlor. The long, lace curtain blew straight in, and towards her;
as it dropped, it fell about her head and shoulders, and caught
there; it hung like a veil; in the dim light it looked like--

She started to her feet and tossed it away.

“Oh!” he breathed, “why not let it stay? Just for a minute! It did
nobody any harm.”

“I am not so sure of that,” thought Helen. But what she said, was,--

“I will light the candles.”

He sprang to help her; the sleeve of her muslin dress fell away
from her arm as she lifted the little flicker of the match to the
tall brass candlestick on the mantel. He took the match from her,
and touched the candle. In the dusk they looked at each other with
a kind of fear. Bayard was very pale.

Helen had her rich, warm look. She appeared taller than usual, and
seemed to stand more steadily on her feet than other women.

“Do you want me to thank you?” asked Bayard in a low voice.

“No,” said Helen.

“I must go,” he said abruptly.

“Mother will be back,” observed Helen, not at her ease. “And Father
will be getting on with the Unforgiven, and come home any minute.”

“Very well,” replied Bayard, seating himself.

“Not that I would keep you!” suggested Helen suddenly.

He smiled a little sadly, and this time unexpectedly rose again.

“I don’t expect you to understand, of course. But I really ought to
go. And I am going.”

“Very well,” said Helen stiffly, in her turn.

“I have a--something to write, you see,” explained Bayard.

“You don’t call it a sermon any more, do you? Heresy writes a
‘something.’ How delicious! Do go and write it, by all means. I
hope the Unforgiven will appreciate it.”

“You are not a dull woman,” observed Bayard uncomfortably. “You
don’t for an instant suppose I want to go?”

Helen raised her thick, white eyelids slowly; a narrow, guarded
light shone underneath them. She only answered that she supposed
nothing about it.

“If I stay,” suggested Bayard, with a wavering look, “will you sing
The Serenade to me--all over again?”

“Not one bar of it!” replied Helen promptly.

“You are the wiser of us two,” said Bayard after a pause.

The tide was coming in, and gained upon the reef just outside the
cottage windows, with a soft, inexorable sound.

“I am not a free man,” he added.

“Return to your chains and your cell,” suggested Helen. “It is--as
you say--the better way.”

“I said nothing of the kind! Pardon me.”

“Didn’t you? It does not signify. It doesn’t often signify what
people say--do you think?”

“Are you coming to see my people--the work? You said you would, you
know. Shall I call and take you, some day?”

“Do you think it matters--to the drunkards?”

“Oh, well,” said Bayard, looking disappointed, “never mind.”

“But I do mind,” returned Helen, in her full, boylike voice. “I
want to come. And I’m coming. I had rather come, though, than be
taken. I’ll turn up some day in the anxious seat when you don’t
expect me. I’ll wear a veil, and an old poke bonnet--yes, and a
blanket shawl--and confess. I defy you to find me out!”

“Miss Carruth,” said the young preacher with imperiousness, “my
work is not a parlor charade.”

Helen looked at him. Defiance and deference battled in her brown
eyes; for that instant, possibly, she could have hated or loved
him with equal ease; she felt his spiritual superiority to herself
as something midway between an antagonism and an attraction, but
exasperating whichever way she looked at it. She struggled with
herself, but made no reply.

“If I am honored with your presence,” continued Bayard, still with
some decision of manner, “I shall count upon your sympathy.... God
knows I need it!” he added in a different tone.

“And you shall have it,” said Helen softly.

It was too dark to see the melting of her face; but he knew it
was there. They stood on the piazza of the cottage in the strong,
salt wind. Her muslin dress blew back. The dim light of the candle
within scarcely defined her figure. They seemed to stand like
creatures of the dusk, uncertain of each other or of themselves.
He held out his hand; she placed her own within it cordially. How
warm and womanly, how strong and fine a touch she had! He bade her
good-night, and hurried away.

That “something” which is to supersede the sermon was not written
that night. Bayard found himself unable to work. He sat doggedly
at his desk for an hour, then gave it up, put out his light, and
seized his hat again. He went down to the beach and skirted the
shore, taking the spray in his face. His brain was on fire; not
with intellectual labor. His heart throbbed; not with anxiety for
the fishing population. He reached a reef whence he could see
the Mainsail Hotel, and there sat down to collect himself. The
cottage was lighted now; the parlor windows glimmered softly; the
long, lace curtains were blowing in and out. Shadows of figures
passed and repassed. The Professor had settled the state of the
Unforgiven, and had come back from the clam study; he paced to and
fro across the parlor of the Flying Jib; a graceful figure clung to
his theologic arm, and kept step with him as he strode.

Presently she came to the low window, and pushed back the lace
curtain, which had blown in, half across the little parlor. She
lifted her arms, and shut the window.

The waves beat the feet of the cliff monotonously; like the bars
of a rude, large music which no man had been able to read. Bayard
listened to them with his head thrown back on the hard rock, and
his hat over his eyes. Even the gaze of the stars seemed intrusive,
curious, one might say impertinent, to him. He desired the shell of
the mollusk that burrowed in the cleft of the cliff.

The tide was rising steadily. The harbor wore its full look; it
seemed about to overflow, like a surcharged heart. The waves rose
on; they took definite rhythm. All the oldest, sweetest meanings of
music--the maddest and the tenderest cries of human longing--were
in the strain:--

    “Komm beglücke mich?
      Beglücke mich!”

Those mighty lovers, the sea and the shore, urged and answered,
resisted and yielded, protested and pleaded, retreated and met,
loved and clasped, and slept. When the tide came to the full, the
wind went down.




XV.


  DEAR MR. BAYARD,--I have been thinking since I saw you. I have
  health, and a summer. What can I do to help your work? I haven’t
  a particle of experience, and not much enthusiasm. But I am ready
  to try, if you are willing to try me. I don’t think I’m adapted
  to drunkards. I don’t know which of us would be more scared. He
  would probably run for the nearest grogshop to get rid of me.
  Aren’t there some old ladies who bother you to death, whom you
  could turn over to me?
                            Yours sincerely,
                                                 HELEN CARRUTH.

This characteristic note, the first that he had ever received from
her, reached Bayard by mail, a few days after his call at the
cottage of the Flying Jib.

He sat down and wrote at once:--

  MY DEAR MISS CARRUTH,--There is an old lady. She doesn’t bother
  me at all, but I am at my wits’ end with her. She runs away from
  the institution where she belongs, and there’s no other place
  for her. At present she is inflicting herself on Mrs. Job Slip,
  No. 143 Thoroughfare Street, opposite the head of Angel Alley.
  Her mind is thought to be slightly disordered by the loss of
  her son, drowned last winter in the wreck of the Clara Em. Mrs.
  Slip will explain the circumstances to you more fully. Inquire
  for Johnny’s mother. If the old woman ever had any other name,
  people have forgotten it, now. I write in great haste and stress
  of care. It will not be necessary to traverse Angel Alley to
  reach this address, which is quite in the heart of the town, and
  perfectly safe and suitable for you. I thank you very much.
                             Yours sincerely,
                                                   EMANUEL BAYARD.

Helen frowned a little when she read this. No Bishop of a diocese,
dictating the career of a deaconess, no village rector, guiding
some anxious and aimless visiting young lady through the mild
dissipations of parish benevolence, could have returned a more
business-like, calm, even curt, reply.

The position of a man who may not love a woman and must not invite
her to marry him--or, to put it a little differently, who must not
love and cannot marry--is one which it seems to be asking too much
of women to understand. At all events they seldom or never do. The
withdrawals, the feints, the veils and chills and silences, by
which a woman in a similar position protects herself, may be as
transparent as golden mist to him whom she evades; but the sturdy
retreat of a masculine conscience from a too tender or too tempting
situation is as opaque as a gravestone to the feminine perception.

Accustomed to be eagerly wooed, Helen did not know what to make of
this devotee who did not urge himself even upon her friendship. She
had never given any man that treasure before. Like all high-minded
women who have not spent themselves in experiments of the
sensibilities, Helen regarded her own friendship as valuable. She
would have preferred him to show, at least, that he appreciated his
privilege. She would have liked him to make friendship as devotedly
as those other men had made love to her.

His reserve, his distance, his apparent moodiness, and undoubted
ability to live without seeing her except when he got ready to do
so, gave her a perplexed trouble more important than pique.

Without ado or delay, she took the next electric car for Mrs.
Slip’s.

Bayard received that afternoon, by the familiar hand of Joey Slip,
this brief rejoinder:--

  DEAR MR. BAYARD,--This experienced boy seems to be on intimate
  terms with you, and offers to take my report, which stands thus:
  Johnny’s mother is in the Widows’ Home. Shall I write you details?
                             Truly yours,                     H. C.

“Run on down to the Mainsail Hotel, Joey,” said the minister,
writing rapidly. “Find the lady--there will be a good many
ladies--and hand her this.”

“Pooh!” retorted this nautical child with a superior air, “Vat
ain’t nuffin! She’s good-lookin’ nuff to find off Zheorges in a
fog-bank.”

Thus ran the note:--

  DEAR MISS CARRUTH,--I will call for the report to-morrow. Thank
  you.
                                 Yours,                    E. B.

When Bayard reached her mother’s piazza the next evening, Helen was
in the middle of the harbor.

“My daughter is considered a good oarswoman, I believe,” said the
Professor with a troubled look. “I know nothing about these matters
myself. I confess I wish I did. I have not felt easy about her; she
has propelled the craft so far into the stream. I am delighted to
see you, Mr. Bayard! I will put another boat at your service--that
is--I suppose you understand the use of oars?”

“Better than I do Verbal Inspiration, Professor!” replied Bayard,
laughing. “She is rather far out, and the tide has turned.”

He ran down the pier, and leaped into the first boat that he could
secure. It happened to be a dory.

“Can you overtake her?” asked her father with a keen look.

“I can try,” replied the young man, smiling.

The Professor heaved a sigh, whether of relief or of anxiety it
would not be easy to say, and stood upon the pier watching Bayard’s
fine stroke. Mrs. Carruth came clucking anxiously down, and put
her hand upon her husband’s arm. Bayard looked at the two elderly
people with a strange affectionateness which he did not analyze;
feeling, but not acknowledging, a sudden heart-ache for ties which
he had never known.

The sun was sinking, and the harbor was a sea of fire. A sea of
glass it was not, for there was some wind and more tide. Really,
she should not have ventured out so far. He looked over his
shoulder as he gained upon her. She had not seen him, and was
drifting out. Her oars lay crossed upon her lap. Her eyes were on
the sky, which flung out gold and violet, crimson and pale green
flame, in bars like the colors of a mighty banner. The harbor took
the magnificence, and lifted it upon the hands of the short, uneasy
waves.

The two little boats, the pursuing and the pursued, floated in one
of those rare and unreal splendors which make this world, for the
