— that's the one, and I'm in a hurry. Where did 
you see him ? ' 

' I hain't seen him at all,' the man says. 
' Hain't seen him at all ? How can you describe 
him so close, then ? ' 

' Because when a person knows how to use his 
eyes, everything has got a meaning to it ; but most 
people's eyes ain't any good to them. I knowed a 
camel had been along, because I seen his track. I 
knowed he was lame in his off hind leg because he 
had favoured that foot and trod light on it and his 
track showed it. I knowed he was blind on his 
left side because he only nibbled the grass on the 
right side of the trail. I knowed he had lost an 
upper front tooth because where he bit into the sod 
his teeth-print showed it. The millet seed sifted 
out on one side — the ants told me that ; the honey 
leaked out on the other — the flies told me that. I 
know all about your camel, but I hain't seen him.' 

Jim says : 

' Go on, Mars Tom ; hit's a mighty good tale, 
and powerful interestinY 

' That's all,' Tom says. 

' All ? ' says Jim, astonished.  What 'come o' 
de camel ? ' 

' I don't know.' 

' Mars Tom, don't de tale say ? ' 

'No.' 

Jim puzzled a minute, then he says : 

' Well ! ef dat ain't de beatenes' tale ever J 
struck. Jist gits to de place whah de intrust is 
gittin' red hot, en down she breaks. Why, Mars 
Tom, dey ain't no sense in a tale dat acts like dat. 
Hain't you got no idea whether de man got de 
camel back er not ? ' 

' No, I haven't.' 

I see myself there warn't no sense in the tale, 
to chop square off that way, before it come to any- 
thing, but I warn't going to say so, because I could 
see Tom was souring up pretty fast over the way it 
flatted out and the way Jim had popped on to the 
weak place in it, and I don't think it's fair for 
everybody to pile on to a feller when he's down. 
But Tom he whirls on me and says : 

' What do you think of the tale ? ' 

Of course, then I had to come out and make a 
clean breast, and say it did seem to me 'too, same 
as it did to Jim, that as long as the tale stopped 
square in the middle, and never got to no place, it 
really warn't worth the trouble of telling. 

Tom's chin dropped on his breast, and 'stead of 
being mad, as I reckoned he'd be, to hear me scoff 
at his tale that way, he seemed to be only sad ; 
and he says : 

' Some people can see, and some can't — just as 
that man said. Let alone a camel, if a cyclone 
had gone by, you duffers wouldn't 'a' noticed the 
track.' 

I don't know what he meant by that, and he 
didn't say ; it was just one of his irrulevances, I 
reckon — he was full of them sometimes, when he 
was in a close place and couldn't see no other way 
out— but I didn't mind. We'd spotted the soft 
place in that tale sharp enough — he couldn't git 
away from that little fact. It gravelled him like 
the nation, too, I reckon, much as he tried not to 
let on. 


CHAPTER VIII 

We had an early breakfast in the morning, and set 
looking down on the Desert, and the weather was 
ever so bammy and lovely, although we warn't high 
up. You have to come down lower and lower after 
sundown in the Desert, because it cools off so fast ; 
and so by the time it is getting towards dawn you 
are skimming along only a little ways above the 
sand. 

We was watching the shadder of the balloon 
slide along the ground, and now and then gazing 
off across the Desert to see if anything was stirring, 
and then down at the shadder again, when all of a 
sudden almost right under us we see a lot of men 
and camels laying scattered about, perfectly quiet, 
like they was asleep. 

We shut off the power, and backed up and 
stood over them, and then we see that they was all 
dead. It give us the cold shivers. And it made 
us hush down, too, and talk low, like people at a 
funeral. We dropped down slow, and stopped, 
and me and Tom dumb down and went amongst 
them. There was men, and women, and children. 
They was dried by the sun, and dark and Bhriveiled 
and leathery, like the pictures of mummies you see 
in books. And yet they looked just as human, 
you wouldn't 'a' believed it; just like they was 
asleep — some laying on their backs, with their 
arms spread on the sand, some on their sides, 
some on their faces, just as natural, though the 
teeth showed more than usual. Two or three was 
setting up. One was a woman, with her head 
bent over, and a child was laying across her lap. 
A man was setting with his hands locked around 
his knees, staring out of his dead eyes at a young 
girl that was stretched out before him. He looked 
so mournful, it was pitiful to see. And you never 
see a place so still as that was. He had straight 
black hair hanging down by his cheeks, and when 
a little faint breeze fanned it and made it wag, it 

made me shudder, because it seemed as if he was 
wagging his head. 

Some of the people and animals was partly 
covered with sand, but most of them not, for the 
sand was thin there, and the bed was gravel, and 
hard. Most of the clothes had rotted away and 
left the bodies partly naked ; and when you took 
hold of a rag, it tore with a touch, like spider-web. 
Tom reckoned they had been laying there for years. 

Some of the men had rusty guns by them, 
some had swords on and had shawl-belts with long 
silver-mounted pistols stuck in them. All the 
camels had their loads on yet, but the packs had 
busted or rotted and spilt the freight out on the 
ground. We didn't reckon the swords was any 
good to the dead people any more, so we took one 
apiece, and some pistols. We took a small box, 
too, because it was so handsome and inlaid so fine ; 
and then we wanted to bury the people ; but there 
warn't no way to do it that we could think of, and 
nothing to do it with but sand, and that would 
blow away again, of course. We did start to cover 
up that poor girl, first laying some shawls from a 
busted bale on her ; but when we was going to put 
sand on her, the man's hair wagged again and give 
us a shock, and we stopped, because it looked like 
he was trying to tell us he didn't want her covered 
up so he couldn't see her no more. I reckon she 
was dear to him, and he would 'a' been so lonesome. 

Then we mounted high and sailed away, and 
pretty soon that black spot on the sand was out of 
sight, and we wouldn't ever see them poor people 
again in this world. We wondered, and reasoned, 
and tried to guess how they come to be there, and 
how it all happened to them, but we couldn't make 
it out. First we thought maybe they got lost, and 
wandered around and about till their food and 
water give out and they starved to death; but Tom 
said no wild animals nor vultures hadn't meddled 
with them, and so that guess wouldn't do. So at 
last we give it up, and judged we wouldn't think 
about it no more, because it made us low-spirited. 

Then we opened the box, and it had gems and 
jewels in it, quite a pile, and some little veils of the 
kind the dead women had on, with fringes made 
out of curious gold money that we warn't acquainted 
with. We wondered if we better go and try to find 
them again and give it back ; but Tom thought it 
over and said no ; it was a country that was full of 
robbers, and they would come and steal it, and then 
the sin would be on us for putting the temptation 
in their way. So we went on ; but I wished we 
had took all they had, so there wouldn't 'a' been no 
temptation at all left. 

We had had two hours of that blazing weather 
down there, and was dreadful thirsty when we got 
aboard again. We went straight for the water, but 
it was spoiled and bitter, besides being pretty near 
hot enough to scald your mouth. We couldn't 
drink it. It was Mississippi river water, the best 
in the world, and we stirred up the mud in it to see 
if that would help ; but no, the mud wasn't any 
better than the water. 

Well, we hadn't been so very, very thirsty before, 
whilst we was interested in the lost people, but we 
was now, and as soon as we found we couldn't have 
a drink we was more than thirsty — five times as 
thirsty as we was a quarter of a minute before. 
Why, in a little while we wanted to hold our mouths 
open and pant like a dog. 

Tom said keep a sharp look-out all around, 
everywheres," because we'd got to find an oasis, or 
there warn't no telling what would happen. So 

we done it. We kept the glasses gliding around all 
the time, till our arms got so tired we couldn't hold 
them any more. Two hours — three hours — just 
gazing and gazing, and nothing but sand, sand, 
sand, and you could see the quivering heat-shimmer 
playing over it. Dear, dear ! a body don't know 
what real misery is till he is thirsty all the way 
through and is certain he ain't ever going to come 
to any water any more. At last I couldn't stand it 
to look around on them baking plains ; I laid down 
on the locker and give it up. 

But by-and-by Tom raised a whoop, and there 
she was. A lake, wide and shiny, with pam trees 
leaning over it asleep, and their shadders in the 
water just as soft and delicate as ever you see. I 
never see anything look so good. It was a long 
ways off, but that warn't anything to us ; we just 
slapped on a hundred-mile gait, and calculated to 
be there in seven minutes ; but she stayed the same 
old distance away all the time— we couldn't seem to 
gain on her ; yes, sir, just as far, and shiny, and 
like a dream, but we couldn't get no nearer ; and 
at last, all of a sudden, she was gone. 

Tom's eyes took a spread, and he says : 

' Boys, it was a ?nyridge ! ' 

Said it like he was glad. I didn't see nothing 
to be glad about. I says : 

' Maybe. I don't care nothing about its name : 
the thing I want to know is, what's become of it ? ' 

Jim was trembling all over, and so scared he 
couldn't speak, but he wanted to ask that question 
himself if he could 'a' done it. Tom says : 

' What's ha-ontc of it ? Why, you see yourself 
it's gone.' 

'Yes, I know ; but where's it gone to ? ' 

He looked me over and says : 
Well, now, Huck Finn, where would it go to ? 
Don't you know what a myridge is ? ' 

' No, I don't. What is it ? ' 

'It ain't anything but imagination. There 
ain't anything to it.' 

It warmed me up a little to hear him talk like 
that, and I says : 

' What's the use you talking that kind of stuff, 
Tom Sawyer ? Didn't I see the lake ? ' 

' Yes ; you think you did.' 

' I don't think nothing about it ; I did see it.' 

' I tell you you didn't see it, either — because it 
warn't there to see.' 

It astonished Jim to hear him talk so, and he 
broke in and says, kind of pleading and dis- 
tressed : 

' Mars Tom, please don't say sich things in sich 
an awful time as dis. You ain't only reskin' yo' 
own self, but you's reskin' us— same way like Anna 
Nias en Suffira. De lake wuz dah — I seen it jis' as 
plain as I sees you en Huck dis minute.' 

I says : 

' Why, he seen it himself ! He was the very 
one that seen it first. Noic, then.' 

' Yes, Mars Tom, hit's so — you can't deny it. 
We all seen it, en dat prove it was dah.' 

' Proves it ! How does it prove it ? ' 

' Same way it does in de courts en everywheres, 
Mars Tom. One pusson might be drunk or dreamy 
or suthin',en he could be mistaken; en two might, 
maybe; but I tell you, sah, when three sees a thing, 
drunk er sober, it's so. Dey ain't no gittin' aroun' 
dat, en you knows it, Mars Tom.' 


'I don't know nothing of the kind. There used 
to be forty thousand million people that seen the 
sun move from one side of the sky to the other 
every day. Did that prove that the sun done it ? ' 

' 'Course it did. En, besides, dey warn't no 
'casion to prove it. A body 'at's got any sense 
ain't gwyne to doubt it. Dah she is now — a sailin' 
thoo de sky des like she allays done.' 

Tom turned on me then, and says : 

' What do you say — is the sun standing still ? ' 

' Tom Sawyer, what's the use to ask such a 
jackass question ? Anybody that ain't blind can 
see it don't stand still.' 

' Well,' he says, ' I'm lost in the sky with no 
company but a passel of low-down animals that 
don't know no more than the head boss of a uni- 
versity did three or four hundred years ago. W r hy, 
blame it, Huck Finn, there was Popes, in them 
days, that knowed as much as you do.' 

It warn't fair play, and I let him know it. I 
says : 

'Throwin' mud ain't arguin', Tom Sawyer.' 

' Who's throwin' mud ? ' 

' You done it.' 

' I never. It ain't no disgrace, I reckon, to 
compare a backwoods Missouri muggins like you to 
a Pope, even the orneriest one that ever set on the 
throne. Why it's an honour to you, you tadpole ; 
the Pope's the one that's hit hard, not you, and you 
couldn't blame him for cussing about it, only they 
don't cuss. Not now they don't, I mean.' 
' Sho, Tom, did they ever ? ' 
' In the Middle Ages ? Why, it was their com- 
mon diet.' 

' No ! You don't really mean they cussed ? ' 
That started his mill a-going, and he ground out 
a regular speech, the way he done sometimes when 
he was feeling his oats ; and I got him to write 
down some of the last half of it for me, because it 
was like book-talk and tough to remember, and had 
words in it that I warn't used to, and is pretty 
tiresome to spell : 

' Yes, they did. I don't mean that they went 
charging around the way Ben Miller does, and put 
the cuss-words just the same way he puts them. 
No ; they used the same words, but they put them 

together different, because they'd been learnt by 
the very best masters, and they knowed hmr, 
which Ben Miller don't, because he just picked it 
up here and there and around, and hadn't had no 
competent person to learn him. But they knowed. 
It warn't no frivolous random cussing, like Ben 
Miller's, that starts in anywheres and comes out 
nowheres — it was scientific cussing, and systematic ; 
and it was stern, and solemn, and awful — not a 
thing for you to stand off and laugh at, the way 
people does when that poor ignorant Ben Miller 
gits a-going. Why, Ben Miller's kind can stand up 
and cuss a person a week, steady, and it wouldn't 
phaze him no more than a goose cackling ; but it 
was a mighty different thing in them Middle Ages 
when a Pope, educated to cuss, got his cussing- 
things together and begun to lay into a king, or a 
kingdom, or a heretic, or a Jew, or anybody that 
was unsatisfactory and needed straightening out. 
He didn't go at it harum-scarum ; no, he took that 
king or that other person, and begun at the top, 
and cussed him all the way down in detail. He 
cussed him in the hairs of his head, and in the 

bones of his skull, and in the hearing of his ears, 
and in the sight of his eyes, and in the breath of 
his nostrils, and in his vitals, and in his veins, and 
in his limbs and his feet and his hands, and the 
blood and flesh and bones of his whole body ; and 
cussed him in the loves of his heart and in his 
friendships, and turned him out in the world, and 
cussed anybody that give him food to eat, or shelter 
and bed, or water to drink, or rags to cover him 
when he was freezing. Land ! that was cussing 
worth talking about ; that was the only cussing 
worth shucks that's ever been done in this world — 
the man it fell on, or the country it fell on, would 
better 'a' been dead forty times over. Ben Miller ! 
The idea of him thinking he can cuss ! Why, the 
poorest little one-horse back-country bishop in the 
Middle Ages could cuss all around him. We don't 
know nothing about cussing nowadays.' 

' Well,' I says, * you needn't cry about it ; I 
reckon we can get along. Can a bishop cuss now 
the way they useter ? ' 

' Yes, they learn it because it's part of the polite 
learning that belongs to his lay-out — kind of bells 
letters, as you may say — and although he ain't got 
no more use for it than Missouri girls has for 
French, he's got to learn it, same as they do, 
because a Missouri girl that can't polly-voo and a 
bishop that can't cuss ain't got no business in 
society.' 

' Don't they ever cuss at all now, Tom ? ' 
' Not but very seldom. P'r'aps they do in Peru, 
but amongst people that knows anything it's 
played out, and they don't mind it no more than 
they do Ben Miller's kind. It's because they've 
got so far along that they know as much now as 
the grasshoppers did in the Middle Ages.' 
' The grasshoppers ? ' 

' Yes. In the Middle Ages, in France, when the 
grasshoppers started in to eat up the crops, the 
bishop would go out in the fields and pull a solemn 
face and give them a most solid good cussing. Just 
the way they done with a Jew or a heretic or a 
king, as I was telling you.' 

' And what did the grasshoppers do, Tom ? ' 
' Just laughed, and went on and et up the crop, 
same as they started in to do. The difference 
betwixt a man and a grasshopper, in the Middle 
Ages, was that the grasshopper warn't a fool.' 

' Oh, my goodness, oh, my goodness gracious, 
dah's de lake a'gin ! ' yelled Jim just then. ' Now, 
Mars Tom, what you gwyne to say ? ' 

Yes sir, there was the lake again, away yonder 
across the Desert, perfectly plain, trees and all, 
just the same as it was before. I says : 

'I reckon you're satisfied now, Tom Sawyer.' 

But he says, perfectly cam : 

' Yes, satisfied there ain't no lake there.' 

Jim says : 

' Don't talk so, Mars Tom — it sk'yers me to hear 
you. It's so hot, en you's so thirsty, dat you ain't 
in yo' right mine, Mars Tom. Oh, but don't she 
look good ! 'Clah I doan' know how I's gwyne 
to wait tell we gits dah, I's so thirsty.' 

' Well, you'll have to wait ; and it won't do you 
no good, either, because there ain't no lake there, I 
tell you.' 

I says : 

 Jim, don't you take your eye off of it, and I 
won't either.' 



' 'Deed I won't ; en bless you, honey, I couldn't 
ef I wanted to.' 

We went a-tearing along towards it, piling the 
miles behind us like nothing, but never gaining an 
inch on it— and all of a sudden it was gone again ! 
Jim staggered and 'most fell down. When he got 
his breath he says, gasping like a fish : 

' Mars Tom, hit's a ghos', dats what it is, en I
hopes to goodness we ain't gwyne to see it no mo'. 
Dey's ben a lake, en suthin's happened, en de lake's 
dead, en we's seen its ghos' ; we's seen it twyste, 
and dat's proof. De Desert's ha'nted — it's ha'nted, 
sho. Oh, Mars Tom, le's git outen it — I'd rather die 
than have de night ketch us in it ag'in, en de ghos' 
er dat lake come a-mournin' aroun' us, en we asleep 
en doan' know de danger we's in.' 

' Ghost, you gander ! it ain't anything but air 
and heat and thirstiness pasted together by a 
person's imagination. If I Gimme the glass ! 

He grabbed it, and begun to gaze off to the 
right. 

' It's a flock of birds,' he says. ' It's getting 
towards sundown, and they're making a bee-line 

across our track for somewheres. They mean 
business — maybe they're going for food or water, or 
both. Let her go to starboard ! — port your helium ! 
Hard down! There— ease up— steady, as you 

go-'  

We shut down some of the power, so as not to 
out-speed them, and took out after them. We 
went skimming along a quarter of a mile behind 
them, and when we had followed them an hour and 
a half and was getting pretty discouraged, and 
thirsty clean to unendurableness, Tom says : 

' Take the glass, one of you, and see what that 
is, away ahead of the birds.' 

Jim got the first glimpse, and slumped down 
on a locker, sick. He was 'most crying, and 
says : 

' She's dah agi'n, Mars Tom — she's dah ag'in, en 
I knows I's gwyne to die, 'case when a body sees 
a ghos' de third time, dat's what it means. I 
wisht I'd never come in dis balloon, dat I does.' 

He wouldn't look no more, and what he said 
made me afraid too, because I knowed it was true, 
for that has always been the way with ghosts ; so 
then I wouldn't look any more either. Both of us 
begged Tom to turn off and go some other way, but 
he wouldn't, and said we was ignorant superstitious 
blatherskites. Yes, and he'll git come up with one 
of these days, I says to myself, insulting ghosts 
that way. They'll stand it for awhile, maybe, but 
they won't stand it always, for anybody that knows 
about ghosts knows how easy they are hurt, and 
how revengeful they are. 

So we was all quiet and still, Jim and me being 
scared, and Tom busy. By-and-by Tom fetched 
the balloon to a standstill, and says : 

' Now get up and look, you sapheads!' 

We done it, and there was the sure-enough 
water right under us ! — clear, and blue, and cool, 
and deep, and wavy with the breeze, the loveliest 
sight that ever was. And all about it was grassy 
banks, and flowers, and shady groves of big trees, 
looped together with vines, and all looking so 
peaceful and comfortable, enough to make a body 
cry, it was so beautiful. 

Jim did cry, and rip and dance and carry on, 
he was so thankful and out of his mind for joy. It 
was my watch, so I had to stay by the works, but 
Tom and Jim dumb down and drunk a barrel 
apiece, and fetched me up a lot, and I've tasted a 
many a good thing in my life, but nothing that 
ever begun with that water. Then they went down 
and had a swim, and then Tom come up and spelled 
me, and me and Jim had a swim, and then Jim 
spelled Tom, and me and Tom had a foot-race and 
a boxing-mill, and I don't reckon I ever had such a 
good time in my life. It warn't so very hot, 
because it was close on to evening, and we hadn't 
any clothes on, anyway. Clothes is well enough 
in school, and in towns, and at balls, too, but there 
ain't no sense in them when there ain't no civilisa- 
tion nor other kinds of bothers and fussiness 
around. 

' Lions a-comin' ! — lions ! Quick, Mars Tom ! 
Jump for yo' life, Huck ! ' 

Oh, and didn't we? We never stopped for 
clothes, but walzed up the ladder just so. Jim 
lost his head straight off — he always done it when- 
ever he got excited and scared : and so now, 
'stead of just easing the ladder up from the ground 
a little, so the animals couldn't reach it, he turned 
on a raft of power, and we went whizzing up and 
was dangling in the sky before he got his wits to- 
gether and seen what a foolish thing he was doing. 
Then he stopped her, but had clean forgot what 
to do next ; so there we was, so high that the 
lions looked like pups, and we was drifting off on 
the wind. 

But Tom he shinned up and went for the works 
and begun to slant her down, and back towards the 
lake, where the animals was gathering like a camp 
meeting, and I judged he had lost his head, too ; 
for he knowed I was too scared to climb, and did 
he want to dump me amongst the tigers and 
things '? 

But no ; his head was level — he knowed what he 
was about. He swooped down to within thirty or 
forty foot of the lake, and stopped right over the 
centre, and sung out : 

' Leggo, and drop ! ' 

I done it, and shot down, feet first, and seemed 
to go about a mile towards the bottom ; and when 
I come up, he says : 

' Now lay on your back and float till you're 
rested and got your pluck back ; then I'll dip the 
ladder in the water and you can climb aboard.' 

I done it. Now, that was ever so smart in Tom, 
because if he had started off somewheres else to 
drop down on the sand, the menagerie would 'a' 
come along too, and might 'a' kept us hunting a 
safe place till I got tuckered out and fell. 

And all this time the lions and tigers was sorting 
out the clothes, and trying to divide them up so 
there would be some for all, but there was a mis- 
understanding about it somewheres, on accounts of 
some of them trying to hog more than their share ; 
so there was another insurrection, and you never see 
anything like it in the world. There must 'a' been 
fifty of them, all mixed up together, snorting and 
roaring and snapping and biting and tearing, legs and 
tails in the air, and you couldn't tell which belonged 
to which, and the sand and fur a-flying. And when 
they got done, some was dead, and some was limping 
off crippled, and the rest was setting around on the 
battlefield, some of them licking their sore places 
and the others looking up at us and seemed to be 
kind of inviting us to come down and have some 
fun, but which we didn't want any. 

As for the clothes, there warn't any any more. 
Every last rag of them was inside of the animals ; 
and not agreeing with them very well, I don't reckon, 
for there was considerable many brass buttons on 
them, and there was knives in the pockets, too, and 
smoking-tobacco, and nails and chalk and marbles 
and fishhooks and things. But I wasn't caring. 
All that was bothering me was that all we had now 
was the professor's clothes — a big enough assort- 
ment, but not suitable to go into company with, if 
we come across any, because the britches was as 
long as tunnels, and the coats and things according. 
Still, there was everything a tailor needed, and Jim 
was a kind of a jack-legged tailor, and he allowed he 
could soon trim a suit or two down for us that 
would answer. 


CHAPTER IX 

Still, we thought we would drop down there a 
minute, but on another errand. Most of the pro- 
fessor's cargo of food was put up in cans, in the 
new way that somebody had just invented, the rest 
was fresh. When you fetch Missouri beefsteak to 
the Great Sahara, you want to be particular and 
stay up in the coolish weather. Ours was all right 
till we stayed down so long amongst the dead people. 
That spoilt the water, and it ripened up the beef- 
steak to a degree that was just right for an English- 
man, Tom said, but was 'most too gay for 
Americans ; so we reckoned we would drop down 
into the lion market and see how we could make 
out there. 

We hauled in the ladder and dropped down till 
we was just above the reach of the animals, then 
we let down a rope with a slip knot in it and hauled 
up a dead lion, a small tender one, then yanked up 
a cub tiger. We had to keep the congregation off 
with the revolver, or they would 'a' took a hand in 
the proceedings and helped. 

We carved off a supply from both, and saved 
the skins, and hove the rest overboard. Then we 
baited some of the professor's hooks with the fresh 
meat and went a-fishing. We stood over the lake 
just a convenient distance above the water, and 
catched a lot of the nicest fish you ever see. It 
was a most amazing good supper we had : lion 
steak, tiger steak, fried fish, and hot corn-pone. I 
don't want nothing better than that. 

We had some fruit to finish off with. We got 
it out of the top of a monstrous tall tree. It was 
a very slim tree, that hadn't a branch on it from the 
bottom plumb to the top, and there it busted out 
like a feather duster. It was a pam tree, of course ; 
