"There, there, there, do sit down!" 

It cost some trouble and a good deal of coaxing, 
but they were got into their seats at last. The trial 
was soon ended now. The twins themselves became 
witnesses in their own defense. They established 
the fact, upon oath, that the leg-power passed from 
one to the other every Saturday night at twelve 
o'clock sharp. But on cross-examination their 
counsel would not allow them to tell whose week of 
power the current week was. The Judge insisted 
upon their answering, and proposed to compel them, 
but even the prosecution took fright and came to 
the rescue then, and helped stay the sturdy jurist's 
revolutionary hand. So the case had to go to the 
jury with that important point hanging in the air. 
They were out an hour and brought in this verdict: 

"We the jury do find: 1, that an assault was 
committed, as charged; 2, that it was committed by 

one of the persons accused, he having been seen to 
do it by several credible witnesses; 3, but that his 
identity is so merged in his brother's that we have 
not been able to tell which was him. We cannot 
convict both, for only one is guilty. We cannot 
acquit both, for only one is innocent. Our verdict 
is that justice has been defeated by the dispensation 
of God, and ask to be discharged from further 
duty." 

This was read aloud in court and brought out a 
burst of hearty applause. The old ladies made a 
spring at the twins, to shake and congratulate, but 
were gently disengaged by Mr. Wilson and softly 
crowded back into their places. 

The Judge rose in his little tribune, laid aside his 
silver-bowed spectacles, roached his gray hair up 
with his fingers, and said, with dignity and solemnity, 
and even with a certain pathos: 

"In all my experience on the bench, I have not 
seen justice bow her head in shame in this court 
until this day. You little realize what far-reaching 
harm has just been wrought here under the fickle 
forms of law. Imitation is the bane of courts — I 
thank God that this one is free from the contamina- 
tion of that vice — and in no long time you will see 
the fatal work of this hour seized upon by profligate 
so-called guardians of justice in all the wide circum- 
stance of this planet and perpetuated in their perni- 
cious decisions. I wash my hands of this iniquity. 
I would have compelled these culprits to expose 
their guilt, but support failed me where I had most 
right to expect aid and encouragement. And I was 





 

confronted by a law made in the interest of crime, 
which protects the criminal from testifying against 
himself. Yet I had precedents of my own whereby 
I had set aside that law on two different occasions 
and thus succeeded in convicting criminals to whose 
crimes there were no witnesses but themselves. 
What have you accomplished this day? Do you 
realize it? You have set adrift, unadmonished, in 
this community, two men endowed with an awful 
and mysterious gift, a hidden and grisly power for 
evil — a power by which each in his turn may com- 
mit crime after crime of the most heinous character, 
and no man be able to tell which is the guilty or 
which the innocent party in any case of them all. 
Look to your homes — look to your property — look 
to your lives — for you have need! 

"Prisoners at the bar, stand up. Through sup- 
pression of evidence, a jury of your — our — country- 
men have been obliged to deliver a verdict con- 
cerning your case which stinks to heaven with the 
rankness of its injustice. By its terms you, the 
guilty one, go free with the innocent. Depart in 
peace, and come no more ! The costs devolve upon 
the outraged plaintiff — another iniquity. The court 
stands dissolved." 

Almost everybody crowded forward to overwhelm 
the twins and their counsel with congratulations; 
but presently the two old aunties dug the duplicates 
out and bore them away in triumph through the 
hurrahing crowd, while lots of new friends carried 
Pudd'nhead Wilson off tavern ward to feast him 
and "wet down" his great and victorious entry into 





 

the legal arena. To Wilson, so long familiar with 
neglect and depreciation, this strange new incense 
of popularity and admiration was as a fragrance 
blown from the fields of paradise. A happy man 
was Wilson. 



CHAPTER VI 

THE AMAZING DUEL 

A deputation came in the evening and conferred upon Wilsou 
the welcome honor of a nomination for mayor; for the village 
has just been converted into a city by charter. Tom skulks 
out of challenging the twins. Judge Driscoll thereupon chal' 
lenges Angelo (accused by Tom of doing the kicking); he de- 
clines, but Luigi accepts in his place against Angelo's timid 
protest. 

JT was late Saturday night — nearing eleven. 
The Judge and his second found the rest of 
the war party at the further end of the vacant 
ground, near the haunted house. Pudd'nhead Wil- 
son advanced to meet them, and said anxiously: 

"I must say a word in behalf of my principal's 
proxy, Count Luigi, to whom you have kindly 
granted the privilege of fighting my principal's 
battle for him. It is growing late, and Count Luigi 
is in great trouble lest midnight shall strike before 
the finish." 

"It is another testimony," said Howard, approv- 
ingly. "That young man is fine all through. He 
wishes to save his brother the sorrow of fighting on 
the Sabbath, and he is right; it is the right and 
maniy feeling and does him credit. We will make 
all possible haste." 

Wilson said: "There is also another reason — a 
consideration, in fact, which deeply concerns Count 





 

Luigi himself. These twins have command of their 
mutual legs turn about. Count Luigi is in command 
now; but at midnight, possession will pass to my 
principal, Count Angelo, and — well, you can foresee 
what will happen. He will march straight off the 
field, and carry Luigi with him." 

"Why! sure enough!" cried the Judge, "we have 
heard something about that extraordinary law of 
their being, already — nothing very definite, it is 
true, as regards dates and durations of power, but I 
see it is definite enough as regards to-night. Of 
course we must give Luigi every chance. Omit all 
the ceremonial possible, gentlemen, and place us in 
position." 

The seconds at once tossed up a coin; Howard 
won the choice. He placed the Judge sixty feet 
from the haunted house and facing it ; Wilson placed 
the twins within fifteen feet of the house and facing 
the Judge — necessarily. The pistol-case was opened 
and the long slim tubes taken out; when the moon- 
light glinted from them a shiver went through 
Angelo. The doctor was a fool, but a thoroughly 
well-meaning one, with a kind heart and a sincere 
disposition to oblige, but along with it an absence of 
tact which often hurt its effectiveness. He brought 
his box of lint and bandages, and asked Angelo to 
feel and see how soft and comfortable they were. 
Angelo's head fell over against Luigi's in a faint, 
and precious time was lost in bringing him to; 
which provoked Luigi into expressing his mind to 
the doctor with a good deal of vigor and frankness. 
After Angelo came to he was still so weak that 
Luigi was obliged to drink a stiff horn of brandy to 
brace him up. 

The seconds now stepped at once to their posts, half- 
way between the combatants, one of them on each 
side of the line of fire. Wilson was to count, very 
deliberately, "One — two — three — fire! — stop!" and 
the duelists could bang away at any time they chose 
during that recitation, but not after the last word. 
Angelo grew very nervous when he saw Wilson's hand 
rising slowly into the air as a sign to make ready, 
and he leaned his head against Luigi's and said : 

"Oh, please take me away from here, I can't 
stay, I know I can't!" 

"What in the world are you doing? Straighten 
up! What's the matter with you? — you're in no 
danger — nobody's going to shoot at you. Straighten 
up, I tell you!" 

Angelo obeyed, just in time to hear: 

"One—!" 

"Bang!" Just one report, and a little tuft of 
white hair floated slowly to the Judge's feet in the 
moonlight. The Judge did not swerve; he still 
stood erect and motionless, like a statue, with his 
pistol-arm hanging straight down at his side. He 
was reserving his fire. 

"Two—!" 

"Three—!" 

"Fire—!" 

Up came the pistol-arm instantly — Angelo dodged 
with the report. He said "Ouch!" and fainted 
again. 

The doctor examined and bandaged the wound. 





 

It was of no consequence, he said — bullet through 
fleshy part of arm — no bones broken — the gentle- 
man was still able to fight — let the duel proceed. 

Next time Angelo jumped just as Luigi fired, 
which disordered his aim and caused him to cut a 
chip out of Howard's ear. The Judge took his time 
again, and when he fired Angelo jumped and got a 
knuckle skinned. The doctor inspected and dressed 
the wounds. Angelo now spoke out and said he 
was content with the satisfaction he had got, and if 
the Judge — but Luigi shut him roughly up, and 
asked him not to make an ass of himself; adding: 

"And I want you to stop dodging. You take a 
great deal too prominent a part in this thing for a 
person who has got nothing to do with it. You 
should remember that you are here only by courtesy, 
and are without official recognition ; officially you are 
not here at all; officially you do not even exist. 
To all intents and purposes you are absent from this 
place, and you ought for your own modesty's sake 
to reflect that it cannot become a person who is not 
present here to be taking this sort of public and 
indecent prominence in a matter in which he is 
not in the slightest degree concerned. Now, don't 
dodge again; the bullets are not for you, they are 
for me; if I want them dodged I will attend to it 
myself. I never saw a person act so." 

Angelo saw the reasonableness of what his brother 
had said, and he did try to reform, but it was of no 
use; both pistols went off at the same instant, and 
he jumped once more; he got a sharp scrape along 
his cheek from the Judge's bullet, and so deflected 

Luigi's aim that his ball went wide and chipped a 
flake of skin from Pudd'nhead Wilson's chin. The 
doctor attended to the wounded. 

By the terms, the duel was over. But Luigi was 
entirely out of patience, and begged for one more 
exchange of shots, insisting that he had had no fair 
chance, on account of his brother's indelicate be- 
havior. Howard was opposed to granting so un- 
usual a privilege, but the Judge took Luigi's part, 
and added that indeed he himself might fairly be con- 
sidered entitled to another trial, because although 
the proxy on the other side was in no way to blame 
for his (the Judge's) humiliatingly resultless work, 
the gentleman with whom he was fighting this duel 
was to blame for it, since if he had played no ad- 
vantages and had held his head still, his proxy 
would have been disposed of early. He added: 

"Count Luigi's request for another exchange is 
another proof that he is a brave and chivalrous 
gentleman, and I beg that the courtesy he asks may 
be accorded him." 

"I thank you most sincerely for this generosity, 
Judge Driscoll," said Luigi, with a polite bow, and 
moving to his place. Then he added — to Angelo, 
' ' Now hold your grip, hold your grip, I tell you, and 
I'll land him sure!" 

The men stood erect, their pistol-arms at their 
sides, the two seconds stood at their official posts, 
the doctor stood five paces in Wilson's rear with his 
instruments and bandages in his hands. The deep 
stillness, the peaceful moonlight, the motionless 
figures, made an impressive picture and the impend- 





 

ing fatal possibilities augmented this impressiveness 
to solemnity. Wilson's hand began to rise — slowly 
— slowly — higher — still higher — in another moment : 

"Boom!" — the first stroke of midnight swung up 
out of the distance; Angelo was off like a deer! 

"Oh, you unspeakable traitor!" wailed his brother, 
as they went soaring over the fence. 

The others stood astonished and gazing; and so 
stood, watching that strange spectacle until dis- 
tance dissolved it and swept it from their view. 
Then they rubbed their eyes like people waking out 
of a dream. 

"Well, I've never seen anything like that be- 
fore!" said the Judge. "Wilson, I am going to 
confess now, that I wasn't quite able to believe in 
that leg business, and had a suspicion that it was a 
put-up convenience between those twins; and when 
Count Angelo fainted I thought I saw the whole 
scheme — thought it was pretext No. i, and would 
be followed by others till twelve o'clock should 
arrive, and Luigi would get off with all the credit of 
seeming to want to fight and yet not have to fight, 
after all. But I was mistaken. His pluck proved 
it. He's a brave fellow and did want to fight." 

"There isn't any doubt about that," said Howard, 
and added, in a grieved tone, "but what an un- 
worthy sort of Christian that Angelo is — I hope and 
believe there are not many like him. It is not right 
to engage in a duel on the Sabbath — I could not ap- 
prove of that myself; but to finish one that has been 
begun — that is a duty, let the day be what it may." 

They strolled along, still wondering, still talking. 





 

"It is a curious circumstance," remarked the 
surgeon, halting Wilson a moment to paste some 
more court-plaster on his chin, which had gone to 
leaking blood again, "that in this duel neither of 
the parties who handled the pistols lost blood, while 
nearly all the persons present in the mere capacity 
of guests got hit. I have not heard of such a thing 
before. Don't you think it unusual?" 

"Yes," said the Judge, "it has struck me as 
peculiar. Peculiar and unfortunate. I was annoyed 
at it, all the time. In the case of Angelo it made 
no great difference, because he was in a measure 
concerned, though not officially; but it troubled me 
to see the seconds compromised, and yet I knew no 
way to mend the matter." 

"There was no way to mend it," said Howard, 
whose ear was being readjusted now by the doctor; 
"the code fixes our place, and it would not have 
been lawful to change it. If we could have stood at 
your side, or behind you, or in front of you, it — 
but it would not have been legitimate and the other 
parties would have had a just right to complain of 
our trying to protect ourselves from danger; in- 
fractions of the code are certainly not permissible in 
any case whatever." 

Wilson offered no remarks. It seemed to him 
that there was very little place here for so much 
solemnity, but he judged that if a duel where nobody 
was in danger or got crippled but the seconds and 
the outsiders had nothing ridiculous about it for 
these gentlemen, his pointing out that feature would 
probably not help them to see it. 





 

He invited them in to take a nightcap, and 
Howard and the Judge accepted, but the doctor 
said he would have to go and see how Angelo's 
principal wound was getting on. 

[It was now Sunday, and in the afternoon Angelo was to be 
received into the Baptist communion by immersion — a doubtful 
prospect, the doctor feared.) 



CHAPTER Vn 

LTJIGI DEFIES GALEN 

WHEN the doctor arrived at Aunt Patsy 
Cooper's house, he found the lights going 
and everybody up and dressed and in a great 
state of solicitude and excitement. The twins were 
stretched on a sofa in the sitting-room, Aunt Patsy 
was fussing at Angelo's arm, Nancy was flying 
around under her commands, the two young boys 
were trying to keep out of the way and always 
getting in it, in order to see and wonder, Rowena 
stood apart, helpless with apprehension and emo- 
tion, and Luigi was growling in unappeasable fury 
over Angelo's shameful flight. 

As has been reported before, the doctor was a 
fool — a kind-hearted and well-meaning one, but 
with no tact; and as he was by long odds the most 
learned physician in the town, and was quite well 
aware of it, and could talk his learning with ease 
and precision, and liked to show off when he had an 
audience, he was sometimes tempted into revealing 
more of a case than was good for the patient. 

He examined Angelo's wound, and was really 
minded to say nothing for once; but Aunt Patsy 
was so anxious and so pressing that he allowed his 
caution to be overcome, and proceeded to empty 
himself as follows, with scientific relish: 





 

"Without going too much into detail, madam — 
for you would probably not understand it, anyway 
— I concede that great care is going to be necessary 
here; otherwise exudation of the esophagus is 
nearly sure to ensue, and this will be followed by 
ossification and extradition of the maxillaris superi- 
oris. which must decompose the granular surfaces of 
the great infusorial ganglionic system, thus obstruct- 
ing the action of the posterior varioloid arteries, and 
precipitating compound strangulated sorosis of the 
valvular tissues, and ending unavoidably in the dis- 
persion and combustion of the marsupial fluxes and 
the consequent embrocation of the bicuspid populo 
redax referendum rotulorum." 

A miserable silence followed. Aunt Patsy's heart 
sank, the pallor of despair invaded her face, she was 
not able to speak ; poor Rowena wrung her hands in 
privacy and silence, and said to herself in the bitter- 
ness of her young grief, "There is no hope — it is 
plain there is no hope"; the good-hearted negro 
wench, Nancy, paled to chocolate, then to orange, 
then to amber, and thought to herself with yearning 
sympathy and sorrow, "Po' thing, he ain' gwyne 
to las' throo de half o' dat"; small Henry choked 
up, and turned his head away to hide his rising 
tears, and his brother Joe said to himself, with a 
sense of loss, "The baptizing's busted, that's sure." 
Luigi was the only person who had any heart to 
speak. He said, a little bit sharply, to the doctor: 

"Well, well, there's nothing to be gained by 
wasting precious time; give him a barrel of pills — 
I'll take them for him." 





 

"You?" asked the doctor. 

"Yes. Did you suppose he was going to take 
them himself?" 

"Why, of course." 

"Well, it's a mistake. He never took a dose of 
medicine in his life. He can't." 

"Well, upon my word, it's the most extraordi- 
nary thing I ever heard of!" 

"Oh," said Aunt Patsy, as pleased as a mother 
whose child is being admired and wondered at, 
"you'll find that there's more about them that's 
wonderful than their just being made in the image 
of God like the rest of His creatures, now you can 
depend on that, I tell you," and she wagged her 
complacent head like one who could reveal marvel- 
ous things if she chose. 

The boy Joe began: 

"Why, ma, they ain't made in the im — " 

"You shut up, and wait till you're asked, Joe. 
I'll let you know when I want help. Are you look- 
ing for something, doctor?" 

The doctor asked for a few sheets of paper and a 
pen, and said he would write a prescription; which 
he did. It was one of Galen's; in fact, it was 
Galen's favorite, and had been slaying people for 
sixteen thousand years. Galen used it for every- 
thing, applied it to everything, said it would remove 
everything, from warts all the way through to lungs 
— and it generally did. Galen was still the only 
medical authority recognized in Missouri; his prac- 
tice was the only practice known to the Missouri 
doctors, and his prescriptions were the only ammu- 





 

nition they carried when they went out for game. 
By and by Dr. Claypool laid down his pen and read 
the result of his labors aloud, carefully and deliber- 
ately, for this battery must be constructed on the 
premises by the family, and mistakes could occur; 
for he wrote a doctor's hand — the hand which from 
the beginning of time has been so disastrous to the 
apothecary and so profitable to the undertaker : 

"Take of afarabocca, henbane, corpobalsamum, 
each two drams and a half: of cloves, opium, 
myrrh, cyperus, each two drams; of opobalsamum, 
Indian leaf, cinnamon, zedoary, ginger, coftus, 
coral, cassia, euphorbium, gum tragacanth, frankin- 
cense, styrax calamita, Celtic, nard, spignel, hart- 
wort, mustard, saxifrage, dill, anise, each one dram; 
of xylaloes, rheum ponticum, alipta, moschata, 
castor, spikenard, galangals, opoponax, anacardium, 
mastich, brimstone, peony, eringo, pulp of dates, 
red and white hermodactyls, roses, thyme, acorns, 
pennyroyal, gentian, the bark of the root of man- 
drake, germander, valerian, bishop's-weed, bay- 
berries, long and white pepper, xylobalsamum, 
carnabadium, macedonian, parsley seeds, lovage, the 
seeds of rue, and sinon, of each a dram and a half ; 
of pure gold, pure silver, pearls not perforated, the 
blatta byzantina, the bone of the stag's heart, of 
each the quantity of fourteen grains of wheat; of 
sapphire, emerald and jasper stones, each one dram; 
of hazel-nuts, two drams; of pellitory of Spain, shav- 
ings of ivory, calamus odoratus, each the quantity 
of twenty-nine grains of wheat; of honey or sugar 
a sufficient quantity. Boil down and skim off." 


"There," he said, "that will fix the patient; give 
his brother a dipperful every three-quarters of an 
hour—" 

— "while he survives," muttered Lugui — 

— "and see that the room is kept wholesomely 
hot, and the doors and windows closed tight. Keep 
Count Angelo nicely covered up with six or seven 
blankets, and when he is thirsty — which will be 
frequently — moisten a rag in the vapor of the tea- 
kettle and let his brother suck it. When he is 
hungry — which will also be frequently — he must 
not be humored oftener than every seven or eight 
hours ; then toast part of a cracker until it begins to 
brown, and give it to his brother." 

"That is all very well, as far as Angelo is con- 
cerned," said Luigi, "but what am I to eat?" 

"I do not see that there is anything the matter 
with you," the doctor answered, "you may, of 
course, eat what you please." 

"And also drink what I please, I suppose?" 

"Oh, certainly — at present. When the violent 
and continuous perspiring has reduced your strength, 
I shall have to reduce your diet, of course, and also 
bleed you, but there is no occasion for that yet 
awhile." He turned to Aunt Patsy and said : "He 
must be put to bed, and sat up with, and tended 
with the greatest care, and not allowed to stir for 
several days and nights." 

"For one, I'm sacredly thankful for that," said 
Luigi, "it postpones the funeral — I'm not to be 
drowned to-day, anyhow." 

Angelo said quietly to the doctor: 
 

"I will cheerfully submit to all your require- 
ments, sir, up to two o'clock this afternoon, and 
will resume them after three, but cannot be confined 
to the house during that intermediate hour." 

"Why, may I ask?" 

"Because I have entered the Baptist communion, 
and by appointment am to be baptized in the river 
at that hour." 

"Oh, insanity! — it cannot be allowed!" 

Angelo answered with placid firmness: 

"Nothing shall prevent it, if I am alive." 

"Why, consider, my dear sir, in your condition 
it might prove fatal." 

A tender and ecstatic smile beamed from Angelo's 
eyes, and he broke forth in a tone of joyous fervency : 

"Ah, how blessed it would be to die for such a 
cause — it would be martyrdom!" 

"But your brother — consider your brother; you 
would be risking his life, too." 

"He risked mine an hour ago," responded Angelo, 
gloomily; "did he consider me ? " A thought swept 
through his mind that made him shudder. "If I 
had not run, I might have been killed in a duel on 
the Sabbath day, and my soul would have been lost 
—lost." 

"Oh, don't fret, it wasn't in any danger," said 
Luigi, irritably; "they wouldn't waste it for a little 
thing like that; there's a glass case all ready for it 
in the heavenly museum, and a pin to stick it up 
with." 

Aunt Patsy was shocked, and said: 

"Looy, Looy! — don't talk so, dear!" 





 

Rowena's soft heart was pierced by Luigi's un- 
feeling words, and she murmured to herself, "Oh, 
if I but had the dear privilege of protecting and 
defending him with my weak voice! — but alas! this 
sweet boon is denied me by the cruel conventions of 
social intercourse." 

"Get their bed ready," said Aunt Patsy to Nancy, 
"and shut up the windows and doors, and light 
their candles, and see that you drive all the mos- 
quitoes out of their bar, and make up a good fire in 
their stove, and carry up some bags of hot ashes 
to lay to his feet — " 

— "and a shovel of fire for his head, and a mus- 
tard plaster for his neck, and some gum shoes for 
his ears," Luigi interrupted, with temper; and 
added, to himself, "Damnation, I'm going to be 
roasted alive, I just know it!" 

"Why, Looy! Do be quiet; I never saw such 
a fractious thing. A body would think you didn't 
care for your brother." 

"I don't — to that extent, Aunt Patsy. I was 
glad the drowning was postponed a minute ago, but 
I'm not now. No, that is all gone by; I want to 
be drowned." 

"You'll bring a judgment on yourself just as sure 
